roiwftafc mmm 'm^^k tiwThe University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: f\ ^i/\] 0106 llllll III II * 10^ 3 cn 2 OOOKERYDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21526655AIll ADVERTISEMENT. .(4S the follovdng directions were intended for the con- duct of the families of the authoress’s oxon daughters, and for the arrangement of their table, so as to ninite a good figure with proper economy, she has avoided all excessive luxury, such as essence of ham, and that wasteful expen- diture of large quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly cantributes to keep up the price, and. is no less injurious to those who eat than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Many receipts are given for things which, being in daily use, the mode of preparing them may be supposed too well knovm to require a place in a cookery-book, yet we rarely meet with butter pro- perly melted, good toast and water, or well-made coffee. She makes na apology for minuteness in some articles, or for leaving others unnoticed, because she does not write for professed cooks. This little work tcould have been a treasure to herself when she first set out in fife, and she therefore hopes it may prove useful to others. In that expectation it is given to the public; and as she will receive from it no EMOLUMENT,* so she trusts it ivill escape without censure. * Tlie Authoress, Mrs. Rundei.l, sister of the eminent .leweller on Ludgate-hill, was afterwards induced to accept the sum of Two Thoutand Guinneg from tiie Publislier. a 2IV DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER. Plate Domestic Cookery, to face Title. Plate 1 to face page xlvi. — 2 xlviii. — 3 xlix. — 4 li. — 5 liii. — 6 and 7 (with the printed leaf of expla- nation, pages 76* and 77*, placed between them) to face each other, and stand between pages 76 and 77. — 8 to face page — 9 96. Companion to Domestic Cookery, price 55. 6rf. in boanls, A New Edition, corrected, with luimcrous additions, and the whole greatly improved, of THE NEW FAMILY RECEIPT-BOOK, A Collection of more than a Thousand Receipts in various Br-inches of DOMESTIC ECONOMY. " Tliis book is a proper and almost indispensable companion for the ‘ New System oe Domestic Cookehy it contains n/nrjFfr ounnlib/«/ trult/valuable receipts than any book of the same kind ever contained. Tliere are tew thing's which the reader can seek for Domestic Use, on which he will not find some useful information.”—Monthly Review, British Critic, See. JOHN MURU.VY, Albemarle Street. S.PREFACE TO THIS EDITION, INCLUDING A FEW HINTS TO HOUSEWIVES. While man has been chai'acterized as a cooking animal, the capabilities of woman to undertake even the minor branches of the culinary art have been doubted and denied. All gastronomes of a refined grade unite in denouncing she-cooks; and M. Ude, when he wishes to express his contempt for any commonplace dish, says, “ A woman can do it.” An observation of Dr. Johnson’s shows upon how very low a scale that learned person rated the culinary talents of the sex. “ Women,” he remarks, “ can spin very well, but they cannot write a book of cookery.” Women have wautten more extraordinary things since his time; and Mrs. Rundell’s excellent work—a work which far sur- passed all its predecessors, and continues to be the best treatise extant concerning the art—shows that the Doctor did not do justice to feminine ingenuity. The present collection of receipts will be found to possess strong claims to recommendation, hav- ing been carefully selected from family MSS., andPREFACE. VI vouched for by the parties by whom they have been contributed. Nor is the compiler wholly destitute of practical knowledge of the art, since, during her residence in India, she enjoyed constant opportu- nities of improving her acquaintance vdth culinary science, and of ascertaining her own skill in a species of useful knowledge scarcely sufficiently studied by the young ladies of the present day. Although the style of living adopted by British residents in India is generally luxurious, native cookery differs so widely from the European style that it is necessary to teach the servants the method of preparing the elegant novelties contnuially inti'o- duced at home; and the experience previously obtained in England having been found exceedingly useful upon many occasions, the results are given with some degree of confidence. The number and value of the receipts contained in the present volume, never before published, vdll offer a sufficient excuse for what at the fii’st blush might appear to be a work of supererogation. Without wishing to disparage any one of the nume- rous modern productions which have preceded this attempt at instruction, it may be said that there is still room for a new effort; and being deshous to afford to others the advantiige of her omi expe- rience, and to show that a life devoted to literatiu-e is not incompatible with the study and practice of domestic economy, the author trusts that noPREFACE. Vll farther explanation or apology 'svill be necessary for a work undertaken with a view to general utility. If oui’ aUcestors made the structure of pyramids of pastry, and the manufacture of oceans of sylla- bub, too exclusively the aim of female education, the present generation have fallen as unwisely into the conti’ary extreme. Young ladies of our time pride themselves upon knowing nothing whatever concerning an art which most assuredly ought to be deemed essential in the mistress of a family. Generally speaking, there is a universal distaste amongst the educated classes of the female com- munity of England to the details of housekeeping. We hear upon all sides complaints of the trouble of ordering a dinner; and the consequence is, that dinners are seldom well arranged, or the most made of the materials provided. There are compa- ratively few persons among the merely respectable classes of society who can afford to keep professed cooks—their wages being too high, and their methods too extravagant. It follows, therefore, that a plain cook, plain enough in most cases, is alone attainable, who can put a dinner on the table in a very slovenly manner, and knows nothing beyond the commonest operations. It would, how- ever, be considered infra dig. in the young ladies of the family to afford the slightest assistance, or to employ themselves in instructing some clevervin PREFACE. and industrious domestic, willing to qualify herself for a cook’s place. The misfortune of losing a tole- rable cook is in such cases irreparable: the cus- tomary arrangements are distui’bed; and the mis- tress of the house, dependent upon her domestic, must be content to put up with an inferior and dis- tasteful mode of living. It is a very common, but a very erroneous, supposition, that attention to culi- nary alFau’s is unladylike, and beneath the dignity of a gentlewoman. There can be no question that elegance, comfort,social enjoyment, and, it maybe added, health, materially depend upon attention to the table. The commonly-received idea, that w'hat goes under the denomhiation of good plain li%dng, that is, joints of meat, roast or boiled, is best suited to all constitutions, has been proved to be a fallacy. Many persons can hear testimony to the truth of Dr. Kitchener’s remark, that elaborate culinary processes are frequently necessary in order to pre- pare food for the digestive organs, which are but too fi'equently taxed beyond their power ; and within the last few years, some admirable articles have appeared in the Quarterly Review, which establish a fact so essential to be known and understood by those who are intrusted with the dady bill of fare. “ Dr. Trout,” observes the re- viewer, “ has of late clearly ]iroved that all the chief alimentary matters employed by man may be reduced to three classes, viz., saccharine, oily, andIX PREFACE. albuminous substances, the most perfect specimens of wliich are respectively, sugar, butter, and white of egg. The saccharine principle, in its most ex- tended sense, includes all those substances which are chiefly derived from the vegetable kingdom. A perfect knowledge of these principles forms the basis of French cookery. In France,” continues the reviewer, most substances are exposed through the medium of oil or butter to a temperatiu'e of 600° Fahrenheit by the operation of frying, or some analogous process. They are then intro- duced into a macerating vessel with a little water, and kept for several hours at a temperatime below the boiling point, 212°, not perhaps higher than 180°; and by these united processes, properly con- ducted, the most refractory articles, whether of animal or vegetable origin, are more or less reduced to a state of pulp, and admirably adapted for the further action of the stomach. In the common cookery of this country, on the contrary, articles are usually put at once into a large quantity of water, and submitted, without care or attention, to the boiling temperature : the consequence is, that most animal substances, when taken out, are harder and more indigestible than in the natural state ; for it is well kno'wn that albuminous substances, as for example the white of an egg, become the harder the more they are boiled. These observations are often of the utmost importance in a medical pointX PREFACE. of view. When the powers of the stomach are weak, a hard and crude English diet, such for ex- ample as half-raw beefsteaks, so frequently recom- mended, is sure to produce discomfort by promot- ing acidity, while the very same articles well cooked upon French principles, or rather the principles of common sense, can be taken Avith impunity, and easily assimilated, by the same individual.” There are only a few persons, with the excejjtion perhaps of those who take violent exercise, or work hard in the open air, who can dine heartily upon solid food without snffermg from its effects. When people sit down to table with a good appetite, it is difficult to persuade them to eat only half the quantity for which they feel disposed; but it is very certain that, in order to escape the horrors of indigestion, plaui roast or boiled meat should be very sparingly consumed. Partly upon the erro- neous supposition that it is the most wholesome species of food, and partly to avoid the trouble of providing anything else, a whole family, however various their constitutions may be, are seated at table before a suigle joint, to take their chance of suffering from the repletion which even a small portion may occasion to a delicate pei'son, who could have partaken of three or four judiciously- ch-essed dishes Avdthout sustaining the slightest in- convenience. Physicians have asserted that it is less difficult toXI PREFACE. get a hogshead of claret out of a man’s constitution than a round of beef; but, generally speaking, M. Ude is in the right when he declares the faculty to be most unjustly the opponents of cooks. He is right also in stating that the cultivation of the art is retarded by the hostility of the fam sex. In the higher ranks an idea is entertahied that any con- sideration connected with eating is injurious to the dehcacy of the feminine character; this notion being sti'engthened, as it descends, by an indisposition to rmdertake the toils which attention to the table must necessarily involve. Eating is an unpoetical thing: Lord Bp-on dishl^ed to see women eat; and ladies, sheltering themselves under such high authority, neglect the care of the table, and make their male relatives suffer from their over-refine- ment, if such it may be called, which limits the bni of fare to a joint of beef or mutton. Nothing can be more erroneous than the sup- position, too commonly entertained arnongst young ladies, that hving on air, or vegetables, or a non- descript ambrosial kind of food, which they some- times affect, will add to their personal attractions. A generous diet is in most instances absolutely essential to the complexion; while indigestion, brought on by a regimen ill adapted to the consti- tution of the party pursuing it, is frequently de- structive to symmetry of form. Bout cakes, Avhen taken as the only diet, have proved as detrimental.PREFACE. XU with this difference, bringing on lingering illness instead of sudden death, as the most sohd kind of animal food; and ladies and gentlemen, afraid of becoming stout, have seriously injured then health by taking a cup of gruel or a piece of diy bread, immediately before dinner, in order to damp the appetite. The happy medium between hijurious abstinence and injurious excess is unfortunately too seldom preserved; but there cannot be a doubt that light and nourishing food may be eaten, if the quantity be too large, with greater impunity than when its solidity renders it less easily digestible. In Eiigland, cookery, in small respectable fa- milies, where it is necessary to study economy, has to contend with a prejudice concerning the vulgarity of certahi viands—many portions of an animal, which in France are in great esteem, being rejected in this country upon very insufficient groimds. Vulgarity in eating can only be connected with grossness ; and sheep’s heads, shoulders of mutton, and even fat pork, may be so refined in the crdinary process as to retain nothing offensive either to the eye or the palate, while the vulgarity must consist in the manner in which the viands arc served and demolished, and not in the viands themselves. It is the province of the cook to render unsightly ob- j ects pleasing; and thus many tilings may be brought to table in disguise, which woidd not be achnissible in their original forms.PREFACE. XlU Inattention to the table is naturally productive of much inhospitality: visitors coming from a dis- tance are often permitted to leave the houses of thefr friends without the expected invitation to par- take of the family meal, on account of the shame which the mistress of the house entertains of her dinner, which is perhaps very inconsistent with the style and fmmiture of the establishment. It is this neglect also wliich renders the set dinners, given upon occasions of importance, such melancholy affairs —not the least ridiculous part of them being the contrast which they afford to the usual mode of Hving of the entertainer. At these festivals, wiiich, in consequence of -their expense, must ne- cessarily be few and far between, one of three expedients must be resorted to: the famdy cook, totally out of practice, must undertake to experi- mentalize ; or an assistant is hired, who, from in- competency, or want of the means and appliairces of a first-rate kitchen, mars the whole concern; or the dinner is contracted for at a neighbouring pastrycook’s, that is, in London, or any large city. These dinners usually prove failures, in consequence of an injudicious display, and the disarrangement of all the customary habits of the establishment. Mr. Walker has justly observed, that “ it is one of the evils of the present day, that everybody strives after the same dull style; so that, where comfort is to be expected, it is least to be found. State,PREFACE. xiv without the machinery of state, is of all states the worst.” Without any of those absurd attempts, so con- stantly witnessed,;, to imitate, with hmited means, the costly and magnificent banquets of the great, a degree of elegance is attainable under all circum- stances ; and an egg, and a potato, may be made to furnish dishes which everybody will eat rvith relish. Where the elegance of the table is studied, however economical the ai'rangements may be, it is always easy to add to the customary fare for the entertain- ment of guests. A good housekeeper will never olfer the first essay of her cook to her company. The dish will be tried by the family party, and not placed before guests until practice has rendered it perfect. By this means, the chances of failure are 1 a great measure avc'ded; and, by not undertaking n^ore than can be accomphshed, success may be contemplated with some degree of confidence. There are three arts very essential in cookery, w^hich ai'c not practised by any lured domestic Avho does not profess to be mistress of the whole arcana of the science: these are larding, honvig, and hraisrng. They are not difficult of acquirement, and can be easily taught, so that there is little or no excuse for their neglect in the kitchens of pri-PREFACE. XV vate families. Boning, besides its other advantages, is particularly recommended, on account of its eco- nomy : the bones of turkeys, fowls, hares, &c., assisting to make gi’avy, while they are nearly use- less when left in the bodies of the animals : a boned fowl also, rendered soHd by stuffing, will go much further than when di'essed in the common way. Hares should always be boned for the sake of the improvement in their appearance, and being so ^ much more easily carved. Larding is also of great importance: it should be neatly done, to be oi’na- mental; but the same effect, ■with respect to flavour, may be produced by raising the skin and laying a slice of fat bacon beneath it. Braising should, in a great many instances, supersede roasting, and it is well adapted to the improved kitchen apparatus, which now affords all the advantages of hot hearths, •without any additional expense. There is, indeed, less excuse than ever for the present neglect mani- fested towards the more elegant and elaborate de- tails of cookery, since tha scientiflc inventions of the day have taken away nearly all the drudgery from the superintendent. Independently of cookery-books, there are so many excellent works before the public, written ex- pressly for the guidance of young housekeepers in the management of their servants, that ad-\dce upon the subject of the internal economy of a family would be superfluous. There are a few things.PREFACE. XVI however, which cannot be too strongly ui-ged: one is, never to retain a cook who is not fond of her occupation : unles^ she take pleasiu'e in her art, she cannot be depended upon for acciu’acy in the pre- paration of dishes with which she is well acquamted, and will not easily be induced to acquire anything new. A servant also must possess a natural regard for cleanliness, or all the pains in the world will never render her cleanly ; and where dh'ty habits are manifested dismissal should follow, for in almost every instance they will be foxmd incui'able. Cleanliness in cookery is>of the first consequence, and without the strictest attention to every article employed it cannot be preserved. Culinary uten- sils should be ample in number, and of the best quality. Sieves, of various sizes and descrijitions, are very essential, and these must be washed and dried immediately after using. A large and a small marble mortar ai-e requisite; and a box, radiating in compartments similar to a spice-box, filled -with difterent kinds of dried sweet herbs, will be found very laseful. Lemon-peel should be dried and grated for use in seasons of plenty; the tops of tongues saved, and hung up the kitchen-chimney for grating into omelettes, &c.; and care taken that notliing be wasted that can be turned to good account. It is very important that the person who caters for a family should know how to choose meat, fish, and vegetables; but it is questionable whetherXVll PREFACE. any given rTiles will enable them to do this, without the habit of observation, which will soon supersede the necessity of rrdes. Those who caimot afford to give the high prices demanded for the best joints are earnestly recom- mended to purchase what are termed the inferior johits of the best animal : thus, a shoulder of good mutton or veal is far preferable to the leg or fiUet of an ill-conditioned sheep or calf Inferior meat will never do credit to the cook, but inferior joints may be improved by cookery, and rendered equal to the best. It is the same with fish, a good fresh brill bemg infinitely preferable to stale turbot; Avhile one fresh egg will go as far as three which have lost thefr richness by long keeping. The art of seasoning properly is a difficult one, and can only be acquired by experience. All the physicians who have written upon cookery have insisted upon weights and measures being applied to salt, pepper, &c. Dr. Kitchener is not the first member of the faculty who has objected to vague directions conveyed in expressions like the follow- ing—a pennyworth of this, a pinch of that, a dust ‘ of the other; or who thought that a book of cookery should, as nearly as possible, resemble a college dispensatory, where the precise quantities are correctly stated. Ude, however, justly observes that cookery cannot be submitted to the peremptory mles of pharmacy, in which every ingredient must hPREFACE. XVIU be weighed. The cook tastes his preparations in- stead of employing the scales; and, where the quan- tities are indefinite, it is impossible to adjust the exact proportions of spice or other condiments which it will be necessary to add in order to give the proper flavour. In spices, j)articularly, the cook must be guided by the taste of the parties by whom she is employed; many persons being unable to eat of dishes which are highly peppered, while there are sometimes objections to the flavour- of mace, nutmeg, cardamoms, &c. Much judgment is requu-ed in the use of salt: as a general rule, it may be said that no mixture shoidd be made with- out a small portion : thus, in the flour for pastry, a certain quantity, not exceeding a salt-spoonful, wiU be necessary, and aU sweet things require a little; but the cook must be cai-eful not to exceed the just limit—a pinch, to use the expression scouted by the faculty, being sufficient upon some occasions. Nothing can be so bad as oversalting soup or any ragout which tastes too strongly of it; for salt is easily added by the partakers of the dish, although some minute portion must be put in at first, to pre- vent the ra-wness which would otherwise prevail. Highly-salted viands will create thirst, while a large quantity of salt, if not previously submitted to the culinary process, may be eaten not only without inconvenience, but with advimtage to the health. Sugar should also be applied with great discretion.PREFACE. XIX since, even in sweet things, it may be added at the table. In soups and gravies a small quantity of sugar is generally an improvement; but here again the judgment must be exercised, since it should not make its presence known by excess. Pepper, and most spices, require to be submitted to the action of fire in order to bring out their true flavour, and therefore should be accurately given at once. All broiled or filed meat must be previously peppered, but shoidd never be sprinkled with salt, which renders it hard, neither should salt be put into the water in which vegetables are boiled, since it de- prives them of their true flavour: in fact, a cook cannot err in using too small a quantity of salt, though it should always form one of the articles in sweet or savoury dishes. Meat pies, to be really good, require to be very highly seasoned with pepper, and all broiled meats are the better for being well peppered ; hut as individual taste varies so much, no positive rules can be insisted uj)on. Anything that is to be warmed and sent to table a second time should be put into a basin or jar, placed in hot water, which is not permitted to come to the boiling point. If allowed to boil, the meat 'ktU harden, or the sauce will be reduced and be- come thick: by avoiding these chances the flavour will be preserved, and the viands may he warmed ■up more than once without injury. The steam- apparatus now employed in most kitchens is admi-XX PREFACE. rably adapted to this piu'pose, since the heat can be regulated by the reqiiu'ed temperature. The heads, brains, &c., of animals—everything, in fact, which in the cleansing process requires soaking—should be soaked in warm, not hot water, as the hot water mil fix the blood and injure both the appearance and the flavour of the \dand. All cooks must be particular in keeping then- saucepans well skimmed: nothing will more completely spoil a dish of any kind than the neglect of this essential point. In order to take off the fat from a braise, or any other gravy, plunge the hasin containing it in cold water : the fat will immediately coagulate, and may be removed. Coarse nets suspended in the store-room are very useful in preserving the finer kinds of fi’uit, lemons, &c., which are spoiled if allowed to touch. Apples may be preserved hi excellent condition for a long period, by behig packed in large bai’rels mth dry sand. Peach-leaves mil answer the purpose of bay-leaves, giving the same flavoui-.XXI PREFACE. In explanation of the manner in which the pre- sent work has been brought before the public, it may be said that, excellent and admirable as Mrs. Rundell’s treatise is universally acknowledged to be, the advanced state of culinary science has ren- dered her book insufficient for the guidance of the modern cook. It has therefore been deemed ad- visable, in a new edition, to retam such receipts only as will always be generally useful; and to replace those that have become obsolete, with the newer methods which obtain at the present day. The editor feels great pleasui-e in associating her name with one that has been so long and so widely honoured; but, unwilling to lose the credit wliich may be due to her own labours, she has distin- guished the various new receipts now offered to the pubhc by her initials,—those marked E. R. being enthely of her contribution. The same principle which actuated Mrs. Rundell has been rigidly adhered to in the new edition; and, upon comparison, it will be seen that economy has been even more studiously considered, without, at the same time, losing sight of the elegance so necessary to recommend the culinary art. It only remains to impress upon the mind of the reader the neces- sity of some endeavour to acquire practical expe- rience in the various branches of the culinary de- partment, and to persuade ignorant persons not toPREFACE. xxn be discouraged by the failure of theii’ earliest attempts. There is no royal road to eminence in cookery; and though a guide-book will do much, it cannot perform all that is requisite, since, however accurately any receipt may be given, some trifling cii'cumstance, which it is impossible for the author to foresee, may mar its effect. A little practice will render everything easy; but beginners must be content to make new trials, should the first be ■unsuccessful.CONTENTS. INTRODUCTION. Miscellaneous OosERVATioNs for the use of the Mistress OF A Family .... • • . XXV Directions for Carving • • . xlv CHAPTER I. Soup ....... I CHAPTER II. . 34 CHAPTER HI. Roasting and Boiling . . T2 CHAPTER IV. Made Dishes of Veal and Pork . . . . 104 CHAPTER V. Made Dishes of Beef . . 120 CHAPTER VI. Made Dishes of Mutton . . 136 CHAPTER VII. Rissoles, Croquettes, &c. . . 147 CHAPTER VIII. Sausages, &c. ..... . 154 CHAPTER IX. Made Dishes of Poultry, Game, &c. . 160 CHAPTER X. Pies ....... CHAPTER XI. Puddings ...... CHAPTER XII. French Cookery .... . 232CONTENTS. XXIV CHAPTER XIII. Vegetables ' . • Page . 253 CHAPTER XIV. Eggs, Cheese, Salads, &c. . . 275 CHAPTER XV. Oriental Cookery ..... . 2SS CHAPTER XVI. Sauces, Forcemeat, &c. .... . . 306 CHAPTER XVII. Salting and Pickling .... . 336 CHAPTER XVIII. Pickles and F.amily Sauces . 351 CHAPTER XIX. Preserves ... ... . 376 CHAPTER XX. Sweet Dishes ...... . 407 CHAPTER XXI. Observations on Making and Raking Cakes . 434 CHAPTER XXII. Punch, Liqueurs, Wine, &c. . . 458 CHAPTER XXIII. Dairy and Poultry ..... . 478 CHAPTER XXIV. Cookery tor the Sick and for the Poor Various Receifts, and Directions to Servants Bills of Fare, Family Dinners, Sic. A FEW Miscellaneous Receipts . • . 406 . 515 . 532 . 535MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS FOR THE USE OF THE MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise who best acquit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this line of conduct is not a matter of choice, but of necessity, if we would maintain the dignity of our character as rational beings. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic occupations stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when neglected, they produce much human misery. There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyoyid their own family concerns; but in the present day there are many who know nothing about them. Each of these extremes should be avoided ; but is there no way to unite in the female character cultivation of talents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in every situation, whose example proves that this is possible. Instances may be found of ladies in the higher walks of life who condescend to examine the accounts of their house-steward ; and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their husbands’ income which falls under their own inspection, avoid the inconveniences of embarrassed circumstances. How much more necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunesMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. XXVI press oil their attention considerations of the strictest economy! There ought to be a material difference in the degree of care which a person of a large and inde- pendent estate bestows on money-concerns, and that of a person in confined circumstances; yet both may very commendably employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this subject. The custom of the times tends in some measure to abolish the distinctions of rank; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all : but, though the leisure of the higher may be well devoted to different accomplishments, the pursuits of those in a middle line, if less ornamental, would better secure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. We sometimes bring up children in a manner calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that which it is likely they will actually possess; and it is in all cases worth the while of parents to consider whether the expectation or hope of raising their offspring above their own situation be well founded. The cultivation of the understanding and disposition, however, is not here alluded to ; for a judicious im- provement of both, united to firm and early-taught religious principles, would enable the happy possessor of these advantages to act well on all occasions : nor would young ladies find domestic knowledge a burden, or inconsistent with higher attainments, if the rudiments of it were inculcated at a tender age, when activity is so pleasing. If employment be tiresome to a healthy child, the fault must be traced to habits which, from many causes, are not at present favourable to the future con- dition of women. It frequently happens that, beforeXXVll MISCELLANEOUS OBSEJIVATIONS. impressions of duty are made on the mind, ornamental education commences; and it ever after takes the lead : thus, what should be only the embellishment becomes the main business of life. There is no opportunity of attaining a knowledge of family management at school; and during vacations all subjects that might interfere with amusement are avoided. When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, returns to reside at her father’s house after com- pleting her education, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashion- able circles, rather than to stoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake the arrangement of a family, though by that means she might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, and especially in the lower order of middling life, are almost always anxious to give their children such advantages of edu- cation as themselves did not possess. Whether their indulgence be productive of the happiness so kindly aimed at, must he judged by the effects, which are not very favourable, if what has been taught has not pro- duced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occupation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the former, especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shallXXviii MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. find a life of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and, at least, early instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness ; to preside over the family, and regulate the income allotted to its mainte- nance ; to make home the sweet refuge of a husband, fatigued by intercourse with a jarring world; to be his enlightened companion and the chosen friend of his heart; these, these are woman’s duties !—and delightful ones they are, if fiaply she be married to a man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring his share to the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one may truly say, “ Happy the man who can call her his wife ! Blessed are the children who call her mother !” When we thus observe her, exercising her activity and best abilities in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, are we not ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being, who placed her on earth to fulfil such sacred obligations, not to waste the talents committed to her charge ? When it is thus evident that the high intellectual attainments may find exercise in the multifarious occu- pations of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ? It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she, whose cliief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning all, the vir- tues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind which occasionally bends its attention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater.MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. XXIX Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, respectability of appearance, and the com- fort of her husband and those who partake their hospi- tality. The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dress- ing, and the neat, pleasing look of the whole, which give respectability to her who presides. Too much or too little dinners are extremes not uncommon : the latter is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty or penu- riousness to be genteel; and the former, if constantly given, may endanger the circumstances of those who are not aflduent. Generally speaking, dinners are far less sumptuous than formerly, when half-a-dozen dishes were supplied for what one now costs ; consequently those whose^ fortunes are not great, and who wish to make a genteel appearance without extravagance, regulate their table accordingly. Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respect- ability of a man is more immediately felt than the style of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the enter- tainments of the higher classes ; but if two or three dishes are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the e.xpectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no irregularity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. InXXX MISCELLANEOUS OBSllUVATIONS. all situations of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the station than to the fortune of the enter- tainer, and to the number and rank of those invited. The manner of carving is not only a very necessary branch of information, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the consumption of a family; and, though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge apparently of less consequence, yet she must at times feel the deficiency ; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable that, before the end of this century, great at- tention to guests may be again the mode, as it was in the commencement of the last. Some people hackle meat so much as not to be able to help half-a-dozen persons decently from a large tongue or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the family were to take the head of the table under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as an early prac- tice in other domestic affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. Habit alone can make good carvers; but some principal directions are hereafter given, with a reference to the annexed plates. The mistress of a family should always remember that the welfare and good management of the house depend on the eye of the superior; find, consequently, that nothing is too trifling for her notice whereliy waste mav be avoided. • ^MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. XXXI If a lady has never been accustomed, while single, to think of family management, let her not upon that ac- count fear that she cannot attain it: she may consult others who are more experienced, and acquaint herself with the necessary quantities of the several articles of family expenditure, in proportion to the number it con- sists of, the proper prices to pay, &c. &c. A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payment, should be taken in writing; likewise an es- timate of the supposed amount of each article of expense; and those who are early accustomed to calculations on domestic articles will acquire so accurate a knowledge of what their establishment requires, as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, without acquiring the character of meanness. Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful as great readiness in figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be entered ; and, if balanced every week and month, &c., the income and outgoings will be ascertained with facility, and their proportions to each other be duly ob- served. Some people fix on stated sums to be appro- priated to each dift’erent article, and keep the money in separate purses; as house, clothes, pocket, education of children, &c. Whichever way accounts be entered, a certain mode should be adopted, and strictly adhered to. Many women are unfortunately ignorant of the state of their husband’s income; and others are only made acquainted with it when some speculative project or profitable transaction leads them to make a false esti- mate of what can be afforded; and it too often happensMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. XXXll that both parties, far from consulting each other, squan- der money in ways that they would even wish to forget: whereas marriage should be a state of mutual and per- fect confidence, and similarity of pursuits, which would secure that happiness it was intended to bestow. There are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that it is a fair inference there would be few/tx- travagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands on subjects that concern the mutual interest of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these pages, many families have been reduced to poverty by the want of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs ; and, though on these occasions the women were blamed, it has afterwards appeared that they never were allowed a voice of inquiry, or suffered to reason upon what sometimes appeared to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to the propriety of female management as to the know- ledge and activity of the father. The lady of a general ojfficer observed to her man- cook that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was offered; to which she replied—“ Such is the sum I have allotted to housekeeping : should it be exceeded one week, the next must repay it. The General will have no public day this week.” The fault was never repeated. March’s “ Family Book-keeper ” is a very useful work, and saves much trouble; the various articles in expense being printed, with a column for every day in the year, so that at one view the amount of expenditure on each, and the total sum, may be known.xxxni MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. Ready money should be paid for all such things as come not into weekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. The best places for purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a discount of five per cent, is allowed for ready money, in London, and other large cities; and those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops; but it is safest to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, besides that a higher price must be paid; and in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregularity and failure of payment may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families, from the highest to the lowest. Thus regularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs will be known with ease ; for it is the delay of payment that occasions confusion. A commonplace- book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, and other observations, as are given by sensible, experienced people. Want of atten- tion to what is advised, or supposing things too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so much igno- rance prevails on necessary subjects, among those who are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessary for a woman to be informed of the prices and goodness of all articles in common use, and of the best times, as well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted with the compara- tive j>rices of provisions, in order that she may be able to . ubstitute those that are most reasonable, when they cMISCELLANEOUS OHSEUVATIONS. XXXIV will answer as well, for others of the same kind, but which are more costly. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase, as bargains, what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoided, more money would remain for other purposes. It is not unusual among lower dealers to put off a large quantity of goods, by assurances that they are advancing in price ; and many who supply fancy articles are so successful in persuasion, that purchasers not unfrequently go far be- yond their original intention, even to their own future disquiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly ; such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these, more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted, for people ought to form their conduct on their circum- stances; but it is presumed that a judicious arrange- ment, according to them, will be found equally advan- tageous to all. The minutiae of management must be regulated by everyone’s fortune and rank. Some ladies, not deficient in either, charge themselves with giving out, once in a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household articles as by observation and calculation they know to be sufficient, reserving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, andnuv; umd. Such a degree of judgment will be respectable even in the eye of do- mestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of their employers ; and, if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty.XXXV MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maid in the capacity of housekeeper; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery; and it is recommendable in them to be strictly observant of both, which, in the course of a year or two, will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared that, for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict account. Some part of every person’s fortune should be de- voted to charity; by which “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish ” (f. e. who lends nothing to the Lord) “ pulls it dowm with her hands.” No one can complain of the want of gifts to the poor in this land; but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which, being prepared from superfluity, <and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be civen soon in the moniinaj, there will be more time to execute them; and servants, by doing their work rvith ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be neces- sary. It is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduced, and much time saved, if everything beXXXVl MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. kept in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mended, when the nature of the accident wdll allow, as soon as broken. If the economy of time was duly considered, the use- ful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue; and it would be a most pleasant retrospect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the valuable acquirements made, and the good actions performed, by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good manage- ment of the heads will be insufBcient, if not seconded by those who are to e.\ecute orders. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service ; to he very minute in investigating the charac- ter he receives, and equally cautious and scrupulously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bad people . would be incapacitated from doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may he fairly asserted, that the robbery, or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress who, knowing, or having well-founded suspicions, of such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity or entreaty to slide him into another place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a character, because they arc displeased that a servant leaves their service: but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robberv, servants having no inheritance.XXX VI1 MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. and depending on their fair name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at large; and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties should be liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves well. It may be proper to observe that a retributive justice usually marks persons ’in that station, sooner or later, even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servi- tude are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially depends. Their faults, and the attendant punishment, come home when they have children of their own; and sometimes much sooner. They will see their own folly and wicked- ness perpetuated in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the e.xample and instruction given by themselves. 11 was the observation of a sensible and experienced woman, that she could always read the fate of her ser- vants who married: those w'ho had been faithful and industrious in her service continued their good habits in their own families, and became respectable members of the community ; those who were the contrary never were successful, and not unfrcquently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the country. A bill of ])arcels and receipt should be required, evenXXXviii MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. if the money be paid at the time of purchase; and, to avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional, yet it is prudent to weigh meat, sugars, &c., when brought in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when > the weekly bill shall be delivered. Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company, if servants are required to prepare the table and sideboard in similar order daily. All things likely to he wanted should be in readiness: sugars of different qualities kept broken; currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry j spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles, closely corked: not more than will be used in four or five weeks should be pounded at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole in gravies, &c. Where noonings or suppers are served, (and in every house some preparation is necessary for accidental visit- ors,) cure should be taken to have such things in readi- ness as are proper for either : a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and, if duly managed, will be attended with little expense and much convenience. A ticket should be exchanged bv the cook for every loaf of bread, which, when returned, will show the num- ber to be jtaid for; as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any otherXXXIX MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep a book for entering the dates ; which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will show the whole year’s consumption at one view. An inventory of furniture, linen, and china should be kept, and the things examined by it twice a-year, or oftener if there be a change of servants; into each of whose care the articles used by him or her should be intrusted, with a list, as is done with plate. Tickets of parchment, with the family name, numbered, and speci- fying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths are often deficient: these accidents might be obviated, if an article at the head of every list required the former should be produced whole or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The inducement to take care of glass is in some measure removed, by the increased price given for old flint glass. Those who wish for trifle- dishes, butter-stands, &c., at a lower charge than cut glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is great variety that look extremely well if not placed near the more beautiful articles. The ])rice of starch depends upon that of flour: the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years: therefore, when bread is cheap it may be bought to ad- vantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined ; and there is a difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, andxl MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. shining. 'I'he best sort of browm has a bright gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for wines and sweetmeats, hut do well for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best; and when their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall to- , gether, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in a stock of both. This information the chandler can always give : they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years if properly placed in the cool; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Paper, by keeping, improves in quality; and if bousht by half or whole reams from large dealers will be much cheaper than purchased by the quire. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregu- larity ; and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical;— Everv article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz. ; — Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor, if the air he excluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweetmeats require a dry place : so does salt.—CandlesMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS, xli cold, but not damp.—Dried meats, hams, &c., the same. —All sort of seed for puddings, salop, rice, &c., should be close covered, to preserve from insects; but that will not prevent it, if long kept. Bread is so heavy an article of expense that all waste should be guarded against; and having it cut in the room will tend much to -prevent it. Since the scarcity in 1795 and 1800, that custom has been much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a musty taste. Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savory, or knotted marjoram, or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered; but with discretion, as they are very pimgent. The best way to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use; and they should be shaken oceasionally. When soiled, they should lie washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler ; and, when the latter becomes weak, add more. The new improve- ment in soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of nearly half in quantity ; and, though something dearer than the hard, reduees the price of washing considerably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation, with less friction. Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square, when first brought in, andxlii MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. kept out of the air two or three weeks ; for, if it dry quick, it will crack, and, when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gra- dually. Thus it will save a full third in the consumption. Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should he pared first to preserve the peel dry; some should be halved, and, when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in anv liquid the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had; and they are per- petually wanted in cookery. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other pur- poses, contrive to have pudding, custard, &c., to employ the yolks also. Should you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy : on the contrary, if beaten long and separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish, beaten with fruit, to set in cream, &c. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off, and to have them fresh done when the least defect appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, &c., in them, or any metal utensil : stone and earthen vessels should be provided for those inirpnses, as likewise, plenty of common dishes, that tlie table-set may not be used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causesMISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. xliii holes. Fenders, and tin linings of flower-pots, &c , should be painted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occa- sioned at Salt-hill by the cook sending a ragout to the table which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun : renew the process once or twice. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a stone jar, or on a hot iron hearth; or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water-liath. If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c., be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders : for the latter there is a new con- trivance to sift, without dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders lightly wet give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens. 'I'he cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, tapes for the collared things, &c., wliich, if not per- fectly scalded and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used.xliv MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. Cold water thrown on cast-iron, when hot, will cause it to crack. In the following, and indeed all other receipts, though the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, &c., which can never lie ordered by general rules ; and if the cook has not a good taste, and attention to that of her employers, not all the ingredients which nature and art can furnish will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should be at hand, and she must proportion them until the true zest be obtained, and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes served at the same time. Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in this little work; and, where they are not strictly so, by suet or bacon being directed into stuffings, the cook must use butter instead; and, where meat gravies (or stock, as they are called) are ordered, those made of fish must be arfopted.DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. The carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a middling size and fine edge. Strength is less required than address in the manner of using it; and, to facilitate this, the cook should give orders to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcass-joints of mutton, lamb, and veal (such as neck, breast, and loin) ; which may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should be too thick, a small slice may be taken off between every two bones. The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mutton, and beef) are to be helped in thin slices neatly cut and smooth. Observe to let the knife pass down to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. The dish should not be too far off the carver, as it gives an awkward appearance, and makes the task more difficult. Attention is to be paid to help every one to a part of such articles as are considered the best. In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes, which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and con- tribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish- knife, not being sharp, divides it best on this account. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, part of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod, and fins of turbot, are likewise esteemed niceties, and are to be attended to accordingly. In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkeyDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. xlvi for a large party, if you cut the slices down from pinion to jiinion, without making wings, there will be more prime pieces. A Cod’s Head.—Fish in general requires very little carving, the fleshy parts being those principally esteemed. A cod’s head and shoulders, when in season and properly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the parts about the back-bone or the shoulders are the most firm and the best. Take off a piece quite down to the bone in the direction a, h, e, c/, putting in the spoon at o, c, and with each slice of fish give a piece of the sound, which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker coloured than the body of the fish itself: this may be got by passing a knife or spoon underneath, in the direction rf, /. About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of the jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw- bones, and the firm parts within the head. Some are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, w'hich like- wise may be got by putting a spoon into the moutlr. Edgebone of Beef.—Cut off a slice an inch thick all the length from a to b in the figure opposite, and then help. The soft fat which resembles marrow lies at the back of the bone, below c ; the firm fat must be cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. It is proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. The skewer that keeps the meat properly together wlicn boiling is here shown at a. This should be drawn out before it is served up; or, if it is necessary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one. Sirloin of Beef may be begun either at the end, or byxlvii DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. cutting into the middle. It is usual to inquire whether the outside or the inside is preferred. For the outside, the slice should he cut down to the bones; and the same with every following helping. Slice the inside likewise, and give with each piece some of the soft fat. The inside done as follows eats excellently : have ready some shalot-vinegar boiling-hot; mince the meat large, and a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it w’ith salt, and pour the shalot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help with a spoon as quick as possible on hot plates. Round or Buttock of Beef is cut in the same way as fillet of veal in the next article. It should be kept even all over. When helping the fat, observe not to hack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut ofl' the beef before you begin to help, as directed above for the edgebone. Fillet of Veal.—In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out, and the meat tied close, before dressing, which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut tliin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap, which completely covers it: you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter wdth paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappoint- ment of the carver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the bris- ket) is thickest, and has gristles: put your knife about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and help accordingly. Calfs Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if pro-xlviii DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. perly managed. Cut slices from a to b in the figure opposite page xlvi, letting the knife go close to the hone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat sweetbread, which you should help a slice of from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye, which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jaw-bone be taken off, there will be found some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is reckoned a nicety : the. lady of the house should be acquainted with all things that are thought so, that she may distribute them among her guests. Shoulder of Mutton.—This is a very good joint, and by many preferred to tbe leg ; it being very full of gravy, if properly roasted, and producing many nice bits. The figure represents it as laid in the dish with its back uppermost. When it is first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of ii, 6, and the knife should be passed deep to the bone. The prime part of the fat lies on the outer edge, and is to be cut out in thin slices in the direction c. If many are at table, and the hollow part cut in the line a, h, is eaten, some very good and delicate slices may be cut out on each side the ridge of the blade-bone in the direction c, d. Tlic line between these two dotted lines is that in the direction of which the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be cut across. Leq of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutton (which is the best flavoured) may be known by a round lump of fat at the edge of the broadest jiart, as at a. Tlie best part is in the midway, at />, between the knuckle and farther end. Begin to helj) there by cutting thin deep slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some% '^4 •S ■ ‘X.\\^U NCll Ol’ VF.NVSO'N .xlix DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. from the side of the broad end in slices from e to f This jiart is most juicy; but many prefer the knuckle, which in fine mutton will be very tender, though dry. There are very fine slices in the back of the leg: turn it up^ and cut the broad end; not in the direction you did the other side, but longwise. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh-bone at d; then pass the knife under the cramp-bone in the direction d, g. A Fore Quarter of Lamb.—Separate the shoulder from the scoven (which is the breast and ribs), by pass- ing the knife under in the direction of a, 6, c, d, in the figure opposite the last page; keeping it towards you horizontally, to prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. If grass lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprinkle a little salt and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the ribs in the line e, c; am! help either from that or from the ribs, as may' be chosen. Haunch of Venison.—Cut down to the bone in the line a, b, c, in the figure opposite, to let out the gravy: then turn the broad end of the haunch towards you, put in the knife at b, and cut as deep as you can to the end oi the haunch d; then help in thin slices, observing to give some fat to each person. There is more fat (which is a favourite part) on the left side of c and d than on the other; and those who help must take care to pro- portion it, as likewise the gravy, according to the number of the company. Haunch of Mutton is the leg and part of the loin, dDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. 1 cut SO as to resemble hauncb of venison, and is to be helped at table in the same manner. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end, beginning close to the back-bone. If a large joint, the slice maybe divided. Cut some fat from the sides. Ham may be cut three ways : the common method is, to begin in tbe middle, by long slices from a to b, from the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at first; which is likewise accomplished by cutting a small round hole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive thin circles: this preserves the gravy and keeps the meat moist. The last and most saving way is to begin at the hock end (which many are most fond of), and proceed on- wards. Ham that is used for pies, &c., should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. Sucking Pig.—The cook usually divides the body before it is sent to table, and garnishes the dish with the jaws and ears- The first thing is to separate a shoulder from the carcass on one side, and then the leg, according to the direction given by the dotted line a, h, c. Tlie ribs are then to be divided into about two helpings; and an ear or jaw presented witli them, and plenty of sauce. The joints may either be divided into two each, or pieces may be cut from them. The rilis are reckoned the finest part; but some people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Goo.yc. —Cut off the apron in the circular line a, h, c.iHAKi:li DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. d 2 in the figure opposite the last page; and pour into the body a glass of port wine, and a large tea-spoonful of mustard, first mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another; but only remove them as you help each person, unless the company is so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings. Take off the leg by putting the fork into the small end of the bone, pressing it to the body, and, having passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and, if a young bird, it will easily separate. To take oflT the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and press it close to the body: then put in the knife at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direction d, e. Notlting but practice will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other; but it is not often necessary to cut up -the whole goose, unless the company be very large. There are two side-bones, by the wing, which may be cut off; as like- wise the back and lower side-bones : but the best pieces are the breast and the thighs, after being divided from the drum-sticks. Hare.—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder at a in the figure opposite, and so cut all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back-bone, in the line a, b. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a: lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cutDIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. lii them; and then help the company, giving some pud- ding and gravy to every person. This way can only be practised when the hare is young: if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm'; but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at the joint, which you must endea- vour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the back: then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman’s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off the head : put your knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper flat on your plate: then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. The ears and brains may be helped then to those who like fhem. Carve -Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare; cutting the back into two pieces, which, with the legs, are the prime. A Fold.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly ; but before it is served the skewers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate; and place the joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wing ofl’ in the direction of a to b in the annexed engraving, only dividing the joint with your knife ; and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wings towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more com- plete form than if cut. Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut to the bone: then with the fork turn the leg back, and the joint will give way if the bird is not old. When the four quarters arc thus removed.AI HHKAi^ANT. rt't! ac<'UlRKtJTlONS FOR CARVING. liii - take off the merrythought from ,a, and the neckbones ; ! these last by putting in the knife; at c, and pressing it .under the long broad partjof the bone in the line c, b : then lift it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to the breast. The next thing is to divide the breast from the carcass, by cutting through the tender ribs close to the breast, quite down to the tail. Then' lay the back upwards, put. your knife into the bone half way from the neck to the rump, and on raising the lower end lit will separate readily. Turn the rump from'you, and very neatly takei off the two'sidesmen, and'the whole will be done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned neatly on the dish ; and care should be taken that what is left goes properly from * table. The breast and wings are looked upon as the best parts; but the legs are most juicy in young > fowls. After all, more advantage will be gained by observing those who carve well, and a little practice,'than by any written directions whatever. A Pheasant.—.The bird in the annexed engraving is as trussed for the spit, wdth its head under one of its wings. When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the following is the way to carve it:— Fix your fork in the centre of the breast; slice it down in the line a, h ; take off the leg on one side in the dotted line h, d: then cut off the wing on the same side in the line c, d. Separate the leg and wing on the other side, and then cut off the slices of breast you di- vided before. Be careful how you take off the 'wings; for if you should cut too near the neck, as at g, you will hit on the neck-bone, from which the wing must be separated. Cut off the meirythought in the line f, 7, d 3DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. liv by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought are the most esteemed; but the leg has a high flavour. Partridges.—The partridge is here represented as just taken from the spit j but before it is served up the skewers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the line o, 6, and the merrythought in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and merrythought; but the bird being small, the two latter are not often divided. The wing is considered as the best, and the tip of it is reckoned the most delicate morsel of the whole. Pigeons.—Cut them in half, either from lop to bot- tom or across. The lower part is generally thought the best; but the fairest way is to cut from the neck to a, figure 7, rather than from c to 6, by a, which is the most fashionable. The figure represents the back of the pigeon ; and the direction of the knife is in the line c, b, by a, if done the last way.DOMESTIC COOKERY. CHAPTER I. SOUP.—E. R. The method of making good and economical soup is exceedingly essential; and as the stock may frequently be produced without the purchase of meat employed solely for the purpose, and hot fit to be sent to table aftervs’ards, housekeepers will do well to attend very closely to this branch of the culinary art. The water in which beef or pork has been boiled is generally too salt to make good soup, and a third, or at most half, should be taken for the purpose: that in which a leg of mutton has been boiled will only require some small additions to be formed into excellent soup; the same may be said of a neck of mutton ; and the liquor from a calfs head merely needs flavouring, since, if the bones be added when the meat is sufficiently done, they will produce a stiff’ jelly, and make quite sufficient soup for a small family, even when only half a head has been boiled. The English taste is in favour of strong, rich, and highly-flavoured soups, but these may be judiciously varied by others of a plainer deseription—broths, rather than soups, containing only the pure juices of the meat, seasoned merely with vegetables; and if thickened at all, using bread, or rice, or vermicelli. Soups of this description, for which several receijits will be given, if taken occasionally, will be found an excellent preventive against the ills contracted by what B[Chap. i. 2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. is called high living, and will prevent the appetite from becoming vitiated, and craving for constant excite- ment. A common camp kettle will be found an excellent utensil for making soup, as the lid is heavy and will keep in the steam. An earthen pipkin, if of a long and narrow make, widening a little in the centre, is also a good, perhaps one of the best vessels for soups; and soup may he made in a jar covered with paste, or folds of brown paper, and sent to the oven. It is always desirable to prepare soup the day before it is wanted, as the fat is very easdy taken off when cold. The liquor in which meat has been merely boiled may be converted into good soup by frying vegetables in butter and adding them. Soup is thickened, and the grease, sliould there be any, neutralised (that is, ab- sorbed) by mixing from a tea-spoonful to a tea-cupful of flour, according to the quantity, with a little water, very smoothly, forming it at first into a paste, and then adding the soup by degrees in a basin until it becomes thin: the portion thus prepared must then be mixed with the whole, and boiled up, or otherwise there will be a raw taste from the flour. This operation re- quires skill and judgment, for the presence of the Hour should never be detected : clear gravy soup must on no account have any flour put into it, as it would spoil the transparency. When soup is not rich enough, and is not to be served up with vegetables, mix a piece of butter with flour into a paste, using only as much flour as will prevent the butter from oiling, and taking care to in- corporate it very completely; then put the butter into a small saucepan, adding gradually some of the soup, and then pour it into the soup-kettle and boil it all together. Soup which has been made with vegetables will not keep so long as that which is comjiosed solely of meat. Soup must not on any account be ])ut by in metal of any kind, Init poured into a freshly scalded earthen pan, and, if kept longer than a day, changed into aChap, i.] SOUPS. 3 clean vessel scalded for the purpose. If colouring should be necessary, the common browning may be used ; fried onions will also materially assist in giving a fine brown colour to soup. The crust of a loaf of bread stewed in the soup thickens and renders it more wholesome, and when taken out -wdll be found light, palatable, and nou- rishing to an invalid. When wine is put into soup it should not be added until nearly the last thing : thus a glass of wine will go as far in flavouring a soup as a pint stewed down from the commencement. Ketchups, sauces, such as soy, anchovy, &c., should only be put into weak soups which require to have some flavour imparted to them ; there is, however, an agree- able acid as well as a delicacy in Harvey’s sauce, which renders it an exception, English cooks seldom giving to their dishes the advantage of a slight acid judiciously combined with other things. Soups also, like that made from calfs-head, cow-heel, &c., which are rich, but flavourless, will bear the addition of sauces, when other relishing articles are not at hand; but, generally speak- ing, common English cooks are too much addicted to the indiscriminate use of ketchups and sauces. The castors are the proper places for these things, since they may be added by the parties fond of high flavours; a small quantity occasionally, however, will be found ad- vantageous, but they should by no means preponderate. Meat for soup should never be drowned at first in water, but put into the kettle with a very small quantity and a piece of butter, merely to keep the meat from burning until the juices are extracted; by this means a single pound will afford better and .richer soup than treble the quantity saturated with cold water. Bouilli beef is rendered very rich and palatable, though a con- siderable quantity of soup may be made from it, liy being stewed at first in a little butter and its own juices. Soup may be cleared by putting the whites of one or two eggs in it while being warmed up, and as it begins to melt; then boil the whole gently together, and run the liquor throiigh a jelly-bag. B 24 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. i. GENERAL DIRECTIONS RESPECTING SOUPS AND GRAVIES. When there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoiled before it is wanted, season well, and fry it lightly, which will preserve it two days longer; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When soups or gravies are to be put .by, let them be changed every day into fresh scalded pans. What- ever has vegetables boiled in it is apt to turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &c., in metal. When fat remains on any soup, a tea-cupful of flour and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in it, will take it off. If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will give either of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies; and they are best if made the day before they are wanted. Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the bottom of the pan, and stewed, and the herbs, roots, &c., with butter, than when water is put to the meat at first; and the gravy that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the water is put to it. Do not use the sediments of gravies, &c., that have stood to be cold. When onions are strong, boil a turnip with them, if for sauce: this will make them mild. If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them in boiling, that the watery particles may evaporate. STOCK FOR soul’s.—E. R. 0.x-cheek, shin or leg of beef, make an excellent stock for soups. Break the bone, and cut the meat in pieces ; add to it a piece of lean bacon, or ham, or the bones of either; the proportion of the former should be a pound and a half to seven pounds of the beef.SOUPS. Chap, i.] 5 Place the meat in the bottom of a stewpan, with a piece of butter; draw out the gravy very gently, and allow it nearly to dry in again; then add the water poured boiling upon it, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion or two with a clove stuck in them; place the pan by the fire to simmer for about four hours ; the time, however, must depend upon the quantity; twelve pounds of meat will take at least ten hours. The stock for white soups should be made of scrag, or of knuckle of veal, ox-heel, or calf’s head, with any small quantity of dark meat, and ham-bones ; an old fowl will also be found a very desirable addition, and in making stock of any kind, the legs, heads of fowls, turkeys, and all sorts of trim- mings, may be used with great advantage. A sheep’s- head will make excellent stock; have it beautifully cleaned, put it into a ste'wpan with a little water, and when it is heated through fill up the pot; when it is sufficiently tender, take it up, remove the meat from the bones, and return the bones into the broth, adding onion, sweet herbs, &c., as before directed. Stew these bones for several hours longer, and when the liquor is cold, it will be found a jelly, and will form the basis of every kind of soup or sauce. When a large quantity of any butcher’s meat is brought in for the use of the family, the joints will require trimming : take all the parings, adding a slice or two of bacon, beef, or mutton bones, onions, herbs, a few slices of carrot, pepper, salt, &c.; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the pan, cover it closely, and put it over a slow fire for a few minutes, shaking the saucepan occasionally. Then pour in boiling water, covering the meat to the depth of some inches, and let it stew until it is rich ; then put it aside. When cold take off the fat. The weighing-pieces, which butchers in the country send in with the superior joints of meat, answer admirably for stock. Put into a stew- pan a piece of beef, a piece of veal, or, what will be more economical, an old fowl, some slices of ham or bacon, and all the trimmings of meat that can be ob-DOMESTIC COOKERY.' 6 [Chap. i. tained ; add to these materials, where such things are abundant, an old partridge, grouse, or other game, which may not be sufficiently young and tender for the spit. Put a little warm (not boiling) water to it, just enough to cover half the meat, and stew very gently over a slow fire or steam apparatus. When the top piece is done through, cover the meat with boiling water, or broth, should it be required to glaze, and season with a bundle of sweet herbs, parsley, and chives, a clove, a small bit of bay-leaf, a little salt, and some trimmings of mushrooms, if they are to be had. Stew all together until the juices are drawn from the meat; skim off the fat, and strain the liquor through a tammy. This stock may be reduced to a glaze by boiling it down to the proper consistence, or it may be converted into fine white sauce by adding a sufficient quantity of flour and cream thoroughly incorporated—for white sauce there must be no pepper in the stock—and a very small quantity of flour in proportion to the cream. This need not be an expensive preparation if care be taken to make it at a time when the materials are at hand. ANOTHER WAY OF PROCURING STOCK.—E. R. Take any quantity of beef, mutton, and veal, or fowl, cut the meat into small pieces, and put it into a deep saucepan with a close cover, the beef at the bottom, the mutton upon it, a piece of lean bacon, a bundle of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, black and white, and a large onion sliced, with the white meat at the top. Cover the saucepan closely, and put it over the fire for a few minutes, shaking the pan. Then pour in as much boil- ing water as will rather more than cover the meat. Stew gently for eight hours: then put in two anchovies chopped, and seasoned with salt to the taste. Strain off the liquor and preserve it for use. If properly made, this gravy will become a rich jelly, a jiiece of which may be cut oft’ when sauce is wanted. English private families do not make sufficient use of sheep’s-heads,SOUPS. Chap, i.] 1 sheep’s-trotters, and cow-heel; all these afford very strong jelly, and the proper flavour may be given by the Judicious addition of beef, game, ham, &c. Some eco- nomical persons purchase bones of the butcher, and by stewing them many hours procure an excellent stock ; and families to whom expense is an object will do well to make the experiment. Scrag of veal will answer all the purpose of the knuckle. CLEAK GRAVY SOUP.—E. R. Take a leg of beef, cut it in several pieces, and break the bones ; lay it in a kettle with a proportionate qu.antity of ham, three pounds of the latter to fourteen of the former: draw it at first with a small quantity of water; then add onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, a carrot or two, and some lumps of sugar, and a sufficient quantity of whole pepper. Fill up the kettle with boiling water, skim it well, and stew the whole gently for ten hours When taken off the fire, ladle out the soup that it may not be disturbed in any way, and only take as much as can be procured in this manner, putting away the re- mainder with the meat in a separate pan. When cold, take off all the fat very carefully, and warm it, when wanted, with carrots cut very thin, in pieces about an inch long, or asparagus cut like pease, or vermicelli. This soup should not rec^uire any artificial browning, but, if wanted of a deep colour, a small quantity will suffice. If, by any mischance, the soup should be at all muddy, which it will be if care be not taken to keep it from the sediment, it must he thickened and converted into other descriptions of soup. The finer portions of the beef of whicb tbe soup is made should be taken out and cut into small pieces, served in some part of the liquor, thickened and sent up with piquant sauce on vegetables. Add water to the remainder of the meat, which will stew some time longer, aiid make very good soup with the addition of the before- mentioned mucilaginous pieces sent up in it, ox-tail, giblet, or fried vegetables. The ox-tail and the giblets.[Chap. 8 DOMESTIC COOKERY. however, will afford the greatest part of the stock of a soup in themselves; and therefore, if employed, it should be to increase the quantity. This is a winter soup, and, when made according to the foregoing receipt, is fit only for the consumption of a large family, or those who see much company. HARE SOUP.—E. R. Where hares are in plenty, or there is a very old one, which cannot conveniently he sent to table any other way, it is a good plan to make soup of it. Cut the hare into pieces, and lay them at the bottom of a large jar, with a slice or two of lean ham, or gammon, and any other bones or trimmings at hand, or if a large quantity of soup be wanted, a piece of any other meat; an onion, a stick of celery, a bundle of sweet herbs, with about from three to si.v quarts of boiling water. Put the jar into an oven, and let it remain until the hare is stewed to rags. Strain off the liquor, remove the fat, and let it boil up once, with a spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, and a little cayenne pepper: send it to table with force- meat-balls in the tureen, made with the cliopped liver, and fried. Some persons take the meat from the bones and pound it in a mortar, mixing it with the soup until it is quite thick. Should it be deemed desirable to pre- serve the game-flavour entire, no other admixture should be made; but if a larger quantity be wanted, and the quality changed, the following method may be adopted :— ANOTHER HARE SOUP.—E. R. Cut a large hare into pieces, and put it, togetlier witli a scrag or knuckle of veal, or a cow-heel, into a kettle, Muth five or six quarts of water, herbs, onion, &c., and a little mace; stew over a slow fire for two hours, or until the gravy is good; then take out the back and legs, cut the meat off, returning the bones, and stewing the wliole until the meat is nearly dissolved. Then strain off the gravy, and put a glass of wine to9 SOUPS. Ceiap. I.] every quart of the soup, and send it to table with the meat cut into small pieces, and warmed with the wine, which will take about ten minutes or a quarter of an hour. Any kind of game may be made into soup in the same way. PARTRIDGE SOUP.—E. R. Take two large old partridges, skin them and cut them into pieces; fry them in butter, with three or four slices of lean ham or bacon, a stick of celery, and three large onions, till they are brow^n, taking care not to bum them; then put them into three quarts of boil- ing water, with a few peppercorns, and a little salt. Stew the whole very gently for two hours, then strain the soup, and serve it up with stewed celery and fried bread. SOUP CRESSY.—E. R. Grate four carrots, slice four onions, and cut two or three lettuces in pieces, adding a little chervil; put them all into a stewpan with a piece of butter, laying a pint of lentils on the top, and moistening the whole with a pint of good broth. Let it simmer for half an hour; then fill it up with stock, allowing, it to boil gently an hour longer; then put in the crumbs of two French rolls; when well soaked, rub the whole through a tammy. Have a little rice ready boiled in the stock, and serve it up in the tureen. WHITE SOUP.—E. R. For six quarts of water added at the proper time, take a large knuckle of veal, or a scrag of veal, and an old fowl, a pound of ham or gammon of bacon, or ham- bones, a few peppercorns, celery cut in slices, two or three onions, and a bundle of sweet herbs, sugar, salt, &c.; stew them all together, according to the preceding directions, for several hours, then strain the soup, having taken off the fat: on the following day, add to the liquor a quarter of a pound of almonds, blanched and pounded ;10 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. i. boil it very gently, and then pass the soup through a sieve, thickening it afterwards with a pint of cream and one egg. This soup may be made of the liquor in which a calf’s-head has been boiled, after it has been stewed down with the bones taken out of the head: strain the liquor off, and when placed again upon the fire, add to it a few ounces of vermicelli, and, just be- fore it is taken up, a half pint of cream. ANOTHER WHITE SOUP.—E. R. V Take two quarts of the stock, and boil the crumb of a roll in a gill of milk, beat the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs with three ounces of almonds very well in a mor- tar, with a little cayenne pepper, and add the whole to the soup: it may be poured over slices of French roll sent up in the tureen. White soup may be varied with rice : wash two or three ounces of the best kind, blanch it in boiling water, and drain it, add the rice to the soup, and let it stew until it swells. If the stock has been made with fowl, take out the white portion when well stewed, pound the meat in a mortar and add it to the soup. It is the fashion now to send up grated Parmesan cheese with white soup. SOUP A LA .TULIENNE.-E. R. Cut various kinds of vegetables in pieces, celery, car- rots, turnips, leeks, and onions, and having put two ounces of butter in the bottom of a stewpan, put the vegetables on the top of the butter, together with any others that may be in season ; stew or fiy them over a slow fire, keeping them stirred, and adding a little of the stock occasionally ; soak small pieces of crust of bread about the size of shillings or half-croMms, in the remainder of the broth or stock, and when the vege- tables are nearly stewed, add them, and warm the ■whole up together.SOUPS. 11 Chap. i.J MOCK-TURTLE SOUP.—E. R. Take a calfs-head with the skin on, and about two pounds of very delicate pickled pork, the part, with- out hones, that is chiefly fat. The head must be very well cleaned and soaked ; wash the salt from tlie pork and soak it likewise in lukewarm water; put both into a soup-kettle, with two onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, two sticks of celery, pepper, and pounded mace; fill the kettle with water, and boil very gently till the meat is tender; take out the head and the pork, separate the meat from the bones, and return the latter into the soup. Let it stew for some hours longer: when cold take ofi' the fat, strain the soup, and thicken it; add half or three-quarters of a pint of white wine, the juice of a lemon, or two glasses of Harvey’s sauce; cut the meat of half the head into pieces and that of t.he pork also, and warm it up in the soup, together with egg-balls, and forcemeat ditto. The pork will be found a most acceptable addition, improving the flavour of the soup, and affording a substitute for the fat of the turtle. The remaining portion, with the other half of the calf’s head, should be rolled according to the directions given in a future page. Half a calf’s-head is quite sufficient tc^ make mock-turtle soup for a party; but as it cannot always be had with the skin on, the receipt is given for the whole. N.B. Though calves’-heads with the skin on bear a higher price than those without it, they go farther : there is no economy in purchasing the inferior article: the tongue should be cured for use, and a very nice dish may be made of the brains. MOCK-TURTLE. Bespeak a calf’s-head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean it well ; then half boil it; take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to the richness.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 12 [Ch.\p. I. Fry some shalot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy; stir this into the bro-vvning, and give it one or two boils; skim it carefully, and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, cayenne pepper, and salt to your taste; also two spoonsful of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls and small eggs. A CHEAPER WAY TO PREPARE MOCK-TURTLE. Prepare half a calf’s-head, withoxit the skin, as above : when the meat is cut off, break the bones and put them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates, boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow-heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it; then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an anchovy, two spoonsful of walnut-ketchup, the same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, &c. GREEN PEAS SOUP.—E. R. The liquor in which a leg of mutton or half a calPs- head has been boiled will make an excellent stock for this soup. Take a peck of peas, and, in shelling them, separate the old from the young ; boil tlie former por- tion until they are quite tender in the soup, then rub them through a sieve, return them to the stock, and let them stew gently together. Put in the young jieas just time enough before the soup is served to allow them to be properly cooked. Artichoke bottoms or cucum- bers may be added with advantage; ])are a couple of cucumbers, cut them in pieces, take out the seeds, dry them in a cloth, flour, and fry them of a light brown.13 SOUPS. Chap. i.J and serve them up with the soup immediately as it goes to table. ANOTHER WAY.—E. R. Boil the old peas after separating them from the young, beat them in a mortar, then pass them through a sieve and add them to the stock. Take six large cabbage-lettuces, a few handsful of spinach, and some young onions, or chives; boil them together, strain oft’ the water, and press them very dry; then fry them with butter, together with cucumbers pared, floured, and dried; add all these to the soup, with the young peas, time enough to cook them, and the cucumbers the last thing. PEAS SOUP.—E. R. Steep the necessary quantity of white peas in cold water for two hours, and then put them into a pan with as much water as will cover them. When tho- roughly boiled pass them through a hair-sieve, and add them to any good broth that is at hand. This soup will be improved by a few spoonsful of rice boiled until it is tender, and the beaten yolks of one or two eggs: the latter must only be heated in the soup, for if suffered to boil they would curdle. Grey peas-soup IS made the same way: the following is a cheaper method. Take a pint of whole peas, steep them in cold water for an hour, put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, and boil them until they can be pulped through a sieve, then add them to the broth, which must be already seasoned; boil together for a few mi- nutes, and serve up with fried bread in the tureen, and powdered mint in a plate. VEGETABLE SOUP.—E. R. Take cabbage-lettuces, celery, leeks, turnips, and carrots in winter, and any kind of summer vegetables, cucumbers sliced, asparagus tops, vegetable marrow, or pumpkin ; cut them into small pieces, and fry or stewDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chav- i. 14 them in butter; that is, put a few ounces of butter in the bottom of a stewpan, and when it wastes, add a little gravy-stew till the vegetables become quite tender, and then add them to broth already prepared; boil all together, and serve them up. A CHEAP AND WHOLESOME SOUP.—E. R. Take one pound of lean beef, cut it into small pieces ; add to it seven pints of water, one pint of whole, or split peas, one pound of potatoes sliced, three ounces of rice, two heads of celery, and three leeks ; season to the taste with salt and pepper, boil gently until it is reduced to four pints: if considered too simple, fried cabbage and onion will give it richness and strength, or it may be pulped through a cullender and sent up with fried bread. A SIMPLE SOUP.-E. R. Take three quarts of good broth, cut into a stewpan two carrots, three or four turnips, two heads of celery, a lettuce, a little parsley, and some small onions, and a little butter and gravy. Stew until the vegetables be- come quite tender, so as to permit them to be rubbed through a sieve: to this may be added a few spoonsful of rice, or pearl-barley, boiled separately: add the whole together, and boil for a quarter of an hour. BARLEY BROTH.—E. R.: Take a breakfast-cupful of pearl-barley, boil it in a gallon of water gently for half an hour, then take three pounds of meat—'lamb, or mutton-chops, with the fat cut off, or lean beef—put them into a separate stew])an, dress them with a small quantity of water, add to them any kind of vegetables, carrots, and turnips, with small onions, celery, and green |)eas if in season, salt, pepper, and, with the water and the barley, let the whole boil gently for two hours, or longer, and, serve it up all together.SOUPS. ’ Chap, i.] 15 HOTCH POTCH.—E. R. Take any quantity of lamb-chops, pare off the fat, lay them in a stewpan in this manner: a layer of chops at the bottom, covered with every kind of vege- table cut in small pieces, onions, celery, lettuce, carrots, turnips, and green peas; then put on a layer of chops, and so on, with the vegetables, until the whole are added : fill up the pan with water, or rather cover the ingredients with water, and let it stew several hours very gently : it will be quite thick. VE.VL BROTH.—E. R. Draw a knuckle of veal, and add a gallon of water, with an onion, a head of celery, and a little parsley, pepper, and salt; let the whole simmer very gently until the liquor is reduced to two quarts ; then take out the meat, and either send up the mucilaginous parts with the soup, or serve it up with parsley and butter. Add to the broth either two ounces of rice separately boiled, or of vermicelli, put in only long enough to be stewed tender. A simple mutton broth may be made the same way. CARROT SOUP.—E. R. ' Take twelve carrots scraped clean, then rasp them to the core, which must not be used ; four heads of celery cut small, two large onions shred, a few tomatos, and some peppercorns, stew them in half a ])ound of butter very slowly over a stove, and keep stirring until the vegetaljles are soft; then place the crumb of a penny roll in the stewpan, and ptnir the stock or gravy over the whole; boil till the bread has become very soft, and then pulp the whole through a sieve. Boil the soup slowly for a short time, skimming if neces- sary : it should be as thick as cream, and of a fine red colour. Tomato soup may be made the same way, leaving out the carrots, and j)utting in a greater number of tomatos: when the latter are not to be had, a smallDOMESTIC COOKERY, 16 [CHAf. I. quantity of lemon-juice should be added to carrot soup to give the requisite acid. A simpler method of making carrot soup is to boil the carrots till they are tender, and pulp them through a sieve, together with a small quantity of rice or French roll, also boiled tender, and then add them to the stock, or broth. GIBLET SOUP.—E. R. Scald and clean a set, or more, of giblets. Duck giblets make very good soup, but being much smaller than those of a goose, a larger quantity will be necessary: stew them by themselves in a pint of water for each set, till they are quite tender; or with a scrag of mutton, a couple of pounds of gravy beef, or any thing of which soup may be made, three onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and five pints of water. Stew until the gizzards are quite tender ; then take out the giblets and strain the soup, adding it, if other stock be ready, to the broth so prepared; then add a glass of wine, a glass of Harvey, or Reading sauce, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. If the soup is required to be very rich, cream may be added, some sliced onions fried in butter, and a little mushroom powder. LEEK SOUIL—E. R. Mix a spoonful or two of oatmeal, according to the quantity of broth, in cold water, very smooth, the same as if for gruel; add a little of the broth, (the liquor in which a leg of mutton has been boiled will answer the purpose,) by degrees, until tlie whole is incorporated; then boil the liquor witli any quantity of leeks, chopped small, season it, and simmer until the leeks are tender. TORKISII SOUP.—E. R. Take some good gravy from a leg of beef, all sorts of vegetables, and a little spice; stew all together, and when strained and cleared from fat set it on the fire, and when it boils add lialf a pound of rice to threeChap, i.] SOUPS. n quarts of soup, beat the yolks of tvv’O eggs with a quarter of a pint of cream, stir it into the soup, when the rice is tender, taking care not to let the soup boil, and stirring the same way till the soup is served. PE.\S PORRIDGE.—E. R. Fry a couple of onions, and a stick of celery, and put them, wuth a bundle of sweet herbs, a couple of anchovies, or half a red herring, into three quarts of water, with a crust of bread floured, pepper and salt; boil all together, very gently, until the flavour is ex- tracted from the herbs; then skim the liquor, and strain it. Add a pound of raw potatoes grated, and a pint of split peas; when the peas are soft, beat them through a sieve, with the soup, and if the porridge should not be thick enough, add a little flour and butter. Cut half a dozen leeks into pieces, and, after the peas have been beaten, boil them in the soup, and send them to table. A PEPPER-POT TO BE SERVED IN A TUREEN. To three quarts of water put vegetables according to the season: in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach; in winter, carrots, turnips, celery, and onions in both. Cut small, and stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, or a fowl and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a lobster or crab, cleared from the bones. Season with salt and cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables and pulse. cDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. i. 18 TOMATO SOUP.—E. U. Cut up an onion and fry it in a table-spoonful of oiled butter; when the onion is brown, take it out and replace it with a dozen tomatos, which must be stewed very gently until quite tender, pulp the tomatos through a sieve, and add them to the stock, which must be ready strained and thickened. PRUSSLYN SOUP.—E. R. Take two large leeks, four roots of celery, two car- rots, two or three turnips, onions, and potatoes, cut them all into small pieces, and fry them in a little beef or mutton dripping. Take half a pound of beef, or other meat, cut into slices; put all together into a large saucepan, and keep it stewing for about an hour with- out any water; then pour two quarts of boiling w'ater on the meat and vegetables, and stew for two hours longer. WHITE TURNIP SOUP.—E. R. Take six very clean white turnips, pare and slice them, one large onion, two heads of celery, also sliced. Stew altogether in butter until tender; add a little cream, and rub the whole through a sieve ; add a sufficient quantity of weak veal or mutton broth, the former to he preferred, letting the soup he the thickness of cream ; season with a little white pepper. OX-TAIl, .SOUP.—E. R. Two ox-tails, if properly stewed, will make soup with- out any addition of meat: tliey must he cleaned, cut into I pieces, and boiled very gently for several hours in a suHicient quantity of water; two or throe onions, a piece of crust ot hreail, a hunch of sweet herbs, a clove or two, and some jiciijiercorus. When tender, the liquor must he strained and the fat removed. If made without ham-hones, or other flavouring ingre-Chap, i.] '19 SOUPS. dients, it will require the addition of a little ketchup, Harvey’s sauce, and a glass of wine, and should be thickened with butter or cream. Serve up with the tails cut in pieces. A much more delicate and elegant soup may be made with calves’-tails. A SPRING SOUP.—E. R. Stew some cabbage-lettuces and spinach in broth, with the crumb of a French roll. When sufficiently tender, pulp them through a sieve, add them to two quarts of stock; and before sent up to table, add the tops of asparagus, boiled long enough in the soup to become tender. THE BERKSHIRE RECEIPT FOR WINTER PEAS-SOUP.—E. R. Take two quarts of peas, boil them down to a pulp, and strain them; put half a pound of butter into a stewpan with celery and half an onion, two anchovies, pounded pepper, salt, mint and parsley, each a small handful; of spinach and beet a small quantity; stew all these in the butter till tender. Then add the pulp until the soup is as thick as required; put in a dessert- spoonful of white sugar, and boil all up together. THE BERKSHIRE RECEIPT FOR SUMMER PEAS-SOUP.—E. R. Take five or six cucumbers pared and sliced, the white part of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a full pint of young peas, a little parsley, and half a pound of butter. Put them all together in a saucepan to stew in their own liquor for an hour and a half, or until they are quite tender; then boil as many old peas, pulp them through a cullender, and mix in a quart of the liquor or more, according to the thickness which may be desiralile ; when the herbs are stewed put them in, and serve uj). This soup will be found excellent.[Chap. i. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 20 SOUP M.\IGRE.—E. R. Take six ounces of butter, cut it into pieces, and put it into a stewpan. .When melted, add three or four onions sliced, three or four heads of celery, two handsful of spinach, some cabbage, two or three turnips, parsley, and other herbs. Stew all gently for about half an hour ; then add two quarts of water; simmer till the vegetables are quite tender, and send up the soup with toasted bread, or the crumb of a French roll, cut^ in slices, at the bottom of the tureen. PEAS SOUP MAIGRE.—E. R. To a quart of whole or split peas put three quarts of water; boil gently until the peas are dissolved, then pulp them through a sieve, and add three anchovies, or a red herring, carrots, turnips, leeks, thj-me, and sw'cet marjoram, and stew them together. Before ser\dng add some ketchup and salt, thicken the soup with butter, and send it up with fried bread. Frying the vegetables will make the soup richer. Fry any quantitv" in butter, then add two quarts of water, and stew' till the vegetables are quite tender ; strain the liquor, and add to the peas boiled separately, and pulped through a sieve; serve with fried bread. GREEN PEAS SOUP MAIGRE.—E. R. Take a quart of old green peas, two sprigs of mint, and tw'O quarts of water; boil all together until tlie peas are very soft; then pulp them througli a sieve ; put I the liquor thus obtained in a stewpan, with a pint of i young peas, two or tliree cucumbers cut into thick : square pieces, and an onion or two, with three or four ! ounces of butter : melt the butter with a little flour, , only sufficient to keep it from oiling, with some of I the soup, and then add it to the remainder : the addi- • tion of mushroom ketchup will give it a flavour of meat.21 SOUPS. Chap, i.] A MORE ELABORATE METHOD.—E. R. Slice a French roll, and boil it in six quarts of water until it is perfectly dissolved ; then take all the old peas found in a peck and a half, keeping the young ones separate; boil the old peas with the bread and water, and when tender strain them ; reserve the water and pulp the peas through a sieve, putting them by for the present; boil the young peas with a sprig of mint, a little mace, and pepper in the strained soup, and while they are simmering put half a pound of butter into a frying-pan, and when it boils, cut in two lettuces, two handsful of young spinach, a little parsley chopped, a dozen of small silver onions, and two cucumbers cut in slices. After stewing for some time, add the pulped peas, and then that which has the young peas in it, simmering the whole together for ten minutes : flour the vegetables before they are fried. ONION SOUP MAIGRE.—E. R. Take six large onions, and a couple of turnips, boil them in four quarts of water, with a little pepper, and two rolls of bread sliced, stew until the onions will go through a sieve; then take six other onions, two car- rots, two heads of celery, and one turnip, slice them very thin, flour and fry them in half a pound of butter. When getting tender^ add some of the soup, and stew for some time longer; then strain the liquor, put it to the remainder of the soup, and boil it together for a short time : if not thick enough add some cream or other thickening. SPRING SOUP MAIGRE.—E. R. Two ounces of rice, a roll sliced, a sliced onion, two handsful of spinach, and two quarts of water ; boil until the bread is dissolved, then pass through a sieve, melt three or four ounces of butter with tw'o table- spoonsful of essence of anchovies, some flour and water;[Chap. i. 22 DOMESTIC COOKERY. add it gradually to the soup, and boil all together with the heads of asparagus cut in small pieces. FISH SOUP.—E. R. Notwithstanding the quantity of excellent fish suited to the purpose with which English markets are supplied, this nutritious, elegant, and economical viand is not often introduced at table. Nothing could be more easy than to multiply receipts for an almost endless variety : those that follow will, however, show how much may be done with many kinds of fish which are not in very high estimation. STOCK FOR WHITE OR liROWN FISH SOUPS.—E. R. Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut tliem into pieces ; cover them with water, and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a hunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half, closely covered, and then .‘strain it ofl’ for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. The gravy from potted herrings, or hunter’s beef, gives the most delicious flavour to soups; and in fami- lies where fish soups are much used, the former would be found a valuable preparation, if for that purpose only. EEU SOUP. Take three pounds of small eels ; put to them two ' quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some w'liole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew till the fish is qnite broken, then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and ])our the soup on it boiling. A iiiece of * carrot may be put in at first. The soup will be as i rich as if made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich23 SOUPS. Cflip. I.] cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. SKATE SOUP. Make it of the stock directed for fish soup, with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. EXCELLENT LOBSTER SOUP. Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails of six small lobsters; take away the brown fur, and tbe bag in the head; beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a mortar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some ground white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of nutmeg, and a tea-spoon- ful of flour: mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with force-meat balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. CRAY-FISH OR PRAWN SOUP. Boil six whitings, and a large eel, (or the eel and half a thornback, well cleaned,) with as much water as will cover them ; skim them clean ; and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick a sufficient number of cray-fish, or prawns; pound the shells and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs: put this liquor over the shells in a sieve: then pour the other soup clear from the sediment. Chop24 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. i. a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good begf-gravy; and also the tails of the cray-fish, or the prawns. LOBSTER SOUP.—E. R. The stock of this soup may be made of small codlings, small eels, plaice, flounders, or any fish not of sufficient consequence to be dressed in any other way. Clean and cut them in pieces, take the meat out of one or two lob- sters, cut it into small but handsome pieces, and lay it aside ; break the shell and add it to the fish for the stock, which should be boiled gently for several hours ; take the coral of the lobster, pound it in a mortar, with a small piece of the stock partly pounded, and make it up into forcemeat-balls, with a little chopped parsley, bread- crumbs, and an egg. When the stock is sufficiently done, strain it, thicken it with butter and flour, or cream; warm the lobster in it, and send it up with the force- meat-balls. OYSTER SOUP.—E. R. Open two or three dozen of oysters very carefully, in order to save all the liquor; take off the beards, and put them with the liquor into a stewpan, with some small fish, or slices of any of the common kind that are cheap, such as skate, ling, &c. Stew the whole for some hours, strain, and thicken it, adding, if thought proper, some essence of anchovies, or any fish-sauce; put in the oysters, which should be of the small kind, just long enough to be warm through before serving up. CODLING SOUP.—E. R. Take the meat from a codling, pound it in a mortar with half a pint of shrimps shelfed; shred some parsley, and pound the whole with the crumb of a roll pre- viously soaked in milk; make the mixture up into balls with an egg; season with mace and pepjier, and stew down two or three codlings into good broth ; strain it, take out the meat, pulp it through a sieve.Chai*. I.] 25 SOUPS. boil it with parsley-roots, thicken the soup, and send it up with the forcemeat-balls. Conger eel makes a very strong and fine soup. FISH SOUP SUPERBE.—E. R. Make the stock of any sort of fish, then take cutlets of sole, brill, gurnet, or any other fish, and stew them in the following manner. Chop all kinds of sweet herbs, a small bit of garlic, or rub the board on which the herbs are chopped with garlic ; an onion or two, three carrots, and two or three turnips; stew these for a few minutes in butter, then add one part wine to two of water, according to the quantity of fish, and the juice of half a lemon. Stew the marinade together for a quarter of an hour, strain it, and when cold, put in the fish cutlets, and simmer them very gently until the liquor is reduced; then add it to the first stock, thicken with half a pint of cream, and send up the cutlets in the tureen. This wdll answer in a small party for both fish and soup. POTATO SOUP.—E. R. Grate a pound of new potatoes in three quarts of water, cut into small pieces a pound of mutton or beef, or use any trimmings of meat amounting to the same quantity; add the meat to the potatoes and water, and also three ounces of rice, two heads of celery, and a bundle of sw'eet herbs. Stew till the liquor is reduced to four pints, then strain it through a sieve; add thickening if considered necessary, and any kind of vegetables boiled until tender, in the soup after it has been strained. MULTAANEE, OR MAEAGATANEE SOUP.—E. R Take four or five onions and six shalots, slice them very fine, and put them into a stewpan, witli a quarter of a pound of butter. Take two chickens or rabbits, cut them as for fricassee, season them with a very little whiteDOMESTIC COOKERY. 26 [Chap. i. pepper, lay the meat upon the onions, cover the stew-pan closely, and let it simmer for an hour; then take the meat out piece hy piece, flour it, which will thicken the soup, and return it to the pan again, adding two tahle- spoonsful of curry powder, and one of turmeric. Add two quarts of strong clear gravy, and let the whole simmer, closely covered, for three-quarters of an hour. Before it is sent to table, add the juice of half a lemon, and, if not hot enough, a little cayenne pepper, which will, however, scarcely he necessary if the curry pow-der be good. Tliat sold by Burgess is recommended for this soup. Serve boiled rice in a separate dish. This is a Madras receipt. BENGAL MULTA.ANEE.—E. R. Take an ounce of butter, and stew four cloves in it until they are quite soft; add to it two table-spoonsful of lemon-juice, and pour it into a basin that has been rubbed with garlic ; then cut up a fowl, and slice four large onions, flour them, put them into a stewpan with twn ounces of fresh butter, and wlien melted, and the meat and onions become browm, add four dessert-spoonsfiil of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a breakfast- cupful of curds. Stew gently until a fine smell is emitted, then add the cloves and lemon-juice, and two quarts of good broth. Let it stew’ a quarter of an hour longer, and serve with rice in a separate dish. ENGLISH MULTAANEE.—E. R. Take a knuckle of veal, when about half or nearly done, cut off as much of the meat as may be wanted for the soup, and boil the remainder into stock; let it stand until cold, and remove the fat; cut the meat when cold into small pieces, and fry them in butter, with four onions, sliced and floured, and’ tw’o dessert-spoonsful of curry- powder, a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, and a little salt; add the stock, and simmer the whole together forSOUPS. Chap, i.] 27 an hour, substituting for the lemon-juice a table-spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, or a little lemon-pickle. MULTAANEE SOUP, WITH PEAS.—E. R. Steep a quart of peas in water, put them into a pan with as much water as will cover them ; when thoroughly boiled pulp them into good broth, then add any kind of meat or fowl, fried in butter, with onions and curry- powder, as before directed. English peas are a substitute for the dhal, with which in India multaanee soup is fre- quently thickened. CHLODNIK OR COLD SOUP ; A POLISH DISH.—E. R. Take sorrel and leaves of beet-root, boil them well, and after having drained, chop them fine, and allow them to become cold. Then take cold boiled water and mix it with the vegetables, until it is of the consistence of gruel. Add to it a little of the green of onions cut into small pieces, some cream, ad libitum, and some vinegar, if not sufficiently acid. Slice in cucumbers, the beet-root, and add hard-boiled eggs cut into small pieces. This soup must be put upon ice, or lumps of ice put into it, and served quite cold. BARSHCH.—E. R. Boil beet-root for some time in water in order to take away the bitter taste; then peel it and cut it into very small pieces. Meanwhile take some fat, with bones containing marrow; having boiled it some time, take the scum off. Add to it some bacon, about a table- spoonful of pearl-barley, one or two onions, and a stick of celery cut into pieces ; having boiled them a little, put in the beet-root. When the meat is sufficiently dressed and the beet-root quite tender, add two spoonsful of good vinegar, that the soup may have an agreeable acid flavour ; boil it a little longer; when ready take sour cream quite thick, put it into a little of the soup, in order to dilute it, and then mix the whole well together.28 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. i. LAMB SOUP.—E. R. Cut a loin of lamb into steaks, put it into a stewpan with a basin of gravy, or a piece of lean beef i add a quantity of carrots, turnips, and onions cut small, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, and salt. Boil it for three hours with as much water as will make good soup, and add a quart or more of peas, long enough before serving as will be sufficient to cook them. MUTTON SOUP.—E. R. Take a slice of bacon, boil it with a quart of peas till they are softened for bruising, beat and strain them through a cloth, add to the water they were boiled in sufficient to cook the mutton; slice carrots and tur- nips, and after boiling the whole gently for an hour, add chopped lettuces, cabbage, onions, and sweet herbs. When the mutton is boiled enough, take it out, add the peas with chopped parsley, some whole young green peas, a piece of butter kneaded in flour, and boil the whole together till the fresh peas are enough. FRENCH SOUP.—E. R. Take three pounds of beef, with a small piece of liver, and a veal-bone of about half a pound weight, a fowl’s- head or claw, and two quarts of water; this shtyild be put into an earthen vessel called a marmite, and placed by ten o’clock in the morning beside a wood-fire, in order to be ready at five. When the meat has boiled once, skim it well, then add salt, a carrot, tw'O large leeks, one large turnip, a small bit of celery, and a burnt onion : the soup must now only be allowed to simmer gently till five o’clock. Skim the soup well, and put in a little vermicelli, or thin slices of bread. It will be sufficient for eight persons. ITALIAN SOUP.-E. R. Cut the meat from a knuckle of veal, and make the bones, breaking them, into broth. Put the meatSOUPS. 29 Chap, i.] into a stewpan, vith half a pound of bacon or ham, four carrots, and as many turnips sliced, a large onion, and a head of celery. Put the meat at the bottom and the roots over it, with two blades of mace and twelve peppercorns. Cover the pan close, and let it stew till the gravy is out and the roots tender. Then cover them with broth, adding a tea-cupful of whole rice. Stew all together for four hours, then work the soup well through a sieve. Before serving, put half a pint of good cream, but do not boil it; vermicelli may also be added. This soup is not white, but of a brownish colour, and very good. VEGETABLE SOUP.—E. R. Boil a quantity of yellow peas, haricots, or lentils in wnter, till they are quite tender, press them gradually through a sieve with the water, working the mixture with a wooden spoon, (to make what the French call a puree,) rendering it sufficiently liquid to bear 1 iling down. Then cut a good quantity of fresh vegetables, of any or all kinds in season, especially carrots, turnips, celery, spinach, with always a few onions, into fine shreds, and throw them into boiling water for two or three minutes to blanch them ; take them out with a strainer, mix them with the peas, and boil the whole gradually for at least two hours. A few minutes before the soup is taken from the fire, season it with salt and pepper; while the soup is simmering it should be stirred frequently, to prevent its sticking to the sides of the pan, or casserole, and acquiring a singed taste. PALESTINE SOUP.—E. R. Take the broth which a neck of mutton has been boiled in ; put into a saucepan three or four sliced pota- toes, two or three onions sliced, and some Jerusalem artichokes, sufficient to make the soup of the thickness of good pea-soup. Boil the whole well together, and rub it through a fine sieve; add salt and white jiepper.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. 30 with a little cream or milk, for the soup should be per- fectly white. If there are no artichokes, a larger quan- tity of potatoes or a little rice may be added, or the soup may be made entirely of artichokes, omitting the potatoes. POTATO SOUP.—E. R. Take four large mealy potatoes; peel and cut them into small slices, with a little onion, boil them in three pints of water until tender, and then pulp them tlirough a cullender; add a small piece of butter, a little cayenne pepper and salt, and, just before the soup is served, two spoonsful of good cream. The soup must not be allowed to boil after the cream has been put into it. N.B. This will be found a most excellent soup, and being easily and quickly made, is useflil upon an emer- gency, wlien such an addition is suddenly required to the dinner. PORT.YBLE SOOT.-E. R. Break the bones of a shin of beef, a small knuckle of veal, and a couple of cow-heels, jnit them into a soup- pot that will hold four gallons of water, just cover the meat with Avater, and set it on the fire to heat gradually till it nearly boils ; watch it and skim it carefully while any scum rises, pour in a quart of cold Avater to make it throw up any scum that may remain, let it come to a boil again, and skim it Avith care. When no more scum rises, and the broth ajipears clear, add the remainder of the water, and let it boil very gently for eight hours. Strain it through a hair-sieve into a large broAvn stone pan, skim off all the grease, and set it Avhcrc it Avill cool quickly ; next day pour it as quickly as possible into a three-gallon stewpan, taking care not to alloAv any of the settlings at the bottom of the ]ian to get into the steAvpan, Avhich is better than straining it. Let it boil as fast as possible in an uncovered stc\v|)an, on a quick fire. Pour it into a three-quart steAvpan, and if any scum rises take it off Avith the skimmer. Now Avatcli it31 SOUPS. Chap, i.] all the time till it is reduced to the thickness of a very thick syrup. Take the utmost care it does not burn, for a moment’s inattention at this stage would lose all the previous labour, and spoil the soup. Take a little out in a spoon, allow it to cool; if it sets into a strong jelly it is done enough, if it does not, boil it a little longer until it will jelly. Have ready some small pre- serving-pots, let them be quite dry, pour the soup into them, and let them stand until the next day. Set a large flat-bottomed stewpan, one-third part tilled with boiling water, over a slow fire; place the pots of soup in this, taking care that the water does not reach the rim of any, within two inches of the top. Let the pots stand uncovered in this water, hot, ■without boiling, for six or seven hours. This is the only way of bringing the soup to a proper thickness; it was before boiled up as high as it could be over the naked fire, without burning; but that is insufiicient without the aid of a water-bath, which is necessary to reduce it to the thickness of a stiff" jelly whilst hot, which is the only way to ensure its being perfectly fine when cold. It will be now of the con- sistence of thick, hard glue, and will remain good for many months if kept in a cool dry ]>lace. Ohs. The uses of this concentrated essence of meat are numerous. As a general keeping stock it is the most convenient basis for making extensive broths; soups, gravies, and sauces. To make a pint of broth, pour a pint of boiling water upon a piece of the souj) the size of a small walnut, stir it till it is melted, add a little salt, and the broth is ready. If there should be time and opportunity, there being no seasoning in the souj) either of herb or spice, boil a little parsley, thyme, half an onion, and half a dozen peppercorns in the water used to melt the soup : this will produce excellent broth. An ounce of soup melted in a quart of gravy will be just the same as the quart of gravy before being boiled away, and it will always produce coiisornvie of any degree of richness.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. i. 32 PORTABLE SOUP. Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, and three pounds of beef, in as much water only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones; put any sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done to rags, strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold, take oflF the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants’ pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin saucepan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly for eight hours. Put it into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day ; then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stewpan of boiling water on the stove, and let it boil, and be now and then stirred till the soup is thick and ropy ; then it is done enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basins turned upside down to form cakes; and when cold, turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used, melt them in boiling water; and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or anything else, boil it first, strain oft’ the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country, or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand ; as by this means a basin of soup may be made in five minutes. SAGO SOUP.—E. R. Make a fine gravy soup quite clear and brown, and add to it a sufficient quantity of sago to thicken it to the consistence of pea-soup. N.B. An excellent invention, in great esteem at the clubs. COCK A LEEKIE.—E. R. Take an old fowl and a couple of pounds of shin or leg of beef, put them in a pan with water, add five or33 SOUPS. Chap, i.] six leeks cut into pieces about an inch and a half long. Let it stew gently for half an hour ; when nearly done put half a pound of dried French plums into the soup, take away the beef, and serve the fowl separately. CHERRY SOUP.—E. R. Stalk the cherries, put them on to stew, but be care- ful not to break them; cut slices of bread, fry them, put them into a deep dish, and pour the cherries on the top. Serve hot. WINE SOUP.—E. R. Take a pint of white wine, and a pint and a half of water, sw'eeten it to the taste with white sugar, fry one large table-spoonful of flour with a piece of butter until it is very brown, then pour the wane and water ujion it, and boil it a few minutes with lemon-peel and cinna- mon. Then take the yolks of six eggs, beat them well, and add the boiling soup, very slowly stirring it well all the time, that it may not curdle; put a little toasted bread, cut very fine, into the soup, and serve it up hot. BERLIN MILK SOUP.—E. R. ^Put about six table-spoonsful of flour in a frying-pan upon a slow fire, stirring it about that it may not get lumpy. Boil three pints of milk, witli a piece of lemon- peel, two or three lumps of sugar, and a stick of cinna- mon ; strain it, and mix the flour with the milk, adding a pint of water: boil the whole together, and serve it up with bread cut into various shapes, and fried. This is a favourite soup in many parts of Germany, and has been introduced into England by a Prussian family with great success; it should be of a pale browai colour- DDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. 34 CHAPTER II. FISH. OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING FISH. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done. Common cooks are apt not to slit the fish low enough, by which, and not thoroughly washing the blood, &c., from the bone, a very disgusting mass is left within, and mistaken for liver; but fishmongers in great towns wash it beyond what is necessary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering diminish the flavour. Salt should be put into the water in which all fish is boiled; and cod is rendered firmer by the addition of two or three spoonsful of vinegar. Cod, haddock, and whiting, eat firmer if a little salt be put into their gills, and they be hung up a few hours before dressing. Care must be taken to preserve the roe, milt, and liver whole; to let them be sufficiently dressed; and to place them conspicuously when served. The sound adheri^ to the bone must be left there, but very carefully cleans. | Fish that is to be boiled must be put on the fire in cold hard water : when it boils, skim with the greatest f care. The cover should be kept on the kettle, to prevent i any dust or soot falling on the fish, the good colour of which is important. [In broiling fish, care should he taken to make the gridiron very hot, and to rub the bars with butter pre- viously to using. Fish ])repared for broiling, after it is washed, should be rubbed well with vinegar, dried in a cloth, and iloured,—the vinegar preserving the skin en- tire, and the flour preventing its sticking to the bars. Fish to be fried should be cleansed, dried, floured, rolled in a cloth, and jilaccd before the fire for a short time previous to its being put into the pan. Many persons prefer oil to any otlier article for frying fish, and drip- ping is esteemed the next best medium : the pan shouldChap, ii.] FISH. 35 be kept scrupulously clean and made to contain a suffi- cient quantity of fat, which should boil for some minutes, and wholly cease to bubble, before the fish is put in, or it will be greasy. Let the fish drain when taken out, imd lay it on a clean cloth, writing paper, or beautifully clean straw. The pan must be put on the fire with a small lump of fiit in it, to be rubbed when hot over it with a clean cloth previous to putting in the oil, lard, butter, or dripping. When the fish is fried, strain off the fat into a jar kept for the purpose, as it will serve again. Fish should be boiled with a handful of salt, and a tea-cupful of vinegar in the water. Turbot, salmon, cod, brill, John Dory, haddock, and wdiiting, are to be put into cold water. When the fish is large and thick, the boiling is to be checked by the addition of cold water; a large tur- bot will require that this should be done more than once. Crimped fish must be put into boiling water; their immersion will check the boil, and when the water leboils, add a little cold water, and keep the kettle simmering. Fish should be subjected to the cooking process until the bones will separate easily; but experience alone can d^ermine the precise moment in which it should be s^ed, to ensure its being done throughout, and preserved unbroken. Soles, skate, or mackerel, are put into boil- ing water.—E. R.] To judge if a large fish be sufficiently boiled, draw up the fish-plate, and with a thin knife try if the fish easily divides from the bone in the thick parts, which it will when done enough. Keep it hot, not by letting it sodden in the water, but by laying the fish-plate cross-ways on the kettle, and covering with a thick cloth. If left in the water after it is ready, fish loses its firmness, and becomes woolly. Serve fish on a napkin. Observe, great care is necessary to drain the water from the boiled fish, that the dryness and colour of the fried around it may not be lessened. [Notwithstanding the numerous arguments which London fishmongers advance, to establish their view (if the expediency of keeping some species of the finny tribe D 236 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. a day or two before they are sent to table, every cook may be assured that it is impossible to dress fisli too fresh. Some kinds will bear keeping better than others; but none are improved by it, losing much of their deli- cacy and peculiar flavour every hour after the tide, in which they were caught, is lost. Fish, when quite fresh, curl round, but are particularly elastic, rising immediate- ly upon the pressure of the fingers; and their staleness or freshness may be measured by the possibility of making an impression. Turbot is stated to improve by keeping for a day or two ; but the acknowledged superio- rity of the Dublin Bay turbot arises from its being dressed immediately upon lieing caught: it then tastes as if it had been boiled in cream. Salmon, in losing a tide, loses a portion of the fine white curd which intervenes between each flake, and subsequently becomes more rich, but changes its character, the large flakes disappearing with the curd with which they are amalgamated. Her- rings, when properly caught, differ much from the soft, greasy, strong fish, which they afterwards become; tlieir firmness, however, may be preserved, and the oiliness prevented, by sprinkling salt upon them, if required to be kept more than a day. • In every sort of fish, stiffness, and redness of the gills and brightness of tlie eyes, are invariable signs of fresh- ness : thickness of the flesh generally marks the good condition of all fish.—E. R.] Turbot should be thick, and tlie belly of a yellowish white: if of a bluisli cast, or thin, they are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. Salmon.—If new, and in season, the flesh is of a fine red, (tlie gills particularly,) the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When in greatest perfection, there is f a whiteness between the llak.s, which gives great firm- I- ness; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more '' rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that | caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and is even ' preferred by some. Small heads and thick in the neck I are best.Chap, ii.] FISH. 31 Cod.—The gills should be very red ; the fish should be very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. When flabby, they are not good. Thev are in season from the beginning of October till the end of April. Skate, if good, is very white and thick. If too fresh, they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. Herrings.—If good their gills are of a fine red, and the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stiff and firm. Choose sprats by the same rules. Soles.—If good, they are thick, and the belly is of a cream-colour: if this is of a bluish cast and flabby, they are not fresh. They are in the market almost the whole year, but are in the highest perfection about Midsummer. fVhilings.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings : their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had during a great part of it. Mackerel.—Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, and July. They are so tender a fish, that they carry and keep worse than any other. " Pike.—For freshness observe the above remarks. The best are taken in rivers: they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted : it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to prevent this; but if too many are taken fronr the stew for present use, they may be fed with bread and kept in a large tub. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. Tench.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught. When they are to be bought, examine whether the gills are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body stiff’. The tench has a slimy matter about it, the clearness and brightness of which show freshness. The season is July, August, and September. Perch.—Take the general rules given to distinguishDOMESTIC COOKERY. 38 [Chap. ii. the freshness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, are of a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell, like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and the red to the grey. They should be very firm. Their season is August. Chidgeo7is.—They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are taken in running streams; come in about Midsummer, and are to be had for five or six months. Trout and Grayling are excellent fish, and taken in running streams ; but the latter is to be found in only a few counties. In season chiefly in the summer months. Eels.—There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than of any other fish. The true silver eel (so called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate are very bad : those taken in great floods are generally good, but those in ponds have usually a strong, rank flavour. Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. Flounders.—They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They are both sea and river fish. The Thames produces the best. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Lobsters.—If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. When you buy ' them ready boiled, try whether their tails are stiff, and I pull up with a spring : if otherwise, they are not fresh. The cock-lobster is known by the narrow back part of i his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff l| and hard ; but those of the hen are soft, and the tiiil i( broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the IChap. II.] FISH. 39 highest flavour ; the flesh is firmer, and the colour wlien boiled is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a mid- dling size are sweetest. If light, they are watery ; when in perfection, the joints of the legs are stiff, and tire body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale. Prawns and Shrimps.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff", and the colour is bright. Oysters.—’There are several kinds; the Pyfleet, Col- chester, and Milford are much the best. Tlie native Milton are fine, being white and fat; but others may be made to possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When the fish is alive and strong, the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. Those who know how to purchase fish may, by taking more at a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste; to take off which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same j then dry and dress it. [The great excellence of English fish, and the fresh state in which it is brought to table, render it unneces- sary to resort to much art in the preparation of the finer kinds, which are usually preferred simply boiled, broiled, or fried. But this only holds good with the superior varieties, and skate, halibut, ling, ])laice, flounders, mackerel, and many others, may be much improved by the method of dressing, for which many useful hints may be borrowed from the French, who are obliged to dress their sea-fish in various ways. English cooks have unfortunately got into a very careless method ofDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. 40 serving up fish. If, for the sake of the appearance of the table, boiled fish should be sent up covered, care should be taken, by lifting up the covers a little, to allow the egress of the steam. Moreover, the practice of put- ting boiled and fried fish upon the same dish cannot be too strongly reprobated ; while garnishing hot fish with cold parsley is abominable. Sometimes all these barbarities are committed at one and the same time, and the removal of the covers exhibits boiled and fried fish, surrounded by raw parsley, the fried fish deprived of all its crispness from contact with the boiled, and both made sodden by the fiill of the condensed steam from the cover. The indiscriminate waste of raw pars- ley is much to be lamented by all lovers of an herb which harmonises so well with fish. When used as a garnish to hot fish, it should be boiled, pressed in a cloth, chopped finely, and placed in small heaps round the outer edge of the dish, beyond the napkin. The guests may then, if they please, mix it with their sauce , but in the present neglect of the fine old-fashioned pars- ley and butter sauce, which invariably accompanied boiled fish and boiled meat, there is no possibility of getting it, except in a crude and raw state, d-/a-Nebu- chadnezzar.—E. R.] Fish prepared or dressed in fillets or cutlets will re- quire a fish gravy. Take out all the bones, cut off the head and tails, and if this should not be sufficient, add a flounder, an eel, or any small common fish; stew them with an onion, jtejiper, salt, and sweet herbs; strain it, and thicken it to the consistence of cream, flavouring with a slight addition of wine or any other sauce. Forcemeat for fish should be made with a por- tion of any kind that is cooked, or of small fish, with the addition of an anchovy or two, boned, shrimps, or ' a little lobster. Put it into a mortar, mix it up M"ith i grated or soaked bread-crumbs, in nearly equal quan- tities, a little clarified butter, or pounded bacon fat, or i suet; a slight seasoning of spice, and an egg to bind. I This forcemeat is susceptible of great variety : it may |FISH. 41 Chap, ii.] be mixed with sweet herbs, or yolk of egg boiled hard and pounded ; or made very light with milk, flour, and a raw egg beaten together, in which case the bread- crumbs should be omitted. Plaice, which is usually a watery fish, will be much improved by sprinkling it with salt a few hours before it is to be dressed, wrapping it in a clean towel, and putting a heavy weight upon it; this will press out the watery particles, and render the fish firm. A. MARINADE FOR BOILED FISH.—E. R. The French employ the vin ordinaire, and that of English growth may be substituted in this country, if the cheaper kinds of foreign wine should be thought too expensive. Families who have no home-made wane of their own may use cider instead. Cut up two carrots, three onions, half-a-dozen shalots, a single clove of garlic, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of but- ter, a bunch of parsley, and a bundle of sw'eet herbs; fry the whole for a few minutes, then add, very gradu- ally, tw'o bottles of wine, or of cider. Put in a handful of salt, two dozen of peppercorns, the same quantity of allspice, and a couple of cloves. ~ Simmer the whole together for an hour and a half; strain the liquor, and put it by for use. This marinade, if carefully strained after the fish has been taken out, will serve several times for the ,'same purpose, adding a little water each time: fish dressed in it should simmer very gently, or rather stew than boil. It is very nice for small brill, mackerel, &c. Instead of the wine or cider, a quart of table-beer, a glass of soy, one of essence of anchovies, and one of ketchup may be used, or a pint of vinegar and these sauces, fennel, chives, thyme, and bay leaves, may be added, with the wine, cider, &c. FAT FOR FRYING FISH.—E. R. Dripping is usually preferred, but where there is not a sufficient quantity, it may be improved by mixing it with any pieces of rendered suet: that is, suet heated in42 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Ch.vp. II. a jar and strained, and a fourth part of salt butter. Melt the whole together ; throw into it while boiling an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of sweet herbs ; then w'hen the latter are quite dried up, strain the fat, and put it into a jar for use. TURBOT—E. R. May either be boiled in vinegar, salt and water, or in the following marinade. One part of wine to two of water, simmered for a quarter of an hour, with a bundle of sweet herbs, two bay leaves, three onions, one stuck with cloves; three carrots chopped, three turnips sliced, a large piece of butter, some salt and whole pepper, the liquor to be strained and allowed to grow cold before using. The garnish for turbot is made thus :—Take the spawn out of the inside of a lobster, dry it well before the fire, and sift it through a sieve; then scatter it over the turbot. S.A.LMON.—E. R. Those who have lived in the neighbourhood of salmon fisheries can alone have tasted the monarch of the floods in fiill perfection. It should be dressed before it has lost a tide. Families who purchase a whole salmon, and like it quite fresh, should parboil the portion not required for the day’s consumption, and lay it aside in the liquor, i boiling up the whole together when wanted. By this i means the curd will be set, and the fish equally good on the following day. Tlie custom of sending u]) rich sauces, such as lobster, is unknown in salmon countries; a little lemon pickle or white-wine vinegar being quite sufficient, added to melted butter. Salmon should be garnished with boiled fennel and parsley. It will re- quire great attention, and the boiling must be checked more than once. .SALMON BROILED.—E. R. | Cut the salmon into thick slices, dry them in a cloth, | flour them well, and broil them. This is an excellent iChap, ii.] 43 FISH. method anywhere, but is cooked in full perfection only on the banks of the lakes of Killamey, where the salmon is broiled over an arbutus fire. ROASTED SALMON.—E. R. In the west of England salmon are often roasted whole in a cradle spit, and thus dressed are very delicious. A Dutch oven is better adapted to a smaller portion. The piece roasted should be cut from the middle or tail, the jowl being, on account of the bones and mucilage, more fitted for boiling. Flour the fish well, and baste it with butter, serving it up with a garnish of lemon. It is most excellent when cold, and eaten with vinegar, being much richer than boiled salmon. It may be skinned, rubbed over with yolk of egg and bread-crumbs ; and this is a good way of dressing small pieces, the tail for instance, boned. SALMON CUTLETS.—E. R. Cut the salmon into well-shaped cutlets, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, chopped herbs, bread- crumbs, and butter laid above and beneath; boil them in a stewpan, and serve with lemon sauce. SALMON A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL.—E. R. Make a good fish gravy, so strong that it will jelly ; add to it too large spoonsful of lemon-pickle, and let it be well seasoned before it is strained; then slice the sal- mon in pieces about an inch thick, squeeze lemon-juice over them, or pour vinegar upon the chopped fennel and parsley, in which they must be rolled very thickly, so as to appear quite green. Thicken the gravy with a little clarified butter, and stew the salmon gently until done. Serve up with green pickles. PICKLED SALMON, AFTER THE NEWCASTLE METHOD.—E. R. Put any quantity of salmon into an earthen jar, cover it with good vinegar, add cayenne pepper and salt in[Chap. ii. 44 DOMESTIC COOKERY. proportion to the fish, and bake it in a moderate oven. This pickle will keep a long time, with the addition of a little fresh vinegar. Trout may be preserved the same M'ay. Fish thus pickled must not be washed previously, but prepared by rubbing with a dry cloth. SALMON IN FRESH PICKLE.—E. R. Save a part of the water in which the salmon has been boiled, mix it with half the quantity of vinegar, boil it up with whole pepper, and when cold pour it over the fish, which must be sent to table with fresh fennel. SALMON IN THE HEBREW FASHION.—E. R. Slice the salmon, and cover it with salt for two hours; then dry it, and draw it through the yolks of eggs. Fry it in oil, and serve it cold with salad. N.B. Any small pieces of salmon may be dressed with salad. TO DRY SALMON.—E. R. Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe, rub the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang twenty-four hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days; then rub it well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry: wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place, keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through; egg-sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. TO DRESS DRIED S.ALMON. Cut in slices, and broil in buttered paper. Egg-sauce. If served at breakfast, omit the sauce. Some like it broiled without paper; if so, a very few minutes will do it.45 FISH. Chap, ii.] AN EXCELLENT DISH OF DRIED SALMON. Pull some into flakes ; have ready some eggs boiled hard and chopped large; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it, and stir till boiling- hot ; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. TO POT SALMON. Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well; let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season it with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper: lay in a few bay leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and, when cold, cover it with clarified butter. In this manner any firm fish may be done. COLLARED SALMON. Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an elegant dish, and extremely good. ROILED COD.—E. R. The finest portion of the cod, the head and shoulders and the middle, are not supposed to require foreign aid or sophistication to fit them for the table, but may be sent up simply boiled, vvith oyster-sauce; the tail may be boned, cut into pieces, floured and fried, or stewed, according to any of the receipts which will be given. Cod is occasionally cut into slices, and fried or bro'led.DOMESTIC COOKEEY. [Chap. ii. 46 COD’S HEAD AND OYSTER-SAUCE.—E. R. Brown a bit of butter in a stewpan, dust it with flour to thicken the sauce; pour in some beef-soup, mince in an onion or two, and let the whole boil a little ; take half a hundred of oysters, or a quart of pickled mussels, with a considerable quantity of their liquor, stew altogether till quite ready, taking care to season the sauce with salt and pepper; meantime boil the cod in water, with a Httle salt. Serve in a deep dish, and pour the sauce over it. COD’S HEAD STUFFED.—E. R. Cut the head with a part of the shoulders, and take as much of the] tail as will fill the head, then tie it up both at the mouth and shoulders with packthread; make a brown sauce, as in the former recipe, add a little strong ale with the beef-soup, season it with a spoonful of ketchup, some salt, and cayenne pepper ; then put in the head and stew it over a slow fire. When ready add a glass of wine and a little lemon-juice. COD'S HEAD AND SHOULDERS Will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if it be eaten the same day. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, cand the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts, if ap- proved. If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish, or the beauty of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and anchovy-butter. When properly jirepared, lay the fish on a tin fish])late, and cover the whole with a cloth. Put it into cold hard water, with two handsful of salt, and two table-spoonsful of vinegar; let it heat gradually until it boils, then take it quite oft' the fire, and keep it closely covered in the water for an hour, near, but not on the fire, scarcely being allowed to simmer.47 Chap, it.] FISH. BAKED COD.—E. R. Butter a pan, lay the fish in it, with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion stuck with six cloves, a spoonful of black and white pepper, salt, and a quart of water; flour the fish, stick it over with pieces of butter, and add to it raspings of bread. When sufficiently baked, take out the fish careftdly, strain the gravy, thicken it, and add'to it a pint of shrimps, half a pint of oysters, a spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a glass of Harvey or Reading sauce ; warm all together, and pour it round the fish; garnish with lemon, crisped parsley, and fried bread, or paste. Codlings are very good dressed in this maimer. COD ESPAGNOLE.—E. R. Bone the tail of a cod, and cut it into slices, season them with white pepper and salt, then fry them, and when cold, put them into a pickle made of vinegar boiled with peppercorns, a few cloves, and mace, and bay leaves ; add when cold a tea-cupful of sweet oil; lay the fish in a jar with slices of onion between each, and cover the whole with the vinegar. Salmon may be pickled in the same manner. When served up at table put a sufficient number of pieces in the centre of a dish, and raise round it a wall of salad. STEWED COD.—E . R. Cut the cod into slices, season them with pepper and salt, put them into a stewpan with half a pint of water, and some good gravy. After stewing a few minutes, add half a pint of wine, -he juice of half a lemon, a dozen or two of oysters with their liquor, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and two or three blades of mace. When the fish is sufficiently stewed, which will be in a quarter of an hour, serve it up with the sauce. Any kind of fish sauce may be substituted for the wine, and a va- riety offered by employing anchovies instead of oysters.[Chap. II. 48 DOMESTIC COOKERY. SALT COD.—E. R. If very dry, it should he soaked for six hours in soft water, then placed upon a brick or stone floor for eight hours, soaked again for six hours longer, and then brushed with a hard brush. Under this treatment the most stubborn fish will swell considerably if boiled gently in soft water ; two separate soakings are better than one, however continuous, since the alternate expansion and contraction loosens the fibres of the fish, and occasions it to come off in finer flakes. It is generally served up with parsneps and egg-sauce, and may be warmed the next day, separated into flakes, and put into a good sauce with chopped eggs at the top, and a waU of mashed potatoes or mashed parsneps all round. TO DRESS SALT COD OR LING. Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all night in water with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then break into flakes on the dish; pour over it parsneps boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boil up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It may be served as above with egg-sauce instead of the parsnep, and the root sent up whole; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without flaking, and sauces as above. Cod that has been dressed eats well done like dried salmon, with eggs, cream, &c. TO DRESS SALT FISH THAT HAS BEEN BOILED; AN EXCELLENT DISH. Break it into flakes, and put it into a pan with sauce thus made: beat boiled-parsneps in a mortar, then add to it a cup of cream, and a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a little white pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of mustard, all boiled together; keep the fish no longer on the fire than to become hot, but not boil.Chap, ii.] 49 FISH. COD SOUNDS TO LOOK LIKE CHICKENS. A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender ; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs; spread it thin over the sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it; then lard them as you would chickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster-sauce. Serve for side or corner dish at the first course. TO BROIL COD SOUNDS. Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender; take them out, flour, and broil. While this is doing, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a little mustard ; give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. COD SOUNDS RAGOUT. Prepare as above; then stew them in white gravy seasoned; cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before you serve, gently boiling it up. A bit of lemon- peel, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour. CUTLETS OF SOLE.—E. R. Cut the soles, whether previously dressed or raw, into handsome pieces, and stew them gently in the sauce prepared according to foregoing directions; or they may be filleted, covered with fine forcemeat, and skewered round, and either fried or baked in buttered papers: all white fish may be dressed in the same manner. RED MULLET.—E. R. This fish has gained great reputation as the sea wood- cock : they must not be emptied when cleaned; either EDOMESTIC COOKERY. 50 [Chap. ii. broil them in buttered paper, or put them into the oven upon tart-pans in paper cases, or the pan buttered, and buttered paper above. STURGEONS.—E. R. Cut the sturgeon in slices, and fry them. Then pour off the fat, flour the pan, and pour boiling water into it. Put the fish into a stew'pan, with this gravy, an onion, and sweet herbs, pepper, and salt; let it stew until quite tender ; strain the sauce, squeeze the juice of a lemon into it, and serve it up. Sturgeon may be baked or boiled, but the above way of dressing is one of the best. STURGEONS A LA RUSSE —E. R. When the sturgeon is cleaned, lay it for several hours in salt and water; take it out an hour before it is wanted, rub it well ■with vinegar, and pour a little over it. Then put it into a fish-kettle, cover it with boiling water, an ounce of bay-salt, two large onions, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Stew it until the bones Avill separate easily; then take it up, remove the skin, flour it, and place it to brown before the fire, basting it well with butter; serve it up with a rich sauce, and a garnish of pickles. STEWED STURGEONS^E. R. Cut the fish in slices an inch and a half thick, dip them in vinegar, dry them well, flour and broil the slices. Then flour and lay them in a stcwqian with some good broth, and let them stew gently until per- fectly tender; thicken the gravy witli butter or cream, add a spoonful of Harvey’s sauce, half a glass of wine, and serve it up with capers strewed over the top, and garnished with slices of lemon. liROILED MACKEREL —E. R. Split them down the back, take out the bone, and rub the inside with pepper, salt, parsley, and fennel choppedChap, ii.] FISH. 51 finely; flour and broil them, serving up with a sauce of parsley, fennel, melted butter, or lemon sauce. MACKEREL A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL.—E. U. Split three mackerel, cut off the heads and tails, and take out the hone. Broil them nicely a fine brown. Boil a dozen small silver onions; scald a young cucum- ber, a bunch of parsley, and a hunch of fennel; chop the tM'o latter, and cut the cucumber into dice; season the whole, and put them into a small saucepan with a piece of butter ; when the butter is melted, lay the vegetables on the fish, and squeeze the juice of two lemons over them. BOILED MACKEREL.—E. R. Make a marinade with some w'eak broth, two table- spoonsful of vinegar, a bundle of sweet herbs, a few small onions, or one large one stuck with a clove, pepper and salt; boil it together for an hour; then boil the fish in this gravy; take them out when ready, strain the liquor, and thicken it; make it green with chopped pars- ley and fennel; add^a tea-spoonful of any kind of fish- sauce, and send it to table. BAKED MACKEREL.—E. R. Send them to the oven stuffed the same as a piper, or take the bone without dividing the fish; pepper the inside well; lay butter between; flour and butter the outside, roast in a Dutch oven, and serve them up with lemon-juice squeezed over them, and a thick sauce of chopped fennel, parsley, and butter. STEWED MACKEREL.—E. R. Split, hone, and cut the mackerel in quarters, and broil them until they are nearly half done; then put them aside; take a pint of good gravy, with a little chopped fennel, parsley, and shalot, a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovy, a glass of ketchup, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; stir this over the fire until it is of a proper E 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 52 [Chap. ii. thickness; season it with cayenne pepper and salt, then put in the fish ; stew all very gently until it is done, and add a table-spoonful of thickening and a glass of port wine the last thing. FILLETS OF MACKEREL.—E. R. Bone several mackerel, take the fish off in fillets lengthways, turning them round. Chop fennel and parsley, and put it in a stewpan, with some fish-broth well seasoned, lay in the fish, and let it stew ten minutes. Then take up the fillets, dish them, thicken the sauce, adding to it the juice of a lemon; pour it round the fish, and serve up with a garnish of pickles. This will make a side-dish, or may figure at the head of the table. English custom only seems to admit fish in the first course, which is a great mistake, since it appears at all the fashionable tables as a side-dish, in all stages of the dinner. PICKLED MACKEREL.—E. R. Clean, bone, and cut the fish into pieces, season them well; to si.Y large mackerel put an ounce of ground pepper in equal parts of white and red ; four cloves, pounded, a salt-spoonful of allspice, three or four blades of mace pounded, and a table-spoonful of salt. Rub the mixture well in, scoring the fish in order that it may be thoroughly spread. Fry them in oil till they are brown; when cold, put them into a stone jar, and cover them with vinegar. IIERIUNCS.—E. R. This fish is usually liroiled, but they are sometimes boiled. When thus dressed, rub them over with salt and vinegar, skewer them with their tails in their mouths, lay them on a fish-plate, and boil them for ten minutes in boiling water. Drain them thoroughly, and lay them round a dish with the heads in the centre ; garnish with boiled parsley, and serve up with a good sauce. Herrings should be broiled over a good fire :FISH. 53 Chap, ii.] they will be improved by being sprinkled with salt and pressed, and then Avashed in vinegar; if kept more than a day, they should be covered with salt. HERRINGS AND ONIONS.—E. R. Notwithstanding the prejudice against the union of two such strongly-flavoured viands, the following me- thod of dressing herrings has been so highly recom- mended, that it is given upon the authority of a very cele- brated gastronome:—Shred the onions finely and fry them, clean fresh herrings, fry them also, and serve them in the dish with the onions. TO DRESS RED HERRINGS. Choose them that are large and moist, cut them open and pour some boiling small beer over tbem to soak half an hour; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire; then rub some cold liutter over them, and serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs, and mashed potatoes should be sent up with them. Instead of butter, a little sweet oil will add to the richness, but it must be dropped on while before the fire, and in the smallest quantity. BAKED HERRINGS AND SPRATS. Wash and drain, without wdping them; season w ith allspice in fine powder, stdt, and a few Avhole cloves; lay them in a ]>an with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few' bay leaves. Add half vinegar and half small- beer enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. TO SMOKE HERRINGS. Clean, and lay tiiem in salt with a little saltpetre one night; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in a roAv. Have ready an old cask, in Avhich put some sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fixDOMESTIC COOKERY. 54 [Chap. n. the stick over the smoke, and let them remain twenty- four hours. TO PICKLE HERRINGS OR MACKEREL.—E. R. Clean, and cut off the heads, wash and dry them tho- roughly in a cloth; cut them open, and take out the bone; season them in the inside with bay-salt, ground white pepper, a little cayenne, three cloves, and three blades of mace powdered; lay them in a pan, and be- tween each layer of fish put two or three bay leaves ; cover them with vinegar, tie paper several times folded over the pan, put them into a slow oven, and let them bake for a long time. When sufficiently done, remove the paper, allow them to stand until they are cold, then pour off the vinegar, adding fresh, with an onion stuck with cloves. Set them again in a slow oven, and allow them to remain for two hours. Let them remain until cold. They will keep a long time, but must be care- fully removed from the baking-pan, or they will break. A more simple method is to bone, split, and season them, rolling up the fillets and tying them round ; then put them into a pan with a fe\v bay leaves, an onion stuck with cloves, and sufficient vinegar to cover them; bake them ; take off the strings. Sprats arc done in the same way, but being too small to roll, merely cut off the head, and take out the bone, after they have been very nicely cleaned. EEL.—E. R. Clean the eel w'ell, and cut it into pieces, leaving it in Avater ; put them into a stewpan Avith butter, set them for a minute on the fire; then dust Avith flour ; add some gravy, and stir it Avith a wooden spoon until it boils; add parsley, shalot, half a bay leaf, a clove, salt, pejiper, and small onions; simmer all together, and reduce. Take off fhc fat, remove the herbs, and thicken Avith the yolks of eggs, adding the juice of a lemon ; or, after half boiling the eels Avith the herbs, they may be rolled55 Chap, ii.] FISH. in yolks of eggs, dipped in minced parsley and crumbs of bread, and boiled until brown. EELS SPITCHCOCKED—E. R. Bruise together a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, salt, and pepper, and rub it over the fish, either cut in lengths or rolled round ; put it into a stewpan with half a pint of cider, a cupful of good gravy, one anchovy, a glass of port wine, a whole onion, some scraped horse-radish, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a little lemon- peel ; when sufficiently stewed, strain the sauce, and thicken it with a little butter or cream. A [good thick- ening may be made by melting a piece of butter the size of a walnut, rolled in half a tea-spoonful of flour in a little milk. TO STEW EELS.—E. R. Cut the eels in pieces, fry them a little until they are a fine brown ; let them remain until cold: take an onion, a little parsley, a leaf of sage chopped very finely; put them in some gravy, with a clove, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. Stew the eels until they are tender; then add a glass of port wine, and a little lemon-juice, after straining the sauce and thickening it with butter and flour. FRIED EELS.—E. R. “ Eels,” observes a great authority, “ require to be well majiaged by a clever cook, when the fat and indi- gestive qualities disappear, and the food becomes whole- some.” Simple frying is not, perhaps, the best means of effecting this object, but it is a favourite method with many persons. They are to be rolled in yolks of eggs and bread-crumbs, or a thick coating of sweet herbs may be added as a corrective : they should be seiwed with an acid sauce, or eaten with lemon-juice squeezed over them.56 DOMESTIC COOKERY, [Chaf. II. TO COLLAR EELS.—E R. Case the eels, cut off the head, split and take out the bone : lay the fish flat; season them with mixed spices, some parsley shred very fine, and a few' chopped sage leaves; roll them up tightly in a cloth ; bind it w'ell; if the eels are of a middling size, boil them in salt and water for three-quarters of an hour : hang them up to dry all night. Add to the pickle a pint of vinegar or more, according to the quantity of eels collared, a few pepper- corns, and a sprig of sweet marjoram. Boil it ten minutes, and let it stand all night. Take the cloth from the eels, and put them into the pickle. They may be sent whole to table, or cut in slices. Garnish with parsley. Lam- preys and pilchards may be dressed the same way. Eels, when collared, should not be skinned. TO STEW' LAMPREY, AS AT WORCESTER. After cleaning the fish carefiilly, remove the cartilage which runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper and allspice; put it into a small stewpot, with as much strong beef- gravy, and madeira or sherry, in equal qualities, as will cover it. Cover close: stew' till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon- juice and some made mustard. Serve wdth sippets of bread and horse-radish. Wlien there is spawn it must be fried and put round. Noie.—Cider will do in common, instead of white wine. TO POT LAMPREY, AS AT WORCESTER. Leave the skin on, but remove the cartilage and a string on each side of it down the back. Wash and clean the fish very nicely in several w'aters, and w ipe them. To a dozen of tolerable size use two ounces of white pepper, salt in proportion, sjx blades of mace, a dozen of cloves,Chap, ii.] FISH. 57 all in fine powder, but do not season until the fish shall have drained all night. Lay them in a stone pot one by one, and curled round, the spices and salt being sprink- led in and about them. Clarify two pounds of butter, and half a pound of the finest beef-suet, pour it on the fish, and lay thick paper over to keep in the steam. Bake three hours in a moderate oven. Look often at them, and as the oil works up, take it clear off. They will thus, in the storepot, keep till spring. Put into pots for serving as wanted ; observing to take off the old butter, and having warmed the fish in the oven, cover with fresh butter only. STEWED FISH, HEBREW FASHION.—E. R. Take three or four parsley roots, cut them into long thin slices, and two or three onions also sliced, boil them together in a quart of water until quite tender; then flavour it with ground white pepper, nutmeg, mace, and a little safron, the juice of two lemons, and a spoonful of vinegar. Put in the fish, and let it stew for twenty minutes or half an hour ; then take it out, strain the gravy, thicken it with a little Hour and liutter, have balls made of chopped fish, bread-crumbs, spices, and the yolks of one or two eggs mixed up together, and drop them into the liquor. Let them boil, then put in the fish, and serve it up with the balls and parsley-roots. CALEDONIAN RECIPE FOR DRESSING FISH.—E. R. Boil the livers of the fish, and make them into force- meat-balls, with oatmeal, onions, pepper and salt. Put the water on with some cold butter and w'hole onions, and when the onions are sufficiently boiled put in the fish, and stew them with their heads on, seasoning with salt and cayenne pepper; add the lialls also. N.B. Some persons use small beer instead of water.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Cbap. II. 58 SKATE.—E. R. This fish is growing in esteem, but if simply boiled, it should have the advantage of a marinade. It may be cut into pieces, and fried in butter, or boiled and then fried. Put parsley and sweet herbs, wnth an onion sliced in the pan in which the fisli is fried, and when taken out pour off the fat, and make a sauce with equal parts of vinegar and water, the herbs, and some salt flouring, the pan to thicken it: serve it up with capers on the top. STEWED n.ADDOCKS.—E. R. Trim two haddocks, l)y cutting off the heads, tails, and fins, and taking out the bones. Put the whole together in a quart of water, wfith a few peppercorns, and an onion, and let it stew very slowly for half an hour. Then strain off the gravy, flour the fish w'ell and fry it; then return it to the stock, adding cayenne pepper, some acid sauce, and ketchup, or essence of ancho\')': stew until the gravy is very rich, and serve it up in a deep dish. STEMMED HALIBUT.—E. R. Put half a pint of beer, a few anchovies, an onion, stuck with cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, and some pepper, into a stewpan; fill it nearly wnth water, and stew it for an hour : then strain it, and put in the head of a halibut, stew it till tender, thicken the gravy with butter and flour, add a little fish sauce, and serve it up with forcemeat- balls made of a part of the fish. BAKED HADDOCK, SCOTTISH FASHION.—E. R. Take two good-sized Jiaddocks, clean, and wipe them well in a cloth, but do not wash them; keep the breasts as whole as possible. Strew salt over them, and lay them on a board for several hours; then wipe the salt from them, cut off the heads and fins, cut the skin59 FISH. Chap, iij through down the back, and take it off neatly, being careful to keep the fish whole. Beat up the yolks of three eggs, dip each in the egg, have ready some bread- crumbs, mixed with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, roll the fish in the crumbs, and stuff the heads and breasts with oysters chopped, but not too small, and bread-crumbs blended with an egg. Butter a dish, lay the fish upon it, stick pieces of butter upon each, and bake them : they will take from three-quarters to an hour. Take a pint of veal gravy, the same quantity of cream, mix two table-spoonsful of flour in a little of the cream, cold, and boil all together until it is smooth : serve with a blade of mace, a little nutmeg, salt, and a whole onion. When about to dish, take out the onion, and add a glass of wine, and the yolk of an egg well beaten: dish the fish neatly, lay the heads at each end and each side ; pour the sauce over, and garnish with lemon. TO DRY HADDOCK. Choose them of two or three pounds weight: take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the back-bone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; then hang them up in a dry place, and after three or four days they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter till brown enough. Serve with egg-sauce. Whitings, if large, are excellent this way; and it will prove an accommodation in the country, where there is no regular supply of fish. TO CURE FINNAN HADDOCK. Choose those that are of middling size, and as fresh as possible; take off their heads, split up, wipe nicely, and sprinkle lightly with salt. Lay them with a moderate heat upon them for twelve hours, then hang them up to drain three hours, and then tie them, tw'o and tw’o, on a60 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. string, and suspend them over some peats that have been so much burnt as not to smoke strongly, and at a distance that may not heat the fish, which, thus smoked two hours, will be fit for use. They are served at breakfast in Scotland to eat with bread and butter, either cold or just warmed through, and moistened with one or two drops of sweet oil. THE SCOTCH DISH, CALLED CROPPED HEADS. Parboil the roe of haddocks or cod; mix it with double its quantity of pounded hard biscuit, salt, pepper, and a beaten egg; stuff haddocks’ heads with this mixture, and fry them in beef dripping. Prepare a sauce of beef-gravy, added to fried onions and flour, a tea-cupful of ketchup, the same of pickled mussels, and add to the heads; simmer fifteen minutes. If a large dish be wanting, serve two boiled haddocks in the middle. PIKE OR PIPER.—E. R. Take a large, or two small fish, stuflF it with forcemeat, skewer it round, flour and lay it on an earthen dish, with pieces of butter on the top, and a sprinkling of salt; send it to the oven. A large pike will take an hour in baking. When removed from the oven, the dish will be found full of gravy. Put to a sufficient portion for the sauce two anchovies finely chopped, a little grated lemon- peel, a glass of wine, Reading sauce, or lemon-pickle, and make it as thick as cream witli flour and butter, adding capers if desirable. Haddock may be dressed the same way, and gurnet also, which is a most excellent fish when baked. SOLES.—E. R. Soles may be fried either plain, or dipped in yolk of eggs and bread-crumbs; the eggs should be beat up and the soles brushed over a second time, and then dredged again with crumbs. Whiting should be turnedFISH. Chap, u.] 61 round with their tails in their mouths, previous to frying. If boiled, they must he served with great care, to look perfectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. The roe or milt of soles must not be taken out. Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vine- gar, salt, and mustard; or cut into large dice, in a bowl with salad. SOLES ANOTHER WAY. Take two or three soles, divide them from the back- bone, and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail-end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll ; small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs, and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or for fast-day, in clarified butter. Garnish with dried or fried parsley. Shrimp-sauce. SOLES IN THE PORTUGUESE WAY. Take one large, or two small: if large, cut the fish in two; if small, they need only lie split. The bones being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon-juice; give it a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over, and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat-gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, and bake in a slow oven till the fish are done enough. Then place the rolls in a dish for serv- ing, and cover it to keep them hot till the baked gravy is skimmed ; if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. The heads62 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. it. of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, and kept on the outer side of the roll; and when served the heads are to be turned towards each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. THE STUFFING FOR THE ABOVE. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little ; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small some onion, a little garlic or shalot, parsley, anchov)', pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound all fine with a few' crumbs, and bind it with two or three yolks of eggs. FISH TURTLE,—E. R. Sturgeon is the best material, but if not in season, cut some ling into handsome pieces, and fry it; then boil an equal quantity of skate, also cut in pieces; and having cleaned and soaked tw’o or three cod-sounds stew them until green with a little spinach, and cut them in pieces; then have a sufficient quantity of good gravy, into which the liquor of two or three dozen of oysters has been strained; thicken it with cream or butter. Put it into a stewqoan with the fish already named, a lobster cut in pieces, a spoonful of essence of anchovies, and a glass of Madeira. Warm the whole together, and send it to table with a lemon garnish. The sauce to this dish must be very rich, and of a fine dark colour. FLSII COLLOI’S.—E. R.i Cut a halibut into nice collops, fry them, then put them into a brotli made of the bones, four onions, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs, boiled together for half an hour. Strain this broth, thicken it, and stew the fish for half an hour, adding salt, pepper, and pounded mace, a spoonful of fish-sauce, and one of lemon-juice.Chap, ii.] FISH. 63 FISH CUTLETS.—E. R. Chop a considerable quantity of herbs with a small piece of shalot, season it with pepper and salt, and put it into a stewpan with two ounces of butter ; as the butter is melting add a tea-spoonful of essence of anchovies. Do not allow the butter to more than melt, and mix the whole well together ; then cut any kind of white fish, dressed or raw, into handsome cutlets, and, when the herb-seasoning is nearly cold, spread it on the fish thickly with a knife ; dredge the fish with bread-crumbs, and cook them on butter-pans in an oven, or before the fire. Stew a few silver button-onions, or a chopped onion, with any green vegetables in season, cut into dice in a little broth, add nasturtiums, and a little of the pickle, keep them in the middle of a dish, and lay the cutlets round. FILLET.'^ OF FISH.—E. R. Take any white fish, bone, and split, cut them into handsome fillets, half fry them, and squeeze the juice of a lemon over them, make a fine forcemeat with lob- sters or shrimps, lay it thickly on the fillets, roll them up, and tie or skewer them. Put them into a fish- gravy, and bake them in an oven : when done, thicken the gravy and serve up the fish in it. A CASSEROLE OF FISH.—E. R. Take any kind of cold fish, and divide it into large flakes; boil two or three eggs hard, and cut them into slices; have also some mashed potatoes; butter a mould, and put in the fish, eggs, and potatoes, with a little delicate seasoning of white pepper; moisten the whole with cream, or thin melted butter, and a spoon- ful of essence of anchovies; boil the mould, and turn it out. FISH FATE.—E. R. Raise a wall of mashed potatoes round a dish, divide the fish in flakes, and warm it with the sauce left the[Chap. ii. 64 DOMESTIC COOKERY. day before in a basin or jar, plunged in water; brown the potatoes well in an oven or before the fire, or let them remain white, and pour the fish in, covering the top at pleasure with egg-sauce. FISH SC.A.LLOPED.—E. R. Flake the fish, and imbed it in bread-crumbs moist- ened with thin melted butter or cream, flavoured with any approved sauce; cover the top thickly with bread- crumbs, lay bits of butter over, and bake it either before the fire or in a Dutch oven ; or lay the fish in the bot- tom of the dish, with a rich white sauce of cream, and cover the top only with bread-crumbs. RISSOLE OF FISH.—E. R. Pick from the bones and skin any kind of cold fish, weigh it, and add one-third of grated bread-crumbs, a little cold melted butter, a small onion, previously boiled and finely minced, pepper, salt, and the whites of two eggs to bind it together; mix it well and make it into a flat oval shape, fry it on both sides; then stew it in some veal-broth, or water boiled in the frying-pan after the fat has been poured off, with the bones of the fish, an onion, and some pepper; strain and thicken the sauce, adding to it any kind of fish- sauce at hand. CROQUETTES OF FISH.—E. R. Take dressed fish of any kind, separate it from the bones, mince or pound it with a little seasoning, an egg beaten with a tea-spoonful of flour, and one of milk; roll it into balls; brush the outside with egg, and dredge it well with bread-crumbs, fry them of a nice colour ; the bones, heads, tails, with an onion, an anchovy, and a pint of water, stewed together, will make the gravy. Lobsters make delicate croquettes, in which case the shell should he broken, and boiled down for the gravy.65 Chap, ii.] FISH. TO STEW CARP OR TENCH.—E. R. Clean the fish thoroughly, and dry them well on a cloth, dredge them with flour, and fry them of a light colour; then put them into a stewpan, with equal parts of red wine and water, a table-spoonfiil of lemon-pickle, the same of walnut-ketchup, a tea-spoonful of mush- room-pow'der, and a little cayenne pepper; add a large onion stuck with cloves, and a stick of horse-radish. Cover the pan closely to keep in the steam, and let the contents stew' over a stove very gently until the gravy is reduced to a sufficient quantity only to cover the fish : then take up the fish, strain the gravy, thicken it, and add it to the fish. WATER SOUCHY.—E. R. Take a part of the fish, either perch or flounders, or any other fresh-water fish intended to be cooked ; stew' it down in two quarts of water, some parsley, or parsley- roots, and then pulp them through a sieve. Put the remainder of the fish into the liquor with more pars- ley chopped, and parsley-roots, a little pepper and salt, serve it in a tureen, and send up a plate of brown bread and butter with it. Perch and all of fresh-water fish may be fried in batter. MUSSELS.—E. R. This fish is more frequently eaten on the Continent than at English tables of a certain grade. In Prance they are skewered upon a small skewer, dipped into a thick batter and fried. They are also boiled or stewed in the following manner : open them, put them into a pan with their own liquor, to which add a large onion, and some parsley, w'ith a couple of table-spoonsful of vinegar ; roll a piece of butter in flour, beat an egg, and add it to the gravy, warming the whole up very gradually. F66 [Chap. n. DOMESTIC COOKERY. OYSTERS. TO FEED OYSTERS. Put them into Avater, and Avash them AA'ith a birch besom till quite clean; then lay them bottom doAVTiA\’ards into a pan, sprinkle Avith flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover Avith Avater. Do the same every day, and they AA'ill soon fatten. The Avater should be pretty salt. N. B. A peck of the best native oysters may be pur- chased out of the boats at Billingsgate for nine shillings; there are about 436 in a peck, about four for a penny. The common oysters are from tAA'o shillings to half a crown the peck. STEAVED OYSTERS AVITH AVINE.—E. R. Wash the oysters in their liquor, and then strain it, add a glass of Avine, some A\'hole pepper, a little salt, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of lemon- juice; boil the Avhole, stirring it until it is smooth, then put in the oysters, and warm or plump them up Avithout boiling. STEAVED OYSTERS PLAIN.—E. R. Beard the oysters, Avash them in their own liquor, then strain it, thicken it Avith thin melted butter, or white sauce made of cream; season it Avith a blade of mace and a feAV Avhole peppercorns tied in a muslin bag. Simmer the oysters very gently, and serve up Avith sippets of bread : they Avill require only a few minutes, and if allowed to boil Avill become hard. SC.YLLOPED OYSTERS.—E. R. Beard the oysters, and Avtish them in their liquor, then strain the liquor and pour it o\-er a quantity of bread-crumbs. Lay the crumbs into scallops of china or tin, and put the oysters in layers, Avith bread-crumbs, pepper, and butter betAveen, cover the top Avith bread- crumbs and butter, and bake them in an OA'cn or before the lire.PISH. 67 Chap, ii.] ROASTED OYSTERS.—E. R. Take the oysters from the shells, beard them, and put them with their liquor into tin scallops, six in a shell (not more), with a little pepper and butter. Put the shells upon a gridiron over a good fire, and serve them when plump and quite hot. They are delicious this way; but to be eaten in perfection should be cooked over a lamp in the room where they are eaten. Squeeze a little lemon-juice over them when they come from the fire. OYSTERS IN SCALLOP-SHELLS. Keep the oysters in their liquor: put a bit of butter in a stewpan, with minced parsley, shalot, and a little pepper; brown them, dusting in a little flour, then add the oyster-liquor, strained, and a little good gravy, work them until they are of the consistence of sauce ; then toss and put in the oysters, add lemon-juice, and fill the scallop-shells: strew grated bread-crumbs over the top, adding some small pieces of butter, put them into a very quick oven, and finish them of a fine brown. OYSTER LOAVES.—E. R. Take the loaves baked in tins, cut off the top, clean out the crumb, and pass them through a grater; add parsley chopped, spices, and pepper, together with the oysters, all well mixed ; fill the loaves, adding pieces of butter, pour in the liquor of the oysters strained, then put the loaves into an oven, and when well baked serve them up. One large loaf is better than the small rolls. OYSTER FRITTERS.—E. R. Beard the oysters, dip them into a thick batter, made > rich with egg, or, what is better, into an omelette, and then in crumbs of bread, fry them : they are an exquisite garnish for fried fish. F 268 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. BOILED OYSTERS.—E. R. Wash the shells very clean, and boil them in the same way as lobsters; serve them up with butter for sauce. BUTTERED CRAB.—E. R. Pick the meat carefully out of a large crab, cut it into siuall pieces, mix it with about a fourth part of bread-crumbs, and a very small quantity of finely-shred parsley. Season it well, and return it to the shell with some small bits of butter here and there, enough when warmed to keep it moist. Squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, or a spoonful of lemon-pickle, or acid sauce. Put a thick layer of crumbs of bread upon the top with small bits of butter laid all over it, and bake it before the fire, or in the oven. A PATE OF CR.YB.—E. R. Beat the whole of a crab picked clean from the shell in a marble mortar, with pepper and salt, and a very few crumbs of bread ; warm it with a little gravy thickened with cream or butter, and a spoonful of wine, and when thoroughly wanned add a little lemon-juice; pour it into walls of paste previously baked, and serve it up hot. DRESSED CR.YB.—E. R. Pick out all the fish from the shell, divide it into small pieces, mixing the rich part well with the rest; moisten it w'ith salad dressing, and return it to the shell with an edge all round of sliced lemon. STEWED LOBSTER.-E. R. Take the meat out of the sliclls of one or two boiled lobsters. Put the shells into a pint of water with some whole pepper, salt, and a little mace. Let it boil till all the goodness is extracted from the shells : then strain it. Mix with a little cream, or thin meltedFISH. Chap, i:.] 69 butter, the rich portion of the lobster, and the coral; add a small quantity of lemon-juice and two spoonsful of wine, mix it with the gravy, and warm the lobster in it; a few minutes will suffice. RISSOLES OF LOBSTER.—E. R. Take the meat from the shell, chop it finely, mix it with a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace; take a fourth part of fine bread crumbs, make it up into balls with melted butter, brush the balls with yolk of egg, and dredge them with bread-crumbs, and fry them, serving wuth or without gravy: if dry, they must be sent up with crisped parsley. BUTTERED LOBSTER.—E. R. Pick out the meat, chop it, and warm it with some melted butter, adding shrimps or prawns if the quan- tity be small : cut pieces of paste into pretty shapes, fry them, and serve up the lobster heaped upon them, which is sometimes more convenient than making into patties. MIROTON OF LOBSTER.—E. R. Take the meat of a good-sized lobster, and put it into a mortar, with the crumb of a French roll soaked in cream; pound them well together; then add the yolks of three eggs, and some fat of ham also pounded; season it with pepper, salt, and a little mace. Add the whole of an egg beaten up to a strong froth, and take care that the spawn of the lobster should have been pounded with the rest : line a mould with slices of fat bacon, put in the ingredients, and boil it for an hour and a quarter. Serve up in a dish with lobster-sauce round it. LOBSTER WITH BROWN SAUCE.—E. R. Take the meat of two lobsters, mince it small, and put it into a pint of beef-soup : let them stew a little ; thicken it with a piece of butter rolled in flour; addDOMESTIC COOKERY. 70 [Chap. ii. a glass of white wine, with a little pepper; add salt and nutmeg, a spoonful of ketchup, one of anchovy, and one of lemon-juice : let the whole stew together, and serve up, garnishing the dish with the small claws. STEWED LOBSTERS, A VERY HIGH RELISH. Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonsful of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut- ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, and a spoonful of port: stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. LOBSTER PUDDING. Divide the body in two, and having cleared the back shell, and dressed the meat of the whole as for patties, lay it in the shell hot, cover with crumbs of bread, and brown with a salamander. If the lobsters be small, use two. TO ROAST LOBSTERS. When half boiled, and while hot, rub the shell witli butter, and lay it before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine froth. Melted butter, ca- yenne, and salt, are eaten with the above. TO DRESS A TURTLE. The night before dressing a turtle hang it up by the hinder legs, and, without giving time for it to draw in its neck, cut off its head. Early next morning have ready a boiler of hot water. \\ ith a sharp knife take off’ the tins next the head at the joint, which, if properly iiit, will allow them to separate from the body without cutting. The hinder fins, when cut at the joint, will, by a little twist, come oft immediately. Next divide the callapash, or back shell, from the callapee, the belly shell, at about two inches round the latter, which is some of the prime of the turtle. Take out the entrails with particular care, lest the gallFISH. 11 Chap, ii.] should be broken, and throw them into a tub of cold water; when well washed open the guts from end to end with a small penknife, and draw them through a woollen cloth often, to cleanse them; then put them into fresh cold water. The belly shell must be cut in pieces the size of the palm of the hand, and the lungs, kidneys, &c., cleared from the back shell; put the shells and fins into scalding water, until the scales can be scraped off with a knife, and all the meat can be taken clear off. Be sure to keep the different parts of the turtle separate, that they may be proportioned out afterwards. The green fat cut in pieces the size of an inch and a lialf square; simmer the fins only in as much water as will cover them till tender; tlien add the water, strained, to a quantity of very rich broth of veal, to which put a pound of butter rubbed down with as much fine flour as shall give due thickness, stir it over the fire ten minutes; having put in the entrails, cut in small pieces, six hours to stew before dinner; add to the soup green onions, and all sorts of seasoning herbs, chopped small; pepper, salt, and cayenne to your taste, not extremely hot, and the juice of one or two lemons, according to the size of the turtle, which, if fifty pounds weight, will require two bottles of Madeira; let all the seasoning be simmered six hours, some of the coarse and white parts two hours, and a proportion of the green fat one hour. Put round the back shell a paste of flour and water about two inches high to keep in the meat; then fill it three parts with the remainder of the coarse, the part that resembles veal, the green fat, &c., and some of the thin soup and additional seasoning. Bake it. To prepare small eggs for serving in the soup and shell, unless there be any in the turtle, see “ Little Eggs for Turtle,’’ under the head Sauces. TURTLE AT .SEA.—E. R. The true flavour of the turtle is best preserved without[Ch.^p. in. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 12 mixture of other meat, any addition being quite unne- cessary, excepting for the purpose of making the turtle go further. Prepare the turtle according to the excellent directions of Mrs. Rundell, and then selecting the coarser portions, stew them down into soup with a hunch of seasoning herbs, onions, and pepper and salt. If there should be any eggs in the turtle, let them stew in the soup for four hours; strain and thicken the soup, and serve it up with the entrails cut into small pieces, a proportion of the finer parts, and also the green fat, all cut into small pieces. The juice of half a lemon and two glasses of Madeira, merely warmed up in the soup, are the proportions for three pints. The coarse part and entrails will take six hours stewing to make the soup; the fine parts two hours, and the green fat one. The callapee is made of the fine parts cut small, stewed or baked, and served up with a portion of the soup reduced to a very thick gravy, with small eggs, forcemeat-balls, and slices of lemon. CHAPTER III. UO.VSTING .\ND ROILING.—E. R. The process of roasting appears to be of easy attain- ment ; but, in order to be properly accomplished, it requires considerable care and attention on the part of the cook. In ordinary roasting, a quarter of an-hour is allowed to every pound of meat: but pork and young meat, such as veal and lamb, require twenty minutes; and in frosty weather, beef and mutton will take the same time, in order to be thoroughly done. All roasted meat should be put down at first at a very considerable distance from the fire, and brought gradually closer as it becomes heated through; this method preventing the outer parts from being scorched before the centre is done.ME.-VT. Chap, m.] 73 George the Third, though proverbial for the plain na- ture of his table, living almost wholly upon roasts and boils, was an epicure in bis way, and kept cooks who dressed his beef and mutton to perfection. Meat sent to his table was ])ut,' in the first instance, at so great a distance from the fire, that six hours were required to roast a joint which, in other kitchens, would have been only subjected to the action of heat for half the time. By this method the juices were preserved, and the meat thoroughly done in every part, was exquisitely tender. Ordinary cooks have, however, an abhorrence of so tedious a process ; and it is, consequently, very seldom that a large joint is properly prepared for the table. All meats should be well basted at first with milk and water, and when the dripping begins to fall, the cook should empty the pan and wipe it out. The joint must then be basted in its own liquor, and, when about three parts done, sprinkled with salt, and dredged with flour: this latter process must not be delayed too long, for unless the flour be added early enough to imbibe the gravy and get nicely browned, it will have a disagreeable raw, or burnt taste : if the salt be added too soon it will draw out the gravy. When there is only a small quantity of fat, it should be preserved by skewering a paper over it, or it will waste in the roasting. Cradle spits are pre- ferable to common spits, and both must be well wiped before using, while it is advisable to heat the common spit. In winter, if meat or vegetables should be touched by the frost, they are to be tbawed by soaking in cold water for two or three hours; if much frost-bitten, a longer period will be necessary. Boiled meat, unless cooked slowly, simmered in fat, and kept for a long time upon the fire before it is al- lowed to come to a boil, will be bard and tasteless; for the portion of the meat consisting of the albumen, if once set like the white of an egg, cannot afterwards be rendered less indigestible by any culinary process. Care and attention are very necessary even in the most sim- ple operation of cooking, the general fault in boiling[Chap. m. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 74 being that of allowing meat to come to a boil too soon at first, and permitting it to go off the boil afterwards. The pot should be watched and skimmed very fre- quently, and very thoroughly, or otherwise the scum will fall again, and stick to the meat: add cold water after each skimming, as this will occasion the whole of the scum to rise. All meat should be put into cold water, a quart of water being the allowance for every pound of meat, and the size of the saucepan so proportioned that no extra quantity of water will be necessary to cover the meat. It should be kept closely covered, and a joint of ten pounds weight should be at least forty minutes upon the fire before permitted to come to a boil. The average for meat thoroughly cooked is twenty minutes to the pound, salt meat requiring three or four minutes longer. Boiled fowls, when found to be discoloured, should be smothered nith sauce. Salt beef, hams, and tongues, and even pork, if kept long in pickle, will require to be soaked before they are boded, the length of time to be proportioned to their dryness: if very hard, warm water should be used. A ham of twenty pounds weight will take five hours and a half to boil properly; a large tongue, if dry, should be boiled slowly for at least four hours; and both ham and beef may be baked with very great advantage. By this process, slow cooking is ensured, and the juices of the meat are concentrated. By putting a certain quan- tity of suet into the pan in which the ham is baked, and covering the top with coarse paste or folds of j)aper, the flavour is much improved; the gravy coming from the meat will be a jelly, which, though too salt to be eaten alone, will mix admirably with any kind of stock, or may be made into essence of ham. The oven is a very economical substitute ibr the saucepan, where there is no steam apparatus. When meat is boiled by steam, no water should be put into the vessel unless required for soup. Meat boiled in the ordinary way should not be allowed to touch the bottom of the vessel; a plate put upside down, on some skewers laid across, will be suffi-75 MEAT. Chap, ui.] cient to effect this object: the pot must be watched and skimmed very frequently at first. In many cases it would be desirable to employ a method, not so much in practice in England as it deserves,—the preparation of meat by the heat of boiling water, without actual exposure to it. Fowls boiled in bladders, or in a jar, may be filled with oysters, and deliciously stewed, the flavour and animal juices being preserved instead of drawn out. Meat also may be put into a jar immersed in a kettle of water. The Scotch understand this method very well, and employ it in the preparation of their haggis: it was also a custom among the ancient Romans. Those who entertain a prejudice against an oven for jugged meats, imagining that the dry heat imparts an unpleasant flavour to the viands, can have no possible objection to this more elegant mode of cook- ing. TO CHOOSE ME.ITS. Venifton.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft of the haunch smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut-gout: but it bears keeping better than any sort of meat; and if eaten fresh- killed, it is not so good as mutton. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef be good, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and feel ten- der. The fat should look white rather than yellow; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-cakes is generally so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is coarser and closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and it has a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-1 “jf is the richest and largest; but in small families, and to Some tastes, heifer-beef is preferred, if finely fed. In old meat, a streak of horn :;uns between the fat and lean of76 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. in. the sirloin and ribs: the harder this is the older, and the flesh is not finely flavoured. Veal.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having become so by frequent bleeding and licking chalk. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed; but any other colour shows it to be stale. The other parts should he dry and white; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and had. The kidney turns first, and the suet will not then be firm. 3Iutt07i.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young : for if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age ; but this only holds with wether-mutton. The flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer; hut the meat is not so rich or well flavoured, nor is the gravy' so fine. Ram-mutton is very strong flavoured, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy- Wether is distinguished like- wise by a knob of fat on the leg, ■where, in ewe-mutton, is the udder. La7iib-—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter: if the vein is bluish, it is fi-esh ; if it has a green or yello'w cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale- If the eyes be sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass lamb comes into season in April or May, and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in highest perfection in Decem- ber and .lanuary. Pork.—Pinch the lean, and if young it Avill break- If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old- A thin rind is a merit in all pork : and pigs that are short in the legs and bodies, and have thickness in the neck, and not long heads and ears, arc always to be preferred. When fresh, the flesh ■will be smooth and dry : if clammy, it is tainted. WhatI •' c.' -ijii 1. U' '-”"''j f-vfi \' •* -i ■ -‘•»' V i» . i < #;. • ■ ' ■'' '■ «■. > -' T ■ - r' i ■ t»» ‘H» I I# ! 'ii ..j* L76* VENISON. 1. Haunch. 2. Neck. 3. Shoulder, 4. Breast. BEEF. Hind Quarter. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rum]). 3. Edgebone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse Buttock. 6. Veiny Piece. 7. Thick Flunk. 8. Thin Flank. 9. Leg. 10. Fore Rib; five Ribs. Fore Quarter. 11. Middle Rib ; four Ribs 12. Chuck; three Ribs. 13. Shoulder or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck or Sticking Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek.11* VEAL. 1. Loin, best End. 2. Loin, Chump End. 3. Fillet. 4. Hind Knuckle. 5. Fore Knuckle. 6. Neck, best End. 1. Neck, Scrag End. 8. Blade Bone. 9. Breast, best End. 10. Breast, Brisket End PORK. 1. The Sparerib. 2. Hand. 3. Belly or Spring. 4. Fore Loin. 5. Hind Loin. 6. Leg. MUTTON. 1. Leg. 6. Shoulder. 2. Loin, best End. 7. Breast. 3. Loin, Chump End. A Saddle is two Loins' 4. Neck, best End. A Chine is two Necks. 5. Neck, Scrag End.VKAl../ ft i } i i ■^4 li J IChap, hi.] 77 MEAT. is called measly pork is very unwholesome, and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing in any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-pork is the best. Bacon.—If the rind be thin, the fat firm, and of a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it good and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is becoming, if not al- ready, rusty. Hams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone; if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best, and long-legged pigs are not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. Brawn.—The horny part of the young brawn will feel moderately tender, and the flavour will be better than the old, the rind of which will be hard. OBSERVATIONS ON PURCHASING, KEEPING. AND DRESSING MEAT. The flesh of cattle killed when not perfectly clear of food soon spoils. They should fast twenty-four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, before they are killed. In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes furthest, cuts out to greatest advantage, and aflords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price; but as they have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, however, that those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably ; and being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn; for when they are weighed with the prime pieces, the price of these is lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs liy the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels of beef. Rumps and edgebones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and theDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. hi. 78 part that has been struck always hunts: therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. AU meat should be carefully examined, and wiped with a dry cloth as soon as it comes in ] and if flies have blown upon it, the part must be cut off. This should be daily observed until it is dressed, as it not only tends to preserve the meat long in perfection, but prevents that musty flavour too often perceived in the outer slices, when brought to table. In the country, where meat is often carried a great distance, it should be well covered with a cloth, over which fresh cabbage-leaves would keep it cool. These cautions are more needful, as in some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling of meat. The fly may in some measure be prevented by dusting, upon the parts most likely to be attacked, pepper and ginger mixed after xviping, which should never be omitted. Pieces of charcoal laid about meat preserve it from putrefaction, and recover what is spoiling. All legs and shoulders of meat should hang with the knuckle down- wards, which will cause the gravy to be retained. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. If there be more suet than will be used while fresh, throw it into pickle, made in the proportion of a quarter of a pound of salt to a quart of cold water, and it will be as good afterwards for any use, when soaked a little. Dripping, or clarified suet, will baste everything as well as butter, except fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies nothing else should be used. The fat of a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter and much richer pudding than suet. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hang- ing a day before it is salted. Meats become more tender, and consequently more digestible, as well as better flavoured, by hanging ; but veal and lamb will not bear it so long as the flesh of older animals.MEAT. 79 Chap, hi.] All meats should be well washed, and cleaned with a brush kept for the purpose, before they are dressed. If for boiling, the colour will be better for soaking an hour or two; but if to be roasted, let it be dried after washing. Boiling in a w'ell-floured cloth will make meat white. Cloths for this purpose should he carefully washed, and boiled in clean water between each using, and not suffered to hang in a damp place, which would give a bad flavour to the meat. The same observe of tapes and pudding-cloths. All kitchen utensils should be kept in the nicest order, and in a conspicuous part of the offices. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. Vegetables should never be dressed with meat, e.xcept carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. In preparing meat for roasting, the cook must be careful that the spit be wiped before it is used, and at the time of serving, or its mark will appear in a black stain. She must avoid running the spit through the prime parts. In some joints, as necks, it may enter two bones from the end, run up the back until it comes to nearly the other end, and the prime of the meat will not be pierced. Leaden skewers of different w'eights should be in readiness, for want of which, unskilful servants are often at a loss at the time of spitting. Cradle-spits answer best; they may be bought of dif- ferent sizes. The joints of all necks and loins should be nicked before they are dressed. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first points of a good cook’s attention in roasting. A piece of writing paper should be twisted roundDOMESTIC COOKERY. 80 [Chap. m. the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served. When you wish fried things to look as well as pos- sible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling- hot the moment the meat is put in, and kept so till finished ; a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not be come; set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep tin cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth over that. This way dries the gravy less than hot hearths of iron; but in whatever way the heat be pre- served, it is a very essential article in serving a din- ner, and every requisite should be allowed for the purpose. BEEF.—E. R. The only really good roasting pieces are the ."sirloins and the long ribs j the short ribs, which are cut near the neck, never roast well, and should not be used for this purpose. Some persons divide the round, and roast the half called the silver-side ; but unless it is well hung, and roasted with great care, it will be dry and hard, the meat being particularly close and heavy. When one or two ribs are purchased by a small family, it is a good plan t" have the bones taken out, and tlie meat rolled round iii the shape of a fillet ; a consider- able saving is effected by this plan, as, when not so prepared, the thin part at tlie extremity of tlie bone is frequently wasted. The bone cut out when the meat is raw will assist in making soup, and is much prefer- able to a cold beef-bone. Tliey are sometimes cut off short, and salted or stewed, but rolling is the better plan ; and in this manner a single rib can be skewered into a handsome lillet, the fat and lean being marbled, and the appearance of the whole improved. Beef re- quires to be hung a long time, in order to ensure itsMEAT. Chap, hi.] 81 being tender. "When, however, the weather is not fa- vourable for keeping, it will be much improved by being laid in a marinade for a few hours previous to roasting. Mix with three parts water one of vinegar, and pour it over the heef. Each joint must be carefully examined before it is spitted, and any portions that may have been injured cut away ; the whole being wiped with a clean cloth, and, if necessary, washed in warm water. After the cook has taken up the roast meat, she should pour the fat from the dripping-pan into a basin. The next day, when cold, she should scrape oft’ the fine meat-jelly which will be found adhering to the under part, and put it in a suitable vessel for present use, as an assistant to gravies. The dripping then should be melted and strained. If required to be kept long, it should be strained into cold water, and taken oft’ when cold in cakes, and these cakes laid between sheets of writing- paper in a dry place. Suet may be preserved the same way, wuth the addition of a little ftour powdered over it, and will remain good for several days in the hottest climates; whereas, if this process should be neg- lected, it would spoil in twelve hours. BEEF-HEART.—E. R. Wash and clean it very well ] take out all the white thick skin, and stuff it with forcemeat: make a fine gravy, and serve it up with currant-jelly sauce. It is a good plan to dress beef-heart in this way a day before roasting a hare, as, when cold, and both hashed together, they can scarcely be distinguished from each other. When there is no hare, hash the heart the same way by cutting it in slices, warming it in gravy with a glass of port wine and melted currant-jelly. N.B. Beef-heart dressed in this manner is a vulgar unsightly dish. Its appearance and flavour may be mucli improved by dividing it in half, covering it with slices of fat bacon, laying the forcemeat over it, rolling it round, and roast- ing as above. The other half will make excellent beef GDOMESTIC COOKERY. 82 [Chap. iji. a-la-mode, or a fricandeau, lardecf with bacon dipped in chopped sweet herbs and vinegar, half roasted and then stewed. It is an economical dish for a large family, and may be made very palatable. It should be sent up as hot as possible. ROASTED TRIPE.—E. R. Cut the tripe in square pieces; make a rich forcemeat; spread it over the pieces of tripe, and roll them up tightly; fasten them upon a spit, flour and baste them well, and serve them up with melted butter and slices of Seville orange or lemon. TO DRESS VENISON. A haunch of buck will take three houi-s and a half or three quarters roasting; doe, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather under than over- done. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish (unless there is none in the venison), and made thus: Cut off the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set in steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes, just to brown one side ; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, cover quite close for an hour, and simmer it gently ; then uncover it, and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with salt only. Currant-jelly sauce must be served in a boat. If the venison be fresh, merely dry it with a cloth, and hang it in an airy place. Should it be necessary to keep it for any length of time, rub it all over with beaten ginger. If it hajipen to be musty, wash it, firstly, with lukewarm water, and secondly, with milk and water, also lukewarm. Then dry it very well with clean cloths, and rub it over Aviih jiowdered ginger. Observe the same method with hare. It must be looked I at every day, and peppered if attacked by flies. When ■ to be roasted, wash it well in lukewarm water, and dry it with a clotli. Cover the haunch with buttered iME.1T. Chap, m.] 83 paper when spitted for roasting, and baste it very well all the time it is at the fire. When sufficiently done, take off the paper, and dredge it very gently with flour in order to froth it, but let it be dusted in this manner as quickly as possible, lest the fat should melt. Send it up in the dish with nothing but its own gravy. Some persons add a coarse paste, securing it and the papei with packthread; it is then frequently basted, and a quarter of an hour before it is removed from the fire the paper and paste are taken oft’, and the meat dredged with Hour and basted with butter; gravy should accom- pany the venison in a tureen, together with currant-jelly, either sent to table cold, or melted in port wine and served hot. Venison may be kept by rubbing it over with coarse sugar; when to be roasted should it have hung very long, take off the skin, as this becomes musty first, and will in cooking impart a disagreeable flavour to the whole. Wrap up the venison in a veal-caul, and then cover it ^vith paper. HAUNCH OF MUTTON.—E. R. This being a favourite joint, two or three recipes will be given to improve the flavour. It will require to be kept for some time, and must therefore be well washed with vinegar, wiped every day, and, if necessary, rubbed with pounded pepper and ginger. Stick two cloves in the knuckle, and twenty-four hours before it is put upon the spit, having thoroughly dried and wiped it clean, lay it in a pan, and pour as much port wine over it as will serve to soak it, turning it frequently, so that every part shall equally imbibe the wine. Stick two more cloves in it, paper up the fat, and roast it the same as venison, basting with the wine mixed with butter : serve it with gravy and currant-jelly. ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE A HAUNCH OF MUTTON TASTE LIKE VENISON.—E. R. Take the skin carefully oft’, and rub the meat with G 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 84 [Chap. hi. olive oil, then put it into a pan with a quantity of whole pepper, four cloves of garlic, a bundle of sweet herbs, consisting of parsley, thyme, sweet marjoram, and a couple of bay-leaves. Pour upon the meat a pint of good vinegar and three or four table-spoonsful of olive oil. Cover the upper surface of the meat with slices of raw onion, and turn the mutton every day, always taking care to put the slices of onion on the top surface. At the expiration of four days, take the meat out, wipe it with a napkin, and hang it up in a cool place till the next day, when it is fit for roasting. The under part of a sirloin of beef, or the half of a beef-heart, may be prepared in the same manner, and stuffed and roasted like a hare. A more simple method is to stick two cloves in the haunch, wash it with vinegar which has been poured into a basin rubbed with garlic, repeating this latter process every day, and let it hang until it is tender. SADDLE OF MUTTON.—E. R. Tliis joint should be well hung and well roasted; take out the fat from the inside, and remove or retain the kidneys, as it may be convenient; split tlie tail, and skewer the pieces back in a ring on either side. When great pains are taken with the dinner, raise the skin, but skewer it on again, removing it altogether twenty- minutes before the mutton is dished. On removing the skin, sprinkle the mutton with salt, dredge it with flour, and send it up finely frothed. SHOULDER OF MUTTON.—E. R. Roast it nicely, and send it up with onion-sauce. It is an unsightly joint, but the appearance may be im- proved by cutting off the knuckle, when it may be called a shield. The bone may be taken out, and the mutton stufled ; but in that case the grill of the blade-bone will be sacrificed. A small shoulder cut into a good shnj)e, boned and stufled, may be baked with advantage upon a Yorkshire pudding. It is frequently served up in this85 MEAT. Chap, hi.] manner at Anglo-Indian tables, the pudding not being deeper than a shallow dish will admit. LEG OF MUTTON.—E. R. If the weather should be cold, hang the mutton for three weeks, then remove the skin very carefully ; wrap the leg in a veal caul, and roast it. Should the weather not admit of its hanging so long, put it into a pan, and cover it with coarse brown sugar, turning it every day, and when to be roasted, remove the skin, and wrap it up as before directed. This process will cause it to be very tender and juicy. A leg of mutton is usually roasted whole, but can be divided advantageously for a small family. Cut the knuckle into a good-sized joint. Put a coarse paste over the lower part, to keep in the gravy, and roast it. The fillet will cut into fine steaks for broiling, and the remainder will make into harico ; or, after being half-boiled, is excellent stewed with carrots. ANOTHER MODE OF DIVIDING A LEG OF MUTTON. Turn the outside of the leg upwards, and, with a small long knife, gently raise up the skin as far as the knuckle, and about six or seven inches wide; and cut two or three slices, either for cutlets or a small pie ; mind to leave it smooth, and fasten the skin down with small skewers. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON —E. R. It should soak two hours in cold water, and be boiled m a cloth. Serve with caper-sauce, mashed turnips, greens, and carrots. Or, for a small family, two dress- ings may be made thus:—cut oft' a fillet, as of veal, to roast with or without stuffing. If covered with a coarse paste, the juices will be retained ; but if wanted for soup, it must be carefully and slowly boiled in water. The English taste being in favour of raw meat, this joint is esteemed to be in perfection when underdone. A few slices cut oft' immediately, well peppered, and sent intoDOMESTIC COOKERY. 86 [Chap. in. the kitchen to be broiled, will he found a great improve- ment upon boiled mutton. It is sent to table with caper-sauce. Members of the Yacht'Club and captains of ships are recommended, when they have fresh mutton, to tow it overboard for some hours, and then lay it up in the shrouds. It will then be coated with briny particles, which will effectually keep in all the juices. Shoulder of mutton is sometimes salted and boiled, and served up smothered with onions. NECK OF MUTTON.—E. R. Boil the neck very gently until it is enough, then, half an hour or twenty minutes before serving, cover it thickly with bread-crumbs and sweet herbs chopped, with a little drawn butter or the yolk of an egg, and put it into a Dutch oven before the fire. By this process the meat will taste much better than if merely roasted or boiled ; the dryness attendant upon roasting will be re- moved, and the disagreeable greasiness which boiled meat, mutton especially, exhibits will utterly disappear. Too much cannot be said of this method of dressing neck and breast of mutton, for the liquor they have been boiled in will make very good soup. The latter, the breast, after being boiled, may be boned, covered with forced- meat rolled round, and then roasted. The best end of a neck of mutton makes a good roast, but even the scrag may be sent to table, M'hen cooked according to the above directions. TO KEEl' VEAL. The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the whole of the meat wiped every day, by wliicli means it will keep good three or four days in hot weather, if the larder be a good one. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs along the chine of a loin of veal, ns you do of beef, to hinder it from tainting. The skirt of the breast of veal is like- M’ise to be taken off; and the inside of the breast wiped and scraj)ed, and sprinkled with a litlle salt.87 MEAT. Chap, m.] If veal is in danger of not keeping, wash it thoroughly, ( and boil the joint ten minutes, patting it into the pot i when the water is boiling hot; then put it into a very cool larder. Or it may be plunged into cold water till cool, f and then wiped and put by. The fillet is a favourite joint in England; but when 1 merely roasted, the meat is close, heavy, and not very ! digestible. Take out the bone, and fill the orifice with fat, t or stuffing ; stuff it also well under the skin, much depend- i ing upon the quantity and flavour of the stuffing ; serve it i up with melted butter in the dish, and send a lemon to table. ! LOIN OF VEAL.—E. R. I This joint is usually divided, the kidney end roasted, ij and sent up with a toast under the fat, and melted butter I in the dish. The chump end should be stuffed like the t fillet, or sent up with balls of stuffing in the dish. The I best end of the veal will make a good roast, served in the same way, stuffing being always an agreeable adjunct to ' veal. The breast is frequently roasted, but is not suited I to the spit. KNUCKLE OF VEAL.—E. R. If plainly boiled, is sent up with parsley and butter. CALF'S HEAD, BOILED.—E. R. When thoroughly cleaned, the brains should be taken out, washed, soaked, and blanched, and boiled; then I mix well a little chopped sage, previously scalded and i" warmed in melted butter ; served in a separate dish with the tongue. If quite plain, the head must he sent up with parsley and butter ; but it is sometimes brushed with I yolk of egg, covered with bread-crumbs, and browned before the fire. LAMB.—E. R. The roasting of lamb requires no particular instruc- tions ; it is served with mint-sauce. The leg is some-[Chap. in. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 88 times boiled, with the loin cut in chops, fried, and sent round it. A saddle of lamb has succeeded the fore- quarter in the estimation of the fashionable world. When the quarter is roasted whole the shoulder should be raised either at table or when dished, a slice of fresh butter laid upon the meat, a little cayenne pepper, and the juice of a lemon. PORK E. R. This meat requires to be very well roasted. It is not the fashion to stuff it, as heretofore, with sage and onions, the meat frequently disagreeing wdth delicate persons, without the addition of so strong an adjunct. A part of the objection may be removed by boiling the sage and onions, and mixing them with bread-crumbs and a chopped apple: thus prepared, the stuffing will be found mild and of excellent flavour. The griskin and the sparerib are certainly improved by being powdered with chopped sage; but this is all a matter of taste ; the skin of the leg and loin must be scored previous to roasting. Send both up with a glass of vinegar mixed with two tea- spoonsful of made mustard in the dish. Ajiple-sauce is an accompaniment of roast pork. Nothing, perhaps, that comes to table can be more indigestible; and those who indulge in it should eat very sparingly. In country places, where veal is difficult to procure, pork may be disguised, and rendered a very good substitute. Cut a handsome fillet from the leg, take off the skin, remove the centre bone, stufl’ it exactly like veal, then roast it until it is three parts done, then put it into a stewpan with some weak broth. Let it stew till perfectly done; then either thicken the gravy and serve it up with forcemeat balls and slices of lemon, or send up the pork embedded in sorrel or tomato sauce—a puree in fact of either. Pork dressed in this manner has passed muster for veal; and families who kill pigs frequently will obtain an agreeable variety by ])ursuing the same plan. The griskin or sparerib Avould be improved by this method of cooking, and may beMEAT. 89 Chap, hi.] served up either with forcemeat-balls, apple, sorrel, or tomato sauce. ANOTHER DELICATE PREPARATION OF PORK.—E. R. Take any part usually roasted, simmer it slowly until nearly cooked, then remove the skin, brush it with the yolk of an egg, cover it over with bread-crumbs and chopped herbs, and roast it in a Dutch oven or small cradle-spit. CHINE OF PORK.—E. R. Salt the chine for three days, roast it, and serve it up with sauce made thus;—Fry in oil or butter tw’o or three sliced onions, until they take colour; then pour off the oil and add some gravy sauce, cho]iped mushrooms, and two table-spoonsful of vinegar, w'ith one tea-spoonful of made mustard. Give the whole a boil, and serve it up in the dish. TO DRESS PORK AS LAMB. Kill a young pig of four or five months ; dress the fore-quarters trussed with the shank-bone close, having taken off the skin. Serve with mint-sauce and salad. The other parts will make delicate pickled pork, steaks, or pies. BAKED LEG OF PORK.—E. R. Rub it well over with salt and saltpetre mixed; let it lie five or six days in the brine; then hang it up to smoke for five or six days, when it is ready. Take ofi the skin, put it into an earthen dish, and pour a little red wine over it; stick a few cloves in it, or beat them to pow- der and rub them over it. When it has been in tbe oven a short time, take some hard biscuit, pounded with sugar, and spread it all over. Serve it up with gravy and port- wine sauce. It may be roasted on a spit if preferred to baking. TO BOIL A LEG OF PORK. Salt it eight or ten days, turning it daily, but do notDOMESTIC COOKERY. 90 [Chap. in. rub it after the first. When to be dressed weigh it; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it boils, and frequently after; but do not boil it fast, or it will he hard. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas-soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured, which gives a very delicate look. Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. TO SCALD A SUCKING PIG. The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold water for a few minutes ; then rub it over with a little resin, beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of scalding water half a minute ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull oft’ the hair as quickly as possible : if any part dues not come off', put it in again. When quite clean, wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails : put the liver, heart, and lights to the feet. Wash the pig well in cold water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. TO RO.YST A SUCKING PIG. If you can get it when just killed this is of great ad- vantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually do; then put some sage, a large piece of stalish white bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew' it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry ; then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, mb the pig well with a buttered cloth, and take oft" the head while at the fire : take out the brains, and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig.91 POULTRY. Chap, m.] Then take it up, and, without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws: take off the upper part of the head down to the snout. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the head only being cut off to gar- nish, as above. It will require from an hour to an hour and a half to roast. TO ROAST A PIG.—E. R. When prepared for the spit, roll a small lump of butter in flour and chopped sage-leaves, and put it in the inside. When warm at the fire, take the whites of one or two eggs, beat them w'ell, and, with a small brush or a bunch of feathers, spread it all over the pig. When nearly roasted, catch the gravy that falls, and, when taken from the spit, remove the sage-leaves from the inside; cut off the head, split, and take out the brains, cut the pig down the back and into quarters, cut off' the ears, and lay them with the head round the dish. Mix with the gravy already caught the brains and the sage-leaves, chopped small, together with a little cream or melted butter heated in a saucepan, and pour it into the dish. Send up the pig with various sauces,—viz., currant- sauce, egg-sauce, gravy, and plumped prunes or raisins. This is an old-fashioned recipe for roasting pig, but us it obtained when the dish was a favourite, it has been insert- ed here. The common method now is to bake a pig, and send it to the oven rubbed with butter, basting it occasion- ally with butter while cooking, and having gravy, bread, or egg-sauce as an accompaniment. GENERR.AL DIRECTIONS FOR POULTRY AND GAME. All poultry should be very carefully picked, everyDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. in. 92 plug be removed, and the hair nicely singed off with white paper. Contrary to the usual custom, all poultry should be drawn as soon as killed, or at least as soon as bought; which prevents the disagreeable flavour so often per- ceived in chickens. The cook must, in doing this, be careful not to crack the gall-bladder, for then no washing will remove the bitterness. Ignorant cooks sometimes draw fowls by cutting a hole in their side, but it should be done through the vent, and that being cut off, a string should fasten the rump close to the front part. Fowls for boiling should soak an hour or two in skim- milk. When trussed and singed, flour them well; tie them in a cloth; put them in cold water, and set them over a slow fire ; cover the saucepan close, and let them simmer ; as soon as the scum rises, remove it carefully, cover them close up again, and boil them gently twenty minutes; take them off the fire, and the steam will sufficiently finish them, if kept in. All poultry requires thorough washing, but above all pigeons, lest the corn on which they feed should remain in the crop: they should not be picked till going to be dressed. Pigeons and ducks may be dressed as soon as killed. In di'essing wild-fowl, be careful to keep a clear, brisk fire. Let them be done of a bright brown, but not much roasted, or the fine flavour will be destroyed. They, as well as tame birds, require to be continually basted, and to be sent up beautifully frothed. A very quick and clear fire is necessary for roasting all poultry. A large fowl will take three-quarters of an hour, a small one twenty minutes. Care must lie taken that they are well and thoroughly done. A small turkey will take an hour and a quarter, a goose an hour, larger turkeys and geese an hour and a hall; both should have the breasts papered : chickens and partridges lake half an hour; pigeons twenty minutes; but the cook must acquire experience by practice, wild-fowl taking a much shorter time, wild-duck in particular;TURKtlY rOH nOASXnfC-.POULTRY. 93 Chap, hi.] TURKEY.—E. R. There is a quaint adage, that says,— “ Turkey roast is turkey lost; Turkey boiled is turkey spoiled ; But turkey braised is turkey praised." However, here are directions for roasting and boiling. A roast turkey may be stuffed in various ways, a veal stuffing being the most common. Where truffles are to be had, take about two pounds, peel them, select the small ones, and, after chopping, pound them in a mortar with an equal quantity of the fat of bacon rasped; make the stuffing with this, mixed with some of the larger truffles whole, put them into the body of the turkey, and let it hang for several days; then roast it with a piece of fat bacon laid over the breast, and a paper over that. This being an expensive pre- paration, chestnuts may be substituted for truffles, pounded and mixed with bacon in the same manner. The chestnuts should be boiled, if necessary, to take off the husk, peeled nicely, and pounded: raw chestnuts will impart the finer flavour. A stuffing of sausage or other meat may be put into the crop besides, but the chestnuts should be hung up for some days, and the turkey served with chestnut-sauce. Peeled and boiled chestnuts, put whole into the body ^f a turkey and hung for some days, improve the flavour ; but a turkey thus stuffed Miill require long and careful roasting, and must be put a*t first at a distance from the fire. Fowls may be dressed in the same way. TURKEY WITH SAUSAGE-MEAT.—E, R. At the messes of European regiments in India, it is no uncommon thing to bone a turkey and a fowl, and put one inside the other, filling the interstices with sausage-meat, a small ])ig being killed for the purpose. A turkey thus prepared will take a long time roasting, and must be placed at a great distance from the fire at first. When carved, the slices should be cut quite94 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. hi. through; and epicures aver that it is one of the finest dishes that come to table. BOILED TURKEY.—E. R, Fill the body of the turkey with oysters, and let it boil by steam wdthout any w’ater. When sufficiently done, take it up, strain the gravy that will be found in the pan, and which, when cold, will be a fine jelly; thicken it with a little flour, add the liquor of the oysters intended for sauce, also stewed, and warm the oysters up in it. A fowl may be boiled in the same manner; and, if there should be no steam apparatus, a small one can be put in a jar and immersed in a kettle of water. Should a fowl or turkey prove of a bad colour, smother it in sauce, celery-sauce, or any white sauce. Pepper fowls and turkeys in the inside, and wffien roasted baste them well with butter. Obs. A small i.en-bird boils better than ^the larger sort, and may be stuffed in a variety of ways, with herbs like veal stuffing, or sausage-meat, or chestnuts and bacon, and it may be served up with celery-sauce, plain white sauce, or both. Boiled fowls should be very young and white legged to cook well. They should come to table very plump, and as delicate as possible. White sauce is the most fashionable accompaniment, the old method of dishing with parsley and butter being on the decline; but as parsley still maintains its ground with many people, it is iidvisable to boil OMSufficient quantity, press and chop it, garnishing the dish with small mounds thus prepared, which may be mi.\ed at table with the white sauce by the guests who like the flavour of parsley. Liver-sauce is sometimes served with boiled fowls. BOILED CHICKENS.—E. R. Chickens shoidd be plump, and very nicely boiled ; if wanted to be particularly good, they must be boiled in a hlanc. It is the fashion to send them up with tufts of cauliflower or white brocoli, divested of stem and leaves, and white sauce.95 Chap, hi.] POULTfiY. FOWL BOILED WITH OYSTERS.—E. R. Take a young fowl, fill the inside with oysters, put it into a jar, and plunge the jar in a kettle or saucepan of water. Boil it for an hour and a half. There will be a quantity of gravy from the juices of the fowl and oysters in the jar; make it into a white sauce with the addition of egg, cream, or a little flour and butter; add oysters to it, or serve it up plain with the fowl. The gravy that comes from a fowl dressed in this manner will be a stiff jelly the next day; the fowl will be very white and tender, and of an exceedingly fine flavour—advantages not attainable in ordinary boiling, while the dish loses nothing of its delicacy and sim- plicity. ROAST FOWL.—E. R. Having cleaned the fowl, put into the inside a piece of butter the size of a hazel-nut or walnut, according as the fowl is large or small; make the butter black with pepper, and sprinkle a little salt upon it. This w'ill greatly improve the taste of the fowl, rendering the whole more juicy, and particularly the back and side bones, which are so apt to be dry. A BEAUTIFUL AND EXCELLENT WAY OF DRESSING FOWLS.—E. R. When nicely clean, and free from every feather and plug, singe them. Bone, and draw inwards the leg and pinion of the wing. Stuff with sausage-meat, and tie the neck and vent. Roast, and serve with gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce in a tureen. If the fowls are young, and properly kept, they are equal to turkey. If the quantity of forcemeat be thought too much, one fowl may be put within the other. FOWLS BOILED WITH RICE.—E. R. Clean and wash some rice, put it into the body of the fowl, with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon-juice and salt. Put it into the saucepan, and96 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. hi. pour over it instead of water the following blanc. Cut a pound of veal and the same quantity of fat bacon into small pieces, and lay them in a stewpan with half a pound of butter; do not allow them to brown, but while the meat is white pour on boiling w'ater, adding at the same time a clove, half a bay-leaf, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a little shalot. When sufficiently stewed strain it through a hair-sieve over the fowl, which must simmer in it for three-quarters of an hour. The veal and bacon that has been employed in this blanc may be put into a mortar and pounded together for some kind of stuffing. It is the fashion to la.d the breasts of boiled fowls with tongue. GOOSE.—E. R. It is so important to make goose stuffing in the mild- est way, that the directions given for pork are here repeated. Boil the sage and onions, mix them with rather more than an equal quantity of bread-crumbs and a chopped apple. Bind altogether with a little milk or an egg. When dished, open the body and pour in a glass of port wune, with a spoonful of made mus- tard, or a glass of vinegar, should wdne be thought too expensive; this will take off the strong greasy taste w'hich is found in a large Michaelmas goose. In Ireland geese are sometimes stuffed with potatoes, the whole body being filled with them either whole or mashed. In Guernsey they are stuffed with apples pared and cored. Both these methods afford an agree- able variety. Apple-sauce and gravy are sent up with gee . in separate tureens. Green geese and young ducks are roasted without xny stuffing, being merely peppered on the inside. There ap\iears to be no good reason why ducks should not be acconqianied by ajiple- sauce. A lemon squeezed over a duck or a goose is a great improvement. liOn.El) DUCK WITHOUT SALT.—E. R. Dress the duck and ])ut it into warm water for a fewn197 Chap, m.] POULTRY. minutes, take it out, and lay it in an earthen pan, pour a pint of boiling milk over it, and allow it to soak for three hours; dredge it well with flour, and juit it into cold wnter; let it boil for twenty minutes, and then send it to the table smothered with onion sauce. TO BOIL DUCKS. Choose a fine fat duck; salt it two days, then boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it up with onion-sauce, but melt the butter with milk instead of water. ROASTED PIGEONS.—E. R. Stuff the whole of the body of the pigeon with veal stuffing: some persons merely chop a little parsley, and put it inside; but the other is the better way. A fine farce, made of pounded veal and bacon, and bread steeped in milk, is an excellent stuffing for pigeons. ANOTHER WAY.—E. R. Boil, pare, and pound chestnuts in a mortar, wdth equal parts of fat bacon finely rasped; fill the pigeons with this stuffing, cover them with slices of fat bacon, and wrap them in young vine-leaves; roast the whole togeiher, and send them up with the bacon and vine- leaves, which impart a fine flavour to the jiigeons. Partridges may be dressed the same way, and truffles substituted for chestmus. PIGEON.S, WOODCOCK FASHION.—E. R. Clean and truss the pigeons, cut a slice of bread, toast and butter it, then chop equal quantities of mush- rooms and anchovies very finely togetlier, pepper it, and spread it on the toast rather thickly, and put it under the pigeons while they are roasting. LARKS.—E. R. Epicures aver that it requires no fewer than three persons to assist at the cookery of a single lark. The spit requires to be turned much more quickly than tlie HDOMESTIC COOKERY. 98 [Chap. m. ordinary machinery will admit. The larks should be put down to a brisk fire, and the whole time they are roasting, one person should baste them with butter, another dredge them with fine bread-crumbs, while the third ([uickens the movements of the spit. When thus attended to, larks will come to table twice their original size. Though three artistes may not be abso- lutely necessary for the purpose of roasting a lark, it is essential that all small birds should be dressed according to the foregoing directions—the spit must turn rapidly, and the basting and dredging never be remitted for a single instant. Larks may be roasted encased in fat bacon, and covered with vine-leaves. Sparrows, when young and plump, are excellent eating, and cooked in the same way may do duty for larks. A dozen larks are skewered together, and the skewers tied on a spit, j Woodcocks, snipes, quails, green plovers, and ortolans are not to be drawn: lay a toast under them while roasting to catch the trail; serve them up with good I gravy and bread sauce. All game and small birds are j improved by the addition of bread-crumbs, either fried ' or toasted, the latter is the more delicate preparation: grate the crumbs, and put them into a tin shallow dish before the fire, shaking them occasionally until they are i well browned ; send them up in the dish with the roasted birds. Vermicelli fried, and then drained and dried before the fire, mav be added to all brown s;ravies. WHEAT-E.\RS.—E. R. i May be dressed in the same manner as the larks, or, when i trussed for roasting, brush each bird over with the yolk | of an egg, or, what is better, dip them in an omelette, that is, the white and yolk beaten together, with a spoon- 'l fill of milk; roll them in fine bread-cnimbs, and spit T them on a wooden or silver skewer, a dozen upon each. I When sjiitted, brush them again with the egg, and dredge f them with the bread-crumljs; tie the skewers upon a spit, and roast them before a brisk fire, basting all | the time with fresh butter : they will take about twelve d minutes.GAME. 99 Chap, hi.] PHEASANTS.—E. R. It is not in general usual to stuff pheasants; they are sometimes larded; but the following forcemeat will be found a great improvement. Cut a piece of lean veal into small dice, with about a third of bacon also minced, season it with a little pepper, and put it into the body of the pheasant, which must be tied, to pre • vent the escape of the stuffing, or roasted with the head downwards. The gravy from the veal w'ill diffuse itself through the pheasant, and render it more juicy and tender; w'hile the bacon is always to be preferred when put inside a bird, though the outer larding may be more ornamental. Beef is sometimes substituted for veal. PARTRIDGES,—E. R. Being less dry than pheasants, do not require stuffing, although they are improved by it, made either of chest- nuts, or truffles and bacon. They are sometimes roasted, wrapped in bacon and vine-leaves j the bread-crumbs are essential. In some parts of Kent partridges are sent up with forcemeat-balls in the dish. GROUSE AND MOOR COCK,—E. R. Are sent to table plainly roasted, with fried bread-crumbs, and bread-sauce. WTLD DUCKS,—E. R. Must be roasted at a very brisk fire: they take from five to twelve minutes, according to the preference for raw meat, and will not be thoroughly cooked under a quarter of an hour. Some people are of opinion that they should only fly through the kitchen ; by epicures they are considered to be in true perfection when they come up dry and brown, and, when cut, flood the dish with gravy. The means of ensuring success consists in a very ardent fire, rapid motion of the spit, and con- stant basting. The carver should score the breast of the duck, put a piece of butter on it and squeeze a II 2DOMESTIC COOKEKY. [Chap. in. 100 lemon over it; l)ut those wlio desire to taste duck/?ar excellence should substitute shickaree sauce for the lemon. Take of cayenne pepper from a salt-spooniul to a dessert-spoon, according to the taste of the party [and witli either proportion a dessert-spoonful of pow- dered sugar]. Add to this the juice of half a lemon, a glass of claret or port, and a glass of ketchup, or any other sauce. This must be warmed before it is poured over the duck. When basted the next day, tliat is, heated in this sauce mixed with gravy, nothing can be more delicious ; and if medals or honours were be- stowed in these days upon the patriot who gives to the public a superlative dish, the author oi' this receipt would claim the reward. N.B. This applies to wild geese, which, when dressed, in the severe winter of 18.38, after the foregoing direc- tions, were pronounced delicious. Agreeing with the late Mr. Walker, the author of ‘The Original,’ that a little dinner, composed of excellent dishes of their kind, is preferable to an elaborate display, the bill of fare is given for a party of three, who, in the month of Ja- nuary, partook of a vegetable soup, a loin of house-lamb, and hashed wild goose, after the above fashion, wnth a slight sweet pudding, and nothing could have been more successful. HARES, If properly taken care of, will keep a considerable time, and even when the cook fancies them past eating may be in the highest perfection, which they cannot be if eaten when fresh killed. As they are usually ])aunched in the field, the cook cannot prevent this ; but the hare keeps longer, and cats much better, if not opened for four or five (lavs, or according to the weatlier. If paunclied, as soon as a hare comes in it should be wiped (juite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping every day; mix pejiper and ginger, and rub on the inside; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. IfGAME. Chap, iii.l 101 the spice is applied early, it will prevent that musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept as long as possible, if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. Hare requires to be kept at a distance from the fire ; serve with melted butter in the dish, and send it to table with liver sauce, currant-jelly, and gravy. It is now the fashion to bone hares, which greatly improves their ap- pearance, lessens the difficulty of carving, and assists in making the gravy. Break the bone^, and stew them in water and any small quantity of meat parings; boil the liver of wliich the sauce is to be made in this gravv, and add a littie browning to give it a colour. TO BOAST HARE. After it is skinned let it be extremely well washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water ; and, if old, lard it, which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well wdth milk till half done, and afterw'ards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the tire warm, will remove it; especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife to let it out. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine frotb, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce; the gravy in the dish. For stuffing use the liver, an anchovy, some fa' bacon, a little suet, berbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned, and singed, and made crisp. They are reckoned a daintv. TO COOK A HA,RE nERRYNANE FASHION.—E. R. Take three or four eggs, a pint of new milk, a couple of handsful of flour; make them into a batter, and,102 [Cbap, in. DOMESTIC COOKERY. when the hare is roasting, baste it well, repeating the operation until the batter thickens, and forms a coating all over the hare : this should be allowed to brown, but not to burn. N.B. This is a very popular dish with the guests at Derrynane Abbey. ANOTHER COATING FOR A HARE.—E. R. Two spoonsful of flour, three yolks and one white of an egg, diluted with new milk, and mixed with two spoonsful of salad oil. N.B. Old hares should be jugged. TO ROAST A HARE WITH CREAM SAUCE.—E. R. Boil the liver, and chop it very fine, mix a small por- tion with the stuffing, and reserve the remainder for the sauce. Put a bunch of sweet herbs into the dripping- pan, and pour a quart of good milk over it. Baste the hare continually with the milk, and when it is rather more than half roasted, take the sauce out of the drip- ping-pan, and put another quart of new' milk to the herbs. Take the hare, and slit the neck in order that the gravy may run from it into the mdk that has been added ; then skewer the head dow'ii again; baste con- tinually as before, until within tw'enty minutes of its being served; then remove the milk, and baste with butter, dredging it gently with flour twice during that time ; add the two quantities of milk together, stir in a lump of butter and flour; put in the chopped liver, warm it over the fire, stirring all the time, being careful not to let it boil, as that w'ould curdle it.—N.B. The hare must be well wiped with a dry cloth previous to spitting, but on no account be washed, as that would spoil it. LEICESTERSHIRE .TUGGED HARE.—E. R. Skin the bare, and cut it in pieces, but do not wash it; strew it over w ith pepper and salt, fry it brown, make a seasoning of two anchovies, a sprig of thyme, a little103 Chap, in.] GAME. parsley, a nutmeg grated, a little mace, a few cloves pounded, and a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel. Strew this over the hare, after having carefully taken it out of the pan clear of fat: slice half a pound of fat bacon very thin, put it into a jug or jar, a layer of hare and one of bacon upon it, until the whole is put in, then add rather less than half a pint of ale; cover the jug very closely, so as perfectly to keep in the steam ; put it into a kettle of cold water, lay a tile on the top of the jar, and let it boil three hours, if the hare be young, or four or five if an old one. Take the jug out of the kettle, pick out all the bacon which has not melted, and shake the hare up in a stewpan, with a little mushroom- ketchup, a glass of port-wine, a little mushroom-powder, if at hand, and a little butter and flour, well mixed to- gether to thicken the gravy. A tea-spoonful of lemon- pickle, and one of browning, wull heighten the flavour. RABBITS.—E. R. Rabbits, being rather dry meat, are much improved by larding. Should the process be deemed too trouble- some upon common occasions, a good eflect may be pro- duced by lining the inside of the rabbit with slices of fat bacon previously to putting in the stuffing, which should be the same as for hare. This is a very easy method of improvement, and ought never to be neglected. N.B. A boned rabbit, larded, stuffed, and braised, affords a cheap and elegant side-dish for a dinner party. BOILED RABBIT.—E. R. I Boil slowly, and send to table covered with onion- I sauce. Rabbits are very nice fried : they must be cut I up, and dressed with chopped herbs, bread-crumbs, &c. TO MAKE A RABBIT TASTE MUCH LIKE HARE. Choose one that is young, but full-grown, hang it I in the skin three or four days; then skin it; and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port-wine, andDOMESTIC COOKERY. 104 [Chap. IV. the same quantity of vinegar. Baste ic occasionally for forty hours; then stuff it, and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. TO POT RABBITS. Cut up two or three young but full-grown ones, and take the leg hones off at the thigh ; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, cayenne, salt, allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the liver and the carcasses, but take off the meat above the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan ; then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat well. CHAPTER IV. MADE DISHES OF VEAL AND PORK.—E. R. BRAISING. Many persons have been deterred from attempting this excellent method of cooking numerous articles on ac- count of the expensive way usually prescribed. Should there be nothing else at hand, the meat or fowl to be braised may be put into a stewpan, with about an ounce of fresh butter, or a larger quiuitity, according to the size, and a tea-cupful of water. Stir these together for a short time, and shake the pan occasionally until the juices of the meat or jioultry afford sullicient gravy; put in an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs, with a little })epj)er or other seasoning, and a small quantity of ' salt. The meat or fowl must be turned several times iMADE DISHES. 105 Chap, iv.] during the period of cooking, as the English apparatus does not often admit of fire being placed on the top of the stewpan. At a dinner in which two of the dishes consist of rolled veal and pork-chops, the fat pared from six nicely-cut thin pork-chops will be sufiicient to braise the veal. When fowls are boned, the bones should be added to the liraise. When brought to table, the gravy of braised meat should be cooled by placing the vessel containing it in cold water, the fat removed, the gravy then strained, thickened, heated, and sent up with forcemeat-balls, egg-balls, fried paste, or all three, mushrooms, or any other vegetables, cut into orna- mental shapes; or the gravy may be boiled down to a glaze, and laid over the meat: sent to table on a puree of vegetables. H.ASHED CALF’S HEAD.—E. R. Parboil half a calf’s head, then bone it, and cut the meat into slices; boil the bones with some beef, and convert it info a fine gravy with any kind of sauce, such as Harvey, Reading, &c., the juice of two lemons, and a seasoning composed of pepper, salt, and pounded mace; strain the gravy before adding the lemons and sauce, and simmer the calPs-head in it for two hours over a slow fire, flouring the meat lightly to thicken the gravy. Serve up with a garnish of brain-fritters. Clean and slice the brains, boil them with a little salt, then chop them with bread-crumbs from half the slice of a loaf, season, mix them up with the yolks of eggs, and frj- them. Another way.—Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly oil' the bone with a sharp knife ; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set the dish be- fore the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the head may be equally brown. In the mean106 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. iv. time slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue; put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs, (consist- ing of parsley, basil, savory, tarragon, knotted mar- joram, and a little thyme,) a little salt and cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry,' and a little oyster liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonsful of ketchup ; then beat up half the brains, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon- peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow- brown. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same; and also some relishing forcemeat-balls made as for mock-turtle. Garnish with these and small bits of bacon just made hot before the fire. HASHED CALF’S-HEAD IN ST. .TAMES’S PL.<ICE.—E. R. Boil the head in water till it is so tender that the liair will come easily off. Take it out and blanch it in cold water; cut all the neck from the bone in small slices. Brown a little butter, and dust some flour into it, add a small quantity of soup, then put the head into it, and stew it over a slow fire, adding a little ketchup, and a glass or two of white wine, and after it has been taken oft’ the fire, the squeeze of a lemon. Prepare the brains by blanching, then put them into a small saucepan, with a glass of wine, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and some grated bread ; beat them up with the yolk of an egg, fry them in beef or mutton-dripping, and divide them into small bits to garnish tlie head. CAI.FS HEAD FRICASSEED. Clean and half boil a head; cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch101 Chap, iv.] MADE DISHES. of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockerels in the house, use the combs; but first boil them tender and blanch them; or a sweet-bread ■will do as well, cut in pretty large dice. Season the gravy •with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give all a boil together; then take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but do not boil it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. BAKED CALF’S HEAD.—E. R. Mix pepper, salt, bread-crumbs, and chopped sage together; rub the head over with butter and put the seasoning upon it; cut the brains in four pieces, and rub them also in the crumbs, and lay the head in a deep dish with the brains; put a piece of butter into each eye, with plenty of the crumbs also, fill the dish nearly full of water, and let it bake two hours in a quick oven. CALF'S HEAD RAGOUT.—E. R. Parboil the head, and cut olf the meat into thin broad pieces, return the bones to the water in which it was boiled, ■with a beef bone or a piece of gravy beef, and ham or bacon bones; add herbs, and, making two quarts of good gravy, strain it, and put in the meat. When it has stewed three-quarters of an hour, add an anchovy, a little beaten mace, cayenne pepper, two spoonsful of lemon-pickle, half an ounce of truffles and morels, a slice or two of lemon, and a glass of wine: thicken the gravy with butter and flour, adding force- meat-balls fried, paste fried, and brain-cakes as a gar- nish. ROLLED CALF’S HEAD.—E. R. Observe that all calves’-heads should have the skins on, or otherwise they are scarcely worth the pains be- stowed in the dressing. Boil the head gently until the bones will leave the meat easily; take one-lialf off whole; then have some fine forcemeat made with ham.108 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. iv. egg-balls, and small pieces of very nice pickled pork previously boiled; lay them evenly over the inside, and roll up the head; put it into a stewpan to braise; cut the other portion of the head into small pieces; thicken and flavour the stock in which it was boiled, and warm it up in it, adding forcemeat and egg-balls, brain- cakes, and fried paste. Place the rolled head in the centre of the dish, with the hash round, and the brain- cakes, fried paste, and slices of lemon, as garnish. Truffles may be added with advantage to any dish com- posed of calfs-head. TO COLLAR CALF’S-HEAD. Scald the skin of a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped pars- ley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed well: season it high with these; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, nr a beautifully-coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it till the tape slackens, and then lay a weight upon it (without removing the bandage) till quite cold. Keep it in a pickle of the liquor, vinegar, and salt. A cloth must be put under the tape, as fur other collars. CALFS-BRAINS May be dressed as follows, and are a pretty and good dish;—Care must be taken not to cut them in dividing tlie head ; clean particularly nice, and remove all the large fibres and skin; soak them in several warm waters; blanch tliem. then soak them in lemon-juice, i in which a bit of cliervil has been steeped three hours. Dry them well ; dip them in butter and fry them ; and serve with the following:—make hot a ladleful of glaze, some, extremely small onions, browned in butter, arti- choke bottoms divided in lialf, and some mushroom-Chap, iv.1 MADE DISHES. 109 buttons, and serve round the brains ; or, after preparing as above, serve in a rich white acidulated sauce with lemon-juice. ROLLED VEAL.—E.R. The breast is the best for this purpose. Put the ribs into a stewpan with just water enough to cover them, an onion, a stick of celery, and a bundle of sweet herbs ; let it stew very gently, adding more w'ater as it stews, until It IS tender; then take out the bones, and remove the skin; return the bones into the liquor, w hich will be a fine jelly, and serve as the sauce for several dishes. Cover the veal with a fine forcemeat, season it well, add egg-balls, and roll it up, securing it with tape. Put it into a stewpan witli the fat procured from mutton or pork chops, a slice or two of fat bacon, or a lump of butter, and a tea-cupful of the liquor it was stewed in; shake the stewqian about until the fat has melted, and turn the veal in it, that it may be all equally done, add- ing an onion, and another bunch of herbs ; let it braise for an hour and a half or tvvo hours, then strain the gravy, thicken it, add forcemeat-balls, egg-balls, and fried paste, cut in shajies : remove the tape, and send it up. Peeled mushrooms may be given by way of va- riety. When well done, this is an excellent dish; but bad cooks will render it hard and uneatable. TO COLL.VR .A BREAST-OF VEAL Bone, it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham; or roll into it two or three calves’-tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two, and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over a slow fire to simmer in a small quantity of water, till it is quite tender: this will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, w ith a board and weight on it, till quite cold. Pigs’ and calves’ feet b illed, and taken from theno [Chap. iv. DOMESTIC COOKERY. bones, may be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers look well when' cut; and you may put in yolks of eggs boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. When it is cold, take off the tape and pour over it the liquor, which must be boiled up twice a-week, or it will not keep. TO FRICASSEE A BREAST OF VEAL.—E. R. Cut a handsome piece, put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a pint of water, an onion, a stick of celery, and some white pepper and salt; let it draw gently for some time, then cover it with hot water, and allow it to stew until perfectly tender. Remove any skin that may be about it, and thicken a part of the stock with roux, cream, or flour and butter; cover it with the sauce, and serve it up. Mushrooms pickled white may be added to the sauce, or stewed celery. TO RAGOUT A BREAST OP VEAL.—E. R. Cut it into pieces, and half fry them; then put the veal into a stewpan, cover it with water, and add an onion and a bunch of sw^eet herbs. Stew until perfectly tender, strain the gravy, thicken it if necessary with brown roux, and serve it up with force-meat balls and slices of lemon. VEAL STEWED WITH OYSTERS.—E. R. Cut the veal into handsome pieces, put them into a jar with one or tv\'o dozen oysters, and their liquor strained, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; put the jar into a kettle of Avater, and let it stew until tender. If the veal has been cooked, merely warm it up with the oysters in white sauce. FRICANDEAU OF VEAL.—E. R. Cut a handsome piece from the fillet, lard it all over; half roast or fry it, put it into a stewpan with just enough water to cover it; let it stew very gently until thoroughlyIll MADE DISHES. Chap, iv.] done, boil the gravy down to a glaze, cover the veal with it, and serve it upon a bed of sorrel. A fricandeau may also be larded, and half stewed, then roasted; wash, pick, and steam the sorrel, press it, and put it under the veal for half an hour before serving.—Grenadines of veal are cooked in the same way, only made of smaller pieces, four for a dish. FRICANDELS.—E. R. Take three pounds of the best end of a loin of veal, chop fat and lean together very fine; then soak a French roll in some milk, beat three eggs, add pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace; make the mixture up into the size and somewhat the shape of a chicken, rub it over with egg and bread-crumbs, fry till brown, pour off the fat, boil water in the pan, and stew the fricandels in this gravy. Two will make a handsome dish ; thicken the gravy before it is sent to table. MIROTON OF VEAL—E. R. Chop very finely cold dressed veal and ham or bacon, mix it with a slice of bread-crumb, soaked in milk, two onions chopped and browned, a little salt, pepper, and an egg beaten. Put all these ingredients into a stew-pan until they are hot, and are well mixed, then oil or butter a mould, put in the whole, and bake it in an oven until it is brown. Then take it out, and send it to table with fresh gravy. A GELANTINE —E. R. Divide the ribs from the brisket of a breast of veal, and take out the long bones, beat the veal for four minutes with the flat part of a hand-chopper, in order that it may I roll easily. Spread it on a table, and brush it over thickly ' with the yolk of egg, and then sprinkle it with chopped I herbs; and then make two omelettes, one of the yolk, I and one of the white of egg, well seasoned, and cut them in I strips, lay them upon the veal, with layers of pounded[Ch.\P. IV. 112 DOMESTIC COOKERY. ham between ; cut some pickled cucumbers and mush- rooms into small pieces, with some sweet herbs well sea- soned ; strew them over the surface, then roll up the veal very tightly, tie it in a cloth, and let it stew gentlv for six hours. Then put a heavy weight upon it, and let it stand two days before it is cut; serve it in slices with savoury jelly ; any kind of boned game or fowl may be added. VEAL CUTLETS.—E. R. Some iiersons have deprecated the practice of beating meat, but it is essentially necessary in veal cutlets, which otherwise, especially if merely fried, are very in- digestible. They should be cut about three-quarters of an inch in thickness, and beaten until every fibre is separated j they will then, when fried, taste like sw^eet- bread, be (juite as tender, and nearly as rich. Manv cooks after frying the cutlets stew them in water boiled in the pan. CUTLETS A LA ITALIENNE.-E. R. Chop a quantity of sw-eet herbs, parsley being the pre- dominant ; melt a little butter on the fire and then warm the herbs in it; cut the cutlets into handsome shapes, brush them with the yolk of egg, then lay on the butter and herbs with a knife, and cover them w-ell with bread- crumbs; this process should be repeated ; fry them of a fine brown, if glazed ; they must be put between papers to press all the grease out, then brush them over witli the glaze, and send them to table. em’LETS WITH WHITE SAUCE—E. R. Cut thin slices of undressed veal, hack them w th the back of a knife each way, dip them in eggs and bread- crumbs, with a little chopped parsley ; frv them in butter, lay them on a sieve as they are done, and serve them with white sauce as for fricassee.113 MADE DISHES. Chap iv.] VEAL CUTLETS STEWED WITH CELERY.—E R. Cut the cutlets from the best part of the neck, taking care in removing the meat from the bones to cut it in a good shape ; make gravy of the bones, stewing them with three or four heads of celery cut and scalded, a little salt, pepper, and stewed onion; strain the gravy, returning t!ie celery into it; thicken it with butter and flour, and pour it boiling hot upon the cutlets. Stew them till they are tender, and garnish with lemon and small forcemeat- balls, fried. SCOTCH COLLOPS.—E R. Cut the collops thin, beat them a little, fry them in butter for about two minutes, after having seasoned them with a little beaten mace ; place them in a deep dish as they are fried, and cover them with gravy. Put some butter into the frying-pan, and allow it just to change col- our. Then strain the collops through a colander from the gravy, and fry them quickly; pour the burnt butter from the pan, and put in the gravy, adding a little lemon-juice. The gravy may be made of the trimmings of the veal; serve it up with forcemeat-balls. •SCOTCH COLLOPS WHITE.—E. R. Cut the collops the size of a crow n piece, and not much thicker ; butter the bottom of a stewpan and lay the meat piece by piece upon it, having shaken a little flour upon the butter ; add two blades of mace, and a little nutmeg. ' Set the stewpan on the fire, and toss it together until the meat is very white ; then add half a pint of strong veal I broth and a quarter of a pint of cream ; toss tlie whole, and when simmered enough, let them just boil; add a little lemon-juice, some forcemeat-balls, and either oysters or mushrooms, which must both be very white; if neces- I sary, thicken the sauce with the yolk of eggs, but do not ‘ let it boil afterwards. I114 [Chap. iv. DOMESTIC COOKERY. STEWED C.YLVES’-FEET.—E. R. When properly cleaned, rub the feet over with pepper, a very little salt, a little ground ginger, and mace; cut the feet into moderately sized pieces, and put them into a stewpan witli a little shalot, and a beef-steak, also cut into pieces. Cover all with cold water, and let them sim- mer together for three hours. When quite tender, take them off the fire j strain the gravy through a sieve. The next dav when cold take off all the fat, boil a small quantity of saffron in cream, and a little cayenne pepper; mix it with the gravy, and warm the whole without boil- ing; one foot and a pound of steak will make a dish. A FRICASSEE OF CALVES'FEET.—E. R. Boil the feet in water until the bones ■will come out, taking care to have an onion and a bunch of sweet herbs in the water; take the bones out, and when the meat is cold, stuff it nicely with a very fine farce, or forcemeat. Make the pieces up into handsome shapes of an equal size. Then take some of the stock in which the feet were boiled, removing the fat and straining the jelly when melted; make this into thick white sauce with cream or roux ; warm up the calves’-feet in it, and send it to the table either plain or with a quantity of asparagus tops, previously boiled, and cut into small pieces. CALVES'-FEET AU FRITUR.—E. R. Take calves’-feet which have been boiled until very tender, remove the bones, cut them into well-shaped pieces, season them with white pepper and salt, dip them into batter, fry them, and serve them up with a sharp sauce or garnish of pickles. CALVES’-Lm?R.—E. R. Cut the liver in handsome pieces, lard them very nicely, and chop some parsley and spread it over theMADE DISHES. Chap, ii.] 115 surface with a little pepper and salt; put a small piece of butter well mixed with flour in the bottom of a stewpan, put in the liver, and allow it to stew gently in its own juices until it is enough. This is a nicer pre|)aration than the common fried liver and bacon. FRIED LIVER AND BACON.—E. R. Cut the liver rather thin, but not too thin, so as to harden in the frying; chop a quantity of parsley, season it with pepper, and lay it thick upon the liver; cut slices of bacon and fry both together ; add a little lemon pickle to the gravy made by pouring the fat out of the pan, flouring, and adding boiling Avater. CALVES-’BR.\INS.—E. R. Blanch the brains, and beat them up with an egg, pepper, and salt; a small quantity of chopped parsley, and a piece of butter. Put them into a small frying-pan, and fry them, stirring all the time. RICE CUTLETS.—E. R. Boil a cupful of rice in milk until quite soft, then pound it in a mortar with a little salt and some white pepper ; pound also separately equal parts of cold veal or chicken ; mix them together with yolk of egg, form them into cut- lets, brush them over with yolk of egg, and fry them; send them up with a very piquant sauce, made of good stock, thickened, and flavoured with lemon-juice, lemon- pickle, or Harvey’s sauce. The cutlets may be sent to table covered with the small pickled mushrooms. D’ALMOY S—A TURKISH DISH—E. R. Take equal quantities of cold dressed veal, minced very fine, fat, and cnimlis of bread, and season it well; add chopped onions, parsley, salt, and cayenne pepper. Wet it with one or two eggs, according to the quantity, adding, if necessary, a little cold melted butter; make the mixture into balls or egg shapes, and roll them in as much boiled i 2[Chap. jv. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 116 rice as they M'ill take round them. Stew them for an hour and a half in good gravy, well seasoned, and serve them up in it. SWEETBREADS.—E. R. Sweetbreads should be soaked in warm water, and then blanched by being thrown into boiling water, boiled for a few minutes, and then put into cold water. They may then be larded and roasted, or fried, and afterw'ards stewed in fine white or brown sauce. Sw'eetbreads may also be larded and braised, and being of themselves rather insipid, they will be improved by a relishing sauce, and by a large quantity of herbs in the braise. Slices of lemon put upon the sweetbreads while braising will heighten the riavour, and keep them white; which is very desirable when sent to table with w'hite sauce. SWEETBREADS STEW'ED WITH OYSTERS.—E. R. Quarter the sweetbreads; after they have been soaked and blanched, put them into a stewpan with a little veal gravy, and the liquor strained of two dozen oysters, add- ing a seasoning of W'hite pepper, salt, nutmeg, and mace. Tlien put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, stir it, and thicken it with flour, and when the sw'eetbreads are sufficiently stewed, add them with the gravy ; after a few minutes put in the oysters, let them stew' until the oysters are heated through, and plumped ; and just before serving add a w'ine-glassful of cream. This will also make a gaod vol a vent. SWEETBREADS ROASTED. Parboil two large ones; when cold, lard them with bacon and roast them in a Dutch oven. For sauce, plain butter and mushroom-ketchup. SWEETBREADS A LA DAHBE. Blanch two or three of the largest sweetbreads; lard them with small pieces of bacon; put them into a stew-MADE DISHES. 117 Chap, iv.] pan with some good veal gravy, a little browning, and the juice of half a lemon; stew them till quite tender, and just before serving thicken with flour and butter; serve with their gravy, with bunches of boiled celery round. SWEETBREADS STEWED. After blanching, stuff them with a forcemeat of fowl, fat and lean bacon, an anchovy, nutmeg, lemon-peel, parsley, and a very little cayenne and thyme; when well mixed, add the yolks of two eggs, and fill the sweet- breads. Fasten them together with splinter skewers, and lay them in a pan, w ith slices of veal over, and bacon under them : season with pepper and salt, mace, cloves, herbs, and sliced onion. Cover close over the fire ten minutes; then add a quart of broth, and stew gently two hours. Take out the sweetbreads, strain and skim the broth, and boil it to half a pint; warm the sweet- breads in it, and serve with lemon round. ISW'EETBREADS FRICASSEED WHITE. Blanch and slice them ; thicken some veal gravy w ith flour and butter mixed, a little cream, a little mushroom powder, and add white pepper, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel; stew these ingredients together a little, then simmer the sweetbreads twenty minutes. When taken off the fire, add a little salt and lemon-peel; stir well, and serve. I SWEETBREADS FRICASSEED BROWN. I Cut them about the size of a walnut, flour, and fry I them of a fine brown : pour to them a good beef gravy, li seasoned with salt, pepper, cayenne, and allspice; sim- !' mer till tender. Thicken with flour and butter. Mo- i rels, truffles, and mushrooms may be added, and I mushroom-ketchup.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Ch.'.p. IV. 118 PIGS’ FEET A LA ST. MANCHAUD.—E. R. Clean the feet perfectly, cut tliem down in two, then bind them with a tape to prevent their shrinking or opening, and boil them gently until they are rather soft; take oif the tape, dip them in yolks of eggs and butter about three parts melted ; then cover them with crumbs of bread and finely minced parsley, with the smallest quantity of shalot. Broil them until highly browned. PETTITOES. Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quan- tity of water very gently ; then cut the meat fine, and simmer it with a little of the w’ater and the feet split, till the feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and pepper; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. TO FORCE HOGS’ EARS. Parboil tAvo pair of ears, or take some that have been soused : make a forcemeat of an anchovy, a little finely- minced veal, some sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, ]>epper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of two eggs; raise the skin of the- upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour, then pour away the fat, and drain them; make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, tliree tea-spoonsful of made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pc])per or cayenne- Put these, with the ears, into a stewpan, and cover it close ; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking the ])an often. When done enough, take out tlie onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over tliem'. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be token from the bones and added to the above.Chap, iv.] 119 MADE DISHES. PIGS’ FEET AND EARS SOUSED. Clean carefully, soak them some hours, then boil them tender; and having prepared a pickle of some of the liquor that they were boiled in, and a quarter part of vinegar and salt, boiled, pour over them cold. When to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, slice the ears, and fry them. Serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar, in a boat. They may be dipped in batter, or only floured. PIGS’ FEET AND EARS FRICASSEED. Take feet and ears that have been boiled, but not kept in pickle wherein was vinegar; boil them tender in milk, cut the feet into neat bits, and the ears into strips of half an inch wide: wipe them, and simmer in veal brot^, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, and butter; boil up, and then salt. JELLY OF PIGS’ FEET AND EARS. Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same of parsle}’’, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace in fine powder; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form. PIGS’ HARSLET. Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean bits of pork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make it tender; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred fine ; when mixed, put all into a caul, and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Roast it on a hanging jack, or by a string. Or serve in slices, with parsley for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port wine and water, and mustard, just boiled up, and put into a dish.120 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. V. CHAPTER V. MADE DISHES OF BEEF RUMP OF BEEF A-LA-MODE.—E. R. The name of this dish is rather against it, suggesting ideas connected with London eating-houses ; but it would be very erroneous to suppose that the old family receipts now given bear any resemblance to the degenerate successors of those cooks who formerly established a repu- tation for this savoury compound. Cut out the bone from the beef, and convert it, with the trimmings, into gravy ; then stuff the orifice with rich forcemeat, made w'ith veal and oysters, and the crumb of a roll steeped in milk. Half roast it, and before it is put into the stew- pan lard the top with dried and pickled mushrooms, adding mushroom-powder in the orifices; then put in two quarts of gravy from the bones, a large onion stuck with cloves, and two carrots cut in slices. When the beef has stewed till it is quite tender, strain and thicken the sauce, add to it a glass of wine, mushrooms and oysters, and sippets of fried paste : either the mushrooms or oysters may be omitted, if the pure flavour of either should be more desirable ; warm a few pickles with the garnish, and send it up very hot. a-la-mode beef.—e. r. Take a part of the rump of beef, or two of the ribs, boned and rolled, stick it with some whole allspice, whole pepper and cloves, and cover it well with vinegar. Let it remain in pickle for ten days, and then put the whole into a stewpan with two or three bay-leaves; stew the beef for several hours until it is tender; then strain the gravy, and add that of two calves’ feet, or oxtail boiled down to a jelly, and nicely seasoned. This IMADE DISHES. 121 Chap, v.] receipt will only suit persons who are fond of acid flavour; it is best eaten cold.. A LA-MODE BEEF,—THE BATH RECEIIT.—E. R. Take three pounds of the rump, or any part of the beef which will stew well; trim it nicely, and cut oft' all the fat. Chop all sorts of sweet herbs together very finely, with a little shalot, and a great deal of spice, and put them into a saucer of vinegar, that has been rubbed with garlic. Cut fat bacon into long slips, dip it into the herbs and vinegar, and let the herbs be very thick upon the bacon ; and lard the beef regularly on both sides, if necessary, in order that it should be thoroughly flavoured. Rub the beef over with the remainder of the herbs and spice. Flour the meat, add a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, and a pint of w'ater. Bake the beef in an oven, strain the gravy, which will scarcely require either thickening or browning, and serve it up with pickles on the top. It is most excellent when cold, but should be served up hot at first. The gravy may be boiled to a glaze if necessary. It will require a good deal of spice, a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of white pepper, a salt-spoonful of allspice, half the quantity of pounded cloves, and a blade of mace pounded, or the mixed spices may be used. BEEF TREMBLANT.—E. R Cut a handsome piece of beef from the rump, either a fillet or square; hang it up for four days, then put it all night to soak in a pickle of salt and vinegar; put it into a stewqian, and let it be covered with water; add seasoning of whole pepper and salt, a bundle of sweet herbs, and an onion. Let it simmer very slowly as long as it will hang together, taking care to skim it well. Strain the gravy, and add to it carrots previously lioiled, and cut into pieces an inch long: add also a glass of ■wine, and the juice of a lemon. In Germany, instead122 [Cha ”. V. DOMESTIC COOKERY. of carrots, they send up raisins boiled in the graw, which come up quite plump in the dish. STEWED RUMP OF BEEF,—E. R. Half roast the beef, then put it into a pot Muth three pints of water, a pound of sliced bacon, a bunch of sweet herbs, two wine-glasses of vinegar, ‘and a bottle of cyder or small wine; stick three cloves into onions, add a few sage leaves, and cover the beef closely, add- ing more water should there not be sufficient gravy from the meat. Boil or let it simmer for three hours; then strain the gravy. Boil or bake some onions, and lay them round the beef; cover it also with forcemeat balls, fried ornaments of paste, and mushrooms, if in season. Strain the gravy, add a glass of port wine, and any sauce, boil down a part to a glaze, and put it on the beef. Thicken the remainder if necessary, and pour it round, garnishing the dish with pickles. N. B.— The flank of beef may be rolled and stewed in the same manner. STEWED BRISKET OF BEEF.—E. R. Take about eight pounds of the brisket, and stew it in sufficient water to cover the meat; when quite ten- der, take out the bones, and skim oft’ the fat; add to the gravy, when strained, a glass of wine and a little spice tied up in a muslin bag. Have ready either mushrooms, truffles, or vegetables boiled, and cut into shapes. Lay them on and round the beef; reduce part of the gravy to a glaze, lay it on the top, and pour tlie remainder into the dish. BROILED BEEF-STE.VK.—E. R. Cut the steaks from a rump of beef about half an inch thick; let the gridiron be hot, well rubbed with beef suet, and the fire clear. Lay on the steaks, let them liroil till they begin to brown, then turn them, and, when browned on tlie other side, lay them on a hot dish for a few minutes with a piece of butter between each;Chap, v.] MADE DISHES. 123 dredge them with pepper, and then put them on the fire again, turning them until they are quite done; slice a shalot as thin as possible into a spoonful of hot water, lay it on the dish, place the steaks over, and send them to table. By this method the gravy is pre- served ; but many cooks do not take the steaks from the fire untiL quite done, dust them with pepper, and turn them continually over a brisk fire, laying the fat upon the steak. Serve them up with grated horse- radish mixed in a small quantity of melted butter. Should the beef-steak not have hung long enough to be tender, beat it with a rolling-pin; put no salt on, or it will harden the steak. The grand secret is a quick clear fire, frequent turning, and quick cooking, for if the meat be long upon the fire it will be hard. BEEF STEAK A-LA-FRANCAISE.—E. B. Take a rump-steak, pour over it two large spoonsful of the best Lucca oil, and let it remain all niglit. Press the oil from it in tlie morning, and lay it before the fire for a quarter of an hour before it is wanted. Then put it into a frying-pan with a sufficient quantity of water to prevent its burning; fry it until the gravy recedes, and it becomes rather brown ; rub a piece of butter in finely-chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; take the steak out, put the butter over it, and fry it until finished. Pour the contents of the pan over the steak for gravy. ROLLED BEEF-STEAKS.—E. R. Take rump-steaks and beat them with a cleaver until they are quite tender. Tlieu cover them with a fine forcemeat, or farce made of pounded veal and ham, sweet herbs, bacon rasped and pounded, mixed in a pan with the yolks of four eggs and a pint of cream, and stirred together for a few minutes over the (ire. Roll up the steaks, tie them tight, and fry them until brown. Then put them into a stewpan with a pint of gravy, a glass of port wine, one of Reading sauce, and a few pickled mushrooms; serve very hot. N. B.—This124 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. v. dish may be simplified by a more common forcemeat, while the gravy in which the beef is stewed may he made by pouring boiling water into the frying-pan after the fat has been removed. STEWED BEEF-STEAK.—E. R. Put the steak into a stewpan with a lump of butter, over a slow fire, and turn it until the butter has be- come a fine white gravy, then pour it into a basin, and put more butter to the steak. When the steak is nicely done, take it out, return all the gravy into the stewpan, and fry the steak ; then add it to the gravy in the stew- pan, with a table-spoonful of wine, and a shalot finely sliced ; stew it for ten minutes, and serve it up. A more simple way is to fry the steak merely at first, then put it into half a pint of water, an onion sliced, a spoon- ful of walnut-ketchup, pepper and salt, cover it close, thicken it with flour and butter, and serve it up very hot. BEEF-STEAK STEWED WITH OYSTERS.—E. R. Cut the steak leather thick, brown it in a stewpan with butter, and a little water. Add half a pint of water, an onion sliced, pepper and salt, cover the pan close, and let it stew very slowly for an hour; then add a glass of port wine, a little flour, and a dozen or two of oysters, their liquor having been previously strained and put into the stewpan. Beef-steak, with cucumbers instead of oysters, may be dressed the same way; the cucumbers to be stewed separately in a little gravy or broth, and added to the beef five minutes before serving ; fr}’ the cucumbers and stew them in the water poured into the pan after the fat is poured off; if stewed with the steak they will make it hard. BEEFSTEAK A-LA-MAGICIENNE.—E. R. The culinary utensil here employed is a conjurer, a simple apparatus made of iron or tin, with a lid that shuts down so closely that the rarefied air cannot escape.125 MADE DISHES. Chap, v.] Put in the steak, with a bit of butter and a spoonful of ketchup or other sauce; put it over a lamp, or keep up a fire for a few minutes with paper, dry sticks, an3^hing, in short, and it will be cooked very quickly. If oyster- sauce be wanted, the oysters may be put in with the steak, wliich will be very tender. The conjurer will be found very useful to sportsmen of all kinds, whether going out with rod or gun; it will cook fish or game in great perfection, and may be heated with any fuel at hand. Anglers in want of material for the conjurer are recommended to smear their bait with asafcetida, which will exercise a fascinating influence over the fish, and induce them to seek it from a distance. N.B. A boiled shrimp is a good bait for perch. BEEF STEAK WITH VEGETABLES.—E R. Cut the steak about three inches thick; dredge it with flour, and fry it in butter, of a fine brown. Lay it in a stewpan, and pour water into the frying-pan; let it boil, and add it to the steak, which is rendered richer by this process; slice in turnips, carrots, celery, and onions, adding pepper, salt, and a little mace. It should be highly seasoned, and sent to table with the surface ornamented with carrots and turnips cut into shapes, and the vegetables round it. BEEF RAGOUT.—E. R. Fry two pounds of the leg-of-mutton piece until quite brown. Put it into a stewpan with six large onions, and pepper it well from a spicebox of mixed spice; boil water in a frying-pan, add it to the meat, and let it stew for four hours; serve it up with pickled walnuts, gherkins, and capers, just warmed in the gravy. A FRICANDEAU OF BEEF. Take a nice piece of lean beef; lard it w ith bacon sea- soned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stewpan with a pint of broth, a glass (,f white[Chap. v. 126 DOMESTIC COOKERY. wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close ; skim the sauce well, and strain it; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel sauce. BEEF A-LA HUSARD,—A POLISH DISH.—E. R. Take a few pounds of the best beef, without bones, and after having beaten it for some time with a rolling- pin, make in it deep incisions, but w'ithout cutting the meat asunder. Mince some onions, mi.Y them with bread-crumbs, butter, pepper, and salt; fill the incisions with this forcemeat, and skewer up the meat. Put it with some butter into a stew'pan, and stew it upon a moderate fire. It must be served with brown sauce, made with butter and flour, and the gravy wliich is drawn from the meat. ZRAZY.—E. R. Take a couple of pounds of rump steaks, cut them into square thick slices, beat them for some time w'ith the back of a large knife very carefully, not to cut them. Take two large onions, cut them very small, and mix them with grated bread, salt, and pepper. Spread this mix- ture on the meat, roll them up, and fasten them with a wooden skewer; put a spoonful of butter into a saucepan with the meat, and no w^ater; cover the vessel, and let it stew over a moderate fire. When the meat is browned, and the gravy is drawn, take out three spoons- ful, mix it W'ith one of flour very carefully, mix the whole together and boil it, adding a little hot water to it, should it be too thick; brown a little pounded sugar at the fire, and put it to colour it, boiling all together for a short time. MY GRANDMOTHER'S BEEF.—E. R. Salt six pounds of the half-leg, or stiff marrow-bone of beef, for three or four days. Make holes in it aboutMADE DISHES. Chap, v.] 12'! an inch and a half deep, and press in, very hard, force- meat made in the following manner : a pound and a half of suet sliced very fine, tw'o ounces of cloves, pepper, salt, winter savory, and sw^eet marjoram, mixed well together. The beef must be baked in a deep pan, with water reaching about three-quarters of the way up, and some forcemeat spread over the top, which, when the meat is baked, is taken off, cut into shapes, and laid round the dish. BUBBLE-AND-SQUEAK..—E. R. Cut slices from a cold round of beef; let them be fried quickly until brown, and put them into a dish to keep hot. Clean the pan from the fat; put into it greens and carrots previously boiled and chopped small ; add a little butter, pepper, and salt; make them very hot, and put them round the beef w'ith a little gravy. Cold pork boiled is a better material for bubble-and- squeak than beef, which is always hard; in either case the slices should be very thin and lightly fried. RIBS OF BEEF IN BOUILLI.—E. R. Take the middle of the flat ribs of beef, stew it until the meat is tender, and the bones will come out, em- ploying as small a quantity of water as will cover the meat, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Let it stand until it is cold, remove the fat, add to the gravy, carrots, turnips, and celery, cut in dice, and a dozen or two of small silver onions; w^arm up the beef in it, and send it to table. BOUILLI BEEF.—E. R. Take a handsome boiling piece, draw it with a small quantity of water until the gravy is out ; put it into the stewpan with a verj’ large bunch of parsley, pepper, salt, and an onion. When the meat is done through, add boiling w'ater, and let it stew until perfectly tender; chop the parsley and lay it on the top of the meat.128 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap v. thicken the gravy with vegetables, and send it up. A brisket of beef, of ten pounds weight, when properly drawn in this manner, may be stewed with two gallons of water, added after the meat has yielded its gravy by slow sim- mering. The tops of the long ribs make good bouilli, simmered in a small quantity of water, and served on a bed of red cabbage, stewed separately, and flavoured with a glass of vinegar. BRISKET OF BEEF IN BOUILLI.—E. R. Take about nine pounds of the beef, tie it tightly with a tape, and put it into a stewpan, with just sufficient water to cover it: add onions, celery, a little parsley, and spice: allow it to boil gently, and, when about half done, add a large anchovy. Cut a small quantity of carrots, greens, and capers very fine; mix them with a part of the soup; let them stew till tender, and then serve them with the beef, laying part on the top and the rest round. BEEF OLIVES.—E. R. Cut some handsome steaks, flatten them well with a roller, dredge them well with a small quantity of white pepper and salt, have some forcemeat made with the fat and lean of veal mixed together, a small bit of lean ham or bacon, parsley, a few bread-crumbs, all beaten in a mortar, and mixed with an egg; lay a little over each steak, and roll them up tightly, fastening with a skewer ; dip them in the yolk of egg, then in crumbs of bread, and fry them of a pale brown; dish them with brown sauce. BEEF OLIVE FRICANDEAU.—E. R. Take either slices of cold beef, or of beef-steak cut rather thin; cover tliem with slices of fat bacon and chopped herbs, well seasoned, and moistened in vinegar, roll them up, skewer or tie tliem, fry them a little, and then stew them in gravy.129 Chav, v.] made dishes. BEEF A-L.\-VINAIGRETTE. Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, and a little fat; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white (not sweet) wdne, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf; season it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and mix it witjr a little vinegar for sauce. ox CHEEK.—E. R. Soak half a head for three hours, and wash it very thoroughly; then put it into a stew-pan, or into an earthen pan to bake, with two quarts of water, and let it simmer for eight hours with an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, a bundle of sweet herbs, and some whole pepper. When ready, take out the head, remove the meat from the bones, and cut it neatly, strain the gravy, remove all the fat, make some nice force- meat balls, and w-arm them with the meat and a part of the gravy, to which a glass of wine must be added. BEEF COLLAR.—E. R. Take the best part of a shin of beef, of w'hich soup has been made, for it must be stewed until very tender, and an ox-tail, also well stewed: cut them into small pieces, season them well, add a glass of wine and a glass of ketchup, and put it into a stew-pan covered with a part of the liquor in which the ox-tail has been boiled; stew it for about twenty minutes, and then put it into a mould. It must be very cold before it is turned out. This is a good way of employing the beef and heel when soup or jelly is made; a few chopped sweet herbs may be added, and hard eggs cut into slices, or pickles, such as sliced cucumbers, intermingled. The flavour may be varied in many ways. K130 [Chap. v. DOMESTIC COOKpRY. FRICASSEE OF COLD ROAST BEEF. Cut very thin slices of underdone beef, shred a hand- ful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of ^butter and some strong broth ; season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour ; then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar; stir it quick over the fire a mi- nute or two, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. HARICO OF BEEF TAILS.—E. R. Cut the tails in pieces, lay them in a stewpan, with butter and a large onion; set it over a smart fire to make them brown, peel and boil a couple of dozen of young button onions in about three pints of water, for fifteen or twenty minutes, set them by, and pour the liquor they were boiled in upon the tails, adding suf- ficient boiling water to cover them ; put in six ounces of carrots, and eight of turnips, cut into slices or balls, the size of nutmegs ; put in the carrots twenty minutes be- fore the turnips. Be careful that they are not stewed too fast or too much. When they are tender, pass the gravy through a sieve; skim off the fat. Keep the meat and vegetables hot. Thicken the gravy by putting an ounce of butter into a stewpan; when melted, stir in as much flour as will stiffen it. Pour the gravy in by degrees, stirring it till it boils, strain it through a sieve into a stewpan, and let it simmer gently till the meat and vegetables are dished. Lay the tails round the dish, and the vegetables in the middle, pour the gravy over; minced gherkins or capers may be added. Pour boiling water over the onions to warm them, and put them round the dish the last thing. Rump steaks, veal cutlets, or mutton chops, may be dressed the same way.MADE DISHES. Chap, v.] 131 BEEF PALATES. Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose, and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, season them with cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, give it a boil with some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew' them in fricassee-sauce; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom-powder, and a little pounded mace. TO PICKLE BEEF PALATES. Clean four fine palates, simmer them in a quart of water, skim them well, then put as much mace, cloves, pepper, and sweet herbs, as shall make them high, in which boil them until perfectly tender, which will be about five hours; take the skin oflf, cut them into small pieces, and let them cool, being covered. Make a ])ickle sufficient to cover them with equal parts of white wine and vinegar, the spices before used, and some salt: when cold, strain, and ])our the liquor on the palates, with a little fresh spice, and four or five bay- leaves ; cover very close, and keep /or use. They eat deliciously. PALATES SPITTED ON SKEWEKS.—E. R. Boil the palates until they will peel, then skin them; cut each into four or five pieces, put them into a stewpan with chopped mushrooms, two shalots, parsley, pepper, and salt, a piece of butter rolled in flour, two spoonsful of gravy, and a glass of wine; let them simmer until the sauce is reduced, then take out the palates, dip them in yolk of egg and bread-crumbs, skewer them on a silver skewer, and broil them over the fire; add an egg with a little gravy and butter to the sauce, and the juice of half a lemon.132 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Cmp. V. BEEF PALATES A-LA-MARIETTE—E. R. Boil three palates in water for an hour, peel them and cut them in two, lengthways; put a slice of pickled pork between each, tie them together, put them into a stewpan with broth or milk and water, and a piece of butter rolled in flour, salt, whole pepper, a fagot of sweet herbs, and a clove; stew them for some time, then skim and strain the sauce, thicken it, and serv'e it up very white. BEEF PALATES BOILED—E. R. Boil the palates in water, peel them and soak them for some time in sauce made thus: put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, two shalots, a clove, parsley, thyme, and a fennel-leaf, with as much milk as will be necessary to simmer the palates for about three-quarters of an hour; take them out, dip them in yolk of egg and bread-crumbs, and broil them slowly. Serve them with sharp sauce. PALATES AU FRITUR.—E. R. Boil and peel the palates, split them in tw'o, spread upon them some good forcemeat made of pounded meat, and roll them up like an olive; then dip them in batter made of the yolks of eggs, flour, a spoonful of oil, and a glass of white wine, which must be added a very little at a time; the batter should be a little thicker than very thick cream : fry them of a good colour. Or cut the palates the size of a crowm-piece, after they have been dressed soak them for an hour in lemon-juice or vinegar pickle; dip them in the batter, and fry them. BEEF KIDNEY.—E. R. Cut the kidney into slices, season and brown it in the fr\ ingpan ; then put it into water boiled in the pan, which must be floured, and let it stew' gently for some time. It w'ill be very rich and tender.133 MADE DISHES. Chap, v.] BEEF KIDNEY, WITH WINE.—E. R. Mince a beef kidney, and chop some parsley and a little shalot, mix it with the meat, seasoning with pepper and salt, dredge a little dour over it, and put it into a stewpun with some butter; let it stew until tender, then add a tea-cupful of rich gravy and a glass of wine. MINCED KIDNEY.—E. R. Mince the kidney, after it has been dressed, with a small quantity of bacon or other fat; chop a little thyme with a bunch of parsley, pepper, and salt; mix it all together, with a little thin melted butter; lay it upon toast, strew bread-crumbs over the top, and brown them in a Dutch oven. RISSOLES OF KIDNEY.—E. R. Cut the cold kidney into small cubes, with a third part of bacon in cubes, and one or two hard-boiled eggs, according to the quantity, also cut in cubes; season it well, bind it together with a yolk of egg beaten up in a little melted butter; dip them in butter, or roll them in bread-crumbs, and fry them. BEEF TONGUE.—E. R. Take a green tongue, stick it with cloves, and boil it gently for three hours; then brush it over with the yolk of an egg, dredge it well with bread-crumbs, and roast it, basting it well with butter. When dished, serve it with a little brown gravy flavoured with a glass of wine, and lay slices of currant-jelly round it. A pickled tongue, well washed, may be dressed the same way, and udders also. If both should be at hand at the same time, skewer the tongue and udder together when roasting. BEEF TONGUE A-LA.GRECQUE.—E. R. Take a fresh tongue, root and all, but cut off theDOMESTIC COOKERY. 134 [Chap. v. root, and split the tongue down until within an inch of the thick end; then skewer it into the shape of a lyre. Put it into a large stewpan with the root, and any claws, heads, or trimmings of fowl, an onion stuck with cloves, a bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper and salt, a small quantity at first, and then as much water as will be re- quired for stock for a whole dinner. It must be cooked the day before it is wanted, and will be found an elegant and economical dish, as it will furnish the basis necessary for all the sauces at a dinner-party: any parings of meat or poultry, ham or bacon hones, may be put w'ith it. Stew the tongue until quite tender, and then take it out. Reduce some of the sauce to a glaze; glaze the tongue, put it on a dish, have ready several slips of boiled carrots, lay them along for the strings of the lyre, and place a wreath of flowers cut in turnips and carrots at each end : it is thus very ornamental to the table, and will, as before remarked, supply all the consommee ne- cessary for a set dinner. TONGUE IN CURRANT-JUICE.—E. R. Cut off the root of a fresh tongue, and split it down not quite to the end ; put some butter into a stewpan, and fry the tongue in it, then add half a pint of currant- juice or currant-jelly, a little salt, pepper, and, if the juice be fresh, brown sugar, and stew the whole together for three hours. ROAST NEAT’S TONGUE AND UDDER.—E. R. Blanch and boil the tongue and the udder, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg, lard them with lardoons, rub them over with yolk of egg, then spit them, and put them to roast. Baste them well with butter, and dredge them with grated bread, adding occasionally a little pounded spice : keep basting and dredging till they are well roasted. Put half a pint of gravy into a sauce[)an, with the juice of a Seville orange, two lumps of sugar, a glass of claret, and a piece of butler: toss the whole over the fire, and serveChap, v.] 135 MADE DISHES. it up with the tongue and udder, garniBhing the dish with slices of lemon. BEEF TONGUE LARDED A-LA-PRUSSE.—E. R. Boil the tongue gently for three hours, then peel and lard it w'ith bacon, take some of the liquor it was boiled in, fry a dozen or two of silver onions; add a glass of wine, a little flour, a lump of sugar, and the juice of half a lemon: stew the whole together for another hour. MINCED COLLOPS.—E. R. Take a pound of juicy beef, a quarter of a pound of suet, and an onion ; remove every bit of skin or gristle from the meat, and mince it with the onion very finely; add a little pepper and salt, flour the collops, melt a piece of butter in a stewpan, stir in the collops, adding a little water or gravy, and a spoonfiil of ketchup or oyster-sauce. Ten minutes will be sufficient to dress a pound. ANOTHER SCOTTISH RECEIPT.—E. R. 'I'ake some lean beef, mince it very small, season it with pepper and salt, adding a very small quantity of vinegar; press it down in an earthen vessel: it will keep for some days. When wanted, take out the necessary quantity, put it into a stewpan, with a chopped onion, a spoonful of any sauce, some beef gravy, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Keep stirring it round until quite hut, and then send it to table. BEEF COLLOPS.—E. R. Cut the inside of a sirloin, or any other convenient piece, into circular shapes, flour and fry them for about three minutes; then put them into a stewpan, with a pint of gravy, made by boiling the water in the pan after the fat has been poured off, with a little flour, season the gravy, add capers or nasturtians. Stew them for a short time and send to table, garnished with pickles.136 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. vi. CHAPTER VI. MADE DISHES OF MUTTON. LEG OF MUTTON BRAISED.—E. R. Take a very small leg of mutton, cut off the knuckle, and trim it nicely; half roast it. Then put it into a stewpan with the knuckle-bone broken, the trimmings, a few slices of fat bacon or two ounces of butter, an onion stuck with cloves, and a bundle of sweet herbs. Shake the stewpan over the fire until there is gravy enough from the meat and the trimmings to stew the mutton; and take care to turn it in the braise. When very tender, take it up, remove the fat from the gravy, strain it, and boil it quickly until it is reduced to a glaze. Cover the mutton with this jelly, and serve it up with a purtie of vegetables beneath. The best is tliat of garlic. Boil a sufficient quantity for five mi- nutes, then strain off the water, and pour on fresh from a keitle boiling; when the garlic has boiled five minutes more, pour this away, adding fresli a third and fourth time, and boiling the garlic five minutes between each change of water. Taste the garlic, and if it has not lost all its disagreeable flavour, boil it in fresh water until it is rich and delicate. A small shoulder of mut- ton may be boned and stuffed, and dressed the same way. STEWED SHOULDER OF MUTTON.—E. R. Cut off’ the knuckle, take out the lilade-bone, and trim the shoulder into a handsome form; break ihe bone and stew it for some time in water with the knuckle and trimmings; stuff the shoulder with good force- meat, skewer it into shape, i)ut a little butter into a stewpan, melt it, and brown tlie mutton by turning it in the fryine; butter; then dredge it with flour, put some of the liroth made with the liones into the stewpan, witli an onion, and let it stew until the meat is quite tender; serve it up with pickles warmed in the sauce. A.MADE DISHES. CuAr. VI.] 137 shoulder of veal may be dressed the same way; it is excellent larded on the outside with bacon, and stufied with oysters. MUTTON KEBOBBED. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every bone: mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them, and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a quick fire; set a dish underi and baste them with a good piece of butter and the liquor that comes from the meat; but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish, and put into it two spoonsful of ket- chup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with it; give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim oft' the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. CHINA CHILD. Mince a pint basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonsful of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter, into a stewpan closely covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is approved, add a little. This cannot be done too slowly. ’ TO ROLL A LOIN OF MUTTON.—E. R. Keep the mutton till it is tender, bone it, and lay a seasoning of pepper, mace, and a clove, pounded. Beat the meat and cover it with a stuffing as for hare, and tie it round with string. It will take two hours and aDOMESTIC COOKERY. 138 [Chap. vi. half to roast, if it be large. Make gravy of the bones and a little ham or bacon, and clear it -well from the fat; add a little port wine, and serve up the mutton with currant-jelly. LOIN OF MUTTON STEWED.—E. R. Skin, bone, and roll it; put to it a pint of water, a piece of butter, three table-spoonsful of vinegar, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let it stew gently for three hours, strain the gravy, and add to it a glass of port wine; serve it up with venison sauce. HARICO OF MUTTON.—E. R. Cut a neck or loin of mutton into thin chops, flour and fry them brown in a small quantity of butter, drain them on a sieve, then put them into a stewpan, and cover them Avith gravy Avhich may be made in the frying-pan : add a whole onion and two turnips, and stew until the meat is tender. Then take out the chops, strain the gravy, and skim off all the fat. Put a little butter mixed Avith flour into the stewpan, stir it until melted and made quite smooth ; then add the graA^y by degrees, stirring all the time. Put in the chops with a glass of AA'ine. Have some carrots and turnips ready blanched and cut into pretty shapes, with a dozen silver onions whole, and also half boiled. Add then to the meat, and season them Avith pepper and salt; stew the whole gently for a quarter of an hour, then take the chops out carefully Avith a fork, and serve them Avith the sauce and vegetables. TO STEAV A LOIN OF LAMB.—E. R. Cut a loin of lamb into steaks, pare off the skin and jiart of the fat, fry it in butter a pale broAvn, pour away the fat, and put in boiling Avater enough to cover the meat, a little pepper and salt, a little nutmeg, half a pint of green peas, and a cos lettuce cut lengthways; cover it doAvn and let it steAv gently for half an hour.Chap, vi.] MADE DISHES. 139 BRE.AST OF MUTTON.—E. R. Boil it gently until the bones will draw, then cover it with a thick forcemeat of any kind, roll it up, brush it over with clarified butter, sweet herbs chopped, and crumbs of bread, and either roast it in a cradle spit, or before the fire in a Dutch oven. LAMB A-LA-ESPAGNOLE.—E. R. Take a fore-quarter of lamb, remove the shoulder and take out the bone; stuflp it with fine forcemeat, and skewer it in a handsome shape. Braise it with a couple of ounces of butter, add a tea-cupful of water, stirring the braise until the gravy is drawn. Tlien cut the bris- ket into pieces, and stew them in white gravy; thicken it with cream and eggs so that it shall be very white; cut the long bones into chops and fry them; thicken the gravy of the braise, add to it haricots, minced truf- fles, or anything else. Place the shoulder in the centre of a dish, with its own sauce, lay the brisket covered with white sauce round it, and place the fried chops at the edge. LAMB S HEAD.—E. R. Parboil the head, rub it over with yolks of eggs, cover it thickly with chopped herbs, crumbs of bread, and clarified butter, and put it into a Dutch oven before the fire. Mince the heart and the liver very finely, and stew them in a little good gravy, adding a spoonful of lemon-pickle, make some forcemeat-balls, and brain- cakes, and fry them ; place, the mince in the dish with the head upon it, and garnish with the balls, brain-cakes, and lemon sliced, or pickles. LAMB’S HEAD AND HINGE. This part is best from a house-lamb ; but any, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a[Ch.^P. VI. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 140 little of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. LAMB S FRY. Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Melted butter in a tureen. LAMB S SWEETBREADS. Blanch them, and put them a little while into cold water. Then put them into a stewpan, with a ladleful of broth, some pepper and salt, a small bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace: stir in a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Do not let it boil after the cream is in; but make it hot, and stir it well all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be added ; first boil of a beautiful green. FRICASSEED LAMB-STONES. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them; fry of a beautiful brown, in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you have made the following sauce : Thicken almost half a pint of veal gravy with a bit of flour and butter, and then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon-pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten well in two large spoonsful of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it Avell till it is hot and looks white : do not let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put it in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a very hot dish and cover.M.\DE DISHES. Chap, vi.] 141 FRICASSEE OF L.-iMB-STONES AND SWEETBREADS, ANOTHER WAY. Have read)' some lamb-stones blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads: if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together, with a few large oys- ters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter ofl', and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus-tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt, two shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. SIIEEFS HE.AD.—E. R. A great variety of excellent dishes may be made from a sheep’s head, which in India, where veal is not so easily procurable, answers all the purposes for mock turtle, rolled head, or rich hash or ragout; the bones make excellent jelly, either savoury or sweet. Parboil the head; cut the meat from the bone; stew the former in a little of the liquor until quite tender; send it to table with a glass of w'ine in the sauce, forcemeat-balls and brain-cakes for garnish; or roll up the pieces seasoned in the inside with a thick covering of chopped herbs, well seasoned; brush the outside with yolk of egg; dredge it with bread-crumbs ; fry it; and send to table with a rich gravy made of the bones and pickles warmed up in it. AN ENGI.ISII HAGGIS.-E. R. Take the heart, the tongue, and a part of the liver of the sheep, with a tliird of its w'eight in fat bacon, tw'o anchovies chopped small, and the crumb of a penny roll grated, a salt-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, two eggs beaten, and a glass of wine; mix all well together; butter a mould; put in the mixture, and letDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. vi. 142 it boil for two hours; or it may be boiled in a veal caul. A SCOTCH HAGGIS.—E. R. Take the stomach of a sheep; wash it until perfectly clean with cold water ; then turn it outside in, scald it, and scrape it with a knife quickly, and then put it into cold salt and water till needed. Take the liver, lights, and heart of a sheep, and parboil them; grate the liver and mince the other parts quite fine; mince also half a pound of suet; toast a pound of round oatmeal before the fire ; mix all well together, season with pep- per and salt; then fill the bag, and before sewing it up put in a little water in which two or three onions have been boiled, which will give sufficient flavour with- out the onions themselves. Put the bag, neatly sewed up, in a pan with enough of boiling water to cover it, and a small plate under it in the pan ; prick over with a needle to prevent it bursting, and let it boil four or five hours, keeping the haggis constantly covered with boiling water. MUTTON STEAKS .\-LA-MAINTENON.—E. R. Cut them handsomely from the loin or back end of the neck; half fry them, and then cover them with herbs, crumbs of bread, and seasoning; lay this on very thickly and put them into a stewpan with a little gravj'; stew until tender, then wrap them in writing paper and finish them on the gridiron. MUTTON CUTLETS .i-LA-MAINTENON.—E. R. Cut and trim cutlets, cut from a neck or loin of mut- ton, very handsomely. Chop very finely a quantity of parsley, a little thyme, and a shalot; put them with butter in a stewpan, and fry the chops a little. Then take out the chops, allow tliem to cool, then add to the herbs some fresh jmrsley chopped and a few crumbs of bread; spread them over the cutlets with a knife; wrap143 MADE DISHES. Chap. vi.J them in buttered paper, and broil them over a slow fire. MUTTON CUTLETS.—E. R. Cut the back end of a neck of mutton into steaks, and chop each bone short; brush them with egg and cover them with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream ; fry the steaks and put them round the potatoes piled in the middle of the dish. CUTLETS HINDOSTANEE FASHION.-E. R. Cut the chops from the neck; pare away all the fat and scrape the bone; then have some very fine mashed potatoes; wrap the cutlets in it; brush them over with yolk of egg and fry them. They may also be fried in the same manner dipped in batter. HARICO OF CUTLETS.—E. R. Cut the mutton from the best end of the neck and give them a handsome shape ; fry them a light brown; then put them into strong gravy to stew, adding a stick of celery cut into small pieces, and an onion. Boil some small silver onions whole with carrots and turnips cut in dice, and when nearly done add them to the mut- ton and stew all together. LAMB AND MUTTON CUTLETS.—E. R. Cut a loin or neck into chops ; cut off the thick part of the bone at the bottom, and the point at the other end of the cutlets; melt a little butter with some salt in a saucepan; then put in the cutlets and stew them without browning. Let them cool; then mix pepper and chopped parsley with the yolk of egg ; dip the cut- lets into it and cover them with bread-crumbs; put them on a gridiron over rather a slow fire until they are of a nice colour; squeeze lemon-juice over them and send them to table.[Ch.ip. ti. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 144 MUTTON OR LAMB CHOPS.—E. R. Cut the chops very nicely, pare off the fat, and fry them a fine brown; pile them up like hop-poles in the dish, M'ith the bones meeting at the top, and place be- tween each a slice of fried bread cut in the shape of half a large pear. Make a puree of vegetables of any kind, and lay it round in the bottom of the dish: peas or spinach with the lamb, turnips or tomatoes wnth the mutton. This is a cheap and elegant corner or side dish. BIFSTEAK OF MUTTON.—E. R. This is the name by which broiled mutton-cutlets are known in France and India. Cut them from the fillet of a leg of mutton nearly an inch thick, and broil them exactly like a beefsteak, over a brisk fire, turning them frequently. Serve up with shalot minced upon the dish. SHEEP S HE.ART.—E. R. Take a sheep’s heart and stuff it throughout, using a considerable quantity of chopped bacon in the stuffing; half boil it, and when cooled a little rub it over with pepper and salt, and wrap it in paste in the shape of a cone. Rub the paste over with the yolk of an egg, and strew vermicelli loosely over it. Set it with the broad end downwards and bake it an oven. When baked, send it to table with gravy sauce. SHEEP S TAILS AND TONGUES.—E R. Take three tails and three tongues, cut the tails in half and split the tongues. Stew them gently for three hours in as much water as will cover them, adding three spoonsftil of vinegar, three onions, a tea-spoonful of mixed spices, and one of salt; these ingredients to be put in after the pot has been skimmed. When the tails, &c., are very tender, take them out, score them, dip them in drawn butter, roll them in grated bread-crumbs,145 MADE DISHES. Chap, vi.] and let them lie for a few minutes, then put on more butter with a knife, and additional bread-crumbs, which latter should be slightly seasoned ; brown them before the fire. Strain the gravy, enrich it with butter, squeeze lemon-juice over the tongues and tails, and serve them in the gravy. SHEEP'S TAILS AND KIDNEYS.—E. R. Cut the tails, boil them for fifteen minutes, then put them into a stewpan with half a pint of gravy, an onion stuck with cloves, a little salt, and cayenne pepper. Stew till tender, strain the gravy, thicken it with flour and butter, and add the juice of half a lemon. Boil until the whole is very smooth, broil half a dozen kidneys, and place them in the middle of a dish with the tails and sauce round. SHEEP’S TROTTERS.—E. R. Boil the trotters, or rather stew them gently, for several hours, until the bones will come out. The liquor they are boiled in will make excellent stock or jelly. Take out the bones without injury to the skin, stuff them wdth a fine forcemeat; stew them for half an hour in some of the stock, which must be well flavoured ■with onion, seasoning, and a little sauce; take out the trotters, strain the sauce, reduce it to a glaze, and brush it over the feet. Sheep’s trotters also prepared the same way may be dipped in a batter and fried. The paste, or batter for frying, is best made thus : mix four spoonsful of flour with one of olive-oil, and a sufficient quantity of beer to make it of the proper thickness; then add the whites of two eggs well beaten, and a little salt. MUTTON KIDNEYS.—E. R. Split, pepper, and broil them, broiling the cut side first, which will make a cup for the gravy, when the outer part is turned to the fire. Chop some parsley very fine, mix it well with a little fresh butter, the juice of LDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. v1. 146 a lemon, pepper and salt, and put a little on each. A sheep’s heart may be split open, and broiled at the same time in the same way. STEWED KIDNEYS.—E. R. Divide sheep’s kidneys down the middle, have some brown butter in the pan, dust them over with flour, put them in, the outside next the pan, brown them on both sides, pour off the greater part of the butter, pour in a little warm water, and thicken with flour; stew until the kidneys are tender, season with pepper, ketchup, and a few shred onions. HOTCHPOTCH.—E. R. Prepare some carrots and turnips, by cutting them in dice; take also celery, cauliflowers, young onions, parsley, and any other vegetables, cut small with a quart of green peas. Take a neck of mutton, not too fat, cut it into steaks, put them on the fire with half a gallon of water. When it boils, skim it very tho- roughly, then add the vegetables; let all gently boil together till the soup is rich, and half an hour before dishing add a pint of young green peas and some salt. MUTTON ON HOCHEPOT.—E. R. Cut a neck or loin of mutton into chops, and pare off the fat. Put them into a jar with a lettuce cut into quarters, two or three turnips and carrots, two cucumbers quartered, five onions, and pepper and salt; cover the jar closely, and plunge it into a kettle of boiling water; allow it to boil four hours, keeping the kettle w'ell sup- plied, taking care that the w'ater does not come over the top of the jar. Take it out of the jar and serve it very hot; green peas or any other vegetables may be added. DOEM.\,S.—E. R. Take a pound of the tender part of a loin of mutton, chop the lean and the fat together very small. Boil twoMADE DISHES. Chap, vn.] L 2 141 ounces of rice very tender, mix it with the meat while warm, then season the whole w'ith the juice of half an onion, a small quantity of pepper and salt, and the yolk and white of an egg; make the mixture into balls. Take the ribs from a sufficient quantity of vine-leaves, boil them till they are quite tender, and wrap up the balls in them. Put the balls into a small quantity of mutton-broth, stew them an hour and a half over a slow tire, then take them out of the stewpan, and thicken the gravy with the yolk of an egg and a little cream; season with pepper and salt, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the balls, and serve them up with the sauce, which will be w'hite, over them. MINCED MUTTON WITH CUCUMBERS.—E. U. Mince cold leg of mutton, freed from the skin and fat, warm it with stewed cucumbers, taking care that it does not burn after the meat is put in. MINCED MUTTON.—E. R. Mince the meat very finely, season it, make a very good gravy, warm the meat up in it, and serve with fried bread round the dish. CHAPTER VII. RISSOLES, CROQUETTES, &c. RISSOLES OF SW’EETBREAD.—E. R. After having prepared, boil two calves’ sweetbreads for an hour, or until they are quite tender. When cold cut them into a fine mince, but not with a chopping- knife. Put into a stewpan a ])iece of veal cut fine, a piece of ham, two shalots also cut fine, a piece of celery, a bit of mace, and a mushroom or two, or a spoonful of ketchup, with a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut. Shake the pan about to prevent148 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. vi:. burning for five minutes, then dredge the ingredients with flour, stir it over the fire for two minutes longer; then add a pint and a half of broth, and a pint of cream ; stir the whole until it boils, and thicken ; then strain the sauce. Take a sufficient quantity to moisten the minced sweetbreads, season it Avith pepper and salt, and boil the mixture for three or four minutes, and then put it on a dish until cold. When cold, make up the sweetbreads into halls not larger than a walnut, then roll them in bread-crumbs; beat up three eggs, whites and yolks, upon a soup-plate, and roll the balls in it, turning them round three or four times with a silver spoon ; then roll them again in fine bread-crumbs, and put them into a cool place until wanted. Fry them in fat or lard, as hot as possible, or they will burst: they wdll take six minutes. Serve them up upon a napkin with fried parsley: the remainder of the sauce will be found useful for white fricassee, or any other dish of the kind, for a set dinner. VEAL RISSOLES.—E. R. Take a pound of veal cutlets, let it be scraped fine, but not beaten; scrape also six ounces of suet, and soak two pounds of the crumb of a quartern loaf in milk for a quarter of an hour; then press it dry, add a very little pounded mace, pepper, and salt, and mix the whole together. Beat up one or two eggs just to moisten the mass, so that it may be rolled into balls without the addition of flour ; fry them with some dry bread-crumbs strewed over, and serve them in a dish with a good gravy. N.B. Any other meat may be made in the same way, and the flavour varied by the admixture of chopped herbs. Vermicelli may supply the place of crumbs. RISSOLES, A-L'ESPAGNOLE.—E. R. Take equal quantities of meat finely chopped and pounded, and bread-crumbs; chop all kinds of sweet herbs together, with a boiled onion, season it rvith pepper and salt, and bind with an egg; put the mixture into aMADE DISHES. Chap, vii.] 149 mould and boil it for five minutes, then take it out of the mould, brown it before the fire, and serve it with gravy, RISSOLES IN PASTE.—E. R. Pound any kind of cold meat, thicken a little good gravy with cream or butter, season the meat, and mix it wdth the sauce until it is well moistened; then roll out some paste into oval pieces, lay a large table-spoonful of the meat on one end, double it over, press the edges together, and scallop them; brush the paste over with yolk of egg, sprinkle vermicelli upon it, and fry them. POTATO RISSOLE.—E. R. Mash some potatoes, add to them any kind of meat chopped finely, a boiled onion chopped small, and a hard- boiled egg also chopped; mix them up together with an egg beaten, and, if required to be very light, beat the white separately into a strong froth : make the mixture up into balls, and fry them, or brush them over with yolk of egg, and brown them before the fire. RISSOLES OF CALF'S LIVER.—E. R. Take a pound of undressed calPs liver carefully scraped and separated from all the veins, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped very fine, a small onion previously boiled and also chopped fine, a sufficient quantity of bread grated to bind it together, a little pepper and salt, and two whole eggs. Roll these ingredients into balls the size of a small orange, boil them in a little broth, and then roll them in hot fried or browned bread-crumbs, and send them to table with the sauce they were boiled in, thickened: or they may be made the size of walnuts, boiled in soup, and sent up with it in the tureen, and thus be an acceptable addition to soup made without meat. CROQUETTES.—E. R. Pound the white part of a fowl or some cold veal in150 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. vii. a mortar, and season it with a very little white pepper and salt; beat up an egg with a little milk and flour into a batter, and mix the pounded meat with it; roll it into balls the size and shape of eggs, and fry them; serve them up with fried parsley. A little pounded or grated ham or tongue will make these croquettes more piquant. FISH CROQUETTES.—E. R. Pound any kind of fish in a mortar, chop a hard- boiled egg very finely, mix it up with the pounded fish, make the batter with an egg, milk, flour, and a tea- spoonful of the essence of anchovies; roll it into balls, and fry them. Observe, that a table-spoonful of milk, and the same quantity of flour, will be sufficient for one egg, and the croquettes will be lighter when mixed up in this way than when egg alone is used. CROQUETTES OF BRAINS.—E. R. Take either sheep or calf’s brains, blanch, and beat them up w'ith one or' two chopped sage-leaves, a little pepper and salt; add a few bread-crumbs soaked in milk, and an egg beaten; roll them into balls, and fry them. VEAL CAKE.—E. R. Bone a breast of veal, and cut it in slices, cut also slices of ham or lean bacon, and boil six eggs hard: butter a deep pan, and place the whole in layers one over the other, cutting the eggs in slices, and seasoning with chopped herbs and cayenne pepper, and wetting the herbs with anchovy or other highly flavoured sauce. Cover up the whole, let it bake for four hours, and, when taken from the oven, lay a weight upon it to press it w’ell together- When cold, turn it out. ANOTHER. Boil si.x or eight eggs hard; cut the yolks in tw'o, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot;Chap, vn.] 151 MADE DISHES. shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, add then eggs again; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould, and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. CHARTREUSE. Line a copper mould with fat bacon, lay sliced carrots and turnips round the edges, then cover with a forcemeat and put in a fricassee of veal or fowl. Cover the top of the mould with a paste, bake it an hour, and serve it turned out upon a dish. HAM CAKE.—E. R. Take the remains of a ham that may be getting dry, pound it in a mortar very finely, with all the fat; season it with pepper and mixed spice: add to it clarified butter sufficient to make it moist, put it into a mould, and place it in an oven for about half an hour ; it should be prepared the day before it is wanted ; put the mould for a few minutes in warm water, in order that it may turn out properly. This may be made with equal quantities of cold beef pounded separately, and placed in layers in the mould, or put together in lumps to look like marble. Tongue may also be substituted for the ham, but it must be mixed with alarger quantity of butter in the pounding. If not wanted at the time, it may be potted with the veal, and covered with clarified butter. It will keep well in winter if properly seasoned. HAM IN DISGUISE.—E. R. Scrape half a pound of lean ham, and half the quan- tity of the fat; add a small quantity of pepper, mix it well together with the yolks of two eggs. Put it[Chap. vii. 152 DOMESTIC COOKERY. upon toasted bread, brush the top with white of egg, put a bit of butter on it, and brown it with a salamander. GERMAN TOAST.—E. R. Take the remainder of any fricassee or ragout; any small quantity will do: chop it finely, add a little chopped parsley, and a little bit of shalot or chive : mix it up with one or two eggs beaten, according to the quantity. Put the whole with its gravy into a stewqian, and let it reduce and thicken on the fire. Let it remain until it is cold, then cut pieces of bread, toast them; lay the mixture thickly upon them. Boil an egg hard, cut it into small pieces, and stick them on the top; brush the whole with egg beaten up, sift bread-crumbs over, and bake them in the oven; squeeze a little lemon- juice on the top. This makes a good corner-dish. VEGETABLE TOAST.—E. R. Take any stewed vegetable, chop it if necessary; purties will not require chopping. Add a little more seasoning, mix it up with the yolk of an egg, and, if too thin, reduce and thicken it over the fire, then spread it upon toast, brush it over with beaten egg, add bread-crumbs or vermicelli, and fry or bake them. KIDNEY TOAST.—E. R. Take a cold veal kidney, with a part of the fat, cut it into very small pieces; pound the fat in a mortar with a little salt, white pepper, and an onion previously boiled. Bind all together with the beaten whites of eggs. Heap it upon toast, cover the whole with the yolks beaten, dredge with bread-crumbs, and bake in the oven. HAM TOAST.—E. R. Grate or pound the cold ham : toast and butter a slice of bread; mix the ham with the yolk of an egg and a little cream, until it is thick and rich; warm itChap, vii.] 153 MADE DISHES. over the fire, and serve it very hot upon the toast. Tongue may be employed in the same way. SCOTCH WOODCOCK.—E. R. Toast and butter three or four slices of bread on both sides; take nine or ten anchovies, washed, scraped, and chopped fine, and put them between the slices of bread. Beat the yolks of four eggs in half a pint of cream, and set it on the fire to thicken, but not to boil. Then pour it over the toast, and send it to table as hot as possible. DEVILLED BISCUITS.—E. R. Butter captain’s biscuits on both sides, and pepper them well; make a slice of cheese into a paste with made mustard, and lay it on upon one side : sprinkle cayenne pepper on the top, and send them to be grilled. This may be varied by the addition of chopped anchovies, or the essence, diavolo paste, or Chetney. A DRY DEVIL.—E. R. Take the liver, gizzard, and drumstick of a turkey, score them ; lay on made mustard very thickly, and add a quantity of cayenne pepper, and broil them. A WET DEVIL.—E. R. Take any part of a turkey, goose, or fowl, cover it with mustard, Chetney, diavolo paste, or any other com- bustible ; put a dessert-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of pounded white sugar, the juice of a lemon, a glass of wine, and a glass of ketchup, to a tea-cupful of gravy ; heat them together with the devilled fowl, and send up very hot. N.B. A little cold fresh butter will cool the mouth, should the devil prove too powerful. AN EXCELLENT SANDWICH —E. R. A thin tender beef-steak, boiled, and well seasoned with pepper and salt; put quite hot between two slices of bread and butter, and eaten when cold.154 [Cii.tP vi:i. DOMESTIC COOKERY. CHAPTER VIII. SAUSAGES, &C-—E. R. Two pounds of lean pork, and three ditto of chine fat free from skin, a few sage-leaves chopped, two cloves pounded, pepper and salt; chop the meat and pound it fine, and either press it into pots to roll it when used, or put it into skins. They may be made of lean veal mixed with the fat of the chine. OXFORD SAUSAGES —E. R. Take two pounds of lean pork, the same quantity of lean veal, a pound of suet chopped very fine and beaten in a mortar, with a French roll just wetted through with milk : half an ounce of pepper, a little salt; mix all these ingredients well together, and pot it. When wanted beat up four eggs, mix the sausage-meat up in it, roll it into egg-shapes, and fry in a dry hot pan over a very quick fire. The eggs must only be added the day the sausage-meat is used. THE OXFORD RECEIPT FOR SAUSAGES.—E. R. Take one pound of young pwrk, fat and lean, without skin or gristle, one pound of lean veal, and one pound of beef suet. Chop all fine together; add half a pound of grated bread, half the peel of a lemon shred fine, a small nutmeg grated, six sage-leaves washed and chopped very fine, a tea-spoonful of pepper and two of salt, savory, and marjoram shred fine. Mix all well together, and press it closely in a jar till wanted : then roll them out the size of a common sausage, and fry them in fresh butter, or broil them over a clear fire, and send them to table as hot as possible. AN EXCELLENT SAUS.AGE TO E.VT COLD. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rubChap, viir.] 155 MADE DISHES. into the meat; the sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot or garlic, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it without boiling, but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in different places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. PORTUGUESE SAUSAGES. From the back and loins of a fine two-year-old porker cut all the fat and lean into pieces about an inch square. Season with Spanish or red pepper, black pepper, sidt and garlic, beat all fine together; then cover the mix- ture with any sort of wine which is not sweet, adding more as the former is absorbed, for eight days. Fill the largest skins you can get with the meat, fat and lean alternately, occasionally adding some of the wine. Tie up in links, and hang them in a room where they will not get damp, or become too dry, and tliey will keep twelve months. They are served boiled or fried, to eat with white meat as a relish. MUTTON SAUSAGES.—E. R. Take a pound of undressed mutton, or that which has been underdone, chop it very small, and season it with pepper, salt, and beaten mace. Chop also half a pound of beef suet, two anchovies, a pint of oysters, a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and a boiled onion ; mix the whole with the oyster liquor, and the whites and yolks of two eggs well beaten. It would not be amiss, as M. Ude says, to put the whole into a mortar. Roll into lengths, corks, or balls, and fry them. OYSTER SAUSAGES.—E, R. Take a pound of veal and a score of oysters bearded, then pound the veal very finely in a mortar with a littleDOMESTIC COOKERY. 156 [Chap. vm. suet, season with a little pepper, sack a piece of bread in the oyster liquor, pound, and add it with the oysters cut in pieces to the veal, beat up an egg to bind them together, and roll them into little lengths, like sausages; fry them in butter a delicate brown. WHITE PUDDINGS.—E. R. To two parts of beef-suet chopped, add one part of oatmeal previously toasted before the fire, boil an onion or two, and chop them with pepper and salt, mix the whole well together, put the ingredients into skins, and boil them for an hour, pricking them as they boil to prevent their bursting. They will keep for some time in bran after they have been allowed to become cold. Parboil them when wanted, and then broil them on a gridiron. Obs. The quantity of suet may in making seem disproportioned to the oatmeal, but, unless there are two-thirds of the former to one of the latter, the pud- dings will be dry and bad. They require to be higlily seasoned with pepper and onions. FARM-HOUSE RECEIPT FOR BL.ACK PUDDINGS.—E. R. Warm a pot, and put a handful of salt in it, to catch the blood; keep stirring while running, wash it w'ell, and pass it through a sieve; and add a pint or more of groats immediately. Then set it in a cool place, and stir it occasionally; soften the remainder of the groats over the fire in as much new milk as will cover them, letting them simmer for a quarter of an hour. When cold put them to the blood, with a little cayenne pepper, one ounce of black pepper, and salt, one pint of cream, one pint of melted lard, a basin of bread-crumbs, some onions, leeks, and a very few shalots chopped small. Cut some fat into pieces, and when the other ingredients are mixed put them into skins, taking care that there shall be a due proportion of the fat. Boil them tor ten minutes; then take them out and cover them in a sheaf of straw for half an hour ; then boil them ten minutes more, and cover them in the straw until cold.Chap, viii.] 157 MADE DISHES. LIVER PUDDINGS.—E. R. Take a pound of calves’ or hogs’ liver, boil it, and chop or pound it fine; take half a pound of bacon, and mince it small; steep the crumb of two penny rolls in milk, and press it; add pepper and salt, and a small quantity of sweet herbs ; mix it up with a little cream and a little melted lard, in order that the puddings may be moist, without offending the stomach by too much fat. These puddings may be varied by toasted oatmeal, boiled rice, or groats; but in adding these things ]iounded suet should be added in proportion, or they will be dry. FOWL OR RABBIT PUDDINGS.—E. R. Take the remains of a fowl, rabbit, or hare ; when boiled or roasted, free it from the bones, and cut it small. Boil some onions *in strong gravy; when the onions are quite soft, pound them, season with salt, pepper, parsley, two cloves, and a blade of mace; pound the meat also, cut some bacon into small pieces, and add it. Mix up these ingredients with the yolk of egg, add a little lemon-juice or lemon-pickle, or chop a little sorrel with the herbs, fill the skins, and broil the puddings. POTATO PUDDINGS.—E. R. Take an equal quantity of the flour of roasted pota- toes, and the meat of cold fowl, rabbit, hare, &c., well chopped and pounded. Pound them well together with a litile butter, season with salt, pepper, and spices; moisten it with yolks of eggs, one after the other; when well mixed, whip the whites, and add them ; roll them in flour into shapes, then brush them with yolk of egg or clarified butter, roll them in bread-crumbs, and either broil or roast them in a Dutch oven. Make a gravy from the bones of the fowl, &c., and serve it up.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 158 [Chap. viii. MOCK BR.YM'N. Split and nicely clean a hog’s head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and rub a good deal of salt into the head; let it drain twenty-four hours ; then lay upon it two ounces of saltpetre, and the same of common salt; in three days’ time lay the head and salt into a pan, with just water to cover it, for two days more. Wash it well; and boil until the bones Avill come out; remove them, and chop the meat as quick as possible, in pieces of an inch long; but first take the skin care- fully off the head and the tongue, the latter cut in bits as above. Season with pepper and salt. Put the skin of one side of the head into a small long pan, press the chopped head and tongue into it, and lay the skin of the other side of the head over, and press it down. Wlien cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. The head may probably be too fat, in which case prepare a few bits of lean pork with the head. Boil two ounces of salt, a pint of vinegar, and a quart of the liquor, and, when cold, pour it over the head. The ears are to be boiled longer than the head, cut in thin strips, and di- vided about it, the hair being nicely removed. Reboil the pickle often. ANOTHER MOCK BRAWN. Boil a pair of neats’ feet very tender; take the meat off, and have ready the belly-j)iece of pork, salted with common salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough ; take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the cloth till cold ; after which keep it in a sousing liquor, as is directed in the next page. TO COLLAR PIG'S HEAD. Scour the head and cars nicely; take off the hair and snout, and take out the eyes and the brains; lay it into water one night; then drain, salt it extremely well withMADE DISHES. 159 Ohap. VIII.] common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of equal size; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the earsj and, if you approve, put the pig’s feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. Put it into a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put a good weight upon it, and do not take off the covering till cold. If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, let the proportion of saltpetre be greater, and put in also some pieces of lean pork; and then cover it with cow- heel to look like the horn. ^ This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt and water boiled, with vinegar; and is a very convenient thing to have in the house. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or with- out butter. TO KEEP BRAWTS', THE CAMBRIDGE WAY. To two gallons of water put one pound of wheat- bran, and a pound of salt; boil one hour; when cold, strain it, and keep the brawn in it. In ten or twelve days fresh pickle will be required. If, by length of carriage or neglect, the brawn be kept too long out of pickle, make as above, and having rubbed it well with salt, and washed with some of the pickle, it will be quite restored to its former goodness. AN EXCELLENT SAUCE FOR BRAWN, OR PIG’S FEET AND EARS. Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary in tw’o gallons of water, with four ounces of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold.160 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [CHiP. II. CHAPTER IX. MADE DISHES OF POULTRY, GAME, &c. CHICKEN ALB.—E. R. Parboil a fine plump chicken ; when half cooked remove the breast and merrythought; cut the meat from both, and mince it with a double quantity of cold chicken or veal, a little pepper, salt, and grated lemon peel; make it into a consistence with cream. Then put the mince into a stewpan with a small piece of butter and half a pint of cream ; let it remain on the fire for ten minutes, stirring it carefully ; lard the chicken and put it into the oven for ten minutes; then add the minced-meat, keeping it up in the form of a breast till it is high and round. Flour it, and put it into the oven again for ten minutes longer. Pour a rich white sauce over it when sent to table. FOWL OR RABBIT A-LA-PROVENC.'VL.—E. R. Half-roast a fowl, then cut it in pieces ; take a dozen onions, cut them in rings, add a little parsley chopped. Place them in a stewpan, laying a bed of onions and parsley, then fowl, till the whole are used; add a glass of oil or cream with one or two bay-leaves and salt; let them simmer slowly ; dish the fowl, put the onions in the middle, add a little sauce, and send it to table. STEWED FOWL AND RICE.—E. R. Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear veal or mut- ton broth, well skimmed and seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and an onion. About half an hour before it is ready add a quarter of a pint of rice, well washed and soaked; simmer until tender, then strain the rice from the broth and lay it on a sieve before the fire to swell; then dish the fowl with the rice round it, and serve it up with parsley and butter.161 Chap, ix.] POULTRY. POULARD A LA ROYALE—E. R. Bone the fowl and stuff it with sweetbread, liver, and mushrooms, well seasoned and made into a ragout. Sew' up the fowl; cover it with thin slices of lard or bacon, and either tie paper over it and roast it or put it to braise: if roasted, take off the lard and paper, be- fore serving, to brown it. Send it up on a purde of chestnuts. A turkey poult may be dressed the same ■way. DAVENPORT FOWLS. Hang young fowls a night; take the livers, hearts, and tenderest parts of the gizzards, the last being pre- viously boiled, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, to your tasle. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew' up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stewpan w'ith butter enough to brown them. Serve with a good deal of melted butter, w'ith either soy or ketchup in it. CHICKENS A LA CARMELITE.—E. R. Put a piece of butter the size of a walnut into a stew’pan : as it melts, dredge in flour, and when the whole is well mixed add a tea-cupful of milk. Cut up the chickens and put them in, adding peppercorns, an onion, and a blade of mace. Stew them until tender, adding milk and water if too dry. Take out the chick- ens ; have some parsley ready boiled and chopped; mix it with lemon-juice and a little white pepper; lay it upon the chickens ; strain and thicken the sauce ; add a glass of white wine; and send it to table garnished with chop- ped parsley and lemon or pickles. TO nilOIL A FOWL.—E. R. Split the fowl down the back; season it very well with pepper, and put it on the gridiron with the inner part next the fire, which must be very clear. Hold M162 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ix. the gridiron at a considerable distance from the fire, and allow the fowl to remain until it is nearly half done ; then turn it, taking great care that it does not burn. Broil it of a fine brown, and serve it up with stewed mush- rooms or a sauce with pickled mushrooms. A duck may be broiled in the same way. TO PULL CHICKENS. Take off the skin, and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large jiieces as you can; dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy, well seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. ANOTHER WAY. Cut off the legs and the whole back of a dressed chicken; if under-done the better. Pull all the white part into little flakes free from skin ; toss it up with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck end of the chicken, and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the middle, wth the back on it, and the two legs at the end. FRICASSEE OF CHICKENS.—E. R. After the chickens or fowls have been well cleaned, cut them up very nicely and blanch the pieces in boiling water, drain, and put them into cold water; add to the water in which they have been blanched the heads, feet, livers, gizzards, &c.; and as, if intended for a com- pany dish, only the white part of the fowl must be used, the backs and necks also. Put in likewise a bunch of parsley, an onion, a clove, a blade of mace, salt, and a bay or peach leaf, and let them stew together for an hour. Then put the chickens into a stewpan with a piece of butter; dredge them very lightly withPOULTRY. Chap, ix.] 163 flour as they stew, and moisten them with a little of the broth. Let them stew in this way for about three quarters of an hour, taking off the butter and scum; then reduce the sauce made from the bones, and thicken it with cream and the yolk of an egg, and send it to table. Another side dish may be made of the legs boned, and filleted, and fried in batter. In filleting, take out the bone, skin, sinews, &c.; make a nice force- meat; stuflF, and roll the fillets round. The four legs will thus make eight pieces, which wall be sufficient for a small dish, and these may be augmented by small pieces of fried paste cut into crescents, cockscombs, or other shapes. They must be served round a purtle of some kind in the centre. FRICASSEE OF FOWL.—E. R. Put the fowl into a jar, with sliced onion, parslej', salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour; let it remain in a kettle of water on the fire until three parts done, then skim and strain the liquor, and after draining wipe the fowl dry. Put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter and a slice or two of ham, throw in a little flour, and shake it until it is of a good colour. Moisten with the liquor taken out of the jar, adding parsley, young onions, a bay-leaf, a clove, sorrel, and mushrooms, cut into pieces; skim it, and let it stew until done, then take out the herbs, and thicken the sauce with a little cream, but do not let it boil: finish with a little lemon-juice, and pour the sauce over all. FOWL OR RABBIT AU FRITUR.—E. R. Cut up a fowl, and put it into an earthen dish with sliceg of onions, parsley, sorrel, salt, and pepper, and the juice of two or three lemons; leave it an hour or two to absorb the juice. Make a batter, put in the legs first, then the breast, wings, &c,; fry them of a fine colour, and serve them up with fried eggs, and a sauce piquante. The batter to be made with eggs and a spoon- ful of oil as directed. M 2164 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ix. CHICKEN IN HASTE.—E. K. Take fresh-killed chickens, clean, cut them in pieces, and scald them in hot water, without giving them time to cool: fry them in butter with sweet herbs chopped, white pepper, and salt, then add some boiling water and flour; stew them until the sauce is reduced : strain, and add to the sauce a table-spoonful of cream, the yolk of an egg beaten, squeeze a little lemon-juice over the chickens, and serve them up. This dish will be useful when it is requisite to add to the dinner at a short notice; and if the chickens do not grow cool, they will be tender. FOWL WITH ONIONS.—E. R. Boil a dozen small onions in several waters, until the strength is out and they are tender; cut a piece of boiled pickled pork into dice; take a spoonful of hot pickled vinegar, some sweet herbs chopped, and the yolk of an egg beaten; make this quite thick with herbs, mi.v it with the pork and onions, and then stuff the whole of the inside of a fowl: braise, the fowl in a little broth and butter, and serve it up with white sauce. VOLAILLE EN FRITUR E. R. Take the remains of a cold fowl, bone it, cut it in pieces, and fry it in batter, or, if there be only a very small quantity, fry it without the batter, with pieces of paste cut in oblong shapes. This is a most excellent and elegant way of dressing cold fowl. Place it round a dish, and fill up the centre with tomato, sorrel, or other sauce, made very hot and very acid. FOWL CUTLETS.—E. R. Cut up a fowl and bone it, make the legs, •wings, breast, and merry-thought into si.x fine cutlets by flat- tening them and giving them a good shape; then take the meat from the remainder of the fowl, pound it in a mortar with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of gravy.165 POULTRY. Chap, ix.] brush the cutlets with an egg, lay on the forcemeat, dredge fried crumbs on the top, and fry them a light brown; serve them up with gravy in the dish, or dry, with a lemon squeezed over them. FOWL WITH PEAS.—E. R. Put some butter into a stewpan, add flour until it is rather stiff, then put in some small pieces of bacon; let it brown a little, then cut up the fowl and put it in: moisten the gravy, mix it well, and season with pars- ley, sorrel, young onions, half a bay-leaf, and a clove, and let it boil. Put in the peas over a quick fire, skim, and when done enough pour the sauce over the fowl. pur6e de volaille.—e. r. Mince the white part of cold fowl or turkey very finely, then pound it in a mortar; put in two or three spoons- ful of white sauce, and pass it through a sieve, adding a little salt and white pepper, and warm the whole. It may be served up with the legs grilled. It should not be too thin, but can be made the proper consistence by a greater or smaller quantity of white sauce, or cream. Garnish with fried bread, or paste cut in shapes. It may be also served up in a casserole, or wall of rice and mashed potatoes, or with poached eggs. SOUFFLE OF PUR^E DE VOLAILLE.—E. R. Make the puree as above directed, only much thicker, adding two ounces of butter; stir it well over the fire, and when warm, add the yolks and the whites of four or six eggs, according to the quantity of meat, well beaten, separately : mix the whole lightly together, then put it into a dish, and let it remain in the oven until it is firm. If put warm into the oven it will be ready a quarter of an hour sooner ^ then should the eggs be served with the purde cold. Observe. These dishes may be made of cold fillet of veal.[Chap. ix. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 166 TO BRAISE CHICKENS. Bone, and fill them with forcemeat. Lay the hones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew^an, and the chickens on them. Put to them a few' onions, a fagot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or tw'o of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then white paper; cover the w'hole close, and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat carefully ; set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, put the chickens into an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour. FOWL A LA BRAISE.—E. R. Bone a fowl, stuff it w'ith various kinds of stuffing, viz., forcemeat, sausage-meat, and hard eggs sliced; sew' it up, put it into a stewpan, with a braise, consisting of an onion, a bunch of sw'eet herbs, the bones of the foAvl, and other parts of it, bacon in slices, or butter, with a tea-cupful of water; shake the pan until the gravy is drawn, then turn the fowl in the braise, letting it stew for two or three hours, according to the size. Strain the braise, skim off the fat, thicken it, and serve it as sauce to the fowl, with forcemeat and egg-balls. FOWL W'ITH OYSTERS.—E. R. Fill a fowl, either boned or plain, w ith oysters ; if not boned a dozen would be sufficient; put the fowl into a jar, and plunge the jar into water. Let it boil or rather stew for an hour and a half if a small fowl, and two hours if large. There w'ill be nearly a pint of gravy found in the jar; skim and take off the fat, and convert it into white sauce by the addition of a little butter and flour, eggs, or cream; add to it the oyster liquor, and warm in it a dozen oysters bearded for the sauce.POULTRY. Chap, ix.] 167 DUCK FARCIE.—E. R. Bone a duck, season it nicely with pepper; then take a calf’s foot which has been boiled until very tender, mince it, and mix it with a little pounded or grated ham; make an omelette with two eggs, some parsley, and a very small onion previously boiled and minced very small; allow it to grow cold, then cut it into pieces, and, having spread the calf’s foot equally over the duck, add the omelette; then make a forcemeat of the giblets pounded in a mortar, and mixed with a little fine beef from the under part of the sirloin, if possible; lay that also evenly, then sew up the duck and braise it. It is excellent, either hot or cold. DEVILED DUCK.—E. R. Split the duck, prick it all over with a fork, cover it either wdth mustard and cayenne pepper, diavoli paste, or Chetney, and broil it. Serve with a glass of lemon- pickle, one of wine, and one of ketcliup, warmed with three table-spoonsful of gravy. If Chetney be used the sauce will not require sugar, otherwise add a dessert- spoonful of powdered white sugar. SCORCHED DUCK.—E. R. Cut half a dozen turnips, and scorch or fry them with a duck in butter in a stewpan; then take out the turnips, and allow the duck to stew gently until quite tender ; adding a little water, an onion, and pepper and salt, a bay-leaf, a few sage-leaves, and a sprig of thyme. When the duck is tender, strain and thicken the same, add the turnips to it, and serve it up. DUCK STEWED WITH GREEN PEAS.—E. R. Put a few sage-leaves and some pepper inside the duck, half roast it, then dredge, and put it in a stew- pan, with a little piece of hutter, as much water as will cover it, an onion, a bunch of parsley and mint, pepper, and salt. Let it stew till nearly done, then strain theDOMESTIC COOKERY. 168 [Chap. ix. sauce; add a pint of young shelled peas, and stew all together until the whole is sufficiently cooked. DUCK STEWED WITH CABBAGE.—E. R. Boil a cabbage, and allow it to drain all night; half roast a duck, and put it into gravy, seasoned with sweet marjoram, thyme, onions, pepper, and salt. Stew the duck until it is enough, then strain and thicken the gravy, and add to it the cabbage cut and fried in butter; heat all together. These dishes may be made ■with cold roast ducks that have appeared at table; but in that case the gravy must be enriched. DUCK STEWED WITH CLARET.—E. R. Make a gravy of the giblets; rub the duck inside and outside with pepper and a little salt; peel and mince two or three onions, and, having half roasted the duck, put it into a stewpan with the gravy and onions. Let it stew very gently for two hours, adding towards the end a glass of claret or port wine; squeeze the juice of a lemon over the duck, and serve it up with fried bread or paste. The duck may be stuffed with forcemeat, in which a little sage should be chopped. WILD DUCK STEWTtD—E R. Shred thyme, winter savory, and sage, very small, and put them into some strong broth, with a little pepper, salt, and two spoonsful of wine; stew them together for a quarter of an hour; nearly roast the ducks, add the gravy that falls from them, but not the fat, then place a deep dish under them, and pour this sauce through and over them into it. Remove the ducks, cut them up, and put them with the sauce into a stewpan over a stove, and let them stew till they are done enough. LEVERET, OR RABBIT. WITH HERBS.—E. R. Cut the leveret into pieces, put it into a stewpan, Avith butter, salt, pepper, parsley, sorrel, and young onions169 Chap, ix.] RABBITS. chopped. When sufficiently done, add the juice of a lemon. The legs may be broiled, and laid on the top. RABBIT A LA FRANCAISE.—E. R. Cut the rabbit in pieces, reserve the liver ; put a piece of bacon cut in pieces into a stewpan, and brown it well, and then lay it aside; put a piece of butter and the rabbit in the pan ; turn and toss it well until it is quite white. When it is getting brown, dredge a spoonful of flour over it, turning all the while, and when the flour is dry put the rabbit in a plate. Then add a piece more butter to the remaining sauce, and stir it well together, and when brown add a cupful of water; con- tinue stirring, and put in the rabbit with plenty of very small onions, the bacon, some mushrooms, a bunch of parsley and thyme and a laurel-leaf tied with a thread, and some salt and pepper ; let it stew very gently over a slow fire for four hours. Add the liver and a glass of port wine one hour before serving, and should there not be sufficient sauce, a little gravy from time to time put in hot. RABBITS STEWED WITH ONIONS.—E. R. Cut up the rabbits, reserving the livers. Put a piece of butter rolled in flour into a stewpan, add boiling water, stirring till well mixed; then jrut in a spoonful of essence of anchovies, a little jrepper and salt, and then the rabbits slightly dredged with flour. Let them stew till tender, boil a bunch of parsley, put the livers into the stew, and when they are done enough chop them w'ith the parsley, a little pepper and salt, and enough cream to make them into sauce; warm it up in a small saucepan, and spread it equally over the rabbit; have ready six large onions, boiled and pulped through a sieve, and mixed up with cream. Put the onions into the centre of a dish, the rabbits round, and the gravy the last.[Chap. ix. no DOMESTIC COOKERY. RABBIT STEWED WITH MUSHROOMS.—E. R. Boil two anchovies or a spoonful of the essence in milk and water, pepper and salt, and an onion. Cut up the rabbit, and stew it gently until done enough ; then strain the gravy, add a little butter rolled in flour, a glass of wine, and mushrooms. Toss the whole to- gether, squeeze a little lemon-juice over the rabbit, or pour lemon-pickle upon it, and send it to table with the sauce, and the liver made into forcemeat-balls. STEWED PARTRIDGES.—E. R. Truss the partridges with the wings over the back, and a skewer through the legs; cut a piece of pork or bacon, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut. Fry the bacon brown, and when quite done put in the partridges, and keep turning them until they are very brown, taking care that the bacon shall be as much on the breast as possible; then add about a tea-cupful of gravy. Have ready some greens, or a large cabbage boiled ; when well drained, chop it with butter, pepper, and salt, put it while warm with the gravy to the partridges, and let them stew gently for an hour, turning the birds frequently. Serve up with the bacon underneath, and the greens round them. TO PICKLE PIGEONS. Bone and turn them inside out, lard the inside, and season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water: let them boil a minute or two to plump: take them out and dry them well; then put them boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white-wine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, 'sliced ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay-leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will do them ; but tliey will takeChap, ix.] PIGEONS. m twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. Instead of larding, put in some stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace. Serve with some of the pickle. PIGEONS IN JELLY, A BEAUTIFUL DISH. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled, or boil a calf’s or a neat’s foot: put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. The heads and feet must be left on, but the nails must be clipped close. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boiling with the whites of two eggs j then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be perfectly removed before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. They must be trussed, and the neck propped up with skewers, to appear in a natural state, before they are baked. ANOTHER WAY. Pick two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clipped close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown; and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hangs to the birds, and then layH2 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ix. them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full twenty- four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course; or, when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner thing, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. A RAGOUT OF PIGEONS.—E. R. Stew the gizzards in a little water, with the trim- mings ; chop them very small, and chop the liver also. Make them into a forcemeat with grated ham, bread- crumbs, herbs, &c., and fill the pigeons with this force- meat rolled round the yolk of a hard-boiled egg. Put the pigeons into a stew'pan, with a little butter to brown them; add the gravy from the gizzards, a little flour, and an onion. Let them stew very gently, and then skim the gravy ; add to it a glass of A%dne, or sauce, and, having boiled up the gravy and thickened it, serve it with the pigeons. PIGEONS A LA FRANCAISE.—E. R. When the pigeons are prepared for dressing, lay them in a dish, and pour over them two or three glasses of port wine. Let them remain for some hours. Prepare a forcemeat of chopped sage, a little bit of onion, some fat and lean bacon, and pepper; moisten it with egg or rich gravy ; stuff the crops of the pigeons, and put them into the stew with the wane, thirty corns of pepper for six pigeons, a blade of mace, an onion, and a little broth. Stew them till tender, then take them out, beat up the yolk of an egg with some oiled butter, brush the pigeons thickly, cover them well with bread-crumbs, let them cool a little, then repeat the process: put them into the oven just to brown, strain and thicken the gravy, and send them up.173 Chap, ix.] PIGEONS. PIGEONS WITH PEAS.—E. R. Put the pigeons into a stewpan, with a little butter just to stiffen them; then take them out, put some small slices of bacon into the pan, give them a fine colour, then draw them and add a spoonful of flour to the butter : then put in the pigeons and bacon, turn them, moisten them by degrees with gravy, and bring it to the consistence of sauce. Boil it, season with parsley, young onions, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, and let it simmer. When half done, put in a quart of peas : shake them often. When sufficiently done take out the bay-leaf and dish the pigeons, pouring the gravy over them. SALMI OF PARTRIDGES.—E. R. Lard and roast the partridges, leaving them under- done. W’hen cold, cut them into pieces, taking off the skin. Put three spoonsful of oil into a saucepan, a glass of claret, salt, pepper, a shalot, and the juice of a lemon. Toss the partridges in this sauce until they are sufficiently done to send to table. LARKS A LTTALIENNE, OR PURIFIED—E. R. Scald sour grapes, and then stone them; beat up two yolks of eggs with a spoonful of lemon-juice, a very little flour, a bit of butter, and chopped parsley; season it highly with cayenne pepper, add a spoonful or two of gravy. Boil this a moment, then put in the grapes, and stir them with a spoon on the fire to warm, without boiling. Roast the larks with bread-crumbs, and serve them up with the sauce. Obs.—The sauce should be very sharp and highly seasoned.174 DOMESTIC COOKERY. £Chap. X. CHAPTER X. PIES. OBSERVATIONS ON PIES. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made; and they may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and in that case there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to make it e.xtremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow, or if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form, observe the following preparation: Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for in- stance) that has fat and lean ; wash it, and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stewpot that will just hold it; put to it a piece of butter of about the weight of two ounces, and cover it quite close; let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, forcemeat and eggs: and if it is in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking; but if it is only in crust, do not put the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly. Force- meat may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls.—E. R. In making paste for pies great care should be taken that the flour be well dried: for the finer kinds of paste it ought to be sifted also. The very best salt butter is perhaps the best material for making paste; and if suet or dripping be used, it should be softened into the con- sistence of butter. Some persons employ lard, or equal parts of lard and butter; and beef suet may be rendered an excellent and very economical substitute for lard byChap, x ] PIES. 115 the following process:—Cut a pound of beef suet, remove all the skin and chop it very fine; have ready a kettle of boiling water, and mix the water and suet gradually together, beating it until it is like lard. In making savoury pies, the cook should always take care to have a good stock that will jelly, made from the bones and trimmings, to fill up the pie when it comes from the oven, and also that when cold there may be enough jelly. For want of this precaution pies become dry before they can be eaten. It is essential to lay the meat of a pie lightly in the dish, as otherwise there is no room for jelly; and the whole will be too hard and solid. OBSERV.\TIONS ON PASTRY. An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it ad- hering to the board or dish used in making. The best thing to make it upon is a slab of marble or slate; which substances cause less waste, being cold aud smooth. The coolest part of the house, and of the day, should be chosen for the process : the hands should be pre- viously washed in very hot water; and the less they touch the paste the better and lighter it will prove ; nor should it be rolled much. In whatever way paste be made, wetting it much will render it tough. Salt butter of the best quality makes a fine flaky crust: for sweet things, wash it. REMARKS ON USING PRESERVED FRUITS IN PASTRY. Preserved fruits are usually too dry when put into paste that requires long baking: those that have been done with their full proportion of sugar require no baking: the crust for them should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit afterwards added, and a cover may be baked on croquant tins. For fresh fruits short crust is very suitable. Tarts may sometimes be iced.DOMESTIC COOKERY 176 [Chap. x. Heating the oven properly is very material in baking. Light paste requires it to be moderately hot; if too quick, it will be burned and not rise well; if too slow, it will be soddened, not rise, and want colour. Raised pies must be put into a quick oven, or the crust will fall. The cook should accurately know the proper heat for each article, as opening the door, to observe their progress, lets in the air, and often spoils them. Cakes or tarts which are returned into the oven, after icing, require heat enough to harden only. RAISED CRUST FOR MEAT PIES, OR FOWLS, &c. Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quan- tity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloih, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinch- ing both together: put egg between the edges of the paste to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough : and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather put egg over at first.PIES. Chap, x.] Ill FINE TART PASTE.—E. R. Mix half an ounce of sifted sugar with half a pound of flour, adding half a wine-glass of boiling cream: work two ounces of butter into it, roll it very thin, and when made into tarts brush it over with white of egg. SHORT CRUST.—E. R. l\Iix two ounces of sugar with a pound of flour, rub into it three ounces of butter ; beat the yolk of two eggs into a little cream, using sufficient to make the flour into a paste, roll it out thin and bake in a moderate oven. PUFF PASTE.—E. R, Sift half a pound of the best flour, rub lightly into it a quarter of a pound of butter, mix it with cold water, roll it out. Lay on it, in small pieces, part of another quarter of a pound of butter: fold the paste, roll it again, and add the remainder of the butter, strew lightly on it a little flour, and set it in a cold place. LIGHT PASTE.—E. R. Beat the white of an egg into a strong froth, mix with it as much water as will make three-quarters of a pound of flour into a stiff paste, roll it very thin, and lay upon it, at three several times, a quarter of a pound of butter. VERY LIGHT PASTE—E. R. Mix the flour and water together, roll the paste out, and lay bits of butter upon it. Then beat up the white of an egg, and brush it all over the paste before it is folded ; repeat this when rolling out, and adding the butter each time till the whole of he white of egg is used. It will make the paste riset and become very flaky. NDOMESTIC COOKERY. 178 [Chap. x. TART PASTE.—E. R. Half a pound of sifter flour, a quarter of a pound of butter, two ounces of sifted sugar, and two eggs beaten: mix them with cold water, and knead the paste well. PLAIN TART PASTE.—E. R. Rub six ounces of butter in eight ounces of flour, mix it into a stiff paste with as little water as possible, beat it well, and roll it thin. CHEAP PUDDING CRUST.—E. R. Two large, or three small, potatoes boiled, to a pound of flour, the potatoes well mingled with the flour, will make, with suet, a most excellent and light pudding crust. RICE PASTE.—E. R. Take ground rice and butter, work it like short crust, adding a little sugar to make it eat crisply, only using wheaten flour to roll it out with on the board; more or less butter must be added, according to the richness required. RICE PASTE FOR RELISHING THINGS. Clean and put some rice, with an onion, and a little water and milk, or milk only, into a saucepan, and simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, and cover it with the rice; by the addition of an egg the rice will adhere better. Rabbits fricasseed^ and covered thus, are very good. A VERY FINE CRUST FOR OR.VNGE CHEESEC.YKES OR SWEET- ME.YTS, WHEN TO RE PARTICUL.ARLY NICE. Dry a pound of the finest flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar ; then work half a pound of but- ter with your hand until it come to froth; put the flourChap, x.] PIES. 179 into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If too limber, put some flour and sugar, to make it fit to roll. Line your pattypans, and fill. A little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. LIGHT P.^.STE FOR TARTS AND CHEESECAKES. Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth; then mix it with as much water as will make three-quarters of a pound of fine flour into a very stiff paste : roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pound of butter upon it in little bits; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roll in out again, and put the same proportion of butter ; and so proceed till all be worked up. TRANSPARENT CRUST FOR TARTS. Beat an egg till it be quite thin; have ready twelve ounces of the purest well-washed butter, without salt, melted without being oiled; and when cool mix the egg with it, and stir it into a pound of fine flour well dried. Make the paste very thin; line the pattypans as quickly as you can, and when putting the tarts into the oven, brush them over with water, and sift sugar on them. If they are baked in a lightly-heated oven, they will look beautiful. CROQUANT PASTE FOR COVERING PRESERVES. Dissolve a drachm of sugar in as much cold water as will make four ounces of flour into a paste; knead and beat it as smooth as possible. Roll it to the size of the croquant form, and about a quarter of an inch thick. Rub the form with beet-suet, and lay it on the paste, and press it so closely as to cut the pattern completely through. Then lay it on a tin to bake. With a bunch of white feathers do over the paste with the white of an N 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 180 [Chap x. egg beaten, and sift fine sugar on it. Bake it in a slow oven; and gently remove the paste from the tin while yet warm, and lay it over the fruit it is to cover. The same cover will serve many times if kept in a dry place. CRUST FOR VENISON P.\STY. To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds and a half of butter and four eggs; mix into paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good consist- ence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bot- tom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. ICING FOR TARTS. Beat the yolk of an egg and some melted butter well together, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over as you put them into the oven. Or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. AN EXCELLENT METHOD OF ICING TARTS.—E. R. Brush the paste over with co/d water, and then sift pounded sugar very thickly over it before it is put into the oven. BRIOCHE PASTE.—E. R. This paste is essential in many of the finer kinds of cookery, and, though rather troublesome to make, will repay the pains bestowed, since, w'ith a small addition of sauce, it will afl'ord an excellent side-dish in itself, and it will enter into the composition of, and improve, all the more elaborate entrees. Take seven fresh eggs, two pounds of flour dried and warmed at the fire, and one pound of fresh butter. Take half a pound of this flour, and pour into the middle of it a dessert-spoonful of yeast, which has been prepared by pouring water over it, stirring it, and allowing it to stand to settle, and then draining the water oft’. It is the sediment which must be em- ployed. Pour a little hot water over the yeast, and mix the paste up with it, wdiich forms the leaven ; flour the181 PIES. Chap, x.] pan; lay the leaven in it before the fire to rise, and slit it on the top. As soon as the paste has risen proceed thus:—Make a hole in the middle of the remaining flour, put into it a little salt, about a salt-spoonful, the same quantity of powdered sugar to take off any bitter taste in the yeast, and a little water to melt it; the butter broken into small pieces, and the eggs; work it all well together, and knead it thoroughly, spreading it out and working it well: then spread it out entirely, and lay the yeast or leavened paste all over it, taking the greatest care in kneading and shifting the paste about to mix both intimately together. It will take some time, and must be tboroughly accomplished. When completed, flour a towel, wrap the paste up in it, and put it into a pan; if in cold weather in a warm situation, and if in hot weather in a cold one. It is best made a day before it is wanted. Very minute pieces, shaped in any way, add greatly to the excellence of soup, to be boiled with it, or stewed in the gravy of a vol-au-vent, and strewed over the top. It is cut into shapes also, and fried as the accompaniment of braised dishes of every kind. It is an exquisite case for lobster and other patties, or, brushed over with egg, may be fried in shapes for a side dish ; or it may be- boiled in cups, six in a dish, and served up with asparagus cut small and heaped upon the top, and a white sauce round. In fact, a clever cook, by employing different flavouring ingredients, either sweet or savoury, may make endless dishes of brioche. It should not, however, predominate, as is sometimes the case at tables, where everything appears to have been cooked in a kettle of white soup, &c., or garnished with brioche ; and therefore it is best to make only a small quantity at a time, where the consumption of the family is not great. It will not keep long. VEAL PIE.-E. U. The best part of veal for this purpose is the breast; cut it into pieces and put it into a stewpan, with an onion, a stick of celery, a bundle of sweet herbs, and aDOMESTIC COOKERY. 182 [Chap. x. small quantity of water; when warmed through add more water, and stew it gently until it is enough. By this means two pounds of veal will yield a quart of fine white stock, which will jelly: let it remain until cold, and then take off all the fat; take out the long bones and all the skin, season it well, and pile it lightly in the pie-dish, having lined the sides with paste. Boil four or six eggs hard, and put them in ; pound some ham or gammon of bacon in a mortar, make them up into small balls with a little butter, and add them (bacon or ham in slices always being hard); add also some forcemeat- halls ; fill up the pie with the stock, which should be flavoured with a small quantity of ketchup, Chetney, or other sauce. Reserve a portion of the stock thus pre- pared, and pour it hot into the pie, when it comes from the oven, to supply the waste. This will be most excel- lent cold, as it will be perfectly free from all greasy par- ticles, and the meat tender, which wdll not be the case unless previously stewed. A COLD VEAL PIE.—E. R. Take some of the fleshy part of a knuckle of veal, with an equal quantity of minced ham; season it with salt, pepper, spices, and aromatic herbs chopped, and a sqiall clove of garlic or shalot; pound them in a mortar, adding eggs and an equal quantity of gravy. Cover the bottom of a pan with thin slices of bacon; lay a little of the forcemeat upon it; lay some cutlets of veal over the forcemeat, seasoning them w'ith pepper and minced mushrooms; in this manner fill to the top, covering the whole with forcemeat. After baking for an hour, let it cool. Have paste prepared about an inch in thick- ness ; make it round upon buttered paper, sprinkling a little flour on the paste; then take the meat from the pan, which should be plunged in hot water to detach it easily; place it in the jiaste, covering it at the top with a crust half an inch thick, and leaving a hole in the middle. Glaze, and put it into a very hot oven ; let it bake three or four hours; when sufficiently done, aPIES. Chap, x.] 183 wooden skewer will enter easily. Put in a glass of brandy and some clear gravy; fasten the hole at the top, and turn it upside down. This pie may be made of fowl, rabbit, or game, boned or put in whole, the birds being filled with forcemeat, mushrooms, &c. VEAI. AND SWEETBREAD PIE.—E. R. Cut the veal from the chump end of the loin; season it well; clean and blanch a sweetbread, cut it into pieces, and season it; lay both in the dish with the yolks of six hard-boiled eggs and a pint of oysters. Strain the oyster liquor, add to it a pint of good gravy; line the sides of the dish with a puff paste half an inch thick, and cover it with a lid of the same. Bake it in a quick oven for an. hour and a quarter; and when it is sent to table cut the lid into eight or ten pieces, and stick them round the sides, covering the meat with slices of lemon. VEAL AND SAUSAGE PIE.—E. R. Cover a shallow dish with paste, lay a w'ell-beaten veal cutlet at the bottom slightly seasoned, cover it with a Bologna sausage freed from the skin and cut into slices; then add another cutlet and a layer of the Bologna sausage; cover the whole with paste, and put no water to it. The veal will give out suflScient gravy, while it will be rendered very savoury by the sausage. It is excellent eaten cold. VEAL AND PORK PIE.—E. R. Take equal quantities of veal and pork, boil one or two onions, and scald some leaves of sage ; beat the meat well, and cover it with the sage and onions chopped together, with pepper and salt; fill up the pie, pour in a little water, and bake it. In Devonshire this pie is made with layers of apples and onions between the meat, pork alone being used. Veal and pork pie may be made by covering small veal cutlets with[Chap. x. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 184 sausage-meat of pork, and rolling them into fillets, filling up the dish with gravy that will jelly. EXCELLENT PORK PIES TO EAT COLD. Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose; have ready the trimmings and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed ; and if these are not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin, season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. Put it in layers, quite close up to the top; lay on the lid ; cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soaliing oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put into a common disli, with a very plain crust, and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into pork-pie; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. CALF’S HEAD OR CALF’S FOOT PIE.—E. R. Either must be well stewed before they are put into the pie. They must be cut into nice pieces, free from bone, and well seasoned, or otherwise they will be taste- less. If to be eaten hot, sausage-meat or fresh mush- rooms or oysters will be an improvement, in addition to the ham, eggs, and forcemeat-balls; and if cold, the small pickled mushrooms should be added, or a little mushroom-powder in the gravy. The excellence of the pie will chiefly depend upon the seasoning and flavour, and the quantity of fine savoury jelly which it will con- tain ; and therefore the meat should not be closely packed, in order to leave room for the jelly. VEAL AND OYSTER PIE.—E. R. Make a seasoning of pepper, salt, and a small quantity of grated lemon-peel. Cut some veal cutlets, and beat them until they are tender; spread over them a layer of pounded ham, and roll them round; then cover185 PIES. Chap, i.] them with oysters, and put another layer of the veal fillets, and oysters on the top. Make a gravy of the bones and trimmings, or with a lump of butter, onion, a little flour and water ; stew the oyster liquor, and put to it, and fill up the dish, reserving a portion to put into the pie when it comes from the oven. CALF'S FOOT AND KIDNEY PIE.—E. R. Take from a cold roasted loin of veal slices of the kidney fat, cover them with pounded ham, and put them into a dish with the kidney cut into pieces, and the meat from a calfs foot; put in a few hard-boiled eggs and forcemeat-balls, made very savoury with oysters, an anchovy, and the fat of bacon, as this pie should be eaten cold. Put the juice of half a lemon, or a spoonful of Harvey sauce, into the gravy. Sweetbread may he em- ployed instead of kidney. BEEF-STEAK PIE. Take beef-steaks that have been well hung; beat them gently with a circular steak-beater : season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot minced very fine. Roll each slice with a good piece of fat, and fill your dish. Put some crust on the edge, and only an inch below it, and a cup of water or broth in the dish. Cover with rather a thick crust, and set in a moderate oven. BEEF-STEAK AND OYSTER PIE. Prepare the steaks as above, without rolling, and put layers of them and of oysters. Stew the liquor and beards of the latter with a bit of lemon-peel, mace, and a sprig of parsley. When the pie is baked, boil with the above three spoonsful of cream and an ounce of butter rubbed in flour. Strain it, and put into the dish. TO PREPARE VENISON FOR PASTY. Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some186 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. x. plain drawn beef-gravy, but not a strong one; lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water-bath, that is, a saucepan of water, over tlie fire; simmer three or four hours, then leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not sufficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, and pimento, as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of serving. If the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time to bake, or such a very thick crust, as is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through. VENISON PASTY. A shoulder boned makes a good pasty, but it must be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well-hung loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days; and when to be used wipe it perfectly clean from it and the wine. A mistake used to prevail that venison could not be baked too much; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be preserved. Either in shoulder or side the meat must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be proportioned to each person •without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and salt at the bottom of the dish, and some butter, then the meat nicely packed, that it may be suf- ficiently done, but not lie hollow, to harden at the edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton ; of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish; then lay butter on the venison, and cover as well as line the sides with a thick cnist, but do not put one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven, put it into the middle byChap, x.] PIES. 187 a funnel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be seasoned w'ith pepper and salt. TO MAKE A PASTY OF BEEF OR MUTTON, TO EAT AS WELL AS VENISON. Bone a small rump or piece of sirloin of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-pin; then rub ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it a glass of port, and the same of vinegar. Let it lie five days and nights; wash and wipe the meat very dry, and season it very high with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound or near of butter; spread it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges and cover with a thick one, or it will be overdone before the meat be soaked; it must be done in a slow oven. Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy to ^d to the pasty when drawn. Note.—Sugar gives a greater shortness and better flavour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens, and it is quite as great a preservative, except from the fly. MUTTON PIE.-E. R. Cut the mutton into small pieces, season it very well, and stew it with the fat or suet also cut in pieces, putting in no water. When tender allow it to remain until cold; remove all the grease and fat very carefully; have some gravy made from the bones, add to it the strained gravy from the mutton and a glass of port wine; put it into a dish or into small pattypans, and bake it. Ohs.—A single particle of grease will spoil a pie, and mutton pie especially. VEGETABLE PIE. Scald and blanch some broad beans ; cut young car- rots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, onions.188 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. x. lettuces, parsley, celery, and add peas; or use any of them you may have. Make them into a nice stew, with a little good veal gravy ; season with pepper and salt; bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned bottom upwards to prevent it sinking. When baked, pour the stew into the dish, and lay the crust over it. Winter vegetables mav be used, at that season, in the same way. A cup of cream is a great improvement. MACARONI PIE. Swell four ounces of pipe macaroni in milk, with a large onion. Put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish, with some bits of butter and scraped Gloucester cheese sprinkled lightly over. Cover the whole with a well- seasoned beef-steak, then some more macaroni, then a fowl cut in joints and seasoned, and then another beef- steak ; cover the whole with macaroni, pieces of butter, and grated cheese, instead of crust. Bake in a slow oven. PARSLEY PIE. ^ ^ Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal^ea- soned, into a dish; scald a colander-full of picked parsley in milk, season it, and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of butter, and a bit of flour. Shake it round to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. FRENCH PIE.-E. R. Make a raised crust upon a buttered tin, and brush it with yolk of egg ; cover the bottom with forcemeat, then fill up the pie with sweetbread cut into snrall pieces, oysters, hard eggs, limbs of chicken, turkey, or rabbit, boned; artichoke-bottoms in small pieces, asparagus tops, forcemeat-balls, and mushrooms, taking care toPIES. 189 Chap, x.] lay them regularly, and to season the whole lightly and evenly. When it is full, pour in some strong gravy and cream thickened with flour and flutter: bake it in a moderate oven. N.B. Sausage-meat may he mi.xed with the force- meat, and in winter truffles substituted for the vegeta- bles; the seasoning should be of mace, cloves, and cayenne pepper. PERIGORD PIE. Make a forcemeat chiefly of green truflies, a small quantity of basil, thyme, parsley, knotted marjoram, the liver of any kind of game (if of woodcocks, that and the entrails, except the little bag), a small quantity of fat bacon, a few crumbs, the flesh of wild or tame fowls, pepper, and salt. Lard the breasts of pheasants, par- tridges, woodcocks, moor-game, or whatever birds jj^ou have, with bacon of different sizes. Cut the legs and wings from the backs, and divide the backs. Season them all with white pepper, a little Jamaica pepper, ii|^e, and salt. Make a thick raised crust to receive the al^v6 articles ; it is thought better than a dish ; but either will do. Line it closely with slices of fine, fresh, fat bacon; then cover it with stuffing, and put the dif- ferent parts of the game lightly on it, with whole green truffles, ai.d pieces of stuffing among and over it, ob- serving not to crowd the articles so as to cause them to be underbaked. Over the whole lay slices of fat bacon, and then a cover of common crust. Bake it slowly, according to the size of the pie, which will require a long time. Some are made with a pheasant in the middle, whole, and the other game cut up and put round it. CHICKEN PIE. Cut up two young fowls, season with white pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; likewise a little cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham or fresh gammon of bacon, forcemeat-balls, and[Chap. x. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 190 hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water, but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank-bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add trufSes, morels, mushrooms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but in a raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well; their legs should be cut short, and the breast-bones must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. GREEN GOOSE PIE. Bone two young green geese of a good size; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean, and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other, and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. Gravy-jelly may be added when to be served. STAFFORDSHIRE GOOSE PIES Are made with birds prepared and seasoned as above. A goose is to be outward, succeeded by a turkey, duck, fowl, and then lesser birds, tongue, or forcemeat (Forcemeat may fill up the spaces between the crust and fowls, and be omitted within.) The crust should be ornamented, and the top have a flower or knob, by which to lift it, as it must not be cut, but be kept to cover the pie. A smaller and less expensive pie may be made wdth- out the goose and turkey.Chap, x.] 191 PIES. PIGEON PIES.—E. U. Line the sides of a dish with paste, and put at the bottom either a beef-steak, well beaten and dredged with Hour, or a veal cutlet; clean six young pigeons very nicely, pound a small quantity of ham in a mortar, with the livers, pepper, salt, and a blade of mace : roll the yolks of six hard eggs in this mixture, and put one into the inside of each pigeon, with a small lump of butter rolled in the forcemeat, and floured. Put the breasts of the pigeons downwards; All the dish nearly with water, or broth, if it is preferable ; put on the crust, and stick the feet of the pigeons in the'middle. PARTRIDGE PIE.—E. R. Lay a veal-cutlet in the bottom of the dish; line the inside of the birds with fat bacon; season them well, place them with the breast downwards in the dish, fill it up with good gravy. The partridges may be boned, stuffed with fine forcemeat, and the dish filled up with hard-boiled eggs, forcemeat-balls, truffles, or mushrooms, in which case the partridges should be stewed previously to being put into the pie. GIBLET PIE. After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well. RABBIT PIE. Cut two rabbits, and a pound of fat and lean pork that has lain a week or two in pickle, into small bits;DOMESTIC COOKERY. 192 [Chap. x. lay them, when seasoned with pepper and salt, into a dish. Parboil the livers, and beat them in a mortar, with their weight of fat bacon and bearded oysters, some pepper, salt, mace, and sweet herbs, chopped fine. Make this into small balls, and distribute in the dish with some artichoke-bottoms cut in dice. Grate half a small nutmeg over, and add half a pint of port, and the same of water. Cover with a tolerably thick crust; and bake it an hour in a quick, but not violently heated, oven. .A.N INCOMP.YR.\BLE LING PIE. Wash and soak the salt out of a piece of the thin part; boil it slowly; remove the skin, and put layers of the fish and hard egg sliced; add chopped parsley, with two ounces of butter in bits among it, till the dish is nearly full. Put in a seasoning made of a large tea- cupful of gravy, with pounded mace and white pepper. Lay over it a good puff-paste; and when that is suffi- ciently baked, put in a cup of hot cream. SOLE PIE. Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg, and pounded mace, and put them in layers with oysters : they eat excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster-liquor, two or three spoonsful of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream, boiled up with a tea-spoonful of Hour. SHRIMP PIE. Pick a quart of shrimps; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or three anchovies; mix these svith the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom ofChap, x.] 193 PIES. the dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. LOBSTER PIE. Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, and lay in a small dish, then put in the meat of the claws, and that you have picked out of the body; pick out the furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady ; the spawn, beat in a mortar ; likewise all the shells; set them on to stew with some water, two or three spoonsful of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace; a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added, when the goodness of the shells is ob- tained; give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over all ; bake slowly, but only till the pasle be done. A REMARKABLY FINE FISH PIE. Boil two pomids of small eels; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw’ the bones into the liquor with a little mace, pepper, salt, and slice of onion; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make force- meat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper : pour the gravy over, and bake. Observe to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles. PILCHARD AND LEEK PIE. Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks ; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers two or three salted pil- chards w’hich have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. oDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. x. 194 When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor j then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. OY.STER PIE. As you open the oysters separate them from the liquor, which strain ; parboil them after taking off the beards. Parboil sweetbreads, and cutting them iu slices, lay them and the oysters in layers; season very' lightly with salt, pepper, and mace. Then ])ut half a tea-cup of liquor, and the same of gravy. I3ake in a slow oven ; and before you serve, put a tea-cup of cream, a little more oyster liquor, and a cup of white gravy, all warmed, but not boiled. YORKSHIRE GOOSE PIE.—E. R. Bone a goose, a fowl, and a pigeon; season them well with pepper, taking care to cover the whole of the interior, or otherwise it will turn sour before it can be eaten ; put the fowl inside the goose, and the pigeon into the fowl, tilling the interstices with various kinds of force and sausage meat, and hard-boiled eggs. The liver and gizzard of the fowl and pigeon will assist in the forcemeat, which must be very well compounded; sew up the goose, and put it into a thick crust. It will take several hours to bake; make savoury jelly, which must also be well seasoned, pour it into the pie when it comes from the oven • ornament the top, and let it be moveable, so that the pie may have a good appearance to the last, as the crust is not to be eaten. A calPs foot, boned and cut small, may be added, especially if used for the jelly. A VOL A VENT.—E. R. Tlie Brioche paste is the best adajited for this pur- pose ; bake it with a piece of bread, to preserve the shape, or round a mould, and pour into it a rich mix- ture of boned chicken, sweetbreads cut in pieces, cocks’-PIES. 195 Chap, x.] combs, &c., previously stewed in rich white sauce; make a little of the paste into small balls, or beau- shaped pieces, boil them in the gravy, and lay them on the top with leaves and flowers of the crust baked. VOL A VENT OF CROQUETTES.—E. R. Make croquettes the size of a pigeon’s egg of veal and ham, and of calves’ hrains, an equal number of each, fry them of the palest gold colour, make a rich white sauce, and put into it the very smallest mushrooms, minced truflies; give it an acid flavour with lemon or lemon- pickle, and put it into the vol a vent when it comes from the oven. VOL A VENT OF VEAL.—E. R. Cut veal into thin pieces the size of half-a-crown, beat them, and fry them a pale brown ; make some forcemeat and egg balls, fry the former, put the whole into a rich brown gravy, and serve it up. VOL A VENT OF PIGEONS AND SWEETBREADS.—E. R. Cut off the pinions, legs, and backs of four or six pigeons, and bone the breast, making it as large as possible: cut four or six pieces of blanched sweetbread the same size, put them together, securing them with tape, and put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, the trimmings, an onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, a slice of fat bacon, and a small tea-cupful of water. Let them stew till quite tender, remove the tape, strain and thicken the gravy, and put them into the paste when it comes from the oven. KOLTEM OR MEAT PATTIES, A DISH BORROWED BY THE POLES FROM THE TARTARS.—E. R. Take a pound of the best beef, half a pound of mutton, and a quarter of a pound of beef suet: mince it all together, with an onion, salt, and pepper. Take three eggs, mix them with a proportionate quantity of o 2[Chap. x. 196 DOMESTIC COOKERY. flour, and four spoonsful of water, of which make a thick paste, spreading it with a rolling-pin into a leaf. Put some of the minced meat on the paste, making it into patties, and folding it over, so that the meat shall not fall out during the boiling. Put the patties into hot water, and boil them for a quarter of an hour; drain them from the water, and serve them with melted butter poured over. PATTIES WITH CURDS —E. R. Take some very rich milk, put into it some lemon- juice or vinegar, place it on the fire that it may curdle, drain off the whey through a sieve ; add to the curds the yolk of an egg beaten up in two spoonsful of milk, a few currants, and a little pounded cinnamon. ]\Iake the paste, and prepare the patties in the same way as in the preceding receipt. The melted butter which is poured on the patties is often mixed with pounded biscuit. FRIED PATTIES. Mince a bit of cold veal and six oysters, mixed with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very small bit of lemon-peel; add the liquor of the oysters ; warm all in a tosser, but do not boil ; let it get cold; have ready a good puff-paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits ; put some of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. This is a very good thing; and baked, is a fashionable dish. Wash all patties over with egg before baking. OYSTER PATTIES. Put a fine puff-crust into small pattypans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out the bread. Tuke off the beards of the oysters,PIES. Chap, x.] 197 cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut so sm^ll that you can scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer a few minutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keep them hollow while baking. LOBSTER PATTIES. Make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter. PODOVIES, OR BEEF PATTIES. Shred underdone dressed beef with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or onion. Make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut in shape like an apple puff; fill it with mince, pinch the edges, and fry them of a nice brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. VEAL PATTIES. Mince some veal that is not quite done, with a little parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat; and if you have any ham, scrape a little, and add to it. Do not warm it till the patties are baked. TURKEY PATTIES. Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed. Fdl the patties. A GOOD MINCE FOR PATTIES. Two ounces of ham, four of chicken or veal, one egg boiled hard, three cloves, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Just before you serve, warm the above with four spoonsful of rich gravy, the same of cream, and an ounce of butter. Fill as usual.[Chap. x. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 198 SWEET PATTIES. Chop the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, of w hich you use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange and lemon-peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice; mix with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and four ounces of currants, washed and dried. Bake in small pattypans. PATTIES RESEMBLING MINCE PIES. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. OBSERVATIONS ON SWEET PIES.—E. R. All pies made either with summer fruit or with winter preserves will be improved by a mixture of apples, pared and sliced. Apples will in this way eke out the remains of a pot of jam, with advantage to themselves and the jam. They are especially good with fresh cherries, currants, &c., and will be found an agreeable addition to cranberries. Equal portions also of cran- berries and any very sweet jam will improve both these ingredients. When apples are mixed with jam, they should be sliced thin, and if syrup be wanted, a few slices boiled with a little of the jam in sugar and water. In making pies of green gooseberries, apples, or rhubarb, the sugar should be clarified, that is, boiled in a little water, hut no water poured into the pie, according to the practice of ignorant cooks, who thus destroy the flavour of the fruit. TO PREPARE CRANBERRIES FOR TARTS. Simmer them in moist sugar, without breaking, twenty minutes; and let them become cold before used. A pint will require nearly three ounces of sugar.Chap. x.J 199 PIES. The Russian and American sorts are larger and better flavoured than those of this country. The juice, when expressed from the baked fruit, and sweetened, makes a fine drink in fevers. Stewed with sugar, they eat excellently with bread. ORANGE TART. Squeeze, pulp, and boil two Seville oranges tender; weigh them, and double of sugar : beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. You may ice it. ORANGE TARTLETS OR PUFFS. Line small pattypans ; or roll paste, if for the latter. When baked, put in orange-marmalade made with apple-jelly. LEMON TART. Pare, rather thick, the rinds of four lemons, which boil tender in two waters, and beat fine. Add to it four ounces of blanched almonds, cut thin, four ounces of lump sugar, the juice of the lemons, and a little grated, peel. Simmer to a syrup ; when cold, turn it into a shallow tin tart-dish, lined with a rich thin puff-paste, and lay bars of the same over. As soon as the paste is baked, take it out. GRAPE PIE.—E. R. When the vines are thinned, take the grapes, which should not be larger than peas ; clarify the sugar; put it to the bottom of the dish, or just simmer the grapes in it, and send it to the oven in a rich crust. GREEN APRICOT PIE.—F.. R. When the wall-fruit trees are thinned, take the thinnings before the stone is formed ; stew them gently200 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. x. in sugar and water. When tender, reduce and thicken the syrup, and put it with the fruit into the pie. OLD-FASHIONED APPLE PIE.—E. R. Pare, core, and quarter the apples ; boil the cores and parings in sugar and water ; strain oflf the liquor, adding more sugar ; grate the rind of a lemon over the apples, and squeeze the juice into the syrup. Stick half a dozen cloves into the fruit, put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and a glass of port wine, and bake it in good paste. NEW-FASHIONED APPLE PIE.—E. R. Pare and slice the apples ; scald them; beat them with a spoon with some of the liquor; add grated lemon-peel, the juice of a lemon, white sugar finely pounded, and a piece of butter. Put a paste round the dish, and cover it with bars or flowers of paste. A VERY OLD AND EXCELLENT RECEIPT FOR MINCED MEAT—E. R. Take two pounds of the inside of a sirloin of beef, boiled, and picked from skin, and minced, and four pounds and a half of suet chopped very fine, six pounds of currants clean washed, eight large apples chopped, a twopenny loaf grated, one ounce of nutmegs, half an ounce of cloves, a little pepper and salt, a pound and a half of sugar; grate the peel of an orange and a lemon, add the juice of six oranges and two lemons, and pour over the whole a pint of port wine and one of brandy. Add sweetmeats in making tire pies. PARTICULARLY GOOD MINCED MEAT—E. R. Two pounds of raisins stoned, two pounds of cur- rants, one pound of sultana raisins, four pounds of apples, two pounds of sugar, two pounds of suet, the juice of two lemons, and the rind of one chopped very fine; a quarter of a pound of mixed spice, two glassesChap, x PIES. 201 of brandy, two ounces of citron, and two of candied lemon-peel. MINCE PIES, WITHOUT MEAT. Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and minced ; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds, likewise minced : to these add of mace and cin- namon, a quarter of an ounce each, and eight cloves, in finest powder, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quarters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four and juice of two lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well, and put into a deep pan. LEMON MINCE PIES.—E. II. Take a good lemon, squeeze out the juice, boil the rind tender, and pound it very fine. Add to it three quarters of a pound of currants, half a pound of sugar, a good glass of mountain or brandy; tben add the juice of the lemon, and three quarters of a pound of chopped suet, half a nutmeg, a little mace, and any quantity of tender orange-peel or citron. Bake in puff-paste. EGG MINCE PIES.-E. R. Boil six eggs hard, and cut them small; mix them with double the quantity of chopped suet, add a pound of currants, half a pound of chopped raisins, the peel of a lemon grated, half a nutmeg, a teaspoonful of allspice, a little salt, sugar, and candied lemon-peel, with two glasses of sweet wine. RHUBARB TART. Cut the stalks in lengths of four or five inches, and take off the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and w'ater; cover with another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour; or do them in a block-tin saucepan. When cold, make into a tart as codlin. When tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 202 [Chap. xr. RrTUB.4RB TART,—ANOTHER WAY. Take the stalks from the leaves, and peel off the thin skin ; cut them into pieces about an inch long, and as you do so sprinkle a little fine sugar into the basin. For a quart basin, heaped, take a pound of common lump sugar; boil it in nearly half a pint of water to a thin syrup: when skimmed, put the rhubarb into it, and as it simmers, shake the pan often over the fire. It will turn yellow at first; but keep it very gently doing until it greens, and then take it off. When cold, lay it in the tart dish, with only as much syrup as will make it very moist. Put a light crust over it, and when that is baked, the tart will be done enough. Quarter the crust, and fill the dish with custard or cream. CHAPTER XI. PUDDINGS. OBSERVATIONS ON PUDDINGS .YND PANCAKES. The outside of a boiled pudding has sometimes a dis- agreeable taste, which arises from the cloth it is boiled in not being nicely washed and kept in a drj^ place. It must be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry, and floured before used. If the pudding be of bread, the cloth should be tied so as to allow for swelling ; if of flour, tight. Basins or forms are much better than cloths tor boiling puddings. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in; and it should be moved about for a minute or tn o, that the ingredients may not separate. Very good puddings may be made without eggs; but they should have very little liquid in them, and must boil longer than puddings with eggs. Two or threeChap, xi.] 203 PUDDINGS. spoonsful of fresh table-beer, or one of yeast, will serve instead of eggs, as also will snow. Two large spoonsful of snow will supply the place of one egg, and make a pudding equally good. This is a useful piece of informa- tion, as snow generally falls in the season when eggs are dear. The sooner it is used after it falls the better; but it may be taken up from a clean spot, and kept in a cool place some hours, without losing its good qualities. -Bottled malt liquors are also a good substitute for eggs; the sooner used after the cork is drawn the better. The yolks and wliites, beaten long and separatelj"^, make the article they are put into much lighter. Eggs must be always strained after beating. To avoid repetition, let it be observed, that when pud- ding-sauce is ordered, wine, sugar, and very thick melted butter, boiled up together, is the sauce intended. All dishes in which puddings are baked must be lined an inch or two below the edge, as well as on it; and that part of the dish must be first rubbed with butter. If a pudding is to be turned out, the whole dish must be buttered, and lined with paste. The ingredients of puddings should not be put into the basin or dish till the minute they go into the water or oven. Great care is necessary to prevent rich crusts from be- coming brown, which makes them rank. A piece of paper put over them will preserve the colour. Sago, and all sorts of seeds, should lie in water an hour before they are made into puddings, and be well washed; the want of this caution causes an earthy taste. I f the butter be strong that is used in puddings, they will not taste well, whatever good things be added. A small pinch of salt improves the flavour of all mix- tures, even when the other ingredients are sweet. Well-made raisin wine will serve, in most cases, when wine is ordered for puddings. As the goodness of boiled puddings greatly depends upon keeping the water from the ingredients, the cook204 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xi. should take care to have moulds and basins in readiness that will exactly hold the quantity directed. Puddings of bread or flour are much better if all the ingredients be mixed (except the eggs) three hours before boiling or baking; and they should be well stirred just before they are put into the oven or saucepan. When butter is ordered to be put warm into puddings, the addition of a little milk or wine will prevent its oiling. Half an hour should be allowed for boiling a bread pudding in a half-pint basin, and so on in proportion. A mealy potato, grated -while hot, and beaten well with a spoonful of milk, will add greatly to the light- ness of plum puddings, whether boiled or baked. HUNTERS’ PUDDING. Mix a pound of suet, ditto flour, ditto currants, ditto raisins, stoned and a little cut, the rind of half a lemon shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers, in fine powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence; boil it in a floured cloth, or a melon-mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sw’eet-sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-w'ater for change of flavour. This pudding will keep, after it is boiled, six months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap-paper, to preserve it from dust, being first cold. When to be used, it must boil a lull hour. PI,UM PUDDING. The same proportions of flour and suet, and half the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of -wine, or not, and one egg, and milk, w’ill make an excellent pud- ding, if long boiled. ANOTHER. Lay a pound of beef suet in lumps, the size of nut- megs, in a basin, half a pound of jar-raisins, a large spoonful of fine sugar, three eggs, a spoonful and a halfCha?. XI.] 205 PUDDINGS. of flour, and a glass of brandy. Tie a wet cloth, doubled and well floured, over the basin. Put it into a pot of water that boils very fast, and move it about for some minutes. Boil five or six hours. ANOTHER, VERY LIGHT. Mix grated bread, suet, and stoned raisins, four ounces each, with two well-beaten eggs, three or four spoonsful of milk, and a little salt. Boil four hours. A spoon- ful of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, in melted butter, may be served as sauce. N.ATIONAL PLUM PUDDING. Mix suet, jar-raisins, and currants, one pound each, four ounces of crumbs of bread, two table-spoonsful of sugar, one ditto of grated lemon-peel, half a nutmeg, a small blade of mace, a tea-spoonful of ginger, and six well-beaten eggs. Boil it five hours. A BLACK CAP PUDDING.—E. R. Rub three table spoonsful of flour, smooth, by degrees into a pint of milk, strain it, and simmer it over the fire until it thickens; stir in two ounces of butter; when cool add the yolks of four eggs beaten and strained, and half a pound of currants washed and picked. Put the batter into a cloth well buttered, tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water, keep it in motion for five minutes, that it may be well mixed. SUET PUDDING. Shred a pound of suet; mix with a pound and a quar- ter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Boil'it four hours. It eats well next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton, finely shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet; and both are far better for the purpose than butter, which causes the pudding to be black and close.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 206 [Chap. xi. BAKED SUET PUDDING. Boil a pint of milk: when become cold, stir it into eight ounces of flour, and six of shred suet; add two eggs, and a tea-spoonful of salt. If to be plum pudding, put in eight or ten ounces of stoned raisins, and omit the salt. ROLLED PUDDING.—E. R. Make a good paste, roll it out, and cover it equally over with currants or chopped raisins and chopped apple, the latter making it very rich and moist; roll it up, tie it in a cloth, and boil it; serving it up, cut in pieces, with melted butter. This pudding may also be made with any kind of sweetmeat or jam. FRENCH PLUM PUDDING. Mix six ounces of suet, seven ounces of grated bread, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of French plums, three well-beaten eggs, a small tea-cupful of milk, and a dessert spoonful of ratafia. Let it stand two hours, and boil it the same space of time. Observe to stir it well the last thing. AN ECONOMICAL PUDDING.—E. R. Half a pound of flour, half a pound of currants, half a pound of suet w'ell chopped, and four ounces of treacle, with milk sufficient to mix it well together into a stiff paste or batter ; the stiffness of boiled rice. Butter a basin, and let it boil five hours. When cold it may be sliced and browned. MONTAGU PUDDING.—E. R. Half a pound of suet chopped, but not finely, four table-spoonsful of flour, and four eggs, mixed into a bat- ter, with four spoonsful of milk: add half a pound of raisins stoned, and a little sugar, and boil the whole four hours in a basin.Chaf. XI.] 207 PUDDINGS. MARLBOROUGH I’UDDING.—E. R. Cover the dish with a thin puff-paste, then take of candied citron, orange, and lemon peel, each one ounce; slice these sweetmeats very thin, and lay them all over the bottom of the dish; dissolve six ounces of butter w'ithout water; add six ounces of powdered sugar, and the yolks of four eggs beaten well; stir them over the fire until the mixture boils, then pour it on the sweet- meats, and bake the pudding three quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. B.VTTER PUDDING.—E. R. To six ounces of flour add a little salt and a gill of milk; mix them quite smooth, beat up four eggs and strain them, then add them to the batter, with more milk, until the mixture is as thick as good cream. Strain the batter, and put it into a basin rubbed with butter ; tie a cloth over it, and boil it one hour. The excellence of a batter pudding mainly depends upon its being strained twice, that is, the eggs first, and then the whole : if this point be observed, it will be as rich and as good as a custard pudding, without the danger of breaking. If it is wanted to be jiarticularly fine, one or two more eggs may be added. Serve with melted butter, sugar, lemon- juice, and a glass of wine. AN EXCELLENT PLAIN POTATO PUDDING. Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonfiil of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put three ounces more butter, sweet- meats and almonds, and another egg. POTATO PUDDING WITH MEAT. Boil potatoes all fit to mash ; rub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk and two eggs. Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter;208 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xi. and over the last layer pour the remainder of the batter. Bake a fine brown. AN EXCEEDINGLY GOOD POT.YTO SUET PUDDING. To a pound of mashed potatoes, while hot, add four ounces of suet and two ounces of flour, a little salt, and as much milk as will give it the consistence of common suet pudding. Put it into a dish, or roll it into dump- lings, and bake of a fine brown. CUSTARD PUDDING.—E. R. Boil a quart of milk until it is reduced to a pint; take from it a few spoonsful, and let it cool, mixing with it very perfectly one spoonful of flour, which add to the boiling milk, and stir it until quite cool. Beat four yolks and two whites of eggs, strain them, and stir them into the milk with two ounces of sifted sugar, tn’o or three spoonsful of wine, and a little grated nutmeg. Put it into a basin, tie a cloth over it, and boil it half an hour, untie the cloth, cool the basin a little, lay a dish upon the top of it, and turn it out. CUSTARD.—E. R. Boil half a pint of new milk with a piece of lemon- peel, two peach leaves, and eight lumps of white sugar. Should cream be employed instead of milk, there will be no occasion to skim it. Beat the yolks and whites of three eggs, strain the milk through coarse muslin, or a hair sieve; then mix the eggs and milk very gradually together, and simmer it gently on the fire, stirring it until it thickens. RICE CUSTARD.—E. R. Take a cup of whole Carolina rice, and seven cups of milk ; boil it by placing the pan in water, which must never be allowed to go off the boil till it thick- ens ; then sweeten it: add an ounce of pounded sweet almonds.PUDDINGS. Chap, xt.] 209 ALMOND CUSTARD.—E. R. Boil in a pint of mill<, or cream, two or three bitter almonds, a stick of cinnamon, and a piece of lemon- peel, pared thin, with eight or ten lumps of sugar ; let it simmer to extract the flavour, then strain it and stir it till cold. Beat the yolks of six eggs, and mix it v'ith the milk, and stir the whole over a slow fire until of a proper thickness, adding an ounce of sweet almonds, beaten fine in rose water. MARROW' PUDDING.—E. R. Four ounces of marrow, four of biscuits, three of jar raisins stoned, candied orange-peel, sugar and nutmeg to the taste. Place these articles in layers in a dish sur- rounded by paste; then beat up four eggs, leaving out the whites of two, in half a pint of cream, or good milk, and pour it over the other ingredients: it will take an hour and a half to bake. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.-E. R. Make a custard of an egg and half a pint of milk, by boiling the milk with a little lemon-peel and sugar, and beating up the egg in it, putting it on the fire to thicken; then butter slices of bread or French roll, and soak them for an hour or two in this mixture; then lay them in a dish, sprinkling currants, washed, dried, and picked, between each layer, and a little pounded sugar, putting some sweetmeats on the top, and pour over it another half-pint of milk beaten up with two eggs. The cold fat of a loin of veal may be used instead of butter or marrow. BAKED VERMICELLI PUDDING. Simmer four ounces of vermicelli in a pint of new milk ten minutes; then put to it half a pint of cream, a tea-spoonful of pounded cinnamon, four ounces of butter warmed, the same of white sugar, and the yolks of four eggs, well beaten. Bake in a dish without a lining. p, 210 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Ch.u>. XI. MILLET PUDDING. Wash three spoonsful of the seed; put into the dish, with a crust round the edges; pour over it as much new milk as will nearly fill the dish, two ounces of butter warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a little scrape of ginger and nutmeg. As you put it into the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. BREAD PUDDING.—E. R. Take a pint of bread crumbs, cover them perfectly with milk ; add some cinnamon, lemon-peel, and grated nutmeg ; put them on a gentle fire until the crumbs are well soaked. Take out the cinnamon and lemon-peel, beat the crumbs and milk well together, add four eggs well beaten, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, and boil it an hour. N.B. This being a receipt employed in India, where the eggs are smaller than in England, perhaps three eggs would be the better proportion. CABINET PUDDING.—E. R. Ten penny sponge-cakes or biscuits, six ounces of dried cherries or sultana raisins, six eggs with the whites of four; beat up the eggs with a httle nutmeg and sugar ; butter the mould very completely, and lay the cherries or raisins in a pattern, round the top and the sides; break each cake into four pieces, and lay them close to the fruit to keep it from falling; then fill up the mould with the custard. Tie a piece of cloth over the top of the mould, put it into a stewpan with a little boiling water at the bottom of the mould, and be careful that the lid of the stewpuu sits quite close to keep in the steam. Half an hour will boil it. THE GREY PUDDING.—E. R. Take three eggs, weigh them in the shell; take an equal weight of sugar and of butter, and two-thirds of the weight of flour. Half melt the butter and be^it itChap, xi.] PUDDINGS. 211 to a cream ; beat the eggs also, and mix them with the butter and sugar, beating the whole to a froth; then add the flour, and the rind of a lemon grated ; beat all together, and pour it into a mould : an hour will boil it. This jjudding may also be baked, substituting cream for the butter, wliich would render it more delicate than butter subjected to the dry heat of an oven. THE CONSERV.^TIYE PUDDING.—E. R. A quarter of a pound of ratafia and maceroon cakes mixed, four sponge biscuits, the yolks of eight eggs, half a pint of cream, and a glass of brandy, well beaten together, the cakes being ssfked in the cream and brandy. Butter a quart mould, place dried cherries or stoned raisins in a pattern over it, pour in the mixture, and place the mould in a stewpan surrounded by water, and let it simmer an hour and a half over charcoal. THE CLARENCE PUDDING.—E. R. Butter a mould, and cover it in a pattern with sweet- meats of various colours, and fruit; cut three sponge- cakes in slices, and soak them in brandy ; place them round the mould; make a fine custard with four eggs, a pint of milk, and two ounces of pounded almonds; pour it in, and boil it for an hour. ADELAIDE PUDDING.—E. R. Break seven eggs into a deep pan, leaving out three of the whites. Put ten ounces of loaf-sugar in a pint of water ; set it over the fire until the scum rises ; pour it over the eggs; add a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and the juice of a lemon. Whisk them for twenty mi- nutes ; shake in half a pound of flour; pour it into a tin, and put it into the oven immediately. MARTHA’S PUDDING.—E. R. Boil half a pint of milk with a laurel leaf and a bit of cinnamon ; pour it upon a cupful of grated bread; add three eggs well beaten, a little grated nutmeg and p 2[Chap, xi 212 DOMESTIC COOKERY. lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonfiil of orange-flower water. Sweeten to the taste. Butter the basin; stick plums or split raisins in rows upon it. Stir the ingredients of the pudding well together, and pour it into the basin, and boil it an hour and a half. KHALI KHAN’S PtTDDING.—E. R. Boil an ounce of rice in milk until it will beat into a pap ; pare, core, and scald half a dozen apples, and beat them also with the rice, an ounce of finely-sifted sugar, a salt-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a little lemon-juice, or a few drops of essence of lemon; then beat the whites of four eggs until they make a strong froth ; add the other ingredients, whisking them w’ell together, so as to be very light. Dip a basin or mould into boiling water ; pour in this souffle w'hile the mould is quite hot, and put the mould into a pan of boiling water, boiling until the white of the eggs is set and firm. Have a custard made with the yolks of the eggs, and pour it round the pudding in a dish. Snow-balls may be made the same w'ay, with pounded almonds substituted for apples. The elegance and lightness of this pudding are great recommendations. THE PORTLAND PUDDING.—E. R. Beat up four eggs with a table-spoonful of sugar and one of flour very smoothly, then add a pound of raisins, and a pound of the fat of a cold loin of veal, or of suet evenly chopped; butter a mould, put in the pudding, tie it tightly in a cloth, and let it boil five hours. POUND PUDDING.—E. R. Beat half a pound of fresh butter, with the same quantity of loaf-sugar, till it is like cream ; then add six eggs, all well beaten separately, half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of currants, two ounces of candied orange or lemon peel, cut into very thin slices, and tw'enty drops of essence of lemon. After the in- gredients are all mixed, heat the whole for ten minutes ;Chap, xi.] 213 PUDDINGS. then put it into a well-buttered mo'dd, and boil it for two hours and a half. SHELFORD PUDDING. Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon-shape six hours. PUDDINGS IN HASTE. Shred suet, and put, with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel, and ginger. Mix, and make into little balls about the siz,e and shape of an egg, with a little .flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. Twenty minutes will boil them; but they will rise to the top when done. Serve with pudding-sauce. MADEIRA PUDDING.—E. R. Have a tin cake-mould, of which the bottom will come out; butter it, and lay upon it a piece of paste the size of the mould; cover it with preserve of apricots; then lay another piece of paste, and cover this with red preserves, and so on in different layers, with paste be- tween, until the mould is filled. Boil; and serve with brandy-sauce. This is a rich pudding, for wdiich the island of Madeira is very famous. Great care will be necessary in taking it out of the mould ; and it will take a long time to boil it properly. ALMOND PUDDING.—E. R. Take tw-o ounces and a half of w’hite bread-crumbs, and steep them in a pint of cream; then pound half a pint of lilanched almonds to a paste with some water. Beat the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three; mix all together, and add three ounces of sugar, and an ounce of beaten butter; put all over the fire; stir it until it thickens, and then bake it in a puff-paste.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ii. 214 THE MERTON ALMOND PUDDING E. R. Take six ounces of almonds ground to flour, six ounces of sifted white sugar, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel grated, a few drops of essence of lemon, and eight eggs, leaving out two of the whites ; heat up the eggs, and mix in the other ingredients, beating the whole for an hour one way. Let the oven be ready; oil the dish, and bake the pud- ding the instant it is completed. N.B.—Too much cannot be said in praise of this pudding, which, in consequence of its not containing any butter, may be eaten by the most delicate person without a chance of disagreeing. Its excellence, how- ever, depends upon its being beaten for a full hour, and baked immediately. CURD PUDDING.—E. R. Turn two quarts of milk, and drain oflf the curd. Beat it in a mortar with two ounces of butter, until the butter and curd are well united. Then beat the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three; add them to the curd; add a little grated bread or biscuit, a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, some nutmeg, and a few pounded peach kernels; mix them well together; butter a dish, and bake it with a crust round the edges. Currants may be added. CITRON PUDDING.—E. R. Take half an ounce of citron, the same quantity of candied orange and of lemon-peel; cut them into slices, and put to them five ounces of loaf-sugar, and five ounces of butter. Make a paste, and line a dish ; then lay the peel regularly at the bottom; beat up four eggs with half the whites; then add the rest of the ingre- dients, and bake half an hour. This is a famous Norwich receipt, kindly forwarded by Mrs. Opie, and is taken from an original document furnished by Mr. Black, the celebrated confectioner of that city, to the author of “ The Two Rectors.”Chap, xi.] PUDDINGS. 215 DUTCH PUDDING.—E. R. Melt half a pound of butter in a quarter of a pint of milk, let it stand till it is lukewarm, then strain it into a pound of flour, add four eggs well beaten, and two large spoonsful of yeast; beat the whole very well together, and let it stand for an hour before the fire to rise. Then beat into it two spoonsful of moist sugar, and half a pound of currants; put it into a dish or tin well buttered, and when baked turn it out before sending to table. N.B. This partakes of the character of Brioche, and may be varied in many ways. A VERY FINE AMBER PUDDING. Put a pound of butter into a saucepan with three- quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar finely powdered; melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as if it were a pie, and bake it in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. A FRIAR’S OMELET. Boil a dozen apples, as for sauce; stir in a quarter of a pound of butter, and the same of white sugar. When cold, add four eggs well beaten; put it into a baking-dish thickly strewed over with crumbs of bread, so as to stick to the bottom and sides; then put in the apple mixture; strew’ crumbs of bread plentifully over the top. When baked, turn it out, and grate pounded sugar over it. A SWISS PUDDING. Put layers of crumbs of bread and sliced apples, with sugar between, till the dish be as full as it willDOMESTIC COOKERY. 216 [Chap. xi. hold. Let the crumbs be the uppermost layer; then pour melted butter over it, and bake. SPONGE PUDDINGS.—E. R. These puddings must be made with the greatest exactitude. Cream a quarter of a pound of butter, and add four eggs, the whites and yolks, two ounces of white pounded sugar, and two table spoonsful of flour: beat the whole up slowly, fill six small cups, and bake them for exactly twenty minutes. Serve with wine sauce. BISCUIT PUDDINGS.—E. R. Mix together a quarter of a pound of bread-crumbs with the same quantity of brown sugar and butter, five eggs, leaving out two whites, and then a quarter of a pint of milk ; bake twenty minutes in cups as before. PUFF PUDDINGS.—E. R. Pour scalding milk upon white bread sliced; let it stand till well soaked; then beat it well with four eggs, a little sugar, and grated nutmeg. Bake in small tea- cups, which must be only half filled. The absence of butter will render these puddings very desirable to deli- cate stomachs. COCOA-NUT PUDDING.—E. R. Grate a cocoa-nut with a bread-grater, and stir it into a good custard of eggs, a little spice, a bii of fresh butter, and a glass of brandy. Line shallow dishes with puft- paste, and bake of a delicate brown. * COCOA NUT CHEESECAKES.—E. R. Take two hard cocoa-nuts, pare, wash, and wipe them very dry; then grate them on the flat side, that is, the side that adheres to the shell; dissolve half a pound of -white sugar in a little water over the fire, then add the cocoa-nuts, and allow it just to boil up oncej then beat the yolks of four eggs exceedingly217 Chap, xi.] PUDDINGS. well, mix them with the cocoa-nuts, and beat them all together for an hour, adding a little rose-water. Bake them in pattypans in a light crust, sifting sugar over them before they are put into the oven. RICE SMALL PUDDINGS. Wash two large spoonsful of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and tAvo whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste; and add grated lemon and a little cinnamon. Butter little cups and fill three parts full, putting at bottom some orange or citron. Bake three-quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment be- fore to be eaten with sweet sauce in the dish or a boat. PLAIN BOILED RICE PUDDING. Wash and pick some rice, throw among it some pi- mento finely pounded, but not much : tie the rice in a cloth, and leave plenty of room for it to swell. Boil it in a quantity of water for an hour or two. When done, eat it with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. ANOTHER. Soak four ounces of rice in water half an hour, then tie it up in a cloth (leaving room for it to swell) Avith eight ounces of raisins. Boil it two hours, and then turn it out. Pour over it melted butter, Avith a little sugar and nutmeg. ANOTHER. Tie a quarter of a pound of clean rice in a cloth, leaving room for it to swell. Boil it an hour. Take it up, untie it, and stir in four ounces of butter, someDOMESTIC COOKERY. 218 [Chap. xi. nutmeg and sugar. Tie it up again, and boil it" another hour. Serve with melted butter in the dish. A RICH RICE PUDDING. Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces of beef suet or marrow, or veal suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, three-quarters of a pound of currants, two spoonsful of brandy, one of peach-water or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven. RICE PUDDING WITH FRUIT. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, goose- berries scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants), with one egg into the rice to bind it: boil it well and serve with sugar. RICE PUDDING WITH DRY CURRANTS. Boil a tea-cupful of rice as you would for currie; when cold, mix it w'ith the same quantity of washed currants, one egg, an ounce of butter, and tw'o ounces ot sugar. Tie it up in a floured cloth, and boil it forty-five minutes. Serve with sw'eet sauce. BAKED RICE PUDDING. Swell rice as above; then add some more milk, an egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon-peel. Bake in a deep dish. ANOTHER FOR THE FAMILY. Put into a very deep pan half a pound of rice washed and picked; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar.Chap, xi.] PUDDINGS. 219 a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. A PORCUPINE PUDDING. Boil half a pint of rice in new milk until perfectly tender, and not too dry; then add six eggs beaten, a spoonful of ratafia, as much sugar as shall be suf- ficient, and some grated fresh lemon; mix well, and boil in a mould one hour and a half. Turn it on a hot dish, and stick it thick with almonds slit in six. Serve with a rich custard round. It is equally good cold. OXFORD PUDDINGS.—E. R. Take a quarter of a pound of grated biscuit, the same quantity of currants, the same of suet finely chopped, a spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg; mix them toge- ther. Take the yolks of three eggs, and make up the puddings into balls. Fry them a light colour in fresh butter, and serve with white w'ine sauce. NEW COLLEGE PUDDINGS.—E. R. Take a penny roll grated ; or, if desired to have the puddings particularly nice, an equal quantity of Naples biscuit pounded; a quarter of a pound of suet finely minced, and half a pound of currants washed and picked, adding nutmeg, sugar, and a little salt. Beat up these ingredients with three eggs, and as much cream as will make them of a proper thickness for frying. Let the butter they are fried in be very hot; drop in the puddings by spoonsful. When dished up, put a piece of green sweetmeat on the top of each. COLLEGE PUDDINGS.—E. R. Boil half a pint of cream ; stir in a quarter of a pound of butter; beat four eggs, leaving out two wliites, and mix them with two ounces of flour well dried, and an ounce of sifted sugar. When the cream is a little cool, stir it into the flour and eggs. Let it stand for a quarterDOMESTIC COOKERY. 220 [Chap. xi. of an hour before the fire, and then bake them in a quick oven for about five-and-twenty minutes. If the directions be followed exactly, this excellent pudding will never disappoint. GLOUCESTER PUDDINGS.—E. R. Weigh three eggs in the shell; take their weight in flour and in butter; take twelve bitter almonds, and five ounces of pounded sugar; beat all together for half an hour, and put the mixture into pudding-cups, filling the cups only half full. Bake them half an hour. POMMES AU BEURRE.—BUTTERED APPLES.—E. R. Peel the apples and remove the core without cutting them through, taking care not to break them. Cut slices of bread the circumference of the apples, butter a dish, put on the bread, and place an apple on each slice. Fill the hole made by the removal of the core with white sugar, place a piece of butter the size of a walnut on each hole ; put them into a gentle oven, and renew the sugar and butter several times. They will take twenty minutes, or half an hour. Be very careful not to let the bread burn, or the apples lose tlieir shape. .\N APPLE CHARLOTTE.—E. R. Pare and slice a quantity of apples; cut off" the crust of a loaf, and cut slices of bread and butter. Butter the inside of a pie-dish, and place bread and butter all round; then put in a layer of apples sprinkled with lemon-peel, chopped very fine, and a considerable quan- tity of good brown sugar. Then put on a layer of bread and butter, and anotlier of apples, lemon-peel, and sugar, until the dish is fiill, squeezing over the juice of lemons, so that every part shall be equally flavoured. Cover up the dish with the crusts of the bread and the peels of the apples, to prevent it from browning or burning: bake it an hour and a quarter, then take off the peels and the crust, and turn it out of the dish.PUDDINGS. Chap, xi.] 221 The broMTi sugar adds greatly to the richness of the pudding, which, made in this way, is not expensive. CHARLOTTE DE POMMES E. R. Rub a dish very thickly with butter, then cut as many slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line the sides; then cut apples in thin slices, and place them in layers, with sugar and butter between. In the mean time, soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole; lay a plate and a weight on the top to press the bread close upon the apples. Bake it slowly for three hours. A moderately-sized dish will take half a pound of butter to make the whole. CHARTREUSE OF APPLES AND RICE.—E. R. Boil six ounces of rice with a stick of cinnamon in milk until it is thick, stirring in a spoonful of rose-water, or orange-flower water. Pare six or seven large apples —golden pippins are the best—scoop out the core, and fill up the orifice with raspberry jam. Border a deep dish with paste; put in the apples, leaving a space between, and fill it up with the rice. Brush the whole over with the yolk of an egg, and sift sugar thickly over it; form a pattern on the top with sweetmeats, and bake it for an hour in a quick oven. MIROTON OF APPLES.—E. R. Scald the apples, reduce them to a pulp, and pile them high upon the dish in which they are to be served ; boil a tea-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and six or eight lumps of sugar, in a tea-cupful of water; then add the yolks of three eggs and the white of one, half an ounce of butter, a spoonful of flour, and one of brandy; mix the whole together over the fire, and stir it till quite smooth. Pour it upon the apples, then whisk the whites of the other two eggs to a froth ; put them over the miroton just as it is going into the oven, and sift some sugar over it. The oven must be slow : it will take ten or fifteen minutes to bake.[Chap. xi. DOMESTIC COOKEKY. 222 LEMON PUDDING, No. 1.—E. R. Melt six ounces of butter, and pour it over the same quantity of powdered loaf-sugar, stirring it well till cold. Then grate the rind of a large lemon, and add it with eight eggs well beaten, and the juice of two lemons : stir the whole till it is completely mixed together, and bake the pudding with a paste round the dish. LEMON ITJDDING, No. 2.—E. R, Half a pound of bread-crumbs, a quarter of a pound of finely-chopped suet, the rind of two lemons grated, and the juice of one. two eggs well beaten; mix the whole with a quarter of a pound of sugar sifted, and boil it three quarters of an hour. LEMON PUDDING, No. 3.—E. R. Pare six lemons finely, and boil the peel till it is tender; then pound it in a mortar, add the juice of three lemons, and a quarter of a pound of butter melted into a little cream, three sponge or ratafia cakes, tlie yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three; mix all up well together, with sugar to the taste, adding a little nut- meg: and brandy. Orange puddings may be made in the same manner, either boiled or baked. LEMON DUMPLINGS.-E. R. A quarter of a pound of bread grated, the same quan- tity of sifted sugar, and of finely-chopped beef suet, one lemon, the juice to be mixed with the sugar, and the rind cut small or grated, and one egg; mix ail together, make them into dumplings, boil them t\venty minutes, and serve with wine sauce. LEMON TART.—E. R. Half a pound of lump-sugar, three lemons sliced, and laid in the sugar for a night, cover the bottom of a dish with a pound of Savoy biscuits, lay over them slicesChap, xi.] 223 PUDDINGS. of candied orange and lemon-peel, four ounces of pounded almonds and one of butter, put in the sugar and lemons, and cross-bar the top. LEMON TARTLETS.—E. R. The juice of two lemons and the rinds grated, clean the grater with bread, only using sufficient crumbs to takeoff all the lemon-peel; beat all together with two eggs, half a pound of loaf-sugar, and a quarter of a pound of butter. This is sufficient to make twelve tartlets, and will be found very excellent. LEMON CHEESECAKES THAT WILL KEEP FOR SEVEN YEARS.—E. R. To a quarter of a pound of butter put a pound of loaf- sugar, broken into small pieces, six eggs, leaving out two whites, the rind of three lemons grated, and the juice of three; put them all into a pan, and let them simmer over the fire until the sugar is dissolved, and it begins to thicken like honey. When cold, put it into sweetmeat pots for use. When made into cheesecakes, add grated sweet biscuits. POTATO CHEESECAKE.—E. R. Four ounces of butter, the same of pounded sugar, and six ounces of potatoes boiled and floured through a sieve, the rind of one lemon, and half the juice, unless acid is desirable; mix these ingredients well together, with two eggs, and fill the tart-pan and bake it. PUDDINGS QUICKLY MADE E. R. Beat four eggs and strain them ; mix four ounces of flour very smoothly with a pint of milk; add it to the eggs and strain it again, and flavour the batter with sugar and nutmeg; butter some tea-cups, fill them three parts full, and put them into an oven: they will take a quarter of an hour, and, if well mixed, wdll be equal to custard.224 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. XI. CREAM PUDDING. Boil a quart of cream, with a blade of mace, three cloves, and half a nutmeg grated; and let it stand to cool. Beat eight eggs, but only three whites; strain, and mix them with a spoonful of the finest flour, a quarter of a pound of almonds blanched and beaten fine, with a spoonful of orange-flower or rose-water. Mix these by degrees in the cream, and stir all well together. Take a thick cloth, wet and flour it well; pour in the mixture, tie it close, and plunge it into boil- ing water. Keep it boiling half an hour very fast. When done, turn it carefully on a dish, strew fine sugar upon it, and serve pudding-sauce round. LECHE CREMA.—E. R. Beat up three eggs, leaving out two of the whites, and add to them gradually a pint and a half of milk; then mix very carefully four table spoonsful of fine wheat flour, and two ounces of finely-powdered loaf-sugar, with grated lemon peel to give a flavour. Boil these ingredients over a slow fire, stirring constantly to pre- vent burning, until the flour is quite dissolved. Prepare a shallow dish with some ratafia cakes at the bottom, and when the crema is sufficiently boiled, pour it through a sieve upon the cakes. N.B. This delicious dish is always served up to table cold: just before send- ing up, some finely-powdered cinnamon should be dusted pretty thickly over it. This receipt was obtained from the nuns of Santa Clara convent, at Palmas, in the island of Grand Canary. EVE'S PUDDING. Grate three quarters of a pound of bread ; mix it with the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples and iilso of currants; mix w'ith these the whole of four eggs, and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape; boil three hours, and serve w ith pudding- sauce, the juice of half a lemon, and a little nutmeg.PASTRY, Cbap. XI.] 225 GERMAN PUFFS.—E. R. Put half a pound of butter into a breakfast-cupful of milk, place the pan upon the fire, and when it boils, add a cupful of flour, beat all well together, and, when cold, mix in six eggs leaving out two of the whites, beat up some sugar and grated lemon-peel with the eggs, and bake the puffs in a moderately-heated oven. IMPERIAL PUFFS.—E. R. Mix with half a pint of cream two spoonsful of flour, a handful of finely-powdered almonds, three spoonsful of orange-flower water, the yolks of four, and the whites of two eggs, with enough of sifted sugar to sweeten it. Beat all well together, and bake in buttered pans before the eggs can fall. LEMON PUFFS.—E. R. Pound and sift half a pound of loaf sugar, grate the rind of one large lemon, or two small ones ; then whip up the white of an egg to a froth, and mix all together to the consistency of good paste; cut it into shapes, and bake upon writing paper, being careful not to handle the paste: the oven must be very slow for this purpose. AUSTRIAN PUFFS.—E. R. Two ounces of pounded almonds, the same of clari- fied butter and sifted sugar, two spoonsful of flour, the yolks of two eggs, half a pint of cream, and a little orange-flower water ; beat all together, butter the pans, fill them only half full, and bake for half an hour in a slow oven. FRENCH PUFFS.—E. R. Take a pint of new milk, boil half, and mix the other half very smoothly with four heaped spoonsful of fine flour; then add it to the boiling milk, and boil it until it is a stiff paste. When cold, take the yolks of five QDOMESTIC COOKERY. 226 [Chap. xi. eggs, the whites of two, a table spoonful of sifted sugar, and beat the whole into a light batter in a marble mortar; then drop it from a spoon into boiling lard, fry of a light brown, and serve it up with sifted sugar over each. A small piece of any candied fruit may be dropped into, each spoonful of batter. IRISH PUFFS.—E. R. Pound a quarter of a pound of sweet, and an ounce of bitter almonds, but not too finely ; take a quarter of a pound of loaf-sugar pounded and sifted, the whites of two eggs, beaten to a thick froth; mix all together, and put the puffs into pattypans covered with paste; then sift pow'dered sugar over them thickly, and bake them a light brown. The flavour may be improved by pound- ing the almonds with orange-flower water, or a little essence of lemon. LADY ABBESSES.—E. R. Take three ounces of Jordan almonds, and a quarter of an ounce of butter, with two ounces of loaf-sugar; pound them with a little rose-water till they become a thick paste; spread the paste on buttered tins, and bake them in a slow oven. When cold, put a spoonful of jam in each, and cover it with whipped cream. REGENT’S PASTRY.—E. R. Take half a pound of almonds ground into flour, a little powdered sugar, and a few drops of some concrete essence; make it into a paste wdth the white of an egg; then make another paste with sugar, flour, and butter, worked up with the whites of eggs; roll it out; then lay it upon the almond paste, and cut both together into shapes, brush them over w’ith egg, then sprinkle chopped almonds over them, and bake upon buttered paper, in a tart-pan. Ornament the pastry with jam when it comes from the oven.PUDDINGS. Chap, xi.] 22*7 RICE FRITTERS.—E. R . Slice the rind of a lemon, and boil it in milk, with sugar enough to sweeten it, and a cup of rice. When the ipce is quite soft, take it out; beat up the rice with a glass of brandy, shape it into fritters, brush them with yolks of eggs, cover them with bread crumbs, fry them in butter, and serve them up with lemon-juice squeezed over them. RICE BALLS.—E. R. Pour upon half a pound of rice three pints of boiling milk, and boil it with a little cinnamon, sugar, and lemon-peel until it is quite tender; allow it to remain until it is cold, and then make it into balls. Beat up two eggs, roll the balls in it, and afterwards in grated bread-crumbs •, fry them in lard, drain them on a piece of paper, and serve them up covered with sifted sugar. SOUFFLE.—E. R. Take two ounces of potato-flour, mix it with half a pint of boiled cream, in which the peel of a lemon has been infused j add a little sugar, a large lump of butter, and a little salt. The souffle must be properly, not greatly sweetened, for the less sugar the lighter it will be. Break six eggs; add four only of the yolks, well beaten, to the cream; beat the six whites to a froth, and pour them gently on the other ingredients into a souffle-dish; put it into an oven moderately warm, and when done, powder a little sugar over it, and finish with a salamander. Souffles must be served up the moment they are ready, as they are liable to sink. The genuine French potato-flour is sold at Morel’s Italian Warehouse, Piccadilly. A SOUFFLE PUDDING.—E. R. Take a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, half a pound of flour, and the same quantity of butter, the yolks of six eggs, and a table-spoonful of orange-flower Q 2228 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Ch.\p. II. water. Beat the whole together very smoothly; then beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and add them to the rest. Boil it in a mould. It may also be baked; and if so, the dish it is baked in must not be filled. RICE souffle'.—E. R. Boil two ounces of rice in milk, add the yolks of two eggs, a little sugar, and some candied orange-peel; then boil it again, and make a wall with it round the edge of a dish. Have ready some apples pared, and the cores scooped out; stew these apples in a little lemon-juice and sugar; fill the apertures with candied sweetmeats. Fill the shape with the apples, and cover them with the whites of eggs beaten to a froth, with white sifted sugar. Harden it in a cool oven. PANCAKES.—E. R. Common pancakes are made with a light batter of a mixture of eggs, half the whites being only used, a little salt, ginger, nutmeg, flour, and milk. A fine kind may be made with eight eggs to a pint of milk, and three ounces of butter, melted and poured in with a glass of wine or brandy ; and currants, washed, picked, and dried, may be added. Pancakes must be fried in boiling fat, and great care taken to prevent their being greasy. Garnish with lemons. COMMON PANCAKES. Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nutmeg and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them ; or, when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour, and small beer, ginger, &c.; or clean snow, with flour, and a very little milk, will serve as well as eggs. FINE PANCAKES, FRIED WITHOUT BUTTER OR LARD. Beat six fresh eggs extremely well; mix, whenChap, xi.] 229 PANCAKES. strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, the grated rind of a whole lemon, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake-batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; then pour in the batter, to make thin pancakes. PANCAKES OF RICE. Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly, in a small quantity of water; when cold, mi.K it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt, and nutmeg; stir iu eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. IRISH PANCAKES. Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste: set three ounces of fresh butler on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it: then mix smooth almost half a pound of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. Serve several on one another. NEW ENGLAND PANCAKES Mix a pint of cream, five spoonsful of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. CREAM PANCAKES. Mix the yolks of two well-beaten eggs with a pint of cream, tw'o ounces of sifted sugar, a little nutmeg, cin- namon, and mace. Rub the pan with a bit of butter, and fry the pancakes thin. FRITTERS. Make them of any of the batters directed for pan-230 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xr. cakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer sort, and put pared apples, sliced and cored, into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon, as thin as paper, make an agreeable change. Fritters for company should be served on a folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. SPANISH FRITTERS. Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown, and serve with butter, wine, and sugar-sauce. POTATO FRITTERS. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine; beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stewpan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them, and serve as a sauce, a glass of white w'ine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert-spoonful of peach-leaf or almond- water, and some white sugar, warmed together. Not to be served in the dish. ANOTHER W'.AY. Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter and fry. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. Lemon-peel, and a spoonful of orange-fiower water, should be added to the batter. BUCK-WHEAT FRITTERS, CALLED DOCKINGS. Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour with a tea- cupful of w'arm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire about an hour; then mix four eggs,Chap, xi.] 231 FRITTERS. well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same. FRENCH FRITTERS. Mix two eggs, well beaten and strained, w'ith as much new milk and flour as shall make one thick pancake, which fry as pale as you can. Pound it in a mortar cpiite smooth, and add the yolks of four and whites of two eggs, one large spoonful of orange-flow’er w'ater, or cinnamon-water, one ounce of blanched almonds, beaten to a paste, two ounces of white sugar, and a quarter of a small nutmeg. Pound it all till it become smooth batter. Have ready a large stewpan, half full of fine lard, quite hot, and drop the batter into it, the size of large nuts, until the surface be filled : as they brown, turn them : they will be very large : when done, remove them on clean paper in a dish before the fire, and do the remainder. Serve as quickly as possible. They are excellent. ORANGE FRITTERS.—E. R. Take off the rind of two oranges, removing all the white skin ; then cut the oranges in slices across, and take out all the pips ; dip the slices of orange in batter, and fry them. Serve with powdered sugar upon each fritter. PINK-COLOURED FRITTERS. Boil a large beet-root until it is tender; beat it fine in a marble mortar. Add the yolks of four eggs, tw^o spoonsful of flour, and three of cream, the juice and peel of half a lemon, half a nutmeg, and a glass of brandy. Mix all well together, and fry the fritters, in butter. Garnish them with green sweetmeats, preserved apricots, or sprigs of myrtle. PLAIN FRITTERS. Grate the crumb of a penny loaf, put it into a pint of milk over the fire, and beat it very smooth : when cold, add the yolks of five eggs, three ounces of sifted sugar.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 232 [Chap. XII. and half a nutmeg. Fry them in hog’s lard, and serve pudding-sauce in a boat. BRIGNET’S SOUFFLE FRITTERS.—E. R. Put a pint of water in a saucepan, add more than a quarter of a pound of butter, the rind of a lemon grated, two ouqces of sugar, and a little salt. As soon as the water is ready to boil, put in about a quarter of a pound of flour, then add six eggs well beaten; form little balls, or other shapes, and fry them. CURD FRITTERS. Rub down in a mortar a quart of dried curd, with the yolks of eight, and whites of four well-beaten eggs, two ounces of sifted sugar, half a nutmeg, and half a spoon- ful of flour. Drop the batter into a frying-pan, with a little butter or fine lard. APPLE FRITTERS.—E. R. Take the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three; beat them well, and strain them ; then add a pint of milk, a little ginger and salt, half a nutmeg grated, and a glass of brandy. Make it into thick batter with fine flour ; slice the apples in rounds; dip each slice in batter, nd fry them in boiling lard over a quick fire. CHAPTER XII. FRENCH COOKERY. FISH. UNE GRANADE. Scrape gently the flesh of a large whiting from the skin and bones; beat it in a mortar fifteen minutes: hav- ing scraped two ounces of the finest fat bacon, beat them together another fifteen minutes; then add a table-Chap, .'qi.] 233 FISH. spoonful of chopped parsley, two ounces of butter, a small bit of garlic chopped to a mash, a blade of mace in powder, and the beaten yolks of two eggs, and pound a full half hour more: when to be used, mix well therein the fresh-beaten whites of two eggs, reserving a tea- spoonful to be used as hereafter directed. Meantime take the bones and fins from four or five little red mul- let, without injuring the skin, and cut them lengthways, an inch wide; do the same l)y a good-sized sole, having split, but not removed any of the skin. Then stew a small veal sweetbread, a fresh artichoke bottom, eight oysters without the beard, and two truffles cut in bits, a quarter of an hour, in a little butter, and let it become cold. When all the above are in readiness, line a casse- role of five or six inches in diameter with long slices of fat bacon, placed quite close, in the centre of which lay four bits of carrot cut diamond shape, lengthways ; cover the bacon with the strips of fish perfectly united, alter- nately putting the brown and white of the sole and the red of the mullet next to the bacon, and on these half the forcemeat: then put in the sweetbread, &c., which cover with the remainder of the forcemeat, smoothing it over with the back of a spoon wetted with the white of the egg before directed to be preserved. Lay on it a buttered paper, put the cover of the pan on, and bake twenty minutes. When done turn the granade on the lid to drain, care- fully remove the bacon without breaking the skin of the fish, and serve very hot, with rich veal gravy^round, not over it. The entrails of the mullet will give additional flavour to the forcemeat. Where they cannot be had, the red part of lobsters used alternately with the brown and white of the sole, or mackerel, will lopk beautiful. A similar dish may be made by substituting the flesh of hare, the white part of partridge, and ham, for the fish; the little ragout of sweetbread, &c., as before ; and a forcemeat made of cold game, the liver of young fowls, the fat and lean of fine ham, eggs, butter, herbs, and spice as in the above.234 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xii. GRENADIER DE FIL ET DE SOLE.—SOLE WITH FORCEMEAT AND GHERKINS. Split a fine sole downwards, take out the bone, and lard the inside with strips of gherkins, and truffles, then cover one half of the sole with the following forcemeat, which will be again covered by the remaining half of the sole; fasten them together with four splinter skewers, and bake with four or five spoonsful of weak meat or fish gravy. Make the forcemeat of any dressed fish, crumbs of bread, the hard yolk of an egg, half a spoonful of boiled celery-root, half an anchovy, a spoonful of parsley, and half as much chervil, both finely minced, a little fat bacon or butter, and a raw egg, pepper and salt. When dressed, keep the fish hot, while the gravy it was baked in is warmed with a spoonful of caper vine- gar, and the same of the gherkin liquor, to serve round it, with a few sliced gherkins. BROILED MACKEREL. Split them up the back, clean them very nicely, lay them whole on the gridiron, having rubbed them inside and out with butter, warmed in a bit of muslin. When ready, put into each fish an ounce of butter rubbed in chopped chervil; when the butter is melted, dish them, spread open, very hot. ANGUILLE ROTIE.—ROASTED EEL. Skin a large silver eel; lay on the inner side a force- meat of two ounces of crumbs of bread, one ounce of fat bacon, two large spoonsful of chopped parsley, four dried leaves of sage, pejiper, salt, and pounded mace, and the yolk of an egg. Roll the eel, beginning at the tail, taking care that the seasoning come not too near the edges : fasten the roll tight with twine and small silver skewers (with w'hich it may be served). Over all lay the skin, having buttered it, and put it to the lire on a lark-spit: when nearly dressed, remove the skin, wet235 FISH. Chap, xii.] the fish all over -with yolk of egg, and sift over it some fine raspings of bread. Serve the following sauce round it:—Chop as small as possible two large spoonsful of capers, and two unwashed anchovies ; put them in a saucepan with five ounces of butter, two spoonsful of water boiling hot, and one of caper vinegar : shake the pan over the fire untii all be completely mi.ved. TROUT IN WHITE SAUCE. Boil the fish gently in as much water and light white wine, in equal quantities, as will only cover them. Keep them hot, when done, while you boil the liquor with a bit of butter and a little flour. Meantime have ready beaten two eggs, with a spoonful of cold water, and pour them and the sauce to and fro at a little distance above the stove, till they are of due thickness, and serve the fish in it, adding a little salt. TROUT IN GREEN SAUCE. Beat in a mortar half an anchovy, a table-spoonful of capers, one each of chives and parsley, previously minced, a good lump of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour. When the trout is ready, keep it hot while this mixture is boiled with the liquor, in which serve it. TRUITE CUITE EN PAPIER.—TROUT DRESSED IN PAPER. Cover the bottom of a small oval paper form with very thin slices of fat bacon: cut down the back six or eight nicely-washed small trout, and having removed the bones, lay the fish open flat upon the bacon, sprinkled with chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a little mace, and two cloves finely pounded. Care must be taken, when split- ting the fish, to leave half the tail of each attached to each half of the body, and to curl them inwards towards each other. Bake half an hour in a quick oven, and serve in a paper. TRUITE FRICASSfjE.—FRICASSEED TROUT. Fry a beautiful colour, and serve in a very good fricassee sauce.236 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xii. TRUITE EN SALADE.—TROUT IN SALAD SAUCE. Fry two or three middling sized trout, lay them in a paper to remove the fat, and, when cold, serve in salad sauce, with minced chervil and chives. SCOLLOPED LOBSTER.—E. R. Take out the meat from two middling-sized lobsters, put it into a mortar, pound it with a little salt and some cayenne pepper, then mi.v it with fine white sauce; have the shells ready, that is, the tails split, and the two bodies, making in all six pieces, which are enough for a dish. Put the lobster into the shells, and the shells either into an oven or upon a gridiron. Serve it very hot. N.B. This is an excellent dish, and will form an elegant remove for a second course. CRAYFISH BUTTER.—E. R. Take the shells of twenty-four crayfish, clean them well from skin and fibre, then put them into an oven to dry, without burning or browning, until they can be beaten to a fine powder; mix the powder very well with three ounces of fresh butter, then put it into a stewpan with a spoonful of hot water, mixing it well together; then squeeze the whole through a tammy over a stewpan of boiling water; skim the butter off into a basin of cold water, that it may set; when cold press it in a napkin. It forms a beautiful colouring addition to many kinds of dishes, fish especially, and when mixed with the meat pounded after being taken from the shells, makes fine sauce. MEAT. LANGUE DE BCEUF PIQUli.—NEAT’S TONGLTE LARDED. Having removed the root and gullet of a small neat’s tongue, rub it well with salt; next day hang it to drain, and wipe it. Let it lie in salt one day, boil it half an hour, blanch and remove the skin; then, having rolled237 Chap, xii.] MADE DISHES. some fresh-cured fat bacon ill a seasoning of pepper, salt, cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, with parsley, knotted marjoram, chives or chibols, and a little morsel of garlic minced small, lard the tongue all over, except a little space from the root to the tip in the middle, where it is to be divided; braise and glaze as usual, having, after it is dressed, cut it in two, except at the two extremities, and thus lay it on the dish in the form of a heart. PALAIS DE BCEUF EN SAUCE BLANCHE.—OX PALATE IN WHITE SAUCE. Clean and stew the palates till they can be skimmed; then, while hot, throw them into cold water for an hour; having prepared the following sauce, simmer them very slowly in it till perfectly tender. Put into a casserole four ounces of lean veal, the same of lean bacon, the outsides being removed, two ounces of fat bacon, the same of butter, half the thin rind of a lemon, and, the white peel being removed, the remainder sliced, a bay-leaf or two, one clove, one onion, and one carrot sliced thin, with as much water as will just cover them ; keep the pan closely stopped, and simmer till the gravy be much reduced, stirring it often ; add some good broth, salt, and white pepper; skim it, and dress the palates therein. Just before serving mix in the yolk of a new-laid egg over the fire, but the sauce must not boil. COTELETTES DE VEAU FARCIES.—VEAL CUTLETS WITH FORCE- MEAT. Chop off the thick bone of a small neck of veal to the end of the fifth rib : divide the steaks, and with a broad knife beat the meat of each flat, and cover it with force- meat of lean veal, beef-suet, parsley, a small bit of garlic, a little salt, mace, and pepper. Then roll the meat round the bone, the end of which leave out at one e.xtrernity, put over a thin slice of fat bacon, and having stufied in the remainder of the forcemeat at the ends of the roll, bind up with twine. At the bottom of a small238 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xn stewpan lay slices of turnip, onion, three inches of celery, and two large carrots cut lengthways, and the steaks over; add as much water, or beef broth, as shall half cover them ; set the pan on a moderate stove, and some wood embers on the lid; simmer slowly two hours, then remove the twine, and placing the bones upwards, lean- ing on each other, strain the gravy over them. QUEUES DE VEAU.—CALVES’ TAILS. Having nicely cleaned and soaked four calves’ tails, cut off the small ends, and blanch them. Drv, flour, and fry them a fine brown in butter, drain the fat from them, and having ready a pint of weak broth, with a bunch of sweet herbs, chibols, two bay-leaves, half a pint of mushrooms, pepper, and salt, boiled up and skimmed, wipe the sides of the casserole, put the tails in, and simmer very slovvly until they are quite tender. Keep them hot while the gravy is strained, and boiled to a glaze to cover them. If you have no mushrooms, mix a little of the powder into the gravy just before serving. Have ready small onions, and peel to one size to send up in the dish. RIS DE VEAU.—SWEETBREADS. Skin and blanch three sweetbreads; boil till ready for eating; dry, and brown with a salamander. Put over a little glaze, and serve with real gravy and glazed onions, or stewed mushrooms, round. RIS DE VEAU EN CAISSES.—SWEETBREADS IN CASES. Blanch three sweetbreads, and simmer in a strong, well-flavoured gravy, till quite done. Have ready three round pieces of white paper oiled, and lay them thereon ; having left them lightly wetted with gravy, sprinkle over them the finest crumbs or raspings of bread, pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg. Do them slowly on a grid- iron, and serve in the cases. Any of the vegetable sauces may be served to eat with them.239 Chap, xii.] MADE DISHES. TENDONS DE VE.AU AU FRITUR —E. R. Take the remains of a cold breast of veal, either roasted or stewed ; cut them into small pieces. Chop some parsley very finely; mix it with pepper, salt, and a little lemon-juice, or pickle liquor: cover the veal with this; then make a batter with an egg, two spoonsful of flour, one of olive oil, and water sufficient for the proper consistence—it should not be too thick; dip the tendons into the batter, fry them a fine brown, and, having drained, send them to table with fried parsley. CERVELLES DE VE.AU AU MARINADE.—E. R. Cut a carrot, a turnip, and an onion into pieces: let them stew in a little butter; then add a bundle of sweet herbs, and pour over them a pint of vinegar and water in equal parts; then strain the liquor, and pour it over calves’ brains cleaned and blanched: let them stew in it till they are firm ; then fry them in butter, and serve up with crisped parsley. CERVELLES DE VE.AU FRICASSEE.—E. R. Having cleaned and blanched the brains, render them white and firm by squeezing lemon-juice over them; then put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter; stew slowly, that they may not brown; dredge in a small quantity of flour; add a bunch of parsley, and one of chives; moisten with clear veal broth; let the brains stew until they are firm; then send them up in the sauce, thickened if necessary. LONGE DE VEAU ROTI.—E. R. Take the cutlets from the chump end of a loin of veal; beat them well; cover them with slices of bacon, then with a fine forcemeat; roll them round; tie them into shape; then dip them in the yolks of eggs and the raspings of bread; roast them, basting well with butter; then put them into a sauce thickened with mushrooms ; squeeze lemon-juice over them; let them stew till very tender, and serve them up.[Chap. xii. 240 OMESTIC COOKERY. BLA.NQUETTE DE VEAU FARCIE.—E. R. Pound cold fillet of veal in a mortar; season it with a very small quantity of grated lemon-peel, and a little pepper and salt; stew a stick of celery in broth until it is very white; mince, and mix it with the veal, adding some spoonsful of rich white sauce. Line one large, or four small moulds with slices of thin lean ham, or bacon, in stripes; fill up the moulds with the veal, and boil (;hem ; serve with white sauce. PIEDS DE VEAU EN FRICASSEE.—CALF'S FEET FRIC.YSSEED. Soak two fine calPs feet in cold water six hours; then simmer in a sufficiency of milk and water to cover them completely, until the meat can be easily removed from the bones in nice pieces; sprinkle with crumbs of bread, pepper, and salt, having previously dipped them in yolk of egg : fry of a beautiful colour, and serve in fricassee- sauce. PIEDS DE VEAU EN S.AUCE D’OIGNONS, OU EN SAUCE TOMATE. CALF’S FEET IN ONION OR TOMATO SAUCE. Boil the feet of a good colour in milk and water; drain, and serve in three divisions, with the sauce be- tween. For another excellent method of dressing calfs feet, turn to Epaule d’Agneau au natural, p. 246- GARNITURE EN RAGOUT.—GARNITURE IN R.VGOUT. Having prepared and blanched sweetbreads of veal, or lamb (if house-lamb, better), liver of lamb, and rabbits, truffles and mushrooms, simmer gently half an hour in rich veal broth ; then divide the several articles into fit bits for helping, and stew the whole till very tender. If, when finished, the gravy wants consistence, boil up in it a good piece of butter rubbed in flour; season it fifteen minutes before serving with white pepper, salt, and nutmeg only. Have ready and hot fine force- meat-balls, in which finely scraped ham, beef-suet, the241 MEAT. Chap, xii.] breast of a fowl, or cold veal, are the principal ingre- dients. It may be served in a tureen as soup, or in an orna- mented crust previously baked. If to be white, beat as many yolks of eggs as the quantity may require, and simmer in the ragout two minutes ; it must not boil. Sometimes one or two whole pigeons, nicely prepared, form a part of this much-admired dish, which in one way or other is rarely omitted on well-covered tables. CALVES’ EARS STUFFED. The hair being scalded off the ears, after they have been cut quite close to the head, scald and clean them as well as possible ; boil them quite tender, and blanch them in cold water. Observe that the gristle ne.vt the head be cut so smooth as to allow the ears to stand upright; they may be boiled in white gravy instead of water, which will make them richer. When become cold, fill up the cavity with a fine stuffing, either of calFs liver, fat bacon, grated ham, bread soaked in cream or gravy, herbs, an unbeaten egg, a little salt, and a small piece of mace ; or substitute cold chicken for the liver. Rub egg over the ears and stuffing, and fry of a beautiful light brown. Serve in brown or white gravy. If the calf be large, one ear will be sufficient for a corner dish. ANOTHER WAY. When prepared as above, boil them quite tender in gravy, and serve them in chervil-sauce; or else boil chervil to a mash, put to it melted butter, pass it through a sieve, and add to it white sauce, or use the latter solely ; in which case put a little mushroom pow- der into it; the same forcemeat may he used, or the ears may be served without. They likewise eat well (served in white or brown gravy) cut in slices : in the latter case fry them before stewed in gravy. K242 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xn. COU DE MOUTON A LA SAINTE MENEHOULD.—NECK OF MUTTON A LA SAINTE MENEHOULD. Order the narrow part of a neck of small mutton to be cut o£F before the sheep be divided, which leaves the two scrags united. Soak in warm water, then hang it two days; lay it in a stewpot, with slices of fat bacon over and under, two pounds of scrag of veal, three large carrots, three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two bay-leaves, and a table-spoonful of whole white pepper : cover the whole with beef-broth, and simmer four hours. Drain the gravy from the meat, which cover on all sides with crumbs of bread, and brown it with a salamander. In the mean time boil the gravy, uncovered, very quickly, having strained it first, and serve in the dish : add salt. Serve in the dish endive, tomato, or spinach sauce. HACHEE DE MOUTON, AUX IIERBES FINES.—HASHED MUTTON WITH HERBS. Put into a casserole a good piece of butter, some finely- minced shalot, parsley, and half a pint of mushrooms; boil them gently in the butter; then, by degrees, mix in a large spoonful of flour, half a pint of broth, and stew till the flavour of all be obtained : let it become a little cool, then mince some underdone mutton in it, without boiling. ROGNONS DE MOUTON.—MUTTON KIDNEYS. With a very sharp knife cut mutton kidneys in the thinnest possible slices; flour, and fry quickly till they are quite crisp. While frying, add pepper and salt. Serve them in a good gravy, to which a bit of garlic has given a very slight flavour. COTELETTES AUX HARICOTS.—MUTTON STEAKS WITH FRENCH BEANS. Having dressed French beans as usual, drain the w'ater from them, and simmer them with pepper and salt in a good piece of butter. A few minutes before243 MEAT. Chap, sir.} serving add the beaten yolk of an egg, and shake the pan over the fire, but they must not boil. In the mean time have ready three mutton steaks, neatly trimmed, seasoned with pepper, salt, and a few crumbs, and nicely boiled or fried ; and serve them on the French beans. BLANQUETTE D’.AGNEAU.—WHITE FRICASSEE OF LAMB. Cut the best part of the brisket of small lamb into square pieces of four inches each; wash, dry, and flour. Having boiled four ounces of butter, one of fat bacon, and some parsley, ten minutes, put the meat to it: add the juice of half a lemon, an onion cut small, pepper and salt. Simmer the whole two hours; then put in the yolks of two eggs, shake the pan over the fire two minutes, and serve. EPAULE D’AGNEAU PIQUEE.—LARDED SHOULDER OF LAMB. Take out the bone of a small shoulder of lamb : lard the under side with small lardons of bacon dipped in a mixture of cloves, mace, cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper, and salt, each in small proportions. Roll the meat neatly, and bind it with twine. Glaze it after braising, and serve it on cucumbers stewed with cream, seasoned as usual, or on mushroom sauce. EPAULE D’AGNEAU AU NATUREL.—SHOULDER OF LAMB DRESSED PLAIN. Bone a small fat shoulder of lamb, leaving only an inch and a half of the knuckle. Mince a little of the fat with some white pepper and salt, and lay it on the inner side. With a large needle and coarse thread, gather together the circumference of the meat; press it flat, and fasten the little bone as a handle in its proper place. Then lay at the bottom of a casserole a large sliced onion, half a lemon, without any of the peel, three small carrots, cut lengthways, and one clove ; on these lay the lamb; and round the lamb put strips of bacon about the size of your finger; throw in a little parsley, R 2[Chap. xii. 244 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and cover the meat with veal broth. Set the pan on a very slow fire, and place wood embers on the lid. Sim- mer two hours. Keep the meat hot while the gravv is strained, and add to it a little veloute: boil very quick, and throw it over the lamb. Note.—At the same time another little dish may be prepared with the lamb, which will also add to its richness. Cut off the meat from two calf’s feet as far down as where the toes commence, but without removing them, or breaking the skin ; then roll the meat round the toes, but do not cover them. Tie it tight with strong twine, and simmer it three hours with the above. Remove the string when served. Lay it on tomato sauce. COTELETTES DE MOUTON—E. R. Take the cutlets from the neck of mutton, remove the fat, and scrape the bone ; then steep them in salad oil, drain, and powder them with pepper and salt, the rasp- ings of bread, and finely-chopped parsley. They may be either broiled, toasted in a Dutch oven, or fried. COTELETTES DE MOUTON R.A.GOUT.—E. R. Take off all the fat from the cutlets, dredge the meat with flour, and put them with the fat melted, a bundle of sweet herbs, and two shalots minced, into a stewpan ; let them brown, then strain the gravy, add a glass of wine, and one of Reading sauce ; thicken, if necessary, with a little roux, and let the whole stew until very tender. COTELETTES DE MOUTON A LA POLONAISE.—E. R. ‘ Remove all the fat, put the meat into a stewpan covered, with a carrot and a turnip sliced, two onions, a bundle of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and enough broth to moisten the whole: let it stew very gently until the meat is perfectly done, then take it out, strain the gravy, put it over a brisk fire, and reduce it to a glaze ; then cover the cutlets with the glaze, andMEAT. 245 Chap, xii.] serve them up with tomato sauce, or vegetable puree of any kind. CROQUETTES DE RIZ.—E. R. Clean and wash six ounces of rice, put it into a stew- pan with cold water, and, after it has boiled for about a minute, strain it; then add twice the quantity of broth, and let it stew gently until the rice will break easily with a spoon. Should the liquor dry too much before the rice is soft enough, add a little more broth. Then work it well with a spoonful of white sauce, two spoons- ful of grated Parmesan cheese, and a very little white pepper. When of a sufficient consistence, make the rice into shapes, which may be done by hollowing them in the hand to the form of a cup ; fill these shapes with any kind of mince, either of fowl, game, or sweetbread, well mixed with white sauce ; close the end of the cups to contain the mince, rolling them into balls, then cover them well with the following mixture :—two spoonsful of grated Parmesan cheese, with four of bread-crumbs, made to stick by rolling in the yolks of eggs: fry them in lard of a light brown colour. This dish requires great care and attention, but is excellent w'hen done. CASSEROLE AU RIZ DES CEUFS.—E. R. Clean, wash, and stew the rice, as in the former receipt, work it well with stock and an egg beaten, as the rice should be firm and well blended; then make it into a wall, lining the inside of a mould of the requisite height: bake the casserole. Take the white portion of cold fowl, cold veal, or sweetbreads; mince them finely, add some thick white sauce and mushrooms, fill the casserole, and cover the top with poached eggs ; cover them with glaze, and serve it up very hot. TIMBALE DE MACARONI.—E. R. Soften the straight pipe macaroni by stewing it in a little milk and water, or broth, until it will cut easily without breaking, but do not let it be too soft; then246 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. hi. cut it into pieces half an inch long, and with great exactness, that all should be of the same size ; butter a mould, stick the macaroni quite close together all over it, so as to look like a honeycomb ; then 611 up the mould with a piince of stewed ox palates cut into small pieces, and small button mushrooms, either pickled or fresh, moistened well with white sauce : close the mould, and boil it; turn it out very carefully, and serve it with thick white sauce and mushrooms. TIMBALE DE MACARONI AUX TRUFFES.-r-E. R. Have six small moulds the shape of coffee-cups, and not much larger, butter them, place at the small end a truffle; then encircle the truffle with macaroni prepared and cut as in the foregoing receipt, sticking each piece regularly round till the whole of the mould is covered ; 611 it up with minced sweetbread and thick white sauce. These are very beautiful and excellent dishes, but require great care and attention : they are not, however, expensive; and as any kind of fowl, game, or cold fricassee may be employed, cooks are recommended to practise the method of placing the macaroni round the interior of the mould, in order to obtain the necessary prohciency when the dish appears before company. It is equally good when not quite exact, but not so pleas- ing to the eye. TIMBALE DE MACARONI A LA PONTIFE.—E. R. Boil half a pound of the longest and straightcst ma- caroni in boiling water, with a little salt and butter; when nearly done, strain, and dry it; then butter a mould, and lay the macaroni quite evenly over it; if oval, the pieces at their full length, if another shape, take care that the pieces shall meet and join ; cover the macaroni with 6ne farce, then 611 up the interior with larks boned, 611ets of game, fowl, and small pieces of fat bacon, cut round the size of a sixpence, small eggs made of the yolk pounded as for mock turtle, andPOULTRY Chap, xii.] 241 mushrooms or truffles; moisten it with a rich sauce, cover, and let it simmer, without boiling, for an hour. PATE DE MACARONI A LA PONTIFE.—E. R. Cover the mould or dish with brioche paste, then having stewed some macaroni in butter and water, or broth, strain it, cut it into pieces, and lay it at the bot- tom of the dish, adding ham balls, made of ham pounded in a mortar, and blended with butter ; then have ready any kind of game, honed and filleted, cocks’- combs or ox palates, previously blanched and stewed, sweetbread cut into dice, and mushrooms, all stewed in good rich sauce ; place a layer upon the macaroni, then another layer of meat, and, until the pie is filled, add to it equal quantities of cream and gravy, cover it with a paste, and bake it. The macaroni may be mixed with grated Parmesan cheese. POULTRY, &c. FRICASSEE DE POULET A LA BOURGEOISE.—E. R. Cut up a tender fowl, put it into a stewpan with a large piece of butter, a bunch of green onions, the same of parsley, a few artichoke bottoms, pepper, salt, and a little water; let it simmer gently till the fowl is enough, then strain the gravy, and add to it the yolks of two eggs well heaten ; Avarm the whole up together, but do not let it boil. POULET A LA CHARTREUSE.—E. R. Cut up two chickens, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and half a pint of water ; let them stew very gently, adding a little more water, and a bundle of chives; when sufficiently done strain the gravy, add pepper and salt, the whites and yolks of two eggs well beaten, and a handful of parsley blanched and chopped finely; stir it well together to prevent it curdling, and warm the whole.248 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xii. POULET AUX TRUFFES.—FOWL WITH TRUFFLES. Bone and skin a fine young fowl; take the odd bits ' of it, four ounces of green truffles, a small carrot, (both in thin slices,) with mace, pepper, and salt, and stuff the inside of it; tie it lightly, and lay it on slices of fat bacon; and lay over it a whole lemon sliced, after cutting off the rind. Put into a casserole a baj'-leaf, two cloves, a small carrot, an onion, and as much water as will cover the fowl. Simmer, as slowly as possible, with embers over the pan, two hours, by which time the liquor will be much wasted; strain, and add to it half a pint of very strong gravy, and two ounces of sliced truffles : continue to stew gently three-quarters of an hour, and then serve all together. To some tastes, mushrooms, substituted for truffles, might be more agree- able, with the addition of a little butter. S.ALADE DE PERDREAUX.—PARTRIDGES IN SALAD. Bone two partridges, and put into them a few sliced truffles. Put them into a small casserole, with slices of lean ham under and over, some slices of lemon, and a small quantity of veal gravy, with which occasionally wet them. Serve them next day with clear jelly of veal, properly seasoned; and put round them, alternately, hard eggs, split, but left in the whites, lettuces, cut short and in quarters, and nasturtium flowers. PUPTON OF PIGEONS. Lay a forcemeat, made very savoury, in a small dish like a paste lining ; then put in layers very thin slices of fat bacon, squab pigeons, sliced sweetbreads blanched, asparagus-tops, mushrooms, cocks’-combs, a palate or two boiled quite tender and cut in slices, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard. Lay more forcemeat over the dish as a pie-crust; bake it, and turn it out to serve, with rich gravy in the dish.Chap, xii.] 249 SOUPS. SOUPS. SOUPE DE GIBIER.—GAME SOUP. Put into a soup-pot three pounds of gravy-beef sliced, two old partridges, an old pheasant, a knuckle of veal bare of meat, six carrots, four heads of celery, three cloves, a small bunch of fennel, and eight pints of water j let it boil up; then carefully skim, and simmer it four hours. Pound the meat of two cold partridges with the crumb of a large French roll, previously soaked in broth ; mix it with as much broth as will pass it through a coarse sieve: strain the soup to it, and eat all together without boiling ; add some salt. SOUPE DE POISSON.—FISH SOUP. For a party of a dozen, clean and nicely wash twelve pounds of dace, roach, or any common fish; stew them with twelve large carrots, eight lettuces, a handful of leeks, six onions, and three handsful of sorrel, in as much water as will cover them, until the whole are done to a mash; strain it through a coarse cloth, and boil the liquor, closely covered, one hour. Have ready some of the above-mentioned vegetables, cut small; flour, and boil them in butter, and simmer them in the soup half an hour with pepper, salt, and a few cloves. Soften a rasped French roll in good broth, and having mixed the yolks of six fresh eggs with a few crumbs, stir them into the soup, and pour the whole over the roll. ANOTHER. Clean and scale four or five pounds of any cheap fish, which, with six or eight large carrots, four turnips, four leeks, and four onions, simmer in five pints of water until the whole will strain through fine strong cloth. In the mean time have ready the pulp of old or fresh peas; and add them, and as much of the water that boiled them, with four ounces of butter, pepper, andDOMESTIC COOKERY. [C«AP. XII. 250 salt, as will make the soup of a proper consistence. Stir often, and boil till ready to serve. If green peas be in season, boil half a pint in the latter dressing. POTAGE DE VEAU.—VEAL POTTAGE. Stew a knuckle of veal of four or five pounds in two quarts of water, with five carrots, one onion, and two blades of mace, till the meat be fit for eating. Keep it hot while the soup is boiled up with a large handful of minced chervil, a large spoonful of flour rubbed in two ounces of butter, sliced carrot, or young peas, pepper, and salt. Serve the meat in a dish of buttered rice. Note.—A cup of thick sour cream, put into the tureen first, and well mixed with meat soups, when going to be served, gives a fine flavour. To thicken or enrich white, or fish soups, pour them, boiling hot, on the beaten yolks of two or three fresh eggs. SAUCES, &c. Put into a casserole three ounces of butter, four large carrots, six middling onions, three roots of parsley sliced, a small sprig of thyme, three cloves, three bay-leaves, two pounds of roach, bream, or dace, cut small, with salt, pepper, and half a bottle of white but not sweet wine, and nearly as much broth. Cover close, and simmer until the whole be mashed : strain it through a fine sieve. In another casserole stew a pint of mushrooms, a little parsley, and chibols, in half a pint of water, till the flavor of all be obtained : strain both liquors, and heat them together. Veloute, of which the French make so much use to heighten the tastes of soups and made dishes, may be well substituted by rich beef or veal broth, in which the above vegetables, the rera'ains of a cold fowl, and a little spice, have formed the chief part, without theChap, xii.] SAUCES. 251 more expensive articles. When cold, skim and strain, and reduce it by a second boiling. ANOTHER. Mince extremely small three or four green truffles; heat them in butter a few minutes; add five spoonsful of veloute, and a soup-ladleful of beef-suet to thin it. Simmer over a temperate heat fifteen minutes, and then remove the fat. Put the sauce into a small vessel, and keep it closely stopped in a saucepan of hot water, ready to add to the dishes requiring it. S.4UCE TOMATE A L’lTALIENNE.—TOMATO SAUCE, IN THE ITALIAN MANNER. Slice five or six onions and a dozen of tomatos into a stewpan, which, with a sprig of thyme, two bay-leaves, six pods of pimento, two tea-spoonsful of curry powder, salt, a cup of rich gravy, simmer very gently until the whole will pulp through a colander: stir well, that the sauce may not burn. SAUCE TOMATE A LA FRANCOISE.—TOMATO SAUCE, IN THE FRENCH MANNER. Simmer the fruit with a little broth, salt, and pepper, until it will pulp as above. If too thin, reduce it by boiling. A minute or two before serving, add a little veloute and a bit of butter, and give it one boil. SAUCE AUX EPINARDS.—SPINACH SAUCE. The stalks being remov'ed, wash and drain the leaves, then, without water, stew ,till they will beat to a mash. Put in a good piece of butter and some milk ; simmer, and stir over a slow fire till the sauce be of the consist- ence of thick melted butter. Add a little pepper and salt while dressing.252 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. iir. Endive Sauce and Sorrel Sauce make in the same way, omitting the pepper and salt, the green ends of the former being cut off. SAUCE D’OIGNON.—ONION SAUCE. Boil onions in milk; beat them very fine; then boil them in fine melted butter, using a little of the milk instead of water. Before serving, add a large spoonful of unspiced white-wine vinegar. SAUCE DE CORNICHONS.—CUCUMBER SAUCE. Slice thin some middling-sized cucumbers, drain the liquor from them, and put them, with four onions, into a casserole, with a piece of butter; when sufficiently stewed to pulp through a colander, add a large tea-cup- ful of cream, a little flour and pepper. Boil twenty minutes, and when going to serve, put in salt. PLUM PUDDING. Mix six ounces of suet, seven ounces of grated bread, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of French plums, three well-beaten eggs, a small tea-cup of milk, and a dessert-spoonful of ratafia. Let it stand two hours, and boil it the same space of time. Observe to stir it well the last thing.VEGETABLES. Chap, xiii.] 253 CHAPTER XIII. VEGETABLES. OBSERVATIONS ON DRESSING VEGETABLES. Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If over-boiled they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks some- times dress them with meat; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. TO BOIL VEGETABLES GREEN. Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Do not cover, but watch them; and if the water has not slackened, you may be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediately, or the colour will change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be green. To boil them green in hard water, put a tea-spoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils before the vegetables are put in. TO KEEP GREEN PEAS, AS PRACTISED IN THE EMPEROR OF RUSSIA’S KITCHEN. Shell, scald, and dry them as above ; put them on tins, or earthen dishes, in a cool oven once or twice, to harden. Keep them in paper bags hung up in the kitchen. When they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. TO BOIL GREEN PEAS. Wash after shelling them : boil with a spoonful of sugar[Chap. xnr. 254 DOMESTIC COOKERY. in the water. Serve with scalded mint chopped—put a piece of butter to the peas after they are taken up. TO BOIL ASPARAGUS. Cut the white stalk off about six inches from the head; throw them into cold water, and after soaking, tie them in small bundles, and boil them rather quick : if overdone the heads will be broken. Toast a slice of bread very brown on both sides ; and when the asparagus is done, take it very carefully up, dip the toast quickly in the water, and lay the asparagus upon it, leaving the white ends outwards each way; and pour melted butter over the toast and green parts. ASPARAGtJS FORCED. Cut a piece out of the top of three French rolls; take out all the crumb ; do not enlarge the opening, or the crust w'ill not exactly fit again. Fry the rolls browm, in fresh butter : have ready a pint of cream, the yolks of six eggs well beaten, a little salt and nutmeg. Stir this mixture over a slow fire until it thickens. Boil a hundred of small asparagus : save tops enough to stick the tops of the rolls with, cut the remainder of the green part of the grass small: put it into the cream, and fill the rolls with it hot. Before the rolls are fried, make a few holes in the pieces of crust cut off, and stick the tops in. This is for a side-dish in a second course. TO DRESS ARTICHOKES. Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They are better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve them with melted butter in as many small cups as there are artichokes to help with each, having clipped off the sharp points of the leaves.Chap, xiii.] 255 VEGETABLES. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. If dried, they must he soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream- sauce ; or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Must be taken up the moment they are done, or they will be too soft. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fri- cassee sauce. TO BOIL POTATOES.—E. R. The art of boiling potatoes, though apparently of so simple a nature, is rarely acquired in England, and it will be necessary to attend very carefully to the following directions, in order to secure success. Sort the potatoes, and choose them of an equal size, wash them with a scrubbing-brush just before they are put into the pot; boil them in their skins, but cut out a small portion, the size of a sixpence, from the top ; fill the pot with cold water, and throw in a handful of salt; when the water comes to a boil, check it with cold water, and continue to do this until the potatoes are thoroughly boiled, or the skins will crack, while the potatoes remain hard; then pour off the water through a colander, and let the potatoes remain in the colander on the top of the pot to dry. They are best sent to table in a napkin with- out a cover, but should a cover be deemed essential for the symmetry of the table, take care to raise it a little so that the steam shall escape, and not return in the shape of water upon the potatoes. Obn.— A. large iron pot standing on three legs is the best vessel for boiling potatoes, since, after the water has been poured oflf, it retains sufficient heat to dry them thoroughly: the place of the colander is in[Chap. xiii. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 256 Ireland well supplied by a basket wbich fits on the top of the pot. It is difficult in London to get good potatoes, in con- sequence of the long exposure in baskets at the ware- houses which they frequently undergo. After the po- tatoes have been dug, they should be laid in the mould which is round them on a bed of straw and ashes, or in a large wooden chest in a dry cellar, and well covered up with straw, and a good mat to preserve them from the frost; they should then be well washed immediately previous to cooking. Unless treated in this way, they will soon become waxy and watery, whereas potatoes thus kept will remain perfectly good until the following season. All resident families should lay in their pota- toes for the winter, and not trust to chances, which do not allow the cook fair play. TO MASH POTATOES.—E. R. Potatoes should be hot to mash well; let them be thoroughly boiled, peel them, and take out all the specks and little hard lumps which are sometimes found. Beat them till quite fine in a wooden bowl or mortar, sprinkle a little salt, and mix them up smoothly with butter. Should milk be used, melt a little butter into it, and take care that the potatoes shall not be too wet, or they will become heavy and watery: great smoothness, lightness, and a rich taste are required in mashed potatoes, ‘which, to be very good, should be beaten through a sieve or colander, and mixed with an egg beaten up with the milk. Lard, or even dripping, if delicately used, will answer when the mashed potatoes are required for walls to meat, bashes, or stews. .SOUFFLE POTATOES.—E. R. Wash and brush twelve moderately-sized potatoes very well, and bake them thoroughly. Then cut out a round piece of the skin about the size of a shilling, and scoop out the whole of the inside, mash the pota- toes very smoothly, rubbing them through a sieve, add257 VEGETABLES. Chap, xiii.] a good piece of butter, a little salt, and half a pint of milk mixed with cream; boil the whole, whip the whites of three eggs as for a souffle until a stiff froth, mix it on the fire with the potatoes, then fill up the skins, bake them in a quick oveu, and serve them up in a napkin. TO BROIL POTATOES.—E. R. After the potatoes have been boiled, and while they are hot, take off the skins, flour them, and broil them on a gridiron; they are to be eaten with cold butter, and are very nice sent up with a red herring toasted, when the sweet things are put upon the table; thus making two good side dishes for a family party, with little or no expense. BROWNED POTATOES.—E. R. Boil the potatoes while the meat is roasting, and an hour before it is served take off the skins; flour the potatoes well, and put them under the meat, taking care to dry them from the dripping before they are sent to table. The kidney potatoes are best dressed in this way ; the flouring is very essential. FRIED POTATOES.—E. R. Fried potatoes should always be cut from raw pota- toes, which, after being peeled, should be pared round and round like an apple, taking care not to cut it too thin. Fry it very slowly and with as little colour as possible, and dry it well from the grease. When nicely done, and piled up properly, fried potatoes make a beautiful side dish, which is always eaten with great relish. ROASTED POTATOES.—E. R. Wash and brush them very clean, cut off a small piece of the skin; rub the skins over with butter to make them crisp, and roast them in the oven, or before s[CH.tP. XIII. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 258 the fire. They may be half-boiled, peeled, floured, and roasted in a Dutch oven. NEW POTATOES.—E. R. Rub off the skins with a coarse cloth and a little salt; boil them, and send them to table plain, or co- vered with melted butter or white sauce. POTATO BALLS.—E. R. Mash the potatoes very nicely, make them into balls, rub them over with the yolk of an egg, and put them into the oven or before the fire to brown. These balls may be varied by the introduction of a third portion of grated ham or tongue. POTATOES A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL.—E. R. Boil and peel the potatoes; let them grow nearly cold; then cut them into slices tolerably thick, and warm them up in white sauce, or with melted butter with parsley chopped into it, a little white pepper and salt, and the juice of half a lemon. PARISIAN RECEIPT FOR POTATOES A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL.—E. R. Boil the potatoes, and let them become 'cold, then cut them into rather thick slices. Put a lump of fresh butter into a stewpan, add a little flour, about a tea- spoonful for a moderate-sized dish; when the flour has boiled a short time in the butter add a cupful of broth or water, boil all together, then put in the potatoes covered with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; stew them for a few minutes, and then take them from the fire. When quite ofl’ the boil, add the yolk of an egg, beaten up with a little lemon-juice and a table-spoonfiil of cold water. As soon as the sauce has set the po- tatoes may be dished up and sent to table. PURtE OF POTATOES.—E. R. Mash the potatoes, and mix them while quite hot259 Chap, xiii.] VEGETABLES. with some fine white gravy drawn from veal, and thick- ened with butter or cream. The purtie should be rather thin, not thicker than apple or tomato sauce. BHAURTA, AN INDIAN DISH.—E. II. Mash some potatoes, and, having boiled one or two onions, chop them small, together with a few capsicums. Mix the whole together very well; put it into a mould, or form it with a spoon into a handsome shape, and warm it in an oven or upon a stove. VEGETABLE RAGOUT.—E. R. Cut cold potatoes into slices, and cut up in the same manner cold carrots, turnips, cabbage, onions, and any other vegetables at hand; put them into a stewpan, with pepper and salt, a little broth, and a piece of butter, and stir them together with a spoon until they are quite hot. In India a portion of the vegetables is taken from each dish, chopped up while hot with pepper and salt, and put into a silver saucepan, with a piece of butter; and, when well heated over a lamp, sent round the table. A VEGETABLE OLIO. Boil three heads of small, close cabbage, carrots, turnips, potatoes, and small onions; drain them from the water, and cut them in pieces. Mix all with two handsful of spinach-leaves, two ounces of butter, three spoonsful of cream, salt and pepper, and stew them as closely covered as possible two hours; then stir in a bit of butter rolled in flour, over a clear fire. In summer, j>eas, cucumbers, spinach, celery, lettuces, and young onions, may be dressed the same way. FRYING HERBS, AS DRESSED IN STAFFORDSHIRE. Clean and dry a good quantity of spinach-leaves, two large handsful of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew, s 2260 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. iiii. with some salt, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut : shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a close stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calf’s liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried; the latter on the herbs, the other in a separate dish. STEWED CELERY.—E. R. Wash four heads, and strip them of their outer leaves : cut them into pieces, put them into a stewpan with a little water, and stew them for half an hour; then strain the water, and add to it some rich white sauce, made with veal gravy thickened with cream; stew the celery for an hour longer, and send it to table. TO DRESS CHARDOONS. Cut them into pieces of six inches long, and put on a string; boil till tender, and have ready a piece of butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. Or tie them into bundles; and serve as asparagus boiled, on toast, and pour butter over. Or boil, and then beat up in fricassee-sauce. Or boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and fry them. Serve with melted butter. Or stew in brown or white gravy; add ca3'enne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and flour. TO STEW HARICOTS.—E. R. Boil, or rather simmer, as gently as possible, half a pint of haricots, or the seed of the dwarf scarlet runner ; boil in soft water, for, should the water be hard, they will take four hours; and, unless they are stewed gently, they will break, and be spoiled. Put an onion shred fine into a stewpan, with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; let it stew until tender, then add the beans to it, with a little hot water. Stir it until it simmers together for a few minutes, then add a little salt, a tea or dessert- spoonful of vinegar, a few chives or a shalot minced261 VEGETABLES. Chap, xni.] fine, and a sufficient quantity of parsley to give it a green colour. Serve up the beans very hot, either in a covered dish or under roast mutton. HARICOTS BLANCS.—E. R. Throw the beans into a stewpan with boiling water, a little butter, salt, and pepper; boil them an hour; then strain them; put a large piece of butter in the middle, and a good deal of parsley chopped. Toss the beans by shaking the pan upwards, so as to mix the whole well together. HARICOTS BLANCS MUOCEAUX.—E. R. Boil some water in an earthen pan or saucepan, with a little salt and a piece of butter half the size of an egg. When the water boils put in the beans. When they are done strain them. Throw a piece of butter into a saucepan, and put the beans with it; toss them, add a spoonful of veloutd, a little salt, pepper, and nut- meg. Just before serving add two yolks of eggs. SPANISH RECEIPT FOR HARICOTS BLANCS.—E. R. Pour hot water on the beans, and soak them for twenty-four hours; then boil them with some lettuce or parsley, and a little ham, till they are tender. Then fry some chopped onions and a little bit of garlic, and put them in a pot. A few minutes before they are wanted, pound some toasted bread with some of the beans; then mix them with an egg, add spice, and pour them into the pot; warm and send them up to table. HARICOTS A LA FRANCAISE.—E. R. Pick and well clean the haricots; put them into a pot with cold soft water and a bit of butter. While on the fire, add cold water to soften and prevent their boiling. When well softened, drain them; put them into a saucepan with a bit of butter and some boiled and strained onions, a little highly-seasoned gravy soup.262 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xi:i. salt, and coarse pepper. Shake them -well, and finish with a little more butter. STEWED BEANS—E. R. Boil the beans in butter and water, taking care to keep them as white as possible. Then take a handful of parsley and a few sprigs of winter savoury, chop them very fine, season, and boil them in a small quantity of the water in which the beans were boiled, mixed with cream. When the herbs are tender add the beans; let them stew for a few minutes, adding a lump of butter and a little flour to thicken the sauce. TO STEW OLD BEANS.—E. R. Take them when too old to dress any other way, boil them, and remove the tough outer skin; then beat them in a mortar, with a little butter, pepper, and salt; thicken some white broth with a little cream or flour and butter, add the beans to it, and stew them all together over the fire for a few minutes. CALE CANNON, AS DRESSED IN IRELAND. Boil three large potatoes with the skins on ; bruise them to meal, and mix them with three cabbages, boiled, pressed from the water, and chopped; to which add half an ounce of butter, two spoonsful of cream, pepper, and salt. Heat and stir it over the fire, and send it to table in the shape of a cake, or in a mould. C.VRROTS Require a good deal of boiling when old: when young, wipe off the skin after they are boiled: when old, boil them with the salt meat, and scrape them first. TO STEW CARROTS. Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stewpan. Put to them half a teacupful of any weak broth, some pepper and salt, and halt a cupful of creimi: simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken.263 Chap, xm.] VEGETABLES. Before serving, rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before served. TO MASH PARSNIPS. Boil them tender; scrape, then mash them into a stewpan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. FRIC.ASSEE OF PARSNIPS. Boil in milk till they are soft; then cut them length- ways, into bits two or three inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonsful of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, and salt. TO CRISP PARSLEY. When picked and washed very clean, put it into a Dutch oven, or on a sheet of paper, and keeping it at a moderate distance from the fire, turn it till crisp. FRIED ARTICHOKES.—E. R. Choose them small and very tender; cut them in quarters, take out the choke, and strip off the leaves; boil them in salt and water, make a sauce of melted butter, a table-spoonful of flour, a little cream, and the yolk of an egg; soak the artichokes, and allow them to cool; then dip them in batter, and fry them. STUFFED ARTICHOKE.—E. R. Pare the bottom of the artichoke, cut the tops of the leaves, boil them a quarter of an hour; then remove the choke, fill the centre with parsley and onions chopped fine and mixed with forcemeat; put them on the fire to stew, and, when the leaves are a little brown, serve them up with sauce made of fine herbs chopped, a spoonful of oil, and the juice of a lemon, well beaten together.264 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xni. ARTICHOKES FARCIE.—E. R. Parboil the artichokes, remove the middle leaves, pare the choke, and stuif the centre with forcemeat; then put them into the oven until the meat is quite done. Serve up with melted butter. STEWED SPINACH.—E. R. Peel the spinach very nicely, steam it in a saucepan without any water, then strain it well from the liquor, but do not render it hard and dry by squeezing; chop it well, put it into a stewpan with a cupful of gravy and a piece of butter, stir it frequently, and let it stew' for a quarter of an hour. SPINACH STEWED WITH CREAM —E. R. Boil the spinach as before directed, chop it and beat it well with a spoon, taking care to have picked out all the fibres; put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter and some pepper and salt, stir it well as it stews, adding by degrees as much cream as will make it the proper thickness. Garnish with fried paste. SPINACH FOR FRICANDEAU.—E. R. If soiTcl should not be at hand, or be considered too acid, boil spinach, and, having strained and beaten it, warm it with a piece of butter, a little gravy, and add either lemon-juice or vinegar, to give it a slight acid. SPINACH A L.A FRANCAISE.—E. R. Wash the spinach, and pick it very carefulh', then put it into boiling water, and, when sufficiently tender to bear squeezing, strain it in a colander; then throw it into cold water to preserve the colour. When it is quite cold, squeeze it in a towel, not in any large quan- tity at a time. Put the balls upon a table, chop the spinach very fine, and then put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, dredge it with a spoonful of flour, and then let it dry slowly. Then add some very rich gravy-265 VEGETABLES. Chap, xiii.] sauce, and boil it rather fast, stirring it all the time; the thickness will depend upon the quantity of the sauce. RAGOUT OF SPINACH.—E. R. Pick the spinach well from the stalks, and wash it very clean in different waters ; boil it quickly in a large quantity of water and salt; stir, and skim it. When it breaks easily it is enough done. Strain it, and put it immediately into fresh water for a quarter of an hour, then strain it, pressing it gently. Chop it fine, and put it into a stewpan with just enough butter to moisten it, set it on a quick fire, stir it with a wooden spoon, and, when dry, moisten it with some highly-seasoned gravy soup, until it is of the consistence of pea soup ; grate a little nutmeg on it, and serve it up hot. Rogers, in his ‘ Vegetable Cultivator,’ states that a handful of sorrel boiled with the New Zealand spinach {Tetragenia) im- proves the flavour. POIS A LA FRANCAISE.—E. R. Stew old peas with sliced onion and lettuce in a little butter and water, season it well; thicken with a cupful of good gravy, a piece of butter rolled in flour, adding a spoonful of soy or other strong sauce. STEWED PEAS.—E. R. Put a quart of fresh peas into a stewpan, cut four cabbage lettuces, and add them, with three ounces of butter and a small fagot of parsley; fill up the stewpan with spring water, mix the whole well together; then pour off the water, add six young button onions, two lumps of sugar, and a very little salt; place the stew- pan on a very gentle fire, and shake it occasionally. They will take about a quarter of an hour to stew pro- ])erly: when ready, finish them with a little butter, mixed with a tea spoonful of flour, and a table-spoonful of cream.266 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xiii. PEAS STEWED WITH MINT.—E. R. Take the hearts of four cabbage lettuces, cut them small, put them into a stewpan with three pints of young green peas, and a little green mint chopped; add pepper and salt; then take a lump of butter the size of the egg of a goose, and mix it well with the vegetables, taking care not to bruise the peas; then add two table-spoonsful of pump water, a bit of ham, and a whole onion. Put them on the fire to stew until ten- der ; twenty minutes will suifice, shaking the pan con- stantly to prevent its burning: when tender, take out the ham and onion, and add a jiiece more butter rolled in flour, and half a pint of cream ; boil all together for five minutes, and add a tea-spoonful of loaf-sugar pounded. PEA-PODS STEWED.—E. R. Take the sugar pea when young, pare ofi" the outer edges of the pod, carefully removing the strings; then put them into good gravy, well seasoned, and thickened with butter and flour: let them stew gently until quite tender. The sugar pea, not having a tough coating under the pod, is the one recommended to be dressed in this manner by the author of the ‘ Vegetable Culti- vator.’ CAULIFLOWER AND BROCCOLI.—E. R. If wanted to be very white, all the leaves must be stripped off, and the cauliflowers divided into handsome sprigs; boil it in butter and water, and send it to table in white sauce. CAULIFLOWER IN WHITE S.AUCE. Half boil it; then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay them in a stewpan with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white jiepper ; simmer half an hour; then put a little cream, butter, and flour ; shake, and simmer a few minutes, and serve.VEGETABLES. 267 Chap, xjii.] TO DRESS CAULIFLOWERS AND PARMESAN. Boil a cauliflower; drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalks so that the flower will stand upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stewpan with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. TO DRESS BROCCOLI. Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin off them. Tie the small shoots into bunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or without toast. Poached eggs eat well with broccoli. BROCCOLI AND BUTTERED EGGS. Keep a handsome bunch for the middle, and have eight pieces to go round. Toast a piece of bread to fit the inner part of the dish or plate. Boil the broccoli. In the mean time have ready six (or more) eggs beaten : put, for six, a quarter of a pound of fine butter into a saucepan, with a little salt. Stir it over the fire, and, as it becomes warm, add the eggs, and shake the saucepan till the mixture is thick enough. Pour it on the hot toast, and lay the broccoli as before directed. CAULIFLOWERS AU FROMAGE.-E. R. Boil sprigs of cauliflower in butter and water to make them white, until they are tender; then grate a quarter of a pound of Parmesan cheese, put nearly half into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little white pepper, and two spoonsful of milk: toss it until the cheese is well mixed, then warm the cauliflower in it, and serve it up with the remainder of the cheese strewed over the top.DOMESTIC COOICEUY. 268 [Chap. iiii. ROASTED CUCUMBERS.—E. R. Parboil the cucumbers, split them, and take out all the seeds and soft part; fill up the space with forcemeat very finely pounded together : tie the cucumbers that they may appear whole, flour and roast them in a Dutch oven, basting with butter to make them brown. Have a good gravy, and serve them up in it. STEWED CUCUMBERS.—E. R. Pare the cucumbers, flour, and fry them a little, pour off the fat, flour the pan, pour boiling water into it, and then stew the cucumbers in it until they are enough. STEWED CUCUMBERS A-L.\-ROYALE.—E. R. Peel and scrape out the inside of a large cucumber, stuff it with a little cold pounded veal, bread-crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, ketchup, the yolk of an egg, and cream sufficient to mix it to a proper stifihess; fry it until brown, then put it into a good gravy, and let it stew for three hours in a slow oven. CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS.—E. R. Pare and split the cucumbers, take out the seeds, and cut them into dice, chop a handful of parsley, and take a dozen or two of the smallest onions. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, flour the vegetables, add pepper and salt. When the butter is melted put them in, stew till the onions are tender, adding a spoonful of good gravy and the juice of half a lemon. CUCUMBERS FARCIE.—E. R. Pare three cucumbers, and take out the seeds with a marrow-spoon ; when quite empty, fill them Avith harce cuite. (See Farce cuite.) Put some bacon sliced into a stewpan, a slice of veal, one or two carrots and onions, a leaf of bay, and a little thyme; let them simmer till tender.269 Chap, xiii.] VEGETABLES. N.B. The veal and ham simmered with the cucum- bers will also make good farce. CHICOREE, OR ENDIVE IN VELOUTE.—E. R. Take off the exterior of the endive, leaving nothing but the white; let it lie in water to soak; have it tho- roughly washed; then throw a handful of salt into a kettle of boiling water, keeping the endive under it to prevent its turning black; when it will mix with the water it is blanched; try with the finger if it be tender, and, if so, drain”it on a sieve, and put it in cold spring water; when perfectly cold, strain it again, and squeeze it quite dry. Chop it, put a good piece of butter in a stewpan with the endive, a little salt and pepper, put in some veloute, that is rich white sauce, or consommee, stock that will jelly; let it reduce till it becomes thick; send it up with croutons, i. e. fried paste, round. Chicoree a la crfeme, or broth, should in either case be thickened with a little flour. LETTUCES FARCIE.—E. R. Having cleaned the lettuces, tie them separately with a string, and boil them. Leave them to drain and cool; then open the leaves and lay in farce or forcemeat between each leaf; tie them up carefully, and stew them gently in a braise made of thin slices of bacon, a carrot, an onion, a small bunch of sweet herbs, and a little good gravy. Skim the gravy, strain it, add a glass of white wine, reduce it, and let it be served quite hot. LETTUCE AU FRITUR.—E. R. Tie the lettuces, and boil them; then press them quite dry in a cloth. Make the batter the same as for thick pancakes, adding a glass of brandy ; allow it to remain four hours before it is wanted, then dip in the lettuces and fry them in lard.DOMESTIC COOKERY, [Chap. xiii. 270 RADISHES.—E. R. Radishes, when full grown but still young, may be boiled, and sent to table like asparagus; when thus pre- pared they make an excellent dish. CARROTS A-LA-MAITRE D’HOTEL—E. R. Boil the carrots tender. Put a lump of hutter into the bottom of a stewpan with a little flour; when it is browned, add a little gravy: then put in the carrots, and let them stew gently till served. Turnips are done the same way ; if large, they should he cut into the size of walnuts, a less quantity of gravy will be required for them, and they are sometimes browned in the butter before the gravy is added. STEWED CABBAGE.—E. R. Boil a large cabbage, press it dry in a cloth, then cut it very finely, adding pepper and salt, and a few chives or green onions, also boiled separately and well chopped; put a lump of butter into a stewpan, let it melt, add the cabbage, and warm it together, stirring all the time; add a spoonful of gravy, and one of lemon-pickle, or the juice of half a lemon; let it stew for a few minutes, and then serve it. TO STEW RED CABBAGE.—E. R. Slice the cabbage across as for pickling, put it into a stewpan with water and a little pepper and salt; stew it an hour and a half, or until quite tender. Then strain off the liquor, add a little more pepper and salt if neces- sary, and a cofl’ee-cui)ful of vinegar, warm the whole together, and take care that it is not too salt. ANOTHER WAY. Shred the cabbage, wash it, and put it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper, and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutesChap, xni.] 211 VEGETABLES. before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonsful of vinegar, and boil up. ANOTHER. Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew- pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of butter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew covered three hours. When it is very tender, add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. STEWED TOMATOS. Put a dozen and a half tomatos in a stewpan, with two table-spoonsful of vinegar, a little salt, and pepper ; cover them close, and let them stew for ten or twelve minutes. STEWED SOUR CROUT OR RIGOS, A POLISH DISH.—E. R. Take a head of white cabbage, cut it into small pieces, pour on it some hot water, and in a few minutes drain the cabbage, and throw away the liquor; then take five or six very sour apples, peel them, and cut them into, small pieces. Put some thin slices of bacon into the bottom of a saucepan, cover it with a layer of cabbage and apples; then with bacon and beef cut into pieces with the cabbage, and apples over it; and so on until the saucepan is filled, covering the whole with thin slices of bacon. Pour on it a cup of cold water, and put the cover on the saucepan, and put it on a light fire; when it begins to boil mix it up, and do so repeatedly, that the ingredients may not form a kind of crust upon the saucepan. When the meat is sufficiently boiled, and the cabbage is quite tender, add some salt, and a few spoonsful of vinegar, and, having boiled it a little longer, serve it up.272 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xin. VEGETABLE MARROW.—E. R. This excellent vegetable may be dressed in a variety of ways, plain boiled, cut in slices, and served upon toast, with melted butter, or stewed in a good gravy, or boiled and mashed in the same manner as turnips, and if made rather thinner with a little cream, or fine white sauce, formed into a purde. These purees, it must be remarked, should not, when made of the mar- row or any other vegetable, be served up alone, but put into the middle of a dish, with meat or poultry of some kind, as they properly come under the denomination of sauces. BEET-ROOTS Make a very pleasant addition to winter salad, of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being only used to ornament it. This root is cooling and very wholesome. It is extremely good boiled and sliced with a small quantity of onions, or stewed' with whole onions, large or small, as follows :— Boil the beet tender with the skin on ; slice it into a stewpan with a little broth and a spoonful of vinegar, simmer till the gravy is tinged with the colour; then put it into a small dish, and make a round of the but- ton-onions, first boiled till tender ; take oft’ the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot, and clear. STEWED BEET-ROOT.—E. R. Bake the beet-root in an oven until it is quite tender, and, when cold, scrape off the outside coat: cut it in slices, and pour a little vinegar over it: then put it into a stewpan, and cover it with gravy; stew gently for half an hour, and, before serving, thicken the gravy with a little cream. The sauce should be of a fine red colour; and perhaps it would be advisable to pound one or two slices in a mortar, to extract the juice. Observe273 Chap, xiii.] VEGETABLES. that beet-root is always better baked than boiled; and great care must be taken in preparing it, that no fibre should be broken, and not the smallest cut or incision made, for otherwise all the juice will be extracted, and the root be good for nothing: neither must it be tried by a fork to find if it is enough; but the cook must judge accurately concerning the time it will take. Beet- roots must be thoroughly cooked to be wholesome, and few will be done under an hour. When boiled, put it into boiling water, wdiich will sear it should any part be broken. PURf:E OF GREEN PEAS.—E. R. Take about a pint of green peas, put them into water, with a quarter of a pound of butter ; stir them until the peas and butter stick together, then pour off the water ; drain the peas on a sieve, then put them into a stewpan over a slow fire, add a handful of parsley-leaves, shake them for nearly a quarter of an hour, add salt, and a ladleful of strong gravy or broth ; boil them over a still slower fire with the cover on. After they have been upon the fire for three quarters of an hour, pound them in a mortar, and pass them through a sieve; and then heat the puree, adding more gravy if necessary.—Obs. Purees are very diflScult things to manage well, and re- quire a good deal of patience. PURkE OF CHESTNUTS.—E. R. Boil the chestnuts; clear them well from the shell and skin; pound them in a mortar; mix them with a little fine white sauce, and pass them through a sieve; then warm them up in a sufficient quantity of sauce to make them of a proper consistence, neither too thick nor too thin. PURkE OF MUSHROOMS.—E. R. Let the mushrooms be very white; cut off the stem, and wash them. Put a little water into a stewpan, and squeeze into it the juice of a lemon; plunge them in; TDOMESTIC COOKERY. 274 [Chap. xui. then drain them, and mince them as fine as possible; put them into a cloth, and press them well. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan; squeeze the juice of a lemon, and add to it the minced mushrooms. Keep it on the fire until the butter is melted; then add six spoonsful of strong gravy, and the same of thick white sauce; reduce it until the puree is sufficiently thick ; add a little pep- per, and serve it up. PURliE OF TURNIPS.—E. R. Take a dozen large turnips ; cut them into slices; put them with a quarter of a pound of butter into a stewpan, the turnips at the top. Then place it on a brisk fire, and stir it with a wooden spoon. When become white, add two ladiesful of strong broth, dredge in a little flour, stew the whole until it is of the proper consistence, adding cream or white sauce if necessary. MUSHROOMS. Cooks should be perfectly acquainted with the dif- ferent sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms at first appear very small and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringed fur of a very fine salmon colour, which con- tinues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and middle. Those that have a white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. TO STEW MUSHROOMS. The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with saltEGGS. 275 Chap, xiv.] and a bit of flannel; cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stewpan with some peppercorns: simmer slowly till done; then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoonsful of cream j give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. CHAPTER XIV. EGGS, CHEESE, SALADS, &c. EGGS A LA TRIPE. Skin six or eight onions, mince them, put some butter into a stewpan and melt it, add about two spoonsful of flour, mix both well together, then add the onions, and wet them with milk, cream, or water; let them stew, taking care that the onions and butter do not be- come brown; season with a little salt and white pepper; cut some hard eggs .into slices, and when the sauce is ready put them in; make the whole very hot, and serve it up. EGGS ON THE DISH.—E. R. Butter a dish well, sprinkle it with salt, then break the eggs very carefully so as not to disturb the yolk ; add a little more salt and some white pepper; melt a small quantity of butter, pour it gently over, with one or two spoonsM of cream. Put the dish over a slow fire, and finish the eggs by covering them with a red-hot shovel. BURNT BUTTERED EGGS.—E. R. Blacken the butter in a fryingpan, and strain it, clear the fryingpan and pour in the butter; break ten eggs upon a dish, preserving them whole; season them with salt and a little nutmeg ; pour a part of the burnt butter boiling hot over the eggs, and then slide them over the T 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xiv. 276 rest of the butter; put them on a slow fire, and finish by covering with a red-hot shovel. EGGS IN DAYLIGHT.—E. R. Boil six eggs hard, Avhen cold take out the yolks and beat them in a mortar with butter, salt, nutmeg, pepper, and minced parsley, adding three raw yolks. Chop the whites very small, and put them into a stewpan with some good gravy; do not let them boil, but shake them until they have a consistence; then place them round the dish they are to be served in. Take the yolks out of the mortar, and pass them through a colander into the same dish; garnish with bread dipped in yolks of eggs. Place it in an oven, and when the colour of the sun it is done enough. Obs. This is a pretty-looking dish, and affords a variety to omelette, but is certainly not so good. OMELETTE WITH ALMONDS.—E. R. Beat up three eggs with a quarter of a pint of good cream, a little salt, and two spoonsful of rice-flour; stir it over the fire until it is pretty thick; when nearly cold add a little grated lemon-peel, suflficient sugar to sweeten it, and ten or twelve sweet almonds pounded, or an equal quantity of almond-flour; then beat up the yolks and whites of ten eggs separately, mix the whole together, butter paper, and line the inside of a deep dish; pour in the omelette, bake it, turn it over on the dish, and glaze it with sugar. SWEET OMELETTE.—E. R. Beat up the eggs with a very little salt, put them on the fire, and sjirinkle sugar over while frying; place the omelette on a dish, cover it with sugar, then with a red- hot shovel glaze it, cut the edges neatly, roll it up, and serve it. SWEET OMELETTE WITH PRESERVE—E. R. Beat up the eggs with a little salt, add sugar; fryEGGS. Chap, xn’.] 277 the omelette; render half a pound of preserve liquid by shaking it in a little water over the fire; spread half upon the omelette, double it up, and pour the remainder of the preserve over the top. OMELETTE SOtJFFLEf.—E. R. Separate the whites from the yolks of six eggs, taking care to remove the specks : add to the yolks two spoons- ful of dry pounded sugar and a little lemon-juice, work them well together. Whip the whites until they are firm, then mix them with the rest. Put a small piece of butter into the fryingpan, let it melt upon a slow fire, then add the omelette, taking great care that it does not burn; turn it out upon a dish, glaze by strewing sugar over it; then put it into the oven: when it has risen glaze it again, and serve it. Orange-flower water may be used instead of lemon-juice. FRENCH OMELETTE,—E. R, Take four eggs, beat the yolks and whites together with a table-spoonful of milk, a little salt and pepper; put two ounces of butter in the pan, and let it remain for five minutes j beat the eggs for the same time, pour them into the pan, and allow them to remain quiet for a few minutes, taking care to separate the omelette gently from the bottom of the pan with a fork ; now shake it to keep it from burning at the bottom. It Avill not take more than five minutes frying. Chopped parsley, onions, or kidney, may be added; and omelettes are judiciously varied by mixing grated ham or tongue, anchovies or oysters chopped. Any kind of vegetables will be admissible, particularly asparagus-tops previously boiled: tomatos, scalded and beaten through a sieve, are much approved. Some cooks add a spoonful of rich gravy to the beaten eggs, others the juice of an orange or lemon ; the omelette is only to be fried on one side, and served up doubled over; the pan should be one made on purpose, and rather deep, but a common fryingpan will suffice, though not so well.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 218 [Chap. xrv. There are hundreds of receipts for omelettes, but the principle is the same. OMELETTE WITH HERBS.—E. R. Beat up two eggs with a little water or milk, salt, pep- per, chives, and parsley, minced very small. Put a piece of butter half the size of an egg into the fryingpan, let it boil but not brown; pour in the omelette and allow it to set a little; then raise it round the edge with a fork, to allow more of the mixture to become cooked. When it is done, a good deal of the omelette remaining liquid, turn it over to double it: this will absorb much of the liquid, but keep it soft. Put the dish on the fryingpan and turn it over. Let the fire be clear, but not too hot. TALLIANNI.—E. R. Take three eggs, a little salt, and as much flour as will make a stiff paste; then break it into two pieces, and roll it out as thin as possible. Lay a clean cloth on the table, and with the hand spread out the paste as thin as a leaf. Let it remain on the cloth for two hours, then fold up the sheets and cut it into narrow strips. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water, put a little salt into it, then put in the tallianni, and let it boil for ten minutes, stirring the water about as it boils with a fork. Strain the water through a colander, and, when the tallianni is drained dry, put it into a dish witli a sauce made of a little brown gravy and a lump of butter. MACCARONI.—E. R. A quarter of a pound of maccaroni and the same of grated Parmesan. Boil the maccaroni in water with some salt; when tender take it out and put it into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a part of the cheese, a little white pepper, and a spoonfid or two of milk. Toss it until the cheese is well mixed with tlie other things, and then put it into a dish Math the remainder, the larger portion of the grated cheese on219 Chap, -xiv.] CHEESE. the top. It is not to be browned, and will be found delicious. MACCARONI BROWNED.—E. R. Boil the maccaroni in milk, or a weak veal broth, until it is soft, adding salt for seasoning. When tender, drain it, and put it on a dish, placing small bits of butter and grated cheese upon every layer. Put a larger quan- tity of grated cheese and butter on the top, and place the dish in a Dutch oven for a quarter of an hour, but do not allow the cheese to become hard. MACCARONI WITH BREAD-CRUMBS.—E. R. Wash the maccaroni, then simmer it in half milk and half broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, and lay it on a dish; grate a quarter of a pound of cheese over the top, and cover the whole with grated bread-crumlis. Then warm butter without oiling, and pour it from a boat through a small earthen colander all over the crumbs. Then put the dish in a Dutch oven, to toast the cheese and brown the bread, which should be of a pale colour, but in separate crumbs, and very light. It will take two ounces of butter at least, and, if intended for Italians, a larger quantity. FONDUE.—E. R. Grate four ounces of Parmesan cheese, and beat in a mortar to a paste; add a piece of butter, and beat it well; stir in the yolks of six eggs and a quarter of a pint of cream; mix the whole well together, and then add slowly the whites of the eggs, separately beaten, and in a froth. Pour the mixture into a round deep dish, made for the purpose, either of block-tin or silver. Fill it only three parts full, to admit of its rising, and keep stir- ring it for a few minutes after it is put into the oven. FONDUE A LA PARISIENNE.—E. R. Boil half a pint of milk with an ounce of butter andDOMESTIC COOKERY. 280 [Chap. xiv. a little salt; then by degrees mix in a spoonfnl of flour, and stir it over the fire for five minutes. Then take it off, and add half a pound of grated cheese, the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of two, well beaten; when perfectly mixed, add half a pint of cream and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth. The batter should be as thick as cream. Make little paper trays, fill them three- parts full, and bake them in a very slow oven eighteen minutes. FONDUES EN CAISSES.—E. R. Take a quarter of a pound of Swiss cheese, two ounces of Parmesan, and a piece of cream-cheese; pound the whole in a mortar with a little pepper and salt, then mix in four or five eggs, one at a time; fill twelve small paper cases, and put them for a short time in the oven, to give a fine colour. FONDEAU.—E. R. Mix half a pint of cream with a little flour and a little salt; keep stirring it over the fire until it is nearly as thick as melted butter; then add about half a pound of Parmesan cheese finely grated. Mix it all well together until it is half cold; then take four eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, put the former to the cheese, and beat it well together. Then beat the whites to a solid froth, add them to the rest, and pour it in a mould lined with paper, cut in a fringe at the top. The oven must be very hot. If divided into small papers, five minutes will bake them. RAMAKINS—E. R. Two eggs, two spoonsful of flour, two ounces of melted butter, and two of grated cheese; mix all well together, and bake it in moulds or tart-pans for a quarter of an hour. RAMAKINS WITH WINE OR ALE.-E. R. Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and the281 CHEESE. Chap, xiv.] same of Gloucester cheese; melt without oiling a quarter of a pound of butter : then beat all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, the inside of a French roll boiled in milk, and a wine-glass of wine or ale. When thoroughly mixed, add the whites of the eggs, previously beaten to a froth. Put the composition into paper cases, rather long than square, and bake them in a Dutch oven. FRIED RAMAKINS.-E. R. Grate half a pound of cheese, and melt two ounces of butter; when the latter is getting cool, mix it with the cheese and the whites of three eggs well beaten. Lay buttered papers on a fryingpan, put slices of bread upon it, and lay the cheese on the top; set it on the fire for about five minutes, then take it off, and brown it with a salamander. TOASTED CHEESE.—E. R. Slice Gloucester or other cheese, put it into a saucepan with about an ounce of butter and a very little milk; stir it over the fire until the cheese is quite dissolved, then take it off, add an egg well beaten, dish it, and bromi before the fire. STEWED CHEESE.—E. R. Grate two ounces of cheese ; put it into a basin; mix with it a small tea-cupful of cream and an egg beaten and strained. Put into a small saucepan an ounce, or half an ounce, of butter, according to the richness of the cheese ; let it melt, then stir in the other ingredients, and let it boil until well mixed. Serve it hot, either browned or plain. CHEESE STEWED WITH ALE.—E. R. Cut the cheese into slices, pare off the rind, and put it into a dish over a lamp; then pour on as much ale as will cover it, and let it stew until the cheese is dis- solved. This is a Welsh method, and a very good one. The cheese may be spread with mustard. When there282 [Chap. xtv. DOMESTIC COOKERY. is a quantity of dried rind of cheese left, scrape it quite clean, then grate or pare it very thin ; put it into a stew- pan with table-beer or ale, and let it stew gently until it is dissolved, adding a little butter, should it be dry. It may then be spread upon toast. WELCH RABBIT.—E. R. Cut slices of bread, toast and butter them; then cover them with slices of rich cheese; spread a little mustard over the cheese, and put the bread in a cheesetoaster before the fire. Serve it up very hot. CHEESE PATTIES.—E. R. Beat half a pound of cheese fine in a marble mortar, then add a quarter of a pound of butter; beat them well together. Add five yolks and the white of an egg; continue beating until they are quite smooth, then put it into tart-pans lined with paste, and bake them. WHITE FRICASSEE OF EGGS.—E. R. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and when melted add chopped parsley, a small piece of shalot chopped finely, and mushrooms also chopped, with pepper and salt. Stew till the seasoning is done, then add a cupful of cream. Boil four or six eggs hard, and cut them into slices; each egg should make five or six; lay the eggs in, and add a little flour to thicken the sauce; give it a boil, and serve up. A broM-n fricassee is made the same way, with good rich broMUi gravy instead of cream. EGGS WITH FOLIAGE.—E. R. Pick, wash, and drain a bundle of spinach-leaves; add to them a large handful of parsley and a bundle of chives, both finely chopped; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, and a spoonful of cayenne pepper. When the butter melts, put the pan upon a stove, or by the side of the fire, until the vege-Chap, xiv.] EGGS. 283 tables are well stewed ; add the juice of a lemon. Either poach or fry half a dozen eggs, trim them nicely, and serve them upon the foliage. Instead of the lemon, a quantity of sorrel-leaves, equal to half the spinach used, may be substituted. BUTTERED EGGS.—E. R. Break si.x eggs in a basin, beat them up, add to them two ounces of butter, melted, and a tea-cupful of milk, a salt-spoonful of salt, and one of pepper; beat them together in a saucepan over the fire until very thick. It may be spread about three-quarters of an inch thick upon buttered toast, or poured into a small dish, and may be varied by the addition of grated ham, or any cold vegetables chopped small, asparagus-tops in par- ticular. It is also sent to table thus:—Boil two eggs hard, peel them and cut them into slices, and lay them on the top of the beaten eggs in a dish; it should be sent up very hot, this composition being best carried round the table in the Indian fashion, in the silver saucepan in which it has been cooked. EGGS BROUILLkS, OR QUARRELLING —E. R. This is the French method of dressing buttered eggs. Break four or six, beat them and put them into a sauce- pan w'ith a piece of butter, a little salt, and a spoonful of sauce or gravy which makes the eggs softer. Stir them over the fire, and to prevent them being overdone put them on the hob when they begin to boil. When suffici- ently thick serve on a plate garnished with toasted bread. To eggs dressed this way trufSes, ham mushrooms, &c., minced, may be added. EGGS FOR THE SHAH.—E. R. Slice some onions very finely, pepper them well with cayenne pepper, and fry them in butter; take them out of the pan, drain them before the fire from the fat, put them on a dish, and squeeze lemon-juice over them sufficient to saturate and render them very acid. Fry[Chap. xiv. DOMESTIC C00?:ERY. 284 or poach six eggs, trim them nicely, lay them upon the onions, and serve them very hot. EGGS A LA CARMELITE.—E. R. Boil six eggs hard, cut them in halves the long way, take out the yolks and chop them very fine with parsley, sorrel, and boiled onions; season with pepper and salt; mix them up with a little melted butter, and fill the whites; heat them until thoroughly hot in white sauce made thus:—Take a quarter of a pint of cream, seasoned with a blade of mace; melt in it two ounces of butter, stir it very well, adding sulEcient flour to keep the butter from oiling, and just before dishing squeeze in a little lemon-juice. EGG ALB.—E. R. Boil six eggs until very hard, remove the shells, and cut them across, preserving the whites in the form of cups. Mince the yolks in small cubes ■with cold ham, parsley, and salt. Mix the minced ingredients with cream until they form a thick paste, but do not break the little cubes. Then fill the cups formed of the whites with this compound, heaped up in the middle, cutting oflf a piece from the round end to make them stand; place them in a dish, and pour ■white sauce over them. EGGS FARCIE.—E. R. Boil six eggs hard, remove the shells, but leave the eggs whole. Cover them with a rich forcemeat made with scraped ham, pounded anchovy, pounded veal, and bacon fat, well pounded together and highly seasoned: brush them with the yolk of egg, and dredge them with bread-crumbs or vermicelli; fry them a pale gold colour, and serve them with gravy in the dish. A VERY PRETTY DISH OF EGGS. Break some eggs into a small tart dish, without in- juring the yolks, or laying one over the other. DropSALAD, Chap, xiv.] 285 on them some warm butter, and lightly strew crumbs of bread. Put it in the oven until the whites be set j and serve with a wreath of parsley round the edge. SALAD MIXTURE.—E. R. Salad mixture is like punch, the greater the number of ingredients the better : it is rather difficult, however, to give the proportions, so much depending upon the strength of the vinegar and the preference given to oil. Boil two eggs hard, and beat the yolks very smoothly with the back of a spoon, with two small teaspoonsful of salt and the same of made mustard; add two table- spoonsful of sweet oil, or two of cream, three of vinegar, a dessert-spoonful of essence of anchovies, one of mushroom ketchup and one of walnut ditto : to this may be added a salt-spoonful of cayenne pepper, while some persons think a tea-spoonful of sugar an improvement. When salads are made without oil the yolk of a raw egg should be mixed with those which are hard boiled, with the addition of cream or drawn butter. The Quihi sauce is excellent in salad mixture. The following proportions make a most excellent salad: Four mustard-ladles of mustard; Four salt-ladles of salt; Three dessert-spoonsful of essence of anchovies j Four ditto of the best mushroom-ketchup; Three ditto of the best sweet oil; Twelve ditto of vinegar; and The yolks of three eggs boiled hard. When the salad vegetables are cleaned and put into a bow'l, pour over them a sufficient quantity of the above, and stir it well. A SUBSTITUTE FOR EGG IN SALAD. Rub down a dessert-spoonful of a mashed potato, with mustard and salt, and some cream, which answers for oil when that is not at hand; then add vinegar. Tomatos make e.xcellent salad.286 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xiv. SALAD.—E. R. Purselane, an herb now little cultivated in England, is an excellent ingredient in summer salad, which should consist of young cos lettuces, mustard and cress, very young radishes, any kind of fine herb in season, and chives placed round the edge of the dish, and not cut into it: in winter endive, cabbage lettuce, beet-root, celery, and onions. The excellence of a salad consists in the vegetables being young and fresh; they should be pre- pared only a short time before they are wanted, the salad mixture being either poured into the bottom of the bowl, or sent up in a sauce-tureen, and not stirred with the vegetables until they are served. BOILED SALAD.—E. R. Any cold boiled vegetables make excellent salad in winter. Beet-root, celery, Spanish onions, carrots, and broccoli, should be cut small, and served with the same mixture as that employed for vegetables in their raw state. In summer cold peas, French beans, cauliflowers, asparagus-tops, or a portion of anything in season may be employed, and they are particularly nice with cream instead of oil. POTATO SALAD.—E. R. Cut boiled potatoes in thin slices, and chop very small pickled cucumbers, onions, and chillies, an anchovT or two, and some capers or nasturtians; serve them with a salad mixture. FRENCH SALAD. Chop there anchovies, a shalot, and some parsley, small, put them into a bowd with tw'o table-spoonsful of vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or boiled meat in very thin slices; put in a few' at a time, not exceeding two or three inches long. Shake them in the seasoning, and then put more; cover the bowlSALAD. 287 Chap, xiv.] close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish with parsley and a few slices of the fat. ITALIAN SALAD.—E. R. Pick the white portion of a cold fowl from the bones in small flakes, pile it in the centre of a dish, and pour a salad mixture over enriched with cream ; make a wall around with salad of any kind, laying the whites of the eggs, cut into rings, on the top in a chain. LOBSTER SALAD.—E. R. Take the fish out of the shell, divide it into small pieces, mix it with the soft portion, and either lay it in the bottom of a bowl with the salad mixture, or place it in the centre of a dish with the vegetables piled round. Any cold fish, salmon and turbot particularly, make good salad. VINAIGRETTE.—E. R. Take any kind of cold meat, chop it finely, and lay it in a dish; chop the whites of the eggs employed for the salad very finely with small onions, any kind of herb, and pickled cucumbers, all chopped finely : make a garnish round the meat, serve it with salad mixture, but do not stir it together, as it would spoil the appear- ance of the dish, which looks very pretty with the eggs and herbs in a ring. ARTICHOKES A LA POIVRADE.—E. R. Take very small artichokes, cut them in quarters from the bottom, and remove the choke. Serve them in a little cold water, like radishes; make a sauce with oil, vinegar, pepper, and salt; they have the flavour of nuts. PRAWN OR SHRIMP SALAD.—E. R. Shell the prawns, pile them in a dish, mixing withDOMESTIC COOKERY. 288 [Chap. xv. them red Chillies chopped very small; cut a cucumber into thin slices, lay it round, add pepper, salt, oil, and vinegar. ORANGE SALAD FOR DESSERT, &c—E. R. Slice the oranges thin without paring them, put them in a deep dish, and powder them well with fine sugar ; when the sugar is a little dissolved pour in a small quantity of brandy, let them soak a few minutes, and then turn them in order that all should imbibe the brandy. This salad should be prepared an hour before it is wanted. CHAPTER XV. ORIENTAL COOKERY. One of the great characteristics of Oriental cookery is the mixture of acids in all savoury dishes. Besides the lime, which answers to our lemon, the natives of Asia possess the juice of pomegranates and of tamarinds, for which we have no equivalent; and also in Persia a seed, the sumach, which when dried and pounded, is employed in dredging the kabobs, and imparts to them a fine acid flavour. Curds are also another ingredient very exten- sively employed, while the general fault, at least in India, is the quantity of oiled butter which is allowed to appear in the gravies when not wholly absorbed by the rice. The Turkish and the Persian mode of cookery far surpass in excellence that of Hindustan, though oc- casionally they are a little strong ; such, for instance, as a dish of finely-sliced onions fried in butter, and satu- rated with pomegranate-juice, and sent to table with eggs fried in the same butter and placed on the top. Garlic is often allowed to preponderate rather distress- ingly, but in other cases it is managed with great deli-289 CURRY. Chap, xv.] cacy, the Delhi cooks perfectly understanding the French method, and boiling it in dilFerent waters until it is as mild as almonds. It is then placed whole in the Chet- ney. A mixture of sugar, curds, and raisins, in savoury dishes, is also a peculiarity of Oriental cookery; and Lucknow especially is celebrated for its sweet pickles. In the native cookery of India, the Mohammedan, gene- rally speaking, far excels that of the Hindoo, in which the absence of meat is too abundantly supplied with ghee (clarified butter). The Madras brahmins, how- ever, are famous for their vegetable curries, and Eu- ropeans soon acquire a taste for the butter and onions which form so essential a portion of all. The following receipts are those which have been adapted to English tables by gastronomes of eminence. As a slight devia- tion in the ingredients, in dressing of a curry, makes an amazing difference in the flavour, many receipts, bear- ing great names, are given, which can be well authenti- cated as genuine. Several of the polaos or pillaws have been brought to perfection by the officers of Gar- diner’s Horse, a native corps of irregular cavalry, in which the few Europeans, who are attached to it, live very much in the Mohammedan fashion. The author has in her possession a book of receipts translated from the original Persian, written out expressly for her use by the khansamah of the late King of Oude, but not being suited to an English table, they do not appear. Note.—An exception has been made in favour of pickled lemons, which is worthy of a trial, being very good in India. THE KING OF OUDE’S CURRY.—E. R. Take half a pound of fresh butter, two large onions, a gill of good gravy (veal is the best), one large pressed table-spoonful of curry-powder; add to these ingre- dients any kind of meat cut into pieces. Put the whole into a stewpan, cover it close, and gently simmer for two hours. When ready to serve up, squeeze as much lemon- juice as will give it an acid flavour. u[Chap. xv. 290 DOMESTIC COOKERY. DOPEEAZA CURRY.—E. H. Skin a fowl, and disjoint it, take two ounces of cori- ander-seed freed from the husks, and rub it perfectly smooth in a mortar, with a drachm of red pepper, and half a dozen onions. Set a quarter of a pound of butter on the fire, and slice in an onion; when the onion is well browned, take it out, and put in the fowl; let it fry until it is brown, then mix a pint of curds with the onions and coriander-seed, and add it to the stew ; slice in a sour apple, and keep stirring to prevent the stew- pan burning, adding a little water occasionally should the curry become too dry. When the apple is tender, the curry is sufficiently done, and may be served up. LORD CLIVE’S CURRY.—E. R. Slice six onions, one green apple, and a clove ot garlic; stew them in a little good stock until they muII pulp, then add one tea-spoonful of curry-powder, a few table-spoonsful of stock, a little salt and a little cayenne pepper, half a salt-spoonful of each; stew in this gravy any kind of meat cut into small pieces, adding a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour. THE B.ANKSHALL CURRY.—E. R. Melt four ounces of butter in a stewpan, then add two onions cut into small pieces; stew them until they become brown and dry, then take them out. Having cut up the meat intended for the curry, reduce to a pulp the following ingredients :—Four cloves of garlic, twelve small onions, two pieces of ginger, four pieces of turme- ric or saffron, four chilies, and four table-spoonsful of curd, adding, if desirable, a table-spoonful of coriander- seeds, also reduced to a pulp. Put the whole into the stewpan, keeping them well stirred until they become thick, then put in the meat piece by piece, and keep it constantly stirred until thoroughly done, adding occa- sionally a little water to prevent it from burning; then take oil' the stewpan so as to allow the water to mix, and291 Chap, xv.] CURRY. having previously pounded the following spices, viz., ten cloves, twelve corns of black pepper, and half a tea- spoonfiil of carraway-seed, with salt to the taste, add them, with the fried onions beaten into powder, to the contents of the stewpan; mix the whole well together, put the stewpan upon the fire, and stew until the meat is properly done. MADRAS CURRY.—E. R. Take a part of a neck of mutton, cut it into small pieces, and take out the bones, fry it until brown with its own fat; stew it for two hours in some good broth or water, add fried onion, pepper and salt, to season it, and five minutes before it is served, put one table-spoon- ful of curry powder on the meat, mix it w'ell, and let it stew, but not boil, for five minutes. This is a most excellent curry, and much more economical than any other. HARD-EGG CURRY.—E. R. ' - Slice two onions, and fry them in butter; take out the onions, add a tea-cupful of curds, and two dessert- spoonsful of curry-powder; let it stew till very rich, then put in a pint of broth, thicken with flour, and when it has boiled, add the onions and half a dozen hard-boiled eggs. Potatoes, or any kind of vegetable, may be added to this curry. KHALI KHAN’S CURRY.—E. R. Melt three ounces of fresh butter, and stew in it four cloves. When the latter are soft, take them out, and fry three onions sliced in the butter, taking out the onions when they are browm ; add to the butter two dessert-spoonsful of curry-powder, a salt-spoonful of salt, and a breakfast-cupful of curds. Stir it all toge- ther, and let it stew’ until the mixture looks rich, and emits a fine smell ; then add a fowl, cut up into very small joints, a bay-leaf, and a pint of good gravy. Stew till a peculiar smell of the powder is perceptible, and till it is pretty thick, adding a little water if necessary. u 2[Chap. xv. 292 DOMESTIC COOKERY. When about to serve it up, put in the onions chopped fine and a little lemon-juice.—Obs. To suit the English taste a larger quantity of gravy should be made, and the oiliness of the butter absorbed with a little flour. BENGAL CURRY.—E. R. Take a drachm of red pepper, six onions, and one ounce of coriander-seed free from the husks, rub the seeds perfectly smooth in a mortar, and then add and pound the pepper and onions, mixing all well together. Set a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan on the fire, slice an onion into it, and when the latter is brown, take it out, and put in two drachms of turmeric. Let it fry until the raw flavour goes off; then mix half a pint of curds with the pounded ingredients, and put the whole into the pan with the meat cut in pieces, two ounces of grated cocoa-nut, and a little salt. Stir the stew continually, and, while the meat is getting brown, sprinkle water to prevent it from burning. This is a dry curry; the addition of gravy will alter its character, and it may be varied with potatoes, boiled and sliced, peas, artichoke-bottoms, or any other vegetable. VEGETABLE CURRY.—E. R. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, then roll celery, onions, and broccoli in curry-powder, and stew them until tender; add a cupful of good gravy, a small quantity of mashed potatoes mixed up with curry- powder, and salt. Stew the whole together until suffi- ciently done. MILK CURRY.—E. R. Take a dessert-spoonful of salt, and a tea-spoonful of mixed spices, a table-spoonful of flour, and four spoonsful of cream. Cut four onions and two shalots into slices, and fry them in butter till tender ; then take any kind of meat or fish, cut it into small pieces, flour and fry them brown ; then take the meat out of the fryingpan, dredge it with curry-powder, put it into a stewpan with the onions, cream, &c., and stew it for293 CURRY. Chap, xv.] half an hour, adding a pint of milk, and, before it is served up, two spoonsful of lemon-pickle. THE HASTINGS CURRY.—E. R. Brown a quarter of a pound of fresh butter, slice two large onions, and fry them. Cut fine the heart of a hard white cabbage, and a large sour apple ; put the whole into a stewpan, add a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of black pepper, one of turmeric, the juice of half a lemon, and a gill of strong gravy. Cut up a fowl, flour it, add a little salt, put it with the rest of the ingredients, cover it closely to keep in the steam, and let it stew for three hours. MADRAS PRAWN CURRY.—E. R. Take a pint of prawns or shrimps, boiled and shelled, put two ounces of butter into a stewpan with an onion finely shred, and two spoonsful of curry-powder; stew them well together, and then put in the fish. Have some spinach washed very clean, put it into a saucepan without any water; when enough, press the liquor from it, and add it to the butter, &c.; stir it well together, taking care that it does not bum in the pan ; if neces- sary, add a little water, for the ingredients must stew a few minutes over the fire to amalgamate properly. This is not the prawn curry so celebrated in Bengal, which approaches more to the lobster curry. Not to multiply receipts, it may be said that lobster, or any fish-curry, is prepared in the same way as chicken or rabbit, with this diiference only, that the stock should be invariably composed of fish broth. MALAY CURRY.—E. R. Cut a whole onion in slices, and a clove of garlic also; mix a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger, a table-spoouful of turmeric, a dessert-spoonful of cayenne, a table- spoonful of salt, and a dessert-spoonful of flour all toge- ther, and pound them in a mortar. Pound also, very fine, half a pound of almonds, strain them through a294 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Cbap. XV. sieve, squeeze them, and mix the juice with the other articles. Take a sufEcient quantity of lemon-juice in proportion for two chickens, cut up the chickens, cover them with the mixture, and stew them gently in broth until sufficiently done. ANOTHER MALAY CURRY.-E. R. Blanch two ounces of almonds, fry them until they are brown, but not blackened, pound them to a cream with an onion, and the rind of half a lemon ; then cut up a chicken into joints; mix a large tea-spooufiil of tur- meric and half a tea-spoonful of eayenne pepper in a breakfast-cupful of water. Put this, wdth the chicken, almonds, &c., into a stewpan, and let it simmer for about twenty minutes; then add a tea-cupful of cream, let it boil up once, and, before dishing, squeeze in the juice of a lemon. POLAO, OR PILLAW.—E. R. Wash a pound of rice, and boil it in a quart of white broth ; when about a quarter of the grains remains hard, strain it. Rub smooth in a mortar half an ounce of coriander-seed, three onions, six peppercorns, and four cloves; set six ounces of salt butter in a saucepan on the fire, add the coriander-seed, spices, &c., with two ounces of curds; then put in a whole fowl, or two chickens, a rabbit, or half a dozen quails; fry of a nice brown, sprinkling water, if necessary, to keep the meat from burning, and keep it on the fire until the meat is tender, then add the rice; stir the whole gently so as not to break the grains, and place the pan near the fire to allow tlie rice to swell. In dishing up, surround the fowd with the rice. The broth in which the rice has been boiled may be used to moisten this polao: a vegetable curry is a good accompaniment. PINE-APPLE, OR APPLE POLAO.—E. R. Boil twelve ounces of rice in water, and when only a quarter of the grain remains hard, pour off half theChap, xv.] 295 CURRY. hot water, fill the pan up with cold water, shake it, and then pour off all the water, and set the pan, covered, near the fire. When dry, add a pound of preserved pine-apples with some of the syrup; or, should pine- apples not be attainable, slices of apple boiled with sugar. Fry two sliced onions in a quarter of a pound of fresh butter. When the onions are browned, take them out, as they will be no longer wanted: put six whole cloves into the butter, and pour it over the rice. Stir it well, but cautiously, so as not to bruise the rice : put the apples on the top, and set the whole near the fire to swell; keep it covered, but stir it occasionally. Plain curry should always accompany this dish, and be eaten with it. The reader may judge of the excellence of this polao by the observation of a gastronome of celebrity, who, partaking of it for the first time, expressed his conviction, that if the host would go to England, and cook it for his late majesty George the Fourth, he would obtain a baronetage for his reward. LUCKNOW POLAO E. R. Cut up a rabbit or fowl; pound a couple of onions in a mortar; extract the juice, and mix with it a salt- spoonful of ground ginger, and a tea-spoonful of salt, and the juice of a lemon : rub this into the meat; cut up two onions in slices, and fry them in a quarter of a pound of butter. When brown, take them out, and put in the meat, with a cupful of curds, six cloves, and twelve cardamums : let them stew together. Have a pound of rice half boiled in broth ; put the whole meat, &c., into a jar, with half a pint of milk, some whole pepper- corns, and a little more salt. Secure the mouth of the jar, and bake it until done enough, adding a little broth should the butter and milk not be sufficient to moisten it. MUTTON POLAO.—E. R. Take half a pound of the neck of mutton; boil it well; boil also two cups of rice, the same as for curry.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 296 [Chap. iv. Cut the boiled mutton into small pieces, and fry it in butter; then add it and the rice with the butter, a few cloves, a little cinnamon, and some cardamoms. Let the whole simmer for half an hour. In dishing it, put a little rice at the bottom of the dish, the meat in the centre; cover it over with the remainder of the rice, and scatter the spice on the top. KHICHAREE.—E. R. Boil a pint of rice in broth; and, having steeped a tea-cupful of dried peas in water, boil them till they are soft. Then slice two or three onions, and fry them in butter, with a dozen or two of cardamum-seeds, a little white pepper, six cloves, and salt; take out the onions when browned, and the spice, and add a cup of curds or milk to the butter; stew it a little; distribute the onions, spice, and peas equally through the rice, and pour the butter, &c., over it. Or put the whole into an earthen jar; secure the aperture with a paste, and put into the oven, or over a charcoal fire, for five-and-twenty minutes, adding sufficient broth to moisten it, in which case the rice must only be half boiled previously. TO BOIL RICE.—E. R. Wash it well, and boil it in a large quantity of cold water; when a very little of the centre of the grain remains hard, take it off the fire, strain off half or more of the hot water fill the saucepan with cold water, and shake the rice; then strain all the water off, and the grains will separate; place the pan of rice near the fire to swell, and the centre part of the grains will become tender.—Ods. This is a most excellent method of boiling rice, never failing to produce it in perfection ; but, as a choice may be desirable, another weU-recom- mended receipt is given. Take a pound of rice, soak it for four minutes, then put it into four times its weight of boiling water, and, when sufficiently done, drain off the water thoroughly, and replace the saucepan on the fire until the grains separate.CURRY. Chap, xv.] 297 PISH PASH.—E. R. Take about three pounds of the neck of mutton, boil it until tender; prepare a small tea-cupful of rice by bruising it raw in a mortar; then cut the meat into small pieces; throw the rice, meat, and an onion sliced into the water in which the meat was boiled, adding a small piece of mace, and a few peppercorns tied in a muslin bag; boil till the rice and onions are sufficiently done; take out the muslin bag, season with salt, and serve up. A chicken may be used instead of the mut- ton. COUNTRY CAPTAIN.—E. R. Boil a chicken, and then disjoint it thoroughly; cut two large onions into pieces; put them all into a frying- pan with a suitable proportion of butter ; season it with salt, and add a table-spoonful of dry curry-powder, which should be dried a little before the fire, and rubbed well into the meat before frying. When the onion is perfectly brown, it is enough. It may be served up with rice. HINDOSTANEE KUWAB FOWL.—E. R. Rub smooth in a mortar half an ounce of coriander- seed, three onions, a drachm of red pepper, the same of pounded ginger, and four cloves. Put four ounces of salt butter on the fire in a stewpan. Rub a fowl inside and outside with the pounded ingredients; truss it nicely ; put it into the butter, and fry it a fine brown, turning it continually. This is a sort of salamander very acceptable to the lovers of fiery dishes: it should be eaten with lemon-juice squeezed over it. The butter may be converted into sauce; but at many tables the fowl is served up dry in the dish. A small fowl is best for the purpose, it being more easily cooked. IIOSSYNEE KUBAB.—E. R. Skewer upon small silver skewers alternately slices298 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xv. of apple, slices of meat, cut into round pieces the same size, and halves of onions, so as to have four pieces of each, e., twelve on each skewer. To two pounds weight, take a drachm of turmeric, four onions, and a drachm of red pepper; pound them in a mortar, sprinkle over, and fry them with the kubab in a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter. Send up boiled rice with this dish. KOFTAHS.—E. R. Pound in a mortar two pounds of mutton, beef, rab- bit, or fowl, with a sprig or two of sweet marjoram, a drachm of red pepper, and four onions. Form them into balls the size of walnuts, and fry them in butter. When the balls are well browned, make a gravy in the pan, and serve them up in it. Send up boiled rice in another dish. ’ ZURDU.—E. R. Boil a pound of rice in a quart of broth until a small part of the centre of the grain alone remains hard, then strain it. Reserve a tea-cupful of the broth, and boil in it a scruple of saffron ; then strain it, and pour the broth thus coloured upon the rice. Set it near, not on, the fire, and stew it until the broth is absorbed by the rice. Koftahs must be served in a separate dish. MUTHA ZURDU —E. R. Prepare the rice as in the foregoing receipt, only with water instead of broth, adding the saffron to the water, and mixing up in it, when thus coloured, two ounces of finely-powdered sugar. Place a quarter of a pound of butter on the fire; when melted, add the saffron water and rice; allow the rice to absorb all the liquor. A plain curry should accompany this in a separate dish.299 CURRY. Chap, xv.] DUMPOKHT.—E. R. THE DISH MENTIONED IN THE ARABIAN NIGHTS AS THE KID STUFFED WITH PISTACHIO NUTS. Clean and truss a fowl, or rabbit, as for roasting; then stuff it with sultana raisins, pistachio nuts, and boiled rice in equal parts. Rub fine an ounce of corian- der-seed, freed from the husks, four onions, a dozen peppercorns, six cloves, and a tea-spoonful of pounded ginger. Set twelve ounces of butter in a stewpan over the fire; rub the pounded ingredients over the fowl or rabbit, and let it fry until perfectly well browned and tender. Boil in a quart of white broth twelve ounces of rice, two ounces of sultana raisins, two ounces of pistachio nuts, and two of almonds, the two latter blanched, and cut into thin slices. When the rice is nearly tender, strain off the broth, and add the rice to the fried fowl; stir the whole well, that the butter may completely saturate the rice, and keep it near the fire to swell till wanted. In serving, surround the fowl with the rice. Observe that, in pounding the onions, the juice only is used with the spices, or they must be rubbed and pounded so finely as not to be perceptible. Chestnuts may be substituted for pistachio nuts. CURRY POWDER, No. 1.—E. R. One ounce of ginger, the same of coriander-seed, half an ounce of cayenne pepper, and two ounces of fine pale turmeric; these ingredients to be pounded separately to a fine powder, and then warmed by the fire, and mixed together. Put the powder into a wide- mouthed bottle, cork it well down, and put it into a dry place. CURRY POWDER, No. 2.—E. R. One table-spoonful of coriander-seed, one tea-spoonful of cumin-seed, the same of turmeric and of cayenne pepper, and one table-spoonful of common flour. When to be used, mix all these ingredients in their several300 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xv. proportions, with two table-spoonsful of lemon-pickle, and four of cream, adding this mixture to the fried onions and butter, &c, CURRY POWDER, No. 3.—E. R. One ounce and a half of mustard-seed scorched and finely-powdered, four ounces of coriander-seed pounded, four ounces and a half of turmeric, three ounces of black pepper, one ounce and a quarter of cayenne pepper, one ounce of the lesser cardamums, half an ounce of ginger, and one of cumin-seed, all finely powdered. 'ITie flavour may be varied by the addition of all or any of the following ingredients: cinnamon, in powder, one ounce; cloves, ditto, half an ounce ; mace, ditto, half an ounce. DELHI CURRY POWDER, No. 4.—E. R. Twenty tea-spoonsful of turmeric, eight of pounded chilies or cayenne pepper, and twelve each of cumin, coriander-seed, and dried cassia-leaves. MADRAS CURRY POWDER, No. 5,—E. R. Three-quarters of a pound of turmeric, two ounces of cumin-seed, two ounces of coriander-seed, three- quarters of an ounce of carraway-seed, the same of car- damum-seed, half an ounce of black pepper, three- quarters of an ounce of cayenne ditto, half an ounce of fenugreek-seed, half an ounce of cloves, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, a quarter of an ounce of mace, all of the best quality, pounded separately to a fine powder, and kept very dry. ANOTHER MADRAS RECEIPT, No. 6.—E. R. Six ounces of coriander-seed, three ditto of black pepper, three ditto of turmeric, two ditto of cumin, one ditto of fenugreek, and half an ounce of cayenne pepper. To be pounded and sifted, and kept very dry.301 Chap, xv.] CURRY. BENGAL CURRY POWDER, No. 7.—E. R. Four ounces of coriander-seed, two ditto cayenne pepper, two ditto of turmeric, one ditto of cumin-seed, one ditto of fennel-seed, one ditto of black pepper. To be well dried, pounded, and sifted. Lime or lemon- juice should be added to this curry powder when used. Obs.—Those who dislike the flavour of turmeric may substitute saffron. A BENGAL PERIGORD PIE.—E. R. A correspondent of the “ Bengal Sporting Magazine,” and no one will dispute the excellence of the authority, vindicates the grey partridge from the aspersions cast upon it, and recommends it during the season—that is, from the middle of September to the end of February— in preference to the black partridge. The young birds are distinguishable by tbeir inferior size, and the pale- ness and smoothness of their legs. The English reader must not be astonished at the quantity prescribed. Take twenty-five brace of partridges; choose five brace of the youngest; pick, draw, wipe them clean, but do not wash them—washing fresh meat in water not only takes away its flavour, but its strength—and put them aside. Clean the remaining twenty brace ; put them into a vessel capable of boiling the whole, with a well-seasoned mutton-ham cut into moderate pieces ; add a suflScient quantity of water, and stew until the gravy is reduced to about four quarts. Take out the lean parts of the mutton-ham, and pound it in a mortar, with seasoning of pepper and allspice. The partridges and remainder of the ham should now be taken out of the, kettle, and excellent potted game may lie made of them, as they are full of rich gravy, impregnated with the flavour of ham. The gravy or soup is to remain until it is cold, and the fat carefully removed ; season it with black pepper and spices, and stew the five brace of young birds in it until they are tender. Put them into a round pie, adding the pounded ham and the302 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xv. gravy, reduced into a rich consommee ; cover up the pie with a crust; bake it slowly. It is to be eaten cold, and will prove a dish that few princes can command. In hot weather, put it into the ice-basket a couple of hours before dinner. STEWED PARTRIDGES.—E. R. Take four young partridges nicely cleaned, and put them into a deep cooking-pot, -with a piece of butter and a little water ; put them on a brisk fire; keep the cover of the pot on, and move it about constantly, to prevent the birds burning or browning on the bottom. The partridges are sufficiently cooked the instant the red gravy is seen to percolate from the bird, and mix with the melted butter. Serve them up hot, with cayenne pepper and the sauce-cruet. BOILED PARTRIDGES.—E. R. The black partridge is in season from October until May. They are best boiled. Take a large vessel, which w'ill hold several quarts of water, drop the par- tridges into it while the water is boiling, and keep it so. At the expiration of exactly ten minutes, take the birds out, and serve up with bread-sauce. SHIKAREE (HUNTERS' SOUP).—E. R. Take the produce of the game-bag, some fifteen or twenty brace of partridges, three or four hares or wild- fowl ; add lots of pepper, salt, any odds and ends of vegetables out of the basket, and a bottle of each of the wine or beer that can be spared from the supply. Put all into the soup-kettle, fill up with water, and com- mence the brew, which may be entrusted to the musalchee (scullion). He cannot go wrong. Set him to work early in the morning, and when the party returns from shooting in the evening, order all the meat to be taken out, and correct the seasoning. Cut a single loaf—an old, hard, dried one will do as well as a freshChap, xv.] 303 PRESERVES. one—into pieces of about two inches, put it into the soup, and boil it; and serve the party out of the kettle. CITRON MARMALADE —E. R. Grate off the outer portion of the citrons ; then quarter them, remove the seeds, and put the juice and pulp aside. Then boil the skins first in water, and after- wards in sugar and water, until they are quite tender; then cut them into very small pieces. Take an equal weight of sugar with the juice and pulp, boil it together with the shred skins until it will jelly on a plate, and put it into jars. PUMMELO OR SHADDOCK PRESERVED.—E. R. Cut off, paring very thin, the outer portion; then quarter the fruit; take out all the inside, and boil the peel in two or three waters to take off the bitter; then boil it in syrup or sugar and water; then in a thicker s\Tup, boiling it three or four times, and allowing it to cool betsveen each. When it is very tender, and the last sugar has candied in the pan, powder sugar over it, and place each piece separately on a large dish to dry in the sun; and wlien quite cold, wrap them up in separate papers, and put them into a glass jar for use. Ohs.—The outer peel, steeped in brandy, makes a very fine bitter. TO PRESERVE LIMES IN SYRUP.—E. R. Gather the limes when nearly ripe, but quite green, scrape them gently, and put each lime into water as it is scraped; then prick them well wdtli a large needle, and lay them upon towels to prevent their being bruised. Then steep them in water for a few liours; afterwards put them into a stewpan covered with water, adding a little alum, and close the vessel. Boil them over a brisk and clear fire for a cjuarter of an hour. Take the juice of ten ripe limes, or of some citrons, in proportion to the quantity required for sixty green limes, and put it into the stewpan, when the latter begin to boil. WhenDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xv. 304 they have boiled the quarter of an hour, as before stated, then take them off the fire and scoop out all the pulp of each lime ; wash them well, and put each into cold water as it is done, in order that they may become firm : allow them 'to remain four hours in the cold water. Then make the syrup thus :—take two seers (four pounds) of sugar, the whites of three eggs, add a little water, and boil it all well, taking care to skim it well. When suffi- ciently done, take the syrup off the fire, dry the limes from all moisture, and, when the syrup is cold, put them into it. Should it be desirable to fill up the limes, take some large lemons, and, after peeling, soak the peel in water for a short time, boil the peel for a quarter of an hour, and then cut it into small shreds, boil the juice with an equal weight of sugar until it is thick; then add the shredded peel, and fill the limes when cold. If a dry preserve be wanted, boil up tbe limes after they have been taken out of the cold water in a thin syrup, allow them to grow cold, then boil them in much thicker syrup till it candies, and powder them well on the outside with dried sugar, filling the interior with a syrup mixed with lime-juice which will candy; dry them in the siin, and let them get cold before putting away. TO PRESERVE LIME-JUICE.—E. R. Take any quantity of fresh lime-juice, strain it through a fine cloth, put it into an earthen vessel, and evaporate in a sand-bath, or over a gentle fire, constantly stirring it until it acquires the consistence of a f.hick syrup. This kept in small bottles will for years preserve the flavour of the lime. Tamarind-juice may be preserved the same way, and will be found exceedingly useful, being excel- lent in punch or sherbet, and invaluable as a fever drink. TO PRESERVE RED TAM.VRINDS.—E. R. Take off the outer peel, and then split the tamarinds lengthways, in order to take out the seeds- Take four times their weight of sugar, after the seeds have beenPRESERVES. Chap, xv.] 305 taken out of the tamarinds, make it into a thick syrup, which must be well boiled, with the juice of three or four limes squeezed into it. Strain it, and put in the tama- rinds, let them remain for a few minutes on the fire, then take the pan off, and put them with the syrup into jars well covered. In the course of a short time a thick crust will appear on the top of the jar, which will exclude all the air, and preserve the tamarinds good for a long time if not disturbed. The tamarinds should be selected of the finest red, and gathered bdfore they are ripe, otherwise they will be stringy, scarcely any pulp left, and the seeds difficult to extract. Care should be taken not to allow the tamarinds to remain long in any brass or copper vessel. The syrup should be thick at first, because the juice from the tamarinds will speedily thin it. HYBISCUS JAM.—E. R. Pare off the upper part of the fruit, and cut the seed from the lower or stem part; to each seer (two pounds) of fruit add a breakfast-cupful of water. Put the whole into a stone jar, boil it in a kettle of water for four or five hours, take it out, weigh it, add an equal weight of sugar, and boil until it will jelly. Hibiscus jelly is made the same way, only the juice must be strained before the sugar is added. CORUNDA JAM.—E. R. Put the fruit into a jar, and boil it in a kettle of water until all the juice is expressed; then add an equal weight of sugar, and boil it until it will jelly, which will be shown by putting a little out upon a plate. Country gooseberries may be made into jam exactly the same way, and make excellent jam, when care is taken to preserve them with sugar alone, and not to mix up any spice, which spoils them. TO PRESERVE PINE APPLES.—E. R. Gather the pines when half-grown, of the Antigua sort, with small tops, if preferable. With a sharp knife X306 [Chap. xvi. DOMESTIC COOKERY. ' take out the little prickly leaves between each flake, but be careful not to go too near the top. Put them into salt and water, a little warm, to make them turn yellow, which will be in about twenty-four hours; then place them on a slow fire in water and lemon, or lime-juice, until they are green: do not keep them too long upon the fire, for fear of losing the top. When they are done, put them in cold water ; then take them out, and let them be thoroughly dried; then put a good rich syrup to them, which must be repeated two or three days afterwards. This is a West India receipt, but will be found useful wherever pine apples are extensively grown, and is there- fore inserted in the Oriental Chapter. DR. GILLMAN’S RECEIPT FOR S.AL.AD-OIL FROM TILL OR POPPY-SEED.—E. R. A rupee’s-worth of till or poppy-seed, generally about twenty-six seers, must in the first instance be well washed and cleaned, and spread upon a table- cloth in the sun to dry. Pick it clean from all other seed, and let it be thoroughly dried; then express the oil in a well-cleaned oil-mill, carefully preventing its being stirred with a hot iron, which would spoil the oil, and which is a common practice wdth the native oil- makers. About twenty-six seers of seed yield sixteen quart bottles of oil, and the whole expense will not exceed two rupees. CHAPTER XVI. SAUCES, FORCEMEAT, &c. SAUCES.—E. R. There is nothing that requires more attention on the part of the cook than the sauces wliich are wanted to all made dishes, and those w'ho are clever and econo-Chap, xvi.] SAUCES. 301 mical will alwa3's contrive to procure the basis of these sauces in the manner pointed out in various parts of this volume. Where a calPs head or a breast of veal is stewed, nothing more will be required; as both will yield an abundant supply, and it will only be necessary to give it the proper flavour with ham, or beef bone, &c. Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, kidney, or milt, or of the liver of a fat ox, as of any other kind of meat, if cut in pieces, fried with onions, and seasoned with herbs and spices, as other gravies. Gravy may also be made of the knuckle of dressed mutton, if much be not required. The bones and pieces of meat cut off to make joints appear well, called trimmings, as likewise those of fowls, may be made by a skilful cook to answer the same purpose. All the shank-bones of legs and shoulders of mutton should be thrown into water, and, after good soaking and brushing, be long boiled ; the water in w'hich they are done will add greatly to the richness of gravy, as does the jelly of cow-heels. The latter must lie all night in water, which causes the jelly to be of a good colour. When boiled three hours, and become cold, let the fat be carefully taken off; and when apparently quite clear, lay some white paper upon it, rubbing it close with a spoon, which will remove every particle of grease, and it will be as pure as the jelly of a calf’s foot. Tarragon and knotted marjoram, by some called London thyme, give the flavour of French cookery, and are a great improvement to gravies; but should be added only a short time before serving. Truffles and morels thicken and improve the flavour of gravies and soups: half an ounce being carefully washed of each, simmer them in a pint of water, and add the whole. TO MAKE GEAVY TH.AT WILL KEEP A WEEK. Cut lean beef thin, put it into a fryingpan without X 2308 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xvi. any butter or fat, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not burn : let it stay till all the gravy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again, often shaking it: put as much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham : simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Do not take off the fat till going to be used. ANOTHER WAY. Lay meat at the bottom of a stewpan, with two or three ounces of butter, and herbs and roots strewed over it: cover close, and set it on a slow part of the stove. When the gravy is drawn out, shake it into the meat, and let it remain till nearly dried up again ; then add as much water as required. consommj5e.—E. R. Consommee forms the basis of all the finer kinds of sauces and gravies, and is known to the plain English cook by the name of stock. Put into a stew'pan a part of the scrag of veal cut into pieces, with the bones, and some slices of ham or gammon of bacon, together with any trimmings of meat at hand, adding an onion, a bundle of parsley and mushrooms, if they can be ob- tained. Moisten the meat with a small quantity of water or broth; when the gravy is well drawn, add boiling water or broth, skim it well, and stew it until it is strong enough to jelly. When cold, strain it, and the next day remove every particle of fat. The consommtie of game, poultry, and rsibbit is made exactly in the same manner. Get all the bones and trimmings, and when the best portions are only required for fricassee, &c., take the backs and legs, stew them in broth with a ham-bone, onions, and parsley, until all the goodness is extracted; then after straining and removing the fat, boil it down to a glaze, and thicken it with white or brown roux; consommt^e of game, when thickened, is known as Espagnole.SAUCES. 309 Chap, xvi.] VELOUTfe.—E. R. Reduce a quantity of the consommtie or stock over a brisk fire, and mix it with boiling cream; boil it together and serve it, stirring it very well to the last. BkCHAMEL.—E. R. This is another variety of fine white broth, or con- sommtie thickened with cream; one or two spoonsful of potato flour may be mixed very intimately with the stock before the cream is added, or the same, quantity of common flour; the art consists in mixing all well together, boiling exceedingly smooth, and stirring it to prevent a skin from gathering. It may be made thus:— Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quan tity of lean bacon or ham: put them into a stewpan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom-buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay- leaf: fry the whole over a very slow fire, but not to brown it; thicken it with flour. Add an equal quantity of good veal or mutton broth, and cream. Let it boil gently one hour, stirring it all the time : strain it through a soup-strainer. A GRAVY WITHOUT MEAT. Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut-pickle or mushroom-ketchup into a basin. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter till it is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion and simmer it covered twenty minutes. Strain it off for use, and when cold, take off the fat. CULLIS, OR BROWN GRAVY. Lay over the bottom of a stewpan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick : then cover the veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions,310 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xvi. two or three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover the stewpan, and set it over a slow fire : but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef brotb, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour: add a little water, mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick: boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. A RICH GR.WY. Cut beef into tbin slices, according to the quantity wanted: slice onions thin, and flour both ; fry them of a light pale brown, but do not on any aceount suffer them to get black: put them into a stewpan, pour boiling water on the browning in tbe fryingpan, boil it up, ai;d pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savory, a small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat, and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. GRAVY FOR A FOWL WHEN THERE IS NO ME.\T TO MAKE IT OF. Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small: simmer them with a little bread browned, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in half a pint of water, till half wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom-ketchup, and it will be very good. VEAL GRAVY. When all the meat has been taken from a knuckle of veal, divide the bones, and lay them, and a pound of the scrag of a neck, in a stewpot; and if you likeChap, xvi.] 311 SAUCES. it, an ounce of lean bacon, a bunch of parsley, a little thyme, a bit of lemon-peel, and a dessert-spoonful of pepper: add as much water as will cover them. Boil and skim it nicely; stop the pot down close, and let it simmer as slowly as possible three hours. Strain off, and let it stand till cold; then skim it, and take the jeUy from the sediment. Pound some mace fine, and boil with two spoonsful of water, and add to the gravy. If cream is to be put to it, do not add the salt until the gravy comes off the fire. A CHEAP AND GOOD GRAVY. Fry three onions in butter a nice brown; toast a large slice of bread a considerable time, till quite hard and very brown, but not burnt. Set these, and any bit of meat, or bone of a leg of mutton, &c., and some herbs, on the fire, with water in proportion, and stew till the gravy is thick and rich: add salt and pepper, strain off, and keep cool. GRAVY TO MAKE MUTTON EAT LIKE VENISON. Pick a very stale woodcock or snipe, cut it in pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails), and sim- mer with as much unseasoned meat-gravy as you will want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. STRONG FISH GRAVY. Skin two or three eels, or some flounders, gut and wash them very clean: cut them into small pieces, and put into a saucepan. Cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of horseradish. Cover close and simmer: add a bit of butter and flour, and boil with the above. SAVOURY JELLY TO PUT INTO COLD MEAT PIES. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that or mutton : or if the pieDOMESTIC COOKERY. 312 [Chap. ivr. be of fowl or rabbit, the carcasses, necks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cow-heel, or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stewpot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils, skim it Avell, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong : strain it, and when cold, take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. JELLY TO COVER COLD FISH. Clean a skate, and put it into three quarts of w'ater, with a calf’s foot or cow-heel, a stick of horseradish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew until it will jelly; strain it off: when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without stirring ; and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold, lightly roughed. CHEAP WHITE SAUCE, No. 1.—E. R. Boil an onion, a stick of celery, and a bunch of parsley in a pint of milk, adding white pepper and a little salt; then put two ounces of butter into a saucepan, let it melt, dredge in flour until it is a paste, but do not allow it to become brown. Strain the milk, and add it by degrees to the butter and flour, stirring it very well; then boil the whole together, stirring all the time, andSAUCES. 313 Chap, xvi.] boiling it until it is quite thick and smooth. If wanted to be very rich, let it cool a little, and then add an egg previously beaten, and mixed very gradually; warm it over the fire, stirring it well, but do not let it boil, or it will curdle. CHEAP WHITE SAUCE, No. 2.-E. R. Mix a tea-spoonful of flour with a quarter of a pound of butter, a little salt, and ground white pepper; let them be well blended together with a wooden spoon, then add a spoonful of vinegar and one or two of water; mix the whole together, stirring it one way over the fire. WHITE ROUX.—E. R. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan over a slow fire, allow it to melt, then drain off the butter-milk ; make it into a paste by dredging flour over it, and keep it on the fire for a quarter of an hour, taking care that it does not lose its colour. This is useful in thickening white soups and sauces, as it is more delicate than but- ter and flour mixed in the common way. Brown roux is made in the same manner, only allowed to fry of a dark colour. French cooks use no other kind of browning. BROWNING. TO COLOUR AND FL.'VVOUR MADE DISHES. Beat to powder four ounces of double-refined sugar, put it into a very nice iron fryingpan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and when it begins to froth hold it up higher; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring all the time. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica and the same of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of mace bruised, three spoonsful of mushroom and the same of walnut ketchup, some salt, and the finely-pared rind of a lemon ; boil gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin till cold, take off the scum, and bottle for use.314 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [CbAP. XVI. BROWNING IN A MINUTE.—E. R. Put two lumps of powdered sugar into a small sauce- pan, with a piece of butter the size of a walnut, melt them together ; add a glass of ketchup, and stir it well. A very small quantity may be made in an iron spoon. MELTED BUTTER.—E. R. Mix very well with a spoon a small quantity of flour into a piece of butter; about a tea-spoonful will be re- quired for three ounces; the excellence of melted butter greatly depends upon the pains taken to blend it with the flour before it is put upon the fire. When well mixed, add two table-spoonsful of hot water, or the same quantity of milk, put it into a small saucepan, shaking it one way until it boils: it must boil a minute to take off the rawness. By attending to these directions, and only using sufficient flour to prevent the butter from oiling, it will be rich and smooth. When thin melted butter is required to pour over puddings, roast veal, &c., make it the same way, adding a larger proportion of water. ONION SAUCE.—E. R. Peel the onions, and put them into cold water, when it boils pour the water off, and fill up the saucepan from a kettle of boiling water ; do this three or four times to take out the strength of the onions; when they will pulp, beat them through a sieve, add white gravy, cream, or milk thickened with butter and flour; warm the whole together, and send it up. GARLIC SAUCE.—E. R. Peel the garlic and divide it into cloves, boil it for five minutes in water, then pour it off; add boiling water, boil it five minutes longer; repeat the process a third and fourth time, then strain the garlic, and send it to table in white sauce. If properly done it will taste like almonds.Chap, xti.] 315 SAUCES. CELERY SAUCE.—E. R. Cut it in small pieces, stew it until very tender in some good brotli, that it may have a rich taste; then thicken the necessary quantity, and send it to table. SORREL SAUCE.—E. R. Wash and put it into a stone jar, and simmer the jar in boiling water: when enough, add seasoning, and beat it well with butter. THE VERITABLE OUDE SAUCE, OR CHETNEY. Put two ounces of butter into a stewpan, and when melted add six onions shred; when they begin to take colour, put in a dozen and a half of chilies chopped finely; stir it well together for four minutes, then put in a small quantity of dried salt fish, not exceeding two square inches, chopped very fine; keep stirring, and as the butter dries, add a large cupful of the pulp of fresh tomatos, a tea-spoonful of salt, the juice of a lemon, and a little water ; mix the whole very well together, and let it be of the consistence of a paste, though not too dry. It is eaten with cold meat, but will not keep. DUTCH SAUCE, FOR MEAT, FOWL, OR FISH. Put six spoonsful of water, and four of vinegar, into a saucepan; warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it; stir it, or shake the pan all the time ; squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. SAUCE ROBERT, FOR RUMPS OR STEAKS. Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a sauce- pan, set it over the fire, and when browning throw in a handful of sliced onions cut small; fry them brown, but do not let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry: then put four spoonsful of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes: when cold, skim off the fat;[Chap. XVI. 316 DOMESTIC COOKERY. add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should he of a fine yellow brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. CURRANT SAUCE FOR VENISON OR PIG.—E. R. Clean an ounce of currants, and boil them in half a pint of water for a few minutes, pour the whole over a tea-cupful of bread-crumbs; let it soak, and then add a piece of butter rolled in flour, four or six cloves, and a glass of port wine; beat it a little, and stir it over the fire until it is quite smooth. BREAD SAUCE, No. 1. Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black pepper and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into a saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour ; boil the whole up toge- ther, and serve. BREAD SAUCE, No. 2.—E. R. Take a large onion, slice it down very thin, put it into some broth or water, let it boil until tender ; add a suf- ficient quantity of bread-crumbs to thicken it, two ounces of butter, pepper, and salt, and a little good cream ; boil it until it is thick and very smooth, but do not allow it to be too thick to pour into the sauce tureen. This receipt is from the Palace, and comes highly recom- mended. SAUCE FOR BOILED RABBITS, TURKEYS, &c.—E. R. Take one liver, and boil it with some sprigs of tli3Tne and parsley, and dissolve in the water, after taking it out, two anchovies boned; boil two eggs hard, leave out one white, and shred the rest with the livers, herbs, and anchovies; pound them together in a mortar, adding a salt-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and a little pepper and salt. Put it into the saucepan, squeeze upon it theSAUCES. Chap, xvi.] 3n juice of half a lemon, thicken the liquor with butter and a little flour, add to it the pounded ingredients, and stir it until finished. EGG S.AUCE FOR ROAST FOWLS.—E. R. Boil two eggs hard, mince them very fine, add a third portion of grated ham, or tongue, a very little white pepper, and the juice of a lemon; warm it up in melted butter. A VERY FINE MUSHROOM SAUCE FOR FOWLS OR R.ABBITS. Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt, to take oflf the tender skin. Put them into a saucepan with a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up and stir them till done; then pour it round the chickens, &c. Garnish with lemon. If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones, done white, -with a little mushroom-powder with the cream, &c. A VERY GOOD SAUCE FOR BOILED CHICKENS. Take the legs and necks, with a small bit of the scrag of veal or mutton ; put them into a saucepan with two blades of mace, a few white peppercorns, an anchovy, a head of celery sliced, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a small bit of lemon-peel: boil these in a quart of water to half a pint; strain, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter and some flour ; boil it five minutes ; then put in two spoonsful of mushrooms ; and having beaten up the yolks of two eggs with a tea-cup of cream, put it into your sauce, and keep shaking it one way over the fire till it is near boiling : then put it into a sauce-tureen. SAUCE FOR A GREEN GOOSE E. R. Take half a pint of sorrel-juice, two glasses of white wine, a nutmeg quartered, a cupful of fried crumbs, and two lumps of sugar; let all boil together, then beat itDOMESTIC COOKERY. 318 [Chap. xvi. smooth, adding a piece of fresh butter, and serve it very hot in a tureen, or in the dish with the goose; it should not be made too thick with the bread-crumbs, and if much acid should not be approved, the wine must be equal in quantity to the sorrel-juice. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE FOR GREEN GEESE.—E. R. Wash some sorrel, put it into a cloth and press out the juice; melt a piece of butter with flour, using this juice instead of water; let it be very thick. Scald green gooseberries until very tender, and add them to the sauce. This is a fine acid sauce if not spoiled with sugar. If not sweetened add a little cayenne pepper. SAUCE FOR YOUNG DUCKS.—E. R. Take young green onions or chives; chop them very small, then put them into some thick melted butter, with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of lemon pickle; stir it well together, and, when very hot, put it into the dish with the ducks upon it. Should the flavour of the onions be thought too strong, they may be scalded previously. SAUCE FOR HARE, VENISON. &c. Take the crumb of a penny roll and steep it in port wine, put it on the fire with a piece of butter; beat it smooth, add pepper, salt, and sugar, with a glass of vinegar ; let it boil, and serve it very hot. SAUCE ITALIENNE BROWN.—E. R. Take some small slices of ham or bacon, put them into a stewpan, with a lemon sliced, taking care to remove the pips; add some chopped shalots, washed and dried in a cloth, half a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a little oil. Place them on the fire; when nearly ready, take out the lemon, adding minced parsley, thyme, a glass of white wine, a little pepper and minced mush-Chap. XVI.] SAUCES. 319 rooms. Reduce, skim it, and take out the ham; when brown it is enough done, and may be served over broiled fowls, legs of turkey, bones, &c. SAUCE PIQUANTE, No. 1.—E. R. Put into a stewpan the muscles of a knuckle of veah some slices of ham or bacon, a cupful of gravy, a spoonful or two of strong vinegar, a bay-leaf, a clove of garlic, a little thyme, one clove, and a little salt; skim it, and when it has stewed a quarter of an hour, pass it through a sieve : then add sorrel, parsley, and mushrooms, all chopped fine, and whole capers ] heat it again, and serve it in the dish. SAUCE PIQUANTE, No. 2.—E. R. Put into the stewpan a gill of vinegar, two seeds of allspice, a pinch of fine pepper, a leaf of bay, a little thyme; let it reduce half in the stew'pan, then add three spoonsful of rich sauce Espagnole, and two of broth: reduce it until it is like clear bouilli, adding a little salt. ACHA.—E. R. Half a large Spanish onion, four capsicums, as much salt and lemon-juice as may be agreeable to the palate, all pounded together in a mortar. FISH ACHA.—E. R. Boil a piece of salt fish, cut an onion and some cap- sicums in pieces, pound them well together, and add a little vinegar. FISH SAUCE WTTHOUT BUTTER. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (which must not be hard), with an onion, half a handful of scraped horseradish, and the following spices lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender, chop it smallDOMESTIC COOKERY. [ClIAP. XVI. 320 witli two anchovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time have ready and well beaten the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor hy degrees with them, and when well mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping the basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Do not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. FISH SAUCE A-LA-CHASTER. Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best an- chovies, cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs (namely, savory, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), and a little parsley and sliced horseradish; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer all gently for twenty minutes ; then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use. The way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. OYSTER S.AUCE.—E. R. Beard the oysters, put the beards to the liquor, and stew them in a little of the water the fish is boiled in for a few minutes; then strain it, make it into white sauce with roux and a little cream; boil it, then put in the oysters, let them simmer until quite plump, but do not boil them, or they will be hard. OYSTER SAUCE FOR TURKEY.—E. R. Be careful of the liquor as the oysters are opened, put it into a saucepan Avith a blade of mace, the beards of the oysters, a tea-spoonful of pepper, and a little salt. Strain the liquor and melt the butter in it, instead321 Chap, xvi.] SAUCES. of water, then put in the oysters and plump them, adding a tea-cupful of cream. MUSSEL SAUCE.—E. R. Prepare a good fish gravy, thicken it, and add the mussels, which must be well washed and bearded. Shake them about in the saucepan, and serve them very hot. S.\UCE FOR WHITE FISH.—E. R. Take two large anchovies, and half an onion finely chopped, one spoonful of vinegar, and four of sherry: boil it together, thicken it with flour, and add four spoonsful of cream or melted butter, in which case the flour may be omitted. SAUCE FOR FISH.—E. R. All fish sauces should be made of the water in v^hich the fish is boiled,- or some of the bones, fins, &c., stewed down. When fish is filleted, the bones should always be employed in this way: stew them with an onion and a little white pepper, strain the broth, whicli will be very rich, thicken it with cream, butter, and flour, or roux ; and add whatever the sauce is to be made of. LOBSTER SAUCE.—E. R. Pick the meat from a lobster, and cut it into very small pieces. Break the shell, and stew it with the legs, &c., in a pint and a half of water, until reduced to the quantity required; then strain, add the usual thickening for a white sauce, and warm the lobster up in it. ANCHOVY SAUCE.-E. R. Chop three anchovies, melt a quarter of a pound of butter in a tea-cupful of the water in which the fish is boiled, add a spoonful of vinegar and a little flour. Stir it well over the fire until it is quite thick. YDOMESTIC COOKERY. 322 [Chap. xvi. SHIKAREE SAUCE FOR WILD DUCK.—E. R. Mix together a dessert-spoonful of pounded white sugar, with the same quantity of cayenne pepper, or if the parties be averse to so much pepper, a tea or salt spoonful; add to it a glass of claret or port wine, a glass of ketchup, or a dessert-spoonful of essence of anchovies, and the juice of half a large lemon. Warm it over the fire, and either serve it up in a butter-boat, or, having scored the breast of the duck, and laid a slice of butter upon it, pour the sauce over. WILD DUCK SAUCE.—E. R. A tea-spoonful of made mustard, the same of essence of anchovies, and red pepper; a table-spoonful of ketchup, and a glass of claret. TOMATO SAUCE .A LA FRANCAISE.—E. R. Take six or eight tomatos, cut them in two and across; squeeze out the liquor, and put them into a suflBcient quantity of stock ; add a slice of onion, au idea of garlic, a peach-leaf, bunch of parsley, and a spoonful or two of vinegar. Boil the whole together, skim it well, and serve it up. TOMATO SAUCE.—E. R. Take ripe tomatos, place them in a jar in an oven until the skin will come off easily; then stir them in their own liquor, take out the seeds, add a little salt, pepper, and vinegar, and simmer them until they are of a proper consistence. APPLE SAUCE.—E. R. Pare, core, and slice the apples, put them into a jar in a pan of water, on the fire; when soft enough beat them to a pulp : add sugar, if it should be the family taste, but it destroys the slight acid flavour of the apples, and its corrective to goose or pork.SAUCES. Chap, xvr.] 323 APPLE S.A.UCE PIQUANT.—E. R. Pulp the apples, and, if wanted of a good colour, add to them a little juice of beetroot or cochineal; season with cayenne pepper, and a glass of vinegar or lemon- pickle, taking care not to make it too acid. This will prove a substitute for tomato, or sorrel sauce, when neither can be obtained ; if for the latter, a little spinach juice will give it a colour. HORSERjiDISH SAUCE FOR FISH.-^. R. Stew an onion in a little fish gravy until it will pulp; add a tea-spoonful of grated horseradish, and one or two spoonsflil of essence of anchovies. Beat all together over a fire, thicken it with a little butter, and finish with a spoonful of lemon-pickle or lemon-juice. Vinegar may be substituted, in which case it must be mixed with the horseradish, and boiled with it; while the lemon, or lemon-pickle, being of a more delicate flavour, should only be warmed. ANOTHER HORSERADISH SAUCE.—E. R. Scrape the horseradish thin and chop it small, or grate it, which is better; warm it in melted butter, adding a spoonful of mushroom ketchup, and one of walnut, or the vinegar from walnut-pickle. HORSERADISH SAUCE FOR HOT OR COLD ROAST MEAT.—E. R. Scrape very fine or grate the horseradish; add a little made mustard, and two spoonsful of pounded white sugar, to four of vinegar. Mix the whole well together. This sauce should be very thick. HORSERADISH SAUCE FOR A TURKEY.—E. R. Slice two or three onions very thin, scrape an equal quantity of horseradish very fine; put them together into a stewpan with nearly half a pint of water, and half the quantity of good vinegar, and a little salt. Stew it until Y 2[Chap. xvi. 324 DOMESTIC COOKERY. tender, then put it into a dish, and place it under the turkey, when it is nearly roasted, to catch the dregs from the turkey. HORSERADISH SAUCE FOR ROAST BEEF OR MUTTON.—E. R. Grate the horseradish on a bread-grater into a basin, then add two table-spoonsful of cream, with a little mustard and salt; mix them well together, and bruise them with a spoon ; then add four table-spoonsful of the best vinegar, and bruise them well together until thoroughly amalgamated. Observe, that the vinegar and cream are both to be cold. This is a very fine sauce, and may be served in a small tureen. SAUCE FOR BEEFSTEAK.—E. R. Equal parts of ale, wine, and ketchup; a piece of butter, and a little pepper; stir it over the fire in a small saucepan, and pour it very hot upon the beefsteak. SAUCE A LA ST. MENEHOUD.—E. R. Put some butter into a stewpan, shake over it a little flour ; add a cupful of cream ; serve it with parsley, young onions, half a bay-leaf, and a shalot. Put it on the fire, keeping it stirred. Then pass it through a sieve: put it on the fire again with some chopped parsley, a little pepper, and minced mushrooms. Serve it over boiled fowls. SAUCE A LA TARTARE.—E. R. Take the yolk of an egg, and drop into it very slowly a table-spoonful of sweet oil, beating it up by degrees until perfectly mi.xed ; then add a table-spoonful of vinegar, a little chopped jmrsley, a table-spoonful of French mustard, pepper, and salt; beat up the whole together ; make and keep the sauce in a cold place; put it into a dish, and lay the boiled fowl upon it. This sauce should be beaten till it resembles cream.FORCEMEAT. 325 Chap, xvi.] SAUCE FOR ROAST MEAT.—E. R. Grate some horseradish, add a spoonful of made mustard, a large spoonful of powdered white sugar, and four large spoonsful of vinegar. CARRIER SAUCE FOR MUTTON. Chop six shalots fine, and boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt. Serve in a boat. QUEEN MARY S SAUCE FOR A SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Let a well-fed shoulder hang till tender. When three parts roasted, put a soup-plate under it, with three spoonsful of hot water, the same of port, a shalot, an anchovy chopped fine, and a little pepper; baste the meat with this, and the gravy tliat drops from it. When the mutton is taken up, turn the inside upwards, score it various ways, pour the gravy over, and cover it with a quantity of fried crumbs of bread. FORCEMEAT.—E. R. French cooks pride themselves, and very justly, on the pains which they bestow on the elaboration of their forcemeat, or farce. It is an art in which they have attained superior excellence, but in which there is no diflSculty—patience and perseverance being the principal things required. The farce is sometimes a delicate pre- paration of sausage-meat, and is served up alone; but it enters into the composition of numerous other dishes. Rasp or scrape a pound of veal, freeing it from all skin or sinew ; scrape also a pound and a half of fat bacon, or beef suet; add pepper and salt, and pound it m a mortar; chop a few chives, a bundle of parsley, and some mushrooms; then, having soaked the crumb of two penny rolls in hot milk, press out the moisture; add to it a lump of butter, and a spoonful or two of rich stock. Stir this over a stove until it dries and be- comes firm, then pound it, first separately and thenDOMESTIC COOKERY. 326 [Chap. xvi. with the meat, also previously pounded, adding three eggs, one at a time. By taking a small quantity of this mixture, making it into a ball, and boiling it, the cook will discover whether it he suflBciently light and well seasoned. It is not considered advisable to put in all the whites of the eggs. The flavour given to the bread, or panada, is con- sidered to be of great importance, and the highest point of perfection may be obtained by attending to the fol- lowing directions:—Put into a small saucepan a piece of butter, a little chopped ham, a few sprigs of parsley, two or three shalots, a bay-leaf, a clove, two blades of mace, and a few mushrooms chopped, if they are to be had, or a little mushroom powder (a tea-spoonful of ketchup may be the substitute) ; stew the Avhole gently over a slow fire. When the flavour is extracted, add one or two spoonsful of broth ; let it boil for a quarter of an hour or twentv' minutes, and then strain it over the bread, after the milk has been pressed out. When the panada has been thus prepared, it will not be neces- sary to put anything but a little salt and pepper to the meat, which is the tme method of making the quenelle. The whole must be pounded separately, and together, until it will go through a sieve. Another method of flavouring the panada is to boil in the milk an onion or shalot and a blade of mace, adding to the stock with which it is afterwards moistened a tea-spoonful of essence of ham. In fact, a cook, who will direct her attention to this branch of the art, may easily vary her sauces or forcemeat, and adapt them to great numbere of dishes. Balls of forcemeat should be rolled small, and either boiled or fried. F.A.UCE CUITE.—E R. Cut in small pieces some undressed fowl, put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a little salt, pepper, and a little nutmeg; shake them over the fire for ten minutes, drain, and let them cool. Put an equal portion of crumbs o-f bread in the same ste'U'panFORCEMEAT. Chap, xvi.] 327 with some broth, and a little parsley chopped fine; stir it with a wooden spoon till it becomes quite soft. Let it get cold, then pound the fowl until it will pass through a tammy; pound the bread also, and put it through the sieve ; then put equal parts of the meat, butter, and bread together, and pound them with yolks of eggs sufficient to make it into a proper consistence, and keep it in a jar for use. FARCE OF HAM AND VEAL.—E. R. Mince equal quantities of ham and veal, a bunch of parsley, and some pepper; put it on the fire with a little broth; let it stew very gently, then pound it in a mortar : add to it an equal portion of bread soaked in milk and pounded, pound the whole together with some butter, and mix it with the yolks of eggs. Obs.—Bacon and veal which have been used in . braising, or anything being highly impregnated with '■ the flavour of herbs and onions, and very rich, may be employed afterwards as a farce, pounded and mixed with panada. COMMON VEAL STUFFING.—E. R. Take equal quantities of beef suet and crumbs of bread, chop the suet very finely: chop together a bundle of' sweet herbs; add to them a tea or salt-spoonful of grated lemon-peel, and pepper and salt. Ude, who is good authority, observes, that “ it would not be amiss to add a piece of butter, and pound the whole in a mortar mix it up with eggs. Ohs.—Grated ham or tongue may be added to this stuffing. By mixing with any jiotted meat or game an equal proj)ortion of soaked bread, which will always be lighter than bread-crumbs, the cook will have at once a very fine species of farce, to be employed in stuffing olives, fillets of fowl, &c. Bacon or butter must always be substituted for suet, when the forcemeat is to be eaten cold.328 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xvr At many tables, where everything else is well done, it is common to find very bad stuffing. According to what it is wanted for should be th» selection from the following list, observing, that of the most pungent articles least must be used. No one flavour should predominate greatly ; yet if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the tastes of the forcemeat, as well as of the gravies. A general fault is, that the tastes of lemon- peel and thyme overcome all others, therefore they should only be used in small quantities. They should be consistent enough to cut jvith a knife, but not dry and heavy. ' v Herbs are a very essential ingredient; and it is the copious but judicious use of them that chiefly gives the cookery of the French its superior flavour. FORCEMEAT INGREDIENTS. Cold fowl, veal, or mutton. Cold sole. Scraped ham or gammon. Oysters. Fat bacon, or the fat of Anchovy. ham. Lobsters. Beef-suet. Tarragon. Veal-suet. Savory. Butter. Pennyroyal. Marrow. Knotted marjoram. Crumbs of bread. Thyme and lemon-thyme. Parsley. Basil. White pepper. Sage. Salt. Lemon-peel. Nutmeg. Yolks of hard eggs. Yolk and white of eggs. Mace and cloves. well beaten to bind the Cayenne. mixture. Garlic. Shalot. Onion. Chives. Chervil.329 FORCEMEAT. Chap, xvi.] Jamaica pepper in fine powder, or two or three cloves. The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat may he made, without any striking flavour, and to those may he added some of the different ingre- dients of the second column to vary the taste. FORCEMEAT, TO FORCE FOWLS OR MEAT. Shred a little ham or gammon, some cold veal or fowl, some beef-suet, a small quantity of onion, some parsley, very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or cayenne, and bread- crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs, beaten or strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture as above. FORCEMEAT FOR HARE, OR ANYTHING IN IMITATION OF IT. The scalded liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, some parsley* thyme, knotted marjoram, a little shalot, and either onion or chives, all chopped fine; crumbs of bread, pepper, and nutmeg, beat in a mortar with an egg. Forcemeats for mackerel, pike, haddock, and soles, will be found by reference to those articles. PASSOVER-BALLS FOR SOUP E. R. Chop an onion, and half a pound of suet very finely stew them together until the suet is melted, then pour it hot upon eight spoonsful of biscuit flour; mix it well together; add a little salt, a little grated nutmeg, lemon-peel, and ginger, add six eggs. Put the balls into the soup when it boils, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. The quantity of eggs and flour may appear disproportioned, but the flour employed is of a peculiar kind, used for the purpose in Jewish families. NotliingDOMESTIC COOKERY. 330 [Chap. ivi. can exceed the excellence of the balls made after this receipt: they are applicable to any kind of soups. VERY FINE FORCEMEAT-BALLS, FOR FISH SOUPS, OR FISH, STEWED ON MAIGRE DAYS. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg, a little cayenne, mace, salt, and w'hite pepper, with two table-spoonsful of bread-crumbs, one ditto of oyster-liquor, tw'o ounces of butter warmed, and tw^o eggs long beaten : make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. FISH FORCEMEAT.—E. R. Chop, and afterwards pound in a mortar, any kind of fish, adding ail anchovy or two, or a tea-spoonful of the essence of anchovies; liut do not allow' the taste to pre- vail ; and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg; if for maigre, pound butter with it; but otherwise, the fat of bacon pounded separately, and then mixed : add a third portion of bread, prepared by soaking and pounding previously, and mix the whole up w'ith raw eggs, DRESSING FOR CUTLETS, &c.—E. R. Grate some stale bread; add to it an equal portion of chopped sweet herbs, parsley being the principal ingredient; season it, and mix it on a plate with clari- fied butter: have another plate of dry bread-crumbs. Brush the cutlets wdth yolk of egg, and put the mixture on thickly wdth a knife; then roll them in the bread- crumbs. Upon some occasions this process should be twice performed, in order that the coating should be sufficiently thick. LITTLE EGGS FOR TURTLE. Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw' one; roll it into small balls, and throw' them into boiling water for two minutes to harden.331 Chap. r\n.] FORCEMEAT. FORCEMEAT FOR TURTLE, AS AT THE BUSH, BRISTOL. A pound of fine fresh suet, one ounce of ready-dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little shalot or onion, salt, white ]iepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon-thyme, finely shred; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste: roll into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them before the fire. If the suet he moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Balls made this w^ay are remarkably light; but, being greasy, sonre people prefer them with less suet and eggs. BRAIN CAK.es.—E. R. Clean, wash, blanch, and soak the brains, then beat them up with a little white pepper, and salt, a sage leaf or two scalded and finely chopped, and the yolk of an egg; make them into small cakes or fritters, and fry them. DIRECTIONS HOW,TO BLANCH, BRAISE, GLAZE, FORCE, AND LARD. TO BLANCH. Put the article in cold water over the fire, and when it boils up take it out and plunge it into cold water, and let it remain until cold. This gives plumpness and whiteness. Tongues, palates, &c., are said to be blanched when, after long boiling, the skin can be peeled off; and the latter will become thicker by being put into cold water as above. TO GLAZE, WITHOUT BRAISING. Fowls or meat may be dressed in any w'ay chosen, without bacon, and a gravy, boiled to a glaze, brushed332 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xiv. over, as above. Hams, tongues, and stewed beef, to eat cold, are thus done. Whether by giving the appearance of French cookery to our good old English dishes any advantage he gained in look or flavour every one must judge for himself; but ham and tongue, in the opinion of many, are best when served as formerly. TO FORCE FOWLS, &c. Is to stuff any part with forcemeat, and is usually put between the skin and the flesh. TO LARD MEAT, FOWLS, S^VEETBREADS. &c. Have ready larding pins of different sizes, and accord- ing to the article to be done; cut slices of bacon into bits of a proper length, quite smooth, and put into a larding pin to suit it, with which pierce the skin and a very little of the meat, leaving the bacon in, and the two ends of equal length outwards. Lard in rows the size you think fit. TO CRIMP PARSLEY.—E. R. Wash and pick it from the large stalks, and then throw it into water. After the fish or meat which it is to garnish has been fried, boil up the fat in a pan, put in the parsley, and it will speedily crisp, and retain its green colour. Take it out and dry it from the fat for a few minutes before the fire. POTATO WALL, OR EDGING, TO SERVE ROUND FRICASSEE OF FISH. Mash in a mortar as many potatoes as you may want, with a good piece of butter; then, with the bowls of two silver spoons, raise a wall of it two inches and a half high within the rim of the dish to be used. Let the upper part be a little thinner than the lower; smooth it; and, after brushing it all over with egg, put it into the oven to become hot, and a little coloured. Before egging it, the outside may be ornamented with333 POTTING. Chap, xvi ] flowers, leaves, &c., by the small tin shapes used to cut paste. CASSEROLE, OR RICE EDGED, FOR A CURRY OR FRICASSEE. After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash; drain and put it round the inner edge of the dish to the height of two inches ; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and M'ash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in the middle. POELkE.—E. R. Take two pounds of veal, and two of bacon ; cut both into large dice; cut also two large carrots and two onions into dice; put them, with a pound of butter, into a stewpan, the juice of four lemons, a little thyme or sweet fennel, and two laurel leaves bruised; season it with salt and pepper; put them on a good fire; add a spoonful of boiling broth, and boil it. Obs.—This is employed in fine French cookery to boil fowls in, or other delicate preparations. BLANC.—E. R. Take a pound of grated bacon, a pound of suet, half a pound of butter, two lemons, four carrots cut in dice, four onions, and a ladle of water. Boil all together till re- duced. Be careful to keep stirring the blanc; and, when the sbet is melted, add a little water and clarified salt; . hoil it, skim it, and it is ready for use. BATTER FOR CUTLETS OR FILLETS OF FOWL.—E. R. Mix four spoonsful of flour with one of olive-oil, and a sufficient quantity of beer to make it of a proper thick- ness ; then add the whites of two eggs, and a little salt. Take care that it is very smoothly mixed. TO POT PIGEONS. Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and334 [Cb^p. XVI. DOMESTIC COOKERY. season them with salt and pepper: lay them close in a small deep pan ; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each; and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty tliick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is ap- proved of, add mace, allspice, and a little cayenne, before baking. TO POT PARTRIDGE. Clean them nicely, and season with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. A VERY CHEAP W'AY OF POTTING BIRDS. Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping; pack them close into a large pot- ting-pan, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and one-third part less will be wanted than when the birds are done whole. The butter that has covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat pies. TO POT LOBSTERS. Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small335 Chap, xvi.] POTTING. hits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press close into a pot, and cover with hutter; bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots, with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cay- enne may be added if approved. -ANOTHER W'AY TO POT LOBSTERS, .\S AT WOOD’S HOTEL. Half boil; take out the meat as whole as you can; split the tail and remove the gut, if the inside he not watery, add it. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pep- per, salt, and a clove or two, in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of the pan, and the lob- ster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort with the sea- soning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be ready for eating next day ; and, if highly seasoned, and thick-covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be eaten cold, or as a fricassee, with cream-sauce; it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel^ Herrings, and Trout are good potted as above. TO POT SHRIMPS. When boiled, take them out of their shells, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, lay a little butter over them, and bake in a slow oven for ten minutes. When cold, cover with clarified butter.336 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xvii. CHAPTER XVII. SALTING AND PICKLING. When the pork is ready for salting, it should he sprinkled with a handful of common salt to fetch out the blood: the brine thrown away on the following day, and the meat wiped with a dry cloth. Hams should be laid with the rind-side downwards; and it is a good plan to heat a cpiarter of a peck of common salt in a fryingpan and lay it at the bottom of the pan. A small quantity of saltpetre is necessary to produce the fine red colour eitlier of ham or beefj but much will make the meat hard, and the proportions of sugar and salt should be varied according to the preference given to highly-salted provisions, or those which are cured with a milder sub- stitute. Skim-milk, or milk and water, will be found preferable to plain water for soaking hams; and they may also be boiled in milk and water. Where vegetables are plentiful, it is desirable to boil a ham with three heads of celery, a couple of turnips, half a dozen small onions, and a large bunch of sweet marjoram, thjnne, &c., put in after the pot has been skimmed. These w'ill extract the salt, and soften the meat : a piece of coarse fresh beef, in addition, will materially improve he ham, but the best way is to bake it. Send it to the oven in a deep pan, v ith half a pound of suet at the bottom and half a pint of water.—E. R. TO DRESS HAMS. If long hung, and vei y hard, put the ham into water a night, and then let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on Stones s])rinkled with water, two or three days, to mellow, covering it with a heavy tub to keep vermin from it. In either case let it be put into a linen bag, and carefully covered. Wash and brush it well; put it into a boiler of water, and let it simmer from threePICKLING. Chap, xvii.] 331 hours and a half to five hours, according to its size. It is best to allow time enough, as it is easy to take up the ham when done, and keep it hot over boiling water, covered closely. Take off the skin as whole as you can, as it keeps the cold ham moist. Strew raspings over the ham, and garnish with carrot sliced. It should be carefully pared, before boiling, to remove the rusty parts. If some cloves, bay and laurel leaves, and a bunch of herbs be boiled with a ham, it will have a fine flavour. If to be braised, cover it well with meat in slices, over and under, and put in roots and spices. The water, with which it is to be completely covered to dress it, will be an excellent addition for brown sauce or soups, instead of plain water. FITZ.SIMON FAMILY RECEIPT FOR CURING IIAMS.-E. R. Take a fat hind-quarter of pork, and cut off the ham in a handsome shape. Mix an ounce of saltpetre, a pound of common salt, and a pound of coarse brown sugar all together, and rub the ham well. Let it lie for a month in this pickle, turning and basting it every day; then hang it in wood smoke in a dry place, where no heat can come to it, and, if to be kept long, hang it for a month or two in a damp place, and it will eat firm and short. Observe, hams thus made need not be soaked; put them into cold water, and let them be three or four hours before they boil, skimming the pot well and often, until it boils. These hams have been made in the family with a less quantity of salt, and an additional quantity of saltpetre, and it has been found to answer well, the hams being in that case soaked before boiling. HAMS IN SWEET WORT.-E. R. Rub every ham with half a pound of coarse sugar and four ounces of saltpetre ; let them lie one night; then salt them with an equal quantity of bay-salt and Cv..”- mon salt, and turn them every day for a fortnight, rub- bing them with the salt that lies at the bottom of the pan; then steep them for three days in cold sw'eet ale zDOMESTIC COOKERY. 338 •[Chap. xvii. wort, turning them every day. Hang them to dry with- out allowing them to get any heat, and then hang them in a damp place. They need not be eaten for three months ; and if the hams are large they should lie in the salt three weeks : eight ounces of common and eight of bay salt are the proportion for each ham. TO PICKLE A IIAM.—E. R. Take a pound of common salt, half a pound of bay- salt, the same quantity of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar or treacle, a pint of old ale, and a pint of vinegar. Boil them all together, and put them hot on the ham; then let it remain a month in the pickle, being careful to turn it every day. PLAIN PICKLE FOR HAMS.—E. R. Take one pound of coarse sugar, one ounce of salt- petre, one ounce of bay-salt, one pound and three- quarters of common salt, and bruise them well together ; then boil them in a gallon of water for ten minutes, skimming it well. Beat the hams, and when the pickle is cold, put them in, turning them every day for three weeks. This is the quantity for one large ham; dry them in wood smoke. ANOTHER WAY. Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder : half a pound of common salt, the same quantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a half of treacle. Turn it twice a-day in the pickle, for three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water for one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. ANOTHER WAY, THAT GIVES A HIGHER FLAVOUR. When the weather will permit, hang the ham three days; mix an ounce of saltpetre with a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, the same quantity of common salt.Chap, xvii.] 339 PICKLING, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer • boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the ham, turn it twiee a-day in the pickle for three weeks. An ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of all- spice in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped; and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve: the latter will make it harder, and give it more of the flavour ot Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, coarse WTappers). Let it be smoked by wood, or over smother- ing smoke, made by wet straw and horse-litter. BERKSHIRE RECEIPT FOR HAMS.—E, R. Take two legs of pork, each weighing about fifteen pounds ; rub them well over with two ounces of saltpetre finely heaten; let them lie a day and night: then take two pounds of brown sugar, and one pound and a half of common salt; mix them together, and rub the hams ■with it; let them lie three w'eeks, turning and rubbing the pickle every day. THE MANOR HOUSE RECEIPT FOR HAMS.—E. R. Sprinkle them with salt, and let them stand two or three days. Take an ounce of saltpetre, one ounce and a half of salt prunella, half a pound of coarse sugar, and half a pound of bay-salt. Pound them well together put them before the fire until they are warm, then rub the ham with the mixture till it froths; cover it very thickly with salt, and rub the ham every day with the liquor that runs from it. Three weeks’ salting will be sufficient for a ham of twelve pounds, and- a month for one of twenty. WE.STPHALIA HAMS.—E. R. Prepare the hams in the usual manner by rubbing them with common salt and draining them; take an ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of coarse sugar, and the same quantity of salt, rub it well into the ham, and in three days pour a pint of vinegar over it. A fine z 2[Chap. xvii. 340 DOMESTIC COOKERY, foreign flavour may also be given to hams by pouring old strong beer over them, and burning juniper-wood M'hile they are drying; molasses, juniper-berries, and highly-flavoured herbs, such as basil, sage, bay-leaves, and thyme, mingled together, and the hams well rubbed with it, using only a sufficient quantity of salt to assist in the cure, will afford an agreeable variety. TO PICKLE PORK.—E. R. Take half a bushel of common salt, one pound of bay- salt, half a pound of saltpetre, and si.v pounds of coarse brown sugar ; make hams of the legs, according to the foregoing receipts. Take the sides of the pork and rub them well with common salt, lay a thin bed of salt in the tray, and place one of the sides in it; sprinkle Avith salt to cover it: lay the other side on the top, and sprinkle it also. Let them lie two or three days, rubbing the salt well in ; then cover the whole with the other ingredients, and as soon as the salt begins to give, rub them well in; turn the sides frequently, and let them be covered with brine : it will be fit for use in six or eight w'eeks. These quantities are for a pig of fifteen or sixteen score. MUTTON HAM.—E. R. Cut a hind quarter of mutton in the shape of a ham, and allow it to hang for two or three days. Mix half a pound of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, half a pound of common salt, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all well pounded together, and make them quite hot over the fire. Then rub it well into the meat, turning it in the liquor every day ; after four days add two more ounces of common salt. Let it remain twelve days in the brine, then take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood smoke for a week. Another pickle for mutton ham may be made with one ounce of saltpetre to a pound of coarse sugar, and one of salt; the ham kept in this pickle for a fortnight, then rolled in saw dust, and then hung in wood smoke for fourteen days longer.PICKLING. 341 Chap, xvii.] TO BOIL MUTTON HAM.—E. R. Put it on the fire in cold water, let it warm quickly, and allow it to boil only twenty minutes; then leave it in the pan of water till cold. This plan renders it moist, and answers when it is to he eaten cold. TO CURE TONGUES. Some persons like neats’ tongues cured with the whole root on, in which case they look much larger, but have not any other advantage, the latter being too hard to cut pleasantly when salted. If the root is to be removed, cut it off near the gullet, but without taking away the fat that is under the tongue. The root must be soaked in salt and water a night, and extremely well cleaned before it be dressed, when it is very good stewed with gravy ; or may be salted two days, and used for peas- soup. Having left the fat and a little of the kernel under the tongue, sprinkle it with salt and let it drain until next day. Then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same quantity of coarse sugar, and half as much saltpetre : rub it well in, and do so every day for a week ; then add another large spoonful of salt. If rubbed daily, a tongue will be ready in ten days; but if only turned in the pickle, it will not be too salt in four or five weeks, but should not be kept longer. When to be dried, write the date of the day on parchment, and tie it on. Smoke three days, or hang them in a dry place without smoking. When to be dressed, boil the tongue extremely tender; allow five hours, and if done sooner it is easily kej)t hot. The longer it is kept after smoking, the higher will be the flavour; if hard, it may require soaking four or five hours ; but in the estimation of many persons, they are best dressed out of the pickle. ANOTHER WAY. Clean as above : for two tongues allow an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-prunella; with which rub[Chap. xvn. 342 DOMESTIC COOKERY. them daily. The third day, cover them with common salt’ turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. TO STEW TONGUE. Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel: when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt, if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms stewed in gravy. In both this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the tongues before salting, but some fat must be left. AN EXCELLENT WAY OF PREPARING TONGUES TO EAT COLD. Season with common salt and saltpetre, bro^vn sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, for a fortnight : then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it ; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw will go through it. The thin part of tongues, if hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and also makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. TO cure’ a tongue.—e. r. Put the tongue into an earthen pan, rub into it a table-spoonful of saltpetre, a good handful of salt, and the same quantity of coarse brown sugar; allow the tongue to remain in the pickle for three weeks, and rub it over every day with the pickle. Then take it out of the pickle and put it into the meat-screen before the fire for two or three days, till the pickle has entirely drained from it. Then sprinkle it over with bran, smd hang it up in any part of the kitchen.Chap, xvii.] PICKLING. 343 TO CURE SHEEP’S TONGUES.—E. R Let the tongues be well washed and cleaned, and lay them in spring water for half an hour. Take a pound of salt, a quarter of a pound of treacle, and half an ounce of saltpetre; rub the tongues well with it, and put them into the pickle : a week or ten days will be suflScient to cure them. TO PICKLE TONGUES.—E. R. Wipe the tongues exceedingly dry with a coarse cloth, but do not allow them to be touched with water. To each tongue put an ounce of saltpetre, half a pound of salt, and a quarter of a pound of brown sugar; rub these well into the tongue; turn it every day in the pickle; it will be fit for use in a fortnight, but may be. kept longer. TO PICKLE BEEF.—E. R. / Rub each piece of beef very lightly with salt; let them lie singly on a tray or board for twenty-four hours, then wdpe them very dry. Pack them closely in a tub, taking care that it is perfectly sweet and clean. Have the pickle ready, made thus :—Boil four gallons of soft water with ten pounds of coarse salt, four ounces of saltpetre, and two pounds of coarse brown sugar; let it boil fifteen minutes, and skim it while boiling very clean. When perfectly cold, pour it on the beef, laying a weight on the top to keep the meat under the pickle. This quantity is sufficient for 100 lbs. of beef, if closely packed. TO MAKE A PICKLE, TH.AT WILL KEEP FOR YEARS, FOR HAMS, TONGUES, OR BEEF, IF BOILED AND SKIMMED BETWEEN EACH PARCEL OF THEM. To two gallons of spring water put two pounds of coarse sugar, two pounds of bay and two pounds and a half of common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre, in[Chap. xvii. 344 DOMESTIC COOKERY. a deep earthen-glazed pan that will hold four gallons, and with a cover that will fit close. Keep the beef or hams as long as they will bear, before you put them into the pickle; and sprinkle them with coarse sugar in a pan, from which they must drain. Rub the hams, &c., well with the pickle, and pack them in close, putting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may cover them. The pickle is not to be boiled at first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a large one three weeks; a tongue twelve days, and beef in proportion to its size. They will eat well out of the pickle without drying. When they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan; and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly. Six or eight hours will smoke them, and there should be only a little saw-dust and wet straw burnt to do this; but if put into a baker’s chimney, sew them in a coarse cloth, and hang them a week. Add two pounds of common salt and two pints of water every time you boil the liquor. HAMBURG BEEF.—E. R. To sixteen pounds of beef put one pound of common salt, one pound of treacle, two ounces of bay-salt, and one ounce of saltpetre: rub the salt thoroughly over the beef, and pour the treacle upon it. Let it be turned every day, and well rubbed in the pickle. At the end of three weeks put it to dry in wood smoke. The. under bed is the best part for this purpose, but the ribs also may be used. SPICED FLANK OF BEEF.—E. R. Take eight or ten pounds of the thin flank, remove any skin, gristle, or bones, rub it over with half an ounce of saltpetre, and half an ounce of hay-salt. Then rub it well in with a mixture of spices, the following proportions being used:—One ounce of black pepper, one of allspice, half an ounce of ground ginger, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, and half the quantity ofPICKLING. 345 Chap, xvii.] mace. Use only as much as will suffice to rub the beef all over; then add three ounces of common salt and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar; let the beef remain a fortnight in this pickle, turning it and rubbing it every day: then take it out, cover it with the spices and chopped sweet herbs, roll it very tight, tie it with tape, put it into a pan with half a pint of water and half a pound of suet. Bake it after the bread has been drawn for si.x hours; put a heavy weight upon it, and when cold take off the tape. There will be a fine jelly at the bottom of the pan, which should be cleared from fat, and mixed with an equal portion of jelly from an ox-foot, as it will be too salt to eat alone, or it may be used in soups The brisket of beef may be cured the same way : remove the bones, which will easily slip out when it comes from the oven, and put a heavy weight upon it to press the fat and lean well in together. If well managed the beef will be as rich and as tender as marrow, but a larger quantity of salt or saltpetre would make it hard. TO SALT BEEF RED; WHICH IS EXTREMELY GOOD TO EAT FRESH FROM THE PICKLE, OR TO HANG TO DRY. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can, (the flank is most proper,) sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, saltpetre, and bay- salt, but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine pow'- der. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen, drain it from the pickle; and let it be smoked at the oven’s mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. x\ little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a /ean bit, boil it till346 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xvn. extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. THE DUTCH WAY TO SALT BEEF. Take a lean piece of beef, rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and turn it often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and saltpetre beaten fine ; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a heavy weight; hang to dry in wood smoke, but turn it upside down every day. Boil it in pump-water, and press it: it will grate or cut into shivers, like Dutch beef. To twelve pounds of beef, the proportion of common salt is one pound. LEICESTERSHIRE SPICED BEEF. Take a round of beef, rub in a quarter of a pound of saltjjetre finely pounded; let it stand a day, then season it with half a pound of bay-salt, an ounce of black pepper, the same of allspice, both pounded. Let it lie in the pickle a month, turning it every day, and adding about three times a-week a small quantity of common salt. Then wash off the salt and spice; cut some fat bacon about a quarter of an inch square, and long enough to penetrate the beef; roll them in spices, half an ounce of mace, three large nutmegs, a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and the same of black pepper, pounded; lard the beef with the bacon, and a green stuffing made of chopped herbs. Put the beef into a pan deep enough to hold it; lay a great quantity of beef suet at the bottom of the pan, and also on the top of the beef. Tie the beef round with tape, to preserve its shape, before it is put into the pan; cover the pan first with brown paper, then with paste made of barley-flour, and another paper on the top. Put it into a quick oven, and bake it seven or eight hours. Pour off the fat and gravy, and let it be cold before it is cut.347 Chap, xvii.] PICKLING. HUNTERS’ BEEF.—E. R. To a round of beef weighing twenty-four pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounce of cloves and nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, and three handsful of common salt, all in the finest powder. Allow the beef to hang two or three days, remove the bones, then rub the spices well into it, continuing to do so every day for two or three weeks. When to be dressed, dip it in cold water to take off the loose spice. Bind it up tightly with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom; cover the top of the meat with shred suet; cover the pan with a coarse crust, and brown paper over it. Let it bake five hours, and when cold take off the paste and the tape. Obs.-—Some persons stuff the orifice from which the bone was taken with parsley finely chopped, putting sweet herbs also all round between the skin and the meat. WELSH BEEF.—E. R. Rub two ounces of saltpetre into a round of beef, let it remain an hour, then season it with pepper, salt, and a fourth portion of allspice; allow the beef to stand in the brine for fifteen days, turning it frequently. Work it well with pickle ; put it into an earthen vessel, with a quantity oi beef suet over and under it, cover it with a coarse paste and bake it, allowing it to remain in the oven for six or eight hours. Pour off the gravy, and let the beef stand till cold. It will keep for two months in winter, and will be found useful amid the Christmas fare in the country. ROUGH BEEF, OR HUNG BEEF—THE DERRYNANE RECEIPT.—E. R. Rub the beef well with salt and saltpetre, in the pro- portion of two ounces of saltpetre and seven pounds of salt to fifty pounds of beef. Put the beef into a cask or348 DOMESriC COOKERY. [Chap. xvii. tub, place a board over it, and weights upon that; leave it so for about a fortnight, then take it out and hang it in the kitchen to dry, which will generally take about three weeks. Some persons leave it for a longer time in the tub, which they merely cover without the weight; but the above is the better way. THE METHOD OF CURING MARINES BACON, SO MUCH ADMIRED FOR ITS FINE FLAVOUR.—E. R. Cut off the hams and head of a pig, if a large one; take out the chine and leave in the spare-rib, as they will keep in the gravy and prevent the bacon from rust- ing. Salt it first with common salt, and let it lie for a day on a table that the blood may run from it; then make a brine with a pint of bay-salt, a quarter of a peck of common salt, and about a quarter of a pound of juni- per-berries, and some bay-leaves, with as much water as will, when the brine is made, cover the bacon; when the salt is dissolved, and when quite cold, if a new-laid egg will swim in it, the brine may be put on the bacon, which after a week must be rubbed wdth the following mixture :—Half a pound of saltpetre, two ounces of sal- prunella, and one pound of coarse sugar, which after remaining four weeks, may be hung up in a chimney w'here wood is burned; shavings, wnth saw-dust and a small quantity of turf, may be added at times. THE BLACK POOL RECEIPT FOR CURING B.VCON.—E. R. For a middling-sized hog take twelve pounds of the best common salt, and one pound of saltpetre pounded very finely ; rub it in well, and cover the meat about an inch thick, hams, chops, and all, placing it with the rind downwards. J^et it remain for a week; then take off the salt, turn the whole with the rind upwards, then lay the salt on again for another week. Then remove the salt, and turn it a second time; lay on the salt and let it remain four days longer. It will then be properly salted. Wipe it clean, rub it all over with dry salt, and hang it, where it will have a little air of the fire, until itChap, xvii.] 349 PICKLING. is dry. Then sew it up in whity-brown paper, and hang it in a dry place where no heat can come to it; and if these precautions are taken it will not get rusty. Ohs.—The meat must be salted on a board that is well perforated with holes to let the brine run from it, aiul it must be covered up closely with a coarse cloth to keep out the air; and while salting take care to lay the pieces as close as possible one upon the other. TO CURE B.\CON FOR L.A.RDING, BRAISING, &o.—E. R. Take the fattest part of the pork, and to every ten pounds employ a pound of pounded salt; rub it very well over, put the pieces one upon another upon boards, and lay boards with a heavy weight upon the top; leave it in a dry cool place for about a month, then hang it up to dry without smoking. The hardest is the best for larding; and bacon cured this way is preferable for culi- nary purposes, since the saltpetre usually employed will turn veal or poultry red, when braised with any portion of the lean. TO DRY PIGS’ HEADS.—E. R. Soak the heads well in water, and let them lie in it for a night, then remove the brains. Take a quart of bay-salt, two quarts of common salt, and a pound and a quarter of brown sugar; put it into a gallon and a half of spring water, and stir it until the whole is dissolved. This quantity will be sufficient for three heads: be care- ful to turn them in the brine at least every other day, and to keep them well covered. Dry them in wood smoke. TO DRY A GOOSE.—E. R. Split a fine fat goose down the hack; rub it with something less than a quarter of an ounce of saltpetre, and then salt it well with a handful of common salt and the same of coarse brown sugar ; let it lie in pickle for ten days in summer, and fourteen in winter, rubbing and turning it every day in the pickle. Roll it in sawdust.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 350 [Chap. xvii. and hang it in the chimney. When boiled, serve it up with nice fresh greens. TO DRY HOGS’ CHEEKS. Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the iqiper hone, to make the chawl a good shape; rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day; cover the head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay- salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be often turned, and after ten days smoke it for a week like bacon, in a bit of thin cloth. TO COLLAR A PIG.—E. R. Take a fine fat pig of a month or five weeks old, pre- pared for the table; cut off the head and split the pig down the back, and bone it; chop a handful of sage very small, mix it with two nutmegs, and three or four blades of mace beaten fine; add to it a large handful of salt, and season the pig all over; roll it hard, tie it with tape, sew it in a clean linen cloth, and boil it in water with a little oatmeal and a good seasoning of salt; boil till very tender, wbicli will take several hours. H ang it up in the cloth in which it was boiled until quite cold. Then make thin water-gruel of oatmeal; season it well with salt; add half a pint of white wine and half a spoon- ful of white pepper ; boil it all together for half an hour; allow it to become cold ; then take the cloth from the pig, and let it lie for eight days in this marinade. Eat it with mustard, sugar, and vinegar. THH MANNER OF CURING MTLTSIHRE BACON. Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood drain off for twenty-four hours. Tiien mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of hay-salt, six ounces of saltpetre, and four jiounds of coarse salt; rub tins well on the bacon, turning and wetting it in every part, daily, for a month; then hang it to dry, and after- wards smoke it ten days.351 Chap, xviii.] PICKLING. The above quantity of salt is sufficient for a whole hog of about seven or eight score. ANOTHER WAY. Take off all the inside fat of a side of a well-fed hog, lay it on a long board or dresser, rub it well with com- mon salt, and let it lie a day, that the blood may drain from it. Beat fine a pound of bay-salt and four ounces of saltpetre, and mix these with two pounds of the coarsest sugar, and a quarter of a peck of common coarse salt. Lay the pork on some tray that will hold the pickle; or, if you have not that convenience, the side may he divided into two, after the ham is taken off, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rind downwards, and cover the fleshy parts with the salts. Baste it as often as you can with the pickle, the more the better. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, and turn it sometimes for ten days. CHAPTER XVIII. PICKLES AND FAMILY SAUCES. PICKLES. RULES TO BE OBSERVED WITH PICKLES. Avoid as much as possible the use of metal vessels in preparing them. Acids dissolve the lead that is in the tinning of saucepans, and corrode copper and brass; consequently, if kept in such for any length of time, they become highly poisonous. When it is necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on a stove. Glazed jars should never be used for pickles, as salt and vinegar dissolve the lead which is in the glaze. Pickles should be kept from the air; exposure to it352 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xviii. makes them soft. A wooden spoon, with holes in it, should be tied to each jar. Small jars should be occa- sionally replenished from the large ones, to prevent the frequent opening of the latter. For greening pickles, see Young Cucumbers. TO PICKLE CUCUMBERS AND ONIONS SLICED. To every dozen of cucumbers put three large onions ; cut both in thick slices, and sprinkle salt over them : next day drain them for five or six hours; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a warm place. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again instantly ; and so on till green : the last time, put pepper and ginger. Keep in small stone jars. TO PICKLE YOUNG CUCUMBERS. Choose nice young gherkins ; spread them on dishes; salt them, and let them lie a week. Drain them, and, putting them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them. Set them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine- leaves ; if they do not become a tolerably good green, pour the vinegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it boils, pour it over them again, co- vering with fresh leaves ; and thus do till they are of as good a colour as you wish:—but as it is now known that the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell-metal vessels, which, when vinegar is put into them, become highly poisonous, few people like to eat them. TO PRESERVE THE FLAVOUR OF CUCUMBERS FOR WINTER SALAD, AND AS A SAUCE FOR COLD MEAT. Pare and slice, as for eating, eight large cucumbers; season well with pepper and salt; put them into a stone jar with two or three small onions, and as many shalots. Pour on a quart of boiling vinegar. Cover close, and let it stand four days ; then strain the vine-PICKLES. 353 Chap, xviii.] gar through a sieve. Put it into four-ounce phials, and some whole black pepper in each. Seal down the corks. The sliees of cucumbers will keep in a jar closely covered with bladders, without vinegar, and give a very agreeable flavour to hashes. AN EXCELLENT, AND NOT COMMON PICKLE, CALLED SALADE. Fill a pint stone jar with equal quantities of onions, cucumbers, and sour apples, all cut into very thin slices, shaking in, as you go on, a tea-spoonful of salt, and three parts of a tea-spoonful of cayenne. Pour in a wine-glass of soy, the same of white-wdne, and fill up the jar with vinegar. It will be fit for use the same day. ENGLISH BAMBOO. Cut the large young shoots of elder, which put out in the middle of May (the middle stalks are most ten- der) ; peel off the outward peel or skin, and lay them in salt and water, very strong, one night. Dry them, piece by piece, in cloth. Have in readiness a pickle thus made and boiled : to a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder- shoots, in a stone jar; stop close, and set by the fire two hours, turning the jar often, to keep it scalding hot. If not green when cold, strain oft' the liquor, and pour boiling-hot again; keep it hot as before ; or, if you intend to make India pickle, the above shoots are a great improvement to it; in which case you need only pour boiling vinegar and mustard-seed on them ; and keep them till your jar of pickles shall be ready to receive them. The cluster of elder flowers, be- fore it opens, makes a delicious pickle to eat with, boiled mutton. It is prepared by only pouring vinegar over. 2 ADOMESTIC COOKERY. 354 [Chap, xviii. TO PICKLE GOOSEBERRIES GREEN.—E. R. Take large green gooseberries, and cut them into four parts, but not to the bottom. Then take out the seeds, and string four together on a thread, giving them the appearance of an artichoke. Lay them in a strong brine of salt for twelve hours, take them out, and drain them quite dry; pour over them boiling vine- gar with spice. A MEL.YNGE.—E. R. As the spring advances, and the fruit-trees require thinning, take every kind that the garden produces, apricots, peaches, nectarines, plums, small apples, pears, &c., and throw them as they are gathered into a pan of cold vinegar, then collect also every sort of vegetable, gherkins, cucumbers cut into rings, nasturtians, car- rots, French beans, cauliflowers in sprigs, and any- thing else that comes to hand, turnip-radishes, small onions, &c. &c. Throw all into the cold vinegar, and allow them to remain until September or October. Then to a gallon of vinegar put a quarter of a pound of black pepper, the same quantity of white ditto, the same of ginger. Half a pound of yellow mustard-seed, one nutmeg grated, and a quarter of a jiound of mixed spices, mace, allspice, and cloves, with five or six ounces of chilies, two or three sticks of horse-radish, two ounces of salt, and a quarter of a pound of flour of mustard mixed smoothly in some of the vinegar. Boil the whole together, and when cold cover it iqi. This will be found a most excellent pickle, and neither trou- blesome nor expensive where there is a garden. PIGK.YLILL.V.—E. R. Take a pound of ginger, let it lie in salt and water for a night, then scrape it; cut it in thin slices, put it into a bottle with dry salt, and allow it to stand till the other ingredients are ready. Take a pound of garlic,Chap, xviii.] PICKLES. 335 peel it, cut it in thin pieces, and salt it for three days ; then wash it; repeat the process a second time, and lay it in the sun to dry. Cut cabbages into quarters, salt them for three days, press the water from them, and lay them in the sun to dry ; as also cauliflower, celery, radishes scraped, with the young tops left on, French beaus, and asparagus, which must only be salted two days, boiled in salt and water, and dried like the rest. Then take long pepper, mustard-seed, turmeric-seed bruised very finely, the ginger, and some chilies, accord- ing to the heat that is desirable for the pickle, boil it together, and pour it upon the pickled ^vegetables. Cu- cumbers, melons, plums, apples, apricots, or any green fruit, may be added, as they come into season. TO PICKLE CAULIFLOWERS.—E. R. Cut them before they are too much blown, and upon a dry day; boil them in salt and water till they are tender, then lay them to cool, covering them that they may not lose their colour. When cold, put them into jars, and cover them with cold vinegar which has been previously boiled with spices; or the cauliflowers may have one boil in salt and vinegar, and be taken out immediately, and put into cold vinegar previously boiled with spices. TO PICKLE MELONS.—E. R. Take hard melons that will not ripen, scrape out the seeds, and also any portion that may be ripe; then fill them with salt, and set them on one end until the salt is melted. Then take them from the salt, and till them with bruised mustard-seed, a clove or two of garlic, shalots, small onions, and pepper, fill them nearly full, and close the orifice originally made with the piece that was cut out. Place them in an earthen jar. Boil a sufficient quantity of vinegar with pepper, ginger, and a little sweet spice, to cover them. Pour it on the melons boiling hot; boil the vinegar once in three or four days, and repeat the process four or five times, 2x2356 [Chap, xviir. DOMESTIC COOKERY. keeping the pickle warm all the time. Then tie up the jars. TO PICKI.E HARBERRIES.—E.R. Pick out all the loose barberries, and lay aside the hunches. Make a brine of salt and water strong enough to hear an egg. To two quarts of brine put in a pint of white-wine vinegar, and half a pound of brown sugar ; boil all together with the loose barberries, and let it stand till it is cold. Observe, they must not be allowed to boil long. Strain this liquor, and pour it upon the barberries in bunches, and tie them up closely in the jars. TO PICKLE L.ARGE ONIONS.—E. R. Slice large onions, and sprinkle them with salt. To every gallon take about a dozen capsicums, either dry or green, slicing only a part; add a few cloves, some pepper, and allspice, all whole. Put the onions into jars, distribute the spices [iretty equally among them ; fill up the jars with vinegar and set them in a pan of cold water over the fire, taking care that they are closely tied down with a bladder : keep a wet cloth over them to prevent the bladder from bursting. In about an hour and a half the onions will be soft enough. Large cucumbers, gherkins, or small onions, may be pickled the same way ; the cucumbers must lie all night m the salt, and the gherkins and small onions are to be pickled whole. TO PICKLE ONIONS.—E.R. Take the small silver onions, take off the outside skin, the tops and fibres, boil a strong brine, and, when cooled a little, pour it upon the onions; allow them to stand four hours covered, then strain them from the brine, peel oft' another skin, and then boil vinegar with ginger and pepper; pour it on the onions when the steam has subsided.PICKLES. 357 Ciiw. sviii.] LEMON PICKLE.—E. R. Take twelve lemons, pared so thin that none of the white can be seen, cut them across at each end, and work in as much salt as they will contain, rubbing them very well within and widiout. Let them remain for three or four days covered with salt. Dry the lemons in a slow oven until they have no moisture in them ; and dry also twelve cloves of garlic, and a large handful of scraped horse-radish, but not quite so much as the lemons, which must be as hard as a board, but Jiot in the least burned ; then take a gallon of vinegar, half an ounce of mace, the same quantity of cloves and of nut- meg roughly broken, and half an ounce of cayenne pepper : boil them all together, and when cold stir in a quarter of a pound of flour of mustard, pour it upon the lemons, garlic, and horse-radish, and shake them every day for a fortnight. When the lemons are used for made dishes, shred them very small, and shake up the liquor before it is put into the sauces and cruets. N.B. The salt must be renewed at both ends of the lemon should the first dissolve, and, when put into the oven, the lemons must be covered with salt. TO PICKLE PE.VCHES.—E. R. Take two gallons of vinegar, and put to it one qu irt of well-made mustard ; take the doves of a large head of garlic, split and add them, with some ginger sliced thin. Then take peaches at tlieir full growth, but before tliey are ripe, lay them in a brine that will bear an egg for thickness ; take them out, wipe them, and put them into the pickle, which must be previously boiled. They will be fit to eat in four months. PICKLED MUSHROOMS, PRESERVING THEIR ORIGINAL FRESHNESS.—E. R. Take the small mushrooms, and rub them clean with flannel; put them into milk and water, and let them boil once: when cold put them into a brine that will bear an egg, which must be boiling ; boil the mushrooms for[Chap. xvm. 358 DOMESTIC COOKERY. about a minute ; when cold put them into pots and cover them with oil. Freshen them the day before they are to be used in warm w'ater, changing the water more than once if necessary. [MUSHROOMS DISGUISED AS TRUFFLES.—E. R. Take mushrooms of all sizes, peel and cut them into pieces the size of truffles. Put them into a stewpan over a slow fire with a little bit of butter, some salt, pepper, and mace ; let them stew until the liquor which floM’s from them is dried in again. Then lay them on tins in a slow oven, taking care that they do not remain long enough to grow hard. Keep them for use in canvass bags. TO TICKLE MUSIIROMS AVHITE.—E. R. Take the very small buttons, clean and rub them with a flannel, then j)ut them into cold distilled vinegar, and allow it to come to a boil very slowly ; drain and lay them in a cloth till cold, and then put them into fresh distilled vinegar. AN EXCELLENT WAY TO PICKLE MUSHROOMS, TO PRESERVE THE FLAVOUR. Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt, and from the larger take out the red inside; for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stewpan with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again; then jmt as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. TO DRY MUSHROOMS. Wipe them clean ; and of the large take out the brown, and jieel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags, in a dry place.PICKLES. Chap, xviii.] 359 When used, simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size : to simmer them in their own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder; and keep in a dry place, or in paper. ANOTHER WAY.—E.R. Clean them well, dredge them with pounded spices, and put them into a pan over a very slow fire; when the juices are extracted, shake them in the pan until they are dried in again. Then dry them in an oven, and put them into paper bags. MUSHROOM POWDER.—E. R. An easy and effectual method of making mushroom powder is by taking the mushrooms from which ketchup has been extracted, and which have been squeezed through a cloth ; spread them upon tins, dry them in a cool oven, and beat them to powder. When this powder is to be made of the mushrooms employed in ketchup, they must be cleaned very nicely before they are put into the pans with salt. TO PICKLE LEMONS.—E. R. Scrape the lemons with a piece of broken glass, score them longways in quarters, but without cutting through the skins; lay them in a large earthen dish without allowing them to touch each other, cover them with salt, and place them near a window where they may be in the sun ; add more salt as it is wanted to keep them covered. Turn them every day for three weeks, then take them out of the salt, and put them into a jar. Make a pickle of vinegar, bruised mustard- seed, ginger, and long pepper; boil and allow it to stand until it is cold. Stir in a very small quantity of turmeric, and then pour it over the lemons and keep them closely covered. This pickle will keep twentyDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xviii. SCO years, and was originally prepared by the cook of the first Earl of Orford. TO PICKLE LEMONS, No. 2—E.R. The rinds should be thick; rub them with flannel and slit them down half way in four quarters without pene- trating to the pulp ; then fill the slits with salt worked in very hard, set them upright in a pan until the salt melts, then turn them every day in the liquor which they will produce until they are quite tender. Make a pickle with vinegar added to the brine in which they have lain, pepper, ginger, and mustard seed; boil, skim, and pour it when cold upon the lemons. MIXED PICKLE.—E. R. To one gallon of vinegar put four ounces.of ginger bruised, two ounces of white pepper, two of allspice, and two of chilies, with four of turmeric, and a pound of mustard-seed, half a pound of shalots, an ounce of gar- lic, and half a pound of bay-salt. Boil all together except the mustard-seed, which must be added after- wards. Then mix a quarter of a pound of mustard with some of the vinegar, when cold, very smoothly in a basin, and add it to the remainder with the seed. Take broccoli, radish pods, French beans, or any other vege- tables or small fruit; blanch the vegetables, lay them on a sieve, and sprinkle a little salt over them to draw out the water. Let them stand in the sun till very dry, then pour the vinegar boiling over them, slicing in some horse- radish if approved. TO PRESERVE TOMATOS FOR SOUP.—E. R. The tomatos should be perfectly sound and quite ripe. Peel them, take out the seeds, and lay them in a large wide pan with plenty of pepper and salt. Let them remain twenty-four hours for the juice to run out; then put the whole into a stewpan, and boil it very gently for an hour and a half, frequently stirring it. Put it into small jars, and when cold tie them down ; smallPICKLES. Chap, xvm.] 361 jars are preferable to large ones,, as frequent opening would spoil the tomatos. (PICKLED APPLES FOR MANGOES.—E. U. The apples should be large, of a sharp flavour, and not quite ripe. Pare them and take out the core with a scoop, making the hole as small as possible and not boring the apple quite through. Rub them well with salt, and allow them to remain three or four days, then dry them in a clean cloth. Take husked mustard-seed, whole black pepper, garlic, ginger sliced in long thin slices, chilies, and turmeric. Fill the apples with these ingredients, and put them into a jar. Boil some white- wine vinegar with the remainder of the spices, &c., and while it is moderately warm cover the apples with it, putting as small a quantity as will suffice to keep them. PICKLED CUCUMBERS.—E. R. The small long sort are the best. Let them be fresh gathered; pull off the blossoms, but do not rub them. Pour over them a strong brine of salt and water boiling hot, cover them close, and let them stand all night. The next day stir them gently to take off the sand, drain them on a sieve and dry them on a cloth ; make a pickle with the best white-wine vinegar, ginger, pep- per (long and round), and a little garlic. When the pickle boils throw in the cucumbers, cover them and make them boil as quickly as possible for three or four minutes. Put them into a jar with the vinegar, and cover them closely; when cold put in a sprig of dill, the seed downward. They will be e.xceedingly crisp and green done in this manner; but if they do not appear to be of a fine colour, boil up the pickle the next day and pour it boiling on the cucumbers. TO PICKLE FRENCH BEANS. Gather them before they become stringy, and without taking off the ends, put them into a very strong brine until they become yellow: drain the liquor from them.[Chap, xviii. 362 DOMESTIC COOKERY. and wipe them dry with a cloth. Put them into a stone jar by the fire, and pour boiling vinegar upon them every twenty-four hours, preventing the escape of the steam ; in four or five days they will become green. Do samphire the same way. TO PICKLE R.YDISH PODS.—E. R. Gather the radish pods when they are quite young, and put them into salt and water all night; then boil the salt and water, and pour it over the pods in jars, and cover them closely to keep in the stream. When the brine is cold boil it, and pour it hot upon the pods again, repeating the process until they are green; then put them in a sieve to drain, and make a pickle for them of white-wine vinegar, mace, ginger, long pepper, aud horse-radish: pour it boiling hot upon the pods, and when nearly cold boil it again, and pour it over them. When cold tie down the jars. A HOT MIXED PICKLE.—E. R. Slice a pound of ginger into a gallon of vinegar, add an ounce of turmeric bruised, half a pound of salt, the same of mustard-seed, an ounce of long pepper, an ounce of cayenne, and a quarter of a pound of garlic. Boil the whole together, and pour the liquor into a jar upon cucumbers, white cabbage sliced, kidney beans, &c., without any preparation, except being well dried, green fruit cleaned from the dust, &c. MELON M.YNGOES. There is a particular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know. Cut a square small piece out of one side, and through that take out the seeds, and mix with them mustard-seed and shred garlic; stuff the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with small new packthread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar, to allow for wasting, with pep- per, salt, ginger, and iiour boiling-hot over the mangoes four successive days; the last, put flour of mustard and363 PICKLES. Chap. xviii.J scraped horse-radish into the vinegar, just as it boils up. Stop close. Observe that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared as mangoes, are excellent, and come sooner into eating. Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured over either sort, the sooner it will be ready. TO PICKLE WALNUTS. When they will bear a pin to go into them, put a brine of salt and water, boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg on it, being quite cold first. It must be well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days; then change the brine, let them stand six more; then drain them, and pour over them in a jar a pickle of the best w'hite-wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and horse- radish ; all boiled together, but cold. To every hun- dred of walnuts put six spoonsful of mustard-seed and two or three heads of garlic or shalot, but the latter is least strong. This done, they will be good for several years, if close covered. The air will soften them. They will not be fit to eat under six months. When the walnuts are used, boil up the pickle with half a pound of anchovies to a gallon, and a tea-spoonful of cayenne, and you will have a very good ketchup. TO PICKLE WALNUTS.—E. K. Gather the walnuts about the middle of July, and put them over the fire in salt and water. Let them lie until the outside can be rubbed off. Rub them with a cloth, and throw them into cold salt and water. Let them stand two or three days, changing the water every day. Boil double distilled vinegar with spice, and pour it over them boiling hot in jars.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 364 [CaAp. XVIII. TO PICKLE CODLINS.—E. R. Gather the coJlins fresh from the tree, let them be of a good shape, at their full growth, and just before they ripen. Lay them in a brine of salt and water strong enough to bear an egg, shifting them every day for three days. Then cut a slice olf the top of the apples, scoop out the core, and fill the orifice with mus- tard made with vinegar and hot water, a clove of garlic, a little ginger in powder, and eight or nine pepper- corns: then tie the top slice on each apple, and put them into a stone jar. To a gallon of vinegar put a pound of the best flour of mustard, mixed smoothly, eight or nine heads of garlic, two ounces of whole black pepper, an ounce and a half of shred ginger, and a large handful of salt. Boil it well, and while boiling pour it on the codlins; boil the vinegar several times, and tlien tie the codlins down. INDIA PICKLE.—E. R. Put two hundred gherkins, three pints of small onions, one quart of nasturtians, one ditto of radish pods, one quartern of French beans, six cauliflowers, and two hard white cabbages sliced, into a pan, and sprinkle them with salt, the onions having been previously peeled and laid in salt and water for a week to take off their strength. Then, after a day or two, take them out of the pan and dry them thoroughly in a warm place in the shade; they must be spread out separately. To two gallons of vinegar put an ounce and a half of allspice, the same of long pepper and of white, and two of ginger, tied up in muslin bags. When cold, mix with the vinegar a pound and a half of flour of mustard, and two table- spoonsful of cayenne pepper. Boil it well together, and pour it on the pickle: the vegetables mentioned, not being all procurable at the same time, may be added separately, at different periods, but they must all undergo the salting and drying process.365 Chap, xviii.] PICKLES. TO PICKLE RED CABBAGE.—E. R. Cut the cabbage into small pieces ; after removing the outer leaves put it into a sieve, and sprinkle it with salt and saltpetre. Let it drain for twenty-four hours; then squeeze it until it is very dry. Put it into a jar with whole pepper and salt, and pour cold vinegar over it. Do not boil the vinegar. TO PICKLE BEET-ROOT.—E. R. Cut the beet-root, which must be previously boiled, in slices, and cut at the same time some Spanish onions in slices ; lay them alternately in a jar; boil a quart of vinegar with an ounce of mixed pepper, half an ounce of ginger, and some salt, and pour it cold over the beet- root and onions. NASTURTIANS FOR CAPERS.—E. R. Gather them upon a dry day, and keep them for a few' days after they have been gathered ; put them into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar well spiced upon them. When cold, cover the jar. They will not be fit for use for some months, but will be finely flavoured after keeping, and are sometimes preferred to capers, for which they are an excellent substitute, being useful served up in all dishes in which pickles are w'armed with the gravy. THE LUCKNOW RECEIPT FOR PICKLING LIMES OR. LEMONS.—E. R. Bruise the limes or lemons on a stone, then throw them into water, and place tliem afterwards in an earthen vessel, covered with salt, for two or three days, shaking the vessel frequently ; take out the limes when they are soft, spread them on a cloth and let them dry; the open air is sufficient in India, but in England they must be placed at the side of a stove. When dry, add vinegar ' and the juice which came from them when in the earthen vessel. SMALL LIMES.—E. R. Steep two pounds’ weight of small limes or lemons inDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xviii. 366 four ounces of salt for seven or eight da3's; separate all the juice that flows from them, and liaving cleaned them, cover them with fresh salt, wash them, divide them into quarters, add to them two quarts of vinegar, or lemon-juice, with four ounces more of salt, and put them in the pan that is by the fire. TO PICKLE OYSTERS.—E. R. Take one hundred large oysters, wash them well in their own liquor, then wash them in as much w'ater as will cover them, putting in a large handful of salt. Take them out, and strain the water; w ipe the oysters dry. Put them in again with half their own liquor, well strained, let them simmer, but not boil. ^A’hen plumped take them off the fire, drain and lay them singly on a dish. Put the liquor on the fire again, and when the scum rises skim it clean, add a wine-glassful of vinegar, two spoonsful of whole black pepper, and two or three blades of mace. Boil all together for a short time : when cold, put in the oysters, cover, and tie them very close to keep out the air. GARLIC PICKLE.—E. R. Steep a quarter of a pound of ginger in strong salt and water for five days, then cut it in slices and dry it in the sun; put it into a large stone jar with a gallon of the best white-wdne vinegar. Peel a pound of garlic, salt it well, and let it stand in the salt three days : wipe it and dry it in the sun, then put it into the pickle; add also a quarter of a pound of long pepper steeped in salt and W’ater, and well dried, a pound of mustard-seed bruised, and a quarter of a pound of turmeric. Shake these ingredients w'ell in the jar, and add anything that it is desirable to pickle as it comes into season, salting and drying them previously in the sun. When com- pleted, the pickle should be kept two years before it is used.Chap, xviii.] PICKLES. 367 BARBERRIES PICKLED IN BRINE.—E. R. Gather the barberries before they are too ripe, pick out the leaves and dead stalks, put them into jars, with a large quantity of strong salt and water, and tie them down with bladders: when any scum arises put the barberries in fresh salt and water ; they will not require vinegar, their own acid being sufficient. TO KEEP GREEN PE.AS AND FRENCH BEANS.—E. R. Fill a middling-sized stewpan with green peas, adding two or three table spoonsful of sugar ; place the pan over a brisk charcoal fire. As soon as the peas begin to feel the heat, stir them twice or three times, and when they yield water, pour them out on a dish to drain; when drained, spread them out on paper in an airy room away from the sun, and turn them frequently that they may dry the sooner. It is necessary for their keeping that they should not retain any moisture, for if they do they will soon grow mouldy. French beans may be preserved the same way, and will thus keep till the next season nearly as well flavoured as when first gathered. Peas may be dried gathered green, and are much better for soups than those gathered quite ripe. FAMILY S.AUCE.—E. R. Mix together two ounces of mushroom ketchup, one ounce of walnut ketchup, half an ounce of Indian soy, and one ounce of Chili vinegar. CHETNEY AND QUI HI S.AUCE.—E. R. Take eight ounces of sharp apples, pared and cored, eight ditto of lomatos, eight of salt, eight of brown sugar, and eight ounces of raisins, four ounces of red chilies, four ounces of ginger powdered, two ounces of garlic, and two of shalots. Pound all these ingredients separately in a mortar, using Cayenne pepper if chilies are not to be had. Mix the whole together, and add three quarts of vinegar and one of lemon-juice. Place[CuAP. XVIII. DOMESTIC COOKERY. , 368 the jar containing this composition on a stove, or by the side of a fire in a heat not less than 130° Fahrenheit, and stir it twice a-day for a month, then strain but do not squeeze it dry. Bottle the liquor, w’hich is an e.Ycellent sauce for any kind of fish, or meat, hot or cold. A tea-spoonful will impart a fine flavour to any ragout, or be sufficient for a pint of broth. The residue, which is the chetney, should be put into pots or jars. It may also be used in sauces and gravies, or eaten, like mustard, with cold meat, or spread upon grills, being an excellent ingredient for devils, wet or dry. This admirable sauce is the invention of Colonel Tapp, and in India goes by his name. It may be made very good with vinegar only, omitting the lemon-juice. QUIN'S PICKLE.—E. R. Half a pint of common mushroom ketchup, half a pint of walnut liquor, eight anchovies, eight cloves of garlic, four bruised and four whole; three tea-spoonsful of cayenne pepper, three of mushroom powder, all boiled together for five minutes, and bottled when cold. WINE KETCHUP.—E. R. Take twenty-four anchovies, chop them, bones and all, ten shalots cut small, a handful of scraped horse- radish, and a quarter of an ounce of mace, add a quart of white wine, a pint of anchovy liquor, a pint of red wine, twelve cloves, and twelve peppercorns. Boil them to- gether slowly till reduced to a quart, strain it, and keep it in a dry place. C.VRACni.—E. R. Take one head of garlic and cut each clove into two pieces, two tea-spoonsful of cayenne pepper, three table- spoonsful of soy, three of mushroom ketchup, three of walnut pickle, six anchovies dissolved, two or three spoonsful of mango or Indian pickle liquor, and a pint of the best vinegar, with suflicient cochineal to colour369 Chap, xviii. KETCHUP. it. When it is .strong enough of the garlic, take it out, and in a few days afterwards filter the liquor through blotting paper. CUCUMBER KETCHUP: THE SUFFOLK RECEIPT.—E. R. Take a dozen well-grown cucumbers, and four large onions, slice them into an earthen pan with a good handful of salt; let them stand till the liquor begins to run, break them into small pieces, and let the whole stand another day and night; then strain it off; to every quart put the same quantity of white, but not sweet wine, half a pound of anchovies, and a large stick of horse-radish ; boil them together for half an hour, then strain it again, and to every quart put a quarter of an ounce of white pepper, half the quantity of mace and nutmeg all pounded; and boil it well again. When cold, bottle it with the spice, and put a piece of ginger into each bottle. A table spoonful in a sauce-boatful of cream or melted butter, makes delicious white sauce for fowds, (&c. CUCUMBER KETCHUP.—E. R. Take an equal quantity of large cucumbers and large onions, pare, and slice them ; throw over them a hand- ful of salt, and let them stand all night in a sieve placed over a pan. Take the liquor and boil it up, with a quarter of a pound of anchovies to every dozen of cucum- bers, a pint of white wine, a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and half an ounce of whole pepper, strain it, and when cold bottle it ] tie it down with a bladder; it will keep for two years. CUCUMBER VINEGAR.—F.; R. Gather the cucumbers when very ripe, slice and lay them on a sieve over a pan in the sun, sprinkle them well with salt. Let them drain till tlie liquor is all drained out; add an equal quantity of white-wine vinegar, and boil it for a quarter of an hour with a few 2 B370 [Chap, xviii. DOMESTIC COOKEKY. white peppercorns; let it stand until cold, and then bottle it. WALNUT KETCHUP, OF THE FINEST QUALITY. Boil or simmer a gallon of the e.Ypressed juice of wal- nuts when they are tender, and skim it well; then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones, and liquor, ditto of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink; then put the liquor into a pan till cold; bottle, and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie bladder over. It will keep twenty years in the greatest perfection, but is not fit for use the first year. Be very careful to express the juice at home; for it is generally adulterated, if bought. Some people make liquor of the outside shell, when the nut is ripe ; but neither the flavour nor colour is then so fine ; and the shells being generally taken off by dirty hands, there is much objection to this mode. WALNUT KETCHUP.-E. R. Take two hundred walnuts at the season for pickling, beat them very small on a marble mortar, add about si.\; handsful of salt; put them into a clean earthen pan, and stir them two or three times a-day, for ten days, or a fortnight. Then strain them through a cloth, pressing them very dry. Then boil up the liquor with mace, cloves, sliced nutmeg, and whole pepper. When nearly done, add six cloves of shalot; bottle and cork it closely. The bottle should be shaken w'hen the ketchup is used. CAMP KETC!1UP.—E. U. Take twm quarts of old strong beer, and one of white wine, add a quarter of a pound of anchovies, three ounces of shalots peeled, half an ounce of mace, the same of nutmeg, three large races of ginger cut in slices; put all together over a moderate fire till one-third is w'asted. The next day bottle it with the spice and the shalots. It will keep for many yearsChap, xvm.] KETCHUP. Sll PONT.\C KETCHUP FOR FISH. Put ripe elderberries, picked from the stalk, into a stone jar, with as much strong vinegar, as will cover them. Bake with the bread; and, while hot, strain. Boil the liquor with a sufficient quantity of cloves, mace, peppercorns and shalots, to give it a fine flavour. When that is obtained, put in half a pound of the finest ancho- vies to every quart of liquor : stir, and boil only until dissolved. When cold, put it into pint bottles, and tie double bladders over each cork. The same method should be observed for preserving all ketchups. IRISH S.VUCE.-E. R. Take five or six hundred green walnuts, according to the quantity of juice they will yield ; scoop out all the whites, beat them in a mortar, and strain the juice througli a cloth ; let it stand a day and night, strain it, and pour it oft’ clear; to a pint of this liquor put one pound of anchovies, and half a pint of vinegar, and tO' each pint thus made a clove or two of garlic, two or three shalots, some horse-radish, and one onion cut in quarters; boil it two hours, and then strain it oflp. When strained, add to every pint of liquor half a quarter of an ounce of mace, the same quantity of cloves, of nutmeg, and of whole black pepper, half a pint of port wine, and two table-spoonsful of soy. Boil them to- gether for half an hour. Then pour it oft' into an earthen jar, and let it remain covered until it is cold ; then bottle it off into clean dry bottles, distributing the spice equally in each ; cork it down closely, and take care in boiling to keep the saucepan covered. .\ VERY FINE FISH SAUCE. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut- ketchup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a 2 B 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 312 [Cbap. xvih. large lemon, four or five shalots, some cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two teaspoonsful of made mustard: boil it all gently till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close and seal the top. ' ANOTHER. Chop twenty-four anchovies, not washed, and ten shalots, and scrape three spoonsful of horse-radish; which, with ten blades of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy liquor, a quart of hock or Rlienish wine, and a pint of water, boil to a quart; then strain off; and when cold, add three large spoonsful of walnut-ketchup, and put into small bottles well corked. 'AID-DE-CAMP'S SAUCE: CAINE'S P.-VRTICULAR.—E. R. A pint of claret, the same quantity of ketchup, four ounces of anchovies, one ditto of fresh lemon-peel pared thin; two cloves of garlic minced fine, half an ounce of allspice, the same of black and of red pepper, one drachm of celery-seed bruised, and half a pint of pickle- liquor. Put these ingredients into a wide-mouthed bottle; stop it close, shake it every day for a fortnight, and then strain it off. TOM.VTO M.ARMALADE —E. 11. Take ripe tomatos of a fine red colour, cut them in half and express the liquor; put them in a preserving pan with a few peach-leaves, a clove or two of garlic, according to the quantity; slices of onion or shalot, and a bundle of parsley: stew them till sufficiently done, strain them ujion a sieve and beat tlicm through it, and boil them down like apricot marmalade, adding salt. A'Vhen finished, put the marmalade into small pots, and cover them with clarified butter and pepper. When wanted, it will be found to make very good373 Chap, xvin.] KETCHUP. tomato sauce, Avhen boiled up with stock and well seasoned. TOMATO KETCHUP AT BELSIZE.—E- tt. Slice the tomatos, and put a layer into a jar, sprinkle salt over it, then another layer of tomatos and salt, until the jar is fiill. Stir the contents now and then for three days, keeping the jar in a warm place by the lire. Then allow it to remain untouched for twelve days. Then press the juice from the tomatos, and boil it wdth mace, pepper, allspice, ginger, and cloves ; about two ounces in all to a quart of juice : a few blades of mace, twelve cloves, a spoonful of pounded ginger, and the remainder pepper and allspice. In three months boil it again with fresh spice. TOMATO KETCHUP.-E. R. Take six pounds of tomatos, sprinkle them with salt, let them remain for a day or two, then boil them until the skins will separate easily; pour them into a colander or coarse sieve, and press them through, leaving the skins behind ; put into the liquor a handful of shalots, a pint of chili vinegar, and half a pint of wine, pepper, cloves, ginger, and allspice; boil them together, until a third part has w’asted ; then bottle it, closing the bottles very securely. It must be shaken before it is used. CHIU VINEGAR.—E. R. Fill a bottle with the chilies or capsicums, and cover them with vinegar; cork it up closely, let it stand for three weeks or a month, then pour off the vinegar, and fill up the bottle again; good capsicums will flavour several additions of vinegar. If capsicums are not pro- curable, put an ounce of cayenne jiepper to a quart of vinegar, and let it stand some time, shaking it occa- sionally. Then strain it off, and fill the bottle up again.374 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xvni. WINE VINEGAR. The raisins must not be pressed, but drained from the liquor ; lay them in a tub, in a heap, to heat. In three or four days add fifteen gallons of water to every hun- dred weight. Let the mash be well beaten, and stirred often, for forty-eight hours; then strain, and press them in a hair-bag. Put the liquor into a barrel, with a toast covered with yeast. Mind that the cask be full, and set over a tub to work. When it ceases to ferment cover the bung-hole with a piece of slate. Keep it in a warm place. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. Boil spring water; and when cold, put to every three quarts a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often ; then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and yeast ; cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, &c., as above. Set the barrel in the sun, observing that the cask be well painted, and the iron hoops all firm. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit, the stronger the vinegar; and as this is particularly useful for pickles, it might be well to make it of double the strength for that purpose. SUG.AR VINEGAR. To every gallon of spring water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar; boil and skim thoroughly; then put one quart of cold water to every gallon ot hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days: then barrel, and set it in a place where the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. Observe the caution about the barrel, as above. Make in March: it will be ready in six months. VINEGAR MADE OF,MALT. Pour ten gallons of boiling water on a bushel of malt:Chap, xvm.] KETCHUP. 375 stir it well; let it infuse the usual time, and draw the wort off as in brewing; but neither boil nor put hops. Work it with yeast; and in tAvo days tun it, and put the barrel in the sun, with a bit of glass over the bung-hole. Observe, that as there must be enough to fill the cask, some little quantity of water must be allowed for waste. It must be brewed in February, and will be excellent in July, and fit for pickles. LOBSTER SAUCE.—E. R- Pound the meat from three lobsters, with an ounce of mace, half an ounce of cloves dried and pounded, a nutmeg grated, a handful of salt, the rind of a lemon grated, and twenty anchovies pounded. Mix and pound these ingredients all together with a bottle of madeira, shake it well, and cork it very tight; one or two tea- spoonsful according to the quantity of butter melted will be enough. It must be kept very closely stopped. MUSHROOM KETCHUP.—E. R. Take the full-grown Haps of mushrooms, crush them with the hands, throw a handful of salt into every peck of mushrooms, and let them stand all night; then put them into stewpans, and set them in a quick oven for twelve hours; strain them through a hair sieve, and press out all the juice. To every gallon of liquor put of cloves, Jamaica and black pepper, and ginger, one ounce each ; and half a pound of common salt. Set it on a slow fire, and let it boil until half the liquor is wasted, then put it into a clean vessel, and when cold, b(;ttle it. MUSHUOOM KETCHUP. Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir them now and then for three days. Then let them stand for '\welve, till there is a thick scum over: strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard-seed. When cold,376 [Chap. xix. DOMESTIC COOKERY. bottle it, and secure the corks as above, leaving the sjnce in. At the end of three months strain the liquor, and boil with fresh spice, wliich put into the bottles; and in a cool place it will keeji two or three years. MUSHROOM KETCHUP, ANOTHER M'AY. Take a stewpan full of the large flap mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled : throw a handful of salt among them, and set them by a slow fire : they will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain; and put to it four ounces of shalots, two cloves of garlic; a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves ; boil slowly, and skim very well. When cold, bottle, and cork close. In two months boil it up again wdth a little fresh spice, and a stick of horse- radish, and it will then keep a year; which mushroom ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. CHAPTER XIX. PRESERVES. OBSERVATIONS ON PRESERVES. Preserves should be kept carefully from the air, and in a very dry place. Unless they have a very small proportion of sugar, a warm one does not hurt, but when not properly boiled (that is, long enough, but uot quick), heat makes them ferment; and damj) causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in the first two months, that they may be gently boiled again, if not likely to keep. It is necessary to observe, that the boiling ol sugar more or less constitutes the chief art of the confectioner; and those who are not practised in this knowledge,, and only preserve in a plain way for family use,^ are uot377 PRESERVES. Chaf. XIX.j aware that in two or three minutes a syrup over the fire will pass from one gradation to another, called by the confectioners degrees of boiling, of which there are six, and those subdivided. But I am not versed in the mi- nutiae, and only make the observation to guard against underboiliug, which prevents preserves from keeping; and quick boiling, and long, which brings them to candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a person to do any of the following sorts of preserves, &c., and they are as much as is wanted in a private family; the higher articles of preserved fruits may be bought at less expense than made. Jellies of fruit made with equal quantity of sugar, that is, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for tlie purpose of preserving; of double block-tin, with a bow-handle opposite the straight one for safety, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are im- proper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweetmeat-ladle. There is a new sort of iron with a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. Preserves keep best in drawers that are not connected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with paper dipped in brandy, laid quite close; putting a little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect mould. Dried sweetmeats, cakes, &c., should be kept in tin boxes, between layers of white paper, in a very dry, but not hot room. When any sweetmeats arc directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best, in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off; or if put into an oven, take care not to let it be too warm, and watch that they do properly and slowly.[Chap. xix. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 378 All fruits for preserving should be gathered in drv weather; but as this is not always practicable, much inconvenience may be obviated by boiling the fruit for jellies and jams long before the sugar is added. By so doing the watery particles will evaporate; and the pre- serve will be better flavoured, by the sugar not being too long on the fire. TO GREEN FRUITS FOR PRESERVING OR PICKLING. Take pippins, apricots, .pears, plums, peaches, while green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes, and put them, with, vine-leaves under and over, into a block-tin pre- servihg-pan with spring-water to cover them, and then the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour off the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice: they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. CLARIFIED SUGAR FOR SWEET.MEATS.—E. R. To every pound of broken lump-sugar put a pint of water, and the whole of an egg beaten to a strong froth ; put it on the fire, allow it to boil, and just as it would run over check it with a little cold water. When it rises a second time, take the pan ofl’ the fire and set it on the hob for a quarter of an hour. Skim oft’ the top, and pour the syrup into a clean vessel, taking care to leave the sediment behind : after the sugar has been thus clarified it may be boiled to any height, either for useful or merely ornamental purposes. It will require careful watching, and some practice, to attain skill in the various degrees. The first, to candy; the sugar will rise in beads upon the surface, and will draw out into long threads: the second, or blown sugar, when taken up in a perforated skimmer, will form into bubbles in blowing through the holes; feathered sugar, boiled some time longer, will fly off when shaken from the skimmer, in flakes, or feathers ;Chap, xix.] PRESERVES. 319 crackling sugar, when poured into cold water, will im- mediately harden; and caramel sugar will snap like glass; this, worked upon oiled moulds, forms elegant covers for sweetmeats, and is used in forming cakes for Chantilly baskets. TO CANDY ALMONDS.—E. R. Blanch any quantity of almonds, then fry them in butter tdl they are of a light-hrown colour; wipe them nicely with a napkin, and put them into a pan. Make a syrup of white sugar, and boil it to a thread; care must be taken to boil it to the exact candying point: pour it boiling hot upon the almonds, and stir them .till they are quite cold. This is an excellent method' of preparing almonds for dessert, and much approved of in London by the guests of his highness Prince Ekba- ladoola, the Nawaub of Oude, from whose cook it has been obtained. TO CANDY ANY SORT OF FRUIT. When finished in the syrup put a layer into a new sieve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off the syrup that hangs about it; put it on a napkin before, the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite white. Set it on the shallow end of sieves in a lightly warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. BOTTLED FRUIT.—E. R. The best way of preserving all the common fruit for tarts is by bottling, and if the following directions be' exactly observed it will be found to answer admirably. Gather any kind of fruit on a dry day, currants, goose- berries, plums, &c.; put it into wide-mouthed bottles, and let it be fully ripe. Mix currants and raspberries in the same bottle, and put two ounces of sugar into each; then have bladders cut so large, that when they are tied over380 [Chap. xix. DOMESTIC COOKERY. the bottles they will hang an inch all round below the string. Let the bladders be wet, and tied tightly: then put the bottles up to their necks into a copper of cold water, with some straw between. Light a fire under the copper, and, when the juice of the fruit has boiled up, let the fire go gradually out, and leave the bottles in the water until it is cold. The bladders will have sprung up to their e.xtent, making the bottles perfectly air-tight. Some persons put two bladders and turn the bottles up- side down, but this is unnecessary, one being sufficient if properly managed. Fruit, thus preserved, will keep for any number of years, retaining all its original fresh- ness : the contents of every bottle must be used at once, for the air getting in will spoil, and they w'ill require more sugar when put into tarts or puddings. TO BOTTLE GREEN GOOSEBERRIES.—E. R. Put them into wide-mouthed bottles, with sufficient sugar to sweeten them; then fill the bottles up with water, and tie them down with a wetted bladder, accord- ing to the foregoing directions: put them into a boiler, like the other bottled fruit, and when the syrup has boiled up let the fire go out. In making the pies of these gooseberries, the syrup found in the bottles wdll yield sufficient juice. TO KEEP GRAPES AS IN SWITZERLAND. Fasten packthread lines near the ceiling of a cool but not damp room. Pick the grapes before they are dead ripe; cut out every one that is decayed, but do not let their juice touch those that remain; seal the extremity of the stalk to keep it from drying, and hang the bunches on the packthread. Pears may be kept in the same way. GRAPES IN BRANDY. Take some close bunches, black or white, not over- ripe, and lay them in a jar. Put a good quantity of pounded white sugar-candy upon them, and fill up the381 Chap, xix.] PRESERVES. jar with brandy. Tie them close down with a bladder, and keep in a dry place. Each grape should be pricked thrice. They make a beautiful middle dish in a winter dessert. TO PRESERVE FRUIT FOR T.\RTS OR FAMILY DESSERTS. Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf-sugar pounded ; cover with two bladders each, se- parately tied down ; then set the jars in a large stewpan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from damp. TO PREP.YRE FRUIT FOR CHILDREN : A FAR MORE MTIOLESO.MF. M'AY THAN IN PIES OR PUDDINGS. Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, gooseberries, &c., into a stone jar, and sprinkle among them as much Lisbon sugar as necessary. Set the jar in an oven, or on a hearth, with a tea-cupful of water, to prevent the fruit from burning ; or put the jar into a saucepan of water, till its contents be perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may be put into the jar, or served to eat with the fruit. TO BOTTLE .YPRICOTS GREEN FOR TARTS.—E. R. AVlien the apricots are the size of a large hazel nut, thin the trees, gather them on a dry day, wipe them clean, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, and fill up the bottles with spring water. Set them in a copper of cold water up to their necks; when they are scalding hot, and change colour, take them out, let them cool, and, when they are cold, if the bottles should not be full, fill them up with spring water tliat has boiled. Put on the top of each bottle a table-spoonful of sweet oil. Take a damp bladder, tie it down very tightly: in six weeks they will begin to turn green, and wdl keep until apricots come in again. Nectarines and382 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xix . peaches may be done in the same way, when *the trees are thinned. TO PRESERVE RIPE APRICOTS.—E. R. Having pared the apricots, thrust out the stones with a skewer, and take the same weight of loaf-sugar as of fruit; strew a part of the sugar over the apricots, and let them stand until next day ; then boil them up gently three or four different times, adding the kernels to the syrup. Let them cool between each boiling, then take them out of the syrup carefully one by one : boil the syrup with all the sugar; skim it carefully, then pour it over the apricots, and tie them down close with a brandy paper and bladder. A BEAUTIFUL PRESERVE OF APRICOTS. When ripe, choose the finest apricots; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar, finely pounded, and strew it over them; in the mean time break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the ker- nels, into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear ; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper. TO PRESERVE APRICOTS IN .TELLY. Pare the fruit verj/ thin, and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar: let it boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil; skim well, and put into small pots.383 CUAP. XIX.] I'UESERVES. TO DRY APRICOTS WHOLE.—E. R. Gather the apricots when not too ripe, hut sufficiently so to leave the stone. Thrust out the stones with a skewer; pare the apricots, and sift sugar over each as they are done to keep their colour. Make syrup to cover them of a quarter of a pint of water to a pound of sugar. Boil the syrup, skim it, and let it stand until nearly cold; then put in the apricots, and heat them gradually over a slow fire, allowing them to scald but not to boil, and taking care to turn them on every side. Place them on one side in the syrup until the next day ; then scald them again very slowly for half an hour; allow them just to boil up, and lay them aside till the next day. Make a fresh syrup by dipping lumps of sugar in the former one, and allowing it slowly to dis- solve ; then boil and skim it clear. Put in the apricots; let them boil gently until they are clear. Allow them to lie in the syrup all night; then drain them from the syrup, put them upon an earthen dish, cover them with a hair sieve, and set them in a very cool oven to dry, turning them frequently. TO DRY APRICOTS IN HALVES.—E. R. Take them before they are full ripe, scald them in a jar plunged into boiling water, then pare and halve them. Put them into a syrup of half their weight of sugar, let them scald awhile, and then boil until they are clear. Let them stand for two days in the syrup, and then put them into a thin candy, and scald, but not boil, them in it. Keep them two days longer in the candy, heating them each day, and then lay them on glasses to dry. APRICOT MARMALADE.—E. R. Gather the fruit before it is too ripe, stone and blanch the kernels. To every pound of fruit take three-quarters of a pound of fine loaf sugar: break the sugar into lumps, dip the lumps in water, allow them to dissolve, put it over a clear fire, and let it boil to a candy; then[Chap, xix DOMESTIC COOKERY. 384 pound and sift it; pare the fruit, cut it into thin slices, put them with the sugar over a slow fire, let it simmer till clear, but do not boil it; add the kernels ; and then put the marmalade into jars. A PRESERVE OF APRICOTS.-E. R. Boil ripe apricots in syrup until they will mash ; beat them in a mortar; take half their weight in loaf-sugar, and sufficient w'ater to dissolve it; boil all together, and skim until it is clear, and the sjTup thick like fine jelly. • TO PRESERVE GREEN APRICOTS.—E. R. Cover the bottom of a stewpan with vine-leaves, fill the pan with apricots and cold spring water, laying more vine-leaves on the top. Put them over a slow fire until they turn yellow; then talse them off, and wipe them well with a flannel and a little salt, and put them over the fire in the same water to green them. Plave ready a thin syrup ; boil the apricots up in it once, and repeal, the process on the two following days. Drain them froiirdhe syrup, and, rendering it very strong with sugar, boil them again in the thick syrup, and put them by for use. Peaches, nectarines, &c., may be preserved the same way. TO PRESERVE RIPE PEACHES.—E. R. October is the best month, as they are then harder and larger. Put them into a preserving-pan full of cold water with a slice or two of lemon; set them on a slow fire; have ready a sieve and a napkin: be careful not to do them too much: some M'ill be ready sooner than others. When they begin to be soft they are enough : drain them on the sieve, and let them stand until cold ; then put them into glasses : pound sugar- candy very fine in a mortar, dissolve it in brandy, and fill up the glasses •with it.Chap, xix.] PRESERVES. 385 .\PRICOTS OR PE.VCIIES IN 13RANDY. Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and liave ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice-pot that shuts very close; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a saucepan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, hut it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a blad- der over, and tie it down tight. ANOTHER RECEIPT FOR PEACHES OR APRICOTS PRESERVED IN BRANDY.—E. R. Take fourteen pounds of loaf-sugar, clarify it, and make a light syrup of it; then put half in an earthen pan, and the other half in the brass preserving-pan upon the fire ; skim it well, and, when it begins to boil, put the peaches, which must he ripe, one by one into it; turn them with a spoon so that they may all boil equally ; press them a little to discover whether^.they are rather soft, and, as they become so, take th4m out, and put them into the earthen pan Avith the other half of the sugar; then take* them out, put them in jars, and pour brandy upon them to harden them ; then put the brass pan upon the fire again with a little more than a pint of water to make the syrup thinner, and when it begins to boil put in more peaches as before, until all, to the amount of a hundred, are boiled, the syrup being suf- ficient for that number. When the whole have been put into jars, mix the syrup from the earthen pan with that in the preserving-pan, and boil it until it becomes as thick as a conserve; then take it off the fire, and put to it rather more than a pint of brandy, stirring it well together, and boiling to syrup; then pour out the brandy in which the peaches w'ere put; measure it, and put an equal quantity of syrup to it; mix both ,vell together, and fill up the jars.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xix. 386 TO PRESERVE NECTARINES.—E. R. Split the fruit, take out the stones, and put the nec- tarines into clarified sugar till they take it well. Skim the liquor, cover the nectarines with paper, and set them by until the next day. Add sugar to the syrup, boiling it until it will flow ; put in the nectarines, give them a good boil, skim, cover them, and lay them on a stove. The next day take them out of the sugar, drain them, place them separately, dusting sugar over them; the next day put them on the stove, or into a cool oven, to dry. TO PRESERVE ORANGES OR LEMONS IN JELLY. Cut a hole in the stalk part the size of a shilling, and with a small blunt knife scrape out the pulp quite clear, without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in mus- lin, and lay them in spring-water two days, changing twice a-day ; in the last boil them tender on a slow fire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow for wast- ing, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit weigh two pounds of double-refined sugar and one pint of water; boil the two latter together with the juice of the orange to a syrup, and clarify it, skim well, and let it stand to be cold; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them ; do not break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon: strain the water through a, jelly-bag till quite clear; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and, turning each orange with the hole upwards in the jar, pour the apple-jelly over it. The bits cut out must go through the same process with the fruit. Cover with brandy-paper. TO KEEP OR^Js’GES OR LEMONS FOR PUDDINGS, &c. Wlien you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in387 PRESERVES. Chap, xix.] water, without the pulp; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when they are tolerably dry throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats; or, if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf-sugar and water, and put over them; in a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look clear, and that they may be covered with it in the jar. You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy small space. TO PRESERVE CITRONS. Throw them into water over-night; boil until sO’ tender that you can run a straw through them. Cut them in half^ remove the pulp, but do not touch the rind; lay them in a china bowl for two or three days, covered with double-refined sugar (a pound to each citron of a moderate size). Boil the sugar, fruit, and two or three spoonsful of water together for a quarter of an hour. Two days after, pour the syrup off, and boil it with one pound of sugar; skim, and pour it boiling- hot upon the citrons. If the syrup be not rich enough, the boiling must be repeated. Soak twelve races of Avhite ginger in water three days, scrape them well, and boil them in a little thin syrup. When the preserving syrup is boiled the last time, add the ginger to the fruit. When cold, cover with paper and bladder. QUINCE .MARMALADE.—E. R. Pare and quarter the fruit, put it in layers in a stone jar with sugar sprinkled between each; add a tea-cup- ful of water, and bake it in a cool oven. Have a quan- tity of sugar equal in weight to the fruit; allow a quart of water to every four pounds; boil the sugar and water together, skimming it well. When the quinces are soft add them with a quart of the juice which will be found in the jar; boil them in the syrupy; (beating it with a spoon until the marmalade is quite smooth. 2 c 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 388 [Chap. xix. ANOTHER M AY TO MAKE QUINCE MARMALADE. Pare and quarter quinces, weigli an equal quantity of sugar ; to four pounds of the latter put a quart of watei', boil and slciin, and have it ready against four pounds of quinces are made tolerably tender by the folloM’ing mode: lay them in a stone jar, with a tea- cup of “water at the bottom, and pack them M'ith a little sugar strewed betw'een; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the. colour become red; then pour the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all together till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit Muth the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard that if it be not done as above it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above : dip the cloth in boiling water first and Avring it. TO PRESERVE WHOLE OR HALF QUINCES. Into two quarts of boiling water put a quantity of the fairest golden pippins, in slices not very thin, and not pared, but M'iped clean. Boil them very quick, close covered, till the w’ater becomes a thick jelly; then scald the quinces. To every pint of pippin-jelly put a pound of the finest sugar; boil it, and skim it clear. Put those quinces that are to be done -whole into the syrup at once, and let it boil very fast; and those that are to be in halves by themselves : skim it, and -when the fruit is clear put some of the syrup into a glass to try -whether it jellies before taking off the fire. The quantity of quinces is to be a pound to a pound of sugar, and a ixmnd of jelly already boiled ufith the sugar. • HIFFINS.—E. R. Take the red biffin apple, and put them into a coolChap, xix.] PRESERVES. 38& oven six or seven times, flattening them gently by degrees, when they are soft enough to hear it. If the oven should be hot they will waste, and they ought to be put at first into a very cool one. TO PRESERVE SIBERIAN CRABS.—E. R. Rub the fruit with a dry flannel, taking care not to break the skin. Prick each with a needle all over to prevent their bursting. Boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water, then put in the fruit and boil it until the ■skin begins to crack slightly; then take up the crabs, drain them separately upon a dish ; boil the syrup again, and if not strong enough add more sugar; when cold pour it over the fruit, which must be put into jars, tied down closely, and kept in a cool dry place. ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE SIBERIAN CRAB APPIiES. Boil a pint of water and a pound and a half of refined sugar to a fine clear syrup ; skim it, and let it become cold. Pare the crabs ; and to this quantity of syrup put a pound of fruit, and simmer slowly till tender. Carefully remove each apple separately, and pour the syrup over when a little cooled, and add orange and lemon-peel boiled tender. TO PRESERVE JARGANEL PEARS MOST BEAUTIFULLY. Pare them very tliin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, ami simmer again, and repeat this till they are clear ; then drain and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup, and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. DRIED APPLES. Put them in a cool oven six or §even times, and flatten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enoughDOMESTIC COOKERY. 390 [Chap. six. to bear it. If the oven be too hot, they will waste ; and at first it should be very cool. The biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, are the sorts for drying. MOCK GINGER.—E. R. Cut off the stalks of lettuces just going to seed, and peel off the strings. Cut them in pieces two or three inches long, and throw them into W'ater. After wash- ing them put them into sugar and w'ater, mixed in the proportion of a pound of sugar to five pints of water : add to this quantity two large spoonsful of pounded ginger. Boil the whole together for twenty minutes, and set it by for two days. Then boil it again for half an hour, and renew this five or six times in the same syrup. Then drain the stalks upon a sieve and wipe them dry; have ready a thick syrup boiled, and made strong w’ith whole ginger. Pour it upon the stalks boiling hot; boil them in it twice or thrice, or until they look clear and taste like the West India gingers. \ TO DRY CURRANTS.—E. R. Have a basin of w’ater and dissolve in it a sufficient quantity of gum Arabic to make it rather thick ; have also a plateful of the best loaf-sugar, pounded and sifted. Dip bunches of ripe red currants into the gum Arabic solution, and then roll them well in the sugar; lay them separately on a dish to dry in the sun. They are very pretty for dessert, to be eaten immediately’; if kept, care must be taken that the bunches do not touch, and the process should be repeated by rolling them in sugar for several days successively. B.MIBERRY C.VKES.—E. R. Pick the barberries and weigh them; to every pound of fruit add a pound of sugar pounded and sifted. Bruise the barberries in a mortar, boil them gently till nearly all the juice is consumed, then take them off the fire and stir in the sugar by degrees; drop tbe fruit onPRESERVES. 391 Chap. :six.] earthen dishes to dry; it must not go over the fire after the sugar is put in, nor must there be any water used. Do not pound the barberries too small, as the cakes will not look so well. N.B. Currant cakes may be made in the same way. FRUIT LOZENGES FOR DESSERT.—E. R. Take currants, cherries, apricots, or any other fruit; put them into an earthen jar in a kettle of water, and when scalded strain them through a sieve. To every pint of juice add the same weight of finely-sifted sugar and the white of a small egg. Beat all together until it becomes quite thick, then put it upon buttered paper in a slow oven; let them remain until they will quit the paper, then turn them, and leave them in the oven until quite dry; cut them into shapes and keep them near the tire in a box between paper. GOOSEBERRY WAFERS.—E. R. Gather the gooseberries when ripe, put them into a jar jilunged in a kettle of water. After they have boiled strain them through a sieve, and to every pound of fruit add three-quarters of a pound of sugar and the white of an egg beaten into a stiff froth. Mix the whole together and spread it upon china dishes tliinly. When sufficiently dry in the heat of a cool oven, cut it into shapes, removing the wafers thus made into dean dishes, and setting them before the fire or in a cool oven. When thoroughly dried the wafers will keep for years, and they may be made in the same manner with white plums or damsons. GOOSEBERRIES PRESERVED AS HOPS.—E. R. Take the largest green gooseberries that can he got, when they are their full size, but not ripe. Cut them across the top and half way down into four petals; take out the seeds very carefully, not to break the skins. Then take fine long thorns, scrape them, and skewer the gooseberries one over the other, throwing them intoDOMESTIC COOKERY. 392 [Chap. iix. water as they are strung; then put them into a preserv- ing-pan with an equal weight of white sugar ; boil them until they grow clear, and then put them into pots for use. They are pretty for a dessert. GOOSEBERRY CHEESE.—E. R. Gather the rough red gooseberries when quite ripe; hake them until they are a perfect mash; pass them through a hair sieve, then put them into a preserving- pan, and boil them gently. To every pound of goose- berries put three ounces of sugar, w^hich should be strewed in every now and then, a little at a time. It will take several hours to boil, in order to obtain the proper thickness. TO DRY GOOSEBERRIES.—E. R. Put live pounds of gooseberries into a stewpan and strew' t^^.er them one pound of sugar; set them on a slow lire; when the syrup begins to come out take them off; scald them in this w'ay for twn or three days, then take them out' of the syrup, place them upon sieves, and jiut them beforfe the fire or in the sun to dry. They may be dipped into powdered w'hite sugar ivhen taken out of the synip, and thus candied. They should be laid between paper in tin boxes Avhen put by for use. TO. DRY GOOSEBERRIES, No.2.—E. R. Add as much w'ater to a pound of powdered sugar as will dissolve it, boil it for a few minutes, and skim it; then add seven pounds of gooseberries, scald them in the syrup, but do not let them boil or be very hot at first; scald them three or four times, making them hotter each time, and allowing them to grow cold between every scalding. The last time let them boil well. Take them out of the syrup whilst hot, and lay them upon hair sieves to dry. When they are turned, Avhich must be twice at least, dredge a little sugar over them.PRESERVES. Chap, xix.] 393 TO DRY CHERRIES.—E. R. Weigh the cherries before they are stoned, and allow to every pound of fruit a quarter of a pound of lump- sugar ; when they are stoned set them over a slow fire to heat, then take them out of the liquor and put the sugar to them, and let them stand till it is dissolved. Then set them over the fire and let them just boil. Allow them to stand until they are quite cold, or, if more convenient, for two or three days in the syrup; afterwards strain them, and spread them on sieves to dry, either on a stove or in the sun, or in an oven after the brown bread is drawn. TO DRY CHERRIES, No. 2.—E. R. For four pounds of cherries, stoned, allow one pound of sugar; dip the lumps into water in order to dissolve them, and when melted let it boil, then put the fn*t in; skim the liquor two or three times ; then take them off, and let them stand a day or two in the syrup ; drain off the syrup and boil it again, and, having poured it on the cherries, let them stand a day or two longer: then take them out and dry them on a sieve, either in the sun or in a cool oven ; when sufficiently dry, lay them in rows between paper, keeping them separate. TO DRY CHERRIES WITH SUGAR. Stone six pounds of Kentish; put them into a pre- serving-pan, with two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded and strewed among them ; simmer till they begin to shrivel; then strain them from the juice; lay them on a hot hearth, or in an oven, when either is cool enough to dry without baking them. The same sjTup will do another six pounds of fruit. TO DRY CHERRIES WITHOUT SUGAR. Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving- pan ; let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in the ;jmn. Put them in china common dishes;DOMESTIC COOKEUY. [Chap. xri. 394 next day give them another scald, and put them, when cold, on sieves, to dry, in an oven of attemperated heat as above. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. Put them in a box, with a paper between each layer. TO DRY CHERRIES THE BEST WAY. To every five pounds of cherries stoned w'eigh one of sugar double-refined. Put the fruit into the preserving- pan, with very little water, make both scalding hot: take the fruit immediately out and dry them ; put them into the pan again, strewing the sugar between each layer of cherries ; let it stand to melt; then set the pan on the fire, and make it scalding hot as before; take it off, and repeat this thrice with the sugar. Drain them from the syrup; and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the, sun or on the stove. When dry, put them in a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and draw it in- stantly out again, and pour them on a fine soft cloth; dry them, and set them once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box with layers of wdiite paper, in a dry place. This way is the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as colour and flavour. CHERRIES PRESERVED IN BRANDY.—E. R. Reserve a fourth portion of the cherries, clip the stalks of the remainder ; lay them carefully in jars, and fill up the jars with brandy; putting no supr, as that would wrinkle them. Then stone the remaining portion, boil them with double their weight ot sugar, and put them aside. When the brandy cherries are taken out for dessert, mix a portion of this preserve with the liquor, and they will taste very rich; or the cherries may be strained and the liquor only used, in addition to the brandy from the other cherries. ANOTHER METHOD OF PRESERVING CHERRIES IN BIDVNDY. Weigh the finest morellas, having cut oft half the stalk; prick them with a new needle, and drop them395 PRESERVES. GhAP. XIX.] into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quarters the weight of sugar or white candy; strew over; fill up with brandy, and tie a bladder over. ROLLED CHERRIES, WHICH TASTE AS IF DONE IN BRANDY. To every three pounds of morella cherries put one pound of double-refined sugar, sifted in layers, in a large stone jar or smarll keg. Stop it perfectly close, and roll the jar to and fro for a short time every day for six weeks. Keep them in a cool place. CHERRIES FOR TARTS AND PUDDINGS.—E. R. Take fifteen pounds of Kentish cherries; boil, and break them as they boil, and when the juice has all boiled away, and the bottom of the pan is visible, put in three pounds of lump-sugar, finely powdered. Stir the cherries well, and let them have two or threet boils; then add a pint of currant-juice; skim the pot and take out the stones, which will rise to the top. This jam will keep until late in the spring without the addition of any more sugar, and will make good tarts and puddings. A PRESERVE OF TOMATOS IN IMITATION OF GUAVAS.—E. R. Take the seeds out of unripe tomatos, and set them over a slow fire in weak sugar and water, until they are green. Then take out the tomatos, add sugar to the syrup, boiling it down until it is very strong, and of a good consistence. Pour it boiling over the tomatos, and let them remain in it until cold. Then rc])eat the process as often as appears necessary, but not sufficiently so to make them shrink. Should they be preserved ripe, pour the boiling syrup upon them, repeating it every two or three days until the sugar has completely penetrated the fruit. The addition of lemdn-juice squeezed upon the tomatos, and a third or fourth part of strawberry-jam mi.xed with the syrup, will assist in the resemblance of the tomato to the guava, as will also a glass of port wine] but, as these would spoil the396 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xix. colour of green tomatos, they must only be put to those that are ripe. ALMACK’S PRESERVE.—E. R. Take different kinds of fruit, stone the plums and slice the apples and pears, put them in alternate layers in ajar ; set them in the oven until they are quite soft; then pass the pulp through a coarse sieve, and to every pound of fruit put a pound of moist sugar, set it over a slow fire and stir it till very thick, then put it into a wide shallow pot and cut it in slices for use. Windfalls may be employed for this sort of sweetmeat. ANOTHER ALMACK PRESERVE. Put into a pan four dozen split plums, two dozen apples, and two dozen pears, pared thin and cored. Boil them ■without w'ater. When well blended together, and the stones taken out, stir in three pounds of sugar, and boil them an hour. Put it into shallow pans or soup-plates, and dry in the sun or a cool oven. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS : EXCELLENT AS A SWEETME.VT OR IN TARTS, THOUGH VERY BAD TO E.VT R.VW. Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, simmer them very gently in a thin syrup, put them in a china bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days; then make a syrup of three pounds of sugar to five, of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly, and instantly brought out. Boil the plumbs in this fresh syrup after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for longer in the pan, and boil it quickly; then give the fruit one Avarm more, drain, and put them to dry oil plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in two syrups ; the former rvill sweeten jiies, but will have too much acid to keep. You may reserve partChap, xix.] 397 PRESERVES. of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dr)'; for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Do not break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save mucli sugar. D.VMSON CHEESE.—E. R. Stone the damsons, take out the kernels and blanch them, put the whole into a stone jar and bake it. Pour off a part of the juice, put the fruit into a preserving-pan, boil it quickly until it looks rather dry. To every two pounds of the original quantity of fruit take half a pound of loaf-sugar; now stir the sugar Avell in, and let it simmer slowly for two hours. Then boil it again quickly until it begins to candy at the sides of the pan. Pour the jam into shallow pots not more than an inch deep; cover with brandy paper and tie down close. CIIE.VP D.VMSON CHEESE.—E. R. Gather the damsons on a dry day, bake or boil them till the pulp will pass through a coarse hair sieve, then add their weight of moist sugar; boil it an hour and a half, stirring it continually to keep it from burning. MIXED MARMAL.VDE.—E. R. Split and stone four dozen plums, blanch the kernels and pound them in a mortar with a little rose-water, pare and core two dozen pears and the same number of apples; put them into a jar with a little sugar, but no water. Bake them in a cool oven. Beat them well in a preserving-pan, stir in three pounds of sugar, and boil them an liour; put the marmalade into small deep dishes, and dry it gently in a cool oven. GOOSEBERRY, RASPBERRY, AND ORLEANS PLUM JAMS.—E. R. Equal weights of fruit and moist sugar; ])ut them on the_ fire together, keep stirring and breaking the fruit tilfthe sugar melts, then boil till it will jelly on a plate.398 [Chap. xix. DOMESTIC COOKERY. N. B. Though simple, this will be found a good receipt. COMPOSITION SWEETME.4.T.—E. R. Take two pottles of ripe red gooseberries, two of red raspberries, two of strawberries (the pines are best), and three pints of ripe red currants; bruise and mix them together in a deep dish. And to every pint of the fruit put a pound of sugar beat pretty fine ; then boil it for half an hour, stirring it all the time it is on the fire. Cherries may also be added, first taking out the stones; measure them with the otlier fruit for the weight of sugar. CHERRY JAM.—E. R. Stone four pounds of cherries, and put them in a pre- serving-pan with two pounds of fine white sugar and a pint of red currant-juice. Boil the whole together rather fast, until it stiflens, and then put it into pots for use. GOOSEBERRY JAM.—E. R. Stalk and crop six pounds of tlie small red rough gooseberry, put them into a preserving-pan, and, as they warm, stir and bruise them to bring out the juice. Let them boil for ten minutes, then add four pounds of sugar, and place it on the fire again; let it boil, and continue boiling for two hours longer, stirring it all the time to prevent its burning When it thickens, and will jelly,upon a plate, it is done enough. Put it into pots, and allow it to remain a day before it is covered. CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT BOILING.—E. R. Press the juice from the currants, and make it quite hot, Init it must not be allowed to boil. To each pint of juice add a full pound of loaf-sugar, pounded very fine, and made quite hot in the oven, and then stirred gradually into the hot juice until it is melted.PRESERVES. 399 Chap, six.] CURRANT JELLY.—E. R. Take of red and white currants equal quantities, tie them down close in a jar, put them into a kettle of w'ater over a slow fire to hoil for two hours; strain the liquor through a fine sieve, but do not squeeze the cur- rants hard ; then to every pint of juice put three-quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar pounded; set it over a very slow fire until the sugar is dissolved. Do not stir it until the scum rises thick enough to he taken off at once, then let it boil up quickly for twenty minutes. FRUIT JELLY' OF ANY' KIND.—E. R. Put the fruit into a preserving-pan with its own w'eight of sugar ] boil and skim it until it will jelly, then pour the whole through a new sieve, but do not jircss it; take w'hat remains in the sieve and boil it a quarter of an hour for jam, and put the juice into another stew- pan and boil the same time. This method saves the trouble of pressing, and prevents waste. APPLE JELLY.—E. R. Pare and core a peck of codlins, put them into a well-tinned saucepan, add as much spring water as will just cover them. Boil the whole to a pulp, beat them as for apple-sauce, then run them through a flannel liag, and to every pint of juice put half a pound of good loaf- sugar ] boil it and skim it well until it jellies ; then pour it into pots or moulds. August is the best time to make this jelly, when the codlins are full grown, but not turned. Crabs greatly improve this jelly, and, in their absence, a little lemon-juice. TO PRESERVE BARBERRIES IN BUNCHES.—E. R. Take the female barbemes, reserve the largest bunches; then pick the rest from the stalks, put them into as much water as will make a syrup for the bunches, hoil them until quite soft; then strain them through a sieve, and to every pint of juice put a pound and a half[Chap. xix. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 400 of loaf sugar ; boil and skim it well. To everj' pint of this syrup, put half a pound of barberries in bunches, boil them until they look quite clear, and put them into pots or glasses. Tie brandy paper over them. TO PRESERVE BARBERRIES FOR TARTS.—E. R. Take the female barberries, pick them from the stalks, take their weight in loaf-sugar, put them into a jar, and place it in a kettle of water, until the sugar is dissolved and the barberries quite soft. The next day put them into a preserving-pan, and boil them for a quarter of an hour. Put them into jars, and keep them in a dry place. TO PRESERVE A MELON.—E. R. Scrape off the thin outside skin, make a hole in the top, take out the seeds; then throw the melon into water, and, after it has remained in it twelve hours, take it out and put it into a preserving-pan, with a large piece of loaf-sugar, and as much water as will cover it; then cover the pan closely, and let it remain for an hour on a very slow fire. Repeat this process three times, on three succeeding days, taking care not to allow it to come to a boil; then make a thin syrup, drain the melon care- fully out of the liquor it was in, and put it into the syrup, set it over a slow fire closely covered, for half an hour every day for three ensuing days, on the last day, boil- ing the syrup until it is very rich, with the rind of a lemon, and adding the juice of tw'o lemons to it. TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES.-E. R.; Obtain the juice of currants by boiling in a jar plunged in water ; strain it, and to every pint ot the currant liquor add its weight and that of a pound of strawberries in sugar. Break the sugar in lumps, dip them in w'ater to dissolve, then boil it with the currant- juice, skim it well, then put in the strawberries; letPRESERVES. 401 Chap. xix. them hoil about a quarter of an hour, and, while yet warm, put them with the syrup in pots. TO PRESERVE STRAW'BERRIES WHOLE.—E. R.' To a pound of picked fruit add three-quarters of a pound of grated lump-sugar. Lay it upon the fruit, and let it remain until the next day ; then put them into a preserving-pan, and simmer very gently till the fruit is soft, being careful not to break it; then take out the strawberries, and boil the syrup until it appears to be rich. Wait until it is cold, and then put it upon the fruit. A RICH WAY OF PRESERVING STRAWBERRIES.—E. R. In picking the strawberries reserve the largest kinds; then boil the smaller ones, allowing three-quarters of a pound of fine sugar to a pound of fruit; stir it while boiling, and make it into jam. Then make a fine syrup of sugar, and boil the larger strawberries in it, taking great care that they should be kept separate, and not break. Take them out, and put them into small pre- serving-pots ; then boil the syrup and the jam together until it is very rich, or make it into a jelly by straining it, and pour it on the strawberries when nearly cold. •ANOTHER WAY TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES WHOLE. Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined sugar ; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the under side of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red currant-juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when not dead ripe. In either of the above ways, they eat well served in thin cream in glasses. 2 DDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xix. 402 TO PRESERVE STRAWBERRIES IN WINE. Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and stiew in three large spoonsful of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira wne or fine sherry. PRESERVED ORANGES.—E. R. Take the largest, deepest coloured, and roughest oranges that can be obtained, grate off the rind very- nicely, and throw the oranges into water; let them remain twelve hours, changing the water once during that time, to take out the bitter. Put them into a cloth, and boil them; when tender cut them in quarters, and, after taking out tlie pulp, throw them into cold water. Make a thin syrup, clear them in it, after which enrich the syrup, adding the pulp; make it very thick, and pour it over the oranges in jars. FINE ORANGE MARMAL.\DE.-E. R. Seville oranges and lump-sugar in equal quantities; clarify the sugar with the white of an egg and a gill of water to each pound, grate the yellow rind off the oranges, then cut the skin through into four quarters, take off the white of the peel, and pare the other portion very thin. Put them on the fire with as much water as will cover them; boil till they are quite tender. Press the juice through a sieve, cut and drain the chips, and, when the sugar boils, put in both, and, after it has boiled about ten minutes, the grated portion also; let it then boil quickly, till it jellies. It is necessary to keep stir- ring all the time it is on the fire. ORANGE MARiMAL-VDE.—E. U. Take the clearest Seville oranges that can be ob- tained, cut them in two, take out all the pulp and juice, carefully removing the seeds and white skin, and put it into a basin. Boil the rinds in hard water until they are lender, changing the water two or three times while they are boiling; then pound them in a marble mortar;PRESERVES. Chap, xix.] 403 add to them the juice and pulp. Put the whole into a preserving-pan with double its weight of sugar, set it over a slow fire, boil it thirty-five minutes, then put it into a jar with brandy paper over. TO PRESERVE SEVILLE ORANGES WHOLE.—E. R. Grate or peel the oranges, taking off only the outside portion of the rind. Cut off a piece of the stalk, making a small incision at the place, squeeze out as much of the juice as can be obtained, and preserve it in a basin with the pulp that accompanies it. Put the oranges into cold water, let them stand for three days, changing the water twice; then boil them in fresh water till they are very tender, and put them to drain; make a syrup with sugar and water sufficient to cover them, and let them stand in it for two or three days, and drain them well; then put double its weight of sugar to the pulp and juice, boil it together until the scum ceases to rise; then put in the oranges and boil them once more, cover them in the pots with this syrup. They will be fit for use in a week. SCOTTISH MARMALADE.—E. R. Take six or eight pounds of Seville oranges, pare off the skins thinly, so that there shall be as little as pos- sible of the white portion; cut the parings into strips or chips, and cut them across again into very small pieces. Put them into a pan with as much water as will cover them, boil them for an hour to take out the bitter taste; then strain them through a sieve, and lay them aside. Next quarter the oranges, and scrape out the pulp and juice into a dish, throwing away the white skin, films, and seeds; put the whole into a pan to- gether with seven or eight pounds of sugar, according to the original weight of the oranges: let the whole boil for half an hour; skim it, and pour it into pans for use. CANDIED ORANGE OR LEMON PEEL.—E. R. Take the fruit, cut it lengthways, remove all the pulp and interior skin, then put the peel into strong salt and 2 D 2[Chap. xix. 404 DOMESTIC COOKERY. water for si.K days; then boil them in spring water until they are soft, and place them in a sieve to drain ; make a thin syrup with a pound of sugar-candy to a quart of water, boil them in it for half an hour, or till they look clear; make a thick syrup with sugar and as much water as will melt it, put in the peel, and boil them over a slow fire until the syrup candies in the pan; then take them out, powder pounded sugar over them, and dry them before the fire or in a cool oven. PRESERVED CARROTS.—E. R. Take a pound of the best white ginger, break it into small pieces, and let it boil in a good quantity of water until tlie w’ater tastes very strongly of the ginger. Then cut three pounds of the largest and clearest carrots into quarters, or any shape that is preferable: boil them in the ginger and water until they are nearly as tender as would be required for the table: take them up, and lay them in a jar with the ginger and water for four or five days, stirring them constantly. Then take up the car- rots, remove the skin, and wipe them very clean. Next make a syrup ; to every pound of loaf-sugar put half a pint of brandy, the peel of a lemon, and the juice of half a lemon, with a few bits of white ginger, drawn or pulled. When the syrup has been well boiled, and the scum re- moved, put the carrots into it and let them boil for ten minutes. Then take them off the fire and allow them to remain for a week; then drain off the syrup, and boil it with additional sugar to make it sulHciently rich; place the carrots in it, and boil them ten or fifteen minutes longer. Place them in pots covered with brandy paper, and they will be fit for use in a month. TO PRESERVE CUCUMRERS.—E. R. Pick the greenest and smoothest cucumliers, scrape off the rind lightly with a ]iiece of glass, and throw them into spring water. Then put them into a brass kettle with water and a lump of sugar: jilace them over a slow fire, and keep in the steam until they are405 PRESERVES. CaAP. XIX.] green. Then make a rich syrup; when clear put the cucumbers into it, with ginger, lemon-peel, and the juice of a lemon. When the syrup grows thin take out the cucumbers and enrich it with more sugar. A FINE PRESERVE OF CUCUMBERS.—E. R. Cut the cucumbers in halves, and scoop out the in- side. Put them into a stone jar with spring Avater, cover it close; let it stand near the fire, so as not to be quite warm, for ten days or a fortnight] then take them out and throw them into spring Avater; they Avill look quite yelloAv, and be offensive, but that must be disre- garded. Take them out of the Avater, and put them into a preserving-pan, cover it Avell with vine-leaves, fill it Avith spring Avater, set it over a charcoal fire, covered close, and let it simmer sloAvly. Look at the cucumbers frequently; and, Avhen they have turned a fine green colour, take off the leaves, and throw the cucumbers into a large sieve, and aftei'Avards into a coarse cloth, four times doubled. When they are cold, put them into a jar. Have ready a syrup made of double-refined sugar, in Avhich boil a great deal of lemon-peel and Avhole ginger. Pour it hot over the cucumbers, and cover the jar doAATi close, boil up the syrup in the same way for three successive days, pare the lemon-peel very thin, and cut it into slips about two inches long. The ginger must be Avell boiled in water before it is put into the syrup, and observe that the syrup covers the cucumbers. « ^ VEGET.VBLE M.VRROW.—E. R. Pare off the rinds and take out the seeds, cut the marrow into thin slices and lay them in salt and Avater for two days; then put it into spring Avater for three days, changing it three times a-day. When thus pre- pared colour it Avith cochineal; then take the best white ginger scraped quite clean, slice it, and put it into a thin syrup, and boil it Avell Avith some lemon-peel for some time. Then take it off the fire, and let it re-406 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xix. main until quite cold before adding it to the marrow. Repeat this process for three days, then make a very rich syrup with the ginger and lemon-peel; add the marrow, and let the whole boil gently for ten minutes ; then put it into pots. TO PRESERVE MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS.—E. R. Set them over a slow fire in spring water until they will peel, keeping them under the Avater; peel and put them into a jar with a thin syrup, which must cover them, or otherAvise they will be discoloured. The next day boil the syrup, then put in the plums, and give them a gentle boil. Let them stand until cold; then repeat the process; turn them in the syrup until nearly cold. Take out the plums, strain the syrup, add more sugar, and skim it Avell: put in the plums, boil them till they are clear, then cover Avith brandy paper. TO DRY MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS.—E. R. Take the weight of the plums in sugar, Avrap each plum in a vine-leaf, and put them into a steA\-pan covered with Avater, and set them on a sIoav fire to scald. When sufficiently done take them out and lay them in a bowl or deep dish, pound the sugar, and put it on them; the following day pour the syrup off, and boil it, and put it on the plums; this do every day for four or five days; then take the plums out of the syrup, sift sugar over them, lay them upon tins, and dry them in a cool oven or before the fire. f TO PRESERVE GREENGAGES.—E. R. Pick and prick all the plums, put them into a pre- serving-pan Avith cold AA^iter enough to coA'er them. Let them remain on the fire until the water simmers well, then take oflf and alloAV them to stand until half cold, putting the plums to drain. To every pound of plums allow a pound of sugar, Avhich must be boiled in the Avater from Avhich the plums have been taken; let it boil very fust until the syrup drops short from theCuAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES. 40'J spoon, skimming carefully all the time. When the sugar is sufficiently boiled put in the plums, and allow them to boi^ntil the sugar covers the pan with large bubbles, ^en pour the whole into a pan, and let them remain until the following day. Drain the syrup from the plums as dry as possible, boil it up quickly, and pour it over the plums ; then set them by : do this a third and fourth time. On the fifth day, when the syrup is boiled, put the plums into it, and let them boil for a few minutes ; then put them into jars. • Should the greengages be over-ripe it will be better to make jam of them, using three-quarters of a pound of sugar to a pound of fruit. Warm the jars before putting the sweetmeats in, and be careful not to boil the sugar to a candy. A COMMON PRESERVE OF PLUM.S.—E. R. Put the plums into a jar large enough to hold a pound of fruit, add seven ounces of good moist sugar; tie the jar over with two bladders tied separately ; place the jar in a kettle of cold water up to the bladders; do not cover the kettle; and let them boil in the water for three hours. CHAPTER XX. SWEET DISIIES.r GATE.VU DE POMME.—E. R. Pare two pounds of apples; steam them until quite soft, add their weight of loaf-sugar sifted, the rind of one lemon and the juice, adding a little water if necessary; boil it all together for three-quarters of an hour; put it into a mould. It is to be sent to table covered with a thick custard. 9[Chap. xx. 408 DOMESTIC COOKERY. LEMON SPONGE.—E. R. To a pint of water put an ounce of isin^ass, the rind of a lemon, and half a pound of lump-??f^ar; let it simmer for half an hour, and then strain it through a lawn sieve : when nearly cold, add the juice of three lemons and the -white of one egg, whisk it until it is -white and thick : in the summer it will require rather more isinglass. TRIFLE.—E. R. Place at the bottom of the trifle-dish a layer of macaroons and ratafia-cakes, and pour over them as much sweet wine or brandy as they -wfill absorb. Squeeze the juice of a lemon, and add it to a quart of cream not too thick; sweeten the cream -\vith sugar rubbed upon the rind; add a little brandy and the white of an egg beaten to a froth. Whisk the mixture, and as the froth rises lay it on a sieve to drain : when enough has been drained for the purpose, make a custard -with the remaining cream and that Avhich has drained from the froth; put it on a very slow fire -^-ith two laurel- leaves, and when nearly boiling take it off, and add the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two,—the number necessary for a pint of custard. Put it again on the fire, stirring slowly one way till it thickens, but taking care not to allow it to come to a boil. Cover ^ the macaroons with raspberry or other jam, then pour on the custard; and Avhen the custard is quite cold put on the froth, sprinkling harlequin comfits on the top, and garnishing M'ith diS'crent-coloured sweet- meats. In some of the good old-fashioned receipts for trifle, a layer of calf’s-foot jelly is added to the others, but, should that be disapproved, it is necessary to state that none of the other ingredients should be omitted. Mo- dern trifles are often trifles indeed, merely consisting of a few cakes and a little fi-oth. *409 SWEET DISHES. Chap, xx.] AN EXCELLENT TRIFLE. Lay macaroons and ratafia-drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up; which when they have done, ])our on them cold rich custard made with more eggs than directed in the foregoing pages, and some rice-flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of rasp- berry-jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip, made the day before of rich cream, the whites of two well beaten eggs, sugar, lemon-peel and raisin-wine, well beat with a whisk kept only to Avhip sillabubs and cream If made the day before used, it has quite a different taste, and is solid and far better. GOOSEBERRY OR APPLE TRIFLE. Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits as when pulped through a sieve will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish : if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine, and to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. ]\Iix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg; give it as cald over the fire, and stir it all the time; do not let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a s])oon ; and then put on it a w'hip made the day before, as for other trifles. CHANTILLY CAKE, OR CAKE TRIFLE. Bake a rice-cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of raspberry-jam, and then put on a high whip. AN INDI.VN TRIFLE. ' Boil a quaVt of new milk with a large piece of cinna- mon ; thicken it with flour of rice, first w'ettcd w'ith cold milk, and sweeten to your taste. Pour it into a dish;410 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xi. and when cold cut it into the shape of a star, or any other shape you please. Take out the spare rice, and fill the intervals with boiled custard. Ornament with slit almonds and spots of currant jelly. GOOSEBERRY FOOL. Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon sugar; set the jar on a stove, or in a saucepan of water over the fire; if the former, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fmit. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander have ready a suffi- cient quantity of new milk and a tea-cupful of raw cream boiled together, or an egg instead of the lat- ter, and left to be cold; then sweeten pretty w'cll with fine Lisbon sugar, and mi-v the pulp by degrees with it. APPLE FOOL. Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c., and mi.v as before. ORANGE FOOL. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, but it must not be boiled; then pour it into a dish for eating cold. SOLID SILLABUB.-E. R. Grate off the peel of a lemon with lump-sugar, and dissolve the sugar in three-quarters of a pint of wine; add the juice of half a lemon and a quarter of a pint of cream; beat the whole together until of a proper thick- ness, and then init it into glasses. ROCK SILLABUB.—E. R. Take a quart of cream, half an ounce of gum-dragon411 ; SWEET DISHES. Chap, xx.] steeped and finely beaten; add a pint of white wine, or nearly a pint, making up the remainder with orange- flower water: tie a bit of cinnamon and lemon-peel on the whisk; whisk up all these ingredients until they are solid; fill the glasses a day before they are wanted. If they should settle, fresh top them. LONDON SILLABUB. Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine he not rather sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk. In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, and pounded cinnamon and sugar. STAFFORDSHIRE SILLABUB. Put a pint of cider, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl, and milk into it; or pour warm milk from a large tea-pot some height from it. A VERY FINE SOMERSETSHIRE AND DEVONSHIRE SILLABUB. In a large china bowl put a pint of port, and a pint of sherry, or other white wine; sugar to taste. Milk the bowl full. In twenty minutes’ time cover it pretty high with clouted cream; grate over it nutmeg, put pounded cinnamon, and nonpareil comfits. DEVONSimiE JUNKET. Put warm milk into a bowl; turn it with rennet; then put some scalded cream, sugar, and cinnamon, on the top, without breaking the curd. EVERLASTING SILLABUBS. Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of re- fined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine, in a deep pan; put to it the grated peel and the juice of three lemons. Beat or whisk it one way half an hour ;DOMESTIC COOKERY. 412 [Chap. xx. then put it on a sieve Mith a bit of tliin muslin laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. .\PPLES A L.Y CREMONE ; A BEAUTIFUL DISH. Choose such ap])les as will look clear when dressed; pare and cut into pieces the form of a brick a sufficient quantity to weigh a pound and a half; strew over them a pound of good Lisbon sugar, and several long strips of lemon-peel, and cover them close in a bowl. Ne.xt day put the apples, piece by piece, into a small preserving- pan, with the sugar, &c., and two large spoonsffil of strong cider. Simmer gently; and as the pieces of apple become clear, take them out. When cold build a wall with them on a small oval dish, and place the lemon-peel on the top : pour the syrup into the middle. Serve cream to eat with it. The peel of China orange, cut very thin, does as well as lemon. TO SCALD CODLIXS. Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nice saucepan, and, when full, pour as much water as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin oft' when cold. Place them in a dish, with or Avithout milk, cream, or custard ; if the latter, there should be no ratafia. Dust fine sugar over the apples. STEWED GOLDEN PIPPINS. Scoop out the core, pare them very thin, and, as you do it, throw them in Avater. For every pound of fruit, make half a pound of single-refined sugar into syrup, Avith a pint of Avatcr; Avhen skimmed, put the pippins in, and stCAv till clear: then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful not to let them break.Chap, xx.] 413 SWEET DISHES. They are an elegant and good dish for a corner or dessert. 13LACK c.-irs. Halve and core some fine large apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and hake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. .\XOTHER WAY. '' Take off a slice from the stalk end of some apples, and core w'ithout paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten them, and mix it with some grated lemon and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this and turn the flat end down on the stew'pan; set them on a very slow fire, wdth half a pint of raisin wdne, and the same of wnter; cover them close, and now and then baste them with the liquor ; when done enough, black the tops with a salamander. STEWED PEARS. Pare and halve or quarter large pears, according to their size; tlirow them into water, as the skin is taken off, before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stew’pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon-peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked; just cover them with water, and add a little red Avine. Cover them close, and stew three or four hours ; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor from them. BAKED PEAR.S. These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste bet- ter than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw\ "Wipe, but do not pare, and lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow' oven. When enough414 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ,xx. to Lear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently. APPLE JELLY.—E. R. Take a pound and a half of loaf-sugar; put it into a pint of water, and let it boil until it is sugar again. Then add two pounds of apples pared and cored, with the juice of two lemons. Boil all together until quite stilf; then put it into a mould, and when cold it will turn out a solid jelly. Serve it up in a dish with a rich custard or whipped cream round it. Half the above quantity will be sufiicient for a good-sized mould. APPLE JELLY, No. 2.—E. R. Pare and core a number of apples; slice them; boil the cores and parings in as much water as will cover the apples, pour it over them in an earthen jar, and place them in a slow oven. Let them remain until they be- come quite a pulp ; then hang the pulp in a linen bag and let it drain upon the rind of a large lemon. Put a pound and a half of sugar to a quart of juice and the juice of the lemon; boil it nearly an hour and a half; pour it into moulds, and serve it. Lemon pip- pins are the best apples for this purpose. As it is very cold, if eaten in winter, a little brandy or*ginger would improve it. SPANISH CUSTARD.—E. R. Boil the rind of two lemons grated and the juice of one in a pint of water; add the yolks of fourteen eggs beaten to a cream and sweetened; stir it one way till it thickens. When taken oft’ the fire, add two spoonsful of brandy. LEMON CUSTARD.—E. R. Strain three wine-glasses full of lemonjuice through a sieve; beat nine eggs, yolks and whites; strain themSWEET DISHES. Chap, sx.] 415 also, and add them to the lemon-juice wdth a quarter of a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, a glass of white wine, and half a wine-glass of water, with a little grated lemon- peel. Mix all together, and put the ingredients into a saucepan on the fire, stirring it until it becomes thick and of a proper consistence, when it is enough. BLANC MANGE, No. 1.—E. R. Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass, twelve sweet and six bitter almonds, well beaten in a quart of milk; let it boil until the isinglass is dissolved; then sw'eeten it, stir it until nearly cold, and then put it into the mould. BLANC MANGE, No. 2.—E. R. To a pint of new milk and as much cream add half an ounce of the best isinglass, a large handful of sweet and hitter almonds pounded in a mortar, and moistened with thick cream, three ounces of fine sugar, and two bay or peach-leaves. Boil the whole until the isinglass is dis- solved, then strain it into a basin, let it stand until it is cold, turn it out and take off the sediment, warm it up again, flavour it with a little orange-flower w'ater, stir it until it is nearly cold, and then put it into the mould. Observe to wash the isinglass in cold water before it is put to the milk, and soak the moulds in cold water the night before they are used. GROUND RICE BLANC MANGE.—E. R. Take a pint and a half of good milk, put it on the fire to boil with enough sugar to make it sufficiently sweet, a little lemon-peel, and cinnamon. Take three table-spoonsful of ground rice, mix it very smoothly in a little cold milk, add it to the boiling milk, and stir it on the fire until quite thick: put it into the mould, and when cold turn it out. Then either whip a little cream with a glass of white wine and a little sugar, and pour it over the rice, or decorate it with sweetmeats, which may he placed in the mould.416 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [C:I.».P. x:c. WEST INDIAN RL.ANC MANGE.—E. R. . Mix with a little cold milk three table-spoonsful of arrow-root and one of flour; boil a quart of milk fla- voured with hitter almonds, lemon-peel, and sugar; strain it through a sieve upon the arrow-root, stir it well together over the fire; let it boil until quite thick, then put it into a mould: when cold, garnish it with sweetmeats. This may be kept moderately warm, and eaten, as a pudding, Avith a sauce made of the yolk of au egg well beaten, a glass of sherry, a spoonful of brandv, and a little sugar, M'armed and put round, and not over the pudding. TO FILL PRES ERVED OR.ANGES; A CORNER DISH. For five take a pound of Naples biscuits, some blanched almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, four ounces of butter warmed: grate the biscuits and mix with the above and some orange-flower water. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon as filled ; otherwise wipe them. Custard to fill M ill do as well; if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in Avhen become cold. PUTTERED ORANGE-JUICE, A COLD DISH. Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges vith four spoonsful of rose-Avater, and add the Avhole to the yolks of eight and Avhites of four eggs Avell beaten; then strain the liquor to half a pound of sugar pounded, stir it OA’er a gentle fire, and Avhen it begins to thicken put about the size of a small Avalnut of butter; keep it over the fire a feAv minutes longer; then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat cold. If you have no silver saucepan, do it in a china basin in a saucepan of boiling Avater, the top of Avhich Avill just receive the basin.417 CUAP. XX.] SWEET DISHES. ORANGE BUTTER. Boil hard six eggs, beat them in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten with orange-flower water, and when all is mixed rub it through a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. ORANGE POSSET. Boil the grated crumb of a penny loaf in a pint of water, with the grated peel of a Seville orange, till the mixture be clear and thick: then add three ounces of sweet and one bitter almond, beaten with half a glass of brandy, half the juice of an orange, four ounces of sugar, and a pint of mountain wine. Serve in a china bowl. ;WINE ROLL. Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till it will hold no more; put it in the dish, and pour round it a custard, or cream, sugar, and lemon-juice. Just before it is served sprinkle over it some nonpareil comfits; or stick a few blanched slit almonds into it. Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roll. 'ITALIAN CimESE.—E. R. e A pint and a half of cream, two lemons, and the rind; a pint of sweet wine, a few pounded almonds, and sugar enough to sweeten it. Mill for about ten minutes; put all into a deep sieve with a muslin under it to drain. LEMON CHEESE.—E. R. The juice of one lemon and the rind of two to a quart of cream; grate the rind of the lemons, add sugar, keej) stirring it one way until it is quite thick. LEMON JELLY.—E. R Boil two ounces of isinglass in a pint of water until it is dissolved, and a pound of lump-sugar in another pint 2 EDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xx. 418 of spring water; strain the isinglass, and, when nearly cold, have ready the grated rinds of two China and two Seville oranges, and the juice of four or five lemons; mix all together, strain through a sieve, and pour it in the mould. ORANGE JELLY.—E. R. Peel twelve oranges very thin, and squeeze the juice over the rind ; but do not allow it to remain very long, as it will be disagreeably bitter : should the oranges be very sweet, add the juice of a Seville orange, or lemon. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in as small a quantity of water as possible; melt half a pound of loaf-sugar, and, Avhen the syrup and isinglass are cold, mix them with the juice, and strain them into the mould. The quantity of sugar requisite depends upon the sweetness of the oranges. FLOATING ISLAND. Mix three half-pints of thin cream with a quarter of a pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange-flower water, and sugar: put into a dish for the middle of the table, and put on the cream a froth, which may be made of raspberry or currant-jelly. ANOTHER W.AY. Scald a codling before it be ripe, or any sharp apple; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with sugar and a spoonful of orange-flower water; mix in by degrees tbe pulp, and beat together until you have a large quantity of froth; serve it on a raspberry cream ; or you may colour the froth with beet-root, raspberry, or currant-jelly, and set it on a white cream, having given it the flavour of lemon, sugar, and wine, as above : or put the froth on a custard. FLUMMERY. Put three large handsful of very small white oatmeal to steep a day and night in cold water; then pour it oft'Chap, xx.] SWEET DISHES. 419 dear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it through a fine hair sieve, and boil it till it be as thick as hasty-pudding; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put to it one large spoon- ful of white sugar, and two of orange-flower v.'ater. Pour it into shallow dishes, and serve to eat with wine, cider, milk, or cream and sugar. It is very good. FRENCH FLUMMERY. Boil slowly two ounces of isinglass shavings in a quart of cream fifteen minutes. Stir all the time, and sweeten it with loaf-sugar, not pounded, lest any dust should be in it; add a spoonful of rose-water and the same of orange-flower water. Strain it into a basin or form; and serve with baked pears round it. DUTCH FLUMMERY. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water very gently half an hour; add a pint of white wine, the juice of three and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, and with them add as much more sugar as shall make it sweet enough; and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald; stir all the time, and pour it into a basin; stir it till half cold; then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. RICE FLUMMERY. Boil with a pint of new milk a bit of lemon-peel and cinnamon; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consistence ; sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, observing it do not burn ; pour it into a shape or pint basin, taking out tbe spice. When cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard, round; or put a tea-cupful of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, and sugar. 2 E 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 420 [Chap. xx. SOMERSET.SHIRE FRUMENTY. To a quart of ready-boiled wlieat put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four ounces of currants, picked clean and washed; stir them and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonsful of milk; add this to the wheat; stir them together while over the lire ; then sw'eeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best -svarm. TIPSY C.tKE.—E. R. Steep six penny sponge-cakes in brandy, stick them all over with almonds cut into spikes; pile them in a pyramid upon a dish, pour a custard round, and lay preserves in heaps upon the cakes. APPLE OR GOOSEBERRY SOUFFI.kE.—E. R. Scald and sw'eeten the fruit, beat it through a sieve, and put it into a tart-dish. When cold pour a nch custard over it, about two inches deep ; whip the whites of the eggs, of which the custard w'as made, to a snow, and lay it in small rough pieces on the custard ; sift fine sugar over, and put it into a slack oven for a short time. It will make an exceedingly pretty supper dish. ■lAUMANGE—E. R. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water, beat the yolks of tw'o eggs into a froth, and grate the peel of two lemons ; mix them all together wdth a little white sugar in half a pint of mountain or other sweet w'ine. Boil it over a slow fire, stirring it all the time to prevent it from burning. GATEAU AU lUZ.—E. R. • Put half a pound of Carolina rice into boiling milk, and let it boil an hour till it is quite soft; then put to it some butter and sugar, and the yolks of three eggs; beat the whites scj)aratcly, and mix them all well together:Chap, xx.] SWEET DISHES. 421 butter the mould thickl)', and cover it with crumbs of bread. It will take an hour and a quarter or an hour and a half to bake. TR.\.NSP.\UEXT M.\RM.VL.\DE. Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters; take the pulp out and put in a basin; pick out the seeds and skins. Let the outsides soak in water with a Utile salt all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring water till tender; drain, and cut them in very thin slices, and put them to the pulp; and to every pound a pound and a half of double-relined sugar beaten tine ; boil them together twenty minutes, but be careful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or six minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. TO BUTTER OR.VNGES TO BE E.VTEN HOT. Grate otf a little of the outside rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end opposite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp, and seeds, and juice ; then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp; rub the oranges with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bitterness. In the mean time make a thin syrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and boil them up; turning them round, that each part may partake of the syrup, as there need not be enough to cover them, and let them remain in it hot till they are to be served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire; mix it well and let it boil; then add a spoonful, of white wine for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken; fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the synq) in the dish. Put the bits on the top.422 [Chap. xr. DOMESTIC COOKERY. PUNCH JELLY.—E. R. Dissolve two ounces of isinglass in a pint of water, with the peel of a lemon. To half a pint of spirit, in ecjual ])arts of rum and brandy, put the juice of two lemons, and sweeten it with fine loaf-sugar ; strain the water, in which the isinglass has been dissolved, upon the punch ; then place it on the fire to heat, not boil. Let it stand to settle, strain and pour it into the mould. It will take nearly two ])ounds of sugar; and isinglass being exceedingly variable in quality, more or less may be required. It should not be too stiflF, and must be strained through a fine hair, and not a flannel, sieve. STONE CREAM.-E. R. Take half an ounce of isinglass, dissolved in a little water, then put one pint of good cream, sweetened to the taste; boil it; when nearly cold lay some apricot or raspberry jam on the bottom of a glass dish, and pour it over. This is most excellent. FRUIT CREAM.—E. R. Cover the bottom of a glass dish with any kind of preserved fruit. Boil half an ounce of isinglass in a little waiter, and add to it a quart of good milk or thin cream, an ounce of sugar, and a glass of brandy; boil it together, adding the brandy afterwards, and when nearly cold pour it on the fruit. - LEMON CREAM. Take a pint of tliick cream, and put to it the yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon; boil it up, then stir it till almost cold; put the juice of a lemon in a dish or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. YELLOW' LEMON-CREAM, WITHOUT CREAM. Parc four lemons very thin into twelve large spoons- ful of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces ofCREAMS. Chap, xx.] 423 finely-powdered sugar; beat the yolk of nine eggs well ; add the peal and juice beaten together for some time; then strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block-tin saucepan; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till pretty thick, and scalding hot, but not boil- ing, or it will curdle. Pour it into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. WHITE LEMON CREAM J Is made the same as the above; only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it extremely well to froth. VANILLA CREAM. Boil half a stick of vanilla in a quarter of a pint of new milk until it has a very high flavour; have ready a jelly of an ounce of isinglass to a pint of water, which mix with the milk, and a pint and a quarter of fine cream; sweeten with fine sugar unbroken, and stir till nearly cold; then dip a mould into cold water, and pour the whole into it. Make it the day before it is wanted. : IMPERIAL CREAM.: Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, then stir it till nearly cold; have ready in a dish or bowl that you are to serve in the juice of three lemons, strained, with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream ; which pour into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be at least six hours before it is served, and will be still better if a day. ALMOND CREAM. Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, both having been blanched, in a mortar, with a tea-DOMESTIC COOKERY [Chap. xx. 424 spoonful of water to prevent oiling. Put the paste to a quart of cream, and add the juice of three lemons sweetened : beat it up with a whisk to a froth, which take off on the shallow part of a sieve; fill glasses with some of the liquor and the froth. SNOAV CREAM. Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonsful of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and a bit of lemon-peel; whip it to a froth, remove the peel, and serve in a dish. COFFEE CREAM, MUCH ADMIRED.; Boil a calf’s foot in water till it W’astes to a pint of jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of very strong coffee; clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly bright; pour it to the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil up, and pour into the dish. It should jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your coffee be fresh. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Scrape into one quart of thick cream one ounce of the best chocolate, and a quarter of a pound of sugar ; boil and mill it; when quite smooth, take it off, and leave it to be cold; then add the whites of nine eggs. Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done, and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. [CODLING CREAM. Parc and core twenty good codlings; beat them in a mortar, with a pint of cream; strain it into a dish; and put sugar, bread-crumbs, and a glass of wine to it. Stir it well. EXCELLENT OR.VNGE CREAM. Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender: beat itChap, xx.] 425 CREAMS. fine in a mortar; put to it a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and the yolks of four eggs; beat all together for ten minutes ; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boil- ing cream ; beat till cold ; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. RASPBERRY CREAM. Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it • after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle; which it would, if put to the milk l)efore the cream : but it is best made of raspberry-jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. ANOTHER WAY. Boil one ounce of isinglass shavings in three pints of cream and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted; strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin ; when cold put {ibout half a pint of raspberry- juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream; stir it till well incorporated; sweeten, and add a glass of brandy; whisk it about till three parts cold; then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice ; in winter, syrup of raspberries. .SPINACH CREAM. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or a whisk; sw'eeten them a good deal, and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three-quarters of a pint of new milk ; stir it well; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach-juice; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick as a hasty- pudding. Put into a custard-dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and pour the mixture426 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. ix. over them. It is to be eaten cold, and is a dish either for supper or for a second course. PIST.YCHIO CREAM. • Blanch four ounces of pistachio-nuts; beat them fine •with a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of cream ; sweeten ; let it just boil, and put it into glasses. RHENISH CRE.IM.—E. R. Dissolve an ounce of isinglass in a pint of hot water, let it stand until cold; take the yolks of five eggs, the peels of two, and the juice of three lemons, half a pint of white wine, and half a pound of lump-sugar; stir them all together; let them boil gently till thick enough to put into moulds. IMITATION CREAM FOR TARTS.—E. R. Beat the yolks of two ne-w-laid eggs ; with a pint of good new milk and two lumps of sugar; put it on a stove, and stir it one “vvay until it becomes as thick as common cream. MOCK CRE.AM'.—E. R. Mix half a table-spoonful of- flour with a pint of new milk, let it simmer for five minutes, then beat up the yolk of an egg, stir it into the milk while boiling, and run it through a lawn sieve. ARROW-ROOT CREAM.—E. R. Take a tea-spoonful of arrow-root, mix it till quite smooth in a little cold milk; boil a pint of fresh milk with a lump of sugar, pour it boiling on the arrow-root, and stir it till it thickens. SOLID MILLED CREAM.—E. R. To a pint of thick cream put half a pint of s-weet wine, the juice of a large lemon, a quarter ot a pound of line sugar sifted, a little grated nutmeg, the wdiole of the rind of the lemon, a few cloves, and a little maceChap, xx.] CREAMS. 427 and cinnamon beaten together. Put the whole into a deep pan ; mill it steadily with a chocolate-mill until it will stand up in it; then take off the top carefully, fill the glasses, mill again until it becomes thick. It is best made the day before it is wanted. AN EXCELLENT CREAM. Whip up three-quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely-scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to make it pleasant, but not too sweet; lay it on a sieve, or in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament it with very light puff-paste biscuits, made in tin shapes the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glazed with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons, to line the edges of the dish. BURNT CREAM. Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some lemon-peel; take it off the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold; sweeten and take out the spice, &c.; pour it into the dish ; when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it w’ith a salamander. ANOTHER WAY. Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon- peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top with a salamander. A VERY FINE ITALLAN CREAM. Whip together a quart of very thick scalded cream, a quart of raw cream, the grated rind of four lemons, and the strained juice, with ten ounces of white powdered sugar, one hour ; then add half a pint of sweet wine, and continue to whisk it until it becomes quite solid. Lay a piece of muslin in a sieve, and lade the cream upon it with a spoon. In twenty hours turn it carefullyDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xx. 428 out, but mind that it does not break, and garnish it with a wreath of flowers. SACK CREAM. Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonsful of uhite wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. BRANDY CREAM. Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter almonds, in a little milk. When cold add to it the yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy ; and when well mixed pour to it a quart of thin cream: set it over the fire, but do not let it boil; stir one way till it thickens, then pour it into cups or low glasses. ^V hen cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be put in each, if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. RAT.AFIA CREAM. Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves in a full pint of cream ; strain it; and when cold add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time, -ANOTHER WAY. ^lix half a quarter of a pint of ratafia, the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasantly flavoured. Beat it with a M'hisk, and put it into glasses. This cream will keep eight or ten days. VELVET CREAM.—E. R. Dissolve one ounce of isinglass in a breakfast-cup-JELLIES. Chap, xx.] 429 ful of wine ; add the juice of a large lemon, rub some lumps of sugar over the lemon-peel, and thus sweeten it to the taste. Then add a pint of cream. Stir the whole well together and put it into the moulds. Strain the isinglass and wine ; it requires no boiling after the cream is added, the isinglass, wine, and sugar being pre- viously boiled together. Be careful not to mix the wine and cream together until quite cold. Half the above materials fill one mould. .4.NO ZABAGLIONE, AN ITALIAN RECEIPT.—E. R. Take the yolks of two eggs, three tea-spoonsful of pounded sugar, and a glass and a half or two small glasses of Marsala. Put all into a chocolate-pot, set it on the fire, using the mill as for chocolate. When it begins to rise and harden, it is done. Serve it in glasses. A CARMEL COVER FOR SWEETMEATS. Dissolve eight ounces of douhle-refined sugar in three or four spoonsful of water and three or four drops of lemon-juice ; then put it into a copper untinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint basin of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps and is brittle when cold, it is done enough; but only let it be three parts cold, then pour the water from the sugar, and, having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover : but if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour off the w'ater, and turn it into tlie skillet, and boil it again. It should look thick, like treacle, but of a bright light gold colour. It is a most elegant cover. CALF-.S FEET JELLY. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken and the water half wasted ; strain it, and when cold take off the fat, and remove the jelly fromDOMESTIC COOKERY. 430 [Chap. xx. the sediment; then put it into a saucepan, with sugar, raisiii-wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and some lemon- peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through until clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. The following mode will greatly facilitate the clearing of jelly :—^When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer; then take the saucepan off the fire, covered close, and keep it half an hour; after which it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet for all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them, that they are less nutritious; they should be only scalded, to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat; hut the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. No(e.—Jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned; and, as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this observation may be useful. ANOTHER WAY. Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s feet, or two ■ cow-heels, that have been only scalded, till half wasted : take the jelly from the fat and sediment; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of coriander-seeds, a quarter of an ounce of all- spice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having previously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. While running, take a littleJELLIES. Chap, xx.] 431 jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of water in which a bit of beet-root has been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out; and this is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate; but this is matter of choice. This jelly has a very fine high colour and flavour. FRUIT IN JELLY. Put into a basin half a pint of clear calf’s-foot jelly ; and when it has become stiff, lay in three fine peaches, and a bunch of grapes with the stalk upwards : over which put a few vine-leaves, and fill up the bowl with jelly. Let it stand till next day, and then set the howl in hot water up to the brim for a minute ; then turn it out carefully on a dish. HARTSHORN JELLY. Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn shavings with two quarts of water to one; strain it and boil it with the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared thin ; w'hen cool add the juice of both, half a pound of sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth; let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly-bag. CRANBERRY JELLY. Make a very strong isinglass jelly. When cold, mi.x it with a double quantity of cranberry juice. Sweeten and boil it up; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. CRANBERRY AND RICE JELLY. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by de- grees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly ; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, and serve to eat as the before-directed jelly with milk or cream.[Chap. xx. 432 DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO PREPARE ICE FOR ICING. ' Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, throw a large handful and a half of rock salt among it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where as little of the •warm air comes as you can possibly con- trive. The ice and salt being in a bucket, put your cream into an ice-pot and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to touch every possible part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice I'ouud the edges to the centre. If the ice cream or water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move the whole in the ice, as you cannot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be holes in the bucket, to let off the ice as it thaws. Note.—When any fluid tends towards cold, the moving it quickly accelerates the cold ; and likewise, when any fluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate its boiling. ICE WATERS. Rub some fine sugar on lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel: add water and sugar to make a tine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater proportion should be of the China juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. CURRANT OR RASPBERRY-W.ATER ICE.T The juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened, and mixed with water, will be ready for icing. ICE CREAMS. To a pound of preserved fruit of any kind add a quart of cream, the juice of two lemons to thicken the flavour, and sugar to your taste. Rub the whole throughCrap. XX.] JELLIES. 433 a fine hair sieve; and to raspberry, or any other red fruit, add a little cochineal colouring, to give a better tint. ! BROWN BREAD ICE. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten, and ice it; but ;keep stirring, that the bread may not sink. ICE PUNCH, AS USED IN ITALY. Make a rich sherbet, and grate a piece of sugar on a lemon or citron for flavour; then beat the whites of five or six eggs to a froth, and by degrees stir it into the sherbet: add rum and ice, and serve in glasses. ICE RATAFIA CREAM. Blanch a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, and beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a marble mortar: then rub with the paste two ounces of lump- sugar, and simmer ten minutes with a tea-cup of cream, which add to a quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it. COLOURINGS TO STAIN JELLIES, ICES, OR CAKES. For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a little drop of water; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor, and squeezed. Likewise the flower of the Crocus, which has no taste. For green, pound spinach leaves or beet leaves, e.x- press the juice, and boil in a tea-cup in a saucejian of water to take off the rawness.[Chap. xxi. 434 DOMESTIC COOKERY. CHAPTER XXL OBSERVATIONS ON MAKING AND BAKING CAKES.] It is indispensably necessary in making cakes, that all the ingredients should be heated before they are mixed together' for this purpose everything should be prepared for an hour or two previously to their being wanted, and placed near the fire, or upon a stove. The flour thoroughly dried and warmed; the currants, sugar, caraway-seed, and anything else required, heated in the same way. Butter and eggs should be beaten in basins fitted into kettles or pans of boiling water, which will give them the requisite degree of tem- perature. Without these precautions, cakes will be heavy, and the best materials, and the greatest pains, . will fiiil to produce the desired results. Tliey are especially necessary in sponge cakes. Currants should be very nicely washed, dried in a cloth, . and then set before the fire. If damp, tliey will make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are added, a dust: of dry flour should be thrown among them, and a shake given to them,which causes the thing that they are put to to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, whites and yolks' apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted through a very fine hair or lawn sieve. Lemon-peel should be pared very tliin, and with a little sugar beaten in a marble mortar, to a paste; and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. After all the articles arc put into the pan, they should j be thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incorporated. Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter and eggs for having yest, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and w'ater, and yest, it becomes more tough, and is less easilyChap, xxi.] 435 CAKES. divided, than if the butter be first put with those ingre- dients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching, by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to pre- vent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the very centre; draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have, with great success, had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot until the oven was fit to finish the soaking, and they turned out extremely w'ell. But those who are employed ought to be particularly careful that no mistake occurs from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. Bread and cakes wetted with milk eat best when new; but become stale sooner than others. Cakes kept in drawers or wooden boxes have a dis- agreeable taste. Earthen pans and covers, or tin boxes, preserve them best. CA.KES, &c. ICING FOR CAKES. For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar, put into a mortar, with four spoonsful of rose- water, and the whites of two eggs beaten and strained; whisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, dip a feather in the icing, and cover the cake well; set it in the oven to harden, but do not let it stay to discolour. Put the cake in a dry place. TO ICE A VEHY LARGE CAKE.; Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs; then by degrees beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted through a 2 F 2[Chap. xxr. DOMESTIC COOKERY.' 436 lawn sieve; mix these well in a deep earthen pan ; add orange-flower water, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; of the former enough to flavour and no more. Whisk it for three hours till the mixture is thick and white then with a thin broad bit of board spread it all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour wil harden it. [PLUM C-YKE. Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour, well dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf-sugar, three pounds of currants washed and very dry, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched and beaten with orange-flower water. Melt two pounds of butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot; put to it a pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of twelve eggs, beaten apart, and half a pint of good yest. Strain this liquor by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them together a full hour, then butter the hoop, or pan, and bake it. As you put the batter into the hoop, or pan, throw in plenty of citron, lemoUj and orange candy. If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double- refined sugar sifted, and put a little with the white of an egg, beat it well, and by degrees pour in the re- mainder. It must be whisked near an hour, with the addition of a little orange-flower water, but mind not to put much. When the cake is done, pour the icing over, and return it to. the oven for fifteen minutes; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the colour be spoiled. -VNOTIIER. Flour dried, and currants w'ashed and picked, four pounds; sugar pounded and sifted, one pound and a half; six orange, lemon, and citron peels, cut in slices: mix. these.CAKES. Chap, xxi.] 437 Beat ten eggs, yolks and -whites separately; then melt a pound and a half of butter and a pint of cream; when lukewarm, put to it half a pint of ale-yest, near half a pint of sweet wine, and the eggs; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will bake it. VERY GOOD COMMON PLUM CAKES. Mix five ounces of butter in three pounds of dry flour, and five ounces of fine Lisbon sugar; add six ounces of currants, washed and dried, and some pimento, finely powdered. Put three spoonsful of yest into a Win- chester pint of new milk warmed, and mix into a light dough with the above. Make it into twelve cakes, and bake on a flour tin half an hour. LITTLE PLUM CAKES TO KEEP LONG. Dry one pound of flour, and mix with six ounces of finely pounded sugar; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and add to three eggs well beaten, half a pound of currants washed and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge flour on tin plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stitf paste. Bake in a brisk oven. AN EXCELLENT PLUM CAKE.—E. R. Beat a pound of fresh butter with a strong wooden- fork until it resembles cream; add a pound of sifted sugar, and mix them very completely. Have ready the whites of ten eggs beaten, and pour them into the butter and sugar; then add the yolks of eighteen eggs, also Avell-beaten, and beat them all up for ten minutes. Take a pound of flour, two ounces of pounded and sifted spices, viz., cloves, mace, cinnamon, nutmeg, and allspice, and mix them by degrees w’ith the other ingre- dients, then beat the cake ten minutes longer; and438 DOMESTIC COOKERY.- [Chap. ixt. •when the oven is ready, add a pound of currants, four ounces of sliced almonds, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, and a large glass of brandy. Bake the cake in a hot oven. When sufficiently baked, let the oven cool, and afterwards put in the cake and allow it to remain for several hours to dry. SEED CAKE.—E. R. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, adding, gradually, a quarter of a pound of sifted sugar, beating both toge- ther. Have ready the yolks of eighteen eggs, and the whites of ten beaten separately. Mix in the whites first, and then the yolks ; and beat the whole for ten minutes. Add two grated nutmegs, a pound and a half of flour, and mix them very gradually with the other ingredients. When the oven is ready, beat in three ounces of picked caraway-seeds. A CHEAP SEED CAKE. Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound of sugar, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little ginger; melt three-quarters of a pound of butter with half a pint of milk, when just warm, put to it a quarter of a pint of yest, and Avork up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minutes before it goes to the oven: add seeds, or currants; bake an hour and a half. ANOTHER. Mix a pound and a half of flour, and a pound of com- mon lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten separately, an ounce of seeds, tAvo spoonsful of yest, and the same of milk and Avater. Note.—Milk alone causes cake and bread soon to dry. SEED CAKE AVITHOUT BUTTER.—E. R. Dry and Avarm thirteen ounces of flour, add a pound of loaf-sugar pounded finely, four spoonsful of Avarm Avater, lour of brandy, one of orange-flower AA-ater, and439 CAKES. Chap, xxi.] two ounces of caraway-seed. Mi.x all together, then beat up twelve eggs with half the whites, add them to the cake; beat the whole well, and bake it two hours. A PLAIN CAKE.—E. R. Four pounds of flour, two pounds of currants, and half a pound of butter, with clove, caraway, and cori- ander seeds to the taste, together with lemon-peel grated. Wet it ■svith milk and half a pint of yest. COMMON BREAD CAKE. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eight of cur- rants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake the better. A tea- cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. SPONGE CAKE.—E, R. Eight eggs, half the whites, three-quarters of a pound of lump-sugar, half a pound of flour, quarter of a pint of water, the peel of a lemon: mix as follows:—Over night pare a good-sized lemon thin, and put the peel into the water; when about to make the cake, put the sugar into a saucepan, pour the water and lemon-peel to it, and let it stand by the fire to get hot. Break the eggs into a deep earthen vessel that has been made quite hot; whisk the eggs for a few minutes with a whisk that has been well soaked in water; make the sugar and water boil up, and pour it boiling-hot over the eggs, continue to whisk them briskly for about a quarter of an hour, or till they become quite thick and white, which is a jiroof of their lightness. Have ihe flour well dried, and quite warm from the fire, just stir it lightly in, put the cake into tins lined with wliite[CSAP. XSI4 440 DOMESTIC COOKERY. paper and send them immediately to be baked in a moderately hot oven. VIENNA CAKE.—E. R. One pound of flour, the same quantity of butter and of sifted loaf-sugar, and the yolks of fourteen eggs, the vbole to he beaten together for three-quarters of an hour; then beat the whites of the eggs to a froth ; mix the greater part by degrees to the paste, and keep beat- ing till the whole is soft and light. Cut pieces of paper the size and shape of the dish to be used, spread the paste upon them, put it into the oven, and let it bake, but not enough to be brown; then spread each witli jam made of fruit, and a little jelly, and pile up the cake. Let it remain until quite cold, and, some hours after- wards, add a fresh quantity of sugar to the whites of eggs; pour it over the top, and ornament it with pre- served orange and lemon chips, coloured sugar-plums, &c., and let it stand in a cool oven to dry. THE VIENNA CAKE, CALLED IN AUSTRIA FRENCH TART.—E. R. Take four layers of fine sponge cake, not quite an inch thick; or the sponge mixing, may be baked at once in a round shape, about six or eight inches in diameter, and afterwards divided into slices. Put be- tween each layer of cake one of preserves, each of a dilferent sort, with strawberries at the top, and cover the whole cake, top and sides, with a thick icing of sugar, similar to that used in twelfth-cake, tinted red, and fla- voured with essence of lemon, rose, or vanilla. The icing must be dried, but the cake must not be again put into the oven. RICH PLAIN CAKE.—E. R. Beat a jiound of butter to a cream with tlie hand, and add a pound of brown sugar, which beat in for ten minutes longer; then add eight eggs, two at a time, beating tliem as they are put in until the whole is veryChap, xxi.] CAKES. 441 smooth • then stir in a pound and a quarter of flour, a little at a time, till it is well mixed ; season with a little nutmeg, and add a pound of currants the last thing, together with citron and orange-peel cut into pieces. Put the ingredients into a shape, and hake it for two hours. It will be found most excellent. RICE CAKE —E. R. Take nine ounces of flour, dry it well; nine ounces cf ground rice, twenty ounces of sugar, pounded very fine, and sifted, and twelve eggs. Beat the eggs and sugar well together; then add the flour and the rice, a spoonful at a time, until all is used, beating at the same time, and for three-quarters of an hour. Before the cake goes into the oven, add the peel of a whole lemon grated ; then put in half the juice, and send it to the oven. Forty minutes wnll bake it. RICE CAKE, No. 2.—E. R. One pound of ground rice, one pound of lump-sugar sifted, eight eggs, yolks and whites, well beaten all to- gether, the rind of a lemon grated, and the juice of one. When all the ingredients are mixed, beat them half an hour longer; then put it into a well-buttered tin. An hour and a half wnll bake it. RICE CAKE. Mix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flour, eight ounces of pounded sugar; then sift by [degrees into eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred so fine that it is quite mashed; mix the whole well in a tin stewpan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. 'ANOTHER. Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the I peels of tw'o lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of i rice, eight ounces of flour, and one, pound of sugar442 [Chap. xxi. DOMESTIC COOKERY. pounded and sifted ; then beat it well with the eggs hy degrees, for an hour, wdth a wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put it in at the oven-mouth. A gentle oven will bake it in an hour and a half. W.YTER CAKES. Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub into it one pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce of caraway-seed. Make it into a paste with three-quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the size you choose ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin plates in a cool oven. A COMMON CAKE. Mix three-quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half an ounce of caraways, and a glass of raisin Avine. Beat it well, and bake in a quick oven. Fine Lisbon sugar will do. A VERY GOOD COMMON CAKE.' Rub eight ounces of butter in two pounds of dried I flour; mix it with three spoonsful of r^est, that is nott bitter, to a paste. Let it rise an hour and a half; them mix in the yolks and whites of four eggs beaten apart,, one pound of sugar, some milk to make it a properr thickness (about a pint will be sufficient), a glass of sweet M'ine, the rind of a lemon, and a tea-spoonful of ginger. Add either a pound of currants or some cara- ways, and beat well. AN EXCELLENT CAKE. Rub two pounds of dry fine flour with one of butter' waslied in plain and rose-water ; mix it vvitli three spoonsful of yest in a little warm milk and -water. Set it to rise an hour and a half before the fire: then beat into it two pounds of currants, one pound of sugar sifted, four ounces of almonds, six ounces of stoned raisins, chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice,443 CAKES. Chap, xxi.] ■ and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick oven. A VERY FINE CAKE. Wash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in water first, and then in rose-water ; beat the butter to a cream; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Have ready two pounds and a half of the finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, likewise a pound and a half of sugar, pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, three pounds of currants nicely cleaned and dry, half a pound of almonds blanched, and three-quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix all the dry ingre- dients, pour the eggs strained to the butter, mix half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees ; beat them very thoroughly— you can hardly do it too much. Having half a pound of stoned jar-raisins chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that there should be no lump, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat the in- gredients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake- pan ; take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge ; if the cake batter, fill it more than three parts, for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. ROUT DROP-CAKES. Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto butter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry; then wet into a stift' paste, with two eggs, a large spoonful of orange- flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy ; drop on a tin plate floured : a very short time bakes them.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 444 [Chap. xjh. BOLAS.—E. R. A pound and a quarter of flour, a small tea-cupful of yest, half a pint of milk warmed, one pound of butter, and four eggs. Make a hole in the flour, and pour into it the milk, eggs, and yest; mi.x them all -svell together; beat the dough, adding the butter by degrees. Let it stand for an hour to rise : then take half a pound of sifted sugar, and mix it well in with the dough; butter the cups or pans, put in the dough and ornament the top rvith candied orange or lemon-peel. QUEEN CAKE. Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed clean currants. Wash a pound of butter in rose-water, beat it well, then mix -with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put [in the dry ingredients by degrees; heat the whole an hour ; butter little tins, tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over just as you put into the oven. ANOTHER M'AY. Beat eight ounces of butter, and mi.x with two well- beaten eggs strained; mix eight ounces of dried Hour, and the same of lump-sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon; then add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver spoon. Butter small pattypans, half fill, and bake trventy minutes in a quick oven. DIET BREAD CAKE,—E. R. To half a pound of sifted sugar put four eggs; heat them together for an hour ; then add a quarter of a pound of dour dried and sifted, with the juice of lialf a lemon, and the grated rind of a whole one. Bake in a slow oven. DIET CAKE, No. 2.—E. R. 'f Boil a pound of loaf-sugar in half a pint of water;Chap, xxi.] CAKES. 445 whisk it with eight eggs until cold ; then stir in a pound of fine flour, and keep beating until it is put into the oven, which, if it be quick, will bake it in an hour. WAFERS.—E. R. Take fine flour, dried and sifted, make it into a smooth thin batter with very good milk, or a little cream and water; add about as much white wine as will make it thick enough for pancakes, sweeten it with a little loaf- sugar, and flavour with beaten cinnamon. When thus prepared, have the wafer-irons made ready by being heated over a charcoal fire; rub the irons with a piece of linen cloth dipped in butter; then pour a spoonful of the batter upon them, and close them almost im- mediately ; turn them upon the fire, pare the edges with a knife, as some of the batter will ooze out. A short time will bake them, when the irons are properly heated. The wafers must be curled round whilst warm. .SWISS AFTERNOON CAKES. Mix four ounces of fine flour, two ounces of sifted sugar, the grated peel of a lemon, and half a pound of butter, to a paste, with the white of an egg, and a suf- ficient quantity of milk. Roll it thin, cut into biscuits, and brush them over with the yolk of an egg, over which sift fine sugar : bake them on tins. SPANISH CAKE. Put twelve eggs, cleared of the trails, into a large chocolate-pot, and mill them to a froth. Mix by degrees three-quarters of a pound of double-refined sugar, one pound of flour dried, and half a pound of almonds beaten to a paste with orange-flower water ; to which add four spoonsful of rose-water, a glass of mountain wine, and half an ounce of pounded cinnamon. When all the ingredients are in the pot, mill them three-quarters of an hour. Butter a pan, and bake in a slow oven.[Chap. xxi. 446 DOMESTIC COOKERY. PORTUG.YL C.-VKES. Mix a pound of fine dried flour with the same of sifted loaf-sugar : rub into it a pound of fresh butter till it resembles crumbled bread. Then add two spoonsful of rose-water, two of white wine, and ten eggs; whisk it well, and add eight ounces of currants. Butter small tin pans and half fill. 5 SHREWSBURY CAKES Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the finest sort; add a little rose-M ater to three eggs, well beaten, and mix these with the flour, &c.; then pour into it as much butter melted as will make it a good thickness to roll out. Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into such shapes as you like. BUTTER CAKES.—E. R. To half a pound of butter add the same quantity of brown sugar, three eggs, the rind of two lemons, a quarter of an ounce of pounded cinnamon, and half the quantity of powdered ginger. Work into it as much flour as will make it a paste; cut it into shapes, and strew over the top some pounded almonds, and candied orange-peel. Bake in a slow oven. A LIGHT SEED CAKE.—E. R. Take the yolks of six eggs, and the whites of three, beat them well for half an hour; then put in six ounces of powdered loaf-sugar, mix it well with the eggs, add gradually seven ounces of flour, and a few caraway- seeds; stir the whole well together, and put it into a pan or dish for baking. If the oven is hot, half an hour will bake it. The moment it is taken out of the oven, turn it out of the mould, and let it lie upside down until quite cold. Great care should be taken in the baking. A less rich cake may be made by omitting an ounce of the sugar, and adding one more of flour.C.iKES. Chap, xxi.] 447 A PLAIN CAKE.-E. R. A pound and a half of flour, half a pound of butter, ditto of sugar, two spoonsful of yest, and a few ca- raway-seeds. SAVOY CAKE.—E. R. Boil a pound of lump-sugar in rose-water, beat up eight eggs very well with a whisk, arid pour the hot sugar upon them, beating all together till nearly cold ; then stir in a pound of flour by degrees, previously adding a table-spoonful of brandy. Pour it into a warm buttered tin, and put it into the oven immediately. FLAT CAKES, THAT WILL KEEP LONG IN THE HOUSE GOOD. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonsful of water, to make a stiff paste; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on tins lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup: while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time ; and when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. LITTLE WHITE CAKES. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few caraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin plates. LITTLE SHORT CAKES. Rub into a pound of dry flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of white powdered sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut them as before, and bake on tins. , "DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xxi. ■ 448 MAKDBOROUGII CAKES. Beat eight eggs and a pound of pounded sugar three- quarters of an hour; then by degrees mix in tM-elve ounces of fine flour well dried; add two ounces of cara- way-seeds, and bake in soup-plates or tin pans in a brisk oven. MACAROONS. Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four spoonsful of orange-flower water; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and a pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste ; and, laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little cakes, the shape of macaroons. MACAROONS, No. 2.—E. R. Beat the whites of four eggs into a strong froth, add to it the juice of two limes or lemons, and a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar; mix them up well together, then add tu’o more whites of eggs beaten, another quarter of a pound of sugar, a pound of almonds or cashew-nuts sliced, and a quarter of a pound of flour, which last must be just sprinkled over the other ingre- dients after they have been well mixed together, which will take nearly an hour. Take up a sufficient quantity of the mixture in a spoon, drop it on paper sprinkled with flour, and bake on tins in a slow oven for two hours. ALMOND CAKES.—E. R. Beat a pound of almonds very fine with rose-water, mix in half a pound of sifted sugar; make them into ■ shapes, put them before the fire to dry on one side, then i turn them. When dry on both sides, take some sifted ■ sugar and as much white of egg as will just wet it; beat it with a spoon, as it grows white put in a little more egg, till it is thin enough to ice the cakes; then449 Chap, xxi.] CAKES. ice one side, drj' it before the fire, and be sure it is quite dry before icing the other side. A RICH SCOTCH BUN.—E. R. To four pounds of flour (half a peck Scotch) stone and cut two pounds of raisins, and clean two pounds of currants. Take six ounces of orange-peel, the same of citron, and of almonds, blanched and cut; mix all these together. Take one drachm of cloves, a large nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, and the same of ginger, pound them, strew the spice on the fruit, and mix them very well. Make a hole in the flour, break in nearly a pound and a half of butter, pour warm water on the butter to soften it a little; then work the flour and butter together, spread the paste, and pour in half a pint of good yest; work it up very well until the paste is light and smooth. Cut off about a third part of the paste for the sheets, spread out the rest of the paste on the table, put the fruit on it, pour about a gill of yest over the fruit and paste, and work the fruit and paste very well together. Then make it up round; roll out the sheet which was reserved in a circular form, lay the bun on the middle, and gather the sheet round it; roll it out to the desired thickness, run a fork through in different parts down to the bottom, and pinch it on the top. Flour double gray paper and put the bun upon it, give it a cut round the side, put a binder of double paper round it to keep it from running too thin in the oven. Bake in a moderate oven. SCOTTISH SHORTBREAD.—E. R. Take eight pounds of flour and three pounds and a half of butter, all avoirdupoise English w'eight, melt the butter, and make the flour into dough with it, and about the fourth part of a London quart of good yest. Make it into cakes half an inch in thickness, adding, if it is desired to be sweet, a pound of lump-sugar beaten. Put six ounces of caraway-comfits on the top. Let the dough lie on the table after it is cut out until it be- 2 GDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xxr. 450 comes stifiF, which will not take long, and then"put it into the oven. A rather slow oven answers best. SCOTTISH RECEIPT FOR SHORTBRE.VD.—E. R. To four pounds of flour take two of butter, quite fresh and without salt, half a pound of moist sugar, a quarter of a pound of citron, and the same of almonds, the latter ! blanched, and all cut small. Mix the sugar and fruit ' well with the flour, then work it up with the butter, cold, till (but it will take a long time) it is smooth and com- pact; divide into four or more pieces, and roll out each piece into an oblong cake, having previously floured the table well. Prick the top with a steel fork, strew some orange and citron cut thin, and some large caraway- ' comfits, press them in with the roller, then pinch round | the edges, put the cakes in floured tins ; bake for twenty | minutes. If the cake rise after the pressing of the | finger it is sufficiently done. j SCOTTISH SEED-CAKF.—E. R. Take a dozen and a half of eggs, keep out the w'hites -i of six for glazing; take a pound and a half of fine sugar, beat the sugar and eggs until they are thick and white; take a pound and a quarter of sweet butter, and beat it well to a cream; take a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, the same of nutmeg and cloves, half an ounce i of caraway-seed, a pound and a half of citron, a pound of j orange-peel, a pound of almonds blanched; cut them I small. Put two pounds of flour among the eggs, add the , beaten butter and a gill of brandy; mix all well together; > put it into the frame, and bake it. A GOOD POUND CAKE.1 j Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix witli 4 the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same | of sifted sugar; mix them and a few cloves, a little nut-j meg and cinnamon, in fine powder together; then by degrees work the dry ingredients into the butter and451 CAKES, Chap, xxi.] eggs. When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of tlie butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. SODA CAKE.—E. R. One pound of flour, one drachm of soda, half a pound of sugar, ditto of currants, and a quarter of a pound of butter. Mix the soda with the flour, then rub in the hutter, after which add the sugar and the currants, and then a pint of milk. Put it into the oven immediately. A variety may be given by substituting a quarter of a pound of lemon, 'orange, and citron, candied, and an ounce of pounded sweet almonds for the currants; but in that case the cake will require rather more soda. GINGERBREAD.—E. R. One pound of treacle, ditto of butter, two ])ounds of flour, one ounce of ground ginger, sliced candied orange, and a glass of brandy. If not intended to be rich, omit half the butter, the brandy, and lemon. ANOTHER SORT. To three-quarters of a pound of treacle beat one egg strained; mix four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of ginger sifted; of cloves, mace, allspice, and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten as fine as possible; co- riander and caraway-seeds, each a quarter of an ounce; melt one pound of liutter, and mix with tlie above; and add as much flour as will knead into a pretty stiff paste; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. Bake on tin plates in a quick oven. A little time will bake them. Of some, drops may be made. 2 G 2452 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xit. A GOOD I’LAIN SORT. Mix three pounds of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of pounded ginger; then make into a paste with one pound and a quarter of treacle warm. A. GOOD SORT, WITHOUT BUTTER. Mix two pounds of treacle; of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced; one ounce of coriander-seeds, one ounce of cara- ways, and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste; lay it in cakes on tin plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it wall be good for some months. GINGERBREAD-NUTS.—THE YORKSHIRE RECEIPT.—E. R. Mix half a pound of flour, the same quantity of butter and of brown sugar, w'ith three ounces of ginger, wdth as much treacle as will make it into a paste. Roll it out thin, and bake it for about twenty minutes in a slow oven. GINGERBREAD-NUTS.—THE SUFFOLK RECEIPT.—E. R. Put a pound of brown sugar, and a pound of honey, with half the rind of a lemon grated, into a saucepan, and simmer them w'ell together; then add four ounces of good fresh butter and one ounce of ginger; mix the whole with two pounds of flour. N. B. These receipts come with extraordinary recom- mendations. GINGERBREAD WITH CARAWAY-SEEDS.-E. R. Take a pound and a half of fine flour well dried, add an ounce of pounded ginger, half an ounce ot caraway- seeds, and a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar. Put half a pound of treacle and a quarter of a pound of fresh butter in a pan, and when it boils mix it with the other453 R Chap, xxi.] CAKES. III ingredients into a stiff paste, and set it before the fire to gi lighten; then bake in any form that may be desirable. IMPERIAL GINBERBRE.VD.—E. R. Rub six ounces of butter into three quarters of a Di pound of flour, then mix six ounces of treacle with a i; pint of cream carefully, lest it should turn the cream ; XI mix in a quarter of a pound of double-refined sugar, II half an ounce of powdered ginger, and an ounce of b! caraway-seeds ; stir the whole well together into a paste, III cut it into shapes, and stick cut candied orange or lemon- peel on the top. [ I i LEMON GINGERBREAD.—E. 11. ' Grate the rinds of two or three lemons, and add the E juice to a glass of brandy: then mix the grated lemon- ■ in a pound of flour, make a hole in the flour, pour in I half a pound of treacle, half a pound of butler melted, the lemon-juice and brandy, and mix all up together ■with half an ounce of ground ginger and a quarter of an 1 ounce of cayenne pepper. SUGAR GINGERBREAD.—E. R. One pound of sugar, one pound of flour, and four I eggs; beat the sugar and eggs till they are •wdiite, then I add a little ginger and rose-water, and the flour. A PEPPER CAKE.—E. R. r Half a pound of flour, half a pound of treacle, one ; tea-spoonfiil of cayenne pepper, two eggs, a little vol'a- I tile salts, and a table-spoonful of coriander and cara- ^ wav-seeds. Make the treacle hot, and mix in the other I ingredients. DROP CAKES.—E. R. Beat the yolks of ten eggs -with a spoonful of rose- water for half an hour, then add six ounces of loaf- sugar pounded and sifted; beat them together for half an hour longer, then add six ounces of fine flour andnOMESTIC COOKERY. 454 [Chap. xxi. half an ounce or an ounce of caraways. Drop them on wafer paper. BENTON TEA CAKES. Mi.Y a paste of flour, a little hit of hutter, and milk; roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, or on a hot hearth. ANOTHER SORT, AS BISCUITS. Rub into a pound of flour six ounces of butter and three large spoonsful of yest, and make it into a paste with a sufficient quantity of new milk; make into bis- cuits, and prick them with a clean fork. ANOTHER SORT. Melt six or seven ounces of butter with a sufficiency of new milk warmed to make seven pounds of flour into a stiff paste; roll thin, and make into biscuits. GALETTE A CAKE TO BE EATEN WITH SWEETMEATS.—E. R. Take equal quantities of butter and flour, a little salt, and two eggs; knead the whole together into a paste, roll it as thin as a crown-piece, and make it the size of a i dessert-plate; mark it with the back of a knife in lines so as to form diamonds; put it into the oven for a quarter of an hour; take it out; beat up t>vo eggs -with a little cream and some salt, pour it over the cake, and return it to the oven to bake for another quarter of an hour. This is a Parisian receipt. CRACK-NUTS. Mix eight ounces of flour and eight ounces of sugar; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonsful of raisin i wine: then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste; add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, -wash M'ith the \vhite of an egg,455 CAKES. ti. Chap, xxi.] CR.ACKNELS. Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the ^ yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonsful of rose- jv water, into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll in a > pound of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape; ft! put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them fi! till they swim, then take out and put them into cold ^ water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and hake li them on tin plates. , KRINGLES. jji Beat well the yolks of eight and whites of two eggs, I and mix with four ounces of butter just w'armed, and I with this knead a pound of flour and four ounces of I sugar to a paste. Roll into thick biscuits; prick them, S and bake on tin plates. I A GOOD PL.iIN BUN, TH.AT MAY BE EATEN WITH OR WITIIOU T " TOASTING AND BUTTER. i' Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, I four ounces of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like ; a I few Jamaica peppers ; a dessert-spoonful of caraways; [ put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yest, and as I much good milk as will make the above into a light ; paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be ready. They will quickly bake on tins. RICHER BUNS. Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a pound of sugar ; melt a pound and two ounces of butter in a little warm water ; add six spoonsful of rose-water, and knead the above into a light dough with half a pint of yest; then mix five ounces of caraway-comfits in, and put some on them. M.YDEIRA BUNS. Beat eight ounces of butter to a cream, to which add two eggs long beaten. Have ready fourteen ounces of456 [Chap. xji. DOMESTIC COOKERY. flour, six ounces of lump-sugar sifted, half a nutmeg, a tea-spoonful of sifted ginger, and a large spoonful of caraway-seeds, and, after mixing, work them well into the butter; beat it half an hour; then add a large wine- glass of sherry. Bake in tin pattypans in a moderately quick oven. RUSKS. Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new milk, in which have been melted four ounces of butter; add to it a quarter of a pint of yest and three ounces of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour as will make a veri/ light paste, rather like a batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour: then add some more flour to make it a little stifler, but not stiff". Work it well, and divide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flatten them. When baked, and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Noie.—The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea; or, with caraw'ays, to eat cold. TO MAKE VEST. Thicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three spoonsful; boil half an hour, sweeten with near half a pound of brown sugar; when near cold, put into it four spoonsful of fresh yest in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off"; shake the re- mainder, and cork it up for use. Take always four spoonsful of the old to ferment the next quantity, keep- ing it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. ANOTHER WAY. Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash; when half cold add a cupful of yest, and mi.x it well.CAKES. 457 Chap, xxi.] It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to M’hat you do of beer yest. To take off the bitter of yest, put bran into a sieve, and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm •water with it. EREAD. Let flour be kept four or five weeks before it is begun to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flour into a trough or kneading-tub; mix with it between four and. five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yest; put it into the flour, and stir it well with your hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less, if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add four quarts more of warm water and half a pound of salt; work it well, and cover it with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven; and by the time it is warm enough the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each; sweep out the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread; shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer the water should be milk-warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can well bear your hand in, but not scalding, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be verv nice. The oven should be round, not long; the roof from twenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, and the door of iron to shut close. This construction will save firing and time, and bake better than long and high- roofed ovens. Rolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days old, by dipjiing them uncut into water, and baking afresh or toasting. AMERICAN FLOUR Requires almost twice as much water to make it into bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it isDOMUSTIC COOKERY. 458 [Chap. xxn. more profitable; for a stone of the American, which ■weighs fourteen pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread; but the best sort of English flour produces only eighteen pounds and a half. THE REV. MR. HAGGETT’S ECONOMICAL BREAD. Only the coarse flake bran to be removed from the flour: of this take five pounds, and boil it in rather more than four gallons of water, so that when per- fectly smooth you may have three gallons and three quarts of bran-water clear. With this knead fifty-six pounds of the flour, adding salt and yest in the same ■way and proportions as for other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves, and bake them two hours and a half. CHAPTER XXII. PUNCH, LIQUEURS, WINE, See. AN EXCELLENT METHOD OF MAKING PUNCH. Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some large lumps of double-refined sugar. Rub the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all the yellow parts of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and therefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar, and with a Ijruiser press the sugar and the juice parti- cularly ■v\'ell together, for a great deal of the richness and fine flavour of the punch depends on this rubbing and mixing process being thoroughly performed. Then mix this up very well with boiling water, (soft water is best,) till the whole is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the sherbet) is to your taste, takeChap, xxii.] PUNCH. 459 brandy and rum in equal quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole well together again. The quantity of liquor must he according to your taste: two good lemons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar : but this depends much on taste and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sher- bet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, which is improper; as when the pulp and sugar are well mLxed together it adds much to the richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften the punch; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant flavour. This receipt has never been in print before, but is greatly admired amongst the writer’s friends. It is im- possible to take too much pains in all the processes of mixing, and in minding to do them extremely well, that all the different articles may be most thoroughly incorporated together. .VERDER, OR MILK PUNCH.' Pare six oranges and si.x lemons as thin as you can, grate them after with sugar to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty-four liours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water and one of new milk boiling-hot; stir the rum into the above, and run it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Bottle, and cork close immediately. 1 NORFOLK PUNCH. In twenty quarts of French brandy put the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled; put to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar; and, when well460 [Chap. xxii. DOMESTIC COOKERY. mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of twenty-four lemons; mix ■well ; then strain through a very fine hair sieve into a very clean barrel that has held spirits, and put two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar; bottle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and is im- proved by age. ANOTHER WAY. Pare six lemons and three. Seville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea-pot, put to it two quarts of brandjq one of white wine, and one of milk, and one pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then covered for twenty-four hours: strain through a jelly-bag till clear, then bottle it. ORANGE PUNCH.—E. R. Dissolve nearly three quarters of a pound of sugar in a little water, add the juice of two lemons, and pour two quarts of boiling water iqion it for the sherbet; tlien add a glass of calf’s-foot jelly. iMix together a bottle of brandy, a bottle of rum, and one of orange-wine, add it to the sherbet, and drink it either hot or cold. If bot- tled, and kept in a cold cellar, it will keep for any time. The orange-wine imparts a very fine flavour, which may be heightened by the addition of a bottle of liqueur, curacoa, or mareschino. REGENT’S PUNCH.—E. U. Make the sherbet with green tea, capillaire, and le- mon-juice : to five ])ints of this mixture add a pint of rum, one of brandy, one of arrack, and a bottle of curac;oa, together with a small jar or shape of Guava jelly. Pour in a bottle of champagne, and send up the punch in a bowl or jug, with a pine-apple sliced into it.Cn^i'. XXII.] PUNCH. 461 GIN PUNCH.—E. R. Pour half a pint of gin on the outer peel of a lemon; add a little lemon-juice and sugar, a glass of mareschino, about a pint and a quarter of water, and two bottles of iced soda-water. EXCELLENT MILK PUNCH.—E. R. Take the rinds of thirty lemons pared very thin, steep them for three days in t^Yo quarts of rum; then pour them into a vessel, adding three quarts more of rum, three quarts of water, one of lemon-juice, four pounds of loaf-sugar, and two nutmegs grated. Dissolve the sugar in the water; mix all together, and then pour upon the ingredients two quarts of milk boiling hot. Stir it well together, and let it stand two hours; then strain it through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear, much de- pending upon clearing it well. R.VSPBERRY VINEG.iR E. R. To a quart of common vinegar put tw^o quarts of fresh raspberries, let them stand twenty-four hours; then drain them off, but do not squeeze them. Put in two quarts more, let them stand as before, and this must be repeated a third time. After which, put the vinegar into a jar, measure it, and to every pint put a pound of lump-sugar. Set the jar up to the neck in boiling water, and let the vinegar boil for ten minutes, stirring it frequently. There should on no account be fewer raspberries than the proportion mentioned, and the vinegar will not be fit for use until the following summer. N.B. The last two quarts of raspberries will make most excellent jam ; it w’dl not do to mix w’ith cream, but for all other purposes will he as good as the com- mon jam, or with an equal quantity of sugar it will make excellent raspberry-cakes, without boiling. The raspberries should be put into a china bowl, and care462 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xxii. must be taken not to use glazed or metal vessels in boiling. RUM SHRUB.—E. R. Take equal proportions of Seville orange-juice, the best Jamaica rum, and sugar, with about a pint of the orange-seeds bruised, first removing the outer husk. No water must be added to these materials. BR.YNDY SHRUB.—E. R. Put two quarts of brandy in a large bottle with the juice of five lemons and the peels of tw'o; stop it up, and let it stand three days, then add three pints of white wine, a pound and a half of loaf-sugar, and half a nut- meg; strain it through a flannel-bag, and it will be found excellent. WHITE CURRANT SHRUB. Strip the fruit, and prepare it in ajar as for jelly; strain the juice, of whicjj put two quarts to one gallon of rum, and two pounds of lump-sugar; strain through a jelly-bag. CURRANT SHRUB.—E. R. To a gallon of rum put two quarts of white curraut- juice strained, and a pound and a half of lump-sugar; stir them well together, and let them stand in a pau closely covered all night. Stir it well in the morning, strain it through a sieve, or coarse cloth, and then through a jelly-bag. Should it not be clear, put it through the elly-bag a second time, then bottle it for use. NOYEAU.—E. R. Blanch three ounces of bitter, and the same quantity of sweet almonds, and bruise them in a mortar; add them with the rind of two lemons to one quart of English gin, which must be kept in a moderate heat for463 CiiAP. XXII.] LIQUEURS. three days and nights. Shake the bottle three or four times a-day, then add fourteen ounces of loaf-sugar dis- solved in half a pint of boiling water, and let it stand one day and night longer, shaking the bottle frequently. Then strain it, and filter it afterwards in blotting-paper such as the chemists use: bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six months, but will improve by keeping for a year. The author of the receipt recommends tlie gin to be purchased of Isaac Gillett, 204 and 205, Piccadilly, who sells an excellent spirit at 18^. per gallon. NOYEAU, No. 2. To one quart of English gin put three ounces of bitter almonds, blanched and cut into pieces, and the rind of three lemons. Let it stand three days before the fire, shaking the bottle two or three times a-day. Then add one pound of good loaf-sugar, let it dissolve, shaking it frequently during the day or two which it will take ; then filter it through blotting-paper. CHERRY BR.\;<DY.—E. R. To every pound of cherries put half a pound of lump- sugar, half an ounce of bitter almonds, and four peach- leaves ; cut the stalks of the cherries, and put them with the sugar, &c., in bottles, filling the bottles with brandy. When Morello cherries are used, after three months the liquor may be poured oft', and more brandy added. RATAFIA. Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and fill nearly up with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained oft'; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peaches and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xxii. 464 SYRUP FOR LIQUEURS.—E. R Put a quart of water into a saucepan, and let it boil, then drop into it, lump by lump, one pound of loaf- sugar. When all the sugar is dissolved, let it boil again and put it into a broad dish to cool j when cool it is fit for use. CREME DE PORTUGAL.—E. R. Take eight good lemons, rough skinned, hut without spots; pare the rind very thinly, and cut it into small slips, put it into a bottle with a pint of spirits of wine, and a dozen bitter almonds blanched and bruised. Let it stand si.v days, make a syrup wdth a pound of treble- refined sugar, add it when cool: shake the whole well together. Let it stand si.x days, and then filter it through blotting-paper. This liqueur should be kept six moirths. CREME DE CACAO.—E. R. Take a pound of good Caracas cocoa, roast it as if to be used for chocolate, being careful to take out the bad grains, of which there are sometimes several, and they WDuld spoil the liqueur: pound it well and infuse it in six pints of brandy, add half an ounce of cut vanilla : let it stand for eight days, then strain it. Melt three pounds and a half of sugar in three pints of water, mix it w'ell together, and filter it. RATAFIE DES QUARTRE FRUITS.—E. R. Take thirty pounds of cherries, fifteen of gooseberries, eight of raspberries, and si.x of black currants, stone the cherries, and press the juice out of all the fruit toge- ther : to each pint of juice put six ounces of pounded sugar. When it has stood long enough to clear, bottle it off. CURACOA.—E. R. I Take a pound of the dried peel of the Seville orange, wash it in several lukewarm waters, then drain it overChap. xxii. LIQUEURS. 465 I a sieve; put it into a jar with eight pints of brandy and I two of water: let it stand for a fortnight, shaking it frequently; strain it. Melt five pounds of sugar in three i pints of water, mix it with the liquor and strain it. NECT.\R.—E. R. Take two pounds of raisins chopped, and four pounds 1 of loaf-sugar, and put them into a spigot-pot; pour two ii gallons of boiling water upon them. The next day, ■i when it is cold, slice two lemons into it. Let it stand t' five days, stirring it twice a-day. Then let it stand five u days more to clear ; bottle it, put it into a cold cellar ,(■ for ten days, and it will be fit to drink, S.\CK MEAD. To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, I and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add an ounce of hops; then boil it II half an hour, and let it stand till next day: put it into I your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a PI quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stojiped till the fer- i mentation is over, and then stop it very close. If vou H make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. LEMONADE.—E. R. Pour a quart of boiling water on the rinds of six I: lemons, and let it stand for three or four hours; add w! the juice of eight lemons with three quarters of a pound ? of sugar; simmer it well, and skim it; then add another t quart of boiling water. Either run it through a jelly- bag, or mix a glass of calf’s-foot jelly, -which will make f it very rich. NEGUS.—E. R. One bottle of wine, half a pound of sugar, and a b lemon sliced. Pour three quarts of boiling water upon p this mixture, and grate nutmeg to the taste. 2 IIDOMESTIC COOKERY. 466 [CllAl’. XXII. EXCELLENT NEGUS.—E. R. Pour two quarts of boiling water upon three ounces of pearl-barley, a quarter of a pound of sugar, and a lemon sliced. When cold, strain the liquor and add a pint of ■wine and a glass of brandy. FINE LEMON.YDE.—E. R. Take the juice of four lemons and the rinds of three pared very thin, half a pound of lump-sugar, half a pint of sherry, and one quart of boiling water. Let it stand 1 all night covered close; boil half a pint of new milk, pour it hot into the lemonade, run it through a jelly-bag . until it is quite clear. . BARLEY WATER.—E. R. One ounce of pearl barley, half an ounce of white sugar, and the rind of a lemon, put into a jug. Pour upon it a quart of boiling water and let it stand for eight or ten hours: then strain off the liquor, adding a I slice of lemon if desirable. This infusion makes a most delicious and nutritious beverage, and will be grateful to persons who cannot drink the horrid decoction usually, given. It is an admirable basis for lemonade, negus, or weak punch, a glass of rum being the proportion to a quart. BARLEY WATER WITH HONEY.—E. R. Add the juice and rind of one lemon to a table-spoon- ful of honey and two tea-cups full of barley; put it into a jug and pour a quart of boiling water upon it. BARLEY WATER WITH ISINGLASS.—E. R. A table-spoonful of pearl barlej% si.x lumps of loaf sugar, half a lemon, and enough isinglass to clear it. Pour two quarts of boiling spring water on those ingre- dients, and let it stand until cold. REMARKS ON ENGLISH WINES. '< I English wines would be found particularly useful.Chap, xxii.] WINES. 467 now foreign are so liigh priced; and thev may be made at a quarter of the e-^pense. If carefully made, and kept three or four years, a proportionable strength being given, they would answer the purpose of foreign wines for health, and cause a very considerable reduction in the expenditure. A RICH .-tNO PLEASANT WINE. Take new cider from the press, mix it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well : when cool, let it be tunned, but do not quite fill. In March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks, but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it keeps well. This will serve for any culinary purposes which sack or sweet wine is directed for. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render pala- table, new crabbed austere cider. RASPBERRY WINE. \ To every quart of well-picked raspberries put a quart of water; bruise, and let them stand two days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds of lump-sugar ; when dissolved, put the liquor in a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. ENGLISH MALMSEY OR MALT WINE.—E. R. Take thirty gallons of sweet wort, and to every gallon put a pound and a half of lump-sugar. Boil the liquor for half an hour, and when still warm tun it into a bar- rel, putting two pounds of Malaga raisins coarsely- chopped, two ounces of dissolved isinglass, and one spoonful of yest to each gallon, adding also three ounces of hops for the thirty gallons. Stir the liquor every day with a wooden staff for a fortnight or longer. Keep the bung lightly in until the fermentation ceases, ' 2 II 2468 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. [Chap. xxii. then add two gallons of brandy. Let the wine stand twelve months, when it may be racked off and bottled. It will be the better for long keeping, and will answer well for all culinary purposes. GRAPE WINE.—E. E. Take twenty pounds of grapes vei7 ripe and pidced clean, pour upon them si.v quarts of boiling water, cover tliem close, and before they are cold break the grapes with the hand. Let them stand three days, then strain them as dry as possible and stir into the liquor ten pounds of sugar. Tun it the next day and it will work itself pure. Lay the bung on it until it has done hissing. RAISIN WINE.—E. R. / To every six gallons of water put two ounces of hops and the largest stalks of the Malaga raisins, and boil it for a quarter of an hour. Strain it, and when nearly cold pour it on the fruit, allowing six pounds and a half, of which one-fifth should be Smyrna raisins, to every gallon of water. Let it stand for six weeks, stirring it every day ; press the fruit, and then put the liquor into the cask; rack it in six weeks, or as soon as it is fine, and to every six gallons add a bottle of the best French brandy. EXCELLENT RAISIN WINE. To every gallon of spring water put eight pounds of fresh Smyrnas in a large tub; stir it thoroughly every day for a month; then press the raisins in a horse-liair bag as dry as possible; put the liquor into a cask ; and, when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy; stop it close for twelve months; then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them througli a bag of flannel of three or four folds; add the clear to the quan- tity, and pour one or two quarts of brandy, according to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of three years you may either bottle it or drink it from the cask.WINES. 469 Chap, xxii.] Riiisiii wine would be extremely good if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. R.\ISIN WINE WITH CIDER. Put two hundredweight of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cider that is not rough ; stir it well two or three days ; stop it, and let it stand six months : then rack into a cask that it w’ill fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy, c If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle off one year’s wine just in time to make the next, which, allow’ing the six months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen months old. In cider counties this way is very econo- mical; and, even if not thought strong enough, the ad- dition of another quarter of a hundred of raisins would be sufficient, and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed througli a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit hy distilla- tion, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if for that purpose they must be very little pressed) ; or they will make excellent vinegar. The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vinegar that is making, being very acid. R.A.ISIN WINE WITHOUT CIDER. On four hundredweight ofMalagas pour one hogshead of spring water, stir w'ell daily for fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and tun the liquor; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six months rack it off" into another cask, or into a barrel, with toast and yest to work, which there is more difficulty to make it do than most other liquors. When it ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bottle in the spring or at Christmas. The liquor must be in a w'arm place to make it work.470 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xxii CURR.\NT ■WINE.—E. R. To each gallon of juice put t-wo of water and three pounds and a half of moist sugar. When it has been m the cask about a fortnight, put a bottle of brandy to every four gallons of wine, and, when it has quite done hissing, bung it down close. RASPBERRY WINE.'' To every quart of well-picked raspberries put a quart of water ; bruise, and let them stand two days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds of lump-sugar ; when dissolved, put the liquor in a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a spoonful of brandy or a glass of wine. RASPBERRY OR CURRANT WINE. To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality of Lisbon. If for white currants use lump-sugar. It is best to put the fruit, &c., in a large pan ; and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel. Those who make from their own gardens may not have sufficiency to fill the barrel at once ; the wine will not be hurt if made in the pan, in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. ANOTHER WAY. Put five quarts of currants and a pint of raspberries to every tw’o gallons of water; let them soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve till all the juice is obtained, washing the skins again with some of the water; then to every gallon put four pounds of very good LisbonWINES. 471 Chap, xxii.] sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated ; tun it immediately and lay the hung lightly on. Do not use anything to work it. In two or three days put a bottle of brandy to every four gallons ; bung it close, hut leave the peg out at top a few days; keep it three years, and it will be a very fine agreeable wine ; four years would make it still better. BLACK CURRANT WINE, VERY FINE. To every three quarts of juice put the same of Avater unboiled; and to every three quarts of the liquor add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put it into a cask, reserving a little for filling up. Put the cask in a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. Skim off the reftise Avhen the fermentation shall be over, and fill up with the reserved liquor. When it has ceased working, pour three quarts of brandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly-bag until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. ANOTHER EXCELLENT BLACK CURRANT WINE.—E. R. Bruise twenty-eight pounds of currants, and pour upon them two gallons of Avater; let them remain twenty-four hours, then strain off the liquor, adding fourteen pounds of pure moist or loaf sugar; put the Avhole into a clean cask. In the folloAving spring rack the liquor, and run the grounds through a jelly-bag, then put it into a clean cask, and add a bottle of brandy. The above proportions will make five gallons of Avine, and this receipt comes very highly recommended. WHITE CURRANT AVINE.—E. R. For ten gallons of wine take thirty pounds of sugar and forty-six full gallons of currants. Break the sugar in lumps, and put it into a large pan, squeeze the cur- rants through a sieve upon the sugar, and then put them into a vessel with Avater enough to make up the ten gallons, Avhich must be run through the sieve in472 CHAI'. xxif. DOMESTIC COOKERY. ovdei- to extract all the goodness from the fruit. Fill up the cask, and, as it works, keep filling up with water for two months ; then put in about a pint of brand}', and stop it up close. Fine it often with a little white sugar. Boil the water the night before the wine is to be made. Some persons have found moist sugar to answer for this receipt. Obs. Those who are abundantly supplied with fruit would do well to try what can be made with pure juice unmixed with water, and only using sufficient sugar to supply the want of the saccharine portion which ottr acid fruits recpnre. This has answered upon a smalU scale, in an experiment made by very young people^ who manufactured excellent wine in a jar with the juice of several kinds of fruit. In the following receipt for Pearl Gooseberry-wine, which is vouched for by the party who contributed it, the juice of the fruit is kept pure and unadulterated, PEAUL COOSEUEUlrY winE.=e. ff. Take any quantity of the best pearl gooseberries, bruise them, and let them stand all night. The next morning press or squeeze them dry, allow the liquor to stand to settle for seven or eight hours, then pour off the clear juice from the sediment, measure it as it is put into another vessel, and add to every three pints of liquor a pound of double-refined sugar. Break the sugar into lumps, and put it into the vessel with a piece of isinglass. Stir it up, and at the end of three months bottle it, putting a lump of double-refined sugar into every bottle. GOOSEbElUlY WINE.—E. R. To every three pounds of gooseberries, imt a pint of spring water unboiled, having first bruised the fruit with the hands in a tub. Stir them very w’ell ; let them stand a w'hole day; then strain them oil, and to every three pounds of gooseberries add a pint of water and a pound of sugar dissolved. Let it stand tw'enty-WINES. Chap, xxii.] 473 four hours longer, then skim the head clean off, and put the liquor into a vessel, and the scum into a flannel hag, adding the liquor that drains from it to that in the vessel. Let it work two or three days before stopping it up close, and allow it to stand four months before it is bottled. When it is drawn out of the cask it should not be tapped too low. PINK CHAMPAGNE.—E. R. Boil nine pounds of lump-sugar in three gallons of water for half an hour, skim it well, and pour the liquor boiling hot over a gallon of red and white currants picked, but not bruised. When nearly cold, put in a small tea-cupful of yest. Keep it working for two days, then strain it througli a horse-hair sieve, put it into a small cask with half an ounce of isinglass well bruised. Have rather more liquor than wdll fill the cask, to fill it up as it works over. In about a fortnight bung it up. Let it stand till April; put into each bottle a lump of double- refined sugar. Let the bottles remain one day uncorked.. Cork and wire them. They must stand upright in the cellar; Avhen wanted, put a few on their sides for about a week. ENGLISH CHAMPAGNE.—E. R, Take of the amber hairy Campagne gooseberry, when it is just turning, an equal quantity of fruit and cold spring water, and bruise the gooseberries well in it. Let the mbxture stand for two or three days to ferment, and stir it frequently with a wooden spoon, taking care to place the vessel in a warm situation. Then pass the liquor through a hair sieve, squeezing the pulp until it is quite dry. For every gallon of the liquor put three pounds and a half of the coarsest East India sugar,, which must be placed in another vessel, and the acid liquor poured upon it. Allow it to stand two or three days in order that the fermentation may be properly effected, stirring it very frequently : then pass it through a flannel bag into the cask, and to every ten gallons ofDOMESTIC OOOKEUY. 474 [Chap. xxii. the liquor put one ounce of isinglass, one bottle of Madeira wine, and one bottle of rum ; the two latter added after the cask has remained open for a month. A cask which has held brandy is to be preferred. Put in the bung after the expiration of the month ; lay a piece of coarse cloth over it, and cover the whole with a thick coat of resin. Let it stand twelve months, and then bottle it. Ohs. A sample of this wine w'as sent to the Horti- cultural Society of Edinburgh, and exhibited amongst seventy different sorts, and, being pronounced the best, the honour of the gold medal was awarded to it; but on understanding that the fruit was of English growth, it was considered as a foreign w’ine, and therefore not entitled to the prize. Honourable mention was, how- ever, made concerning it in the Report of the Transac- tions of the Society. GREEN GOOSEBERRY WINE.—E. R. Take thirty-two quarts of unripe gooseberries of the green kind, bruise them well, add thirty-two quarts of cold water; let them stand for four-and-twenty hours. Drain the gooseberries w'cll from the liquor through a sieve. Put three pounds and a half of lump-sugar to every gallon of liquor; put it into a cask with a bottle of the best gin. Let it stand six months, and then bottle it. Ohs. This is a receipt from a nobleman’s butler, who used to boast that he never opened more than one bottle of Champagne, at his master’s table, all that followed being of his owm manufacture. The directions are not quite so precise as those in the foregoing, but the cheapness of gin will admit of a bottle being allowed to each ten gallons. GRAVE CHAMV.VGNE TO EQUAE EOREIGN.—E. R. Gather the grapes when they are just turning, or about half-ripe. Pound them in a tub, and to every quart of fruit thus pounded put two quarts of water.■WINES. 415 Chap, xxii.] Let it stand in a mash-tub for fourteen days; then draw it off, and to every gallon of liquor add three pounds of lump-sugar. When the sugar is dissolved cask it, and after it has done working bung it down. In about six months it will be fit to drink, when it should be bottled, and the corks tied down or wired, should it be kept longer than a year. ENGLISH FRONTINIAC.—E. R. Boil eighteen pounds of white sugar in six gallons of water with two whites of eggs well beaten. Skim it and put in a quarter of a peck of elder-flowers; do not keep them on the fire : when nearly cold, stir it, and add six spoonsful of lemon-juice and four or five of yest; beat the whole well into the liquor. Stir it every day, put six pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle it at the end of six months. This wine requires keeping, and it will then pass for Frontiniac. WHITE ELDER WINE, VERY MUCTI LIKE FRONTINIAC. Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of water, and two whites of eggs well beaten; then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder- flow'ers from the tree that bears white berries; do not keep them on the fire. When near cold, stir it, and put in six spoonsful of lemon-juice, four or five of yest, and beat well into the liquor; stir it, every day; put six pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close, and bottle in six months. When well kept, this wine will pass for Frontiniac. CLARY WINE Boil fifteen gallons of water with forty-five pounds of sugar; skim it: when cool, put a little to a quarter of a pint of yest, and so by degrees add a little more. In an hour pour the small quantity to the large, pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry ; the quantityDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xxii. 416 for the above is twelve quarts. Those who gatlier from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them, keeping ac- count of each quart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months. Rack it off, empty the barrel of the dregs, and, adding a gallon of the best brandy, stop it up, and let it stand six or eight weeks, then bottle it. EXCELLENT COWSLIP WINE. To every gallon of water weigh three pounds of lump- sugar, boil the quantity half an hour, taking oft’ the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yest, let the liquor ferment in a tub thirty-six hours; then into the cask put for every gallon the peel of two and rind of one lemon, and both of one Seville orange, and one gallon of cowslip-pips, then pour on them the liquor. It must be carfuliy stirred every day for a week; then to every five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the cask be close stopped, and stand only six weeks before you bottle oil'. Observe to use the best corks. GINGER WINE.—E. R. Peel three large lemons very thin, and put them with two ounces of the best white ginger bruised. Mix two pounds of loaf-sugar with a gallon of water on the fire and boil until the scum rises ; take this clearly off; then add the lemon-peel and ginger, let them boil half an hour, then put the whole into a tub, allow it to cool, and, when rather more than milk-warm, add the juice of the lemons, and half a pound of raisins well chopped. Then put the liquor into a cask and stir in about three table-spoonsful of good yest. Fill up the cask once a- day for six days. Then put in about the fifth part of a bottle of brandy to each gallon, or half an ounce of isinglass as the proportion to five gallons. Reserve a pint of wme to fill up w’ith wdiile working.477 WINES. Chap, xxn.] ANOTHER. I . . \\ Boil nine quarts of water with six pounds of luinp- {|l sugar, the rinds of two or tliree lemons very thinly pared, with two ounces of bruised white ginger, half an hour; skim. Put three-quarters of a pound of raisins into the cask : when the liquor is lukewarm, tun it with I the juice of two lemons strained, and a spoonful and a half of yest. Stir it daily, then put in half a pint of brandy, and lialf an ounce, of isinglass-shavings: stop it up, and bottle it in six or seven weeks. Do not put the lemon-peel in the barrel. GINGER WINE AT LEIGH.—E. R. Boil twenty-four ounces of ginger for an hour in sufficient water to cover it, take thirty-six good lemons, pare them very thin, and pour the boiling ginger iqion the peel. Let it stand a day or two, then squeeze the I lemons ; strain the juice, and put it into the cask, adding forty pounds of fine raw sugar and fourteen pounds of Malaga raisins chopped; slice the ginger and put it into the cask with the liquor it was boiled in. Fill up the cask with cold spring water, stir it frequently, and in one month put in two bottles of brandy, and stop it fi down. These proportions are for twenty gallons of fwine. GINGER BEER.—E. R. Slice four lemons and crush two ounces of ginger, I add to them a pound and a half of lump-sugar and two 1 ounces of cream of tartar, or the same amount of lemon- j juice. Pour on it two gallons of boiling-water, and, !when nearly cold, add a table-spoonful of barm. Bottle it the next morning, and lie down the corks. It will he fit to drink in two days. ^ N.B. It will be improved by straining the liquor ^ through a sieve previous to bottling. , ELDER WINE.—E. It. Pour'four quarts of water upon e'ght quarts of berries, It and let it stand a day or two ; then boil it for about an478 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xxiii. hour, strain it, and put three pounds of moist sugar to every gallon of wine; then add an ounce of cloves and two ounces of ginger, boil it again, and work it with a toast dipped in yest. ELDER-FLOWER WINE.—E. R. J Take twelve pounds of loaf-sugar and six pounds of the best raisins, cut small, and boil them in six gallons of water for one hour. Then take half a peck of elder- flowers, when ready to shake ; put them into the liquor when it is nearly cold, with four table-spoonsful of fresh yest and six of lemon-juice. Let it work for two days in the tub, then strain it, put it into the barrel, bung it up closely for two months, and then bottle it. CHAPTER XXIII. DAIRY AND POULTRY. D.YIRY. The servants of each county are generally acquainted with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese of that county, but the following hints may not be un- acceptable, to give information to the mistress. ON THE M.YNAGEMENT OF COWS, &c. Cows should be carefully treated ; if their teats are sore, they should be soaked in warm w'ater twice a-day; and either be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirits and water. If the former, great cleanliness is necessary. The milk, at these times, should be given to the pigs. When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained and emptied into clean pans immediately in winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is pre- ferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thoroughly scalded.Chap, xxiii.] DAIRY. 479 The greatest possible attention must be paid to clean- liness in a dairy; all the utensils, shelves, dressers, and the floor, should be kept with the most perfect neatness, and cold water thrown over every part very often. There should he shutters to keep out the sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. The cows should be milked at a regular and early hour, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will de- crease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes, as the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pas- ture, the length of time from calving, the having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds in, &c. A change of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particularly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemen’s dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty of the cows than to their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese, the cows should calve from Lady- day to May, that the large quantity of milk may come into use about the same time; but in gentlemen’s fami- lies one or two should calve in August or September, for a supply in winter. In good pastures the average produce of a dairy is about three gallons a day each cow from Lady-day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas one gallon a day. Cows will be profitable milkers to fourteen or fifteen years of age, if of a proper breed. When a calf is to he reared, it should be taken from the cow in a week at furthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morn- ing, and keep it without food till the next morning ; and then, being hungry, it will drink without difficulty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should he given twice a-day in such quantity as is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At first let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning.[Chap, txiii. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 4S0 When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the opportunity to provide for the winter-store : she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot wdll hold should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated the poultry reared and the weekly consumption. OBSERVATIONS RESPECTING CHEESE. This well-known article differs according to the pas- ture iu which the cows feed. Various modes of prepar- ing may effect a great deal ; and it will be bad or good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands, or the contrary; but much will still depend on the former circumstance. The same land rarely makes very fine butter and re- markably fine cheese ; yet due care may give one pretty good, where the other excels in quality. When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of method may amend the inferior. There is usually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of dairy-people to make them give up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the eye of the superior. A gentleman has been at the expense of pro- curing cattle from every county noted for good cheese, and it is affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wiltshire, Chedder, and many other sorts, are so excellent as not to discredit their names. As the cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause of the difference in flavour; besides, there is much in the size and manner of keeping. Cheese made on the same ground, of new, skimmed, or mixed milk, will differ greatly, not in richness only, but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a gentle- man’s family should consider iu which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheese of value may be made from a tolerable pasture.CHAr. XXIII.] DAIRY. 4S1 by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and propor- tioning the thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having a wide and flat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quality from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and when the cows are in full feed, will be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family use will be very well produced by two meals of skim, and one of new milk; or. in good land, by the skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down, for winter use, but not to interfere with the cheese, as above, which will not take much time. TO PREPARE RENNET TO TURN THE MILK. Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handsful of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted; or keep it in the salt Avet, and soak a bit, which Avill do over and over by fresh water. ANOTHER WAV. Clean the maAv as above; next day take two quarts of fresh spring Avatcr, and put into it a handful of haw- thorn-tops, a handful of sweet-brier, a handful of rose- leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted marjoram, and two large spoons- ful of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of Avater; strain it off; and, when only milk-Avarm, pour it on the veil (that is the maAv). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand tAvo days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little Avill do for turning. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it Avill482 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chai-. ixni. be nearly as strong as ever. Do not keep it in a hot place when dry. TO M.YKE CHEESE. Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new; if too hot, the cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as will turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till completely turned ; then strike the curd down several times with the skimming-dish, and let it separate, still covering it. There are two modes of breaking the curd; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either is observed; one is, to gather it with the hands very gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey ' pass through the fingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer; press the curd close with your hand, and add moi'e as it sinks; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom; and, when full, drawn smooth over on all sides. There are two modes of salting cheese ; one by mixing it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out; and the other by putting it in the vat, and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first squeezing Avith the hands has dried it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not on all, and therefore the custom of the country must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the jiress; in two hours turn it out, and put a fresh cheese-cloth ; press it again for eight or nine hours ; then salt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it stand in the press fourteen or |i sixteen hours, observing to put the cheese last made || undermost. Before putting them the lust time into the I vat, pare the edges if they do not look smooth. The vat ! should have holes at the sides and at bottom to let all !DAIRY. Chap, xxm.] 483 the whey pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald them. TO PRESERVE CHEESE SOUND. Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it once a-month, and keep it on a rack. If you want to ripen it, a damp cellar will bring it forward. When a whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity should be spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped, to preserve it. To keep those in daily use moist, let a clean cloth be wrung out from cold water, and wTap round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to advan- tage to grate for serving with macaroni or eating with- out. These observations are made with a view to make the above articles less expensive, as in most families where much is used there is waste. TO MAKE SAGE CHEESE. Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above the vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. CREAM CHEESE.: Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the milk, into a pan, with two spoonsful of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it down two or three times with the skimming-dish just to break it. Let it stand tw'o hours, then spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve, put the curd on it, and let the whey drain; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with a two- pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry from one board to another ; cover them witli nettles or clean dock-leaves, and put between two pewter plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it will be ready in three Aveeks, 2 I 2DOMESTIC COOKERY. 484 [Chap, xiirt. ANOTHER. Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five quarts of new milk into a pan, and five pints of cold water, and five of hot; when of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twenty minutes, likewise a bit of sugar. When come, strike tlie skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on the curd. In an hour or two lade it into the vat without touching it; put a two- ])oimd M eight on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. ANOTHER SORT. Put as much salt to three pints of raw cream as shall season it; stir it well, and pour into a sieve in which you have folded a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter plate. RUSH CREAM CHEESE. To a quart of fresh cream put a pint of new milk warm enoug’h to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit of sugar, and a little rennet. Set near the fire till the curd comes ; fill a vat made in the form of a brick, of wheat-straw or rushes sewed together. Have ready a square of straw or mshes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it; the vat being open at top and bottom. Next day take it out, and change it as above to ripen. A- half-pound Aveight will be sufficient to put on it. ANOTHER WAY. Take a pint of very thick sour cream from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a napkin on two plates, and pour half into each ; let them stand twelve hours, then put them on a fresh Avet napkin in one plate, and cover Avith the same; this do every tAvelve hours until you find the cheese begins to look dry, then ripen it Avith nut-leaves; it Avill be ready in ten days.485 Chap, xxiii.] BAIRY. Fresh nettles, or two pewter plates, will ripen cream- cheese very ^\ell. OBSERVATIONS RESPECTING BUT'l'ER. There is no one article of family consumption more in use, of greater variety in goodness, of more conse- quence to have of a superior quality, and the economizing of which is more necessary, than this. The sweetness of butter is not affected by the cream being turned of Avhich it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cabbages, the taste is very disagreeable, and the follow- ing ways have been tried with advantage to obviate it;— When the milk is strained into the pans, ])ut to every six gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre in a pint of spring water, and put a quarter of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or, when you churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of the sour cream, and put it into a well-scalded pot, into which you are to gather the next cream ; stir that well, and do so with every fresh addition, TO MAKE BUTTER. During summer, skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy; at that season it should stand for butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty- eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot churn daily, change it into scalded fresh pots ; but never omit churning twice a-week. If possible, put the churn in a thorough air ; and, if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, Avhich will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter- milk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pan, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness before you work it ; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of the buttermilk remain, and that the water, which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then486 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Ch.^p. xxm., ■work some salt into it, ■w'eiglr, and make it into forms; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and cover, of the queen’s ware. You will then have verj- nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather; but it neither should be left with a particle of buttermilk, or a sour, taste, as is sometimes done. > TO PRESERVE BUTTER. \ Take two parts of the best common salt, one part' good loaf sugar, and one part saltpetre; beat them well > together. To sixteen ounces of butter thoroughly cleansed > from the milk put one ounce of this composition; work it well, and pot down when become firm and cold. ! The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, i and should not be used under a month. This article- should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that will hold from ten to fourteen: pounds each. TO PREPARE BUTTER FOR WINTER, THE BEST WAV. When the butter has been prepared as above directed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended; well together. Of this composition put one ounce to si,xteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is become cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt; and when that is turned to brine, if not enough to cover the butter en-, tirely, add some strong salt and water. It requires only, then to be covered from the dust. TO MANAGE CREAM FOR WHEY BUTTER.' Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till you have enough; then boil it, and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till no. more comes ; then churn it. W'here new-milk cheese is.487 DAIRY. CuAP. XXIII.]. made daily, whey-butter for common and present use may be made to advantage. TO SCALD CREAM, .\S IN THE WF.ST OF ENGLAND. In winter let the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the summer twelve at least: then put the milk pan on a hot hearth, if you have one ; if not, set it in a wide brass kettle of w'ater large enough to receive the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no account boil, or there will be a skim instead of cream upon the milk. You will know when done enough, by the undu- lations on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan and the heat of the fire; the slower the better. Remove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold w'eather it may stand thirty-six hours, and never less than two meals. The butter is usually made in Devonshire of cream thus prepared, and, if properly, it is very firm. BUTTERMILK, If made of sw'eet cream, is a delicious and most whole- some food. Those who can relish sour buttermilk find it still more light; and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. Buttermilk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar and mixed with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice-puddings, and of course it is economi- cal to churn before the cream is too stale for anything but to feed pigs. TO KEEP MILK AND CREAM. In hot weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen dish or pan that it is done in. This method is pursued488 [Chap, xxiii. DOMKSTIC COOKERY. in Devonshire ; and, for butter and eating, would equally answer in small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours if scalded without sugar; and, by adding to it as much powered lump-sugar as shall make it pretty sweet, will be good two days, keeping it in a cool place. SYRUP OF CREAM May be preserved, as above, in the proportion of a pound and a quarter of sugar to a pint of perfectly fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place for two or three hours; then put it into one or two ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several w^eeks, and Avill be found very useful in voyages. GALLING CURDS AND W IIEY, .AS IN' IT.ALY. Take a number of the roush coats that line the giz- zards of turkeys and fowls; clean them from the pebbles ' they contain ; rub them w'ell wdth salt, and hang them to dry. This makes a more tender and delicate curd than common rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water; in. eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. TO CHOOSE bUTTER AT MARKET. Put a knife into the butter, if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is anything rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at diflerent times, the layers in casks will vary greatly ; and you will not easily come at the goodness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through : if sour in smell, it has not been suflicicntly washed; if veiny and open, it is probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort.POULTRY-YARD. Chap, xxiii.] 489 POULTRY-YARD. M.VNAGEMENT OF FOWLS. In order to have fine fowls, it is necessary to choose a good breed, and have proper care taken of them. The Dartford sort is thought highly of; and it is desirable to have a fine large kind, hut jieople differ in their opinion of which is best. The black are very juicy, but do not answer so well for boiling, as their legs partake of their colour. They should be fed as nearly as possible at the same hour and place. Potatoes boiled unskimmed, in a little water, and then cut, and either Avet with skimmed milk or not, form one of the best foods. Turkeys and fowls thrive amazingly on them. The milk must not be sour. The best age for setting a hen is from two to five years ; and you should remark which hens make the bast breeders, and keep those to laying who are giddy and careless of their young. In justice to the animal creation, however, it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is necessary. Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these Avill be proper for sitting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from vermin, the eggs Avill be sucked and the fowls destroyed. Those hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers on their heads ; those that croAV are not looked upon as profitable. Some fine young fowls should be reared every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders ; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and care- less nurses, you Avill have a chance of a good stock. Let the hens lay some time before you set them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes Avith oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the sum-490 [Chap, xxiii. DOMESTIC COOKERY. mer, but those that come out very late require much care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any other sort are put under a hen with some of her own, observe to add her own as many days after the others as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to put her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be pro- ductive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and high ; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will in- crease greatly. But hens must not. be disturbed while sitting; for, if frightened, they sometimes forsake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plenti- fully about their houses : boil some of the former, and sprinkle it about the floor, which should be of smooth earth, not paved. The windows of the house should be open to the rising sun ; and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go in; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowds are gone to roost, which would prevent the small beasts of prey from committing ravages; and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies^ When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a basket, of wool till the others come forth. The day after they are hatched give them some crumbs of white bread, and small (or rather cracked) grits soaked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength, feed them with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour; and give them clean water twice a-day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to fol- low her about, which will be in two or three weeks ; and be sure to feed her w’ell. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which oftens it, and then passes into the gizzard, which by491 Chap, xxiii.] POULTRY-YARD. constant friction macerates it, and this is facilitated by small stones, which are generally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her he well washed with a decoction of white lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or taking filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue is the symptom. Pull the scale oft’ with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt, and the complaint will he removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the farm or stable so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being pur- loined, which nobody but one in his situation can pre- vent; and sixpence or eightpence a score will be buying eggs cheap. TO FATTEN FOWLS OR CHICKENS IN FOUR OR FIVE D.YYS. Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out; you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, but it will do well without. Feed them three times a day in common pans; give them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sourness may be conveyed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink; but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the fiesh will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives; and when it is considered how far a pound of rice will go, and how much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. TO CHOOSE EGGS AT MARKET, AND PRESERVE THEM. Put the large end of the egg to your tongue ; if it feels warm it is new. In new-laid eggs there is a small divi-[Chap, xxiii. 492 DOMESTIC COOKERY. sion of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On looking through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, eggs will be pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggs may he bought cheapest wdien the hens first begin to lay in the spring, before they sit; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may be preserved fresh by dipping them in boiling water and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shell; either of whicli ways is to prevent tlie air passing through it; or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day; or close-packed in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. FE.A.THERS. In towns, poultry being usually sold ready-picked, the feathers, wdiich may occasionally come in small quanti- ties, are neglected; but orders should be given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dry kitchen to season; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or they will occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they will be fit to add to beds or to make pillows, without the usual mode of drjdng them in a cool oven, which may be pursued if they are wanted before five or six months. DUCKS Generally begin to lay in the month of February. Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they seem inclined to sit; then leave them, and see that there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food at the time they come out to seek it; and there should be water placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs are enough : in an early season it is best to set them under a hen; and then they can be kept fromPOULTRY-YAUn. 493 Chap, xxiii.] water till they have a little strength to bear it, which in very cold weather they cannot do so well. They should be put under cover, especially in a wet season ; for, though water is the natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with fea- thers to defend them. Ducks should be accustomed to feed and rest at one place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the water to lay in ard advantageous ; and these might be small wooden houses, with a parti- tion in the middle and a door at each end. They eat anything ; and, when to be fattened, must have plenty, however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. GEESE Require little expense, as they chiefly support themselves on commons or in lanes, where they can get water. The largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and. gray. The pied and dark-coloured are not so good. Thirty days are generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Give them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats; and, as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley- meal, bran, curds,’&c. For green geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them as above. Stubble geese require no fattening if they have the run of good fields. TURKEYS Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched put three peppercorns down their throats. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen it so care- less that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Tur- keys are violent eaters; and must therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a-day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days ; and the young ones must be kept warm, as the least cold[Chap. xxm. DOMESTIC COOKERY. 494 or damp kills them. They must be fed often, and at a distance from the hen, who will eat everything from them. They should have curds, green cheese parings cut small, and bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it; and their drink milk and water, but not left to he sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should he kept in a safe place, where none can come: weasels, stoats, ferrets, &c., creep in at very small crevices. Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enough to put under a turkey; and, when she is about to lay, lock her up till she has laid every morning. They usually begin to lay in March and sit in April. Feed them near the hen-house; and give them a little meat in the evening, to accustom them to roosting there. Fatten them with sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight; and the last fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire twice a-day. The flesh will be beau- tifully white and fine flavoured. The common way is to cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unne- cessary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes them poor. PEA FOWL. Feed them as you do turkeys. They are so shy that they are seldom found for some days after hatching; and it is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people do, in the idea of bringing them home : for it only causes the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, and by hurrying she treads upon them. Tlie cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow on the centre of the head with his bill; and he does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. Nature therefore impels the hen to keep theiu out of his way till the feathers rise.Chap, sxiii.] POULTRY-YARD. 495 GUINEA HENS I Lay a great number of eggs ; and, if you can discover (f the nest, it is best to put them under common hens, i which are better nurses. They require great warmth, I quiet, and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk, or I bread soaked in it. Put two peppecrorns down their flr throat when first hatched. I PIGEONS t Bring two young ones at a time, and breed every month, if w'ell looked after and plentifully fed. They $1 should be kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove- cote be strewed with sand once a-month at least. Tares and white peas are their proper food. They should have plenty of fresh water in their house. Starlings and other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin are likewise their great enemies, and destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame pigeons of the common kind, and of their own colour, among them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock-birds ; for they arc quarrelsome, and will soon thin the dove-cote. Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them in health. Lay a large heap of clay near the house, and let the salt-brine that may be done with in the family be poured upon it. Bay-salt and cummin-seeds mixed are a universal re- medy for the diseases of pigeons. The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby ; in which case, take a quarter of a pound of bay-salt and as much common salt, a pound K of fennel-seed, a pound of dill-seed, as much cummin- iseed, and an ounce of assafoetida; mix all with a little wheaten flour, and some fine worked clay : when all are well beaten together, ]>ut it into two earthen pots, and II bake them in the oven. When cold, put them on the fi table in the dove-cote j the pigeons will eat it, and thus I be cured.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 496 [CUAP. XXIV. RABBITS. The wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one brings forth every month, and must be allowed to go with the buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, sow-thistles, parsley, carrot-tops, cab- bage-leaves, and bran, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, their stench will destroy themselves, and be very unwholesome to all who live near them; but attention will prevent this incon- venience. CHAPTER XXIV. COOKERY FOR THE SICK AND FOR THE POOR. SICK COOKERY. GENERAL REMARKS. The following pages will contain cookery for the sick; it being of more consequence to support those wdiose bad appetite will not allow them to take the necessary nourishment than to stimulate that of persons in health. It may not be unnecessary to advise that a choice be made of the things most likely to agree with the patient; that a change be provided; that some one at least be always ready; that not too much of those be made at once which are not likely to keep, as invalids require variety ; and that they should succeed each other in dif- ferent forms and flavours. A CLl^AR BROTH THAT WILL KEEV LONG. Put the mouse-round of beef, a knuckle-bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover497 CitAP. XXIV.] BROTHS. dose with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the heef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover it. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When to he used, give what flavour may be approved. A QUICIC-MADE BROTH. Talce a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce- pan that has a cover, with three-quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten and cut in thin bits; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick ; skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. A VERY SUPTORTING BUOTH AGAINST ANY KIND OF WEAKNESS. Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in tw’o quarts of water, to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herbs or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. A VERY NOURISHING VEAL BROTH. Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank-bones of mutton extremely well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten peppercorns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water, into a stewpot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up and been skimmed; or bake it; strain, and take oft' tlie fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. BEEF TEA TO DRINK COLD.—E. R. Take a pound of lean beef, clear it from every particle of skin, fat, or sinew, rasp or divide it into very small pieces ; then put it into a jar, and pour a quart of boiling water upon it; plunge the jar into a kettle of hoiling water, let it stand by the side of the fire, but not near 2 K49S DOMESTIC COOKEKY. [Chap. xxiv. enough to simmer, and allow it to grow cold. Then strain the beef-tea through a muslin sieve, and, if the patient be very delicate, filter it through blotting-paper. This tea is to be taken when cold, and will remain upon the stomach when other nourishment fails ; it may be given to infants.. BEEF tEA. Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer with a. quart of water twenty minutes after it has once boiled and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only salt. DR. RATCLIFF’S RESTORATIVE PORK JELLY. Take a leg of w’ell-fed pork, just as cut up; beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce of mace and the same of nutmegs stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off the fat. Give a chocolate-cup the first and last thing and at noon, putting salt to taste. SHANK JELLY. Soak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a saucepan with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown by toasting. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close covered ; let them simmer as gentW as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a. cold place. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if ap- proved, for flavour. It is a remarkably good thing for people who are weak.499 ChAF. XXIV.] BROTHS. * BROTH OF BBEF, MUTTON, AND VEAL. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten peppercorns, into a nice tin saucepan, with five quarts of water; simmer to three quarts, and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion, if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats are more sup- porting, as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off when cold as clean as possible: and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap paper on the broth wlien in the basin, and it will take up every particle. CALF’S-FEET BROTH. Boil two feet in three quarts of water, to half; strain and set it by; when to be used, take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it up till it be ready to boil; then take a little of it and, beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and,- adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but do not let it boil. Grate a piece of fresh lemon-peel into it. ANOTHER. Boil two calf’s feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three M quarts of water, to three jiints ; strain, and take oft’ the fat. CHICKEN BROTH. Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken panada was made of, as in page 502, after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it wus boiled in, with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper- corns. Simmer till the brotli be of a ])leasant flavour. If not water enough, add a little Beat a quarter of an 2 K 2DOMESTIC COOKEllY. 200 [Cbap. xx:v. ounce of sweet almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, line, boil it in the broth, strain, and, w'hen cold, remove the fat. EEL BROTH. Clean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few peppercorns; let them simmer till the eels are broken, and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it of!'. The above should make three half-pints of broth. .VIUIOW-ROOT JELLY. Of this beware of having the wrong sort, for it has . lieen counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine, it is very nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a saucepan half a pint of water, a glass of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar; boil up once, then mi,K it by degrees into a dessert- spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth with two spoonsful of cold water; then return the w'hole into the saucepan; stir and boil it three minutes. T.VPIOCA JELLY. Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wash it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same until it become quite clear; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thiekens very- much. GLOUCESTER JELLY. Take rice, sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn shavings, and eringo-root, each an ounce ; simmer with three pints of Avater to one, and strain it. When cold it will be a jelly; of which give, dissolved in w'ine, milk, or broth, in change with other nourishment. 1L\N.VD.\, M.\DE IN FIVE .MINUTES. Set a little water on the fire w ith a glass of white Avinc, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon-Chap, xxiv.] JELLIES. .501 peel: mean-while grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the 'crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. AVhen of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. ANOTHER. Make as above, but, instead of a glass of wine, put in a tea-spoonful of rum and a bit of butter; sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess. ANOTHER. Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel, mix the crumbs in, and, when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients, for, if any be added after, the panada will break, and not jelly. BREAD JELLY.—E. R. Take a penny roll, pare off the crust, and cut the crumb into thin slices; toast them on both sides of a light pale brown. Put them into a quart of spring water, let it simmer gently over the fire until the liquid becomes a jelly, strain it through a thin cloth, and flavour it with a little lemon-juice and sugar, added when hot. If wine be permitted, it is an improvement. This jelly is of so strengthening a nature, that one tea- spoonful affords more nourishment than a tea-cup of any other. It may be prepared without the lemon-juice and sugar, and a tea-spoonful put into every liquid the patient takes; such as tea, coffee, broth, &c. A RESTORATIVE JELLY.—E. R. Take one ounce of rice, the same quantity of sago, pearl-barley, hartshorn-shavings, and eringo-root, put them into three pints of water, and let it simmer till re- duced to one pint ; then strain it off, and, when cold, put in a little wine or milk.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xxiv. 502 FARINACEOUS JELLY.—E. R. Tapioca, whole rice, pearl-barley, and sago, of each two ounces; boil them in two quarts of water over a slow fire, stir while boiling, strain it through a sieve, and flavour it with sugar, lemon, or orange-juice. CHICKEN PANADA. Boil a chicken till about three parts ready in a quart of water; take off the skin,, cut the white meat off when cold, and put into a marble mortar : pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon- peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to the consistency you like : it should be such as you can drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys great nourishment in small compass. SIPPETS, WHEN THE STOM.ACH WILL NOT RECEIVE MEAT. On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of bread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, with which no butter has been mixed. Sprinkle a little salt over. EGGS. An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more supporting than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten sepa- rately, then mixed with a glass of wine, will afford two very wholesome draughts, and jirove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small quantity, convey much nourishment; the yolk only, when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. A GRE.AT RESTORATIVE. Bake two calf’s feet in two pints of water and the same quantity of new milk, in a jar, close-covered, three liours and a half. When cold, remove the fat.BROTHS, &c. 503 Chap, xxiv.] Give a large tea-cupful the first and last thing. Whatever flavour is approved give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. .iNOTHER. Simmer si.\. sheep’s trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water to one ; when cold, take oft' the fat, and give near half a pint twice a-day, warming with it a little new milk. ANOTHER. Boil one ounce of isinglass shavings, forty Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a quart of water to a pint, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house; of which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. ANOTHER, A MOST PLEASANT DRAUGHT.' Boil a quarter of an ounce of isinglass shavings with a pint of new milk, to half; add a bit of sugar, and, for change, a bitter almond. Give this at bed-time, not too warm. CAUDLE. Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits ; strain it when boiled well; stir it at all times till cold. When to be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nutmeg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. ANOTHER. Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, with a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoonful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capillaire, a bit of lemon- peel, and nutmeg.504 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chaw. xxiv. ANOTHER. Into a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, while it is boiling-hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It is very agree- able and nourishing. Some like gruel, with a glass of table-beer, sugar, &c., with or without a tea-spoonful of brandy. COLD CAUDLE.' Boil a quart of spring-water; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoonsful of , sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. A FLOUR CAUDLE. Into five large spoonsful of the purest water rub smooth one dessert-s])oonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonsful of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it: the moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water, and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food. This is an ex- cellent food for babies who have weak bowels. RICE CAUDLE. When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice mixed with a little cold water; when of a jiroper con- sistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. ANOTHER. Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonsful of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into the saucepan with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk; and serve with thin toast.50.5 COFFEE. Chap, xxiv.] TO MULL WINE. Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg; boil together, and serve with toast. ANOTHER WAY. Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes in a large tea-cupful of water: then put to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste; beat it up, and it will be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. TO MAKE COFFEE. Put two ounces of fresh-ground coffee, of the best quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups of boiling w-ater on it; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful tw'o or three times, and return it again; then put two or three isinglass-chips into it and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on it, and boil it five minutes more, and set the pot by the fire to keep hot for ten minutes, andvou wnllhave coffee of a beautiful clearness. Fine cream should always be served with coffee, and either pounded sugar-candy or fine Lisbon sugar. If for foreigners, or those wdio like it extremely strong, make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it before the fire until perfectly hot and dry; or you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a ])reserving-pan of a small size, and when hot, throw the coffee in it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be cold before ground. COFFEE MILK. Boil a dessert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour; then put into it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. This is a very fine breakfast; it should be sweetened with real Lisbon sugar of a good quality.DOMESTIC COOKERY. [CitAP. XXIV. 506 CHOCOLATE. Those who use much of this article will find the following mode of preparing it both useful and eco- nomical:—cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits; put a pint of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in the above; mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boil; pour it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days, or more.. When wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mill it well. This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or supper. , P.YTENT COCOA Is a light, wholesome breakfast. SALOOP. Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar toge- ther; then mix w'ith a small quantity of the powder,, previously rubbed smooth with a little cold water; stir it: all together, and boil it a few minutes. MILK PORRIDGE. Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled; strain off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be approved. FRENCH MILK PORRIDGE. Stir some oatmeal and water together, let it stand to be clear, and pour off the latter; pour fresh water upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing. The proportion of water must be small. This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of , weak persons abroad. GROUND RICE MILK. Boil one spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down ; smooth, w'ith three half-pints of milk, a bit of ciniia- I mon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly I done.507 MILK. Chap, xxiv.] SAGO. To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an hour, pour that off, and wash it well ; then add more, [ and simmer gently till the berries are clear, with lemon- 1 peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and I; boil all up together. S.AGO MILK. Cleanse, as above, and boil it slowly, and wholly with /: new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity r will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be fi diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or 1 flavouring. ASSES’ MILK Far surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It In should be milked into a glass that is kept warm by being I; in a basin of hot water. The fixed air that it contains give some people a pain r in the stomach. At first a tea-spoonful of rum may be I taken with it, but should only be put in the moment it is I to be swallowed. ARTIFICIAL ASSES’ MILK. Boil together a quart of water, a quart of new milk, J an ounce of white sugar-candy, half an ounce of eringo- root, and half an ounce of conserve of roses, till half be I wasted. This is astringent, therefore proportion tlie doses to the effect, and the quantity to what will be used while ■ sweet. I ANOTHER. Mix tw’o spoonsful of boiling water, two of milk, and i! an egg well beaten ; sweeten with pounded white sugar- candy. This may be taken twice or thrice a-day.508 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Cmp. XXIV. ANOTHER. Boil two ounces of hartshorn shavings, two ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root, and one dozen of snails that have been bruised, in two quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of new milk, when taken twice a-day. WATER GRUEL. Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. ANOTHER WAY. Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal with two of* water, and pour it into a pint of water boiling on the fire; stir it well and boil it quick, but take care it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour strain it off, and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. BARLEY GRUEL. Wash four ounces of pearl-barley; boil it In two quarts of 'water with a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; strain and return it into the saucepan with sugar and three-quarters of a pint of port wine. Heat up, and use as wanted. A VERY AGREEABLE DRINK. Into a tumbler of fresh cold water pour a table- spoonful of capillaire and the same of good vinegar. Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or scalded cur- rants or cranberries, make excellent drinks, with a little ^ sugar or not, as may be agreeable. A REFRESHING DRINK IN A FEVER. Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a lillle wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having first washed and 1 dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the white; slice it, and put a bit of the peel in; then pourChap, x.-civ.] 509 DRAUGHTS. in three pints of boiling water, sweeten and cover it close. ANOTHER DRINK. Wash extremely well an ounce of pearl-barley; sift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce of sweet almonds beaten fine, and a bit of lemon-peel; boil till you have a smooth liquor, then put in a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. ANOTHER. Boil three pints of water, with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stone raisins, till near a third be consumed. Strain it on a bit of lemon-peel, which remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left long.^ A MOST PLEASANT DRINK. Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, and mash them. In the mean time boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon- peel ; then add the cranberries, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as shall leave a smart flavour of the fruit, and a quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper: boil all for half an hour, and strain off. SOFT AND FINE DR.VUGHT FOR THOSE WHO ARE WEAK .\ND HAVE A COUGH. Beat a fresh-laid egg, and mi.x it with a quarter of a pint of new milk warmed, a large spoonful of capillaire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. Do not warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. TOAST AND WATER. Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black; then,plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used.510 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap, xxit; This is of particular use in weak bowels. It should be of a fine brow'n colour before drinking it. WHEY.—E. R. Put a pint of milk, milk-warm, into a stewpan or other vessel before the fire, add to it half a table-spoon- ful of rennet. When the curd forms, cut it into squares to allow the whey to escape. Then put it on a sieve carefully, for it must not be burned. LEMON W'ATER, A DELIGHTFUL DRINK. Put two slices of lemon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of capillaire; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close two hours. APPLE M ATER. Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of boiling water on them; or on roasted apples; strain in two or three hours, and sweeten lightly. WHITE-WINE WHEY. Put half a pint of new milk on the fire; the moment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine as M'ill completely turn it, and it looks clear ; let it boil up, then set the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the M hey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of M'hite sugar. Thus you Mill have a whey perfectly cleared of milky particles, and as w'eak as you choose to make it. VINEGAR AND LEMON MTIEYS. Pour into boiling milk as much vinegar or lemon-juice as will make a small quantity quite clear, dilute M'ith hot w’ater to an agreeable smart acid, and put a bit or two of sugar. This is less heating than if made of -^'ine; and, if, only to excite perspiration, answers as M’ell.511 Chap, xxiv.] BUTTERMILK. BUTTERMILK, WITH BREAD OR WITHOUT. It is most wliolesome when sour, as being less likely to be heavy ; but most agreeable when made of sweet cream. DR. BOERIIAAVE’S SWEET BUTTERMILK. Take the milk from the cow into a small churn, of about six shillings price; in about ten minutes begin churning, and continue till the flakes of butter swim about pretty thick, and the milk is discharged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food should be biscuits and rusks in every way and sort; ripe and dried fruits of various kinds when a decline is apprehended. Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make excellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits or common cake. ORGEAT. Beat two ounces of almonds, wdth a tea-spoonful of orange-flower w'ater, and a bitter almond or two : then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten wuth sugar or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabic has been found to allay the painfulness of the at- tendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. ORANGEADE OR LEMONADE. Squeeze the juice, pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly- bag. Or squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire.[Chap. xxit. 512 DOMESTIC COOKERY. EGG WINE. Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water ; set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a little of it to the egg by degrees, till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the saucepan, put it on a gen- tle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute; for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg-wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste. COOKERY FOR THE POOR. GENERAL REMARKS AND MINTS. I promised a few' hints, to enable every family to assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a very trivial expense ; and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of the mistress. Where cows are kept a jug of skimmed milk is a valu- able present, and a very common one. When the oven is hot, a large pudding may be baked, and given to a sick or young family; and, thus made, the trouble is little.—Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of dripping; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good Avhile, but be an excel- lent solid food. A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called hrewis, which is thus made:—Cut a very thick upper crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt beef is boiling and near ready ; it w'ill attract some of the fat, and when swelled out, rvill be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely taste meat. A BAKED SOl P. Put a pound of any kind of meat cut in slices, two onions, two carrots, ditto, two ounces of rice, a pint_ of split peas, or Avhole ones if previously soaked, pepper andCOOKERY FOR THE POOR. CitAP. XXIV.] 513 salt into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the bread. The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every ])iece of meat, ham, tongue, &c., however salt; and it is easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of fresh water, and by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, Scotch barley, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutritious soup two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, &c., boiled till they yield their nourishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire and second cooking. Take turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand ; cut them small, and throw in with the thick part of peas after they have been pulped for soup, and grits or coarse oatmeal w'hich have been used for gruel. Should the soup be of poor meat, the long boiling of the bones and different vegetables wdll afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain ; espe- cially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But in every family there is some superfluity ; and, if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in a time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup could be dealt out weekly at an expense not worth mentioning, though the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London, abounding with opulent families, the quantity of ten gallons were made in ten gentlemen’s houses, there would be a hundred gallons of wholesome, agreeable food given weekly for the supply of forty poor families, at the rate of tw'o gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm, comfortahle meal! To the sick, aged, and infant branches, how important 2 LDOMESTIC COOKERY. 514 [Chap. xxiv. an advantage ! nor less to the industrious mother, whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a larger share, frequently reduces that strength upon which the welfare of her family essentially depends. It very rarely happens that servants object to second- ing the kindness of their superiors to the poor; but, should the cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the winter might repay her, if the love of her fellow-creatures failed of doing it a hundred-fold. Did she readily enter into it, she would never wash away, as useless, the peas or grits of which soup or gruel has been made, broken potatoes, the green heads of celery, the necks and feet of fowls, and particularly the shanks of mutton, and various other articles which, in preparing dinner for the family, are thrown aside. Fish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part eaten only, but the bones, heads, and fins, which contain an isinglass. When the fish is served, let the cook put by some of the water, and stew in it the above; as likewise add the gravy that is in the dish, until she obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by itself, when it makes a delightful broth, she should add a very small bit of onion, some pepper, and a little rice-flour rubbed down smooth with it. But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat-sonp, particularly for the sick ; and, when such are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones and meat should be used for them, with little, if any, of the liquor of the salt meats. The fat should not be taken off the broth or soup, as the poor like it, and arc nourished by it. -\N EXCELLENT SOUP FOR THE WE.VKLY. Put two cow-heels and a breast of mutton into a large pan with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaica peppers, and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four515 COOKERY FOR THE POOR. Chap, xxiv.] gallons of water; cover witK brown paper, and bake six hours. SAGO. Put a tea-cupful of sago into a cpiart of water, and a bit of lemon-peel; when thickened, grate some ginger, and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar, and two spoonsful of Geneva; boil all up together. It is a most supporting thing for those whom disease has left very feeble. C.AUDLE FOR THE SICK AND LYING-IN. Set three quarts of water on the fire ; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole with a pint of cold water; when boiling, pour the latter in, and twenty Jamaica peppers in fine powder ; boil to a good middling thickness; then add sugar, half a pint of well-fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of - incalculable service. There is not a better occasion for charitable com- miseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding sent unexpectedly has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers; for in the highest houses a real good sick-cook is rarely met with; and many who possess all the goods of fortune have attributed the first return of health to an appetite excited by good kitchen 'physic, as it is called. VARIOUS RECEIPTS, AND DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. V.ARIOIJS RECEIPTS. TO MAKE SOFT PO.MATUM. Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common water; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with two spoonsful of brandy ; let it drain 2 L 2[Chap. xxiv. 516 DOMESTIC CCOKERY. from this ; acid to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. ANOTHER WAY. Soak half a pound of clear beef-marrow, and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water, two or three da5’s, changing and heating it every day. Put it into a sieve; and, when dry, into a jar, and the jar into a saucepan of water. When melted, pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonsful of brandy; drain off the brandy ; and then add essence of lemon, bergamot, or any other scent that is liked. HARD POMATUM. Prepare ec[ual ciuantities of beef-marrow and mutton- suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it, and adding the scent; then pour it into moulds, or, if you have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls to be. When cold, break the bottles, clear away the glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls. POMADE DIVINE. Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow from the strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan or vessel of water fresh from the spring, and change the water night and monring for ten days; then steep it in rose- water twenty-four hours, and drain it in a cloth till quite dry. Take an ounce of each of the following articles, namely, storax, gum-benjamin, odoriferous cy- press powder, or of Florence, half an ounce of cin- namon, two drachms of cloves, and two drachms of nut- meg, all finely powdered; mix them -with the marrow above prepared; then put all the ingredients into a pew’ter pot that holds three pints; make a paste of white of egg and Hour, and lay it upon a piece of rag. Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the pot very close, that none of the steam may evapo- rate. Put the pot into a large copper ])ot with water, observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to517 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. Chap, xxiv.] the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boiling hot; for it must boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. Do not touch it with an}T;hing but silver. It will keep many years. A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and two ounces of hog’s lard, on the ingredients; and then observing the same process as above. POT POURRI. Put into a large china jar the following ingredients in layers, w'ith bay-salt strewed between the layers:— two pecks of damask-roses, part in buds and part blown; violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each; orris-root sliced, benjamin, and storax, two ounces of each; a quarter of an ounce of musk; a quarter of a pound of angelica-root sliced; a quart of the red parts of clove-gillyflowers; two handsful of lavender-flowers; half a handful of rosemary-flowers; bay and laurel leaves, half a handful of each; three Seville oranges, stuck as fi,dl of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded; half a handful of knotted marjoram ; and two handsfid of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite close. When the pot is uncovered, the perfume is very fine. A QUICKER .SORT OF SWEET POT. Take three handsful of orange-flowers, three of clove- gillyflowers, three of damask roses, one of knotted mar- joram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a handful of rosemary, one of myrtle, half one of mint, one of laven- der, the rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Chop all, and put them in layers, with pounded bay-salt between, up to the top of the jar. If all the ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you get them ; always throwing in salt with every new article.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 518 [Chap. xxiv. TO MAKE WASH-B.YLLS. Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water, then pour as much boiling water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweet oil, four-pennyworth of oil of almonds, half a pound of spermaceti, and set all over the lire till dis- solved ; then add the soap, and half an ounce of cam- phor that has first been reduced to powder by rubbing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirits of wine, or laven- der-water, or any other scent. Boil ten minutes, then pour it into a basin, and stir it till it is quite thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may not fly off. PASTE FOR CHAPPED HANDS, AND WHICH WILL PRESERVE THEM SMOOTH BY CONSTANT USE. Mix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog’s lard, which has been washed in common and then rose-water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal or almond-paste as will work into a paste. FOR CHAPPED LIPS. Put a quarter of an ounce of benjamin, storax, and spermaceti, two-pennyworth of alkanet-root, a large juicy apple chopped, a bunch of black grapes bruised, a quarter of a pound of unsalted buttei', and two ounces of bees’- wax, into a new tin saucepan. Simmer gently till the wax, &c., are dissolved, and then strain it through linen. When cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes ; or, if to make cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. IIUNCARY WATER. To one pint of In'ghly rectified spirit of wine put an ounce of oil of roscmarv and two drachms of essence of519 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. Chap, xxiv.] ambergris; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. HONEY W.YTER. Take a pint of spirit as above, and three drachms of essence of ambergris ; shake them well daily. LAVENDER W.YTER. Take a pint of spirit as above, essential oil of lavender one ounce, essence of ambergris two drachms; put all into a quart bottle, and shake it extremely well. AN EXCELLENT WATER TO PREVENT HAIR FROM FALLING OFF, .\ND TO THICKEN IT. Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a still, with twelve handsful of the tendrils of vines, and the same quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and as slowly as possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. BL.ACK PAPER FOR DRAWING PATTERNS. Mix and smooth lamp-black and sweet oil; with a bit of flannel cover a sheet or two of large writing-paper with this mixture; then dab the paper dry with a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the following manner:— Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the corners together with small pins. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn, and go over it with the point of a steel pencil: the black paper will then leave the impression of the pattern on the under sheet, on which you must draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth or muslin, do it with a pen dipped in a bit of stone blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water, mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use, if fresh; wet to a due consistence as wanted.520 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. [Chap, xxit BLACK. INK. Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and three-quarters of a pound of blue galls bruised; infuse them three weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green copperas, four ounces of logwood chips, six ounces of gum arabic, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Another way.—The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one of the best preparations in this useful article. Direc- tions are given with it how to mix it; in addition to -which, a large cup of sweet-wort to two papers of the powder gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together it costs only eighteen pence, and that quantity will last a long time. TO CEMENT BROKEN CHINA. Beat lime into the most impalpable po-n'der, sift it through fine muslin: then tie some into a thin muslin; put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them exactly. AN EXCELLENT STUCCO, WHICH WILL ADHERE TO WOOD WORK. Take a bushel of the best lime-stone, a pound of yellow ochre, and a quarter of a pound of brown umber, all in fine powder. Mix them with a sufficient quantity of hot (but not boiling) water to a proper thickness; and lay it on with a -whitewasher’s brush, which should be new'. If the w all be quite smooth, one or two coats will do; but each must be dry before the next is put on. The month of March is the best season for doing this, M.YSONS’ WASHES FOR STUCCO. Bine.—To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting, put a gallon of water in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all the time. Then pour it into an earthen pan, and set it by for a day or two till the colour is settled. Pour off the water,Chap, xxiv.] VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 521 and mix the colour with whitewasher’s size. Wash the walls three or four times, according as is necessary. Yellow.—Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quantities separately of umber, bright ochre, and blue black. Then put some of each into as much whitewash as you think sufficient for the work, and stir it all to- gether. If either cast predominates, add more of the others till you have the proper tint. The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixing the lime and size with skimmed milk instead of water. ROMAN CEMENT OR MORTAR, FOR OUTSIDE PLASTERING OR BRICK-WORK. This will resist all weather, and may be used to great advantage to line reservoirs, as no water can penetrate it. Take eighty-four pounds of drift sand, twelve pounds of unslilked lime, and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through an iron grater. Wlien well mixed, add enough hot (but not boiling) water to make into a pro- per consistence for plastering such a quantity of the above as is wanted. It requires very good and quick working. One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as it is to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being left uncovered. The wall or lath-work should be covered first with hair-and-lime mortar, and well dried. This was used by the ancients, and is now adopted among us. The Suffolk cheese does better than any other of this country. TO TAKE STAINS OF ANY KIND OUT OF LINEN. Stains caused by Acids.—Wet the part, and lay on it some salt of wormwood. Then rub it, without diluting it with more water. Another.—Let the cloth imbibe a little water without dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureous Another way.—Tie up in the stained part some pearl-522 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xxiv. ash; then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and boil the linen till the stain disappears. Stains of Wine, Fruit, after they have been long in the linen.—Rub the part on each side with yellow soap. Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. If not removed in three or four days, rub that off and renew the process. When dry it may be sprinkled with a little water. Many other stains may be taken out by dipping the linen in sour buttermilk, and drying in a hot sun. Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three times a-day. Iron-moulds should be wetted, then laid on a hot water-plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it, and renew the process; observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the name of salt of lemons is a spurious preparation; and therefore it is necessary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into holes by the acid. To take out Mildew.—Mix soft soap with starch powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon; lay it on the part on both sides with a painter’s brush. Let it lie on the grass day and night till the stain comes out. TO MAKE FLANNELS KEEP THEIR COLOUR AND NOT SHRINK. Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them lie till cold, the first time of washing. TO PRESERVE FURS AND M'OOLLEN FROM MOTHS. Let the former be occasionally combed, ■while in use, and the latter be brushed and shaken. Wlien not wanted, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s in small muslin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, carefully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp.. VARIOUS RECEIPTS. 523 Chap, xxiv.] TO DYE THE LININGS OF FURNITURE, &c. Buff cn' Salmon-colour, according to the depth of the hue.—Rub down on a pewter-plate two penny-worth of Spanish amatto, and then boil it in a pail of water a p quarter of an hour. Put into it two ounces of potash, i stir it round, and instantly put in the lining; stir it c about all the time it is boiling, which must be five or six a minutes; then put it into cold pump-water, and hang i the articles up singly without wringing. When almost i dry, fold and mangle it. Pink.—The calico must be washed extremely clean I and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, I and four ounces of alum ; take it out, and dry in the ■ air. In the mean time boil in the alum-water two I handsful of wheat-bran till quite slippery, and then 8 strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal and two f ounces of argali finely powdered and sifted; mix with ^ it the liquor by little at a time. Then put into the I liquor the calico, and boil it till it is almost wasted, P moving it about. Take out the calico, and wash it in I chamber-ley first, and in cold water after; then rinse it ii in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hang- f ing it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless you have \ it calendered, which is best. I Blue.—Let the calico be washed clean and dried ; t then mix some of Scott’s liquid blue in as much water \ as will be sufficient to cover the things to be dyed, and f put some starch to it, to give a slight stiffness. Dry a f I bit, to see whether the colour is deep enough; set the i linen, &c., into it, and wash it; then dry the articles !: singly, and mangle or calender them., TO DYE GLOVES TO LOOK LIKE YORK-TAN OR LIMERICK, . ACCORDING TO THE DEEPNE.SS OF THE DYE. Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling-hot, I and let it infuse all night; next morning wet the leather I over with a brush. The tops should be sewn close, to I prevent the colour from getting in.[Chap. xxiv. 524 DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO DYE WHITE GLOVES A BEAUTIFUL PURPLE. Boil four ounces of logwood, and two ounces of .roche alum, in three pints of soft water till half -svasted. Let it stand to be cold after straining. Let the gloves be nicely mended; then do them over with a brush, and when dry repeat it. Twice is sufficient, unless the co- lour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose d}^e with a coarse cloth. Beat up the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, but wetting them with vinegar will take it off before they are washed. A LIQUOR TO WASH OLD DEEDS, &c., ON PAPER OR PARCH- MENT, WHEN THE WRITING IS OBLITERATED, OR, WHEN SUNK, TO MAKE IT LEGIBLE. Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put them into a pint of strong white wine; let it stand in the sun two days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part of the writing which is sunk; and by the colour you will see whether it is strong enough of the galls. TO PREVENT THE ROT IN SHEEP. Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the grass. TO PREVENT GREEN H.YY FROM FIRING. Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible; tie the mouth with a cord, and make the rick round the sack, drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite out when finished. The funnel thus left in the centre preserves it. TO PRESERVE A GRANARY FROM INSECTS AND WEASEI„S. IMake the floor of Lombardy poplars. TO DESTROY CRICKETS. Put Scotch snuff upon the holes where they come out.Chap, xxiv.] 525 DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. TO CLEAN CALICO FURNITURE WHEN TAKEN DOWN FOR THE SUMMER. Shake off the loose dust, then lightly brush with a small long-haired furniture-brush ; after -which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first; and, if the colour be not light, they will not require washing for years. Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up, it should be pre- served from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours; and the dust may be blown off with bellows. By the above mode curtains may be kept clean, even to use with the linings newly dipped. TO CLEAN PLATE. Boil an ounce of prepared hartshorn-powder in a quart of water: while on the fire, put into it as much plate as the vessel will hold; let it boil a little, then take it out, drain it over the saucepan, and dry it before the fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till you have done. Then put into the water some clean linen rags till all be soaked up. When dry, they will serve to clean the plate, and are the very best things to clean the brass locks and finger-plates of doors. When the plate is quite dry, it must be rubbed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quicksilver, which is very injurious ; and, among other disadvantages, it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. TO CLE.AN I,OOKING-GLASSES. Remove the fly-stains and other soil by a damp rag ; then polish with woollen cloth and powder-blue, j526 [CHir. XXIV. DOMESTIC COOKERY. TO l^RESERVE GILDING, AND CLEAN IT. It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it: then with strips of paper cover the frames of your glasses, and do not remove till the flies are gone. Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens its bright- ness ; it should therefore never be used for wiping it. Some means should be used to destroy the flies, as they injure furniture of every kind, and the paper like- wise. Bottles hung about with sugar and vinegar, or beer, will attract them; or fl 5'-water, put into little shells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. TO CLEAN PAINT. Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose parts with the bellows. With care, paint will look well for a length of time. When soiled, dip a sponge or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wash it off quickly, and dry im- mediately, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour. When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made which will appear after the whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen, as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. TO CLEAN PAPER HANGINGS. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a Avhite loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the crust into your hand, and, beginning at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest manner, with the crumb. Do not cross, nor go upwards. The dirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Ob-DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 527 Chap, xxiv.] serve, you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and, after doing all the upper part, go round again, be- ginning a little above where you left off. If you do not do it extremely lightly, you will make , the dirt adhere to the paper. It will look like new if properly done. TO GIVE A GLOSS TO FINE OAK-W'AINSCOT. If greasy, it must be washed with warm beer; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bees’-wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonfrd of sugar: wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry rub it till bright. TO GIVE A FINE COLOUR TO MAHOGANY. Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, having first taken out any ink stains there may be with spirit of saltj but it must be used with the greatest care, and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed off. Use the following liquid:—Into a pint of cold- drawn linseed-oil put four-pennyworth of alkanet-root and two-penn3Ts\'orth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel; let it remain all night; then, stirring well, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag; when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. Eating-tables should be covered with mat, oil-cloth, or baize, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed when the dishes are taken off, while still warm. TO TAKE INK OUT OF MAHOGANY. Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather: Avatch it, for if it stays too long it w'ill leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. FLOORCLOTHS Should be chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, which is well covered with the colour, and the flowers on which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. The durability of the cloth will depend much528 [Chap. xxiv. DOMESTIC COOKEUY. on these two particulars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, and the goodness of the colours. If they have not been allowed sufficient space for becoming thorouglily hardened, a very little use will injure them ; and, as they are very expensive articles, care in pre- serving them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hung up in a dry barn wdiere they will have air, or laid down in a spare room. When taken up for the winter, they should be rolled round a carpet-roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely well, painted and sea- soned some months before laid down. If for passages, the width must be directed when they are sent to the manu- factory, as they are cut before painting. TO CLEAN FLOOR-CLOTHS. Sweep, then wipe them w'ith a flannel; and, when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a w'axed flannel, and then with a dry plain one; but use little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smooth- ness, or it may endanger falling- Washing now and then with milk, after the above sweeping and dry-rubbing them, gives as beautifiil a look, and they are less slippery. TO DUST C.YRPETS AND FLOORS. Sprinkle tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk-brush, as it wears them fast: only once a-week, and the other times with the leaves and a hair-brush. Fine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand- brush, such as for clothes, on the knees. TO CLEAN CARPETS.; Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, and brush on both sides with a hand-brush;529 Chap, xxiv.] DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. turn it the right side upwards, aud scour it with ox-gall and soap and water very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. TO GIVE TO BO.VRDS A BE.VUTIFUL APPEARANCE. After washing them very nicely clean with soda and warm water and a brush, wash them with a very large sponge and clean water. Both times observe to leave no spot untouched; and clean straight up and down, not crossing from board to board j then dry with clean cloths, rubbed hard up and down in the same way. The floors should not be often wetted, but very tho- roughly when done; and once a-week dry-rubbed with hot sand and a heavy brush, the right way of the boards. The sides ol" stairs or passages on which are carpets or floor-cloth should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. Dif- ferent sponges should be kept for the above two uses; and those and the brushes should be well washed when done with, and kept in dry places. ; TO EXTRACT OIL FROM BO.XRDS OR STONE. I Make a strong ley of pearl-ashes and soft water, and add as much unslaked lime as it will take up; stir it together, and then let it settle a few minutes; bottle it, and stop close; have ready some water to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards, it will draw out the colour of them; therefore do it with care and expedition. TO CLEAN STONE ST.URS .VND HALLS. Boil a pound of pipe-maker’s clay with a quart of water, a quart of small beer, and put in a bit ot stone- blue. Wash with this mi.xture, and, when dry, rub the stones with flannel and a brush. 2 MDOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chat. xxrv. 530 TO BLACKEN TEIE FRONTS OF STONE CHIMNEY-PIECES. Mix oil-varnish Tvith lamp-black, and a little spirit of turpentine to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap and water very clean; then sponge it with clear water; and when perfectly dry brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry between the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp-black must be sifted first. TO TAKE STAINS OUT OF MARBLE. Mix unslaked lime in finest powder M-ith the stronger soap-ley, pretty thick, and instantly, with a painter’s brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months’ time -wash it off perfectly clean; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft w^ater; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. TO TAKE IRON-STAINS OUT OF MARBLE. An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon- juice being mixed in a bottle, shake it well; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. • TO PRESERVE IRONS FROM RUST. Melt fresh mutton-suet, smear over the iron with it while hot; then dust it well with unslaked lime pounded and tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared wull keep many months. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad-oil, there being water in all other. Fire-irons should be kept wrapped in baize, in a dry place, when not used. ANOTHER WAY. Beat into three pounds of unsalted hog’s lard two drachms of camphor, sliced thin, till it is dissolved, thenChap, xxit.] 531 DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. take as much black lead as will make it of the colour of broken steel. Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the I stove, &c., and the steel will never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the grease must be washed off with hot water, and the steel be dried before polishing. TO TAKE RUST OUT OF STEEL. Cover the steel with sweet oil well rubbed on it, and in forty-eight hours use unslaked lime finely powdered, to rub until all the rust disappears. ■ TO CLEAN THE R.ACK OF THE GRATE, THE INNER HEARTfl, AND THE FRONTS OF CAST-IRON STOVES. Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black lead with a pint of small beer and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed olf all the soot and dust; then take a hard brush and rub it till of a beautiful brightness. ANOTHER WAY TO CLEAN CAST-IRON AND BLACK HEARTHS. Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten toge- ther : dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over; then rub it bright with a hard brush. TO TAKE THE BLACK OFF THE BRIGHT BARS OF POLISHED STOVES IN A FEW MINUTES. Rub them well with some of the following mixture on a bit of broad-cloth; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not sand-paper. The Mixtvre.—Boil slowly one pound of soft soap in two quarts of water to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonsful, and mi.x to a consistence with emery. No. 3. TO CLEAN TIN COVERS AND PATENT PEWTER PORTER-POTS. Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, the small being mixed with sand; mix a little of it powdered with the least drop of sweet oil, and rub 2 M 2532 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Ch.\p. XXIV. ■well, and -^dpe clean ; then dust some dry whiting in a muslin hag over, and rub bright with dry leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting by the fire ■when they come from the parlour ; for if but once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside. TO PREVENT THE CRE.VKING OF A DOOR. Rub a hit of soap on the hinges. A STRONG PASTE FOR P.YPER. To two large spoonsful of fine flour put as much pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling; mix with as much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, and boil half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. FINE KLACKING FOR SHOES. Take four ounces of ivory black, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, a table-spoonful of sweet oil, and a pint of small beer; mix them gradually cold. BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, &c. BILLS OF FARE, &c. LIST OF VARIOUS ARTICLES IN SEASON IN DIFFERENT MONTHS. JANUARY. Poultry. — Game. .Pheasants.. Partridges.. Hares.. Rabbits. .Woodcocks .. Snipes .. Turkeys .. Capons.. Pullets.. Fowls.. Chickens.. Tame Pigeons. Fish. — Carp. .Tench.. Perch.. Lampreys.. Eels .. Cray-fish.. Cod.. Soles.. Flounders .. Plaice. .Turbot.. Thornhack. . Skate .. Sturgeon .. Smelts .. M lutings.. Lobsters. .Crabs..Prawns..Oysters. Veyctables. — Cabbage.. Savoys.. Colewort.. SproutsBILLS OF FARE. Chap, xxiv.] 533 ..Leeks. .Onions . .Beet.. Sorrel .. Chervil .. Endive .. Spinach . .Celery . .Garlic .. Scorzonera . .Potatoes.. Parsnips . . Turnips .. Broccoli, white and purple . . Shalots. . Lettuces.. Cresses. . Mustard.. Rape. . Salsafy .. Herbs of all sorts, dry, and some green.. Cucumbers . .Asparagus and Mushrooms to be had, though not in season. Fruit.—Apples . .Pears . .Nuts . .Walnuts. .Medlars .. Grapes. FEBRUARY AND MARCH. Meat, Fowls, and Game, as in January, with the addition of Ducklings and Chickens; which last are to be bought in London most, if not all, the year, but very dear. Fish.—As the last two months; e.xcept that cod is not thought so good from February to July, but may be bought. Vegetables.—The same as the former months, with the addition of kidney-beans. Fruit.—Apples. .Pears. .Forced Strawberries. ■' SECOND QUARTER.—AFRII., MAY, AND JUNE. Meat.—Beef. .Mutton . .Veal. .Lamb . .Venison, in June- Poultry.—Pullets. .Fowls.. Chickens. .Ducklings.. Pigeons.. Rabbits. . Leverets. Fish. — Carp. .Tench, .Soles. .Smelts. .Eels. .Trout .. Turbot .. Lobsters .. Chub .. Salmon .. Herrings .. Cray-fish. . Mackerel.. Crabs. . Prawns.. Shrimps. Vegetables.—As before; and in May, early Potatoes . .Peas . .Radishes, .Kidney-Beans . .Carrots. .Turnips Early Cabbages .. Cauliflowers .. Asparagus .. Arti- chokes .. All sorts of Salads, forced. Fruit.—In June; Strawberries .. Cherries .. Melons . . Green Apricots .. Currants and Gooseberries for Tarts.—In July; Cherries .. Strawberries .. Pears . . Melons .. Gooseberries . . Currants . .Apricots. .Grapes534 DOMESTIC COOKERY. [Chap. xxiv. ..Nectarines, and some Peaches.—But most of these are forced. THIRD QU.YRTER.—JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBER. Meat as before. Poultry. — Pullets . . Fowls .. Chickens . .Rabbits.. Pigeons .. Green Geese .. Leverets . . Turkey Poults.— Two former months, Plovers . .Wheatears .. Geese in September. Fish.—Cod . .Haddock .. Flounders . .Plaice . .Skate .. Thornback .. Mullets . . Pike .. Carp .. Eels.. Shell- fish, except Oysters. .Mackerel the first two months of the quarter, but not good in August. Partridge-shooting begins the 1st of September; Avhat is used before is therefore poached. Vegetables. — Of all sorts. Beans . . Peas . .French- Beaus, &c. &c. Fruit. — In July; Strawberries.. Gooseberries.. Pine-Apples .. Plums, various .. Cherries .. Apricots .. Raspberries. .Melons. .Currants. .Damsons. In August and September; Peaches. .Plums. .Figs . .Filberts . .Mulberries . .Cherries . .Apples , .Pears. . Nectarines. .Grapes.—Latter months. Pines. .Melons. . Strawberries. .Medlars and Quinces in the latter month . .Morelia Cherries. .Damsons, and various Plums. OCTOBER. Meat as before, aiyi Doe-Venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic fowls as in former quarter .. Pheasants from the 1st of October .. Par- tridges . .Larks. . Flares .. Dotterels.—The end of the month, Wild-Ducks .. Teal .. Snipes .. Widgeon .. Grouse, Fish. — Dories. . Smelts. .Pike. .Perch. .Halibuts .. Brills .. Carp .. Salmon-trout . . Barbel .. Gudgeons .. Tench. .Shell-fish. Vegetables,—As in January, French-Beans, last crops of Beans, &c. Fruit.—Peaches.. Pears.. Figs.. Bullace.. Grapes..535 Chap, xxiv.] BILLS OF FAKE. Apples .. Medlars .. Damsons .. Filberts .. Walnuts.. Nuts. .Quinces. .Services. .Medlars. NOVEMBER. Meat.—Beef..Mutton . .Veal..Pork..House Lamb . .Doe-Venison..Poultry and Game as the last month. Fish.—As the last month. Vegetables.—Carrots. .Turnips.. Parsnips. .Potatoes . . Skirrets . . Scorzonera .. Onions .. Leeks .. Shalots . . Cabbage . .Savoys . .Colewort . .Spinach. .Chard-Beets . .Chardoons . .Cresses . .Endive . .Celery. .Lettuces .. Salad-Herbs. .Pot-Herbs. Fruit.—Pears . .Apples . .Nuts . .Walnuts . .Bullace . .Chestnuts. .Medlars. .Grapes. DECEMBER. Meat. —Beef.. Mutton.. Veal.. House Lamb.. Pork and Venison. Poultry and Game. — Geese . .Turkeys . .Pullets., Pigeons .. Capons .. Fowls .. Chickens .. Rabbits . . Hares .. Snipes .. Woodcocks . . Larks .. Pheasants .. Partridges . .Sea-Fowls . .Guinea-Fowls . .Wild Ducks .. Teal.. Widgeon.. Dotterels.. Dun-birds.. Grouse. Fish.—Cod. . Turbot.. Halibuts .. Soles . . Gurnets.. Sturgeon .. Carp .. Gudgeons .. Codlings .. Eels . . Dories. .Shell-fish. Vegetables. — As in the last month. Asparagus forced, &c. Fruit.—As the last, except Bullaee. A FEW MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS.—E. R. FRENCH METHOD OF PURIFYING RANCID BUTTER. Let the butter be melted and skimmed as if for clarifying; then put into it a piece of bread thoroughly toasted all over. In a few minutes the butter will lose its offensive taste and smell, which will be communi-DOMESTIC COOKERY. {Chap. xxiv. 536 cuted to the toast. Butter which has become rank may be rendered palatable by another method :—Take the quantity wanted for immediate use, and put it into a pan of boiling water; skim it oft' the top when melted, and it will be separated from the grosser particles, and become fit for use. Rancid butter may also be melted in a saucepan, then thrown into cold water, and taken off when cold; by repeating the process more than once it will be purified. TO PRESERVE G.YME WHICH IS LIKELY TO SPOIL. Pound a piece of charcoal, not very finely, and tie it up in thin muslin or gauze; put it inside a pheasant, hare, or partridge, and change the charcoal every day. It mav also be placed upon venison with advantage. When game is very high, roast it with a muslin bag of charcoal in the interior; which must be carefully t^'en out before it is sent to table. If meat be turned, wash it perfectly clean, wipe it dry, and rub it over with charcoal, allowing it to remain for a day or two, then wash it clean ; dry and roast it. When game that is tainted is wanted immediately, prepare it for roasting, wrap it up well, or tie it in a linen bag; then take a fire shovel of hot charcoal, or live coal, throw it into a bucket of cold water; immerse the birds, hare, &c., for about five minutes, and then take them out; they will be per- fectly restored, but must be dressed directly. TO PRESERVE FISH FRESH FOR .Y DAY OR TWO. Boil together three quarts of water and a pint of vinegar, in Avhich, "when quite boiling, put the fish, and just scald it, but not for more than two minutes. Then liang up the fish in a cool place, and it will dress as well as if fresh caught. AN EXCELLENT MIXTURE FOR CLEANING TIN. COPPER, AND BRASS .YRTICLES. Two ounces of soft soap and a quarter of a pound of rotten stone, beaten to a paste with boiling water.537 MISCELLANEOUS RECEIPTS. Chap, xxiv.] THE BE.ST METHOD OF CLEANING KNIVES. Have the board properly prepared with leather, and clean the knives with ecpial quantities of rotten stone and iron filings. EXCELLENT .METHOD OF CLEANING GOLD, Make a paste of whitening with sal volatile, cover the gold ornaments with it, and, when dry, brush it off. This will remove all the stains, and restore the gold to its original colour. TO CLE.AR COFFEE. Scrape and clean the white skins of soles, then steep them in cold water for an hour or two; then take them out, and stretch them upon a clean board to dry: cut them into very narrow strips, about two inches long. This answers the same purpose as isinglass, and is much more economical. The black' skin will clear colfee; but it makes it taste fishy. The cook who furnished this receipt always removes both the skins of soles, dries the soles well, and eggs and crumbs them before they are put into the pan.rt« ,»?r?sn9ft •rnmn^iUmmu .V'VfIXX 'lu «niny i< ,’^Ht Jkt4 .r.dJirtC HbtiattHii aT*fi 'irj.«u d?ilul ’lo /"JW *»yifni Ki| . «!«» 4k , »m»m ^hmi i Auvre* t»#r^A;J4t» m ^Jom^W.'JVjia.WJCX 9«ii WfO) ftr wlirM < ,ftjr ouv ,L»i ,»i rflr^- ri«-)..ui^ oj ,nu‘4te ^ : .xSotv ) .4UidCIM.»Hrl ^ ^'♦i ,nr4 •(«» n/;«4>'> ‘■•'I' qaVHi ,a^r\,a j.-t tre^fa I>«t' aa.it eih'iMiiU tO't/i too»>fl aa nA'w** •** "••"* ||^M» 4M4 t*»‘ *-r» 310 : < til ol /'i«v4 ■* * ,^j»>{ t»tUm otti Jif9il* TT 'rtBtf jirar^ 1*0? Janas iDi h»ifi fitfaigiiiji >•* 4'i‘»tiuq r!!^, i ■a.'INDEX. A Acha, to prepare, 319 fish. 319 Aoxeac, Blanquette, 243 Epaule d’, piquee, 243 Epiule d’, au naturel, 243 Alb, chicken, 160 egg, 284 Almack's preserve, 396 another, 396 Almond Cakes, 448 cream, 423 custard, 209 pudding, 213 merton, pudding, 214 Almonds in Currj', 293 to candy, ^9 American flour, 457 Anocille rotie, 2.34 Anchovies in forcemeat, 329 used iu cookiug various fish, 40, 41 with cod, 47 Anchovy sauce, 321 Ano Zabaglione, an Italian receipt, 429 Apple Chabmtte, an, 220 fool, 410 fritters, 232 jelly, 399 pie, old fashioned, 200 new fashioned, 200 Polao, 294 sauce, 322 Piquunte, 323 sauce for ducks, 96 ditto for a goose, 96 ditto for roast pork, 88 Souftle,420 Apples, buttered, 220 bl.aek caps, 413 another way, 413 and rice, Chartreuse of, 221 a la Creraone, 412 dried, 389 Miroton of, 221 to scald codlings, 412 sour, in a pickle, 353 small, in a pickle, 354 Apples, stewed, 412 codlings, in a pickle, 364 Apricot Marmalade, 383 Pie, green, 199 Apricots (and various other fruit) pickled, 355, &c. preserves of, .382 to dry them whole. 383 ditto, in halves, 383 in brandy, 385 to preserve them iu brandy, 385 Arrow-root cream, 426 jelly, 500 Artichoke Bottoms, 255 Artichokes, to dress, 254 a la poivrade, 287 Jerusalem, 255 farcie, 264 fried, 263 stuffed, 263 Asparagus, to boil, 254 forced, 254 iu pickle, 355 Asses’ milk, 507 artificial ditto, 507 B Bacon, to choose good, 77 when rusty, 77 fried with liver, 115 for forcemeat, 327 Malines, method of curing with a fine flavour, 348 to cure, for larding, braising, &c.. 349 the Black Pool receipt for curing, .348 Wiltshire, manner of curing, ,350 Ditto, another way, 351 Baked Beef, Welsh, 347 Calfs head, 107 Cod, 47 Herrings, 53 Mackerel, 51 Sprats, 53 Haddock, Scotch fashion, 58 Haddock, 60 Pike, 60 Gurnet, 60INDEX. 540 Baked Ham, 74 Shoulder of Mutton on a York- shire pudding, 84 Leg of Pork, 89 Pears, 413 Suet p\idding, 20G Soup. 512 Bamboo, English, a pickle, 353 Barberries in hunches, to preserve, 399 to pickle, 356 ditto, in brine, 367 Barberry Cakes, 390 Bari.ey Gruel, 508 water, 466 ditto, with honey, 466 ditto, with isinglass, 466 Barshch, a soup, 27 Batter for Cutlets, or Fillets of Fowl, 333 Freshwater Fish fried in, 65 Pudding, boiled, 207 Beans, French, 242, 261 French, to Iceep, 367 French, pickled, 354, 355, 361 stewed, 262 to stew old, 262 Bechamel, to prepare, 309 ingredients for, 309 Beef, to choose, 75 to distinguish cow, 75 bull, 75 ox, 75 heifer, 75 sign of age, 76 roasting pieces of, SO preparation of the other parts, 80 time to hang before cooking, 80 to roast, 81 stewed brisket of, 122 brisket of, in bouilli, 128 bouilli, 127 bubble and squeak, 127 collar. 129 fricandeau of, 125 olive fricandeau, 128 fricassee of cold roast, 130 my grandmother’s, 126 Hamburg, 344 harico of tail of, 130 heart to dress, 81, 84 horseradish sauce for roast-beef, 323, 324 ditto for steak, 324 hung or rough, 345 ditto, the Derrymano receipt for, 347 hunters’, 347 Beef a la Ilusard, a Polish dish, 126 kidney, fried, 132 kidney stewed, with wine, 133 kidney, minced, 133 rissoles of kidney, 133 Maok Dishes of, 120 marinade for fresh, 81 a-la-mode, 120 a-la-mode, the Bath receipt, 121 ox-cheek, 129 palates, 131 palates, to pickle, 131 palates spitted on skewers, 131 palates ii la-Mariette, 132 palates, boiled, 132 palates au fritur, 132 pastv to eat as well as venison, 187 to pickle, 343 a lasting pickle for, 343 ragofit, 125 ribs of, in bouilli, 127 roast, 181 sterved rump of, 122 rump of, a-la-mode, 120 to salt beef red, either to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang to dry, 345 spiced flank of, 344 Leicestershire spiced, 346 steak with vegetables, 125 steak pie, 185 steak and oyster, 185 steak, broiled, 122 steak, a-la-Frauyaise, 123 steaks, rolled, 123 steak, steuod, 124 ditto with oysters, 124 steak a-la-5iagicieime, 124 tea, 498 tea to drink cold, 497 tongue, 133 tongue a-la-Grecque, 133 ditto, French dish,2^ tremblant, 121 a-la-vinaigretle, 129 Welsh, baked, 347 Zrazy, 126 Beet-root, an addition to salads, 272, 286 boiled and sliced, with onions, 272 stewed with onions, 272 baked and then stewed, 272 Bengal Curry, 292 curry powilcr, 301 Bhavrta, an Indian dish of potatoes, S:c., 259 Biffins, 389 Bifsteak of Mutton, 144INDEX. 541 Bills of Fare for January, 532 for February and March, 533 for April, May, and June, 533 for July, August, and September, o3d for October, 534 for November, 535 for December, 535 Birds, a cheap way of potting, 334 Biscn r Pudding, 216 Biscuits, Devilled, 153 Black Caps, 413 Black Puddings, a farm-house receipt for, 156 Blan-c, for boiled fowl, 96 how to prepare, 333 Blanch, Directions how to, 331 Blanc Mange, No. I. 415 No. II., 415 ground rice, 415 West Indian, 416 Blanquette d’Agneau, 243 de Veau farcie, 240 Bookings, or buck-wheat fritters, 230 Boiling, culinary principle of, for Meats, 73 time required in, 74 of Fowls, 74 of Hams, 74 of Vegetables, 253 of Partridges, 302 mode of, for Soups, 4 of Fish, rules, 35 of various Fish, 42 et seq. of Meats, 73 various modes of, 74 utensils to lx* in order, 79 frequent skimming needful, 79 Jleat not to be lioiled together with Vegetables, 79 in a well-lloured cloth, rendei-s meat white, 79 of Mutton Ham, 341 Bolas, 444 Bones, their employment in prejiaring soup-stocks, 4, 7 Bottle, to. Apricots, 381 apricots, green, for tarts, 381 Bottled Fruit, 379 green gooseberries, 380 Bouilli, directions for, 127 ribs of licef in, 127 brisket of beef in, 128 Bbai.v Cakes, 331 Brains, to dress Calves’, 115 croquettes of ditto, 150 calves’, au marinade, 239 ditto, fricassee, 239 sheep’s, croquettes of, 150 Braise, Fowl a la, 166 , to, Chickens, 166 Braised Leg of Mutton, 136 Bhaisino, directions for, 104 to cure bacon for, 349 Brandy, Apricots in, 385 apricots preserved in, 385 cherries preserved in, 394 grapes in, 380 peaches in, 385 Cream, 428 shrub, 562 Brawn, when young, 77 mock, 158 to keep, the Cambridge way, 159 an excellent sauce for, 159 Bread, to bake, 457 Kev. Mr. Haggett’s economical, .jelly! 501 imd'ding, boiled, 210 sauce, 302, 316 and Butter Pudding, 209 in forcemeat, flavour to be given to. 326 Brioche Pasta, 180 Broccoli, served with White Sauce, 266 to dress, 267 and buttered eggs, 267 in salad, 286 Broiled Fowls, 161 Mackerel, 50, 234 Salmon, 42 Beef-steak, 122 Mutton Kidneys, 145 Broilino of Fish, 34 Broth, a clear, that will keep long, 496 calf s feet, 499 chicken, 499 eel, 500 a quick-made, 497 a very supporting, 497 a very nourislung veal, 497 of beef, mutton, and veal, 499 Broths, ineparation of, 1 barley liroth, 14 veal, 15 to be skimmed often, 79 Brownino, or Colouring of Soup, 7 to colour and flavour made dishes, 313 in a minute, 314542 INDEX. Budule and Squeak, 127 Buck-Wheat Fritters, 230 Bull Beef, how distinguished, 75 Bun, a good plain, with or without toasliug and butter, 455 Buns, richor, 455 I^^'dtjlra, 455 BuBNT^Cr^im, 427 'observations respecting, 485 to make, 485 to preserve, 48G to prepare it for -winter, 486 to choose at market, 488 clarilicd, 288, 289 cray-lisli,' .236 melted, 314 orange, 417 parsley and, 40 French‘metluid of purifying ran- cid, 535 j to, oranges to be eaten hot, 421 BurrERED Orange-juice, 416 Buttermilk, 487 milk, with or without bread, 511 Pr. Boerhaave’s sweet do-, 511 c Cabbage, stewed, 270 to stew veil, 270 in n curry, 293 in pickles, 355, &c. Cake, common Uread, 439 batter, 446 Chantilly, 409 a common, 442 very "ood common, 442 diet bread, 444 diet, No. 2, an excellent, 442 a very line, 443 ham, 151 to ice a very large, 435 a pepper, 453 a plain, 439 rich plain, 440 plum, 436 common plum, 437 phim, to keep tliem long, 437 an excellent ditto, 437 Portnjjiil, 446 ii goocl pound, 450 iiucen, 444 rice, various receipts for, 441 Savoy, 4-17 Scottish seed, 450 seed, 43S Cake, a cheap seed, 438 a light seed, 446 seed, witliont butter, 438 Shrewsbury, 446 soda, 451 Spanish, 445 sponge, 439 tipsy, 420 trifle, 409 veal, 150 Vienna, 440 the Vienna, called in Austria Freiicli tart, 440 Cakes, Obsekvatioks on Making and Eakino, Chapter XXI., 434 Cakes, Colouring to stain, 433 iceing for, 435 almond. 448 barberry, 390 drop,453 Marlborough, 448 rout drop, 443 little short, 447 Swiss afternoon, 445 Heuton tea. 454 .another sort as biscuits, 454 water, 442 little white, 447 Gale Cannon, as dressed in Ireland, 262 Caledonian Receipt for dressing Fish, 57 Calf’s Brains, to dress, 108,115 croquettes of ditto, 150 Calf’s Head, boiled. 87 for mock turtle, 11 hashed,105 ditto, another way, 105 hasl'.ed, in St. James's Place, 106 fricasseed, 106 baked, 107 ragout, 107 roiled, 107 to collar, 103 head pie, 184 Calf's Foot pie, 184 foot anil kidney pie, 185 feet jelly, 429 ditto, another way, 430 feet broth, 499 feet stewed, 114 ditto. French dishes of, 240 fricassee of ditto, 114 feet an fritur, 114 Calf'.s Ears stuffed, 241 liver, 114 ditto, rissoles of. 149543 INDEX. I Calf's swcetbrejuJs, 238 rissoles of do., 147 tails, 238 Camp Ketchup, 370 Canuy, to Almonds, 379 to any other sort of fruit, 379 lemon peel, 403 orange peel, 403 Capsicums, in cookery, 319 Carachi, to prepare, 368 Cardamom Seed, 296 Cardamoms, use of, 295, 296 Carmel cover for Sweetmeats, a, 429 Carp, live some time out of water, 37 to be killed soon, 37 to feed and keep for a time, 37 signs of fresh, 37 to stew, 65 Carrot Soup, 15 Carbot>, to boil, 262 to stew, 262 a la Maitre d’Hotel, 270 cold, in salad, 286 with salt beef, 345 Carving, directions for, xlv a Cod’s Head, xlvi Edgebone of Beef, xlvi Sirloin of Beef, xlvi Round or Buttock of Beef, xlvii Fillet of Veal, xlvii Breast of Veal, xlvii Call"s Head, xlvii Shoulder of Mutton, xlviii Leg of Mutton, xlviii a Fore Quarter of Lamb, xlix Hauncli of Venison, xlix Hauuch of Mutton, xlix Saddle of Mutton, 1 Ham, 1 Sucking Pig, 1 Goose, 1 Hare, li Rabbits, lii a Fowl, lii a Pheasant, liii Partiidges, liv Pigeons, liv Casserole of Fish, 63 an Riz des CKufs, 245 or rice-edged for a curry or fricassee, 333 Caudle, 503 another, 503 cold, 504 a flour, 504 rice, 504 for the sick and lying-iu, 515 Cauliflower, to boil, 266 Cauliflowers, in white sauce, 266 to dress with Parmesan, 267 au fi'omage, 267 Cauliflowers, to pickle, 355 Cayenne Pepper for curry, &c ‘^91} 294, 297 ’ in pickles, 357 Celery, stewed, 113, 260 in salads, 286 in sauces, 312, &c. sauce, 315 Cervelles de Veau au marinade# 239 ditto fricassee, 239 Chantilly Cake, 409 Charcoal, a preservative for meat, 78 CHARDooNs.to dress, 260 Charlotte de Pomraes, 221 an apple, 220 Chartreuse of Veal or Fowl, with, vegetables, 151 of apples and rice, 221 Poulet, a la, 247 Cheeks, to dry Hog’s, 350 Cheese, observations on, 480, &c. to make, 482 to preserve, 483 creiim, 483 rush cream, 484 sage, 483 fondue, 279 fondue a la Parisienne, 279 fondues en caisses, 280 foudeau of, 280 toasted, 281 stewed, 281 stewed with ale, 281 Welsh rabbit, 282 patties, 282 Cheesecakes, Orange, 178 cocoa-nut, 216 lemon, that will keep for seven years, 223 potato, 223 Cherries, to dry, 393 witli sugar, to dry, 393 without sugar, to dry, 393 the best way to <lry, 394 preservi’d iu brandy, 394 rolled, 395 for tarts and puddings, 395 Cherry .Tam, 398 soup, 33 Chestnuts to make ^ stufling for Turkey, 93 for a sauce, 93 Puree of, 273 iu Dumpokht, 299INDEX. 544 CHETNEr and Qui Hi Sauce, 367 Chicken Alb, 160 broth, 499 in haste, 164 pie, 189 Chickens, boiled, 94 with cauliflower, 94 Avith white broccoli, 94 with white sauce, 94 sauce for boiled, 317 a la Carmelite, 161 to pull, 162 anotlier way for ditto, 162 fricassee of, 162 to Inaise, 166 a country captain, 297 Chicokee en Veloute, 269 Chim Vinegar, .373 China Chilo, of mutton, 137 Chlodnik, or Cold Soup; a Polish disli, 27 Chocolate, to make, 506 cream, 424 Chops, Lamb, 144 Chops, Mutton, 144 Citron Marmalade, 303 pudding, 214 Citrons, to preserve, 387 Claret, duck stewed with, 168 Cocoa, Patent, 506 CocK-a-leekie, a soup, 33 Cod, to prepare the fisli for boiling, 34 the season for, 37 to choose, 37 to boil, 45 sliced and fried, 45 sliced and broiled, 45 Cod’s head and oyster sauce, 46 head stutt'ed, 46 head ami shoulders, 46 Cod baked, 47 Espagnole, 47 stewed, 47 salt, 48 to dress s,alt, 48 sounds, to look like small chick- ens, 49 sounds, to broil, 49 sounds mgoCit, 49 CoDLiNO, Cream, 424 Codlings, to sc.ahl, 412 pickle of, 364 Coffee, to make, 505 to clear, 537 cream, 424 milk, 505 Collar, to, a Pig, 350 Collared Eels, 56 calfs liead, 108 salmon, 45 breast of veal, 109 beef, 129 pig's liead, 153 CoLLOPs, Scotch, 113 ditto wliite, 113 beef, minced, 135 fish, 62 Confectionary, 376 Consomme for gravies and sauces, 308 Cookery for the Sick and for the Poor, Cliapter XXIV., 496 General Remarks on ditto, 493 Coriander Seed, use of, 290, 294, 299, &c. CoRNicHONs, Sauce de, 252 CoRUNDA Jam, 305 Cotelettes de Mouton, 244 aux Haricots, 242 de Mouton Ragout, 244 de Mouton a la Polonaise, 244 de Veau farcies, 237 Country Captain, an Indian dish, 297 Cotv-lieef, to distinguish, 75 Chad, buttered, 68 dressed, 68 a Pate of, 68 Crabs, the heaviest best, 39 to choose, 39 Cracknels, 455 Crack-nuts, 454 Cr anberries, to prepare, for Tarts, 198 Cray-Fish Butter, 236 soup, 23 Cream, .Almond, 423 arrow-root, 426 burnt, 427 codling, 424 cotfee, 424 cliocolate, 424 an excellent, 427 fruit. 422 to keep, 487 imit.atiou, for tarts, 426 imixwial, 423 a \ery line ludian, 427 lemon, 422 white lemon, 423 yellow, without cream, 422 solid milled, 426 mock, 426 to manage cream for whey but- ter, 486INDEX. 54.5 Cream, excellent orange, 424 pancakes, 229 pistachio, 426 pudding. 224 in white broth, 309 in Indian dishes, 292 raspljerry, 425 ratafia, 4^ Rhenish, 426 to scald, 487 sack, 428 sour, to be employed in soups, 250 boiling, for Veloute, 309 in sauces, 321 snow, 424 spinach, 425 spinach stewed with, 264 stone, 422 syrup of, 488 vanilla, 423 velvet, 428 Cbema, Leche, a delicious dish, 224 Creme de Cacao, 464 de Portugal, 464 Cressy, Soup, 9 Cropped Heads, a Scotch dish, 60 Croquettes. Rissoles, &c.. Chapter VII., 147 Croquettes of Fish, 64 another receipt, 150 of fowl or veal, 149 de Riz, 245 Crust, Raised, for Meat Pies or Fowls> 1/6 short, 177 fine, for orange cheesecakes or sweetmeats, 178 for venison pasty, 180 Cucumber Ketchup, the Suffolk re- ceipt, 369 vinegar, 369 Cucumbers, to pickle young, 352 and onions sliced, 352 farcie, 268 minced mutton witli, 147 and onions, stewed. 268 pickled, sliced with onion, 352 pickled, used in dishes, 112 to preserve, 404 a fine preserve of, 405 roasted, 268 stewed, 268 stewed, a la Royale, 268 to preserve the flavour of, for winter salad, or as a sauce for cold meat, 359 CuLLis, or Brown Gravy, 309 CuRAgOA, 464 Curd Fritters, 232 pudding, 214 Curds, in Indian cookery, 288 and whey, as in Italy, 488 Cube, to, Hams, 339 tongues. Ml Currant Jelly, 399 without boiling, 398 with heart, 81 sauce with venison, 82 with hare, 101 with tongue, 134 Currant Juice, Tongue in, 134 sauce, for venison or pig, 316 shrub, 462 shrub, white, 462 wiue, 470 black wine, 471 white wine, 471 Currants, to dry, 390 Curry, ingredients and components of, 289 King of Oude’s, 289 the Baukshall, 290 Bengal, 292 Lord Clive’s, 290 Dopeeaza, 290 hard egg, 291 the Hastings, 293 Khali Khan’s, 291 Madras, 291 Madras prawn, 293 Malay, 293 another Malav, 294 milk, 292 plain. 295 vegetable, 292 use of curry powder. 289, 291, 292, 293, 297, See. Curry Powder, No. 1, 299 No. 2, 299 No. 3, 300 No. 4, 300 No. 5, 300 No. 6, 300 No. 7, 301 Custard with lemon peel, 208 almond, 209 lemon, 414 pudding, 208 rice, 208 Spanish, 414 Cutlets of Fish, 40, 63 salmon, boiled, 43 of soles, 49 fowl, 164 veal, 112 2 N546 INDEX. Cutlets, veal, a I’ltalienne, 112 veal, with white sauce, 112 veal, stewed with eeleiy, 113 ditto with forcemeat, 237 rice, 115 mutton, 143 mutton, a la Maiutenon, 142 Hindostiiuee fashion, 143 lamb and mutton, 143 dressin" for, 330 batter for, 333 harico of mutton, 143 D Daihv and Poultry, Cliapter XXIII. 478 directions for the, 478 on the management of cows, 478 milking, 4/9 average produce, 479 to rear calves, 479 observations respecting cheese, 480 to prepare rennet, 481 to make cheese, 482 to preserve cheese'sound, 483 observations respecting butter, 485 to make butter, 485 to preserve butter, 486 buttermilk, 487 to manage cream for" whey butter, 486 to scald cream as in the West of England, 487 to keep milk and cream, 487 syrup of cream, 488 Gallino curds and whey, 488 to choose butter at market, 488 See Poultry. D'Almoy’s, a Turkish dish, 115 Damson Cheese, 39? ditto, cheap, 397 Davenport Fowls, 161 Delhi, cookery at, 289 curry powder, 300 Desserts, preserved fruit for. 381 fruit lozenges for, 391 orange salad for, 288 Devil, a dry, 153 a wet, 153 Devilled biscuits, 153 duck,167 Devonshire Junket, 411 sillabub, 411 Diet Brc.ad, 444 bread cake, 444 Dolmas of mutton, 147 Dried Apples, 389 beet, 345 cherries, 393 goose. 349 gooseberries, 392 magnum bonum ]<lums, 406 mushrooms, 358, 359 pig’s heads, 349 salmon, 44, 45 cherries with sugar, 393 sweetmeats, how to keep, 377 Drink, a refreshing, in a fever, 508 another, 509 a very agreeable, 508 a most pleasant, 509 for a cough, 509 Dublin Bay Turbots, 1J6 Duck farcie, 167 devilled, 167 scorched, 167 stewed with cabbage, 168 stewed with green peas, 167 stewed with claret, 168 Ducks, to roast, 92 boiled, without salt. 96 roast, with apple-sauce, 96 to roast wild, 92 to boil, 97 sauce for young, 318 Dumplings, lemon, 222 Dumpokht, fowl and rabbit, &c., 299 Dutch way to salt beef, 346 beef, grated, .345 llnmmery, 419 oven, for what serviceable, 23, 43, 86, 139, 279, 281 Dutch pudding, 215 sauce, for meat, fowl, or lish, 315 E Ears, Calves’, stuffed, 241 pig’s feet and, 119 to force hog’s, 118 Eel Broth, 500 soup, ‘22 conger, soup, 25 Eels, difference in quality of the species of, 38 silver, 38 Dutch, 38 Thames, 38 to <lrcss, 54 spitchcockcd, 55INDEX. 547 Eels, to stew, 55 fried, 55 collared, 56 roasted, 234 to stew lampreys, as at Worces- ter. 56 to pot lampreys, as at Worcester, 56 Eggs, Cheese, Salads, &c., Chapter XIV., 275 egg alb, 284 hand-egg curry, 291 egg sauce, 317 egg, yolk of, for what used, 333 Eggs, whites of, to clear soup, 3 a pretty dish of, 284 brouilles, or cjuarrelling, 283 buttered, 283 burut buttered, 275 a la Carmelite, 284 in daylight, 276 on the dish, 275 for the Sh.ah, 283 a la tripe, 275 farcie, 284 white fricassee of, 282 with foliage, 282 broccoli and buttered, 267 hard-boiled for salad, 285 a substitute for, in salad, 285 employed for forcemeat, 327 little, for turtle, 330 to prepare, for invalids, 502 wiue, 512 to choose, at market. 491 to preserve them, 492 See Omelette. Eldeb Flowers in a pickle, for boiled mutton, 353 wine, 477 • white wine, 475 flower wine, 478 Endive en Veloute, 269 English Cookery :— of fish, 39 taste for rare meat, 85 haggis, 141 wines, remarks on, 466 Malmsey, or malt wine, 467 Espagnole, or consomme of game, 308 cod a 1’, 47 s.almon. 47 lamb a 1’, 139 F Family Dinners, bills of fare for, 532 Family Sauce, a, 367 Farce, care of French cooks in the prepar.ation of, 325 flavour of, 326 Farce, cuite, 326 of ham and veal, 327 herbs essential for, 328 ingredients for, 328 Farinaceous Jelly, 502 Fat for frying fish, 41 Feet, Calves’, fricassee of, 114,240 au fritur, 114 stewed, 114 Pig’s, a last. Manchaud, 118 and ears, pig's, fricasseed, 119 and ears, soused, 119 and ears, pig's, jelly of, 119 Fillets of 'Ve.al. roast, 87 Fillets of Fish, 40, 63 Fish, Chapter II., 34 observations on dressing, 34 to prepare fish for boiling, 34 roe, milt, and liver, 34 the sound, 34 broiling of, 34 boiling of, to judge when done, 35 frying of, 34 to boil crimped, 35 oil employed in frying, 34 dripping for frying of, 34 French cookery of, 232 to know when fresh, 36 when stale, 36 to choose various kinds of, 37 fresh-Avater, to prejiare for cook- ing, 39 rules for cooking by the difl'erent processes, 30 observations on the serving up of, 40 parsley a good aildition to, 40 various additaments to, 40 boiling, frying, broiling, and roasting, &c., of fish, 42 et seq. Caledonian receipt for dressing, 5 i casserolle of, 63 collops, 62 croiiuettes of, 64 curry, 293 cutlets, 40, 63 fiUets of, 40, 63 forcemeat for, 40, 329, 330 forcemeat balls for stews and soups of, 330 a granade of, 232 gravy for, 40 gravy, a strong, 311 horse-radish sauce for, 323 jelly to cover cold, 312 pate, 63 pie, 193 2 N 2548 INDEX. Fish, Pontac ketchup for, 371 a very fine sauce for, 371 to pot mackerel, herrings, trout, &c.,335 potato wall, or edging for fricas- see of, 332 to preserve fish fresh for a day or two, 536 rissole of, 64 scalloped, 64 sauce without butter, 319 sauce, a la craster, 320 soup, 22 soup superbe, 25 soup [French], 249 stewed, Hebrew Ihshion, 57 turtle, 62 water souchy, 65 See the several Jish hyname. Fishmongers, interested arguments of, 35 Flies, to keep meat from, 78, 82 Floating Island, 418 ditto, another way, 418 Flounders, to choose, 38 sea and river, 38 Thames, 38 the seasons for, 38 water souchy, 65 Flour, American, 457 Flummt:ry, 418 Dutch, 419 French, 419 rice, 419 Fowdeau of Parmesan, &c., 280 Swiss cheese, fondeau, 280 Force, to, fowls, 329, 332 to, meat, 329 Forcemeat, directions for, 105, 306, 325 for fish, 234 for veal-cutlets, 237 ingredients for, 328 patience of French cooks in pre- paring, 325 French receipt for, 326 of ham and veal, 327 balls, either boiled or fried, 326 herbs and eggs for, 327, 328 for fow Is, 329 for meat, 329 for hare, 329 for fish, 329 for turtle, as at the Bush, Bristol, 331 Fowls, methods of boiling, 74 boiled in bladders, 7o Fowls, boiled in a jar, 75 to prepare for boiling, 92 time requisite to boil, 92 time for roasting, 92 boiled with oysters, 94,95 various sauces for, 94 roast, 95 beautiful way to dress, 95 boiled with rice, 95 stewed with rice, 160 to braise, 104 to broil, and serve with mush- rooms, 161 raised crust for, 176 in curry, 290, 291, 293 in a polao, 295 ^ Hindostanee kuwab, 297 in a dumpokht, 299 egg-sauce for roast, 317 Fowl a la braise, 166 a la Provencale, 160 au fritur, 163 cutlets, 164 puddings, 157 with onions, 164 with oysters, 166 with peas, 165 various French dishes of, 247 forcemeat for, 329 batter for fillets of. 333 French Cookery, Chapter XJI., 232 of fish, 39 marinade for fish, 41 Made Dishes, 104, 120,123, 144, 169, 172, 232, &c., 242, &c., 247 French Beans, 242, 261 beans pickled, 354, 355, 361 beans, to keep, 367 flummery, 419 use and preparations of force- meat, 325 fritters, 231 haricots [a la Francaise], 261 dish of carrots, 270 dishes of cucumbers, 268 lettuce, 269 potatoes, 258 spinach, 261, 265 omelette, 277 ditto, aux fines luTbes, 278 pic, 188 Perigord pie, 189 pufls, 225 sauces, 251, 307, 308, 309, 313^ 315, 319 soups, various, 28, 249 salad, 286 Fricandkau u I’Oseille, 264 i»f veal, 110INDEX. 549 Fricandeau of beef, 125 beef olive, 128 Fbicandels, to dress. 111 Fricassee of Calves’ Feet, 114, 240 of calves’ brains, 239 of cold roast beef, 130 of chickens, 162 white of eggs, 282 of fowl, 16^3 of lamb, white, 243 of trout, 235 de poulet a la bourgeoise, 247 of parsnips, 263 Fricasseed Calf’s Head, 107 sweetbreads, 117 pig’s feet and ears, 119 lamb-stones, 140 rabbits, 178 Fried Artichokes, 263 fish, 34 eels, 55 meats, with crumbs and egg, 80 beef kidney, 132 patties, 196 potatoes, 257 Fritters, Directions for, 229 apple, 232 Brignets souffle, 232 buck-wheat, 230 curd, 232 French, 231 orange, 231 oyster, 67 pink-coloured, 231 plain, 231 potato, 230 rice, 227 Spanish, 230 Fbomaoe fondue, 230 fondue a la Parisienne, 230 fondues en caisses, 280 Frontiniac, English, 475 Fruit, Bottled, 379 cream, 422 preserved, remarks on their use for, 175 to^een, for preserves or pickles, in certain pickles, 354, J155 to candy any sort of, 3/9 to prepare, more wholesome for children than in pies or pud- dings,381 to preserve, for tarts, 381 to preserve, for desserts, 381 icily, of various kinds, 398 jelly of any kind, 399 lozenges for desserts, 391 Frumenty, Somersetshire, 420 Fry, Lamb’s, 140 Frying, mode for Fish, and prepara- tions, 34 oil employed, 34 dripping for, 34, 41 suet rendered down for, 41 See Rissoles, Chapter VII., 147 herbs, as dressed in Stafford- shire, 259 G Galette, a Cake to be eaten with sweetmeats, 454 Game, general Directions for, 91 (See the several denominations of.) pie, 189, 301 potted, 301 soup, 249^ consomme of, Espagnole, 308 to preserve game M’hich is likely to spoil, 636 Garlic, use of, 290, &c. in forcemeat, 328 sauce, 314 in various pickles, 35L 355, 357, 362 pickle, 366 in carachi, 368 Garnish for Fish, 40 for turbot, 42 for salmon, 42 for boiled poultry, 94 Garniture en Ragout, 240 Gateau de Pomme, 407 au riz, 420 Geese, Green, to roast without stuffing, 96 Gelantine, a. 111 German Puffs, 225 toast, 152 Ghee, or Clarified Butler, 289 Gherkins, to pickle, 352 GiBLET Pie, 191 soup,16 Gin Punch, 461 Ginger, Mock, 390 presei^-ed 'West India, 390 Ginger Beer, 477 Gingerbread,451 another sort. 451 a good plain sort, 452 a good sort without butter, 452 with caraway-seeds, 452 lmj)crial, 453550 INDEX. Ginoerbread, lemon, 453 uiits, the Yorkshire receipt, 452 ditto, the SnlTolk receipt, 452 Sugar, 453 Ginger Wine, 476 another, 477 Glaze, Directions how to, 331 to, without braising, 331 Gloucester jelly, 500 Goose, to roast a, 92 to roast with a mild stuffing, 96 stuffed with potatoes, an Irish dish,96 sauces and gravy for, 96 pie, Staffordshire, 190 pie, green, 190 pie, Yorkshire, 194 to roast a green, 96 sauce for a green, 317 gooseberry sauce for ditto, 318 to dry a, 349 Gooseberries, to pickle green, 354 to bottle green, 380 preserved as hops, 391 to dry, 392 to dry. No. 2, 392 Gooseberry Cheese, 392 fool, 410 jam, 305 sauce, 318 souffle, 420 vinegar, 374 wafers, 391 wine, 472 green wine, 474 pearl wine, 472 Granade, une, of Fish, 232 of partridge or hare, 233 Grandmother’s Beef, my, 126 Grape Pie, 199 wine, 468 champagne wine, 474 Grapes in Brandy, 380 to keep, as in Switzerland, 380 ■ Gravy, Directions for, 307 to make it keep a week, 307 another preparation, 308 meat, how to preserve it until wanted, 4 without meat, 309 soup, clear, 7 cullis or brown, 309 bechamel, 309 consomme, 308 a ricli, 310 veal, 310 a cheap and good, 311 strong fish, 311 Gravy for a fowl when there is no meat to make it of, 310 to make mutton eat like venison, 311 Graylino, a t excellent fish, 38 its season, 38 Green Peas, to boil, 253 to keep, 367 to keep, Russian method, 367 puree of, 273 Green Peas Soup, 12 another green peas, 13 soup maigre, 20 Greens with Salt Beef, 345 Grenadier de Sole, 234 Grouse, plainly roasted, 99 Gruel, Barley, 503 water, 508 Gudgeons, to choose, 38 the season for, 38 Guernsey, the table in, 96 Gurnet, baked, 60 H Hachee de Mouton aux fines Herbes, 242 Haddock, to boil, 35 to prepare for boiling, 34 stewed, 58 baked, 58 to dry, 59 to cure Finnan, 59 Haoois of Fowl, 75 an English, 141 a Scotch, 142 Halibut, stewed, 58 Ham Cake, 151 in disguise, 151 toast, 152 and veal, forcemeat of, 327 u.sed for forcemeat, 327 mutton, 340 to boil mutton, 341 Hamburg Beef, 344 Hams, method to choose, 77 to soak, 336 to dress, 336 time to boil, 74 to bake, 74 to bake under a pasty, 74 the liquor to bo preserved, 74 Fitzsinion family receipt for cur- ing, 337 in sweetwort, 337 to pickle, 338INDEX. 551 Hams, plain pickle for, 338 another giving a higher flavour, 338 , Berkshire receipt for, 339 ■ the manor-house receipt for, 339 Westplialia, 339 ) Habe Soup, 8 anotlier hare soap, 8 i how to keep a, 100 ' to roast a, 101 [I sauces fora, 101 I to cook one Derrynane fashion, ' 101 another coating for a, 102 to roast, with cream sauce, 102 Leicestershire jugged. 102 forcemeat for, 329 Haeico of Beef tails, 130 of mutton, 138 of mutton cutlets, 143 Haricots, to stew, 260 blancs, 261 blancs monceaux, 261 blancs, Spanish receipt for, 261 ala Francaise, 261 cotelettes aux, 242 Harvey’s Sauce an addition to soup, 3 Hashed CalFs Head, 105 mutton with herbs, 242 Head, Calfs, boiled, 87 hashed, 105 liaslied in St. James’s Place, 106 for mock turtle, 11 (See Coifs Head.) lamb’s, to dress a, 139 and hinge, lamb’s, 139 sheep’s, to dress, 141 pig’s, to collar, 158 dried pig’s, 349 Sheep’s, for Stock for Soups, 5 Heart, Beef, to dress, 81 with currant jelly, 81 another method to roast, 84 sheep’s, to bake, 144 Herbs, fine, with various Frencli dishes, 242 omelette witli, 278 frying, as dressed in Stafford- sliire, 259 tarriigon, knotted marjoram, &c., 30/ used in forcemeat, 328 Hebbinos, fresh, 36 to keep, 36 to prevent oiliness, 36 to choose, 37 to twoil, 52 to boil, 52 and onions, 53 Herhinos, to dress red, 53 baked, 53 to smoke, 53 to pot, 335 Hindostanee Kuwab fowl, 297 Hochepot, Mutton eu. 146 Hoo's Cheeks, to dry, 350 IIossYNEE Kubab, 297 Hotch-Potch, 15 another receipt for, 146 Huno Beef, 345 or rough, the Derrynane receipt, 34/ Hdntebs’ Beef, 347 pudding, 204 soup, 302 Hvbiscus Jam, 305 jelly, 305 I Ice for iceing, to'prepare, 432 brown bread, 433 creams, 432 currant, 432 punch, as used in Italy, 433 raspberry, 432 waters, 432 Ices, colouring to stain, 43,3 IcEiNO for cakes, 435 for tarts, 180 an excellent mode of, 180 India, the table in, 26, 93, 141, 143 144,210, 259,283 Ohiental Cookery, ampler XV., 288 pickle, 353 Ireland, the table in, 96, 262 Irish Pancakes, 229 pull's, 226 sauce, 371 Italian Cream, 427 cheese, 417 receipt, Ano Zabaglione, 429 soup, 28 salad, 287 sauce, brown, 318 J Jam, aierry, 398 corunda, 305 hybiscus, 305 gooselicrry, 305, 397, 398 Orleans plum, 39/ raspberry, 397 Jar, meats lioiled in a, 75 fowls boiled in a, 75552 INDEX. Jaumanoe, 420 Jellies of Fruit, observatious on, 377 colouring" for, 433 Jelly, Apple, 399 apple, Nos. 1 and 2, 414 arrow-root, 500 bread, 501 calf s feet, 429 ditto, another way, 430 cranberry and rice, 431 currant, 399 currant, without boiling, 398 farinaceous, 502 fruit in, 431 fruit, various, 398, &c. fruit of any kind, 399 Gloucester, 500 Kravy,307 hartshorn, 431 hybiscus, 305 lemon, 417 to preserve apricots in, 382 to preserve oranges and lemons in, 386 orange, 418 punch,422 Dr. Ratcliff’s restorative pork, 498 a restorative, 501 from sheep’s heads, trotters, or cow-heel, for soups, 7 pigeons in, 171 ditto, another receipt, 171 savoury, to put into cold meat- pies, 311 to cover cold fish, 312 shank,498 tapioca, 500 Jerusalem Artichokes, to dress, 255 John Dory, to boil, 35 Juoo-ED Meats, 75 hare, Leicesterehire, 102 Julienne, Soupe a la, 10 Junket, Devonshire, 411 K Keuob of Loin of Mutton, 137 Ketchup, Camp, 370 cucumber, 369 mushroom, 285, 375, 376 uses of ditto, 310, 313, 320, 367, &c. pontuc, for fish, 371 tomato, 373 tomato, at Uelsizu, 373 walnut, 285, 367, 370 walnut, of the finest (piality, 370 wine, 368 Khali Khan’s Curry, 291 pudding, 212 Khicharee, rice and other components of, 296 Kid stuffed with pistachio nuts, alluded to, 299 Kidney, Beef, stewed, 132 ditto, minced, 133 ditto, rissol^ of, 133 calf s foot and pie, 185 • Kidneys, Mutton, broiled, 145 ditto, stewed, 146 ditto, French mode, 242 .sheep’s tails and, 145 veal, toast of, 152 Killarney, Salmon broiled over an arbutus fire at, 43 Koftahs, Indian, of what meat, fowl, &c., composed, 298 Koltem or Meat patties, a Polish and Tartar disli, 195 Kringles,455 Kubab Hoss^mee, 297 Kuwab Fowl, Hindosfcinee, 297 L Lady Abbesses, of almonds, 226 Lamb, signs of being sweet, 76 to detect stale, 76 season for gross, 76 best season for house, 76 to roast, 80 roast, with miutrsauce, 87 leg of, boiled, 87 saddle of, 88 quaiter roasted whole, 88 to stew a loin of, 138 a I’Espaguole, 139 -stones, to dress, 140 -stones and swiMilbreads, another way, 141 and mutton cutlets, to dress, 143 chops, to frj' and serve, 141 various French dishes of, 243 soup, 28 Lamb's Head, to dress a, 139 head and hinge, siewe<l, 139 fry, 140 sweetbreads, 140 Lampreys, to stew, 56 to ix>l, as at Worcester, 56 Lanoue do Ikciif pique, 236 Lakd, to a fricandeau of veal, 110 l)oiled fowl with tougue, 96,332 meat, 332 a pheasant, 99INDEX. 553 Lard a rabbit, 103 sweetbreads, 332 a fricandeau of beef, 125 neat’s tongue, 134 ditto a-la-Prusse, 135 ditto a-la-Franyaise, 236 various meats iu French cookery, 236, 240, 243 Larding, to cure bacon for, 349 Larks, to roast, 97 a ritalienne, or furified, 173 Lrche Crema, as at the Grand Canary Island, 224 Leek Soup, 16 Leg of Beef iu soups, 4; how to pre- pare, 7 Lemon Cheese, 417 cheesecakes, 223 cream, 422 cream, white, 423 cream, yellow, without cream, 422 custard, 414 essence of, 212 dumplings, 222 gingerbread, 453 Jelly, 417 peel, candied, 403 pickle, 357 pudding, 222 puffs, 225 sponge, 408 tart, 199 another, 222 tartlets, 223 water, 510 Lemonade, 465 fine, 466 another receipt, 511 Lemons, their juice or peel used iu cookeiv, 96, 100, 141,147, 161, 162, 173, 208, 212, 229, 230, 239, 263, 289, 294, 296, 309, 312, 319, 327, 329, 333 pickled, as in India, 289 to pickle, 359 ditto. No. 2, 360 to ]>reserve, in jelly, 386 to preserve, for puddings, 386 Lettuce in Salad, 286 farcie, 269 au fritur, 269 Leveret with Herbs, stewed, 168 Li .M Es in Syrnp, a preserve, 303 Ling, to dress salt, 48 pie, 192 Liver, Calves’, 114 and bacon, fried, 115 calf’s, rissoles of, 149 used in stuffing fowl, 161 Lobster, buttered, 69 to roast, 70 ciiny, 293 stewed, 68 ditto, a high relish, 70 rissoles of, 69 with brown sauce, 69 miroton of, 69 pudding, 70 pie, 193 patties, 197 scolloped, 236 soup, 23 another receipt for, 24 salad, 287 sauce, 321, 375 Lobsters, to choose, 38 the heaviest best, 38 the male best, 38 to pot, 334 ditto, as at Wood’s Hotel, 335 Lonoe de Veau roti, 239 Lucknow, sweet pickles of, 289 polao or pillaw, 295 receipt for pickling limes or le- mons, 365 M Macaroons, 448 ditto. No. 2, 448 M-ACC.ARONI, boiled and served with grated cheese, 278 browned, 279 with bread-crumbs, 279 pie, 188 a la pontife, pate de, 247 timbale de, 245 aux truffes, timbale de, 246 a la pontife, timbale de, 246 Mackerel, to boil, 35 to choose, 37 the season for, 37 broiled, 50, 234 a la maitre d'hOtol, 51 boiled, 51 baked, 51 stewed, 51 fillets of, 52 pickled, 52 to pot, 335 Made Dishes of Veal and Pork, Chapter IV., 104 Made Dishes op Beef, Chapter V., 120INDEX. 554 Made Dishes of Mutton, Chapter VI., 136 Made Dishes of Poultry, Game, &c., Clia^iter IX., 160 browning to colour and flavour, 313 Madeira Pudding, 213 Madras Curry, 291 curry powder, 300 Magnum Bonum Plums, excellent as a sweetmeat, 396 to preserve, 406 to dry, 406 Malay Curry, 293, 294 Maiore, Soup, 20 peas soup, 20 green peas soup, 20 a more elaborate method for, 21 onion soup, 21 spring soup, 21 Maintenon Cutlets, mutton, 142 stttiks, 142 Marinade for beef, 81 for boiled tish, 4i Marjoram, Knotted, use of, 307 Marmalade, Apricot, 383 citron, 303 mixed, 397 orange, 402 orange, fine, 402 quince, 387 Sottish, 403 tomato, 373 transparent, 421 Marrow Pudding, 209 for forcemeat, 328 vegetable, dishes of, 272 vegetable, a preserve of, 405 Mead, Sack, 465 Meat, Butchers’, what portions to be employed in soups, 5 to choose, 75 to boil,73 to roast, 72 observations ou purchasing, keeping, and dressing, 77 selection of joints, 77 care and preservation of, 78 how long to hang, 78 to keep it hot, 80 to braise, 104 pies, 176 French cookery of, 236 curry, pillaw, and otlier Indian dislies of meal, &c. &c., 288 Meat, horseradbh sauce for hot or cold, 323 ditto for roast beef or mutton, 324 sauce for roast, 326 to force, 329 to lard, 332 Melange, a; Pickle called, 354 Melon, to preserve a, 400 Melons, to pickle, 365 Milk, see Dairy, Chapter XXIII., 478 Milk, Asses’, 507 ditto artificial, 507 curry, 292 porridge, 506 ’ ditto French, 506 punch, or vorder, 459 an excellent ditto, 461 ground rice, 506 sago,507 skim, employed for soaking hams, 336 soup, Berlin, 33 Mince, a good, for Patties, 197 pies, 200 pies without meat, 201 pies, lemon, 201 pies, egg, 201 Minced, Beef Kidney, 133 collops, beef, 135 mutton, 147 mutton with cucumbers, 147 meat, an old aad excellent re- ceipt lor, 200 meat, particularly good, 200 Mint, Peas slewed with, 266 Miroton of Apples, 221 of veal, 111 Miscellaneous Observations fob THE USE OF THE MiSTRESS OF A Family, xxv Mock Brawu, 158 another method for, 158 cream, 426 Mock Turtle Soup, 11 miother mock turtle, 11 a cheaper way to prepare, 12 Moor-Cock, to roast, 99 Morels, to tliicken and improve Soup. 307 Mouton, Cou de, a la Saiute Meuc- hould, 242 cotelettes aux haricots, 242 hachee de, 242 rugnonsde, 242 Mull, to, M'iue,505 Mullets, sea, 3S liver, 38555 INDEX. Mullet, red, 38 t'rey, 38 the season for, 38 to broil red, 49 to bake red, 50 in a granade, 233 MuLTAANEEor Malajjatancc Soup, 25 Bengal, soup, 26 Mushroom Ketchup, 285, 310,326 ketchup, various receipts for, 375,3/6 powder, 326 powder, to make, 359 sauce, for fowl or rabbit, 317 Mushrooms, in what disbes employed, 105, 109, 112, 162, 238 to stuff fowl with, 161 to stew rabbit with, 169, 170 puree of, 2/3 to distinguish the esculent, 274 to slew, 274 in stock and gravies, 308, 309 chopped for forcemeat, 326 to pickle, white, 358 ditto, ail excellent way, preserv- ing the flavour, 358 ditto, preserving their original ireshuess, 357 disguised as truffles, 358 to dry, 358 ditto, another way, 359 Mussel Sauce, 321 Mussels, stewed, 65 dipped in batter on a skewer and fried, 65 Mustard-seed, used in Pickles,353,355 Muttok, to choose, 76 to distinguisii wether, 76 to roast a haunch of, 83 to make it taste like venison, 83 to improve, at sea, 86 bifsteak of, 144 breast of, to dress, 139 chops, to serve, 144 in curry, 291 cutlets, a la Maintenon, 142 cutlets, fried, and served with mashed potatoes, 143 Dolmas, 146 various Frendi dishes of, 242 gravv to make it cat like venison, 31'1 an English haggis, 141 a Scotch haggis, 142 ham, 340 to boil ditto, 341 harico of, 1^ to dress a sheep's head, 141 hotclipotcli, 146 Mutton en hochepot, 146 kebobbed, 1.37 kidneys, to broil, 145 to stew, 146 koftahs of, 298 leg of, roast, 85 to divide a leg of, 85 leg of braised, 136 to roll a loin of, 137 loin of, stewed, 138 minced with cucumbers, 147 minced, 147 neck of, boiled, 86 neck of, roasted, 86 neck of, China chilo, 137 pie, 187 ditto to eat as well as venison, 187 pish-posh of, 297 polao, 295 saddle of, roast, 84 horseradish sauce for roast, 324 carrier sauce for, 325 Queen Mary’s sauce for a shoulder of, 325 sausages, 155 shoulder of, roast, 84 shoulder baked ui>on a Yorkshire pudding, 84 shoulder of, Iwiled, and smo- thered with onions, 86 shoulder of, stewed, 136 soup, 28 steaks a la Maintenon, 142 N Napkin, boiled lisli lo be served 011 0, 35 ^ rissoles of sweetbread served on a, 148 Nectar, 465 Neous, 465 excellent, 466 Newcastle pickled Salmon, 43 O Oil used in frying fiah, 34 Omo, a vegetable, 259 Omelette, sweet, 276 with almonds, 276 French, 277 witli herbs, 278 sweet, with preserve, 276 souflle, 277 a friar’s, 215556 INDEX. Onion Sauce, 252, 314 fried, for a gravy, 309 sauce for youug ducks, 318 Onions, how to be employed in Soups, pounded for certain dishes, 299 fowl, with, 164 rabbits stewed with, 169 slioulder of mutton smothered witli, 86 in Acha, 319 witli beet root, stewed, 272 in salads, 286 in curries, 292 in a pillaw, 295 in Indian dishes, 297 and cucumbers sliced, in a pickle, 352 OuANOE Butter, 417 cream, 4^ fool, 410 fritters, 231 fine marmalade, 402 marmalade, 402 peel, candied, 403 tartlets or puffs, 199 juice, buttered, 416 posset, 417 punch, 460 Oranoeade, 511 Oranges, to butter, to be eaten hot, 421 to preserve them in jelly, 386 to preserve them for puddings, 386 preserved, 402 whole Seville to preserve, 403 to fill preserved; a corner dish, 416 OaoEAT, receipt for, 511 Oriental Cookery, Chapter XV., 288 characteristics of, 288 of Hindostan, 288 Turkisli and Persian, 288 at Lucknow, 289 at Madras, 289 Persian Book of Receipts, 289 OuDE, King of, receipts for Indian dishes furnished by his khan- samah, 289 King of Oude’s curry, 289 sauce, the veritable, 315 Ox-uEEF, to choose, 75 Ox-CHEEK, 129 for soup, 4 O.XFOHn Puddings, 219 new college puddings, 219 Ox-tail Soup, 18 Oyster Soup, 24 loaves, 67 fritters, 67 sausages, 155 pie, 194 veal and, pie, 184 beef-Sicak and, pic, 185 patties, 196 sauce, .320 sauce for Turkey, 320 Oysters, to choose, 39 Pyfleet, 39 Colchester, 39 Milford, 39 rock, 39 to feed, 66 price at Billingsgate, 66 stewed, 66 scalloped, 66 stewed with wine, 66 roasted.67 in scallop-shells, 67 boiled, 68 1 fowl, with, 166 fowl boiled with, 94, 95 turkey filled with, 94 veal stewed with, 110 sweetbreads stewed with, 116 beef steak stewed w ith, 124 in forcemeat, 328 P Palais deBoeuf en sauce blanche, 237 Palates, Beef, stewed, 131 to pickle beef, 131 spitted on skewers, 131 a la^Mariette, 132 boiled, 132 au fritur, 132 beef, in white sauce, 237 to blanch, 331 Palestine Soup, 29 Panada, made iii five minuP-s, 500 another, 501 Pancakes, Directions for, 228 butter or lard, 228 common, 228 cretim, 229 fine, without butter or lard. 228 Irish, 229 New England, 229 rice, 229 Parmesan, to dress Cauliflowers, 267 with maccaroni, 279 foudeau with, 280 Parsley, an excellent adjunct to fish, 40 and butter, 40INDEX. ss? P.iBSLEY boiled to garnish dishes of poultry, 94 to crimp, 332 to crisp, 263 I pie, 188 in gravies and sauces, 310, 312, &c. for forcemeat, 328 I Parsnips, to mash. 263 fricassee of, 263 I Partridge Pie, 191 ' soup, 9 i to pot, 334 I Partridges, to roast, 92 with or without a stuffing, 99 when in season, 302 boiled, 302 stewed, 170,302 salmi of, 173 in salad, 248 i in a Bengal Perigord pie, 301 to distinguish young, 301 the grey, 301 the black, 301,302 Passover Balls for soup, 329 Paste, to make, for pies, 175 tine tart, 177 puff, 177 short crust, 177 light, 177 very light, 177 plain tart, 178 cheap pudding-crust, 178 rice, 178 for tarts and cheesecakes, 179 croquant, for covering preserves, brioche, 180 Pastry, Observations on, 175 ^ remarks on using preserved fruits in, 175 observations on sweet pies, 198 regent’s, 226 Pasty, V'cnison, Crust for, 180 to prepare venison for, 185 venison, 186 of beef or mutton to eat as well ! as venison, 187 I Pate of Crab, 68 I 6sh, 63 Patties, Beef, or Podovies, 197 cheese, 282 I with curds, 196 fried, 196 I Polish Koltem or meat, 195 lobster. 197 resembling mince-pies, 198 oyster, 196 sweet, 198 Patties, turkey, 197 veal, 197 a good mince for, 197 Pea, the Sugar, 266 Pea-Pods stewed, 266 Peaches, to preserve ripe, 384 ditto, in brandy, 385 to pickle, 357 Pears, Jarganel, Preserve of, 389 baked, 413 stewed, 413 Peas, Stewed, 265 stewed a la Franyaise, 265 stewed with mint, 266 the Berkshire receipt for win- ter peas, 19 ditto for summer peas, 19 soup maigre, 20 green, soup maigre, 20 porridge, 17 soup,13 fowl with, 165 pigeons with, 173 multaanee with, 27 to boil green, 253 to keep green, as practised in the Emperor of Russia’s kitchen, 253 to keep, 367 duck stewed with green, 167 green peas soup, 12 another green peas, 13 ditto, maigre, 20 puree of ditto, 273 PEPPEa Cake, a, 453 Pepper-Pot, ingredients for, 17 to be served in a tureen, 17 Pepper, Red, use of, 290, 294, 297,298, &c. &c. Perch, to choose, 37 Water Souchy of, 65 Perdreaux, Salade de, 248 Perigord Pie, 189 Pettitoes, to boil, 118 Pheasants, to roast, 99 PiCKALii.LA, of Cabbage, Ginger, Gar- lic, &c., 355 Pickle, plain, for Hams, 338 with a higher flavour, 338 that will keep for years, for hams, ' tongues, or beef, 343 an excellent, called Salade, 353 garlic, 366 India, 353 another India, 364 a melange of fruits, &c., 354 lemon, 357558 INDEX. Pickle, mixed, 360 a hot mixed, 362 Quia’s, 368 Pickle,to, small Apples,Pears,Peaches, various Plums, &c., 354, &c. barberries, 356 beet-root, 365 red cabbage, 365 cauliflowers, 355 codlings, 364 cucumbers and onions sliced, 352 young cucumbers, 352 French beans, 361 fruits, 354, 355, &c. gherkins, 352 gooseberries, 354 small limes, 365 the Lucknow receipt for limes or lemons, 365 melon mangoes, 362 melons, 355 nasturtians for capers, 365 onions, 356 large onions, 356 oysters, 366 peaches, 357 pears, &c., 354 radish pods, 362 red cabbage, 365 walnuts, 363 Pickle, to, a Ham, 838 pork, 340 tongues, 343 beef, 343 pigeons, 170 Pickled Apples for Mangoes, 361 barberries, in brine, 367 cucumbers, 361 elder flowers, 353 mushrooms, preserving their ori- ginal frcsluiess, 357 {See Pichlc.') Pickled Herrings, 54 mackerel, 52, 54 salmon, 43 Pickles and Family Sauces, Cliaptcr XVIII., 351 rules to beobscrs'cd witli, 351 glazed jars not tU for, 351 greening of, 352 Pickling and Salting, Chapter XVII., 336 PiEDS de Veau en fricassee, 240 en sauce d’oiguons, 240 en sauce tomato, 240 Pies, Chapter X., 174 observalious on, 174 apple, 200 Pies, green apricot, 199 beef-steak, 185 beef-steak and oyster, 185 Bengal Perigord,’301 calfshead, 184 calf’s foot, 184 calf’s feet and kidney, 185 chicken, 189 a remarkably fine fish, 193 French, 188 game, 189, 301 giblet, 191 green goose, 190 Staffordshire goose, 190 Yorkshire goose, 194 gi'ape, 199 an incomparable ling, 192 lobster, 193 macaroni, 188 savourj' jelly for cold meat, 311 mince, 200 mince, ^vithout meat, 201 lemon mince, 201 egg mince, 201 mutton, 187 oyster, 194 parsley, 188 partridge, 191 [Pasty] venison ; also beef or mutton in imitation, 186, 187 Perigord, 139 pigeon, 191 pilchard and leek, 193 pork, to eat cold, 184 rabbit, 191 shrimp, 192 sole, 192 observations on sweet, 19S veal, 181 cold veal, 182 veal and sweetbread, 183 veal and sausiige, 133 veal and pork, 183 veal and oyster, 184 vegetable, 187 Fur variom small Fruit Pies see Tarts- Pig, to collar a, 350 to scald a sucking, 90 to roast a sucking, 9U to roast a, 91 currant siuice for, 316 Pig’s Feet a la 8t. Manchand, 118 feet and ears, soused, 119 ditto, fricasseed, 119 ditto, jelly of, 119 HU excellent sjuice for, 159 harslet, 119 head, to collar, 158 head, lo dry a, 3-J9 cheek, lo dry a, 350INDEX. 559 Pigeon Pie, 191 Pigeons do not require keeping, 92 roasted, 97 another way for tUtto, 97 woodcock fashion. 97 to pickle, 170 to pot, 3S3 in jelly, 171 ragout of, 172 a la FrauQaise, 172 with peas, 173 and sweetbreads, a vol-a-vent of, 195 pupton of, 24S. Pike, to know when fresh, 37 indebted to stuiBng and sauce, 37 stuffed and baked, 60 Pilchard and Leek Pie, I93 PiLLAW or Polao, 294 pine-apple, 294 Lucknow, 295 mutton, 295 Pine Apples in polao, 294 to preserve, 305 Pippins, Golden, stewed, 412 Pish Pash, to prepare, 297 Pistachio Cream, 426 nnts, raisins, and rice, stuffing of, 299 Plaice, to prepare for dressing, 41 Plum Cake, 436, 437 pudding, 204 very liglit, 205 national, 205 French, 206, 252 Plums, a common preser\'e of, 407 magnum bonum, excellent for tarts, 396 magnum bonum, to preserve, 406 ditto to dry, 406 PoDOviES, or beef patties, 197 PoELEE of veal, bacon, vegetables, lau- rel leaves, and lemon juict^, for what employed, 333 Pois a la Francaise (old peas), 265 Polao or Pillaw, to dress (of rice, tab* bit, fowl, quails, &c.), 294 apple, 294 pine apple, 294 Lucknow, 295 mutton, 295 Polish Dish, a, 126 koltcm, a, 195 Polish cotelettes de monton, a la Polo- naise, 244 rigos or sour-crout, stewed, 271 PoMMES an Reurre, 220 Charlotte de, 221 gateau de, 407 PoNTAc Ketchup for fish, 371 Poor, Cookery for the, 496 general remarks and hints, 512 Poppy-Seed or Till, Dr. Gillman’s re- ceipt fora salad oil, from, 306 Pork, how to choose, 76 kinds to be refused, 77 dairy-fed, 77 to roast, 88 to prepare stuffing for, 88 apple sauce for, 88 various modes of cooking, 88 a delicate preparation of, 89 chine of, roasted, 89 to dress, as lamb, 89 baked leg of, 89 to boil a leg of, 89 to salt, 336 to pickle, 340 Dr. Ratcliff's restorative jelly, 498 Porridge, Milk, 506 French ditto, 506 peas, 17 Portable Soup, 30 observations on*, 30 .another receipt for, 32 Portugal Cakes, 446 creme de, 464i Portuguese Sausages, 155 Posset, Orange, 417 PoTAOB de Veau, 250 Potato Balls, 253 cheesecake/ 223 flour, 227 fritters, 230 pudding, 157 t .an exc(?llcnt plain, 207 with me.at, 207 suet, 208 wall or edging to serve round fricassee of fish, 332 rissole, 149 soup,25 another receipt for, 30 salad, 286 Potatoes, to boil, 255 to keep, 256 to broil, 257 browned, 257 fried, 257560 INDEX. Potatoes, to mash, 143, 256 new, 258 roasted, 257 souffle, 257 fish i»laced in a crust of boiled, hrowTiedjOr baked, 63 a la maitre d’hotel, 258 ditto, Parisian receipt for, 258 puree of, 258 Indian dish of, 259, 292 Potted Birds, 334 game, 301 lampreys, as at Worcester, 56 lobsters, 334 ditto, as at Wood’s Hotel, 335 partridge, 334 pigeons, 333 rabbits, 104 salmon, 45 shrimps, 335 PouLARDE a la Royale, 161 PouLET a la Bourgeoise, fricassee de, 247 a la chartreuse, 247 aux truffles, 248 Poultry, Chapter XXIII,, 489 the poultry-yard, 489 management of fowls, 489 age, 489 hens sitting, 489 laying, 489 hatching, 489 the hen-house, 490 to rear chickens, 490 to fatten fowls or chickens in four or five days, 491 to choose eggs at market and preserve them, 491 feathers, 492 ducks, 492 geese, 493 turkeys, 493 pea-fowl, 494 guinea hens, 495 pigeons, 495 rabbits, 496 Poultry,general directions forCooking, 91 French dishes of, 247 Indian dishes of, 293, 297, 299 |)owder, curry, 299, 300 Prawn Soup, 23 curry, Madras, 293 pRAWs, to choose fresh, 39 Preface, hi. Authorities in the art of CooUeiy', iii., iv. M. Ude, iii., xviii. Mrs. llundell, iii. xx. Opinion of Dr. Johnson, iii. Tlie Cook’s Oracle, iv. Importance of the art, v. Dr. Kitchener, vii„ xvii. Dr. Prout, vii. Appe- tite for dinner not to be fully satiated, ix. Lord Byron, xi. English ideas, xii. The Uble, xiii., xiv. Banquets, xiv. Do- mestic management, xiv. Ar- cana, XV. Larding, honing, and braising, xv. Cleanliness of servants, xvi. Culinar>'uteij^ils, xvi. Economy, xvii. Marketing, xvii. The seasoning of meat, xvii. Spices, xix. Useful directions, xix. Additions made in the present publication, xxi. Preserve, Almack’s, 396 another Almack, 396 a beautiful, of apricots, 382 another, of apricots, 384 of green apricots, 3^ of cucumbers, a fine, 405 a common, of plums, 407 of tomatos in imihition of guavas, 395 to, fruit for tarts or desserts, 381 fruit for pastry, 175 apricots in jelly, 382 green apricots, ^4 ripe apricots, 382 barberries in bunches, 399 barberries for tarts, 400 carrots, 404 citrous, 387 cucumbers, 405 lemons in jelly, 386 limes in syrup, 303 lime-juice, 3(M a melon, 400 nectarines, 386 oranges, 402 oranges in jelly, 386 Seville oranges whole, 403 ripe peaches, 384 peaches in brandy, 385 jarganel pears most beautifully, 389 pine apples, 305 plums, 407 magnum bonum plums, 406 whole or hnlf quinces, 388 .shaddock, or pummelo, 303 Siberian crabs, 389 Sil)erian crab apples, 389 strawberries, 400 ditto, whole, 401 ditto, a rich way, 401 ditto, in wine, 402 red tamarinds, 304 vegetable marrow, 405561 INDEX. Presehvks, Chapter XIX., 376 observations on, 376 pan for preserving, 377 to green fruits for preserving, or for pickling, 378 Prussian Soup, 18 PoDDiNos, Chapter XI., 202 and Pancakes, observations on, 202 PuDDiNO, Adelaide, 211 almond, 213 amber, 215 batter, boiled, 207 biscuit, 216 black, farm-house receipt for, 1.56 a black-cap, 205 bread, boiled, 210 bread and butter, 209 cabinet, 210 citron, the Norwich receipt for, 214 ‘ tlie Clarence, 211 cocoa-nut, 216 college, 219 the conservative, 211 cream, 224 crust, 178 curd, 214 custard, 208 Dutch, 215 an economical, 206 Eve’s, 224 fowl, 157 French plum, 206,252 Gloucester, 220 the Grey, 210 in haste, 213 hunters', 204 Khali Khan’s, 212 Lemon, No. 1, 222 No. 2, 222 No. 3, 222 lobster, 70 Madeira, 213 Marlborough, 207 marrow, 209 Martha’s, 211 Merton almond, baked, 214 millet, 210 Montagu, 206 national plum, 205 new college, 219 Oxford, 219 plum, 204 verj’ light plum, 205 a porcupine, 219 the Portland, 212 potato, 157 plain 207 PuDDiNo with meat, 207 suet, 208 pound, 212 puff, 216 quickly made, 223 rabbit, 157 plain lioiled rice, 217 rice, small, 217 rice, various, 217 rich rice, baked, 218 rice for the family, baked, 218 rice wilh fruit, 218 rice with diy cuivants, boiled, 218 rice, baked, 218 rolled, with currants, fruits, sweetmeats, or jam, 206 Shelford, 213 souffle, 227 sponge, 216 suet, 205 a Swiss, 215 baked vermicelli, 209 while, 156 Puff Pudding, 216 Puffs, Austrian, 225 orange, IM German, 225 Frcucii, 225 lemon, 225 Irisli, 226 PuMMEi.o, or shaddock preserved, 303 Punch, Liqueurs, Wines, &c., Cliapter XXIL, 458 ‘ an excellent method of making, 458 ^ gin,461 milk, 459 excellent milk, 461 Norfolk, 459 ditto, another way, 460 orange, 460 aaspberry, 461 regent's, 460 ' Punch Jelly, 422 Puree of Chestnuts, 273 of various vegetables, 272 of mushrooms, 273 of green peas, 273 of potatoes, 258 ofturnips, 274 de volaille, 165 souffle of puree do volaille, 165 Purslane for Salad, 286 Q Quails in Polao, or Ihllaw, 294 2 oINDEX. 562 Queen Cakes, 444 ditto, another way, 444 Quenes de Veaii, 238 Qui Hi Sauce, 3C7 Quin’s Pickle, 3('S Quince Marmalade, 387 another way to make, 388 Quinces, to preserve whole or half, 388 R Rabbit a la Frau^aise, 1G9 ala Provencale, 160 au fritur, 163 pie, 191 puddings, 157 in curry, 293 in pillavvs, 295 stewed with herbs, 168 stewed with mushrooms, 170 fricasseed and covered with rice paste, 178 Rabbits, larded and brai^eti, 103 boiled, 103 sauce for ditto, 316 to make one taste like a hare, 103 to pot, 104 stewed with onions, 169 Indian dishes of, 299 Radish Pods, to pickle, 362 Radishes, to boil, 270 Ragouts :— of beef, 125 call’s head, 107 cod sounds, 49 cotelettes de moutou, 244 of pigeons, 172 breast of veal, 110 of spinach, 265 of sweetbreads, 233 garniUire en, 240 vegetable, 259 Raisin Wine, 468 with cider, 409 without cider, 469 Ramakins, haked, 280 fried, 281 Raspbeuuy Cream, 425 ditto, auolhev way, 425 jam, 397 vinegar, 461 wine, 467 Ratafia Cream, 428 ditto, another way, 428 Ratafie lies qiiatro fruits, 464 Receipts, Miscellaneous, 535 Receipts, Various, and Directions TO Servants, 515 fine blacking for shoes, 532 to give to \)oards a beautiful ap* pnarauce, 529 to clean calico furniture when taken down for the summer, 525 to clean carpets, 528 to dust carpets and floors, 528 to cement broken cliina, 520 Roman cement or mortar, 521 to blacken the fronts of stone chimney-pieces, 530 to destroy crickets, 524 a liquor to wash old deeds, &c., ou paper or parchment, when the writing is obliLrated, or when sunk, to make it legible, 524 to prevent the creaking of a door, 532 to make flannels keep their co- lour and not shrink, 522 to clean floor-cloths, 528 floor-cloths, 527 to dve tiie linings of furnitures, 523 to preserve gilding, and clean it, 526 to dye gloves to look like York- taii or Limerick, 523 to live white gloves a beautiful purple, 524 excellent method of cleaning golii, 537 to preserve a granary from in- sects or easels, 524 to clean tlie back of the grate, the inner hearth, and the fronts of cast-iron stoves, 531 an exctdlent water to prevent iiair from falliug off, and to thicken it, 519 paste for chapped hands, 518 to prevent green hav from llriug, 524 honey-water, 519 Hungary water, 513 black ink, 520 to preserve irons from rust, 530 ditto another way, 530 the best method of cleaning knives, 537 lavender-water, 519 to take stains out of auy kiud of linen, 521 for chapiKHl lips, 518 to clean looking-glasses, 5x5INDEX. 563 Receipt to give a fine colour to maho- gany, 527 to take ink outof mahogany, 527 to take stiiins out of marble, 530 to take iron-stains out of marble, 530 to preserve furs and woollen from moths, 522 to extract oil from boards or stone, 529 to clean paint, 526 to clean paper-hangings, 526 a strong paste for paper, 532 black paper for drawing pat- terns, 519 to clean plate, 525 pomade divine, 516 to make soft pomatum, 515, 516 hard pomatum, 516 pot pourri, 517 a quicker sort of sweet pot, 517 to prevent the rot in sheep, 524 to clean stone stairs and halls, 529 to take rust out of steel, 531 to take the black off the bright bars of polished stoves in a few minutes, 531 an excellent stucco which will adhere to wood-work, 520 mason’s washes for stucco, 520 to clean tin covers and patent pewter porter-pots, 531 a mixture for cleaning tin, cop- per, and brass articles, 5i^ to give a gloss to fine oak-waius- cot, 527 to make wash-balls, 518 Red Cabbage, to stew, 270 Regent’s Pastry, 226 punch, 460 Restorative, a great, for invalids, 502 jelly, 501 Dr. Ratcliff’s ditto, 498 Rhubarb Tart, 201 auother way, 202 lUCE, to boil. Oriental recipe, 296 balls, 227 cake, No. 1, 441 No. 2, 441 other receipts for, 441 caudle, 504 croquettes de [Riz], 245 cutlets, 115 flummery, 419 fowls boiled with, 95 fowls stcwexl with, 160 fritters, 227 gateau, 420 milk, ground, 506 Rice paste, 178 paste for relishing things, 178 pudding (see Puddings), 217, 218 souffle, 228 casserole au Riz des CEufs, 245 ditto, edged for a curry or fri- cassee, 333 in Indian dishes, 288 in a pillaw, 294 in khicharee, 296 zurdu of, 298 Ris de Veau, 238 ditto cn caisses, 238 Rissoles, Croquettes, &c., Chapter VII.. 147 Rissole of fish, 64 of lobster, 69 of beef kidney, 133 potato, 149 Rissoles of sweetbread, 147 veal, 148 a I’Espagiiole, 148 in paste, of any meat, 149 of calf 's liver, 149 Roasted cucumbers, 268 potatoes, 257 Roasting and Boiling, Chapter III., 72 Roasting, art of, butcher’s meat, 72 George III.’s taste, 73 time requisite for, 72 the cook’s preparations, 79 time, distance, basting, 79 directions for roast beef, 81 Roast Beef, 80 duck, 92, 96 fowl, 95 goose, 96 green geese, 96 heart, 81 lamb, 87 larks, 97 lobster, 70 mutton, 83 breast of mutton, 139 leg of mutton, 85 neat's tongue and udder, 134 partridges, 92 pheasants, 99 l>igeons, 97 pife', 91 suckiiig-pig, 90 ]>ork, 88 chine of pork, 89 pork, as lamb, 89 time requisite for poultry, 92 salmon, 43 sweetbreads, 117 turkey, 93 2 o 2564 INDEX. Roabt tripe, 82 veal, 86 venison, 82 wild-fowl, 92 Roonons de Mouton, 242 Roe of fish, 34 of cod or haddock cooked as cropped lieads, 60 Roll, Wine, 417 Rolled Calfs Head, 107 beef-steaks, 11^ loin of mutton, 137 veal, 109 veal, braised, 105 pudding, with fruits or jam, 206 dierries. which taste as if done in brandy, 395 Roux, brown, to prepare, 313 white, 313 Rum Shrub, 462 Rusks, 456 S Sack Mead, 465 Saffron in Indian Cookery, 298, 301 Sago, 507 to prepare, 515 milk, 507 soup, 32 Salad, to dress a, 286 French. 286 Italian, 287 vegetables fit for a, 286 boiled, 286 orange for dessert, 288 lobster, 287 partridges iu, 248 potato, 286 prawn or shrimp, 287 mixture, 285 a substitute for egg in, 285 to preserve the flavour of cu- cumber-i for winter, 352 oil from poppy-seed, Dr. Gill- man’s receipt, 306 Salade, an excellent juckle called, 353 S^vi.AMANDER, ail Indian, 297 Salmi of partridges, 173 Salmon, to boil, 35 to choose, 36 'niames, 36 Severn, 36 when and where in perfection, 42 garnish for, 42 sauccai for, 42 sauces for Salmon, broiled, 42 rousted, 43 roasted whole, 43 cutlets, 43 a la maitre d’hotel, 43 pickled, 43 the Newcastle method for ditto, 43 in fresh pickle, 44 in the Hebrew fashion, 44 to dry, 44 to dress dried, 44 an excellent dish of dried, 45 to pot, 45 collared, 45 pickled a I'Espagnole, 47 Saloop, 506 Salt used in lemon pickle, 357 Salt Cod, 48 to dress salt cod or ling, 48 to dress salt fish that has been boiled, 48 Salt, to, beef red, 345 for hung beef, 347 Salting and Pickling, Cliapter XVIK, 336 Saltpetre, use of, for beef, &c., 343, 344, ^5, 347 ditto fiir bacon, &c., 348, 349 ditto for dry goose, 349 Sandwich, an excellent, 153 Sauces, Forcemeat, &c., Chapter XVI., 306 French, Italian, and English, 250 Sauces, Family, Chapier XVIIl., 351 Sauces, directions for various, 250 Sauce, Acha, 319 aid-de-camp's, 3T2 apple, 322 ditto pi<{uaiite, 323 apple-sauce, with what dishes used, 88, 96 anchovy, 321 for heoi-steak, 324 horseradish, for roasl-l)eef or mutton, 324 for brawn, &c-, 159 breatl, 302 bread, No. 1, 316 ditto, No. 2, 316 Caine's particular, 3/2 carrier, for mutton, 325 celery, 315 Chetney, 367 for boiled chickens, 94, 317 cucumlicr, 252 currant, for venison or pig, 3l6 for young ducks, 318INDEX. 565 Sauce, Dutch, fov meat, fowl, or fish, 315 aus Epinards, 251 egg, for roast fowl, 317 family, 367 for fish, 321 fish, without butter, 319 fish, a-la-Craster, 320 a very fine fish, 371 another fish, 372 white, for fish, 235 green, for fish, 235 horseradish, for fish, 323 another ditto, 323 rich fish, not requisite for salmon in perfection, 42 for fowl, 161, 164 for boiled fowl, 94 garlic, 314 for a green goose, 317 gooseberry, for ditto, 318 for a hare, 102, 318 Irish, 371 Italienne, brown, 318 lobster, 321 ditto, another receipt, 375 for roast meat, 325 horseradish, for hot or cold roast meat, 323 a la Ste. Menehould, 324 a she mushroom, for fowl or rab- bit, 317 Queen Mary’s, for a shoulder of mutton, 325 mussel, 321 onion, 252, 314 the veritable Oude, 315 opter, 320 piquante, No. 1, 319 ditto, No. 2, 319 Qui hi, 285, 367 for boiled rabbits, turkeys, &c,, 316 Robert, for rumps or steaks, 315 white roux, 313 brown roux, 313 a mixture for salads, 285 salad, for trout, &c., 236 sorrel, 252, 315 k la Tartare, 324 tomate a la Franyaise, 251 tomate a ritalieniie, 251 tomato, 322 tomato, 5 la Fran9aise, 322 for boiled Turkey, 94 oyster for Turkey, 320 horseradish, for a Turkey, 323 veloute, 250 for hare, venison, &c., 318 cheap white, No. 1, 312 ditto. No. 2, 313 S.AUSAGE Meat with Turkey', 93 Sausaoe and Veal pie, 183 Saosaoes, &c., Chapter VIII., 154 Sausages, directions for, 154 0.xlord, 154 O.xford, receipt for, 154 an excellent sausage to eat cold, 154 mutton, 155 oyster, 155 Portuguese, 155 ScoLEOPED Fish, 64 lobster, 236 oysters, 66 Scotch Bun, a rich, 449 Scottish Cookery, 57 baked haddock, 58 Finnan Haddock, cured, 59 the dish called cropped heads, 60 haggis, 75 another haggis, 142 marmalade, 403 seed cake, 450 shortbread, 449 receipt for shortbread, 450 woodcock,153 Season, Meats, &c., when in: see Bills of Fare, 532 Servants, Directions to, and Re- ceipts, 515, 535 Severn Salmon,36 Shaddock, preserved, 303 Shalots, use of, iu various dishes, 292, 313, 326, 328 Shank Jelly, 498 Sheep’s Head, various dishes of, 141 brains, 150 heart, 144 tails, 144 tongues, 144 kidneys, 145 trotters, 145 Shikaree, Hunter’s Soup, 302 sauce for wild duck, 322 Shortbread, Scottish, 449 Scottish receipt for, 450 Shrimp Pie, 192 Shrimps, to know fresh, 39 in curry, 293 to pot, 335 Shrub, Brandy, 462 currant, 462 white currant, 462 rum, 462 Sick, Cookery for the, 496INDEX. 566 ■Sillabub, Devonshire, 411 everlasting. 411 London, 411 rock, 410 solid, 410 Staffordshire, 411 Sippets, when the stomach will not re- ceive meat, 502 Sirloins of beef, care of, 77 extra-snet to be preserved, 78 Skate Soup, 23 Skate, to boil, 35, 58 to choose, 37 Smelts, to choose, 38 their smell, 38 their habitat, 38 Smoke, to, Herrings, 53 Sole with forcemeat and gherkins, 234 Sole Pie, 192 Soles, to boil, 35, 61 to choose, 37 the season for, 37 cntletsof, 49 fried plain, GO fried with egg and crumb of bread, GO to dress another way, G1 eat cold with oil and vinegar, 61 in the Portuguese way, 61 stuffing for the above, 62 Sorrel Sauce, 252, 315 Souffle, Apple, 420 fritters, 232 , gooseberry, 420 omelette, 277 of potato-flour, &c., 227 potatoes, 256 pudding, 227 rice, 228 Sounds of fish, 34 cod, to look like small chickens, 49 to broil cod, 49 cod, ragout, 49 Soups, Chapter I., 1 Soup, a baked, 512 barshch, 27 c.arrot, 15 a cheap and wholesome, 14 cherry, 33 chloduik, or cold soup; a Polish dish. 27 I cock a-leckie, 32 i codling, 24 I conger eel, 25 cray-lish, 23 creasy, 9 Soup, eel, 22 fish, 22 superbe; fish, 25 French, 28 giblet, 16 hare, 8 another hare-soup, 8 Hunters’, or shikaree, 302 Italian, 58 a la .lulienne, l() lamb, 28 leek,16 lobster, 23 another lobster, 24 maigre, 20 ditto, green peas’, 20 ditto, peas’, 20 a more elaborate method for, 21 ditto, onion, 21 ditto, spring, 21 Berlin milk, 33 mock turtle, 11 another mock turtle, 11 a cheaper way to prepare mock turtle, 12 multaanee or malagatanee, 25 Bengal multaanee, 26 English multaanee, 26 multaanee with peas, Zt mutton, 28 ox-tail, 18 oyster, 24 Palestine, 29 partridge, 9 passover balls for, 329 green peas’, 12 another green peas', 13 peas, 13 Berksliire receipt for winter peas’, 19 ditto for summer peas’, 19 pepper pot to be served in a tureen,17 portable, 30 potato, 25 another receipt for, 30 jirawn, 23 Prussian, 18 sago, 32 a simple, 14 skate, 23 spring, 19 tomato, 18 to preserve tomatos for, 360 Turkish, 16 turnip, IS vegetable, 13 another receipt for, 29 an exadlent, for the weakly, 514 white, 9 wine, 33INDEX. .567 SocpK de Gibier, 249 de poissou, 249 Soups, directions for making, 1. The meats fit for, 1, English taste for, 1. Advantages of, for health, 1. Camp-kettle, 2. Earthen vessel, 2. Art in preparing, 2. Ingredients and aciditions, 2. Not to be poured into metal dishes, 2. Colouring of, 3. Wine added to, 3. Ketchup and sauces, 3. Meat to be placed in a moderate volume of water, 3. To clear soups', 3. General directions re- specting soups and gravies, d. Long boiling, 4. Stock for, 4. Materials for stock, 5. Another preparation of stock for, fi. .Stock for white soups, 5. Truffles and morels in, 307. Gravy soun. clear,7 Soua Crout, stewed, a Polish dish, 271 Spanish Cake, 445 custards, 414 Sparrows, to roast, 93 Spiced Flank of Beef, 344 beef, Leieeslei-shire, 346 Spices, use of, in various dishes, 294, 295, 296, 299, 300, 8x. in forcemeat, 328, 329 in gravies, 310, 311 in browning for made dishes, 313 for potted fish, 335 used in certain pickles, 353, 354, 355 Spinach Cream, 425 sauce, 251 a la Fransaise, 264 for fricandeau, 264 ragout of, 265 stewed, 264 stewed with cream, 264 Sprats, to choose, 37 baked, 53 Sprino Soup, 19 soup maigre, 21 Steaks, Beef, 122,123, 124, 125 mutton, l-<2 veal, 112 Stewed Beans, 262 rump of beef, 122 brisket of beef, 122 beef-steaks, 124 beef-steak, with oysters, beef palates, 131 beef kidney, 132 cabbage, 270 c.alves’ feet, 114 Stewed carp, 65 carrots, 262, 270 celery, 260 celery for veal cutlets, 113 cod, 47 cucumbers, 268 duck, with green peas, 167 eels, 55 fish, Hebrew fashion, 57 fowl and vice, 160 golden pippins, 412 haddocks, 58 halibut, 58 loin of lamb, 138 lampreys, as at Worcester, 56 mackerel, 51 mussels, 65 mutton kidneys, 146 shoulder of mutton, 136 loin of mutton, 138 oysters, plain, 66 oysters, with wine, 66 partridges, 170, 302 pears, 413 pea-pods, 266 old peas, 365, 266 (See (h'cen Pens.') r.'ibbit, with onions, 169 ditto, with mushrooms, 170 spinach, 264 sturgeon, 50 sweetbreads, 117 tench, 65 tomatos, 271 tongue, 342 turnips, 270 wild-duck, 168 See various Vegetnhles, Meats, Fowl, ^c., in Index. STocK-for Soups, 4 another way of procuring, 6 directions lor making, 308 for curry, 293 Stone Cream, 422 Strawberries, to preserve, 400 ditto, whole, 401 a rich way of preserving, 401 another way, 401 in wine, to preserve, 402 I Stuffino for Turkey, 93 truffles for, 93 chestnuts for, 96 for partridge, 99 for fowl, 161 for veal, 327 for artichokes, 263 of pistachio nuts, sultana raisins, &c., 299 Sturgeon, methods of cooking, 50 124INDEX. 568 Sturgeon, to slice and fry, 50 to stew, 50 a la Riisse, 50 Suet, how rendered, for frying of fish, 41 how to be preserved, 78, 81 for veai stuffing, 327 pudding, 205 ditto, baked, 206 Sugar, clarified, 378 added in salting beef, 345 ratio, for jellies of fruit, 3// vinegar,374 cherries dried with, 393 gingerbread, 453 Sweetbreads, to prepare, 116 stewed, 117 stewed with oysters, 116 ro:\sted, 116 a la daube, 116 friciisseed white, 117 fricasseed brown, 117 lamb’s, to serve, 140 ditto another way, 141 rissoles of calves’, 147 and veal pie, 183 and pigeons, vol a vent of, 195 ragout of, for a granade, 233 French dish of Ciilves’, 238 to lard, 332 Sweet Dishes, Cliap. XX-, 407 Sweetmeat composition, 398 Sweetmeats, observations on, 377 dried, 377 clarified sugar for, 378 Syrup, its use in preserves, 303, 304, 305,389 for liqueurs, 464 T Tail, harico of beef, 129 ox, soup, 18 Tails, to dress calves’, 238 sheep’s, to stew, 144 and tongues, sheep's, 144 and kidneys, sheep’s, 145 Tallianni, to boil and serve, 278 Tamarinds, Red, to preserve, 304 Tapioca Jelly, 500 Tart, Orange, 199 lemon, 199 another, 222 rhubarb, 201 Tartlets, Lemon, 223 orange, 199 Tarts, Directions for, 175 paste, 178 Tarts, paste, fine, h < paste, light, 179 transparent crust for, 179 icing for, 180 cranberries prepared for, 193 to preserve fruit for, 381 cherries for, 395 magnum bonum, 396 Tench, flavour of, 37 to be dressed when caught, 37 to choose, 37 season for, 37 to stew, 65 Tendons de Veau au fritur, 239 Thames Salmon, 36 smelts, 38 eels, 38 flounders, 38 Tipsy Cake, 420 Toast and Water, 509 kidney, baked, 152 to prepare German, 152 vegetable, 152 Toasted Cheese, 281 Tomate Sauee, a-la-Francaise, 251, 322 a I'ltalienne, 251, 322 Tomato Ketchup,373 ditto, at llelsize, 373 marmalade, 372 soup, 18 a preserve of, 395 Tomatos, stewed, 271 for soup, to preserve, 360 Tongue, to boil a, 74 beef, 133 ditto a-la*Grecqne, 133 ditto in currant-juice, 134 roast neat’s, 134 beef, larded a la Prusse, 135 ditto French dish, 236 toast, how made, 153 to blanch, 331 to cure a, 342 to stew, 342 Tongues, to cure, 341 ditto, another way, 341 to pickle, 343 to make a pickle for, 343 to prepare them to be eaten cold, 342 to cure sheep’s, 343 mode of dressing ditto, 144 Trifle, a, 408 apple, 409 cake, 409 au excellent, 409 gooseberry, 409 an Indian, 449569 INDEX. Tripe, roasted, 82 Trottbbs, Sheep’s, various modes of dressing, 145 Trout, an excellent fresh-water fish. 38 their season, summer. 38 in white sauce, 235 in green sauce, 235 dressed in paper, 235 in salad sauce, 236 to pot, 335 Truffles, to stuff a turkey with, 93 with timbale de macaroni, 246 fowl with, 248 to improve soups, 307 Truite cuite eu papier, 235 fricassee, 235 Turbot, to boil, 35 to be cooked when fresh, 36 Dublin Bay, 36 to choose, 3(5 in season in summer, 36 boiled, 42 marinade for, 42 additions for, 42 garnish for, 42 Turkey, to roast a, 92 quaint adage on, 93 to roast or boil a, 93 roast, witli sausage-meat, 93 with truffle stuffing, 93 roasted with a fowl, an East Indian dish, 93 filled with oysters, and boiled, 94 to choose, for boiling, 94 served with white sauce, 94 garnish for, 94 patties, 197 sauce for boiled, 316 oyster sauce for, 320 horseradish sauce for, 323 Turkish Soup, 16 dish, a, 115 Tur.weric iiseil in certain dishes, 292, 298, 299, 301 Turnip Soup, white, 18 Turnips, stewed a-la-maitre d’hotcl, 270 puree of, 274 Turtle, to dress a, 71 at sea, 71 little eggs for, 330 forcemeat for, 331 fish, 62 u L dher, Neat’s longue and roast 134 V Vanilla Cream, 423 Veal, to choose, 76 how to keep, 86 to prepare for cooking, 86 fillet of, roasted, 87 roast loin of, 87 breast of, 87 boiled knuckle of, 87 calTs head, boiled, 87 to dress the chump end of a loin of, 87 to braise rolled, 105 rolled, 109 to collar a breast of, 109 to fricassee a breast of, 110 to ragout a breast of, 110 stewed with oysters, 110 fricaudeau of, 110 mouton of, 111 a gelantine. 111 cutlets, 112 a ritalienne, 112 —; with white sauce, 112 rissoles, to serve, 148 rissoles a I’Espagnole, 148 croquettes of, 149 cake, 150 gravy, 310 scrag of, for soups, 7 stewed for gi-avies and hite broth, 307, 309 cold fillet, made dishes pie, 181 ditto, cold, 182 patties, 197 cutlets with forcemeat, 237 French dishes of, various, 2 in curry, 289 stuffing, 327 a very nourishing broth, 497 Veau, Pottige de, 250 Vegetable Curry, 292 marrow, preparations of the, 272 marrow, preserve of, 405 olio, 259 pie, 187 ragofit, 259 soup, 13 another receipt for, 29 toast, how prepared, 152 Veqbtabi.ks, Chapter XIll., 253 observations on dressing, 253 to boil them green, 253 French dishes of, 258, 261 served with meals, &c., 146, 151, &c. various, in curry, 290, 291, &c.5*70 INDEX. Vegetabi.es, various, in ijillaws, 294, 295 cold, boiled as salad, 286 various, in pickles, 352,354, 355, 356, &c. Veloute for Sauce, Soup, and Made Dishes, 250 another recipe for, 251 to serve it, 309 chicoree or endive in, 269 Venison, to judge of its sweetness, 75 time to keep, 75 age of, how known, 75 to roast. 82 gravy sauce and rod currant- jelly for, 82 to keep, 82 pasty, crust for, ISO to prepare, for pasty, 185 pasty, 186 currant-sauce for, 316 Vebdeh, or milk punch, 459 Veemicelli, to add to gravies, 8 with veal rissoles, 148 pudding, baked, 209 Vinaigrette, to serve, 287 ViNE-Leaves, 147 Vinegar, Chili, 373 cucumber, 369 gooseberry, 374 made of malt, 374 raspbeiTy, 461 sugar, 374 whey, 510 wine, 374 VoL au Vent, 194 of croquettes, 195 of pigeons and sweetbreads, 195 of veal, 195 VoLAiEEE en Fritur, 164 puree de, 165 souffle of puree de, 165 w Wafers, 445 gooseberry, 391 Walker, Mr. Thomas, his descriptions of dinners, in the' Original,’ 100 Walnut Ketchup, 370 ditto of the linest quality, 370 Walnuts, to pickle, 363 Water, apple. 510 barley, 466 lemon, a delightful drink, 510 Water Gruel, 508 souchy,65 Welsh Beef, baked, 347 West India blanc mange, 416 presenes, 306 WESTPH.ALIA Hams, to prepare for cooking, 339 WHEAT-Bran, 159 Wheat-ears, to roast, 93 Whey, 510 lemon, 510 wliite wine, 510 vinegar, 510 White Puddings, 156 sauces, 235, 312, 313 soup, 9 another white soup, 10 Whiting, to boil, 35 to prepaie for boiling, 34 to choose, 37 W'ild-Duck, to roast a, 92 to prepare, 99 stewed, 168 sauce, 322 shikaree sauce for, 322 Wild-Fowl, to roast, 92 WiLD-Geese, to dress, 100 tViLTsHiRE Bacon, the manner of cur- ing, 350 Wine, Liqueurs, and Punch, Chapter XXII., 458 to mull, 505 Wines, Remarks on English, 466 English champagne, 473 pink champagne, 473 . grape champagne, to equal fo- reign, 474 clary, 475 cowslip, excellent, 476 currant, 470 black currant, 471 white currant, 471 elder, 4J7 elder, white, very much like fron- tiniac, 475 elder llower, 478 English frontiuiac, 475 ginger, 476 _ another, 4< / ginger, at Leigh, 477 goosrdiorry, 4/2 pearl gooseberry, 472 green gooseberry, 474 grape, 468 English malmsey, 467 malt, 467 raisin, 408 ditto excellent. 468 ditto with cider, 469DOMESTIC COOKERY BY ^ LADY Printed text case-bound in cloth. Paper stained throughout but otherwise in good condition. Text sewn on tuo 'tapes strips of same cloth used for case. Tapes and inside joints broken. Outer joints partially broken. Binding taken down. Text uashed (deionised water), deacidified (calcium hydroxide) and resized (gelatin). Paper repaired where necessary using Japanese tissue. Sections reseun on tuo linen tapes. Spine lined with Jap tissue and cartridge hollow applied to provide support to spine. Case reassemoled using dyed aerocotton and applied to text-block. Original spine replaced over new spine covering. Uheat starch paste used in direct contact with original binding - P'/A used for hollou, new spine etc. N3 Missing title page and back flyleaf.ili*