ROUTLEDGES ^©iWORLRj^ GEORGE R0R1XSDG1S S' SONSRoutledge’s World Library Advertiser. A WONOERFIIL MEDICIliE. BEECHAM’S PILLS WORTH Are admitted by thousands to be worth a Guinea a Box for bilious and nervous disorders, such as wind and pain in the stomach, sxk head- ache, giddiness, fulness and swelling after meals, dizziness and drowsiness, cold chills, flushings of heat, loss of appetite, shortness of breath, costiveness, scurvy, blotches on the skin, dis- turbed sleep, frightful dreams, and all ners’ous and trembling sensations, etc. The first dose will give relief in twenty minutes. This is no fiction, for they have done it in thousands of cases. Every sufferer is earnestly invited to try one box of these Pills, and they will be ackn.owledged to be A GUINEA A BOX. For females of all ages these Pills are invaluable, as a few doses of them carry off all gross humours, open all obstructions, and bring about all that is re- quired. No female should be without them. There is no medicine to be found to equal BEECHAM'S PILLS for removing any obstruction or irregularity of the system. If taken according to the directions given with each box, they will soon restore females of all ages to sound and robust health. For a weak stomach, impaired digestion, and all disorders of the liver^ they act like “MAGIC,” and a few doses will be found to w'ork wonders upon the most important organs of the human machine. They strengthen the whole muscular system, restore the long lost complexion, bring back the keen edge of appetite, and arouse into action with the ROSEBUD of health the whole physical energy of the human frame. These are "FACTS” admitted by ne of the best guarantees to the largest sale of any patent the proprietor, T. Beecham, ijd. and 2s. gd. each. Sold Kingdom. 22101720722 — - ttAVi to.Med K10467 Ige’s World Library Advertiser. PRICE, 7 GUINEA per Bottle. CiY K.3MSDY extant prepared according to m laws of Physiology, and infallible in maladies caused by the Uric Acid Diathesis, viz. : CHRONIC RHEUMATISM, GOUT, CHALKY GOUT, ECZEMA, GALL- STONES, Solo Agent for Great Li\ Britain, the Colonies, and America:— G. MELLIN, MARLBORO’ WORKS, STAFFORD STREET, Peckham, London, S.E. KEATING’S LOZENGES. THJE BEST COUSIH MEMEBT EVER 31 ABE. Sold by all Chemists in Tins, Is. I^d. each. l8o(dinTins6-iA^^6 KEATING’S mm TABLETS JJEARLY all Children suffer from WORMS ; if suspected, do not wait, you can with ease cure the child ; this remedy is SURE TO CURE, SAFE TO USE. (Has no effect except on Worms). 7 his, 13. IJd. at all Chemists. IRoutledge’s World Library Advertiser. From the ATHEN.iEUM : “A bargain for threepence, and the sixpenny edition is nicely bound, and would not be dear at a shilling. . . The size is convenient." ROUTLEDGE’S WORLD LIBRARY JEdited by the Itev. II. B. JBCAWJEIS, 31.A. A New Series of the most Popular and Standard Works in the English Language. In paper cover designed by Walter Crane, 3d. j or in cloth, 6d. each volume. LETTERS TO THE PUBLISHERS. From SIR HENRY PONSONBY. ., , , Osborne, February 12th, 1886. Gentlemen,—I have had much pleasure in placing before the Queen the two volumes which you have had the kindness to forward for Her Majesty’s acceptance. I remain, Gentlemen, your obedient Servant, Henry F. Ponsonbt. Messrs. Boutledge & Sous. From FRANCIS KNOLLYS, ESQ., C.B Marlborough House, Pall Mall, S.W., February 10th, 1886. Gentlemen,—I have had the honour of submitting your letter of yesterday’s date to the Prince of Wales, and I am desired by His Royal Highness in reply to thank you for the volumes which you have been so good as to transmit to him. I should be obliged by your being so good as to inform me when the further volumes appear. I am. Gentlemen, your obedient Servant, Francis Knollts. From the RIGHT HON. W. E. GLADSTONE, M.P. 10, Downing Street, Whitehall, February 26th, 1886. Gentlemen,—I am requested by Mr. Gladstone to thank you for the copies of the first of a new series of cheap books, which you have kindly sent him. He wishes all success to your laudable undertaking. I am, Gentlemen, your obedient Servant, Messrs. Routledge & Sons. G. W. Spencer Lyttelton. From the RIGHT HON. JOSEPH CHAMBERLAIN, M.P. 40, Prince’s Gardens, S.W., February 13th, 1886. Dear Sirs,—1 have your note of the 9th instant, and the first volume of the Popular Classics, which you are about to publish. They seem to me excellently devised for their purpose, and in view of the rapid increase of education I caimot doubt that they will be appreciated by the class for whom they are intended. Yours very truly, J. Chamberlain. From the RIGHT HON. HUGH CHILDERS, M.P. Home Office, Whitehall, S.W., Febnmry 15th, 1886. Dear Sirs,—I am desired by Mr. Childers to thank you for the two copies of Faust ” sent to him by you on the 13th February, with which he is much pleased. Messrs. Routledge & Sons. I am yours, 4c , Stephen L. Simeon. From the REV. J. R. DIGGLE (Chairman of London School Board). February 12th, 1886. Dear Sirs,—Mr. Diggle desires me to thank you very much for the copies of “Faust” that you were kind enough to send him. He wishes the World Librai^ every success. In bringing good, wholesome literature within reach of the poor it will supply a long-felt need. Tours truly, Alfred Spalding. Messrs. Routledge. From SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, M.P. 33, Belgrave Square, S.W., February 12th, 1886, Dear Sirs,—I am much obliged for the “Faust” which you b*vo been so good as to send me. Your idea seems excellent, and I can suggest no i^rovement. Yours faithfully, John Lubbock.ROUTLEDGE’S WORLD LIBRARY. EDITED BY THE REV. HUGH REGINALD HAWEIS, M.A. " Syllables govern the JVorld."—]OHN Selden. E is a sea below the sea,” said a distinguished American 1 of letters to me not long ago. He meant the reading world the surface of society is as nothing when compared with the reading world beneath the surface. The success of every cheap and well-chosen series proves the truth of this, and the hungry ocean of readers still cries for more. Good books are at present borrowed, begged, and, too often, wearily waited for by those who cannot afford to buy them. Messrs. George Routledge & Sons, in “Routledge’s World Library,” purpose to issue such books at 3d. apiece in paper covers, and in cloth 6d. Each volume—not too large for the pocket, not too small for the shelf— will consist of 160 pp. royal i6mo, printed in good clear type on clear white paper. The Editor will keep his eye on famous writers, ancient and modern, dealing with stirring, profitable, instructive, and recreative .subjects, Biographies, Travels, chapters on Social Science, Political Economy, History, Fiction, Poetry, and the Drama. His objects are to place within everyone’s reach what everyone ought to know : to circulate the works of great writers, or portions of books which should be familiar in our mouths as household words : to provide persons of small leisure with select matter which they will peruse with eagerness, and rise from without feeling that they have wasted their time. To give such variety that everyone who takes in the series for a year, at a cost of a few shillings, will have on his shelf 52 volumes, differing in all but this,—that the world will not willingly let any one of them die. To make the price of each volume so low that none need borrow it, everyone being tempted to buy it, and nobody to steal it! I believe that, with a wide extension of the franchise, the time has arrived for the best books to be offered to a large class hitherto almost untouched by such literature. I am not one of those who “ wish to rob the poor man of his beer,” Rbut I cannot help thinking that should this fly-leaf flutter down upon the frugal board at the right time, there may be many who would be willing to substitute a glass of water for a glass of beer once a week, in order to secure a Life of Nelson, Garibaldi, De Foe’s Plague of London, Scott’s Marmion, or Goethe’s Faust. Such a sacrifice would leave the body not one whit the poorer, and the mind richer for ever. The books about to be offered to the million are the best—those “ with- out which no gentleman’s library is complete.” Wai.ter Crane designs the cover—for the best art is worthy to adorn the best literature. “Do the people care for either?” You might as well ask, “ Do the people care for turtle soup ?” The answer is, “ Of course they do when they can get it.” There is no greater mistake than to try to write and publish down to the people. Give the people something to work up to. Tennyson says, “ We needs must love the highest when we see it.” Place the highest within everyone’s reach, and then there will be something for everyone to work up to. As I looked down the other day, from the upper deck of a large Atlantic steamer, at the crowd of steerage passengers, and marked how most of them were huddled together hour after hour doing nothing, others crowding round the bar where beer was being doled out, and just a few reading some greasy tract or newspaper, I thought, “ O for a stock of cheap books such as will be issued in ‘Koutledge’s World. Library’ !” No emigrant ship should be without a selection of them. As I sometimes steam out of London and notice the miles of neat small streets,-and think of those thousands of bread-winners hurrying home nightly to growing-up families, I feel inclined to say, “ Why should not each of you once a week bring home a threq^enny book in his pocket? You would have to save but a halfpenny a day to do it.” When I think of the long, gossiping, yawning, gambling hours of grooms, valets, coachmen, and cabmen ; the railway stations, conveniently provided with bookstalls, and crowded morning and evening v.'ith work- men’s trains—the winter evenings in thousands of villages, wayside cottages, and scattered hamlets—the brief, but not always well-spent '>• leisure of Factory hands in the north—the armies of commercial and un- commercial travellers with spare half hours—the shop assistants—the city offices with their hangers-on —the Board Schools—the village libraries— the Army and Navy—the barrack or the dockyard—again the vision of “Routledge’a World. Library” rises before me, and I say, “This, if not a complete cure for indolence and vice, may at least prove a powerful counter-charm.” Such, indeed, are but glimpses into the sea below the sea : its waters are at present unexplored—we seem to sound and sound and find their depths fathomless. “ Routledge’s World Library” will heave the _lcad once more !ROUTLEDGE'S WORLD LIBRAR\ “Syllables govern the World.”—John Selden DOMESTIC COOKERY M EATS FORMED UPON PRINCIPLES OF ECONOMY AND ADAPTED TO THE USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES MRS. RUNDELL WITH AN INTRODUCTION UY THE REV. HUGH REGINALD HAWEIS, M.A. LONDON GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS KROADWAY, LUDGATE HILL NEW YORK: 9 LAFAYETTE PLACE 1886‘Syllables govern the World.”— IN WEEKLY VOLl 3t/. each, or 6d. Cl icvoutichrjc’s SSUorlh Edited by the Rev. II. R. HJfWT!TS7T^rTr WELLCUME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. x:aU- 1S9-! MES, ith, ihrarj welMOmec i VOLUMES ALREADY PUBLISHED: GOETHE'S FAUST. LIFE OF NELSON. GOLDSMITHS PLAYS AND POEMS. MEMOIRS OF BARON TRENCH. WHITE'S NATURAL HISTORY OF SELBORNE. CAPTAIN COOK’S THIRD AND LAST VOYAGE. LONGFELLOWS POPULAR POEMS. LIFE OF THE DUKE OF WELLINGTON. GULLIVER'S TRAVELS. DEFOE'S JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE. MS OP'S FABLES. BRITISH BIRDS' EGGS AND NESTS. THE. MUTINY OF THE BOUNTY. \hji^’S TALES FROM SHAKSPEARE. THH PROFESSOR AT THE BREAKFAST-TABLE. ■CHINESE GORDON. THE SPECTATOR (Choice Selections). jJIVINGSTONKS TRA VELS. COMIC POETS OF THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. POE’S TALES OF MYSTERY AND IMAGINATION.INTRODUCTION By the Rev. H. R. HAWEIS, M.A. This is no common book of cookery. I am aware that a cookery book may be thought by some readers a departure from the general scheme of Routledge’s World Library. But, as all our readers are not men, and as good cookery is indispensable to the comfort and health, if not the culture, of both men and women, I may perhaps venture to claim a corner on the shelf for Mrs. Rundell’s admirable collection of recipes. Many cookery books have been written. The merit of this one is that the authoress has drawn, not on her predecessors only, but on a long life of practical experience, and she here submits her results for the guidance of young housekeepers. She tells how at the beginning of her own married life she felt the need of just such hints and directions, but she had to pick them up for herself. The book came together by degrees and was originally intended for the help of her own daughters • and even in this abridged edition, a number of recipes and dishes, not generally known, will be found that seem well calculated at once to vary the monotony of the ordinary dinner- table, and to prevent waste. To those living in the heart of the country, where meat is killed on the farm, and a poultry- yard and dairy maintained, the unabridged edition will be very useful. _ If the husband is the bread winner, the wife is the bread giver, or kneader [hlhfdige = lady], which surely means that she has considerable responsibility; and no good wife willINTRODUCTION. 6 despise the knowledge and understanding of what to do with her husband’s money when she comes to deal with market or store in making provision for the daily meals. Many persons will say that such knowledge is of the first importance for those women, at least, who look forward to inarriage as their proper sphere. The highest mental culture will not prevent heartburnings at home, and a number of concomitant troubles, where the “ helpmeet ” is above giving proper attention to the value of money and such other little matters which somebody must suiDerintend if husband and children are to be healthy and happy. Girls are not born with a knowledge of how to control servants, keep the house clean and dainty, and devise home comforts. Many well-meaning girls marry without even those meagre hints from their mothers which would smooth the difficulties of the first few months; others unmarried, with invalid or busy parents, are obliged to take charge of the household at a very early age. To such, a book full of motherly hints from a capable housekeeper will be as welcome as any tale of deeds of valour, and “ hair-breadth escapes, and moving accidents by flood and field.” “ Housekeeping,” which the foolish may deride, means, on the woman’s side, much vigilance, much mental strain, much self-sacrifice. Some men who find the wheels run smooth, they know not how, forget to give the weaker vessel credit for what she knows and does. Most, however, are warmly grateful, and recognize the importance of the angel in the house who is not too angelic to know what goes on in the kitchen. I think, without further preamble, I can invite every housewife to invest in this most useful and suggestive threepennyworth. This issue contains the meat recipes only, as the pilces de resistance of every dinner. I intend to publish, as a sequel, recipes for sweets and dessert, together with a variety of vegetable and savoury dishes. H. R. HAWEIS.GENERAL REMARKS. In every rank, those deserve the greatest praise who best acquit themselves of the duties which their station requires. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic occupations stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when neglected, they produce much human misery. There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyond their own family concerns; but, in the present day, there are many who know nothing about them. Instances, however, may be found of ladies in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the accounts of their house-steward; and, by overlooking and wisely directing the expenditure of that part of their husband’s income which falls under their own immediate inspection, avoid the inconveniences of embarrassed circumstances. How much more necessary, then, is domestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strictest economy! We sometimes bring up children in a manner calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that which it is likely they will actually possess : and it is in all cases worth the while of parents to consider whether the expectation or hope of raising their offspring above their own situation be well-founded. It frequently happens, that before impressions of duty are made on the mind, ornamental education commences; and it ever after takes the lead: thus, what should be only the embellishment, becomes the main business of life. There is no opportunity of attaining a knowledge of family management at school; and during vacation, all si^jects that might interfere with amusement are avoided.8 GENERAL REMARKS. When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, returns to reside at her father’s house after completing her education, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of pleasures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashionable circles. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agreeable occupation, before she entered into the delusive scenes of pleasure presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the former, especially if restraint did not give to the latter additional relish. If we carry on our observations to married life, we shall find a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures. To attend to the nursing, and at least early instruction of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness; to preside over the family, and regulate the income allotted to its maintenance j to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued by intercourse with a jarring world; to be his enlightened companion and the chosen friend of his heart; these, these are woman’s duties ! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to a man whose soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring his share to the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman, one may truly say, “ Happy the man who can call her his wife. Blessed are the children who call her mother.” When it is thus evident that the highest intellectual attain- ments may find exercise in the multifarious occupations of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by domestic employ? It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she whose chief aim is to fulfil them will rarely ever fail to acquit herself well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the virtues of the female character, is that well-directed ductility of mind, which occasionally bends its attention to the smaller9 GENERAL REMARKS. objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. Hence the direction of a table is no inconsiderable branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure, respectability of appearance, and the comfort of her husband and those who partake their hospitality. Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respectability of a man is more immediately felt than the style of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the entertainments of the higher classes; but, if two or three dishes are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small sideboard neatly laid, and all that is necessary be at hand, the expectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no irregularity of domestic arrangement will disturb the social intercourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. In all situations of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the station than to the fortune of the entertainer and to the number and rank of those invited. The njanner of carving is now not only a very necessary branch of information, to enable a lady to do the honours of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the consump- tion of a family; and though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge apparently of less con- sequence, yet she must at times feel the deficiency; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable, that before the end of this century, great attention to guests may be again the mode, as it was in the commencement of the last. Some people haggle meat so much, as not to be able to help half a dozen persons decently from a large tongue or a sirloin of beef 3 and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the familyGENERAL REMARKS. lO were to take the head of the table under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as an early practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. Habit alone can make good carvers. The mistress of a family should always remember that the welfare and good management of the house depend on the eye of the superior; and consequently that nothing is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste may be avoided; and this atten- tion is of more importance now that the price of every necessary of life is so greatly increased. A minute account of the annual income and the times of payment should be taken in writing; likewise an estimate of the supposed amount of each article of expense; and those who are early accustomed to calculations on domestic articles, will acquire so accurate a knowledge of what their establishment requires, as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, without acquiring the character of meanness. Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be regul^ly kept, and not the smallest article omitted to be entered; and if balanced every week and month, etc., the income and outgoings will be ascertained with facility, and their proportions to each other be duly observed. Many families have owed their prosperity fully as much to the propriety of female management as to the knowledge and activity of the father. The lady of a general officer observed to her man-cook that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was offered;—to which she replied :—“ Such is the sum I have allotted to housekeeping; should it be exceeded one week, the next must pay for it. The General will have no public day this week.” The fault was never repeated, , Ready-money should be paid for all such things as comeII GENERAL REMARKS. not into weekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. The best places and times for purchasing should be attended to. In some articles a discount of five per cent, is allowed for ready-money in London and other large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops; but it is safest to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait for their money injures them greatly, besides which, a higher price must be paid, and in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregularity and failure of payment may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and also contribute to the destruction of many families from the highest to the lowest. To give unvarying rules cannot be attempted; for people ought to form their conduct on their circumstances, but it is presumed that a judicious arrangement according to them will be found equally advantageous to all. The minutise of management must be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank; and some ladies, not deficient in either, charge them- selves with giving out, once in a week or month, to a superin- tending servant, such quantities of household articles, as by observation and calculation they know to be sufficient, re- serving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they can easily account for increase of consumption, and vice versd,. Such a degree of judgment will be respectable even in the eye of domestics, if they are aiot interested in the ignorance of their employers; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently continue their own maids in the capacity of housekeepers; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the economical observations inGENERAL REMARKS. 12 this work will be as useful as the cookery; and it is recom- mended to be strictly observant of both, which in the course of time will make them familiar in the practice. It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict account. Some part of every person’s fortune should be devoted to charity; by which “ a pious woman will build up her house before God, while she that is foolish {i.e. lends nothing to the Lord), pulls it down with her hands.” No one can complain of the want of gifts to the poor in this land:—but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter part of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. By good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them ; and servants, by doing their work with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary. If the economy of time was duly considered, the useful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, a great deal might be done without hurry or fatigue ; and it would be a most pleasant retrospect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the valuable acquirements made and the good actions performed by an active woman. If the subject of servants be thought ill-timed in a book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good management of the heads will be insufficient if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service; to be very minute in investigatingGENERAL REMARKS. 13 the character he receives, and equally cautious and scrupu- lously just in giving one to others. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who knowing, or having well-founded sus- picions of any such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity or entreaty to slide him into another place. There are, however, some who are unfortunately capricious, and often refuse to give a character because they are displeased that a servant leaves their service; but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery, servants having no inheritance, and depending on their fair name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, are actions due to society at large; and such as are honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties should be liberally rewarded, which would en- courage merit and inspire servants with zeal to acquit them- selves. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought before the others be consumed, to prevent inconvenience, especially in the country. A bill of parcels and receipt should be required, even if the money be paid at the time of purchase; and, to avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when first brought home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been unintentional, yet it is prudent to weigh meat, sugars, etc., when brought in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when the weekly bill shall be delivered. Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is com- pany, if servants are required to prepare the table and sideboard in similar order daily.GENERAL REMARKS. 14 All things likely to be wanted should be in readiness; sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry, spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles closely corked; not more than will be used in four or five weeks should be pounded at a time. Much less is neces- sary than when boiled whole in gravies, etc. Where luncheons or suppers are served (and in every house some preparation is necessary for accidental visitors), care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are proper for either, and a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and, if duly managed, will be attended with little expense and much convenience. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which, when returned, will show the number to be paid for; as tallies may be altered, unless one is kept by each party. Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly, or on delivery, should keep a book for entering the dates; which will not only serve to pre- vent overcharges, but Avill show the whole year’s consumption at one view. An inventory of furniture, linen, and china should be kept, and the things examined by it twice a year, or oftener, if there be a change of servants \ into each of whose care the articles used by him or her should be entrusted, with a list, as is done with plate. Tickets of parchment, with the family name, numbered, and specifying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths are often deficient; these accidents might be obviated if a notice at the head of every list required that the former should be produced whole or broken, and the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The price of starch depends upon that of flour j the best will keep good in a dry warm room for some years; therefore15 GENERAL REMARKS. when bread is cheap it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. Sugar being an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined; and there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a bright gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, consequently unfit for wines and sweetmeats, but do well for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best \ and when their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be higher, it will be prudent to lay in the stock of both. This information the chandler can always give; they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in the cool; and there are few articles that better deserve care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much as would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity •, and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical;— Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoided, viz.— Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor if the air be ex- cluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Sugar and sweetmeats require a dry place; so does salt—Candles cold, but not damp.—Dried meats, hams, etc., the same.—All sorts of seeds for puddings, saloop, rice, etc., should be closely covered toGENERAL REMARKS. i6 preserve from insects; but that will not i:>revent it, if long kept. Bread being so heavy an article of expense all waste should be guarded against; and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent it. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry, to prevent a musty taste. Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savory, knotted marforam, or London thyme, to be used when herbs are ordered \ but with discretion, as they are very pungent. The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold and lay them under the feather-beds that are in use \ and they should be shaken occasionally. When soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in a large jug of water, some of which pour into the tubs and boiler j and when the lather becomes weak, add more. The new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of nearly half in quantity; and though some- thing dearer than the hard, reduces the price of washing con- siderably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water the night previous to washing, as facilitating the operation with less friction. Soap should be cut with a wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square when first brought in, and kept out of the air two or three weeks; for if it dry quick, it will crack, and when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a space between, and let it grow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption. Some of the lemons and oranges used for juices should be pared first, to preserve the peel dry; some should be halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the outsides driedGENERAL REMARKS. 17 for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these fruits are cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and prepared as above directed, especially by those who live in the country, where they cannot always be had; and they are perpetually wanted in cookery. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other purposes, contrive to have pudding, custard, etc., to consume the yolks also. Should you not want them for several hours, beat them up with a little water, and put them in a cool place, or they will be hardened and useless. It was a mistake of old, to think that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy j on the con- trary, if beaten long and separately, they contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advantage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, etc. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off; and to have them fresh done when the least defect appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, etc., in them, or any metal utensil; stone and earthen vessels should be provided for those purposes, as likewise plenty of common dishes, that the table set may be used to put by cold meat. Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes. Fenders, tin linings of flower-pots, etc., should be painted every year or two. Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is produced. Some years ago, the death of several gentlemen was occasioned at Salt Hill, by the cook sending a ragout to table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly tinned. Vinegar, by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic. To cool liquors in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun; renew the process once or twice. The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in aGENERAL REMARKS. i8 Stone jar on a hot iron hearth; or by putting the vessel into a saucepan of water, called a water-bath. ' If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, etc., be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost. The cook should be encouraged to be careful of coals and cinders; for the latter there is a new contrivance to sift, with- out dispersing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered tin bucket. Small coal wetted makes the strongest fire for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders, lightly wet, give a great degree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens. The cook should be charged to take care of jelly-bags, tapes for the collared things, etc., which if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour when next used. Cold water thrown on cast iron, when hot, will crack it. In the following, and indeed all other recipes, though the quantities may be as accurately directed as possible, yet much must be left to the discretion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlic, butter, etc., which can never be ordered by general rules; and if the cook has not a good taste and attention to that of her employer’s, not all the ingredients which nature and art can furnish will give exquisite flavour to her dishes. The proper articles should be at hand, and she must proportion them until the true zest be obtained and a variety of flavour be given to the different dishes served at the same time. Those who require maigre dishes will find abundance in this little work; and where they are not stidctly so, by suet or bacon being directed in stuffings, the cook must use butter instead; and where meat gravies (or stock, as they are called) are ordered, those made of fish must be adopted. N.B.—For directions for carving., see larger edition.DOMESTIC COOKERY. FISH. To choose Fish. Turbot, if good, should be thick, and the belly of a yellowish white ; if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. Salmon.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills particu- larly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff! When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes which gives great firmness; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and even preferred by some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. Cod.—The gills should be very red ; the fish should be very thick at the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. When flabby they are not good. They are in season from the beginning of December till the end of April. Skate.—If good they are very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. Herrings.—If good, their gills are of a fine red and the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which must be stiff and firm. Soles.—If good they are thick, and the belly is of a cream colour; if this is of a bluish cast and flabby they are not fresh. They are in the market almost the whole year, but are in the highest perfection about midsummer.20 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Whitings.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings \ they are in high season during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. Mackerel.—Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, and July, They are so tender a fish that they carry and keep worse than any other. Pike.—For freshness observe the above marks. The best are taken in rivers; they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stuffing and sauce. Carp live some time out of water, and may therefore get wasted; it is best to kill them, as soon as caught, to prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. Te7tch.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught.—When they are to be bought, examine whether the gills are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body stiff. The tench has a slimy matter about it, the clearness and brightness of which show freshness. The season is July, August, and September. Pei'ch.—Take the general rules given to distinguish the • freshness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut.—They are caught in the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the river mullets, and the red to the grey. They should be very firm.—Their season is August. Gtidgeons.—They are chosen by the same rules as other fish. They are taken in running streams; come in about midsummer, and are to be had for five or six months. Eels.—There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than of any other fish. The true silver eel (so called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate are very bad ; those taken in great floods are generally good, but in ponds they have usually21 FISH. a strong rank flavour. Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. Lobsters.—If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. When you buy them ready boiled, try whether their tails are stiff, and pull up with a spring; other- wise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail, and the two uppermost fins within it are stiff and hard; but those of the hen are soft, and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour, when boiled, is a deeper red. Crabs.—The heaviest are best, and those of a middling size are sweetest. If light, they are watery; when in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff, and the body has a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale. Praivns Shrimps.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. Oysters.—There are several kinds; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Milford are much the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat; but others may be made to possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When alive and strong the shell closes on the knife. They should be eaten as soon as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock oyster is largest, but usually has a coarse flavour if eaten raw. Flounders.—They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes bright. They very soon become flabby and bad. They' are both sea and river fish. The Thames produces the best. They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Sprats.—Choose by the same rules as herrings.22 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Observations on Dressing Fish. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish’ is seldom very nicely done ; but those in great towns wash it beyond what is neces- sary for cleaning, and by perpetual watering diminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the rvater to give firmness, but cod, whiting, and haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day; and if not very hot weather, they will be good two days. Those who know how to purchase fish, may, by taking more at a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried, will serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Fresh-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste, to take off which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned ; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same; then dry, and dress it. The fish must be put into the water while cold, and set to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimped fish should be put into boiling water ; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. The fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn up to see if it be ready ; it will leave the bone when it is. It should then be immediately taken out of the water, or it will soon be woolly. The fish-plate should be set crosswise over the kettle, to keep hot for serving ; and a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losing its colour. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.—Great attention should be paid to garnishing fish : use plenty of horse-radish, parsley, and lemon.0 FISH. When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. The liver and roe should be placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them, and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapped in a nice soft cloth after it is well cleaned and washed.—When perfectly dry, wet with an egg if for frying, and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish will look much better j then, having a thick- bottomed frying-pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the .fish into it, and let it fry rather quick, till the colour is a fine brown-yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire; carefully take it up, and either place it on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kejDt for that purpose only, or on the underside of a dish to drain; and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap-paper must be put to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and the crumbs appear distinct; the fish being free from all grease. The same drip- ping, with a little fresh, will serve a second time. Butter gives a bad colour; oil fries of the finest colour for those who will allow the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus done : When washed and picked, throw it again into clean water; when the lard or dripping boils, throw the parsley into it immediately from the water, and instantly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up with a slice; this may be done after the fish is fried. If fish is to be broiled, it must be seasoned, floured, and put on a gridiron that is very clean; which, when hot, should be rubbed with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a very clear fire, that it may not taste smoky; and not too near, that it may not be scorched.24 DOMESTIC COOKERY. TURBOT. To keep Turbot. If necessary, turbot will keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at first, if lightly rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold place. To boil Turbot. The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it com- pletely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil \ be very careful that there fall no blacks; but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy-butter and plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. SALMON. To boil Salmon. Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of the water as soon as done. Let the water be warm if the fish be split. If underdone it is very unwholesome. Serve with shrimp or anchovy-sauce. To broil Salmo7i. Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy- sauce. To pot Salmon. Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained fromFISH. 2$ it, then season with beaten mace, cloves, and whole pepper; lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. To dry Salmon. Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Rub the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang twenty- four hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of saltpetre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay-salt, and two ounces of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it well with common salt, and in twenty-four hours more it will be fit to dry; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place \ keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through, with egg-sauce and mashed potatoes; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. An excellent dish of dried Salmon. Pull some into flakes j have ready some eggs boiled hard, and chopped large; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rubbed with a tea-spoonful of flour; skim it and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. To fickle Salmon. Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor with bay-leaves, peppercorns, and salt; add vinegar when cold, and pour it over the fish.26 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Another way. After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide into such pieces as you choose, lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it \ to three quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay-leaves, six blades of mace, an'd a quarter of an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil quick three quarters of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. Salmon Collared. Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an elegant dish, and extremely good. COD. Some people boil the cod whole j but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to help, the thinner parts being overdone and tasteless before the thick are ready. But the whole fish may be purchased at times more reasonably ; and the lower half, if sprinkled and hung up, willFISH. 27 be in high perfection one or two days. Or it may be made salter, and served with egg-sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. Cod, when small, is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh it is watery; but eats excellently if salted and hung up for a day to give it firmness, then stuffed and broiled, or boiled. Cod’s Head and Shoulders Will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if to be eaten the same day. Tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water which will com- pletely cover it; throw a handful of salt into it. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if approved. If with smelts, be careful that no water hangs about the fish, or the beauty of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour.—Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp sauce, and anchovy and butter. Crimp Cod. Boil, broil, or fry. Cod Sounds boiled. Soak them in warm water half an hour, then scrape and clean; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water; when tender serve them in a napkin, with egg-sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. . Cod Sotmds to look like small Chickens. A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too tender; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters, crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and the yolks of two eggs ; spread it over the sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it; then lard them as you would chickens, dust a28 DOMESTIC COOKERY. little flour over, and roast them in a tin oven slowly. When done enough, pour over them a fine oyster-sauce. Serve for side or corner dish. To broil Cod Sounds. Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull off the dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender; take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea-spoonful of soy, and a little mustard; give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. Cod Sounds ragoiit. Prepare as above; then stew them in white gravy seasoned, cream, butter, and a little bit of flour added before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon-peel, nutmeg, and the least pinch of pounded mace should give the flavour. Curry of Cod Should be made of sliced cod, that has either been crimped c r sprinkled a day, to make it firm. Fry it of a fine brown with onion; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little curry- powder, a bit of butter and flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, and cayenne, if the powder be not hot enough. To dress salt Cod. Soak and clean the piece you mean to dress, then lay it all night in water, with a glass of vinegar. Boil it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish; pour over it parsnips boiled, beaten into a mortar, and then boiled up wfith cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a bit of flour. It may be served as above with egg-sauce instead of the parsnip, and the root sent up whole; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without flaking, and sauces as above.Fisir. 29 STURGEON. To dress fresh Sturgeoft. Cut slices, rub egg over them, then sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt; fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce : butter, anchovy, and soy. To roast Sturgeon. Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit; baste it con- stantly with butter; and serve with good gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. Another way. Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stewpan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Stir it over the fire till hot; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and anchovy-sauce. An excellent Imitation of pickled Sturgeon. Take a fine large turkey, but not old; pick it very nicely; singe, and make it extremely clean ; bone and wash it, and tie it across and across with a bit of mat-string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large handful of salt; boil and skim it well, then boil the turkey. When done enough tighten the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two pounds over it. Boil the liquor half an hour • and when both are cold, put the turkey into it. This will keep some months, and eats more delicately than sturgeon; vinegar, oil, and sugar are usually eaten with it. If more vinegar or salt should be wanted, add when cold. Send fennel over it to table.30 DOMESTIC COOKERY. TJiornback and Skate Should be hung one day at least before they are dressed; and may be served either boiled, or fried in crumbs, being first dipped in egg. Crimped Skate. Boil and send up in a napkin; or fry as above. Maids Should likewise be hung one day at least. They may be boiled or fried; or, if of a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled and the fins fried. They should be dipped in egg, and covered with crumbs. Boiled Carp. Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will find directed for it under the article, “ Stewed Carp.” Stewed Carp. Scald and clean, take care of the roe, etc, lay the fish in a stewpan, with a rich beef-gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dessert-spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy or port (cyder may do); simmer close covered; when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut- ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour; shake it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. Baked Carp, Clean a large carp ; put a stuffing as for soles dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up; brush it all over with yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs; then drop oiled butter to baste them; place the carp in a deep earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, if fast-day, fish-stock), a few sliced onions, some bay-leaves,31 FISH. a faggot of herbs (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both sorts of marjoram), half a pint of port wine, and six anchovies, cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let it be done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a tea-spoonful of mustard, a little cayenne, and a spoon- ful of soy. Serve the fish on the dish, garnished with lemon, parsley, and horse-radish, and put the gravy into the sauce- tureen. Perch and Tench. Put them into cold water, boil them carefully, and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch are a most delicate fish. They may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. To fry Trout and Grayling. Scale* gut, and well wash j then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping; serve with crimped parsley and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. Trout a la Genevoise. Clean the fish very well; put it into your stewpan, adding half Champagne and half Moselle, or Rhenish or sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; put in it a crust of French bread; set it on a quick fire. When the fish is done, take the bread out,- bruise it, and then thicken the sauce; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and pour the sauce oyer it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried • bread.DOMESTIC COOKERY. MACKEREL. Roil, and serve with butter and fennel. To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pepper, and salt; or stuff with the same crumbs, and chopped fennel. Collared : as Eel, page 36. Potted : clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay-leaves, and some butter; when cold, lay them in a potting- pot, and cover with butter. Pickled: boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar; when cold, pour it over them. Pickled Mackerel., called Caveach. Clean and divide them; then cut each side into three, or, leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take nearly an ounce of pepper, two nut- megs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder; mix, and making holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry them brown in oil •, let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone jar, and cover with vinegar; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be preserved for months. Ped Mullet. It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil, and serve in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases. To dress Pipers. Boil, or bake them with a pudding well seasoned.—If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish, and when done, take that, some essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemoq, and boil them up together for sauce.33 FISH. To bake Pike. Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following .-—Grated bread, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it in the fish, and sew it up; butter should be put over it in little bits; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. Note.—If in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. HADDOCK. Boil; or broil with stuffing as under, having salted them a day. To dry Haddock. Choose them of two or three pounds weight; take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the back- bone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night; then hang them up in a dry place, and after three or four days, they will be fit to eat; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg-sauce. Whitings, if large, are excellent this way; and it will prove an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply of fish. Stuffijig for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh butter, some parsley, thyme, and savory; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine; an anchovy or two ; a little salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be an improvement with or without anchovies; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. cDOMESTIC COOKERY. 34 SOLES. If boiled, they must be served with great care to look per- fectly white, and should be much covered with parsley. If fried, dip in egg, and cover them with fine crumbs of bread; set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or dripping, boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it j do them of a fine brown. See to fry, page 31. Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vinegar, salt, and mustard. ^ Stewed Soles. Do as Carp, page 30. Soles a?iother away. Take two or three soles, divide them from the backbone, and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from thg tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll j small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or, for fast-day, in clarified butter. Soles in the Portuguese way. Take one large or two small j if large, cut the fisli in two ; if small, they need only be split. The bones being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon- juice, give it a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each jDiece, and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat-gravy, a spoon- full of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine and some parsley chopped, into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, and bake35 FISH. till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed j if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. Portuguese stuffing for Soles baked. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little; then add some fat bacon that has been lightly fried, cut small, and some onions, a little garlic or shalot, some parsley, anchovy, pepper, salt, and nutmeg; pound all fine with a few crumbs, and bind it with two or three yolks of eggs. The heads of the fish are to be left on one side of the split part, and kept on the outer side of the roll; and, when served, the heads are to be turned towards each other in the dish. Garnish with fried or dried parsley. An excellent ivay of dressing a large Plaice, especially if there he a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours; then w^ash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, and cover with crumbs of bread 3 make some lard or fine dripping, and two large spoon- fuls of vinepr, boiling hot 3 lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy-sauce. You may dip the fish in vinegar, and not put it into the pan. To fry Smelts. They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth 3 then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread-crumbs, grated flne, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard 3 let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty will be lost.36 DOMESTIC COOKERY. EELS. Spiichcock Eels. Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them into pieces of three inches long, open them on the belly side, and clean them nicely; wipe them dry, and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded fine and mixed with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. • Ftied Eels. If small, should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into §gg and crumbs of bread. Boiled Eels, The small ones are best; do them in a small quantity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel Broth., very nourishing for the Sick. Do as above •, but stew two hours, and add an onion and peppercorns; salt to taste.) Collared Eel. Bone a large eel, but do not skin it; mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the finest powder, and rub over the whole inside; roll it tight, and bind with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till done, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme, knotted marjoram, and savory, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste.FISH. 37 To steii) Lamprey as at Worcester. After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the cartilage.which runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a small stew- pot, with very strong beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira or sherry. It must be covered close ; stew till tender, then take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy through a sieve, and add lemon-juice and some made mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse-radish. Eels, done in the same way, are a good deal like the lamprey. When there is spawn, it must be fried and put round. Note,—Cyder will do in common instead of white wine. FLOUNDERS. Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg; cover with crumbs, and fry them. Water Souchy. Stew two or three flounders, some parsley-leaves and roots, thirty peppercorns and a quart of water, till the fish are boiled to pieces 3 pulp them through a sieve. Set over the fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, tench, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley 3 simmer all till done enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices of bread and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the souchy. HERRINGS AND SPRATS. To smoke Herrings. Clean, and lay them in salt and a little saltpetre one night 3 then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in a row. Have38 DOMESTIC COOKERY. ready an old cask, in which put some sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red hot; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them remain twenty-four hours. Fried Herrings. Serve them of a light brown, with onions sliced and fried. Broiled Herrings. Flour them first, and do of a good colour; plain butter for sauce. Potted Herrhigs Are very good done like Mackerel, see page 32. To dress Red Herrings. Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open, and pour some boiling small-beer over them to soak half an hour; drain them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and serve. Egg- sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes should be sent up with them. Baked Herrings and Sprats. Wash and drain Avithout wiping them; season Avith allspice in fine poAvder, salt, and a feAV Avhole cloves; lay them in a pan Avith plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay- leaves. Add half vinegar and half small-beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a sIoav oven. If you like, throAv saltpetre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Sprats, When cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewer run through the heads, and then broiled and served hot and hot.39 FISH. LOBSTERS AND SHRIMPS. To Pot Lobsters. Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg and salt, press close into a pot and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in a mortar with some of the spawn ; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved. Another way to Pot Lobsters, as at Wood’s LLotel. Take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two, in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between ; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve, and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort, with the seasoning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day; or highly seasoned, and thickly cpvered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream-sauce; it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel, Lierrmgs, and Trout, are good potted as above. Stewed Lobster, a very high relish. Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut-ketchup, a little salt and cayenne, and a spoonful of port stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above.40 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Buttered Lobsters. Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. To roast Lobsters. When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the shell, and, while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Continue basting it with butter till it has a fine froth. Curry of Lobsters or Prawns. Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal-gravy, and four of cream; rub smooth one or two tea-sjDOonfuls of curry- powder, a tea-spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter; simmer an hour ; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. Prawns and Crayfish m jelly, a beautiful dish. Make a savoury fish-jelly, and put some into the bottom of a deep small dish; when cold, lay the cray-fish with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. To butter Prawns or Shrimps. Take them out of the shells; and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets; or with a cream-sauce instead of brown. To pot Shrimps. When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold put butter.41 FISH. CRABS. Hot Crab. Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the head, then put the meat, with a little nutmeg, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonfuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. Dry toast should be served to eat it upon. Dressed Crab cold. Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vinegar, salt, and a little white pepper and cayenne ; then put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is necessary. OYSTERS. To feed Oysters. Put them into water, and wash them with a birch-besom till quite clean; then lay them bottom downwards in a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. To stew Oysters. Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon-peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and put some cream and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. Boiled Oysters Eat well. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first; and serve in them, to eat with cold butter.43 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To scallop Oysters. Put them with crumbs of bread, p epper, salt, nutmeg, and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, and bake before the fire in a Dutch oven. Fried Oysters, to garnish boiled Fish. _ Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. Oyster Sauce. See Sauces. Oyster Loaves. Open them, and save the liquor; wash them in it; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. Oyster Patties. See Patties. To Pickle Oysters. Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar.—Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars, and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters; cover close. Another way to Pickle Oysters. Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor for ten minutes, simmer them43 FISH. very gently; then put them into a jar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hundred put two spoonfuls of the best undistilled vinegar. They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, for the air will spoil them. Note.—Directions for making Fish Pies will he found under the head Pies. MEATS. To choose Meats. Venison.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is rvide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it when it has much of the haut-gout. Beef.—If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat should look white rather than yellow ; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good ; beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter than that of ox-beef, but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef; the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 44 Vtal.—The flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding and having had whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with thick white fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour shows it stale. The other parts should be dry and white \ if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. Mutton.—Choose this by the fineness of its grain; good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age; but this only holds with wether-mutton ; the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram-mutton is very strong- flavoured; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Lamb.—Observe the neck of a fore-quarter : if the vein is bluish, it is fresh; if it has a green or yellow cast, it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. Grass-lamb comes into season in April or May, and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is in the highest perfection in December and January. Pork.—Pinch the lean, and if young it will break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measly pork is very unwholesome; and may be known by the fat being full of,kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Bacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and adhering to the bone.45 MEATS. you may conclude it good, and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already rusty. Hams.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone : if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are best, and long-legged pigs are not to be chosen for any preparation of pork. —The horny part of young brawn will feel moderately tender, and the flavour will be better; the rind of old will be hard. ^ Observations 07i purchasmg, keeping, and dressing Meat. In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes farthest: it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton are joints that bear a higher price; but, as they have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, however, that those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably; and, being cheaper, they ought to be bought in turn; for, when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes the price of these come lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint; as also the kernels of beef. Rumps and edge-bones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part that has been struck always taints; therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. The shank-bones of mutton should be saved; and, after soaking and crushing, may be added to give richness to gravies or soups. They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. Dripping will baste everything as well as butter, except fowls and game; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat off a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding than suet.46 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Meat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to dress them properly afterwards. In warm weather, meat should be examined when it comes in; and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown; then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle in, which will make it ready for the table in three or four days. If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well-floured cloth, after rubbing it with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for the table the day it comes in, but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which meat has been boiled makes an ellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas. Roast-beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine pea- soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. In some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of charcoal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning; but even then, if it is kept on the road while he serves the customers who live nearest to him, it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the country. Wash all meat before you dress it; if for boiling., the colour will be better for soaking ; but if for roastmg, dry it.MEATS. 47 Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment it boils, otherwise the foulness will be dispersed over the meat. The more soups or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. The boiler, etc., should be kept delicately clean. Put the meat into cold water, but flour it well first. Meat boiled quick will be hard j but care must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much; therefore, when you wish it to boil away, take off the cover of the soup-pot. Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots or pai'snips with boiled beef. As to the length of time required for roasting ajid boiling, the size of the joint must direct; as also the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes j for if the cook, when told to hinder the copper from boiling quick, lets it stop from boiling up at all, the usual time will not be sufficient, and the meat will be underdone. Weigh the meat; and allow for all solid joints a quarter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, and others in proportion. A tongue, if dry, takes four hours’ slow boiling, after soaking; a tongue out of pickle, from two hours and a half to three hours, or more if very large; it must be judged by feeling whether it is very tender. A leg of pork, or of lamb, takes the allowance of twenty minutes above a quarter of ah hour to a pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two hours and a half; twenty pounds will take about three hours and three quarters.48 DOMESTIC COOKERY. A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance. A chine of pork, two hours. The meat should be put at a good distance from the fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched while yet raw. Meat should be much basted ; and when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. Veal and mutton should have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for basting, good dripping answers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best parts; and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at the time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat; and the cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with; for want of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a little salt and water into the dripping-pan, and baste for a little while with this, before using its own fat or dripping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy : it should only be sprinkled when almost done. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s attention in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young; not that they are sooner done, but they can be eaten with the gravy more in. A piece of paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served. When you wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale49 MEATS. enough to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fry in must always be boiling hot the moment the fish, meat, etc., are put in, and kept so till finished; a small quantity never fries well. To keep meat hot.—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not be come \ set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over it so as not to touch the meat, and then throw a cloth over that. " This way will not dry up the gravy. VENISON. To keep Venison, Keep the venison dry, wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean cloths till not the least damp remains; then dust pounded ginger over every part, which is a very good preventive against the fly. By thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. To dress Venison. A haunch of buck will take three hours and a half or three- quarters roasting; doe, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather under than over done. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then lay a coarse paste on strong paper and cover the haunch, tie it with fine pack- thread, and set it at a distance from the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often; ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish (unless the venison has none), and made thus:—Cut off the fatDOMESTIC COOKERY. 50 from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in steaks on a gridiron for a few minutes, just to brown one side; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water, cover close for an hour, and simmer it gently; then uncover it, and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. Currant-jelly sauce must be served in a boat. Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison; which, as.some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread, and boil it with port wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon ; and, when quite smooth, take out the cinnamon and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. Make the jelly-sauce thus :—Beat some currant-jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short, put more wine and a few lumps of sugar to the jelly, and melt as above. Serve with French beans. Haimch, Neck, and Shoidder of Venison. Roast with paste as directed above, and the same sauce. To stew a Shoulder of Venison. Let the meat hang till you think fit to dress it; then take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat that have lain a few hours in a little port wine, sprinkle a little pepper and allspice over it in fine powder, roll it up tight, and tie it. Set it in a stewpan that will only just hold it, with some mutton or beef-gravy not strong, half a pint of port wine; and some pepper and allspice. Simmer it close- covered, as slow as you can, for three or four hours. When quite tender, take olf the tape, set the meat in a dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve with currant-jelly sauce.—This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, and then it should be roasted. The bone should be stewed with it. Breast of Venison. Do it as the shoulder, or make it into a small pasty.MEATS. SI Hashed Venison Should bd warmed with its own gravy, or some without season- ing, as before ; and only warmed through, not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison. For Venison Pasty, loqk under the head Pastry ; as likewise an excellent imitation. BEEF. To keep Beef. The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck-pieces where the shoulder-clod is taken off, two from each round of beef, and one in the middle, which is called the pope’s-eye ; the other from the flap j there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and the edge-bone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should take out the kernels j and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. The flesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly cleared of food, soon spoils. They should fast twenty-four hours in winter, and double that time in summer, before being killed. To salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately. The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it,into the pot, take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days.DOMESTIC C007CERY. 52 Great attention is requisite in salting meat; and in the country, where large quantities are cured, this is of particular importance. Beef and pork should be well sprinkled, and a few hours afterwards hung to drain, before it is rubbed with salt; which method, by cleansing the meat from the blood, serves to keep it from tasting strong. It should be turned evep^ day ; and if wanted soon, should be rubbed as often. A salting-tub or lead may be used, and a cover to fit close. Those who use a good deal of salt meat, will find it answer well to boil up the pickle, skim it, and when cold, pour it over meat that has been sprinkled and drained. To salt Beef red, which is extrer)iely good to eat fresh from the Pickle, or to hang to dry. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, saltpetre, and bay-salt, but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen, drain it from the pickle; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the bakehouse. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. • The Dutch way to salt Beef Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days, wipe it and salt it with common salt and saltpetre beaten fine: rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight inMEATS. S3 a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; hang it to dry in wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. Boil it in pump-water, and press it: it will grate or cut into shivers, like Dutch beef. Beef a la 7node. Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yellow; let each bit be near an inch thick ; dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, savory, and knotted majoram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well- tinned pot over a fire or rather stove; three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, then put them together, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape, and serve with the vegetables; or you may strain them off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted, and then stewed with the gravy, are a great improvement. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef A Fricatideau of Beef Take a nice piece of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stewpan -with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper, and salt. When the meat is become tender, cover it close; skim the sauce well, and strain it; set54 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. To stew a Rump of Beef. Wash it well and season high with salt, allspice, pepper, cayenne, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it in a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat; add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savory, marjoram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several sorts ; let there be a good handful all together. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate ; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, etc. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness, add a few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stew- ing.—A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great improve- ment to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is generally sold whole with the edge-bone, or cut across instead of lengthwise, as in London, where one piece is for boiling, and the rump for stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Stewed Rump—another way. Half roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small-beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or55 MEATS. four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ketchup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, pennyroyal, savory, marjoram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and cayenne; cover it close, and simmer till quite tender: two or three hours will do it. When done, lay it in a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy: put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat- balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet, herbs, spice, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement. Beef en Miroton. Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying- pan with some butter and six onions, turn the pan frequently, then mix a little broth, add pepper and salt, and after a few boils serve up hot. This dish is excellent and economical. To Steza Brisket of Beef Put the part with the hard fAt into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water: let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few peppercorns. Stew till extremely tender; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Serve that and the meat in a tureen; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, served with the beef:—Take half a pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea-spoon- ful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley, small, and put into separate heaps over it.S<3 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To press Beef. Salt a bit of brisket, the thin part of the flank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight, or in a cheese- press, till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold, and for sandwiches. An excellefit Mode of dressing Beef. Hang three ribs three or four days; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, etc., and baked as hunters’ beef, is excellent. To collar Beef Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool. Take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small:—A large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. Beefsteaks Should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal fire; put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side.57 MEATS. This dish requires to be eaten hot and fresh-done, and is not in perfection if served with anything else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it off the fire. Beefsteaks and Oystersauce, Strain off the liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon-peel; then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, add a little cream if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour; let them boil up once; and have rump-steaks, well seasoned and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over the moment you are to serve. Staffordshire Beefsteaks. Beat them with a rolling-pin, flour and season, then fry with sliced onion of a fine light brown; lay the steaks in a stewpan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce; stew them very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup or walnut-liquor before you serve. Italian Beefsteaks. Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part; beat it, and season with pepper, salt, and onion; lay it in an iron stewpan that has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a strong heat; in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gra\y. Beefcollop. Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes; lay them in a small stewpan, and cover them with a pint of gravy; add a bit of butter58 DOMESTIC COOKERY. rubbed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucumbers, and a tea-spoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil; and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. Beef-palates, Simmer them for several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, season them with cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. If to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in a fricassee-sauce; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom- powder, and a little pounded mace. Beefcakes for a side dish of dressed Meat. Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat bacon or ham; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or garlic : mix them well; and make into small cakes three inches long, and half as wide and thick; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. To pot Beef. Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with saltpetre, and let it be one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth, and season with black pepper; lay it in as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled59 MEATS. or roasted; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. To dress the Tiside of a cold Sirloin of Beef. Cut out all the meat, and a little fat, in pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long : dredge it with flour ; and fry in butter, of a nice brown; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. Fricassee of cold roast Beef. Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of butter and some strong broth; season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour; then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. To dress cold Beef that has not been done enough, called Beef-olives. Cut slices half an inch thick, and four inches square; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll bacon up in them, and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stewpan with some gravy made of the beef bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoon- ful or two of water, and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. To dress the same, called Sanders. Mince beef, or mutton, small, with onion, pep»«r, and salt; add a little gravy; put it into scallop-shells or sailjers, making I6o DOMESTIC COOKERY. them three parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream; put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven or before the fire, or with a salamander. To dress the same, called Cecils. Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, some anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, chopped parsley, pepper, and a bit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes; when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size and shape of a turkey’s egg, with an egg; sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy as before directed for Beef- olives. To mince Beef. Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stewpan, with some onion or shalot (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, and salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft; then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Do not let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it; if shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion nor the raw shalot. To hash Beef. Do it the same as in the last recipe, only the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut-liquor or ketchup. . , , Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they o-et hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered; and this last only hot through. Beef cl la vingrette. Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick and a little fat; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white6i MEATS. wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf; season it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain off the gravy, and mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. Round of Beef Should be carefully salted, and wet with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved •, in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp-pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. Rolled Beef that equals Hare. Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spodnful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour; serve with a rich gravy in the dish; currant-jelly and melted butter, in tureens. To roast Tongue and Udder. After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common salt and saltpetre three days; then boil it, and likewise a fine young * udder with some fat to it, till tolerably tender; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and roast the tongue and udder together. Serve them with good gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an excellent dish. Some people like neat’s tongues cured with the root, in which case they look much larger; but otherwise the root must be cut off close to the gullet, next to the tongue, but without taking away the fat under the tongue. The root mustDOMESTIC COOKERY. 62 be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well cleaned, before it is dressed, and the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before being pickled. To ste w Tongue, Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel: when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy ] season with soy, mushroom - ketchup, cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this recipe and the next, the roots must be taken off the tongues before salting, but some fat left. A71 excellent way of doing Tongues to eat cold. Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine powder for a fortnight; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. Beef-heart. Wash it carefully; stuff as hare j and serve with rich gravy and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same and port wine. Stewed Ox-cheek., plain. Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be eaten j put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with three quarts of water; simmer it after it has first boiled up and been well skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper.63 MEATS. and four ounces of allspice. Skim it often; when the meat is tender, take it out; let the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown ; which may be done by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. This last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind- If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted, or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled-in and strained off. Marrozv-bones. Cover the top with a floured cloth boil them and serve with dry toast. Tripe May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onion till tender. Melted butter for sauce. Or fry it in small bits dipped in butter. Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy •, thicken with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. Or fricassee it with white sauce. Soused Tripe. Boil the tripe, but not quite tender; then put it into salt and water, which must be changed every day till it is all used. When you dress the tripe, dip it into a batter of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. Ox-feet or Cozv-heels May be dressed in various ways, and are very nutritious in all. Boil them; and serve in a napkin, with melted butter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a brown64 DOMESTIC COOKERY. fricassee; the liquor will do to make jelly sweet or relishing, and likewise give richness to soups or gravies. Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then flour and fry them; and fry onions (if you like them) to serve round. Sauce as above. Or bake them as for mock-turtle. Bubble afid Squeak. Boil, chop, and fry with a little butter, pepper and salt, some cabbage, and lay on it slices of underdone beef, lightly fried. VEAL. To keep Veal. The first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it \viped every day, by which means it will keep good three or four days in hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe that runs along the chine of a loin of veal, as you do of beef, to hinder it from tainting. The skirt of a breast of veal is likewise to be taken off; and the inside of the breast wiped and scraped, and sprinkled with a little salt. Leg of Veal. Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round; and send the large side uppermost. When half roasted, not before, put a paper over the fat; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance from the fire, as the meat is solid; serve with melted butter poured over it.—You may pot some of it.MEATS. 65 Knuckle of Veal. As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small, and take otf some cutlets or collops before it be dressed ; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off the slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make it take less room , wash it well; and put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few peppercorns; cover it with water, and simmer till quite ready. In the mean time some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, to give it a small degree of thickness ; but do not put too much. Before it is served, add half a pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with or without the meat. Or, fry the knuckle with sliced onion and butter to a good brown; and have ready peas, lettuce, onion, and a cucumber or two, stewed in a small quantity of water an hour : then add these to the veal; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all together. Sliordder of Veal. Cut off the knuckle, for a stew or gravy. Roast the other part with stuffing : you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well with mushroom or oyster sauce, or mushroom- ketchup in butter. Neck of Veal. Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion-sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion-sauce. Or, it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and peppercorns, with a very little water. DDOMESTIC COOKERY. 66 Or, boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. Neck of Veal a la braise. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg; put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor; mix a little flour and butter in a stewpan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured : then lay it in the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon juice into it. Breast of Veal. Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken off and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter should be poured over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stewpan, and pour some broth over it; or, if you have no broth, a little water will do; add a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy; stew till the meat is tender, thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup; or the whole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. Serve the sweetbread whole upon it, either stewed or par- boiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch-oven. If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce is an excellent dish, if not cold or too fat.MEATS. 67 To roll a Breast of Veal Bone it, take of the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper, and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham; or roll into it two or three calves’ tongues of a fine red, boiled first an hour or two and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire to simmer in a small quantity of water till it is quite tender; this will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. Pigs’ or calves’ feet, boiled and taken from the bones, may be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers look well when cut; and you may put in yolks of eggs boiled, beet- root, grated ham, and chopped parsley, in different parts. Another way.—When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the liquor, which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will not keep. Chump of Veal h la daube. Cut off the chump end of the loin ; take out the edge-bone ; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stewpan with the bone you took out, a little faggot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal-broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. Serve it on mushrooms, or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. Veal-rolls of either cold Meat or fresh. Cut thin slices; and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a little suet, parsley, and shalot (or instead of the parsley and shalot, some fresh mushrooms stewed and minced), pepper, salt, and a small piece of pounded mace.—This stuffing mayDOMESTIC COOKERY. 68 either fill up the roll like a sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up very tight, and stew it very slowly in a gravy and a glass of sherry. Serve it when tender, after skim- ming it nicely. Haricot of Veal. Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole: put it into a stewpan, just cover with brown gravy; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, and two cabbage- lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth; put them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with forcemeat-balls around it. A Dunelm of cold Veal or Fowl. Stew a few small mushrooms in their own liquor and a bit of butter a quarter of an hour; mince them very small, and'add them (with their liquor) to minced vqal, with also a little pepper and salt, some cream, and a bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoonful of flour. Simmer three or four minutes, and serve on thin sippets of bread. Minced Veal. Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it. Tut to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil, and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape, round the dish. To fot Veal. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as- follows :—Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed with some mace, peppercorns, and two or three cloves; lay it69 MEATS. dose into a potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three hours; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste j put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. To pot Veal or Chicken with Ham. Pound some cold veal, or white of chicken, season as directed in the last article, and put layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred; press each down and cover with butter. Cutlets Maintenon. Cut slices about three quarters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both sides with egg; dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg grated; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them; and have in a boat melted butter with a little mushroom-ketchup. Cutlets another way. Prepare as above, and fry them; lay them in a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of butter into the pan; brown it, then pour a little boiling water into it, and boil quick; season with i^epper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. Other ways.—Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a Dutch-oven; pour over them melted butter and mushrooms. Or, pepper, salt, and broil them, especially neck-steaks. They are excellent with herbs. Veal Collops. Cut long thin collops; beat them well; and lay on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little garlic and cayenne. RollDOMESTIC COOKERY. 70 them up tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly; rub egg over; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. To dress Collops qtiick. Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put some butter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry; for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them on both sides ; put them into a hot dish before the fire j then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying-pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an improvement. Another way.—Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt and pepper; simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with bits of bacon served with them. If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream. Scallops of cold Veal or Chicken. Mince the meat extremely small, and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream, for a few minutes ; then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried; or these may be put on in little heaps. Fricandeau of Veal. Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad; beat it with theMEATS. 71 rolling-pin; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it in the stewpan with pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours; then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Fea/ Olives. Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and cayenne. Roll them tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mushrooms, pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. Veal Cake. Boil six or eight eggs hard; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot; shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, and then eggs again ; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould; and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. Veal Sausages. Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handfulDOMESTIC COOKERY. 73 of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar; and when used roll and fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white collops. Scotch Collop. Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and rather round; beat with a rolling-pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them \ dip into the yolk of an egg, and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown; pour the butter off, and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, two large spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. Do not boil the sauce, but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. To boil Calf's Head. Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head extremely tender; then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown them ; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Serve bacon and greens to eat with it. The brains must be boiled, and then mixed with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper, and salt. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few slices of bacon, just warmed and put round. Cold calf’s head eats well if grilled. To hash Calf's Head. When half boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long; brown some butter, flour, and sliced onions, and throw in the slices with some good gravy, truffles, and morels; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, at first; and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit ofMEATS. 73 tarragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible; just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat- balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. Another way.—Boil the head till done, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp knife ; lay this into a small dish, wash it over with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before the fire, and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the head may be equally brown. In the mean time slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel the tongue ; put a pint of good gravy into a pan, with an onion, a small bunch of herbs (consisting of parsley, basil, savory, tarragon, knotted marjoram, and a little thyme), a little salt and cayenne, a shalot, a glass of sherry, and a little oyster- liquor. Boil this for a few minutes, and strain it upon the meat, which should be dredged with some flour. Add some mushrooms, either fresh or pickled, a few truffles and morels, and two spoonfuls of ketchup; then beat up half the brains,, and put this to the rest with a bit of butter and flour. Simmer the whole. Beat the other part of the brains with shred lemon-peel, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred, and an egg. Then fry it in little cakes of a beautiful yellow-brown. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an egg, and do the same; and also some relishing forcemeat-balls made as for mock-turtle. Garnish with these and small bits of bacon just made hot before the fire. Calf's Head fricasseed. Clean and half boil half a head j cut the meat into small bits, and put it into a tosser, with a little gravy made of the bones, some of the water it was boiled in, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a blade of mace. If you have any young cockerels in the house, use the cockscombs; but first boil them tender, D 5DOMESTIC COOKERY. 74 and blanch them; or a sweetbread will do as well. Season the gravy with a little pepper, nutmeg, and salt, rub down some flour and butter, and give all a boil together; then take out the herbs and onion, and add a little cup of cream, but do not boil it in. Serve with small bits of bacon rolled round, and balls. To collar a Calf's Head. Scald the skin off a fine head, clean it nicely, and take out . the brains. Boil it tender enough to remove the bones; then have ready a good quantity of chopped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed well; season it high with these; lay the parsley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick slices of fine ham, or a beautifully coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. Calf's Liver. Slice it, season with pepper and salt, and broil nicely; rub a bit of cold butter on it, and serve hot and hot. To dress the Liver and Lights. Half boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them in middling-sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. Sweetbreads. Half boil them, and stew them in a white gravy; add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper. Or do them in brown-sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then cover them with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and brown ’them in a Dutch-oven. Serve with butter and mushroom-ketchup, or gravy.MEATS. 75 Sweetbreads roasted.—Parboil two large ones; when cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch-oven. For sauce, plain butter and mushroom-ketchup. Sweetbread Ragout.—Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash and dry them, and fry them of a fine brown; pour to them a good gravy seasoned with salt, pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms, or mushroom-ketchup; strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. You may add truffles, morels, and mushrooms. Rid/iey. Chop veal-kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt 3 roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf’s heart, stuff and roast as a beef-heart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. PORK, ETC. To roast a Leg of Pork, Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. AVhen half done, score the skin in slices, but do not cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. To boil a Leg of Pork. Salt it eight or ten days : when it i.s to be dressed, weigh it 3 let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white 3 allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over-, from the time it boils up : skim it as soon as it boils, and fre- quently after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peasoup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured; which, 7''^ domestic cookery. gives a very delicate look. It should be small, and of a fine grain. Serve pease-pudding and turnips with it. Loin and Neck of Pork. Roast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at distances of half an inch, with a sharp penknife. Pork-steaks. Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling thickness j pepper and broil them, turning them often ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. To Pickle Pork. The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prunel, and a little common salt; sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it twenty-four hours; then rub with the above j pack the pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling up the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles on the pork, to prevent it from swimming in the pickle which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very fine for two years. Sausages. Chop fat and lean of pork together; season it with sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of all- spice : half fill hogs’ guts that have been soaked and made extremely clean ; or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered; and so rolled and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage, or mashed potatoes put in a form, brown with a salamander*, and garnish with the above j they must be pricked with a fork before they arc dressed, or they will burst.77 MEATS. An excelle?it Sausage to eat cold. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat; the sixth day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot or garlic, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked well, and fill it with the above stuffing; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be high-dried. Some eat it v'ithout boiling, but others like it boiled first. The skin should be tied in different places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. Spadbury's Oxford Sausages. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews; add three-quarters of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them; steep the crumb of a penny- loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper, and salt. To roast a Sucking Tig. If you can get it when just killed, this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usually do; then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till thoroughly dry; then have ready some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve; then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire take out the brains, and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up, and, without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a largeDOMESTIC COOKERY. 78 quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws; take off the upper part of the head down to the snout. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the head only being cut off to garnish, as above. Pettitoes. Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quantity of water, very gently; then cut the meat fine and simmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet are quite tender; thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of cream, and a little salt and ['pepper; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. To make excellent Meat of a Hog’s Head. Split the head, and take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it with common salt for a day j then drain it: salt it well with salt and saltpetre three days, then lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water for two days. Wash it, and boil till all the bones will come out; remove them, and chop the head as quick as possible; but first skin the tongue, and take the skin carefully off the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace or allspice-berries. Put the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other skin over; press it down. When cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put some lean pork, to be prepared the same way. Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a pickle to keep it. To roast Porker's Head. Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put bread and sage as for pig; sew it up tight, and on a string or hanging- jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same sauce.79 MEATS. To prepare Pig's Cheek for boiling. Cut off the snout, and clean the head ; divide it, take out the eyes and the brains •, sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. Salt it with common salt and salt- petre \ let it lie eight or ten days if it be dressed without stew- ing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas; and it must be washed first, and then simmered till all is tender. To dry Hofs Cheeks. Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the head, taking off the upper bone, to make the chawl a good shape; rub it well with salt; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day; cover the head rvith half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay-salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be often turned; after ten days, smoke it for a week like bacon. To force JTog’s Ears. Parboil two pairs of ears, or take some that have been soused; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet chopped, bread-crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin of the upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above. Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour \ then pour away the fat, and drain them; make ready half a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonfuls of made mustard, a little bit of flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pepper or cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stewpan, and cover it close; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. When done enough, take out the onion, jrlace the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be added to the above.DOMESTIC COOKERY. So Different ivays of dressing Pigs Feet and Ears. Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil them tender; then take them out; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears; fry, and serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be either done in batter, or only floured. Pig's Feet and Ears fricasseed. Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal- broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, flour, butter, and salt. ffelly of Pig's Feet and Ears. Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace, in fine powder; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form. Pifs Harslet. Wash and dry some liver, sweetbreads, and fat and lean bits of jDork, beating the latter with a rolling-pin to make it tender; season with pepper, salt, sage, and a little onion shred fine ; when mixed, put all into a caul, and fasten it up tight with a needle and thread. Roast it on a hanging-jack, or by a string. Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry. Serve with a sauce of port wine and water and mustard, just boiled up and put into the dish.8i MEATS. MUTTON. Observations on keeping and dressing Mutton, The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the leg should be taken out by the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast; and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, should the weather be hot. Every kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soon as brought in ; then wipe dry. For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind- quarter especially, but not so long as to taint; for, whatever fashion may authorize, putrid juices ought not to be taken into the stomach. Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. Great care should be taken to preserve by paper the fat of what is roasted. Leg of Mutton, If roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce; if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. Neck of Mutton Is particularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it; but it is not advantageous for the family. The bones should be cut short, which the butchers will not do unless particularly desired. The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served with turnips ; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or haricot. The scrags may be stewed in broth ; or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, a few peppercorns, and a little rice, and served together. When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, sawSi domestic COOKERY. down the chine-bone, strip the ribs half-way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. The skin should not be taken off till boiled, and then the fat will look the whiter. When there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton than it is agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an uncommonly good suet-pudding, or crust for a meat-pie, if cut very fine. Shoidder of Muitoji roasted. Serve with onion-sauce. The blade-bone may be broiled. To dress Haunch of Mutton. Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the different modes ; let it be washed with warm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary; but when to be dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in ; set it at a great distance from the fire, aird allow proportionable time for the paste; do not take it off till about thirty-five, or forty minutes before serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt; brown it with a little burnt sugar, and send it up in the dish \ but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat; for though long at the fire, the distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. To roast a Saddle of Mutton, Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again ; take it off a quarter of an hour before serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with flour. I'he rump should bo split, and skewered back on each side.S3 MEATS. The joint may be large or small according to the company ; it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it requires a high and strong fire. Fillet of Mutton braised. Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper and put over it, and then a paste as for venison; roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-up in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. Haricot. Take off some of the fat, and cut the middle or best end of the neck into rather thin steaks; flour and fry them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eating. Then put them into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips, and onions ; the carrots and turnips in dice, the onions sliced ; but they must only be warmed, not browned, or you need not fry them. Then lay the steaks at the bottom of a stewpan, the vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them ; give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours skim them ; and add pepper, salt, and a spoonful of ketchup. To hash Mutton. Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water; add to it some gravy and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine will given an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine.84 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. To boil Shoulder of Mution with Oysters. Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days, bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded; lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few peppercorns, till quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stewpan should be kept close covered. Breast of Mutton. Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the fire ; in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper- sauce. Or, if boned, take off some of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning; then roll and boil; and serve Avith chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. Loin of Mutton Roasted; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it eats better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. To roll Loin of Mution. Hang the mutton till tender ; bone it, and lay a seasoning of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half bake it in a slow oven; let it grow cold ; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise; stew it till almost ready, and add a glass ofS5 MEATS. port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improvement; but if to eat like hare, do not use these, nor the lemon-pickle. Mutton Ham, ' Choose a fine fresh leg of wether-mutton, of twelve or four- teen pounds weight; let it be cut ham-shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stewpan half a pound of bay-salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix and make it quite hot; then rub it well into the ham. Let it be turned in the liquor every day; at the end of four days put two ounces more of common salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood-smoke for a week. It is to be used in slices with stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes or eggs. Mutton Collops. Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung; and cut from the part next the leg some collops very thin. Take out the sinews. Season the collops with salt, pepper, and mace ; and strew over them shred parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots ; fry them in butter till half done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, a piece of butter rubbed in flour, and simmer the whole very gently for five minutes. They should be served immediately, or they will be hard. Mutton Cutlets in the Portuguese way. Cut the chops, and half fry them with sliced shalot or onion, chopped parsle)'^, and two bay-leaves ; season with pepper and salt; then lay a forcemeat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper up, leaving a hole for the end of the bones to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Robart; or, as the seasoning makes the cutlets higli, a little gravy.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 86 Mutton Steaks Should be cut from a loin or neck that has hung ; if a neck, the bones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and then turned; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot and hot the moment they are done. Steaks of Mutton, or Lamb, and Cuciwibers. Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sprinkle them with salt, and pour vinegar over them. Fry the chops of a fine brown, and put them into a stewpan; drain the cucumbers, and put over the steaks; add some sliced onions, pepper, and salt; pour hot water or weak broth on them; stew and skim well. Mutton Steaks Mamtenon, Half fry, strew them while hot with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the iDaper does not catch; rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. Mutton Sausages. Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled; chop it extremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy-liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls or sausage- shape, and frying. If approved, a little shalot may be added, or garlic, which is a great improvement. To dress Mutton Rumps and Kidney, Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half an hour;87 MEATS. then take them, up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley and thyme, and grated lemon-peel. Fry in butter of a fine brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a Dutch-oven . When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish ; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs cut in half, the white being left on; or with different-coloured pickles. An exccllait Hoich PotcJi. Stew peas, lettuce, and onions in a very little water, with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown; three-quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a stewpan, and the vegetables over them •, stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. Another.—Knuckle of veal and scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables as above \ to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. Mutton kebobbed. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every bone; mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs \ dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asunder, tie them ancl fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a ciuick fire; set a dish under, and baste them with a good pieceS3 DOMESTIC COOKERY. of butter and the liquor that comes from the meat; but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish; and put into it two spoonfuls of ketchup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of flour with it \ give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the I'at well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. China Chilo. hlince a pint-basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoonful of pepper, four spoonfuls of water, and two or three ounces of clarified butter into a stewpan closely covered ; simmer two hours, and serve in the middle of a dish of boiled dry rice. If cayenne is approved, add a little. LAMB. Leg oj Lamb. Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with dried or fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or roasted Fore Quarter of Lamb. Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together are called a scoven. Breast of Lamb a?id Cucumbers. Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones would draw out, put itMEATS. 89 on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. Shoulder of Lamb, forced, with Sorrel-sattce. Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat; braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it j or it may be glazed only, and not braised. The method for both, see page 96. Serve with sorrel-sauce under the lamb. Lamb Steaks. Fry them of a beautiful brown \ when served, throw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried and crimped parsley; the recipe for doing which of a fine colour will be given under the head of Vegetables. Mutton or lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered papers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. Sauce for them, called sauce Robart, will be found in the list of Sauces. LLouse-lamb Steaks, white. Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal-gravy, and put the steaks into it; mix some mush- room-powder, a cup of cream, and the least bit of flour ; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few white mushrooms. This is a good substitute when poultry is very dear. LLouse-lamb Steaks, brown. Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, ar.d chopped parsley; but dip them first into egg; fry them (;uick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and butter; and add to it a spoonful of port wine and some90 DOMESTIC COOKERY. oysters; boll it up, and then put in the steaks warm; let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. Lamb Cutlets %vith Spinach. * Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them ; the spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first, and then the cutlets round it. Lamb's Head and Hmge. This part is best from a house-lamb; but any, if soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights, three parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a little of the water in which they were boiled j season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. Lamb's Fry. Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a good deal of dried or fried parsley over it. A very nice dish. Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg, and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning ; fry them of the finest brown; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. Pies of the different meats are directed under the general * head of Savoury Pies.( 91 ) POULTRY, GAME, ETC. To choose Poultry, Game, etc. A Turkey-cock.—If young, it has a smooth black leg, with a short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet siqrple and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. Hen-turkey is known by the same rules ; but if old, her legs will be red and tough. Fotvls.—If a cock is young, his spurs will be short j but take care to see they have not been cut or pared, which is a trick often practised. If fresh, the vent will be close and dark. Pullets are best just before they begin to lay, and yet are full of eggs; if old hens, their combs and legs will be rough; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and large rump, there is a particular fat at his breast, and the comb is very pale. Black-legged fowls are most moist, if for roasting. Geese.—The bill and feet of a young one will be yellow, and there 'will be but few hairs upon them ; if old, they will be red ; if fresh, the feet will be pliable; if stale, dry and stiff. Geese are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded ■, a stubble-goose should be picked dry. Pucks.—Choose them by the same rules, of having supple feet and by their being hard and thick on the breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick, and inclining to dusky yellow; a wild one has the feet reddish, and smaller than the tame. They should be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. Pigeons should be very fresh; when they look flabby about the vent, and this part is discoloured, they are stale. The feet should be supple; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, and are thought best by some persons; they should be fat and tender; but many are deceived92 DOMESTIC COOKERY. in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body of a small pigeon. The Avood-pigeon is large, and the flesh dark-coloured; if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is equal to teal. Serve with a good gravy. Plovers.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts : the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. Hare or Rabbit.—If the claws are blunt and rugged, the ears dry and tough, and the haunch thick, it is old; but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread, it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by proper care; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a real leveret, you should look for a knob or small bone near the foot on its fore leg; if there is none it is a hare. Partridges.—They are in high season in autumn. If young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yellowish; if fresh, the vent will be firm; but this part will look greenish if stale. Pheasants.—The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs ; but if old, they are long and sharp. Directions for dressing Poultry and Game. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. The cook must be careful, in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will take off the bitter where it has touched.POULTRY. 93 111 dressing wild-fowl, be careful, to keep a clear brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow-brown, but leave the gravy in ; the fine flavour is lost if done too much. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted; that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. A large fowl will take three-quarters of an hour; a middling one half an hour; and a very small one, or a chicken, twenty minutes. The fire must • be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. A capon will take from thirty to thirty- five minutes; a goose an hour; wild ducks, a quarter of an hour 3 pheasants, twenty minutes ; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter; turkey-poults, twenty minutes; grouse, a quarter of an hour; quails, ten minutes ; and partridges, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part requires most heat. Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick turning. Hares and rabbits must be well attended to, and the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs. POULTRY. To boil Turkey. Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg; put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready a fine oyster-sauce made rich with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon-sauce. Hen birds are best for boiling, and should be young.94 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To roast Turkey. The sinews of the legs should be drawn, whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or, if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread-stuffing. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be jDUt on the bone, to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. Pulled Turkey. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter j do not boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. To boil Fowl. 0 For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. Flour them, and put them into boiling water.—See time of dressing, page 93. Serve with parsley and butter; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon is usually served to eat with them; as likewise greens. To boil Fowl with Rice, Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton-broth well skimmed, and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt.95 POULTRY. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked.’ Simmer till tender; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of a dish, and the rice round it without the broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liquor the fowl is done with the better. Gravy, or parsley and butter, for sauce. Fowls roasted. Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished with sausages and scalded parsley. A large barn-door fowl well hung, should be stuffed in the crop with sausage-meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread-sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkey. Fowls broiled. Split them down the back; pepper, salt, and broil. Serve with mushroom-sauce. Another way.—Cut a large fowl into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit, and half roast; or half roast the whole fowl, and finish either on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if wholly broiled. The fowl that is not cut’ before roasted must be split down the back after. Davenport Fowls. Hang young fowls a night; take the livers, hearts, and tenderest parts of the gizzards, shred very small, with half a handful of young clary, an anchovy to each fowl, an onion, and the yolks of four eggs boiled hard, with pepper, salt, and mace, to your taste. Stuff the fowls with this, and sew up the vents and necks quite close, that the water may not get in. Boil them in salt and water till almost done; then drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with butter enough to brown them. Serve them with fine melted butter, and a spoonful of ketchup, of either sort, in the dish.96 DOMESTIC COOKERY. A nice way to dress a Fowl for a small dish. Bone, singe, and wash a young fowl; make a forcemeat of four ounces of veal, two ounces of scraped lean of ham, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of eggs, a few sweet herbs chopped, two ounces of beef-suet, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel minced quite fine, an anchovy, salt, pepper, and a very little cayenne. Beat all in a mortar, with a tea-cupful of crumbs and the yolks and whites of three eggs. Stuff the inside of the fowl, and draw the legs and wings inwards; tie the neck and rump close. Stew the fowl in a white gravy; when it is done through and tender, add a large cupful of cream and a bit of butter and flour; give it one boil, and serve; the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. To force Fozvl, etc.., Is to stuff any part with forcemeat, and it is put usually between the skin and flesh. To braise, Is to put meat into a stewpan covered with fat bacon, then add six or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to be brown, celery, any bones, or trimmings of meat or fowls, and some stock (which you will find among Soups and Gravies). The bacon must be covered with paper, and the lid of the pan must be put down close. Set it on a slow stove, and according to what it is, it will require two or three hours. The meat is then to be taken out j and the gravy very nicely skimmed, and set on to boil very quick till it is thick. The meat is to be kept hot; and if larded, put into the oven for a few minutes ; and then put the jelly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for ham, tongue, and many made dishes. White wine is added to some glazing. The glaze should be of a beautiful clear yellow-brown, and it is best to put it on ^Yith a nice brush.97 POULTRY. Fricassee of Chickens. Boil rather more than half, in a small quantity of water ; let them cool; then cut up, and put to simmer in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace, and lemon-peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. When quite tender, keep them hot while you thicken the sauce in the following manner : Strain it off, and put it back into the saucepan with a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of flour and butter ; give it one boil; and when you are going to serve, beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the fire, but do not let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg. The gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bones, gizzards, and livers \ which are called the trimmings of the fowl. To pull Chickens. Take off the skin; and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl with a fork, in as large pieces as you can ; dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well- seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. Another way.—Cut off the legs, and the whole back, of a dressed chicken ; if underdone the better. Pull all the white part into little flakes free from skin ; toss it up with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of mace in powder, white pepper, salt, and a squeeze of lemon. Cut off the neck-end of the chicken, and broil the back and sidesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned. Put the hash in the middle, with the back on it j and the two Jegs at the end. Chicken Curry. Cut up the chicken ra\v, slice onions, and fry both in butter E98 DOMESTIC COOKERY. with great care, of a fine light brown ; or, if you use chickens that have been dressed, fry only the onions. Lay the joints, cut into two or three pieces each, into a ste\Vpan, with a veal or mutton gravy, and a clove or two of garlic. Simmer till the chicken is quite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub smooth a spoonful or two of curry-powder, a spoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter; and add this, with four large spoonfuls of cream, to the stew. Salt to your taste. When serving, squeeze in a little lemon. Slices of underdone veal, rabbit, turkey, etc., make excel- lent curry. A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. Another, mo7-e easily made.—Cut up a chicken or young rabbit; if chicken, take off the skin. Roll each piece in a mixture of a large spoonful of flour, and half an ounce of curry-powder. Slice two or three onions, and fry them in butter, of a light brown; then add the meat, and fry all together till the meat begins to brown. Put it all into a stew- pan, and pour boiling water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water half an hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, a little broth will be better than water \ but the curry is richer when made of fresh meat. To braise Chickens. Bone them, and fill them with forcemeat. Lay the bones, and any other poultry trimmings, in a stewpan, and the chickens on them. Put to them a few onions, a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or two of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then white paper; cover the whole close, and put them on a slow stove for two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat carefully; set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over with it with a brush.POULTRY. 99 Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Before glazing, jDut the chicken into an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour. Ducks Roasted. Serve with a fine gravy ; and stuff one with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of butter, and pepper and salt \ let the other be unseasoned. To boil Ducks. Choose a fine fat duck j salt it two days, then boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion-sauce, but melt the butter with milk instead of water. To stetv Ducks. Half roast a duck; put it into a stewpan with a pint of beef- gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as fine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean; then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour longer, Put in a piece of butter and a little flour, and give it one boil; then serve in one dish. To hash Ducks. Cut a cold duck into joints; and warm it, without boiling, in gravy and a glass of port wine. To roast Goose. After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of j^aper should be skewered on the breast-bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiledDOMESTIC COOKERY. 100 by coming, flatted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the dish.—Gravy and apple-sauce; gooseberry-sauce for a green goose. To siezu Giblets. Do them as will be _ directed for giblet-pie (under the head, Pies) ; season them with salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, give them one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of butter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Pigeons May be dressed in so many ways, that they are very useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on their being cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much washing. Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed or made into a pie; in either case, care must be taken not to overdo them, which will make them stringy. They need only be heated up in gravy made ready, and forcemeat-balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef-steaks be stewed in a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist.—Season as usual, and put eggs. To stetu Pigeons. Take care that they are quite fresh, and carefully cropped, drawn, and washed ; then soak them half an hour. In the mean time cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water; drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stewpan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well with pepper and salt, and cover them with the remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are tender; then put among them two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two,POULTRY. loi serve the birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. Another way.—Stew the birds in a good brown gravy, either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh, and a little ketchup. To broil Pigeons. After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them and broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. Roast Pigeons Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole; and seasoned within. Serve with parsley and butter. Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them. To pickle Pigeo?is. Bone them; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice and salt, in fine powder ; then turn them again, and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water; let them boil a minute or two to plump; take them out, and dry them well; then put them boiling hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white-M'ine vinegar, with white pepper and allspice, sliced ginger and nutmeg, and two or three bay-leaves. ^Vhen it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small, a quarter of an hour will do them; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them in a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made of hard yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantities, with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace.102 DOMESTIC COOREkY. Pigeons in Jelly. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled, or boil a calfs or neat’s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sw'eet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to get cold. Season as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, coyer them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boiling it with the whites of two eggs j strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat mnst be perfectly removed before it be cleared. Put the jelly- over and round them rough. The same, a beatiliftd dish.—Pick two very nice pigeons, and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but clip the nails close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown j and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half-fill a bow-1 of a size that is proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hangs to the birds, and then lay them upside down in the jelly. Before the rest of it begins to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full twenty-four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course; or when served wuth the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner dish, its size being then less. The head should be kept up as if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. To pot Pigeons. Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper; lay them close in a small deep pan; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the103 GAM£, ETC. less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, and bake them. ’When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each; and pour butter over them, using that Avhich was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, etc., and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is approved of, add mace, allspice, and a little cayenne, before baking. Larhs, and other small birds. Draw, and spit them on a bird-spit; tie this on another spit, and roast them. Baste gently with butter, and strew bread- crumbs upon them till half done; brown and serve with fried crumbs round. GAME, ETC. To keep Game, etc. Game ought not to be thrown away even when it has been kept a very long time; for, when it seems to be spoiled, it may often be made fit for eating, by nicely cleaning and washing with vinegar and water. If there is any danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them ; then wash in two or three waters, and rub them with salt. Have ready a large saucepan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one ; drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in; then hang them up in a cold place. ’When drained, pepper and salt the insides well. Before roasting, wash them well. T. he most delicate birds, even grouse, may be preserved thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, as they are never drawn ; and perhaps the heat might make themDOMESTIC COOKERY. 104 worse, as the water could not pass through them; but they bear being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore what is spoiling. Pheasants and Partridges. Roast them as turkey, and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a small bit of garlic) and bread-sauce. When told, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. To pot Partridge. Clean them nicely, and season with mace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay the breasts downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them; then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. A very cheap way of potting Birds. Prepare them as directed in the last recipe, and when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping, pack them close in a large potting-pot, and (if possible) leave no spaces to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and one-third part less will be wanted than when the birds are done whole.—The butter that has covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat-pies. To clarify BtUter for potted Things. Put' it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew- pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things; they will sink to the bottom.GAME, 105 To pot Moot' Game. Pick, singe, and wash the birds .nicely; then dry them, and season, inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a very slow oven. When cold, take off the 15utter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot, which should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a basin set in a bowl of hot water. Grouse. Roast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted under the wing. They must not be overdone. Serve with a ricli gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce. The sauce for wild-fowl, as will be described hereafter under the head of Sauces, may be used instead of common gravy. To roast Wild Fo wl. The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame ; they should be served of a fine brown colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish and when the breast is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt, and hot water into the dripping-pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this; then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter. Wild Ducks., Teal, Widgeon, Dun-birds, etc,. Should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up ; put a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot-sauce in a boat.DOMESTIC COOKERY. ro6 Woodcock, Snipe, a?id Quails Keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off from the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. Ruffs and Reeves Are skewered as quails; put bars of bacon over them, and roast tliem about ten minutes. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. • To dress Plovers. Roast the green ones in the same way as woodcock and quails (see above), without drawing; and serve on a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with gravy, herbs, and spice. Plovers' Eggs are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. To 7'oast Ortolan. Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on a bird-spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour of the ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. Guinea and Pea Fond Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same way. Ha7‘es, If properly taken care of, will keep a great time, and even when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in high perfection, which if eaten when fresh killed they are not. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook cannot ]Drevent this ; but the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or five days, or according to the weather. If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in, it should beGAME. 107 wiped quite dry, the heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep for the stuffing. Repeat this wiping every day; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the inside; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept as long as possible, if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. To roast Hare. Aftfer it is skinned, let it be extremely well washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water : and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also Avill letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar, it should be exceedingly well washed in water afterwards. Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and putting it to the fire warm, will remove it—especially if you also nick the skin here and there with a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce; the gravy in the dish. For stuffing, use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty. To jug an old Hare. After cleaning and skinning, cut it up, and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, and leather or strong paper, and put it into a saucepan of water up to the neck, but no higher. Keep the water boiling five hours. When it is to beloS DOMESTIC COOKERY. served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butter and flour; and if the meat gets cold, warm it in this, but not to boil. Broiled and hashed Hare. The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine; the legs or wings must be seasoned first, rub with cold butter, and serve very hot.—The other parts, warmed with gravy and a little stuffing, may be served separately. To pot Hare, For which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and pie. —After seasoning, bake it with butter. When cold, take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not high enough, add salt, mace, pepper, and a piece of the finest fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed, put it into small pots, and cover w'ith butter. The legs and back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them moist, and the bones be put over them. Rabbits May be eaten various ways, as follows ;— Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare; or without stuffing; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted butter, pepper and salt; or larded. Boiled, and smothered with onion-sauce; the butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver- sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, etc. In this way they are excellent when young. Potted. To make a Rabbit taste much like Hare. Choose one that is young, but full grown; hang it in the109 SOUPS AND GRAVIES. skin three or four days; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasronally for forty hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was soaked in. To pot Rabbits. Cut up two or three young but full-grown ones, and take the leg-bones off at the thigh; pack them as close as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, cayenne, salt, and allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of buttei’, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat well. To blanch Rabbit, Foivl, etc., Is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold water, and let it boil; as soon as it boils it is to be taken out and put into cold water for a few minutes. SOUPS AND GRAVIES. General Directions respecting Soups and Gravies. ^Vhen there is fear of the gravy-meat being spoilt before it be wanted, season well and fry it lightly, which will preserve it tw'o days longer; but the gravy is best when the juices are fresh. When soups or gravies are to be put by, let them be changed every day into fresh.scalded pans. 'Whatever htis vegetablesDOMESTIC COOKERY. no boiled in it will turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, etc., in metal. When fat remains on any soup, a cupful of flour and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take it off. If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good lump of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will give either of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies ; and they are best if made the day before they arc wanted. Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the bottom of the pan and stewed, and the herbs, roots, etc., with butter, than when water is put to the meat at first \ and the gravy that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the water is put to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies, etc., that have stood to be cold. When onions are strong, boil a turnip with them, if for sauce; this will make them mild. If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them in boiling, that the watery particles may evaporate. A clear jelly of Cow-heels is very useful to keep in the house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. Truffles and morels thicken soups and sauces, and give them a fine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefully, then simmer them a few minutes in water, and add them with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, etc., till tender. SOUPS, ETC. Scotch Mutton Broth. Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts of water. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then simmer it an hour and aIll SOUFS. half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut into pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper; skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender; add four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving, put in some chopped parsley. It is an excellent winter dish. Veal Broth. Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. Colouring for Soufs and Gravies. Put four ounces of lump-sugar, a gill of water, and half an ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint of water; boil, skim, and when cold, , bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. A clear brown Stock for G7‘avy-soup or Gravy. Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced, into a stewpan, with two or three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy, put some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. An excellent white Soup. Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal, after cutting off as much meat as will make collops, two or three shank-DOMESTIC COOKERY. II2 bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a pound of very fine undressed lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three onion's, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water till the meat falls quite to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a saucepan of the nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows;— Blanch a quarter of a pound of jsweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling; mince a large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve ; this thickening is then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. * A plainer white Soup. Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last article ; and both, served together, adding a quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream and a little ground-rice will give it a proper thickness. Giblet Soup. Scald and clean three or Tour sets of goose or duck giblets; set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton; with three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put five pints of water, and simmer till the gizzardsH3 SOUPS. (which must be each in four pieces) are quite tender; skim nicely, and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea-spoonfuls ^of mushroom-powder, and an ounce of butter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Partridge SoteJ). Take two old partridges; skin them ; and cut them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. Then put them into a stewpan, with five pints of boiling water, a few peppercorns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Stew it gently two liours; then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stewpan, with some stewed celery and fried bread; when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen and serve it up hot. Macaroni Soup. Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till quite tender; then take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve; then add together the two liquors, a pint or more of cream, boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. A Pepper-pot., to he sensed in a Tip-een. To three quarts of water put vegetables according to the season ; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach; in winter, carrots, tiirnip.s, celery, and onions in both. Cut small, ami stew with two pounds of neck of mutton, or a fowl, and aDOMESl'IC COOKERY. 114 pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a lobster, or crab, cleaned from the shells. Season with salt and cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet-dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables and pulse. Tu7‘nip Soup. Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, etc., and set the remainder on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water; cover it close; and let it do on a slow fire four or five hours. Strain and set it by till next day \ then take the fat and sediment from it, and simmer it with turnips cut into small dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Befoi’e serving rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. Pea Soup. Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if too salt, put as much fresh water to it; or use fresh water entirely with roast-beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas \ the smaller the quantity of water at first, the better. Simmei ti I the peas wall pulp through a cullender; then set the pulp, and more of the liquor that boiled the peas, wath two carrots, a turnip, a' leek, and a atick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite tender. The last requires less time; an hour will do for it.SOUPS. ”5 ^Vhen ready, put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed pfine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt into the tureen, and pour the soup in. Green-pea Soup. In shelling-the peas, divide the old from the young; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of water, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper, and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas ; and when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them, some more water, the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to relish properly, and stew till quite soft If the soup is thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults may be removed by adding an ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour. Before serving, boil some green mint shred fine in the soup. ■When there is plenty of vegetables, no meat is necessary; but if meat be preferred, a pig’s foot, or ham-bone, etc., may be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is required to be very rich. When peas first come in, or are very young, the stock may be made of the shells, washed and boiled till they will pulp with the above ; more thickening will then be wanted. Gravy Soup. Wash and soak a leg*of beef; break the bone, and set it on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet herbs, two large onions sliced and fried a fine brown (but not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till the soup is as rich as you choose; then take out the meat, which will be fit for the servants’ table with a little of the gravy. Next day take off the cake of fat, which will serve for basting, or for common pie- crust. Have ready such vegetables as you choose to serve.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 116 Cut carrots, turnips, and celery small, and simmer till tender; some people do not like them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil vermicelli a quarter of an hour, and add to it a large spoonful of soy, and one of mushroom-ketchup. A French roll should be made hot, put into the soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. Vegetable Soup. Pare and slice five or six cucumbers; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with half a pound of fresh butter, into a saucepan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours; rub down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boil it with the rest fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it. • Another 7vay.—Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and four turnips; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it; put that, some celery, sweet herbs, white pepper, and salt to the above; stew it all gently for four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth; have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little turnip, and add to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved, you may add an anchovy and a spoon- ful of ketchup. Carrot Soup. Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a saucepan, afid stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the117 SOUPS. Ipup, which is to be as thick as pea soup. Use two wooden ^oons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. Onion Soup. Into the water that has boiled a leg or. neck of mutton, put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank-bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown; simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. Spinach Soup. Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, one head of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the vegetables are quite tender; work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor put a quart of fresh water, pepper and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some suet-dump- lings, the size of a walnut ■, and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred too fine; and take care that it is quite fresh. Scoich-leck Soup. Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew- pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper and salt; simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently; but take care that it does not burn to the bottom. Ha7-e Soup. Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef, two orIi8 DOMESTIC COOKERY. three shank-bones of mutton well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour on it two quarts of boiling water; cover the jar into which you put these with bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces ; strain off the liquor, and give it one boil, with an anchovy cut into pieces j and add a spoonful of soy, a little cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcemeat-balls, fried of a good brown, should be served in the tureen. Ox-Rump Soup. Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these; and form a very nourishing soup. Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavour or thicken- ing you like. Hessian So7ip and RagoiU. Clean the root of a neat’s tongue very nicely, and half an ox’s head, with salt and ’ water, and soak them afterwards in water only. Then stew them in five or six quarts of water till quite tender. Let the soup stand to be cold; take off the fat, which will make good paste for hot meat-pies, or will do to baste. Put to the soup a pint of split peas, or a quart of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, six potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Simmer them without the meat till the vegetables are done enough to pulp with the peas through a sieve, and the soup will then be about the thickness of cream. Season it with pepper, salt, mace, all- spice, a clove or two, and a little cayenne, all in fine powder. If the peas are bad, the soup may not be thick enough; then boil in it a slice of roll, and put it through the cullender, or add a little rice-flour, mixing it by degrees. For the Ragoilt, cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, and part of the fat of the root of the tongue into small thick pieces. Rub these with some of the above seasoning as you put them into a quart of the liquor, kept out for that purposeSOUPS. 119 bfrore the vegetables were added, flour well, and simmer them nicely till tender Then put a little mushroom and walnut ketchup, a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoonful of made mustard, and boil all up together before served. If for company, small eggs and forcemeat-balls. This way furnishes an excellent soup and a ragout at a small expense, and they are not common. The other part will warm for the family. Soup a la sap. Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three ounces of rice in six pints of water to five, strain it through a cullender, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a saucepan again with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and when you serve add also fried bread. Soup Maigre. Melt half a pound of butter into a stewpan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage-lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace, and, if you have any white beet-leaves, add a large handful of them cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving, beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Another.—-Flour and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a par- snip, then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve, then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. Stock for brown or. white Fish Soups. Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two120 DOMESTIC COOKERY. pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces; cover them with water, and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley- roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. Eel Soup. Take three pounds of small eels; put to them two quarts of water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite broken; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put in at first. This soup will be as rich as if made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-sjDoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, is a great improvement. Skate Soup. Make it of the stock for fish-soup (as directed in the previous page), with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it a little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch-oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. Excellent Lobster Soup. Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails of six small lobsters; take away the brown fur and the bag in the head; beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a mortar. Boil it very gently in two quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the good- ness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar.I2I sours. ^th a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful OT flour; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with forcemeat-balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a bit of flour, and heated in the soup. Cray-fish or Prawn Soup. Boil six whitings and a large eel (or the eel and half a thornback, well cleaned), with as much water as will cover them ; skim them clean, and put in whole pepper, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty cray-fish, or a hundred prawns; pound the shells, and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs j put this liquor over the shells in a sieve; then pour the other soup clear from the sediment. Chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef- gravy ; add also the tails of the cray-fish or the prawns, and some flour a«d butter, and season as may be liked, if not high enough. Oyster Soup. Take two quarts of fish-stock; beat the yolks of ten hard egg^ and the hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour; then strain it off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes; have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil Serve all together,DOMESTIC COOKERY. 133 GRAVIES. General directions respecting Gravies. Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same Avay. An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and prepared as other meat; and so will the shank end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not wanted. The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to the richness of gravy; but first soak them well, and scour them clean. Tarragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high gravies is a great improvement; but it should be added only a short time before serving. To dress Gravy that will keep a Week. Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not burn; let it stay till all the gravy that comes out of the meat is dried up into it again; put as much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Do not take off the fat till going to be used. Clear Gravy. Slice beef thin; broil a part of it over a very clear, quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it \ put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stewpan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three times; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong.123 G/^A VIES. ^ Cullis, or brown Gravy. ■ Lay over the bottom of a stewpan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick j then cover the veal with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or three bay- leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover the stewpan, and set it over a slow fire; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef-broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour, and add a little water, mixed with as much flour as will make it properly thick 3 boil it half an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. Bechamel, or tohile Sauce. Cut lean veal into small slices, and the same quantity of lean bacon or ham; put them into a stewpan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom- buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay-leaf; fry the whole over a very slow fire, but do not brown it; thicken it with flour; then put an equal quantity of good broth and rich cream; let it boil half an hour, and stir it all the time ; strain it through a soup-strainer. A Gravy without Meat. Put a glass of small-beer, a glass of water, some pepper, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut-pickle, or mushroom-ketchup, into a basin. Slice an onion, flour and fry it in a piece of butter tilljt is brown. Then turn all the above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer it covered twenty minutes. Strain it off for use, and when cold take off the fat. A rich Gro:vy. Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity wanted; slice onions thin, and flour both; fry them of a light pale-brown, but do not on any account suffer them to get black ; put them124 DOMESTIC COOKERY. into a stewpan, pour boiling water on the browning in the frying-pan, boil it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of parsley, thyme, and savory, a small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat; and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. Graiy for a Fowl, when there is no Meat to make it of. Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small; simmer them with a little bread browned, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzard, in a quarter of a pint of water, till half wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Then thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mushroom-ketchup, and it will be very good. Veal Gravy. Make it as directed for Cullis; but leave out the spice, herbs, and flour. It should be drawn very slowly; and if for white dishes, do not let the meat brown. Gravy to make Mutton eat like Venison. Pick a very stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out the bag from the entrails), and simmer Avith as much unseasoned meat-gravy as you Avill want. Strain it, and serve in the dish. Strong Fish Gravy. Skin tAVO or three eels, or some flounders; gut and wash them very clean ; cut them into small pieces, and put into a saucepan Cover them Avith Avater, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some Avhole pepper.125 GRA VIES. sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea-spoonful of horse-radish. Cover close, and simmer; add a bit of butter and flour, and boil with the above. Savoury Jelly, to put over cold Pies. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that or mutton ■, or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks, and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be sufficient, observing to give consistence by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and, when cold, take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs (but do not add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. Jelly to cover cold Fish. Clean a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf’s foot, or cow-heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon. Stew until it will jelly ; strain it off; when cold, remove every bit of fat; take it up from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without stirring ; and after a few minutes, set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, M’ith a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 126 SAUCES, ETC. A very good Sauce, especially to hide the bad Colour of Fowls. Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded parsley and liard eggs ; add salt, and mix them with butter, boil them up, and pour over the fowls. This will do for roast rabbit. White Sauce for-Fricassee of Foivls, Rabbits, White Meat, Fish, or Vegetables. It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit, or a little broth that may be in the house, or the feet and neck of chickens, or raw or dressed veal, will suffice. Stew with a little water any of these, with a bit of lemon-peel, some sliced onion, some white peppercorns, a little pounded mace, or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it, and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a little flour; salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it well. Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, but if you have any cream, it is better, as the former is apt to curdle. Sa^ue for Wild Fowl. Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nut- meg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so if liked. Another for the sa?ne, or for Ducks, Serve a rich gravy in the dish ; cut the breast into slices, but do not take them off; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt onf SAUCES. 127 it; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. y'ln excellent Sauce for Carp, or boiled Turkey. Rub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed; set it over the fire; and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon j stir it well to hinder it from curdling. Sauce for Fowls of any sort. Boil some veal-gravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine as of gravy; iDour it into the dish, or a boat. Sauce for cold Fowl or Partridge. Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two dessert-spoonfuls of oil, three of vinegar, a shalot, cayenne if approved, and a tea-spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded before the oil is added. Then^ strain it. ' Shalot- vinegar, instead of shalot, eats well. Sauce a la Maitre dlHotel. Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with some curled parsley, some tarragon-leaves, a shalot, two leaves of balm, a little salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice, and mix the whole with a spoon until they are well incorporated, and simmer a few minutes. A very fine Mushroom Sauce for Fozvls or Rabbits. Wash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt, to take ofif the tender skin. Put them into a saucepan with a. little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of128 DOMESTIC COOKERY. cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them till done ; then pour it round the chickens, etc. Garnish with lemon.—If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done white, with a little mushroom-powder with the cream, etc. ' Lemon White Sauce for boiled Foivls. Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon-thyme, and ten white peppercorns. Simmer gently till it tastes well of the lemon ; then strain it; and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but do not boil them together; add salt to your taste. Liver Sauce. Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it as directed for lemon-sauce, with a very little pepper and salt, and some parsley. Egg Sauce. Boil the eggs hard, and cut them into small pieces; then put them to melted butter. Onio?i Sauce. Peel the onions, and boil them tender; squeeze the water from them, then chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water; boil it up once, and serve it with boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the onions makes them milder. Clear Shalot Sauce. Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boiled clear.9 SAUCES. 129 and nearly half as much vinegar; season with pepper and salt j boil half an hour. To make Parsley Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are to he had. Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, and boil it a few minutes in some water. Use this water to melt the butter, and throw into it a little boiled spinach mixed, to look like parsley. Green Sauce for green Geese or Ducklings. Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add sugar and a bit of butter. Boil them up. Bread Sauce. Boil a large onion, cut in four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it in a saucepan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a little flour; boil the whole up together, and serve. Dutch Sauce for Meat or Fish. Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a sauce- pan, warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it j squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. Sauce Robai't for Rumps or Steaks. Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and, when browning, throw in a handful of sliced onions cut small; fry them brown, but do not let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, arid give it another fry; then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes; skim off the fat, and add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of130 DOMESTIC COOKERY. vinegar, and the juice of half a lemon; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow-brown, and garnished with fried parsley and lemon. Bento7i Sauce for hot a7id cold roast Beef Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. Sauce for Fish Pies wlwe Creu77i is not ordered. Take equal quantities of white wine (not sweet) vinegar, oyster-liquor, and mushroom-ketchup j boil them up with an anchovy; strain, and pour through a funnel into the pie after it is baked. A7iother.—Chop an anchovy small, and boil it up with three spoonfuls of gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit of butter and flour. To77iato Sauce for hot or cold Meats. Put. tomatos, when perfectly ripe,' into an earthen jar, and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft; then separate the skins from the pulp; and mix this with capsicum-vinegar and a few cloves of garlic pounded, which must both be proportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt to your 'taste. Some white-wine vinegar and cayenne may be used instead of capsicum vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide-mouthed bottles, well-corked, and in a dry cool place. Apple Sauce for Goose and roast Pork. Pare, core, and slice some apples ; and put them in a stone jar, into a saucepan of water, or on a hot hearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of water be put in to hinder them from burning. When they are done, bruise them to a mash, and put to them a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in a sauce-tureen.f 131 SAUCES. The old Curra7it Sauce for Ve7iison. Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water for a few minutes j then add a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. Leni07i Sauce. Cut thin slices of lemon into very small dice, and put them in melted butter; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Carrier Sauce for Mutto7i. Chop six shalots fine; and boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and salt. Serve in a boat. Ha77i Sauce. When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat clean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part; beat the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling-pin; put it in a sailcepan, with three spoonfuls of gravy; set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. A very fi7ie Fish Sauce. Put into a very nice tin saucepan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut-ketchup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut- pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some cayenne to taste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish, three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonfuls of made mustard; boil it all gently till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 133 Another.—ChoiD twenty-four anchovies not washed, and ten shalots, and scrape three spoonfuls of horse-radish, with about ten blades of mace, twelve cloves, two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy-liquor, a quart of hock, or Rhenish wine, and a pint of water, boil to a quart; then strain off; and, when cold, add three large spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, and put into small bottles well corked. Fish Sauce without Butter. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water (which must not be hard), with an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the following spices lightly bruised; four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pepper. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with two anchovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonful of ketchup. In the mean time, have ready and well beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when well mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping a basin in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the saucepan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Do not boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce a la Craster. Thicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a pound of the best anchovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and. allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of herbs (namely, savory, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram), and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half of very strong gravy. Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use; the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting.4 SAUCES. 133 An excellent substitute for Caper Sauce. Boil slowly some parsley, to let it become a bad colour, cut, but do not chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea- spoonful of salt and a dessert-spoonful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. Oyster Sauce. Save the liquor in opening the oysters, and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. In the mean time, throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough; but first rub a little flour with it. Set them over the fire, and stir all the time; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it; for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. Lobster Sauce. Pound the spawn, and two anchovies \ pour on them two spoonfuls of gravy; strain all into some butter melted, as will be hereafter directed; then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. Another way.—Leave out the anchovies and gravy; and do it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of the lobster and salt only. Shrimp Sauce. If the shrimps are not picked at home, pour a little water over them to wash them ; put them to butter melted thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add the juice of a lemon.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 134 Atichovy Sauce. ^ Chop two anchovies without washing, put them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water; stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the anchovies are good, they will be dissolved; and the colour will be better than by the usual way. To melt Butter, which is rat'ely well done, though a very essential article. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and two or three table-spoonfuls of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk, used instead of water, requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. Vingaret, for cold Fowl, or Meat. Chop mint, parsley, and shalot, and mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a boat. Shalot Vinegar, Split six or eight shalots ; put them into a quart bottle, and fill it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month it will be fit for use. Camp Vinegar. Slice a large head of garlic ; and put it into a wide-mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of cayenne, two tea-spoonfuls of real soy, two of walnut-ketchup, four anchovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to give it the colour .of lavender- drops. Let it stand six weeks ; then strain off quite clear, and keep in small bottles sealed up. Sugar Vinegar. To every gallon of water put two pounds of the very coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, tlien put one quartSAUCES. *35 of cold water for every gallop of hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days; then barrel, and set in a place where the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bunghole. Make it in March; it will be ready in six months. When sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or may be used from the cask with a wooden spigot and faucet. Gooseberry Vinegar. Boil spring water; and when cold, put to every three quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often, then strain through a hair- bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, with a toast and yeast; cover the bunghole with a bit of slate, etc., as above. The greater the quantity of sugar and fruit used the stronger will be the vinegar. Cucumber Vinegar. Pare and slice fifteen large cucumbers, and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large onions sliced, two or three shalots, a little garlic, two large spoonfuls of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of cayenne. After standing four days, give the whole ■ a boil; when cold, strain, and filter the liquor through paper. Keep in small bottles to add to salad, or eat with meat. JVine Vinegar. After making raisin wine, when the fruit has been strained lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hundredweight put fifteen gallons of water—set the cask and put yeast, etc. as before. As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always136 DOMESTIC COOKERY. be kept preparing, according to what suited. If the raisins of wine were leady, that kind might be made j if a great supply of gooseberries made them cheap, that sort; or if neither, then the sugar vinegai so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. Nasturtiums for Capers. Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, cover. They will not be fit to eat for some months, but are then finely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. ’ , To make Mustard. Mix the best Durham flour of mustard with boiling water till of a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar closely covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which should be wiped daily round the edges. Another zuay^ for inmediate use. Mix the mustard ivith new milk by degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much softer this Avay, is not bitter, and will keep well. ^ A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great improvement, and softens it. Kitchen Pepper. ^ Mix in the finest powder one ounce of ginger; of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, half an ounce each; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. KeejD it in a bottle } it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. Spice in powder, kept in small bottles closely stopped, goes much further than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded, and should be done in quantities that may be wanted in three or four months. Nutmeg need not be done, but the137 SAUCES. others should be kept in separate bottles with a little label on each. To dry Mushrooms. Wipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. When used, simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size ; to simmer them in their own liquor till it dries up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder, and keep in a dry place, or in paper. Mjishroom Powder. Wash half a peck of large mushrooms while quite fresh, and free them from grit and dirt with flannel; scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm-eaten; put them into a stewpan over the fire without water, with two large onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder; simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried up, but be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to beat to powder, then put the powder in small bottles, corked and tied closely, and keep in a dry place.—A tea-spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce; and it is to be added just before serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. To choose Anchovies. They are preserved in barrels, with bay salt; no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smell.1^,8 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Essence of Anchovies. Take two dozen of anchovies, chop thenfi, and take out the bone, but with some of their own liquor strained, add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes; when cold, strain and bottle it. To keep Anchovies ivhen the liquor dries. Pour on them beef-brine. To make Sprats taste like Anchovies. Salt them well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty- four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay-salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sal-prunel, and half a tea- spoonful of cochineal, all in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place, fastened down with a bladder. These are pleasant on bread and butter; but use the best for sauce. Forcemeat to force Fowls or Meat. shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or fowl, some beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, some parsley, a very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or cayenne, and bread-crumbs. Pound in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat-patties, the mixture as above. Forcemeat, Whether in form of stuffing-balls, or for patties, makes a con- siderable jDart of good cooking, by the flavour it imparts to whatsoever dish it is added, if properly made. Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given; but the following observations may be useful, and habit will soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste.139 SAUCES. At many tables- where everything else is well done, it is common to find very bad stuffing. According to what it is wanted for, should be the selection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles, least must be used. No one flavour should predomi- nate greatly; yet, if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of the forcemeat, as well as of the gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy. Forcemeat Ingredmits. Cold fowl or veal. Scraped ham. Fat bacon. Beef-suet. Crumbs of bread. Parsley. White pepper. Salt. Nutmeg. Yolk and white of eggs well beaten, to bind the mi.x- ture. Oysters. Anchovy. Tarragon. Savory. Pennyroyal. Knotted marjoram. Thyme. Basil. Yolks of hard eggs. Cayenne. Garlic. Shalot. Chives. Jamaica pepper, in fine powder, or two or three cloves. The first column contains the articles of which the forcemeat may be made, without any striking flavour; and to those may be added some of the different ingredients of the second column, to vary the taste. . Very fine Forcemeat-halls, for Fish Soups, or Fish stewed, on niaigre days. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard egg.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 140 a little cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table- spoonfuls of bread-crumbs, one ditto of oyster-liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long beaten • make into balls, and fry of a fine brown in butter. ’’ Forcemeat as for Turtle, at the Bush, Bristol A pound of fresh suet, one ounce of ready dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine,_ bread-crumbs, a little shalot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon thyme finely shred; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites separately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste; roll into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up. When of a light brown, take them out, and drain them before the fire. If the suet be moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Balls made this way are remarkably light; but, being greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. Little Eggs for Tu7-tle. Beat three hard yolks of eggs in a mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to harden. Browning, to colour and flavour made dishes. Beat to powder four ounces of double-refined sugar, put it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounce of fine fresh butter, mix it well over a clear fire, and, when it begins to froth, hold it up higher; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degrees, stirring all the time. Put to the above half an^ ounce of Jamaica, and the same of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same of walnut ketchup, some salt, andPIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. 141 the finely pared rind of a lemon j boil gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a basin till cold, take off the scum, and bottle for use. Casserole, or Rice, Edging for a Currie, or Fricassee. After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash; drain, and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serve the meat in the middle. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. SAVOURY PIES. Ohservatio7is oti Savoury Pies. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made; and they may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, in that case, there should be no suet put into the forcemeat that is used with them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more dressing, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust will allow; or if it is to be served in an earthen pie-form ; observe the following preparation :— Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef (for instance) that has fat and lean; wash it; and season it with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire, in a stew-pot that will just hold it; put to it a piece of butter, about two ounces, and cover it quite close; let it just simmer in its own steam till it begins to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs; and if it is in a dish, put some gravy to it before baking;DOMESTIC COOKERY, 142 but if it is only in crust, do not put the gravy till after it is cold and in jelly. Forcemeat may be put both under and over the meat, if preferred to balls. Eel Pie. Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, season with pepper and salt, and place in the dish, with some bits of butter and a little water, and cover it with paste. Cod Pie. Take a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt it well one night: next day wash it; season with pepper, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed j place in a dish, and put some butter on it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. Cover it with a crust; and Avhen done, add a sauce of a spoonful of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a little flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters may be added. Mackerel will do well, but do not salt them till used. Parsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oysters. Sole Pie. Split some soles from the bones, and cut the fins close; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling-sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster-liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick cream. , Shrimp Pie, excelleni. Pick a quart of shrimps; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince two or three anchovies; mix these with the spice, and then season thePIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTE V. 143 shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and cover the shrimps with a glass of sharp white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. Lobster Pie. Boil two lobsters, or three small, take out the tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each in four pieces, and lay in a small dish, then put in the meat of the claws and that you have picked out of the body j pick off the furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady; beat the spawn in a mortar; likewise all the shells; set them on to stew with some water, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded mace; a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the goodness of the shells is obtained; give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over all; bake slowly, but only till the paste be done. A remarkably fine Fish Pie. Boil two pounds of small eels; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into the liquor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make forcemeat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and four ounces of butter warmed, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper; pour the gravy over, and bake. Observe to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles. Pilchard ajid Leek Pie. Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pilchards, which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with144 DOMESTIC COOICERY. a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. Beefsteak Pic. ^ Prepare the steaks ; beat, flour, and season, and when rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff paste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. N.B.—For beaf-steak pudding, do the same; cover with a cloth, and boil slowly for a length of time. Veal Pie. Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck; season it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs ; and if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, and cockscombs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready, to pour in after baking.—It will be very good without any of the latter additions. A rich Veal Pie. Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish ; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters, up to the top of the dish. I^ay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill the dish with water ; cover; and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoon- fuls of good veal-gravy, and some cream to fill up; but first boil it up with a tea-spoonful of flour. Truffles, etc., if approved.PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTE V. HS Veal {or Chicken) and Parsley Pie. Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt •, scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish j then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it; and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream.—Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. Veal-olive Pie. Make the olives as directed for veal-olives ; put them round and round in the dish, making the middle highest. Fill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravy, cream and flour. Calf’s-head Pie. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a few isinglass shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and a few peppercorns, in three pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the balls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the broth till it is very good. Half boil the head, and cut it into square bits; put a layer of ham at the bottom • then some head, first fat, then lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish be full; but be particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat must be first pretty well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tolerably thick crust; bake it in a slow oven, and, when done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possibly hold, and do not cut it till perfectly cold; in doing which, observe to use a very [sharp knife, and first cut out a large piece, going down to the bottom of the dish; and wlien done thus, thinner slicesDOMESTIC COOKERY. 146 can be cut; the different colours and the clear jelly have a beautiful marbled appearance. A small pie may be made to eat hot, which, with high season- ing, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels, etc., has a very good appearance. _ The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a pretty side-dish. Instead of isinglass, use a calf’s foot, or a cow heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. The pickled tongues of former calves’ heads may be put in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides ham. Excellent Pork Pies, to eat cold. Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose ; have ready the trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed; and if these are not enough, take the meat off a sweet bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin j season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean sepa- rate. Put in layers quite close up to the top, lay on the lid, cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soak- ing oven, as the meat is very solid. Directions for raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust; and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into the pork-pie; the out- side of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. Mutton Pie, Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that has hung; beat them, and remove some of the fat. Season with salt, pepper, and a little onion •, put a little water at the bottom of the dish, and a little paste at the edge; then cover with a moderately thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone in two to shorten it, season, and cover it over, pinching the edge. When they come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of mutton.147 riES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTE V. Sqnah Pie. Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows with mutton chops; shred onion, and sprinkle it among them, and also some sugar. Lamb Pie. Make it of the loin, neck, or breast; the breast of house- lamb is one of the most delicate things that can be eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with pepper and salt the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; and a small quantity of jelly- gravy be put in hot; but the pie should not be cut till cold. Put two spoonfuls of water before baking. Grass-lamb makes an excellent pie’and may either be boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Season with only pepper and salt; put two spoonfuls of water before baking, and as much gravy when it comes from the oven. Noie.—Meat-pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. Chicken Pie. Cut up two young fowls ; season with white pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest powder; likewise a little cayenne. Put the chicken, slices of ham, or fresh gam- mon of bacon, forcemeat-balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water j but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag with some shank-bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onion, mace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truffles, morels, mushrooms, etc., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it j but, in a raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To niake the jelly clear, you may give148 DOMESTIC COOKERY. it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. Rabbits, if young and in flesh, do as well; their legs should be cut short, and the breast-bones must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. Green-Goose Pie. Bone two young green geese, of a good size; but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either \yith or without crust; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. Duck Pie. Bone a full-grown young duck and a fowl; wash them, and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within the duck, and in the former a calf’s tongue pickled red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the Avhole close; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards, that the body of the fowls may be quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat, made according to the second recipe given for making forcemeat. Bake it in a slow oven, either in a raised crust, or a pie-dish with a thick crust, ornamented. The large pies in Staflbrdshire are made as above: but with a goose outwards, then a turkey, a duck next, then a fowl; and either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat, in the middle. Giblet Pie. After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and aPIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTE Y. 149 bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold ; and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a larg etea-cupful of cream.—Sliced potatoes added to it eat extremely well. Pigeon Pie. Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; in the latter put a bit of butter, and, if approved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef-steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; between every two, a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon : it is a great improvement to the flavour. Observe, when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards, and two joints of the wings, and put them in the centre of the pie ; and over them, in a hole made in the crust, three feet nicely cleaned, to show what pie it is. Partridge Pie in a Dish. , Pick and singe four partridges; cut off the legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mush- rooms. Lay a veal steak and a slice of ham at the bottom of the dish; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on the ledge of the dish, and cover with the same; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. Hare Pie, to eat cold. Season the hare after it is cut up, and bake it, with eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be served, cut off the lid, and cover it with jelly-gravy,DOMESTIC COOKERY. ISO A French Fie. Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish, and put in either veal in slices, rabbits, or chickens jointed, with forcemeat- balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke-bottoms, and a few truffles. Vegetable Pie. Scald and blanch some broad beans; cut carrots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, celery, or any of them you have; make the whole into a nice stew, with some good veal-gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and pour in the stew. Parsley Pie. Lay a fowl, or a few bones of the scrag of veal, seasoned, in a dish; scald a cullender-full of picked parsley in milk ; season it \ and add it to the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with .the size of a walnut of butter and a bit of flour. Shake it round, to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustarileaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. 7'urnip Pie. Season mutton-chops with salt and pepper, reserving the end of the neck-bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks, i Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add sliced onions. Cover with a crust.PIES, PUDDINGS, AND PASTRY. 151 Potato Pie. Skill some potatoes, and cut them into slices \ season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. Herb Pie. Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, half the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cress, h few leaves of borage, and white beet-leaves •, wash, and boil them a little ; then drain, and press out the water; cut them small; mix, and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a batter of flour, two eggs w'ell beaten, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs ; cover with a good crust and liake. Raised Crust for Meat-pies or Fowls, etc. Boil water with a little fine lard, an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make it by good kneading and beating it with the rolling-pin. ^^^hen quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till nearly cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus: Roll the paste of a proper^ thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together; put egg be- tween the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie, and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough; and as the form usually makes152 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste shoul4 be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. Witli a feather, put egg over at first. Steak or Kidney Pudding. If kidney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk; roll it, and line a basin with some; put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth, and boil a con- siderable time. Suet Pudding. Shred a pound of suet, mix with a pound and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats well next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outward fat of loins or necks of mutton finely slired, makes a more delicate pudding than suet. Veal-suet Pudding. Cut the crumb of a threepenny loaf into slices; boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk, and pour over it. ^Vhen soaked, pour out a little of the milk; and mix with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish; with layers of currants and veal-suet shred, a pound of each. Butter the dish well, and bake; or you may boil it in a basin, if you prefer it.INDEX A Anchovies, to choose,'137 , to keep them when the liquor dries, 138 , essence of, 138 to make sprats taste like, 138 Anchovy sauce, 134 Apple-sauce for goose and roast pork, 130 c; Bacon, to choose, 44 Bechamel, or white sauce, 123 Beef, to choose, 43 , to keep, 51 , to salt for eating immediately, 51 , to salt red ; which is extremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to hang to dry, 52 , the Dutch way to salt, 52 , a la mode, 53 , a fricandeau of, 53 , stewed rump of, 54 , another way, 54 , rump roasted, 54 , en miroton, 55 , stewed brisket, 55 , pressed, 56 , an excellent mode of dressing, 56 , collared, 56 steaks, to dress, 56 and oyster sauce, 57 , Staffordshire, 57 , Italian, 57 collop, 57 ‘ palates, 58 cakes for side-dish of dressed meat, 58 , potted, two wa);s, 58 , to dress the inside of a cold sirloin, 59 , fricassee of cold roast, s9 Beef: to dress cold beef that has not been sufficiently done, called beef-olives, 59 , to dress the same, called Sanders, 59 , to dress the same, called Cecils, 60 , minced, 60 , hashed, 60 , a la vingrette, 60 , round of, 61 , rolled, that equals hare, 61 heart, 62 steak pie, 144 pudding, 152 Benton'sauce, for hot or cold roast beef, .'30 Birds, a very economical way of potting, 104 Blanching a rabbit, fowl, etc., explained, 109 Boiling meat, observations on, 47 Braising explained, 96 chickens, 98 Brawn, to choose, 45 or ham sauce, 131 Browning to colour and flavour made ' dishes, 140 Bubble and squeak, 64 Butter, to clarify for potted things, 104 , to melt, 134 Buttered lobsters, 40 prawns and shrimps, 40 C Calf’s-head, to boil, 72- , to hash, 72 , another way, 73 , fricasseed, 73 , to collar, 74 pie, 14s Calfs-liver, broiled, 74 Camp vinegar, 134INDEX. 154 Carp, to choose, 20 , boiled, 30 , stewed, 30 , baked, 30 Camer-sauce for mutton, 131 Casserole, or rice edging for a curry or fri- cassee, 141 Caveach, pickled mackerel so called, 32 Cecils, 60 Chicken, to pot with ham, 69 , scallops of cold, 70 , fricassee of, 97 , to pull, 97 , another way, 97 curry, 97 , another, more easily made, 98 , to braise, 98 and parsley pie, 145 pie_, 147 , raised crust for, 151 ““ China-chilo, 88 Cod, to choose, 19 , observations on buying and dressing, 26 , head and shoulders, 27 , crimped, 27 sounds, boiled, 27 , dressed, to look like small chickens, 27 , broiled, 28 ragoflt, 28 , curry of, 28 , salt, to dress, 28 pie, 142 Collops, veal, 6g , another way, 70 , Scotch, 72 , veal, dressed quick, 70 , mutton, 8s Colouring for soups or gravies, 111 Cow-heels, various ways of dressing, 63 , jellj' of, useful for making soups and gravies, no Crabs, to choose, 21 , hot, 41 , dressed, cold, 41 Craster, fish-sauce a la, 132 Cray-fish in jelly, 40 soup, 121 Crust, raised, for meat-pies or fowls, 131 Cucumber vinegar, 135 Cullis, or brown gravy, 123 Currant-sauce, the old, for venison, 131 Cutlets, Maintenon, 69 , another way, 69 , other ways, 69 D Davenport fowls, 95 Ducks, to roast, 99 , to boil, 99 , to stew, 99 , to hash, 99 , wild, to dress, ics , sauce for, 126 pie, 148 Dun-birds, to dress, 103 Dunelm of cold veal or fowl, 68 Dutch sauce for meat or fisli, 129 E Eels to choose, 20 , spitchcock, 36 , fried, 36 , boiled, 36 broth, 36 , collared, 36 , stewed (like lamprey), 37 soup, 120 pie, 142 Eggs, little, for turtle, 140 Essence of anchovies, 138 F Fish, 19 to 43 , how to choose, 19 , observations on dressing, 22 , to force, 138 pie, a remarkably fine one, i (3 gravy, strong, 124 sauce for fish-pies, 130 jelly, to cover cold fish, 123 sauce without butter, 132 a la craster, 132 , a very fine fish-sauce, 131 Flounders, to choose, 21 , to fry, 37 Forcemeat, to make, 138 , for patties, balls, or stuffing, 138 , to force meat or fowls, 138 , ingredients for, 139 , very fine forcemeat-balls for fish- soups, or fish stewed, on maigre days, 139 , as for turtle, at the Bush, Bristol, 140 Forcing explained, 139 Fowls, to choose, ot , boiled, 94IS5 INDEX. Fowls, boiled wkh rice, 94 , roasted; 95 , broiled, two ways, 95 , Davenport fowls, 95 , a nice way to dress for a small dish, g6 , to force, 96 , to braise, 96 , fricassee of chickens, 97 , a good sauce for hiding the bad colour of, 126 , white-sauce for fricassee of, 126 , sauce for, 127 , sauce for cold, 127 , mushroom-sauce for, 127 , lemon white-sauce for boiled, 128 , a dunelm of cold, 68 * , to pot chicken with ham, 69 , scallops of cold chicken, 70 , to roast wild, 105 , to blanch, 109 , vingaret, for cold, 174 French pie, 150 Fricandeau of beef, 53 of veal, 70 Fricassee of fowls, rabbits, etc., sauce for, 126 G Game, etc., 103 , to choose, 91 -, directions for dressing, 92 Geese, to roast, 99 , green-goose pie, 148 Giblets, to stew, 100 soup, 112 pie, 148 Gooseberry-vinegar, 135 Gravies, 122 , colouring for, in , a clear brown stock for gravy-soup or gravy, in , soup, 115 , general directions respecting, 122 , to dress gravy that will keep a week, TOO , a clear gravy, 122 , brown gravy or cullis, 123 , a rich gravy, 123 , a gravy without meat, 123 for a fowl, when there is no meat to make it of, 124 to make mutton eat like venison, 124 Gravy, a strong fish-gravy, 124 Grayling, to fry, 31 Green-sauce for green-geese or ducklings, 129 Green-goose pie, 148 Grouse, to dress, 105 Gudgeons-, to choose, 20 Guinea-fowls, to dress, 106 H Haddock, 33 , to dry, 33 , stuffing for, 33 Hams, to choose, 45 sauce, 131 Hare, to choose a, 91 , to prepare and keep, 106 , to jug an old, 107 ^ , to roast, 107 , broiled and hashed, io3 , to pot, io8 soup, 117 , pie to eat cold, 149 Haricot of veal, 68 of mutton, 83 Harslet, 80 Heart, beef, 62 Herb pie, 151 Herrings, to choose, 20 , to smoke, 37 , fried, 38 , broiled, 38 (red), to dress, 38 , potted, 38 , baked, 38 (like lobsters), 39 Hessian soup and ragout, 118 Hog’s head, to make e-xcellent meat of, 78 • cheeks, to dry, 79 ears, to force, 79 Hotch-potch, an e.vcellent one, 87' , another, 87 House-lamb steaks, white, 8g , brotvn, 89 Jelly, a savoury one for pies, to eat cold, to cover cold fish, 125 to cover meat or any relishing pie to be eaten cold, 125 Jugged hare, 107I5<3 INDEX. K Kebobbed mutton, 87 Kidney, veal, 75 • ■, mutton, 86 —^ pudding, 152 Kitchen pepper, 136 L Lamb, to choose, 44 , leg, 88 , fore quarter, 88 , breast and cucumbers, 88 , shoulder, forced, with sorrel-sauce, 89 steaks, 89 , house-lamb steaks, white, 8g , brown, 8g • cutlets with spinach, go ■ head and hinge, 90 fry, go ■ pie, 147 . , a very nice dish, go Lamprey, to stew, as at Worcester, 37 Larks and other small birds, to dress, 103 Leek-soup, Scotch, 117 and pilchard pie, 143 Lemon white-sauce, for boiled fowls or fricassee, 128 Lights (calf’s) and liver, to dress, 74 Liver (calfs) broiled, 74 sauce, 128 Lobsters, to choose, 21 , to pot, 39 _ • , to pot another way, as at Wood s Hotel, 39 stewed, as a very high relish, 39 , buttered, 40 , , to roast, 40 , curry of, 40 soup, excellent, 120 sauce, J33 , another, 133 pie, 143 M Macaroni soup, 113 Mackerel, 32 , to choose, 20 , boiled, 32 ■ , broiled, 32 , collared, 32 , potted, 32 Mackerel pickled, 32 , called caveach, 32 (like lobsters), 39 7 pie (like cod), 142 Maids, 30 Marrow-bones, 63 Meat, 43 , to choose, 43 , observations on purchasing, keeping, and dressing, 45 ——, to keep hot, 49 Moor-game, to pot, 103 Mullets, to choose, 20 , red, to dress, 32 Mushrooms, to dry, 137 powder, 137 • sauce, very fine for fowls or rabbits, 127 Mustard, to make, 136 , another way, for immediate use, 136 Mutton, to choose, 44 , observations on keeping and dress- ing, 81 , leg, 81 , neck, 81 • , shoulder, roasted, 82 • , haunch, 82 ■ , saddle, to roast, 82 —, fillet, braised, 83 ■ , haricot, 83 , to hash, 83 , shoulder, boiled with oysters, 84 , breast, 84 , loin, 84 , rolled loin, 84 ham, 85 collops, 85 cutlets in the Portuguese way, 85 steaks, 86 ■ , steaks of mutton, or lamb, and cucumbers, 86 steaks Maintenon, 86 sausages, 86 rumps and kidney, 86 ■ an excellent hotch-potch, 87 -— , another, 87 kebobbed, 87 , China-chilo, 88 broth, Scotch, no pies, 146 N Nasturtiums,- to pickle for capers, 136INDEX. 157 o Onion-sauCe, 12S soup, 117 Ortolan, to roast, 106 Ox cheek stewed, plain, C2 feet, various ways of dressing, 63 rump soup, 118 Oysters, to choose, 21 , to feed, 41 , to stew, 4t , boiled, 41 , scalloped, 42 , fried, to garnish boiled fish, 42 loaves, 42 , to pickle, 42 , another way, 42 patties, 42 sauce, 42 sauce to beef-steaks, 57 soup, 121 P Palates, beef, 58 Parsley-sauce, when no parsley-leaves are to be had, 129 pie, 150 Partridges, to choose, 92 , to roast, 104 , to pot, 104 , a very cheap way, 104 soup, 113 , sauce for cold, 127 pie in a dish, 149 Patties, forcemeat for, 138 Other patties are under the names of the articles of which they are made. Pea-fowl, to dress, 106 Pepper, kitchen, 136 Pepper-pot, to be served in a tureen, 113 Perch, 31 , to choose, 20 j to fry (like trout), 31 Pettitoes, 78 Pheasants, to choose, 92 , to roast, 104 Pickles are under the names of the articles pickled. Pies, savoury, 141 , observations on, 141 Pies are under the names of the principal articles they are made of; as “ .Apple- pie," “ Eel pie," etc. Pig (sucking), to roast, 77 Pig’s cheek, to prepare for boiling, 79 Pig’s feet and ears, different ways of dress- ing, 80 fricasseed, 80 , jelly of feet and ears, 8d harslet, 80 Pigeons, 100 , to choose, 91 , various ways of dressing, 100 , to stew, two ways, 100 , to broil, 101 , to roast, roi , to pickle, loi in jelly, 102 , the same, a beautiful dish, 102 , to pot, 102 pie, 149 Pike, to choose, 20 , to bake, 33 , stuffing for, 33 Pilchard and leek pie, 143 Pipers, to dress, 32 Plaice, an e.xcellent way of dressing a large one, 35 Plovers, to choose, 92 , to dress, 106 , to dress their eggs, 106 Pork, to choose, 44 , to salt for eating immediately, 51 , to roast a leg, 75 , to boil a leg, 75 , loin and neck, roast, 76 , to pickle, 76 steaks, 76 sausages, 76 , an excellent sausage to eat cold, 77 Porker’s head, to roast, 78 Potted shrimps, 40 Potting birds, a very cheap way of, 104 , to clarify butter for potted things, 104 Poultry, to choose, 91 , directions for dressing, 92 Prawns, to choose, 21 , curry of, 40 , to butter, 40 and cray-fish in jelly, 40 soup, 121 Q Quails, to dress, 106 R Rabbits, to choose, 92 , various ways of dressing, loS158 INDEX Rabbits, to make tbem taste much like hare, io8 , to pot, log , to blanch, log pie (like chicken), 147 Raised crust for meat-pies or fowls, etc.. Red herrings, to dress, 38 Red mullet, to dress, 32 Rice edging, or casserole, 141 Roasting meat, observations on, 47 Robart sauce, for rumps or steaks, rag . Ruffs and reeves, to dress, 106 Rump of beef, stewed, 54 , another way, 54 , roasted, 5.^ of mutton and kidney, 86 Salmon, to choose, 19 , to boil, 24 , to broil, 24 , to pot, 24 , to dry, 25 , an excellent dish of dried, 23 , to pickle, 25 , another way, 26 „ , collared, 26 Sauces, etc., 126 , white, or bechamel, 123 , a very good, especially to hide the bad colour of fowls, 126 for wild-fowl, 126 , another for the same, or for ducks, 126 , an excellent, for carp or boiled turkey, 127 , for fowl of any sort, 127 for cold fowl, or partridge, 127 h la Maitre d’Hutel, 127 . , a very fine mushroom, for fowls or rabbits, 127 , lemon white, for boiled fowls, 128 , liver, 128 , egg, 128 , onion, 128 , clear shalot, 128 , parsley, to make, when no parsley- leaves can be had, 129 , green, for green geese or ducklings, 129 , bread, 129 , Dutch, for meat or fish, 129 Sauce Robart, for rumps or steaks, 129 , Benton, for hot or cold roast beef, 130 , for fish-pies, where cream is not ordered ; two ways of making, 130 , tomato, for hot or cold meats, 130 , apple, for goose or roast pork, 130 , the old currant, for venisoU, 131 , lemon, 131 , carrier, for mutton, 131 , ham, 131 , a very fine fish, 131 , another, 132 , fish, without butter, 132 , fish, a la craster, 132 , an excellent substitute for caper, 133 , oyster, 133 , lobster, two ways, 133 , shrimp, 133 , anchovy, 134 Some other sauces, etc., are under the names of different dishes or of the principal articles the sauces are made of. Sausages, veal, , pork, 76 , an excellent, to eat cold, 77 , Spadbury’s Oxford, 77 -—, mutton, 86 Scallops of cold veal or chicken, 70 Scotch collops, 72 mutton broth, no leek soup, 117 Shalot-sauce, clear, 128 vinegar, 134 Shrimps, to choose, 21 , to butter, 40 , to pot, 40 sauce, 133 pie, excellent, 142 Skate, to choose, 19 , to cook, 30 , crimped, 30 soup, 120 Smelts, to choose, 20 , to fry, 35 Snipes, to dress, 106 Soles, to choose, 19 , boiled, 34 , fried, 34 , another way, 34 , stewed, 34 , stewed (like lamprey), 37 , in the Portuguese way, 34 1 Portuguese stuffing for, baked, 33ISO INDEX. Sole pie, 142 Sounds, cod’s, to look like a small chicken. Soups, etc., 109 to 121 , general directions respecting them, 109 , colouring for, in , an excellent white, in , a plainer white, 112 , a la sap, 109 , maigre, 119 , another, 119 Spadbury’s Oxford sausages, 77 Spinach-soup, 117 Sprats, 38 , to choose, 21 , baked, 38 ' , to broil, 38 , to make them taste like anchovies, r. ^38 . Squab-pie, 147 Steaks, beef, 56 , and oyster-sauce, 57 , Staffordshire, 57 , Italian, 57 , sauce for, 129 • pie, 1.44 ' pudding, 152 Stock, clear brown, for gravy-soup or gravy, in , for brown or white fish-soups, 119 Stuffing for pike, haddock, etc., 33 for baked soles, 35 , forcemeat for, 138 Sturgeon, to dress fresh, 29 , to roast, 29 , an excellent imitation of pickled, 29 Sucking pig, to roast, 77 Suet pudding, 152 Sugar vinegar, 135 Sweetbreads, 74 , roasted, 75 ragout, 75 T Teal, to dre.ss, 103 Tench, 31 , to choose, 20 , to fry (like trout), 31 Thornback, 30 ^ Tomato-sauce, for hot or cold meats, 150 Tongues and udder, to roast, 61 , stewed 62 , an e.xcellent way of doing, to eat cold, 62 Tnpe, 63 *, soused, 63 Trout, to fry, 31 , a la Genevoise, 31 , to pot (like lobsters), 39 Truffles and morels, useful for soups and sauces, no Turbot, to choose, 19 -, to keep, 24 , to boil, 24 pie. 143 , Turkeys, to choose, 91 , to boil, 93 , to roast, 94 , pulled, 94 , an“excelleut sauce for boiled, 127 Turnip soup, 114 pie, 150 Turtle, little eggs for, 140 , forcemeat for, 140 U Udder and tongue, to roast, 61 V Veal, to choose, 44 , to keep, 64 , leg of, 64 , knuckle of, 64 , shoulder of, 65 , neck of, 65 , a la braise, 66 , breast of, 66 , rolled breast, two ways, 67 , to collar a breast, to eat cold, 67 , chump a la daube, 67 • . rolls of either cold or fresh, 67 , haricot of, 68 , a dunelm of cold, 68 , minced, 68 , potted, 68 , to pot with ham, 69 —— cutlets Maintenon, 69 , another way, 69 , other ways, 69 collops, 69 , to dress collops quick, 70 , scallops of cold, 70 fricandeau, 70 olives, 71 cake, 71 sausages, 71i6o INDEX. Veal broth, in gravy, 124 pie, 144 , a rich one, 144 and parsley pie, 145 olive pie, 14s Vegetable soup, 116 , another, 116 pie, another, 150 Venison, to choose, 43 , to keep, 49 , to dress, 49 , haunch, neck, etc., 30 , stewed shoulder, 50 Venison, breast, 50 , hashed, 51 , the old currant-sauce for, 131 Vinegar, camp, 134 Vinegar, shalot, 134 , sugar, 134 , cucumber, 135 , gooseberry, 135 , wine, 13s Vingaret, for cold fowl or meat. W Water souchy, 37 Whitings, to choose, 19 —to dry like haddocks, 33 Widgeon, to dress, 105 Wild-fowl, to roast, 105 , sauce for, 126 Wine vinegar, 135 Woodcocks, to dress, 106 THE END. LONDON : PRINTED BY WILLIAM CLOWES AND SONS, LIMITED, STAMFORD STREET AND CHARING CROSS,Routledge’s World Library Advertiser. ROUTLEDGE'S POCKET LIBRARY. IN MONTHLY VOLUMES. Cul or Uncut Edges, \s.j Uncut Edges vith Gilt Tops, u. td.; Paste Grain, is. 6d. “A series of beautiful little books, tastefully bound.”— “ Beautifully printed and tastefully bound.”—Saturday Review. “ Deserves warm praise for the taste shown in its production. The ‘ Library’ ought to be very popular.”—Atlie7iaium. 1. BRET HARTE’S POEMS. 2. THACKERAY’S PARIS SKETCH BOOK. 3. HOOD’S COMIC POEMS. 4. DICKENS’S CHRISTMAS CAROL. 5. POEMS BY OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES. 6. WASHINGTON IRVING’S SKETCH BOOK. 7. MACAULAY’S LAYS OF ANCIENT ROME. 8. THE VICAR OF WAKEFIELD. 9. HOOD’S SERIOUS POEMS. 10. THE COMING RACE. 11. THE BIGLOW PAPERS.Routledge’s World Library Advertiser. MOELEY’S UNIVEESAL LIBEAEY. In Monthly Volumes, One Shilling each. Ready on the 15th of each month. "Marvels of clear type and general neatness.”—Telegraph. 1. SHERIDAN’S PLAYS. 2. PLAYS FROM MOLIERE. By English Dramatists. 3. MARLOWE’S FAUSTUS and GOETHE’S FAUST. 4. CHRONICLE OF THE CID. 5. RABELAIS’ GARGANTUA and the HEROIC DEEDS OF PANTAGRUEL. 6. THE PRINCE. By Machiavei.li. 7. BACON’S ESSAYS. 8. DEFOE’S JOURNAL OF THE PLAGUE YEAR. 9. LOCKE ON CIVIL GOVERNMENT and FILMER’S “PATRIARCPIA.” 10. BUTLER’S ANALOGY OF RELIGION. 11. DRYDEN’S VIRGIL. 12. SCOTT’S DEMONOLOGY AND WITCHCRAFT. 13. HERRICK’S HESPERIDES. 14. COLERIDGE’S TABLE-TALK. 15. BOCCACCIO’S DECAMERON. 16. STERNE’S TRISTRAM SHANDY. 17. CHAPMAN’S HOMER’S ILIAD. 18. MEDIEVAL TALES. 19. VOLTAIRE’S CANDIDE and JOHNSON’S RASSELAS. GEORGE ROUTLEDGE & SONS, LONDON & NEW YORK.Routledge’s World Library Advertiser. Morley’s Universal Library—continued. 20. PLAYS AND POEMS. By Ben Jonson. 21. LEVIATHAN. By Thom.as PIobbes. 22. HJUDIBRAS. By Samuel Butler. 23. IDEAL COMMONWEALTHS. 24. CAVENDISH’S LIFE OF WOLSEV. 25 & 26. DON QUIXOTE. In Two Volumes. 27. BURLESQUE PLAYS AND POEMS. 28. DANTE’S DIVINE COMEDY. Longfellow’s Transla- tion. 29. GOLDSMITH’S VICAR OF WAKEFIELD, PLAYS, AND POEMS. 30. FABLES AND PROVERBS FROM THE SANSKRIT. 31. CHARLES LAMB’S ESSAYS OF ELIA. 32. THE HISTORY OF THOMAS ELLWOOD. 33. EMERSON’S ESSAYS, &c. 34. SOUTHEY’S LIFE OF NELSON. 35. CONFESSIONS OF AN OPIUM EATER, &c. By Thom.as de Quincey. 36. STORIES OF IRELAND. By Maria Edgeworth. 37. ARISTOPHANES : A Metrical Translation of the Acharnians, the Knights, and the Birds. 38. SPEECHES AND LETTERS. By Edmund Burke. 39. IMITATION OF CHRIST. By Thomas a Kempis. GEORGE ROUTLEDGE & SONS, LONDON & NEW YORK. EundeU's Me&ts.' <ftc|/^orc liquid, and require ub preparation, ; § Bew^rp of Imitatio^, that are extremely difhcuit to use and waste ; ~ _ much valuable time. !NDE§TRUCT!BU€” R^i^^nincR^ed l?f94 it is the only yeally indelible marking inkc I et b}adt> ia injm>^e (inest fabri^, . 64 Is.^e?* Bottle, Post J^ee. PERFECTOPURITY [Vanul Judson-strid Son, Lin^^i 77, Southwark Street, London, S.^.] THi om Farm wUl remove all Impur^iee^ from, Sus‘ peneiont Animalculce, &c,; that will destroy aih^ Organic Jntpurities^ Mineral Poisons^ Sc.^ SohtHon 4n Water. I I