PRICE ONE SHILLING. DFPKFAST y\i/o AVour/ Dishes BY R. O. C: Compiler of the “Official Handbook for the National Trainings School for Cookery” " Now, good digestion wait on appetite, And health on both.” Macbeth, Act III. Scene 4. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL Limited 1885 (All rights reserved.) w M HHSELL THE FINEST THE WORLD PRODUCES -A-t 3s. a. ZPOTTIISriD. AND MAGNIFICENT TEAS At 2s. 6d. and 2s. a Pound, As supplied to Princes, Dukes, Marquises, Earls, Viscounts, Barons, and the County Families of the United Kingdom. Samples and Book about TEA post free on application to COOPER COOPER & CO. CHIEF OFFICE: 50, KING WILLIAM STREET, LONDON BRIDGE. BRANCH ESTABLISHMENTS: 63, BISHOPSCATE ST. WITHIN, E.C. 268, REGENT CIRCUS, W. '35,STRAND (near Cbartog Cross),W.C. 7, WESTBOORNE GROVE, W. i^) 334, HIGH HOLBORN, W.C.550 755862 T755862 London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library Tel. 01-278 4444 88 Avenue Road Extensions: NW3 3HA Lending Library 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities). Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours: Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden > I A Col 30106023323701BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES Compiler of the SY \ R. O. C. “Official Handbook for the National Training School for Cookery ” " Now, good digestion wait on appetite, And health on both.” Macbeth, Act III. Scene 4. LONDON: CHAPMAN AND HALL Limited 1885 {All rights reserved..)T755862 CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL PALACE PRESS.PREFACE. It has been suggested to me that a set of Recipes for the Breakfast Table, compiled in the same style as those in the “ Official Handbook of the National Training School for Cookery,” would be very useful, and the success which has attended the issue of that book has encouraged me to publish the present one. The oft-repeated cry, “ What can we have for break- fast ? ” has led me to make the present selection of Recipes, and my object has been throughout to try to have as much variety as possible, making use of the ordinary ingredients, without rushing into any great expense. I do not look upon this.little work as complete, and V V- " %k I shall hope to make-additions to it, from time to time. All the present Recipes have been practically and carefully tested by -Mrs. Berry, lately Chief Instructor at the National Training School for Cookery, and my thanks are due to her for her valuable assistance in the preparation of this little book.Preface. 6 It is impossible to make a book, especially a Cookery Book, perfect ; I therefore invite those who wish, to send me any criticisms or suggestions. All communications may be addressed to R. O. C., care of the Publishers, I r, Henrietta Street, Covent Garden. R. O. C. March, 1885.CONTENTS. PAGE No. X.—TEA 9 „ 2.—COFFEE . . . . . . . .IO „ 3.—COCOA NIBS 12 „ 4.—VIENNA BREAD . . , . . . -13 „ 5. BROWN BREAD IS „ 6. WHITE BREAD 17 „ 7.—SCONES 19 „ 8. BROWN MEAL SCONES 20 „ 9.—GALETTES 21 ,, IO. MUFFINS . -23 „ II.—CRUMPETS . .24 „ 12.—OAT CAKE 25 I „ 13.—SHORT-BREAD ....... 26, „ 14.—MILK ROLLS 27 „ 15.—YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES 28 „ 16.—POACHED EGGS . . . . . . 30 „ 17.—EGGS IN CASES .... 31 „ 18.—BUTTERED EGGS 32 5, 19.—CEUFS AU BEURRE NOIR 358 Contents. ^ PAGE No. 20.—BACON AND POTATOES 34 „ 21.—KIDNEYS, BACON, AND POTATOES • • • 35 „ 22. KIDNEYS WITH TOMATOES 36 „ 23.—KIDNEYS A LA MAiTRE d’h6tEL ... 38 „ 24.—KIDNEY OMELETTE 39 „ 25.—SAVOURY OMELETTE 40 „ 26.—TOMATO OMELETTE 42 „ 27.—GRILLED MUSHROOMS 43 „ 28.—STEWED MUSHROOMS 44 „ 29.—MUSHROOMS FARCIS 45 „ 30.—POTTED HAM OR TONGUE 47 „ 31.—POTTED BEEF 48 „ 32.—POTTED BLOATERS 49 „ 33-—CANAPES OF HADDOCK 50 „ 34.—BROILED SOLES, WHITING, HADDOCK, PLAICE, ETC. 52 „ 35.—FISH CUTLETS 53 „ 36.—GRILLED SALMON 54 „ 37.—FILLETS OF TROUT 55 „ 38.—FRIED FILLETS OF TROUT 57 „ 39.—LOBSTER AU GRATIN 58 ,, 40.—PICKLE FOR MACKEREL, SALMON, OR TROUT . 60 „ 41.—GRILLED CHICKEN OR TURKEY . . . .61 „ 42.—DEVILLED CHICKEN 62 „ 43.—PIGEON PIE 63BREAKFAST AND SAVOURY DISHES. No. i. TEA. Average cost of “ Tea ” {for Six Persons). s. d. 7 teaspoonsful of tea (about 2 oz.) 2/per lb. ... o 3 Time required, after the water boils, five minutes. N.B.—When the water is poured over the tea, it should not stand longer than five minutes, as after that time the tannin in the tea is extracted in such quantities as to render this drink unwholesome, and in many cases injurious. 1. Fill a kettle with fresh cold water, and put it over the fire to boil. 2. Rinse the teapot out in hot water to warm it; then put in the tea required, allowing one teaspoonfid for each person, and one over. 3. When the water is quite boiling, pour it over the tea until the teapot is full; let the tea draw for five minutes, and it is then ready for use.IO Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 2. COFFEE. Average cost of “ Coffee" (for Three Persons). Ingredients. s. d. ij oz. of Plantation coffee (whole) at 1/6 per lb o 2 Time required, about half-ati-hour. N.B.—Plantation coffee does for ordinary use, but Mocha coffee has a better flavour, or Plantation and Mocha coffee mixed if liked. 1. Put a kettle of fresh cold water on the fire to boil. 2. Take the coffee, put it in the coffee-mill, and grind it. There should be about four good dessertspoonsful (one dessertspoonful is allowed for each person, and one over). N.B.—Ground coffee can be bought, but whole coffee, freshly ground each time, has a better flavour. Half-a-teaspoonful of chicory may be mixed with the coffee. N.B.—If whole coffee is tossed in a frying-pan over the fire for about seven minutes and then ground, it will bring out the flavour afresh. 3. Take the coffee-pot (a French tin one is most recom- mended) and pour in some hot water to warm it; then empty it. 4. Take out the little strainer at the top, and put the coffee into the pot, on to the little tin plate, which covers the second strainer. N.B.—This little tin plate is so placed, in order to prevent the water running through the strainer too quickly, before the goodness of the coffee has been extracted. Care should, therefore, be taken to see it is always in its proper place.11 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 5. Now put in the first little strainer, and, when the water is quite boiling, pour in by degrees a pint and a half 6. Stand the pot near the fire to keep warm. It should not be moved until all the water has passed through, or else the coffee will be made thick. It is now ready for use. N.B.—The coffee grains cannot be used again ; but if there is any of the liquor over, it can be boiled and used instead of water with fresh coffee.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 12 No. 3. COCOA NIBS. Average cost of “ Cocoa ” (about Three Pints'). Ingredients. s. d. 2 large tablespoonsful of Trinidad cocoa nibs (whole) at 1/6 per lb 03 3 pints of cold water Time required, about three hours and ten minutes. 1. Put two large tablespoonsful of Cocoa into a saucepan (an enamelled lined one is best), and pour in three pints of fresh cold water. 2. Put the saucepan on the fire, and when it just comes to the boil, move it to the side of the fire to simmer for three hours. 3. After that time, strain the cocoa into a jug, and when required for use it should be re-warmed. N.B.—The nibs can be used again. (a) They should be returned to the saucepan and half-a-pint of cold water poured over them, the saucepan put on the fire and boiled, and simmered as before, but only for one hour ; then strain the liquor, and throw the nibs away. (b) Pour the liquor back in the saucepan, and add one tablespoonful and a half of cocoa nibs, and two pints of fresh cold water; put the saucepan on the fire, and boil and simmer as above for three hours ; after which, strain, and repeat recipe from N.B.13 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 4. VIENNA BREAD. Average cost of Ingredients. 1 lb. Vienna flour ^ lb. household flour... 2 oz. butter \ oz. castor sugar ) 1 oz. German yeast 1 1 egg 3 gills milk l | teaspoonful salt J j. d. o 4 o l| O 2 o r£ O I \ O 2 O IlJ Time required (for rising, about one hour and ten minutes), about twenty minutes. 1. Put all the flour together in a basin with the salt, 2. Make the milk tepid in a saucepan over the fire. Put the yeast and sugar in a basin, add the tepid milk and stir with a spoon until it is all dissolved, then add the butter and mix together. 3. Break an egg in the basin with the flour, then stir in with the hand the milk, etc., and knead it well together; stand the basin in a warm place, and let it rise for about an hour. 4. Flour a board, and the hands, and when the paste has risen, turn it on to the board, and make it up into fancy shapes, twists, small loaves, or rolls, according to taste. Flour a baking-sheet, and place them on to it, not too close together, or when they rise they will touch and spoil each other.a sieve to cool. Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 14 5. Put the baking-sheet in a warm place until the bread has risen sufficiently; it will take about ten minutes. Then put the tin in the oven, and when the bread is partly done, brush the rolls, etc., over with milk, and then continue to bake them ; they will take altogether about a quarter of an hour. 6. When the bread is baked, turn the loaves, etc., onRecipes for the Breakfast Table. !5 No. 5. BROWN BREAD. Average cost of Ingredients. 2 lbs. granulated or whole meal ... 2 oz. butter ... s. d. o 6 o 1 oz. German yeast ... x teaspoonful salt > ij pint tepid water i o 1 o oj ° 9h Time required, about a qtiarter of an ho2ir for making; an hour atid a quarter for rising; and from three-quarters to an hour for baking. 1. Put the meal in a basin. Dissolve the feast in half- a-pint of warm water. 2. Sprinkle the salt over the meal in the basin, and when the yeast is dissolved, stir it into the centre of the meal, then add the butter (which should be melted), and mix it with a spoon to a thick batter, in the middle of the meal. 3. Put a cloth over the basin, and stand it beside the fire or in a warm place for a quarter of an hour. Then stir in more water to the mixture, using only sufficient to form a smooth paste, not to let it stick to the fingers, or to need the addition of any more meal. N. B. —The whole meal will not require so much water as the granulated meal, but both should be made less stiff than white bread. 4. Cover it again, and stand it aside to rise for an hour.i6 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 5. Then turn it on to a board (which should be sprinkled with flour to prevent the paste sticking), and knead it into loaves, either large or small, according to taste, or it can be put into tins (which should be floured), in which case it must stand aside again to rise for ten minutes before baking. 6. Flour a baking-sheet, and place the loaves on it, and put it in the oven to bake for from three-quarters of an hour to one hour. 7. When the bread is baked, turn the loaves upside down on a sieve to cool.17 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 6. WHITE BREAD. Average cost of “ White Bread" (about a quartern). Ingredients. d. 3J lbs. flour (Seconds) at 2/4 the peck o 7 1 oz. German yeast) Q T 1 teaspoon ful salt f o 8 Time required, quarter of an hour for making, two or three hours for rising, and one hour and a half for baking. 1. Take three pounds and a half of seconds flour, put three pounds of it into a large pan, and make a hole or well in the centre of the flour. N.B.—Half-a-pound is reserved to work the bread up with. 2. Put one ounce of German yeast into a basin. 3. Add about a gill of tepid water, and stir the yeast into a stiff paste. 4. Then fill the basin with lukewarm water, and stir the yeast smoothly, making in all about one pint and tltree gills. 5. Add to the flour a teaspoonful of salt, and then pour in by degrees the yeast, mixing the flour lightly into a dough with the hands. 6. Add more lukewarm water if the dough is too stiff. N.B.—Be sure to mix up all the flour into dough. 7. Sprinkle about a tablespoonful of dry flour over the dough, and cover the pan with a cloth. 8. Place the pan near the fire for at least two hours to let the dough rise. BRecipes for the Breakfast Table. IS 9. When the dough has risen sufficiently, take up the pan and work in more flour, if necessary, to make the dough stiff enough to turn out of the pan. N.B.—Keep your hands well floured all through the process of bread making. 10. Turn the dough out on a well-floured board, and knead it well, using up a good deal more flour. 11. Divide the dough into six equal pieces, knead each piece separately, and make into a loaf. N.B.—If the bread is to be baked in tins we form each loaf into a dumpling or ball (with a smooth surface and no cracks in it), either long or round according to the shape of the tin. 12. Put the bread into the tins, which should be well floured. 13. Cut a slit in the top of the dough, or prick it with a fork. If the bread is to be made into cottage loaves— 14. Divide each piece into two, one rather larger than the other. 15. Make each into a ball, put the smaller one on the top of the other, and press your forefinger into the middle of the top. N.B.—Cottage loaves are baked on floured tins. N.B.—If there are no tins the oven shelf should be washed and floured, and a tin is not then necessary. 16. Let the loaves rise half-an-hour in a warm place before putting them in the oven. 17. Then put them in the oven for about one hour and a half. N.B.—To test if the bread is sufficiently baked we should run a clean knife into the loaves, and if it comes out perfectly bright the bread is done. 18. When the bread is taken out of the oven stand each loaf up on its side to cool. It is then ready for use.19 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 7. SCONES. Average cost of “ Scones ” {about Eight). Ingredients i lb. flour J pint milk 3 oz. butter J oz. cream of tartar \ J oz. carbonate of soda j- 1 oz. castor sugar j Time required, about forty minutes. s. d. ... o 2J ... o IJ ... o 3 ... o X ° ih. 1. Put one pound of flour into a basin and mix into it Jtalf-an-ounce of cream of tartar, a quarter of an ounce of carbonate of soda, and one ounce of castor sugar. 2. Take three ounces of butter, and rub it well into the flour with your hands. 3. Turn it out on to a floured board. 4. Mix it into a smooth paste with half-a-pint of milk. 5. Flour a rolling pin and roll it out to make sure that the butter is well mixed in the flour. 6. Flour the rolling-pin and roll out the paste to a thin sheet, about one-third of an inch in thickness. 7. Take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the paste into triangular pieces, each side about four inches long. 8. Flour a tin, put the scones on it, and bake them directly in the oven for thirty to forty minutes. 9. When the scones are half done, brush them over with milk. N.B.—Scones if liked should be split, toasted, and buttered, and served hot. B 220 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 8. BROWN MEAL SCONES. cost of “ Brown Meal Scones ” (to make Eight). Ingredients. s. d. i lb. granulated wheat meal o 3 | lb. butter o 4 | lb. castor sugar O I J oz. carbonate of soda \ | oz. cream of tartar ) O I | pint cold milk o ij 1 r±* 1 ° o ' (No salt is required if srlt butter is used.) Time required, about half-an-hour. 1. Put the flour in a basin, add the butter, and rub it in well with your hands until it is quite mixed; then mix in lightly the sugar, soda, and cream of tartar. Add the milk, and stir only sufficiently to make it into a smooth paste. 2 Flour a board and the rolling-pin, and roll out the paste to about an inch in thickness. 3. Dip a knife in flour and cut the paste into triangular pieces, each side about four inches long. 4. Butter a baking-sheet, and place the scones on it, and bake them in a moderate oven for about a quarter of an hour. When the scones are half done, they should be brushed over with a little milk. For serving, if liked they can be split in half, toasted and buttered and served hot.21 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 9. GALETTES. Average cost of Ingredients. First Mixture. - s. d. \ lb. Vienna flour £ oz. German yeast \ ... 0 2 1 gill milk (tepid) ( Salt ( ... 0 4 £ teaspoonful castor sugai / 0 3i Second Mixture. s. d. J lb. household flour . . 0 T 3 eggs ... 0 4 gill milk ) 3i 3 oz. butter f o 8.) Time required (for rising, one hour and twenty-five minutes), about twenty minutes. 1. Make the first mixture ; put the yeast and sugar into a small basin, add the tepid milk, and mix it with a spoon until quite dissolved. 2. Put the flour and half-a-saltspoonful of salt in a basin, then add to it the milk, etc., and mix it into a smooth paste. Put the basin in a warm place to rise for half-an-hour. 3. Make the second mixture; put the flour in a large basin, add the butter in one piece (without mixing it), break in the eggs, pour in the milk, and beat it well with the hand. Stand the basin in a warm place to rise for an hour. 4. Flour a board, and the hands (to prevent the paste sticking), turn the paste out on to the board and work it up together. Form the paste into the shape of round or oblong buns. They should be all of one size.2 2 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 5. Flour a baking-sheet, and put the buns on it, and let them rise in a warm place for te7i minutes; brush them over with a little milk, and sprinkle over a little castor sugar. 6. Then put the tin into a quick oven to bake for about a quarter of an hour. When baked, turn the gaieties upside down on a sieve to cool.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 23 No. 10. MUFFINS. Average cost of “ Muffins ” [to make about Tzvo Dozen). Ingredients. s. d. 2 lbs. best flour 06 1 gill brewers' yeast \ 1 teaspoonful salt 02 1 quart water ) o 8 Time required (for rising, five hours and ten minutes'), about twenty minutes. 1. Put the flour in a basin, and mix in the salt. 2. Put the yeast into a jug, and pour on it a quart of lukewarm water; stir it up, and let it stand for ten minutes, then pour it gradually into the flour ; mix it well— it should be like rather a stiff batter. Cover the basin with a cloth, and stand it in a warm place for foitr hours. 3. After that time, flour a board, break the paste into small pieces half the size of a muffin, put them on the board, and press or roll them into shape ; then lay them on a floured baking-sheet, and let them rise for one hour before baking. 4. They must be baked on a hot iron or stove for seven or eight minutes (not in the oven). For serving, they should be toasted and buttered. N.B.—German yeast might be used instead, about two ounces ; but brewers’ ) east is better.Recipes for, the Breakfast Table. 24 No. ir. CRUMPETS. Average cost of “ Crumpets ” (to make about One Dozen). Ingredients. s. d. 1 lb. best flour o 3 2 tablespoonsful brewers' yeast ) ^ teaspoonful salt j- o 1 About ii pint lukewarm water ' o 4 Time required (for risirtq, two hours and ten minutes), about a quarter 0/an hour. 1. Put the flour in a large basin, and mix in the salt. 2. Put the yeast in a jug with the lukewarm water, stir it up, and let it stand for ten minutes, then pour it gently on to the flour, but do not disturb the sediment at the bottom of the jug. Mix it well till it is a smooth batter, about the same consistency as for Yorkshire pudding, cover the basin with a cloth, and stand it aside in a warm place, or in some warm water, to rise for two hours. 3. Place the rings (made for the purpose) on to the hot iron or stove, for baking, and pour the batter gently into the rings (without disturbing the bottom of the batter) and bake them. They must be watched, and when the top of the batter is covered with small bladders turn the rings carefully to the other side with a palette knife, when they will soon be done. They will only take about five minutes to bake. For serving they should be toasted and buttered. N.B.—Crumpets must be baked on a hot plate, not in the oven, and it is necessary to bake them in rings or the batter will not keep in shape. German yeast (about one ounce) might be used, but brew ers’ yeast is better.- 5 Recipes for the Breakfast Tabic. No. 12. OAT CAKE. Average cost of “ Oat Cakes ” (to make about Twelve). Ingredients. s. a. i lb. medium oatmeal ... ... o 2 J teaspoonful salt l ... ... o °i i oz. clarified dripping ) h oz. carbonate of soUa ) 0 | oz. fine oatmeal ) o 3i Time required, about ha If-an-hour. 1. Put half-a-pint of water in a saucepan, add the dripping, soda, and salt, put the saucepan over the fire and warm the contents, stir them until they are quite mixed. 2. Put the medium oatmeal in a basin, pour in the warm water, dripping, etc., and mix it all well together to a smooth paste. 3. Take a pastry-board and rolling-pin and sprinkle over them the fine oatmeal (this is to prevent the paste sticking), turn the paste on to the board and roli it out quite thin (about the eighth of an inch thick). 4. Then cut out the paste into square or round pieces, put them on a baking-sheet to bake in a moderate oven until they are quite crisp (they will take about ten minutes), then place them on a tin to dry. 5- They can be served hot or cold according to taste ; if hot, they should be placed in a folded napkin.26 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 13. SHORT-BREAD. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. J lb. flour o of 2 oz. butter ... o 2 1 oz. castor sugar o 0} ° 3 Time required, about half-an-hour. 1. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, and put it on the fire to melt and warm. 2. Put a quarter of a pound of flour into a basin with one ounce of castor (pounded lump) sugar, and the melted butter. 3. Mix these ingredients well together. 4. Flour a board and turn the paste out on it. 5. Flour your hands and knead the paste well. 6. Take a rolling-pin, flour it, and roll out the paste to about one-third of an inch in thickness. 7. Flour a knife and cut the paste into oval shapes. 8. Grease a baking-tin with dripping or butter. 9. Put the short-bread on the tin, and put it in the oven to bake till a pale brown. Then take out the tin and set the short-bread aside to cool; it is then ready for serving.2 7 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 14. MILK ROLLS. Average cost of “Milk Rolls" {about Twelve). Ingredients. s. d. 1 lb. self-raising flour ... ... 0 3 2 oz. butter ... 0 Milk 0 1 0 6 Time required, about half-an-hour. 1. Put one pound of self-raising flour into a basin and rub two ounces of butter into it with your hands. 2. Add sufficient milk to make it into a lithe firm dough. 3. Sprinkle flour over a board, and turn d e dough out on it. 4. Take a knife, dip it in flour, and cut the dough into twelve pieces. N.B.—Keep your hands floured to prevent the dough (rom sticking to them. 5. Form each piece into a small roll. 6- Flour a baking-tin. 7. Put these rolls on to the tin, and put the tin in the oven to bake for twenty minutes. 8. The milk rolls will then be ready for use.. 28 Recipes for the Breakfast Tabic. No. 15. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. Average cost of “ Yorkshire Tea Cakes ” (about Two). Ingredients. f lb. flour ij gill milk 1 oz. butter 1 egg ^ oz. German yeast .. s. d. ° 5i Time required, about one hour and a half. 1. Put one gill and a half (one gill is a quarter of a pint) of milk into a small saucepan and put it on the fire. ■ 2. Put lialf-an-ounce of German yeast into a basin, and when the milk is just warm pour it on to th& yeast. 3. Put three-quarters of a pound of flour into a large basin, and rub into it one ounce of butter. 4. Beat up one egg in a cup, and then add it to the flour. 5. Now pour the yeast and milk through a strainer into the basin, and mix all well together with a wooden spoon. 6. Flour a board and turn the dough out on it. 7. Flour your hands and knead the dough for a minute or two. 8. Take a knife, dip it in flour, and divide the dough into cakes. 9. Take some cake tins (as many as are required), and grease them inside with dripping.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 29 10. Put the cakes into the tins. N.B.—The tins should be only three-quarters full, so as to allow for the cakes to rise. 11. Stand the tins near the fire, and allow the cakes to rise for one hour. 12. After that time put the tins into the oven to bake for a quarter of an hour. 13. Then turn the cakes out of the tins, and place them on a sieve to cool. They are then ready, and if liked can be cut in rounds, toasted, buttered, and served hot.30 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 16. POACHED EGGS. Average cost of Ingredients. 1 fresh egg About 6 drops of lemon-juice or vinegar Salt s. d. ijd. or o 2 1 " , f ... o oj o sj Time required, about five minutes. 1. Put a saucepan full of water on the fire to boil. 2. When the water is quite boiling sprinkle in a dessert- spoonful of salt, and squeeze in six drops of lemon-juice, or half-a-teaspoonfid of vinegar. N.B.—The lemon-juice, or vinegar, helps to set the white of the egg, and makes it poach much better, but an egg can be poached without it. 3. Take an egg and break it carefully into the boiling water, holding it as close to the water as possible, so that the egg may slip gently into the water. N.B.—Great care should be taken not to break the yolk of the egg, or it will be spoiled. 4. When the egg has boiled for three minutes take it carefully out of the water with an egg-slice, and drain all the water from it. N.B.—If there are any rough edges of the white of the egg, trim them neatly round with a knife. 5. The egg is now ready for serving, according to taste. N.B.—Poached eggs are generally served on squares of hot buttered toast, or on mashed potato, or spinach.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 17. EGGS IN CASES. Average cost of Ingredients (for Four). 4 eggs 2 oz. butter x tablespoonful bread-crumbs 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley J teaspoonful chopped shalot Pepper and salt Time required, abottt a quarter of an hour. s. d. ... o 6 ... o 2J o 92 1. Take half a shalot and two or three sprigs of parsley, wash and dry them, peel the shalot and chop them both up very finely on a board ; there should be a teaspoonful of parsley, and half-a-teaspoonful of shalot. 2. Rub some crumb of bread through a wire sieve (there should be a tablespoonful), then put it on a tin and brown the crumbs in the oven. 3. Take four small soufflet-cases (china are the best), and butter them lightly inside, then sprinkle in the bread- crumbs. 4. Put at the bottom of each case onc-fourth of the remaining butter, and part of the chopped sltalot and parsley. 5. Mix a saltspoonful of salt and half-a-saltspoouful of pepper, and sprinkle some into each case. 6. Break an egg into each case ; put the cases on a baking-sheet in the oven until the eggs are just cooked through—it will take about three minutes. Do not let them become hard. They should be served at once on a hot dish. N.B.—Ifliked, they may be steamed, then carefully turned out of the case, and served round some dressed spinach or mashed potato.32 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 13. BUTTERED EGGS. Average cost of Ingredients. 3 eggs 2 oz. butter Pepper and salt 1 tablespoonful of chopped ham or tongue, or grated cheese 2 slices of bread o 7 s. d. ... o 3? ... O 2^ ... O 1^ Time required, about ten minutes. 1. Toast the slices of bread in front of the fire, then put them on a board, and cut them into six round pieces (about the size of the foot of a wine-glass). 2. Put the butter into a clean saucepan, break in the ?gs;s, and add a small teaspoonful of salt and pepper, mixed ; stir this very quickly with a wooden spoon over a quick fire, and when it becomes thick, pour it at once on to the toast, so that each piece is nicely covered. It is then ready for serving at once. N.B.—Care should be taken not to let the buttered egg cook too much, or it will harden. "I he addition of a tablespoonful of cream is a great improvement. N.B.—If liked, about a tablespoonful of chopped ham or tongue may be sprinkled on the top of the buttered egg ; or, if served as a savoury, grated cheese sprinkled on the top is a great improvement.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 33 No. 19. CEUFS AU BEURRE NOIR. Average cost of Ingredients. 2 eggs 2 oz. butter 1 teaspoonful vinegar Pepper and salt ° S Time required, about ten minutes. s. d. ... O 2j ... O 2 ... O oj 1. Put the butter in a small frying-pan ; put it over the fire to melt, until it has become a pale brown colour. N.B.—Care must be taken that it does not burn. 2. Break the eggs into a cup, and put them carefully into the butter. Sprinkle over each one a saltspoonful of salt and pepper mixed. Let them cook for three minutes until they are set; then take them out with a fish-slice, and put them on a hot dish. 3. Add the vinegar to the butter in the pan, stir it, and pour it over the eggs. It should be served at once. N.B.—If liked, the eggs may be cooked in the oven, on the same dish in which they are to be served. Butter the dish first, and then carefully break the eggs on the dish. Put them in the oven for about three minutes until they are set; then pour the butter-sauce over, and serve at once. C34 Recipes for tJie Breakfast Table. No. 20. BACON AND POTATOES. Average cost of Ingredients. \ lb. bacon i lb. potatoes (boiled) Salt and pepper s. d. ... o 6 ... o o 7J Time required, about twenty minutes. 1. Cut the bacon into thin slices and take off the rind : put it into a frying-pan, and fry the bacon over the fire a nice brown; then take out the slices and put them on a hot plate near the fire to keep hot. 2. Take the potatoes, which must have been already boiled, put them into the pan with the fat from the bacon, add about a saltspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, and mash them up with a fork over the fire, until they are quite hot; then press them tightly towards one end of the pan with a spoon, and leave them to brown until they form a crust. N.L.—This is a good way of using up cooked potatoes left from the previous day. 3. When the crust of potato is browned, place it in the centre of a hot dish (brown side uppermost), and arrange the bacon nicely on the top of the potato. Serve very hot.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 35 No. 21. KIDNEYS, BACON, AND POTATOES. Average cost of Ingredients. 3 kidneys 3 small rashers of bacon 6 potatoes Pepper and salt Clarified dripping for frying i oz. butter Time required, about half-an-hour. o 9 o ij o i£ o ij 1. Wash and peel the potatoes, and cut them in thick slices, and then in strips about a quarter of an inch wide, and one inch long. 2. Heat the clarified dripping over the fire, and when quite boiling, put in the potatoes and fry them a light brown. 3. When they are done, take them out and put them on a piece of whitey-brown paper to drain off the grease. 4. Take the kidneys, wipe them with a clean cloth, and carefully remove the outside skin, and cut them in half. 5. Put the slices of bacon in a frying-pan, and fry them over the fire; take out the slices, and fry the kidneys in the bacon-fat, taking care not to fry them too much. 6. For serving put the fried potatoes on a hot dish, and tastily arrange the kidneys and bacon alternately on the top of the potatoes. Divide the butter, and put a small piece on each kidney; mix together a teaspoonful of salt and half-a-teaspoonful of pepper, and sprinkle it over each kidney. Serve very hot. N.B.—The potatoes can be omitted. C 2Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 36 No. 22. KIDNEYS WITH TOMATOES. Average cost of Ingredients. 3 kidneys 4 tomatoes (Jib.) depends on the season ... i small onion > i teaspoonful chopped parsley | i gill stock J oz. flour Pepper and salt i oz. butter i egg i oz. fat bacon Sifted bread-crumbs ... J lb. lard or clarified dripping s. d. o 9 o 6 o oj O 2 o i£ o ii o oj o i ° 5 2 2} Time required, about half-an-hour. 1. Take the tomatoes, wipe them with a clean cloth, and put them in a small stew-pan with the bacon cut in slices ; put the stew-pan by the side of the fire, and let the tomatoes simmer until quite soft. They will take about ten minutes. 2. Cut the kidneys in half, and carefully take off the skin ; wash the onion and parsley in cold water, dry them, and chop them up very finely on a board. 3. Melt the butter on a plate in front of the fire ; add the chopped parsley and onion, a saltspoonful of salt, and Jialf-a-saltspoonfid of pepper. Now break in an egg, and mix all together. 4. Dip the pieces of kidney in, and then cover them with the sifted bread-crumbs (not too thickly). N. B.—The kidneys can be grilled on a gridiron, or fried in fat.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 37 5. Put the lard or clarified dripping into a stew-pan, and heat it over the fire. 6. When the tomatoes are done, add to them the flour and stock, stir it well, and be careful not to let it be lumpy. Let it then simmer again for about ten minutes. 7. When the fat is quite boiling, put the kidneys in a frying-basket, and then put the basket into the boiliyig fat until the kidneys are a pale brown. Care must be taken not to fry them too much; they will take about two or three minutes. 8. Now place the kidneys on a piece of whitey-brown paper, to drain off the grease. Then arrange them tastily on a hot dish, and strain the tomato-sauce round the kidneys, and serve at once. N.B.—Tf liked, the kidneys may be served on pieces of fried or toasted bread, or it for dinner, on mashed potatoes or spinach.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 38 No. 23. KIDNEYS A LA MAITRE D’HOTEL. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d 3 kidneys o 9 oz. butter o 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley . 1 teaspoonful lemon-juice | \ saltspoonful pepper r'" 0 1 x saltspoonful salt j o iij Time required, about a quarter of an hour. 1. Put the butter on a plate and add the chopped parsley, lemon-juice, and part of the pepper and salt, also two or three grains of cayenne pepper. Mix all well together and divide into three parts. 2. Take the kidneys quickly, dip them in cold water and wipe them with a clean cloth, split them open and skin them, and put them on a skewer to keep them flat, then put them on a gridiron, the inside of the kidney turned first towards the fire. 3. They must be watched, and turned in about seven minutes when done on the one side, then put them on a hot dish and season them with the remainder of the pepper and salt. 4. Place a piece of green butter on each kidney and serve very hot. If liked, the kidneys may be placed on pieces of toast. N.B.—Kidneys should always be underdone ; if over-cooked, they become hard and indigestible.39 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 24. KIDNEY OMELETTE. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 3 eggs ... 0 3! 1 sheep's kidney J teaspoonful finely chopped shalot r ... 0 3 £ teaspoonful finely chopped parsley 0 2j ij oz. butter r Pepper and salt 0 9 Time required, about a quarter of an hour. 1. Take the kidney, wipe it with a clean cloth, and skin it carefully, cut it into little dice ; wash, dry, and chop up the shalot and parsley; put half-an-ounce of blitter into a small stew-pan, and add the kidney, shalot, and parsley ; put it over the fire and stir with a spoon until it is just cooked, but not too much. 2. Put the ounce of butter into a clean omelette-pan and melt it over the fire, break the eggs into a basin, add a teaspoonful of salt and pepper mixed, and beat them together. Now pour the eggs into the omelette-pan, and stir them quickly over a quick fire; when almost cooked, put the kidney, shalot, and parsley in the centre, fold the omelette over on to one side, and turn it on to a hot dish. N.B.—If made properly, the kidney should not be seen until the omelette is cut. N.B.—An omelette with mushrooms can be made in the same way, cooling the mushrooms first, and leaving out the shalot and parsley.40 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 25. SAVOURY OMELETTE. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 2 eggs o 2J Salt, pepper, and parsley o oi£ 1 oz. butter o i| o 4i Time required, about four minutes. 1. Break two eggs into a basin. 2. Add a teaspoonful of salt and pepper mixed. 3. Take a sprig of parsley, wash it, dry it, and chop it up finely on a board (there should be about a teaspoonful). 4. Add the chopped parsley to the eggs. 5. Beat the eggs lightly for two seconds with a fork. N.B.—The omelette could be flavoured with chopped herbs or mush- rooms, with bacon or kidney cut in small pieces, or with grated cheese, according to taste. 6 Take one ounce of butter, and put it in an omelette or frying-pan. 7. Put the pan on the fire to melt the butter. N.B.—The fire should be bright and clear. 8. Wait till the butter is quite hot, taking care that it does not burn. 9. Pour the mixture of the egg into the pan.4i Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 10. Stir the mixture quickly with a spoon. 11. Shake the pan to prevent the omelette from sticking or burning. 12. As soon as the edges begin to set, fold it over quickly towards the handle of the pan with a spoon, turn it over on the other side for a second, and then on to a hot dish, and it should be served at once.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 42 • No. 26. TOMATO OMELETTE. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 3 eggs o 3! 1 large tomato 02 2 teaspoonful chopped shalot \ 1£ 02. butter - o 2 Pepper and salt j ° 7| Time required, about a quarter of an hour. 1. Put the butter in an omelette-pan, add the half-tea- spoonful of chopped shalot (it must be very finely chopped), and cook it over the fire for about three minutes, until the shalot is soft. Care must be taken not to let it brown or burn. 2. Peel the tomato, and cut it in small pieces; put it in a basin, and add to it the polks of three eggs, and a tea- spoonful of salt and pepper mixed. Stir all well together. 3. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, and stir them lightly into the yolks of eggs and tomato; then pour the mixture into the omelette-pan, and stir it lightly over the fire till cooked. Try and keep it in a good shape ; it will take about five minutes, and requires a very quick fire. Care must be taken not to let it burn, or stick to the bottom of the pan. 4. For serving, it should be turned on to a hot dish, and, if liked, some brown gravy may be poured round.43 Recipes for the Brea!fast Table. No. 27. GRILLED MUSHROOMS. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 6 large mushrooms (according to season) ... o 9 2 oz. butter ) Pepper and salt > o 11J Time required, about twenty minutes. 1. Wash and peel the mushrooms, and take off the stalks. N.B.—The peelings and stalks of mushrooms can be used to flavour sauce. 2. Put the mushrooms on a gridiron, and sprinkle them with about a teaspoonful of salt and pepper mixed. Place the gridiron in front of a nice clear fire, the outside of the mushrooms turned towards the fire. They will take about ten minutes, and need not be turned. N.B.—If the fire be not dear enough, the mushrooms can be done in the oven. Place them on a buttered baking-sheet. They will take about a quarter of an hour to cook in a hot oven. 3. When the mushrooms are done, put them on a hot dish; divide the butter, and put a piece on each mushroom. N.B.—If liked, the mushrooms may be served on hot buttered toast or fried croutons.44 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 28. STEWED MUSHROOMS. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 1 pint small mushrooms—button mushrooms are best—(the price varies according to the season) 1 o 1 oz. flour -v ij oz. butter ( , ^ teaspoonful lemon-juice f 0 Pepper and salt / 1 2i Time required, about forty minutes. 1. Wash, peel, and trim the mushrooms carefully, but do not remove the stalks. 2. Put them into a stew-pan with half-a-pint of cold water, half-a-teaspoonful of lemon-juice, and the seasoning, about a teaspoonful of salt and half-a-saltspoonful of pepper. 3. Put the stew-pan by the side of the fire, to simmer gently for half-an-hour. 4. Then mix the butter and flour on a plate with a knife until it is quite smooth, and then add it to the mush- rooms and let all simmer for five minutes longer, stirring it carefully all the time. 5. It should be served at once on a hot dish. N.B.—The mushrooms can be served alone, or with stewed kidneys or steak, etc. They are very nice with warmed chicken.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 45 No. 29. MUSHROOMS FARCIS. Average cost of Ingredients. s, d. 6 large mushrooms (all the same size, and cup ones are necessary) 09 3 oz. rather fat bacon ... ... o 2J 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley) Q x % teaspoonful chopped shalot > 2 oz. butter 02 2 oz. sifted bread-crumbs \ Salt and pepper >.. o Nutmeg ) 1 4 Time required, about twenty minutes. 1. Wash the mushrooms; then remove the stalks, and peel them carefully without breaking them, and sprinkle over them half-a-teaspoonful of pepper and salt mixed. 2. Put the trimmings of the mushrooms, the stalks, etc., on a board, and chop them up finely; also the bacon and shalot. When they are all chopped up, put them in a stew-pan with two ounces of butter, a teaspoonful of salt and pepper mixed, three grains of cayenne pepper, and half- a-teaspoonful of grated nutmeg. Stir all well together, over the fire, until the mixture is cooked; it will take about seven to ten minutes. 3. Take the stew-pan off the fire, and stir in a good tablespoonful of bread-cruvibs, and the chopped parsley; put the mushrooms on a baking-sheet, and fill each one with the mixture.46 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 4. Brown the remaining bread-crumbs in the oven, and then sprinkle them over the mushrooms. 5. Put the mushrooms in the oven until they are nicely cooked through ; they will take about seven minutes. Then arrange them tastily on a very hot dish, and serve at once. N.I3.—If liked, each mushroom may be served on a piece of hot buttered toast, cut to the size of the mushroom.47 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 30. POTTED HAM OR TONGUE. Average cost of Ingredients required {to fill an ordinary gallipot). s. d. 1 lb. cooked ham or tongue (or half and half) ... 1 o^ 3 oz. butter 0 3a Nutmeg and cayenne pepper-) ] 3 oz. clarified butter or suet >• 0 2a 1 teaspoonful gravy ' 1 6 Time required, about one hour. 1. Cut up the ham or tongue into small pieces on a board ; then put it into a mortar, and pound it as finely as possible. 2. Add about one tablespoonful of gravy and the butter ; grate half-a-teaspoonful of nutmeg, and sprinkle it over the pounded meat; also about five grains of cayenne pepper. 3. Mix all well together, and then pass it through a wire sieve into a basin. 4. Put the pounded meat into a pot, pressing it down tightly. 5. Put three ounces of salt butter or suet into a frying- pan, melt it over the fire, skimming it well all the time until it is quite clarified; then pour it over the top of the potted meat, stand it aside to cool and until the butter is set on the top. N.B.—It will keep for a week or so, if the lid of butter be not cut.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 43 No. 31. POTTED BEEF. Average cost of “Potted Beef!' Ingredients. 2 lbs. lean beef-steak 2 allspice 2 cloves 4 peppercorns x bay-leaf Salt and pepper 2 02. butter 3 anchovies (those in oil are best)... s. d. 2 4 o r o 2% o 2 2 9^ Time required, about huo hours and a half. 1. Butter the inside of a stone jar (quart size), cut the meat in pieces and put it in the jar, sprinkle over it a salt spoonful of salt, and half-a saltspoonful of pepper. 2. Tie all the spices up in a piece of muslin, (viz., the allspice, cloves, peppercorns, and bay leaf), and put them in the jar. 3. Put the cover on to the jar and tie it on; put the jar into a moderate oven for two hours. 4. Then take out the spices, and pound the meat and the anchovies well in a mortar. N.B.—If anchovies preserved in salt water be used, they must be well washed and skinned before pounding. 5. Press the pounded meat firmly into small pots, and cover them with clarified butter. (See recipe for Potted PI am or Tongue.)49 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 32. POTTED BLOATERS. Average cost of Ingredients. 3 fresh-cured bloaters 3 oz. butter ... 1 blade mace and cayenne pepper 3 oz. clarified butter or suet Time required, about half-an-tumr. s. d. ° 3l ° 32 O 1. Scald the bloaters in boiling water ; then put them on a board and remove the skin and bones. 2- Put the three ounces of butter into a stew-pan ; also the bloaters, mace, and half-a-saltspoonful of cayenne pepper. 3. Put the stew-pan over the fire to cook gently for a quarter of an hoitr (not longer). 4. Then put the fish, etc., into a mortar and pound well. 5. Place a wire sieve over a basin, and pass the pounded fish through the sieve; then put it into a pot, pressing it down tightly. 6. Cover the top of the potted fish with clarified butter or suet, as in recipe for Potted Ham or Tongue. N.B.—All raw fish maybe potted as above. Cooked fish, such as salmon, trout, etc., should be potted the same way as Potted Ham or Tongue. D50 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 33. CANAPES OF HADDOCK. Average cost of Ingredients. 1 dried haddock 1 gill milk 1 oz. butter Cayenne pepper Fried croutons 2 oz. grated Parmesan cheese (if liked) ... 4 lb. lard or clarified dripping, for frying s. d. o 8 o i£ O X o 2.} 0 5 1 6 Time required, about halj-an-hour, after the haddock has been soaked for two hours in milk. 1. Wash the haddock in cold water, and dry it; place it on a board, and carefully remove the skin. 2. Cut the haddock into fillets, or in small square pieces according to taste. 3. Pour a gill of milk into a soup-plate, and lay the fillets of haddock in the milk to soak for two hours. 4. Cut some thin slices of bread (without crust) the size of each fillet. 5. Put half-a-pound of clarified dripping ox lard into a stew-pan, and put it on the fire to heat. 6. When the dripping is quite boiling, put in the slices of bread to fry a light brown.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 5i 7. Have ready a piece of whitey-brown paper on a dish, and as the bread is fried, it should be placed on the paper to drain off the grease. N.B.—The slices of bread can be toasted if preferred ; it is a matter of taste. 8. When the haddock is sufficiently soaked, the pieces must be toasted or grilled in front of the fire for two or three minutes, until they are slightly brown. 9. Then place each fillet on each crouton, divide the ounce of hitter into little pieces and put one piece on each fillet, and sprinkle over them carefully about five grains oj cayenne pepper. N.B.—If the dish be required for a savoury, a teaspoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, sprinkled over the fillets, is a great improvement. 10. For serving, the dish should be very hot, and the fillets nicely arranged in a circle, or built up one on the other.52 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 34. BROILED SOLES, WHITING, HADDOCK, PLAICE, &C. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 1 sole o 1 oz. butter 1 x oz. flour 1 $ teaspoonful lemon-juice f 1 Pepper and salt ' 1 2 Time required, about twenty minutes. 1. Take off the brown skin on one side of the sole. N.B.—Whiting, haddock, plaice, etc., should not be skinned, but the head should be taken off whiting and haddock, and the belly split down. N.B.—If preferred, the fish could be filleted. 2. Wash the fish in cold water, lay it on a dish, sprinkle it all over with salt, and leave it for one hour before it is cooked to allow the fish to get slightly salted, otherwise it would not be so tasty. 3. Then wipe off the salt, and dredge it with flour on both sides. 4. Take a clean gridiron, and grease it with butter or clarified dripping, place the fish on it, and grill it for about ten minutes, over, or in front of, a clear fire ; it should be turned. 5. When the fish is grilled, put it on a hot dish, cut the butter in small pieces, put it on the top of the fish, sprinkle over it about a saltspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, and squeeze over half-a-teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Serve at once.53 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 35. FISH CUTLETS. Average cost of Ingredients. J lb. cold fish (salmon or turbot, etc.) 1 oz. butter ■) 1 oz. flour S 1 teaspoonful anchovy sauce ) 1 gill milk (or water) S 1 teaspoonful cream Cayenne pepper Salt and pepper 1 egg Sifted bread-crumbs Clarified dripping or fat for frying... s. d. o 6 o i£ o 1 o 4 o o 1 1 <4 Time required, about one hour. 1. Take all the bones and skin from any cold fish, and break it up in small pieces. 2. Put the butter in a stew-pan, over the fire, and when it is melted stir in the fiour; then mix it into a smooth paste with the milk or water, and add the cream, three or four grains of cayenne pepper, and a saltspoonful of salt and pepper mixed, and stir it over the fire until it boils and thickens. 3. Now stir in the anchovy sauce, and the fish; turn it all out on a plate and put it aside to cool. 4. When it is quite cold, form the mixture into cutlets, break an egg on to a plate, beat it up with a knife, and egg over each cutlet well ; then cover them with the bread- crumbs (not too thickly), put them in a frying-basket and fry them in boiling fat. 5. When they are fried, drain them on whitey-brown paper, and arrange tastily on a hot dish with fried parsley.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 54 No. 36. GRILLED SALMON. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. ij lb. salmon (cut in two slices) 1/4 per lb. ... 2 o 2 oz. butter o i\ Pepper and salt \ Cayenne pepper >• o 2 1 tablespoonful chopped capers ) 2 4h Time required, about twenty minutes. 1. Wash the slices of salmon in fresh cold water, and wipe them dry with a cloth; take two pieces of white paper, butter them, and fold up each slice of salmon separately in the buttered paper. 2. Put the salmon on a gridiron, and grill it in front of a clear fire, for about a quarter of an hour. It must be turned frequently, or the paper will burn. 3. Put the rest of the butter on a plate, and mix with it a saltspoonful of salt, half-a-saltspoonful of pepper, and about five grains of cayenne pepper; then mix in the capers, which should be very finely chopped. 4. When the salmon is cooked, take off the paper; spread the butter and capers all over the fish, and serve it on a hot dish. N.B.—If preferred, the slices of salmon could be dipped in egg and bread-crumbs and fried, and then served with the same butter, and some fried parsley.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 55 No. 37. FILLETS OF TROUT. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 1 trout o 8 Salt and pepper \ x teaspoonful lemon-juice [■ o 2 x oz. butter , ) o 10 Ravigotte Butter. ^ d 2 oz. butter o 2J 1 tablespoonful chopped tarragon o 1 1 tablespoonful chopped chervil o 1 Juice of half a lemon o 1 Pepper and salt } o oh Cayenne pepper f 'z_ o 6 Time required, about a quarter of an hour. 1. Wash the trout in clean cold water, and dry it in a cloth. Place it on a board, cut off the head and tail, and fillet it carefully with a knife, making two fillets; take away all the small bones possible. N.B.—The trout must be quite fresh. 2. Butter a baking-sheet, lay each fillet on it, and sprinkle over them a saltspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, pour over a teaspoonful of lemon-juice, place a piece of buttered paper over, and put the tin in the oven for about ten minutes. 3. Now make the Ravigotte butter; put the two ounces of butter on a platd, squeeze over it the juice of half a lemon. 4. Chop the tarragon and chervil up fine and mix with them a small teaspoonful of salt and pepper mixed, and three grains of cayenne pepper.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 56 5. Now add the chopped herbs and seasoning to the butter and mix all well together with a knife. Form the Ravigotte butter into little balls. 6. For serving put the trout on a hot dish, and place two or three little balls of Ravigotte butter on each fillet. N.B.—If liked, the trout may be simply fried with egg and bread- crumbs, and served alone or with the Ravigotte butter.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 57 No. 38. FRIED FILLETS OF TROUT. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 1 trout o 8 1 shalot 1 01 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley i 1 tablespoonful vinegar 2 tablespoonsful salad oil Pepper and salt 1 oz. flour \ pint salad oil, or J lb. butter for frying 08 1 7a O 2i Time required, about one hour and a quarter. 1. Wash and fillet the trout as before described ; cut each fillet in half, and lay them on a dish. 2. Wash and peel a shalot, and chop it up finely on a board. 3. Take tzuo or three sprigs of parsley, wash and dry, and chop up finely. There should be a teaspoonful. 4. Sprinkle the chopped shalot and parsley over both sides of the fillets, also a teaspoonful of pepper and salt mixed, and pour over a tablespoonful of vinegar, and two tablespoonsful of salad oil. 5. Leave this to soak for one hour, then drain the fillets on a cloth, dip them in flour and fry them in boiling oil or butter. 6. When fried, drain the fish on a piece of whitey- brown paper; then arrange on a hot dish and serve at once.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 53 No. 39. LOBSTER AU GRATIN. Average cost of Ingredients. 1 lobster, 2/6 ; or, one tin of lobster, 1/ ... 6 mushrooms £ oz. flour ) 1 oz. butter f 3 oz. sifted bread-crumbs ) 1 gill milk f x tablespoonful cream (can be omitted) ... 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese Cayenne pepper "i Salt and pepper r Nutmeg > Time required, about half-an-hour. s. d. 1 o o 9 o xj O 2 o ij O I O oh 2 3i 1. Break the shell of the lobster carefully, or open the tin ; take out the lobster, put it on a board (if there is any coral, put it in a mortar with half-an-ounce of butter and pound them well together) ; cut the lobster up in small pieces. 2. Take the mushrooms, wash, peel, trim them, and cut them in small pieces. 3. Put the rest of the butter in a stew-pan over the fire to melt. Mix the flour smoothly into it, then add the milk, and stir it well, over the fire, till it boils and thickens. Now add the mushrooms, and let them simmer in the sauce for two or three minutes. 4. Take the stew-pan off the fire, and stir in the coral and cream, the lobster, the remaining bread-crumbs, a tea- spoonful of salt and pepper mixed, about five grains of cayenne pepper, and half-a-saltspoonful of nutmeg; stir all well together, and turn it out on to a dish (in which it is to be served), arranging it tastily; or, if preferred, the mixture may be put back in the lobster shells.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 59 5. Put the dish, or the shells, into the oven for a few minutes to warm through. 6. Put two ounces of the sifted bread-crumbs on a baking sheet, and put it in the oven to brown the crumbs; they will take about seven minutes. When they are done, they should be turned on to a plate. 7. Mix the browned bread-crumbs and grated cheese to- gether, and sprinkle it over the lobster; and it is then ready for serving.6o Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 40. PICKLE FOR MACKEREL, SALMON, OR TROUT. Average cost of Ingredients. 2 onions 1 shalot ) 1 oz. butter ) 1 bay-leaf, 2 sprigs parsley, and 1 sprig thyme J pint vinegar 1 teaspoonful salt 12 peppercorns 6 cloves s. d. ... o 1 ... o ... o 2 o 4J Time required, about forty minutes. 1. Wash and peel the onions and shalot, and put them, and all the other ingredients, into a stew-pan with half-a- pint of vinegar. 2. Put the stew-pan on the fire till it boils up; then let it stand by the side of the fire for half-an-hour; then pour it through a strainer over the fsh, which should have been boiled. N.B.—The fish should stay in the pickle for two days before it is eaten. The pickle will keep for four or five days in a cool place, if covered over.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 61 No. 41. GRILLED CHICKEN OR TURKEY. Average cost of Ingredients for Sauce. s. d. 1 tablespoonful salad oif) 1 tablespoonful vinegar S'" 1 tablespoonful chutney o 3 1 tablespoonful tomato sauce o 4 2 shalots o oj Cayenne pepper ■) Salt and pepper V 01^ 1 dessertspoonful lemon-juice ) o 10 Time required, about haf-an-ho%ir. 1. Take the joints of a chicken or turkey, split them in half, and flatten them with a cutlet bat. 2. Pour the salad oil on to a plate, and dip each piece of chicken in it, and sprinkle over them, on both sides, about a teaspoonful of pepper and salt mixed. 3. Put the pieces of chicken on to the gridiron, and grill them in front of a clear fire for twenty minutes; if the chicken has been cooked before, it should only be grilled for about seven to ten minutes; the gridiron must be turned occasionally. Care should be taken not to burn the chicken. 4. Take the shalots and peel them, and chop them up very finely on a board, put them in a stew-pan with the vinegar, and let it reduce over the fire for ten minutes (the lid should be off); then add the chutney, the tomato sauce, the lemon-juice, about five grains of cayenne pepper and a saltspoonfid of salt, stir all well together, and let it boil for five minutes. 5. When the chicken is grilled, arrange the pieces tastily on a hot dish, and pour the sauce, through a strainer, round the grill. It is now ready for serving.62 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. No. 42. DEVILLED CHICKEN. Average cost of Ingredients. s. d. 1 teaspoonful ready made mustard \ 1 teaspoonful salt and pepper mixed V o 1 oz. butter ) Time required, about a quarter of an hour. 1. Take any remains of cold chicken or turkey, cut it into joints, make a few incisions across each with a knife, spread the mustard over each piece, and sprinkle over the salt and pepper. 2. Put the pieces of chicken on to a gridiron, and grill them over a clear fire; turn the pieces occasionally. They will take from seven to ten minutes. 3. When the chicken is grilled, arrange it tastily on a hot dish ; divide the butter, and put a small bit on each piece of chicken. It is now ready, and should be served at once.Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 63 No. 43. PIGEON PIE. Average cost of Ingredients. 3 pigeons 3 eggs (hard-boiled) 1 lb. rump or beef-steak 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley \ lb. bacon 1 Pepper and salt) | rough puff paste s. d. 2 3a ° 3S I 2 O I ° 3h o 7§ 4 8| Time required, alout one hour and three-quarters. 1. Boil the eggs in boiling water for ten minutes, when done take the shells off and put them in a basin of cold water for tzuo or three minutes. (This will prevent the white of the egg discolouring.) 2. Cut the steak up in equal-sized pieces, and put it at the bottom of the pie-dish (about one pint-and-a-half size). Sprinkle over some of the seasoning (about a teaspoonful op salt and half-a-teaspoonful of pepper mixed, will be sufficient altogether). 3. Cut each pigeonva four pieces,wash,and wipe them quite dry with a clean cloth. (All the trimmings from the steak and pigeons should be put aside.) Cut the eggs into quarters, lay the pigeon and eggs alternately on the top of the steak, sprinkle over the remainder of the seasoning, then add the chopped parsley and the bacon cut in small slices. 4. Make the paste, and cover the pie with it; use the trimmings of the paste to ornament it. Make a small hole in the centre of the crust to let the steam out.64 Recipes for the Breakfast Table. 5. Break a)i egg, and put thz yolk on a plate, brush over the top of the pie with the yolk of an egg. 6. Put the pie into a moderate oven to bake for about one hour to one hour and a half. 7. Put all the trimmings into a stew-pan, with about one pint of water, and seasoning, and let it simmer gently while the pie is baking. 8. When the pie is finished, strain the gravy in the stew- pan, and pour it carefully into the pie, through a funnel, introduced at the top of the pie. It is then ready for serving, and can be eaten hot or cold according to taste. N.B.—It is always better to add the gravy to the pie after it is baked. The ornament of paste should be replaced over the hole at the top of the pie. CHARLES DICKENS AND EVANS, CRYSTAL I>ALACE PRESS.I B.T. BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR FOR THE FAMILY TABLE. IN the hands of an accomplished cook there is no known limit to the variety of delicate and palatable dishes which may be produced from Brown & Polson’s Corn Flour. It readily lends itself to the requirements of individual taste, and may be enriched with every variety of ingredient within the resources of the cuisine. It is equally susceptible of plain and simple treatment for ordinary domestic purposes, and one of its chief recommendations is the facility with which it may be prepared. Boiled with milk, and with or without the addition of sugar and flavouring, it may be ready for the table within fifteen minutes ; or poured into a mould and cooled, it becomes in the course of an hour a Blanc-mange, which, served with fresh or pre- served fruit, will be acceptable at any meal. Add sultana raisins, marmalade, or jam of any kind, and in about the same time it is made into an excellent Baked Pudding. To which facts may be added just two hints: i. Take care to boil with milk, when so required, for not less than eight minutes. 2. If time can be taken for it, the Baked Pudding will be the better for being allowed to cool, and should be re-warmed when about to be served. NOTE.—Unlihe many others, this Corn Flour bears the names of its Manufacturers, who offer the guarantee of their long-established reputation for its uniformly Superior Quality.DRINK FOR BREAKFAST BARRY & REYNOLDS’ SPECIALLY REFINED Cocoa Essence, Guaranteed a perfectly Pure Soluble Cocoa of the highest standard of quality and fineness. OR THE EXCELLENCE OF PREPARED COCOA, The Best for Family Use. Sold only in Packets. BARRY & REYNOLDS, By using proper ingredients as absorbents of the Cocoa-oil or butter in the manufac- ture of their “ Excellence of Prepared Cocoa,” preserve the great sustaining and invigorating qualities which the Cocoa-bean possesses, and which to a great extent are lost when the butter is extracted ; they therefore confidently recommend this Cocoa as easy of digestion, highly nutritious, and economical for family use.— Vide “ Civil Service Gazette," October 23rd, 1869. “As an article of food, Cocoa differs essentially from both tea and coffee. While only an infusion of those substances is used, leaving a large proportion of their total weight unconsumed, the entire substance of the cocoa serds is prepared as an emulsion for drinking, and the whole is thus utilised within the system. While the contents of a cup of tea or coffee can only be regard d as stimulant in its effect, and almost entirely destitute of essential nutritive properties, a cup of ‘prepa>ed cocoa ’ is really a most nourishing article of diet, as, in addition to the value of the theobromine it contains, it introduces into the system no inconsiderable proportion of valuable nitrogenous and oleaginous elements.”—“Encyclopedia Britannica." ALSO USE B. & R.’S (CROWN BRAND) GKEI^TTIISTIE 3VHTT STAI^D, In 1 lb. and y2 lb. Tins. B. and R. first offered Genuine Mustard for consumption in 1S52, before which time it was an article little known to the public. MAY BE OBTAINED AT THE STORES. BARRY & REYNOLDS, Finsbury Steam Mills, LONDON, E.C. a3 US ADAMS & SON, MANUFACTURING AND GENERAL House Furnishing Ironmongers, ELECTROPLATERS, AND CUTLERS, BY APPOINTMENT TO p?n* Jttajestg th* <$ueeu anb irin££ 57, HAYMARKET, S.W. Stockpot, Bainmarie. Stewpan. BEST HOUSE IN THE TRADE FOR KUTCHEN REQUISITES, HVCOXJLIDS, AND All the Latest Parisian Novelties and Specialities for the Cuisine, SPECIAL ATTENTION BEING GIVEN TO THIS DEPARTMENT. DEPOT FOR CAPTAIN WARREN’S PATENT COOKING POTS. All Goods marked in Plain Figures. TEN PER CENT. DISCOUNT ALLOWED FOR CASH. Illustrated Catalogue forwarded on application. 5 7, ZEE -A_ ~3T 3VE -A_ IR IKI El T, S.'VsT.4 PATENT POTATO STEAMER. Received Honourable Mention at the National Health Society's Exhibition, June, 1883. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. “ From experiments made it is found that all sorts of Potatoes can be cooked with certainty and satisfaction in this steamer.’'—The Ironmonger. “Experience has proved that this Steamer is admirable in operation, and there is no class of Potatoes which cannot be successfully cooked by its means.”—The Merchant. “The apparatus before us simply and easily takes the “lace of experience, and the Potato has not yet been grown that cannot be cooked to perfection it by the humblest culinary assistant.”— Sanitary Record. “We have tried this simple and useful invention. . . . Potatoes cooked in this way are cer- tainly more pleasant to the taste ; and, what is vastly more important, they are more digestible than when simply boiled.”—Health (Edited by Dr. Andrew Wilson). “‘All sorts and conditions' of Potatoes have been cooked in it with invariable satisfactory results."— The Caterer. “ An invention which most assuredly meets, and that perfectly, an universal and daily want."— Building World. “ By this invention there is an absolute certainty of their being well and thoroughly cooked, and bring dished up in a proper condition. I have tested the Steamer myself, and am quite satisfied with the result of its action on both New and Old Potatoes.”—Bazaar, Exchange, and Mart. “ These and other obstacles have been successfully overcome by the new Potato Steamer repre- sented in our woodcut.”—CasselTs Family Magazine. “It certainly does its work admirably, and appears to supply a want long felt by cooks and house- keepers."—Editor, Ladys Pictorial. TESTIMONIALS. Messrs. Bertram & Roberts, at the Fisheries Exhibition, write under date September 3rd, 1883. “ Gentlemen,— Bower's Potato Steamer (20 lbs.) I had of you answers admirably, and I can strongly recommend it. 11W. H. OLIVER, ‘Chef.’” The following unsolicited Testimonial is from the Editor of one of the leading Illustrated London Papers. “ Gentlemen,—A few weeks ago you kindly sent me one of your patent Potato Steamers which I acknowledged before I had had time to test its merits ; it really is invaluable. It has fallen to my lot to have all sorts and kinds of potatoes and divers cooks of late, but they sin ply cannot help cooking the potatoes properly. I have never had them served up so uniformly well in my life, and hope that in a short time no family or restaurant may be without your Steamers. “ August 20th, 1883." “ Believe me to be, etc." We are authorised by the NATIONAL SCHOOL OF COOKERY. SOUTH KEN- SINGTON, to state that Bower’s Potato Steamer has been thoroughly tested with the result that it fully accomplishes what is claimed for it, viz.—That any sort of potato can be cooked to perfection in it by even an unqualified person." SIZES- 31bs. 5/-; 41bs. 6/ ; 61bs. 7/6; lOlbs. 15/-; 151bs. 18/6; 201bs. 23/6. To be obtained of any Ironmonger in town or country at the above-mentioned prices, and wholesale of the sole Manufacturers, GROOM & CO., Liquorpond Street, London, E.C.5 Crown 8vo. Price 5^. THE ROYAL CONFECTIONER: ENGLISH AND FOREIGN. A Practical Treatise on the Art of Confectionary in all its Branches; comprising Ornamental Confectionary Artistically Developed. By CHARLES ELM^ FRANCATELLI, Late Maitre d'Hotel to Her Majesty the Queen, Author of “ The Modern Cook,” “ The Cook's Guide,” and “Cookery for the Working Classes Fourth Edition. With Illustrations. HOW TO COOK FISH. By R. O. C. A Series of Lessons in Cookery from the Official Hand- book for THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON Seventh Thousand. Crown 8vo. Sewed, 3R SICK-ROOM COOKERY. From the Official Handbook for THE NATIONAL TRAINING SCHOOL FOR COOKERY, SOUTH KENSINGTON, Compiled by R. O. C. Crown 8vo. Sewed, 6d. CHAPMAN AND HALL, Limited.S.M.JprmcerfaaIe0."W^l.§.3§. Juhe of ®etli. E. K. WILSON, Nos. 13 & 38, SUSSEX PLACE, ONSLOW GARDENS, By Appointment to the National Training School for Cookery, MAKER OF EVERY DESCRIPTION OF COOKING AND HEATING APPARATUS, Begs to call attention to the following Specialities : “THE KENSINGTON RANGE.” This range has an open fire for roasting, a wrought-iron oven, with a flue circulating all round, making the oven of an equal heat in every part; the top of oven forms a hot plate, on which vessels can be kept stewing ; the same fire also heats two boilers, the one for supplying hot water in any part of the house, and the other for supplying hot water or steam in the kitchen. The patterns are so arranged that the proportions of oven or fire or boiler room can be varied to suit the requirements of the establishment. The Prices of these ranges are—3 ft. 6 in., £13 10s. ; 4 ft., £14 154.; 4 ft. 6 in., £15 ijr.; 5 ft., £16 10s. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast-iron Boiler, and One Wrought-iron High-pressure Boiler, as described. E. K. WILSON’S “KENSINGTON KITCHENER.” This close fire range is believed to be as perfect as can be produced, and is the result of many years of experience and attention. Fitted with One Wrought-iron Oven, One Cast Boiler and Covings, and Plate Rack. The Prices are as follows: 3 ft. 6in., £10 18s. 6a'. ; 4 ft., £12 5*.; 4 ft. 6 in., £14 sr. | 5 ft., .£15 x«. 6d. If fitted with Extra Wrought-iron High-pressure Boiler, £2 10s. extra. If fitted with Two Ovens, one for pastry and one for meat, and One Wrought-iron High-pressure Boiler, 4 ft., £18 ior.; 4 ft. 6 in., ,£20 i8r. 6J. ; 5 ft., £22 10s. ; 5 ft. 6 in., .£24 10s. E. K. Wilson has paid great attention to the making of Stoves for Cooking by Gas, since the introduction of the Bunsen principle 0/ diluting gas with air; the great cleanliness and economy secured by a properly balanced burner, made on this principle, renders gas a most valuable agent for many culinary purposes. THE STUDENT’S GAS STOVE Is made in several sires, and is fitted with a Roaster, an Oven for Baking, and Ring Burners on the top for Stewing. The Prices are as follows: No. i, £2 8r.; No. 2, £3 xos.; No. 3, £5 5s. GAS STEWING PLATES are a most valuable addition to any Kitchen, and are made in every variety of size, with Atmospheric Ring Burners, from 15$. upwards. NOTE.—E. K. WILSON waits upon intending Purchasers to advise as to the best kinds 0/ COOKING APPARA TUS for their purpose,free of charge in any part of London, or if in the Country, at the cost of second class railway fare. Faulty Hot Water circulation rectified, and Ovens. Flues, &c., re-constructed on most Scientific Principles.7 The following is a most Estimate of Utensils £ s. d. 4 Iron Saucepans 098 1 Potatoe Steamer .. .. ..029 1 Enamelled Saucepan .. ....023 1 Soup Digester, 6/-; 1 Oval Boiling Pot, 8/6 .. o 14 6 1 Brass Bottle Jack .. .. _ o 10 6 1 Jack Screen, 15/6 ; 1 Basting Ladle, 1/4 .. .. .. .. .. o 16 10 1 Improved Weighing Machine and Weights, 7 lb. down to % oz. ..0176 1 Wrought Iron Tea Kettle .. ..040 1 Kitchen Fender, 8/6; and set of Fire Irons, 5/6 .. .. .. o 14 o 1 Coal Scuttle, 3/6; 1 Hand Shovel, 1/- o 4 6 J4 dozen Table Knives and Forks, at 10/6 .. 0 5 3 2 Cooks’-Knives (French), 1/6 and 2/6040 1 Vegetable Knife .. .. ..013 1 Dishing-up Fork 019 1 Kitchen Steel 016 6 Wood Spoons .. 0011 3 Iron Spoons .. ..00 10$ 1 Larding Needle, qd. ; 1 Trussing Needle, 6d. .. .. .. o 1 1 1 Flour Dredger, zod. ; 1 Sugar Dred- ger, 1/2 .. .. .. ..020 1 Mould for Apple Charlotte .. ..013 1 Mould for Jellies, 2/6; 1 Tin Colan- der, 1/6 .. .. .. ..040 1 Gravy Strainer ..013 1 Fish Kettle .. .. ... .. 069 1 Paste Board, 3/9 ; 1 Rolling Pin, 6d. 043 1 Paste Brush .. 010 1 Chopping Board .. .. ..020 1 Marble Mortar, 8/3; 1 Lignum-Vitse Pestle, 2/9 .. .. .. .. o 11 o 1 Slice, 1/-; 1 Egg Slice, lod... .. o 1 10 1 Baking Sheet, with Turned Ends ..016 2 Round Cake Tins .. .. ..012 1 Gridiron.. .. .. .. ..016 1 York Pudding Tin .. .. .. 008 6 Patty Pans, 6d. ; 2 Open Tart Tins, 1/4 .. .. .. .. .. o 1 10 2 Frying Pans, iod., 2/- .. .. o 2 10 1 Set of Steel Skewers, 1/-; 1 Paste Jagger, 1/- .. .. .. ..020 1 Coffee Pot .. .. .. ..019 1 Bread Grater .. 008 Complete and Economical required in a Kitchen. £ s. d. 1 Box of Paste Cutters ..030 2 Tin Funnels .. .. .. ..007 1 Mincing Knife .. .. .. ..016 1 Meat Saw, 2/6; 1 Meat Cleaver, 2/10 054 1 Egg Whisk ..009 1 Seasoning Box.. .. ... ..050 4 Tin Measures, % pint, y2 pint, ipint, and 1 quart .. .. .. .. 0211 1 Frying Basket.. .. .. . 029 1 French Stewpan for ditto .. ..023 1 Corkscrew .. 008 1 Japanned Spice Box .. .. ..029 1 Canister for Tea, 1/-; 1 ditto for Coffee, 1/- .. .. .. ..020 1 Tin Water Can, *4/3; 1 Tin Dust Pan, 1/- .. .. .. ..053 1 Hand Bowl, 2/3 ; Toastfork, 1/- .. o 3 3 1 Galvanised Pail .. .. ..016 2 Galvanised Tubs for Sinks, 2/6, 3/3059 1 Flour Tub .. .. .. ..030 1 Salt Box, 2/3* 1 Wire Sieve, 2/9 .. 050 1 Hair Sieve, if ; 1 Tammy cloth, 2/6036 1 Patent Felt Jelly Bag .. .. 030 2 Scrubbing Brushes, gd., 1/9 .. .. 026 3 Black Lead Brushes .. .. • • ° 3 3 1 Sweep’s Brush .. .. .. ..009 1 Flue Brush .. .. .. ..016 1 Hair Broom .. .. .. ..029 1 Knife Board .. .. .. ..019 1 Wood Soap Box .. .. ..006 1 Mustard Pot .. .. .. ..016 1 Pepper Box .. .. .. ..006 1 Salt Cellar 009 1 Japanned Teatray .. .. ..042 1 Merangue Bag with Funnel ..013 1 Sieve for Whitebait .. .. ..023 1 Wrought-iron Salamander .. ..056 1 Coffee Mill .. .. .. ..036 1 Box of French Vegetable Cutters .. 033 1 Fair of Steak Tories .. .. ..019 l Dozen of Quenele vhells .. ..013 1 Set of 3 Pot Triangles .. ..023 1 Pair of Wash Leather Gloves .. o 010 1 Chamois Leather .. . ..010 Carving Knife and Fork .. .. 040 £13 8 10J The Student’s Sheath, fitted complete with Belt and Strap, Knives, Larding Pin, Trussing Needle, &c. Price 19/- to 22/- TESTIMONIAL. From the late Lady-Superintendent of the National Training School of Cookery. “22, Thurloe Square, “Mr Wilson, _ _ "June 5,1875. “ I am glad to be able to say in this manner how thoroughly satisfied I am with all the work you have done for us at the National School of Cookery since it opened. Not only have your Gas Stoves and the various contrivances for hot water, &c., which you have put in for us from time to time answered admirably, but we find that your Kitchen Utensils wear very well indeed. “In the many inquiries for Ranges, &c., 1 have always mentioned your name, and in every instance I have heard with pleasure how satisfied the customers thus sent have been, and what credit you have done to my recommendation. “ With sincere good wishes, I remain, yours, •‘M. A. BARKER, "Lady-Superintendent National Training Schoolfor Cookery, Exhibition Road, S. IV." Branoh Sohools and Students supplied on the same terms as National Training School, IE. IK. WILSON, 13 & 38, SUSSEX PLACE, ONSLOW GARDENS.8 Obtained—in EACH CASE—THE HIGHEST AWARD, a Silver Medal, and were placed FIRST IN ORDER OF MERIT at the TWO MOST IMPORTANT GAS EXHIBITIONS EVER HELD, namely, the Smoke Abatement Exhibition, South Kensington, 1882, and the International Gas Exhibition, Crystal Palace, 1883 ; also Two Medals (Silver and Bronze) at Health Exhibition. MAY BE HIRED AT THE GAS OFFICES. WORKS, 200, CAMBERWELL ROAD. Manchester (Show Rooms), 7, Deansgate.9 S. & H. HARRIS’S HOUSEHOLD REQUISITES. EBONITE boots!" shoes. WATERPROOF BLACKING. Does not injure the Leather. Requires no brush- ing. ASK FOR IT. TRADE MARK. POLISHING PASTE, For Metals and Glass of all Descriptions. PLATE POWDER, Does not injure the Silver. B R U N S WICKB LACK, For Stoves or Iron Work. STEEL POWDER, For Bright Grates and Fire Irons. FURNITURE POLISH. I NO HOUSE COMPLETE WITHOUT THEM SOLD EVERYWHERE. Manufactory.- 57, MANSELL STREET, LONDON, E.10 LOVELOCK’S IMPROVED MINCING & SAUSAGE MAKING MACHINES & COFFEE MILLS FOR DOMESTIC USE. No. 2. 15s. Od. No. 3. 21s. Od. No. 4. 42s. Od. PRICES OF MINCERS. No. 1. 10s. 6d. PRICES OF COFFEE MILLS. Od. 2. Od. 3. Od. 4- Od. They are unrivalled for simplicity and efficiency, and for promoting domestic economy are invaluable in every household. Can be obtained of Ironmongers and Dealers in all parts of the World. Wholesale of J. F. LOVELOCK, Broadway Works, George Street, Hackney, London. ESTABLISHED 18S6. LIEBIG COMPANY'S EXTRACT O F M E#AT CAUTION—In consequence of certain dealers making unauthorised use of Baron Liebig’s photograph, title, &c., Baron II. von Liebig finds it necessary to caution the public that the LIEBIG COMPANY’S Extract of Meat is the only brand ever guaranteed as genuine either b) ‘ himself or the late Baron Justus von Liebig. Purchaser;; must insist upon having the LIEBIG COMPANY’S1 Extract of Meat. FINEST MEAT-FLAVOURING INGREDIENT FOR SOUFS MADE DISHES, SAUCES, &c. INVALUABLE AND EFFICIENT TONIC FOR INVALIDS. JJ.B. —Genuine ONLY with facsimile of Baron Liebig’s Signature, in blue ink across labelINDEX TO ADVERTISERS IN BREAKFAST & SAVOURY DISHES. PAGE Adams & Son—“Kitchen Requisites” 3 Barry & Reynolds—“ Drink for Breakfast ” 2 Borwick & Sons—“Baking Powder” 11 Brown & Polson—“Corn Flour” 1 Chambers, Monnery & Co.—“The Larbert Cooking Rangf,” . . 12 Chapman & Hall, Limited—“Royal Confectioner” ... .5 Cooper Cooper & Co.—“ Tea—Real Tea ” . . Second Page of Cover. Davis, H. & C., & Co.—“Metropolitan Gas Stoves” .... 8 Groom & Co.—“Patent Potato Steamer” Harris, S. & H.—“Household Requisites” . Keen & Co. — “ Mustard ” Fourth Page of Cover. Liebig Extract of Meat Company—“Extract of Meat” . . .10 Lovelock, J. F.—“Mincing and Sausage Making Machines” . . 10 McCall & Co.—“Paysandu Ox Tongues” 9 Menier, E.—“ Chocolat-Menier ” .... Third Page of Cover. Nestle, H.—“Swiss Milk” 12 Wilson, E. K.—“Culinary Utensils” 6,7 BREAD 'GAKES and PASTRY. TO MAKE A RICH PLUM CAKE.—Take A lb. of butter and y2 lb. of white cifted sugar, beat these with the hand well together to a cream, add 4 eggs, one at a time, and well beat each one with the butter and sugar, lightly mix in i lb. of flour previously mixed with i teaspoonful of Borwick’s Gold Medal Baking Powder, then lightly mix with the whole % lb. of sultanas, bake at once thoroughly in a quick oven. TO MAKE A GOTTd PLAIN CaK£.- Mix well together i lb. of flour, 2 teaspoonsful of Borwick’s Gold . Medal Baking Powder. a little salt and spice, and % lb. of sugar, rub in % lb. of butter, add 6 oz. sultanas, 2 oz. currants, and 1 oz. candied peel, moisten the whole with 2 eggs and half-a-teacupful of milk previously beaten together \ bake in a quick oven very thoroughly. vO12 NESTLE’S The Richest in Cream. SWISS CAN BE USED FOR ALL PURPOSES OF FRESH MILK. MILK. IMPROVES COFFEE, COCOA, & CHOCOLATE. DELICIOUS IN TEA. MAKES SPLENDID CUSTARDS. SOLD BY GROCERS, ETC., EVERYWHERE. THE “LARBERT” COOKING RANGE This most popular Cook- ing Stove is used extensively throughout the Kingdom iu small households, and in others as an auxiliary to the larger Range, and is, in every case, a complete and signal success. The strong commendations we have received from all parts of the world prove it to be an economiser of fuel as well as an excellent performer of all necessary cooking. Length of Range. 2-ft. 4-in. 2-ft. 6-in. 2- ft. 8-in. 3 ft. O-in. 3- ft. 6-in. Sizes of Ovens. Wide. 10-in. 12-in. 12-in. 14-in. 16 in. Prices. jC s. d. 2 12 6 2 15 0 • 2 15 0 3 5 0 4 5 0 Oven and Sham. 2-ft. 0 in. 10 in. 1 17 6 2-ft. 2-in. 12-in. 2 0 0 2- ft. 6-in. 14-in. 2 10 0 3 ft. O-in. 14-in. 2 15 0 3- ft. 2-in. 16-in. 3 5 0 CHAMBERS, MONNERY, & CO., 41, BISHOPSGATE WITHOUT, LONDON.CHOCOLAT-MENIER DEFIES ALL HONEST COMPETITION. AWARDED GOLD MEDAL AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878. BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. OBSERVE TRADE MARKS AND REAL NAME. FOR BREAKFAST—CHOCOLAT-MENIER. AWARDED TWENTY-EIGHT PRIZE MEDALS. ANNUAL CONSUMPTION EXCEEDS— 26,000,000 lbs. FOR LUNCHEON—CHOCOLAT-MENIER. AWARDED MEDAL AT THE VIENNA EXHIBITION. MENIER’S ESSENCE OF COCOA. Sold in i lb. and 1 lb. Tins, 2s. per lb. AWARDED GRAND DIPLOMA at the PARIS EXHIBITION, 1878. MENIER’S CHOCOLAT-POWDER. PLAIN AND VANILLA FLAVOUR. Sold in 1 lb. and 1 lb. Tins. AWARDED HIGHEST PRIZE at the PARIS EXHIBITION, 187 BEWARE OF IMITATIONS. OBSERVE TRADE MARKS AND REAL NAME. SOLS SVEKYWHEEE. LONDON—49, 51, & 53, SOUTHWARK STREET, S.EKEEN & CO.'S SUPPLEMENTARY RECIPES For the Breakfast Table. (SEE CONTENTS.) With No. 20 use KEEN'S MUSTARD. With No. 21 use KEEN’S MUSTARD. With No. 22 use KEEN'S MUSTARD. With No. 23 use KEEN’S MUSTARD. With Nos. 24 and 43 use KEEN’S MUSTARD. With your Chop or Steak use KEEN’S MUSTARD. In fact, when you use Mustard, always have KEEN’S