The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: CoottRI (\ fok 6 1122 73 5Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21531481►W W ’ I* & ¥ '■i K rb\’’ Henry Cremer /9. Cornhill. London . HubA DICTIONARY OF DIET; BEING A PRACTICAL TREATISE ON ALL PABULARY AND NUTRITIVE SUBSTANCES, SOLID AND FLUID, WITH THEIR COMPOUNDS, USED AS FOOD; INCLUDING THE OBSERVATIONS OF EMINENT PHILOSOPHERS, PHYSICIANS, GASTRONOMERS, AND OTHER INDUSTRIOUS INQUIRERS INTO THE TRUE SCIENCE OF EATING, DRINKING, AND PRESERVING HEALTH, THROUGH THE MEDIUM OF WELL REGULATED AND EASILY DIGESTIBLE FOOD, FOUNDED ON THE KNOWN SPECIFIC PROPERTIES OF ALL KINDS OF HUMAN ALIMENT; WITH THE MEANS OF PREVENTION, AND CURE, OF THE DISEASES RESULTING FROM A DERANGED CONDITION OF THE ORGANS OF DIGESTION, ETC. ETC. By J. S. FORSYTH, Surgeon, AUTHOR OF THE “LONDON MEDICAL AND SURGICAL DICTIONARY;” “TREATISE ON DIET AND regimen;” “new DOMESTIC MEDICAL 5IANUAL,” ETC. ETC. “ Health depends chiefly on the choice of food ; ami he who would treat skilfully the subject of healthy must consider the nature of man, the nature of alimentSi and the constitution of the person wlio takes them.”—H ipfocrates. “ We should beware of such food as may tempt ns to eat wlicii we are not hungry; and of such liquors as may entice us to drink when we are not thirsty.” Socrates. LONDON: HENRY CREMER, 19, CORNIIILL. 1833.LONDON: PRINTED BY VANNING AND SMITHSON# LONUON-HOUSB YARD. UNIYERSITTf LIBRARY! LEf£0:LPREFACE, As the first and most important consideration towards the prevention of disease and the conservation of the public health, is a plentiful supply of wholesome food, a competent knowledge of the various resources supplied by nature and art for this purpose is sufficiently apparent to require little to be said on the subject; it was wisely and learnedly advanced by Galen, who has quoted the great father of Physic, that "'health depends chiefly on the choice of food"—and "that he who would skilfully treat the subject of health, must consider the nature of man, the nature of aliments, and the constitution of the person that takes them” It is asserted, and we are not prepared to deny it, that the whole constitution of the body may be changed by diet; and Galen again in- forms us, that in the right ordering of our health, we should take those kinds of food which appear to be best adapted “ to our own particular bodies, age, temperature, distemperature and complexions.” Hence, to be enabled to do so much for ourselves, it implies not only an ac- quaintance with the various substances, animal and vegetable, solid and fluid, their state of perfection, and mode of preparation; but, at the same time, some rational acquaintance also with the functions and agents by which the organs to which they are submitted, are influenced by their use, as well as the condition in which the latter are to reecivc them.PREFACE. IV Under these points of consideration may be included the apparatus of digestion ; the processes of nutrition, assimilation, and renovation; the economy ofthe senses, and the regulation of those internal sensationsby which our constitutions may be either physically affected or morbidly deranged. It is this knowledge of the animal economy that directs us equally in the preservation of health as in the cure of diseases; since we thereby supply what is salutary for our subsistence, relieve what is oppressed in the system, open what is obstructed, strengthen what has become weak ; and thus restore to healthy action the wheels of life that had been previously clogged by disease. With these objects in view it became our province minutely to describe the nutritive qualities and other conducive properties of all known alimentary substances, solid or fluid, animal or vegetable, in common use; noting distinctly such as have less claim than others to these pretensions; at the same time, to lay down such rules and directions for the regulation of individual constitutions as each species might appear best to agree with, founded on the experience of both ancient and modern -writers. Suffice it further to say that, disclaiming all and every connexion with theories or preconceived opinions, the “ Dictionary of Diet,” so called, is deduced from, and based upon, the research and practi- cal experience, and confirmed by the hitherto unshaken opinions, of those high and standai'd authorities which have appeared in succession for the last 2000 years; at the same time that, independently, it presents a new typograjihical feature in the Materia Alimentaria, considerably improved, which hitherto has not been attempted. J. S. F.INTRODUCTION. Among the variety of active and useful pursuits which have the improve- ment of the physical and moral condition of man in view, stands pre- eminently distinguished the rational means of preserving health, preventing disease, and, consequently, of prolonging human life. Natural and experi- mental philosophy, chemistry, anatomy and physiology, have respectively lent their aid in resolving the grand problem by which man is embodied with, and after a certain definite period, longer or shorter, he is separated from this world of matter, to enjoy a more refined existence i)i the world of mind. It is the same knowledge that has contributed the principal share towards developing the perishableness of our present structure and its mode of existence, as at variance with perpetual health and long life, without the interference of those auxiliaries which nature has so amply provided us with, and which are so wisely and profusely distributed over the face of the earth, to promote the ends of Providence. Since, then, it is admitted that the pre- servation of health, and the extension of human life to the longest possible period, depend on diet, assisted by other auxiliary means; and the cure of diseases on medicine and regimen ; the utility of a knowledge of these respec- tive agents to meet such desirable ends, must be evident to every one capable of reflection. Medicine, considered as a science resting upon practical rules of experience, being, in a great measure, founded upon natural philosophy and chemistry, and the elements of our food being subject to the same laws, it follows, that with the daily progress of the one, the other must unquestion- ably partake of its improvements, and be continually and reciprocally receiving accessions, which cannot fail to lead to their further advancement. Nature, nevertheless, must still be held in view; she is our pilot and sheet- anchor, and will ever remain so with greater certainty, in the ratio of our acquaintance with her operations. Hence only, a source of many extensive benefits will be laid open to us; and through this labyrinth, however intricate at first sight it may appear, we shall approach our original destination—namely, that of enjoying health, and living to a good old age Thus, aided by the knowledge and experience of the most distinguished philosophers, ancient and modern, and the practice and observations of the wisest and oldest phy- sicians, from Hippocrates the father of physic, down to the present enlightened age, may wc still not indulge in the llattering hope of yet discovering moro hVI INTRODUCTION. of nature’s hidden treasures, and of penetrating still farther into her won- derful and mysterious recesses ? When for a moment we reflect on the natural strength of the human frame, without regard to external agents, one is almost induced to conclude that it was intended for a much longer duration than if really is; the firm bony basis on which the muscles act, and transport us from place to place, by which w'e can protect ourselves from extreme force; the curious system of vessels, so intricately, yet harmoniously interwoven, for giving and depositing nourishment, and supplying that waste which the continued actions of the parts occasion—the elimination of what is useless, by the excretory chan- nels—the power of resisting heat and cold to a certain degree—the wonderful ingenuity adapted for defence—the organs of sense and sensation, to protect our lives by immediately informing us of danger, either externally or inter- nally : still, notwithstanding all this compactness of structure, in which the wisdom of the Divine architect is so pre-eminently visible, in its most minute parts, seldom two or three years pass over without some derangement. On every hand the seeds of disease are met with; the very things on which our existence seems to depend, appear to undermine our health, by being altered or destroyed in their properties; for instance, the air we breathe, changes of temperature, food, exercise—all tend to induce tone, or its opposite, atony or want of tone, in the system. Nature has attached Pleasure to Want; but one of those guides leads, for the most part, farther than the other. Reason was given to man, to make him social; but when once he has yielded to the seductive Influence of pleasure, he is not very liable to be correct in the measure of his reason—he has then quitted the “ tree of lifeand this once done, he is no longer permitted to cull its fruits. The emblems of Egypt, where Moses had been brought up and instructed, and the fables of Greece, present us with the same oi-igins, and always the most simple vegetable regimen, characteristic of the first ages of the world. It was, in fine, the produce of the earth, in its natural state, that sujiplied its inhabitants with both food and sauce. Moderate exercise, wholesome, odoriferous air, insured health and strength, which, witli minds undistracted hy ambition, furnished that appetite which, to the luxurious liver and debauchee, is so constantly refused. When Adam lost his innocence, he lost also the benefit of the tree of life; Init tile same common food was continued after his transgression which he had used before it; yet this was strictly conformable with divine com- mand, “ and thou shalt eat of the herb of the field,” (Gen. Hi. 18). Happily, however, by liis own intelligence, under the direction of Providence, he and his family soon became acquainted with husbandry, which supplied them with the necessaries of life, in a jilain, wholesome, and comfortable manner. Hence the great longevity for which the earlier inhabitants of the world were so remarkable. It was not so with the first inhabitants of Greece, who, havingINTRODUCTION. Vll t Oper. et dier. lib. i. line 17. abandoned the fertile country of Asia, and being destitute of the implements and support of husbandry, lived like the beasts of the field, on tlie sponta- neous productions of the earth and the woods. This account we are fur- nished with from their own historians, who speak of their earliest ancestors, as if they had been the first generations of the world. Diodorus Siculus writes,* that “ the first inhabitants of the world ranged over the fields and woods in search of food like the beasts, eating every mild herb they could find, and such fruit as the trees produced of their own accord.” ASlian {Bill. Hist. lib. 3, cap. 39), affirms, that “ the diet of the primeval race differed according to the different products of their respective countries : the Arcadians having lived on acorns, the Argives on pears, the Athenians on figs.” Plutarch informs us, that the “ first Argives, led by Inachus, searched the woods in quest of wild peas for support.” Among the Roman writers also, Pliny, in his Natural History (lib. 16. in princip.) laments the savage condition of the first ages, “which subsisted on acorns.” And Galen seems to think all these accounts true, for he assures us (De alimenti facult. lib. 2. cap. 28), that “ acorns afford as good nourishment as many sorts of grain,—that in ancient times men lived on acorns only; and that the Arcadians continued to eat them, long after the rest of Greece had made use of bread corn.” This account Galen learned from Herodotus, (Clio. cap. 66), who relates, that “upon the death of Lycurgus, the Lacedemonians meditating the conquest of Arcadia, were told by the Oracle that there were many brave acorn-eaters in that country, who would repel them in case they did not desist from carrying their arms thither; as it after- wards happened.” The poets are of the same opinions as the historians, con- cerning the food of the primitive inhabitants of the earth. Hesiod sings f— The fields, as yet untill’d, their fruits afford. And fill a sumptuous and unenvied board.—Cooke. And Ovid, among many others to the same purpose, in the first book of his Metamorphoses— Content with food which nature freely bred, On wildings, and on strawberries they fed ; Cornels and bramble-berries gave the rest, And falling acorns furnished out a feast.—Duyden. Those ages, nevertheless, are by some philosophers and poets called the golden ages of the world : but this notion must have arisen either from the * 1 he same author, in his life of Artaxerxes Longimanus, tells us that, much later than the time we speak of, this unwary prince led a great army against the Cadusians, a robust and warlike people, whose inhospitable country produced neither corn nor good fruit, so that the natives were forced to live on peas and apples, which grew wild and spontaneous.INTRODUCTION. vm obscure tradition they had concerning Paradise, or from the supposed integrity of men’s lives while they subsisted in common on what the woods and fields supplied, and while there was yet no property or private interest to raise disputes and animosities, and tempt them to acts of violence and fraud; for such a splendid appellation could not with any propriety be given as regards the comforts and conveniences of life, which have been enjoyed in a much higher degree by succeeding ages, instructed in the knowledge of arts and sciences. After this celebrated epoch, in which, whatever peace the mind might enjoy, the body was but indifferently provided for, and man could just preserve his existence from day to day; the first approach towards a more mild and wholesome diet among the Greeks, and towards a fund of plenty for all seasons of the year, was made by tilling the ground and sowing corn; an invention which, by Hesiod, is ascribed to Ceres (Oper. et dier. lib. 2, lin. 83), by her admonishing the husbandman to pray to Jupiter and to her, before he enters ujion his labour, in the season of tillage : “ Pray to celestial Jove, and Ceres chaste.” The Roman poets do her the same honour more expressly :— Prima Ceres unco glebam dlmovit aratro, Prima dedit fruges, aliraentaque mitia terris.—Ovid. Pliny attributes not only the invention of the plough, but of grinding corn also, and making of bread, to the same goddess; and adds, that divine honours were paid to her in Attica, Italy, and Sicily, on this account. And indeed, if she had any share in such a noble and useful invention, she merited all the I'easonable encomia which they could bestow upon her. So grateful were the ancient inhabitants of Italy to their benefactors, that they conferred immortal honours even on Stercutius, the son of Faunus, for his invention of improving land, by spreading dung over it. As regai'ds the other great branch of husbandry, or the management and use of flocks and herds, it is probable that this was recovered in Greece about the same time with agriculture; and that the Arcadian shepherds might teach their skill in pasturage to the other provinces, and from them, in return, learn how to cqjtivate the land. The decays of nature, in the expiring periods of life, were the onlj' infir- mities to wliich men were then liable; and though their limbs sometimes failed to perform their oflices, their health and appetite continued with them till life W'as no more. In this rude, but natural state, the food of mankind is said to have continued upwards of two thousand years, during which period the cook and the physician were equally unknown. It is not easy to say at what period man exchanged vegetable for animal diet; but certain it is, that he no sooner began to feed on flesh, fowl, and fish, than seasonings of some kind became requisite, not only to render such food more pleasingINTRODUCTION. IX and palatable, but also to help digestion, and prevent putrefaction. Of these seasonings, salt was probably the first discovered; though some are inclined to think, that savoury roots and herbs were first in use; spices, however, as ginger, cinnamon, pepper, cloves, and nutmegs, hy degrees came into use, and the whole art of cookery gradually improved till it reached its present climax of perfection. Eating of animal food was evidently adopted as necessary to guard against famine, the consequence of the scarcity and bad condition of vegetable productions. We find, therefore, that in process of time, and to aid their mutual wants, as well as to protect the weak against the strong, the industrious from the indolent—men, hy general consent, began to portion out to each other a certain measure of land, to produce them their supply of vegetables. Reason soon after suggested the expedient of domesticating certain animals, equally to assist them in their labours and to supply them with food. Hogs, it is said, were the first animals of the domestic kind that appeared on their tables, as then they held it to be ungrateful to devour the beasts that assisted them in their labours. When men began to make free with domestic animals, they only roasted them. Boiling was a refinement in cookery to which, for some ages, they were strangers; and fish, living in an element to which men were unac- customed, were not eaten, till they became somewhat more civilised. When permission was given man to eat animal food, God said; “ Every living thing that moveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb, have I given you all things.” (Gen. i, 28). This opinion, however, has been strenuously controverted. Some learned men assert, that Adam was pennitted to eat the flesh of animals, or, at least, that his posterity did eat it, with or without permission, long before the Flood. Othei's, on tlie contrary, maintain that Noah was the first who had permission to eat, or did eat, any animal food. The former, in support of their opinion, assert that the dominion (Gen. i. 28) given to Adam over the brute creation, implies a permission to kill animals for food, and that the skins (Gen. iii. 21) of which God made coats for the first couple, shew that a proper use was taken of such permission : that no good reason can be assigned why the Almighty should give a more unlimited authority over the brutes after the Deluge than before it; and since animal food affords a more strengthening nourishment than the vegetable products, we ought to conclude, that it was allowed from the beginning: that the clean beasts, being taken in hy sevens, and tlie unclean only by couples, the male and his female, it may be presumed that the surplus of the clean was intended for provision to Noah’s family, during their abode in the ark: that tlic appetites of the Antediluvians must have been pampered with flesh meats, and tlicir passions inflamed with strong liquors, to incite them to commit such great wickedness, as provoked the Creator to destroy the whole species, except one family, since bread, milk, and water could never stimulate them to that excess of violence. And this b 3INTRODUCTION. X argument is further confirmed by observing, that carnivorous animals, as lions and tigers, are more fierce than those that live on herbage; and, lastly, that as the sacrificing of animals, which was a most early institution, might have given occasion, first to the tasting, and afterwards to the eating of dressed flesh, which, to a hungry stomach especially, sends forth no unsavoury odour, we can easily account for the commencement of this food; and as most of the Antediluvians were under no restraint of conscience, to prevent their using that kind of food, supposing it had not been expressly permitted, there is little reason to doubt that flesh became a part of common aliment long before the Flood. On the other hand, it is denied that the dominion given to Adam over the brutes, implied a power to kill them. It is cruel, say they, to infer such a power from an ambiguous expression. Isaac gave .Jacob dominion over his brethren (Gen. xxvii. 40) ; the Philistines had dominion over Israel (Judg. xiv. 4), which did not imply a right to destroy them. The dominion of man over the beasts of the field appears to have consisted in the use which he might make of their milk, wool, honey, feathers, &c. and of their assistance and service for carriage, agriculture, and defence. It does not follow, because animal food affords a more invigorating nourishment, that therefore it must have been allowed from the beginning; for we find, say they, that though blood* is as nourishing as flesh, yet it was prohibited, not only to Noah (Gen. ix. 3, 4), and the Jews (Lev. xvii. 10, &c.), but also to the stranger (Deut. xii. 23, 24), under pain of death; and since blood is prohibited in every place where flesh is permitted, it follows that the prohibition and permission must have been promulgated at the same time, that is, after the Flood. As regards the argument, that the sons of violence, before the Deluge, must have been stimulated by high food and strong drink, to perpetrate so much wickedness; the opposite side maintains, that men’s morals are corrupted, rather through want of discipline, than by the nature of their food; and that men of healthy and i-obust constitutions, as the Antediluvians certainly were, under no restraint from laws, human or divine, are the most violent and mischievous savages of nature, let their aliment be what it will. That, in fact, the nations of the earth most addicted to lewdness, rapine, and murder at this day, are frugal in their diet, and forbidden by their religion to use wine, particularly the pirates of Barbary and the wild Ar.abs. And even in Britain and Ireland, that those who live on bread, milk, cheese, cabbage, and potatoes, arc perhaps no less disposed to rapine and violence * Galinuumac Columbarum Sanguine nonnulli vescuntur, maxinie altilium, qui suum Sanguine haudquaquam est inferior, neque voluptate, neque coctionis facultate.—Galen, Class 2. De alimentifacttllal. Lib. 3, cap. 23. Ilomerus quoque eaprarum sanguinem in cibo jucundura esse non ignoravit.—Ibid, cap. 18.IXTRODUCTION. XI than such of the community as have good drink and animal food in abundance. Nor is a wild bull, that eats grass, less furious than a lion, that feeds on flesh, and do we not daily see some birds that live on grain, fight and tear each other with most astonishing ferocity. It is further urged, that as we have no genuine account of the primeval state of man, from any historian but Moses, who is supposed to be the first writer on diet, ami since he informs us (Gen. i. 29, iii. 18), that vegetable food was expressly appointed for man before the Flood, in two different periods, and animal food imme- diately after it (Gen. ix. 3) ; we have no authority to assert the contrary, unless we can shew that we are better acquainted with the transactions of tliose times than the Jewish historian : and why should a direct c.xplicit per- mission to eat animal food, after the Deluge, as he had done the “green herb” before it, be given to Noah, if the same permission had been given to Adam? Besides, the most eminent historians,* physicians,! and philoso- phers* of antiquity agree, that the first generations of men did not eat flesh. Lastly, in reference to the first who ventured to destroy animals for food, it is affirmed, that the attempt to tear and devour creatures so like himself, was the most savage and unnatural thought that ever entered the heart of man; and that nothing less than the express permission from the Deity could either induce or justify the first who made the cruel experiment, to take such a bold step, let his appetite be never so keen, or the odour of burnt offerings never so fragrant. Another great improvement of man’s food, was the invention of wine, which well deserves the encomium bestowed upon it by Plutarch (Prrccept. de Sanitat. tuend.), of being the most noble of all liquors; the most palatable of medicines, and of all delicacies the most grateful to the stomach. Aretaeus also, a physician of the first rank among the ancients, commends wine no less for the cures it performs. Noah, 1| says Plutarch, began to be a husbandman, and he planted a vineyard, and he drank the wine, and was drunken. (Gen. i.\. 20, 21. Year B. C. 2348). The good man being a stranger to the qualities of his new liquor, reason and humanity required * Moses, Sanchoniatho, Diodorus Siculus. t Hippocrates and Galen. t Phythagoras, Kmpedocles, Plato, (lib.vi.de Ilcp.)Porphyr. idem. See Porpliyr. de republica, do usu animalium ; also Diogen. Laert. Nat. Hist. lib. 21. c. 13. II \V bat the name was of that which we now call wine, in the primitive ages of the world, we have no means of ascertaining, though it is probable it was much the same word as is used to express it by Moses, in Genesis (cha]). and ver. above annexed), from the Hebrew words, implying to press out fro7u. The word uinc IS nearly similar in all languages, and it seems probable that all nations derived their name of that beverage from the world before the Flood, through Noah.INTRODUCTION. Xll that he should try what effect it might have upon himself, before he recom- mended it to his family, though he had the misfortune for a while to be deprived of his reason by the experiment. Noah had, doubtless, tasted grapes before, and found them harmless, and it was impossible he should know, until taught by experience, that fermentation gives an inebriating (juality to liquors, or would produce a spirit in the juice of the grape, which it did not contain before. Not long after wine, it is probable that beer was discovered, for we are in- formed by Herodotus, that, in the corn provinces of Egypt, where no vines grew, the people drank a sort of wine made of barley. And this seems to be the strong drink* mentioned along with the wine, in many places of the Old Testament. In fine, the different improvements made with respect to the different sorts of aliments used by men at different periods of time, from the Creation to Moses, seem to have preceded nearly in the following manner:—Fruits, seeds, herbs, bread, milk, fish, flesh, wine, ale; to which may be added butter', honey, olive oil, eggs, and cheese. But as aliment came, in the process of time, to be improved to such a high degree, a thorough discussion of which might here occupy too much space, we need merely observe, that as I'egards cooking, boiling or stewing appears to have been very early adopted by the ancients. Roasting or broiling very soon succeeded; beyond which no improvements in the culinary art appear to have been made for several centuries after. The introduction of trade and commerce soon made us acquainted with the products of other countries; and delicious fruits, and the choicest aromatic spices, which were wafted to us from the remotest regions of the habitable globe, were soon sought after * The invention of an intoxicating liquor from corn has been attributed to the Egyptian deities, Osiris and Isis, who, while on earth, were great benefactors to an industrious and intelligent people. However backward the modern Egyptians may be in agriculture, Osiris collected all information on the subject within his reach, and taught it to his people, who then practised it with effect: and in these labours he was effectually assisted by his wife, and sister Isis, the Ceres of the Romans. The opinion entertained by those of our own times, who have attempted to trace the history of fermented liquors, is, that the Egyptians, not having grapes, possessed no wine ; and that, as their climate required the aid of such a stimulant, Osiris, one of their princes, invented the art of making wine from corn. There are certainly passages in the ancient writers which seem to countenance this opinion, if not positively to support it. The subject is several times alluded to by Diodorus Seculus, In the first book, he says, that wherever the wine was not found, Osiris taught the people to make a drink from barley ; not much inferior to wine in point of fragrance and efficacy. In the same book, he says, drink, which they call Zythum, is made by the Egyptians from barley, not much exceeded by wine in smell and taste: in the fourth book he again alludes to the subject. Cabinet CyclojJcedia—Domestic Econ. vol. i. p. 13.xiii INTRODUCTIOX. with fondness and avidity. Cookery, confectionery, pickling, preserving, and drysalting, soon became arts, which were as methodically studied as the more polite sciences. These first inventions were quickly followed by more refined preparations, according as sensuality became awakened, or as W'ant compelled to propor- tion the resistanee of the aliments to the already weakened and diminished activity of the organs. It is thus that Hippocrates, with a learned and exact hand, points out to us, in his Treatise on primitive medicine, the history of the successive perfections with regard to food, and shews us man, instructed as inueh by pain as pleasure, to choose, prei)arc, and metamoiphose, the sub- stances which serve him for nourishment: thus discovering by his own expe- rience, the first elements of health and medicine^ For by admitting, with Moses, the hereditary weakness of the bodies of men by the abuse of enjoy- ments, it is conceived that a nourishment, salutary at first, becomes after- wards too gross for enervated organs : it is then that the sense of the evil finds out the measure and modifications of the regimen; consequently, says Hippo- crates, “ you find neither measure, balance, nor calculation to ivhich you can more safely apply, than to the very sensations which the body experieiices.” What becomes now of our modern system-mongers, and diet inventors? If these sensations had been sufficient for the establishment of dietetic rules, there had been no necessity for the interference of art. Since, on the authority just quoted, where none are iynorant, and all instructed, either through, custom or want, the title of artist can he applied to no one. Nevertheless, the w'ants, errors, and infirmities of men increasing, and tradition growing insufficient to collect and hand them down, art has formed itself and become necessary. Hippocrates, in proof of his reality, quotes the example of the gjmniastic physicians, who every day, he says, make fresh observations upon the meats and drinks which are capable of afibrding more strength and vigour to the body. Tlie study of diet, even before the time of Hippoerates, had been carried to a great extent; for Herodotus observes of the F.gyptians, that having remarked that the greatest number of diseases proceeded from the abuse of food, they took care every month to consecrate three successive days to make themselves vomit, and cleanse themselves with clysters, to pursue and seize health, (Euterp. sect. 77. Edit. Glasgow). T’his custom of emetics was used among the Romans, rather as a means of favouring gluttony than to preserve health; and it appears in several passages of Hippocrates,* that during his time, the Greeks occasionally resorted to mild means, in order to Hippocrates, tlie great father of physic, says, “ Health depends chiefly on the choice of food,” and that “ the physicians before his time were to be blamed, for not prescribing rules of dietand “ tliat he who would skilfully treat the subject of aliment, must consider the nature of man, the nature of aliments, and the con- stitution of the person who takes them.”XIV INTRODUCTION. excite vomiting, and clear out the stomach.* But Herodotus, a judicious and observing man, after having noticed that the Egyptians were the most liealthy people of Africa, attributes their advantage less to these customs than to the uniform temperature of the climate they inhabit, “ where,” he observes, “ the seasons are not subject to any vicissitudes.’’ Notwith- standing all this, and although the regimen of Pythagoras and the institu- tions of Lycurgus had preceded, by a great number of years, the age of Hippocrates and Plato; although Iccus, a physician of Tarentum, had some years before recommended the union of gymnastics with the most sober regimen, to preserve health ; although he had acquired sufficient reputation as to have applied to him the powerful expression of Iccus’s meal, in aUusion to its simplicity; Plato, however, does not less, on this account, attribute to Herodotus the invention of medical gymnastics, and Hippocrates assigns to , himself the honour of having determined with exactitude the proportions of regimen, either for a state of health or disease. This appears in his first and second books “ of the regimen of men in health,” and in that entitled “ of regimen in acute diseases.” In the latter, Hippocrates says, l^af the uncxenis have lux-itten nothing on diet worthxj of being mentioned, and they have passed over this important article in silence. In the first book of diet. Hip- ; pocrates begins by exposing how much the labours of the ancients on this i subject have left behind them untouched—and at the close of the preamble I he says, “ I will make known that which none of my predecessors even ^ undertook to demonstrate.’’ Hippocrates also lays claim to the merit of having determined the times and signs which precede deranged health, and the means of preventing the consequences by suitable and respective pro- portions of food and exercise. The elegant Celsus, in the first book of his work, treats of the regimen of strong, healthy, and robust people; and afterwards lays do\m some : excellent rules to people of a weak and infirm constitution ; and lastly, those dictated by the seasons, or such as are useful under different circum- stances of life. In the first chapter, two remarkable rules are laid down, ^ which it would be well for those to whom they are addressed to study. His general rule is, that the healthy and well-formed man ought not to restrict himself to any invariable law—a very sage advice, and from which a proposition results worthy of remark, which some authors have rather | unreasonably censured, from not having generally conceived the spirit in r which it is formed:—“d/of/o i)lns jusio, modo non amplitis assumere that is, sometimes to exceed the just measure of necessity, sometimes to ’ restrict ones-self to that measure. 'This is, in fact, the true meaning of i the word justo. Sebigius has made no allusion to it, when he reproaches Celsus with being the apostle of gluttons and drunkards. He is certain that ' the strict and defined law of want, is not made for those who enjoy robust * See Art. on Thaining, p. 343, et seq.XV INTRODUCTION. health, but for those only who are under the necessity of keeping a strict watch over themselves: and Sanctorius has uttered nothing which Celsus himself has not said in the subsequent chapter, when he made the following I reflection, (Sect, iii, Aphor. 42), ‘ Celsi sententia non omnibus tutta est that is, this sentence of Celsus is not safe for everybody. The precepts of Celsus are principally directed to regimen, and the choice of foods and drinks ; the use of baths; the proportions and mutual relations of meals and labour; on dieting, emetics, and gymnastic exercises. To other writers on diet, from Hippocrates to Galen, Xenocrates may be added. He lived in the reign of Tiberius; and was the .author of a treatise on fish, included in the treatise of Photius; but which contains fetv things of any note. Uioscorides, who lived in the reign of the sanguinary Nero, inserted in his work, among the medicaments of which the principal part consists, different articles relative to food and condiments, and their proper- ties. It is more particularly in the second and fifth hooks where these articles are to be met with ; the general merit of which, at best, is rather of a slender texture. It is not among the wndters on health that Ccelius Apicius must he ranked, although he has left behind him a collection of culinary receipts of his time. He lived in the reign of Trajan: hut Pliny, the natur.alist, who lived under Vespa.sian and Titus, left behind him a natural history of alimen- tary substances; with the properties attributed to, .and the customs of tlie Romans at that period, which leaves curiosity little more to desire on tfrese subjects. The charms of his style, the philosophical and profound reflections it developes, .and with which his w'ork abounds, sufficiently compensate for the errors of credulity, he is justly, though too frequently reproached with. Galen, the most illustrious man after Hippocr.ates, has left behind him three hooks on the properties of aliments :—one on those which form good or had juices; one on attenuating regimen ; another on the exercise called the “ little b.all,” a sort of game somewh.at similar to tennis. In order to proportion the rides of lie.alth suit.ahly to the different circum- stances in which individuals may he placed, Galen divides people into three classes. 1st. Into those who are naturally health}', vigorous, and masters, in con- sequence of their circumstances, of the time and c.are necessary to he devoted to their health. 2d. Those of a feeble .and delicate constitution ; and fid. Those whose indispens.ahle business, public or private, does not permit them to eat, drink, or exercise themselves, at stated or rcgul.ar hours. The works of Cornaro, so often quoted, on the advantage of sohrictv; Mercurialis on the gymnastics of the ancients ; .and Chancellor Bacon’s treatise, entitled Ilistorin Vita; el Mortis, stand among the most distin- guished productions of the latter period, on the subject of the preservation of health, through the medium of a well-regulated diet. Cornaro claimsXVI INTRODUCTION. considerable attention, his book being the result of his owTi experience, and because he proves that man, by studying himself, and possessing strength of mind enough to place himself above the seductions of pleasure, only to follow the laws of reason and necessity, may bring his constitution to perfection, and renovate his organs weakened by intemperance. He also teaches us in that with which we are but little acquainted—namely, the difference there is between the measure of want, and that of pleasure—how much we are the dupes of our own sensations; above all, since the art of disguising the gifts of nature has created artificial wants and factitious appetites: and he has called by the name of hunger, everj' sensation that is not clogged with satiety. To be brief, the history of Cornaro, may be placed among the number of beautiful experiments which have been made, with a view to ascertain the purity of health through the medium of diet: and as such, it has most contributed to establish the principles, and to assist in the progress, of the art. A Jesuit, Leonard Lessius, who lived towai'd the end of the sixteenth century, previous to the death of Cornaro, struck with the force and beauty of his example, wrote a work on the same subject, which he concludes with a list of all the men known, whose temperate life led them beyond the ordinary limits of human life. This work is called Ilygiaslicon, sen vera ratio Valetudinis bonce. One Thomas Philologus of Ravenna, also, after the example of Cornaro, had equally written a treatise, entitled De Ilia Ultra annos centum et llgintipropaganda; Venice. He notices a period when, at Venice, he saw several of its senators, who had attained the age of one hundred years, shew themselves in public, surrounded and caressed with those marks of respect and veneration due to their patriarchal ages, their dignities and distinguished virtues; and he traces to debauchery and intem- perance the rarity of similar instances of health and longevity. Philologus was the first who declaimed against churchyards, for the interment of dead bodies, in towns. Cardan also wrote four books on the preservation of health. In the three first, he treats of aliments; in the fourth, of old age: the example of Cornaro is the object of his admiration, and the basis of his precepts ; he censures Galen, and brings forward as a proof of the justness of his reproaches, that this celebrated physician died himself at the age of seventy-five. Another proof of the correctness of his extraordinarj- mind is that where he condemns exercise as prejudicial to health ; and that by com- paring the longevity of trees to the ordiuai-y duration of animal life, he attributes the long life of the first to their want of motion. Among the productions of this period, must not be over-looked the six books of Jerome Mercurialis*, on Gymnastics. The three first treat of the • It is eloquently insisted upon by hlercurialis, that gluttony is the peeuliar cause of every disease ; and this opinion is not only confirmed but insisted upon byxvn INTRODUCTION. different objects as regards exercise, and of the diffTercnt kinds of it in use anionff the ancients : the three last books treat of the effects of these exer- cises; and of their use in strengthening the body and preserving health. It is there that we meet combined in works of one individual, more erudition, and a better judgment, than is to be met with in any other author: Haller, never- theless, reproaches him with being too partial to the ancients; and not only with not having said any thing absolutely new as regards the exercises in use among the moderns, but even with having placed riding as among the inconveni- ences prejudicial to health: '‘Doubtless,” observes Haller, “because this exercise was not among the number of those in which the ancients de- lighted.” It is towards the end of the period of which we are now speaking, that Bacon’s treatise, “ Jlistoria Fites et Mortis," must he placed. The object of this work is to discover the causes of natural death, and hy that means to find out those of prolonging, as much as possible, the ordinary term of human life. The living man is continually losing, and continually repairing the loss he sustains—that is, the constituent parts of the living body are continually on the decay, and a variety of causes are incessantly carry- ing them off; several of its organs are constantly engaged in separating humours, which pass off loaded with a part of its substance, consumed by the united action of air and caloric; while internal friction, by a pulsatory motion, detaches its particles. In this manner the animal machine is con- tinually being destroyed; and, perhaps, at distant periods of life, it does not contain a single particle of the same constituent parts* *. But this reparative faculty becomes exhausted, and man dies. To diminish the activity of the causes which dissipate, attenuate, and destroy; to maintain the faculty which repairs, to soften and render pliable the parts whose inclination is opposed to the effects of the reparative faculty, would be the means of prolonging human life as much as the organisation of our bodies would permit. It was on these simple ideas that the illustrious Bacon established plans of investigation worthy of reflection, and which may still, in our time, furnish great and important subjects for meditation. Bacon, in the greater part of the subjects which he has handled, has rarely put his pen to the work, where he has not always shew'ed extensive views, plans, or research, fertile in consequences, a great divestment of prejudices, and ideas accredited by habit, a continual call to experience, and a constant applic.a- Ilippocrales, Solandcr, Cato, and others, but it is supported by the common observation and experience of mankind. * Speaking of Hippocrates, Galen informs us that the wliole constitution of the body may be changed by diet; that we should use those kinds of meats which are best suited to our own particular bodies, age, temperature, distemperature, and complexion; or, in plainer language, that every man ought to adopt his aliment to his own particular constitution. cINTRODUCTION. xviii tion to stick to nature, and to look toiler alone for his guide. He was truly a great man; and placed in the order of time, between the revival of letters and that of the first progress of the physical sciences, he seems to have made his appearance to put an end at once to that barren admiration in which the ancients were held, and to cause the study of nature to succeed that of books; and to add to the riches reconquered by the patient com- mentator of antiquity, the still more fertile products of an active observation, and an indefatigable experience. At this period, the circidation of the blood was not discovered; they had not learned to weigh the air, nor was any thing concerning the phenomena of the barometer known. The thermometer was not invented; and the means of experiment, imperfect and incorrect, only left for curious men, to study nature and appreciate its phenomena, the chance of stumbling over them, without any semblance of the power to submit them to observation and calculation. Sanctorius made his appearance, and already he had con- ceived the first idea of a thermometei'—that of a fixed point, from whence its gradation might commence, and from the application of this instrument to the examination of febrile heat. But that which rendered the name of Sanctorius immortal, was the fine series of experiments which he made upon the insensible perspiration which he conceived to exist, with as much genius as he employed patience in the execution of it. He was the first who thought of comparing with the food taken in, the quantity of excre- mentitious matter evacuated, and to make a comparative estimate of them in weight, by weighing his own body under different circumstances relative to evacuations ; by which means he cori'ectly ascertained the quantity which escaped through the medium of insensible perspiration. Sanctorius does not give the detail of his experiments; He only presents their results, which do not at all appear exact, as have since been demonstrated by some of a more recent date. As regards the progress of public health in the theory of diet, there neces- sarily results from the improved knowledge of man, and from that of the things whose influence he may have experienced, knowledge worthy of further cultivation. Arbuthnot and other writers have produced very extensive works on ali- ment, in which, if we except the first mentioned, there is more display of learning than real physical knowledge :—of this latter kind are the treatises of Pisanelli, Nonnius, Melchior Sebiz—they are all nevertheless valuable, as uniting in one point of view the labours of the ancients, and in making their doctrines well known. Others, such as that of Arbuthnot, just mentioned, with learning less pi'oli.x, present explanations often too wide of the truth, of the chemical knowledge of their time, and particularly analyses by fire; there is nevertheless in them a philosophical order, with some well regulated j)ractical observations, which evince a wise .and judicious mind. The scienceINTRODUCTION. XIX of chemistry at length unfolding more simple means of analysis, rendered still more easy the examination of animal and vegetable bodies, and the comparison of their distinctive qualities. Then it came that all that was capable of being made correctly known, on the peculiar nature of alimentary substances, on the variety of aliment contained by them, on the nature of mucous bodies, considered as mucilaginous in fermentable juices, gela- tinous matter, animal as well as vegetable, has been collected with equal judgment and learning, by the celebrated Long, in his treatise on diet. Cullen, at the commencement of his Materia Medica, has likewise bestowed some excellent considerations upon different parts of alimentary substances. It would be an unpardonable omission in this place not to mention, among the number of men whose works have eminently contributed to the perfection of eating and drinking, the name of Parmentier, a Frenchman, whose labours, constantly directed to tbe public good, have made known the nature and use of many nutritive substances, particularly those of the fari- naceous kind, and rescued from unmerited contempt one of the most abund- ant and useful articles of food; and which constitutes not only a general blessing to the poor of all countries, but a nutritive and wdiolesome source of dependence during times of scarcity—namely, the potatoe. By the correctness of its descriptions, botany has instructed us how to distinguish useful food and agreeable seasoning, from destructive poisons, in all classes of aliment too much sought after : and the observations of many naturalists on mushrooms and poisonous plants, ought not to be passed over without honorable mention. Nor should we here forget to associate with such industrious and meritorious names, those, who by their labours have enlightened their fellow subjects, and warned them against the dangers to which they are too frequently exposed, and which have called forth prohi- bitory laws against the use of vessels and utensils made of copper and lead, under circumstances where these culinary articles are liable to be attacked by the alimentary matter which they are destined to contain, and thus be the channel of conveying destructive germs into the system, under the delu- sive external appearance of a salubrious nourishment, and of an agreeable fluid. The recent experiments of the British and other chemists have taught also the limits that ought to be observed between the useful and destructive properties of vegetable, mineral, and animal substances, not only as regards their medical, but also their dietetical, properties. And, lastly, the inquisitive eye of the anatomist directs itself over every living thing, and compares its structure with that of man, and places upon a parallel all the systems which compose the apparatus of their life. From man to Zoophytes, the French naturalist, Cuvier, has investigated and de- veloped the structure of the viscera, the dispositions of the nervous and muscular systems. He demonstrates in what order of animals the nutritive liquid circulates by the contractible power of the heart and arteries, and isXX INTRODUCTION. carried from the centre to the extremities and surfaces, in order to be car- ried back again to the centre: in others, the same fluid, only stagnated in the intestines of the viscera, appears to be stationary, and lubricates the parts wliich it cannot nourish by rendering them moist and pliant. In both, he developes the structure of the organ, by which the ambient air is made sub- servient to the mechanism of actual breathing: he shews us the universality of the respiratory function, superior even to that of the circulating one, and consequently with nutrition. Thus, the first object of the organisation of living beings—the support of animal life—is seen, and however simple or complicated its mechanism may be, it inviariably reduces itself to a single problem; namely, that of placing in one constant relation the atmospheric fluid with the alimentary juices. If we reflect upon the admirable uniformity which prevails throughout the works of nature, both in the production and dissolution of matter, it will be ‘ found that she invariably moves in a circle ; tliat in the perpetual destruction as well as in the subsequent demolition of bodies, she is always equally new and equally perfect; that the smallest particle, though invisible to our eyes, is usefidly employed by her restless activity; and that death itself, or the destruction of forms and figures, is no more than a careful decomposition, and a designed regeneration of individual parts, in order to produce new substances, in a manner no less skilful and surprising. It may further be observed, that in the immense variety of things in the inconceivable xvaste of elementary particles, there nevertheless prevails the strictest economy; and nothing is produced in vain—nothing consumed without a cause. We clearly perceive that all nature is united by indissoluble ties; that every individual thing exists for the sake of another, and that not one of them can subsist without its concomitant. Hence it may be justly concluded, that man him- self is not an isolated being, but that he is a necessary link in the chain which connects the luiiverse. And, although it be true that our knowledge of nature is still very imperfect, j^et this circumstance ought not to deter us from investigating the means which may lead to its improvement. All men have not sufficient power to explore and acquire an extensive and accurate knowledge of nature; but those are inexcusable who remain entire strangers to her ordinary operations, and especially if they neglect to cultivate a proper acquaintance with the constitution of their own frame. If, indeed, men were fixed to the earth, as the trees are by their roots, or if from mere animal instinct they were induced to search into the causes of our physical jl life, we then should vegetate like plants, or live like irrational animats. 1 Rutin the character of creatures who ought to choose and reject agreeably ' to the dictates of reason, a more assiduous and minute study of nature, as well as of our own frame, is indispensable; because the physical constitution of man cannot subsist, unless he secure her intentions, and co-operate with her beneficent efforts. This, however, cannot be accomplished without , | much patience and perseverance. IXXI INTRODUCTION. It has been remarked, that medicine is an uncertain, fluctuating, and precarious art. One doctrine, for instance, considers tlie mass of fluids as tlie primary cause of all diseases; another ascribes them to the irregular action of the solids—others again consider that as the cause of the disorder, which many are inclined to represent as the efl’ect. Thus different schools promul- gate different tenets relative to the origin of diseases; though ultimately, with respect to matters of fact, they must all necessarily agree. Nor is this diversity of opinion in the least degree detrimental to the practical depart- ment of medicine, provided the mode of treatment be not regulated by hypothetical notions. It is sufficient security to the patient, if his physician be thoroughly acquainted with the symptoms of the disease, and able to distinguish them from those of any other malady. In this respect the medical art is truly excellent, and stands unrivalled—for the nature of diseases remains invariably the same. The accurate observations made by Hippocrates two thousand years ago, on the symptoms and progress of diseases, recur to the medical practitioner of the present day, in a manner sufficiently regular and uniform : nor should it be otherwise, when nature is invai'iably pursuing the same course, whether in a healthy or in a diseased action of the body. Man is subject to the same destructive agents from without by which the lower animals are affected, and for a variety of reasons he is more frequently exposed to diseases and pain than these. The inferior creatures, in the first place, are unquestionably provided with a more active instinct, by which nature teaches them, from their very birth, to avoid every thing that may prove hurtful, and to choose whatever may have a salutary influence on their existence. Few traces of this beneficial instinct can be discovered in the human race. Our own experience, or the instructions of others, which are likewise founded on experience, must gradually teach us the wholesome or pernicious qualities of the objects of the material world. Reason, indeed, that peculiar faculty of man, compensates in a great measure for the want of this instinct, as it directs his choice in j)ursuing what is useful, and in avoiding what is injurious; yet, at the same time, the want of instinct in man is the source of many sufferings in the earlier years of his life. He is born without covering, to withstand the effects of climate ; without the means of defending himself in his helpless state; and without instinct, if we except that of sucking. He remains much longer incapable of ])roviding for his own preservation, and stands in need of the assistance of his parents for a much greater number of years, than any other animal with which we are acquainted. Again, mankind in large and populous towns, it is universally admitted, have much degenerated in bodily strength, energy of mind, and in their capacity of resisting the noxious agency of powers which affect them from without. The progressive cultivation of the mind, together with the daily refinements of habits and manners, are ever accompanied with a pro-XXtl INTRODUCTION. portionate increase of luxury. But as this change, from a robust to a more relaxed state of life, has been productive of no difference in the causes generating disease, to which w'e are even more subject than formerly, we must necessarily suffer by the concomitant effects. Indeed, it is found, that in proportion as the refinements of luxury increase in a nation, the number and variety of diseases also increase. On the contrary, the more uncivilised a people continue, and the more their habits and customs approximate to a state of nature, they are, proportionally, less affected by the causes of disease. The emotions of the mind, again, affect the human race in various w’ays, and more violently, and, for the time of their duration, more obstinately than any other living creature. Another source of diseases among mankind are various specific contagions, of which, perhaps, the greater number ori- ginate in the surrounding atmosphere. This is highly probable, at least with respect to marshy exhalations, and the effluvia of places rendered unwholesome by different manufacturing processes. Another class of con- tagious miasmata consists of those which cannot be traced to any certain origin. In fine, we daily observe their migrations, and we perceive them moving from one individual to another, without fixing any stationary^ resi- dence ; yet they have frustrated, hitherto, every attempt made towards their extirpation. Of this unsettled nature are the small-pox, the measles, the hooping-cough, the influenza, and many other epidemics. All these con- spire to impair health, and shorten the duration of human life. The greater numbei', also, of what are termed fashionable complaints, which produce decided effects on the constitution, are nearly united to each other. At one time, the gout was a very rare complaint, compared with what it is at the present day; it used to attack only the external parts of persons advanced in years, though now it has become a constitutional dis- position—a juvenile complaint, torturing the patient in a thousand different forms; and instead of the old gout, which used to confine itself to the hands and feet, we now hear of the nervous gout, the gout in the head, and, fre- quently, the fatal gout in the stomach. Neither rank, age, sex or condition, appear to be exempt from this insidious disorder. The next, and still more general malady of the times, is what are called nervous diseases; that is, an extreme sensibility to every atmospheric change, or rathei-, a constant sensible relation to its influence. By consulting their sensations, these living barometers announce more correctly than the artificial ones, not only the present, but the future changes of the weather. Nor less characteristic of the present generation, but more painful, are the fashionable nervous and hypochondriacal diseases. Such insidious and formidable tormentors, not only derange our physical well being, but make such inroads upon our tranquillity and contentment, as to cloud our fairest prospects of happiness; without depriving us of life, they render it an insupportable burthen, and without inducing death, they not unfrcquently make him a welcome visitor.INTRODUCTION. xxili It is ximiecessar}’ to detail the diversified shapes in which these and other maladies present themselves. It is sufficient to observe, that however inti- mately the mind appears to be connected with these phenomena, we can nevertheless account for them only from physical causes. Indolence is a clog to health. The poor man has no excuse for it; and rich people have it always in their power to exercise themselves, by various means, as may suit their circumstances and inclinations. Gymnastic exercises are various, and may always be accommodated to the constitution of the individual. Tem- perance is a virtue, and those who practise it receive its reward—and by the united benefits of temperance and exercise, the body is defended from disease, and health is the consequence. In fine, so much does the health of people in general depend upon temperance and simplicity of diet, that were more attention paid to these, particularly the latter, fewer of those diseases which are the scourge of the human race, would be met with. Unfortunately, however, for mankind, many of the most salutary intentions of the food destined for the human race, are too frequently neglected. The sophistications introduced by modern cookeiy are frequently carried to the most extravagant pitch, that it seems almost to be forgotten, that it is by wholesome and plainly cooked aliments that our growth attains its proper period of perfection; that our limbs are strengthened; that those organs destined to the perfection of the senses are reanimated; and, that it is from the juices contained in our food, that the texture of the mortal fabric is sup- ported, and enabled to supply the waste to which it is subjected from the various actions and occurrences of life. As regards the pleasures of the table nothing can be more recommended in their indulgence than moderation for health’s sake; and in the choice and quality of the materials with which it is to be decked, the taste of the country one resides in, or has been accus- tomed to, may be judged good and rational. Nature lays us under an obligation to eat and drink for the support of health and vigour; she has also endowed us with faculties and powers to choose and prepare that diet I which is most salutary and agreeable : the greatest danger we are exposed I to is that of consulting quantity rather than quality; and hence of being I tempted to exceed the due measure requisite for subsistence;—and who docs j not know, tliat the oftener a fabric is shaken, the sooner it will fall; the I more violence used to a delicate machine, the sooner it will be destroyed ?— And no machine is so exquisitely delicate as the human body. .\s nature is equally the subject of physic and of poetry, we find that the sons of Homer and jTlsculapius agree, in giving salutary instructions to mankind; but as the former convey their admonitions in the most tuneful manner, we shall conclude these introductory observations with a quotation from one of them, not inappropriate to the subject.INTRODUCTION. XXIV What, and how great the virtue and the art To live on little, with a cheerful heart! (A doctrine sage, but truly none of mine) Let’s talk, my friends, but talk before we dme : Not when the gilt buffet’s reflected pnde Turns you from sound philosophy aside ; Not when from plate to plate the eye-balls roll. And the brain dances to the mantling bowl. * * * * Now hear what blessings temperance can bdng; (Thus said my friend, and what he said I sing). First Health : the stomach cramm’d with ev ry dish A tomb of boil’d and roast, and flesh and fish. Where bile and wind, and phlegm and acid jar. And all the man is one intestine war. Remember oft the scholar’s simple fare. The temperate sleep, and spirits light as air. How pale each worshipful and reverend guest Rise from a clergy, or a city feast! What life in all that simple body 1 say : What heavenly particle inspires the clay"! The soul subsides and wickedly inclines. To seem but mortal, ev’n in sound divines. On morning wings, how active springs the min That leaves the load of yesterday behind. „e.,ce, of ... ...e In.w.edg, ^ "p’. ’ :ii «,ose d=...ned “ ~ “ a IS Z chyU t.,u. procds from », ..... .... b..od, «es.,, n.rveo, oreans. ..d our senses, owe their existence and sensibility. J. S. r. Pa/riol Square, Cambridge Heath, March, 1833.CONTENTS. The heads of the articles are only given here, the sub-heads, illustrations, and notes, can only be consulted by reference. A Acid, Acetic Acids Acids, Animal Acid, Pyroligneous Acids, Vegetable Acidulous Acorn Adipocire Albumen, Animal Albumen, Vegetable Alcohol Alkalies Ale Alexander, the Herb Alkalescency Aliments Aliments, the Classifica- tion of Allspice Allspice, Essence of Allspice, Tincture of Almonds Almonds, Oil of Almonds, Oil of Bitter Almond Custards Ambergris Ambreine Ambulation Amidine Amniotic Acid Amphibious Anchovies Anchovies, Essence of Animal Animal Fats Animal Food Animal Heat Animal Jelly Animal Life Animal Oils Aniseed Antiseptic Apples Ardent Spirits Areca Arnotto Aroma Aromatic Arack Arrow-Root Artichokes Asparagin Asparagus Asses’ iMilk -\sses’ Milk, Artificial B Bacon—Bacon, to pre- pare Bacon Hams Balm Banana, sec Plantain Barbel Barley Barley Bread Barley Broth Basil Bean, Bitter Bean, St. Ignatius's Beef Beef, Dutch Beef Hams Beef, Hung Beef, Jerked Beef-Tea Beer Bennet, the Herb Betel Beet-Root Bile Birds, Flesh of Birds, when in Season Birds, used as Food Bitters Bitter Balls Bittern Blackbirds Black Extract Blite Blood Boiling Borage Brains Brandy Brawn Bread Bream Bret-Fish Broiling Broths Browning Browning for Soups, Gravies, &c. Buckbeau Buckwheat Buglos Burnet Burrage Butchers’ Meat Butchers’Meat, to Choo>c Butchers’ Meat, the Division of Butter Butter, Directions for choosing Butter, to Preserve Buttermilk Butter-Vegetable Butyrine C Cabbage, Red dCONTENTS. xxvi Cabbage, White Cacao Calices Calumba Calx Capers Capon Capsicum Carp Cardamoms Caraways Carrots Carving Cassia Cauliflowers iJelery Chamomile Cliampagne Champignons Charcoal Cheeks, Hogs’ Cheese Chemistry, Animal Cherries Cherry Laurel Chestnuts Chlorestine Chocolate Chyle Chylification Chyme Chymification Cinnamon Citron Claret Cloves Cocculus Indicus Cock Cod Coffee Cold, Preservative Effects of Compiegne Compote Compotier Condiments Conger Conserves Cookery Copper Coriander Couronne, En Court, or Short Crab Cream Cream of Tartar Crotons Croustade Cubebs Cucumbers Cucumbers, to Pickle Culinary Poisons Cummin Curds Currants Cuttle-fish Cyder D Dandelion Darnel Dates Deer Diet Dietetics Digestion Digestion, Theories of Digestion, Organs of Domestic Wines Dorez Dorure Drink Drinkables Dry-salting Duck E Eels Eel-Powt Eggs Eggs, Medecinal Pro- perties of Eggs, To Choose Eggs, To Preserve Egg-shells Eggs, Whites of Elder Flowers Endive English Wines Entrees Entremets Extract, Black F Fermentation Fermentation, General Method of Preventing Fibrine Figs Filberts Financiere Fish F’ish, To Cook F’ish Sauce Fish, Preservation of Fish, To Carve Fish,in Season Flan Flash Flounder Flour, Wheaten Flour, Barley Flour, Rye Food Food, Animals destined for Food, Animal Varieties of Food, Reptiles used as Frangepane French ^Vines Fruit Fruits, when in Season Fruit, to Gather, &c. Fruit Room Frumenty Frying Fuel Fungi, Esculent G Gadus Galls Garlick Gastric Juice Gelatine Gentian German Wines Ginger(the Root), White and Black Ginger Beer Ginger, Preserved Gizzard Glaze Glaze (To fall to a) Glaze, Glace, or Ice Gliadine Glue Gluten, Animal Gluten, Vegetable Gluttony Gnatsnapper Goat Goats-beard Godiveau Gold, Muriate of Goose Gooseberries Gourds Grains of Paradise Granadilla, or Little Pomegranate G ravy Grapes Gras (Au) Gratin Greek WinesCONTENTS. XXVll Groats Lamb Mdlet Grout Lamb, To Choose Mint Gruel Lamprey Moorhens Guava Lapwing and Plover Mulberries Gudgeon Lard, To Lard Mum Gum Lardons Mushroom Gurnet Larding-pin Musk Gymnastics, seeTraining Larks Mussels Laurel Mustard H Lavender Mutton Haddock Lead Mutton, To Choose Haggis Legumes Halibut Leeks N Hams Lemon Juice, Artificial Nectar 1. To Cure Hams Lemonade Nectarine 2. Another Method Lentils Nectarium 3. To Cure Hams the Lettuce Nitrogen A^orkshire way Leverets Non-Naturals 4. To Cure Two Levure Nouilles Hams the West- Liaison Nutmeg moreland way Liver Nutrition •5. To make Beef Hams Lobster Nuts 6. New Engl. Hams Lobsters, To Choose Nux Vomica To Cure Lobsters, To Pot 7. Westphalia Ham Lymph 0 8. Alutton Hams Lymphatics Oats 9. Veal Hams October Beer Hares M Odours Hatelets Maccaroni Offal Heading Stuff, or Fining Mace Oil Health Mackarel Oil, Castor, Plant Heartburn Made Dishes Oil of Cinnamon Heat, how applied in Cookery Heath Hedge-Hogs Herrings Herrings, and other Dried Fish, To Cook Herrings, Red Herrings, To Cure Hibiscus Hock Honey Hops Hors d’CEuvre Hunger I Imperial Indian Corn Indigestion Intestines K Ketchup Kid Kidneys L Ladies*-Smock Madeira Madeleines Maigre (Au) Malaga Mallow itlalmsey Malt Malt-Liquors Malt-Spirit Mangel Wurzel Mango Manna iUanna-Grass Marinade Marjoram Marrow Marsh-Trefoil Mask Mastication iMead Meat,—Directions for carving ditrorenl J oints Medlars Melons Metheglin Milk Oils, Animal Oils, Essential Oils, Fixed Oils, Volatile Olive Oil Olives Onions Orach Orange Orange Flower Ortolan Osmazome Oxygen Oysters P Panada Pancreas Parsley Pai'snep Partridge Passer Pastes, Fruit Paste, Thickening Pastry Pat6 PeachCONTENTS. xxviii Pease Pears, see also Pyrus Pepper Perry Perspiration Persica Phlegm Phcenix Phoenix Dactylifera Physiology Pickle Pies Pigeons Pilchards Pimento Pimpinella Pine-Apples Plantain Tree Plants Plethora Plover Plums Plum, see also Prunes Pods Poele Poisons Pomegranate, see Ananas Pork Pork, To Pickle Porter Port Wine Porridge Potass, Prussiate of Potatoe Potting Poultry Poultry, Method of Fat- tening Poultry and Game for each Month in the Year Poultry and Wild Fowl, &c. Directions for the proper Choice of Poultry, To Carve Prawns Preserves, see Sugar Prunus Prunus Armeniaca Prunus Avium Prunus Cerasus, see also Cherries Prunus Domestica Prunus, Eaura-Ccrasus Prunus Padus Prunus Spinosa Puddings Pulses Pulses, see Pease Pumpkin Pumpkins or Pompions Punch Purslain Putrefaction Pyro-Acetic Acid Pyro-Citric Acid Pyrola Rotundifolia Pyroligneous Acid Pyrus, see also Pears Pyrus Communis Pyrus Cydonia Pyrus Malus Q Quail Quassia Quaviver, or Sea Dragon Quenelles Quinces Quinces, Wine of Quin’s Sauce R Rabbits Radish Raisins Ram Rampions Rape Rape Seed Raspberries Ratafia Ray Rectification Refrigerant Regimen Respiration Rhubarb Rhubarbin Rhus Coiiaria Ribes Ribes Nigrum Ribes Rubrum Rice Roach Roasting Rob Roborant Rocambole Rock-Salt Rock-Samphire Rocket Roebuck Rooks Roots Root of Scarcity Rosemary Roux Rum Rum, Jamaica Rye S Sabatiere, or Sorbetiere Sack Safifron Sage Sago Salad Saliva Salmi Salmo Salmon Salmon, Pickled Salsify Salt Salt of Steel Salt of Tartar Salt, Primitive Salts, Neutral Saltpetre Samphire Sanguification Sauces Saur Kraut Sausages Sauter Savory Saxifrage, see Goatsbeard Scents, see Odours Schiras Scomber Scorsonera Scurvy Scurvy, Causes of Scurvy, Treatment of Sebaceous Sebacic Secretion Seeds Seidlitz Powders Shad Shalots, see Onions Sheep Sherbet Sherry Shrub Siesta Sinapis Sisymbrium Sitlology Sium Skate Skate, to Boil SkinkXXIX CONTENTS. Skirret Small Hemlock Smell Smelt Smoke-drying Smoking Snails Snipes SnufF Soda Soda Powders Soles Solution Sorb-Apple Sorbic Acid Sorrel Soup Soy Spermaceti Spermaceti Oil Spikenard Spices Spinage Spirit Spirit of Wine Spirit, Proof Spirit, from Faints Sprat Powder Sprats Sprouts and Piths Spruce Spruce Beer Spruce Beer Powders Spruce, Brown Stag, see Venison Stalks and Shoots Starch Starch, Common Starch, Wheat Starch, Potatoe Starling Stearine Stewing Stomach Stomach, Regulation of Stomachics Strawberry Sturgeon Substances,digestible,&c Substances, indigestible Succory Sugar Sugar, White Sugar Candy, White Sugar, Beet Sugar, Birch Sugar as an antiseptic Sumach Supper Surfeit Swine Bread Syrup T Tamarinds Tartar- Tartar, Cream of Taste Tea Tea, History of, &c. Tea, Substitute for Teal Teeth Temperament Temperature Temperature, Reduction of Tench Thermometer Thirst Thirst, Excessive Thirst, Morbid Thistle Thorn Apple Thyme 'I'obacco Tortois'e Toumer, or Turn Tourte Training, Gymnastic, art of Training, For health Training, Pedestrian Treacle Treacle, Venice Tyre Tropaeolum, or Indian Cress Trophis Americana Trout, see Salmo, 8cc. Tru#les Tuberose 'I’ubulous 'Funny Turbot Turkey Turnips Turtles Turtle Dove U Usquebaugh V Valerian Vanilla Vanner ■ Veal Vegetables Vegetable Acids Vegetable Aliment Vegetable, Culinary Vegetable Productions, when in season Vegetables, to Preserve Vegetables, Discovery of Venison Verdigris Vinegar Vinegar, Pickles in Vinegar, Aromatic Voracity, see Gluttony W Water Water, varieties of Water, Medicinal pro- perties of Water, to purify Welsh Rabbit Wheat Wheat-car Wheat, Buck Wheat, Eastern Wheat, Indian Wheat, Turkey Wheat, to test Whet Whey Whiskey White Bait Whiting Wild Boar Wild Cucumber Wild Duck Wild Pigeons Wine Wines, adulteration of Wormwood Wort Y Yams Yeast Yorkshire Pudding Z Zero Zests Zyrnnmef*-DICTIONARY OF DIET, &c. .A. ACIDS.—Most of the acids are sub- stances which produce that sensation of the tongue called sour; but others are classed with them which have not this characteristic, though they possess some of the properties of acids, which differ from each other, not only in appearance, but in their properties also, as much as any class of bodies we are acquainted with; it is, therefore, not a little diffi- cult to give a definition of an acid. In genera] they are liquids, but some of them take a solid, and others a gaseous form; some are mild, others are corrosive; some are pungent and volatile ; others fi.xcd and in- odorous. lltey owe their origin to the combination of certain substances with oxygen, which has been called the acidifying principle. They have the properties of changing the blue, green,and purple juices of vegetables, to red ; and of combining with al- kalies, earths, or metallic oxides, so as to form those compounds called salts. Acids were formerly divided into three classes—namely, the animal, the mineral, and the vegetable acid; though modern chemists have adopt- ed a more useful and scientific me- thod by arranging them under—the undecomposable, and those which are formed of two principles, while the acids which are formed with more than two princqiles compose the second class. ACl D, ACL lie.—An acid of the second class. 11 exists already formed in the sap of many plants, either free, or combined with lime or potass ; it is generated during tlie destructive distillation of vegetable matter, and is an abundant product of the ace- tous fermentation. Common vine- gar, the acidifying principle of which is the acetic, and is commonly pre- pared in this country by fermentation from an infusion of malt; and in France, from the same process taking place in weak wine. The vinegar thus obtained is a very impure acetic acid, containing saccharine, mucila- ginous, and other matters, existing in the fluid from which it is prepared. It is separated from these impuri- ties by distillation; and is rendered stronger by exposure to cold. Con- centrated acetic acid is best obtained by the decomposing the acetates either by sulphuric acid, or in some instances by heat.—See Vinegar. ACIDS, ANIMAL.—Several acids are met with in animal bodies; such as the sulphuric, muriatic, phosphoric, acetic, &c., which belong equally to the mineral or vegetable kingdom.— (See Acid, Vegetable). Under this head are included only such acids as are supposed to be peculiar to ani- mal bodies : e. g. the lactic, fennic, ammonatic, &c. ACID, PYROLIGNEOUS.— Vinegar distilled from wood, em- ployed for chemical and antiseptic jnirposcs.—Sec Piiroligneous, &c. ACIDS, VEGi’.TARLE.—Those compounds are regarded as vegetable acids which possess tlie properties of an acid, and are derived from the vegetable kingdom.—See Acid, Acetic. ACIDULOUS.—Subacid. Some-AC 2 AL what acid, applied to substances in which there is an excess of acid ; e. g. cream of tartar, green fruit, &c.; and also to mineral waters which contain so great a quantity of carbonic acid gas as to render them acidulous, or somewhat tart to the taste. ACORN.—The fruit of the oak- tree, and the food of the early ages, though neglected after corn was cul- tivated. The acorn is of little use to us at present, except in fatteninghogs, other cattle, and poultry. Among the Spaniards, the acorn, or Gians Iberia, is said to have long remained a delicacy, and to have been served up in the form of a dessert. In times of famine, acorns have been some- times dried, ground into meal, and baked as bread. Bartholin relates, that they are used in Norway for this purpose. The inhabitants of Chio held out a long sie^e without any other food; and during a long siege, and in a time of great scarcity in France (1709), this production was resorted to for sustenance. Acorns are said not only to be hard of digestion, but also to occasion head- aches, flatulency, and colicks. In many places, instances are not want- ing where they have supplied a salu- tary and nutritious food. With this in- tention they are first boiled in water, and separated from the husks, and then dried and ground: the meal is mixed with about one-half or one- third of corn flour. From some late reports of the Academy of Science at Petersburgh, we are informed that acorns are the best substitute for coffee that has been hitherto disco, vered. To communicate to them the oily properties of coffee, the follow- ing process is recommended. When the acorns have been toasted brown, add fresh butter in small pieces to them while hot in the pan, and stir them with care; cover the pan and shake it, that the whole may be well mixed. The acorns of the holm oak arc formed at Venice into cups, one inch and a half in diameter, and some- what less in depth. They are used for dressing leather, and instead of galls for dying woollen cloth black. A decoction of acorns is reputed good against fluxes and colicks : the powder has been recommended in agues, but we have now much surer remedies. ADIPOCIRE.—A fatty substance formed from animal muscle. When a piece of fresh muscle is exposed for some time to the action of water, or is kept in moist earth, the fibrin en- tirely disappears, and a fatty matter called adipocire, remains, which has some resemblance to spermaceti. It was formerly thought that the fibrin was really converted into adipocire; but Gay-Lussac {Ann. de Chim. ct de Pharm. vol. iv.), and Cbevreul, maintain that this substance proceeds entirely from the fat originally pre- sent in the muscle ; and that the fibrin is nearly destroyed by putre- faction. Dr. Thompson, however, maintains, that the conversion of fibrin into fat does not occur in some instances, and has related a remark- able case in proof of this opinion.— (See Ann. Phil. vol. xii. p. 41).—Ac- cording to M. Chevreul, adipocire is not a pure fatty principle, but a species of soap, consisting chiefly of margaric acid, in combination with ammonia, generated during the de- composition of fibrin.—See Fibrin. ALBUMEN, ANIMAL.—One of those animal substances which is nei- ther acid nor oleaginous. It enters largely into the composition of animal fluids and solids. Dissolved in water, it forms an essential constituent of the serum of the blood, the liquor of the serous cavities, and the fluid of dropsy. In the solid form, it is con- tained in several of the textures of the body, such ns the cellular mem- brane, the skin, glands, and vessels. Hence it appears, that albumen exists under two forms, liquid and solid. The liquid form is best procured from the white of eggs, which con-AL 3 AL sists solely of this principle, united with water and free soda, and mixed with a small quantity of saline matter. In this state it is coagulated hy heat, alcohol, and the stronger acids. It is precipitated by several re-agents, especially hy metallic salts. It co- agulates without appearing to un- dergo any decomposition.—Brandes Chemist nj, ALBUMEN, VEGETABLE.— Tliere are vegetables which contain a substance coagulable by heat, and which is very analogous to animal al- bumen. It was detected in the bitter almond by Vogel; in the sweet al- mond by M. Boulay; and probably exists in most of the emulsive seeds. —Annals of Philosophy, vol.xii. p.39. On exposure to the atmophere in a moist state, albumen passes at once to the state of putrefac- tion. From its coagulability, it is of the greatest use in clai-ifying liquids; and it likewise possesses the remarkable property of rendering leather supple, for which purpose a solution of whites of eggs in water is used by leather dressers. Orfila has found the white of egg to be the best antidote to the poisonous effects of corrosive sublimate. Albumen may be obtained in the solid form hy agitating white of egg with ten or twelve times its weight of alcohol. ALCOHOL.—The inebriatingin- ^edient of all vinous and spirituous uquors. It is the product of the vinous fermentation; a colourless elastic fluid, of a penetrating odour, and burning taste; highly volatile; boiling, when its density is 0.820, at the temperature of 17GF. Ac- cording to Gay-Lussac, the specific gravity of its vapour is 1.613. Like volatile liquids in general, it produces a considerable degree of cold during its evaporation. Of all fluids, it is the only one which has not hitherto been congealed. It is highly inflam- mable, and burns with a lambent yel- lowish blue flame. It unites with water in every proportion. Of the salifiable bases, alcohol alone can dissolve potassa, soda, lithia, ammonia, and the vegetable alkalies. All the salts which are either inso- luble, or sparingly soluble in w'ater, are insoluble in alcohol. The efflo- rescent salts are, likewise, for the most part insoluble in this menstruum; but, on the contrary, it is capable of dissolving all the deliquescent salts, except the carbonate of potassa. Many of the vegetable principles, as sugar, manna, camphor, resins, balsams, and the essential oils, are soluble in al- cohol. Alcohol is inferred to consist of, Carbon ..12 2 atoms .. 52.17 Oxygen 8 1 atom .. 34.79 Hydrogen 3 3 atoms .. 13.04 23 100.00 These numbers are in such propor- tion, that alcohol may be regarded as a compound of fourteen parts, or one atom, of olefiant gas, and nine parts, or one atom, of water. Alcohol was discovered upwards of 600 years ago, though it is said to have been known to the Chinese time immemorial, as their varnish is dis- solved in alcohol, although this is not clearly proved. This highly-purified spirit is never given internally in a pure state; hut is mostly employed as the basis of tinctures, and to dis- solve resinous matter. If a small quantity he added to water, it acts the same as common spirits, but with this essential difference ; when newly made, it seems to contain much {ethe- real spirit of a bad and destructive kind, which it loses on keeping: on this account it is that raw spirits abroad are found so very noxious. Tlie specific gravity of alcohol to that of distilled water, is as 815 to 1000. It is the basis of all wines, and may be distilled from all with a boiling heat. It differs in flavour according to the substances from which it is jM-epared, or the artificial additions. It appears in different forms—rum, brandy, usquebaugh, &c.; mi.xcd with4 AL AL equal parts of water, it forms proof the subcarbonate of potass heated to spirits. British spirit is a mixture of the same degree. Lastlj', with the it with essential oils &c., and the com- aid of a warm bath, let the alcohol mon people prefer it to good spirit: distil once : keep it in a well stopped hence distillers find, that spirit dis- bottle. The specific gravity of al- tilled from sugar has not so quick a cohol is to the specific gravity of sale as that from malt. distilled water, as 815 to 1000. To As regards the bad effects from obtain pure alcohol, Rouelle recom- the abuse of spirits, they are very mends to draw off half the spirit in numerous, and we consequently see a water bath; to rectify this twice their consequences. The person first more, drawing off two-thirds each loses his appetite ; to remove the con- time; to add water to this alcohol, sequent langour the dose is increased, which will turn it milky, by separat- and at length all appetite is lost; the ing the essential oil remaining in it ; liver becomes sympathetically dis- to distil the spirit from this water ; eased; no bile is secreted; the me- and, finally, to rectify it by one more senteric glands swell,, and general distillation. induced debility ensues. The lungs ALKALIES.—The word a/A'ale is lose their strength, asthma, and short- of Arabian origin, and signifies the ness of breath, follow, with sometimes dregs of bitterness. The alkalies have palsy; at last there is a confirmed an acrid and urinous ‘ taste; they asthma or dropsy, on the gin-cough, change the blue juices of vegetables which constitutes true pulmoriarycon- to a green colour, and the yellow to sumption, in which the tubercles sup- a brown,* and have the property of purate very rapidly. These effects rendering oils mixible with water, are often witnessed in porters, coach- They are incombustible, but may be men, soldiers, &c. At Petersburgh, rendered volatile by great heat; they a physician calculated tliat 635 die are soluble in water, form various in ten months from this cause only, salts in combination with acids, f and Externally applied, alcohol causes act as powerful caustics when ajrplied all the vessels to contract: if it be to the flesh of animals. There are confined to the skin it causes a glow ; three alkalies ; two of which, potass but if not confined, and allowed to and soda, are called they?.reJ, because evaporate, the evaporation produces they will endure a great heat and still cold. Given internally, if the dose remain unchanged; the third, the vo- be too large, it kills like lightning, latile alkali. The alkalies are com* by exhausting the irritability, so that pound bodies. Potass is chiefly pro- the blood does not coagulate, and the cured by lixiviation from the ashes muscles remain flaccid. In cases of of burnt wood, and other vegetable great langoiu-, nervous weakness and substances; but as it exists in mi- spasms, where aether is proper, one to nerals and earths, there is reason to two drachms of alcohol will have a good efl’ect. • Although the effect of alkalies on Pile alcohol of the ‘ London Phar- the blue juices of vegetables is almost macopooia,’ is directed to be made universal, we know of one exception— as follows:—Take of I'cctified spirit, uamely, tincture of litmus and litmus one gallon ; subcarbonate of potass| 'tre always rendered more three pounds ; add a pound of the the addition of alka- f Potass becomes comparatively mild by its union with carbonic acid; and the most caustic soda, if united to cor- rosive muriatic acid, forms the mildAL AL 5 believe that plants receive it from tlie earth during vegetation; hence it may be proper to entirely discard the word vegetable when speaking of this substance. Soda is derived from the ashes of marine plants; but its great depository is the ocean, soda being the basis of sea salt, or muriate of soda.—See Soda Water. Potass was called the vegetable alkali, because it was supposed to exist only in vegetables, though it is now found in some minerals. Soda was called mineral alkali, because it exists in mineral salts; although it is also procured b}' chemical process from sea-salt, which is found in nu- merous masses under the earth’s sur- face in many countries, particularly in England, Poland, Ilungary, and Spain. The alkalies have various uses in surgery, medicine, the arts, and manufactures. The name of the volatile alkali is ammonia, which is procured from all vegetable and ani- mal substances in a state of putre- faction. In England, however, it is generally procured by dry distilla- tion of bones, horns, and other ani- mal substances. It is also found in mineral water. According to Dr. Austin, ammonia is formed when- ever iron rusts in water which has a free communication with the air.— See Acids. ALE.—Ale is made by infusing malt in hot water, and then ferment- ing the liquor by the addition of barm or yeast, Hops (which see) are also an essential ingi-edient. Various sorts of ale are known in Britain, particularly pa/e and brown: the former is brewed from malt slightly dried: and is esteemed more viscid than the latter, which is made from malt more highly dried. Many places in England are famous for the excellency of their ale, particularly Dorchester in Dorsetshire ; and Bur- ton in Staffordshire. The ale of the latter country is by some deemed in- comparable, and great (piantities of it are sent down the Trent to Hull, and exported to other ]>arts of the kingdom and abroad. This licpior is the favourite beverage of the peasan- try in most of the English counties. Ale is of so great anti([uity in this kingdom, that, in the year 1492, we meet with a license from Henry VII. to John Merchant, a Fleming, to export fifty tuns of this liquor.— See l{ee.s’ Encyclopced. Art. Beer. To those whose diet is not very nutritive ale may be considered as not only an innocent, but a salubrious drink. In the observations relative to the bills of mortality in the year 1062, by an ingenious citizen, con- cerning the increase of some diseases and the decrease of others, we meet with the following remark; “ The stone and strangury decreaseth from the drinking of ale.” 'I'here existed, for a length of time, a strong preju- dice against hops, which were looked upon as pernicious w'ceds; but now it is universally admitted, that they constitute the most valuable ingre- dient in malt liquors.—(See Hops). Independent of the flavour and tonic virtues which they communicate, they precipitate, by means of their astringent principle, the vegetable mucilage, and by this means remove from the ale the active principle of its fermentation : consequently with- out hops we must either drink our malt licpiors new and ropy, or old and sour.—See Malt J.iquors. [To make a thirty-six gallon baiv rel of ale, take malt, usually the j'ale, two and a half bushels; sugar three pounds, just boiled to a colour ; hops, two j)ounds eight ounces; coriander seeds, one ounce; ca])sicum, half a drachm. Work it two or three days, beating it well u]) once or twice a day. When it begins to fall, cleanse it by iidding a handful of salt, and some wheat flour mixed with twenty grains of coculus Indicus].— Gray's Hupp, to the Pharmacop. Strong ale i.s, unquestionably, the most nutritive of all malt liquors; but being more diflicult of digestion than u aAL « AL the other malt drinks, it cannot with propriety be taken but by those who are naturally of a strong constitution, and who use a deal of exercise. In- deed, it is generally admitted by those who are skilled in the art of training, that a quantity of ale taken at every meal, will soonest bring the body up to the fullest extent of strength. It is affirmed by Jackson, the celebrated trainer, that if any person, accustomed to drink wine, would but try malt liquor for a month, he would find himself so much the better for it that he would soon relinquish the former for the latter. The best ale is made of fine pale malt, and with hops of the finest quality. It should sparkle in the glass, but the smaller the beads the better. In persons recovering from great constitutional debility, and whose stomach would not feel oppressed by it, a little good home- brewed ale would act as a restorative. It is a good dissolvent of cheese, and considerably tends to keep the bowels soluble, which the latter is disposed to constipate.—See Beer—Porter. ALEXANDF.il, The Herb.— {Alexander or Alexanders. Smyrnium Olusatrum. L.)—This herb is much of the same nature as parsley. It is moderately hot, of a cleansing and deobstruent nature, nourishing and comforting to the stomach. The tender sprouts, buds, and tops, are to be chosen ; the stalks are eaten in spring, and also in winter', Avhen blanched and drenched with oil, pep- per and salt; either by themselves or in composition with other salad herbs. It is also used in winter as a pot-herb. It grows naturally near the sea side, and may be often ob- served naturalized near old buildings. It somewhat resembles the celery in flavour, by which vegetable it has almost entirely been supplanted. ALKALESCENCY. —An alka- line or bilious disposition, or ten- dency.—See Solution. From the too great alkalcscency inherent in the flesh of some animals, those of a carnivorous nature are commonly avoided, and the prefer- ence given to such as are of the gra- minivorous kind. 11 is, nevertheless, true, that some birds which live on insects, are admitted into our food; but few, without nausea, could long subsist upon these alone. Fishes, too, are an exception to this rule, from their living almost exclusively on each other. In these, Iiowever, al- kalescency does not proceed to any great extent; but, whether fi'om the viscidity of their juices, the want of heat, or some other peerdiarity in their economy, is not easily to he determined. The difference of age detei-mines the alkalescency. The older the more alkalescent, in consequence of their continual progress to putrefaction. The wild or tame state of the ani- mal varies the alkalescency of the food, and is a circumstance which again depends upon its exercise. Cullen mentions a gentleman who was excessivel}' fond of cats for food; for which purpose, he always fed them with vegetables, and kept them from exercise. The Romans, in the same manner, reared up rats when they intended them for food: the flesh of the partridge and the hen are nearly the same, with the exception only of the former being more on the wing; it is more alkalescent than the other. Tame animals are also commonly used without their blood, whereas the wild are usually killed in their blood; and on this account, as well as from the greater exercise they use, arc more alkalescent. The quantity of volatile salt af- forded by any food, may determine its alkalescency. The older the meat the greater the proportion of it. It may also in some ineasui'C be deter- minccFfrom its colour—the flesh of younger animals being whiter and less a'lkalescent. A criterion is also formcd,from the colour of the gravy it gives out; judging of the degreeAL 7 AL of alkalescency from tlie redness of the juices. The flavour or redness of food depends much ou its alkales- cency, as also on the stimulus it com- municates, and the degree of feverish heat it produces iu the system— effects which are also connected with the viscidity of the food ; on which account it is detained longer in the stomach, supplying thereby the want or absence of alkalescency. There is another difference as re- gards animal food—namely, the na- ture of the fluids they afford; the whole of which may be comprehend- ed from what has been said relative to alkalescency—the fluid pi’oduced being more or less dense and stimu- lating, in proportion as that pi'evails. Another difference is its perspirabi- lity. The sum total of all that can be said on this subject is, that such foods as promote an accumulation of fluid in our vessels, and dispose to plethora, are the least perspirable, and commonly give most strength— that the most alkalescent foods are the most perspirable, though the viscid and less alkalescent may at- tain the same property by long reten- tion in the system. Little, if any, confidence is to be placed in what Sanctorins has said with i-espcct to the perspirability of mutton, because he did not examine other meats in the same manner, in their perfect state; and still less of what Keil re- lates of oysters, as he himself was a valetudinarian; consequently an unfit subject for such exj)eriments, independent in all probal)ility of his being of a peculiar teniperament.— See Nulri/ion. ALIM ENTS.—“ By aliment,” says Arbuthnot, “ I understand every thing which a human creature takes in common diet.” Simplicity in the choice of our alimentary materials, guards the appetite from being stimu- lated beyond its natural wants; in- digestion and its consequences are prevented, and the general health more uniformly maintained. The mul- tiplied combinations of substances, though they may please the palate, are not conducive to health. All substances which contain much jelly, whether animal or vegetable, are nourishing; for this alone affords nu- triment; and the hard, watery, and saline particles of food cannot be as- similated or converted into chyle. Nourishing substances would indeed be more conformable to nature; but as our appetite generally incites ns to eat more than is necessary, we should acquire too much alimentary matter, and become too full of blood, if we were to choose only such arti- cles of food as contain a great quan- tity of jelly. It is justly observed by Buchan, that “ the great art of preparing food, is to blend the nu- tritive part of the aliment with a sufficient quantity of some light fa- rinaceous substance, in order to fill up the canal without over-charging it with more nutritious particles than are necessary for the support of the animal. This may be done either by bread or other farinaceous substances, of which there is a great variety.’’ Those, in fine, who are not engaged in hard labour or exer- cise, do not stand in need of such nutritious aliment as those whose nu- tritive fluids are partly consumed by muscular exertion, and violent per- spiration. Those who have sustained Irecpient losses of blood, from what- ever cause, will best restore it by strong and juicy aliment; which, on the contrary', ought to be avoided by the plethoric. Lastly, those whose constitution is weakened and ema- ciated by free-living and dissipation, ought not to eat much at a time, but rather repeat their meals more fre- quently, at j>roper and regidar in- tervals. It is impossible to determine by general rules, whether or not we ought to use articles of easy or dif- ficult digestion during the healthy- state of the stomach; every person, therefore, ought to pay attention toAL AL 8 the effects which substances of dif- ferent degrees of digestibility pro- duce on the stomach. The chyle, when prepared of substances not easily digestible, is solid and con- centrated, and consequently affords a substantial muscular fibre; but such substances as the stomach can- not digest, ought never to be used as food. The stomach is enabled to prepare the best chyle from simple substances, and will thence produce themosthealthy fluids; consequently, it is an important nile of diet to eat, if possible, of one kind of meat only, or at all events, to eat of that dish first which is the most palatable. At a table dietetically arranged, those foods ought to be commenced with which are most difficult to be di- gested, and the meal comjfleted with that which is most easy; because the former require stronger digestive powers, and more bile and saliva, all of which become more defective to- wards the end of a meal. The power of digestion is unquestionably most vigorous and active when that organ is not too much distended; and the coarser kinds of substances also re- quire a longer time for being duly assimilated. Much controversy has arisen at various times among physiologists and philosophers, whether the Crea- tor intended man to derive his cor- poreal support from the animal or vegetable kingdom, or from both. Dr. Lambe, among others, supports the vegetable system; for he has “ ascertained that those who confine tliemselves to this aliment do not require any e.vtraordinary stimulus; and they have not accustomed them- selves to the use of wine or spiritu- ous liquors.” The late Baron Haller, on the other hand, maintained that tlie stomach of man is formed between that of carnivorous and herbivorous animals, namely, that it partakes of both ; but he informs us, at the same time, that it approaches more to the graminivorous; and the late John Hunter asserted, that the human stomach is the link between animals that live on vegetables, and those which are entirely carnivorous. Mr. Abernethy inclines to this opinion, and does not believe that any differ- ence exists in chyle formed from animal or vegetable food. The great variety of substances which man is not only capable of digesting, but from which his organs can extract wholesome nourishment, contributes very essentially to his wide extension over the face of the habitable globe. In almost all ages there have been disputes concerning the food best suited to the nature of man; that is, whether a mixed ali- ment, or one purely animal or ve- getable, be most favourable to the development of the bodily and mental power. Now, with regard to the efiects of these aliments on man, it must be observed, that there are no persons wdio live entirely on vegetables. The Pythagoreans themselves ate milk ; and those who do so, mostly, as the Pythagoreans, are weakly, sickly, and meagre; la- bouring under a constant looseness, and several other diseases. The hardy and robust never live on these, but chiefly such as gain a livelihood by the exertion of their mental faculties, as in the Indies, factors and broker's; and this me- thod of life is now confined to hot climates, where vegetable diet, with- out incumbrance, may bo carried to great excess. And, although it be granted that man is intended to live promiscuously on these different foods, j'et the vegetable should be in a very great proportion. The inhabitants of Lapland are said to live exclusively on animal food; though it is contradicted by Liunmus, who says, that besides milk, which they take in a sour state to obviate the bad efl'ects of animal food, they use also ca/ame- nyanthes, and many other plants, copiously. Hence, there is no in-9 AL AL stance on record of any nation liv- ing exclusively either on vegetable or animal food, though there are some who take a greater proportion of the one than the other. For ex- ample, in cold countries, the inha- bitants live chiefly on animal food, on account of the severity of the seasons, the smaller perspiration, and their less tendency to putrefaction. For the same reason, more animal food is recommended in winter than in summer. Many sects, and whole nations, still, at the present day, (the Brah- mins, for instance), abstain equally from animal food. The ancient Germans, also, who were much re- nowned for their bodily strength, lived upon acorns, wood-apples (the produce of the crab-tree, &c.), sour mil^, and other productions of their then uncultivated soil. In the pre- sent mode of life, here, as well as on the Continent, a great proportion of the poorer class of country people subsist on vegetables; but although they duly digest their vegetable ali- ment, and become vigorous, yet it is certain that animal food would an- swer these purposes much better. Hence, in countries where the la- bouring class of people live princi- pally upon animal food, they far surpass in bodily strength and dura- tion of life those who subsist chiefly on vegetables. As our stomachs could never en- dure the raw flesh of animals, it is boiled, roasted, baked, or fried, in order to promote its easier diges- tion : it is also seasoned in various way.s, which improves and consider- ably alters the taste of it. Boiled victuals being moister than that otherwise dressed, agrees best with those that are of a dry and bilious constitution, who are inclined to con- stipation. Fried and roasted meats, on the contrary, are more suitable to those of a phlegmatic tempera- ment, to such as abound with super- fluous moisture, to those subject to defluxions, and similar distempers. The following question, however, is of much more importance,—“ In what jiroportioiis should animal food he mixed ivith vegetables ? ” Sancto- rius has an aphorism, which says, “ Pondiis addit robur," (Weight gives strength), which may be explained from the impletion of the blood ves- sels, and giving a proper degree of tension for the performance of strong oscillations. Animal food, therefore, which gives most strength to the system, not only goes a greater way in supplying fluid, but also commu- nicates to that fluid more density* and elasticity. Men, it is said, were at first fed upon figs, proof of which we have from their nutritious quality. In this respect, however, they were soon found inferior to animal food; and thus we daily see that men, in some measure, will work in proportion to the quality of their food. Where- ever people are exposed to hard la- bour, animal food should be taken in the greatest proportion. It has been said that the chief in- convcniency of vegetable aliment is the difficulty with which it is assi- milated, that is, its conversion into nutrition ; which, nevertheless, with those of vigorous and robust health, and who accustom themselves to much exercise, is not liable to occur. The assimilation of vegetable ali- ment is more easily effected in warm than in cold climales, so that in the former it may be more i)leutilully used ; and when joined to exercise, it imparts a tolerable degree of strength and vigour; and, although the general rule bo in favour of ani- mal diet, in giving strength, still there are many instances of it being j)roduced, in a remarkable degree, from vegetables; which have the advantage of whetting the appetite, as being less liable to affect us from a full meal of it. And, inde])cndent of the disorders it is liable to pro- duce in the stomach and intestines.10 AL AL and its falling short to give strength, it does not appear that any bad con- sequences can arise to the blood from a continuance in its use; for there is no instance of its peculiar acrimony having ever been carried tliere, and it is certainly less liable to putrefaction than animal food; nor without the utmost indolence, and a keen appetite, does it produce plethora, or any of its consequences; so that it may here be justly con- cluded that a large proportion of vegetable aliment is beneficial, con- sequently useful to the generality of mankind. What are the effects of the variety of aliment ?—This is another question that has elicited much controversy. It is asked, whether variety of ali- ment be necessary and allowable, or whether it is universally injurious ? If variety of aliment be at all neces- sary, it is from the mutual advan- tages which animal and vegetable food have in correcting each other— a variety, therefore, of this kind seems necessary. Another very pro- per variety is that of liquid and solid food, which sho\ild be so ma- naged as to temper each other. Ali- ment, especially, of the liquid kind, is too apt to pass off by stool before it be properly assimilated; while solid food makes a longer stay in the digestive organs. But whether va- riety of one kind be fit or necessary, as in animal food, such as beef, fish, fowl, does not belong to the question. It does not appear that any inconve- nience arises from this mixture, or difficulty of assimilation, provided a moderate quantity be taken at a time. When any inconvenience does arise on this score, it ])robably proceeds from the circumstance that one of the particular substances in tbe mix- ture, if taken alone, would produce the same effects; and, in fact, it would appear that this eflect is not promoted but obviated by the mix- ture itself. With respect to variety, however, the least that can be said against it is, that it is not without its disadvantages, as producing gluttony; aided by the cook it induces people to consume at one time more than they can conveniently digest; and hence, very justly, physicians have almost universally preferred simpli- city of diet; for, in spite of rules, man’s eating will only be measured by his appetite; and satiety is sooner produced by one than many sub- stances. But this is so far from being an argument against variety, that it is, on the contrary, one for it, as the only way of avoiding a full meal of animal food, and its bad effects, is by presenting a quantity of vegetables. ALIMENTS, CLASSIFICA- TION OF, including Drinks and Spices, according to their particular salubrity. I. Food.—Division First. Class I. Articles affording strong nutriment. Order i. Vegeto-farinaceous sub- stances. Genus 1. With soft juicy fibres. 1. Such as contain a saccharine matter: as the skirret or sugar root, the common carrot, beet, and poly- pody root. 2. Sweetish substances, affording a tender farina or meal: as the parsnip, the turnip-rooted cabbage, the cole- wort, viper’s grass, the goat’s beard or salsify, Solomon’s seal, parsley root, asparagus, turnips, and potatoes. Genus 2. Substances affording flour, or those of a viscous, earthy consist- ency, viz. every species of grain, as wheat, rj-e, barley, oats, buck-wheat, millet, maize, or Indian corn, the chickling vetch, and the like. Order ii. Gelatinous animal sub- stances. Genus \. Of a soft and juicy mus- cular substance, viz. veal, lamb, young beef, mutton, pork, venison, turtle, hare, rabbits, badgers, domestic fowls, pheasants, partridges, the greater number of land fowl, oysters, small lobsters, and fresh eggs.11 AL AL Genus 2. Of a hard and tough sub- stance, viz. all the animals before- mentioned when old, as well as the bustard, the starling, the wood- pecker, the sparrow, the goose, the duck, the lapwing ; muscles, snails, crabs, hard-boiled eggs. Order iii. Fat or butjTO-oleagi- nous substances. Genus 1. Of the sweet hind, viz. cacao, sweet almonds, walnuts, hazel- nuts, water-caltrops, chestnuts, beech nuts, cashew-nuts, pistachio-nuts, wild pine apples, milk, and fresh cheese. Genus 2. Of the bitterish and tart hind, viz. bitter almonds, acorns, all the seeds of fruits, and olives. Cl.\ss II. Slightly nutrimental sub- stances. Order i. Those of a viscous and watery consistence, or those the ve- getable mucilage of wliich is diluted with much water. Genus 1. Of a sweet taste, viz. me- lons, and several species of pears and apples, sweet citrons, lemons, oranges, figs, mulberries, raspberries, sweet grapes, cherries, plums, jujube berries, dates, &c. Genus 2. Of a stceetish taste, viz. green peas and beans, white cabbage, cauliflower spinach, orachs, blite, the strawberry, spinach, cucumbers, and gourds. Genus 3. Of a compound sweet and bitter taste, viz. the succory, the ram- pion, the borage, the saw-root, tlie young shoots of hops, the sowthistle, the hedge mustard, artichokes,capers, the brooklime, endive, and lettuce. Genus 4. Of a mildly sweetish and spicy taste, viz. celery, angelica, shep- herd’s needle, fennel, and the com- mon balm. Genus 5. Of an acrid taste, viz. radishes, turnip radishes, horse ra- dishes, tarragon, scurvy-grass, and me. Genus G. Of an acid taste, viz. sor- rel, purslanes, sour citrons, lemons, limes, cherries, plums, &c. Genus 7. Of a vinous quality, viz. all sweet apples, particularly ren- nets, apples of Boston, and some few varieties from America, the pine apple, the honey or paradise apple, shadocks, or sena apples, bramble berries, strawberries, whortleberries, gooseberries, currants, grapes, apri- cots, peaches, and nectarines. Genus 8. Of a tart and astringent taste, viz. all the wild-growing ap- ples and pears, quinces, cranberries, whortleberries, barberries, the green summer and winter pears,sour apples, the fruit of the dog-rose or hip tree, medlars, the fruit of the service trees, sloes, or the fruit of the blackthorn, and the green Brasilian plums. Order ii. Those of a gelatinous, watery consistence. To this order belong all the various species of fish. Division Second. Alimentary substances, containing unwholesome fluids. Order i.—Those of an acid nature. 1. Coarsely viscous and saline sub- stances, viz.' all salted and smoked animal food, both of quadrupeds and fish. 2. Putrescent, or easily putrescible substances, riz. the ram, the he-goat, the bull, the otter, waterfowl, the blood of animals, roasted eggs, tainted eggs, and lastly, all the flesh of wild and tame animals kept too long, to make it more tender and savoury. 3. Substances of a furry and lea- thery appearance, or such as dis- cover a suspicious acrimony, viz. truffles, morels, and all kinds of mushrooms. Order i.— Those of gross fluids, or a coarse earthy consistejice, viz. the various leguminous seeds, such as dried jieas, beans, lentils, and the like. II. Drink.—(a.) Watery Liquors. I. Simple, or uncompounded, viz. all kinds of common water. ii. Mucous-zcalery.—Spirituous. 1. All fermentedWipwvs, known by the name of beer and ale. 2. Sqncy-balsamic liquids; such as the vernal sap of the birch and ma-12 AL AL pie, as well as the artificial prepara- tions of tea, coffee, and cliocolate. 3. Siueetly acidulated,\iz. lemonade, orgeat, mead, must, cider, perry, &c. (b.) Spirituous Liquors.' I. Distilled.—Namely, all kinds of ardent spirits, from whatever grain or vegetable substance they may be extracted. II. Fermented.—All kin ds of wine. 1. Sweet wines, those of Hungary, Spain, Italy, Greece, and the Cape; as likewise all wines made of cur- rants, raisins, &c. 2. Slightly acidulated wines, among which Champagne, Rhenish wine, or old Hock, and that of the Moselle, are the princijial. 3. Acid and tart wines; to which chiefly belong the wines of Franconia and Saxony. 4. 7'he acidulated sweet wines; such as most of the French wines, and particularly Claret, and, lastly, 5. I'he sharp and astringent wines ; the chief of which are the wines of Oporto and Burgundy. III. Spices. 1. Of the sweet kind, such as sugar, honey, manna, and the inspis- sated sap of the majile and beech- tree. 2. Of the acid kind, namely the juice of citrons, lemons,unripe grapes, &c. 3. Of the saline kinds, namely, common salt, whether obtained in a solid form, or rock-salt, or from the evaporation of the sea, and salt springs—lastly, 4. Of the pungent and balsamic kind, such as garlic, shalot, onions, chives, nutmegs, mace, pepper, pi- mento, cubebs, vanilla, cardamoms, bay berries, juniper berries, ginger, calamus, cloves, cinnamon, saflron, carraway, coriander, fennel, parsley, dill, sage, marjorum, thyme, penny- royal, mug worts, hyssop, pepper- mint, and rue. Amongst the alimentary substances intended for the use of man, few are employed in the same condition as they are presented by nature. They are for the most part prepared and disposed in such a manner as to be suitable for the action of the diges- tive organs. The preparations to which they are subjected are infi-, nitely various, according to the sort of aliment, people, climate, customs, civilization—and fashion is not even without her presiding influence in the preparation of human food. In the hands of a skilful artist, alimentary substances almost entirely change their nature, form, consistence, smell, taste, colour, composition, &c.; in fine, every thing is diversified, that it is frequently impossible for the most delicate tastes to recognise the original materials of certain dishes, from the complete culinary meta- morphosis they have undergone, from the magic tact of the master-kitch- ener.—See Coohdry. ALLSPICE. — Jamaica pepper, the produce of the Myrtus pimenia. This spice, which was first brought over for dietetic uses; has been long employed in the shops as a succeda- neuin' to the more costly oriental aromatic : it is moderately warm, of an agreeable flavour, somewhat re- sembling that of a mixture of cloves, cinnamon, and nutpieg. — See Pi- mento, &c. Sir Hans Sloane, in the Philoso- phical Transactions, (Abr. vol. xi. p. GC7), says, "Pimento, the spice of Ja- maica, or Allsi'ice, so called from having a flavour composed, as it were, of cloves, cinnamon, nutmegs, and pepper, may deservedly be counted the best and most temperate, mild, and innocent of common spices, al- most all of which it far surpasses, by promoting the digestion of meat, anil moderately heating and strengthen- ing the stomach, and doing those friendly ofliccs to the bowels we generally expect from spices.” ALLSPICE, ESSENCE OF.— Oil of Pimento, one drachm, apo- thecaries’ measure ; strong spirit ofAL AL 13 wine, two ounces, to be mixed b}' de- grees : used for mulling wine. A few drops will give the flavour of allspice to a pint of gravy, or mulled wine, or to make a bishop.—Kitchener. ALLSPICE, TlNC rURE OF.— O f allspice, bmised, three ounces, apo- thecaries’ weight; brandy, a quart; let it steep for a fortnight, occasion- all\- shaking it up ; then pour off the clear liquor. It is a most grateful addition in all cases where allspice is used. ALMONDS. — The common, or sweet almond, is the Ami/dalus Com- munis, Linn.; and the bitter almond is the Amygdal. Amura, L. Both grow to the height of twenty feet, with spreading branches. The leaves resemble those of the peach, but the lower serratures are glandular. This tree forms an important ai'ticle in the general culture of many parts of France, Italy, and Spain. In a forward spring the blossoms often appear in February, but when this occurs, they are generally destroyed by the frost, and they bear little or no fruit; whereas, when the trees do not flower till March, they seldom fail to produce fruit in abundance. The kernel of the stone is the only part used, which is tender and of a fine flavour. The sweet almond, and other varieties, arc brought to the dessert in a green or imperfectly ripe, and also in a ripe or dried, state. They are much used in cookery, con- fectionary, perfumery, and medicine. —Professor Martyn observes, that “ sweet almonds used in food are difficult of digestion, and afford very little nourishment, unless extremely well comminuted. As medicine they blunt acrimonious humour, and some times give instant relief in the heart- burn.” Almonds, walnuts, hazel nuts, and nuts in general, are extremely diffi- cult of digestion, on accoimt of the oil they contain, which readily turns acrid and rancid on the stomach, and occasions the lieart-burn. Bi- lious individuals should by no means eat them; and there is nothing so absurd as to administer almond milk, as a common diet drink to febrile patients. This milk consists alto- gether of oily and almost insoluble parts, which heat and vitiate the sto- mach, stimulate the bile, and are easily decomposed from the water with which they are mixed. It quickly spoils; frequently, indeed, before it is introduced into the sto- mach : it is not in the least degree cooling, and its nourishing property is very improperly employed in fe- vers, and all those diseases which are attended with debility of the ali- mentary canal. Almonds and nuts ought only to be eaten while fresh, and when the skin, which is extremely astringent and unwholesome, can be removed. They should be well chewed and eaten with salt; for every piece swal- lowed entire is indigestible, and the salt renders them miscible wdth our fluids as a saponaceous mass. If eaten in large quantities, they re- main in the stomacii, cannot be ex- pelled by any medicine, and produce alarming, and sometimes fatal dis- orders. In general, they occasion dif- ficult breathing, vomiting, and com- plaints in the bowels, which have been observed to be very common in those autumns that were produc- tive of great quantities of nuts. ALMONDS, OIL OF.—Used for forming emulsions in coughs, and other pulmonary complaints, by the intermedium of mucilage of gum arable, or the yolk of an egg. The analysis of sweet almonds, according to Boullay, is as follows ;— Oil .... 54 Albumen . . .24 Sugar (fluid) . . G Fibre .... 4 Gum ... 3 Pellicles ... 5 Water . . . 3..5 Acetic and dross . . .5 c 100AM H AM ALMONDS, OIL OF BITTER. —This has all the characteristic ef- fects of prussic acid, but it is so powerful and dangerous as to pre- clude its use. It is principally sold to perfumers and confectioners. Vogel, in his experiments on and analysis of bitter almonds, gives the following proportions of the sub- stances, ill 100 parts:— Peelings . . . 8.5 Fixed oil . . . 28 Albumen . . . 30 Sugar .... 0.5 G um ... 3 Parenchyma, vegetable, 5 Essential oil & prussic acid .. The essential oil of bitter almonds appears to be a very singular sub- stance. It is best obtained by dis- tilling almond water with barytes, to separate the prussic acid. In close vessels it is very volatile; exposed to the air it becomes solid, crystalline, inodorous, and of considerable fixity. The crystals are a compound of it with oxygen, for oxygen is absorbed during their formation, and if they are dissolved in hydro-sidphuret of ammonia, they are again decom- posed, and the original odour and oil are produced.—Jour, of Science. Bitter almonds, when pounded and taken in sufficient quantity, are highly deleterious, as has been proved by numerous experiments. ALMOND CUSTARDS.-Blanch and pound fine, with half a gill of rose-water, six ounces of sweet, and half an ounce of bitter almonds; boil a pint of milk, sweeten it with two ounces and a half of sugar, rub the almonds through a fine sieve, and, with a pint of cream, strain the milk to the yolks of eight eggs, and the whites of three well beaten ; stir over a fire till it be of a good thickness ; then take it oil", and stir till it cools to prevent it from curdling. Baked ill cups or in a dish, with a rim of puir. AMBERGRIS. — A substance found floating on the surface of the sea near the coasts of India, Africa, and Brazil, supposed to be a concre- tion formed in the stomach of the spermaceti whale. 11 has usually been considered as a resinous principle; but its chief constituent is a sub- stance very analogous to chlorestine, and to w'hich MM. Pelletier and Caventon have given the name of amhreine. As ambergris has not been found in any whales but such as are dead or sick, its production is generally supposed to be owing to disease, though it has been affirmed by some to be the cause of the morbid affec- tion. It is found in various sizes, generally in small fragments, but sometimes so large as to weigh near 200 lbs. Its specific gravity ranges from 780 to 926. If good, it adheres like wax to the edge of the knife w'ith which it is scraped, retains the impression of the teeth and nails, and emits a fat odoriferous liquid on being penetrated with a hot iron. It is generally brittle ; but, on rub- bing it with the nail, it becomes smooth like hard soap. Its colour is either white, black, or ash-coloured, j'ellow', or blackish; or it is varie- gated, namely, grey with black specks, or grey with yellow specks. Its smell is peculiar, and not easily counterfeited. According to Bouil- lon La Grange, who has given the last analysis, 3820 parts of amber- gris consist of adipocire 2016 parts, a resinous substance 1167, benzoic acid 425, and coal 212. An alcoholic solution of amber- gris, added in minute quantity to lavender water, tooth powder, hair powder, wash halls, &c., communi- cates its peculiar fragrance. Its high price in London frequently causes it to be adulterated. It has occasion- ally been cmjdoycd medicinally, but its use is mostly confined to the per- fumer. Dr. Swediaur took thirty grains without any sensible effect. A sailor who took half an ounce of itAN 15 AN found it an excellent purge.— lire's Chem. Diet. Ambergris being retailed at so high a price as a guinea per ounce, leads to many adulterations, con- sisting of various mixtures of ben- zoin, labdanum, meal, &c. scented with musk. The greasy appearance and smell which heated ambergris exhibits afford good estimates, joined to its solubility in hot ether and alco- hol. An alcoholic solution of am- bergris, added in minute quantity to lavender water, tooth powder, wash balls, &c. communicates its peculiar fragrance. The medical properties (at least those ascribed to it) of am- bergris are stomachic, cordial, and antispasmodic. It is rarely used in this country. AMBREINE.—A fatty substance obtained from ambergris, somewhat resembling chlorestine and adipocire. A MBU L ATI ON.—Pedestrian ex- ercise, or walking; the best for pre- serving health, and without a proper quantity of which health deteriorates. AMIDINE.—A substance pro- duced, according to Saussure, when the paste of starch is abandoned to itself, at the ordinary temperature, with or without the contact of air. See Starch. AMNIOTIC ACID.—A peculiar acid said to be found in the liquor of the amnios of the cow. AMPHIBIOUS.—Having the power of living both in air and water. ANCHOVIES.—The anchovy is a small sea-fish, much used by way of sauce or seasoning. It is caught in the months of May, June, and July, in the Mediterranean, on the coasts of Catalonia in Spain, and the pro- vince of Provence, now forming the department of Vars and Lower Alps, and the mouth of the Rhone, in France; and particularly near the small island of Gorgona, in the Tus- can Sea, adjacent to Leghorn. The following are the directions given to make sprats flavour like anchovies. After having well salted your sprats, let the salt drain from them; wipe them dry in the course of twe7ity-four hours, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce of sal prunella, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, and reduce the whole to a fine powder. Let these be sprinkled among three quarts of the fish, and pack them in two stone jars. Keep them in a cold place, and cover them down with a bladder. These eat well on bi-ead and butter, and will be found an excellent substitute for the genuine ANCHOVIES, ESSENCE OF.— Take anchovies two pounds to four pounds and a half, pulp through a fine hair sieve, boil the bones with common salt, seven ounces in water six pints; strain, add flour seven ounces, and the pulp of the fish ; boil, and pass the whole through a sieve; colour with bole to your fancy. These should produce one gallon. 2. Anchovies, five double barrels; bay salt, twenty-one pounds; brown salt, seven pounds; stai-ch powder, three pounds; powdered bole, one pound; Cayenne pepper, eight ounces; water, twenty gallons — produces forty-two dozen and six pots. 3. Use pilchard sprats, which are richer than herring sprats; or her- ring liquor, from the white or pickled herrings. In the selection of anchovies those are to be taken that are in the same state in which they came over in, not such as have been put to fresh pickle, mixed with red paint, which some add to improve the complexion of the fish. It has been said that others have a trick of putting ati- chovy liquor on pickled sprats; this may be easily discovered by washing one of them, and tasiing the flesh of it, which in the fine anchovy is mel- low, red, and high-flavoured, and tlie bone moist and oily. The fresher itAN 16 AN is the better: hence as much as will soon be used ought only to be made. Those that are anchovies are of an opening nature, fortify the stomach, and provoke the appetite. Used in excess they heat much, and render the humours acerb and pungent. They contain much oil and volatile salt. They agree best in winter with old, phlegmatic, and melancholy people; and with those whose diges- tive organs are deranged or im- paired. Young people of a hot and bilious constitution ought not to use them; and if they do, it should be vety^ moderately. Those are to be be taken that ai-e tender, fi-esh, and white without, small, plump, firm, and well tasted. Accum, in his work on adultera- tion (p. 328) says, “ Several sam- ples which we examined of this fish- sauce, have been found contaminated ■with lead.” Essence of anchovy is sometimes coloured with bole arme- niach, Venice red, &c.; but all these additions deteriorate the flavour of the sauce, and the palate and sto- mach suffer for the gratification of the eye, which, in culinary matters, will never be indulged in by the sa- gacious Gourmand at the expense of either the one or the other. “ If you are not contented with the na- tural colour break some lobsters’ eggs into it, and you will not only heighten the complexion of your sauce, but improve its flavour. This is the only rouge we can recom- mend.”—Cook’s Oracle, p. 343. ANIMAL.—An organised body endowed with life and voluntary mo- tion, composed of certain elements, solid, liquid, gaseous, acid, and un- confineable, and of which all animal bodies are composed. Of the solid elements, are phosphorus, sulphur, carbon, iron, manganese, potassium, lime, soda, magnesia, silica, and alumina. Of the liquid, are muriatic acid; water, which here may be considered an element, enters into the organisation, and constitutes three-fourths of the bodies of ani- mals. Of the gaseous, are oxygen, hydrogen, and azote. I'he uncore- finable are caloric, light, electric, and magnetic fluids. These various elements, united with each other, three and three, four and four, &c., according to laws still unexplained, form what are called the proximate principles of animals. The proximate materials or prin- ciples are divided into azotised, and such as are not azotised. 'Tlie azo- tised are albumen, fibrine, gelatine, mucus, cheese-curd principle, urea, mic acid, osmazome, colouring mat- ter of the blood. The latter are, the acetic, benzoin, lactic, formic, oxa- lic, rosacic acids; sugar of milk, sugar of diabetic urine, picromel, yellow colouring matter of bile and of other liquids or solids which turn yellow accidentally, the blistering principle of cantharides, spermaceti, biliary calculus, the odoriferous prin- ciple of ambergris, musk, castor, civet, &c., which are scarcely known, e.xcept from the property they pos- sess of acting on the organs of smell. The materials or principles above- mentioned combine amongst them- selves, and from their combination arise the organic elements, which are solid or liquid. The laws or forces that govern these combinations are entirely unknown. ANIMAL FATS. SeeO/7i,&c.— Animal fats are not immediate proxi- mate principles. It is proved that human fat, and that of the pig, of the sheep, and other animals, are princi])ally formed by two fatty bo- dies, Stearine and Elaine (which sec), which present very difl’erent chai-ac- ters, that may be easily sejiarated. Neither is the butter of the cow a simple body; it contains acetic acid, a yellow colouring principle, an odorous principle, which is very ma- nifest in fermented eheese. Nor must adipocire be reckoned among these substances. (Sec AdipoeWe). Nor must this substance be con-AN AN 17 founded with spermaceti, and the biliary calculus, which are some- times very different from each other. It does not contain a single principle analogous to them. See Spermaceti. ANIM.\L FOOD.—See Aliments, Szc. ANIMAL HEAT.—This pheno- menon is thus explained. A body that is inert, and which does not change its position, being placed among other bodies very soon assumes the same temperature, on account of the tendency of caloric to equilibrium. The body of man is very different; surrounded by bodies hotter than itself it presen-es its inferior tem- perature as long as life continues; being surrounded with bodies of a lower temperature it maintains its temperature more elevated. In the animal economy, then, there are two different and distinct properties, the one of producing heat, and the other of producing cold. Heat is produced by caloric, which appears to be its principle, at least its most evident source. Amongst other means instinc- tively employed to prevent or remedy coldness are, motion, as walking, nm- ning, and leaping, whieh accelerate the circulation; pressure, shocks upon the skin, whicli draw a great quan- tity of blood into the tissue of this membrane. Another equally effec- tive means consists in diminishing the surface in contact with the bo- dies that deprive us of caloric. Thus we bend the different parts of the limbs upon each other, and we apply them forcibly to the trunk when the exterior temperature is low. Child- ren and infirm persons frequently adopt this position when in bed. In tins respect it would be very proper that young children should not bo confined too mucb in tbeir swathing clothes, to prevent them from re- sorting to this method. Our clothes preserve the heat of our bodies; for the substances of which they are formed being bad conductors of ca- loric, they prevent that of the body from passing off. Hence it appears that the combination of the oxygen of the air with the carbon of the blood is sufficient for the explanation of most of the phenomena presented by the production of animal heat; but there are several which, if I'eal, could not be explained by this means. It has been remarked by authors worthy of credit, that in certain local diseases the temperature of the diseased place rises several degrees above that of the blood taken at the left auriele. If this be so, the con- tinual renewal of the arterial blood is not enough to account for this in- crease of heat. The second source of heat must belong to the nutritive phenomena which take place in the diseased part. By means of these two sources of heat life can be maintained though the external temperature is very low, as that of winter in the countries near the Pole, which descends sometimes to —^10° F. For the most part such an excessive cold is not supported with- out great difficulty; and it often happens that the parts most easily cooled are mortified; many of the military suffered from such accidents in the Russian campaigns. We, nevertheless, resist as easily a tem- perature much lower than our own ; hence it is evident that we are pos- sessed of the faculty of producing heat to a great degree. The faculty of producing cold, or, in other words, of resisting foreign heat, which has a tendency to enter our organs, is more confined. In the torrid zone it has happened that men have died suddenly when the temperature has approached 122“F. According to a variety of facts and experiments, it appears that au- thors who have represented animal heat as fixed, have been very far from the trutli. We have, indeed, few observations relative to the de- gree of temperature proper to the body of man; the latest are due to Edwards and Gentil. These authors c 3AN AP IS obsen’'ed, that the most suitable place for judging of the heat of the body is the ann-pit. They noticed nearly two degrees and a half of difference between tlie heat of a young man and that of a young girl; the heat of her hand was a little less than 97^°, that of the young man 98.4*’. The same person observed great dif- ferences of heat in the different tem- peratures. There are also diurnal variations. The temperature may vary two or three degrees in the course of the day. ANIMAL JELLY.—The jelly of animals being the very substance which renovates the solid parts, it is obviously serviceable and necessary to nourish the human body. As, however, each kind of animal has its peculiar jelly and fat, which can be nourishing only when assimilated to our nature by the digestive or- gans, and as the different parts of animals require different degrees of digestion, we shall add the following details on this subject. Experience informs us that the flesh and intes- tines of young animals afford a thin, easily digestible, and nutritive jelly. Old animals, hard and tough flesh, cartilages, sinews, ligaments, mem- branes, membranous, thick intes- tines, and the sinewy parts of the legs produce a strong and viscid jelly, which is difficult to be digested, and assimilated to our fluids. The more healthy the animal is, the stronger will be the jelly, and the more nourishing its fluids. The most nutritious flesh is that of ani- mals living in the open air, having much exercise and a copious mass of blood, and particularly if they are kept in warm dry places. The al- kali contained in the flesh of carni- vorous animals is the cause of the indifl’erent nourishment it affords, and of the injurious consequence at- tending its use. Erom the similarity in the structure of quadrupeds to that of man, it may be conjectured that their jelly is not unlike ours; that such as are fed upon milk give the best nourishment; and that the flesh of female animals is more easily digested, but less nutritious, than that of the castrated males, which in every respect deserves the preference. SeeGelaiine,—Oils, Ani- mal. ANIMAL LIFE.—The result of the vis vilcB, by which life is com- menced and maintained. The foetus in the v,mmb is said to reach its ani- mating point when it begins to act as a real animal, after the female that is enceinte with it has quickened. Phy- siologists are not agreed as to the time the foetus becomes animated, or the female quickened. Some compute it at forty days after con- ception; others fix it at about the term of gestation. ANIMAL OILS.—See Oils. ANISEEDS. — The plant pro- ducing, aniseeds is a native of Egjqjt, Crete, and Syria, from whence the seeds are brought. What grow in this country are good for nothing. They have an agreeable aromatic odour, and their taste is gratefully warm, with a degree of sweetness. They are carminative, in flatulency, indi- gestion, and the colick, particularly of infants. See Carminatives. APPLES.—All apples contain more or less sugar, acid {malic), mucilage, soft woody fibre, and wa- ter; and, according as the one or other of these prevail, their qualities must be estimated. The aroma of apples, on which their flavour seems to dejJcnd, is probably a mild stimu- lant, which may assist digestion; and if this be correct, those which have the finest flavour will be most easily digested, — a circumstance which, in other cases, seldom hap- jiens. The dift'erent varieties, as the rennet, and some American sorts, may be mentioned as having this quality, while, at the same time, they contain a large proportion of sugar and mucilage, and are conse- quently nutritive. The dry, mealy.AP 19 AP j varieties, though not so much re- f lished, are also highly nutritive. Pippins, and all the hard varieties, contain too much woody fibre, and mucilage of difficult solubility, to be easily digested. The watery sorts are generally crude, cold, and ill- adapted to weak stomachs, in the raw state. An apple undergoes consider- able changes when subjected to the action of heat. Its digestible and nutritive qualities, indeed, are so much altered, that very coarse, acid, sour fruit is thus fitted for invalids. Nothing is more light than apple-pie, always excepting the crust, and the hurtfld addition, so usually made, of stimulating spices, by way of season- ing what seems to require none. To- wards Easter, when apples begin to drj', they should be put in tepid water for eight or ten hours, to swell. Ripe and sweet mealy apples will produce a laxative effect on the bowels, while those which are sour and astringent shoidd be avoided by those of sedentary habits, as they are apt to induce costiveness, griping, and flatulency. This, says the Al- manack des Gourmands, will be in a great measure prevented by drink- ing water and abstaining from wine. See Cyder-Pears. A very wholesome and delicious confection is made of ap2)les, called apple jelly ; which is much used for its moistening, cooling, and pectoral properties. Apples are used for pies, tarts, sauces, and the dessert. Duduit, (see New Monthly Muyazine, June, 1821), has found that one-third of boiled apple pulp, baked with two- thirds of flour, and projierly fer- mented with yeast for twelve hours, makes a very excellent bread, full of eyes, and extremely palatable and light. The fermented juice forms cider, a substitute both for wines and malt liquor. In confectionary they are used for comfits, compotes, mar- malades, jellies, pastes, tarts, &c. In medicine, veijuice, or the juice of crabs, is used for sprains, and as an astringent and repellant: and, with a proper addition of sugar. Wither- ing thinks a very grateful liquor might be made of it, little inferior to Rhenish wine. It is affirmed by Lightfoot that the crab mixed witli cultivated apples, or even alone, if thoroughly ripe, will make a sound, masculine wine. When ripe, the apjfle is laxative; the juice is excel- ent in dysentery. Boiled or roasted apjdes fortify a weak stomach. Sco- poli recovered of a weakness of the stomach and indigestion from using them ; and they are equally efficacious in putrid and malignant fevers, with the juice of lemons or currants. In 2)erfumery, the pulp of apples, beat up with lard, forms po- matum ; and Bose (Nouveau Cours d'Agriculture, ^-c.) says that the pro- longed stratification of apples with elder flowers communicates to the former an odour of musk, extremely agreeable. In dying, the bark pro- duces a yellow colour; and, in ge- neral economy, the wood of the tree is used for turning, and various jnu"- poses w'here hardness, compactness, and variegation of colour, are desir- able objects. 'Po select a good Apjile. For the table, those characterised by a firm juicy pulp, elevated poignant flavour, regular form, a beautil'ul colouring, are the best. Those for kitchen use are known by the property of falling, as it is termed, or forming in a gene- ral inilpy mass of equal consistency, when baked or boiled, and are of a large size. Some sorts of apples have the pro- perty of falling when green, as the Keswick, Carlisle, llawthornden, and other codlins; and some only after ripe, as the russet tribes. Such as have this property wheir green, are particularly valuable for afford- ing sarrees to geese early in the sea- son, and for succeeding the goose- berry in tarts. For cider, an ap^rle must possess a considerable degree20 AP AR of astringency, -with or without firm- ness of pulp, or richness of juice. The hest sorts, according to Knight, are often limp, dry, and fibrous ; and the Siberian Harvey, which he re- commends as one of the very best cider apples, is unfit either for culi- nary purposes or the table. Knight found that the specific gravity of the juice of any apple recently ex- pressed, indicates, with very consider- able accuracy, the strength of the future cider. The apple, in fine, from the various uses to which it may be applied, is a fruit of more use and benefit to the public in general, than all the other fruits, the produce of tlris island, united. The most common apples of her- baceous plants are the Cucumber, Common prickly. .. .. Small creeping. .. .. Green Turkey. Long prickly. .. .. White prickly. Gourd, Bottle. .. Warted. Melon, Egyptian. Hairy skinned. • Green rinded. .. Late small striated. Musk. .. Smooth green-fleshed. .. Spanish. .. Skinned netted. .. Toy-shaped. .. Water. Yellow white. Common Pompion. Long Pompion. Warted Cantaloupe. Those of trees, are the Crab apple. Goa apple. Oval fruited, Sapata. Pear tree. Pomegranate tree. Quince tree. Apples may he divided into the spicy, the acidulated, and the watery species. The first consists of (he various kinds of rennet; they have the most delicate flavour, and are certainly the best; they do not con- tain a superfluity of water, and, from their vinous nature, are not apt to excite flatulency. Other kinds of apples, such as pippins, are too hard, consequently heavy to the stomach, though somewhat more nourishing than the former; stewed apples are easily digested and wholesome. The kernels or seeds of apples are bitter and aromatic; nature seems to have intended these productions for correcting the watei-y and fer- mentable fluids of this and all other fruits, apricots excepted. Hence, the kernels of apples and pears, as well as those of plums and cherries ought to be eaten wdth the fruit, and not be thrown aw'ay as useless.— The butter in the paste of apple-pies may be considered as an useful addi- tion, on account of its tendency to prevent fermentatioir, though the pastry itself always disagrees with weak and irritable stomachs. Apples, are, in their general ef- fects, similar to other fruit, and be- sides their aromatic virtues, are pos- sessed of laxative properties. They are serviceable in diseases of the breast, to remove spasmodic contrac- tions, to neutralize acrimony, and to attenuate viscid phlegm. With this intention, apples are most beneficial when eaten either roasted or boiled. The common people in Germany are so sensible of their excellent proper- ties in inflammatory diseases, that they boil even the wild apples and drink the water. This preparation deserves to be imitated, especially ■when apples become scarce in the spring. ARACK. — An Indian spirituous liquor, as the word imports, variously prepared, and frequently from rice; sometimes from sugar, fermented with the juice of cocoa nuts; fre- quently from toddy, the juice which flows from the cocoa-nut tree by in- cision ; and from other substances. Its properties are similar to thoseAR 21 AR of brandy and other spirits; but it is tliought to be more heady, and does not agree so well with the stomach. Mock Arack may be made as follows :—Dissolve two scruples of flowers of benjamin in a quart of good rum, and it immediately gives it the inviting fragrance of “ Vaux- hall Nectar.”—Cook’s Oracle. ARDENT SPIRITS.—Spirits in a state of purit3^ Tlie various degrees of strength of spirits was technically denominated by numbers, referring to an arbitrary strength, called in the English laws, Proof Spirit, a gallon of which weighs seven pounds, eleven ounces, thi'ee drachms, avoirdupois. When spirit is said to be one to three over proof, it is meant that one gallon of water added to three gal- lons of the spirit will reduce it to proof; and on the contrary, one in three under proof signifies, that in three gallons of that spirit there is contained one gallon of water, and the remaining two gallons are proof spirit. As a gallon of water weighs by law, eight pounds, seven ounces, five drachms, avoirdupois, the specific gravity of proof spirit is to that of water as 910 to 1000. Of late, by a new regulation of the excise laws, the use of a hydrometer is intro- duced, which shews the number of hundred parts of spirit that any li- quor contains above proof, or their deficiency below proof. But, by the use of certain substances, a fictitious strength is communicated, which it is not in the power of the hydrome- ter, const meted as it is, to detect. In small quantities, ardent spirits are a powerful cordial and corrobo- rant, raising the pulse, strengthening the stomach, promoting digestion, and jireventing flatulence. Taken sparingly, and diluted with water, they supply the place of wine, and with some constitutions agree better, as they are not like wine disposed to acidity. The abuse of ardent spirits is productive of the same pernicious effects as those which arise from an excessive indulgence in wine, but in a greater degree. French brandy is the most bracing and stomachic ; gin and rum the most diuretic and sudo- rific. Arack, which is distilled from rice, is more heating than the two last. Whiskey is considered as a lighter spirit than any of the former, from its containing less essential oil; it therefore agrees better with most stomachs. The qualities of all these several sorts of spirits are improved bj' long keeping.—See Alcohol. Spirit and water do not, it is said, easily combine; and that much of the force of the former is blunted by intimate incorporation with the lat- ter ; and that when spirit is taken in a diluted state, the mixture should always be made twelve hours before it be used. However this maj' be, we do not concur in the necessity of restricting those who would indulge themselves moderately beyond the time present in the use of diluted spirits. Things may be too finely drawn ; temperance is the best rule, and diluted liquors at all times are evidently more salutaiy than the spirit in a pure state. The fatal effects of dram-drinking have been vividly depicted bj’ various writers; and the celebrated John Hunter, on dissecting a man who had been much addicted to the use of spirits, found the blood converted into an oily matter. And it has been )>roved by experiment, that the pernicious ef- fects of ardent spirits upon horses are as great as those produced by giving them various well-known poi- sons. Spirits, nevertheless, may oc- casionally be employed medicinally as a stimulant or as a cordial, while the body has been exposed to the influence of cold and moisture; or under a state of exhaustion and a disposition to fainting; also, in some cases of putrid fever, where wine would not sit on the stomach. It isAR AR 22 not our object to condemn every thing indiscriminately that is costly, rare, and good. There are certainly many liquors, particularly such as are distilled from the kernels of cer- tain fruits, which, if taken in e.Kcess, might he attended with injurious, nay, dangerous consequences; but, on the contrary, there are others again devoid of narcotic substances, which, taken in moderation, are both agreeable and beneficial. A little weak brandy and water, as a diluent at meal-time, to those who prefer such a beverage, has nothing inju- rious in it; and certainly it is pre- ferable to copious potations of malt liquors. And, from experience, after a hearty meal, a glass of soda-water combined, during the act of efferves - cence, wdth a table-spoonful or two of good cogniac, will not only pro- mote the process of digestion, but cause the injesta to sit easy and com- fortable, by relieving the distension occasioned by flatulence and debility of the organ. In these cases, then, where both wine and beer disagree with the stomach, producing acidity and other distressing symptoms, toast and water, or weak spirit, may he taken with advantage ; or any other liquid substitute, modified to the ex- isting state of feeling, would answer just as well, where there is no parti- cular antipathy to any one in parti- cular. It is with drinking as with eating; it is impossible to lay down niles for individual tastes and con- stitutions. Ardent spirits comprise all those liquors obtained by fermenting ve- getable, and particularly farinaceous substances, to a certain degree, and afterwards subjecting them to distil- lation. All distilled liquors consist of a great proportion of alcohol or pure spirit, a greater or less quantity of water, and generally of a very small proportion of empyreumatic oil, especially if distilled only once, or if this process be carried on too quickly. Pure spirits are perfectly free from this oil, which, from its burnt and acrid nature, is altogether indigestible. Proof spirits ought to consist of Alcohol . . 55° Distilled water . . 45° But rectified spirits of wine ought to have five parts of water in the hun- dred : the specific gravity of the former being as 930, and that of the latter as 835, to 1000. If spirits be distilled over pepper- mint, balm, aniseed, or carraway, their strength is not much increased; but if over cinnamon, cloves, mace, or other hot spices, they are rendered still more heating and pei'nicious to health. ITilrsnk in hot weather, or after violent perspirations, they check this function, by contracting the ves- sels of the skin, and closing the pores. On account of this contract- ing power they are sometimes of ser- vice to a person whose stomach is overloaded with beer or water, to assist tbeir passage through the pro- per emunctories. After violent ex- ercise and heat, a dram of spirits is more proper than cold water or beer, though a cup of tea, or other diluent drink, is preferable. After fat or strong food, spirits are exceedingly improper: for, instead of promoting the solution and digestion of food in the stomach, they rather tend to re- tard it. Of this we ma)' be conrunced, by attending to the eflects they pro- duce on inanimate substances: for these are preserved from putrefac- tion more eftectually in spirits, than in any other liquid. Thus we may infer, that spirits will impede diges- tion, and render strong food taken into the stomach still more indigest- ible. Many persons are accustomed to take a dram as a remedy to flatu- lency : if the stomach be clean and undepraved they certainly will be relieved by it; but in the contrary case, their expectations will be dis- appointed. To persons of relaxed fibi'es, dis- tilled liquors may, under certain li-23 AR AR mitations be useful, as they increase the elasticity ami compactness of the vessels. But to those whose fibres are already rigid, spirits are obvi- ously pernicious, and have a ten- dency to bring on premature old age. They arrest the growth, and are otherwise improper for young per- sons. That they incrassate and co- agulate the fluids, we may easily discover in those addicted to the use of them: they have a thick blood, are troubled with constant obstruc- tions of the intestines, and their un- avoidahle consequences; such as a gradual depravation of the nervous system, loss of memory, mental de- hility, hypochondriasis, jaundice, dropsy, and at length consumption of the lungs. The throat and sto- mach of habitual tipplers are ren- dered callous, and at length almost closed, the glands are indurated, and consequently digestion is in the high- est degree impaired. Punch, a well known beverage, the composition of which requires no de- scription, as it may be made of every kind of spiritous liquor, diluted with water, acid, and sugar. If a proper quantity of acid he used, it is an ex- cellent antiseptic, and well calculated to supply the place of wine, in resist- ing putrefaction, especially if drunk cold,with plenty of sugar; it also pro- motes perspiration; but if drunk hot, and immoderately, it creates acidity in the stomach, weakens the nerves, and gives rise to complaints of the breast. After a heavy meal it is im- proper, as it may retard digestion, and injure the stomach; those troubled, therefore, with disorders of the chest, or piles, should use it sparingly, if at all.—See Port Wine. Dr. Cheyne, in his “ Essay on Long Life,” published 172G, has the following passage in it, in whicli he gives his opinion of puncli, which ought not to be omitted here. “ Next to drams,” says he, “no liquor de- serves more to be stigmatized, and banished the repasts of the tender valetudinary, and students, than 'punch. ’T is a composition of such parts as not one of them is salutary or kindly to such constitutions, e.x- cept the pure element in it.” “ I could never see any temptation, or any one in their senses, to indulge in this heathenish liquor, hut that it makes its votaries the soonest drunk, holds them longest in the fit, and deprives them the most entirely of the use of their intellectual faculties and bodily organs, of any liquor w'hatsoever. It is likest opium in its nature, and in the manner of its operation, and nearest arsenic in its deleterious and poisonous qualities: so I leave it to them.” There is little question that this opinion was the result of the Doctor’s personal experience; and, when carried to excess, there are not many punch drinkers who might not, on reflection, allow the censure to be just.—See Brandy, Rum, t^'c. ARECA.—The areca nut is the produce of a tree nearly resembling the cocoa in height and shape, except that its trunk is smaller, and its leaves shorter. From below these last there proceeds a long mass, which forms a bunch or parcel of fruit, like nuts or apricots; the flower is likewise mixed among the fruit. Two months after it has fallen off, the husks which en- velope the fruit of the areca, begin to open and drop off. Then an oblong fruit appears, of the bulk of a prune, of a whitish and shining colour ; its shell becomes firm, compact and red- dish ; the pulp which it contains is of a brown cast, bordering on red, soft and astringent to the taste; its nut i-esembles a nutmeg, and con- tains a white kernel. I'he Indians prepare the pulp or kernel of this fruit with the leaves of the betel, dividing a nut into eight or ten parts.—(See Betel). Charcoal of the areca nut is extensively used as a dentifrice. ARNOTTA. — Principally em- ployed in dyeing an elegant red co- lour; is prepared from the pellicles24 AS AR or pulp of tlie seeds of the Rixa, or Roucou, a tree common in the warm parts of South America. The wax, or pulp, in which the seeds are en- closed, is a cool, agreeable, rich cor- dial, and has been long in use among the Indians and Spaniards in Ame- rica, who still mix it with their cho- colate, both to heighten the flavour and raise the colour. AROMA.—The odorous princi- ple of plants and other substances. It was formerly called spiritus rector. Water charged with aroma, is called the distilled water of the snbstance made use of; for instance, lavender and peppermint waters, are water impregnated with the aroma of the lavender and peppermint. AROMATIC. — Applied to any gratefnl scent, and of an agreeable pungent taste, as cinnamon,' bark, cardamoms, &c. ARRACK.—See Araclc. x‘\RROW-ROOT. — The powder of the arrow-root is imported from the East-Indies. It appears to af- ford a larger proportion of nutritive mucilage than any vegetable hitherto discovered. It constitutes an excel- lent article of diet for weakly chil- dren, invalids, and convalescents. ARTICHOKES.—These afford a light and tender food, perhaps still more nutritive, but less diuretic than asparagus; and for this reason they are preferable for culinary purposes. They are of a hot and dry nature. The heads slit in quarters and eaten raw, with oil, a little vinegar, salt and pepper, after dinner, are a grate- ful qualification to a glass of wine. When tender and small, they eat well fried crisp in fresh butter with pars- ley. In Italy they are sometimes boiled, and as the scaly leaves open, basted with fresh butter or sweet oil. The stalk is blanched in autumn, and the pith eaten raw or broiled. They are preserved fresh all winter, by separating the leaves after parboil- ing, allowing to every bottom a small earthen glazed pot, and smothering it as they do wild fowl, &c., with melted butter; or, if more than one, in a larger vessel, they may be laid layer upon layer, and treated in the same manner. They are also pre- served by stringing them on pack- thread, and inteiqjosing a clean piece of paper between every bottom, to prevent them from touching one an- other, and hanging them in a drj' place. They are likewise pickled.— “ It is not many years,” says Mr. Evelyn, “ since this noble thistle came first to us from Italy, improved to its present magnitude by culture, and so rare in England, that they are commonly sold for five shillings a-piece.” It may be further ob- served, that the stalks of the Spanish Cardoon, a wild and smaller species of the artichoke, with shai-p pointed leaves and lesser head, is very tender, and being blanched, are served up without any condiments.—See Aspa- ragus—Skirreis, &c. ASPARxA.GIN.—A peculiar vege- table principle which spontaneously forms in the juice of the asparagus, that has been evaporated to the con- sistence of synip. ASPx\RAGUS.—An excellent ar- ticle of nutriment, though somewhat flatulent and diuretic in its effects. The young shoots of this plant are not only the most palatable, but at the same time the most salutary. As a good substitute for it, the young buds of hops are recommended, which are more easily procured, scarcely inferior to the former in taste, and, on account of their aro- matic quality, are very grateful and wholesome.—See Vegetables, Intro- duction of—Artichoke—Skirret. ASSES MILK.— Nutritive and emollient in consumption, &c. x-VSSES MILK, ARTIFICIAL. —x\sses milk, not inferior in its pro- perties to the natiu-al, may be made by the following process:—'fake of eryngo root or sea holljq and pearl barley, each half an ounce; liquorice root, three ounces; water, two pounds.BA 25 BA one quart; boil it down over a gentle milk. It is used as a diet in con- fire to one pint, then strain it, and sumption, and other pectoral com- add an equd quantity of new cow’s plaints. B. BACON. — Indurated fat of the hog, accumulated in the cellular tex- ture under the skin, and is of all meat the most unwholesome ; it ea- sily turns rancid in the stomach, or it is so already by long hanging; and is particularly pernicious to those who are subject to the heart-burn. Though coarse and heavy, bacon is nevertheless a nutritive food; and only fit to be consumed in great quantities by robust labouring people. '\Vhere it constitutes a principal part of the daily diet, it brings on disor- ders similar to those which arise from the immoderate use of pork. In con- sequence of the fat oiTard with which it abounds, the flesh of the swine tribe is more or less laxative. The flesh of the sow is strong, and makes bad bacon. It is the flesh of the castrated animal that is in common use, and that is known by the name of pork. On account of the fat or lard, with which it abounds, it is not very easily digested. It is a very savoury food, and affords a strong nourishment, suited to persons who lead an active and laborious life. Tiie too frequent and long conti- nued use of this meat favours corpu- lency, produces fulness of the sto- mach and bowels, and occasions dis- orders of the skin. BACON, TO PREPARE.—Cut off the hams and head of the hog; and if the animal be large, take out the chine, but leave in the spare ribs, as tbey will retain tbe gravy, and pre- vent the bacon from getting musty. Salt it with common salt, and a little saltpetre, and let it lie ten days on a table, to suffer all the brine to escape from it. Salt it again ten or twelve days, turning it every day after the second salting : then scrape it very clean; rub a little salt over it, and hang it up. 'I'ake care to scrape the white scum off it very clean, and rub on a little dry suet, which will keep the bacon from lust- ing. The dry salt will candy and shine it. Another method is as fol- lows :—Take off all the inside fat of a side of pork, and lay it on a long board or di'esser, that the blood may run from it. Rub it well on both sides with good salt, and let it lie a day. Then take a pint of very good salt, a quarter of a pound of salt petre, and beat them both very fine ; two pounds of coarse sugar and a quarter of a peck of common salt. Lay your pork in something that will hold the pickle, and rub it well with the above ingredients. Lay the skinny side downwards, and baste it daily with the pickle for a fortnight. Then hang it on a wood smoke, and afterwards in a dry place, but not in a hot one. All bacon and hams should hang dlear of each other, and of every thing around them; they should not even touch the wall. Take care to wipe off the old salt before you put it into pickle, and never keep bacon or hams in a hot kitchen ; or in a room exposed to the rays of the sun ; as all these circum- stances contribute not a little to make them rusty. Westphalid Dacon.i—Having chosen for the purpose a fine side of pork, make tbe following pickle. Take— Pump-water . . 1 gallon. Bay salt . . J peck. White salt . . ^ peck. Saltpetre . . 1 pound. Coarse sugar . . 1 pound. Soebo, tied up in a bag, 1 ounce. Boil all these well together, and letBA BA 26 tlie liquor stand till it be cold. Then put in the pork, and let it remain in this pickle for a fortnight; then take it out and dry it over a saw-dust fire.—See Hams. This pickle will answer very well for tongues; but in that case you must first let the tongues he six or eight hours in pump-water to de- prive them of their sliminess; and when they have lain a joroper time in the pickle, dry them in the same manner as you do your pork.—See Dnjsalting, Hams. BACON HAMS.—See Hams. BALM.—^The tender leaves are used in composition with other herbs, in salads; and the sprigs, fresh ga- thered, and put into wine or other drinks, during the heat of summer, gives them a considerable degree of quickness. The dried herb, used as tea, is an excellent diluent in febrile diseases. BARBEL.—A sea-fish of an ob- long fonn, and middle sized, beset with large and tender scales. It rarely weighs above two pounds; it feeds on weeds, oysters, small fishes, &c. : it breeds three times. It is a little hard of digestion, in conse- quence of the gross juices it contains; at the same time these very juices make it extremely nourishing, and good durable food. It has a good taste, and was much esteemed by the Romans, which made them place it among those that brought an exces- sive price. The liver of the barbel is the most esteemed part, for the exquisiteness of its taste, and the head next. The small barbels are to be pre- ferred to the large, as they are easier of digestion. They shordd also be taken in pure running waters. There are two sorts of barbel, the one hairy the other not. It agrees at all times with young bilious people, those who have a good stomach, and use much e.xcrcise. BARLEY. — An annual plant, cultivated in almost every part of Europe.* The principal use of this well-known species of grain among us is for the making of beer; in order to which it is first malted. In Scotland, barley is a common ingre- dient in broths; and the consump- tion of it for that purpose is very- considerable; barley-broth being as frequent a dish with the Scots, as soup with the French. Pearl harley is barley' freed from the husk by means of a mill. Malt is the entire seed, which has been fermented by watering it, and then killed by drying on a kiln. Barley’- water is a decoction of the preceding, and is reputed soft and lubricating, of frequent use as a beverage in many disorders, and is recommended, with the addition of nitre, in slow fevers. The following are the direc- tions laid down in the last edition of the ‘ London Pharmacopoeia’ for making the barley decoction, or, as it is usually called, barley wafer :— Take—Pearl Barley 2 ounces. Water . . 4A pints. First wash away' with cold water any foreign matter adhering to the bar- ley; then, having poured upon it half a pint of the water, boil for a few minutes. Having thrown away' this water, pour the rest, first made hot, upon the barley’; then boil down to two pints and strain. For tbe com- pound decoction, Take— Of the decoction of barley 2 pints. Figs, sliced . . 2 ounces. Liquor-ice root, sliced > , ‘ j 1 • j r 1 ounce, and bruised . ) Raisins, stoned . . 2 ounces. Water ... 1 pint. Boil down to two pints and strain. Taken freely for common drink, it is an useful diluent in many disorders. Its utility' may' be further promoted by- the addition of gum-arabic, cream • The native country of barley is un- certain. It has been said to be Tartary-, Central Russia, Georgia, Northern In- dia, and Sicily.BA BA of tartar, a drachm of each to a pint of the decoction; sweetened with manna or sugar, as the state of the patient’s howels may require, it proves nutritive and aperient. This drink is also greatly improved by the addition of lemon-juice and sugar- candy. BARLEY BREAD.—See BARLEY BROTH. —To make Scotch Barley Broth.—Take a tea- cup-full of pearl barley, and one gallon of water; boil gently for half an hour; then add three pounds of lean beef, or neck of mutton, some carrots and turnips cut small, a pint of green peas, if in season, and some leeks. Let these boil gently for two hours longer in a close soup-kettle, after which the broth will be fit for use. Barley-meal consists of the decor- ticated seed ground into a coarse flour. It has a greyish white colour, a peculiarly mawkish smell, and a mucilaginous taste. According to Fourcroy and Vauquelin, it contains starch, sugar, a little unctuous coag- ulahle oil, an animal substance partly soluble in water, and partly forming glutenous flocculi; phosphate of lime and magnesia, silica, iron, and a little acetic acid. Proust has published a comparative analysis of raw and malted barley, lie found in Resin. Gum. Sugar. Gluten. Starch. Hordeine. Barley 1 4 5 3 32 55 = 100 Malt 1 15 15 1 56 12 = 100 It appears, consequently, that by the process of germination, gum, sugar, and starch, are formed at the e.xpense of hordeine, a principle discovered in barley by Proust. 11 is obtained in the same way and along with the starch, which is re- moved by decoction with water, while the hordeine remains undissolved. It has thus great analogy with lig- nine, and is considered by Raspail to be nothing but the powder of the husk, which, considering its quantity, is not probable, although there is none of it found in pearl barley.— Duncans Disp. p. 46G. Barley is one of our most valuable grains, and is used in a variety of ways. Entire, it is given as food to horses; and pearl barley and barley- meal are used by man, especially in northern countries. The former is eaten boiled until it is soft, either simply with some condiment, as salt, sugar, currants, cinnamon, or made into broth with meat, either alone or with other vegetables. 'I’he flour is used in the form of porridge and un- leavened cakes. It cannot be made into bread, and is incapable of the panary fermentation, which is owing to the small proportion of gluten in its composition. It is probably for the same reason that it is less nutritious. On the other hand it has the advantage of having no ten- dency to induce constipation, so that some persons who are habitually costive derive great advantage from the use of harley-meal cakes and porridge. Ilufeland (an eminent German physician), highly praises what he calls prepared barley-meal as a nutritious food, easy of digestion, and devoid of all stimulus, in atro- phic diseases* and hectic fever. It is prepared by tying harley-meal up in a cloth, and boiling it till every thing soluble is removed. On the contrary, it is the soluble part that * Emaciation, loss of strength, ac- companied by liectic fever, the febrile symptoms of whicli are ushered in with a sense of chilliness, succeeded by increase of heat, accelerated pulse, fol- lowed by perspiration. From the be- ginning of the disease the body wastes ; and in the advanced stage, the ema- ciation is very considerable. It is in almost every instance a symptomatic af- fection, that is, the consequence of some other disease, as the greed sickness, king’s evil, consumption, diseased vis- cera, abscess, &c.—See New Land. Med. Pharmaccut. and Posolog. Pocket Book, p. 224.BE BE 28 is made use of in the decoction, or what is commonly termed barley water. The best British spirits are distilled from malt, although barley yields a larger product. BASIL.'—This herb, if not too strong, imparts a very grateful fla- vour, somewhat offensive to the eyes ; and, therefore, the tender tops are to be used very sparingly in salad. BEAN, BITTER. —The Faha Amara, or bitter bean, is the seed of an East India plant, which, though poisonous, has a sanctified name. It is Ignatia Amara, Saint Ignatius’s bean, and is not only botanically, but naturally allied to the genus Strychnos. (See Nux Vomica). The bitter bean appears in many of the works that pretend to teach the art of brewing. It is a large pear- shaped berry, with seeds nearly an inch long, and extremely bitter. It is highly deleterious and intox- icating. BEAN, ST. IGNATIUS’S.—See Bean, Bitter. BEEF.—Beef is the flesh of black cattle, i. e. of an ox, bull, or cow, prepared for food. 'The flesh of the common bull has a strong disagree- able smell, and is dry, tough, and difficult of solution in the stomach. Bull-beef is rarely eaten. But the flesh of the ox, or castrated animal, called ox-beef, is a highly nourishing and wholesome food, readily di- gested by healthy persons, and con- stituting a principal part of the com- mon diet of the inhabitants of this and many other countries. It is the most strengthening of all kinds of animal food. Cow-beef is neither so tender, nourishing, nor so digestible as ox- beef. Beef affords, nevertheless, much good, animating, and strong nourishment; and no other food is equal to the flesh of a bullock of middle age. On account of its heat- ing nature, where there is already an abundance of animal heat, persons of a violent temjjcr, should eat it in moderation. It is peculiarly ser- viceable to hard-working men; and its fat is almost as easily digested as that of veal. It deserves, however, to be remarked, that the tongue, the intestines or tripe, and the sausages made of beef, are more difficult of digestion than the muscular part; and that it would be extremely im- proper to give them to nurses, child- ren, or lying-in women. The meat of old bullocks, fed and kept in a stall when unfit for labour, is scarcely digestible; it is burthensome to the stomach, and, as well as that of old cows (which is still worse), contains no wholesome fluids. Though beef be more frequently eaten boiled, yet it is more nourishing and digestible when roasted. Lastly, beef is almost the only species of animal food with which the stomach is not easily sur- feited, and which is in proper season throughout the whole year. — See Butchers’ Meat, to choose—Meat, to carve—Drysalting, &c. The most popular joint of beef is universally allowed to be the loin, which, on account of its having been once actually knighted, by Charles II. in a fit of royal condescension and jocularity, is now denominated sm-loin. This ample joint has given rise to a well-known popular ballad, styled, “ The Roast Beef of Old England;” and it still continues to make a conspicuous figure at the tables of all “ Who hospitably five, And strangers witli good cheer receive.” Two joined together, without having the back-hone cut asunder, are called a “ baron of beef.” The author of the “ Seasons” places the sir-loin at the head of his autumnal feast:— ‘‘First the fuelled chimney blazes wide; The tankards foam ; and the strong table groans Beneath the smoking sir-loin, stretched immense From side to side, in which, with des- perate knife,BE BE 29 They deep incision make, and talk the wliile Of England’s glory, ne’er to be defaced While hence they borrow vigour. Thomson. BEEF, DUTCH.—To make Dutch beef, take a raw buttock, cut off the fat, rub the lean all over witli brown sugar, aud let it lie two or three hours in a pan or tray, turning it two or tliree times. Then salt it with saltpetre and common salt, and let it lie a fortnight, turning it every day. Then roll it very straight in a coarse cloth, put it in a cheese-press a day and a night, and hang it to dry in a chimney. When you boil it put it in a cloth, and when it is cold it will cut like Dutch beef. BEEF HAMS.—See Hams. BEEF, FIUNG. — To cure beef in this manner, make a strong brine with bay salt, saltpetre, and pump- water, and put into it a rib of beef for nine days. Then hang it up in a chimney where wood or sawdust is burnt. When it becomes a little dry wash the outside with blood, two or three times, to make it look black, and when it is dried enough boil it for use. Otliers cure their hung beef in the following manner: viz. Take the navel piece, and hang it up in your cellar as long as it will keep good, and until it begins to be a little sappy. Then take it down and w'ash it in sugar and water, one piece after another, for it must be cut into three pieces. Then take a pound of saltpetre, and two pounds of baysalt dried and pounded small. Mix them with two or three spoons- ful of brown sugar, and rub your beef with it in every place. Then strew a sufficient cjuantity of com- mon salt all over it, and let the beef be close till the salt be dissolved, which will be in si.x or seven days. Then turn it every other day for a fortnight, and afterwards hang it up in a warm, but not a hot place. It may hang a fortnight in the kitchen, and when it is wanted for use, boil it in baysalt and pump-water till it be tender. It will kee)), when boiled, two or three months, rubbing it with a greasy cloth, or putting it for two or three minutes into boiling water, to take off the mouldiness. BEEF, JERKED.—In the West Indies, beef can scarcely be cured with pickles, but they easily preserve it by cutting it into thin slices, and dipping- them in sea-water, and then drying them quickly in the sun; to which they give the name of Jerked Beef. BEEF-'i'EA.—AVhat is usually termed beef-tea is prepared by put- ting a pound of the lean part of beef, cut into very thin slices, into a quart of water, and boiling it over a quick fire for about five minutes, taking ofi' the scum. The liquor is afterwards poured off clear for use. This makes a light and pleasant article of diet for weak and delicate people. On some occasions spice may be advan- tageously added to it. Gravy soup is very nourishing and heating. It is used as a clyster, as well as taken into the stomach, when it is rejected by the latter. BEER.—Like ale, beer is a liquor which ought to consist purely of water, malt, and hops. It is, how'- ever, distinguished from ale, either by being older, stronger, or smaller; and, in proportion to the quantity, quality, and manner of compounding the ingredients of which it is com- posed, it has received different names, and is possessed of various degrees of salubrity. Old, or strong beer, is sometimes called by the cant word stinyo. It is also designated by the term October; because that month is held to be peculiarly propitious to the brewing of this grateful beverage. The more water there is used in brewing beer, the better it is calcu- lated to quench thirst: but less so, if it contains a great proportion of the mucilaginous and saccharine prin- ciples of the grain. Strong beer, there- fore, is very nourishing, and mayBE 30 BE be employed with advantage as a medicine, in weakly and emaciated habits, where port wine cannot be obtained. The greater or less addi- tion of hops to the malt, furnishes us with a bitter or a sweet beer. The former kind is preferable as a medi- cine ; the latter is more used as a common beverage; but it is apt to ex- cite flatulency and diarrhoea. Hops, like other bitter substances—(See Hops), preserve beer in its vinous state, strengthen the stomach, and dissolve viscid phlegm. Beer made of a great proportion of hops, and a small quantity of malt, is a good be- verage, and well calculated to allay thirst.—See Ale. There are great varieties in beer, according to the degrees of fermen- tation; some kinds, such as those made of oats, in parts of Germany, which are scarcely allowed to fer- ment at all—(See Mum), are very cooling in summer, but soon spoil; others are only half fermented, such as the Dantzic spruce or black beer; others again to a sufficient degree, as our porter and ale; and, lastly, some are more than sufficiently fermented, such as Burton ale, and most of the strong home-brewed ales. All these are different in their effects, accord- ing to the various degrees of fermen- tation. Every kind of beer is in- clined to ferment, on account of its constituent parts. If it be not pro- perly fermented, this process takes place in the stomach; the fixed air, being disengaged within the body, distends the stomach and bowels, and occasions flatulency and looseness. But, when used in small quantities, it is not attended with any great in- convenience, particularly in summer and in hot climates. It is taken with great advantage at sea, against that enemy of the mariner, the scurvy.— Persons who have scorbutic gums, that are painful find bleed on the least touch, ought to drink half a pint of wort, or unfermented beer, every morning and evening, retain- ing the liquor for a good while in the mouth. Much benefit may be anticipated from this simple remedy. Many consider beer or porter as excellent when it foams much, and makes what is termed the “ cauli- flower head ” on the top of the vessel. But this froth, now-a-days, is by no means to be looked upon as an un- equivocal test of quality, but rather of its imperfect fermentation, too often artificially increased by the addition of improper ingredients, as sulphate of iron, oil of vitriol, alum, &c. The volatile vapour or gas dis- engaged from such beer in tbe sto- mach and bowels, produces aquantity of stimulating and contracting air, by which the alimentary canal is almost at the same time expanded and astringed, so that the most dan- gerous spasms and colicks may be the consequence. Such beer likewise gives out a quantity of sulphureous vapours; and for this reason it is often hazardous to go into cellars where it is kept in a state of fer- mentation. A candle will often be e.\tinguished by the vapour of such cellars, which is sometimes so noxi- ous as to suffocate persons on their entrance. If bottles, filled with beer, ale, or porter, are not soon enough corked, it turns flat or sour, acquires an un- pleasant taste, and produces flatu- lency, colicks, and spasms. But if bottling and corking are done in proper time, the fixed air is not dis- sipated ; its agreeably pungent taste is preserved; and it is then a very excellent and nourishing liquor, which quenches thirst, and does not, like wine, affect digestion. A per- son who has a good appetite, and takes nourishing food, requires no beer for its digestion, but by drink- ing it he is e.xposed to plethora, or a full habit, and all its concomitant complaints. Those, on the con- trary, who take a great proportion of vegetable food, and have a weak stomach, will find a strong and bit-BE 31 BE (er beer salutary. As evei'y new sort of beer is not equally grateful to the stomach, it would be well to desist from the use of that kind to which we cannot habituate ourselves in the course of two or three weeks. On account of the great variety of this liquor we meet with in ti-avel- ling, it is much better to drink no beer at all in journe3's, and to use lemonade instead of it in hot wea- ther; and wine or spirits mixed with water, when travelling during a cold and moist season. Beer, in general, is nourishing, and has a tendency to fatten such individuals as are of dry and rigid fibres, and whose bile is good. Hence the inhabitants of coun- tries in which beer is the principal beverage, are commonly more phleg- matic and indolent than the same class of people in wine countries. Many kinds of beer, how'ever, in which a greater than usual propor- tion of grain is used, contain much spirit, and are of a heating and ine- briating nature: such, for instance, is our Burton ale, the Edinburgh ales, and several others, and all the strong kinds cf foreign beer. Light and well fermented beer is a whole- some, and, at the same time, a diluent species of nourishment. Per- sons already of a plethoric habit, or disposed to become corpulent, should use the lightest beer, as it generally agrees best with them. I'hick aud nourishing beer is of ser- vice to wet-nurses, and weakly con- stitutions. Sweet beers are only nourishing; but the better kinds are strengthening also. The latter are beneficial in a weak state of diges- tion, and to people troubled with acid in the stomach ; yet sweet beer is more wholesome for daily use, and at the same time less exposed to dangerous adulterations. In fine, beer is not a fit drink for people of a thick, black, bilious blood, and with a disposition to melancholy: it is the most useful species of drink to the weak, the lean, and the laborious, provided they are not very subject to flatulence, nor troubled with dis- eases of the chest. In both of these cases it has been found to disagree, and to be much inferior in salubrity to wholesome water. See Malt Liquors—Ale—Porter. BENNET, THE PIerb.—The com- mon A veils {Geum urhanum) or herb bennet, is liighly extolled all over the continent, for its medicinal, as well as other valuable properties. Hence it was, perhaps, that it ac- quired the surname of Bennet, or benet, contracted from benedictm, although the origin is now ascribed to a saint of that name. The roots of this plant, particularly when it grows on a dry, sandy soil, have a pleasant odour (similar to that of cloves), which it readily imparts to any spirituous menstruum. On this account it is highly valued by the brewers, and is said to be a perma- nent ingredient in the Augsburg beer, which is so famous throughout Ger- many. The dried roots are sliced, and enclosed in a thin linen bag, which is suspended in the store vat, or cask; and, with what truth we know not, it is asserted, that the beer so managed never becomes acid. BETEL.—plant which creeps along the ground like pease or hops, whose stalk is very weak, so that it must be supported by a prop, or planted near the areca tree, to which it attaches itself like ivy. Its leaf resembles that of the citron tree, though a little longer; its stalks or fibres are also stronger, and it be- comes reddish when dried. It thrives best in watery places, such as the banks of the sea or rivers. There it bears a fruit shaped like a rat’s tail, but produces none in climates too hot or too cold. An Indiaii is scarce- ly ever seen without betel in his mouth. As soon as any one goes into a house on business, or to make a visit, it is brought and presented to the company by way of compli-BE 32 BI ment; it is used even before their kings. When foreign ambassadors are admitted to an audience of tlie king, he is usually found sitting cross-legged on the ground on a cai-pet, having an officer in waiting, who holds his betel, wliich he chews continually, throwing out the husks and the spittle it produces. The greatest honour he can do them is to invite them to taste his betel. The Indians say it fastens the gums, preserves the teeth, makes the breath sweet, is good for the stomach, pro- motes digestion, prevents wind and vomiting, to which they are very subject; and, lastly, prevents the scurvy. Notwithstanding all these real or imaginary properties, there are few Europeans who can accustom themselves to it. To many it occa- sions sickness, and others it perfectly intoxicates, although that sensation does not last long.—See Areca. BEET-ROOT.—This root con- tains a large proportion of saccharine matter. By some experiments made at Berlin by M. Achard, it was proved, that about fourteen pounds’ weight produced one pound of raw sugar, exceedingly sweet, and with- out an intermixture of any other taste. Independent of this consi- deration, the beet is a valuable root, both in an economical and culinary point of view. It possesses mild aperient properties, and ought to be more frequently eaten, for supper, by those of costive habits. Although it is not hard to digest, yet some less flatulent root, such as parsley, celery, or even potatoes, ought to be used together with the beet—an addition which will render it not only more palatable, but also better adapted to the stomach and bowels. The beet is extensively employed abroad for the purpose of obtaining sugar, which it produces superior to either East or West India sugar in colour, though deficient in S2)ecific strength. The endeavours that were made in France, during the W'ar, to pro- cure sugar from the beet-root in sufficient quantity to satisfy the de- mands of the population, were very successful, and it was procured of excellent quality. The peace, how- evei-, by re-opening the ports, and allowing the introduction of the cane sugar, tended to paralyse that branch of agricultural industr}', for which, however, some strong exer- tions have been made by the philo- sophers of France. The following is given as the statement of the ex- pense and returns of the manufac- tory of M. Cliaptal; and if there are no unstated objections to its intro- duction, it is difficult to account for the preference given to cane sugar. Forty-five French acres were sown with beet-root,and the produce equall- ed 700,000 lbs. CHARGES. FRANCS. Sowing, pulling, carriage, and expense of the ma- nufactory 7,000 Workmen 2,075 Fuel 4,500 Animal charcoal .... 1,100 Repairs, interest of capital, &c 4,000 Francs 18,675 PRODUCE. lbs. Rough sugar of the first crystallization . . . 29,132 Sugar obtained by further processes from the mo- lasses 10,960 Total of rough sugar . . 40,092 Besides which there were 158,000 lbs. of refuse, w'hich was excellent food for cattle, and a large quantity of exhausted molasses, which might be converted into spirit. BILE.—A yellow, intensely bitter fluid, secreted from the blood in the liver, collected in the gall-bladder, and discharged into the lower end of the duodenum by means of the common choledoch duct which opensBI BI 33 there. It is of the greatest importance in the preservation of health, and for remedying most of the inconveni- ences to which the human constitu- tioin is liable. By its saponaceous qualities, it sheaths or neutralizes the acidity of the chyle, contributes to the \vork of digestion, and the mixture of the internal fluids; and being found in most, if not in all animals, we may safely conclude, that the wise Archi- tect of the universe has created it both for necessary and noble uses. The experiments of Tredman and Gmelin, whose recent experiments are much more elaborate and precise than those of MM. Leuret and Las- saigne, ascribe to the bile the follow- ing uses: 1st, By its stimulant pro- perties it excites the flow of the inter- nal fluids, as is proved by the unusual dryness of the feces in jaundiced persons, and in animals whose com- mon bile duct has been tied. 2nd, It probably stimulates the intestinal muscular fibres to action. 3rd, As it contains an abundance of azotized principles, it may contribute to ani- malize those articles of food w’hicli contain no azote in their composi- tion. 4th, It tends to prevent the putrefaction of the food during its course through the intestines: be- cause when it is prevented from flow- ing into them, their contents are much farther advanced in decay than in the healthy state. 5th, It proba- bly tends to liquefy and render solu- ble the fatty part of the food. Lastly, it is to be regarded as an important secretion. The only use of the bile, in chylification, is restricted by these two celebrated physiologists, to that of accomplishing the solution of fatty substances. The direct and obvious use of the liver is the secretion of bile, which, in most animals, is suffered to accumu- late in a pear-shaped reservoir, called the gall-bladder; yet in many ani- mals, even of different classes, no such reservoir is perceived, as in the elephant, rhinoceros, stag, camel, goat, horse, trichecus, porpoise, rat, ostrich, and paiTot: while we do not know of a reptile that is w'ithout it. It may, however, be observed, that a gall-bladder is common to all carni- vorous animals possessing a liver, and that it seems to be only wanting in those that feed on vegetables alone. Yet, while we witness this distinction, we are ignorant of the cause, and incapable of applying it. In the human subject the gall blad- der has sometimes also been wanting, f Olivier, note sur I’atrophie tie la vessicule hiliare, in Archiv. ! Gen. de Med. tom. v. p. 196) of which Dr. Cholmley gives an example {Med. Trans, vol. vi. art. iv.;) but such a deficiency has most occurred in infants who have perished soon after birth; before which period, as there is no transit of feces through the intestinal canal, and perhaps no peristaltic action, it does not appear to be necessary. And, indeed, it is probable, that previous to birth no bile is secreted. According to Meckel, (Manuel d'Anat. tom. iii. ji. 468), the want of a gall-bladder does not always dangerously impair health; and a case in which a person thus born having reached the adult state is recorded. {Mem. de Med. Militaire, tom. XX. p. 406). There are two kinds of bile, distinguished into the hepatic and cystic. The former, or that secreted in the hepatic duct, is mild and sweet; the cystic, or that formed in the gall bladder, is pun- gent and bitter; whence it might be inferred that it is the gall-bladder that secretes the bitter principle. Yet, in children, the bile contained in the gall-bladder is as sweet as that in the hepatic duct; and in va- rious insects, as the larvm of the cynips tjuerci, or gall-fly, and the citrcnlio minis, or nut-weevil, a bile, powerfully hitter, is secreted without either gall-hladder or liver. Upon what ])i'inciple are such discrepan- cies to be accounted for? Yet, what-34 BI ever be the use of the bile, or the office of the liver, it is known that the general symptoms of jaundice de- pend upon an obstruction of the flow of the bile into the alvine canal, and its retrograde passage into the blood. BIRDS, FLESH OF, considered AS Food.—Every part of a bird, as well as its eggs, may safely be taken as food. A singidar instance is men- tioned by Gmelin, of some people having been much affected after feasting upon larks, the flesh of which he suspects might have been rendered poisonous from having fed upon hemlock seed, which they eat with impunity; there can however be no doubt that this supposition is a mis- take, as larks, it is well known, are a common and favourite bird in the very country where this accident is said to have happened. There is a considerable difference in the essential properties of birds, not only of different kmds, but even in the different muscles of the same bird. The pectoral muscles which move the wings, are whiter, drier, and more tender, than those which move the legs. The tendons of the legs are also very strong, and at a certain age become bony ; but the flesh of the legs, when sufficiently tender, either from the bird being young, or from long keeping, or sufficient cooking, is more juicy and savoury than that of the wings. Of a few birds, esjiecially the woodcock and snipe, the legs are at all times preferred to the breast. In the black- cock, the outer layer of the pectoral muscles is of a dark brown colour, while the inner layers are white; a similar difference is observed in many other birds, and perhaps, in a slight degree, it is general. The muscular organs of birds differ from those of quadrupeds, in their flesh never being marbled, or having fat mixed with the muscular fibres. In the flesh of different species of birds, there is a considerable diver- sity ; but no very accurate distribu- tion of them in this respect can be made, as they run insensibly into each other, notwithstanding the ex- tremes are sufficiently distinct. The following however may be noticed as well enough marked:— 1. The wMte-jleshed, exemplified in the common Fowl and Turkey, 2. Dark-Jleshed game, as Grouse, Black-cocks, &c. 3. Aquatic; Goose, Ducks, &c. 4. Rapacious; Flawks and Owls. Several species of the first and third classes are domesticated, and reared in great numbers, for, as term- ed, articles of food. The white-fleshed birds are very generally liked, when good of their kind, and by many are preferred to game, which, however, when suffi- ciently kept, constitutes one of the proudest luxuries of the Gom-mand’s table; it has then acquired a peculiar odour, calledand an aromatic bitter taste, most appreciable in the back. The aquatic birds, both swimmers and waders, are generally eaten, and many of them are very delicate, though ill general they are disposed to become very fat, often acquiring a rancid and fishy taste, which, how- ever, is chiefly' attached to the fat, and may be somewhat avoided by skinning the bird, and removing the inside layer of fat before cooking. None of the rapacious class of birds is eaten, partly perbaps from preju- dice, and principally, no doubt, from the cadaverous smell acquired by those which prey on carrion. The muscular fibre is coarser in the large than in the smaller birds of the same class; and it becomes less tender as they get older. It is also considerably influenced by sex ; although the young cock of some birds is preferred, chiefly, it is con- ceived, on account of its greater size, and more handsome appearance. By removing the sexual organs at an early age, both sexes are much im- proved for the use of the table, be-BI BI 35 coming thereby larger, fatter, and more tender, as may be witnessed in the capon and poulard. In all ages epicures have been ex- ceedingly capricious in the selection of certain parts of birds, and the ancients much more so than the mo- dems; for, although we prize the combs of the common fowls, the trail of the woodcock, and even col- lect the dung with care that falls from it in roasting, the guts of the buzzard, the gizzard and liver of the goose, and the feet of the duck ; we find that the Roman gourmands de- lighted in the brains of ostriches and parrots, the tongue of the flamingo, and the enlarged liver of the goose : the last mentioned still continues to be in great request among our con- tinental neighbours, and the pro\dd- ing of them is another considerable branch of rural economy in some provinces. This, it is said, is ef- fected at Strasburg, by actually sew- ing up the anus of the tortured animal after a certain preparation ; but we have not hitherto met with the details of this species of barbarity recorded in print,* and in all pro- bability it may not be tine; otherwise so striking an exemplification of Sir Everard Home’s doctrine, that the fatpess of animals depended upon the length of their intestinal canal, and the length of time the faeces were retained in it, would not have escaped his consideration. BIRDS, WHEN IN Season.—Each • In an old work, called “ The Com- plete Cook,” published in 1668, we meet with the following directions :— ‘‘ To make chickens fat in four or five days ! " Take a pint of French wheat, and a pint of wheat flour, half a pound of sugar, make it up into a stiff paste, and roll it into little rolls, wet them in warm milk, and so cram them that they may be fat in four or five days; if you please you may sew them up behind, one or two of the last days.” This is pretty near the mark. kind of bird used at the table is con- sidered to be in season at certain months of the year, determined by the time of breeding, the abundance of food, or their migration. Some birds do not remain with us all the year, and therefore are more valu- able when they can be procured. The birds which migrate, go further south in winter, and further north in summer. They are with us conse- quently in winter, or summer, ac- cording to their habits in regard to temperature, and the supply of food. The birds which remain with us during summer, breed, and their young may be obtained before they fly, and while they are still delicate, as the gannet or soland goose; others, as the woodcock, rarely breed in this country, and are only to be procured in an adult state. As regards the mode of killing birds for the use of the table, there is indeed very little diversity. Game is for the most part, killed with the gun, now that hawking is out of fashion, although birds formerly killed in this way were moi’e esteemed, in con- sequence of their flesh becoming sooner tender. Larks are caught in winter in traps, and then killed; they are also shot when the snow is on the ground. 'The heads are twisted off young pigeons, but do- mestic fowls are generally killed in a very barbarous manner. The common fowl has its neck drawn, by which the spine is torn asunder at an uncertain place, and if the spinal cord be not divided, or be divided too low, the animal dies slowly, and sometimes is alive after its feathers have been plucked off. The large blood vessels are also sometimes torn across; this, however, is an advantage, from its shortening the sufferings of the animal, and ren- dering its flesh whiter, in consequence of the blood lost. By dividing the vessels under the tongue, turkeys are blooded to death; the only objection to this method is, that it is tedious, as in all probabi-36 BI BI lity it is unattended with much pain. Geese are killed by splitting their sculls with a knife; this is some- times so very awkwardly performed, that neither are any lai-ge vessels divided, noi' the nervous energy de- stroyed. Domestic birds are gene- rally kept confined, and fed upon choice food, for some time previous to killing them, and sometimes they are crammed and forced to eat more than they woidd were they left to themselves. At the last they shovdd always be kept a day without food, that their crops may be empty, as food left in them is apt to give a taint to the flesh. BIRDS, USED AS Food.—Among the different orders of birds used as food, may be enumerated the follow- ing 1. Of the Goose tribe. (Order Anseres). The principal species of this order that are eaten, belong to the genus Anas, of which all the species may be used as food, but the following are most generally em- ployed, viz.;— Black-backed gull. Brent Goose. Goose. Muscovy Duck. Poachard. Puffin. Razor-bill. Soland Goose. Teal. Tame, or common Duck. Tame Swan. Tufted Duck. Widgeon. Wild Duck. Wild Swan. Of these the swan, the goose, the widgeon, the teal, the wild and tame duck, are the most digestible. The bai-nacle, the puffin, the soland goose, and the black-backed gull, are very fat, heavy, and have generally a fishy taste. Order Pic/T.. Of this order two species only ai'c generally used as food. 1. The Rook.—The young of this bird is very similar to the pigeon) but is rather inferior in flavour and digestibility. 2. The Green Wood-pecker.—The flesh of this and some other species, is palatable, but of difficult solution. Order Grall.*. Most of the genera of this order furnish very good and savoury food. The following are commonly eaten: Brown Gallinute. Common Water Hen. Dotterell. Great Plover, or Green Shank. Green Plover. Grey Plover, or Sand Piper. Lapwing, or Bastard Plover. Long-legged Plover. Purple Water Hen. Purre. Red Godwit. Ruff and Reeve. Snipe. Spotted Snipe. Stone Plover. Thick-kneed Bustard. Woodcock. Many of the above order are highly savoury and delicious, form- ing, under the direction of the prin- cipal officer of the culinary depart- ment, some exquisite bonne-bouches for the dainty gourmand. Order GallinjE. It is from this order we are sup- plied with the principal part of the food derived from birds. The follow- ing species afford excellent nourish- ment, viz.:— Black Cock, or Black Game. Common Fowl. Common Fartridge. % Crested Curassao. Guinea Hen. Peacock. Pheasant. Quail. Quhan. Red Game. Turkey. Wood Grouse.BI BI 37 Order Passeres. Of this order the following species are employed as food:— Blackbird. Brambling, or Bramblefinch. Bunting. Chaffinch. Common Pigeon. Epicurean Warbler. Esculent Swallow. Field-fare. Greenfinch. Grosbeak, or Hawkfinch. Hedge Sparrow. House Sparrow. Lark, all the species. Misletoe Thrush. Redstart. Redtail. Ringdove. Sheld Apple, or Cropbill. Stone Bunting. Stonechat. Tree Sparrow. Wheatear. Whinchat. Y ellow-hammer. BITTERS.—Herbs, or their ex- tracts, containing a hitter principle— as Hops, Quassia, Valerian, &c.— Which See. The use of bitters followed the ad- vice of the physician, who, anciently, being an herbalist, recommended the plants that grew in his garden. Each plant had its particular disease which it was able to combat; and hence the whole science of medical botany. According to the ancient, and many still of the modern, physicians, the bitter principle was peculiarly effica- cious ; it is a pure tonic, increases the appetite, promotes digestion, gives vigour to the system, &c. Bitters, however, are either different in the essence, or they are never pure. A few, such as gentian and quassia, are comparatively inactive. Some, like aloes and marsh trefoil, are purga- tive. Hops are astringent and nar- cotic; broom, and some others, are diuretic; while many, as opium, ignatia amara, tobacco, and nux- vomica, are highly deleterious; yet we find that each of those mentioned, and others not named, have been boiled among the worts of beer, with- out regard to the effect on particular constitutions, or to the general safety of the individuals for whom the liquor is brewed. As substitutes for the hop, broom, wormwood, and several other bitters, have greatly fallen into disuse ; for, since the flavour of the hop has been so generally recognised, no bitter which is inconsistent with that fla- vour would be relished. Bitters that are perfectly, or at least nearly, fla- vourless, may, indeed, be added to hops when the bitter principle only is required; and this is the case with porter, in which flavour is little studied; for the hops usually em- ployed in brewing that beverage are either coarse or old, and would not be admissible in fine ales. The coc- culus indicus, so frequently intro- duced into the latter, has a taste by no means agreeable; but its intoxi- cating quality is all that is wanted by the brewer, and, could that be procured (as has been attempted in a separate condition), its flavour would be willingly dispensed with. The bitter contained in porter is very great, and if taken wholly from hops must require an average quantity of ten or twelve pounds to the quarter of malt, or about three pounds per barrel. The fluctuation in the price of this article is so extreme, that the wonder ceases why substitutes, under such circumstances, should have been so eagerly sought after. If the sub- stitutes were not more noxious than the principle (and some of them were less so), the conscience of the brewer was easily satisfied; especially when he sees that he could procure as much bitter for sixpence, as would otherwise have cost him twenty shillings. The following ingredients are ac- counted excellent stomachic bitters, strengthening the digestive organs, EI 38 BO BL creating an appetite, and giving a degree of energy to the relaxed mus- cular fibre. Take—• 1. Gentian root . . ounce. Peruvian bark . 1 ounce. Orange peel, dried 2 drachms. Cinnamon . . 1 drachm. Tliese are enough for two bottles of white wine, in which they should be left to macerate for fourteen days. Take— 2. Gentian root . . 2 ounces. Orange peel, dried 1 ounce. Smaller cardamoms ^ ounce. For a quart of brandy; treated as above. Take— 3. Gentian root . . 1 ^ ounce. Orange peel, dried 2 drachms. Fresh lemon peel i ounce. For a pint and a half of boiling water. Let the infusion cool, then strain, and add a pint of brandy. In the morning or forenoon a wine glassful will be found a grateful so- lace to a stomach debilitated from excess of any kind. BITTER BALLS.—Used by the brewers to supply the deficiency of the hop; composed as follows:— Gentian root, 81bs.; extract of gen- tian, 41hs.; treacle, q. s. rolled up in balls. BITTERN.—A composition con- taining—extract of cocculus indicus ; extract of quassia; Spanish liquorice; calcined sulphate of iron (green co))- peras, called also salt of steel). Sold in large casks to brewers, who send it out to the licensed victuallers as “finings;” an ingredient by which they not only fine their beer, to the prejudice of the public health, but very frequently, and justly so, get fined themselves for it.—See Cocculus Indicus\ Sulphate of Iron, i.)’'®- BLACKBIIIDS.—The blackbird has many things in common with the thrush ; still they are neither so common nor so easy of digestion ; thej' may, however, be reckoned among those foods that produce a good juice. A blackbird intended for the table, ought to be young, tender, and well fed. In this con- dition it produces good juice, is nou- rishing enough, and easily digested. It produces no ill effects unless eaten to excess. The older they grow and the less fat they are, deteriorates their qualities. It agrees at all times, with any age and constitution. BLACK EXTRACT. HardMul- tuin.—Made from cocculus indicus, by decoction in water, and evapora- tion, to a stiff tenacious mass: its properties are narcotic, intoxicating, and deleterious: principally used by ale brewers. BLITE.—Commonly called Eng- lish mercury, or all-good. The ten- der tops may be eaten as asparagus. BLOOD.—The blood of animals procures but a coarse and indifferent nourishment: the blood of some ani- mals, however, is better than that of others. The blood of an ox or cow is used in making sausages and black- puddings ; yet in most places it is en- tirely rejected. Hogs’ blood is now in greatest request, as being the sweetest and most palatable. Some fat of the same beast mi.xed with the puddings made of it, into which salt, pepper, and sweet herbs are intro- duced, greatly correct and improve it. BOILING.—The process of rais- ing the temperature of water, by means of fire and fuel, to 212i of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. In boiling any kind of meat, but particularly veal, much care and nicety are requisite. Fill the pot with a sufficient quantity of soft water, dust your veal well with fine flour, put it into the pot destined for its reception, and set it over a large fire. It is the custom of some people to put in milk to make it white; but this is of little use, and perhaps had better be omitted, for if you use hard water it will curdle the milk, give to the veal a brownish- yellow cast, and will often hang in luinjis about it. Oatmeal will do theBO BO 39 same thing; but b)' dusting your veal and putting it into the water when cold, it will prevent the foul- ness of the water from banging about it. Take the scum ofl’clean as soon as it begins to rise, and cover up the pot closely. Let the meat boil as slowly as possible, put in plent-y of water, which will make the veal rise and look plump. A cook can- not commit a greater mistake, than to let any sort of meat boil fast, since it hardens the outside before it is warm within, and contributes to discolour it: thus a large leg of veal, of twelve pounds’ weight, will take three hours and a half boiling, and the slower it boils the whiter and plumper it will be. When mutton or beef is the object of cookery, be careful to dredge them well with flour before they are put into the pot of cold water, and keep it covered; but do not forget to take off the scum as soon as it rises. Mutton and beef do not require so much boiling, nor is it much minded if it be a little under the mark; but lamb, pork, and veal, should be well boiled, as they will otherwise be un- wholesome. leg of pork will take half an hour more boiling than a leg of veal of the same weight; but in general, when you boil beef or mut- ton, you may allow an hour for every four pounds weight. To boil a leg of lamb of about four pounds weight, you must allow an hour and a half. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. The cloths kept for this purpose should be boiled after each using in clean water, nor should they be suffered to hang in damp places, which would be the means of communicating a damp flavour to the meat. The same observation stands good as re- gards tapes, pudding-strings, and cloths. To put the meat in when the water is cold, is allowed to be the best method, as it thereby gets warm through, gradually, before the out- side becomes hard. Be careful to skim the pot the moment it boils, other- wise the scum will be dispersed over the meat. 'I'he more soups and hroths are skimmed tlie clearer they will be. Remember that meats hoiled quick will be hard. Vegetables ought never to be boiled, with the exception of carrots and parsnips, with meat. For boiling and roasting, the length of time ought to be determined by the hulk and solidity of the joint, the strength of the fire, &c.; the time must be reckoned from the instant the water just commences boiling, and however fiercely it boils, the water remains at the same pitch of temperature. Meats become more tender, consequently more easy of digestion, as well as better flavoured, by hanging; but veal and lamb will not bear it so long as the flesh of older animals, and fresh-killed meat will take much longer time to boil than that which has been kept till it is what the butchers call ripe. It will also keep longer in cold than in warm weather : if it be frozen it must be thawed before boiling, as well as before roasting; if it be fresh killed it will be tough and hard, stew it ever so long or ever so gently. In cold weather, the night before you dress it, remove it to a place where the temperature is not less than 4o° of Fahrenheit’s thermometer. 1 f beef or poultry be suffered to remain in the water after they are done enough, they will become soddened and lose their flavour. Beef and mutton, es- pecially large pieces or joints, a little underdone, will hash or broil all the better for it; but lamb, pork, or veal are uneatable if not tboroughly boiled, though by no means ought they to bo overdone, 'fo calculate this, weigh the meat, and allow for all salted joints a (piarter of an hour for every j)ound, and some minutes over (from ten to fifteen) aceording as the fa- mily like it, over or under done. A leg of pork will take the allowance above named, besides allowing a (piarter of an hour for each pound. E 240 BO BR A liam, weighing twenty pounds, will take four hours and a half boiling; others in proportion. They should be put into boiling water, if not over dry, and suffered to simmer the whole time. On boiling. Count Romford observes (vide 10th Essay, pp. 3—6), “ the process by which food is most commonly prepared for the table.— Boiling is so familiar to every one, and its effects so uniform, and appa- rently so simple, that few, 1 believe, have taken the trouble to incjuire hoiv or in what manner these effects are produced, and whether any, and what improvements in that branch of cookery are possible : so little has this matter been an object of in- quiry, that few, very few indeed, I believe, among the millions of persons who for so many ages have been daily employed in this process, have even given themselves the trouble to be- stow one serious thought on the sub- ject.” Boiling cannot be carried on without a very great expense of fuel; but any boiling-hot liquid (by using proper means for containing the heat) may be kept boiling-hot, for any length of time, almost without any expense of fuel at fill.* The waste of fuel in culinary processes, which arises from making liquids boil un- necessarily, or when nothing more would be necessary than to keep them boiling hot, is enormous. I have not a doubt, but that much more than half the fuel used in all the kitchens, public and private, in the whole world, is wasted precisely in this manner. But the evil does not stop here,—this unscientific and slovenly manner of cooking, renders the process much more laborious and troublesome than otherwise it would be ; and (what by many will be con- * llrUcr rc?nains at the same pitch of temperature hou'cver Jicrccly it boils; the only difference is, tliat with a strong fire it sooner conics to boil, and most (juickly boils away, and is converted into steam. —See Huchanan on the Economy of Fuel. ISIO. sidered of more importance than either the waste of fuel, or the in- crease of labour to the cook) the food is rendered less savoury, and very probably less nourishing and less wholesome. It is natural to suppose that many of the finer and more valuable parts of food (those which are best calcu- lated to act upon the organs of taste) must be carried off with the steam when the boiling is violent. Though boiling does not require so much nicety and attention as roasting, it is evident much is to be gained, by due attention, both as regards economy and good taste. BORRAGE. — An herb which, like Buglos, is much used in cooling broths, and for other culinary pur- poses. The flowers are used in medi- cinal cordials, and the herb again for cool tankards in summer. It is called one of the four cordial flowei's—it comforts the head, cheers drooping spirits.—{Salmon’s Household Com- panion, p. 45, London, 1710), and Evelyn, in his Acetaria, says, “ The sprigs in wine are of known virtue to revive the hypochondriac, and cheer the hai-d student.” Combined with the ingredients in the above receipt, we have frequently observed it pro- duce all the cardiac and exhilarating effects ascribed to it. Both borrage and buglos are hard of digestion. BRANDY.—Aqua I'Hat, L. Eau de vie, F. Brandy is a spirituous and inflammable liquor, extracted from wine and other liquors by' distillation. The best is obtained from the wines of the middle provinces of France, and is esteemed the best in Europe. The chief French brandies are those of Bordeaux, Roclielle, cogniac, the Isle of Rhe, Orleans, Nantz, and Poitiers. The wines of Languedoc and Sp.ain yield about one quarter of brandy; Burgundy, less than an eighth; Borde.aux, about a fifth. An inferior sort of brandy is ob- tained from wines which have turned sour, and from the lees left in theBR BR 41 casks on racking the wine from one vessel to another, for the sake of fining it; and a still worse sort from the cake and refuse of the winepress, fermented for the purpose, with the addition of water;* when first dis- tilled, brandy is white like water, but by keeping in oak casks it accpiires a deep colour; and improves by- keeping. Extract of oak is frequently dissolved in it, to give it a false ap- pearance of age. The art of distilling brandy- and other spirits was first brought into Europe by the Moors of Spain, about the year 1150. They- learned it of the African Moors, who had it from the Egyptians; and these are said to have practised it in the reign of the Emperor Dioclesian, though it was unknown to the ancient Greeks and Romans. The intemperate use of brandy and other spirituous liquors is a de- testable practice, which includes in its consequences almost every- evil, physical and moral; it attenuates the body, impairs the strength, stupi- fies the brain, and, in most instances, shortens the duration of human ex- istence. See Ardent Spirits. The utility of brandy is every ^vhere considerable; but from its pleasant taste and exhilarating j>ro- perty, it is too often taken to excess. When, however, it is used mode- rately, it gives energy- to the animal functions, it is powerfully tonic, cor- dial, and antispasmodic; and its uti- lity in gangrenous affections is very- great. In the spasmodic cholera, which so alarmingly prevailed of late • Mr. Consett, in his .Sweedisli '('cur, says they make the low-piieed brandy in that country from rye and a species of ants—a large black insect very plenti- ful there; and which the natives think highly palatable and pleasant to eat. In Virginia and Maryland, peaches and apples afford brandy. That made from the former, iMr. Cooper deems as fine a lirpior as ever he tasted. throughout the British dominions, its judicious exhibition in conjunc- tion with the tincture of opium, has frequently- been attended with the most beneficial results; and in giving a new character, after the adminis- tration of the usual remedies, to choleric attacks of the bowels, brandy has superseded, in the most efficient manner, all the tonics of the phar- macopceia, when given with proper caution, and the spirit has been genuine. There was formerly a certain pro- batory experiment, by means of which it was supposed that French In-andy could be distinguished from malt spirit; and likewise genuine from adulterated brandy—indeed, this or some such-like test remains, we be- lieve, still a desideratum—although a connoisseur in brandy will draw a tolerably correct inference as to qua- lity, from the smell, taste, as well as colour of this spirit. The test liquor used for this ex])eriment is of a dusky yellow tincture—indeed, the muriatic tincture of iron appears to answer the same purpose. The following is the method of using it:— Fill a glass with the brandy that is suspected, and into this glass put one, two, or three drops of the above tinc- ture, more or less, according to the quantity you arc testing; and if the brandy be good and genuine, there immediately appears at the bottom of the glass a very beautiful blue colour, which, if stirred, and well mixed with the rest of the brandy, tinges it entirely of an azure; but if the spirits be the produce of malt, no such tincture will be seen in the glass, this kind retaining its original tincture, though tvventy times the quantity of the test li(]uor be added. And, therefore, this method of prov- ing does, according to the opinion of the merchants generally, serve to dis- tinguish ])urc malt spirits from pure French brandy. Neumann, the celebrated chemist, was at first very much pleased . ith LBR BR 42 this method of proving spirits, and at first view took it to be altogether certain and infallible; though upon reflection, and more accurate exami- nation, he found reason to change that opinion, by deciding that the appearance produced was entirely owing to oak wood casks, in which the sjjirit had previously been con- tained for some length of time. This test liquor, or solution, should be made of pure iron vitriol, and not t)f copper. The causes and origin of the blue tincture which it occasions in the brewery, remain to be ex- plained ; but because Mr. Neumann took the origin to be the same with new or diluted ink, whose chief in- gredients that produce the tincture are the same, namely, vitriol or iron, and an astringent vegetable. In fine, Neumann observed that no other difference should be sought for be- tween brandy and malt spirits, namely, such as are pure and care- fully distilled, than thepeculiarflavour of French brandy; though the same flavour may be several ways commu- nicated to malt spirits, and then thus adulterated into French brandy; so that the most expert connoisseurs might be imposed upon by it for genuine brandy, or at least not for malt spirits; hence the above tests on spirits are of no use, or at least insufficient, as we apprehend those which are in contemplation at the present time will turn out to be. A few drops of liquid ammonia will give to new brandy all the qualities of that of the oldest date. The best test for the actual strength of gin, will he that which precipitates the sugar it contains. BRAWN.—In the culinary art, brawn signifies the flesh or muscu- lar parts of a hog, boned, rolled up, or collared, boiled, and, lastly, pickled for winter use. Brawn was an old word I'or flesh; and though now appropriated to the rolls made from the boar, was once common to all kinds of meat. Among the old re- cipes of cookery, we have brawn of capons, brawn of swine, &c. Can- terbury and Shrewsbury have been long noticed for the superior quality of their brawn, and of late brawn has been made at Oxford.—See Bourn's Gaz. art. Colard. To malce Mock Braum.—Take the head and piece of the belly-part of a young porker, and rub it well with saltpetre. Let it lie three days and wash it clean. Split the head and boil it; take out the bones and cut it in pieces. And then take four ox- feet boiled tender, cut them in thin pieces, and lay them in the belly- piece, with the head cut small. Then roll it up light with sheet tin, and boil it four or five hours. When it comes out set it up on one end, put a trencher on it within the tin, press it down with a large weight, and let it stand all night. The next morn- ing take it out of the tin, and bind it with a fillet. Put it into cold salt and water, and it will be fit for use. It will keep a long time, if you put salt and water to it every four days. BRAINS.—The brains of quad- rupeds are of a clamm}' and glutin- ous nature, not altogether cold; and according to Aristotle engender the like nourishment, are difficult of di- gestion, clog the appetite, especially if eaten too abundantly. The moister the animal is, the moister are the brains. And yet calves’ and pigs’ brains are in great esteem with some; as well as those of rabbits, which are not so moist as the former. They should be eaten with condiments; such as pepper and vinegar, sage and other dry herbs. Such food, and other glutinous, cold and clammy nourishment, are best adapted to young and hot constitutions. BREAD—.\ baked massofdough made from the flour of wheat or other grain : it forms a constant part of human aliment. Bread may be made of an}’ fa- rinaceous matter whatever, but it is of very different qualities. ThatBR ■13 BR made of wheat is doubtless the best; but potatoes when cheap, may be converted into bread, perhaps not alone, but mixed with wheat meal. Five pounds of bean flour made into a decoction, and this decoction em- ployed for making dough, will aflbrd more bread than if the dough was prepared with water; this decoction being kneaded with fifty pounds of flour, and worked as usual with salt and yeast, gave ninety three pounds of dough, which, on being baked, produced eighty-two pounds and three quarters of bread; fifty-five pounds of flour, made into dough in the common way, produced sixt}-- nine pounds and a half of bread : hence by the former process there was gained one-fifth, or fourteen pounds. Rice boiled in water to a sort of jelly, will make as much pudding as eight pounds of wheat flour; if previously boiled with a pulp, and then mixed with wheat flour and made into a dough, it con- siderably augments the quantity of bread ; this arises from its greater power of consolidating water. The best and most agreeable bread is a mixture of three parts of flour and one of rice. A quarter of a pound of rice boiled, and mixed with three quarters of a pound of flour, and made into dough with water in whieh it was boiled, gave one pound four- teen ounces of bread ; but the same quantity of bread made in the com- mon way would require one pound and a quarter of flour. Mr. Accum, in his Treatise on Cu- linary Poisons, states, that the infe- rior kind of flour which the London bakers generally use for making loaves, requires the addition of alum to give them the white ajjpearance of bread made of fine flour. “ The baker’s flour is very often made of the worst kinds of damaged wheat, and other cereal grains mixed with them in grinding the wheat into flour. In this capital (London), no fewer than six distinct kinds of wheaten flower are brought into the market. They are stiled fine flour, seconds, middlings, fine middlings, coarse middlings, and twentypenny flour. Common garden beans and pease are also frequently ground up among the London bread flour.” Flour turned acid, and not fit for use, was rendered sweet by adding two lablespoonsful of the carbonate of soda to fourteen pounds of flour. It was then made into dough as usual, and good bread was produced, though altered in colour: the soda here united with the acid of the floiii’, and the carbonic acid being set free, assisted in the fermentation of it. Good bread ought to be composed of flour well kneaded with the light- est water, seasoned with a little salt, fermented with fine yeast, and suf- ficiently baked at a proper heat. When baked it ought to appear through glass like a honey-comb, fidl of cells, yet the intermediate parts constitute a uniform substance of a gelatinous nature, which readily unites with an aqueous menstruum. But instead of this wholesome bread, bakers contrive to mix up many per- nicious ingredients with it, in order to sell it at a reduced price, and that their profits may be augmented. Alum, lime, chalk, whiting, and burnt bones, have not unfrequently found their way into the “ staff of life.’’ Although the evils arising from the practice of the adulteration of bread, may have been somewhat exaggerated, it is certain that bad flour will never make good bread, nor of sufficient whiteness to please the eye of the capricious epicure, without the addition of alum. It has also been found, that unless alum be introduced into the flour, the loaves run together in the oven, and do not afterwards separate from each other with a smooth surface. This is pro- bably owing to the action of the alum upon the mucilage of the flour, which it coagulates. It has been asserted, that the smallest quantityBR BR 44 of this salt that can he employed for this purpose is from three to four ounces, to two hundred and forty pounds of flour. 'I'he introduction of a portion of alum into the human stomach, however small, it is well known, may prove prejudicial to the exercise of its functions, and parti- cularly to those already labouring under indigestion, &c. And, accord- ing to Accum, the smallest quantity of alum that can be employed with eflect, to produce a white, light, and porous bread from an inferior kind of flour, is from three to four ounces to a sack of flour weighing two hun- dred and forty pounds. The follow- ing account of making a sack of five bushels of flour into bread, is taken from Di-. P. Markham’s “ Considera- tions on the Ingredients used in the Adulteration of Flour and Bread.” Flour 5 bushels. Alum 8 ounces. Salt 4 pounds. Yeast J gallon, mixed with Water 3 gallons. Subcarbonate of ammonia is another substance used by fraudulent bakers, with which they realise the import- ant consideration of producing light and jiorous bread from spoiled, or what is technically called sour Jlonr. This salt, which becomes wholly con- verted into a gaseous substance dur- ing the operation of baking, causes the dough to swell up into air bub- bles, w'liich carry before them the stifl' dough, and thus the latter is rendered porous; the salt itselfis, at the same time, totally volatilized during the operation of baking.—See Alum. Good flour yields bread sufficiently white, without any artificial admix- ture ; but brown bread, simply made, merits the preference, as it is easier of digestion, and aftbrds better nou- rishment. The flour of wheat con- tains three distinct substances :—1. A mucilaginous saccharine matter. 2. Starch. .‘5. Ciluten, a peculiar sub- stance, possessing many of the pro- perties of animal matter. It is to the quantity of the latter ingredient that wheat flour possesses so decided a superiority over that of barley, rye, or oats, since from the latter grains less gluten can be extracted; and it furnishes the best ingredient for making bread, although it may be also made of all the various sorts of gi-ain, as well as of chestnuts, of several roots, and of the potatoe. Bread newly baked has a peculiar odour as well as taste, both of which are lost by keeping; showing that some peculiar substance must have been formed during the operation, the nature of which is not under- derstood. Bread differs completely from the flour of which it is made, since none of the ingredients of the latter can be detected in it; it is much more miscible with water than dough; and on this circumstance its good qualities, in all probability, depend. The different kinds of bread used in this country may be considered under three head.s—namely, trhife, wheaten, aw\ household. In the first, the bran is sepai'ated; in the second, only the coarser; in the last, none at all—so that fine bread is made only of flour; wheaten bread of flour an'd a mixture of the finer particles of the bran ; and that called household of the whole substance of the grain, without separating cither the coarse bran or fine flour. It is necessary that these distinctions sliould be un- derstood; for an iinporlant dietetic fact is connected with tliem. The action of starch upon the bowels is astringent; bread, consequently, made of the whitest flour is apt to induce costiveness; which, however, is counteracted by the presence of bran, the scales of which, it would appear, exert a mechanical action uj).,n the intestines. Our neighbours, the French, have several sorts of bread, in which egffs, milk, and butter, are combined. They45 BIl BR are also in the habit of adding am- monia to the dough, which causes it, during its evaporation in the oven, to rise, and thus adds to the spongi- ness of its texture. Bread made from barley flour has a sweetish but not unpleasant taste ; but it is rather tough, and is less nu- tritive, as well as less digestible, than wheaten bread. It is usual to mix pea-meal with the barley, which un- questionably improves the product. Rye-bread is of a dark brown co- lour, and is apt to lie heavy on the stomach, and is liable to create acid, and affects the bowels—though it is deemed highly nutritive. In places where bread is made from oatmeal, there is a mode of preparing the meal by making it sour; the bread, in- stead of being hard, is thus rendered of a soft texture, and from its mode- rate degree of acidity it is wholesome to persons of robust habits, though to invalids and convalescents it is by no means so desirable. In the form of bread, however, oatmeal is com- monly in an unfermented state, or it is made into thin, flat cakes, which are baked on a girdle, or roasted be- fore the fire. Porridge made of oat- meal, the common food of children and the lower and even the middling classes of adults in Scotland, is not so heavy as that made of wheat flour; though both of them require vigor- ous organs of digestion, robust con- stitutions, and strong exercise, in or- der to produce a proper nutriment. A good househoid bread is directed to be made as follows. Put a quartern of flour into a large tub, with two or three spoonsful of salt, make a hole in the middle, then put in a basin four table-spoonsful of good yeast; stir in a pint of milk, lukewarm ; put it in the hole of the flour; stir it just to make it ot thin batter; then strew a little flour over the top, set it on one side of the fire, and cover it over; let it stand till the next morning— then make it into dough ; add half a pint more of warm milk; knead for ten minutes, and then set it in a warm place by the fire for an hour and a half; then knead it again, and it is ready either for loaves or bricks : bake them from one hour and a half to two hours, according to the size. A variety of processes are used by cooks, confectioners, and others, to make cakes, puddings, and other kinds of bread, in which different qualities are required. Some cakes are rendered better, or, as it is called, short, by an admixture of sugar or of starch. Another kind of brittleness is given by the addition of butter or of fat. White of egg, gum-water, isinglass, and other adhesive sub- stances are used where it is intended that the effect of fermentation shall expand the dough into an exceed- ingly porous mass. Dr. Percival has recommended the addition of salep, or the nutritive powder of the orchis root. He says that an ounce of salep dissolved in a quart of water and mixed with two pounds of flour, two ounces of yeast, and eighty grains of salt, produced a remarkably good loaf, weighing three pounds two ounces; while a loaf made of an equal quan- tity of the other ingredients, without the salep, weighed but two pounds twelve ounces. If, however, the sa- lep be in too large a quantity, its peculiar taste will be distinguishable in the bread. Bread itself, if eaten too freely, or to serve as a meal, produces viscidity or slime, obstructs the intestines, and lays the foundation of habitual cos- tiveness. All dishes pre])ared of flour, are not only nourishing, but emol- lient, attenuating, and correctors of .acidity. Le.avened bread, or such as has ac(|uired an acidulated taste by a slow fermentation of the dough, is cooling and antiseptic—a fact well established hy experience. By the fermentative jirocess, .all the tough parts of the dough are intimately mixed with the drier parts of the flour, and the fixed air is expelled in baking.BR BR 46 Fresh baked bread always con- tains much of an indigestible nature, which is remedied, either by allow- ing it to dry for a day or two, or by toasting it. This ought to be con- stantly done, particularly in times of scarcity, both on account of health and economy. Stale bread, in every respect, deserves the preference; and persons troubled with flatulency, cramp of the stomach, and indiges- tion, should on no account eat new bread, and still less hot rolls and butter. Indeed pastry, generally, is esteemed unwholesome. The po- rous quality of bread arises from the fixed air having been expelled in baking; and the more spongy the more wholesome is the bread consi- dered. But new-baked bread, and rolls in particular, require a sound stomach, because they contain much mucilage, in consequence of not hav- ing parted with their moisture; and wheat flour is more viscid than that of rye, which is the bread corn of most nations on the Continent. Bread and butter, together with cheese, as they are eaten in Holland and Germany, form a mass scarcely digestible. The crust of bread, which has been more dried by the heat of the oven, is easiest digested; it con- tains the empi-yreumatic in part, ex- pelled from the flour by fire ; it pro- duces an emollient effect on the bow- els; but, at the same time, is more heating and less nourishing than the softer parts or crumb. The great difference in bread is owing, partly to the various species of grain from which it is made, and partly to the time the flour has been kept; for, when new, it is more diffi- cult to deprive it of its tenacity, on account of its being more or less cleaned from the bran ; owing to the different methods of fermenting and baking it; to the difference of the water with which the flour has been kneaded; and lastly, to the various ingredients of which the paste has been compounded. The softness of the millstones used in grinding the flour may also \dtiate the bread, by introducing particles of sand and marble, so as to make it equally nox- ious to the teeth, and oppressive to the stomach. Well-baked and tho- roughly dried bread, is easily dis- solved by water, without rendering it viscid or gelatinous: hence it is adapted for the use of the debili- tated, as well as for every age or temperament. It is not necessary to eat bread with every kind of diet; it is more usefid and necessary with such articles that contain much nourishment in a small bulk, in order J.0 give the stomach a proper degree of expansion. Besides, the addition of bread to animal food has another advantage, namely, that of preventing the disgust attending a too copious use of animal food, and its strong tendency to putrefaction. But if we accustom ourselves to eat new baked bread with provisions already indigestible in themselves, as fat geese, bacon, and the like, we render them still more imsup- portable to our digestive organs. Of the diflerent kinds of grain from which bread is prepared, that of rye is bj: far tbe most wholesome for people of a sedentary life, as well as for the delicate and nervous. For though it be less nourishing, it is likewise less tenacious, and more easily digested than bread made of wheat. Compositions of various substances to serve as substitutes for bread, such as grey-pease, horse-beans, potatoes, and many other farinaceous vegeta- bles, have been repeatedly tried; and though a very nourishing and palatable bread was formed of flour, mixed with potatoes and rice, the prejudices in favour of wheatcn bread, by all classes, were too great and inveterate, to admit so useful and beneficial an innovation ; although, as regards public and private ccono- mj', they arc not only proper, par- ticularly in times of scarcity, butBR 47 BR tliey are not in the least detrimental to health. Unleavened bread consists of a mixture of meal and water, formed into a tough and firm cake, made as thin as possible, to favourpts drying; and not unfrequently with the addi- tion of butter, to render it more so- luble, friable, and porous; though it renders it more sour, and apter to become acescent on the stomach. Of the unleavened kinds of bread, biscuit is by far the best; and where leavened or fermented bread does not agree, its use cannot be too strongly recommended. Potatoe bread is common in Ireland; and turnip bread is used ib some parts of England. In the time of James I. the usual bread of the poor was made of barley.* In Iceland, dried cod-fish is beaten to powder, and made up into cakes, and eaten for bread. The same kind of bread is made among the Laplanders, whose country affords no corn. Bread, such as ours, is not only a very agree- able, but a very wholesome and nu- tritive aliment when properly and honestly made; and deemed the fit- test and lightest food for human bodies. Ur. Shaw, in bis Travels, says, that the eastern nations in general are great eaters of bread ; it being com- puted that three persons in four entirely live upon it, or else on such compositions as are made of barley • The Jews frequently ate barley bread ; and our Saviour and his apostles had no other provision than five barley loaves and two small fishes, John vi. 9. Ilosea (ch. iii. 2), says, that he pur- chased his wife for fifteen pieces of sil- ver, and an omer and a half of barley. The word bread is sometimes employed to signify a thing of low price. See Ezekiel xiii. 19. An omer, or homer, contained nearly six pints. 'J'lie princi- pal use of barley in great Britain, as already mentioned, is its conversion into malt for the purpose of brewing. or wheat flour. The French are great consumers of bread; which they season with fruits of various kinds, and dilute with wine, cider, or milk, &c. Anciently every house- wife was her own baker: and the learned are in great doubt about the time when baking became a particu- lar profession, and bakers were intro- duced. It is, however, generally agreed, that they bad their origin in the east, and passed from Greece to Italy, after the war with Pyrrhus, about the )'ear of Rome, 583.—See Dr. Reel's Cyclop, and Encyclop. Brit. art. Baker. BRE.AM.—A river fish—easier of digestion than carp, which it much resembles, though inferior in quality to the perch, and some others. Its flesh is soft and tender, and more esteemed for the goodness of its taste than carp. Most authors who have treated of this fish, say that it contains gross and excrementitious juices, and that its taste is more pleasant than wholesome. It has not been known to produce any very bad eflfects. BRET-FISII.—(Flat Fish and Buut).—These are all three sea- fishes,called in Latin,/Msseres Sqiiam- mosi. The first mentioned has the best taste, and in shape is much like a sole. It is flat, pretty large, and beset with small rough scales, adhering closely to the skin. The next (flat-fish), is covered with small black scales, marbled with red; and much resembles a flounder, though smaller. And the other, Burt, does not differ from the last, except in not being so large. All three are much used for food: they are also soft, white, and altogether like plaice and flounders. T'hose are the best that are fresh, tender, white, and jileasing to the taste. They arc nourishing enough, and produce no ill effects, unless used in excess. 'I'hey agree at all times, with any age or constitution.BR 48 BR BROILING.—The process of pre- paring animal food upon a gridiron. In this process, as in that connected with every other branch of the culi- nary art, cleanliness and care are equally important and indispensable. The gridiron must be kept quite clean between the bars, and bright on the top; before it is used the bars ought to be rubbed with clean mutton, to pi'event the meat from being marked with them. Before the meat is laid on, be careful that the fire is very clear'. Turn the meat quickly while it is broiling, and have ready a dish placed in a chaffing-disli of hot coals, and put the meat in as fast as it is got ready, and carry it hot and covered to table; observe never to baste any thing on the gridiron, because that may be the means of burning it, and occasioning it to smoke. ‘‘ And now as there is nought on the fire that is spoiling, We’ll just give you two or three hints upon broiling; How oft’ you must turn a beefsteak, and how seldom A good mutton chop, for to have ’em both well done; And for skill in such cookery your credit't will fetch up. If your broils are well seasoned with good mushroom ketchup.” 1. To broil Beef Stealcs.—The best steaks are those cut oft'the rump, and they should not be more than half an inch in thickness. When well cooked, steaks are a favourite and frequent dish, and have a most in- viting appearance. Let there be a clear fire, and rub the gridiron with * “The rarish ways of dressing all manner of roast meats, either flesh or fowl, by sea and land, and diveis ways of breading or dredging meats, to pre- vent the gravy from too much evaporat- ing.”—May's yiccomylished Cook. Lon- don, 1665, p. 136. beef suet; when the gridiron is hot, lay on your steaks, and let them broil till they begin to look brown; then turn them, first dropping any gravjq that may have oozed out on the upper side, into the warm dish on which you intend to serve them, and when the other side is brown, lay them on the same dish, with a slice of butter between each steak, and sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them. Let them stand two or three minutes, and, in the mean time, slice a shalot as thin as possible into a spoonful of water; lay your steaks again on the gridiron, and keep turn- ing them till they are done enough; then dish them, and pour the water and shalot among them, with or with- out mushroom ketchup, and serve up. 2. To broil Midi on Chops.—Take a loin or neck of mutton, and cut chops from it about half an inch thick, and cut off the skin and part of the fat; the bones should not be long; rub your gridiron with such, as soon as it is hot, and lay on the chops over a clear fire, turn them often, and take care that the fat whieh keeps falling from them do not make the fire blaze, and smoke them; put them into a hot dish as soon as you think they are done, and rub a little butter over them, slice a shalot very thin, with a spoonful of water, and pour it over them, with a sufficient quantity of mushroom ketchup. The same rules will apply for pork chops as for mutton, with this differ- ence, that the former requires more broiling than the latter; as soon as they' are done, add a little good gravy to them, strew finely-powdered sage over them, which will give them an exquisite flavour. BROTHS.—A decoction ofiinimal and vegetable substances. When properly made, with a requisite pro- portion of animal and vegetable substances, without fat, broths and soups are wholesome and nutritive articles of diet, and may supply theBIl BR •19 place of both meat and drink; though bread ought invariably to be consum- ed with them, unless taken in very minute quantities at a time. Light broths agree with weak stomachs; and mutton is reckoned the best in- gredient on these occasions, though if taken in any quantity, without the addition of solid food, they are apt to lie heavy. A small quantity of solid aliment sometimes agrees bet- ter. The idea of broths diluting the gastric juice too much, is a physiolo- gical error which needs no refutation. The gastric juice is only secreted as required, and the less stimulating the food the smaller portion of it becomes necessary. Bland and easily digesti- ble substances, and mild liquids, stand in need of the least aid to assimilate them: it would be preposterous to suppose, that a greater quantity of gastric juice is present at all times than there is a demand for it. .4nd if a liquid, holding nutritive matter in solution, be introduced into the stomach, it is either coagidated by the gastric juice, or its watery part is absorbed, and the solid matter de- posited : in both cases the changes which they undergo are determined by the nature of their compositions— the one is absorbed and the other chymified; since it may be con- cluded that the solid form is an in- dispensable condition of bodies which are destined to undergo the processes of both cbymitication and their sub- sequent conversion into chyle; for, unless some provision had existed for the removal of the watery fluid from the stomach, the digestive func- tions could not have been properly performed. In making soups, broths, or gra- vies, the cook should pay particular attention to his pots, saucepans, and covers, and see they he very clean, and free from all sand and grease, and at the same time properly tinned; as if this particular be not cautiously attended to, the soups, gravies, and broths will acquire a bad taste, as well as prove deleterious to the health and constitution of many. When you make any kind of soup, particularly vermicellis, portable, or brown gravy soups, or any other soups that have herbs or roots in them, be sure to lay the jiieat at the bottom of the pan, with a large piece of butter; then cut the roots and small herbs, and having laid them over the meat, cover the pot or saucepan closely, and keep it over a slow hre, which will draw all the virtue out of the vegetables, turn them to a good gravy, and give the soup a very different flavour to what it would have by acting in any other manner. If your gravy should be almost dried up, re- plenish it with water, and when it begins to boil take off the fat, and follow the directions laid down for the particular kind of soup or broth, which arc copiously laid down in every Cookery book. Soft water will answer the purpose better, in making old pease-soup; but when soup is to be made of g'reen pease, hard water must then be used, as it will preserve the colour of the pease better. In the preparation of white-soup, remember never to put in your cream till you take your soup off the fire, and the last thing you do must be the dish- ing of your soups. Gravy-soup will have a skim over it by standing; and from the same cause pease-soup will often settle and look thin at the top. Lastly, let the ingredients of your soujjs and broths he so properly pro- portioned that they may not taste of one thing more than another, but that the taste be equal, and the whole of a fine and agreeable relish. Should you be aiiprchensive that gravy-meat may be spoiled before it be wanted, season it well, and give it ;i slight frying, which will jireserve it some days longer ; though the gravy is hest when the juices are fresh. When gravies or soups are to be put by for occasional use, they should be daily shifted into fresh scalded pans. .'\ny thing in which vegetables have beenBR BR 50 boiled, is liable to turn sour sooner than the pieces of meat alone. When any fat remains on soup, a little flour and water, uniformly mixed and boiled in it, will remove it. Should it be required to give a greater de- gi'ee of richness or consistency, a piece of butter mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will command either of these qualities. In the preparation of alimentary broths and soups the following direc- tions are to be attended to. 1. Procure wholesome meat pro- perly killed. 2. Earthen vessels are preferable to those of metal, because the first are less conductors of heat, and when once heated, a few hot cinders will keep them in as gentle a degree of boiling as may be required. 3. Use double the quantity of wa- ter to the weight of meat. 4. A sufficient quantity of com- mon salt to facilitate the separation of the albumen as well as its coagu- lation in the form of broth. 5. Sustain a temperature capable of carrying on the boiling of the mix- ture the whole of the time the froth is collecting on the surface of the liquid, which you will take good care to remove. 6. A temperature lower than re- quired by the preceding operation, and always of an uniform heat, that the liquid may only gently simmer, to afford time for the nutritive parti- cles and colouring, and extractive substances contained in the meat, to unite and combine with the water in the order of their respective solubi- lity.* Again, it is not the quantity of meat alone that makes good soup, but the manner in which the pot is managed on the fire. What is soup ? A decoction of meat containing animal extractive matter, as osma- zomo, which colours it, salt, and especially gelatine. In order that * Parmentier Code Pharmaceulique, 1811. p. 444, the meat may yield these principles to the water, the water must gradu- ally penetrate the meat, dilate the muscular fibres, and dissolve the gelatine which is interposed be- tween them; but in these same muscles there is likewise albumen. This albumen coagulates and be- comes hard at a temperature of 80®. Reaumere (212° Fahrenheit). If then you cause your pot to boil ra- pidly, before it be sufficiently diluted and penetrated by the water, what is the consequence? The albumen coagulates in the meat itself, and prevents the gelatine from escaping, you have both a weak and a hard soup ; but, on the contrary, if you have managed the fire in such a manner that the meat has had time to be penetrated, the albumen will gather up in a froth, the gelatine dissolves, the soup is savoury and nourishing, and the boiled meat tender. This constitutes the whole theory of pot boiling.*—See Boiling. BROWNING.—The culinarypro- cess of colouring soups, gravies, &c. BROWNING, FOR Soups, Gra- vies, &c.—To give colour to soups and grardes, fry some onions with flour to a good brown colour, but do not bum them, and add to the soup ; or a piece of bread toasted as hard and brown as possible, but not black- ened ; or melt some lump sugar in an iron ladle till it becomes brown, pour it upon boiling water, and stir it; give it a boil and keep it for use in a bottle. Truffles and snorells thicken soups and sauces, and give them a fine flavour; and the clear jelly of cowheels is also an useful ingredient in a house, as being an excellent improvement to soups and gravies; marrow-bones, shankbones of mutton, the gravy in which meat has been boiled, all contribute, by the addition of vegetables, in making excellent soups. To make Browning for Soups or * Cours Gastroaouiique, 1809.p. 291.BU BU 51 Gravies.—Acid four ounces and alialf of lump sugar, to a gill of water (quarter of a pint), and half an ounce of the finest butter; put them into a small pot, and set them over a gentle fire, and stir them with a wooden spoon till they become of a light brown ; then add a pint of wa- ter, boil and skim it, and bottle off for use when cold, and cork it close. As much of this ma}'^ be added to soup or gravy as will giv'e it the de- sired colour. .1-1 Clear Broioning for Gravy or Gravy Soups.—Put a knuckle of veal, two pounds of lean beef, and an equal quantity of a lean gammon of bacon, all cut in slices, into a stewing pan, with a sufficient quantity of scraped carrots, onions, turnips, and celery, to two quarts of water; let the meat be stewed till quite tender, but do not brown it. Thus prepared, it will serve either in soup, or brown, or white gravy; if for brown, add some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes.—See Made Dishes. BUCKBEAN.—See Marsh Tre- foil. BUCKWHEAT. —Used in se- veral phaces to make bread; which is easily digested, though not so nuti-i- tive as ours. It contains much oil, and a little salt. It is called Sara- cen crumb, because it formerly grew plentifully among the Saracens. BUG LOSS.—Bugloss and Bor- rage are two plants much used in cooling broths. We place them here together, because they possess the same virtues, and are often used the one for the other. They qualify the acrimony of the blood and other se- cretions. Their flowers are jiectoral and exhilarating. They are hard of digestion when eaten in substance; they consequently require to be pre- vioiLsly well boiled. They agree at all times with young people of a hot and bilious constitution. BU IlN ET.—There are two sorts of Burnet, one wild, growing in the fields, and not much used in food; and the garden burnet, most in use. It is difficult of digestion, and in- duces costiveness when used to ex- cess. That is to be chosen which is tender, small, and of an agreeable taste and smell. It is commonly used in salads. It was not known to the ancients. Some authors have placed it among the species of sassa- fras. Moderately used, it agrees with all ages and constitutions. The chief virtue in burnet is in its essential oil; it opens the venal glands, and gives a free passage to the serous humours that are contin- ually filtrating there, and expels those gross humours which tend to ob- struct the urinary passages. Burnet, in Latin, is called Pem- penella quasi Bepinella, because the leaves of it are two and two, ranged along the sides like those of the pine tree. It is also called Sanguisorba from its styptic properties. BURBAGE. — See Borrage, Bugloss. BUTCHERS’ MEAT. The flesh of all quadrupeds used as food, with the exception of those which come under the manipulation of the poulterer, as hares, rabbits, &c. falls within this denomination. BUTCHERS’ MEAT, To Choose. — Some directions in the selection of butchers’ meat are of great importance to all who desire to have the operations of the sto- mach conducted on the most salutary principles. Independent of this, to he able to distinguish the different kinds of meat, as exhibited for sale in the shambles, is a point of domes- tic economy from which considerable advantages are derivable. 1. Ox-Beef.—-In the choice of ox- beef, observe the following directions : If the'meat be young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, of a pleasing carnation red, and very tender: the fat must incline to a white rather than a yellow hue; for when it is ([iiite yellow the meat is seldom good. The suet ought to be perfectly white. F 2BU BU 52 2. Cow-Beef.—The grain of cow- beef is closer, the fat whiter, than that of the ox-beef, but the lean has not so bright a red, 3. Bull-Beef.—The grain of bull- beef is still closer; the fat hard and skinny. 4. Mutton.'—If you squeeze young mutton with your fingers, it will feel very tender ; but if it be old, it will feel hard and continue wrinkled, and the fat will be fibrous and clammy. The grain of ram mutton is close, the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. The flesh of ewe mutton is paler than that of the weather, and the grain is closer. Most people give the preference to short shanked mutton. 5. Lamb.—The head of a lamb is known to be good, if the eyes are bright and plump ; but if they be sunk and wrinkled, it is stale. If the vein in the neck of the fore-quarter appear of a fine blue, it is fresh ; but if it be green or yellow, you may be sure it is stale. In the hind-quarter, if there be a faint disagreeable smell near the kidney, or if the knuckle be very limber, it is not good. 6. Veal.—The flesh of a cow-calf is whiter than that of a bidl, but the flesh is not so firm. The fillet of the former is generally preferred, on ac- count of the udder. If the head be fresh the eyes will be plump ; but if stale, they will be sunk and wrinkled. If the vein in the shoulder be not of a bright red, the meat is not fresh; and if there be any green or yellow spots in it, it is very bad. A good neck and breast will be white and dry; but if they be clammy, and look green or yellow at the upper end, they arc stale. The kidney is the soonest apt to taint in the loin, and if it be stale, it will be soft and slimmy. A leg is good if it be firm and white; but bad, if it be limber, and the flesh flabby, with green or yellow s])ots. 7. Pork.—Measly pork is not only unwholesome to eat, but this state of it is not dillicult to detect, by the fat being full of kernels or little lumps. If it be young, the lean will break on being pinched, and the skin will indent by nipping it with the fingers; the fat, like lard, will be soft and pulpy. If the rind be thick, rough, and cannot be nipped with the fingers it is old. If the flesh be cool and smooth, it is fresh; but if it be clam- my, it is tainted; and, in this case, the knuckle will always be the worst. 8. Hams.—Those hams are the best which have the shortest shank. If you put a knife under the bone of a ham, and if it come out clean, and smell well, it is good; but if it be daubed and smeared, and has a dis- agreeable smell, it is bad. 9. Bacon.—If bacon be good, the fat will feel oily, and look white ; and the lean will be of a good colour, and stick close to the bone; but it either is, or will be rusty very soon, if there be any yellow streaks in the lean. The rind of young bacon is always thin; but if old, thick. 10. Brawn.—The rind of old brawn is thick and hard; but young if mo- derately so. The rind and fat of barrow' and sow brawn are xery tender. 11. Venison.—The fat of venison must, in a great measure, determine your choice of it. If the .fat be thick, bright and clear, the clefts smooth and close, it is young ; but a very wide tough cleft, shews it to be old. Venison will first change at the haunches and shoulders (the places, it is presumed, where they are first attacked by the dogs); at these parts run in a knife, and you will soon be able to judge of its new- uess or staleness, by its sweet or rank smell. If it be tainted, it will look greenish, or inclining to be very black. Obs.—Meat in which the slight- cst putrefaction can be detected, has reached its highest degree of tender- ness, and should be dressed without delay; but before this period, in which some kinds of meat is ofien- sive, the due degree of iuteneration53 BU BU may be ascertained by its yielding readily to the pressure of the finger, and by opposing little resistance to an attempt to bind the joint. Al- though it be strongly recommended to hang up animal food in the air, till its fibres have lost some degree of their toughness—yet, let us be clearly understood also to warn you, that if kept till it loses its natural sweetness, it is as detrimental to health, as it is disagreeable to the smell and taste. The time meat should hang to be tender, depends on the heat and humidity of the atmosphere: if it be not kept long enough, it is hard and tough; if too long, it loses its flavour: it should be hung where it will have a thorough air and draft, and be dried with a cloth night and morning, to keep it from damp and mustiness. Before it be dressed, let it be well washed; if it be a roasting piece, pare off’ the outside. If you fear meat will not keep till it be wanted, jjnr-roast or /ja?--boil it; it will then keep a couple of days longer, when it may be dressed in the usual manner, w'ith the excep- tion, that it will be done in less time. “ In Germany, the method of keep- ing flesh in summer, is to steep it in Rhenish wine, with a little sea-salt; by which means it may be preserved a whole season.’—Boerhaace s Aca- dem. Lect. translated hy J. Nather, 8VO. 1763, p. 241. The butcher and the cook often lose their credit by meat being dress- ed too fresh, as the fishmonger does by fish that has been kept too long. During the sultry summer months, it is almost impossible to preserve meat that is not either tough or tainted; the former is <is improper as the latter, for the unbraced sto- machs of relaxed valetudinarians, for whom, at this season, poultry, stews, &c., and vegetable soups, are the most suitable food, when the diges- tive organs are debilitated by the extreme heat, and profuse perspira- tion requires an increase of liquid to restore equilibrium in the cons.itu- tion.—See Meat to Carve. BUTCHER’S MEA'r, DIVI- SION OF.— 'fhe butchers have a methodical way of cutting up an ox, a sheep, a lamb, and a calf; which are designated by certain terms, and which constitute their distinguishing marks: e. y. a. Fore-quarter of an Ox.—This consists of the haunch, which in- cludes the clod, marow-bone, shin, and the sticking-piece, which is the neck end. The next is the leg-of- mutton piece, which includes part of the breast-bone; then the chuck; the brisket; the fore-rib; and the middle- rib, which is called the chvtck-rib. b. The hind-qiiarter contains the sirloin and rump, the thin and thick flank, the veiny ifiece, and the isc.h * * In tlie various works, ancient and modern, that have been elaborat- ed upon the materials of the kitchen, their authors appear to have been totally ignorant of the derivation of this word, which has been tortured into so many erroneous shapes and forms. Isch-bone of beef is unquestionably the proper name—the word isch being derived from Ischium, the name of a bone of the pelvis, composing a part of the Os innoniinatum (nameless bone, because it appears that anatomists have been puzzled to find out any shape corresponding to it in the material world) of the adult, so called, because it is near the loin. It is rather a little singular, that this etymology did not strike the palate of the culinary censor- general, tlie late Ur. Kitchener, who vulgarily ycleps it, in common with ISIotherGlass, an II. bone; and the Dr. does not forget to tell us, without, how- ever, deciding the question wlio is in the riglit, or vice-versa, that in “Mrs. Mason’s Ladies’Assistant,” this joint is called llaunch-bone; in “ Ilentlerson’s Cookery,” Edge-bone; in “ Domestic Management,” Aitch-bone; in “ Rey- nold’s Cookery,” Ische-bone (the proper term); in Mrs. Lydia Fisher’s “ Prudent I lousewife,” y/c/i-Aonc; in Mrs. M ‘I ver's Cookery,” Hook-bone; " 1 have also,”BU 54 BU- (by some, vulgarly and erroneously called the atck,0Y H. bone) or chuck bone, buttock, and leg. Besides the quarters, are the bead, tongue, and palate. The entrails are the sweet- breads, kidneys, skirts, and tripe; of which there are the double, the roll, and the red tripe. c. In a Sheep are the head and pluck, which include the liver, lights, heart, sweet-breads, and melt. The fore-quarter contains the neck, breast, and shoulder; and the hind-quarter the leg and loin. The two loins to- gether are called a chine or saddle of mutton, which is a fine piece, when the mutton is small and fat. d. hi a Calf, the head and inward entrails are called the pluck (which contains the heart, liver, lights, nut), and melt, and which are called the skirts; the throat, sweet-bread, and the windpipe, sweet-bread, which is the finest. The fore-quarter com- prises the shoulder, neck and breast; and the hind-quarter is the leg, which contains the knuckle and fillet, and loin. e. House Lamb.—In a house lamb are the head and pluck, namely, tlie liver, lights, heart, nut and melt, and also the fry, whicli consists of the sweet-breads, lamb-stones, and skirts, with some of the liver. In the fore- quarter, is comprised the shoulder, neck, and breast. The hind-quarter is the leg and loin. 'J’his is in high season at Christmas, and lasts all the year. says Ur. K., " seen it spelt JE«c/i-6oae and Ridge-bone; and we have also heard it called Natch-bone.” In Farley’s Cookery, which, it would appear from the title page, went through twelve edi- tions, if not more, it is also called Isch- bone, which unquestionable is the most proper, for the reasons above assigned. Mrs. Fislier’s ‘ Ach-bone’ may have had its origin in the rheumatic aftection or ach to which the ischium is subject, call- ed the sciatica in all probability ; and which Mrs. Ileynolds may have e.\pe- rienced in propria persona,—Eo. f. Grass Lamb.—As above. g. In a Hog, are the head and in^ wards, that is, the haslet, which con- sists of the liver, crow, kidney, and skirts; there are also the chitterlings and the guts, which are cleaned for sausages. The fore-quarter is the fore-loin and spring. If it he a large hog, you may cut off a spare-rib. The hind-quarter is only the leg and loin. h. A Bacon Hog is cut differently on account of making hams, bacon, and jrickled pork. Here y’ou have fine spare-ribs, chines, griskins, and fat for hog’s-lard. The liver and crow are much admired, fried with bacon, and the fat and ears are equally good soused. BUTTER.—Butter is an unctuous substance, made by agitating the cream of milk in a churn, tiU the oil separates from the whey or serous parts. Some of our churns are heavy machines, and require great exertions of strength to work them; but Mr. Townsend observes, that in Spain, the women churn as they' walk along, or stand chatting with a neighbour, each with a leathern bag, in which they' shake the cream till the butter is completely formed.* In Barbaiy, butter is made by putting the milk or cream into a goatskin suspended from one side of the tent to the other, and pressing it to and fro in one uniform direction; and in Bengal, butter is easily' made b_v the slight turning of a stick in milk.t The trade in butter in England is very considerable; some compute that 50,000 tons are annually' con- sumed in London only, within forty miles round which it is chiefly made. Fifty thousand firkins are said to be sent yearly from Cambridge and Suffolk alone, each firkin containing fifty-six pounds. A considerable part of this vast quantity is however brought from Downhain, ten miles • .lourney, vol. iv. p. 388. t Shaw’s Travels and Phil. Trans.BU BU o5 south from Lynn in Norfolk, to Cam- bridge, and thence conveyed by land carriage to London. Uttoxeter in Staffordshire, is a market famous for good butter, inso- much that the London dealers have established a factory there for that article. It is bought by the pot, of a long cylindrical form, weighing Hlbs.; but no butter is esteemed equal to that which is made in the count}' of Esse.x, well known by the name of Epping butter. It was long before the Greeks ap- pear to have had any notion of but- ter; their poets make no mention of it, and yet are frequently speaking of milk and cheese. The Romans used butter no otherwise than as medicine, never as food. The ancient Jews, however, appear to have been ac- quainted with the method of prepar- ing butter. Solomon, Isaiah, and even Moses, speak of it. The last represents it as in use in Abraham’s time. (See Gen. xviii. 8 ; Prov. xxx. 3.3; and Isaiah vii. 15). But some modern writers suppose that by but- ter in these passages we are to under- stand cheese: while others maintain that, in Scripture, the word butter almost always denotes liquid cream. When we read of children of being fed with butter and honey, it means, say these commentators, cream and honey, which was very common in Palestine. Eiguratively, it denotes plenty. See Job xx. 17, andxxix. G. E U I I E R, UlKECTIONS FOR Choosing.—In purchasing butter do not trust to the specimen given you to taste by the seller, lest he give you a taste of one lump and after- wards sell you another. In choosing salt butter, trust rather to your smell than taste, by putting a knife into it, and applying it to your nose. If the butter be in a cask, have it un- hooped, and thrust in your knife be- tween the staves, into the middle of it, for the top of the cask is soine- tinies better butter than the middle, owing to artful package. BUTTER, To preserve. — The common method of preserving butter is by working an ounce or two of salt into each jiound, until they be tho- roughly incorporated. The best salt for this purpose is in large crystals, which should be thoroughly dried, and coarsely powdered. Dr. Anderson’s ItecelpL*—For the cure of butter, Dr. Anderson recom- mends a mi.xture of two parts of the best grey salt, one of sugar, and one of saltpetre, beat into fine powder; one ounce of this preparation is suf- ficient for a pound of butter. It is stated on the same authority, that butter cured in this way does not taste well till it has stood at least a fortnight after being salted, but that after that period, is has a rich mar- rowy taste, which no other butter ever acquires, and tastes so little salt, that one would imagine it would not keep; and Dr. Anderson has seen it perfectly sound and sweet when two years old. Cause of Butler becoming Rancid. ■—It is principally from the milk, which is not entirely expressed from the butter, and in consequence of the albumen, which is constantly present, that it becomes rancid and spoils. These may, however, be separated by melting the butter, and keeping it over the fire until all the water be evaporated, when the albumen will also be coagulated, and sink to the bottom. And to guard against all risk of producing an empyreumatic taste,f the vessel containing the but- ter should not be e.xposed directly to the fire, but placed in a larger ves- sel filled with water, which is made to boil, forming, what chemists call, a water bath. While the butter re- mains fluid, it resembles a perfectly transparent oil, and, on cooling, it • See—Anderson’s Recreations, vol- iv. p. 87. t The offensive smell and taste, that substances receive from being exposed to too much fire.BU 56 BU becomes opaque, and is firmer and a little paler than the butter before it was clarified. It will keep a consi- derable time without salt; but if it be salted, as common butter, it will con- tinue sweet much longer in hot cli- mates than if it had been cured in its original state. The natives of Hindustan never use butter, but pre- fer what is called ghee, because it keeps better, and has more taste and smell. Their butter is prepared from coagulated acid milk; and in order to collect a sufficient quantity, it is often kept two or three days, by which time it is highly rancid ; it is melted in an earthen pot, and boiled till all tlie water be evapoi-ated. After it is taken from the fire, a little co- agulated acid milk and salt, or betel- leaf and reddle, are added. It is kept in pots, and eaten when even a year old. The two frequent use of butter relaxes and debilitates the stomach, takes away the appetite, provokes nausea, and heats much, especially if it be old (Lemerij) ; though, for the most part, when moderately used, it agrees with any age or constitution, though those who have weak sto- machs should use it abstemiously, as well as those of a hot and bilious constitution. Its good effects are nourishing and pectoral; it opens the body,and is of a dissolving and di- gesting nature. Butter is copiously used, and there is hardly any sauce made without it. The northen peo- ple use it very extensively, and con- sequently it is said that it is butter that makes them look so fresh and healthy. It contains much oil, and a little volatile salt. BUTTER MILK.—This is milk which has been deprived of its oily matter, by churning or agitation. If made of sweet cream it is a deli- cious and most wholesome food; those who can relish sour butter-milk find it still more light; and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. If not very soin-, it is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweet- ened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It does like- wise equally for cakes and rice pud- dings : consequently, it is economi- cal to churn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. BUTTER -VEGETABL E.— Mungo Park, the celebrated African traveller, says, that the fruit of the shea-tree affords a vegetable butter, which, besides the advantage of its keeping the whole year without salt, is whiter, firmer, and, to his palate, of a richer flavour than the best but- ter he had ever tasted, made from cows’ milk. These trees grow in great abundance in the kingdom of Bam- barra, on the banks of the river Niger. Its fruit, from whose kernel, boiled in water, the butter is prepared, has somewhat the appearance of a Spanish olive. M. Chevreul subjected the butter of cows’ milk to examination, and found that 100 parts of fresh hutter consist of Pine Butter . . 83.75 Butter Milk . . 16.25 From numerous experiments he con- cludes, that there exists in the oil of butter at least two fluid substances, one of which is soluble in all propor- tions of cold alcohol. It docs not possess acrid properties, and gives, by saponification, some sweet chemical principle, — butiric, caproic, capric, margaric, and oleic acids, hi. Chev- reul has given this oil the name of butyrine, because it contains the bu- tiric acid (or its properties) to which butter owes its odour. The other fluid substance has the properties of the oleic.—Annales de Chimie ef de Physique. BUT V RIN E.—Butter differs from the common animal fats, in containing a peculiar oleaginous matter, which is quite fluid at 70S Fahrenheit; and to which M. Chevreul has applied the name of butyrine. When converted into soap, it yields, in addition to the usual products, three volatile odori- ferous compounds; namely, the bu- tyric, caproic, and capric acids.57 C. CABBAGE, RED.—This is one of the most indigestible substances, particularly as eaten by the French and Germans, with ham and chest- nuts ; it is thus rendered heating, fla- tulent, and laxative, and contains no nourishment. More digestible, cool- ing, and less hurtful to the bowels, are the young sprigs of cauliflowers ; but the most indigestible of all is the colewort. What has been said with respect to cabbage, is applicable also to the orach, or atriplex, and the let- tuce, when boiled or stewed. CABBAGE, WHITE. — White cabbage is possessed of excellent pro- perties; it is less flatulent than the common g^reens, and being full of water, it is diuretic, and somewhat laxative. It is remarkable, that all herbs and plants, in general, are more or less flatulent, according to their digestibility, and are disposed to pu- Irescency in proportion to the time they remain in the alimentary canal. —See Sauer Kraut. The redeabbage is principally used for pickling; those which are close- leaved are tlie best. It is directed to be cut in quarters, and when the li- quor boils to put in the cabbage, and give it a dozen warms; then make the pickle of white-wine vinegar and claret. Beet-root may be added to it, first boiled, and turnips half boiled, and these may be used to garnish dishes or salads. Cabbages are in- different nourishment; though they are detersive, and heal wounds in the form of the cold raw leaf. Their first liquor, after boiling, is laxative; and the last, astringent. The red cabbage is more pectoral than the others. 'I'hey are difficult of digestion, and produce flatulency in weak stomachs; they are, therefore, usually well l)oiled, and eaten with pepper, to facilitate their solution in the stomach, and ob- viate the inconvenience attributed to them. In a tender state, they agree with young people of a bilious and sanguine constitution ; as soon, how- ever, as it ceases to be tender, that is, when it becomes hard, they ought not to be eaten by persons of any age or constitution. Hippocrates caused cabbages to be boiled twice, and then prescribed them to be eaten by those who W'ere troubled with gripes, bloody flux, or spitting of blood: by this process, cabbages were divested of their purging quality, and only the grosser parts left behind, which are mm-e astringent,—according to the following line:— " Jus caulis solvit, cujus substantia stringit.” C.‘\CAO.—This, in fact, is only a weak chocolate, which, being less pure than the former, weak chocolate might be properly substituted for it. —See Chocolate. The cacao, or chocolate-nut tree, is a native of America, but is cul- tivated in many of the West India Islands. It resembles a cherry-tree. The fruit is enclosed in a kind of pod, of the size and figure of a cucumber. Of this fruit, which consists of seeds, usually about thirty in number, with the addition of vanilla, and some other ingredients, the Spaniards, and, after their e.xample, the rest of Europe, make a kind of conserve, or cake; which, diluted in hot water, makes that delicious, wholesome drink, call- ed chocolate. It is likewise made into a sweetmeat; and there is an oil ex- tracted from it, which has been re- puted an extraordinary remedy in the cure of burns and scalds. The cacao- nuts are esteemed by the Mexicans as anodyne; and used, eaten raw, to assuage pains of the bowels. This statement refers to the cacao, or tree bearing ihe small jmls ; what follows, relates to the cacao-tree which bearsCA CA 58 the large nuts. This tree, it has been remarked, supplies the Indians with almost whatever they stand in need of. The bark of the nut is made into cordage, sails, and cloths; and the shell into drinking-bowls, cups, and other articles; the kernel affords a wholesome food; and the milk con- tained within the kernel a cooling liquor. The leaves are used for thatch- ing houses, and wrought into baskets ; and the body of the tree is converted into masts for ships, and employed for various other purposes. Indeed, from Lobo’s Voyage, and other authors, (see Ray’sWisdom of God in the Crea- tion, p. 207), we learn that a ship may be built, fitted out with masts, sails, and cordage, and victualled with bread, water, wine, sugar, vine- gar, and oil, from the cacoa-tree. CALICES, Capuchins, Capers, and flowers of Cresses, mix well with the colder salads; the buds, when candied, are also used as jiot- herbs in winter. CALUMB.\.—The root of a plant growing in Southern Africa, supposed to be the Cocculus Palmatus. It has a disagreeable, somewhat pungent taste, and a light aromatic smell. It is a very pure bitter, is tonic and stomachic. It is extremely useful in cholera when the vomiting has stop- ped, and in the bilious vomiting of warm climates; also in bilious fever, diarrhoea, and habitual vomiting.— With gentle laxatives, it is employed in habitual costiveness; and has also been given with success in hypo- chondriasis, hysterics, heart-burn, vertigo, sudden blindness from ner- vous causes, colic, and indigestion:— Take—■ Powder of Columba, 2 drachms. Boiling Water . 1 pint. Macerate for six hours, and take a \vine-glassful three or four times a day.—The tincture of Columba is a good preparation, and is given in doses from one to two drachms; the jiowder, from a scruple to half an ounce. CALX In its primary sense, lime, or a sort of stone burnt in a kiln, in order to make mortar. In chemistry, a kind of ashes, or fine friable powdei-, which remains after a body has undergone the violence of fire for some time. CAPERS.—Capers are the pro- duce of a low shrub, which generally grows among rubbish, and out of the joints of old walls, and the fissures of rocks. Dr. Smollett observes, that this plant requires no culture. They are pickled, and brought to England annually from Italy and the Mediter- ranean ; particularly from about Tou- lon in the south of France; from whence it is said, the gi-eatest part of the capers throughout Europe are derived. In the island of Majorca, they grow wild, and form a lucrative subject of exportation to individuals. They are chiefly used in sauces, and sometimes in medicine, as being very aperient, and employed in certain compositions for diseases of the spleen. In England, broom-buds are frequently substituted for capers. Capers are said to provoke women’s terms, and are good in asthma, hypo- chondriasis, and visceral obstructions. They create an appetite, fortify the stomach, kill worms, and increase the seminal discharge. If used im- immoderately, they heat and rarify the fluids too much. They agree in cold weather with old people, of a cold, phlegmatic, and melancholy constitution. Preserved capers are more used in sauces than for food. Their chief virtue consists in an essential oil which they contain. The green flowers of Spanish broom pickled as capers are often substituted for them. Such as are green, tender, and well pickled, ought to be selected. C.'VPON.—.A cock castrated, to make him fatter, and his flesh more delicious and tender. The cock being a lascivious animal, but as the great heat of his body is destructive to his flavour, and causes his flesh to59 CA CA become rigid, dry, and difficult of digestion; it is little used at the tables of the great. A capon, on the contrary, which is not subject to the same heat as the cock, does not sustain the same loss; and thus the most spirituous and balsamic parts of his blood being retained, they contribute to give his flesh better juice and a higher flavour. In choosing a capon, take that which is young, tender, fat, well fed, and bred in a pure and serene air. The flesh of capons is very nourish- ing, produces good juices, is restora- tive, recovers decayed strength, good in consumptive cases; especially the broth, which wonderfully strengthens and nourishes the sick and convales- cent. C.dPSICUM.—Guinea pepper. A native of the East and West Indies; is in long, roundish, taper pods, di- vided into two or three cellsful of small whitish seeds: when fresh, it has a penetrating, acrid smell, and an acrid and very pungent taste, pro- ducing a painful burning in the mouth for some time after. A spe- cies of this pepper, but much smaller, is called in the West Indies, bird ’pepper, and is the basis of a powder brought from thence, called cayenne pepper. It is a very strong sti- mulant, and may be given in the same diseases as cinnamon, and other stimuli. It is also used to give an artiticial strength to spirituous liquors, particularly British gin; as well as to give a pungent taste to weak beer; but, to avoid detection, the brewers mostly use the concentrated tinc- tures ; and ginger, coriander seed, and orange-peel, are used to flavour it: besides these, opium, cocculus indicus, nux vomica, tobacco, and extract of poppies, are used to in- crease the intoxicating qualities.— See Fininr/s. CARP.—A fresh-water fish, and is met with in rivers, ponds, and marshes. In places where they can get food enough, they increase to a large size. Authors speak of caiqi in lakes, ten feet long. They feed on herbs, mud and slime, and breed fast. They live to a great age, which is proved by some monstrous carp found in ditches near towns. Gesner assures us, that he knew a man of good reputation, who affirmed to him, that he had seen a carp a hun- dred years old. Carp is easy of digestion, and affords pretty good food and nourish- ment. Those caught in rivers are the best. They should be well fed, fat, and not too young for the table. The tongue of a carp is an Epicure’s bit. CARDAMO?»IS.—A dried pod with seeds, brought from Malabar, in the East Indies : the best comes from Armenia on the Bosphorus. The seeds freed from the husks, are a warm and grateful aromatic; they do not, like those of the pepper kind, immediately heat and inflame the bowels; hence they certainly deserve the preference for common use. The tincture of cardamoms is an excellent and useful preparation ; an ounce of which to five of cinna- mon-water is an excellent corrector of wind on the stomach. Cardamom seeds should be kept with their husks, or they will lose a considerable portion of their virtues. They are frequently mixed with gi-ains of paradise, which, though less aromatic in their flavour, are much hotter and more spicy. CARRAWAYS.—/Xmong all the native spices few excel in medicinal virtues the common carraway. They are warm and carminative, and have an agreeable smell. Proof spirit extracts all their virtues; the essen- tial oil also contains all their pro- perties. The powder may be given from twenty to thirty gi-ains. The seeds are the mildest and most use- ful carminative we have. To people of a weak digestion, troubled with flatulency and colics, they afford the most certain relief, if used in suffi-GO CA CA cient quantity ; for instance, a table spoonful at a time, early in the morning, and one hour before a meal : or still better, if the seeds are plen- tifully used in bread, and among cooked victuals. Those, however, of a hot and bilious constitution, likewise individuals liable to obstruc- tions and habitual costiveness, ought to use some caution against using these seeds indiscriminately, and not without taking professional advice. Carraway seeds, finely pounded, with a small proportion of ginger and salt, spread upon bread and hutter, and eaten every day, especially early in the morning, and at night before bed- time, are successfully used in Ger- many, as a domestic remedy against hysterics, and will doubtless effec- tually cure the disease, provided it does not arise from improper diet, obstructions of the intestines and other vessels, iliac, passion, bile, acrid humours, and the like; in all which cases the carraway and ginger will certainly do more harm than good; as each of them must be re- moved by opposite means. If, how- ever, carraway be kept in a pounded state, for the purpose of overcoming the disposition to flatulency and in- digestion, it soon turns rancid, and may prove hurtful on account of the strong oil it contains. The plant of carraway is one of the early spring- herbs, and makes an excellent addi- tion to salads. The seeds, when distilled with ardent spirits, yield a very heating and pernicious oil, which renders such spirits still more detrimental to health, than when they are in a pure state. 0ns.—The seeds of carraway (cariim cann) have also been used in brewing, but not so frequently as the coriander, which some be- lieve to add strength ns well as fla- vour. Carraway is found wild in England, and along with the cori- ander ; it is cultivated in some coun- ties for the use of confectioners and apothocavies.—See Coriamler. CARROTS. — Carrots are ex- tremely flatulent, and therefore an improper food for the weak, and those inclined to acidity ; by such individuals they can scarcely be digested, unless taken with the ad- dition of spice, and a proper quan- tity of salt; by which means their fermentation and corruption in the stomach will be in a great measure prevented. In other respects, they contain a good and copious alimen- tary fluid, at the same time power- fully affect the kidneys, and are like- wise anthelmintic, or destructive of worms. From the quantity of sac- charine matter it contains, the carrot is very nutritive and slightly laxa- tive; it also possesses a large pro- portion of fibrous matter, which in some stomachs prevents the digestion of the root, and it passes through the bowels with but little change ; to obviate this effect, it ought to be thoroughly boiled, and it should be eaten when young. The carrot ap- pears to have been introduced into England by the Flemings, in the reign of Elizabeth. The seeds of the wild carrot are diuretic and aromatic : in strong in- fusions in calculous complaints, they have, however, 3uelded to more effi- cacious remedies. The root of the garden carrot forms an excellent poultice to ill-conditioned and foetid ulcers. C.\RVING. T.vblf. Dissection'. —carver is one who performs the honours of the table, and distributes the diflerent viands, with address and expedition. The art of carving formerly constituted the integral of a good education, and in the old school there were carving masters as common as dancing masters. In this respect the Germans are vcr\- superior knife-men. With them, it is the butler who carves. lie I'e- moves each piece as soon as it ap- pears, and returns it dissected in the most masterl}' manner. It then goes round the table, and each servesCA CA G1 himself according to his rank or taste. It will be seen by the follow- ing curious extract from treatises printed by the famous Wynkyn de Worde, that the art of carving was not neglected bj' our ancestors, and that table dissection was then re- duced to a science, with as much precision and elegance as it is at the present day. The first treatise is called ‘The Boke of Kerving,’ and proves that the pleasures of the table must have been highly valued, when so pointed an attention was paid to their minutite. The extract is here given verbatim as it stands, ortho- graphically. ‘ The termes of a kerver be here as follow :— Breke that deer. Lesche that brawn. Lyste that swan. Rere that goose. Sauce that capon. Spoil that hen. Truche that cbekyn. Unbrace that mallard. Unlace that conye. Disfygure that peacocke. Unjoint that byterne. Untacke that curlewe. Allay that fesaunde. Wynge that patryche. Wynge that quaile. Mynce that plover. Tliye that pygon. Border that paste. Thye that woodcocke. Thye all maner of small birds. Tymbre that fyre. Tyre that egge. Chynne that salmon. Strj'nge that lamproye. Splat that pyke. Sauce that plaice. tenchc Splay that breme. Syde that haddock. Tuske that barbell. Calpin that troute. Tyne that chever. Trassene that ele. Tresme that sturgeon. Under-haunch that porpus. Tayme that crabbe. Barbe that lobster. Here endeth the goodly termes of kerving.’ See Meat, Fish, Poultry, dif- ferent joints of, to carve. In the days of yore, “ Le grand Ecuyer tranchant,” or the Master Cook, was the next officer of the mouth in rank to the “ Maitre d'Ho- tel," and the technical terms of his art were as singular as any of those which ornament “ Grose’s Classical Slang Dictionary,” or the “ Gipsies’ Gibberish:” the only one of tliese old phrases now in common use is “ cut up the turkey—we are no longer desired “ to disfigure a pea- cock”—“ unbrace a duck,” &c. See Instructions for the Officer's Mouth, by Rose, 1G82. Ceremony does not in any thing moi'e commonly and more com- pletely triumph over comfort, than in the administration of the honours of the table. It is seldom under- stood by those who deal out the loaves and fishes, that he is the best carver who serves the greatest num- ber of guests in the least portion of time. To effect this (according to the maxims of the late Ur. Kitch- ener), the best way will be to fill the plates and send them round, in- stead of asking each individual if they choose soup, fish, &c., or what particular part they prefer, for as they cannot all be choosers, you will thus escape making any invidious distinc- tions.—Cook's Oracle, p. 41. A dexterous carver, especially if he be possessed witli that determined enemy to ceremony and sauce—a keen appetite, will help half a dozen people in half the time one of your would-be - thought folks wastes in making civil faces, &c. to a single guest. It would save a great deal of time, &c., if ])oultry, especially large turkeys and geese, were sent to table ready cut up. Fish that is fried, should be previously divided into such GCA CII C2 portions as are fit to help at table. A prudent carver will cut fair; and ob- serve an equitable distribution of the dainties be is serving out, and re- gulate bis heljjs, by the proportion which bis dish bears to the number be has to divide it amongst—taking into the reckoning the quantum of appetite the several guests are pre- sumed to possess. “ Study their geniuses, caprices, gout— They, in their turn, may haply study you : Some wish a pinion—some prefer a leg; ,Some for a merry-thought, or side-bone beg ; The wings of fowls—then slices of the round— The trail of woodcock—of cod-fish the sound. Let strict impartiality preside— Nor freak, nor favour, nor affection guide.”—From the Banquet. CASSIA.—Though the bark of cassia resembles that of cinnamon in taste, it is much less beating, and certainly more beneficial for common use than the latter, which is better adapted to medicinal purposes. The baric of cassia is thicker and coarser; it breaks short and smooth, while the cinnamon breaks fibrous and in splinters. The pulp of the cassia Jishdaris, or cassia of the cane, is a gentle aperient and nutrient in fevers, and is useful where stronger ^nirga- tives might be injurious. CAULIFLOWERS.—See Cab- bage, Red ; and Vegetables, Introduc- tmi of. CELERY.—Celei'y is one of the most fragrant roots we possess in this climate, though its shoots and leaves are more commonly used for salads than the root itself. There are two s])ecies of celery known among gardeners, both of which are estimable : one produces thick knoTby roots, not unlike the size and figure of a short pine-apple; and the other has a variety of small white, tender, and odorous roots. 'J'he latter species is more common in this country, while the former is much esteemed in France and Get- many, where it is eaten in thin slices, previously soaked in vinegar; a pre- paration which, in summer, affords a cooling and wliolesome dish. In a raw state, celery is digested with some difficulty', wdiich may be re- moved by boiling it in water, or soaking it as before observed, for a short time, in vinegar. The Germans prepare an artificial coffee from this root, by cutting it into small square pieces, which are dried and roasted in the usual manner. This kind of coffee has been recommended, parti- cularly to nurses and lying-iu women, as a wliolesome substitute for either tea, or a real coflee. Mr. .John Anderson, gai'dener to the Earl of Essex, at Cassiobuiy, communicated a few years ago, in a letter to the secretary of the Horti- cultural Society', his method of grow- ing early celery. He forms in the ground a trench, six feet wide, and one foot deep; into this he puts six inches of rotten dung, mixed with a little road dirt, and mixes the com- post well with the soil by digging it together. The celery' is then planted in cross rows, six inches apart, and eighteen inches from row to row ; as the plants adv'ance, they'are earthed across the trench. By this means a much larger quantity' of celery' can be grown in the same space of ground than in the usual way ; but the me- thod is only a])plicable to early celery, for late crops so grown, would be liable to rot and perish.—Transact, of Jfort. Societg, \'ol. v. p. -192. CHAMOMILE. — A perennial ])hmt, indigenous in the south of England, but cultivated in our gar- dens for medicinal purposes. 'The flowers of chamomile are useful in indigestion, gout, green sickness, flatulent colic, and chronic weakness of the stomach and bowels. In these cases they are best given in the form of a cold infusion, or tea, in combination with ginger and car- bonate of soda. The warm strongG3 CII CH infusion is emetic. The extract of chamomile flowers is an excellent stomachic, possessing little stimulus and favouring the natural action of the bowels, and is therefore a conve- nient and useful addition to other tonics which we wish to give in the form of pills, as preparations of iron, ipecacuan, carbonate of soda. The weak infusion of the flower greatly assists the action of emetics; and a wine-glass of a strong infusion drank in the morning, promotes digestion, and strengthens the stomach and bowels. The flowers are also used in fomentations. CHAMPAIGN.— A wine, the produce of a province in the south of France of the same name. Though one of the most delicious wines, champaign ought to be in- dulged in with great precaution. The piquancy of the flavour, the racy tartness, and the sparkling brilliancy, are all dependent on the presence of an acid, which, if not obviated, is pro- ductive of deleterious consequences. The alcohol or spirit it contains, is, though little more than half the strength of port or Madeira, perhaps somewhat peculiar in exciting the stomach by its stimulus to greater action than it can well hear. The consequence, therefore, of excessive indulgence in this delightful and sparkling wine, i.s, that the stomach is fatigued with its bright and airy spirit, and actually over-delighted into weariness. It is not, therefore, to be wondered at, that champaign should, in such cases, bring on a fit of the gout, dispose to apoplex)', in- tolerable head-aches, cramp in the stomach, concretions in the gall blad- der, &c. with all the accompaniments of deranged digestion. “ The heat- ing, exciting, and certainly injurious qualities of champaign, with regard to gout, are much more remarkable than are found from any other liquor” {Scudamore on Gout). If then it has a tendency to bring on a first attack of gout, it need not be wondered that it is a ready occasional cause, in ])roducing a return of this relentless disorder. The habitual indulgence of wines of this sort produces effects which are more lasting and severe, in proportion as it can be continued without inducing a paroxysm of the gout. Those who are desirous of eii- joying their champaign without par- ticipating in its consequent evils, should add to it a few grains of mag- nesia, carbonate of soda, or spirit of hartshorn ; and although the alkali may injure its tartness and piquancy, it will obviate the had effects ; but to save the flavour which is so exquisite with the amateurs of this rich drink, a little magnesia may be taken a few hours afterwards in a separate form.—See French H ines. CHAMPIGNONS.—See Mush- rooms. CHARCOAL. — Charcoal varies in its qualities, according to the wood from which it is prepared: that of the soft woods, as the willow, alder, &c., well burned, is best for crayons, for making gunpowder, and for clarifying liquids; that of the harder woods is used for fuel, or for a support to substances exposed to the flame of a blow-pipe. Char- coal pulverized is used as a tooth pow- der; and in poultices to correct foetid ulcers; that of the areca-nut is the most fashionable dentifrice. (See Water, Purification of). The charcoal of the holly, if the hark he left on, is supposed to render iron brittle when worked by a fire made of it. From the experiments of Lowitz, and others, charcoal is now well known to lie the most jiowerful corrector of putridity, next, perhaps, to the gastric juice, out of the sto- mach ; hence we are able to account for the success with which it has been occasionally emjiloycd as an internal medicine on the Continent: the dose may he from half a scruple to a scru- ple, repeated three or four times a day. CHEEKS, HOG’S.—These used64 CH CH to be soused in some liquor and fried; they are not nutritious,and from their clammy and glutinous nature, are difficult of digestion. Equally so are the external parts of the same animal, as the eai’s and feet, hence they re- quire to be fi'ied with onions, and mustard eaten with them as a condi- ment. CHEESE.—One of the products of milk, and is made by pressing the curd of the latter, and suffer- ing the mass to dry. Milk is coagu- lated by runnet, or rennet, a liquor made by steeping the maw or sto- mach of a calf in warm water, in which spices and aromatics have been previously infused. Bacon observes that the milk of the pig has the qua- lity of rennet.—See Milk. The pig’s prest juice, infused in cream. To curds coagulates the liquid stream. Pope. The too frequent use of cheese is condemned by physicians, who main- tain that it is a food lit only for labourers, or those whose organs of digestion are strong. In England, cheese is made entirely from the milk of cows; but in some places they make it of ewe’s milk; and in others a certain proportion of ewe’s milk, or that of goats’ is added to the cows’. The Laplanders make a sort of cheese of the milk of the rein-deer. England has long been noted for the excellency of its cheese. Camden and others suppose, that we learned the art of making it from the Ro- mans. Chedder, in Somersetshire, and Stilton, in Huntingdonshire, are famed for an exquisite sort; the lat- ter being usually called the Parmes- san of England. Parma, in the north of Italy, is renowned through all Eu- rope for its excellent cheese, as our well known ballads bear testimony : “ Let Lodi or Parmassan bring up the roar.” Much of the cheese called Slilton cheese, is made in the neigh- bouring counties. The counties of Wilts, Gloucester, Warwick, and Cheshire, make immense quantities of cheese. From this last county Chester alone is said to export an- nually 22,000 tons—14,000 of wffiich are sent to London. The average annual produce from one animal in Cheshire is stated at 3001bs. The most common size of each cheese is sixty pounds; a weight susceptible of every excellence to be found in the cheese of this country; but some weigh 140lbs. And in May, 1792, Mr. Heath, a farmer near Nant- wich, a place situated in a luxuriant vale on the banks of the Weaver, made a cheese that weighed 1921bs. which measured two feet fom inches over, and twelve in tliickness. It was intended as a present for his late Majesty George III. The co- louring of cheese should be done with arnotto; but, in consequence of the dearness of this article, an adul- terated substitute is very commonly used. The following places are also noted on account of their cheese : Cotten- ham, near Cambridge; Banburjq in Oxfordsliire; Dunlop, in Ayrsliire, Scotland; Gmyers in the Canton of Fribourg, Switzerland ; Edam, north of Amsterdam in Holland; Gex, in the department of Aisne ; andMeux, in the department of Seine and Marne, France. The cheese of the last-mentioned place is known by the ajjpellation of “ Fromage de Brie;” a district in the environs of Meux, noted for its excellent pasturage, called Brie. All cheese is difficult to be di- gested, being the coarsest and most glutinous part of the milk, which the healthy and laborious only can con- coct. To others, it is too heavy ; it imparts a thick and acrid chyle to the blood ; it hardens in a weak sto- mach, and accumulates in an indu- rated earthy lump. When eaten new in any considerable quantity, it coi*- rupts the fluids; and if old it becomes putrid. Ale is the best beverage that can be used with it, when it is eatenCII G5 CII in great quantities at a time. In small quantities after dinner, it can do no great harm; but it is absurd to sup- pose that it assists digestion—its effects at best being of a negative kind, that is, by acting as a tempo- rary stimulant on the stomach; and even this is the case only with sound old cheese, which is neitlier too fat nor too far advanced in the process of putrefaction. To show the strongly viscid quality of cheese, and the power of diges- tion it must require to assimilate it to our fluids, the following composi- tioii is adduced, as the strongest ce- ment hitherto imagined, for mending china cups, glasses, and the like :— Take a piece of Cheshire or Glouces- ter cheese, and boil it in three or four different waters, till it forms a soft and elastic mass, freed of the whey and other extraneous ingre- dients. After having expressed all the water from this mass, and while yet warm, it must be gradually nibbed upon a piece of marble, such as is used by colourmen; and as much unslacked or quick lime, in powder, added, as will be absorbed by the cheese without making it too hard. This compound forms the strongest possible cement; and if allowed to dry gradually, it is able to withstand fire as well as water. Toasted cheese, though more agree- able to some palates than in its crude state, is yet still more indi- gestible. Cheese, if too much salted, like that of the Duteh, acquires, when old, a pernicious acrimony. The gjeen cheese of Switzerland, which is mixed with the jiowdcr of the wild mellilot, and the milder sage cheeses prepared in England, are almost the only kind that may be eaten without injury ; and even these should be used in moderation by weak stomachs. lnde])endent, however, of every objection advanced against the digestibility of cheese, it constitutes a prevailing article of substantial food among the labouringclasses, by whom it is often consumed in great quan- tities, without the least inconve- nience. To Choose Cheese.—The coat of the cheese should be carefully examined before it is purchased; for, if it be old, with a rough and ragged coat, or dry at top, you may expect to find little worms or mites in it. If it be moist, spongy, or full of holes, it will give room to suspect that it is mag- gotty. Whenever any perished parts are perceived on the outside, be sure to probe to the bottom of them ; for though the hole in the coat be but small, the perished part wfithin may turn out to go to a considerable 6Xt61lt. ' CHEMISTRY, ANIMAL.— This branch of chemical science em- braces all distinct compounds derived from the bodies of animals; and are called proximate animal princi- ples. These substances are distin- guished from inorganic matter by the characters which belong to the latter, namely, inorganic chemistry includes the doctrine of affinity, and the laws of combination, toge- ther with the chemical history of all the elementary principles hitherto discovered, and of those compound bodies which are not the product of organization. The principles wdiich serve to distinguish 'prox'imute animal principles from vegetable matter, are the presence of nitrogen in the former, their strong tendency to putrefy, and the highly oflensive products to which their spontaneous decomposition gives rise. It should, however, be remembered, that nitro- gen is likewise a constituent of many vegetable substances. Though few of these, the vegeto-animal excepted, are prone to submit to the process of ])iurefactive fermentation, it is equally remarkable, that there are compounds of animal origin, such as chlorestinc and the oils, which do not contain nitrogen as one of their ele- ments, still they are not disposed to putrefy. o 2cn CII 66 The essential constituents of ani- mal compounds are— Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, Oxygen. Some of them also contain phos- phorus, iron, sulphur, and earthy and saline matters, in small quan- tity. AU the proximate animal principles contain a large quantity of carbon, and their hydrogen is in such proportion as to convert all their oxygen into water, and their nitrogen into ammonia.—See Albu- men, Fibrin, Gelatine, Sugar of Dia- betes, Sugar of Milk, &c. CHERRIES. — This well-known fruit formerly grew spontaneously in the woods near Cerasus, a city of Pontus, on the southern coast of the Black Sea. Miller enumerates only five species of cherries; and from these, modern botanists assure us, the great varieties cultivated in the English gardens are derived. Cherries are divided into the aque- ous sweet, the aqueous acid, and the dry pulpous kinds. The Spanish cherries are the most difficult to digest, but are also the most nou- rishing. The aqueous sweet kind, as our early common cherries, are unwholesome, because their juice easily ferments, and occasions colics and diarrhoea. The watery acid sort are the best of any; their juice strengthens the stomach, purifies the blood, and is the least flatulent. Dried cherries are, in many dis- eases, an excellent article of diet, on account of their cooling and an- tiseptic properties. To swallow cherry stones, however, is highly pernicious, as they have sometimes been found to accumulate in the in- testines, to form lumps cemented together by viscid phlegm, and thus to produce the most violent and fatal symptoms. They are excellent in scurvy, putrid fevers, and dysentry; they correct the blood, wbcn inclined to putrescency, and by their sapona- ceous ormelliferousjuice, thejf power- fully resolve obstructions in the in- testines. Those who use them with this intention, may eat them at any time of the day, though they ope- rate most effectually in the morning, on an empty stomach. But even the sweet species contain a stimulating acid, which, in proportion to their juicy consistence, disagrees more or less with the weak and debilitated; for this sap or juice easily foments in the stomach, and produces flatu- lency, diarrhoea, and acidity. On account of these peculiar effects, per- sons whose stomachs are bilious and vitiated, who are troubled with pu- trid eructation, and an offensive breath, ought to eat them freely, to counteract the disposition to pu- tridity. CHERRY LAUREL. — The ce- rassus lauracerasus of Lois, is ori- ginally a native of Trebizond, but is cultivated very commonly in tins country, reaches to a very consider- able size, and produces ripe fruit, which is eaten greedily by the birds. Its leaves are evergreen. When recent and entire they have no smell; but on being burned they have a strong kernel smell, and a slightly styptic and intensely bit- ter taste. When dried they lose their colour, and become almost in- sipid. In their recent state they have been long known to possess deleterious properties;, and Bergius obtained a volatile oil from them. Schreder, in 1802, shewed that they contained hydrocyanic acid. The oil is very analogous to that of bitter almonds, and is sold under its name for the use of perfumers and recti- fiers, who imitate with it the liquor called Noyeau. The recent leaves are also boiled in cream, to give it the flavour of Ratafia : but on some persons the smallest quantity acts unpleasantly, producing an eruption of the skin called urticaria, or nettle- rash. A water is distilled from the recent leaves, which is used medi- cinally as a substisute for liydrocyanic or prussic acid, and seems in many respects j)referable, as being not onlyCH I CH less liable to decomposition, but less dangerous. CHESTNUTS.—Nuts are gene- rally supposed to have constituted the earliest food of mankind; and, in some countries, they still supply a considerable source of food. In this country they are principally known as an article of the dessert, although occasionally eaten with our food: they are made a favourite accompa- niment with turke}^; though dispep- tics should be e.xtremely guarded in their use. Dr. Paris gives a case which, while on this subject, is wor- thy of being here recorded. “ I was lately desired to see a person who, after such a repast, was seized with violent pain in the region of the duo- denum, accompanied with distress- ing retching. I instantly suspect- ed the cause, and the appearance of the stools, w'hich were produced, confirmed my supposition. The chestnuts had swelled in the intes- tines, and produced an obstruction, probably at that part of the duode- num where it makes its exit through the ring of the mysentery ; or they might have lodged in the stomach, and produced an irritation upon the pylorus.”—See Treatise on Diet., &c. p. 2.32. The chestnut, as regards its com- position, may be considered as more closely allied to the pulse than the nut tribe, since it affords no oil by expression ; and from its farinaceous qualities it may even be made into bread, although it is heavy and indi- gestible. Its nutritive power must be considerable, since it forms the chief food of the lower orders in the lains of Lombardy; and an opinion as prevailed that the chestnut was the acorn so frequently mentioned in ancient history’. When eaten after dinner, the chestnut ought to be roasted; but even in this state it is only fit for strong and robust sto- machs and constitutions. Its diges- tibility is also increased by being kept for some time after it has been / gathered. It is at the same time rendered thus more palatable by the evolution of its saccharine property. The evils which may arise from the use of this nut are still more likely to ensue after the ingestion of nuts, for they are then more oily, as well as more viscid and glutinous — when eaten they should invariably be ac- companied with salt, though it would be a wise plan to banish them en- tirely from our tables. There is, however, a fascination in nuts which cannot always be resisted, and which leads a person, who once begins to eat them, to take such a quantity that the best stomach cannot bear with impunity. It is observed by Hoffman, that bowel complaints are alwayfs more prevalent in those years in which the nut-harvest is more plentiful. CHLORESTINE.—A name ap- plied by a French chemist (M. Chev- reul), to the crystalline matter, which constitutes the basis of most of the biliary concretions formed in the human subject. It has lately been detected in the bile of man, and in several of the lower animals, as the ox, dog, pig, and bear. This inte- resting discovery was made about the same time, by Chevreul, in Paris, and by Tiedemann and Gmelin, in Heidelberg. M. Lassaigne has like- wise found it in the biliary calculi of a pig. ///ZM. (Ic Chimii et de Pharm. vol. xxxi. “MM. Pelletier and Caventou, have obtained a new acid from chlorestine, or the pearly sub- stance of human biliary calculi dis- covered by Poulletier-de-Laselle, and named by Chevi’eul. Chlorestine is to be heated with its weight of strong nitric acid, until it cease to give off’ nitrous acid gas. A yellow substance separates on cooling, scarcely solu- ble in water, and which, when well washed, is pure chloresteric acid.’’— Journal of Science. CHOCOLATE. — A well-known article of diet prepared from the cocoa-nut. highly nourishing, parti-cii 68 CH ciilarly Avlien boiled with eggs and milk. It is frequently recommended as a restorative, in cases of emacia- tion and consumption. It is more nourishing and less heating than coffee. It is commonly made too thick; hut when of a proper degree of strength, it is a very palatable and wholesome beverage, though, on account of its oily quality, it proves oppressive and clogging to some stomachs. When boiled with milk and eggs, chocolate is e.xtremely nourishing: but the spices with which it is mixed, such as cinnamon, cloves, musk, va- nilla, and the like, make it more heating and less wholesome. Vanilla, which is always found in Spanish cho- colate, is an extremely volatile and pungent aromatic; even its flavour is insupportable to hysterical and hypochondriacal persons; it occa- sions violent head-ache, trembling, giddiness, and other symptoms, oc- curring in these complaints. The common chocolate prepared with eggs, sugar, milk, and w'ater, is the most nutritive and wholesome; hut a too frequent and immoderate use of it is always hurtful, particularly to the individuals before alluded to, as the cacao is too fat and indigestible to them, and creates a false or forced appetite. Cacao, of itself, is less heating and lighter than if made into chocolate, hut it is not so nourishing. The immoderate use of this oily be- verage, is <apt to induce afebrile state in young people, and to supply the sedentary with superfluous nourish- ment; while, like coffee, it frequentl)' brings on a state of irritability and uneasiness. To the corpulent and weak, cho- colate is improper; and if they he immoderate eaters, it induces inflam- matory diseases and apoplexies. It also disagrees with j)ersons much employed in mental pursuits; and those who imagine that it will supply their losses, sustained by nocturnal debaucheries of whatever kind, will find themselves disappointed in their hopes. By continually drinking cho- colate, and using other nutritive sub- stances, they will, indeed, he stimu- lated to new iiTegularities, but even- tually at the expense of their palsied nerves, and their broken frame. In children threatened with a wasting, or spinal consumption, as likewise in some of the complaints of the lungs in the adult state; chocolate, with a sufficient quantity of milk, may have a beneficial effect; but, even in these cases, a strong decoc- tion of roasted oatmeal in milk, with a small addition of chocolate, is much better calculated to promote a return of health.—See Cacao. CHYLE.—In the animal eco- nomy, the word chyle, derived from the Greek, implies a milky fluid, extracted from dissolved aliments of every kind, and conveyed to the blood, through the medium of the l^unphaties and thoracic duct. The aliment having been reduced to chyme iu the stomach, is propelled into the duodenum (see Intestine.^) where it is converted partly into chyle, which is absorbed into the sys- tem from the small intestines, and partly into a residual matter, that assumes the nature of faeces in the large intestines, and is idtimately re- jected from the system. As it is into the duodenum that the biliary and pancreatic ducts discharge their re- spective fluids, chylification is gene- rally presumed to be essentially con- nected with the action of the bile and the pancreatic liquor. (Sec C/n/nie). So far as the organ of the stomach is concerned in the digestive function, we have some insight into the pro- cess. But beyond this, namely, of the nature of chylification, we have little or no knowledge that can he depended upon.—See /hie, Digestion, Gastric Juice, Stomach, &c. CHYLIFICATION.—The act of turning into chyle.—See Chyle. CHYME.—The residual alimen- tary matter ejected per anum. TheCl I CH 69 process of ch}'mification is as fol- lows ;—The food having undergone a sufficient degree of mastication and maceration, or otlier mechanical pro- cess, by which it is reduced to a state of sufficiently minute division, it is acted upon by the gastric juice and the peristaltic contractions of the sto- mach, and the result is a complete change in its properties—its conver- sion into chyme; an alteration in every respect analogous to a chemi- cal change. During the process of chymification, heat is occasionally ex- tracted, and not unfrequently gas is evolved. Dr. Bostock, however, re- gards these not as necessary steps in the process, but rather as the conse- quence of a morhid state of the func- tion. Antecedent to Dr. Front’s ex- periments, the generation of acid in the stomach used to be considered in the same point of view; but these lead us now to believe it to be essen- tial to the formation of chyme.— Elem. Syst. of Physiology, vol. ii. p. 491. Chyme is not always of an uni- form quality; as its properties are very much dependent upon the na- ture of the food. According to re- cent experiments made on dogs and horses, it appears that liquid albu- men forms, under the natural process of digestion, a homogeneous fluid, in which the albumen remains quite unaltered; and this sort of chyme passes the pylorus much more ra- pidly than any other. Coagulated albumen is also much more slowly dissolved, and the fluid produced fassesses the properties of coagu- ated albiimen dissolved in acetic acid. Fibrin and vegetable gluten undergo a similar change. Gelatine is converted into a clear brownish fluid, in which neither gelatine nor albumen can be discovered. VVliite cheese forms an opaque dirty-white fluid, containing much animal mat- ter, which, however, is neither the case with gelatine nor albumen. Starch is gradually dissolved, and loses its re-action witli iodine, being converted into sugar and amodine. The results obtained with compound articles of food, such as milk, beef, bread, and oats, in various states of mixture, were such as the foregoing facts would lead one to anticipate. The result of bones, was a liquid containing not only animal matter, but also a large quantity of lime. The conclusive result is, that all the animal principles, except liquid al- bumen, undergo a material change during chymification, which change generally consists in their being made to approximate closer in their nature to albumen.—See Edinburgh Medical and SurgicalJ ournal, No. 93, p. 358, on the writings of MM. Leuret and Lassaigne, and of Tiede- mann and Gnielin. — See also the word Chyle, Gastric Juice, &c. Chyme, whatever may be the ali- mentary substance introduced, pre- sents the invariable property of red- dening paper coloured with tournsal, and it has always a sharp odour and taste. CHYMIFICATION. —Turning into chyme.—See Chyme. The period necessary for chymifi- cation to take place, must vary ac- cording to the nature and volume of the food, the degree of mastication and insalivation it may previously have undergone, and the degree of vital energy possessed by the sto- mach. Fat, tendon, cartilage, coa- gulated albumen, mucilaginous, and saccharine vegetable matter, resist the action of the stomach longer than fibrinous and glutinous substances. {Magendie). In the formation of chyme, the following considerations must be borne in mind:—1st. The circumstances under which the ali- ment contained in the stomach is found ; and, 2d. The chemical nature of these substances. — See Magen- die's Physiology ; Forsyth’s 'I’ransla- tion. CINNAMON.—The hark, (hut not the external one, for there is aCO CL 70 thin epidermis) of the Laurus Cin- namomum of Linnseus, growing abundantly in the island of Ceylon. It contains a fine essential oil, wliich renders it a high stimulant; the oil is so pungent, as to be like the actual cautery to the tongue ; one drop of it, to a pint of water, warms the sto- mach, but it is extremely volatile, and much of its strength is lost be- fore it reaches this country. It is unquestionably a most delicate spice, though it is seldom obtained pm-e from the mercenary Dutch, who were accustomed to send us more cassia than real cinnamon.—See Cassia. Cinnamon, when imported, does not contain more than one hundredth part of its essential oil, and becomes one of our mildest ai’oniatics; it breaks short, not fibrous; chewed, it emits a fragrant odour. The leaves of it are aromatic as well as the bark. Cassia can hardly be distinguished from it by the eye. It is a singular fact, that cassia gives no essential oil by distil- lation, though it is stimulant to the mouth and stomach, and impregnates water, which shews that it must con- tain some portion. Cinnamon excites the stomach to stronger action by stimulating its mucous membrane, and causing an increased secretion of gastric juice; it prevents vomiting and colic, and is usefully employed with bark and other tonics in indigestion; in nervous languor, syncope, and hysterics, it is useful; from fifteen grains to thirty for a dose. Three drops to four of the oil of cinnamon, diluted, relieves the atonic and retrocedent gout, like opium and bi-andy, but the last are best. The compound tincture of cinnamon is a very elegant prepara- tion ; it is usel'ul in nervous languor, Hatulence, and a disposition to cramp, and in go)ity pains of the stomach. ClTllON.—See Lemon. C L A R E T. — Claret, or clairet (])ale-rod) is a name given by our neighbours the French to such of their red wines as are not of a deep or high colour. The word itself is a diminutive of clair, bright or trans- parent. Lord Chesterfield, in his celebrated ‘ Letters to his Son,’ in- forms him, that claret comes from Bourdeaux; a testimony confirmed by the authors of the ‘ Encyclopoedia Britannica,’ who say that the country adjacent to this city, not only pro- duces the finest clarets, but at the season of the vintage, forms one of the most delicious landscapes in the world. Mr. Townsend observes, that a generous wine, produced near Al- cala in Spain, is much used for en- riching the poorer wines in the neigh- bourhood of Bourdeaux, for the pur- pose of making claret. — Journey, vol. iii., p. 302. CLOVES. — The ripe fruit, or perhaps the cups of the unopened flowers of a bay-like tree, growing in the Molucca islands. Their proper- ties are stimulant and aromatic; have a strong but agreeable smell, a bitterish hot pungent taste, and are one of the hottest, most pungent, and acrid articles of the aromatic class. They are stimulant and aphrodisiac, are usefiil in torpor and cramp of the stomach, and in flatulent colic. They enter our culinary spices ; are remarkabl}' disposed to imbibe humi- dity; find when their essential oil is extracted from them, which the Dutch frequently do, and then mix them with others that have not had it ex- tracted, they readily imbibe from the latter a considerable share both of taste and smell; but their dryness, less pungent odour, and pale colour, discover the fraud. A small quan- tity of the essential oil dropped on lint, and applied to the hollow of a tooth, relieves the tooth-ach. To niiike a tincture of cloves and mace.—Tal;c, cloves bruised, three ounces, apothecaries’ weight; brandy one quart. Let it steep ten days, and strain through a flannel sieve. It is excellent to flavour bishop or mulled wine.—See Cordials. COCCULUS INDICES. — TheCO 71 CO fruit of the Menispermuin Cocculus, better known by the names of Inclia- beiTy and Cocculus Indicus. Its importation into this country from the East Indies is very great, consi- dering that few know the purpose for which it is principally used: for, though the cisampelos paneira (which many botanists state to be the same plant), has a place in the Pharmaco- poeias, its virtues are generally re- ferred to the root, and that root is brought from America. That cocculus indicus is a strong narcotic, is unquestionable; and it is to this property alone that it pre- serves its place in the brewery. In India, the berries are thrown into the water for the pur-pose of catching fish, which by swallowing them be- come into.vicated. They were once used here in the same way; but the practice,we believe, is now prohibited. The e.xtensive use of this ingredient was proved to a Committee of the House of Commons in 1818. Those who give brewing receipts, recom- mend it in quantities of fourpourrds to twenty barrels, boiled with the worts : but there appears to be a mystery on this subject, which demands investi- gation.—See Vomica. COCK.—The flesh of the cock is not so nour-ishing as that of a capon, (see Capon); and his flesh is nrore rigid and difficirlt of digestion ; broth is made of the cock’s flesh, and for this purpose the oldest is always choseir. This broth is of an opening and detersive rrature; is nrildly ape- rient, and is reckorred both nutritive and restorative. Some of the ancient physicians say that the genitals of this bird, especially when young, are good for lean and emaciated persons, and that they generate the seminal fluid: that brains are good in diar- rhoea: they also considered the gall ot a cock to be good in some cases of diseased eyes, as well as to remove spots and freckles on the skin — Cocks-combs are delicate eating, and a highly prized epicurean dish. and claim an elevated place among “ The heads of parrots, tongues of nightingales. The brains of peacocks and of ostriches, &c.” COD.—A sea-fish, caught in great plenty on the banks of Newfound- land, Dogger-Bank, &c.—See Fish. Cod generally comes into good season in October, when, if the wea- ther is cold, it eats as fine as at any time of the y'ear; towards the latter end of January and February, and part of March, they are mostly poor; but the latter end of March, April, and May, they are generally particularly fine; having shot their spawn, they come in fine order. The Dogger-Bank cod are the most es- teemed, as they generally cut in fine large flakes; the north-country cod, which are caught off the Orkney isles, are generally stringy, or what is commonly called tvoollp, and sell at a very inferior price, but are caught in much greater abundance than the Dogger cod. The cod are all caught with hook, and brought alive in well-boats to the London markets. The cod cured on the Dogger-Bank is remai-kably fine, and seldom cured above two or three weeks before brought to market; the barrel cod is commonly cured on the coast of Scotland and Yorkshire. There is a great deal of inferior cured salt fish brought from Newfoundland and Ireland. “ The skull of a Dogger-Bank cod is one of those concatenations of tit- bits, which some epicures are so fond of either baked or boiled: it is com- posed of lots of pretty playthings, or other such finery, but it will not do for those who want a good meal: it may be bought for about two shillings. Either boil it whole orcut itinto pieces —flour and dry them, and then egg and crumb, and fry them; or stew it. —The tail of a codfish cut in fillets, or slices, and fried, makes a good dish, and is generally to be bought at a very reasonable rate ; if boiled, it isCO CO 72 soft and watery. The skull and tail of a cod is a favourite and excellent Scotch dish, stewed and served up with anchovy or oyster sauce, with the liquor it is boiled, in a tureen.— See The Cook’s Cookery. Ling is brought to the London market in the same manner as cod, but it is very inferior to it, either fresh or salt.—Ibid. Cod-fish is by some esteemed hard of digestion, and of a clammy and glutinous substance; by others again it is considered quite the contrary, easy of digestion and highly nutritive. The substance indeed of this fish is of a moderate firmness, and not too hard. Salted and dried, it is less nutritious and more difficult of digestion. Of these kinds, the haber- dene and ling are accounted the best and most dainty; stockfish the worst, concerning which, it has not been wrong said, ‘ perfectononmagisnulrit quam lapis,’ i. e. It yields no more nourishment than a stone. It is, therefore, reserved with biscuit bread for the strong stomachs of sailors, when not furnished with better food. COFFEE.—Coffee is a decoction of the well-known bean, or berry, of that name, produced by the coffee- tree, which is cultivated in Arabia, Persia, the East Indies, the Isle of Bourbon, and several parts of Ame- rica. It is also raised in botanic gardens in several parts of Europe. Prince Eugene’s garden, at Vienna, produced more coffee than was suffi- cient for his own consumption. The tree, being an evergreen, makes a fine ajjpearance at all seasons of the year, but especially when in flower; and when the berries arc red, which is gcnei'ally in the winter, so that they continue a long time in that state. Good Turkey coffee is by fur the most salutary of all liquors drunk at meal time. It possesses nervine and astringent qualities, and may be taken with advantage at all times, except when there is bile on the sto- mach. 11 is a good antidote against an overdose of opium, and relieves obstinate spasmodic asthmas. For the latter purpose, the coffee ought to be of the best Mocha, newly burnt, and made very strong after grinding it. Sir John Pringle com- monly ordered one ounce for a dose, which is to be repeated fresh, after an interval of from a quarter to half an hour, which he directed to be taken with sugar or milk. Sir John P'loyer, who had been afflicted with asthma from the seventeenth year of his age until he was upwards of four- score, found no remedy for his com- plaint in all his elaborate researches, until the latter part of his life, when he obtained it from coffee. The Arabian coffee is found gi’eatly to excel that raised in the West India plantations, and elsewhere, which is the reason of the tree not being so much cultivated in the British Colo- nies. Coffee-berries are very apt to imbibe the moisture of the flavour of any thing placed near them. They have been rendered very disagree- able, or utterly spoiled, by being placed in a closet near rum, spirits of wine, or pepper. The beverage prepared from coffee berries has been familiar in Europe for more tlian a century, and among the Turks for upwards of 200 year’s. Its origin is not well known: some ascribe it to the prior of a nronastery, who, being informed by a goat-herd, that his cattle sometimes browzing on the tree, would wake and caper all night, became ciu’ious to prove its virtues. Accordingly, he first tried it on his monks, to prevent their sleeping at matins. Others refer the invention of coffee to the Per- siairs. It seems, however, to have been first brought into vogue at Aden, a city near the month of the Red Sea. Hence it passed to Mecca; from Arabia Felix it was conveyed to Grand Cairo; from Egypt it passed to Syria and Constantinople. Theve- not, the traveller, was the first who brought it into France; and a GreekCO CO 73 servant, called Pasqua, brought into England in 1652, by Mr. Edwards, a Turkey merchant, to make his coffee, first set up the trade of a coffee man, and introduced drink- ing it in this island. The bitter, astringent powers of the coffee-beans, in some measure correct the bad properties of warm water; but if they be too much roasted, their empyreumatic oil is expelled, and they acquire an insi- pid taste. If, on the other hand, they be not sufficiently roasted, tins burnt oil is not evolved to the sur- face of the bean, and tbe coffee ac- quires a bitter and unpleasant flavour. When coffee is intended as a pro- moter of digestion, it should be care- fully made by infusion, that is, by putting it into boiling water, and suffering it to stand and gently sim- mer ; decoction dissipates its fine aro- matic properties. Coffee drunk after dinner pro- motes digestion; and agues, diar- rhoeas, and giddiness have been fre- quently removed by it. Its subtle oil stimulates the solids, rarefies the blood, and consequently is of pecu- liar service to females of a sedentaiy life, and to those wbo suffer pblegm- atic and bilious disorders. If drunk too strong it affects tbe nerves, and, by its penetrating properties, often occasions tremors of tbe bands and sleeplessness; but in some phleg- matic and indolent individuals it is apt to excite sleep. Tbe custom of taking coffee immediately after dinner, so generally adopted by the French, must, doubtless, tend to counteract the bad effects which the peculiar form of their diet is calcu- lated to produce. If it be used merely as a diluent for relaxing the fibres, it ought to be made strong; that is, in the proportion of an ounce to a pint of water, which should be allowed to boil up, and left to sim- mer very gently, with every aper- ture ill the coffee-pot closed, to keeji in the steam as much as possible. As coffee possesses excellent anti- spasmodic properties, it is a favourite beverage with the asthmatic and hys- terical. The steam of boiling coffee has often been found beneficial to the eyes. If drunk in the morning, of a proper strength, for breakfast, it ought to be diluted well with milk, and indeed, some prefer to boil the milk with the coffee, which renders the latter more digestible. When taken in the afternoon, a small teacup full or two, without milk, and sweetened with sugar-candy, as- sists digestion, and is an excellent substitute for spirits, particularly to persons in a good state of health, and to such as are not habitual wine drinkers, or of a very irritable con- stitution. Its immoderate use, how- ever, like every other thing taken in excess, is pi'ejudicial to the health, and destructive to the diseased: it W'eakens the latter still more by causing great undulations in the blood, trembling of the limbs, giddi- ness, and a certain intolerable timi- dity. It leads people of a sanguine temperament, and particularly fe- males, to the long train of all the fashionable nervous diseases. It fre- quently occasions, in some constitu- tions, a disagreeable eruption of the face, and many other troublesome disoi’ders; and, says a late writer, (Willich), “ occasions bleedings at the nose, and sometimes spitting of blood, induces frequent hemorrhoides, a hectic cough, and at last, consump- tion and death.” From several experiments and ob- servations, made by Dr. Percival, to ascertain the efiects of coffee on the human body, he infers that it is slightly astringent and antiseptic; that it moderates alimentary fermen- tation, and is powerfully sedative. It assists digestion, relieves the head- ache, ami has been prescribed with great success in asthma, as already observed. In delicate habits, the too liberal use of it has been suspected of producing palsies, lint if coffee IICO CO 74 be drunk warm, as above directed, within an liour after dinner, it is of singular use to those who have head- ache from weakness in the stomach, contracted by sedentary habits, close attention, or accidental drunkenness. It is of service when the digestion is weak; and persons afflicted with the sick head-ache are much benefited by its use in some instances: though this effect is by no means uniform. Dr. Mosely observes, that, “ the extraordinary influence which coffee, judiciously prepared, imparts to the stomach, from its tonic and invigo- rating qualities, is strongly exem- plified by the immediate effect pro- duced on taking it when the stomach is overloaded with food, or nauseated with surfeit, or debilitated by intem- perance. To constitutionally weak stomachs, it affords a pleasing sen- sation ; it accelerates the pi-ocess of digestion, corrects crudities, and re- moves colics and flatvdences. Be- sides its effect in keeping up the har- mony of the gastric powers, it dif- fuses a genial warmth, that cherishes the animal spirits, and takes away the listlessness and langour which so greatly embitter the hours of ner- vous people, after any deviation to excess, fatigue, or irregularity. “ From the warmth and efficacy of coffee, in attenuating the viscid fluids, and increasing the vigour of the circulation, it has been used with gi'eat suecess in the debilitating dis- orders of women, in dropsy, and in worm complaints, and in those co- matose, anasarcous, and such other diseases that arise from unwhole- some food, want of exercise, weak fibres, and obstructed perspiration. There are few jieople who arc not informed of its utility for the head- ache. The steam is sometimes very useful to mitigate the pains of the head. In the West Indies, where the more violent species of head-ache are more frequent, and more severe than in Europe, coilee is the only medi- cine that allbrds relief. Opiates are sometimes used, but coffee has an advantage that opium does not pos- sess: it may be taken in all condi- tions of the stomach, and at all times by women, who are most subject to these complaints, as it dissipates those congestions and obstructions that are frequently the cause of the disease, and which opium is known to increase, when its temporary re- lief is past. Coffee having the ad- mirable property of promoting per- spiration, it allays tbirst, and checks preternatural heat. The gi-eat use of coffee, in France, is supposed to have abated the prevalency of the gravel. In the French colonies, where coffee is more used than with the English, as well as in Turkey, where it is the pi'incipal beverage, not only the gra- vel, but the gout, those inveterate tormentors of the human race, are scarcely known. It has been found useful in quieting the tickling vexa- tious cough, that often accompanies the smaU-pox, and other eruptive fevers.” Prepared clear and strong, and diluted with a large portion of boiled milk, it becomes a bigbly nu- tritious and balsamic diet; proper in hectic, pulmonic, and all complaints where a milk diet is useful; and is a great restorative to constitutions emaciated and worn down by gout and otber cbronic disorders. Long watching and intense study are won- derfully supported by it, and with- out the ill consequences that suc- ceed the suspension of rest and sleep, when the nervous influence has no- thing to sustain it.* Bacon says, “ Coffee comforts the head and lieart, and helps diges- tion.” Dr. Willis says, “ Being daily drunk, it wonderfuliy clears and en- lightens each part of the soul, and disperses all the clouds of every function.” The celebrated Dr. Har- vey used it often; Voltaire lived almost upon it; and the learned and • Practical Treatise on Diet and Re- gimen, p. 276.CO CO sedentary of every country have re- course to it, to refresh the brain op- pressed by study and contemplation. Notwithstanding all the encomia which have been pronounced in fa- vour of coffee, the hostility which has been manifested against tea, has been applied with equal rancour to it, and probably with no less injus- tice ; nor is it to be expected, that it should be exempted from opponents any more than advocates. Amongst the most furious of the former, w'as Simon Paulli: but he founded his objections against coffee, as he had his prejudices against tea, cho- colate, and sugar, not on experience, but on anecdotes picked up by hasty travellers, which had no other foun- dation than absurd report and con- jecture : by these tales that learned man confesses he supports a notion that coffee (like tea to the Chinese) acted like a great drier to the Russians, and abated aphrodisiacal warmth. This opinion has been re- ceived, and propagated from him, in the same manner as he received and propagated it from its fabulous ori- gin. These suppositions have been refuted by Du Fours, and many tra- vellers. Sir Thomas Herbert, who was se- veral years in the East, tells us that the Persians have quite a different opinion of coffee. They say that coffee comforts the brain, expels me- lancholy and sleep, purges choler, lightens the spirits, and begets an excellent concoction, and by custom becomes delicious. Put all these vir- tues do not conciliate their liking of It, so much as the romantic notion, that it was first invented and brewed by the angel Gabriel, to restore Ma- homet’s decayed moisture, which it did effectually. A substance like coffee, possessed of active principles, and evident operations, must neces- sarily be capable of misapplication and abuse ; and there must be parti- cular habits which those operations disturb. Stare says, he used it in too great excess, and it affected his nerves : but Dr. Fothergill, who was a sensible man, and did not use it in too great excess, though he was of a very delicate habit, and could not use tea, drunk coffee almost con- stantly, many years, w'ithout receiv- ing any inconvenience from it. But the history of particular cases some- times serves only to pi-ove that man- kind are not all alike organized; and that the sympathy of one, and the antipathy of another, ought by no means to render useless that infinite variety which pervades all nature, and with which the earth is so abun- dantly blessed in the vegetable crea- tion. Were it so, physic W'ould ac- quire but little aid from the toils of philosophy, when philosophy had no other incitement to labour than bai’- ren s])eculation. It has long been a custom with many people among us to add mus- tard to their cofi'ee. Mustard or aro- matics may with great propriety bo added in flatulent, languid, and scor- butic constitutions, and particularly by invalids, and in such cases where warmth or stimulus is required. The Eastern nations add either cloves, cinnamon, cummin-seed, or essence of amber, &c. but neither milk nor sugar. Milk and sugar, without the aromatics, are generally used with it in Europe, America, and the West India Islands, except when taken after dinner; then the method of the French is commonly followed, and the milk is omitted. A cup or two thus taken after dinner, without cream or milk, promotes digestion, and has been found very serviceable to those who are habitually costive. If a draught of water be taken before coffee, according to the Eastern cus- tom, it gives it a tendency to act as an aperient. “If,” says Dr. Mosely, “a know- ledge of the principles of coffee, founded on examination and various experiments, added to observations made on the extensive and indiscri-CO CO 7G rainate use of it, cannot authorise us to attribute to it any particular cir- cumstance unfriendly to the human frame; if the unerring test of expe- rience has confirmed its utility, in many countries, not exclusively productive of those inconveniences, habits, and diseases, for which its peculiar properties seem most appli- cable: let those properties be duly considered, and let us reflect on the state of our atmosphere, the food, and modes of life of the inhabitants, so injurious to youth and beauty, filling the large towns and cities with chronical infirmities: and I think it will be evident what advantages will result from the general use of coffee in England, as an article of diet, from the comforts of which the poor ai'e not excluded; and to which pur- pose it may be often employed, as a safe and powerful medicine.” Coffee is often imitated by roasting rye with a few almonds. Roasted grain, when properly prepared, is neither innutritions nor unwholesome. Coffee, as used on the Continent, serves the double purpose of an agreeable tonic and an exhilarating beverage, without the unpleasant effects of wine. As drank in Eng- land, it debilitates the stomach, and produces nausea. In France and Italy it is made strong, from the best coffee, and is poured out hot and transparent. With us it is usually made from bad coffee, served out tepid and muddy, and drowned in a deluge of water, and sometimes de- serves the title given to it in the “Petition against Coffee,” 4to. 1G74, p. 4, “a base, black, thick, nasty, bitter, stinking puddle-water.” “ To make coffee fit for use, you must employ the German filter, pay at least four shillings per pound for it, and take at least one ounce for two breakfast cups.”—Kitchener's Cook’s Oracle, p. 417. “No coffee will hear drinking with what is called milk in London.” —IbUL “ London people should either take their coffee pure, or put a couple of tea-spoonsful of cream for each cup.” —Ibid. As before observed, coffee, when used as a breakfast, on some parts of the Continent, particularly in the north of France, is usually made in the form of what is called caffe au lait, that is, strongly diluted with milk, and afterwards boilei When used after dinner as an aid to digestion, or to revive or exhilarate the spirits, the above pi-oportion would answer very well to such as might prefer it of that strength. It is such high pressures as this which not only render cofiee but other aliments, both solid and fluid, highly objectionable in particular constitu- tions, or under certain conditions of body. COLD, Preservative Effects OF.—The preservative effects of cold to the inhabitants of the Northern nations are of the utmost importance, by enabling them to store up a suf- ficient stock of all manner of pro- visions for their winter consumption, and to receive supplies from a great distance. It is thus that veal frozen at Archangel is brought to Peters- burgh; and the markets of Moscow present immense stocks of hogs, sheep, and fish. In Canada the same advantage is taken of the cold, as well as in aU other countries where the frost is sufficiently steady. Substances, probably as long as they continue in a hard frozen state, undergo no chemical change, the most striking proof of which was af- forded by the body of an animal, perhaps antediluvian, being found imbedded in a mass of ice at the mouth of the Lena; but in the act of freezing, or of the subsequent thawing, some alteration is produced, which affects the nature of the sub- stance. Tliis, indeed, may be merely mechanical, from the particles of ice, during their formation, tearing asun- der and separating the fibres; or byCO CO 77 cliemically destroying the intimate union of the constituents of the fluids, as in wine injured by having been frozen, or by causing new combina- tions, of which we have an example in the sweetness acquired by the jJo- tatoe. Captain Scoresby, contrary to popular belief, states that “ the most surprising action of the frost on fresh profusion, is in preserving it a long time from putrefaction, even after it is thawed, and returns into a cold climate. I have,” says he, “ eaten unsalted mutton and beef, nearly five months old, v.diich has been constantly exposed to a tempe- rature above the freezing point for four or five weeks in the outset, and occasionally assailed by the influence of rain, fog, heat, and electrieity, and yet it has proved perfectly sweet. It may be remarked, that unsalted meat that has been preserved four or five months in a cold climate, and then brought back to the British coasts dm-ing the warmth of summer, must be consumed very speedily after it is cut into, or it will fail in a day or two. It will seldom, indeed, prove sweet after being cooked above twenty or thirty hours.” No other caution for preserving animal substances is necessary, than exposing them to a sufficient degree of cold. Captain Scoresby observes, that “ animal substances requisite as food of all descriptions (fish excepted) may be taken to Greenland, and there preserved any length of time, without being dried, smoked, or sal ted. No preparation of any kind is neces- sary for their preservation; nor is any other precaution requisite, ex- cept suspending them in the air when taken on shipboard, shading them a little from the sun and wet, and immersing them occasionally in sea-water, or throwing sea-water over them after heavy rains, which wilt effectually prevent putrescency on the outward passage; and in Green- land, the cold becomes a sufficient presen-ation, by freezing them as hard as blocks of wood.” The mois- ture is well preserved by freezing, a little from the surface only evaporat- ing; so that if cooked when three, four, or five months old, meat will frequently appear as profuse of gravy as if it had been recently killed. We are not, however, informed by Cap- tain Scoresby, why fish cannot be taken to Greenland in a frozen state; though this method of preservation is much used in Russia and Ger- many, and even in our own country. Provisions that have been frozen, require some attention in thawing them. “When used, the beef can- not be divided, but by an axe or saw; the latter being generally pre- ferred. It is then put into cold water, from whence it derives heat by the formation of ice around it, and soon thaws; but if put into hot water, much of the gravy is extracted, and the meat is injured without being thawed more readily. If an attempt be made to cook it befoi-e it is thawed, it may be burnt on the outside while the centre remains raw, or actually in a frozen state.” These observa- tions transcribed fromCaptain Scores- by, * an excellent observer, perfectly coincide with the directions of earlier writers. Thus, Krantzf says, “when fish taken under the ice are frozen, lay them in cold water, which thus draws the ice out of the fish, so that it can be scraped off their scales. They taste much better afterwards than when they are allowed to thaw in a warm room.” We arc not aware whether it be ignorance or inatten- tion to this direction on the part of the London fishmongei-s, which causes the salmon sent from Scot- land to London in ice, to be little esteemed. * Sec liis account of the Arctic Re- gions, willi a history and description of the Northern Whale Fishery. 2 vols. 8vo. Edinb. 1819. t Encyclopaedia, vol. 10, p. 586. II 2CO CO 78 A second general method of pre- venting fermentation, &c., or what is tlie same, the removal of that degree of moisture which is an essential condition to this kind of chemical ac- tion, is Desiccation, which takes place in consequence of the air absorbing the moisture of bodies exposed to its action. It is therefore promoted by tlie size of the surface exposed; by the dry state of the atmosphere; increased temperature; and by the constant change of the air in con- tact with the body to be dried; or, in other words, by exjjosing it to a free current of air. This mode of checking fermentation, is assisted by dividing or cutting the bodies to be dried, especially across the grain, which acts not only by increasing the surface, but, perhaps still more, by dividing the vessels containing the moisture or fluids, and thus allow- ing them to be freely acted upon by the air, to which the skin or epide- )nis, when entire, frequently ojjposes a very great obstacle. In pharmacy, where desiccation is often necessary, this is well under- stood, and expressed in the coUegiate directions for diying squills and other succulent roots. In domestic economy, it is also practised in drying artichoke bot- toms; and guarded against when vegetables are required to be kept succulent, which are or ought to be ti'immed or wounded as little as pos- sible, until they are wanted for use. Animal substances also dry much more slowly as long as the smrface is entire; and hence, some butchers skin veal joint by joint only as it is required. The influence of extent of surface is a matter of constant observation. A little water, which would have required days to have evaporated out of a wine glass, dis- appears in a few minutes when sj>read over a china j)late. Solid substances in like manner dry more quickly in proportion to the smallness of their size, as the surface exposed is pro- portionally greater. But none of the agents in accelerating exsicca- tion, has so great an influence as the dry state of the air by which it is effected. In his “Journey to the Northern Ocean,” Mr. Hearne gives an ac- count of the manner in which the Indians of North America preserve by means of exsiccation, the flesh of musk oxen, deer, or of any other kind of animals. To prepare meat in this manner, the only operation required is, to cut the lean part of the animal into thin slices, drj’ing it in the sun, or exposing it to the heat of a fire; after which it is reduced to powder, by beating it between two stones. Meat prepared m this man- ner is very portable, and always ready for use, and is very substantial; for Mr. Hearne found that he could always travel longer without victuals after making a meal of it, than after any other kind of food. The Northern Indians drj' their meat by the heat of a very slow fire, or by fastening it to the tops of the women’s bundles, and allowing it to dry by the sun and wind as they walk along. But the Southern In- dians expose it to the heat of a very large fire, which, in Mr. Hearue’s opinion, exhausts its juices, renders it as hard as horn, and gives it a bitter taste; whereas, the other is soft and mellow in the mouth, and entirely free from smoke. Fish is also dried by them in the sun, and pounded for the sake of carriage. COMFIEGNE.—A French sweet yeast cake, with fruit, and other in- gredients. COMPOTE.—A fine mixed raiyout to garnish white poultry, &c.; also, a method of stewing fruit with syrup for desserts. COMPOTIEll.—A dish amongst the dessert services appi'opriated to the compote. CONDIMENTS.—In the higher circles of society, and at the tables of the modern Apicii, a number of79 CO CO articles are used, known under the name of condiments, wliich serve to decorate the tables, and are of use with some kinds of food. These are condemned by Pliny, as highly per- nicious, but he probably alluded to the feasts of Apicius and other lux- urious Romans of those times, who carried every thing to excess. The use of condiments seem to have been first suggested by a sense of oppression in the stomach, when languid and clogged with insipid food. With our aliments, condiments are variously used : they sometimes im- prove the taste of different articles of subsistence—at other times they cor- rect their noxious qualities—^some- times they promote the digestion of such articles, and at other times acce- lerate their passage through the body. Condiments may be considered under the following general heads: The Saline. Saccharine. Acidulous. Hot, Aromatic, or Spicy. Oleaginous. Compound. Ice. Miscellaneous. Man is very fond of being stimu- lated, and very desirous of experi- encing again the stimulants which he has already experienced. Instances of this we have in snuff, &c., and this will explain the use of condiments, which, if used within certain limits, are in a manner natural to man, and may be very u.seful. Sail.—This is the most common article used as a condiment. Infants soon become fond of it. If taken mo- derately is very wholesome, although not nourishing, and most of it passes off by the urine.* It stimulates and • Salt is either procured from rocks in the earth, from salt springs, or from sea water. Lymington, in Hampshire, makes various kinds of salt, both medical and culinary. There is an excellent salt- spring at Droitwich, and Cheshire abounds in saline waters. promotes the secretion ofgastric juice. It is stimulatory, however, to the stomach without any necessity, and the viscus when once used to sti- mulants, can no longer digest with- out them. Salt is more necessary with fat meat than with lean, and it ought to be used sparingly by young, florid, and hale people, as it heats, and creates thirst. In tropical climates, where they use more vegetable food, they use a larger quantity of condiments than in Europe, independently of their growing there, as pepper, nut- meg, &c. All our fluids are impreg- nated with sea-salt, so great is the quantity we take. It is found in all secreted fluids, dropsies, the blood, and contents of the intestines : it is not assimilated, hut {lasscs through the different channels. Vinegar, or Acetous Acid, is also much used. It contains some small nutritive particles, but is chiefly used to excite the appetite, to cool the food, and render it more sapid; it is usually mixed with food of quite a different nature, as mustard, pepper, &c. It was very anciently used : the Roman soldiers mixed it with water for com- mon drink. Sour milk is a common condi- ment with the Highlanders. Ketchup is merely salt flavoured with mush- rooms ; and salt is a sort of volatile alkali, with common salt, flavoured with the soyo-bean—the putrefied dolechas-soyo growing in China, im- pregnated with sea-salt. Hot and spicy condiments consist of cloves, cinnamon. Cayenne-pepper, &c.; certain seeds, as carraway, ani- seed, cummin, &c.; acrid roots, as horse-radish, onions, shalots ; — all these increase the secretion of saliva and gastric juice, prevent flatulency, warm the stomach, and strengthen it. There are other substances used as stimulants to the stomach, though they cannot properly be called con- diments. 1. Sugar is used as food, condi-CO 80 CO ment, medicine, and as preserving substances from putrefaction. It is injurious to the teeth, because on them it combines with oxygen, and forms oxalic acid, which has a great affinity for the teeth.* It is nutri- tious, antiseptic, and laxative, and is considered as promoting the solution of fat in the stomach ; but as it is very fermentable, and is apt, in many constitutions, to produce flatulence, heat, and thirst, its unlimited use seems to he one cause of the increased and increasing frequency of bilious and hypochondriacal disorders. Chlo- rotic girls, rickety children, and hys- terical women, and all who are trou- bled with acidity iu the stomach and bowels, should abstain from it; and those who are anxious to preserve their teeth white and sound, should not he too free with it. 2. Vinous Liquors.—By drinking these we can digest a larger quan- tity of food, the stomach being sti- mulated, and therefore having a more powerful action. It has been said, that they harden the food, and co- agulate it; but if this he true, it is a question, whether food coagulated is not more easy of digestion. They sti- mulate the sanguiferous and chylife- rous systems, and if not taken very moderately, prove hurtful by ex- hausting the irritability, producing the same effect as a whip on an ani- mal—it makes him go w'hen tired, whether he will or not. Wine has been called, “ the milk cxf old ageso “ milk is the wine of youth.” Dr. Johnson observed, that it is much easier to he abstinent than to be temperate, and no man should * Notwithstanding these observations, tliere are some eonstitutions which fur- nish exceptions; .for instance, we are told that one of the Dukes of Beaufoit took, for tlic space of forty years, nearly a pound of sugar every day, yet it neither disordered any of the viscera, nor in- jured the teeth, and he lived to attain the age of seventy. habitually take wine as food till he is past thirty years of age, at least.* That wine is best for elderly people which is strong and diuretic, to carry off any superfluous serosities, which, by remaining in the body, might be- come injurious to their health. 3. Alcohol.—This differs in flavour, according to the substances from which it is prepared, or the artificial additions it receives. It appears in different fonns, as brandy, rum, gin, usquebaugh, eau de vie, &c. It is more deleterious than wine, and pro- duces all its ill effects more quickly. When well diluted, and not too fre- quently used, it may prove useful. 4. Mustard.—The use of mustard is extremely ancient. It is mentioned by Hippocrates, in his Treatise on Diet; and Aretaeus recommends it to be taken liberally with food, in cases where other stimulants are forbidden. He is very' lavish iu his praises of it for its good effects in expelling flatu- lence and promoting digestion. In France, xvhere they pay such parti- cular attention to every thing con- nected ■with the table, mustard is celebrated as by far the best of all stimulants, as agreeing with every sjjecies of food, promoting digestion, augmenting the elasticity of the fibres, increasing the dissolvingjuices of the stomach, and doubling their force ; and particularly calculated for the aged, or those whose stomachs and bowels are weak. 5. Salad Oil, is the chief of the ole- aginous condiments, and in the coun- tries where it is procured in perfec- tion, the consumption is very great, answering the piuqjoses of butter. It is of a mild and bland nature, with little odour or taste. When used in salads, or as a seasoning for raw' ve- getables, it checks their fermentation • No man in health can need wine till he arrives at forty; he may then begin with two glasses in the day; at fifty he may add two more.—See Trotter, on Drunkenness.— .Also, the .Art. ll'inc, passim.CO 81 CO in the stomach, and thereby prevents them from becoming too flatulent. When thus employed, in small quan- tities, it assists digestion ; but when taken in large quantities it cloys the appetite, and lays the foundation for bilious complaints, more especially with weak stomachs. 6. Melted Butter.—This is another oleaginous condiment. It makes a proper and not an unwholesome ad- dition to boiled vegetables, and to va- rious sorts of fish; but it frequently disagrees with weak stomachs, par- ticularly when the quality of the butter is indifferent, or when it is improperly melted, which is fre- quently the case. It should be done as follows:—Mixing the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter on a trencher, put it into a small sauce- pan, and two or three tablespoonful of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking one way all the time; milk used instead of water requires rather less butter, and looks whiter. It would appear from Dr. C. O.’s experiments, that excess in the use of oleaginous substances, is more hurtfid to the body than excess in any other articles of food; and that we ought to be particularly careful in regulating the quantity and at- tending to the quality of the oil we employ in diet. Seasonings and sauces ought not to be much in- dulged in by young stomachs, and strong healthy bodies, who require no spur to their appetite nor help to digestion; but these auxiliaries I should be reserved for age, deficiency I of appetite, and other infirmities— I otherwise that benefit and assistance ■| wrill not be received from them, which II might have been experienced had I the use of them been forborne when I they were not necessary. 1 7. Olives, are considered as a condi- 1i( ment with us, but they are a food in their native soil; they are best in their pickled state, as they then lose I much of their bitterness and acri- mony; from their oily nature they are improper for delicate stomachs. 8. Cheese, of a rich quality, becomes highly putrid or alkaliscent when it gets old, and therefore it is a good condiment after insipid meats. Under the head of condiment, per- haps the use of ice may be included, as it gives a cooling relish to our liquid food, and as a kind of season- ing to fruit. On this subject it may be observed, that though in some countries, and for some constitutions, the prudent and the moderate use of ice may occasionally be proper; yet in general, it produces more inju- rious than beneficial effects. On the whole, the subject of spices and sea- soning coming under the designation of condiments, is both common and important; and it may be observed of them, that when taken in small quantities, merely to give taslefulness or sapidity to the food, they cer- tainly have a tendency to increase the appetite; to favour a proper quan- tity of aliment being taken, and to promote digestion; but, when condi- ments are used immoderately, they tend to weaken the stomach, to oc- casion acrimony in the fluids, and to produce a general irritation of the system.— See Respective heads of each kind of Condiment. CONGER.—The conger, or as usually called from its resemblance, the conger eel, is very highly prized by some ; other's again hold it in no estimation ; and in our opinion, with no less reason; for it is difficult of digestion, and requires a strong sto- mach to encounter it, as well as a body free from infirmity. CONSERVES.—A variety of fruits, such as apricots, plums, dam- sons, green-gages, peaches, necta- rines, &c., in their natural state, may be conserved in a fluid transparent synip, of such a consistence as will prevent them from spoiling. This method of preserving fruits requires some care; for if they are too little impregnated with sugar, they do notCO CO 82 keep; and if tlie syrup is too con- centrative, the sugar crystallizes, and thus spoils the conserved fruit.—See Suffar. COOKERY.—The processes of cookery, notwithstanding the great number of recipes, are but few. In some, the chief object is to extract the fluid or soluble parts of the sub- stances cooked; in others, to alter the nature of the substances itself, and often to combine both purposes. The processes of the culinary art, are therefore reduced to 1. Baking. 2. Boiling. 3. Roasting. 4. Broiling. 5. Frying, &c.—which see All alimentary substances, for the pui'pose of food, are used in their raw or crude state, or after having un- dergone some kind of preparation. Fruits and salads, though they admit of various forms of cookeiy, are for the most part eaten in as fresh and natural state as possible. Cooking is either necessary to dishing some deleterious property, or to render food more palatable ancl nutritious: of the former effect, the most remarkable instance is furnished by various spe- cies of asum, or dragons’ wort; which, in their crude state, are acrid or even poisonous, but by being cooked, be- come mild and wholesome. The acrimony recedes in a very volatile principle, which is easily dissipated by heat. A more familiar example is in this country furnished by the onion tribe; the acrimony and flavour of which are entirely destroyed, by being long subjected to the action of heat. Fire is a principal agent in almost all the processes of cookery, and the most economical mode of applying it has engaged the attention of many philosophers and artists. Conve- nience and economy are the objects proposed by all alleged improve- ments. The nature of the fuel is of no little importance, and is diflerent in different countries. Pit-coal has the advantage of forming a lasting fire, and producing an intense degree of beat, whicb renders it almost in- dispensable for roasting, but its smoke is very detrimental—both by the un- pleasant flavour it imparts, and by the inconvenience arising from the flame, and from the soot deposited upon vessels and in the chimney. Wood and turf make less smoke than pit-coal,* but their flavour is more penetrating; they give less heat and are less desirable. The clearest and most generally useful fuel is charcoal of wood, or coke, neither of which gives out any smoke, or imparts any flavour. Charcoal is more easily kindled, but coke lasts longer, and gives out more heat. Well-burnt cinders are an excellent substitute for coke, and which in every family ought to be carefully preserved for the purposes of cookeiy. COPPER.—The weight of testi- mony is decidedly in favour of cop- per, in its metallic state, not being poisonous. Orfila, an eminent tox- icologist, cites several cases where masses of it were swallowed, and after some time voided by the na- tural passages, without injuiy. And a case is related where six penny pieces were swallowed, with a view to self-destruction, and no inconve- * Coal, a well-known common fos- sil fuel. hlr. Brand, in his History of Newcastle-upon-Tyne, observes, that though some writers have not scrupled to afKrm, that coal was unknown to the Ancient Britons; yet, others have con- tended for the contrary, by almost irre- sistible arguments. And the facts and testimonies adduced by iMr. Brand, afford much reason to conclude, that coal, though at first unnoticed in Britain by the Romans, was afterwards in actual use among them. The first public ac- count of coal we meet with is in the year 1239, wlren Henry III. confirmed the charter granted by John his father, to tire inhabitants of Newcastle, to dig coals in the common soil without tire walls of the town.CO CO 83 nience was experienced. (See Dr. Paris's Med. Jurisp.). There are cases, however, which seem to con- tradict the usual results, but its pe- culiarities are probably to be ascribed to some previous oxidation of the metal. A child, three years old, swallowed two copper farthings by accident, at an interval of a year and a half after each. After swallowing the first be ate nothing for ten days, complained of great pain in his sto- mach, and drivelled as if he had been salivated. After the second, he began by degi'ees to lose his flesh, and had the appearance of consumption. He was, however, per- fectly cured by the Bath waters. {Philosoph. Trans, vol. 20, p. 424). A case is also mentioned by Dr. Jackson, of Boston, in America, where the swallowing of a piece of copper coin, called a half-cent, pro- duced nausea and vomiting, with several other symptoms character- istic of the poison, {yew England Journ. vol. 3, p. 15G). It is not so certain that copper in a state of mi- nute division, as filings for example, is ecpially innocuous with the pure metal. Portal relates a case where they were given to an individual labouring under abdominal drojjsy, and while the disease seemed to yield, colic, vomiting, and other symptoms supervened. {Orfda,\o\. 1, pp. 1G6-7-8). Experiments on ani- mals, however, with large doses of copper filings, mixed with grease and oil, have produced no injury, and in dissection, their metallic bril- liancy was found untarnished. Vcrdigrease (a solution of copper by mineral acids) is a most violent poison ; and it is well known that a quantity of this solution will produce colics, vomitings, intolerable thirst, universal convulsions, and other dan- gerous symptoms. The pre])arations of copper are seldom used as the instruments of crime, though fre- quently poisonous through accident, owing to its being extensively used for domestic purposes in the shape of cooking utensils. All copper uten- sils, consequently, should be pro- perly sheathed, that is, as it is termed, tinned, to prevent chemical action from taking place upon this metal, and thereby disengaging its poisonous properties. The air itself of the kitchen, abounding with ole- aginous and saline particles, dis- poses, before they are used, copper utensils to solution. Copper, when handled, yields an offensive smell, and if touched with the tongue, has a sharp and pungent taste, and ex- cites nausea. There is, indeed, reason at all times to dread the effects of copper on the human system, from the fa- cility with which it oxidates. Ex- posed to a moist atmosphere, copper becomes tarnished, and passes into a state of oxide, which soon after unites with the carbonic acid of the atmosphere, and forms a greenish carbonate of copper. Milk, however, although boiled for two hours in a clean kettle, did not contain any trace of copper; and the same result was obtained with tea, coffee, beer, and rain water. But if the water contained muriate of soda (common salt), it dissolved a notable portion of copper. These experiments were made by Mr. Eller, a chemist, at Berlin, who also noticed a remarkable circumstance in connexion with the last phenomenon. If instead of a simple solution of muriate of soda, it was previously mixed with beef, bacon, and fish, the fluid resulting did not contain a trace of copper. {Orfila, vol. 1, p. 202). Fat bodies, assisted by the oxidizing principle of the atmosphere, act with celerity on it; and Proust explains the quick corrosion and destruction of the cop- per sheathings of vessels, from the combined action of grease and mu- riate of soda. Don Raphael (ob- serves Proust) ascertained this cause, and when he placed sheets of thick coarse paper between the plaster ofCO CO 84 fat and the copper, to prevent their contact, the durability of the sheath- ings was secured. It must, however, be remarked, that the vegetable acids, generally, dissolve copper with difficulty, even though assisted by heat. And hence the boiling of sugar or syrups in vessels of this metal, does not of it- self produce any noxious compound, unless it be left to cool in them. In the latter case, the boiled substance acquires a bad taste and a green colour, and the copper forms an oxide on its surface. These facts are sufficient to j)rove the necessity in all cases of tinning vessels in- tended for the preparation of articles of food. Numberless causes (says Proust), unite to accelerate the dis- solution of copper, since the juices of all barrels are fat, and acid na- turally saline. It is, therefore evi- dent, that tinning is indispensable for kitchen utensils. Cleanliness, however, may ward off many for- midable injuries. “ In the oiqrhan house at Halle, in Switzerland, from 600 to 900 persons daily eat food dressed in lai'ge copper kettles; and yet I never heard there of any bad effects from them. Here, however, I must observe, that the cleanliness was quite exemplary; that in the afternoon, we observed with pleasure and admiration, the kitchen per- fectly clean; and the copper vessels bright.”—(Michaelis’s Commentaries, vol. iii. p. 388).—Proust has shewn another advantage from the precau- tion of tinning copper utensils. The usual alloy applied in tinning vessels, consists of equal parts of tin and lead; and the tin being more oxidizable than the lead, is exclusively dissolved by any vegetable acid that may be contained in the viands. These com- pounds of tin arc known to be harm- less. Copper and bell-metal mortars are evidently hazardous, for similar reasons, in the shop of the apothecary. Not only will moisture affect them, but also many articles of the Materia Medica, and thus a dangerous com- pound may be the result. Verdigrease in a natural state, (carbonate of copper) forms sponta- neously on the surface of copper, or brass vessels, pieces of coin, &c. The oxide of copper is of a blackish brown colour. Both of them are highly poisonous, and colic and vomiting are their usual symptoms. From the remarks previously made on this subject, it will be readily understood why copper utensils, when not pro- perly cleaned, contaminate acid sub- stances boiled in them. Vinegar dissolves the oxide with ease, as also does ammonire. Eller has proved that wine dissolves copper, doubtless in consequence of the acetic acid contained in it, and the oxidation of this metal by the air. And we can explain in the same way, the pro- duction of the acetate in the cocks of vessels from which wine, beer, or cider, is drawn. Drouard was af- fected three days with colic and dian-hcea, in consequence of eating a ragout, which had been seasoned with wine drawn out of a cask, the cock of which contained acetate of copper, which this liquor had in fact dissolved. Moseley relates, that in 1592, at a meeting of the great Senate of Bern, the wine was put into cop- per vessels, and suspended in a well, in order to cool it. In a few days, the legates and others who had drank of it, were seized with violent pain in the abdomen, fever, and disscutery, and many died.—{^Moseley on Tro~ ])icalDiseases). Fat bodies, such as fixed and essential oils, dissolve the oxide acid carbonate of copper with readiness; and hence, Proust very justly condemns the use of copper measures for oil.—{Orjila, vol. i. pp. 206 to 203). In several cities in Europe, distillers, apothecaries, and others, are forbidden to use copper vessels, unless they are tinned.—See Ehrman in Schicgel, vol. iii. p. 230. The tests of these compounds are similar to those of verdigrease. The8.5 CO CO compound substance known under the latter name, is the preparation of copper, which most frequently produces deleterious effects. Orfila has produced numerous cases illus- trating its action ; and hence it will be useful to state the mode in which the respective individuals were poi- soned. 1. —In one instance, a family con- sisting of nine persons were affected ; the first of these by a cake made %vith melted butter, and skimmed \vith a copper instrument, upon winch the fat body had been allowed to cool; five, from some broth and meat coming out of a saucepan, skimmed by the same skimmer; and the re- mainder by a fricassee of pigeons, prepared in the same pan. 2. —The .lacobin Friars, in Paris, to the number of twenty-one, were poisoned in 1781, by eating some ray, which had been cooked in a copper vessel. The cook, after taking out part of the water, had poured vinegar on the fish to render them more firm, and in this state they had stood for some time away from the fire. 3. Some veal, placed in an earthen pot, to which there was a copper lid, and which lid lay directly in contact with the meat, affected two indivi- duals ; also eggs prepared with sorrel and butter, in a copper vessel, which was covered with verdigris, produced similar effects. Dupuytren mentions a case where a whole family was oisoned from eating lobsters, which ad been cooked, and afterwards placed in a copper kettle, with vinegar poured over them. Even peas which remained for a day in a copper vessel, have produced all the characteristic effects of poisoning from copper. Symptoms of.—The symptoms con- sequent on having swallowed a suf- ficient quantity of verdigris, are thus detailed by Orfila. “ An acrid, 8tjq)tic, coppery taste in the mouth, parched and dried tongue, a sense of strangulation in the throat, coppery eructations, continual spitting, nausea, copious vomitings, or vain efforts to vomit, shooting pains in the stomach, which are often very severe ; horrible gi’ipes, very frequent alvine evacua- tions, sometimes bloody and black ; debility, &c. The abdomen inflated and painful; the pulse small, irre- gular, tight, and frequent; syncope, heat of skin, ardent thirst, difficulty of breathing, anxiety about the pit of the stomach, cold sweats, scanty urine, violent headache, vertigo, faintness, weakness in the limbs, cramps of the legs, and convulsions.” All these symptoms, however, do not generally occur in the same indivi- dual, but vomiting and colic are very constant. Hiccup has been no- ticed as a constant symptom in a fatal case. Antidotes.—The investigations of M. Marcelin Duval, and the earlier experiments of Orfila, seemed to prove that svyar was the antidote for verdigris. It allayed the pain and other alarming symptoms, and pro- duced a great number of liquid stools. Subsequent researches have, how- ever, diminished the value of this substance. It is useful in calming the irritation when the poison has been expelled by vomiting, but it exerts no chemical action on it; and animals, on whom the gullet was tied, died, notwithstanding large doses of syrup were administered. When al- bumen was given under similar cir- cumstances, the animal survived se- veral d.ays, experienced no remark- able change, and after death no lesion was found. It is hence the proper antidote, whilst sugar and its preparations nmy be used to aid its operation. ’I'lie inflammatory symp- toms, should any remain after the supposed evacuation of the poison, are to be treated as inflammation of the stomach. Orfila relates a case, where sugar a])parently saved the life of the patient. After the second draught, &c., sugar and water, and86 CR CO whites of eggs, the vomiting and epigastric pains ceased; the patient fell asleep, and awoke quite well.— Orjila, vol. ii. p. 466. Chemical Proofs of the Existence of Verdigris. a. Sulphuric acid poured on the verdigris, in powder, decomposes it with effervescence, and vapours of acetic acid are disengaged. But it must be recollected that no such effect is produced with natural verdi- gris (the carbonate of copper). In this case acetic acid should be poured upon it, and the subsequent tests applied. h. Sulphuretted hydrogen decom- poses it, and precipitates a black sul- phuret of copper. c. A clear plate of iron immersed in the solution, becomes covered in a few hours with a pcirtion of the cop- per, and the blue colour of the solu- tion grows first green and then red. d. Ammonia gives a blue precipi- tate, but if added in excess, the pre- cipitate re-dissolves, and the liquor is of a beautiful blue colour. e. Chromate of potash gives a yel- low precipitate. /. If the suspected substance be in powder, it should be mixed with charcoal, and heated to redness in an earthen crucible. Metallic copper will be formed. The same process is pro- per, when the fluid is combined with substances which prevent the action of tests. Evaporate it to dryness, and then calcine with charcoal. There are various other tests for the detec- tion of this substance, cither in a fluid or solid state, which may be consulted by the curious, in the Toxi- cological writers, and particularly Orfila. g. The ferro-cyanate of potash has long been used as a test for iron and copjier in solution, and it is hardly possible to imagine any thing moi'e sensible than its indications. M. Brandenburg, however, recommends as superior to it, the ferro-cyanate of ammonia (prussiate of ammonia and iron). It should be of a fine yellow colour. The acetate, sulphate, muriate, ni- trate, and ammoniaret of copper, are all poisonous to the human system, and they are to be detected by most of the tests already enumerated, but most decisively by the reduction of the metals; so also with coppery wine or vinegar. The tests here, how- ever, are uncertain; and the only mode left, is to evaporate the preci- pitate to dryness, and calcine the re- sidue in order to obtain metallic cop- per. If there be copper or iron in wine, there will be a black powder thrown down by Hahneman’s test; but the wne impregnated with cop- per will be discoverable by the taste ; and iron is not dangerous.—See Wine Tests. CORIANDER. (Coriandrim Sor tivum).—An umbelliferous plant, a native of the south of Europe; found ■wild about Ipswich, and in some parts of Essex, though Dr. Smidi does not consider it indigenous. The seeds of the coriander are imported for the use of the brewer, as well as for medicinal pmq)oses; their smell, when fresh, is strong and disagree- able, but by drying becomes sufH- ciently grateful. The plant is found wild in this country, but is a doubtful native. The seeds are stomachic and carminative, but are seldom used alone, but as a corrective addition to senna and other active purgatives.— See Caraways. COURONNE, EN. (En Cou- ronne).—To serve up any prescribed articles on a dish in the form of a crown. COURT, or SHORT, (To Slew). To reduce a sauce very thick. CR/\B.—The crab is an animal found equally in fresh and salt water, upon land and in the ocean. In shape it differs much from the lobster, but entirel}’ resembles it in confor- mation. The tail in this animal is not so apparent as in the former, being a broad flap, that seems toCR CR 87 cover a part of the belly, and when lifted, discovers the spawn situated there in great abundance. It re- sembles the lobster in the number of its great claws, which are two, and its legs, which are eight. As the crab is found upon land as well as in the water, the peculiarity of its situation produces a difference in its way of life, which it is proper to de- scribe. The land crab is found in some of the warmer regions of Eu- rope, and in great abundance in all the tropical climates in Africa and America. They are of various kinds, and endued with various pro- perties ; some being healthful, deli- cious, and nourishing food; others poisonous or malignant in the last degree; some are not above half an inch broad, others are found a foot over; some are of a dirty brown, and others beautifully mottled. That ani- mal called the violet crab of the Cari- bee Islands, is the most noted both for its shape, the delicacy of its flesh, and the singularity of its manners. The violet crab somewhat resem- bles two hands cut through the mid- dle and joined together; for each side looks like four fingers, and the two nippers, or claws, resemble the thumbs. The body is covered with a shell, bunched in the middle, on the forepart of which there are two long eyes of the size of a grain of barley, as transparent as crystal, and as hard as horn. A little below these is the mouth, covered with a sort of barb, under which there are two broad sharp teeth as white as snow; with these teeth they can easily cut leaves, fruits, and rotten wood, which is their usual food. But their principal instrument for cutting and seizing their food is their nip- pers, which catch such an hold, that the animal loses its limb sooner than its grasp, and is often seen scamper- ing off, having left its claws still holding fast upon the enemy. In fact, it loses no great matter by leaving a leg or an arm, for they soon grow again, and the animal is found as perfect as before. This, however, is the least sin- prising part of the creature’s his- tory, and what remains, were it not as well known, and as confidently confirmed, as any other circum- stance in natural history, might well stagger our belief. These ani- mals live not only in a kind of orderly society in their retreats in the mountains, but regularly, once a year, march down to the sea side in a body of some millions at a time. They choose the months of April or May to begin their expedition; and then sally out by thousands, from the stumps of hollow trees, from the clefts of rocks, and from the holes which they dig for themselves under the surface of the earth. At this time the whole ground is covered with this band of^dventurers. The sea is the place to which they direct their march, with right-lined pre- cision ; they neither turn to the right or left, and even if they meet with a house, they will attempt to scale the walls, to keep the unbroken tenour of their way. But though this be the general order of their route, they are, upon some occasions, compelled to conform to the face of the country, and if it be intersected by rivers, they are then seen to wind along the course of the stream; they are commonly divided into three batta- lions, of which the first consists of the strongest and boldest males, who, like pioneers, march forward to clear the route, and face the greatest dan- gers. These are often obliged to halt for want of rain, and go into the most convenient encampment till the weather changes. The main body of the army is composed of females, which do not leave the moun- tains till the rain has set in for some time, and then descend in regular battalions, being formed into columns of fifty paces broad and three miles deep, and so close that they almost cover the ground. Three or fourCR CR 88 days after this the rear guard fol- lows; a straggling undisciplined tribe of males and females, neither so ro- bust nor so numerous as the former. The night is their chief time of proceeding; hut if it rains by day, they do not fail to profit by the oc- casion, and they continue to move forward in their slow uniform man- ner. When the sun shines, and is hot upon the surface of the ground, they make an universal halt, and wait for the cool of the evening. When they are terrified, they march back in a confused disorderly man- ner. They tiy to intimidate their enemies, by often clattering their nippers together, as if to threaten those that disturb them. But though they thus strive to be formidable to man, they are much more so to each other; for they are possessed of one most unsocial property, which is, if any of them by accident is maimed in such a manner as to be incapable of j)roceeding, the rest fall upon and devour it on the spot, and then pursue their journey. WMien, after a fatiguing march and escaping a thousand dangers, they have arrived at their destined port, they prepare to cast their spawn. The peas are as yet wdthin their bodies, and not excluded, for the creature waits the benefit of sea water to help the deli- very ; for this purpose, the crab has no sooner reached the shore, than it eagerly goes to the edge of the waters, and lets the waves wash over its body two or three times. This seems only a prej>aration for bring- ing their spawn to maturity; for, without further delay, they with- draw to seek a lodging upon land : in the mean time the spawn grows larger, is e.xcluded out of the bod}', and sticks to the barbs under the tail; this bunch is seen as big as a hen’s egg, and exactly resembling the roes of herrings; in this state of pregnancy they once more seek the shore, for the last time, and shaking off the spawn into the water, leave accident to bring it to ma- turity. At this time whole shoals of hungry fish are in expectation of this annual supply; the sea to a great distance seems black wdth them, and about two-thirds of the crabs’ eggs are immediately devoured by these rapacious invaders. Those tliat escape are hatched under the sand, and soon after, millions at a time of these little crabs are seen quitting the shore, and slowly tra- velling up to the mountains. The old ones are not so active to return; they become so feeble and lean, that they can hardly creep along, and the flesh at that time changes its colour. Most of them, therefore, are obliged to continue in the flat parts of the country till they recover, making holes in the earth, which they cover at the mouth with leaves and dirt. There they cast their old shells, and lie quite ufiked, almost without motion, for six days together, when they become so fat as to be delicious food. These crabs are of considerable advantage to the natives, and the slaves very often feed entirely upon them. In Ja- maica, w’here they are found in great plenty, they are considered as one of the greatest delicacies of the place, yet still the eating of them is at- tended w'ith some danger, for even of this kind many are found poi- sonous, being fed, as it is thought, upon the mauchineel apple, and when- ever they are found under that noxious plant, they are always rejected with caution. It is thus with almost all the productions of those luxuriant climates; however tempting they may be to the aj)petitc, tliey but too often are found destructive, and scarce a delicacy among them that docs not carry its own alloy. CREAM.—One of the component proximate ingredients of milk. It is exceedingly nourishing, but too fat and difficult to be digested in a se- dentary life. It rises to the surface of the milk, after it has stood for89 cu CU some hours, and may be skimmed off, and in this manner separated from it. Cream appears to possess many of the properties of oil; it is smooth and oily to the touch, and stains cloth in the same manner as other unctuous substances. After stand- ing some days it gradually becomes thicker, and at length forms a soft solid, in which the flavour of cream is no longer perceived, and that of cheese is substituted in its place. According to Berzelius, cream is a compound body, consisting of Butter . . . 4.5 Cheese . . . 3.5 Whey ... 92 parts. But since the whey holds certain salts in solution, the whole of the solid matter contained in the cream may be considered as amounting to 12.5 per cent. When cream is agi- tated, as is done by the common pro- cess of churning, it is separated into two parts,—a thick animal oil, well known by the name of butter,—and a fluid, which possesses exactly the same properties as milk that has been deprived of its cream. This change has been supposed to arise from the combination of the cream with the oxygen of the atmosphere; but it takes place, though perhaps not equally well, in vessels from which the air has been excluded.— See Butter, Curd, Milk. CREAM of TARTAR.—Sec Tartar, &c. CROUSTADE.—Bread baked in a mould, and scooped out to con- tain minces. CROUTONS.—Bread cut in va- rious shapes, and fried lightly in butter or oil. CUBEBS. — Cubebs, cardamoms, vanilla, and cloves, (which see), are hot and pungent, consequently impro- per for daily use. Cubebs are much inferior to pepper in pungency, con- sequently it fell into disuse as a condiment. It formerly held a place in the Materia Medica, and has lately been introduced again into practice. The Turkey yellow-berries, namely, the dried fruit of the buck- thorn, are often substituted for the cubebs, and the similarity between them is so great, that the casual ob- server may be easily deceived. CUCUMBERS.—A wholesome, gently opening, and cooling fruit, which may be of considerable ser- vice to the consumptive, as it has the property of sweetening acrid hu- mours. (Willich). They shew a ten- dency to ferment, and produce diar- rhoea, which may, however, be pre- vented by the addition of vinegar and pepper, which also counteract their natural coldness. Prepared with oil, vinegar, and salt, they are in- supportable to some weak stomachs, and occasion frequent eructations, and flatulency. But properly pickled, they are an excellent antiseptic, though unfit for children and wet- nurses.—See Alelons. CUCUMBERS, To Pickle.—1. The cucumbers are to be sliced pretty thick; to a dozen of which slice in two or three good onions, and stew them in a large handful of salt, and let them lie in their liquor twenty- four hours; then drain them be- tween two coarse cloths. For the pickle, boil best white-wine vinegar, with some cloves, mace, and Jamaica pepper in it, and pour it scalding hot over them, as much as will cover them all over. When they are cold cover them up with leather, and keep them for use. 2. Wipe your cucumbers very clean with a cloth, then take as many quarts of vinegar as you have hun- dreds of cucumbers; take dill and fennel, cut them small, put them to the vinegar, and set it over the fire in a copper kettle, and let it boil; then put in your cucumbers till they are warm through ; pour all out into a deej) earthen pot, and cover it up very close till the next day; then do the same again; but the third day season the liquor before you set it I 3CU 90 C0 on the lire: add salt till it becomes blackish, some sliced ginger, whole pepper, and mace; then set it over the fire again, and when it boils put in your cucumbers. When the cu- cumbers are hot through, pour them into the pot, and cover it close. When they are cold, put them in bottles with open mouths, and strain the liquor over them. Pick out the spice, and add it to them; and cover tliem well with bladder or oil-skin. The cucumber, though moist and cold, is the most approved salad alone, or in composition, of all the venai- grets, if rightly prepared, by correct- ing the vulgar mistake of extracting the juice, in which it should be ra- ther soaked ; neither ought too much oil be added to it; it should be thinly pared and cut in thin slices, with a few slices of onions to con-ect the crudity; it should be often turned, and moderately drained. Some eat them as soon as cut, and retain the liquor, which, in the opinion of Evelyn, in his Acetaria, is the most approved method. The pulp is great- ly refreshing in both, and may be mingled in most salads without the least injury. The smaller sort, known by the name of gherkins, salted with the seeds of dill (No. 2), and mango pickle, are for winter use.— See Man(]o. CULINARY POISONS.—In the cookery of vegetables, which, more frequently than any other species of aliment, are submitted to the boiling process, the greatest care and atten- tion ought to be observed towards all culinary utensils, by seeing that they are properly tinned, if con- structed of copper, (see Copper); and that, in every other respect, they are fit for the several purposes intended. The principal mineral culinary poi- sons, arc copper and lead. See Lead. For the vegetable culinary accidental poisons. See Hemlock, Small. Hemlock Uropwort. Herb Christopher. Laurel, Common, Leaves of. Mushrooms, Poisonous. Thorn Apple. Wolfsbane. From the resemblance of many of the above vegetable tribe of poison- ous herbs to those which are known to be edible, and used either as salads or pot-herbs, serious accidents have occurred. They may not only be mistaken for the genuine articles, but, if gathered in a wild state, a commixture of the poisonous and healthy may be collected together, from the want of a knowledge of their true botanical characters. Ac- cidents of this nature are best coun- teracted by emetics ; producing full vomiting, by copious draughts of lukewarm water until the contents of the stomach be entirely ejected; after which cordials, such as negus and brandy and water, should be given, if the symptoms gradually subside, followed by a full dose of castor oil.^—See Poisons, (.fc. CUMMIN.—This plant resem- bles fennel, but is much smaller. It is an annual, and a native of Egypt and Ethiopia. The seeds are bitter and warm to the taste, and have an aromatic disagreeable flavour. They are carminative and stomachic, though seldom used internally; but mostly as an ingredient in plasters. There is an opinion that cummin will make those who drink it, or wash themselves with the infusion of it, or who smoke it, of a pale visage. This belief is mentioned by Diosco- ridcs ; and we are informed by Pliny, that the disciples of Portius Latro, a famous master of the art of speak- ing, were reported to have used cum- min, in order to imitate that fulness which their master had contracted by his studies. Horace also makes an allusion to that subject:— Proh si Pallerem casu, biberent ex sangue cuminum. Kpist. 19, lib. i. line 18. It is in much request with pigeon-cu 91 CtJ fanciers, either for the pinijose of domiciling their own stock, or at- tracting strays. The predilection of pigeons for this seed, the smell of which attracts them, is, it is said, to be almost insuperable. CURDS.—Another of the compo- nent proximate ingredients of milk. When milk, either deprived or not of its cream, is mixed with certain substances, or allowed to stand till it becomes sour, it undergoes a change, called coagulation, dividing itself into a solid substance, called curd, and a fluid, called whey, 'i'his change in milk may be effected by several agents, such as alcohol, gelatine, and all astringent vegetables; by acids, and many neutral salts, as cream of tartar; by gum, sugar, and more particularly by the gastric juice, or a piece of rennet. This change is at- tributed to the affinity of the coagu- lating substance for water, the cui'd being principally albumen, having very little affinity for the same—a the- ory, however, which falls short of ex- plaining the operation of the gastric juice : the infusion of a piece of ren- net, or calf’s stomach, not bigger than half a crown, will coagulate a quantity of milk sufficient for mak- ing a cheese of sixty pounds weight, although the quantity of coagulating matter cannot in this case exceed a few grains. CURRANT S.—In commerce, currants are a small dried grape, properly, says Dr. Johnson, written corinths, from Corinth in Greece, where they were first propagated; but this place now produces no more, the plantations having been long neglected. They do not grow on bushes but on vines, like other grapes. —See Ramn.i. Currants arc at present brought chiefly from the island of Zante, in the Ionian sea. “There are,” says Mr. Watkins, “few ships bound to the Adriatic, that do not touch here; some of them take in cargoes of cur- rants. This rich and wholesome ar- ticle of consumption is the dried fruit of grapes, which are peculiar to a few of these islands, and to part of the Morea, which carries on a consi- derable trade in this article. They are as inferior in size as superior in flavour to all others—I think them the most delicious I ever tasted. There are two sorts, the black and the purple. They are ripe in July, but are not gathered till August, when they are exposed to the sun till dried ; after which put into hogs- heads, and trodden down by naked feet, to compress, and to preserve them the better.”—SeelVathhis’ Tra- vels, vol. ii. pp. 162, 328. CUTTL E-FIS H.—H ard of diges- tion, engendering gross humours, and fit only for strong stomachs. CYDER. — An excellent drink made of the juice of apples, espe- cially of the more common table kinds. Herefordshire and Devon- shire, are famous for cyder; but much of that made in the latter county is of a harsh, sour, and watery nature, to which qualities is commonly imputed a kind of severe colic prevalent among the lower order of people. The Herefordshire cyder is so exquisite, that when the Earl of Manchester was ambassador in France, he is said frequently to have passed this beverage on their nohility for a delicious wine. There is a spirituous liquor drawn from cyder by distillation, called cyder spirit, to which the dealers in spirits can give the flavour of some other kinds, and sell it under assumed names, or mix it in a large proportion with foreign Iwandy, rum, or arrack, in the sale, without any danger of the fraud being discovered. The best cyder is said to be made from the red-streak apple, grafted \q)on the Jennet-moyle stock. Other cyders have various degrees of potency, and a great variety of flavour. Cyder and Ferry are, it is said, generally fermented and kept in leaden vessels, or at least the apples and ]>ears are passed through leaden tubes; and the lead being readilyDA 92 DA dissolved by the acid, is gradually introduced into the body, which pro- duces painful and dangerous colics, and frequently gives rise to the most desperate and incurable constipa- tions, among those habituated to the free use of these liquors. The varieties of apples which are grown and cultivated in the different fruit districts of the kingdom, for the purpose of making cyder, are ex- tremely numerous. The following is a list of the most approved:— Styre. Coccagee. Golden Harvey. Red Streak. Golden Pippin. Queening. Cowanne Red. There have been several varieties of apples introduced from Normandy, and are thence called Red Normand, Yellow Norman, &c. Mr. Knight’s new kind are also highly esteemed for cyder. The Dowton Pippin. The Grange Apple. The Foxley, and The Brengewood Pippin. The merit of cyder will depend much on the proper separation of the fruits. Each kind should be collected separately, and kept till it becomes perfectly mellow. Although no cri- terion appears to be known when the proper point of maturity in the fruit may be ascertained with accu- racy ; there is good reason to believe that it improves as long as it conti- nues to acquire a deeper shade of yellow.—See Apples. D. DANDELION (Dens leonis).— The medicinal properties of the dan- delion, are diuretic and cathartic. Macerated in several waters, though somewhat aperient, it is very whole- some eaten as salad, and little in- ferior to succory or endive. The roots are burnt, and used, when ground, as coffee, to which they bear a closer resemblance, both in taste and smell, than any other vegetable. D A R N E L.—A rampant w'eed, that grows much among some barley, from indolence in the farmer, and most where it is sown with the seed barley. It does the least harm amongst malt, because it adds a strength to it, and quickly intoxi- cates, if there is much in it; but where there is but little, the malt- ster pays no attention to it for the sake of its inebriating quality.— There are other weeds or seed which are noxious to barley; but which are all subjected to the screen sieve, throiigh which they escape. DATES.—These are the finit of the palm-tree. They are generally used by us medicinally; being de- tersive, astringent, and good against diseases of the throat. Our dates are brought to us from Egypt, Syria, Africa, and the Indies. The best come from Tunis and Persia. Among the Egyptians and Africans they constitute a principal article of food, but are deemed an unwholesome diet; and persons who eat great quantities of them are said to be- come scorbutic, and lose their teeth betimes. Some assert, howcvei-, that they are a great restorative to dry and exhausted bodies. One particxdar species, called Palma JEgxj'ptica, has been much commended for its virtues against drought; and, as expressed bjf the poet, “ Fruits of the palm-tree, pleasantest to thirst And hunger both.” Milton. Those that are new, large, sweet, full of juice, yellow, ripe, of a firm pulp, that is easily separated from its stone or kernel, and has not been attacked by the worms. The best come from Tunis. They are not much in use with us; but they areDI 93 DI much eaten in Syria, Egypt, and the East Indies. They never become sweet in tliose parts of Spain that border on the sea, but retain an un- pleasant and harsh taste. It is said that both bread and wine have been made from dates. They contain much oil, phlegm, and essential salt. DEER.—See Venison. DIET.—Food; provisions for sa- tisfying hunger. A regular course of food or regimen. To eat accord- ing to the rules of medical writers. So much does health depend upon temperance and simplicity of diet, that were more attention directed to the due cultivation of these subjects, fewer of those diseases which are the scourge of the human race, as well as the opprohria medicorum, would be seen or felt in society. To derive the greatest possible benefit from these two paramount considei'ations, it ought to be the study of all who value their health, to combine sim- plicity with temperance in the se- lection, preparation, and use of the various articles of food, animal and vegetable, which the bountiful hand of Providence has so profusely scat- tered over the face of the earth for the support of both man and beast. By simplicity in the choice and pre- paration of our alimentary materials, the appetite is not unnaturally pro- voked to consume more than the system requires for its proper sus- tenance ; indigestion, the bug-bear of modern empiricism, is prevented, and the general health more securely and uniformly maintained. 'J'em- perance in diet, in its turn, supplies, in a great measure, the place of exercise, where opportunities for the latter may be wanting, an essential at all times indispensable to the pre- servation of sound wind and limbs. Independent then of its conservative qualities, temperance may be prac- tised by all classes and conditions, at any time, place, or season. It is, indeed, a kind of regimen, upon which any individual may place him- self without interruption to business, unnecessary expense, or loss of time. And as the rational subjugation of the passions strengthens the mind, so temperance in diet renders the body less subject to such turbulent emotions. These observations are applicable, not only to individuals who are naturally of a hot constitu- tion, but even to those who control their appetites; because moderation is a great means of tranquillizing the mind. Feeble individuals ought to eat little at a time and often, of some light nourishing food: the number of their meals should correspond with their want of strength ; for it is less injurious to a debilitated per- son to eat a few mouthfuls every hour, than to make two or three hearty meals in one day. This ob- servation, however, is liable to ex- ceptions, as regards those who have habitually weak stomachs. There is no instance on record of any person having injured his health or life by drinking water with his meals; but wine, beer, and spirits have produced a much greater number and diver- sity of patients than would fill all the hospitals in the world. Such are the effects of intemperance in diet, particularly in the abuse of drink; for neither beer, wine, nor spirits, when properly brewed and distilled, and not sophisticated afterwards, are of themselves injurious, if used with moderation, and in a proper habit of body. It is a vulgar prejudice that water disagrees with many constitu- tions, and does not promote digestion so well as wine, beer, or spirits: on the contrary, water, jmre water, on the experience and authority of some of the longest livers, is preferable to all brewed and distilled liquors, both in giving tone and activity to the organs of digestion, and preventing complaints which have their origin in acrimony and fullness of the blood. It is an observation equally im-94 DI DI portant as true, that by attending merely to a proper diet, a phlegmatic or emaciated habit may frequently be changed into one of a sanguine and robust condition; and the hypo- chondriac may so far be altered, as to become achecrful,contented, and use- ful member of the community. People in the lower ranks of society enjoy the common advantages of existence more intensely than those in the higher walks of life. Wholesome food is acquired by moderate laboui', which improves the appetite and di- gestion : hence sound sleep uninter- rupted by corroding cares, refreshes the w'earied limbs; a healthy pro- geny fills the cottage; and the sons perform the father’s labour, making his hoary locks sit comfortably on his head. How vastly inferior to these blessings are the delicacies of the affluent, which are every where ac- companied with real evils. Their appetites, in order to relish their food, must be stimulated by pungent sauces, which heat and vitiate the blood, and render the body liable to diseases. These e.xcesses disturb their repose; and as a punishment for their vices, their sons, who ought to be the ornament and support of their families, contract diseases from their mother’s womb, and are afflict- ed with infirmities through the course of a languid life, which seldom reaches to old age. But the worst inconvenience re- sulting from epicureark modes of living is, that by supplying the body with superabundant nourishment, the faculties of the soul become stupified, and the passions inflamed ; wdiile the sparing and homely diet of the la- borious poor neither oppresses the bodily functions, nor foster a pro- pensity to vice. Hence, unless pru- dence be a constant attendant on opulence, it is, in these respects, better and more conducive to the preservation of health and prolonga- tion of life, to live on a small for- tune. Nor is nature to be deemed an unjust step-mother, hut a most provident and beneficent parent. In short, to use the words of Lucan {Book ii. p. 381), it behoves a wise man, in every stage of his life, “To hold the golden mean, To keep the end in view, and follow nature.” The opinion of a physician of some celebrity in his time, is worthy of being recorded here on the subject of diet,—we allude to the late Dr. Cheyne, who died at Bath in the year 1742, in the seventy-second year of his age. He had been greatly afflicted in his time, having been a free liver; he succeeded, however, by means of a milk and vegetable diet, and the use of the Bath waters, to remove an accumulation of “mor- bid sensibility,” bulk, and lethargy, which had nearly cost him his life. By strict adherence for upwards of two years to his milk and vegetables, his health was at length thoroughly established; and he confined himself almost entirely to this regimen dur- ing the remainder of his life. Of this regimen, and its effects, he him- self thus speaks:— “ My regimen, at present, is milk, with tea, cofl'ee, bread, and butter, mild cheese, salading, fruits, and seeds of all kinds, with tender roots (as potatoes, turnips, carrots), and in short, every thing that has not life (dressed or not, as I like it), in which there is as much or greater variety than in animal food : so that the stomach need never be cloyed. I drink no wine nor any fermented liquors, and am rarely dry, most of my food being liquid, moist, or juicy; only, after dinner, I drink either coffee or green tea, but seldom both in the same day, and sometimes a glass of soft small cider. The thin- ner my diet is, the easier, more cheerful and lightsome, I find my- self. My sleep is also the sounder, though pei-haps somewhat shorter than formerly under my full animalDI 95 DI diet. But then I am more alive than ever I was, as soon as I awake, and get up. I rise commonly at six, and go to bed at ten.” In the year 1726 Dr. Cheyne pub- lished “The English Malady:” or a treatise on nervous diseases of all kinds. In the preface to this work he has made some important obser- vations on the milk and vegetable diet, and low regimen; for that it might not be supposed that this diet and low regimen, wliich he recommended to valetudinarians, and those who la- boured under nervous diseases, was thought proper by him for persons in full health and vigour, he asserted that he thought “ thin, poor, cool, low diet, as improper and unnatural to a robust, active, strong, healthy man, as a gross, full, high diet, is for a poor, thin, low, valetudinary crea- ture.” He also says, “ I here so- lemnly declare it, as my judgment and opinion (if it be worth the know- ing) founded on the experience and observation of many years— “ 1st.—That the diet and manner of living of the middling rank, who are but moderate and temperate in foods of the common and natural product of the country, to wit, in animal foods plainly dressed, and liquors purified by fennentation only, without the tortures of the fire, or without being turned into spirits, is that intended by the Author of nature for this cli- mate and country, and consequently the most wholesome, and fittest in general for prolonging life, and pre- venting distempers, that tlie ends of Providence, and the conditions of mortality, will admit. “2dly.—That no wise man, who is but moderate and temperate in this manner, ought on any account to alter the kind and quality of his diet, till he has duly and sufficiently tried what proper medicines can do, by the advice of the most experienced and skilful physicians. “ 3dly.—That the changes that are advised to be made, ought to be duly and maturely considered, and en- tered upon by degrees, whether from a higher to a lower, or from a lower to a higher diet. “dthly.—That strong, high, ani- mal foods, and genuine defecated spirituous liquors, as begetting warm, full, and enlivened juices, urging on the circulation with force, and the secretions with vigour, in young, ro- bust, healthy constitutions, are fittest and most effectual for mechanical and animal force, action, and labour: and so absolutely necessary for han- dicrafts, great fatigue, and military prowess.” It has been conceived that the diet of children and young people ought to consist principally of diluents, in order to facilitate the development of youth. Hence broths, and a large proportion of vegetables and milk, are the chief articles of their diet, and the only and best drink. Seasonings of all kinds should be avoided, and nothing taken of a stimulating na- ture, to induce too early maturity, before the constitution be ripened by years. With complete adolescence, the quantity of food necessary for the period of growth should be abridged; but from the active scenes of life in which the body is then engaged, the food should be of a more stimulating nature, with a proper portion of ani- mal food, regulated according to cir- cumstances: for instance, those who pursue a sedentary and studious mode of life should be more sparing in the use of animal food and stimulating drink; for by excess of nourishment to the body, the intellects are found to be proportionally weakened. Those of a firm and vigorous habit have the greatest disposition to inflammatory disorders. Excesses of all kinds, particularly in the use of fermented liquors, should be carefully avoided. The sanguine or plethoric constitu- tions should restrict their diet chiefly to vegetable food, and their drink to water. The phlegmatic admits a greater latitude in the use of sti-DI DI 96 Ululating diet than any other; and both seasoning and stimulating drink will prove less hurtful to such a con- stitution ; the chief consideration is to guard against corpulence. Where a dry habit prevails, young meats, fruits, and fresh vegetables, form the best regimen; and, in point of drink, good wine, diluted with water, or home-brewed malt liquors, are to be preferred. On this subject, the following Epitome of Dietetical Precepts may he beneficially con- sulted. a. When a larger quantity of food is consumed than the digestive or- gans can assimilate into chyle, it can never be converted into good nou- rishment. b. Food too highly seasoned with salt or pungent spices and oils, cor- rupt the blood. c. People of gross habits, and fe- verish constitutions, should eat spar- ingly. Unseasonable abstinence is also attended with bad consequences : for without a fresh supply of chyle, animal juices naturally acquire pu- trescency. Inanition produces fevers of the worst sort; as those who fast too religiously feel frequently, to their cost, the insidious consequences. Ill all chronic disorders, such a quantity of food is to be taken as is sufficient to support, not overload, the stomach. The weak, emaciated, hectic, or consumptive, ought to ob- serve the strictest regimen. To such, excess in any thing is attended with the most perilous consequences. Na- ture abhors discordant mixtures: fish, flesh, wine, beer, cider, cream, and fruit. These distend the bowels with wind, and prevent digestion. Bread made of the purest flour of wheat nourishes much and binds the belly : mi.xed with bean flour it is opening and less nourishing. The farinacea are all antiseptics. Wheat bread, properly fermented, and well baked, is the most valuable part of diet.—See Bread. Milk is already elaborated, pre- pared, and digested in the body of the animal. It is an extract of ani- mal and vegetable food. It is re- plete with nutritious juices, and wants little else than the colour to be blood. Where feverish heat pre- dominates, in costive habits especi- ally, buttermilk and brown bread are timely specifics.—See Milk. Sea-salt, moderately used, is very wholesome, and the reverse if taken in excess.—See Salt. The flesh of animals in the prime of life, of such as are castrated, and not used to hard labour, is best. The flesh of graniverous birds is not so oily as that of water-fowls. Mutton is the best flesh for the delicate; beef and pork are proper only for the strong, and those who use hard ex- ercise.—See Food, Animal, ^-c. Pond fish, or such as are fat, are hard of digestion; such as are caught near the shore are lighter. Boiled fish is lighter than roasted.—See Fish. Bitters bind tbe belly; acids gripe the bowels; salted things promote stool and urine; sweet things breed phlegm.—Celsiis. Onions, leeks, radishes, and all the alkalescents, are antiseptic; mustard and cress occasion a heat and diffi- culty of urine; celery is diuretic; aromatics heat; colewort and let- tuce cool; cucumbers are cold, crude, and hal'd to digest; ripe fruits open the belly ; unripe bind and gripe ; pulses of all sorts arc windy; honey promotes urine and stools, but gripes many; soft bread increases acidity in the stomachs of those troubled with heartburns; biscuits, less; con- fectionary and dainties tempt people too mucb, and are hard of diges- tion. Where the aliment ferments too violentl}', from putresccncy of the stomach, acids, bitters, aroma- tics, and alkalescents arc proper. If cold cacohymy be added to bad ha- bits, the patient ought to abstain from farinaceous foods and jellies, because these increase the tenacity of the humours. If the body begins97 DI DI to be puffed up with watery hu- mours, broths are sparingly to be used; roasted meats, and fresh-water fish, with generous wine, are indi- cated. If an acid acrimony abounds, as in young people, eggs, broths, and jellies are best. If the humours tend to an alkaline putrescency, bar- ley broths, bread and milk, are the fittest food. Acidulated liquids for common drink; and, if broths are allowed, they should also be acidu- lated.—Arbiithnol. It has been discovered that the body perspires but little while the stomach is too full, or too empty; that full diet is prejudicial to those who use little exercise, but indispen- sably necessary to those who labour much: that food, the weight of which is not felt in the stomach, nourishes best, and perspires most freely. That he who goes to bed without supper, being hungry, will perspire but little; and if he does so often, will be liable to fall into a fever. That the flesh of young animals, good mutton, and well- baked bread, are the best food. That the body feels heavier after four ounces of strong food that nourishes much, such as pork, eels, salt fish, or flesh, than after six ounces of food that nourishes little, such as fresh-fish, chicken, and small birds; for where the digestion is difficult, the perspiration is slow. That un- usual feasting, frequently repeated, brings on a bad state of health. That the body is more uneasy and heavy after six pounds taken in at one meal, than after eight taken in at three. That he destroys himself slowly who makes but one meal a day, let him eat much or little. That he who eats more than he can digest, is nourished less than he ought to be, and hence becomes emaciated. 'J’hat to eat immediately after e.xcessive ex- ercise, either of body or mind, is bad; for a body fatigued, perspires but little.—Quinccy. The diet and exercise of those ad- vanced in years should be moderate, and both regulated according to the habit of body. The gross old man should take his exercise chiefly in the forenoon, with as little nourish- ment as possible. The thin and spare old man must have something light upon his stomach for breakfast, but should take his exercise after dinner. As regards taking cold, each must guard the parts most liable to its in- fluence ; the thin old man must go as cool as possible in the forenoon, at which time he will not be so apt to take cold. An old man cannot safely part with flannel. Cornaro’s rule will hold good iu general for all, which is, to lessen the quantity of solid food as you advance in years, but to allow it to be more nourishiug. Habits that have been used but to a moderate quantity of any strong liquors, very rarely afterwards bear milk well; but if they will put as much cowslip wiue as will half turn it, they may bear a small quantity of the clear liquor. Chocolate is too heavy for an old person. Green tea will do for the gross man, but to preserve an appe- tite for dinner, use no butter at break- fast. Small beer, which is fine, or pure water, or such as has been fil- tered or boiled, are the best diluters at dinner: the gross old man may add a little wine to his water. Ale at supper is useful to old people; it helps to finish the digestion of the day, promotes sleep, and keeps the body laxative; it ought not, however, to be stale. Those who observe a very abstemious diet require it, should they not be old. An abstemious old man will never suffer much from the gravel or stone, if his body be kept open. The abstemious old man needs no other physic than the flour of sul- phur, infusion of aloes, or an occa- sional dose of rhubarb : warm stock- ings in winter, woollen hose over all, and flannel. If warm strong liquors will not make him sleep, he will stand KDI DI 98 a bad chance from opiates, whicli oc- casion costiveness, the cause of nu- merous complaints. He must be his own physician, unless an accident happens.—Celsus. Eggs are too heavy for old people; thin broths are better, and will best answer an old man’s purpose, when he cannot digest meat. Asthmas come upon hearty feeders^ and are cured by emetics and abstinence.—Ibid. DIETETICS.—Belonging or re- lating to food. The medium of health and life. The knowledge of those objects which relate to the preservation of the human body in its natural state, may be called the Doctrine of Health. Life and health, therefore, are the proper objects of this doc- trine; as the second department of Medicine solely relates to the pretei- natural states of man, viz. Disease and Death, and forms a branch of professional study called Pathology. The compass of the former science, or an investigation of the objects in- cluded in the doctrine of health, must be very extensive. It furnishes us with rules and cautions with respect to every thing that ought to be done, or to be avoided, in order to remain in, and enjoy a state of health. This useful science is properly designated Dietetics, or a systematic view of all objects relative to health in general, and to food and drink in particular. It includes the whole of what the an- cient physicians understood by the singular appellation of the six non- naturals, namely— Air, aliment, exercise, and rest. The passions and affections of the mind. Wakefulness and sleep. Repletion and evacuation. These general heads, although they do not comprise, strictly speaking, every thing that relates to the difl'er- ont functions of the human body; they, nevertlieless, contain all such conditions of life as are absolutely necessary, and the greatest part of those circumstances which are connected with the health and well- being of the individual; adopting the best and most rational means of ensuring this blessing, and of avoid- ing whatever may have a contrary tendency. Our mode of life is no longer that natural and simple one, which prevailed in the primitive ages of the world; as in the present state of society such habits are scarcely conceivable. Man in a state of na- ture had little occasion to attend to his health; he wanted no rules for its preservation ; for as the seeds of diseases are rarely scattered in such a state, instinct would be to him in most cases a sufficient guide. Innu- merable are the causes which have conspired to render the trtie know- ledge of the means conducive to health, difficult in the acquisition, among the chief of which are pro- bably the following, which include most of the subordinate particulars:— 1. The present very artificial man- ner of living: 2. The infinite variety of human employments. 3. The different modes of dwelling and dressing. 4. The endless variety of sub- stances used as food and drink. 5. The great diversity of national customs and manners. G. The difference of climates and situation. All these circumstances, and many more, have a greater or less influ- ence, conjointly or separatel)’, not only on the passions, inclinations, and instinctive desires of individuals, but also on the general state of the health and physical welfare of a people. By the present mode of living we are exposed to diseases wholly unknown in the first ages of the world, when “ The friendly limpid draught, the temperate meal. Ne’er asked the aid of bolus or of pill.” People suffer from a variety of com- plaints originating cither in artificialDI 99 DI habits, or the constraint under which tliey labour, in consequence of blindly complying with the caprice of cus- tom or fashion, without perhaps ap- prehending any ill consequences from such pernicious practices. Many ingenious writers have lately endeavoured to point out the disad- vantages originating in causes ap- parently trivial: for instance, the fashion of using paint, hair-powder, and pomatum; of wearing ill-shaped shoe.s, tight-laced stays, ligatures of every description round particular parts of the body, &c.; all these have deservedly incurred severe ri- dicule and pointed censure. The custom of applying lead to earthen vessels (see Lead), has not escaped their attention; the danger, how- ever, resulting from the use of that substance, appears, not like copper (see Copper), to have been some- what exaggerated. Hence it is, that writers (many of whom write with- out reflection, and pin their faith too implicitly on the sleeves of their predecessors), with the best inten- tions have sometimes, from an ex- cess of zeal, descanted on the worst side of the question only, by attri- buting to certain things many dan- gerous qualities, which, in fact, are owing to a great diversity of circum- stances. This partial method of in- quiring into the sources of the evil is, generally speaking, a serious error; as it not only leads to false conclusions, but also warps the at- tention from other pressing injuries, to which, in a more tranquil and un- prejudiced state of mind, our care might he directed. To prevent, however, any misap- plication of those rules, which are established by the accumulated ob- servations of ages; it may not be improper, under this head, to intro- duce some general remarks, rela- tive to the individual use and ad- vantage to be derived from a con- nected view of dietetics. It is, in fine, not so much the healthy, as the valetudinary and infirm, who stand in need of minute precepts for their conduct,—and even the latter ought not to engage too earnestly in com- pliance with them; since it is only a very limited number that require such nice attention. A vigorous and persevering mode of inuring ourselves to the unavoidable difficulties and diversified accidents of life, is of greater importance to the preserva- tion of health, than any dietetical precepts whatever. Man is capable of undergoing all the vicissitudes and inconveniences of air, weather, and climate; he can digest any kind of food, if his stomach has not been wan- tonly debilitated; and he can sus- tain the severest bodily exercise and labour, without paying too minute at- tention to time or regularity, when his employment or duty renders ex- ertion necessary. But he, who, from his infancy, has been treated w’ith extreme tenderness, or who, after having been previously accustomed to a hardy mode of life, is seized with the whim of bestowing too much care on his health, will suffer from the most trivial inconveniences, and catch cold at every change of the air; every heavy or high seasoned dish will be oppressive, and the smallest devia- tion from the rules of temperance will indispose him. Yet, by the same rules, every healthy person will learn, that the grand secret of pre- serving himself in that state, consists principally in the art of moderating his desires and enjoyments. Thus may we arrive at the knowledge of such things as are generally condu- cive to the welfare of the body— more than which ought not to he expected. “ Refined and wire-drawn systems of feeding,” says an elegant author, “are as unnatural as the fear of death, which often proves mortal, and which sets people on methods to save their lives which infallibly destroy them.” This is a reflection made by some historians upon ob- serving, that more are killed in a flight than in a battle, and may heDI 100 DI applied to those multitudes of ima- giiiaiy nervous and sick people, who aegrotise by the very means of health, who ruin their constitution by physic, and throw themselves into the arms of death by striving to avoid it—“a method not only dangerous, but be- low the practice and dignity of a rational being. To consult the pre- servation of life, as the only end of it; to make our health our business; to engage in no action that is no part of a regimen or course of physic, are purposes so abject, mean, and unworthy of human nature, that a generous soul would rather die than submit to them. Besides, that a con- tinual anxiety for life vitiates and corrodes all its enjoyments, and casts a melancholy and lugubrious gloom over the whole face of nature; as it is impossible we should take pleasure or delight in any thing we are every moment afraid of losing.”—Addison. By these observations, it is not meant to attach blame to any one for taking a proper care of his health—a bless- ing much sooner lost than recovered ; on the contrary, “ a cheerfulness of mind and capacity for business, are in a great measure the effects of a well- tempered constitution ; a man cannot take too much pains to cidtivate and preserve it; that this care which we are prompted to, not only by com- mon sense, but by duty and instinct, should never engage us in groundless fears, melancholy apprehensions, and imaginary evils, wdiich are natural to every man who is more anxious to live than to know' how to live. In short the preservation of life should be only a secondary consideration, and the observation of it our principal aim. If we have this frame of mind, wo shall take the best means to pre- serve life, witbout being ovefsolicitous about the event; and shall arrive at that ])oint of felicity which Martial has mentioned as the perfection of hap- piness—namely, that of neither fear- ing nor wishing for death.”—(Ibid). To conclude, rules of health, univer- sally applicable to the state of every individual, are not discoverable in nature; nor can they be derived from anj' experimental knowledge we pos- sess of corporeal objects. The best general precept is, for every one to- study himself, and his own particular constitution, in order that he may choose and regulate his life accord- ingly ; and that he may make his own experience his guide, most suit- able to it, bis mode of life, and par- ticular circumstances. DIGESTION.—The fluid and solid parts of the body are continu- ally wasting, it is therefore necessary that they should have a constant supply. For this purpose all ani- mals are provided with powers for taking in food and digesting it. Sub- stances fitted for food are such as contain either oily, gelatinous, or saccharine parts. Animal matters are chiefly furnished with the two former, and vegetable w'ith the two latter. Some animals appear de- signed to live upon animal food only; others upon vegetable; and others again uj)on both animal and vege- table, promiscuously. Of the latter class is man. All solid foods undergo the pro- cess of mastication, or chewing, be- fore they are sw'allowed. In this act they are cut down by tbe teeth, and mixed with the saliva. (See Saliva). In the operation of chewing, these are pressed upon by tbe muscles of the jaw, and made to discharge their contents more plentifully than at other times. The food thus fitted for swallowing, is thrown by tbe action of the tongue and other muscles, into the gullet, or oesophagus, a muscu- lar tube, leading from the mouth to the stomach. The contraction of the gullet propels the food into the sto- mach, which, in man, is single. (See Stomach). The food remains some time in the stomach, where it un- dergoes further changes, proceeding partly from the heat of the place, partly from the pressure of the mus- cular coat of the stomach, and partly from the mixture of the gastric juice.bi DI 101 (See Gastric Juice). By these means it is reduced to nearly a uniform pulp, and suffers a degree of fermen- tation, by which its properties are altered and a quantity of air is extri- cated from it. The action of the stomach at length presses it out into the beginning of the intestinal canal. (See Intestines). It is pro- pelled through this winding tube by means of the peristaltic motion, which is a successive contraction of the muscular coat of the intestines upon their contents; and may be likened to the crawling motion of a worm or caterpillar. When arrived a little below' the stomach, the food receives the bile, (see Bile); by the mixture of which, it acquires a yel- low tinge, and has its solid parts still more perfectly dissolved. At the same time it also receives the pan- creatic juice, a liqour separated by the pancreas, and resembling the sa- liva, which serves further to dilute it. From the internal surface of the intestinal canal, especially that part called the small intestine, arise in- numerable minute vessels, with open mouths. These are furnished with numerous valves, and flow together into larger and larger trunks, till at last they all terminate in the thoracic duct. They are called lacteals. (See Lymphatics). By means of these ves- sels, all the nutritious part of the food, now putting on the appearance of cream, and called the chyle, is ab- sorbed from it in its long course through the intestines. (See Chyle). The lymph and chyle are therefore carried together to be mixed with the blood, from the thoracic duct, into which the lymphatics terminate, in the left subclavian vein. The re- mainder of the food now becomes foetid, and turned into mere excre- ment, is propelled through the rest of the intestinal canal, and dis- charged per anum.—See Chyme. DIGES'lTON, Theories of.— We are still ignorant of the chemical changes which the aliments undergo in the stomach. It is only at dif- ferent times that explanations on this subject, more or less plausible, have been attempted to be given. Ancient philosophers asserted that the food putrefied in the stomach; Hippo- crates attributes digestion io coction; Galen gave attractive, retentive, con- coctive, and expulsatme faculties to the stomach; by the assistance of which he thought to explain the pro- cess of digestion. 'I'he doctrine of Galen prevailed in the schools until the middle of the seventeenth cen- tury, when it W'as attacked and upset by the fermenting chemists, who es- tablished a jiarticular effervescence and fermentation in the stomach, by means of which the aliments were macerated, dissolved, precipitated, &c. This system had a very short cai-eer; but it was superseded by ideas much less consonant with rea- son. It was afterwards established that digestion was nothing more than a trituration or bruising of the food, effected by the contraction of the stomach; and it w'as supposed that an innumerable multitude of small worms attacked and divided it. Bocrhaave conceived he had hit the truth by combining the diflerent opi- nions on this subject that reigned before him. Haller differed from the sentiments of his master, by con- sidering digestion merely as a sim- ple maceration. He was aware that vegetable and animal matter, steeped in water, was not long before it was covered over with a soft and homo- geneous membrane; and he thought that the aliment underwent pheno- mena analogous to this, by mace- rating in the saliva and fluid se- creted by the stomach. The experiments of Reaumur and Spallanzaid have thrown a different light on the process of digestion. Tliey made experiments upon ani- mals, and demonstrated the falsity of the ancient .systems. They shewed that aliments, enclosed in hollow me- tallic balls, pierced with small holes, K 3102 DI DI were digested equally, as if they were at liberty in the cavity of the stomach. They proved that the sto- mach contains a particular fluid, which they called gastric juice, and that this fluid is the principal agent in digestion ; the properties of which, nevertheless, they considerably exag- gerated, and they were no less led into error when they imagined they had explained the digestive process as a dissolution ; for, in not explain- ing this, they explained still less the alteration of the aliments in the sto- mach. We shall not occupy the at- tention of our readers by the easy exposition and refutation of these different hypotheses, which may be seen in every work that has hitherto treated the subject in a rational manner,—our object being to sim- plify practical knowledge, not to pro- mote controversial disputation. DIGESTION, Organs of.—An important distinction exists between animals and vegetables, according to the manner in which they receive their nourishment. Vegetables are continually absorbing matter from the soil, which immediately passes into the sap-vessels, where it is soon changed by respiration and secretion. Animals, on the contrary, with very few excejrtions, take in food at in- tervals, and retain it in their stomach for a considerable time, where it un- dergoes a chemical change, whicli constitutes the function of digestion, the first step in the general process by which animal matter is formed.— There is, indeed, no function in the animal economy that presents us with such elaborate machinery as that of the function of digestion; its complexity and extent, however, have been found to vary in proportion to the nature of the alimentary sub- stance upon which it is intended to act. Should it differ considerably in com])osition from the materials of which the animal is constituted, the changes it has to undergo before it can he adoj)tcd for the support and reparation of the body which is to receive it, must consequently be more considerable, hence the organs are more extensive and elaborate in ani- mals that feed on herbage, than such as subsist on animal food; while man, who draws his supplies of nourish- ment both from the animal and vegetable kingdom, possesses an in- termediate organisation. His organs of digestion, therefore, may be said to consist of 1. —A long canal, which extends from the mouth to the anus, and varies in the diameter of its different parts, according to the distinct duties which each is destined to perform— capable also of contracting or ex- panding according to the circum- stances under whicli they have to contend.—See Intestines. 2. —Various glands, or secreting organs, for the preparation of the liquids, which are required for acting on the alimentary substances.—See Saliva. — Gastric Juice.— Bile. — Pancreas. 3. —Vessels for carrying into the circulating medium the nutritive pro- duct of the process of digestion.— See Lymphatics. 4. —The lungs, which complete its assimilation with the blood. — See Respiration. 5. —The kidneys and skin, which cany away the remaining portion of the alimentary substance as excre- mentitious.—See Kidneys. These diffei’ent organs of diges- tion are not only intimately related to each other, but they exhibit an extraordinary, and frequently an as- tonishing degree of sympathy with the circulating medium and the brain. For instance, there is no organ of the body that is not directly or indi- rectly affected by the ojicrations of the stomach ; it need not, therefore, be matter of surprise, that an im- pression made upon this viscus by a medicinal agent, or by any alimen- tary matter, should afford the means of exciting an action in the mostDO DO 103 remote parts of the machine; nor can it be a matter of surprise, tliat tlie aberrations of this central vis- cus should give rise to the greater number of diseases with which the body is afflicted; nor that these applications should be so eflective, which are directed for their cure, through the medium of its sympa- thies. The stomach suffers equally in its turn from the derangement of different organs; spi'ains of tendons, ligamentous structures, blows on the head and other parts, produce sick- ness at the stomach, and frequently direct vomiting. The sympathy be- tween the stomach and the matrix, and thence to the brain, is no less unequivocal.—See Stomach. To distinguish between the sym- pathetic and primary affections of the digestive organs, is a mystery of the greatest practical importance; and the profession is under much obligation to Mr. .‘\bernethy, the late distinguished surgeon of St. Bartho- lomew Hospital, for his endeavours to show how the stomach and bowels are liable to become affected from local derangement, and vice versa.— See Indigestion. From the preceding observations, it will be seen that the changes which the food undergoes in the digestive organs of the more complicated ani- mal, bipeds as well as quadrupeds, are three-fold; and distinct organs are allotted to each of the three pro- cesses. Digestion takes place in the stomaeh; chylification in the small intestines; and a third process hither- to undenominated, is performed in the large intestines. It is probable, therefore, that in some cases, one set of organs may be more disordered than the others, consequently one of the above-mentioned processes may fail more than the rest. For instance, the stomach may digest the food in a healthy manner, although the in- testines do not perform their share of the changes which they ought to effect. The food is converted in the stomach into a viscid semi-transpa- rent substance, called chyme; and that the change is pi'oduced by the agency of the gastric juice, secreted, that is, furnished by the blood, like every other secretion, by .the exhaling vessels of the very numerous arteries strewed over every part of the sto- mach, is a point as well ascertained as any in physiology.—(See Secre- tion). In a state of health tliis con- version takes place without any appearance of that rational decompo- sition which animal and vegetable matter would oi'dinarily undergo in a warm place. When, however, di- gestion is imperfect, gaseous fluids are extricated from the alimentary mass. Vegetable food become acid, and oils becomes rancid. Uneasy sensations are also felt, and undi- gested aliment may be observed in the faeces. “ A disordered state of secretion either as to quantity or quality, will be the natural effect of irritation of a seci'eting organ. This is evidently the case with the tongue; and we may with great probability conjecture, thatthe sameconsequenee also takes place in the stomach. As likewise the juiees of the stomach are the immediate agents of diges- tion, that bowel must be disturbed in proportion, as its secretions are deficient or vitiated. If undigested matter pass from the stomach into the intestines, it can scarcely be sup- posed that these powers are capable of converting it into chyle; and it may become irritating to those or- gans, in consequence of the chemical changes which it may then undergo. When indigestion is imperfect, animal and vegetable substances experience eonsiderable chemical changes before they leave the stomach; and similar changes may continue to take place during the time they are detained in the bowels, unless counteracted by the powers of the digesttve organs— powers which seem chiefly to belong to the fluids, which are secreted into them.—V ide Abernelhy, on theConsti-DO DO tutional Origin, ^c., of Local Disease, p. 27. DOMESTIC WINES.—Our do- mestic wines, commonly called siveet, or made wines, are chiefly made from raisins or dried grapes of Spain or Portugal. Francis Chamberlayne first made the attempt in 1633, and obtained a patent of fourteen years, in which it is alleged, that his wines would keep good during several years, and even in a voyage under the very line.—(See Itymer's Fadera). The art of making wine was very successfully reviewed several years ago, by Mr. Beaufoy, and the foreign wines most admirably mimicked. Such is the prodigality and luxury of the age, that the demand for many sorts exceeds, in a great degree, the produce of the native vineyards. We have the most skilful and ingenious fabricators, who kindly supply our w'ants. It has been estimated, that half the port, and five-sixths of the white wines consumed in the capi- tal, have been the produce of home wdne presses. The genial and fertile banks of the Thames, yield almost every species of white wine; and, by a wondrous magic, the late Mr. Beaufoy poured forth the materials for the rich Frontignac, to the more elegant tables; the Madeira, the Calcavella, and the Lisbon, into every part of the kingdom. “ There is in this city,” (London), observes a cer- tain chemist, who has written exten- sively on adulterations, “ a certain fraternity of cliemical operators, who work underground in holes, caverns, and dark retirements, to conceal their mysteries from the eyes and observation of mankind. These subterraneous philosophers are daily employed in the transmutation of liquors, and by the power of magical drugs and incantations, raising under the streets of London the choicest products of the hills and valleys of France, they can squeeze claret out of the sloe, and draw champ.agne from an apple; an art which Virgil seems to have had in view in that remarkable prophecy, “ Inculusque rubens pendebit sentibus uva.”—Eclog. iv. 29. “ The ripening grape shall hang on every thorn.” Drvden. See Wine. DOREZ.—To wash poultry, &c., with 3'olk of egg well beaten. DORURE.—Yolks of eggs well beaten. DRINK.—Drinks may be di\dded into common water, vegetable infu- sions, and decoctions ; fermented li- quors, animal fluids, animal infusions, and decoctions. The vegetables em- ploj^ed for infusions and decoctions, as drink, are clriefly tea, coffee, choco- late, and some other herbs, as sage, mint, balm, &c., fermented and dis- tilled liquors, &c. which see. Among the animal substances may be enu- merated various soups, as beef-tea, veal, mutton, and chicken broths. —See Broths. As regards the property and quan- tity of drink, it is more necessary' to the support of animal life than eating; since drink is indispensably' necessary to the solution and digestion of food. Those who drink too little, for in- stance, people of sedentary habits, and particularly women, are subject to complaints of indigestion. Suffi- cient drink prevents the blood from becoming thick, and also the smaller vessels from becoming obstructed; it dilutes the acrid particles of the blood generated in it; and it pro- motes the necessary secretions, such as the bile and gastric juice. People ought to drink only when they are thirsty', and to desist when that thirst is quenched; though this is seldom the ease, because many of our liquors stimulate the palate. Pure water, therefore, is an inestimable beverage, as it will not induce us to drink more than is necessary'. The fluid aliment should be in greater proportion than the solid; since the quantity of our fluids far exceedsDR 105 DR that of our solids, and consequently, there must be secreted more fluids than solids. The general rule in this case, though it cannot be accu- rately observed, nor is it applicable in every instance, is to take about double the proportion of liquid to the dry food. There are various cir- cumstances, such as the season of the year, the weather, cold, heat, the nature of our food, &c. which regu- late the quantity of drink at one time more than another. Tliirst, however, is as good if not a better guide than hunger, and he who is accustomed to drink water only, will not easily transgress the measure, if he drinks as often as nature calls upon him. With a proper choice of food every one should drink conform- ably to his wants. Hence it is need- less to recommend water as a beve- rage to persons who will not be persuaded to change their irregular modes of eating. The more is eaten, and the drier the food, the more ought to be drunk. The phlegmatic have less inclination to drink than those of a sanguine and choleric temperament. The la- borious ought to drink more than the sedentary, and still more in sum- mer than in winter, to sujrply what is lost by perspiration. In the morning there is generally an inclination to drink after getting out of bed, which is gratified by tea, coffee, or warm liquors. Water might be a more proper drink at this time, and it might only be disagreeable to those whose stomachs are deranged by the habitual use of warm liquors and hot rolls. A glass of pure fresh water, and a short time after it, a piece of bread with some fruit, or even butter, would afford a very wholesome breakfast, by which the stomach and intestines might be cleared out, tbe blood and humours refreshed, and the whole body strengthened. If the stomach be not loaded with mucus, or relaxed by tippling, a basin of sweet cows’ milk. with a piece of wholesome stale bread, is an excellent breakfast in spring and summer. To drink much at night, previous to going to bed, is extremely hurt- ful ; or to drink immediately before a meal is improper, because the sto- mach is swelled and rendered less fit for the digestion of food. It is no less objectionable to drink much during meal-time ; as the stomach is thus rendered incapable of receiving tbe portion of aliment. Cold water, or beer, does not well agree with warm victuals; and the teeth are injured by taking hot and cold sub- stances in immediate succession. In the hot weather of summer, it is scarcely possible to delay drinking till dinner be finished; and it is then the less hurtful, as the bile, which serves to dissolve the victuals, then requires greater dilution. In winter, unless one eat very diy and salted provisions, the inclination to drink is less sensible. But if we must drink in the intervals of eating, it would be most conducive to digestion to drink water only, and in small quan- tities ; as pure water, during the time of eating, is more proper, be- cause it agrees with all dishes, with- out exception. A glass or two of wine, nevertheless, during dinner, partiadardy for the aged and debili- tated, is a proper stimulus, and con- ducive to digestion. Some dietetical writers advise us not to drink without eating some- thing ; but those wbo only drink when nature requires it, have no oc- casion to eat every time they drink. Persons, on the contrary, who are once accustomed to drink more than is necessary, or to use hot, stimulat- ing, and intoxicating liquors, would do well always to eat some bread or other solid food along with them. Indeed, we ought to begin to drink only after an appetite for food is satisfied, and then it should be done gradually during digestion ; tbe pro- cess of which may be disturbed bylOG DR DR large draughts of liquor, which oc- casion fermentation and flatulenc}'. Excess of drinking overloads and oppresses the stomach, by distending it too much; hut it is not nearly so hurtful as too much food. Every beverage relaxes the stomach; and persons whose bowels are not suffi- ciently elastic, should be careful in the quantity they drink; for an im- moderate proportion of it may weaken digestion, dilute the fluids too much, and conduct the fluid too quickly through the alimentary canal. An undue portion of weak drink renders the mass of blood too thin and watery; from a thin blood arises also a weak alimentary fluid, consequently, a general debility of the body, and relaxation of the urinary and other jwssages.—See Thirst. Too little drink, on the other hand, is equally improper; digestion is weakened; many parts of the food remain undissolved, and are not con- verted into chyle, because the proper means of diluting them are wanting; the blood becomes thick and viscid; and finally, the secretions and ex- cretions are not duly performed, in consequence of the difi’erent canals being too dry and contracted. VVine, cyder, perry, and all fer- mented liquors, are antiseptic. When beer neither oppresses the stomach, nor binds the bell}', but passes freely by urine, it may be allowed. When it generates wind, passes sluggishly, or generates stony concretions, it ought to be prohibited. Wine drank too freely, weakens the man, as may be seen by his actions. Sweet wines promote stools, but they excite flatu- lency and thirst; they promote ex- pectoration, but impede urine. Sharp austere wines are good when the body is loose, provided there be no affection of the head, no impedimeiTt in spitting, or making water. Pure wine is best for the stomach and bowels, diluted with W’ater; and agrees best with the head, breast, and urinary organs. Strong Spanish, or Hungarian wines, strengthen the stomach.—SeeTVa.—Miner alWaters. The diversity of drink is nearly as great as that of the solid ali- ment. Water itself is of very differ- ent qualities, according to the parti- cles with w'hich it is impregnated, and the places from which it is ob- tained. That of wells, springs, rivers, lakes, swamps, and the various mineral waters, all differ in their sensible properties. Even cold and warm water produce different effects. The former when moderately used, strengthens the stomach, and only proves debilitating when it is drunk in too large quantities. Warm water is always relaxing, and still more so when taken in copious draughts; it remains longer in the stomach than cold water, and consequently is more oppressive: cold liquor stimulates the stomach, but warm drink dimi- nishes its elasticity.—See Water.— Mineral Waters.—Sea Water. If the stomach be over-charged with liquids, and its elasticity weak- ened, a glass of strong wine, or other spirituous liquor, may remedy this inconvenience. Water can only be so far called nourishing, as it tends to supply the aqueous parts we are continually losing. It is the basis of all other fluids, and the greater proportion of water they contain, the better is digestion promoted.— See Wines.— Malt Liquors. The word drink may, in a manner, be applied to all sorts of liquid foods —such as broths, eggs in the shell, milk, and others, of which we have treated. It is in this sense that Hippocrates, (Aphor. xi. Sect 2), says, Faciliiis esse rejici potu, quam ciabo—i. e. We are sooner recovered by liquid than solid aliment. He prescribes those foods which ought to be taken by persons recovering from sickness; and for which there is much reason; for, besides that liquid foods are much easier digested, and agree better with their stomachs which have been debilitated by sick-107 DR DR ness, they are also more easily dis- means of a certain pungent or irri- tributed into all the parts that want tating sensation, which causes thirst, recruiting. The school of Salernum or a desire to drink. — See Drink. takes the word drink in the same -—Thirst. sense as Hippocrates, in the following D R Y- S L TIN G,— The act of line :— preserving Animal Substances from Ut vUesprenam, depolibus incipe ccenani. By this verse we are given to un- derstand, that we ought always to begin our meals with liquid foods, as being those which are easiest of digestion, and stay the shortest time in the stomach, but give a free pass- age to more solid aliments that come after; and from hence, perhaps, arose the custom of beginning meals with soup. Notwithstanding these obser- vations, we do not, in this place, take the word drink in the sense now mentioned; we merely consider it as a liquid substance, which used to quench thirst, assist digestion, and the distribution of the solid foods; and last, though not least, to repair the loss we are continually sustain- ing, of the moist and watery parts of our humours. DRINK.\BLES. — Substances in a fluid state; as water, wine, beer, and the like. The blood and other fluids being in continual agitation in our bodies, the watery parts of which are conti- nually dissipated, either by transpi- ration or urine, it is necessary that this loss should be repaired; for without which the most volatile and exalted principle of the humours being no longer e.xtendcd, and sepa- rated from one another by watery particles, and having, consequently, acquired too much force and acti- vity, they would cause an excess of rarefaction in the humours, and im- part an insupportable heat to the solid parts. Now in order to pre- vent these inconveniences, which in a short time would destroy both the solid and fluid parts of our body, wise and provident nature gives us timely notice of the indispensable necessity we have of drinking, by Putrefaction.— In the preservation of animal stibstances from putrefac- tion, which is of the utmost import- ance to the world in general, and to the remote grazing districts, as well as to certain Individuals in particu- lar ; it enables the grazier to dispose of his live stock, on which naviga- tion and foreign commerce depend, and private individuals to preserve their superfluity. All kind of ani- mal substances may be preserved by salt; though beef and pork are the only staple commodities of this kind. The pieces of the animal, in general, best suited for salting, are those which contain fewest of the large blood-vessels, and are most solid. By some, the glands are recommended to be cut away : it is also said, that without this precaution, meat cannot be preserved; but this is a mistake, as the salted udder and glands of the tongue can testify. Salting is performed in different ways, either by dry-rubbing, or by immersing the meat in pickle, previously prepared. The meat will keep longer by dry- salting, but it is more altered in its valuable properties; in the latter way it is more delicate and nutri- tious. To make a Pickle strong enough to preserve any Meat:— Take Six pounds of salt. One pound of sugai’. Five ounces of salt-pelre. Boil them in four gallons of water, and let them stand to cool. ^ To use this, which is essential, cither a heavy board or a flat stone must be laid upon the meat. The same pickle may be used repeatedly, provided it be occasionally boiled up with additional salt, to restore its strength, diminished by the combi-108 DR DR nation of part of the salt with the meat. By boiling, the albumen, which would cause the pickle to spoil, is coagulated, and rises in the form of scum, which must be care- fully removed. Dry-salting is performed by nib- bing the surface of the meat all over with salt; and it is generally be- lieved that this process of salting is promoted if the salt be rubbed in with a heavy hand; and, on the contrary, it is said, that in very hot countries, for instance, in Jamaica, where it is so necessary that the action of the salt should take place as quickly as possible, the mode of salt- ing is to place the meat on two sticks over a tub of ivater, with the small end uppermost, and to cover it with a heap of salt, which penetrates through the veins and arteries, and among the fibres of the meat, in a state of saturated solution. Plowever this may be, it is almost certain that very little salt penetrates, except through the cut surfaces, to which it should therefore be chiefly applied; and all holes, whether natural or artificial, should be particularly at- tended to. About a pound of the best coarse-ground St. Ube’s salt should be allowed for each twenty- five pounds of meat, and the whole previously heated, and rubbed in at once. When laid in the pickling- tub, after the above process, a brine is soon formed by the salt dissolving in the juices of the meat, which it extracts, and with which the meat should be rubbed every day, a dif- ferent side being turned down. In ten or twelve days it will be suffi- ciently cured. For domestic use, the meat .should be kept until its fibres become short and tender, instead of being salted as soon ns it comes from the market, as these changes do not take place after it has been acted upon by the salt. But in the provision trades,— the expedition with which the ani- mals are slaughtered, the meat cut uj) and salted, and afterwards pack- ed, is astonishing. By salting the meat while still warm, and before the fluids are coagulated, the salt immediately penetrates, by means of the vessels, through the whole sub- stance of the meat, hence meat is admirably cured at Tunis, even in the hottest season; so that Mr. Jack- son, in his “ Reflections on the Trade of the Mediterranean,” recommends ships being supplied with provisions at that place. A mixture for eight cwt. of Beef. Take— II alf a pound of black pepper. Half a pound of red or caj'enne pepper. Flalf a pound of the best saltpetre. All beat or groimd very fine, mix them well together, and then again with the addition of about three quarts of very fine salt. Process of Drg-Salting.—As pieces are brought from the person cutting up the bullock, they are first sprinkled with the spice, a little of which is introduced into all the thickest parts, and if this cannot otherwise be done, small incisions are made into each with a knife. The first salter, after rubbing salt and spice into the meat, should take and mould the piece, in the same manner as washing a shirt, upon a board; this may be verj’ easily done, and the meat, having been lately killed, is soft and pliable; the moulding opens the grain of the meat, which will make it imbibe the salt and spice much quicker than the common method of salting. The first salter hands his meat over to the second salter, who moulds and rubs the salt well into the meat, and, if he observes occasion, introduces the spice; when the second salter has finished his piece, he folds it up as close as possible, and hands it to the packer, at the harness-tub, who must be stationed near him. The packer must be careful to pack his harness- tubs as close as possible. All theDR 109 DR ■work must be carried on in the shade, and where there is a strong current of air, there the harness tubs ought to be placed, this being a ver-y material point in the curing of meat in a hot climate. In tliis manner meat may be salted with the greatest safety, when the thermometer in the shade is at 110° the extreme heat assisting tlie curing. A good sized bullock of six or seven hundred weight may be killed within the hour. The per- son ■who attends W'ith the spice near the first salter, has the greatest ti-ust imposed upon him ; besides the spice, he should be well satisfied that the piece is sufficiently salted, before he permits the first salter to hand the piece over to the second salter. All the salt should be very fine, and the packer, besides sprinkling the bottom of his harness tub, should be careful to put plenty of salt be- tween each tier of meat, which is very soon turned into the finish pickle. The pickle will nearly cover the meat as fast as the packer can stow it away. It is always a good sign that the meat is very safe, when the packer begins to complain that his hands are aching with cold. By the method here detailed, there is no doubt that the meat is cured in three hours from the time of killing the bullock; the saltpetre in a very little time strikes through the meat; however, it is always better to let it remain in the haniess tubs till the following morning, when, on open- ing them, it will have an exceedingly pleasant smell. 11 is then to be taken out, and packed in tight baiTels, with its own brine. Beef and pork, in a less degree, properly salted with salt alone, ac- quire a green colour, but if an ounce of saltpetre be allowed to each five pounds of salt, the muscular fibre takes on a fine red colour; this ap- parent improvement, however, is more than compensated by its be- coming harder and harsher to the taste, to correct which a proportion of sugar or molasses is added; but the red colour if desired may be given without hardening the meat, by the addition of a little cochineal. Salted meat is either preserved, immersed in pickle in close vessels, or dried, ■when it gets the name of bacon, ham, or hung-beef; by being kept immersed in pickle, meat rather gains than loses weight. The dry- ing of salt meat is effected either by hanging it in a dry and well warmed place, or by exposing it at the same time to wood smoke; which gives it a peculiar flavour, much admired in Westphalia hams, and Hamburgh beef, and which also tends to pre- serve it by the antiseptic action of the pyrolignic acid. When meat is to be hung, it need not be so highly salted.—See Beef, Hams, SfC. Admiral Knoiules's recipe to salts meat:— As soon as the ox is killed, let it be skinned and cut up into pieces fit for use, as quick as possible, and salted whilst the meat is hot; for which purpose have a sufficient quan- tity of bay-salt and saltpetre pounded together and made hot in an oven, of each equal parts; with this sprinkle the meat at the rate of about two ounces to the pound; then lay the pieces on shelving boards to drain for twenty four hours. Then turn them, and repeat the operation, and let them lie for twenty-four hours longer: by this time the salt will be all melted, and have pene- trated the meat, and the pieces be drained off. Each piece must then be wiped dry with clean coarse cloths, and a sufficient quantity of common salt, made hot likwise in an oven, and mixed when taken out, with about one-third of brown sugar; the casks being ready, rub each ])iece well with the mixture, .and pack them well down, allowing about half-a- pound of the salt and sugar to each pound of meat, and it will keep good for several years and eat welt. Lno EE EE It is best to proportion the casks or barrels to the quantity consumed at a time, as the seldomer it is ex- posed to the air the better. The same process does for pork, only a smaller quantity of sugar and more salt will answer ; but the preserva- tion of both depends equally on the meat being hot when first salted.— See Fish, Preservation of Pork, ^c. DUCK.—There are two sorts of ducks, the tame and the wild; the flesh of the last is brown and reddish, and is more valued for its goodness and flavour than the tame duck, which is also more difficult of diges- tion than the former; although both are nourishing enough, and are, as a food, both solid and durable. It has been said that feeding upon the meat of ducks, gives a florid complexion, as well as improves the voice; but of these rare qualities we cannot say anything of our own knowledge. Both the wild and tame duck agree in cold weather with young hale people, who are used to most exercise, and have a good stomach.—See Poultry. The goose and duck resemble each other with respect to the sub- stance of their flesh, which produces neai'ly the same effect. The wing of a duck, as well as that of a goose, is excellent food ; and Martial, by the following lines, shews what were the parts of a duck most in esteem for the quality of their flavour: " Iota mihi ponatur anas, sed pectore tantum, Ex cervice sapis ; cajtera ledde coquo.” The teal is classed among the number of wild ducks, of which it is a particular species; and of these there are two sorts, the one small, and the other large; the small, which is most in use for food, resem- bles in every thing the common duck, with the c.Kception that its not so large, but is of a more agreeable taste, and easier of digestion. EELS.—The eel is a well known fresh wafer fish: sometimes it is found in the sea, not that it is pro- duced there, but because it goes often out of rivers into the sea, and thence back again. It delights in pure run- ning waters, though they are found in great plenty in ditches, and other stagnant places, where they arrive at considerable perfection. Eels are said to five out of the water for five or six days, provided the north wind be blowing at tliat time. The eel is a fight, nourishing ali- ment, and much in use. They are eaten fried or boiled; in the former state they are reckoned the most wholesome; they require to be well seasoned, and a glass of generous wine is recommended after them, m order to assist digestion. They agree at all times with young people of a bilious and hot constitution, who abound with thin and sharp hu- mours, provided they have a healthy stomach, and are used in modera- tion. Eels are sometimes salted, for the better keeping of them, by which process they are rendered still more wholesome. The fat of an eel is a good un- guent to apply to pustules of the small pox, also in hemorrhoids, and to make the hair grow. The oil of eels is likewise dropped into the ear to remedy atonic deafness, or to soften the indurated cerumen. There are two sorts of eels, the large and small; of both these, those that are tender, fat, well fed, and taken from a fine clear river, are to be preferred. — See Conger, and Lamprey. EEL-POWT.—This is a fish that usually fives in rivers, and sometimes in lakes. It feeds on weeds, insects, and fishes, and even on its own spe- cies. It cannot bear the cold, and therefore is not so fat or pleasing to the taste in winter as in summer. Those caught in clear running waters are the best. The roe is not eaten, and is said to cause pains in the stomach, and to work violently both111 EG EG upwards and downwards, some re- markable examples of which are given by Gesner, lib. 6, de Ani- malibus. The meat of the eel-powt is white and well tasted; it vaides in size from two or three pounds to seven or eight, and in summer time agi’ees with all ages and constitutions. EGGS.—It is probable that the eggs of all birds might be employed as food; but custom and convenience hav'e given the preference to those of the common hen, the guinea hen, and the duck. The fluid contents of an egg con- sist of the white and the yolk. The former very much resembles the lymph of the blood, or the coagu- lable part of milk; the latter is an animal mucilage, composed of oil, coagulable lympb, and water, so as to form an emulsion. The oil is se- parable from the yolk when boiled till it becomes hard, by means of pressure. The eggs of all grani- vorous birds, and especially of the domestic fowl, yield a mild, demul- cent and strengthening aliment, well suited to consumptive persons, and such as are exhausted by immediate evacuations. Both the white and yolk of an egg are very indigestible when boiled to hardness. Eggs should be subjected as little as pos- sible to the art of cookery. The lightest as well as the simplest means of preparing them for the table is to boil them only as long as is neces- sary to coagulate slightly the greater part of the white, without depriving the yolk of its fluidity. This is what is called poaching them, and in this way they sit well on the stomach, If they be put into briskly boiling water, one minute by a stop-watch will be sufficient to do them in this manner. EGGS, Medicinal Properties OF.—Raw eggs are gently laxative, and are found to be serviceable in jaundice and obstructions of the liver. A nutritive restorative drink is pre- pared by rubbing the yolks of two or three eggs, and a little wliite su- gar, with a pint or two of cold water, adding to it afterwards a glass of Rhenish or other light w'ine, and a little lemon juice to give it a flavour. This egg emulsion, without the wine, is a good remedy for coughs, hoarse- ness, spitting of blood, costiveness, &c. Eggs, in whatever state, have the peculiar quality of singularly af- fecting some stomachs, even in the smallest quantity; while on others they do not produce the least un- easy sensation. EGGS, To Choose.—To judge properly of an egg, put the greater end to your tongue, and if it feel warm it is fresh; but if cold, it may be pronounced stale; and according to the degree of heat or cold there is in the egg, you will thus be enabled to judge of their state of staleness or freshness. Another method is, to hold it np against the sun, or a candle, and if the yolk appear round, and the white clear or fair, it is a sign of goodness; but if the yolk be broken, and the white thick or cloudy, the egg is a bad one. Some people, in order to try the quality of an egg, put it into a pan of cold water; when the fresher it is, the sooner it will sink to the bottom; but if it be addled, or rotten, it will swim on the surface. EGGS, To Preserve.—The best method of preserving eggs is to keep them in meal or bran; though some place them in wood-ashes, with their small end downwards. When neces- sity obliges you to keep them for any length of time, the best way is to grease them over with a little hog’s lard, and afterwards to bury them in salt, a method which will preserve them in any climate; but the sooner an egg is used, the more wholesome it will be found. Eggs arc an indispensable article in cookery. They are used for a prodigious number of entrees, entre- mets, and sauces. They are the basis of all pastry, as well as creams. TheEG 112 EN cook should be very particular in the use of them; a single bad one will spoil a very large dish. They should, therefore, to avoid this, be broken and smelt one after the other; and when the yolk is removed from the white, a small basin should be at hand, to break them in separately. Hard-boiled and fried eggs, pan- cakes, and all artificial preparations of eggs, lie heavy on the stomach. The eggs of ducks and geese ought to be eaten only by persons of the most active and powerful stomachs. All eggs require a sufficient quantity of salt, to promote their solution in the stomach; yet butter renders them still more difficult of digestion; hence it is equally pernicious to use much butter with a view to soften them when they are boiled to a degree of hardness. Hippocrates says (lib. iii.) that the whites of eggs, well beaten in spring water, make a very moist- ening, cooling drink, for people in fevers, and for opening the body. Galen says, the best and wholesomest eggs are those of the hen and phea- sant; but he prohibits those of the goose and ostrich, which are highly extolled by other writers. EGG-SHELLS.—Antacid. Some- times used, and even the whole egg, to counteract the acidity of beer, upon which they act the same as the carbonates of lime. The shells are, in fact, almost wholly the same sub- stance. The following recipe, first published in the 27th No. of the Philosophical Transactions, shews that the use of eggs for the preven- tion of acidity is of no modern date. The writer (Ur. Stubbs) says, that he learned it from an ale-seller at Deal, and that he tried it successfully dur- ing a voyage to J amaica. “ To every runlet of five gallons, after it is placed in the ship not to be stirred any more, put in two new-laid eggs whole, and let tliem lie in it; in a fortnight, or a little more, the whole egg-shells will be dissolved, and the eggs become like wind-eggs, inclosed only in a thin skin; after this the white is preyed on, but the yolks are not touched or corrupted; by which means the ale was so well preserved, that it was found better at Jamaica than at Deal.” It may be observed that, although this was new to Dr. Stubbs, he was not the original dis- coverer. It was probably known in the trade for centuries. Like crabs’ claws and all other cretaceous substances, egg-shells are of an alkaline nature, more so when the crude part of them is taken away. To cure these, and make them fit to be put into a cask of drink, they should be baked a little ; after which they may be either mix- ed with other ingredients, or used alone for the pm-pose of presendng beer or ale against staleness. EGGS, Whites of. — Whites of eggs will certainly clear, feed, and preserve drink, if mixed with wheat- flour ; but then it shoidd be remem- bered, that in time they corrupt and injure the drink, and do injurj' where the drink is not very strong and able to preserve itself sound; and if they be used too copiously, they may bring the beer into a ropy condition, or give it too raw a taste. In con- sequence, therefore, of this too great a liability from the use of whites of eggs, some, when they use them, boil them up in water and sugar to a fine syrup; and in this way they preserve and clear the drink, when mixed with other ingredients. ELDER FLOWERS.—The oint- ment made from elder flowers is cooling and emollient. Infused in vinegar, they are both grateful to the stomach and taste; but the leaves, having rather a rank smell, are not recommended in salads. The flowers and fruit of the common black elder are emollient and pectoral. The in- ternal bark is a drastic hydrogogue purge, and is recommended both by Bocrhaave and Sydenham. The in- fusion of the flowers is an excellent drink in catarrhal aftcctions and113 FE FE measles. Elder wine is made from the berries, in various degrees of strength and richness, according to the caprice or circumstances of the maker, and the quantity of spirit added. ENDIVE.—A species of succory. The largest, tenderest, and whitest leaves of endive are best boiled, being less crude, in that state, to the sto- mach. The curled leaves are more delicate, being eaten alone, or in composition with other salads. The larger leaves are preferred by many to lettuce. ENGLISH WINES. —It is as- serted by Mr. Miller (see Rees’s Cy- clopcedia, art. Wine) that he has made wine from English grapes, as good as any of the best and purest French wines drank either in Paris or Cham- pagne. It is supposed that formerly there were considerable vineyards in England, particularly in Gloucester- shire (see Aikins England Delineated) And about a century after the acces- sion of Wdham the Norman, there was a vineyard near Pembroke, in Wales. It has been thought pro- bable that the cultivation of the vine was relinquished in consequence of an increased intercourse with France. Notwithstanding the climate. Great Britain has of late years been un- favourable to the production of wines, yet our good housewives continue to make a pleasant vinous beverage from no less than thirty-seven sorts of fruits.—See Domestic Wines. Now will the Corinth, now the rasps supply, Delicious draughts: the quinces now, or plums. Or cherries, or the fair Thisbean fruit. Are pressed to Wines. Besides the orchat, every hedge and bush Affords assistance; e’en afflictive birch. Curs’d by the unlett’red, idle youth, distils A limpid current frorn her wounded bark. Profuse of nursing sap. When solar beams Parch thirsty human veins, the da- mask’d meads, Unforced, display ten thousand painted flowers Useful in Potables. Thy little sons Permit to range the pastures; gladly they Will mow the cowslip posies, faintly sweet. From whence thou artificial wines shall drain. Of icy taste, that, in mid fervours, best Slake craving thirst, and mitigate the day. Philips. ENTREES.—Dishes served at the commencement, or during the first course of the dinner. ENTREMETS.—•Small ornamen- tal dishes, served in the second and third courses. EXTRACT, BLACK.—See Black Extract. F. FERMENTATION.—Chemically speaking, fermentation is a sponta- neous commotion in a vegetable sub- stance, by which its properties are totally changed. Several circum- stances are essential to the process of fermentation;— 1.—A certain degree of fluidity for instance—dry subtances do not ferment at all. 2.—A certain degree of heat. 3.—The contact of air. There are four distinct kinds of fermentation. 1. The Saccharine. 2. Vinous. 3. Acetous. 4. Putrefactive. The conditions necessary for the spirituous fermentation are :— 1. A saccharine mucilage 2. A degree of fluidity slightly viscid. L 3FE FE 114 3. A degree of heat between 35 and 65 of Fahrenheit. 4. A large mass in which a rapid commotion may be excited. When these four conditions are combined, the spirituous fermenta- tion takes place, and is known by the following characteristic pheno- mena :— a. An intestine commotion takes place. b. The bulk of the mixture thus becomes augmented. c. The transparency of the fluids is diminished by opaque fila- ments. d. Heat is generated. e. The solid parts mixed with the liquor, rise, and float, in con- sequence of the derangement of elastic fluid. /. A large quantity of carbonic acid gas is disengaged in bubbles. All these phenomena gradually cease in proportion as the liquor loses its sweat and mild taste, and it becomes brisk, penetrating, and ca- pable of intoxication. In this man- ner, wine, beer, cyder, &c., are made. All bodies which have undergone the spirituous fermentation, are capable of passing into the acid fermenta- tion; but, although it is probable that the acid fermentation never takes place before the body has gone through the spirituous or saccharine, yet, the duration of the first is fre- quently so short and imperceptible, that it cannot be ascertained. Be- sides the bodies which are proper for spirituous fermentation, this class includes all kinds of ftecula boiled in water. The only substance known to be subject to the fermentative process is starch, e. g.—When gelatinous starch, or amidine, is kept in a moist state for a considerable length of time, a change gradually ensues, and a quantity of sugar equal to about half the weight of the stai'ch, is gene- rated. The germination of seeds, as exemplified in the malting of barley, is likewise an instance of the sac- charine fermentation; and the ripen- ing of fruits has also been regarded as an example of it; especially since some fruits, such as the pear and apple, if gathered before their matu- rity, become sweeter by keeping. The opinion, however, of Proust, is, that the process of ripening appears to consist in the conversion, not of starch, but of acid, into sugar. The conditions requisite for esta- blishing the VINOUS FERMENTATION, are four in number—namely, 1. The presence of sugar. 2. Water. 3. Yeast. 4. A certain temperature. The best mode of studying this process, so as to observe the pheno- mena, and determine the nature of the change, is to place five parts of sugar, with about twenty of water, in a glass flask, furnished with a bent tube, the extremity of which opens under an inverted jar full of water and mercury; and after adding a little yeast, to expose the mixture to a temperature of about 60° or 70° F. in a short time bubbles of gas begin to collect in the vicinity of the yeast, and the liquid is put into a brisk motion, in consequence of the for- mation and distension of a large quantity of gaseous matter ; the so- lution becomes turbid, its tempera- ture rises, and froth collects upon its surface. After continuing for a few days, the evolution of gas begins to abate, and at length ceases altoge- ther; the impurities gradually sub- side, and leave the liquor clear and transparent. The only appreciable changes found to have taken place during the above process, are the disappearance of the sugar and the formation of alcohol, which remains in the flask, and of carbonic acid gas, which is collected in the pneumatic apparatus. The conditions requisite for the the acetous fermentation are :—FE 115 FE a. A heat, from 70° to 85°, F. b. A certain degree of liquidity. c. The presence of atmospheric air. d. A moderate quantity of fermen- able matter. The acetous fermentation consists in the conversion of alcohol, &c. into acetic acid ; e. g.—When any fluid has undergone the vinous fermen- tation, or even pure alcohol diluted with water, is mixed with yeast, and •exposed in a warm place to the open air, an intestine movement speedily commences, heat is disengaged, the fluid becomes turbid from the de- position of a peculiar filamentous matter, oxygen is absorbed from the atmosphere, and carbonic acid is dis- engaged. After a certain time, these changes cease spontaneously; the li- quor becomes clear, and, instead of alcohol, it is now found to contain acetic acid, or vinegar. Not a ves- tige of spirit remains, it being en- tirely decomposed; but the greater the quantity of spirit in the liquor, previous to the fermentation, the greater will be the quantity of true vinegar obtained. Putrefactive fermentation is that process by which a substance is de- composed and dissipated in the form of putrid gas. Every living body, when deprived of life, performs a retrograde process, and becomes de- composed. In vegetables, this is called fermentation, and in animals, putrefaction. The same causes, the same agents, and the same circum- stances, detei-mine and favour the decomposition in animal and vege- table substances, and the difference of the products which are obtained, arise from the difference of the con- stituent parts of each. The requi- sites for this process are, 1. A certain degree of humidity. 2. The access of atmospheric air. 3. A certain degree of heat. The air cannot be reg.arded as abso- lutely necessary to this process, since putrefaction is found to be produced by the concurrence of the two other conditions only; though doubtless the process is materially promoted by free exposure to the influence of the atmosphere. All proximate principles are not equally liable to this kind of dissolu- tion : substances in which charcoal and hydrogen prevail, such as the oils, resins, and alcohol, do not un- dergo the putrefactive fermentation; nor do acids, which contain a con- siderable excess of oxygen, mani- fest any tendency to submit to this change. Those substances are most disposed to putrefy, the oxygen and hydrogen of which are in proportion to form water', and such in particular as contain nitrogen; among which, however, a singular difference pre- vails ; e. g.—Caffein evinces no ten- dency to spontaneous decomposition, while gluten, which certainly must contain a less proportional quantity, putrefies with great facility. These substances, the texture of which being most loose and soft, being, ccBteris paribus, the most liable to spontaneous decomposition. FERMENTATION, General Method of Preventing. — This general method of preventing fer- mentation of animal and vegetable substances, consists in the total ex- clusion of atmospheric air, or rather of oxygen. The truth of this, how- ever, is not so obvious to common observation, as that of the preceding; for, on the contrary, we every day see substances, preserved by being apparently excluded from the air, but, in reality, by being shut up in confined air; and we are taught to consider free ventilation as a power- ful means of preservation. The manner in which the latter acts, we have shown to be by removing moisture, especially when contami- nated by the cxh.alation of the perish- able substance. The raUonale of the former is more obscure, but has been ingeniouslyFI FI 116 attempted by Gay Lussac, and others, in order to explain the processes of M. Appert Gay Lussac found that nei ther fresh vegetable juices, nor animal matter fermented so long as oxygen gas was perfectly excluded; and that the fer- mentation in both cases commenced as soon as any portion of oxygen was admitted. When oxygen gas is con- fined in contact with a fermentable substance, it is changed into an equal bulk of carbonic acid gas, and all further action ceases. Methods of preserving fermentable substances, illustrative of this principle, have long been imperfectly practised by house-wives. FIBRINE.—Fibrine, like albumen is another of those animal substances, which is neither acid nor oleaginous. It enters largely into the composi- tion of the blood, and is the basis of the muscles; it may consequently be regarded as one of the most abundant of the animal principles. It may easily be procured by stirring recently drawn blood with a stick during its coagulation, and then wash- ing the adhering fibres with water until they are perfectly white. It may also be obtained by removing the soluble parts from lean beef, cut into small slices, by digestion or maceration in several successive por- tions of water. Fibrine is solid, white, and without smell. It is somewhat elastic when moist, but, on drying, it becomes hard, brittle, and semi-transparent. In a moist warm situation it readily putrefies. It is insoluble in water at common temperatures, and is dis- solved in a very minute quantity by the connected action of boiling water. Alcohol, of density 0.81, converts it into a fatty adipocirous substance, which is soluble in alcohol and ether, but is precipitated with water. The action of acids on fibrine, has been particularly described by Ber- zelius.— See Med. Chirurg. Trans. Vol. iii. p. 201. et scq. FIGS.—A luscious fruit, the pro- duce of the fig-tree. They are nou- rishing, grateful to the stomach, and easier of digestion than any of the other fruits; and accordingly are used in medicine, as ingredients in pectoral decoctions, and in lenitive electuaries. They are also applied externally, to soften, digest and pro- mote maturation. They abound with saccharine matter, are uncommonly nutritive, though at the same time of a flatulent nature, unless eaten with bread or other mealy substances. Of similar effects are nudberries and raspberries; the former having a more mucilaginous and nourishing juice, while that of the latter is of a vinous nature, and one of the best cordials for allaying tbirst and afiPord- ing refreshment. In our climate the fig comes into season about August. The best figs are the produce of Turkey, Italy, Spain, and the south- ern parts of France. The islands of the Archipelago yield figs in great abundance, but of an inferior qua- lity. The ancients made use of the juice or sap of a fig for rennet, to cause their milk to coagidate:— The figs’ prest juice, infus’d in cream, To curds coagulate the liquid stream. Pope's Homer. FILBERTS.—A well known nut, varying in size, growing upon a com- mon shrub, in hedges and woods, and sometimes in gardens. Filberts, as well as nuts, contain a great quantity of oil, which is easily abstracted from tliem. The former have a more agreeable taste. They are said to be pectoral and nourish- ing, because of their oily parts; and of a binding nature, in consequence of the earthy principle they contain. They are flatulent, and difficult of digestion when used too freely. The husks and covers of the filberts are subacid and astringent, and provoke urine. We are directed to choose such ns are large, full grown, each having a kemel, nearly round, red-FI 117 FI dish, full of juice, of an excellent taste, and not worm-eaten. FINANCIERE.—An expensive, highly flavoured, mixed ragout. FISH.— In some parts of the world, fish constitutes the sole or principal article of food of the people, (hence denominated Ichthyophagi), and it is almost every where in request. In Siberia, dried fish is used instead of bread. The Lap- landers make a bread of fish bones ; and the Negroes of the West Coast of Africa dry a species of fat, and beat it in wooden mortars to a paste, which keeps all the year, and is eaten with rice or com. With some tribes, putrid fish is the favourite and ordinary food. Fish, however, is not so universally a safe aliment as flesh and fowl, for although no species is generally unwholesome, yet, in some situations, individuals of many dif- ferent .species by any other certain external characters, at the same place, and in the same season, are innocent and nutritious — circum- stances which render the eating of fish in such countries, not exempt from danger. The ancients entertained a number of prejudices relative to the whole- someness and unwholesomeness of certain fishes. The priests in Egypt were prohibited from eating fish of any knd, under the impression that it increased the sensual appetites, or that it caused the leprosy. For the latter reason, the people were for- bidden to use any fish not covered with scales. Moses, the great legis- lator of the Jews, adopted the same principle.—“ Whatever hath fin or scales in the water, in the seas, and in the water, them shall ye eat.”— “ Whatever hath no fins and scales in the waters, that shall be an abo- mination nnto you.”—Levit. chap, xiv, V. 9, 12. Numa Pompilius made a law for the Romans to the same effect; but it did not continue in force, as we find the lampreys and sturgeons ranked among the luxuries of their emperors, and similar fish constituted the principal support among the peo- ple in some districts, and that too without being attended with any bad effect. With regard to fishes, there is an infinite variety, as respects their fit- ness as articles of food, in the colour and texture of their muscles, and in being more or less gelatinous, fibrous, or oily. The musles of many fish, with the exception of the heart, are quite white; and, in general, when the fish is good, they become opaque when cooked. When they remain semi-transparent and blush after boil- ing, they are not in season. At certain seasons of the year, the flesh of some fishes is of a pale red, and the lighter the colour of these kinds the more they are esteemed. The muscles of most fishes are dis- posed in flakes and layer’s ; and when in perfection, there is, when cooked, a layer of white curdy matter between them resembling coagulated albumen. Some otlier fishes, prin- cipally those of the flat kind, or eel- shaped, or without scales, have a fibrous flesh not divisible into flakes. The liver of the fish tribe abounds with oil, and of many species the flesh is covered with oil or fat, as the eel, salmon, &c.; but in a variety of others the flesh seems to be totally free from it, as in all the varieties of the cod, haddock, whiting, and the flat fish. There are few, if any parts of a fish that are not nutritious. The great bulk of them consists of the muscles of voluntary motion, covering the spine and its appendages. But of some fishes, as turbot, ling, &c. the pulpy, gelatinous skin is esteemed. Codsounds ai’e the swimming blad- ders of the large cod, and they are separately preserved and sent to the metropolis for the gratification of gourmands. In the fresh fish, the tongue, palate, and lips, although too soft for most people, are still preferred by many.FI 118 FI The roe of most fishes is eaten, and that of some constitutes a principal article of natural food. Caviare is the preserved roe of the sturgeon. The melt or soft roe of the herring is eaten by many. The liver of the turbot is very large, and is much esteemed. The enormous van deferens * of the male cod fried, is one of the best garnishes for that fish; and some of the smaller and more delicate fishes are all eaten with the exception of the head.—See Cod. As far as o\ir knowledge extends of the effect of sex upon fish, the male or melter is preferred, as in the hen-ing and salmon. In spring the male only of .the lump fish or cock- paddle is eaten. Later in the year the female is nearly of equal quality. I. Fishes, as regards their classif- caiion, mag be divided into three fa- milies, relatively to the situations in which they live ; namely, 1. Those which live entirely in salt water, as the cod and hen'ing. 2. Those which live entirely in fresh water, as various species of the cyprinus. 3. Those which live alternately in fresh and salt water, as the salmon and sturgeon. The comparative esculent qualities of each depend upon a great variety of circumstances ; but of the last class it may be remarked, that as they enter the rivers for the purpose of spawning, they are in the greatest perfection when proceeding up the rivers, and are quite out of season when returning to the sea. II. As connected with the time of * A duct wliicli rises from the Epi- didymis, wliich is a convolution of it, and passes through the inguinal ring, in the spermatic cord, into the cavity of the pelvis, in the human subject, and terminates in the vesiculn: seminalis. It conveys the semen, after it is secreted, into the seminal vessels.—iVeai Land. Med, aiul Stirg, Diet. spaimiing, the season of the year has the most decided influence upon the quality of fish, which in general, of every kind, are in better perfection some time pretdous to their begin- ning to spawn, and are unfit for food for some time after this process of nature has taken place. This cir- cumstance, however, is not sufficient to prevent those who have an easy opportunity from catching and eat- ing fish in this state; and the Legis- lature has found it necessary to fix the periods at which salmon fishing is lawful. When the salmon is in the sea, and about to enter the river for the pur- pose of spawning, it is infested with a parasitical insect, which adheres to every part of the body, but dies and drops off after the fish has been a short time in fi'esh water. In this state it is in the highest state of per- fection-; the flesh is firm, red, and delicious, their form elegant, and their colours beautiful. On first en- tering the river the silvery^ colour of the sides of salmon is very slightly marked with spots; but when it has remained long in fresh water, this colour decays, and the spots become much larger, darker coloured, and more obvious. At the time of spawn- ing, the sides of the fish become of a very red colour; and when the spawn- ing season is over, the white colour entirely disappears, the belly becomes livid, and the sides are streaked all over with a sooty or black colour ; and in this state the salmon are termed, in the Acts of Parliament, red and black fish. At this time the rays of their fins are jagged or tom, a great part of their scales rubbed oft; and tiieir gills infested with para- sitical worms. In Ireland, where there is great freedom used in killing salmon during and after spawning season, the eating of the fish at this time has been often, and in many places, found to be productive of much disease and mortality; and the same is jjrobably119 FI FI tlie case in Scotland, although not so much observed as to be generally known ; still a very marked instance is related by Dr. Walker. Other fish are probably unwholesome after the spawning, but they are seldom caught in that state. Young fish, not come to the age of spawning, are in season all the year round. III. ]VUh regard(o the age offish, as affecting their fitness for food, we hold with the old adage, “ better small fish than no fish;” but, “the larger they are the better” is not correct. For although a well grown and well nourished individual is always finer than one not in such condition, and although some fishes, naturally soft, may become firmer as they grow older, yet many fishes are certainly more delicate when of a smaller size, probably from being young. Cod is generally preferred Jarge; but large cod is sometimes very coarse. The haddock is certainly better when it does not exceed the middling size; and the w’hole skate tribe are apt to get coarse and strong as they get large. Ausonius tells us that the bream is the only fish that improves by age. IV. The flavour of fish, independ- ently of their apparent condition, is very much influenced by the nature of their food; and, on this account, there is the greatest difference of tlie fish on different coasts, or in different rivers and lakes. Sea fish, in ge- neral, are best where the water is deep, and strong and salt, and where the shore is bold and rocky. Hence the cod and ling, caught near the shores and in bays, are greatly infe- rior in quality to fish caught off head- lands, in strong currents, and deep waters. Of the river fish, those which are found in clear rapid streams, with a rocky or gravelly bottom, in a moun- tainous country, are indeed less fat, but better tasted ; and hence the sal- mon of the Elbe and Ilhiuc are more valued than that of the other Conti- nental rivers. The Thames salmon, however, is preferred in the London market to all other ; and some gour- mands pretend to distinguish by the taste when it comes from a favourite reach of the river. It is, however, certain that fish caught in slow run- ning waters, with a muddy bottom, such as occur in flat countries with a rich soil, though generally larger and fatter, are very inferior in the more essential parts of flavour and firm- ness. The fish also of deep lakes, with a gravelly bottom, is much pre- ferable to that of small, shallow, and muddy ponds or tanks. The bad qualities of fish in stagnant W'aters, into which the filth of cities was emp- tied, did not escape the notice of Galen. P’resh-w'ater fish, bred in muddy bottoms or foul water, are sometimes freed from their unpleasant earthy taste, by keeping them for some time in ponds of clear water with a gra- velly bottom. V. A process called crimping is sometimes adopted, for the purpose of improving fish, which has been in- vestigated by Sir Anthony Carlisle, to whom the fish eating world are indebted for the following informa- tion :—“ Whenever the rigid con- tractions of death have not taken place, this process may be practised with success. The sea fish destined for crimping are usually struck on the head when caught, which, it is said, protracts the term of this ca])ability, and the muscles which retain this property longest arc about the head. •Many transverse sections of the muscles being made, and the fish immersed in cold water, the contrac- tions called crimping take jdace in about five minutes; but, if the fish be large, it often requires thirty minutes to complete the process.” The criinj)ing of fresh water fish is said to require hard water; and the London fishmongers usually employ it. Sir Anthony Carlisle found that.120 FI FI by being crimped, the muscles sub- jected to the process have both their absolute and specific gravity increas- ed ; when it appears that the water is absorbed, and condensation takes place. It was also observed that the eflhct was greater in proportion to the vivaciousness of the fish.— From these observations it would appear, that the object of crimp- ing is to retard the natural stiffening of the muscles, and then, by the sudden application of cold water, to excite it in the greatest possible degree, by which means it both ac- quires the natural firmness and keeps longer. It may also here be ob- served, that rigidity is a certain mark that the fish is perfectly fresh, and has not begun to spoil. See Croonian Le.ctures on Muscular Mo- tion, hy Anthony Carlisle, Esq. F R.S., Philosoph. IVans. for 1805,4to, Lond. p. 23. VI. The operation of castrating and spaying of fish was at one time prac- tised, but only to a very limited ex- tent, and is now entirely laid aside. It was first performed by Mr. Tull, of Edmonton, who appears to have been a fishmonger. His object at first was to prevent the excessive in- crease of fish in his ponds, where the numbers did not permit any of them to grow to an advantageous size. From castration, however, the in- crease was not only prevented, but those which had undergone the ope- ration' considerably exceeded their usual size, were moi-e fat, which was no trifling consideration, and were always in season. The operation was performed by making a longitudinal incision from between the two fore fins almost to the anus of the fish, laying aside the intestines, first on one side and then on the other, and transversely dividing the oviduct or vas deferens. 'I'he wound in the in- teguments, was then stitched up, and without further attention, few fish died of the operation. — Mr. Neil, Philosoph. Transactions, \o\. 1, p.58-1. This operation was most easily per- formed in May, when the ovaries and spermatic ducts are fuU. Baron de la Lorin, in France, operated so success- fully, that out of two hundred carp he did not lose four. It was also tried in Germany; where it was likewise observed that those fish, castrated in spring, were in autumn still smaller than the others; that in the following spring they were large and fat, but some people thought not so well tast- ed.—See ail account of Mr. Samuel Tull's method of castratitig fish, in Philosoph. 7'rans., vol. xlviii, 4to. Lond. 1755, p. 76. Dietetical objections against fsh are numerous. It is said the nourishment derived from them is incomplete; not so stimulating, nor so congenial to the nature of man, as either birds or quadrupeds; some classes of them also, as shell-fish, salmon, &c. are more indigestible than meat; aud fish in general has a stronger ten- dency to putrefaction than meat. But the faults of fish are somewhat cor- rected by tbe manner in which they are commonly eaten. In a fresh state, sauces and pickles of an acid nature are employed with them, and when dried, the action of the sto- mach is promoted by salt and spices. Fish compared with butchers’ meat, is less nourishing, and the more tough sorts harder of digestion. Hence mail}' are under the necessity, after salmon, &c. to have recourse to a dram of some spirit or other to assist digestion.—See Fkh, to Cook. It has been usual to attribute the cutaneous eruptions which follow the use of fish, to the sympathy existing between the skin and stomach; the efl’ect, however, is merely temporiirj', as it departs after the digestion of the meal is finished. The operation of an emetic will tend to expedite the disappearance of the aflection by re- moving at once tbe noxious aliment. It should be stated here, neverthe- less, that the only principle, upon which depends the odour of certain121 FI FI fish, is absorbed from the alimentaiy canal, and carried into the blood, as is erddent from the peculiar flavour of the flesh of certain birds who live upon fish. From the abundance of pilchards in Cornwall, and the ready access which the hogs have to them, the pork of that county generally pos- sesses a fishy savour; and people who live long on fish, are known to secrete a perspiration of a rancid smell: hence the probability that cei'- tain diseases of the skin may either be produced or aggravated by such diet; and in warm climates, such effects may be less equivocal. It may therefore be presumed, that the eat- ing of fish was prohibited upon ra- tional principles by the Egyptian priests, in order to avert the leprosy; and Moses, no doubt, was influenced by some such belief, when he drew up his celebrated injunction against the use of unclean meats. — See Levit. xi. 0, 12. Of the pokono/is nature of various species offish.—Numerous cases are on record, and particularly as having occurred in the West Indies. The poisonous matter of fish is not pecu- liar to any genus, species, or distinct variety; but occurs in individuals only, and those of several genera of very different classes. With the ex- ception of the Bogmarus Icelandicus, which by the Icelanders is reputed poisonous, because the crows refuse to eat it; poisonous fish are only found in tropical seas, and there only at certain seasons, or in the Carib- bean Sea, in May, June, and July, after having spawned. Of these Dr. Burrows* has given us a catalogue which, for general purposes, it may be useful here to quote : The Old Wife. Smooth Bottle Fish. Tunney. Blower or Blazer. Conger Eel. Dolphin. ’ Load. Med. Repos. Vol. iii. p. 445. Porgee. Grey Snapper. Hyne. Puca, Major of. Rock Fish. Grooper. King Fish. Bonnetta. Horse-eye (CavaUoe). Spanish Mackarel. Blue Parrot Fish. Yellow-billed Sprat. Sea Lobster. I-and Crab. Muscle. Of all these, the yellow billed sprat is the most active and dangerous; and the usual course of symptoms from eating it is the following: Itch- ing over the whole body—violent colic pains—a contraction and pungent heat of the gullet—nausea—heat of the skin, and great acceleration of the pulse—giddiness—loss of sight— cold sweats—insensibility and death. Sometimes the disease is uncom- monly rapid ; convulsions ensue im- mediately on swallowing the fish, and death is a speedy consequence.f The grey snapper produces Cho- lera Morbus and exci'uciating pain, with efflorescence, and is apt to leave a weakness of the lower extremities, dimness of sight, and dulness of hearing. These are also the ordinary ro- sults, with, however, some variety, that are experienced from the use of the various kinds enumerated in the preceding catalogue. The contrac- tion and heat of the gullet do not always occur; but instead of it there is an excessive heat of the mouth and tongue. A miliary entption, (vesicles resembling millet seeds) or an efflorence over the whole body, is very common. The cause of this poison has been the subject of much ingenious re- search, some inclined to the idea that it was owing to the fish feeding t Dr. Chisholm, p. 395. uFI FI 122 on copper banks. This, however, was abandoned, as, on chemical ex- amination, a portion of the argilla- ceous stone of Antiqua was found not to contain any; but a precipi- tate was obtained, possessing the qualities of sulphate of Barytes. Dr. Biutows, who has investigated this question with considerable abi- lity, is of opinion that the poison does not exist in the skin, or in the stomach and intestinal canal, or in the liver and gall-bladder exclusively, although there is no douht that per- sons have been poisoned from eating these various parts. It pervades the whole substance of the fish; and this is abundantly proved by the state- ments of Dr. Chisholm, and the nu- merous authorities adduced by him. As to its origin, he discusses the cupreous theory of Dr. Chisholm, and shews the great improbability of the metal being held in solution in the sea-water. The fact, also, that land-crabs occasionally produce simi- lar symptoms is further urged against this opinion. The idea that other substances, taken as food, may be the cause of their poisonous nature, is shewn to be unfounded. He con- cludes with advancing and establish- ing the belief, that a morbid change takes place in the system of the fish : and this is particularly to be ex- pected in those taken from the tro- pical sea.s, when they are immediately exposed to a high temperature, putre- faction must soon ensue. The Company of Fishmongers, as well as other persons concerned in supplying the city of London with fish, were anciently under the imme- diate direction of the court of lord mayor and aldermen, to whom this j)ower was confirmed by an act of parliament, in the 7th of Richard II., in the year 1381; at whicli time the dealers in fish consisted of two com- nuinities, as above stated, namely, the stock-iislunongers and the salt-fish- mongers ; and both of them had no less than six halls ; two in Thames- street, two in New Fish-street, and two in Old Fish-street; and were moreover in such high reputation for valuable members, that six lord mayors were chosen out of them in twenty-four years. Among the ancient statutes of the fishmongers of London, as they are taken from a book in the chamber of London, are the following:— Dicunt homines de Halimato, &c. The men of the halimote* say, that they ought to have two Laglielmotesf in the year, one on the feast of St. Martin, and the other in Lent; and all fishermen and those of the hali- mote ought to be there, and he that fails, forfeits 2d. Moreover, it ought to be forbidden in that halimote, that no fishmonger buy a fresh fish before mass at the chapel upon the bridge be celebrated, or at the church of St. Magnus. They say, also, that the said fish- ermen must sell fresh fish after mass, and salt fish after prime. That no fishmonger ought to go to buy fish beyond the bounds ap- pointed : and these are the bounds— the chapel upon the bridge, Bay- nard’s Castle, and Jordan’s Key, un- less the fish be set to sell, as they are at Berkijnes, Northfete, Dartford, and in some other markets. None to buy fish in any boat, un- less brought thence to land. •»* On a complaint once made of this compaii)’, against one of their trade for forestalling fish, letters were issued by the king to the mayor and sheriffs of London to remedy the ag- gression. The fishmongers, in their hall, have a handsome coat of arms of England, erected there to the honour of King William III., with the fol- lowing inscription:— “ Augustissimo, potentissimo, et • A court baron; the meetings of a tenant, or a hall of a manor. t Prom taga, Sax., the law; two law- ful halimates, or courts. See.FI FI 123 in\nctissimo, Scotite, Gallia?, et Hi- bemise, Regi Gulielmo Tertio, fidei a papismo defensori et conservatori, libertatis restauratori publiciB felici- tatis auctori, seculi reparatori, sa- crum.” In the court of assistants’ parlour of the Fishmongers’ Company, at their hall, in Thames-street, are eight ca- pital paintings of fish, of which the following are descriptions. They were cleaned in 1781, by Mr. Spiridiona Roma, and are the only capital paint- ings belonging to the compan3^ They point out the season at which the fish are in the best condition, &c. Number I. 1. A codlin, Januarj’-, November, December. 2. A Scotch lobster, October. 3. A barbel, September. 4. A jack pike, in most months. 5. A maid, all the year. 6. A grey mullet, October. 7. A sole, all the year. 8. A red gurnet, September and October. 9. The gold and silver eel, all the year. 10. Tlie large river flounder, March, August, December and Ja- nuary. 11. A tench, November and De- cember. 12. A small roach, January and Sep- tember. 13. A small dace, January and Sep- tember. 14. A green smelt, September, 15. A gudgeon, most months. 16. A lamprey, September. 17. A dab, October, November, De- cember and January. 18. A small river flounder, most months. 19. A horse mackarel, September. 20. A common mackarel, Scptembei'. 21. A Feversham oj'ster, from Oc- tober to Januarj’. Number II. 1. A turbot, March, and most months, 2. A haddock, October, November, and December. 3. Sea crab, March, April, and May. 4. A green river carp, January. 5. A sea Cray fish, November, April, and May. 6. A whiting, October, November, and December, 7. A perch, October. 8. A herring. May, June, and Sep- tember. 9. A Scotch haddock, November. 10. A shrimp, all the year. 11. A cockle, December, January, and February. 12. A Colchester oyster, from Octo- ber to February. Number III. 1. A cod, November, December, January, and February. 2. A ling, Novemberand December. 3. A river pike, most months. 4. A sea flounder, December, Ja- nuary, February, and March, 5. A weaver, December. 6. A pouting, November and De- cember. 7. A char, December, January, February, and March. 8. A scolop, in mackarel season. 9. A green Welfleet oyster, No- vember, December, and Jan. 10. A muscle, December. 11. A sprat, November, December, and January. Number IV. 1. A hallibut, January, February, and March. 2. A golden pond carp, most months. 3. A grailing, or humber, January. 4. A golden smelt, January. 5. A chub, February. 6. A loach, most months. 7. Large dace, February. 8. Large roach, February. 9. A cole fish, January. 10. A grey lump, January. 11. A Melton oyster, November, December, and January. 12. A white Welfleet, November, December, and January. Number V. 1, A salmon, from N ov. to J uly.124 FI FI 2. A lamper eel, April. 3. A plaice, most months. 4. A bass, March. 5. The allis, March. 6. A red lump, Decemher and Jan. 7. A guard fish. May. 8. A pilchard, April and October, y. A bream, February. 10. A silver smelt, March. 11. A sea tench, March. 12. A willis, March. Number VI. 1. A river trout, from February to August. 2. A thorn-back, all the year. 3. A black lobster, June. 4. A smeer-dab, August. 5. A silver eel, most months. 6. A kingston, March. 7. A homeling, September. 8. A river coney-fish, December. 9. A sea perch, Febniary. 10. A bleak, most months. 11. A grig, most months. Number VII. 1. A sturgeon, most months. 2. A salmon trout, from February to August. 3. A beautiful large mackarel. May and Jline. 4. A fire flaw, April. 5. A pope, most months. 6. A red prawn, most months. 7. A white prawn. May. 8. A brown slu-imp, or bunting. May and December. 9. A river crab. May. 10. A shadd. May. 11. A periwinkle. May and June. N UMBER VIII. 1. A Joanne Doree, August. 2. A skate, most months. 3. A river cra5'-fish, most months. 4. A red mullet. May, June, and J lily. 5. A brill, September. G. A sea eel, or conger, most months. 7. A ruff, August. 8. A grey gurnet, gurnard, or gur- ney, September. 9. Post, or miller’s thumb, No- vember. 10. A right anchovie, the beginning of J lily. FISH, To Choose. — The gene- ral rules for discovering whether fish be fresh or stale, are, by observing the colour of the gills, which should be of a lively red—whether they be hard or easy to ojien—the standing out or sinking in of their eyes—their fins being stiff or limber — or by smelling to their giUs. Fish taken in running water are always better than those taken from ponds.—See Cod 2. Herrings 3. Flounders 4. Lobsters 5. Perch 6. Salmon 7. Skate 8. 9. Sturgeon Soles 10. Tench 11. Trout 12. Turbot 13. Smelts 14. Oj’sters Salt water fish are perhaps the best of any, as their flesh is more solid, agreeable, and health)'-, less exposed to putrescency, and less vis- cid. They possess these e.xcellent qualities when fresh; when salted, they have all the properties, conse- quently all the disadvantages of salt fish. With respect to hen-ings, they are, confessedly, the most easy of di- gestion of all sea fish ; and salt her- rings, in particular, if eaten in small quantities, dissolve the slime in the stomach, stimulate the appetite, create thirst, and do not readily putrefy by keeping.—See Herrings. FISH, To Cook.—The method of cooking fish is a circumstance also of some importance. Frying them in oil or lard is objectionable, and the boiling process is best adapted to render them wholesome. Stewed fish, with all the usual additions of glu- tinous and stimulant materials, are extremely injurious to dispeptics. The objections urged against salted meats apply equally to salted fish; they are, however, rendered less in- jurious by a plentiful admixture of potatoes, an esculent root, which, with the excejition of parsnip, is the only vegetable that ought to be eaten with any species of fish; and inva- lids would do well, during the use ofFI 125 FI fish, to abstain from fruit. Cullen, by way of experiment, took apples after fish; but he always experi- enced a disturbance afterwards in his digestive organs. Milk may also be considered as another aliment in- compatible with fish; since serious affections of the bowels have been known to be the result of such an admixture. It is usual to add va- rious condiments to fish, many of which are thus, doubtless, rendered more easy of digestion by affording a necessary stimulus to the stomach ; but rich sauces are ever to be avoided by the valetudinarian. Vinegar and salt are the most simple and natural additions. Shell-Fish have been greatly ex- tolled by some physicians, as nu- tritive and easily digestible articles of food. Some of them, however, it would seem, enjoy a reputation which they do not deserve ; oysters, for instance, when eaten cold, are frequently distressing to weak sto- machs, and require the aid of pepper as a stimulant; and since they are usually swallowed without chewing, the stomach is subjected to an addi- tional labour in order to reduce them into chyme. When cooked, they are still less digestible, owing to the change produced in their albuminous principles. Still they are nourishing, and contain a considerable quantity of nutritive matter in a small com- pass—a circumstance, strange as it may appear, affords another objec- tion, but one that is easily remedied, to their use—since quantity is often more essential than quality—that is, bulk is necessary in the stomach, for tlie want of which, its powers are not uniformly exerted.—See Oysters. Lobsters are nutritive, but they are exposed to the same objection, on the ground of indigestibility; and such have been their effect upon cer- tain stomachs, as to have raised a suspicion, that they contained some- thing of a poisonous nature. Lob- sters have occasioned pain in the throat, as well as eruptions on the skin, and even extended their morbid influence to the pi'oduction of pain in the stomach, and affection of the joints. In the London market they are exposed for sale in an under- boiled state, in order that they may keep the better; and in that they are highly indigestible. The same re- marks apply to the crab.—See Lob- ster.—Crab. Shrimps are a species of sea-crab, which vai-y in their colour and size, and are considered earsier of diges- tion than the preceding article.—See Mussel. The cutaneous efflorescence, before observed, which is produced by the imperfect digestion of shell-fish, has been remarked to occur more fre- quently where the fish consumed has been stale and tainted; although it happens equally where no such die- tetical error can be traced. Upon the whole, fish afford but a weak nourishment: they are more or less difficult to digest, according to the different kinds of water in which they live. Being of all animals the most putrescible, they are much in- ferior in quality to birds and quad- rupeds, on which account they ought not to be eaten by feverish patients or convalescents. Their fat is still more Insoluble and indigestible than that of any other animals, and reatlily turns rancid. On account of their indifferent qualities, no satiety is more nauseous than that of fish. Acid sauces and pickles, calculated to re- sist putrefaction, render fish some- what better and more wholesome fur the stomach, while l)uttcr has a ten- dency to prevent digestion. On the contrary, sjiice and salt used in mo- derate quantities, stimulate the fibres of the stomach to exert their action, and facilitate the digestive process. Fish dried in the open air, and after- wards boiled soft, are easily digested ■—but call salted, as well as smoked fish, are injurious to the stomach, and aflbrd l)ut little nutrition. The M 3PI 12(J PI Same remark, though in an inferior degree, applies to fish preserved in vinegar and spice. In general tlie heads and tails, which contain the least fat, are the lightest parts for digestion; and, on the contrary, the belly is the heaviest. Such as have tender flesh are sooner digested than those of a hard and tough consist- ence. Soft and mucilaginous fish, like the eel, are partly composed of an oily slime, partly of tough fibres, and therefore not easily digested. Those living in ponds, ditches, and other standing waters, are certainly less wholesome than i-iver fish, whose exercise is greater, and whose natural element is purer. For standing water easily corrupts, and the fish lodging in the mire of such reservoirs, conti- nually feed upon the putrid parts. But the same kind of river-fish are also of different qualities, according to their different nourishment. Hence, those caught in rivers contiguous to great towns, are less wholesome than others; because they necessarily im- bibe great quantities of the impurities thrown into such receptacles. FISH SAUCE.—Take port wine, 1 gallon ; mountain, 2 pints; walnut ketchup, 4 pints ; anchovies and liquor, 2 lbs. ; lemons. No. 8 ; sha- lots, 3 dozen ; cayenne pepper, q. s. ; scraped horse-radish root, 2 lbs.; mace, 1 ounce; flour of mustard, 8 ounces ; boil up gently, strain and bottle. 2. Anchovies, No. 24 ; shalots. No. lO; horse-raddish root scraped, 3 spoonfuls; mace, cloves, lemons sliced, No. 2 ; anchovy liquor, 8 ounces; Hock or Rhenish wine, 21bs.; water, 1 lb.; boil to 2 lbs., strain ; add walnut ketchup G ounces, and bottle. FI SI I, Preservation of.—Fish may be preserved in the same way as beef or pork, eitbor by dry-salting or ])ickling. The former inetbod is em- ployed to a great e.xtcnt on the banks of Newfoundland, and in Shetland. Dr. Ilibbert thinks that the cod-fish prepared in Shetland will always maintain its pre-eminence over that of all other places. The fish in Newfoundland are said to be ex- posed, after being salted, in standing flakes made by a slight wattle, and supported by poles often twenty feet from the ground. But the humidity is not nearly so well extracted from the fish as when, according to the Shetland method, they are carefully laid out upon dry beaches, the stones of which have been exposed diu-ing the winter to the abrading action of the ocean, and are thus cleansed from animal and vegetable matter.* It has been ascertained that the antiseptic quality'of sugar is suflScient to preserve fish in the most excellent condition. This substance is so ac- tive, that fish may be preserved in a dry state and perfectly fresh, by means of sugar alone, and even with a very small quantity of it. Salmon, whitings, and cod, have been kept for an indefinite length of time; and, by this simple means, fresh fish may be kept in that state some da)'s, so as to be as good when boiled as when just caught. It is added, that if dried and kept free from mouldiness, there seems no limit to their pre- servation ; and they are much better in this way than when salted. The sugar gives no disagreeable taste. This process is particularly valuable in making what is called kippered salmon ; and the fish preserwed in this manner are far superior in flavour and quality to those which ai'e salted or smoked. If desired, as much salt may be used as to give the taste that m.ay be required; but the substance does not conduce to their preserva- tion. In the preparation it is barely necessary to open the fish, and to apply the sngar to the muscular part, placing it in a horizontal position for two or three days, that this substance may penetrate. After this it may • Edinburgh Philosophical Trans* actions. No. 3, p. 144,127 FL FI be dried; and it is only further ne- cessary to wipe and ventilate it occa- sionally, to prevent mouldiness. A table-spoonful of brown sugar is sufficient in this manner for a salmon of five or six pounds weight; and if salt is desired, a tea-spoonful or more may be added. Saltpetre may be used instead, in the same proportion, if it is desired to make the kipper hard. FISH, TO CARVE.—There is little difficulty in cutting up and serving fish; few rules, therefore, or obser- vations will be requisite. Salmon.—The belly part is the fat- test ; it is therefore customary to give those who like both back and belly some of each; most people who are fond of salmon generally like the skin, so that the slices must be cut out thin, skin and all. Turbot.— Enter the fish slice in the middle, over the backbone, and take off a piece of the fish as much as will lie on the slice on one side, close to the hones; the thickest part of the fish is always the most es- teemed. Soles.—These maybe either boiled or fried ; you must cut them right down the middle, bone and all; and give a piece of the fish, in proportion to the size of it, to each person. Cod's Head.—When in season, a cod’s head and shoulders, properly boiled, is a very genteel and excel- lent dish. The parts about the back- bone on the shoulders are the best and firmest. With each slice offish give a piece of the sound, which lies underneath, and lines the back-bone; the meat of which is thin, and a little darker coloured than the body of the fish; about the head are many epi- curean bits, and a great deal of the jelly curd, which lies principally about the jaw bones and firm parts of the head. Some esteem the palates; others are fond of the tongue, which may be got at by putting a spoon in the mouth. Mackerel.—Slit this fish along the back with a knife, and take off one whole side, not too near the head, because the meat about the gills is generally black and ill-flavoured. Eels.—Cut these into pieces quite through the bone. The thickest parts are most esteemed. Besides these, there are other little ai'ticles brought to the table ; but as they are merely simple in their na- ture, a little observation and practice "will make complete proficients in the art of table dissection. In helping your guests to fish, be careful not to break the flakes, which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and contribute much to the beauty of the fish. A fish-knife, not very sharp, is the best instrument to divide fish with. Help always a part of the roe, melt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, parts of those of cod or salmon, cod sounds, tm-bot’s fins, are likewise esteemed as dainty bits, and require attention accordingly. FISH, IN Season.—See p.)23. FLAN.—A French custard. F L A S H.—Extract of capsicum with sugar (but sold as burnt sugar) and isinglass ; used to colour brandy and rum, and make them appear stronger. FLOUNDER.—The flounder is much of the same nature and nou- rishment, though somewhat firmer, as the plaice. FLOUR, WiiEATEN.—The most nourishing of the flours, as contain- ing a substance of an animal nature, called the gluten of flour, and which also causes it to make the best bread, when ])roperly fermented; the mix- ture of tlie flour and water being raised by a portion of old dougb, leaven, or tbe froth of fermented wort, yeast, or barm. Six sorts of wheat flour are sold in London ; fine flour, second flour, middlings, fine middlings, coarse middlings, twenty penny flour; all depending upon the fineness of the sieves. A bushel, or Gllbs. of wheat, pro-128 FO PL duces, on grinding, dOflbs. meal, which, by dressing, is resolved into 48lbs. second flour, 4Jibs, fine pol- lard, 4 lbs. coarse pollard, and 2|lbs. bran; 2 lbs. being lost in the process. A sack of second flour, or five bushels, weighing by law 250lbs., requires generally 3 or 4 ounces alum, some- times from 2 to 8, with 4 lbs. com- mon salt, half a gallon yeast, and about 3 gallons of water, producing about 80 quartern loaves, sometimes 82 or 83. A sack of flour, 3 ounces alum, Gibs, common salt, one bushel potatoes, 3 lbs. yeast, with water q. s., produces a white, light, and highly valuable bread. A sack of indifferent flour, 1 lb. magnesia, with salt, yeast, and water as usual, makes excellent bread,—See Bread. It is generally supposed that an imperfect kind of fermentation, ana- logous to that in the preparation of wine or beer, takes place in making bread, but others deny this, because this dough does not yield any ardent spirit on distillation, although the same dough diluted with water, and left to ferment for sixteen hours, yielded a portion of spirit; the dough also falls so rapidly, that it cannot be supposed the fermentation is finished. The bakers, in summer time, when the yeast is turned acid, are in the habit of adding a little sub-carbonate of potash or of ammonia, which raises the dough in a few minutes ; mineral waters containing much carbonic acid raise the dough without the addition of yeast; and other substances which contain much enveloped air, also ren- der the dough spongy, as eggs heaten to a froth, or snow water.—Seeleffih FLOUR, Barley.—When made into bread with yeast, it requires the dough to be baked very soon after it is made, as it grows sour almost im- mediately. A paste of barley meal and water is also used to take the hair off skins, previous to their being tanned. FLOUR, Rye. — Used to make either a sweet bread, raising the dough hy yeast, or an acid bread, by using leaven for that purpose; this last is cooling, not so nourishing as the former, but more suited to an animal diet. FOOD.—In the most extensive signification of the word, food im- plies whatever substances are taken into the body, solid or fluid; but, in ordinary language, it is generally used to represent only the more solid part of our aliment.—See Aliment. In the early ages of the world, men we are told, subsisted chiefly upon such plants and fruits as the earth spontaneously produced: from these they proceeded to eat the flesh of wild animals taken in hunting; hut the numbers of the latter decreasing, and mankind multiplying, their wants taught them the necessity of tilling the ground, that its fmits might be more abundantly increased. In pro- cess of time, to aid their mutual wants, and to protect the weak against the oppression of the strong, men, by general consent, began to assign to each other portions of land, to pro- duce them the supply of vegetables; reason, soon after, suggested the ex- pedient of domesticating certain ani- mals equally to assist them in their labours, and to siqqfly them with food. Hogs, we are told, were the first domesticated animals that ap- peared on their tables, as then they held it to be ungrateful to devour tbe beasts that assisted them in their labours. ^\'hen thej' began to make a free use of domestic animals, they only roasted them : boiling was a refinement in cookery to which for some ages they were strangers; and fish, living in an element which men were unaccustomed to, were not eaten till they became somewhat more civilized.—See J'egetables, See. FOOD, ANIMALS DESTINED FOR.—.\nimal substances are for the most part considered as safe ar- ticles of food. As regards the higher classes (the mammalia and birds), this observation is universally tineFL FL 129 of those in a state of health. There are some exceptions among the fish tribe, which depend either upon the constitution of certain individuals, or upon some singularity in the nature of the particular fish, by which it becomes poisonous, although the spe- cies generally may be wholesome and nutritious.—See Fish, Poisonous. As we descend lower in the scale of animals, the above exceptions more frequently occur, and more species are absolutely and universally un- wholesome, or furnish poisons hurt- ful to every constitution. In the vegetable kingdom the alimentary vegetables form but a small propor- tion of the whole, and almost an equal number are absolutely poison- ous, or at least injurious, except when given in small quantities, for the purpose of counteracting some exist- ing disease. The flesh of quadrupeds, although it furnishes articles which may safely be used as food, differs considerably in some of them, both as regards its palatability and its nutritious pro- perties. In like manner, there is no part of this class of animals that may not be, and which indeed is not used as food, although the flesh or voluntary muscles upon the limbs, trunk, and head, is by far the most considerable and important. The heart, the largest of the involuntary muscles,* is also commonly eaten; and the brain and spinal marrow, or pith ; all the glands, kidneys, liver, and sweet bread ; the compound internal or- gans ; the lungs, stomach, and in- testines ; the womb, jdacenta, and even the contents of the stomach; the fat, and marrow of the bones; the blood and skin are all nutri- tious, and some of them highly * Those muscles over which animals have no control, are called involun- tary, that is, those over which it is not in our power to exert any voluntary in- fluence, e, g. the heart. prized ; and even the bones them- selves can be made to furnish most wholesome nutrition. The milk also of all quadrupeds is alimentaiy, and generally agreeable and very grate- ful to the ])alate. Although each of the above organs contain sevenrl im- mediate principles, chemically con- sidered, they are nevertheless cha- ractei'ised by some in their composi- tion. The muscular flesh principally consists of f brine, combined with some gelatinous mucus and ozmo- zome ; the tendons of the muscles, on the contrary, are little less than r/e/o- tine in a very dense form. It is also the case with the skin, the mem- branes in general, and the ligaments. Brain, and medullary nervous matters consist chiefly of coagulated albumen, which also perhaps enters largely into the composition of glands. The fat, suet, and marrow of the bones, are different forms of concrete animal oil. All these principles are digesti- ble and nutritious ; but in what com- parative degree, is far from being ascertained. According to popular opinion, it is nearl)'inversely as their solubility in water; muscular flesh being considered to furnish the strongest aliment, and gelatinous or- gans the lightest. These substances, however, are not precisely the same in all animals, nor even in the same animals at different periods of life. See Albumen, Fibrine, Gelatine, Os- mazomc, &c. I. As re(jar(ls the age and size of animals destined for food, it is gene- rally considered that in j)roportion to the age, the flesh and otbei parts belonging to the individual are coarser or more delicate, not only when different in kind, but in dif- ferent varieties of the same species, altbough well-grown animals of the same variety are always better than those that have not been sufliciently nourisbed. For instance, the flesh of the elephant and the rhinoceros have been found to be exceedingly coarse and unpalatable, whilst thatPL FL 130 of the rat and smaller species of quadrupeds is very delicate. The larger varieties of the ox and sheep are also inferior to the smaller, as the kyloes of the western islands, the Welsh sheep, and those in the Highlands of Scotland. The whole of the organs of young animals are much more gelatinous than those of tlie adult and aged, while they again contain more fibrine and extract. Hence the flesh of young animals is more bland and tender, and yields most to the action of boiling water, wliile that of aged animals is more savoury, even to rankness, and is firm, to toughness. The flesh of very young animals is unpleasantly soft and flabby to the palate—qualities of which every one is a judge; but at no period of life, even at the fatal state, actually unwholesome; consequently there was no reason- able ground for that enactment which provides, that “ no butcher shall kill any calf to sell, being under five weeks old.”—Stat. I. James, c. 22. § 2. 22. Very large cows, with calf, may, indeed are, frequently killed, and the fcetus is always sold as very young veal, and by some people preferred to that of a more mature nature. Calves are killed by our butchers at from six to sixteen weeks, but they are reckoned best at ten or twelve. Lambs are generally killed at the age from two to six months. 'I'he beef of the larger breed of oxen is in greatest perfection when the animal is about seven years old; that of tire smaller breeds, a year or two sooner. Cow-beef, on the coirtrary, can scarcely be too young. The flesh of a young heifer is highly es- teemed—that of an old fattened cow is very bad. Wedder mutton is in perfection at five years. Kwe mut- ton is best when about two years old. Sucking pigs arc killed at about three weeks old: but pork differs from other kinds of butchers’ pieat in not requiring age to mellow it; so that swine, for pork, are killed at from six to twelve months old; but for brawn, age is an advantage, or rather, in fact, it is necessarj'. The buck of the fallow-deer may be killed at six, but it is better at eight years of age. The female, in ge- neral is naturally more tender; but getting tough rather than mellowing by age, is sooner in perfection. The flesh of quadnipeds in the vigour of life is more stringy, and again turns shorter as it advances to old age, when it becomes dry and destitute of nourishment. Young animals also differ fi'om old ones in the distribution of the fat, which, in the latter, is chiefly collected in masses, or layers, external to the muscles; and in the former it is more interspersed among the mus- cular fibres, giving the flesh a mar- bled appearance, which is always a desirable property in butchers’ meat. II.—The sex of animals intended for food, has considerable influence over the quality; that of the female being always more delicate and finer grained than that of the entire male, whose fibres and taste are stronger and more rank. The influence in- deed of the genital organs over the flesh of animals, is very considerable. The flavour of the female is even improved by removing the ovaries, or, as it is termed, by spaying them. Every day the testes are permitted to remain, even though totally inac- tive with regard to their proper func- tion, injures the delicacy of the veal of the bull-calf; an animal which is not castrated until after puberty, always retains much of the rankness and coarseness of the entire male. Daubenton directs the male lambs to be castrated at from eight to fifteen days after they are born, altliough it is not customary to perform the ope- ration until the age of three weeks, or even five or six days.—(See In- structions pour les Bergers, par J. B. lluzard, c^-c.). But the flesh of lambs is never so juicy and good gsFL 131 FL when they are castrated at eight days. The editor of Daubenton (4th edition, M.Hiizard) goes still fartlier, and recommends this operation to be performed in a da}' or two from the birth, or as soon as the testes de- scend into the scrotum. The female lambs are also occasionally spayed in France, to render tbeir flesh more delicate, and improve the wool; but this operation cannot be perfonned until the ovaries have acquired a sufficient size to be brought out with the finger, when they are about three weeks old. In this country the sow pigs which are not kept for breeding, are all spayed when about four weeks old; the boar pigs are castrated a week sooner. On the other hand, the males of those races in which the testes are active only at certain sea- sons, as the deer tribe, have the coarse rank flesh of entire males only when rutting; and at all other times they resemble much more the castrated individuals of those animals, such as the bull, which are always capable of procreating their species. Even with the ram, there is a short period when the flesh is less rank; and during the rutting season, it is intolerable. Buck venison is highly esteemed— the boar is preferred for making brawn. III.—The quality of the food and the manner in which the animal has been fed, have also considerable in- jluence over the flesh. For the most jiart, the lean of fat animals is better than that of those that are poorly fed; and perhaps an animal in a state of nature can never be too fat. Artificial fattening may, however, be carried too far, and the practice of feeding oxen on oil-cake for the market is now laid aside, in conse- quence of its giving a rancid and unpleasant flavour to the beef. Also, morbid or unwholesome fatness, such as that which takes place in the first stage of the rot, and which, it is said upon very good authority, some butchers induce artificially is certainly not desirable. “ Several graziers and butchers having observed, that sheep are much disposed to feed during the first stage, or four weeks after being tainted, omit no oppoi'ttuniy of pro- ducing it, to increase their profits.”— See Inquiry into the Rot in Sheep and other Animals, by E. Harrison, M.D. F.R.A.S. 8vo. Lond. 1804. But it is only in regard to fatness that the flesh of animals is aflTected by the nature of their food, for its flavour is materially changed by it; and an epicure will readily distinguish by the taste, whether mutton of the same race has been fed upon turnips, or upon the natural grasses of a high- land fai'm. In pork, the fat of the food is more apparent than in any other kind of butchers’ meat. The fat of pigs fed on skimmed milk though sour, is firmer and vastly supeilor to that of hogs fed upon pease or meal; and Mr. Jackson says we have no pork in England or Ireland equal to that in Sai'dinia, where the hogs are al- most wild, and fattened upon chest- nuts. IV. The influence of the season on^ the quality of butchers’ meat, depends upon the more or less plentiful sup- ply of food, upon the periodical change which takes place in the body of the animal, and upon temperature. In and out of season, are words often vaguely applied, meaning most com- monly and correctly, the season of the year in which the substance is naturally in a better or worse state; also occasionally expressing the good or bad condition of ibe individual animal, without any regard to the state of the species in general; and, lastly, and most improperly, meaning that it is at that time desired or re- jected by the higher orders of society, as being i-are or common. The flesh of most full grown quad- rupeds is in highest season during the first months of winter, after having enjoyed the advantage of theFO 132 FO fresh summer food. Its flavour then begins to be injured by the turnips given as winter food; and in spring, from a deficiency in food, it grows lean. Beef and mutton, also veal, al- though they are never absolutely out of season, that is, not fit for the sea- son, are in the greatest perfection in the months of November, December and January. Pork, during the summer months is absolutely bad, or out of season, and is only good in winter. Tlie males of the deer tribe are in highest perfection from the middle of June to the beginning of September, when they begin to rut; after which they become thin and exhausted. Females generally are out of condition when they are suck- ling, or have lately given suck. Does which have no kid, or were soon de- prived of it, follow the general rule of castrated animals, and are in sea- son from the middle of November to the middle of February. Their con- dition is not much afi’ected during the first months of pregnancy.—See Beef, Mutton, Veal. 'J'he season of the year when the young of quadrupeds have acquired the proper age for being used as food, is the period when they are in the greatest degree of perfection. This is naturally in the summer months, when lamb, veal, and fawns are most abundant. But breeders continue to furnish the tables of the wealthy with the first two of these articles at al- most every season of the year, by selecting certain breeds, such as the Dorsetshire sheep, which lamb very early, or by treating them in such a way as to cause the female to come in heat at an unnatural time. In this way lamb is procured as an ar- ticle of luxury, as early as November and December; and, on the con- trary, by keeping the ewe in cold poor hilly pasture, the lambing season is retarded. V. The manner in which animals are slaughtered, or deprived of life. has also considerable influence over the flavour of the flesh. The greater number of those slaughtered for food are either bled to death, or are blooded profusely immediately after being deprived of life in some other way. The method most commonly adapted in this country, of killing cattle, is by striking them on the forehead with a pole axe, and then cutting their throats to let the blood escape—a method, cruel and not free from danger; inasmuch as the ani- mal is not always brought down -ndth the first blow, and the difficulty and uncertainty of being able to repeat it, as well as the risk of accidents, should the animal not be well se- cured. On this account. Lord Som- merville endeavoured to introduce the method of pithing or laying cattle, by dividing the spinal marrow above the origin of the Phrenic nerves, as is commonly practised in Barbary, Spain, Portugal, Jamaica, and now in some parts of England; (See Ge- neral Survey of the Agriculture of Shropshire, hy Joseph Plymhy, M. A. Svo. Lond. 1803, p. 243); and it is observed by Mr. Jackson, that “the best method of killing a bullock is by thrusting a sharp-pointed knife into the spinal marrow, when the bullock will immediately fall without any struggle, then cut the arteries about the heart.” See Reflections on the Commerce on the Mediterranean. By John Jackson, Esq. F. S. A. Svo. Lond. 1804. Although the operation of pithing is not so difficult, but it may, with some practice, be performed with tolerable certainty; and although Lord Sommcrville took a man with him to Portugal to be instructed in the method, and has made it a con- dition that the prize cattle shall bo pithed instead of being knocked down, the practice nevertheless is not be- come general among us, owing, doubtless, iu a great measure to pre- judice. We are told that the flesh ol' the cuttle killed in this manner inFO FO 133 Portugal is very dark, and soon be- comes putrid, perhaps from the ani- mal not bleeding freely, in conse- quence of the action of the heart being interrupted before the vessels of the neck are divided. It seems, therefore, after all, to he best to bleed the animal to death directly, after the manner of the Jew butchers. The Mosaic law so imperiously prohibits the eating of blood, that the Talmud contains a body of regulations con- cerning the killing of animals; that the Jews, as a point of religion, will not eat the flesh of any animal not killed b)' a butcher of their own per- suasion. Their method of depriving the animal of life, is to tie its four feet together, thus bringing it to the ground, and turning its head back to cut the throat at once down to the hone, with a long, very sharp, and not pointed knife, thereby dividing all the large vessels of the neck. In this manner the blood is quickly and completely discharged. The efl'ect of this method is so obvious, that some Christians will eat no meat but what has been killed by a Jew butcher. Sheep, lambs, calves, and pigs, are all killed by dividing at once the large blood vessels of the neck. Ani- mals killed accidentally, that is, by hanging, drowning, falls, ravenous beasts, or frozen to death, are not absolutely unwholesome. In fact, they difl’er from those more metho- dically killed, in not being blooded; which is also the case with animals that are snared, and those killed by hounds. Animals that die natural deaths ought not to he eaten; as there are many undeniable instances of disease having been the conse- quence. Previous to killing animals, they are generally made to undergo some preparation. They are usually kept without food for some time, for were they slaughtered with full stomachs, their flesh, it is thought, would not keep well. O.xen are made to fast two or three days; smaller animals a day; hut it is evident that the practice should not be carried too far, as an opposite effect might he produced by the animal falling off, or getting feverish. In order to have white veal, it is generally understood that the calf is repeatedly and largely bled before it is killed. Such prac- tice, howevei', does not appear to he general; the feeders, themselves, deny it, and it is not confessed by the butchers; consequently, we are not enabled to say what its effects w'ould he; but Dr. Lister states, that nothing contributes more to white- ness and tenderness of the flesh of calves, than often bleeding them, hv which means the colouring matter of the blood is exhausted, leaving be- hind nothing but colourless serum. A method of preparation still more cruel, used to he practised, though illegal, and nearly, if not entirely, obsolete, with regard to the bull. By some old municipal laws, no butcher was permitted to offer or expose any bull-beef for sale, unless it had pre- viously been baited. The reason of this probably was, that baiting the animal had the effect of rendering the flesh or muscular fibre much more tender; for it is an universal law of the animal economy, that, when animals have undergone ex- cessive fatigue immediately before death, or have suffered from a lin- gering death, their flesh, though it becomes sooner rigid, also becomes sooner tender, than when suddenl}' deprived of life in a state of health. The flesh of hunted animals is sooner tender, and sooner spoils, and it is upon this principle, that the qualit}^ of pigs’ flesh could he improved by the horrid cruelty of whipping them to death, said to be practised by the Germans. (Vide, “ Rc.iet-c/ies Patho- lofi'ixpies dc Phiisioloifie <;t de Chhnir Par P. N. Ni/sier. 8vo. Paris. 1811). Another part of the same recipe to roast a pig, wild-hoar fa.shion, consists in making the animal swallow, some hours before killing it, a quantityFO FO 134 of vinegar aromatized with herbs. This culinary occurrence we have merely noticed because the action of vinegar, given to animals, a few hours before death, in rendering the fibres mellow, deserves to he ex- amined. In this country it is no uncommon thing to give poultry a spoonful or two of vinegar before they are killed, after which they are to be imme- diately dressed for the table. Popular practices are seldom without some foundation, and with this is con- nected the popidar fact, that acetic acid or vinegar has a peculiar che- mical action upon fibrine. The Moors in West Barbaiy, before they kill a hedge-hog, which with them is esteemed a princely dish, rub his back against the ground, by holding his feet betwixt two, as men do a saw, when they are sawing stones, till it has done squeaking, and then cut its throat. Vide Jones, in Phi- losoph. Trans. No. 254. FOOD, Animal varieties of.— From the order of wild animals {Pe- rce ) mankind have long derived the principal part of their nutriment, especially in the earlier periods of society. The flesh of the common seal a few centuries ago was served up at the tables of the great in this cotin- try; and it still forms the principal subsistence of the Greenlanders, Icelanders, and Kamschatkadales. 'I’hcre are few of the first order (Pri- mates) of the class Mammalia (see Mammalia) eaten. In some coun- tries, however, several species of the ape tribe are eaten—of these are the Barbary ape, the preacher monkey, and the four-lingered monkey. Some sjiecies of the bat tribe are occasion- ally eaten by the natives of warm cli- mates, especially the vampyre bat. Of the second order (Bruta) several genera afford nourishment to unci- vilized tribes. The great ant cater is frcqucntl}' eaten by the American Indians; but its (lesli has a strong and disagreeable smell. Most spe- cies of armadillo fonn an article of diet among the Indians. Tlie flesh of the two horned rhinoceros is eaten in Myssina, but its flesh is verv sinewy. The flesh of the elephant is often eaten in the same country, as well as by the Hottentots: also several species of the walrus. It may also here be noticed, while we are thus detailing the many cu- rious dishes of olden time, the sin- gular diet of two or three of anti- quity, mentioned by Herodotus (lib. iv.) “The Androphagi, the canni- bals of the ancient world, greedily devoured the carcasses of their fellow- creatures ; while the inoffensive Ca- bri, a Scythian ti-ibe, found both food and drink in the agreeable nut of the Pontic tree. The Lotophagi lived entirely on the fruit of the lotus tree. The savage Troglodyte esteemed a living serpent, the most delicious of all morsels, while the capricious pa- late of the Zyguntini preferred the ape to every thing.” Warner’s Aniig. Culin. p. 135. a. The Bear.—The brown or black fear is eaten by the common people in Norway, Russia, and Poland. It is difficult of digestion, and is gene- rally salted and dried before it is used. h. The Dog.—Of the dog tribe, few species have been employed as food; though the common dog is voraciously eaten by the inhabitants of the South Sea islands; and is used sometimes for food in more civilized societies. c. The Otter.—The common otter is eaten in some Roman Catholic countries, and considered as nearly allied to fish. The young of the sea- otter, are said to be delicate eating. d. The Lion.—Of the cat tribe, the flesh of the lion is considered an excellent article of food bjr several natives of Africa. e. Ihe Oposswn.—Several species of the opossum are considered by the natives of South America, as equally good for food with the fleshFO 135 FO of the liare or rabbit, especially the Virginian opossum. f. The Kangaroo forms a chief part of the animal food used by the na- tives of New Holland, but the flesh is very coarse. Order Glires. 1. The Porcupine—The common porcupine is eaten in Sicily and Malta; also, by the Barbary Moors; and it is frequently introduced to the politest tables at the Cape of Good Hope. 2. Cavia.—Several species of cavia are used as food in Great Britain, Brazil, and other parts of South America, especially the guinea-pig— the spotted cavy, the long-nosed cavy, and the rock-cavy. 3. 2'he Beauer.—The flesh of the beaver is used as food in South America, and is said to be e.xcellent eating. It is preserved by drying it in smoke. 4. I'he Marmot.—The marmot of the Alps affords nourishment to the poorer inhabitants of the Tyrol, Savoy, and other parts of the Alps; and, besides this, three other species are eaten—namel}', the Maryland marmot, bobath, and the cassin or earless marmot. 5. llie Squirrel.—Several of the squirrel species may be eaten, espe- cially the common squirrel, which is much used in Sweden and Nt)rway; and its flesh is said to resemble that of a barn-door fowl. 6. The Jerboa. — Tlie common jerboa is eaten by the Arabs, who esteem its flesh among their greatest dainties. 7. Hare and Rahit.—Most of the species to which these two well- known animals belong, are used as common food—especially the com- mon hare and rabbit. Of the two, the flesh of the rabbit is more deli- cate than that of the bare ; but it is not so nourishing as the latter. Wild rabbits are not only more digestible, but more palatable than such as are domesticated.—See Hare. Order Pecora. It is from this older that the prin- cipal part of animal food, in civilized countries, is derived. Almost all the animals contained in this order, as sheep, oxen, &c., form excellent food. Some species of the camel tribe are eaten, especially the Arabian camel—the Glama, whose flesh is said to resemble mutton. Of the genus Cervus, or stag tribe, the following species are the most used: The Elk is eaten in Norway, Lap- land, and Sweden, where its flesh is much esteemed. It is very nourish- ing, but remains long in the stomach. The Stag. 'The Common Stag.— The flesh of this animal, when full- grown, is well known under the name of venison, and is very diges- tible, wholesome, and nourishing. Rein Deer.—The flesh of this spe- cies forms the principal nourishment of the Lajrlanders; the tongues are excellent when salted, and the milk is sweet and nourishing. Roebuck.—The flesh of the roe- buck is considered inferior to that of the following. Falloiv Deer.—The flesh of this species is a variety of venison, and nearly resembles that of the stag. The buck is preferred. Of the Genus ylntelope, almost all the species aflbrd excellent food; but the chamois is most generally em- ployed. The flesh of the young ibe.x is also excellent. Goat.—Of the common goat, only the young are employed as food; and a roasted kid is a very common dish ill America and the West Indies. —See Mutton, —Lamb,—Ox-beef,— BulLbeef,—Cow-beef,—Veal,— Veni- son, <^c. L^c. Order Bellu/E. Horse.—The flesh of the horse may be eaten, but is very coarse. Marcs’ milk is often used medici- nally, but is considered inferior to that of the ass.—See Asses' Milk.FO 136 FO Tapir.—The flesh of the Tapir is much esteemed by the inhabitants of South America, but is inferior to our beef.—See Hog, Bacon, Sucldng Pig. See also, Butchers’ Meat to choose. FOOD, Reptiles used as.— Compared with other living crea- tures, very few reptiles are used as aliment, and this most probably more on account of their disgusting ap- pearance, than of their being noxious or unpalatable, as some of the greatest luxuries of the table belong to this class of animals. Besides the green turtle, several other species of the testudo are eaten, especially the Groeca Europcea and ferox. Of the lizard kind, the draccena, amboi- nensis agilis, and iguana, are eaten. The flesh of the last is said to be de- licious, but unwholesome, especially to those affected with syphilis, which, however, is a vulgar prejudice. The lacertus scincus, (sconk) is held in estimation by the natives of the east, as an aphrodiniac. The eggs of the iguana, and of most species of tes- tudo, even of those whose flesh is said to be bad, as of the Imbucato, are nutritious and agreeable. The flesh of the colubic natri.x is eaten in some places; and the viper itself, whose bite is jioisonous, furnishes a nutritious broth to invalids. The rana esculenta of the frogs is an epicurean dish with our Continental neighbours. The bull frog, in the opinion of our transatlantic descen- dants, rivals the turtle. The rana combina, though a toad, is also eaten in some places as fish. There are doubtless many other reptiles eaten as food in some coun- tries, nor are we aware of a single instance where injurious effects have been produced by any that has hi- therto been tried. This flesh in ge- neral seems to be delicate and gela- tinous ; the fibre to resemble that of chicken or veal, and wliat is culled the green fat of turtle is in reality gelatinous, like the skin of a calf's head, or the tendons of ox-heel, whicli are employed to make an imitation of it. We are but little acquainted with the circumstances which influence the quality of reptiles, as esculent, but modern gourmands say the best size of a turtle for taste is from sixty to eighty pounds, which is scarcely a tenth part of the size to which they attain; and it may be presumed, that like most other oviparous animals, they are best before they begin to lay their eggs, and are out of season sometime after. Turtles frequently become emaciated before thej' reach this country; in this case the soup made from them would be incom- parably improved by adding a good calf’s head to it. They are well known as a nourishing and palatable food. Hence, of this class {Amphibia) the following are most commonly employed, viz. the green and land turtles, the edible frog or green water frog, the common lizard, the sconk; of serpents, the viper, and the adder. The esculent frog, though not very nutritious, tastes much like chicken; the viper and adder are chiefly used in soups, which are considered as great restoratives. FOOD FROM INSECTS AND WORMS. —With the exception of various spe- cies of the crab, insects are not used in substance as food. Of this class the following may be enumerated as ordinary aliment. The common crab, the black clawed crab, the lobster, the craw-fish, the prawn, the shrimp, the white shrimp. Under this class the honey of the bee may be ranked, which in its general alimentary pro- perties, agrees with sugar; it is, however, rather more heating, and will not agree with many stomachs. It is best eaten from the comb, as the wax seems to correct its unplea- sant effects.*—See Honey. * The IMoors in the West of Barbary, esteem as delicious, honey-comb with137 FR FR (Worms.)—The sepia sepiola, and the eschiniis esculentus, are the only edible genera of this order of worms, and even these are coarse, and by no means a nourishing food. Among the testaceous order may be set down, the common cockle, the common oyster, the eatable mussel, the com- mon snail,—of these, the oyster and snail, are the most wholesome and most digestible. The limpet, perri- winkle, and whilk, are eaten boiled by the common people of this coun- try ; and the Helix Pomatia, is reared and fattened with great care in some countries of Switzerland. _F R A N G E P A N E. — Skimmed milk, evaporated to dryness, by a gentle heat, used to fom artificial milk. FRENCH WINES.—The wines of France are peculiarly excellent; and though they differ very sensibly from their taste and properties, there are few constitutions, be they ever so valetudinary, to which some one or other of them is not adapted. The author of the Seasons has thus cha- racterised some of them: The Claret smooth and red, The mellow tasted Burgundy, and quick As is the wit it gives, the gay Cham- pagne. Thomson. At Clairvaux, a small town in the department of the Aube, in France, there are several enormous casks, which will contain from one to four hundred tons of Champagne; and the famous tun of St. Bernard, will hold 1,612,800 pints of wine. In these capacious vessels, wine is sometimes kept for the space of ten years.—See Chavipagne, &c. FRUIT. — Under this head arc the young bees in it, while they still resemble gentles ; but Mr. Jones says, that to his palate, they seemed insipid, and sometimes gave him the heartburn. comprehended the productions of different trees and shrubs, and may be arranged under the following heads:— Apple species. Farinaceous fruits. Small berries. Small seeded fruits. Stone fruit.—(Which see). The stone-fruits have been de- nounced as the least digestible spe- cies, by popular acclamation, and we feel disposed to acquiesce in the truth of the assertions as a general ]>ropositlon; but much of the mis- chief that has been attributed to their use, has arisen from the unripe state in which they were eaten. Thev are, however, less digestible than any other species, and more liable to undergo fermentation in the sto- mach. The hard pulp of certain plums remains also in the alimentary canal for a long time, and is fre- quently passed without having been materially changed. The ripe peach is the most delicious, as well as one of the most digestible of the stone- fmits; the apricot is equally whole- some, but the nectarine is liable to disagree with some stomachs. Cher- ries* are far less digestible; their pulpy texture and skins are not easily' disposed of by the stomach ; and as the sweetest species contain a considerable excess of acid, they may be objectionable in some cases, and desirable in others. The apple spe- cies is not so delicate and watery as * The Romans introduced the cherry into England, about 130 years after Lucullus had brought it out of Pontus to Rome : but the Kentish cherry, or tlie old English variety, witli a sliort stalk, was brought from Flanders by Richard Harry, fruiterer to Henry VI11., and first planted at Teynham. The cherry formerly grew spontaneously, in the woods near Cerusus, a city of I’on- tus. Hence, according to Servius, the cherry-tree is called ccrasus; hence, also, the natives denominate its fruit, cerasa, and the French, cerise. See Cherries. N 3FR FR 138 the foregoing fruits, and is less apt to pass into a state of noxious fer- mentation, but its texture is firmer, and on that account is retained longer in the stomach, and often proves indigestible. The same ob- servations apply to pears, except that their texture being in general less firm, they are less objectionable.— See Pears. The orange, when perfectly ripe, may be allowed to the most fasti- dious dyspeptic; but the white or inner skin slioidd be scrupulously rejected, for it is not less indigestible than leather.—See Orange. The small-seeded fruits are by far the most wholesome; of these the ripe strawberry and raspberry de- serve the first rank. The grape is also cooling and antiseptic, but the husks and seeds shoidd be refused. The gooseberry is less wholesome, on account of the indigestibility of the skin, which is too frequently swallowed. The fruits to he classed under the head of small berries, are the cranberry, the bilberry, and the red whortleberry. These are seldom eaten unless when baked, and in that state, their ascisency seldom proves injurious. The farinaceous fruits are univer- sally unwholesome. The melon, which is the principal one, is very apt to disagree with weak stomachs, and should never be eaten after din- ner without a plentiful supply of salt and pepper.—See Melon. The most proper times for indulg- ing in fruit, appear to be the morn- ing and evening ; on some occasions it may be taken with advantage at breakfast, or three hours before din- ner; and it forms a light and agree- able repast if taken an hour before bed time, but these regulations are to be influenced by circumstances which no general rules can possibly supply. By cookery, fruits, otherwise un- wholesome, may bo converted into a convenient and useful aliment. Apples and pears, when baked, af- ford a pleasant meal, and from their laxative properties, are well adapted to certain cases of indigestion. Fruit- pies, if the pastry be entirely re- jected, may be considered valuable articles of diet. Dried fruits are by no means so useful or safe as is ge- nerally imagined. The quantity of sugar which enters into their compo- sition disposes them to fermentation. FRUITS.—When in Season. Almonds, January. N uts. Apples, Pears, Grapes, Medlars, Apples, Sendees. February. Grapes, March. Apples, Pears, Strawberries, Apples, April. Pears. Pears. Cherries, forced. Apricots for tarts. May. Apples, Gooseberries, Apricots, green. Melons, Cherries, Pears, Currants, for tarts. Strawberries. June. Apples, Melons, Apricots, Nectarines, Cherries, Peaches, Currants, Pears, Gooseberries, Pine Apples, Grapes, Strawberries. Apples, July. Peaches, Apricots, Peai's, Pine Apples, Cherries, Gooseberries, Plums, Melons, Raspberries, Nectarines, Strawberries. Apples, August. Mulberries, Cherries, N ectarines. Currants, Peaches, Figs, Pears, Filberts, Pine Apples, Gooseberries, Plums, Grapes, Strawberries. Melons, Currants, September. Melons, Filberts, Pears, Peaches, Grapes,FR FR 139 Hazelnuts, Plums, Lazeroles, Quinces, Medlars, Pine Apples, Morillo-Cherries, Walnuts. October. Apples, Medlars, Bullaces, black Peaches, and white, Pears, Figs, Quinces, Filberts, Services, Grapes, Hazelnuts, Walnuts. November. Apples, Medlars, Bullaces, Pears, Chestnuts, Services, Grapes, Hazelnuts, Walnuts. December. Apples, Chestnuts, Medlars, Pears, Grapes, Services, Hazelnuts, Walnuts. Fruits are generally regarded as articles rather of luxury than of food, and were we to form an estimate of their value from their abuse, we should certainly be rather disposed to class them under the head of poisons, than under that of aliments. Nothing can have a more mischie- vous tendency towards the invalid than large quantities of apples, pears, and plums, in the shape of a des- sert, after the stomach has already been loaded, and its good nature taxed to the uttermost by its Epi- curean master. But when taken under other circumstances, they con- tribute to health, and appear to be providentially sent, at a season when the body requires that cooling and antiseptic aliment, which fruits in general are so well calculated to afford. Fruit in general possesses strongly resolvent powers, and it is the more beneficial as it comes to maturity at a time when the body is relaxed by the heat of summer, and when the blood has a strong tendency to in- flammation. It is besides of great service in attenuating the thick bilious impurities collected during the summer, and of evacuating them by its laxative virtues. The acid contained in most kinds of fruits is as useful to qiiench thirst, as to re- sist putrefaction. In weak stomachs, however, or such as are filled with impurities and slime, it is apt to ferment, and occasion some incon- venience ; but this may be avoided by temperate use, and especially by eating the fruit boiled. The more sap or juice we meet with in fruit, it will prove the more flatulent; and as the juicy, cooling, and watery species of fruit require strong digestive organs to prevent them from producing fermentation, flatulency, and diarrhoea, a glass of old wine is very proper to promote their digestion. A gentle diarrhoea, brought on by eating ripe fruit in summer, has frequently a salutary effect. Acrid and astringent fruit, being rather a medicine than food, is less hurtful to the healthy and to children than is commonly imagined. Instead of being noxious, as some suppose, in inflammatory disorders, it is of the greatest service. Per- sons of a thick and languid blood cannot eat anything more conducive to health than fruit, as it possesses the property of attenuating and putting such blood in motion; but those of a watery and phlegmatic constitution ought carefully to avoid it. Fruit preserved with sugar is anti- septic and nourishing, but at the same lime flatulent; and if preserved with sugar and spices, it is heating and drying. It is most wholesome when eaten on an empty stomach, which can exert all its powers to expel the air disengaged from it, and to remove it before it begins to fer- ment. Boiling as well as drying corrects tlie flatulent tendency of fresh fruit, so that thus prepared it well agrees with everybody. By either of these methods it is deprived of its superfluous humidity, as wellHO FR FR as of its fixed air, wlience it becomes more nourishing but less cooling than in the fresh state. FRUrr, To Gather, &c.—The time for gathering fruits depends much on the exposure; and the manner of gathering influences their keeping. Having prepared the fruit- room, a fine day is to he chosen, and if possible, after two or three pre- ceding days of wet weather, and about two o’clock in the afternoon. The fruit is to be gathered and depo- sited in moderately sized baskets, taking care that none of it be bruised or blemished, for the injured places soon rot, and spoil the sound parts in contact with it. As summer fruits ripen more quickly after they are plucked, only enough for the consumption of a few days should be gathered at once; by which means they may be enjoyed for a greater length of time. The apjAes and pears of autumn should be gathered eight days before they are ripe; in fine, there are some kinds of fruit that are never fit for eating on the tree. If they have been necessarily gathered in wet weather, or early in the morning, they should be exposed a day to the sun to dry; and on no account should they be wiped, for it rubs off the bloom, as it is called, which, when allowed to dry in some fruits, constitutes a natural varnish, closing up the pores and preventing tile evaporation of the juices. They should not be laid in heaps, which causes them to transpire as well as to undergo a slight degree of fer- mentation ; for fruit thus treated, if it does not spoil, gets dry and mealy; and hence in this country the ordi- nary apples imjiorted from the Con- tinent are inferior generally to our own. The principal requisites for a fruit room are great dryness, equality of temperature, and the power of e.x- cluding light. Some have a singular way of preserving fine pears, by passing a thread through the stalk, the end of which they seal up with a drop of sealing-wax, enclose each separately in a cone of paper,, and hang them up by the thread, brought through the ajiex. Experience has also proved that grapes keep better when hanging than when laid upon a table. To prevent exhalation, the cut end sliould be closed with w’ax. Some hang them by the stalk, others by the pomt of the bunch, as by this means the grapes are less pressed against each other; but it is neces- sary in both cases to visit them from time to time, and to cut ofi’ with a pair of scissors every berry that is moulded or spoiled. The follozving are the principal Slone Fruit of Europe : Apricot. Bullace tree. Common jujube. Male cornel, or cornelian cheiTy. Manured Olive. Nectarme. Peach. Plum cherry. Wild olive. Wild red cherry. Exotics. Anchovy pear. Avigate pear. Cocoa plum. Connnon date Clustered Sebastin, or .\ssyrian plum. Malabar plum. Mango tree. Oil palm. Rough-leaved Sebastin. Sea-side grape. Umbrella pahtr. Yellow Jamaica plum. Indian jujube. FRUri' ROOM.—fFor the Pre- servation of Fruit).—The following directions for the economy of a fruit room, (which may be connected with the seed rooiir) are from Loudon's Ctjclopadia of Gardening.—“ This (the fruit room) ought to be well ventilated, for which purpose it ought to have a small fire-place. TheGA HI GA fruit room was formerly a mere loft, where fruits were kept on the floor, in common with onions, with no proper means of separation or ar- rangement for systematic consump- tion. Now, however, they are regu- larly fitted up, either with shelves or lattice-woi'k, in which to place sieves of different sorts of fruit, or witli close shelves for drawers, boxes, &c. according to the various modes adopted of preserving them. The room may be of any form, but one long and narrow is generally best adapted for ventilation and heating, or drj'ing, when necessary, by a flue. The system of shelves may be placed along one side, and may be raised to the height of six feet or more, ac- cording to the number wanted.— Tliese shelves are formed of open work, on which to place square sieves of fruit, each of which should be numbered, and a label or slate con- taining the corresponding numbers, may be hung up in the room, and opposite each number should be a space for noting down daily the num- ber taken out of each sieve for use. From this table statements may be made, from time to time, of the quantity of fruit on hand for the use of the house steward. (Maher hi llort. Trans. Vol. II. p. 76). For- syth directs that all the floors or shelves on which apples ai'e to be kept or sweated, should be made of white deal, as when red deal is made use of for these purposes, it is liable to give a disagreeable resinous taste to the fruit, and spoils its flavour: when white deal cannot be procured. he advises covering the shelves with canvass. Those sorts of fruit which keep longest are generally best pre- served in jars, excluded from the air, and placed in cold dry situations, not under 32“ nor above 40“ Far. FRUMENTY. (Pronounced, cor- riqitly, Furmity—derived from the Latin, frumenlum, corn).—A food, or pottage, made of wheat and rai- sins boiled in milk. A Yorkshire dish. FRYING.—To dress meat in a pan over a fire, is called frying; for which process the following direc- tions should be obsei'ved. Always keep your frying-pan clean, and see that it is properly tinned. When you fry any sort of fish, first dry them in a cloth, and dredge them with flour; put into your frying-pan plenty of dripping, or hogs’ lard, and let it be boiling hot before you put in the fish. Butter is not so good for the purpose, as it is apt to burn and blacken the fish, and make them soft. When you have fried your fish, lay them on a dish or hair sieve to drain, befoi-e you send them np to table. When you fry parsley, be sure to pick it very cautiously; wash it w'ell, dip it into cold water, and throw it into a pan of boiling fat; this will make it very crisp, and of a finer green, provided you do not let it remain too long in the pan. FUEL. — Combustibles fit for kindling and supporting a fire.—See Cookery, Heat. FUNGI, ESCULENT.—-Sec Mushrooms. G. GADUS.—The name of a genus torsk. The Icelanders prepare it by of fishes of the .lugular tribe. The salting and drying, wben it becomes following species are brought to the an article of common use, under the European market for the use of the name of Tetlelbuj. Its flesh is white, table :— tender, and well-flavoured. 1. Gacius Ciliaris. — The Baltic 2. Gadus Morhua.—The cod-fish.142 GA GA This fish, well known in oiir markets, abounds in the Northern seas. Its flesh is white, tender, and delicious. When salted, it is also well flavoured, and in general esteem.—See Cod. 3. Gadus JEglefinun. — The had- dock. An inhabitant of the Northern seas of Europe. The larger ones are much esteemed during the winter; the smaller ones for summer use. They are easy of digestion. Salted and dried, they are eaten at break- fast time as a delicacy.—^See Had- dock. 4. Gadus Minutus.—Very small, never exceeding six or seven inches in length. It is found in the Medi- terranean in great abundance, where it is called a capclan, or an officier. 5. GadusMcrlangus.—The whiting. A delicate white fish, in great abund- ance in the Irish seas, and German Ocean.—See Whiting. G. Gadus Pollacius.—The whiting pollock, found on the rocky coasts of Britain, and other parts of Euroj)e. It is in great esteem for the table. 7. Gadus Carbonarius.—The coal- fish. Very abundant on the rocky parts of the Northern coasts of the northern parts of this island, about the Orkneys and the coast of York- shire, where they grow to the extent of two and three feet long, and con- stitute the chief support of the poor. 8. Gadus Merluccms. The hake.— A native of the North and Mediter- ranean seas, not much eaten, except by the poorer classes, when dried; in Avhich state it is called Poor John, or Stock-fish. 9. Gadus Molva. The ling.—This grows to the length of five or six feet. It is not so good as the morhua, when fresh; but dried and salted it is much esteemed, and is the com- mon food of the poor in Cornwall, where it is prepared for exportation. 10. Gadus Lota. — The Burbot. The flesh of this fish is considered delicious, and of easy digestion. 11. Gadus Brosme.—The Torsk. This fish swarms in the seas about tlie Shetland islands, and forms a considerable article of commerce, either dried or salted, or packed in barrels. G.4LLS. — Astringent; used in dying ; and tbe powder, mixed with hogs’ lard, enters into the compo- sition of an ointment for the piles. The decoction of galls serves also as a test to detect the presence of iron in malt liquors.—See Iron, Sulphate of. When beer is suspected to contain copperas, or salt of steel, officinally called sulphate of iron, take two wine glasses, and fill them with the suspected beer; place- them in a good light, and add a few drops of the decoction of galls, and let it be well stirred and compared with the colour of the beer in the other glass. If the one into which the solution of galls was poured be in the least degree changed, that is, become blacker than the other, it may with certainty be concluded that such beer is impregnated with some chalybeate particles, which will the more evidently appear if the two glasses be examined again after having remained for four and twentj- hours undisturbed :—in this case a blackish sediment will be deposited at the bottom of the glass.—See Gold, Muriate of; and Potass, Prussiate of. A still nicer test, with the decoc- tion of galls, is to boil down gently a gallon of the suspected beer to a pint, and then, by the addition of the galls, the eflects will bo more ob- vious. But if no additional change of colour (blackness) be produced, it is evident the liquor is not adul- terated with the salt of steel, or sul- phate of iron.—See New Test Book, hg a Practical Chemist, pp. 18, 19. G.\11LICK. — A bulbous root, used as a condiment, possessing the same principles and producing the same efl’ects as onions. “ It provokes urine, dissolves the stone in the kid- neys and bladder, excites venery, re- sists certain poisons and pernicious atmospheric influences.” Culpepper.GA GA 143 It kills wornis, and clears the voice; creates an appetite, and consumes the slimy humours in the stomach. If taken in excess it causes pain in the head. It is not recommended for such as are troubled with haemorrhoids, or to nurses. It agrees in cold weather with old people abounding in gr-oss humours, and whose digestion is faulty. Young people of a hot and bilious constitution ought to abstain from it. It is eaten much in the south of France, Spain and Italy. GASTRIC JUICE.—This won- derful menstruum, the most ac- tive we are acquainted with in na- ture, is secreted by the capillary arteries that so minutely and nume- rously intersect the cellular texture of the stomach, and decussate each other in their ramifications. The quantity of gastric juice secreted during digestion is considerable.— MM. Leuret and Lassaigne found, that when the gullet of a horse was tied, so as to prevent the seci-etions of the mouth and gullet from enter- ing the stomach, a full meal of oats became completely saturated with gastric-juice in four or five hours. Mr. Cruikshank supposes the quan- tity of the fluid thus secreted to be about a pound in every four hours ; yet the quantity seems to vary very considerably, according to , the de- mand of the system, or the state of the stomach itself. In caniivorons birds, whose stomachs are called membranous from having little mns- cularity, and consequently, whose food is turned into chyme principally by the action of the gastric juice, without any collateral assistance or previous mastication, this fluid is secreted in a much larger abund- ance; as it is also in those persons who labour under that morbid state of the stomach called canine appe- tite; as likewise when, on recovery from a fever, or after long absti- nence, the system is reduced to a state of great exhaustion, and a keen sense of hunger induces a desire to devour food voraciously and almost perpetually. Leuret and Lassaigne, who inva- riably found the gastric juice to he acid, state its component parts to he Ilydrochlorate of Ammonia, Chloride of Sodium, Mucus, An animal principle soluble in water. Phosphate of Lime, and Lactic acid; and they impugn the accuracy of Dr. Prout’s experiments, who con- cluded the free acid evolved during digestion to be the hydrochloric. On the opposite hand,Tiedemann and Gmelin, observe that, if the contents of the stomach he examined after a long fast, and without any stimulus being applied to its villous membrane, the fluid found in it is a clear, ropy, rather opaque liquid, and nearly or quite destitute of acidity. But if any stimidus, even of the simplest kind, be applied to the inside of the sto- mach, then the fluid secreted is uni- formly acid. Pure gastric juice was best procured by making animals swallow quartz pebbles after a long fast, and killing them in an hour. It was generally greyish-white, ropy, and decidedly acid. When taken from the dog and the horse, it con- tained some mucus, osmazome, and salivary matter, iilkaline sulphates, and hydrochlorates, the alkali being chiefly soda, besides phosjdiate and muriate of lime, with other salts in minute proportion ; and the acidity was owing to the hydrochloric and acetic acids in the dog, and to these conjoined with the butyric acid in the horse. When the secretion of the gastric juice is elicited by its natural stimu- lus, food of various kinds, the chym- ous mass is invariably acid; and Tiedcmann .and Gmelin further main- tain, as the results of their experi- ments, that its acidity is greatest when the food is most difficult of144 GA GA digestion. In dogs and cats, the greatest acidity was remarked wlien they were fed witli coagulated albu- men, fibrin, bones, or gristle; it was less when they took starch, gelatine, potatoes, or rice; and when they were fed with liquid albumen, the alkaline quality of the food was nearly suificient to neutralize the acidity of the gastric juice. This singular secretion has the peculiar property of coagulating milk, as well as all albuminous substances, which it also as completely dissolves; and hence, the milk thrown up from the stomach of an infant shortly after sucking, is always found in a curdled state. By infusing six or seven grains of the inner coat of the sto- mach in water', a liquor is produced, which, according to Dr. Fordyce, will coagulate one hundred ounces of milk ; or according to Dr. Young, of Edinburgh, 6857 tinres its weight of milk. But the two grand and characteristic properties of the gastric juice are its astoirishing power of counteracting and correcting putre- faction, and of dissolving the toughest and most rigid substances in nature. Of its antiseptic property, abundant proofs may be adduced from every class of animals. Among mankind, and especially in civilized life, food is usually eaten in a state of sweetness and freshness: but fa- shion and the luxurious desire of having it subacted and mellowed to our hands, tempt us to keep several kinds, as game and venison for in- stance, as long as we can endure the smell. The wandering hordes of Gipsies, however, and the inhabitants of various savage countries, and es- pecially those about the Orange river in Africa, carry this sort of luxury to a much higher j)itch; for they seem to regard a fetor as a perfume, and value their food in proportion as it approaches putrefaction. Now, all these foods, whatever be the degree of their putridity, are equally re- stored to a state of sweetness by the action of the gastric juice, a short time after they have been introduced into the stomach. The gastric juice of a dog was made the subject of experiments, by Dr. Fordyce ; when it was found, in every instance, that the putrid meat it could be made to swallow was in a very short period depi'ived of its pu- trescency. It cannot, therefore, be surprising that crows, \mltures, and hyenas, which find a pleasure in tainted flesh, should fatten upon so impure a diet, nor that the dunghill should have its courtiers among in- sects, as well as the parterre and the flower-garden. The gastric juice has hence been employed as an anti- septic in a variety of cases out of the bod}'. Spallanzani ascertained that the gastric juice of the crow and the dog will preserve veal and mutton perfectly sweet, and without loss of weight, thirty-seven days in winter; whilst the same meats, im- mersed in water, emit a fetid smell as early as the seventh, and by the thirtieth, are resolved into a state of the most offensive degree of putre- faction. It has also been employed medicinally, in cases of indigestion from a debilitated stomach; and ex- ternally, as a check to gangrene, and a stimulus to indolent ulcers. The gastric juice is equally as re- markable for its solvent as for its antiputrescent property. Pieces of the toughest meat and the hardest bones, enclosed in small perforated tin cases, to guard against all mus- cular action, were repeatedly thinst by Reaumur and Spallanzani, into the stomach of a buzzard. These meats were uniformly found dimi- nished to three-fourths of their bulk in the space of twenty-four hours, and reduced to slender threads; and the bones were wholly digested either upon the first trial, or after a few repetitions. The gastric juice of a dog dissolves ivory and the enamel of the teeth ; that of a hen has been found to dissolve an onyx andGE GE 115 diminish a Louis d’or. And it is not many years ago that the handles of several clasp-knives were found half digested, and the blades blunted, in the stomach and intestines of a man who had some time before swal- lowed these articles out of hardi- hood, and who ultimately died in one of the London hospitals. A con- vincing proof of the power of the gastric juice to dissolve substances out of the body, as well as of its great antiseptic property, has lately been I'ecorded.—See Phil. Trans. GELATINE. — A substance so- luble in water, but not in alcohol; capable of assuming a well-known elastic or tremulous consistence, by cooling, when the water is not too abundant, and liquifiable again, by increasing its temperature. By the last property it is strikingly distin- guished from albumen, wliich be- comes consistent by heat. It is pre- cipitated in an insoluble form by tannin; and it is this action of tan- nin on gelatine that is the founda- tion of the art of tanning.* Gelatine exists abundantly in many of the solid parts of the animal body, espe- cially in the skin, cartilages, tendons, membranes, and bones. It is distin- guished from all other animal prin- ciples by its ready solubility in boiling water, and by the solution forming a bulky, semi-transparent, tremulous jelly as it cools. Its tendency to gelatinize is such, that one part of the gelatine, dissolved in 100 parts of water, becomes solid on cooling. This jelly is a hydrate of gelatine, and contains so much water that by a gentle heat it readily licpiifies. On expelling the water by a gentle heat, a brittle mass is left, which retains • Gelatine is insoluble in alcohol, but is dissolved readily by most of the diluted acids, which form an excellent solvent for it, also by the liquid alka- lies ; and the solution is not precipitated by the acids. 'I'he liest precipitate for it is tannin.—Henry's Chemistry, its solubility in hot water, and may be preserved for any length of time. Jelly, on the contrai'y, soon becomes acid by keeping. According to Ber- zelius, gelatine is not contained in any of the healthy animal fluids; and Dr. Bostock, with respect to the blood, has demonstrated the accuracy of this statement. The common gela- tine of commerce is the well-known cement, called glue, which is pre- pared by boiling cuttings of parch- ment, or the skins, ears, and hoofs of animals, and evaporating the so- lution. Isinglass, the purest variety of gelatine, is prepared from the sounds of the fish of the genus aci~ pencer, especially from the sturgeon. The animal jelly of the confectioners is made from the feet of calves, the tendinous and ligamentous parts of which yield a large quantity of gela- tine. Jelly is also found in vege- tables, in ripe currants, and other berries, mixed with an acid. In a pure state jellies have scarcely any smell or remarkable taste. By dis- tillation they afford an insipid and inodorous phlegm, which easily pu- trefies. A stronger heat eauses them to swell up, become black, and emit a foetid odour, accompanied with white acrid fumes. The gelatinous substances of va- rious animals are prepared for the use of sea-faring people, under the name of portable-soup. The whole art of performing this operation consists in boiling the meat, and taking the scum off in the usual manner, until the soup possesses the requisite fla- vour. It is then sufi'ered to cool, in order that the fat may be separated. It is afterwards mixed with five or six whites of eggs, and slightly boil- ed. This operation serves to clarify the liquid by the removal of opaque particles, whicli unite tvith the white of egg at the time it becomes solid by the heat, and are consequently removed along with it. The liquor is then to be strained through flannel, and evaporated in the water-bath, to oGI GE 146 the consistence of a very thick paste; after which it is spread, rather thin, upon a smooth stone, then cut into cakes, and, lastly, dried in a stove until it becomes brittle. These cakes will keep four or five years, if de- fended from moisture. When in- tended to be used, nothing more is required to be done than to dissolve a sufficient quantity in boiling water, Avhich by that simple process is con- verted into soup for immediate use. GENTIAN.—A perennial plant, growing in the mountainous parts of Germany, Switzerland, and France. It is sometimes found wild in Eng- land. It has an intense and perma- nent bitter taste, with a slight aro- matic flavour, but no smell. It is one of the best stomachics, though so unpleasant from its intense bitter- ness, that few can be prevailed upon to continue its use. It has but little astringency, and yet it is a good tonic. Its uses are the same as those of bark, in chronic weakness, lan- gour, and particularly in indigestion, being one of the best tonics to the intestines. A scruple of the powder is said to be more efficacious in in- termittents, than a drachm of the bark. The compound infusion of gentian, particularly if joined with aromatics, is an excellent prepara- tion. The tincture of gentian is also an elegant form, and the extract is an useful addition to steel, formed into pills, in green-sickness. Take—Compound infusion of gen- tian . . . 7i ounces Epsom salt . . i ounce Compound tincture of cardamoms . . i ounce Make a mixture—dose, two table- spoonfuls three or four times a day, —in indigestion. GERMAN WINES.—There are excellent wines made in the Impe- rial dominions; particularly on the banks of the Rhine and Moselle. These wines difler from those of other countries in a peculiar light- ness and detersive quality, and are said to be more valuable in some diseases than any medicine. The Rhenish, made at Hochheiin, has been styled the prince of German wines. Old, strong, Rhenish wine is called hock, or hockamore. The German nobUity display their mag- nificence in their wines; and in many houses, as Lady Mary Wortley Montague remarks, the list of them, printed, is put under every plate at their entertainments. Mr. Wraxall, in his Memoirs, (vol. ii. p. 257), has given a copy of one of these papers, which contained thirteen dif- ferent sorts. The city of Bremen, in Low’er Saxony, is noted for its old hock, which is brought from the banks of the Rhine, and deposited in the public cellars, which are won- derfully capacious; though not com- parable in magnificence to some in Portugal, or to those of Constantia, at the Cape of Good Hope. There is one particular room, called the Rose, where wine is kept which they state to be 170 years old, and for which one pound five shilhngs a bottle is asked. The famous Heidel- berg tun, constnicted in 1343, con- tained twenty-one pipes. It was re- built in 1664, and made to contain 600 hogsheads, English measure. This was emptied and knocked to pieces by the French, in 1688. But a new and larger one was afterwards fabri- cated, which held 800 hogsheads. 11 was formerly kept full of the best Rhenish wine, and the electors have given many entertainments on its platform ; but this couvivifil monu- ment of ancient hospitality is now but a “ melanchol}', unsocial, soli- tary instance of the e.xtinction of hospitality: it moulders in a damp vault, quite empty. It is nine yards long, seven in diameter, and holds 67,000 gallons; a measure, how- ever, greatly inferior to many of the London porter vats.”— Walker’s Lec- tures on Natural and E.rperiinental Philosophy. GINGER, THE Root, white andGI GI 147 BLACK.—They are both the same root; but the white is decorticated, rasped and blanched in the sun. It is the root of a perennial plant grow- ing in the East and West Indies. It has a very biting, pungent taste; but when swallowed it does not produce that glow of heat in the stomach which pepper or cinnamon does; it does not affect the nerves of the stomach in an equal degree, therefore becomes a salutary and useful cordial, as not producing that stimulus which is apt to produce indirect debility. It is carminative, and in flatulencies of the nervous kind nothing is better. For this purpose a cold infusion is best; in the proportion of half an ounce of the fresh powdered root to a pint of water, a wine-glass full for a dose, with the addition of from ten to twenty drops of the tincture of opium, if the complaint be attended with pain. Ginger is one of the most agree- able and wholesome spices, especially boiled whole in beer, and drank by people moving in the open air, and in cold weather. But this spice as employed by bakers for gingerbread, does a great deal of mischief, espe- cially to the stomachs of children, though it may occasionally be ser- viceable to travellers, early in the morning, and on an empty stomach. Ginger makes a very fine and rich cordial syrup. The tincture of gin- ger is a highly useful and cheap tincture, and in hospitals and other places, ought to he substituted for those of cinnamon, lavender, &c. It is useful in dropsy, and in greeii sickness, combined with steel. It is extensively used in the kitchen. Ginger expels wind, provokes urine, disperses and attenuates gross humours, increases seed, helps di- gestion, and creates an appetite. Its too frequent use inflames the humours and makes them very sharp. It agrees in cold weather with aged people, the phlegmatic, and those whose humours are gross and but little in motion, those who digest their victuals with difficulty, and such as are subject to wind. It is injurious to young peojde of a hot and bilious constitution. When gin- ger is young and tender, it is cut into slices, and eaten in the East Indies as a salad, prepared with oil and vinegar. In this manner we are prevented from using it, as it does not reach us until after it lias been well dried. GINGER BEER. —A cooling, carminative beverage; and may be made as follows:— Take Lump sugar . . 3lb. Bruised ginger . 2oz. Cream of tartar . loz. Lemon sliced . No. 4. Boiling water . 4gall. Yeast .... 8oz. Work for four days, and bottle. Ginger Beer in Poivders. Take Lump sugar, 1 drachm, 2 scruples. Ginger, in powder, 5 grains. Prepared natur, 26 grains, in each hhie paper; and in each while paper, tartaric acid, 30 grains. GINGER, pRESEKVED.—Ginger is pi’cserved as soon as it is dug out of the earth, with sugar. It is first steeped in water to diminish its pun- gency. In this condition it is of gr-eat service at sea, in scurvy and other cases. Preserved ginger ought to be thick, softish, of a good colour, and pleasant taste. Its syrup ought to be white and well boiled. A little bit, about the bigness of a hazel nut, is eaten at a time. GIZZARD. —The stomach of poultry. 'I’liose from white flesh have long been considered, in France, as medicinal. Tliey have been re- commended in obstructions of the urinary passage.s, complaints of the bladder, and nejihritic pains; but particularly as a febrifuge. Bouillon iyagrange, a French chemist, con- siders its principal substance asGL 148 GL oxygenated gelatine, with a small quantity of extractive matter. GLAZE.—A kind of jelly. It is usually made from a reduced con- somme, or juices from the bottoms of white braized meats. It is directed to be preserved in jelly pots. GLAZE, (to tall to a).—A term in cookery, used to reduce sauces tiU they become a jelly, and adhere to the meat. GLAZE, GLACE, or ICE.—A composition made of the white of eggs, beaten with powdered sugar. GLIADINE, (Derived from a Greek word, signifying glue.)—One of the constituents of vegetable glu- ten. Taddey, an Italian chemist, has lately discovered that the gluten of wheat may be decomposed into two principles, which he has dis- tinguished by the names gliadine and zymome. They are obtained in a separate state by kneading the fresh gluten in successive portions of alco- hol, as long as that liquid continues to become milky when diluted with water. The alcoholic solutions being set aside, gi-adually dejjosit a whitish matter, consisting of small filaments of gluten, and become perfectly transparent. Being now left to slow evaporation, the gliadine remains behind, of the consistence of hone}', and mixed with a little yellow resin- ous matter, from which it may be freed by digestion in sulphuric aether, in which gliadine is not sensibly soluble. The portion of the gluten not dissolved by the alcohol is the zymome.—See Zymome. Its properties are, that when dry, it has a straw yellow colour, slightly transparent, and in thin plates, brittle, with a slight odour, similar to that of honey-comb, and when moderately heated, gives out a smell similar to that of roasted apples. I n the mouth it becomes adhesive, and has a sweet- ish and balsamic taste. It is soluble in boiling alcohol, which loses its transparency in proportion as it cools, and then retains only a small quan- tity in solution; it becomes milky when mixed with water, and is precipitated in white flocks by the alkaline carbonates. It is scarcely affected by the mineral and vegetable acids. Dry gliadine dissolves in caus- tic alkahes, and in acids. It swells upon red hot coals, and then contracts in the manner of animal substances. It burns with a pretty lively flame, and leaves behind it a light spongy charcoal, difficult to incinerate. In some respects, gliadine ap- proaches the properties of resins, but differs from them m being insoluble in sulphuric tether. It is very sensi- bly affected by the infusion ofnutgall. It is capable of itself of undergoing a slow fermentation, and excites fer- mentation in saccharine substances. GLUE.—An inspinated jelly pro- cured from the parings of hides and other offals, by boiling them in water, straining through a wicker basket, suffering the impurities to subside, and then boiling it a second time. Shreds or parings of vellum, parch- ment, or white leather, make a clear and almost colourless glue. GLUTEN.—Gluten is procured by a similar process to that of pre- paring starch. It is present in most kinds of grain, such as wheat, barley, rye, oats, pease, and beans; but the first contains it in the largest pro- portion ; and tliis is the reason that wheaten bread is more nutritious than that made with most other kinds of flour. M. Taddey, an Italian chemist, has succeeded in obtaining two distinct principles from gluten, to one of which he has given the name of Gliadine from 7^“» gluten, and to the other that of Zy- momc, a ferment.—.Ajin. Phi- losoph. vol. XV. As a separate substance gluten is not so well known as st.arch, though it is of great importance in nutri- tion ; for, without it, bread could not be made light and spongy. Gluten, when separated from paste by wash- ing, is a ropy, viscid, elastic sub-149 GL GL stance, which may be drawn out to a great length. The nutritive proper- ties of gluten do not rank so high as those of starch, but as it is usually present along with starch, it probably renders the latter more light and easy of digestion. The greatest quantity of it, as already observed, is con- tained in wheat, which it renders in consequence the best substance from which bread can be made. It is also found in rice, chestnuts, apples, and quinces. Proust {Journal de Phy- sique, p. 56) could find no gluten in the potatoe; and hence it is, per- haps, that bread cannot be made from potatoes without the addition of wheat flour, or a large portion of yeast, which Dr. Thompson found to contain gluten. — See 2'hompson's Chemistry, vol. iv. G L U T E N, A NI M A L.—This substance constitutes the basis of the fibres of all the solid parts. GLUTEN, VEGETABLE. —If wheat flour be made into a paste, and washed in a large quantity of water, it is separated into three dis- tinct substances. 1. A mticilayinous saccharine matter, which is readily dissolved in the liquor, and may be separated from it by evaporation. 2, Starch, which is suspended in the fluid, and subsides to the bottom by repose. 3. Gluten, which remains in the hand, and is tenacious, very ductile, somewhat elastic, and of a brown grey colour. The first of these substances does not essentially differ from other sac- charine mucilages. The second, namel)’', the starch, forms a gluey fluid by boiling in water, though it is scarcely, if at all, acted upon by that fluid when cold. Its habitudes and products with the fire, or with nitric acid, are nearly the same as those of gum acid of sugar. It ap- pears to be as much more remote from the saline state than gum, as gum is more remote from that state than sugar.—The gluten, though it existed before the washing, in the pulverulent form, and has acquired its tenacity and adhesive qualities from the water it has imbibed, is nevertheless totally insoluble in this fluid. It has scarcely any taste. When dry it is semi-transparent, and resembles glue in its colour and appearance. If it be drawn out then, when first obtained, it may be dried by exposure to the air; but if it be exposed to warmth and moisture while wet, it putrefies like an animal substance. The dried gluten, applied to the flame of a candle, crackles, swells, and burns precisely like a piece of horn or a feather; and affords the same products by destructive dis- tillation as animal matters do. It is not soluble in alcohol, oils, or aethers, and is acted upon by acids and alkalies when heated. Aecording to Ilouelle, a French chemist, it is the same with the caseous substance of milk.—See GUadine, Zymome. From the flour of barley, rye, or oats, no gluten can be exti-acted, or from that of wheat, probably because they contain too small a quantity. GLUTTONY. — Excess in eating is reckoned more injurious to the health and eonstitution, than excess in drinking. By eating to a surfeit the stomach is loaded and oppressed to its utmost extent; and by filling it with food of an opposite kind, the most distressing consequences are apt to ensue. All the fine vessels and tubes of which the human frame is composed, ai'c choaked as it were, and over-loaded; all the exquisite and delicately fine canals, which the hand of Nature has formed and disposed in our most astonishing fabric, are overburthened and retarded; and the circulation of the blood becomes more turbid and slow, the consequence of this violence done to nature. That Nature resents every outrage com- mitted on her treasures, and seldom fails to punish the transgi-essors with lingering disease, or early dissolu- tion, is an observation that may be applied to the moral and physical, as o 3GL 150 GL well as to the corporeal faculties of mail. Nature’s real wants are few; and these are satisfied with few things. If man would but regu- late his mode of living by nature, and obey her dictates and calls, as the rule and standard of eating and drinking, one-third of the diseases with which mankind from the cradle is visited, would be unknown or hardly felt. The stomach was never intended to be the receptacle of all the discordant variety which a luxu- rious and depraved appetite can crave, or, in other words, to be a putrid sepulchre for all impurity and horror; the principles of so many heterogeneous things as have been swallowed, fermenting and filling the exquisite structure of the human frame, with a troop of diseases and evils. What an unnatural rebellion is this against the wise and good con- stitution of nature! What a dreadful state of mind must that be—a miser- able state, in which thousands of wretched and contemptible creatures now are, to be ransacking nature for delicacies, plundering earth, sea, and skies, to furnish them with the miser- able means of gratifying appetite ; studying from day to day, what they shall eat, how they shall contrive to diversify their meals, with the raven- ousness of a beast, devouring every thing their imagination can form, or their wealth purchase—whose god is their belly, and whose glory is their shame; knowing no pleasure and desirous of none, but what arises from sensual indulgencies, and the lowest voluptuousness and epicurism.”— Burton's Anat. of Melancholy. It has been often remarked, that a hosj)itable and splendid table is highly commendable among the opu- lent ; it indicates a greatness of mind, a becoming liberality of nature, and serves the cause of the poor and needy; but when feasting degene- rates into c.xcessive luxury, gluttony, and insupportable expense, the au- thors never fail to bring down upoii them the charges of prodigality and folly, and, their inseparable com- panion—disease. To this kind of excess some of the ancient Romans were notoriously addicted, as appears from the following facts. When the servants of LucuUus, a famous Roman commander, were apprised of the apartment in wdiich he de- signed to sup, they regulated the order, quantity, quality, and expense of the banquet accordingly. The charges of an accidental entertain- ment, made by him for Cicero and Pompejq because ordered in the Apollo, amounted to the enormous sum of 50,000 drachms—hence, to dine or sup in the Apollo, has become a sort of ^u'overbial phrase to denote a superb entertainment, or an im- moderately expensive meal. Very different w'as the conduct of Socrates. Though the table of this eminent man was only supplied with simple fare, he did not scruple to invite those of superior rank to partake of his meals. When his wife, upon some such occasion, expressed her dis- satisfaction at being no better pro- vided, he desired her to give herself no concern ; for if his guests were wise men, they would be content with whatever they found at Ids table—if otherwise, they would be unworthy of his notice. Whilst others, said he, live to eat, wise men eat to live. He found by experience, that temjierance is the parent of health. It was owing to his perfect regularity in this resjiect, that he escajjed infection in the midst of the plague, which in-oved so fatal to his fellow citizens. It is recorded also of Hannibal, the Carthagenian gene- ral, that he took sustenance merely to content nature, not to delight his appetite. The supplies of the table of Zeno, the founder of the sect of the Stoics, consisted only of figs, bread, and honey, notwithstanding which he was frequently honoured with the company of great men. His dress also was ^dain, and all his expenses frugal.GL 151 GL “ In what state, it may be asked, are the minds and understandings of sensualists and epicures, compared with that serenity and complacency of soul which distinguish the mild and temperate liver? they are despicable —nay, contemptible in the lowest degree. Their reason lies buried under an incumbent load of surfeit- ing and gluttony; their understand- ings are totally eclipsed by the dark, gross shadow of intervening sense, and all their mental and intellectual powers are miserable, weak, and puny. And as the mind of the epi- cure and the sensualist, habitually overcharged with surfeiting and lux- ury, is in this despicable state with regard to its understanding, so the body most miserably suffers. The weight of excess soon breaks the strings of this e.xquisite instrument. All is discord. The body languishes, while appetite not unfrequently rages; and gout, palsy, asthma, con- sumption, or apoplexy, frequently ter- minate what excess began.—Burton. Mankind, in general, since the im- provement in cookery, eat, says Dr. h'ranklin, about twice as much as nature requires. Suppers are not bad if we have not dined ; but rest- less nights naturally follow hearty suppers after full dinners. Indeed, as there is a difference in the consti- tutions, some rest well after these meals: it costs them oidy a frightful dream and an apoplexy, after which they sleep till doomsday. Nothing, continues the doctor, is more com- mon in the newspapers, than in- stances of people, who, after eating a hearty siq)per, are found dead in bed in the morning. “ I avoid,” said Mr. Pennant, “ the meal of excess— a supper; and my soul rises with vigour to its employs; and I tnist, (headds) does not disappoint the end of its Creator.” “ The sleep of the labouring man is sweet, whetlier he eat little or much; but the abund- ance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.”—Ecclesiasticus v. 12. Couch’d on his straw, and fancy-freC, He sleeps like careless infancy.—Scott. The best food for a man to live upon is that which is simple and nou- rishing, without acrimony; and the principal rule to be observed with regard to food in general, is to eat and drink wholesome things in a proper quantity. As relates to quan- tity, the rule is, to take just such a proportion as ■will be sufficient to support and nourish him, but not so much as will overload the stomach, and render digestion difficult. Yet, in this measui'e also, every indivi- dual has a sure guide, if he will be directed by a natural and not by a dej)raved appetite; for whenever he may have eaten of any good food, to the extent required by his appetite, and leaves off before his stomach is cloyed, or finishes his meal with some relish for more, he has eaten a proper quantity. The quantity, in- deed, as well as the solidity of a man’s aliment ought to bear a just proportion to the strength of his constitution, and to the e.xercise he uses; for young, strong, labouring people will turn to good chyle any kind of common food in use; and they can digest with ease a quan- tity that would oppress or destroy the delicate or sedentary ; and great care should be observed in not in- dulging too freely in a discordant variety of aliments at the same meal. But that a man may not be de- ceived, and that he may be satisfied that he has committed no excess,— if immediately after dinner he can write, or walk, or go about his ordi- nary or any other business -with pleasure; if after a su))))cr his sleep be neither disturbed nor diminished by what he has eaten or drunk; and if he has no head-ache the next morning, nor any uncommon hawk- ing or spitting, or a bad taste in liis mouth, but rises at his usual hour, refreshed and cheerful, he may then justly conclude that his diet has been well regulated, and that he has notGO GO 152 exceeded, either in eating or drink- ing, the bounds of temperance. GNATSNAPPER. — A tender and plump bird, which is remarkably fond of figs; hence the name, Fice- dula, given to it by the Romans. It has also been called Avis Cypricc (the bird of Cypria), because, in all pro- bability, that island abounded with them; or that many were formerly pickled out of this island, and shipped for Europe. It usually frequents places where figs and gi-apes abound. Its feathers change their colour in autumn. It has a curious and de- licious taste, and is served up to the best tables. Pisanellns says this bird never overburdens a man’s stomach; but that, on the contrary, it fortifies, whatever quantity may be eaten of them. The same author also adds, that he had known some who having eaten a great many of them, spent the whole day very merrily; from whence it is concluded that this food supplied them with spirits enough, with pure humours, and but little duU and gross substances. Indeed, as the gnatsnapper is A'ery tender and delicious, has exercise enough for the enjoying of a free transpira- tion, feeds upon good food, and con- tains many exalted principles, it w'ill be no difficult matter for us to com- prehend how this bird can produce the good effects that have been at- tributed to it. GOA T.—The flesh of goats is hard, indigestible, and unwholesome; hence the meat of kids only is escu- lent, being more easily digested, and yielding a good nourishment. The goat, which is the female, is not much used for food, at least un- less very young; for otherwise (he flesh becomes hard, and not easy of digestion; and on this account Hip- pocrates did not approve of its use. Aristotle and Plutarch assure us that goats are almost always sick; and that they are subject to a kind of epilepsy, which they impart to those that eat their flesh. Others say that they have observed them never to be free from fever; there are some au- thors, nevertheless, who maintain that goat’s flesh digests easily in the stomach, is very nourishing, and won- derftdly recovers decayed strength. It is said that a certain wrestler of Thebes anciently accustomed himself to live upon goat’s flesh, and that he excelled all others of his time in strength. A goat usually lives eight years; some a few years longer. It is said that the olive tree becomes ban'en if they lick it ever so little, and that this was the reason rvhy the Pagans would never sacrifice a goat to Mi- nerva. It is also said, but with what degree of truth we cannot speak of our own knowledge, that goats run mad if they eat sweet basil; and that it kills them to drink of the water in which the leaves of rose-laurel have been steeped for some time. The latter assertion may more rea- dily be credited than the first, from the well known fact of the laurel in all probability giving out prassic acid in infusion. Goats live willingly among sheep; and Plutarch says the tiger has so great an affection for goats, that if one be brought to him in the greatest extremity of hunger, he will not touch it. The fat and man-ow of the he-goat are of an emollient and dissolvent nature, and reputed good for strengthening the nerves. A mixture of the gall of a goat, with bread, the whites of eggs, and oil of laurel, made into a cataplasm, and applied to the navel, was formerly considered ns a specific in quotidian ague. GOAT’S-BEARD {Tragapogony —An esculent herb. The root is excellent, even in salad, and it ds nutritive, and medicinally pectoral. G O D IV E A U.—In cookery, a common ve.al forcemeat. GOLD, MURIATE OF.—Used ns a test for the proto-salts of iron. A solution of the muriate of gold hasGO GR 153 been strongly recommended by Pro- fessor Ficinus, of Dresden, as the most delicate of all tests for the pre- sence of the protoxide of iron, sur- passing even considerably the gall nut. It requires the presence of the carbonate of soda, which, in some analyses, may interfere w’ith its use. A grain of green vitriol, with an equal quantity of soda, dissolved in four parts of water, produces, with a drop of the solution of the muriate of gold, a strong precipitate, which gradually assumes a piu'ple colour. Without the soda the effect did not appear in less than three days. M. Ficinus thinks the process may be improved, even to the determination of the quantity of the protoxide of iron present.—Journal of Science. GOOSE. — “A Michaelmas goose,” says Dr. Kitchener, “ is as famous in the mouths of the million, as the minced pie at Christmas; but for those who eat with delicacy, it is at that time too full grown. The true period when the goose is in the highest perfection, is when it has just acquired its full growth, and not begun to harden. If the March goose is insipid, the Michaelmas goose is rank; the fine time is be- tween both; from the second week in June to the first in September: the leg is not the most tender part of the goose.”—Cook's Oracle, p. 168. Geese are called green till they ai'c about four months old. The only difference between roasting these and a full grown goose, consists in sea- soning it with pepper and salt in- stead of sage and onion, and roasting it for forty or fifty minutes only.— See Poultry. The famous Strasburgh pies, winch sell for a most enormous price, are made with the livers of geese that have been precociously fattened, by cramming them with meat, depriving them of drink, and keeping them constantly before a hot fire. GOOSEBERRIES (Ribes). — These, having less acid than either raisins or currants, are perhaps more wholesome, especially if their skin and other impurities are not swal- lowed together with the juice. When used in a green state, for sauces and pies, they are cooling and refreshing; and ■when ripe possess similar pro- perties with cherries. — See Cur- rants. GOURDS (Cucurhita).—A fruit of the melon kind, but less sweet, and of a much larger size: if boiled in milk, after the first water has been poured of!’, and with the addition of salt and pe]>per, they afford suffi- ciently wholesome and nutritious food.—See Melon. GRAINS OF PARADISE.— An aromatic seed, very hot taste, and pungent like pepper. Used to give a false strength to wine, beer, and other liquors. GRANADILLA, or Little Pomegranate. — This name is applied to the edible fruit of five species of the Passiflora genus {Mo- nadclph. Pentand. Ij. and Passiflora; J.), the common character of which is that of climbing herbaceous plants, w'oody at bottom, generally with lobed leaves, and all natives of warm climates. 1. The granadiUa vine of the French. 2. The apple-fruited granadilla, or sweet calabash. 3. The laurel-leaved granadilla, or water lemon. i. The purple-leaved granadilla. 5. The flesh-coloured granadilla, or May apple. GRAPES.—The fruit of the vine (vitis), of which there are various kinds.—Like strawberries, grapes are excellent fruit. They are uncom- monly resolvent, laxative without debilitating, and promote all the na- tural evacuations; but at the same time, they are in a high degree flatu- lent. The quality of grapes depends much on climate and soil. Only those of a sweet taste and aromatic flavour ought to be used. They agreeGR GR 154 Lest when eaten on an empty sto- mach, with a small quantity of bread. Besides their slightly nourishing qua- lity, it is said they cool the blood and animate the nerves.— (See Straw- berries). Their too frequent use causes the colic, generates wind, and attacks the spleen, producing consi- derable uneasiness and pain. Young foxes are remarked to grow very fat in autumn, in those places where there are vines; and their flesh at this time is tender and delicate. But when the vintage is over, these ani- mals become lean, and their flesh loses the good savour it had acquired before. There are also many other animals who grow fat in grape time, which shews that this fruit is very nourishing. Grapes are dried in the sun and oven, in order to preserve them. The large ones were named Damascenes, and the smaller ones Corinths. Dry grapes are more wholesome than others, being divested of the tenacious phlegm they before possessed. Green grapes are preserved to make them more pleasant, and that they may keep the longer. They are cooling and moistening. With the juice of green grapes, water and sugar, a cooling beverage is made, which is a pleasant drink during e.xcessive heat. Grapes, full and ripe, agree with every constitution, provided they be not used in excess. Old people, how- ever, ought to use them abstemiously, for they weaken them too much, and increase the defluxions which their age too frequently subjects them to. GRAS, (au).—All gras, implying in cookery, that the article specified is dressed with meat gravy. GRATIN.—A layer of some par- ticular article spread over a silver or any other dish that will bear the fire, and placed on a stove or hot ashes until it burns to it,—Dolby. GRAVY.—The juice of the mus- cular parts of animals. When, for instance, the muscular part of meat is gradually exposed to a very mo- derate degree of heat, sufficient to brown the outer fibres, the gelatine, osmazome, and other animal juices of it, become disengaged and sepa- rated in a liquid state, and constitute a fluid of bi'own colour, possessing a highly savoury and grateful taste. Hence gravy is the soluble constitu- ent or liquid part of meat, which spontaneously exudes from animal flesh, when gradually exposed to a continued heat sufficient to corrugate the animal fibre. Flavouring vege- tables or aromatic spices are often added and fried with the meat, such as shred onions, carrots, celery, till they are tender, together with some spices and the usual condiments. To extract gravy the meat is cut into thin slices, or it is scored, and the fibres are bruized with a mallet. It is then usually seasoned with pepper and salt, and exposed in a pan con- taining a small quantity of butter, or other fat, or, in fine, without any fat, to the action of a gradual heat, just sufficient to brown the outer fibre strongly. The juices of the meat which are thus copiously disengaged during the process of frying, are suf- fered to remain exposed to the action of heat till they have assumed the substance of thin cream, and a brown colour. A small quantity of water is then added, to re-dissolve the extracted substance, and after the whole has been suffered to simmer with the spices and roots for a short time, together with an additional quantity of water, the liquid is strained through a sieve. — See Browning. If the gravj-be intended for made dishes, it is customary to give it the consistence of cream by means of thickening paste.—(See Paste). The meat is capable of furnishing an ad- ditional quantity of gravy. It is therefore covered with water and sufl’ered to simmer for about an hour, or till the fluid is reduced to one-half its bulk. One pound and a quarter of lean beef, or one pound and a halfGU GR 155 of veal, will produce one pint of strong gravy. GRUEL.—A common article of diet for the infirm or sick, made from oatmeal or groats, in which state, as well as in the former, they yield to water, by coction, the fecula they contain, and form a nutritious gruel, which has also the propei'ty of being slightly aperient. It should never be kept longer than forty-eight hours, as it becomes ascescent after that period. Gruel may be made of dif- ferent degrees of consistence, accord- ing to the intention of its use. If it be used as a demulcent drink, it ought to be thin; and may be made by mixing well and gradually toge- ther, in a basin, a table spoonful of oatmeal with three of cold water, and then adding carefully a pint of boiling water, which is to be boiled for five minutes, stirring it all the time, to prevent the oatmeal from burning at the bottom of the pan; it is, when sufficiently boiled, to be strained through a hair sieve, to se- parate the undissolved parts of the meal from the gruel. If a more sub- stantial repast is required, double the above quantity of oatmeal must be treated in a similar way. To in- crease the nutritive quality of this aliment, broth or milk may be sub- stituted for water. Some are in the habit of introducing a bit of butter into gruel; though the propriety of the addition is questionable, where the stomach is disposed to generate acidity. Dr. Kitchener’s receipt to make gruel is as^follows: “ Ask those who are to eat it if they like it thick or thin; if the latter, mix well together by degrees, in a pint basin, one table spoonful of oatmeal with three of cold water; if the former, use two spoonsful. Have ready a stew pan, a pint of boiling water or milk, put this by degrees to the oatmeal you have mixed, return it into the stew pan, set it on the fire, and let it boil for five minutes, stirring it all the time to prevent the oatmeal from burning at the bottom of the stew pan; skim and strain it through a hair sieve. To convert this into caudle, add a little ale, wine, or brandy, with sugar; and if the bow- els are disordered, a little nutmeg or ginger grated. GREEK WINES. —The Greek or Turkey wines, so denominated, come from Candia, Chios, Lesbos, Tenedos, and other islands of the Archipelago, which anciently be- longed to the Greeks, and which are now chiefly again in their possession. Chio, now Scio, is one of the most beautiful and pleasant islands in the Archipelago: it is situated south of Mytilene, the ancient Lesbos. Its vineyards still form the principal riches of the island, and the wines maintain their reputation; andhaving been immortalized by the “Mantuan Bard,’’ yet “ taste sweet in song.” “ Two goblets will I crown with spark- ling wine, The generous vintage of the Chian vine ; These will I pour to thee, and make the nectar thine.” Duyden. GROATS.—Oats deprived of the husk, and rough ground, or broken. GROUT.—An ancient dish, of which our ancestors were very fond ; imported, in all probability, by the Danes, or Saxons; and composed of meat or pollard—a proof of the simplicity of their fare. “A king, Ilardicanute, ’midst Danes and Saxons stout, Carous’d on rich brown ale, and din’d on grout.” GUDGEON.—There are two sorts of gudgeons—namely, the sea and the fresh-water gudgeon ; the first is divided into two other, of which the one is white and the other black: they have both a good taste, though the preference is given to the white. Both the sea and river gudgeon ought to be well fed; and those that have been bred in clear and runningGU GU 156 waters are the best. It is easily digested. Though of a good taste, the sea gudgeon is little used, although it has been recommended to convales- cents. The river one is not much valued; it is about the length and thickness of one’s thumb, and full of small scales, and lives chiefly at the bottom, among the mud—hence, by some Latin authors, called fundulus: it feeds upon weeds, moss, and small leeches that are in the lakes. It is also said not to be sparing of men’s bodies that have been drowned. GUAVA, (The white guava is \he Psidium pyriferum, L.)—A West Indian tree, growing to the height of seven, eight, or twelve feet, with nu- merous branches, and blunt, entire, smooth leaves, two or three inches long; the flowers are in solitary peduncles and sweet smelling; fruit bigger than a hen’s egg, roundish or oblong, smooth, yellow; pulp firm, full of bony seeds, flesh-coloured, sweet, aromatic, and pleasant. It is eaten with avidity, both by West Indians and Europeans, raw in the dessert, and preserved with sugar. It has grown here as a stone plant since 1566 ; it is propagated by seeds from ripe fruits brought over. The red guava {P. Porniferian, L.) has a beautiful fruit crowned like a pome- granate; but it is not so agreeable to eat as the other. Cattley's guava (P. Cattleianum) is a uew sjtecies, introduced from China by Messrs. Barr and Brooks, nurserymen, and fruited by W. Cattley, E. II. S., in 1820. The plant resembles the other species in general habit and appear- ance, but the fruit is larger, nearly spherical, of a fine deep claret colour, growing in the axilla of the leaves. The skin has much the consistence of that of a ripe fig, but is thinner. The interior is a soft fleshy pulp, purplish-red next the skin, but be- coming paler towards the middle, and at the centre it is quite white. It is juicy, and in consistence is much like a strawberry, to which it bears some resemblance in flavour.—Hort. Tram. iv. pi. xi. .317. GURNET.—The flesh of the red and grey gurnets is firm and solid; and yields a tolerably good nourish- ment, and not so watery as many other kinds of fish. GUM.—The best known example of gum, is gum arable, which exudes • spontaneously from several shrubs in warm climates. Pure gum is with- out colour, but it is most usually found tinged with other vegetable juices. The distinction between this and mucilage is, in a dietetic point of view, of very little moment. The experiments of M. Magendie, would lead us to believe that gum is not nutritive ; but we have facts no less decisive that it is. Bruce {Travels, vol. iii.), tells us, that the caravans from Abyssinia to Cairo, when their provisions are exhausted, frequently live for days together on gum arable. The Moors also of Lybia and Senegal use it for food. Linnaeus gives one instance, of more than a hundred men who lived wholly upon it during a siege of two months. But, not- withstanding these facts in favour of gum, it must be allowed only a slightly nutritive property. — AIu- cilage is much a kiu to gum, and is more abundant in the ordinarj' vege- tables brought to our tables—such as carrots, parsnips, beet, turnips, as- par.agus, spinage, lettuce, artichokes, cucumbers, and green peas, which sec.HA 157 HA II. HADDOCK.—The haddock, as regards nourishment, is similar to the cod-fish, with the exception that it is easier of digestion, and less firm in substance.—See Gadus Mglefinus. HAGGIS.—A celebrated Scots’ dish. The haggis-bag is the paunch of a sheep. The following directions for making this “chieftain o’ the pudding race,” are given by Mrs. Maciver, in her Cookery Book, pub- lished at Edinburgh, A.D. 1787. “ Make the haggis-bag perfectly clean : parboil the draught; boil the liver very well, so as it will grate; dry the meal before the fire ; mince the draught and a pretty large piece of beef very small; grate about half of the liver; mince plenty of the suet and some of the onions small; mi.x all these materials very well together, with a handful or two of the dried meal; spread them on the table, and season them properly with salt and mixed spices; take any of the scraps of beef that are left from mincing, and some of the w'ater that boiled the draught, and make about a cho- phin (i. e. a quart) of good stock of it; then put all the haggis meat into the bag, and that broth in it; then sew up the bag; but be sure to put out all the wind before you sew it quite close. If you think the bag is tbin, you may put it in a cloth. If it is a large haggis, it will take at least two hours boiling.” In haggis of a plainer kind, oat- meal, suet, and onions, compose the chief ingi’edients. H A L L I B U T.—The hallibut, called Umbra Marina, is in great re- uest at the tables of the great. The esh is firm and white, and is con- sidered to be little inferior to the sturgeon. It is a good and whole- some fish; agrees well with a weak stomach: it is rather a large fish, and is held in great estimation in Italy. H A M S.—Smoked hams are a very strong food. If eaten at a pro- per time, they are a wholesome sti- mulus to the stomach; but boiling renders their digestion still more difficult. They should, indeed, to preserve their flavour, rather simmer than boil—the difference betw'een a ham slowly boiled or simmered, and one submitted to the action of a fierce fire, is almost incredible. In salting any kind of meat, much of its jelly is washed away, the fibres become stiff, and thus rendered heavier for the stomach. The salt penetrates into the jelly itself, pre- vents its solution in the alimentary canal, and consequently makes it less conducive to nutrition. By smoldmj, the fibres of meat are covered with an incrustation, the jelly is half burnt, the heat of the chimney occasions the salt to con- centrate, and the fat between the muscles to become rancid; so that such meat, although it may stimulate the palate of an epicure, cannot be wholesome. Much depends on the manner in which hams are cured. 1. To Cure Hams.—Cut the hams from the pig, and rub them well with an ounce of saltpetre, half an ounce of sal prunella, and a pound of com- mon salt. Lay them in saltpans for ten days ; turn them once during this time, and rub them well with more common salt. Let them lie ten days longer, and turn them every day. Then take them out, scrape them as clean as possible, and dry them well with a clean cloth. Then rub them slightly over with a little salt, and hang them up to dry, but not in too hot a place. 2. Another method.—Take a fat hind-quarter of pork, and out off a fine ham—Then Take—Saltpetre . . 2 ounces Coarse salt . 1 pound Common salt 1 pound Sal prunella . 2 ounces.HA HA 158 Mix these ingredients well toge- ther, and with them let the pork be well rubbed, turning and basting it every day. Then hang it in a wood smoke in a dry place, so that no heat can get at it. If you intend to keep your hams long, hang them a month or two in a damp place, taking care that they do not become moiddy, and it will make them cut fine and sliort. Hams thus prepared must not be laid in water till they are about to be boiled for use, which ought to be done in a copper, or in the largest pot you have. Put them in when the water is cold, and do not let the water boil till they have been in four or five hours. Skim the copper or pot well and frequently till the water boils. If it be a very large ham, it will take three hours’ boiling; but a small one will be done in two hours, provided the water be not suffered to boil too soon. Take it up half an hour before dinner; pull off the skin, and throw raspings finely sifted all over it. Hold a red-hot fire shovel over, and when dinner is ready, take a few raspings in a sieve, and sift them all over the dish. Be sure your ham is boiled in as much water as possible, and to keep skimming it till it boils. It must be at least four hours, if your ham is of any size, be- fore you suffer it to boil. 3. To Cure Hams the York- shire WAY.—Yorkshire is famous for hams, and the reason is, that their salt is much finer than the London, it being a large clear salt, and gives the meat a fine flavour. A deep hollow wooden tray is better than a pan, because the pickle swells about it. When you broil any of these or the following hams in slices, let the slices lie a minute or two in boiling water, and then put them on the gridiron. By this method you will take out the salt, and make them eat with a fine flavour. In curing hams in Yorkshii'C, they first well beat them; then mix to- gether Salt, half a peck. Saltpetre, three ounces, Sal-pruneUa, half an ounce. Common salt, five pounds. With this composition the hams are well rubbed, and what remains is laid on the top of them. They are now suffered to lie in this manner for three days, and then hung up. As much water is then added to the pickle as will cover the hams, and salt added till it will bear the weight of an egg, and then it is boiled and strained. The next morning the hams are put into this pickle, and pressed down in it, that they may be covered. Let them be a fortnight in the pickle; then take them out, rub them well with bran, and dry them. The above ingredients are enough for three middling-sized hams. 4. To Cure Two Hams the Westmoreland way. — Rub the hams the preceding evening with ten ounces of saltpetre; and the follow- ing morning take three pounds of common salt, three pounds of the coarsest sugar, and one pound of bay salt. Boil these in three quarts of strong beer, and when it has boiled a short time, pour it over the hams. Let them lie a month in this pickle, nibbing and turning them everyday, but do not take them out of the pan. The same pickle is good for tongues and sauces. Before the hams be smoked, rub a handfid of bran over them, to suck up the moisture, and let them hang three weeks or a month. 5. To MAKE Beef Ha.ms.—Take the leg of a fat Scotch or Welch ox, and cut it like a ham. Take an ounce of bay salt, a pound of common salt, and a pound of coarse sugar, which will be a sufficient quantity for a ham weighing about fourteen or fifteen pounds; and if there be a greater or less quantity of meat, let the ingre- dients be mixed in proportion, with which rub the meat and turn it every day and baste it well with the pickle daily for a month. Then hang it up159 HA HA in wood smoke, where there is but little fire and a constant smoke, for a month. Then take it down and hang it in a dry but not hot place, and keep it for use. You may either cut a piece off as you have occasion, and boil it, or cut it into rashers and broil it, with poached eggs; or boil a piece; it eats very well cold, and will shive like Dutch beef. 6. New England Hams, to Cure. —For two hams, take two ounces of sal prunella; beat it fine, rub it in well, and let them be twenty-four hours. Then take half a pound of bay salt, a quarter of a pound of brown or rock salt, a quarter of a pound of common salt, and one ounce of saltpetre, all beaten fine with half a pound of the coarsest sugar. Rub these ingredients well in, and let them lie two or three days. Then take white common salt, and make a pretty strong brine with about two gallons of water, and half a pound of brown sugar. Boil it well and skim it when cold. Then put in the hams and turn them every two or three days in the pickle for three weeks. Then hang them up in a chimney and smoke them well a day or two with horse litter. Let them afterwards hang about a week on the side of the kitchen chimney, and then take them down. Keep them dry in a box, with bran covered over them. They may be eaten in a month, or will keep very well for one year. 7. Westphalia Ham.—Rub the piece intended for a ham with half a pound of the coarsest sugar, and let it be till night. Then rub it with an ounce of saltpetre finely beaten, and a pound of common salt. Let it lie three weeks, turning it every day. Dry it in a wood smoke, or where turf is burnt. When you boil it, put into the pot or copper a pint of oak saw-dust.—See Drysalting. 8. Mutton IIa.ms. — Cut a hind quarter of mutton like a ham, and rub it well with an ounce of saltpetre, a pound of coarse sugar, and a pound of common salt well mixed together. Lay it in a hollow tray with the skin downward, and baste it every day for a fortnight. Then roll it in some sawdust, and hang it in ivood smoke for a fortnight. Then boil it, and hang it in a dry place. Cut it out in slices and broil them as wanted, and they will eat very fine. 9. Veal Hams.—Cut off a leg of veal in the shape of a ham. Take a pint of bay salt, two ounces of salt- petre, and a pound of common salt. Mix them all together, with an ounce of beaten juniper berries, and rub the ham well with them. Lay it in a hollow tray w'ith the skinny side downwards, and baste it daily with the pickle for a fortnight, and then hang it in a wood smoke for a fort- night longer.—See Drysalthig; also. Bacon, to prepare. Bacon, Westphalia. Beef, hung. Beef, Dutch. Herring and Salmon, to cure. Pork, to pickle. Sausages, Bologna, &c. Tongues, to cure. H.YRES.—The flesh of hares was in such great esteem with the an- cients, that they gave it the pre-emi- nence over all other kinds of animal food. Martial says. Inter quadrupedes gloria prima lepus. The poet knew but little of diet; for the flesh of the hare is hard, and is neither good nor wholesome nourishment. The youngest and fattest are the best. They differ much in colour; some are blueish, others brown, and some again of a yellow blue colour. And in the northern parts of Europe, and on the mountains of the Alps, there are some hares white. They differ also in respect to the places where they live, as on mountains or plains, and others again in moist and marshy places; and in these different places some are fatter and larger thanHE HE 160 others, according to their supply of food. They differ also in smell. Those which live in moist places are not near so good food as those that are bred on plains and mountains, the latter feeding on aromatic herbs that give their flesh a fine flavour. A hare is also better in winter than in summer, because the cold mellows their flesh and makes it tender, the same being naturally a little hard and close. It has been said that the frequent eating of hare gives people a fine vermilion complexion, and several parts of this animal were formerly used in physic, which at present are not held in estimation, and which it would be superfluous to refer to. HATELETS, the same as Atte- 1.ETS ; i. e. small silver skewers. HEADING STUFF, or Finings. —Alum and green vitviol,equal parts. Used to give the cauliflower head to beer.—See Finings. When malt liquors contain a pro- per degree of viscidity (which a due proportion of malt and a well-con- ducted fermentation never fail to communicate),and when poured from one vessel into another, they always accumulate on their surface a close creamy foam, called a caulijloioer head; so that when blown a-side it immediately closes in again. This ought more particularly to be one of the characteristics of good porter. The brewer, however, for reasons best known to himself, does not always give his drink such a body as would enable it spontaneously to carry this close foamy head. When first tapped in the victualler’s cellar it may do so, but when the cask comes to be about half empty, the poverty of the drink becomes appa- rent, and when drawn it no longer discovers this desirable effect. To conceal this defect, the publicans are supplied by itinerant vendors with what is termed “heading stuff,” composed of isinglass in solution with sourish porter, whisked with a twig, until it turns to a froth. A spoonful of this is laid on the sur- face. One method of detecting this arti- ficial heading, is by blowing on it, and separating it on the surface, and if it do not immediately close in again the artifice is detected. But in order to defeat this mode of discovery, the brewer has devised a process equally as successfid, but of a more perni- cious tendency to the constitution of the drinker ; and which, though pro- hibited by law, has long been carried on with equal effrontery and impu- nity ; and this is done by means of green vitriol (see Sulphate of Iron), well known as the general panacea for beer. “ A quantity of this nau- seous styptic, from one to six ounces, is previously dissolved in milk or beer, then mixed up with a solution of isinglass, and thus added to one butt of beer. When by this means it is rendered fine, and drawn, the head, or froth, will rise three or four inches above the pot, and will remain so for a length of time. The popu- lace here fall into the same error as in the choice of their bread—for they prefer none that is not white, nor drink any beer but what when drawn carries a head like a cauliflower; and there are few licensed Hctuallers who do not understand this method of obliging: (heir customers.” Alum possesses nearly the same property as the green vitriol. Salt of steel {Sulphate of Iron), differs very little from purified green vitriol. Alum consists of a chalky earth united to vitriolic acid, as copperas or green vitriol does, hence they only difler in their liases as regards their composition ; though the last is in- finitely more nauseous and delete- rious, especially when drank in beer; as here it is not decomposed like alum in bread, before it is taken internail}', but every particle of beer is united to a particle of vitriol, and thus it is taken into the stomach in a state of solution in a pure state. SaltHE HE 161 of steel, indeed, may be an excellent medicine ; but taken thus daily into the stomach, it is not difficult to con- ceive by what means it may produce very acute and dangerous diseases. It may, however, be observed, that when porter is well brewed fi'om good malt, and a proper proportion of hops, there -will he no occasion to head, fine, or otherwise modify or disguise it.—See Malt Liquors. HEALl'H. — An assemblage of all the secretions of the human body in a state of activity, and existing in harmony and equilibrium. — See Secretion. To maintain that desirable state of life, (which is defined as an assem- blage of all the functions), called health, a proper preparation of the fluids is requisite; the solids duly formed of these fluids; the invigor- ating influence of the vital powers ; and last, though not least, mens sana in corpore sano, — that is, a sound mind in a healthy body. See Diet- etics. The cause of the diversity of tem- peraments, on which conditions of health are much affected, are very nu- merous ; among such may be reckon- ed, hereditary disposition, habit of body, climate, diet; not unfrequently religion, mode of life, and luxury. Besides the variety of constitutions to which men are subject from these incidents, circumstances peculiar to everj' individual influence the num- ber as well as the energy and vigour of the functions. As regards age, the health of a new born infant is different from that of an adult: in regard to sex, it differs in a mar- riageable virgin and an old woman past child bearing, during menstrua- tion and suckling; and in regard to mode of life, it is as different as tbe barbarous tribes of North Ame- rica. The more functions flourish simultaneously, in the body, the more considerable is its life, and vice versa. Hence life is greatest when the functions have attained their highest state of perfection in adult age ; and least, when tbe functions, although very perfect, are fewer and more sluggish, namely, in the newly conceived embryo: life is also less vigorous during the opposite state. —Blumenhach's Physiol. To secure health by the golden mean is the true medium, so beau- tifully described by Milton, in his Paradise Lost, that we cannot resist quoting it here: — when he intro- duces the angel Michael giving di- rections to our first parents by what means they might preserve health, he says, “ If you well observe The rule of not too much, by temperance taught, In what thou eat’st and drink’st, seeking from thence Due nourishment, not gluttonous de- light, Till many years over thy head return : So may’st thou live, till, like ripe fruit, thou drop Into thy mother’s lap, or be with ease Gather'd, not harshly pluck’d, in death mature.” The whole art, in fact, of preserv- ing health, may be properly enough said to consist in filling up what is deficient, and carrying off what is redundairt or superfluous, in order that the body may be habitually kept in its natural state; and hence it fol- lows, that all the supplies from eat- ing and drinking, and all the dis- charges by perspiration, and by the other channels aird distributions of nature, should be regulated in such a manner, that the body shall not be oppressed with repletion, nor ex- hausted by evacuation. Of these two, one is the cure or antidote of tbe other,—every error in repletion being coirectcd by a seasonable and congruous evacuation; and every ex- cess in evacuation, should it not have proceeded too far, being cured by a gradual and suitable repletion. This is the art of enjoying a life of health, r 3HE 1G2 HE which will recover lost health, and preserve it when once established; and, in the words of Dr. Mayn- waring,—“ It is health that makes your bed easy, and your sleep re- freshing ; that renews your strength with the rising sun; that fills up the hollows and uneven places of your carcass, and makes you plump and comely, and adorns your face with her choicest colours; that makes your exercise a sport; that increases the natural endowments of your mind, and makes the soul delight in her mansion.'’—Vide, Tidela Sani- tatis; or, Uygiaslic Precautions and Rules, a?i9io 16G3. HEART-BURN. — Appetite im- paired, w’ith a gnawing or burning pain in the stomach or epigastrium, and a tendency to faint. The s}’mptoms here enumerated are sufficiently distinct to separate cardialgy, or heartburn, from indi- gestion, in which it is merged by Dr. Cullen and other authors; for in the last there is not necessarily a gnawing or burning pain; and the appetite is rather fastidious, than es- sentially, or at all times, impaired; though occasionally it evidently ac- companies the latter affection, as well as a variety of other complaints, as flatulency, worms, retrocedent gout, suppressed menstruation, inflamma- tion of the stomach, and various dis- eases of the heart, liver, pancreas, kidneys, and intestines; in hypochon- driasm, and in sudden and violent emotions of the mind. It is also met with as an original affection, and ought therefore to be described as such. It is divided into tire fol- lowing varieties:— 1. Heart-burn. Gnawing or burn- ing uneasiness, felt chiefly at the cardia, or upper orifice of the sto- mach ; the tendency to faint being slight. 2. Sinking Heart-burn.—The pain or uneasiness extending to the pit of the stomach; with anxiety, nausea. coldness of the extremities, prostra- tion of strength, and great disposi- tion to faint. 3. Black Water. Water Brash.— Burning pain, extending over the epigastrium, and accompanied with an eructation of watery fluid, usually insipid, sometimes acrid. The first variety is perhaps the most common; in the second the pain and uneasiness, though some- wdiat less intense, is far more gene- ral. The third is distinguished by a morbid increase in the quantity of secerned fluids; and hence the pecu- liar symptom of an eructation, fre- quently in considerable abundance, of a thin watery liquor, chiefly in the morning, after food has been ab- stained from for many hours, and when the stomach only contains its ow'ii fluids. The following excellent description of this disease is given by the late Dr. Cullen, who, though he has se- parated it to a greater distance from dyspeptic affections, has transferi'ed it to another order, and erected it, apparently contrary to his own mode of reasoning, into a distinct genus. “ It appears most commonly in per- sons under the middle age, but seldom in any persons under the age of puberty. When it has once taken place, it is ready to recur occasionally for a long time after; but it seldom appears in persons considerably ad- vanced in life. It affects both sexes, but more frequentl}' the female. The fits of this disease usually come on in the morning and forenoon when the stomach is empty. The first symptom is a pain at the pit of the stomach, with a sense of contrac- tion, as if the stomach were drawn towards the back : the pain is in- creased by raising the body into an erect posture, and therefore the body is bended forward. The pain is often severe; and, after continuing for some time, brings on an erncta- tion of a thin watery fluid in consi-HE 163 HE derable quantity. This fluid has sometimes an acid taste, but is very often absolutel}' insipid. The eruc- tation is for some time frequently repeated; and it does not imme- diately give relief to the pain which preceded it, but does so at length, and puts an end to the fit.”—First Lines of Medicine, vol. iv. p. 13. Causes.—Under whatever variety this disease shews itself, it is chiefly regulated by the habit of the indivi- dual ; the remote causes are indigest- ible food, or other ingesta; the ha- bitual and copious use of very cold or very hot beverages, but especially the latter; indulgence in spirituous drinks; worms, and insects or their larv£E; drastic purges; obstructed per- spiration; repelled cutaneous erup- tions ; and \-itiated or excessive bile. Of the indigestible foods, the most common are animal fat, oil, butter, or cheese, eaten in excess— which last has produced a cardialgy that continued for three years.* The stones or kernels of fruits have often laid the foundation for the com- plaint, especially where they have remained, as they have been oc- casionally found to do, and par- ticularly cherry-stones, for two, el- even three years, with little or no material change.f All these causes have a direct tendency to produce weakness of the stomach, especially a diminution of tone, or weaker action in its muscular fibres; and a morbid condition of the fluids se- creted by, or poured into it. Acidity, it would appear, is com- mon to all the varieties of tliis complaint, to such a degree that, as Dr. Darwin observes, “ the con- tents of the stomach, when regur- gitated on a marble hearth, have * Paulini, de Nuce Moschata, sect, iii. p. 3. Eph. Nat. Cur. Dec. 11. Ann. V. app. 71. t llresl. Samml. 1725, 1. p. 77. Gronen. Commeri. Liter. Nov. 1733. p.,189. been often seen to produce an ef- fervescence on it.” This acid, ac- cording to the experiments of M. Pei-peres, a French chemist, is chiefly the acetous ; and he has found that not less than two ounces and six drachms of it, have been produced by eight ounces of roasted chestnuts, an aliment that ferments in the sto- mach for an hour and a half, and is even then digested with difficulty. In some cases, the formation of acetous acid seems to be favoured by the nature of the gastric fluid itself, which appeal's to be secreted in too dilute or weakly a condition for the purposes of digestion ; on which ac- count the food, instead of being converted into chyme, runs readily into a state of fermentation, so that some persons cannot take either honey or sugar without producing this effect; while in others, the gas- tric juice itself, when first secreted, may possibly contain too large a portion of the muriatic acid, which, according to the late valuable re- searches of Dr. Front, is found in the stomach during digestion. Treatment.—The means of curing this complaint are twofold—namely, to palliate the present distress, and to prevent a return of the paroxysm. The first may be promoted by small doses of opium, and sometimes by other antispasmodics, as the ethers, and volatile alkali; and, where acid- ity is unquestionable, by calcareous and saponaceous earths.—See Ant- acids. Oleaginous preparations have been tried, and in some constitutions with apparent benefit. The complaint may also be palliated by mucila- ginous substances, such as Sjianish liquorice, or gum arabic: and in many cases, the eating of six or eight almonds has afforded speedy and eflbctual relief. In taking off the acidity of the stomach, M. Per- pcrcs {Auct. Cital. vol. ii.), unites the calcareous earths with a warm bitter ; and recommends as the medicine he164 HE HE has found the most successful, ca- lumba root with magnesia, in doses of ten grains of the former to twelve of the latter. It is remarked by Dr. Darwin, that as the saliva swallowed along with our food prevents its fermentation, considerable relief is sometimes derived from frequently chewing parched wheat, mastic, or a lock of wool, and swallowing the spittle thus secreted into the mouth. When acidity in the stomach, how- ever, is the exciting cause, there are few medicines that can more fully be depended on than soap. “ It is often,” says Dr. CuUen, “a more convenient remedy than common absorbents or simple alkalies.” If the pain be very severe, the benefi- cial operation of the soap will be materially assisted by combining it with opium, (a quarter of a grain of tlie latter, with five grains of the former). Cullen further observes, that he has found nothing but opium that will give it real relief; and he afterwards adds, “but this relieves only the present fit, and contributes nothing to the prevention of future attacks. Hence, in every case, the views of the medical practitioner should be directed to the second intention—namely, to prevent a re- currence of the paroxysm; which can only be effectually done by re- storing the stomach to its proper tone, Indigestion). The warmer bitters, the metallic oxyds, especially those of zinc and bismuth, first mentioned by Odier, bid fairest for success. Of the bitters, one of the most elegant as well as most bene- ficial, is the extract of camomile; yet the dog’s camomile {matricaria chamomilla) seems to rival its powers, and has often been found a very active and,useful stomachic in most debilities of the stomach. The diet of people attacked with, or labouring under any predisposi- tion to this complaint, sliould consist of articles least disposed to run into fermentation—as animal food gene- rally, shell-fish, biscuits; and the liquid aliment, or drink, should con- sist of weak brandy and water, toast and water, lime, or most of the mineral waters.—See Indigestion. HEAT, HOW APPLIED IN CoOK- ERY. —Whatever may be the fuel from which heat is produced, it is applied in various ways to the sub- stances to be cooked, either directly or indirectly. As a radiant heat, it is applied directly in the process of wasting, in which the efiects are en- tirely produced by the rays of heat impinging directly upon the sub- stances placed at a short distance before it; for this purpose a clear glowing fire is necessary, and the bars of a good roasting grate should impede as little as possible the radi- ation of heat. Another very direct mode of ap- plying heat, is placing the substance over the fire by suspending it in the stream of heated air ascending from it, or laying it directly on the burn- ing fuel, or on bars, or on a plate of iron, or other substances capable of supporting heat; broiling is the result of this method of application. Heat is often employed through the in- tervention of fluids, chiefly of water or steam, and in boiling or stewing, or of some oily substance, as in frying. The peculiarity of baking consists in the substance being heated in a cpnfined sjiace, which does not permit the escape of the fumes arising from it. To understand well the theory' of cookery, the action of heat upon the various constituents of alimentary substances must be attended to, as applied directly or indirectly, through the medium of some fluid: in the former wa}', as exemplified in the processes of roasting and boiling, the chief constituents of animal substances undergo the following change: the fibrine is corrugated, the albumen is coagulated, the gela- tine and osmazome rendered more soluble in water, the fat liquified,165 HE HE and the water evaporated: if the heat exceed a certain degree, the surface becomes first brown and tlien scorched. In consequence of tliese changes the muscular fibre becomes opaque, shorter, firmer, and drier; the tendons less opaque, softer, and gluey; the fat is neither melted out, nor rendered semi-trans- parent. Animal fluids become more transparent, the albumen is coagu- lated, separated, and they dissolve gelatine and osmazome. Lastly, and which is the most important change, and the immediate object of all cookery, the meat loses the vapid nauseous taste and smell peculiar to Uie raw state, and it becomes sa- voury and grateful to the palate. Heat applied through the medium of boiling oil, or melted fat, as in frying, produces nearly the same changes, as the meat is sufficient to evaporate the water, and to induce a degree of scorching; but when water is the medium through which tlie heat is applied, as in boiling, stewing, and baking, the effects are somewhat different, as the heat never exceeds 212®, which is not sufficient to commence the process of brown- ing or decomposition, and the solu- ble constituents are removed by being dissolved in the water, form- ing soup or broth; or if the dii-ect contact of the water be prevented, they are dissolved in the juices of the meat, and separated in the form of gravy. Vvhether the heat be directly or indirectly applied, there must be a considerable loss in the cooking of animal substances, in public institutions, where the allowance of meat is generally weighed out in its raw state, and includes bones, and is served out cooked, and sometimes without bone; and it is a matter of importance to ascertain, tLs near as possible, their relative proportions. As regards this cir- cumstance much depends, on the piece of meat to be cooked, the degree of cookery, and the attention bestowed upon it. We have been informed by persons who salt rounds of beef to sell by retail, after they are boiled, that they are able to get nineteen pounds of cold boiled beef from twenty-five pounds of raw, but the meat, it must be confessed, is always underdone. Messrs. Donkin and Gamble boil- ed in steam thirty pounds of captain’s salt meat; the meat when cold, without the bones, which amounted to five pounds six ounces, weighed only thirty-five pounds; in another experiment, 113 pounds of prime mess beef gave nine pounds ten ounces of bone, and forty-seven pounds eight ounces of meat; and in a third experiment, 213 pounds of mess beef gave thirteen pounds eight ounces of bone, and 103 pounds ten ounces of meat; or taken in the ag- gregate, 372 pounds of salt meat, including the bones, furnish, when boiled, 186 pounds six ounces with- out bone, being about fifty per cent., or disregarding the bone altogether, salt must lose by boiling about 422 per cent. In roasting, the loss arises from the melting out of the fat, and the evaporating out of the water, but the nutritious matter remains con- densed in the cooked solid; and in boiling the loss is occasioned partly by the fat melted out, but chiefly from gelatine and osmazome dis- solved in water in which the meat is boiled; there is, therefore, a real loss of nourishment, unless the hroth he used, when this mode of cooking becomes the most profitable as well as the most economical. Wc are indebted to Professor Wallace, of Edinburgh, for the de- tail of a very accurate and extensive experiment in a public establish- ment, the results of which were, that in pieces of ten pounds weight each, 100 pounds of beef lost upon an average by boiling, twenty- six pounds four ounces; by baking, tliirty pounds166 HE HE two ounces: by roasting, the shoulder, thirty-one pounds one ounce; the neck, thirty-two pounds four ounces; the loin, tliirty-five pounds nine ounces. Hence, generally speaking, mutton, by boiling, loses one-fifth of its original weight, and beef about one-fourth; again, mutton and beef lose, by roasting, about one-third of their original weight. Vegetable substances are most commonly boiled or baked, or if apparently fried or roasted, there is always much water present, which revents the greater action of the re from penetrating below the sur- face. The universal effect of cook- ing upon vegetables is to dissolve some of their constituents in the water, such as the mucilage and starch; and to render those that are not properly soluble, as the gluten and the fibre, softer and more pulpy, consequently easier of digestion.— See Temperature, reduction of. HEATH. —(Erica Vulgaris, L.) —The young tops of the heath are said to have formerly been used alone to brew a kind of ale; and even now the inhabitants of Isla and Jura continue to brew a very potable liquor, by mixing two-thirds of the tops of the heath with one of malt.—See Lightfoot’s Flora Scot- tica. HEDGE-HOGS. — Hedge-hogs are eaten in many parts of the world; and in Germany the country peojffe use them as we do other kinds of animal food: they are said to be pleasant to the taste, to strengthen the stomach, to loosen the bowels, and provoke urine, though rather hard of digestion. They were once considered as a great delicacy. HERRINGS.—Tlie great colony of heiTings, we are told, sets out from the icy sea about the middle of winter, composed of such numbers as exceed all imagination. The main body begins in a certain latitude, into two grand divisions, one of which moves westward, and pours down the coast of America; the other takes a more easterly direction, and falls in with the great island of Ice- land, about the beginning of March. The Shetland isles oblige them again to divide into two shoals, which shape their course along the eastern and western coasts of the British isles; and the last are observed to be much fatter, as well as considerably more abundant than those on the east side. The immediate cause of these mi- grations is supposed to be their strong desire to remove to warmer seas for the sake of depositing their sjiawn, where it will vivify w'ith more certainty than under the frigid zone. It cannot be from defect of food that they leave the polar regions, whatever that food may be, for they come to us fidl of fat, and on their return are generally observed to be very lean.* The inestimable benefit which this jffentiful supply of food would prove to the wretched peasantry of the western coasts of Scotland, is how- ever, says Dr. Garnett, in a great measure prevented by the impolicy of the salt laws, which, though now removed, cannot fail to remind many of our readers of Thomson’s jjathe- tic lines on the same subject. Oh ! is there not some patriot in whose power, That best, that god-like luxury, is placed Of blessing thousands, thousands yet unborn. Thro’ late posterity! to give A double lianest to the pining swain. And teach the labouring hand the sweets of toil 1 With venturous oar, How to dash wide the billow; not look on Shamefully pas.sive, while Batavian fleets. • From a series of facts and observa- tions on tlic migration of the herring : see Dr. Anderson’s Sixth Volume of Recreations, where the commonly re- ceived opinion of the annual passage of this genus of polar fish is erroneous.167 HE HE Defraud us of the glittering finny swarms, That heave our friths, and crowd upon our shores. Our countrj'men have long been reproached, and apparently with a good deal of justice, for their re- missness in this lucrative branch of commerce. The advantageous situ- ation of our coasts might be of immense benefit to us, did we not permit the Dutch, Hamburghers, and others, to come yearl}'’, in vast numbers, and not only to take the fish from our own coasts, but sell them to us for our money,wdien they have done. The Dutch were the first w'ho be- gan the herring fishery, and observed the several seasons of their passing about the year 1164; but the pre- sent method of pickling them was not discovered till 1416, though others date it from the year 1397. Willoughby, in his history of fishes, observes, that William Buekelsz, or Bachalen, a native of Bier Uliet, rendered his name immortal by the discovery of the secret of curing and pickling of hei'rings, which he might probably have learned from the peo- ple of Yarmouth, where herrings were not only salted and dried for red-herrings, but salted and bar- relled up w'et, at different times, from the year 1306 to 1360. He adds, that the emperor Charles Vth, coming into the Low Countries, made a journey to the isle Bier Uliet (which is situated a few miles east of Sluys, in the late Dutch Flanders), with the Queen of Hun- gary, on purpose to view the tomb of the first barreller of herrings, who died in 1447. Scotland, it is generally allowed, suffers incredibly on the above score: no country in Europe can pretend to rival it in the abundance of the finest fish, wherewith its numerous har- bours, lakes, and rivers are stoi-ed. The Scottish isles, especially those on the western side, do certainly lie most commodiously for carrying on the fishing trade. Had, says Mr. Belsham,* a tenth part of the im- mense sums dissipated and sejuan- dered in Italian and German subsi- dies, been employed in erecting towns, forming canals, building vessels, and procuring implements, in order to carry on the fisheries to advantage on the spot, the High- lands of Scotland might at this day have exhibited a smiling scene of industry and plenty, instead of pre- senting to our view the cheerless aspect of poverty and wretchedness, or rather the hideous picture of soli- tude and de.solation. That the natives of some parts of these districts are not, however, wholly inattentive to the piscatory occupation, is amjjly confirmed by two resjiectable tourists. Loch Fyne, says the Rev. Mr. Gilpin, is a salt lake communicating with the sea. It has a crowded navigation, being one of the favourite haunts of the herring, and at certain seasons of the year is frequented by numerous shoals, in- asmuch that the lake is said to con- tain one part water, and two parts fish. In a single bay of this lake, about 600 boats are sometimes em- ployed in taking them; each of these vessels clears on an average annually forty to fifty pounds, according to Dr. Garnett, who adds, that 20,000 barrels, each on a medium contain- ing 700 herrings, have been cured in one season in Loch Fyne.f HERRINGS, AND OTHER Dried Fish, to C^ok. Red Herrings.—Soak them in water until they become pretty fresh, they arc then hung up in the sun and wind, on a stick through their eyes, and then boiled or broiled as wantccL In this way they eat almost as well • Memoirs, Vol. II. p. 186. First edition. f For a particular history of herrings, see “ Solus Dodd’s Natural History of Herrings,” in 178 pages, 8vo. 1752.HI 1G8 HE as if newly canght.* Scotch had- docks should he soaked all night; you may boil or broil them; if you broil, split them in two. All the dif- ferent sorts of dried fish, except stock fish, are salted, dried in the sun in prepared kilns, or by the smoke of wood fires, and require to he softened or freshened in proportion to their bulk, nature, or dryness. The very dry sort, as cod, whiting, &c., should be steeped in lukewarm water, kept as near as possible to an equal degree of heat. The large fish should be steeped twelve hours, the smaller two, after which they should be taken out and hung up by the tails until they are dried. The reason for hanging them up is, that they soften equally as in the stee2)ing, without extracting too much of the relish, which would render them insipid. When thus jirepared, the small fish, as whiting, turks, &c., should be floured and laid on the gridiron; and when a little hardened on the one side, must he turned and basted with sweet oil upon a feather, and when hasted on one side and well heated through, taken up. A clear charcoal fire is the best for cooking them, and the fish should be kept at a good distance to broil gradually. When they are done enough they will swell a little in the basting, and you must not let them fall again ; if boiled, as the large fish generally are, they should be kept just simmer- ing over an equal fire, in which way half an hour will do the largest fish, and five minutes the smallest. Dried aalmon, though a large fish, does not require more steeping than a whiting, and when laid on the gridiron should be immediately j)eppered. To her- ring and other kinds of salt fish, sw'eet oil is the best basting.—(See Mac- donald's London Family Cook, 8vo. 1808, page 139). “A red herring,” • See tlie lion. Sir John Cochran’s Seaman’s Guide.” 8vo. 1797, p. 34. says Dr. Harte,* “doth nourish little, and is hard of concoction, hut very good to make a cup of good drink relish well, and may be well called the drunkard’s delight.” HERRINGS, TO Cure. —The preference which the Dutch give to the herrings caught upon their own coast, when cured by themselves, is a source of great advantage to them. The only salt used by them is the Spanish or the Portuguese; they preserve no fish that they are not able to cure between sun-rise and sun-setting, when the nets are drawm, and sun-set, when they are again shot; and they pay particular atten- tion in getting, sorting, and packing each kind by itself. They fill up the barrel with the same kind of fish and night’s catching, and are exceed- ingly careful of the pickle, as they use no other in filling their barrels. Herrings, as well as salmon, are also often cured by drying them in a w'ood smoke, after being slightly salted, after which they are called red or Yarmouth herrings. Herrings are pretty nourishing, easy of digestion, and jrroduce good juice. The jiickled are, as observed, hard of digestion, and but indifferent food; they heat, cause fetid cnicta- tions, thirst, and sharp pungent hu- mours. When fresh they agree, in cold w^eather, with any age and con- stitution. In the jiickled state, they are not good for young people of a hot, bilious constitution. HIBISCUS.—.V stone annual, a native of the West Indies, (Hibiscus Esculentus, L.), and introduced in 1G92. A soft herbaceous stalk rises from three to five feet high, with crenate leaves and axillary, j)ale sul- phur-coloured flowers, succeeded by capsules. These, in the West Indies and south of France, are put into green soiqis, or eaten with butter. In the south of France it is culti- vated in the open air for this pur- * Essay on Diet. 1633. Fol. p. 91.HO 1G9 HO pose, and at Paias it is ti'eated as we do the capsicum and love-apple. A similar treatment would no doubt succeed in this country. HOCK.—See German Wines. HONEY. — A sweet vegetable juice, collected from the flowers of various plants, by “ Nature’s con- fectioner,” the “ skilful Bee.” Of the economy of these insects, alike remarkable for industry and art, won- ders are related by naturalists. The moral virtues have been all, at one time or the other, attributed to them; and they have been particularly cele- brated for their prudence, industry, mutual affection, unity, loyalty, pub- lic spirit, sobriety, and cleanliness. Certain it is, that the industry and activity of bees in their domestic labours, afford a very instructive and amusing spectacle; all are busily engaged in their several depart- ments : whilst some are employed in gathering honey or wax, others repair decayed combs ; some carry out the dead, and cleanse the hives; others again, keep guard upon the floor:— And sad-ey’d Justice with his surly hum. Delivers o’er to executors pale The lazy yawning drone. so work the honey bees ; Creatures, that by a rule in Nature teach The art of order to a peopled kingdom. SlIAKSPEARE. Tliese active and useful insects, are eulogised by other of our poets, and particularly by Thomson in his Seasons. The honey of Ilyhla, on the east coast of Sicily, and of Hymellus, a mountain of Greece, near Athens, was reckoned by tbc ancients the best in tbe world. 'J’hat of Minorca, an island in the Mediterranean, and Narhonne, in France, is deemed ex- cellent; and that of Hampshire, is considered the best in England.— Virgin honey, is that deposited in clean new cells, which, when first formed, is of a pure white colour. Honey collected from some plants is intoxicating and poisonous to man ; from others, it is hurtful to the bees that collect it; and from some flowers it is so injurious or disagreeable, that they do not collect it.—See Dartvin’s Temple of Nature, p. 63. Honey is an excellent food. It is supposed to consist of sugar, mu- cilage, and an acid. Considei'ed as a ’medicine, honey is a very useful detergent and aperient, powerfully dissolving viscid juices, promoting expectoration; and, in some in- stances, has been remarkably effica- cious in asthmatic cases. In the asthma of elderly people, honey is peculiarly serviceable, in resolving the tough viscid phlegm—a spoonful night and morning, or oftener. Where honey gripes or disorders the bowels, a portion of cinnamon or ginger powder may be added, which will prevent this inconvenience. In humid asthma, and chronic winter cough, the fol- lowing is an excellent prescription— Take- Flour of sulphur . . 1 ounce. Nutmeg in powder . drachm. Senna in powder . Ginger the sames of each 2 drachms. The best honey . . 2 ounces, of which let an electuary be made, and the bulk of a common nutmeg taken twice in the day. This pre- scription, we are told, was sent over from Holland, by the celebrated Boerhaave, to Lord Ferrars, and from which he experienced the great- est relief."’ The syrup of capillairc, so cele- brated at one time for coughs and * Honey is particularly recommended to the asthmatic, and those subject to gravelly complaints, for its detergent nature. Founded upon the popular opinion of honey, as a pectoral remedy, Dr. Hill’s balsam of honey, a cpiack medicine, was once in demand ; but this, besides honey, contained balsam of Tolu, or gum benzoin in solution.170 HO HO disorders of the chest, derives its virtue, in a manner entirely from honey. Honey was also the principal ingredient of the Aristaean confec- tion—namely, the Silphian confec- tion, invented by Aristseus, a king of Sardinia; who used it as a proper dissolvent and corrector of that excellent but ill-scented medicine, assafoetida. He found honey ca- pable of dissolving that gum, and mixing it with ingredients which woidd abate its ill-scent and assist its efficacy; and on this principle he invented the confection, for which he has been celebrated more than Mithridates. It was given in that flatulent colic to which hypochon- driac people are peculiarly subject, though it was not limited to this alone. There was a time when honey was more used than it is at present, because the demand arose from ne- cessity. Before the knowledge of sugar-, this healthful sweet supplied its place.—See Sugar. Hops (Humulus Lwpulus, Ti.J— The virtues of many medicines are only to be ascertained by experiment and careful observation, and it is much to be lamented that a con- siderable number of articles among medical materials, have either been wholly over-looked, or but superfici- ally examined. Among these may be reckoned the common hop, which until very lately has been scarcely at all used as a medicine, though it is now well known that under pro- per management it is capable of affording considerable relief m many important diseases. Previous to our recommendation of the hop, not only as a medicine, but as an agreeable and aromatic bitter, we shall premise these and other observations with the following brief historical sketch of this valuable plant. “ 1'he humulus lupulus” (the hop) says Chambers, “ appears to have been brought into this country from the Netherlands, in the year 1524.” It is mentioned in the English Sta- tute Book, 1552 — namely, in the fifth and sixth of Edward VI. chap. 5. And by an act of parliament in the first year of King James I., anno 1603, chap. 18, it appears that hops were then produced in abundance in England. It is also obser\-ed that “ in the spring time, while the bud is yet tender, the tops of the plant be- ing cut off, and boiled, are eat like asparagus, and found very whole- some, and effectual to loosen the body; the heads and tendrils are good to purify the blood in the scurvy and most cutaneous diseases. De- coctions of the flowers and syrup thereof are of use against pestilentiffi fevers. Juleps and apozems are also prepared v-ith hops, for hypochondri- acal and hysterical aflections, and to promote the menses; a pillow stuffed with hops, and laid under the head, is said to procure sleep in fevers attended with delirium.” Coles in his History' of Plants, pub- hshed in 1657, relating the Hrtues of hops, says, “they are good to cleanse the kidneys of gravel, and to provoke urine, they likewise open obstructions of the liver and spleen, cleanse the blood, and loosen the belly; and, as they cleanse the blood, so consequently they help to cure eruptions of the skin.” He also say's, “ half a drachm of the seeds pow- dered and taken in drink, will kill worms,” and adds, that “the ex- pressed juice will cure the jaundice.” Brookes’s Dispensatory', published in 1753, speaks thus of hops: “Lu- pulus, hops; the heads. They help digestion, open obstructions of the viscera, cspeci.ally the spleen; pro- mote urine, and loosen the belly; they are good in hypochondriac pas- sion, the scurvy', and diseases of the skin, if given as an alterative, in whey or broths. The inspissated jiuce may be given from two to four ounces; the decoction of the tops from one to two handfuls; and half a drachm of the seeds may be given against worms.”HO HU 171 In the second edition of Lewis’s Dispensatory, speaking of hops, he says, “ these are one of the most agreeable of the strong bitters, though rarely employed for any medicinal purposes. Their principal composi- tion is in malt liquors, which they preserve from undergoing the acetous and putrefactive fermentations, ren- der less glutinous, and dispose to pass off more freel)' by urine. The odour of hops hung in a bed is said to have induced sleep when opium has failed. The same author, in his Materia Medica, observes, “ hops have a very bitter taste, less un- grateful than most of the other strong bitters, accompanied with some de- gree of warmth and aromatic flavour. They give out their virtue by mace- ration without heat, both to rectified and proof spirits, and by warm infu- sion to water; to cold water they impart little, though macerated in it many hours. The extracts obtained by w'atery and spirituous menstrua, particularly by the lattei-, are very elegant balsamic bitters, and promise to be applicable to valuable purposes in medicines, though the hop is at present scarcely regarded as a medi- cinal article, and scarcely otherwise used than for preserving malt liquors, which, by the super-addition of this balsamic, aperient, diuretic bitter, becomes less mucilaginous, more dis- posed to pass off by urine, and in general more salubrious.” Dr. Mo- therby says, “ the scaly heads of hops, have a bitter, warm, aromatic taste; they give out their virtue to spirit, both proof and rectified, by maceration without heat, and to water by warm infusion. Tlie extract ob- tained from the spirituous tincture is an elegant bitter.” Dr. Cullen in his lectures on the Materia Medica, observes that “ the hop is a pretty strong bitter with a slight aroma.” Herophilus Labbius, attributes to the hop a lithontriptic property, and says, that by a duration of it, he has softened the hardest urinary calculi; and Darelius assures us that half a pint, or a whole pint of the decoc- tion of hops, drunk in the morning, possesses much virtue as an anthel- mintic or worm expeller. From these testimonies, as well as from our own observation, we are persuaded that the hop is eminently beneficial as an alterative and tonic ; that it is a good diuretic, that it acts gently as an aperient, and that it possesses con- siderable powers as a sedative, having in many cases procured rest, and affoi-ded relief from pain, wdien opium and other medicine had failed. The infusion or decoction, is in our opinion, the best means of using it. These may be used with consider- able advantage in scorbutic habits, stomach and bowel complaints, ner- vous languor and debility, cutaneous eruptions, and also in gout, both regu- lar and atonic. To elderly people a weak infusion of the common hop is the best drink they can use, it strengthens the stomach and bowels, prevents the accumulation of wind, and beneficially assists digestion. With such recommendations as these, who would not give it trial ? the pow- der and extract of the common hop maybe made into pills with thescame a dv'antages. Take— Extract of hop . . 1 drachm. Powder of ditto . . i drachm, Rhubarb ditto . . drachm. Ginger, powdered . J drachm. Syrup, a sufficient quantity. Make thirty-six pills, and take two morning and evening; these are tonic, gently aperient, and corro- borant. Young and tender hops are used for food, and are dressed in the same way as asparagus. They are, when the stalks become bard and full of wind, rather flatuleiit, and difficult of digestion. In the tender state, they agree with all ages and con- stitutions. HORS D’ (EUVRK.—A small dish served during the first course. HUNGER.—The want of solid172 HU HU arguments is characterized by a pe- culiar sensation in the region of the stomach called hunger, and by a general feebleness, more or less marked. This feeling is generally renewed after the stomach has been for some time empty: it is variable in its intensely acid nature in differ- ent individuals, and even in the same individual. In some, its vio- lence is excessive; in others, it is scarcely felt: some never feel it, and eat only because the time of re- past is come. Many pessons per- ceive a drawing, a pressure more or less painfid in the epigastric region, accompanied by yawnings, and a particular noise, produced by the gases contained in the stomach, which becomes contracted. When this want is not satisfied, it increases, and may become a severe pain ; the same takes place with the sensation of weakness and general fatigue which is felt, and which may in- crease so as to render the motions difficult, or even impossible. Hunger, appetite itself, which is only its first degree, ought to be-dis- tinguished from that feeling which induces us to prefer one sort of food to another; from that which causes us, during a repast, to choose one dish rather than another. These feelings are very different from real hunger, which expresses the true wants of the economy; they, in a great measure, depend on civiliza- tion, on habits, and certain ideas relative to the properties of aliments. Some of them are in unison with the season and climate, and then they are equally legitimate as hun- ger itself—such as that which in- clines us to a vegetable regimen in hot climates or during the heat of summer. There arc, morever, certain circumstances which render hunger more intense, and cause it to return at nearer intervals; such as, a cold and dry air, winter, spring, cold-baths, dry frictions upon the skin, exercise on horseback, walk- ing, bodily fatigue, and generally all the causes which set the action of the organs in play, and accelerate the nutritive process with which hunger is essentially connected. Some substances being introduced into the stomach excite a feeling like hunger, but which ought not to be confounded with it. There are causes, also, which diminish the cer- tainty of hunger, and which prolong the periods at which it habitually manifests itself; among which may be enumerated residence in warm climates, and inhabiting damp places, inactivity of bod}' and mind, de- pressing passions, and, in fact, all the cu'cumstances that interrupt the organs, that diminish the activity of nutrition. (See Nutrition). Also opium and hot drink, by being car- ried into the digestive canals, prevent hunger, or cause it to cease. Like all other internal sensations, hunger arises from the action of the nervous system; it has no other seat than this system itself, and no other causes than the general laws of or- ganization. The cause of hunger has alternately been attributed to the providence of the vital pi-inciple, and the frictions of the sides of the stomach against each other; to the dragging of the liver upon the dia- phragm; to the action of bile upon the stomach; to the acrimony and acid- ity of the gastric juice; to fatigue of the contracted fibres of the stomach; to compression of the nerves of the latter viscus, &c. The appetite for food may be im- paired, excessive, or depraved. The sensation of hunger is seated in the stomach; and like that of thirst, is a natural or instinctive desire. It may, however, become diseased, and lose its natural character; and this in vari- ous ways, and accompanied with vari- ous sets of symptoms, each of which lays a foundation for a distinct spe- cies of the disease, though hitherto omitted in most nosologies, or loosely scattered over diflerent parts of the173 HU HU classification, they e\aclently belong to a common family, and should be contemplated in a concentrated point of view. The species that properly appertain to it are the following:— Appetite Depraved, Flatulency, Heart-burn,* Indigestion,* Fasting, Long, Sickness, . Vomiting, Voracity—See Gluttony, Water-brash. Appetite for improper and indi- gestible substances. In this species there is no want of appetite, but often indeed an inordinate craving. Instead, however, of its directing the patient to palatable and substantial food, whenever such can be obtained, it urges him in preference to the most whimsical and unnutritious materials. An appetite for improper and in- digestible substances may be of two kinds. It may proceed from a want of discrimination, as in infants or idiots; or it may proceed from a corrupt taste or indulgence, often founded on empirical or other dan- gerous advice, as the eating of clialk or acids, to produce a clear skin. The depraved appetite in child can only be the re.sult of improper ma- nagement and attention; since nothing is more tractable than the organ of taste in early life. And hence it is, that different nations of the world are brought by habit, almost coeval with their birth, to give the preference to such kinds of food as in their respective climes produce in greatest abundance, or as they obtain by an easy barter of indigenous substances. For example, the Hindoos live entirely on fruits and grain. The Tonguses on ber- ries, the refuse lichen found undi- ested in the stomach of the rein- ecr, dried fishes, and beasts of prey. The Californians, on snakes, rats, lizards, rabbits, &c. intermixed with the wild herbs of the soil. But there is, perhaps, no stronger proof of the force of habit in forming an acquired taste, to be met with in any part of the world, than in our own country, in the exchange of the natural and instinctive of a bland and sweet fluid, as milk, for the bitter drink of tea for breakfast, and beer for dinner. A longing for improper food and indigestible substances, is, however, produced by other means, and oc- curs in persons who are possessed of a sound judgment. It is not unfre- quently traced as a symptom of some other disorder, as pregnancy, green- sickness, and perhaps some species of mental disorder. But it some- times exists as a primary disease, and is then most commonly brought on by a vain desire of improving personal appearance. Whatever the cause, when this morbid propensity has once obtained the ascendancy over the natural taste, the substances for which it excites a desire are often of the most indigestible and disgust- ing quality. For instance, we have examples of dirt-eaters devouring cin- ders, odure, fire, spiders, lice, toads, serpents, leeches, bits of wood, squills, hair, candles, and many other spe- cies of filth. Mr. John Hunter de- scribes a longing for diet, in the form of clay or loam, to have been an endemic among the blacks in Jamaica. But he is surpassed by Darwin, who informs us that he once saw a young lady, about ten years of age, that had filled her sto- mach with earth out of a flower-pot, after which she vomited it up, with small stones, bits of wood, intermixed with wings of insects.—Zoonomia, el. III. 1, 2. 19. Other individuals have had a taste for harder substances, and have re- galed themselves with stones, glass, leaden bullets; and there is not a country in Europe but hits supplied examples of distingui.-ibed knife- 0 3 See these articles.IN IN 174 eaters. In short, we have had Eng- lish, Prussian, Bohemian, American, and Brazilian knife-eaters. Many of these wretched individuals have perished shortly after the extraordi- nai’y feat—some have dragged on a miserable existence for years after- wards—and in some instances they have recovered. If depraved appe- tite should happen, as is sometimes the case, to be combined with vora- city, there may be no hounds to the deglutition, either in quantity or quality. Treatment. — This morbid action of the stomach is best counteracted by emetics and purgatives. Rhubarb is perhaps the best medicine for the last purpose, continued in moderate daily doses, in combination with tonics, as bark, steel, &c. And as an acid has often been suspected as the prevailing cause, the absorbent earths, as chalk, magnesia, and Ar- menian bole, have been used in large quantities, but the relief afforded by them is seldom more than tempo- rary. In the Mai d'estomac, or Afri- can Cachexy, as it has been called, which corresponds with dirt-eating diseases of the negroes, alluded to by .lohn Huntei', it is possible that great acidity may exist, and in- stinctively, for the use of absorbents to allay the morbid impulse. I. IM PERI AL.—A solution of cream of tartar, flavoured with lemon-peel. It ought never to be used except as a medicine in fevers and inflamma- tory affections. If employed as an ordinary drink, it is apt to retard digestion. If ever used as an article of diet, it should be under circum- stances of robust health, and where a large quantity of animal food has been consumed. INDIAN CORN {Zea Mayo).— In some parts the Indian corn is grown as a garden plant, the ears I’eing gathered green or partially ripe, and boiled or roasted. INDIGESTION (Dyspepsia).— Functional derangement of the di- gestive organs. The causes which give rise to indigestion, are all those which tend to debilitate the system in general or the stomach in parti- cular. For instance, narcotics, as opium taken in immoderate quanti- ties, (see Oimim), spirituous liquors, tea, tobacco, the frequent use of warm relaxing liquors — sedentary occupations—imperfect mastication of food—certain depressing passions of the mind—a diet of a too flatu- lent and farinaceous nature; ex- cessive evacuations—the too power- ful operation of emetics and purga- tives—diseases of the liver—hysteria and hypochondriasis ; over-loading the stomach — excessive venery— exposure to moist and cold air— deficient secretion of the bile, saliva, gastric juice.—See Digestion. Dr. Gregory, in his Theory and Practice of Physic, observes, “ Tliis ailment is met with in every countrjq in every class of society, in every season of the year.” The meaning of Dyspepsia, according to its re- stricted signification, is limited to derangement in the functions of the stomach, without any other disease. The inconveniences of this limita- tion are pointed out by Dr. Gregory, and the term is extended to those cases of indigestion which are un- attended with well marked general fever, local inflammation of the sto- mach, or other obvious cognizable disease of a remote organ. Dys- pepsia is further reduced to primary and secondary; and the symptoms common to both arc described as follow:— Symptoms of Indigestion.—“ The symptoms of dyspepsia are extremelyIN 175 IN diversified. They may be divided into such as are referable to the stomach itself, or to its sympathies with other parts of the body.— (See Digestion, Organs of). Among the first may be enumerated, loss of appetite—nausea, pain in the epigas- trium or hypochondria, heartburn— a sense of fulness, distension or weight in the stomach—a feeling as if a ball was lodged in the gullet—acid or foetid eructations—pyrosis or water- brash,or the vomiting of a clear liquor, often in vast quantity—and lastly, a sensation of sinldng or fluttering at the pit of the stomach. To the second head of Dyspeptic symptoms may be referred, among many others, costiveness, or an irre- gular state of the bowels, with a morbid state of the evacuations; pain of the back, and turbid urine ; a dis- agreeable taste in the mouth, espe- cially on first waking from sleep in the morning; toothach; palpita- tion of the heart, pulsation in the epigasti'ium; irregularity of the pulse; a short dry cough, and occasional difficulty of breathing; giddiness and headach, sometimes referred to the fore, but more commonly to the back part of the head; langour, lassitude, and great depression of spirits, with fear of death, or some other impend- ing evil. The tongue is very generally re- ferred to as affording evidence of the state of the stomach; but it will often be found that the tongue is perfectly clean, when the stomach is most in- contestably disordered. It would seem, indeed, as if the morbid ap- pearances of the tongue, its fur, dryness, preternatural redness and smoothness, and its chopped aspect, are referable to tbe state of the con- stitution, rather than to any parti- cular derangement in the stomach. When, however, we observe the tongue furred and moist, (its true character in common Dyspepsia), that is to say, when the secretions of the mouth are depraved, it may reasonably be presumed, that there exists a similarly disordered state of the stomach.—Gregory. The following is Di’. Gregory’s classification ; to which are added, remarks on each variety, which our limits prevent from giving at the same time:— Tabular vieiv of the varieties of Primary Dyspepsia. 1. Dyspepsia from occasional over- loading of the stomach. 2. From habitual over-feeding. 3. From habitual indidgence in spirituous liquors. 4. From want of air and exercise. 5. From excessive or long con- tinued evacuations. 6. From anxiety of mind. Tabidar view of Secondary Dyspepsia. 1. Dyspepsia, symptomatic ofgeneral feverishness. 2. Of habitual constipation. 3. Of chronic disease of the liver. 4. Of chronic disease of the spleen. 5. Of functional_disturbance of the uterus. G. Of obscure disease of the kidney. 7. Of chronic affections of the bronchia. 8. Of chronic cutaneous diseases. “ It is unnecessary to say,” ob- serves Dr. Gregory, “ that there is not one drug which will fulfil the great object of treatment, that of giving tone to the weakened stomach of a dyspeptic patient. This can be obtained only by measures calculated to avert the cause which may have excited the disease. I'he tone of the stomach never fails without some as- signable reason, which strict inquiry will detect, and the knowledge of which will point out the proper means of relief. Nor is it often that these will fail of success, provided the patibnt have sufficient firmness to submit to them, and afterwards re- main sensible that his health is in his own hands. The assistance of the physician, however, is very oftenIN IN 176 required where the patient either cannot or will not submit to the measures which prudence dictates. In such circumstances we must en- deavour to aid the digestive process by medicines; but I would wish to impress upon the student the impro- priety of trusting to them in dyspeptic cases. He shovdd remember that almost every drug will injure diges- tion in a healthy state; and he should learn, therefore, to be sparing of medi- cine when the stomach is weakened by disease.”—Gregory. Treatment.—The usual indications of cure in dyspepsia are to avoid the occasional causes — exhibit gentle emetics to remove crudities from the stomach—to correct morbid acidity by the interposition of alkalies and absorbents, alone or combined with laxatives. Diarrhoea, shoidd it acci- dentally occur, by absorbents, and if the faeces be of an unnatural clay-like colour, purges of the submuriate of mercury must be given. To restore tlie tone of the stomach and intes- tines, vegetable bitters, as quassia, columba, gentian, &c.; tonics, com- bined with aromatics; pure air and exercise; the flesh brush and cold bath; attention to regimen, care- fully avoiding the more indigestible and flatulent vegetables, malt liquors, &c. Substituting soda water, toast and water (see I'oast-ivater), brandy and water, Madeira and sherry, for common drink. Pyrmont and Buxton waters. Warm clothing, particularly about the feet and legs. In every form of dyspepsia atten- tion to diet is indispensable, and the patient must have regard, not to its quality only, but to its quantity. In a weakened state of the stomach, it must have little given it to do. The body is strengthened, not in propor- tion to the quantity of food taken m, but to that which is thoroughly digested. Diflerences iu the habits of life will, of course, lead to important diflerences in the kind and quantity of diet which shoidd be permitted to a dyspeptic patient; but the following may be regarded as rules of very general application: — “It should consist in a due mixture of animal and vegetable food, but the former should be eaten only once a da}'. It should be thoroughly masticated. Great varieties of food at any one time should be prohibited, as leading to an indulgence of the appetite beyond the wants of- the system. Articles of difficult digestion (see Substances, indigestible), should be carefully avoided; such as all kinds of smoked, hard, dried, salted, and long kept meat; all those dishes where too much nutritious matter is collected in a small space. Eggs, for instance, potted meats, strong soups, and preparations of suet, fat aud butter; lastly, all raw vegetables whatever, with the exception of ripe fruits. Regularity in the hours of meals shoidd he rigorously enjoined, and the patient directed to abstain from food at edl other times.—Gre- gory’s Theory and Practice, ^-c. Organs in the animal economy (see Digestion, organs of) cannot long be so deranged as to produce vitiated secretions, without, at the same time, giving rise to other deviations from health. The debility of stomach which prevents a due secretion of gastric juice, must at length produce some of those other effects which are witnessed in disorders of this organ. The symptoms which arise mime- diately from indigested food, exist in various degrees in different cases. People frequently complain of a sense of distension after eating, of flatulent and acid eructations, who, notwith- standing, enjoy general good health, and find that even these symptoms may be prevented by taking less food, and that of a more digestible quality. If they arc prudent in this respect, and the constitution is otherwise sound, and not exposed to the eftects of indolence and other causes weaken- ing the nervous system, the stomach will often recover its powers withoutIN IN 177 further means.—See Wilson Philip, M.D., on Indigestion, Sfc. Investigating the treatment of dis- orders of digestive organs, it is ne- cessary to ascertain not only the medicines that are beneficial, but also what change they produce in the circumstances of the disoi'der. The administration of a medicine may in one case be succeeded by a discharge of bile, and a striking relief from long continued and dis- tressful feelings; yet the same medi- cine may be given in many other instances, without producing the same effects. How then are such changes to be accounted for? From peculiarity of constitution, and dis- similarity of cause. “ I have already explained to the patient,” says Mr. Abernethy, “the objects I had in view, in correcting the disorders of the digestive organs, by saying, that there are three things which I consider as right and neces- sary to the cure of disorders. First: That the stomach should thoroughly digest all the food that is put into it. The patient perceiving the necessity of this end, becomes attentive to his diet, and observes the effect which the quantity and quality of his food and medicine have upon his feelings, and the apparent powers of his sto- mach. Secondly: That the residue of the food should be daily dis- charged from the bowels; here, too, the patient apprised of the design, notes what kind and dose of purgative medicine best effect tbe intention, and whether it answers better if taken at once or at intervals. Thirdly: That the secretion of bile should be right, both with respect to quantity and quality. In cases where the secretion of bile has been for a long time deficient or faulty, I recom- mend, as I have said, irritating and undebilitating doses of mercury, to be taken every second or third night, till the stools become of the wet rhubarb colour; that is, of a deep brown, formed by the intensity of the yellow colour.” This mode of exhibiting the blue pill has at least the advantage of being innocent, and if months elapse before the object be accomplished, we cannot wonder at the tardiness of the cure, when we consider the probable duration of the disorder prior to any attempt being made to correct it. The patient is relieved in proportion as the end is accomplished, which feel- ing induces him to persevere in such innocent measures. The following is the plan, or rather the rules, as regards regimen and exercise, which Mr. Abernethy has laid down for dyspeptic patients. “They should rise early, when their powers have been i-efreshed by sleep, and actively exercise themselves till they feel a slight degree of fatigue. They should rest one hour, then breakfast, and rest three hours, in order that the energies of the consti- tution should be concentrated in the work of digestion—active exercise again for two hours, rest one; then taking their dinner, they should rest for three hour's, exercise two, rest one, and take their third slight meal.” As it is impossible to frame any general rule applicable to every case, the best criterion to regulate the exercise and diet of the patient by, will be a knowledge of the progress of the complaint, age, constitution, previous habits of life, origin and seat of the disorder', and degree of capa- bility, functional as well as corporeal, which he eirjoys at the tirrre he applies for advice. This is the irrost rational mode of dictating the noir-rraturals— that is, to individual cases, and not by laying down rules for general application, which rrrrrst ever prove fallacious, rrncertain at best, and frequently dairgerorts, if not fatal. Dr. Paris bas eirdeavoured to iirr- prove the Abernetheair system, but our observatioirs on the latter eqrrally apply here, and they nray be briefly condensed into the following sentence —Let me see the patient hejore I178 IN IN prescribe either medicine, diet, or exercise. “The dyspeptic patient,” says Paris, “ should rise from his bed as soon as he wakes in the morning; for as Mr. Abernethy justly states, ‘ many persons upon first waking feel alert and disposed to rise; when, upon taking a second sleep, they be- come lethargic, can scarcely be awakened, and feel oppressed and indisposed to exertion for some time after they have risen.’ He should tlien walk, or rather saunter, for some time in the open air, previously to taking his breakfast. He is now in a condition to follow his usual avocations; but it is a circumstance of no slight importance to procure an evacuation at this period, which is easily effected by habit; a person who accustoms himself to act at a certain hour of the day, wiU gene- rally feel an inclination at the ap- pointed season. The invalid should not allow his occupations, if seden- tary, to engage him for more than tlrree hours, after which, exercise on horseback, or by walking, should uniformly be taken. I have already observed, that the state of the wea- tlier ought not to be urged as an objection to the prosecution of mea- sures so essential to health.—(See Training). Where the season of the year, and the situation of the pa- tient, will allow the exercise, I strongly urge the advantages to be derived from digging. The stimulus thus given to the abdominal regions is highly salutary in dyspeptic affec- tions. The hour of dinner should not be later than three o’clock, and the patient should rest for an hour before he sits down to a meal. It should consist but of few articles, should be carefully masticated, and the invalid should rise from the table at the moment that he perceives that tlie relish given by the appetite ceases. The manner in which he should re- regulate his potations, at and subse- quent to tins meal, bas been already considered. With respect to the allowance of wine, every practitioner must use his discretion, and be guided by tbe fonner habits and recent con- dition of his patient. It is essential that the invalid should enjoy rest for at least two hours after dinner, that is to say, that he should not enter upon any occupation or diversion that may occasion the slightest fatigue; to a gentle walk, or a saunter in the garden, there can be no rational objection, especially at that season of the year when such a pastime is most inviting. At six or seven o’clock he may take some diluting liquid, as tea; after which, exercise will be highly useful, to assist the sangui- fication of his previous meal: in the summer season there will be no dif- ficulty in accomplishing this object; and if the strength of the patient will allow the exertion, some active game, as bowls, will be attended with ad- vantage. At ten o’clock he may take some toasted bread, or a lightly boiled egg, with a glass of wine and water, should his previous habits render such indulgence necessary, and at eleven he may' retire to rest. The bed-room should be well ventilated, and its temperature should, as nearly as possible, be that of the apartment from which the patient retires. A well-stuffed mattrass is to be pre- ferred to a bed of down, and the curtains should not be so drawn as to exclude the free circulation of air. The invalid should be careful not to retire to rest with cold feet; nothing contributes more readily to disturb sleep, and cause uneasy dr-eains, than the unequal circulation which takes place on'such occasions.” Such are the general rules laid down (not altogether speculative) for the pro- tection of invalids who are subject to attacks of indigestion, which, though by no means new, are certainly' ra- tional, and, in most cases, attainable. There are jiarticular features in the history of different cases, which may be consulted under their respective heads.—Sec Bile and Stomach,IN IN 179 Dr. Parry considers indigestion to consist of such a state of the villous coat of the stomach or intestines, or both, as subjects them to be morbidly susceptible of irritation from certain kinds of food, or certain changes of the food, which are not perceived, or produce no uneasiness in healthy stomachs; and this afiection of the villous coat, throughout all its de- grees, up to inflammation itself, is apt to be followed by sympathetic or symptomatic afiections of the se- cretory arteries or glands seated in it, and often of the muscular coat of the ahmentary canal itself. Dr. Paris, in his book on Diet, though we con- fess, rather gratuitously, beheves that such an afiection is the general con- sequence, although not the cause of dyspepsia. In the treatment, there- fore, of this complaint, sedatives may, on such conclusion, be inter- posed with advantage. Protracted indigestion not unfrequently depends upon a morbid condition of the ali- mentarj' surfaces; the mucous mem- brane becomes affected, and the dis- order is not removed until measures have been practised to restore the healthy secretions of this bowel. “ A fretful state of the intestinal dis- charges is generally associated with such a disturbance, and I have found the administration of a lenient purge, every morning, with small doses of the vinum colchii (wine of meadow saffron) repeated twice a day, emi- nently successful in such cases,”— taking care to interpose occasional la.xativcs. Purgatives that act with violence are always followed with an aggravation of the .symptoms. Brous- sais, a French physician, with whose doctrines practitioners are well ac- quainted, maintains that every disease arises from an inflammatory condi- tion of the digestive canal; and, as observed by Dr. Paris, “ although the absurdity of such a proposition must be admitted, we shall act wisely in suspecting the existence of such a state of disease in protracted d3'spep- sia; permanent tenderness upon pres- sure, and the appearance of the dis- charges from the bowels, will gene- rally announce such a condition; and lenient purges, the application of leeches, and a low diet, will furnish the best method of treatment. “What- ever,” as Dr. Philip remarks, “tends to restore a healthy nervous power to the stomach, tends to form the food into that substance which is best fitted to excite muscular fibres of this organ ; and whatever excites the natural action of these fibres, tends to relieve the nerves from their load, and, in the most favourable way, to bring into contact with their extre- mities the food on which, through the intervention of the gastric fluid, their powers are to be exerted.” The general treatment of indi- gestion will, as may be seen by the preceding collection of observations, depend much upon the complexion of the case: — 1st. discovering the origin and seat of the disease; and, secondly, by attacking the symptoms in the order of their suc- cession. If it arise from a lax or weakened state of the stomach, in which either the secretions are scanty or vitiated, or the muscular powers of that bowel have lost their vigour, we have first to remove, as far as in our power, the remote causes wliich may have produced the disorder. The first passages must be cleared of all foul accumulations, and their return pre- vented, hj' means of strict adherence to a diet most likely to ensure its digestion, and by the careful use of aperient medicine, which may carry off all superfluous materials. The functions of the skin are next to be restored, and a general energy com- municated to the body, by means of such remedies as are known to strengthen and invigorate the nerv- ous system ; in conjunction with air, exercise, bathing, change of scene.IN 180 IN •the use of flannel, friction, &c., &c. ■—See Training. INTESTINES.—The intestines, or alimentary canal, include the whole passage from the mouth to the anus, though, strictly speaking, tlie term alimentary canal is more commonly employed to express only the stomach and intestinal tube. It may be represented as a long canal, commonly estimated as being five or six times the length of the adult, differently twisted upon itself, and of different dimensions in various parts of its extent. It is descidbed by anatomists as composed of several distinct tunics or coats, the extreme of which may be traced throughout its whole extent, although their structure varies in different divisions of the canal. The alimentary canal is suscepti- ble of a peculiar motion, arising from the successive or simultaneous contraction of its longitudinal or cir- cular fibres, and has been differ- ently denominated by authors— some calling it vermicular, others peristallic. This contraction always takes place slowly, and in an irre- gular manner; it is, however, capa- ble of being accelerated by the action of certain stimulants. It does not appear to be sensibly controlled by the will; nor, indeed, does it appear to be dependent upon the nervous system, for it proceeds in the stomach after the section of the eighth pair of nerves, and it even continues, though the intestinal canal be completely separated from the body; at the same time, although these muscular fibres be independent of the nervous sys- tem, they may in every instance be influenced through it,—a fact of very great pathological importance, since it follows that the muscular fibres of the canal may not only be affected by causes acting directly on them, hut by such as act by the medium of the nerves.—Dr. IV. Fliilij), on Indigestion. It is observed by M. Magendie, ' small intes- . tines. ' large intes- tines. that the peristaltic motion becomes more active by the weakness of ani- mals, and even by their death ; and that in some, by this cause, it be- comes considerably accelerated. The design of the peristaltic motion, is to propel the contents of the stomach forward, and to favour those changes they are destined to undergo. The alimentai'y canal is never in a state of complete collapse; it always contains gas or vapour, which pre- vents its sides from coming in con- tact. It has been stated that this canal is of different dimensions, and it is principally from this diversitj' of magnitude that anatomists have established the following dirisions: 1. The Stomach—See Stomach. 2. The Duodenum, ' 3. The Jejunum, ^ 4. The Ilium. ,5. The C^cuM, 6. The Colon, * 7. The Rectum. a, The duodenum, or first portion of the small part of the stomach, in- cludes that range, which commences at the pglorus,* or lower opening of the stomach, and extends for about twelve inches; and so important are the changes which the food undergoes here, where it is mixed with the bile, &c. that manj’ have looked upon it as a sort of second stomach. The jejunum commences at the precise point where the duo- denum ends, which cannot, perhaps, be accurately defined, though the jejunum is generally considei'cd as beginning where the mesentery takes its rise. It appears to have derived its name from the facts of its being usually found emptj’; probably from its more rapid powers of absorption. The ilium is the continuation of the jejunum,and is the last division of the small intestines; it is said to have de- rived its name from tlie manner in which it is coiled up in the mesentery. • file inferior aperture of the stomach which opens into the intestines.KI 181 KI The large intestines exceed the others in diameter, but are less con- siderable in length. The ccecitm constitutes the first division of this portion ; the second the colon, which is the principal tract of the large intestines, and it exceeds them all in diameter. The colon has been divided into the ascending portion, which extends from the ccecum to the right hypochondrium, into the transverse portion, or what is termed its great arch; and into the descend- ing portion, including what has been called its sigmoid flexure. The rec- tum is the last portion of the intes- tinal canal; it begins where the colon ends. It is called the straight gut, from its not being contracted; its coats are more thick and fleshy than those of any other of the in- testines ; its figure varies as it is full or empty; when empty, it is regu- larly cylindrical, and contracts in transverse folds: it is capable of very great distension ; even to the size of a blown out bladder: and the quantity of faeces that sometimes accumulates in it is prodigious, and cannot be re- moved except by mechanical means. K. KETCHUP.—Salt flavoured by mushrooms, or the juice of walnuts, e.g. 7a/cc—Mushrooms, four pounds ; common salt, two pounds; sprinkle the salt over them; when the juice is drawn out, add pimento, eight ounces; cloves, one ounce; boil them for a short time, and press out the liquor.—See Soy. 2. Mushroom juice, eight gallons; pimento, eight ounces ; pepper, four ounces; cloves, four ounces; shalots, 12 ounces; long pepper, two ounces; salt, four pounds ; boil for an hour. 3. Juice of young walnuts by the press, to a gallon add anchovies, two pounds; shalots, one pound; clove, mace, black pepper, of each one ounce; and a clove of garlick; boil a little, and bottle. 4. Juice of walnut shells, fifteen gallons ; salt, half a bushel; ginger, shalots, garlick, horse-radish, of each three pounds; essence of an- chovies, six quarts. 5. Walnut juice, six gallons ; vine- gar, twelve pints; anchovies, twenty- four pounds; j)imento, one pound ; ginger, two ounces; long pcp])er, three ounces; cloves, six ounces; shalots, twelve ounces; boil a little, and bottle.—Vide Gray's Supple- ment to the Pharmacopaia, p. 333. KID.—The young male of a goat. The younger the more nourishing. When it has attained a certain age it becomes a he-goat; its flesh then is of a rank, unpleasant smell and taste, especially during the rutting season; it is, consequently, not used as food; it is however, that when it has been castrasted very young it fat- tens and yields good juice.—SeeGoat. A kid for the table, ought to be selected under the age of six months and still sucking, and has not fed upon herbs. The dam should also be examined, to ascertain if she was healthy, well fed, and furnished good and wholesome milk. In proportion as the kid becomes older, so does its flesh become hard, of an unpleasant smell, bad taste, and hard digestion. The flesh of young kids is recom- mended to persons recovering from long sickness, in which they have been much reduced. It is nourishing and easy of digestion. KIDNEYS.—The kidneys of ani- mals are very hard to digest, even harder than the liver itself, and do not give out any eflective nourish- ment. Tlie kidneys of the younger animals are to be preferred, and especially those of the calf. The older the animal, the less nutritious and more diliicult of digestion are the kidneys.182 LA LA L, LADIES’-SMOCK {Cardamine Pratensis, L.)—The leaves of this plant afford an agreeable acrid salad, greatly resembling the American cress. LAMB.—Lamb is a light, whole- some food, not so nutritious as mut- ton, but exh-emely useful to delicate stomachs; this, however, applies only to the flesh of lambs that have not been robbed of their blood by repeat- ed bleedings, or reared by the hand with milk adulterated with chalk, in order to make the meat appear white. Such practices, to render the food pleasing to the eye, at the expense of its alimentary properties, cannot be too much reprobated. The vegetables most proper to be eaten with lamb, are those of an acidulated nature, as gooseberries, sorel, and the like. It is customary to eat this meat when very young; hut a lamb that has been allowed to suck six months, is fatter and more muscular, and in every respect better, than one which has been killed when two months old, and before it has had time to attain its proper consistence. House lamb is a dish esteemed, merely because it is unseasonable. Idke all animals reared in an unna- tural manner, its flesh is insipid, and detrimental to health. LAMB,to Choose.—See Butcher’s Meat, SfC. LAMPREY.—Tliere are twokinds of lamprey, the sea and river; both of which are used for food, in con- sequence of the goodness of their taste. The lamprey is the same shape as tlic large eel. It has a fat and deli- cious taste, is easily digested. It agrees, especially in the spring, with young people of a hot and bilious constitution ; with those who have a good stomach, and whose humours are thin ; but the old and phlegmatic should use it abstemiously. It has been said that it is pernicious to nerv'ous people, and those disposed to gout or gravel. Those taken in flne, clear, running water, well fed and fat, are the best. The sea lamprey is of the number of those fishes which leave the sea for a time, and return thither again. They usually leave the sea about the beginning of spring, and return to the rivers to spawn; after which they return with their young, to their former place, at a certain fixed pe- riod. The river lamprey remains in its native place, that is, in fresh water, and is frequently to be met with in brooks and springs, where the sea-water does not reach. As regards shape and taste, it corre- sponds with the sea lamprey, although it differs in size. Lampreys in the spring, are tender, delicious, and good eating; but at all other times, they are hard, tough, and have but little taste. The lamprey is more easily digested than the eel. Lampreys are dressed several ways; they are boiled, roasted, or fried; baked in pies; they are salted and dried to preserve them longer for use, and to admit of them being more readily transported from one place to another. Some of the an- cient authors have recommended them to be drowned in wine. Wine and spice are proper seasoning for this fish, not on account of its pre- tended malignit)', which is supposed to be imaginary, but because the)' render the lamprey easier of diges- tion, by attenuating its thick and viscous juices. LAPWING AND PLOVER.— Wc have placed these two birds to- gether from the similarity of their habits, frequenting the same places and feeding upon the same food; their flesh being also alike in taste, and producing the same effects.183 LA LA Some authors have so far confounded these birds, that they have given them the name of va?ielhis in com- mon. They are botli nearly of the size of a pigeon. They usually live near rivers and lakes; feed upon worms and flies ; they fly with great force, and make a great noise in their flight. They are of an exquisite and delicious taste ; but the plover is still daintier than the other. Their flesh is light, easy of digestion, and well tasted. There are two kinds of plo- vers, which differ chiefly in colour— the one is yellow, and the other ash- coloured. The plov^er has a kind of cap upon its head, of an oblong and black form; the neck is green, and the rest of the body party-co- loured. In short, some plovers may be seen of a green, black, blue, and white. LARD, TO Lard.—A term in cookery, which means to stick ba- con, or other specified articles, into poultry, meat, and the like, by means of what is called a larding-pin, one end of which is pointed, the other square and hollow, into which the lardon is put, the point is then in- serted into the meat, and on being drawn out, leaves the lardon stand- ing up in its proper place. L.\RDONS.—The morsels into which bacon and other things are cut, for the purpose of larding meat or poultry. LARDING-PIN. — A culinary utensil, by means of which meat and poultry are larded. LARKS.—The lark is a delicious bird, and much esteemed in the qua- lity of its taste. It is a savoury and easily digestible food; they lose, however, in these properties with age, and their flesh becomes hard, dry, and proportionately difficult of digestion. It agrees witli all ages and constitutions, especially in autumn, at which season this bird is fatter, and in higher perfection than at any other time of the year. LAUREL (Laurus).—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. The water distilled from the leaves of the common laurel, has been frequently mixed with brandy, and other spirituous liquors, to give them the flavour of ratifia; and the leaves are often used in cookery to communicate the same kind of taste to cream, custards, puddings, and some kinds of sweetmeats. In the year 1728, an account of two women dying suddenly in Dub- lin, after drinking some common distilled laurel watei', gave rise to several experiments, made upon dogs, with the distilled water, and with the infusion of the leaves of the common laurel, communicated hy Dr. Madden of Dublin, to the Royal Society in London ; and afterwards repeated in the year 1731, and con- firmed by Dr. Mortimer; by which it appeared, that both the distilled water, and the infusion of the leaves, brought on con\mlsions, palsy, and death. The laurel of the ancients, or the bay, is, on the contrary, of a sa- lutary nature, and of use in several dis- orders ; but the common laurel is a plant of a very destructive kind, and taken in a lai’ge quantity, is a most formidable poison. If, however, it be administered with proper caution, and in a small propoi'tion, the leaves of the plant are generally thought to be innocent; and therefore, for the kitchen purposes, as for the flavour- ing of custards and such like, the use in guarded and common moderation, may he continued in perfect safety. The hitter parts of the plant in which all the noxious properties are sup- posed to reside, are determined to be the same in quality, and not sensibly different in degree, from the bitter almond, or from the kernels of any of the stone fruit. — Sec Almonds. Linnaeus says, that in Holland, an infusion of this kind of laurel, is used in the practice of the healing art. Miller also says, that laurel berriesLE 184 LA are perfectly innocent; a due atten- tion, however, is requisite in the use of them. Prussic acid, the most active poison known at the present day, is contained in several vegetables, such as the cherry laurel, hitter almonds, the peach, its kernels, leaves, and flowers; the kernels of the black cherry ; the bark of the bird cherry. As Prussic acid is characterized by an odour similar to that of bitter almonds, it has been conjectured, that all substances possessing this odour contain Prussic acid. The distilled water of the common laurel above-mentioned, has been proved a poison by several experimenters : when applied to wounds in animals, it induced vomiting, convulsions, great prostration of strength, dimi- nished sensibility and death. And when injected into the jugular vein, its action was most rapid and intense. The cherry-laurel water also formed the subject of investigation in a very interesting criminal ti-ial, whether it was or was not the cause of death, in the case of Captain Donellan for the murder of Sir Theodosius Boughton, in 1780. LAVENDER {Lavendula spica, L.)—The lavender is a hardy under- shrub, anative of the south of Europe, and introduced in 1658. The plant rises from two to four feet high, with hoary linear leaves, slightly rolled back at the edges; the flowers form terminating spikes, of a blue colour, and appear from July to Septembei’. The leaves and flower are powerfully aromatic. Lavender is rather a medi- cinal plant than one used in cookery ; though a few plants are kept in every gai’den. Imitation scent bottles are made by the ladies, of the fragrant spikes. They are also put in paper bags, and placed among linen to per- fume them. Lavender water, a well- known perfume, is distilled from the flowers; for which purpose the plant is extensively cultivated in diffei'- ent places, but more especially at Mitcham in Surry, and Maidenhead in Berkshire. There are two varie- ties of lavender, both equally good— the narrow-leaved, and broad-leaved. LEAD.—Lead, like copper, is a metal much used for domestic and culinary purposes ; and as it not un- frequently happens that articles of food, as well as water, are tainted by their combinations, and thus ren- dered pernicious to health, we shall here offer some remarks on this metal. Lead is by no means an unfre- quent ingredient in water, which, according to the custom of this country, is preserved in leaden cis- terns, and conducted through pipes of the same metal; though it does not at all follow, on that or tliis ac- count, the water should be necessa- rily tainted. Where the water con- tains carbonic acid in any quantity, it will be apt to have carbonate of lead suspended in it. It is very rarely the case that lead is in a state of solution in the ■water; so that in examining a suspected water, the sediment as ■\vell as the clear water must be attended to. The best tests for lead are sulphuretted hydrogen, which gives a brownish black pre- cipitate in solutions containing lead; hydriodate of potash forms a ycUow precipitate; sulphate of soda a white one, which heated before the blow- pipe or charcoal, affords a globule of the metal.—See Prussiat^ of Poi-ass. MeUdlic lend is not injiu'ious to the human system, though, as ob- served, it is readily converted into the state of carbonate, by the contact of aerated water, and it is on this principle that we can explain the injurious eft'ects which are frequently produced from drinking water which has remained in reservoire of this metal, or passed through pipes of it. Dr. Yeats, in a paper on the water of Tonbridge Wells, mentions that in 1815, lead colics were very fre- quent in that place. A Mr. Taylor185 LE LE had laid down, in 181-1, several thousand feet of leaden pipes, to con- vey water to the different houses. In the following year the lead colic occurred in those houses to which the water was distributed, and all doubt as to the existence of the poison in it was removed by the exa- mination of Dr. Lambe and Mr. Brande. They detected the carbo- nate in a very minute state in the water. — Brande’s Journal, vol. 14, p. 352. Carbonate of lead is inso- luble in aerated water. It is diffused through it in a very minute state of division, and is very long in sub- siding.—Ibid. vol. 14, p. 240. A case somewhat similar to the above is given of the officers on board a packet bound to the East Indies. They put their allowance of water in a leaden cistern, furnished with a stop-cock, and in about three weeks every one of them was affected with all the symptoms of Devonshire colic, in the most violent degree. These facts prove that water resting in leaden reservoirs, cisterns, or pipes, may become impregnated with it. And there is danger to be ap- prehended from its use, if the quan- tity suspended be sufficiently large. The exemption occasionally expe- rienced is to be attributed to the want of the last; and also to the circumstances that some kinds of water are unable to dissolve or sus- pend the lead. In the Thames water, though it flows in leaden pipes, no lead can be detected in it; and this may be explained by the fact, that the ani- mal matters which constantly accu- mulate in it, prevent any dissolution or suspension of the metal. They combine with it, and form a bulky insoluble precipitate. “ If you add nitrate of lead to Thames water, you will find that it becomes milky, and that a white powder falls to the bot- tom, which dissolves without effer- vescence in nitric acid. It is, there- fore, a combination of o.xide of lead w'ith some animal matter. Thus it is that the impurity of the Thames water prevents it from containing lead. Probably hard waters, con- taining sulphate of lime in solution, may also be free from lead. But with these exceptions, we may lay it down as a general fact, that all waters which pass through leaden pipes contain small particles of car- bonate of lead.”—Dr. T. Thomjjson. Edin. Med. Surg. Journal, vol. 3, p. 423.—See Copper, Culinary Poisons, c5-C. LEGUMES, (seePea,5c).—“Point de legumes point de cuisiniere,” is a famous French culinary adage; and deserves to be so. A better soup may be made with a couple of pounds of meat, and plenty of vege- tables, than our common cooks will make with four times that quantity of meat; all for want of know’ing the uses of soup-roots, and sweet and savoury herbs. LEEKS (Porrum).—The leek is difficult of digestion, and causes fla- tulency. It is of a hot nature, and agrees best in cold weather with aged people of a phlegmatic temperament, and such as are of a gross habit of body, and do not take sufficient exer- cise. Those are best which grow in moist, fat, and marshy ground. Leeks are abundantly sown in kitchen gardens; and are more used for food than physic. Most authors who have written on the leek, make it appear to be rather a jiernicious vegetable; still, though much used among us, we do not find that it produces all the ill effects attributed to it. It is true it is somewhat hard of digestion ; and at other times pro- motes flatulency, from the viscous and gluey phlegm contained in them ; they ought, consequently, to be always well boiled before they arc eaten. Leeks are diuretic, lithontriptic, deobstruent, emmenagogue, apliro- disical, and detersive, according to the ancient writers; and externally applied (the boiled pulpy part) prg-LE 186 LE tnote suppuration. The juice of the leek allays the pains and drummings of the ear. LEMON.—A fruit brought from Spain and Portugal in great plenty. It is cooling and grateftil to the sto- mach, is useful in fevers, and quenches thirst. The yellow rind is a grateful aromatic, and commonly used in sto- machic tinctures and infusions, thus rendering other medicines acceptable both to the palate and stomach. The citron is distinguished from the lemon, in that it is bigger, and its pulp firmer. Distillers, confection- ers, perfumers, &c., apply citrons to various purposes, and obtain from them essences, oils, confections, and waters. Genoa is the greatest nur- sery, which supplies the several parts of Europe with this, as well as with the orange and lemon trees. The lime is by some considered a species of lemon, by others not. It is a much smaller fruit, and in the West Indies is greatly preferred to the lemon, the juice being reckoned wholesomer, and the acid more agreeable to the palate. It is not often brought to England, nor is this fruit much cultivated in Europe. The best season for lemons is from November to March. LEMON JUICE, ARTIFICIAL. —Pyroligneous acid, one pint, white sugar, three quarters of an ounce; dissolve, and add quintessence of lemon peel. LEMONADE.—A pleasant, cool- ing, acid beverage, made by pouring boiling water on sliced lemons, and sweetening to the taste. Lemonade may be made instantly, in the fol- lowing manner: Pound a quarter of an ounce (avoirdupois) of citric acid, i. e. crystallized lemon acid, with a few drops of the quintessence of lemon peel, and mix it by degrees with a pint of clarified syrup, or ca- l)illaire. Sj'rup of lemons may be made as follows: put a pint of fresh lemon juice to a pound and three quarters of lump sugar; dissolve it by a gentle heat, skim it till the sur- face is qidte clear; add an ounce of thin cut lemon peel; let them simmer (very gently) together for a few mi- nutes, and run it through a flannel. When cold, bottle and cork itclosel}', and keep it in a cool place. 1. Lemonade FOR Icing; Orange- ade for Icing.—Rub off the yellow peel of three or four lemons with hard loaf sugar, one ounce; add sugar, four ounces; water, two pints.' Cut the fruits (lemons) in half, and squeeze the juice into the syrup. 2. Lemonade; Lemon Sherbet.— White sugar, five ounces, flavoured by rubbing otf the yellow peel of a lemon; dissolve in two pints of spring water, add the juice of three lemons. In hot countries this drink is apt to produce that much-dreaded scourge, cholera. For Orange Sherbet, use oranges instead of lemons; it is a more wholesome beverage. 3. Lemonade, Portable.—Acid of tartar, one ounce; sugar, six ounces; essence of lemon, ten drops; rub these together, and dinde into twenty-four papers, for a tumbler of water each. Or, take concrete acid of lemons, one ounce; white sugar, four pounds; essence of lemon, two drachms. 4. Lemonade Shrub.—Juice of eight lemons; juice of barberries, three ounces; white sugar, half an ounce; white wine, half a pint; di- luted at pleasure, to make lemonade or sherbet. In hot countries use orange juice, as lemon or lime juice is apt to produce cholera. LENTILS.—Lentils aftbrd indif- ferent nourishment; they cool the blood, and are detei'sive and binding Avhen eaten whole; but laxative when the plain decoction of them is only used. Lemcry says, they produce gross humours, cause obstructions in the bowels, and affect the sight, when used immoderately. They agree best with constitutions of a hot and cho- leric nature. They are mostlj' used in Catholic countries during the time187 LO LE of Lent. There are two sorts of them; the first are small and orbi- cular, thin towards the edges, raised in the middle, round, hard, and flat- tened, white, yellowish, or blackish; and two or three of them together in small pods; the other sort are two or three times larger; and in choos- ing them both, the plumpest are the best, and easiest boiled. LETTUCE (Lactuca).—In conse- quence of the soporiferous and other properties of the lettuce, it ever was, and still continues to be the principal foundation of the universal tribe of salads, which are to cool and refresh. The lettuce, moreover, is so harmless that it may be safely eaten raw even in pieces. Indeed among all the salad materials none are so proper to mingle with any of them, or so wholesome to be eaten alone, as lettuce; and for- merly it rarely happened that any other^salads were served up at tlie best tables, with blanched endive, succory and purslain, at which period sugar and vinegar were the constant con- diments. Lettuce contains many nitrous particles, is very cooling, and useful in the evening to those who cannot sleep, from the too great heat and circidation of the blood. But the copious addition of oil and yolks of eggs renders it less digestible than when eaten in its simple state; and if those must be used, it is better to add some sugar, which decomposes these substances. The most suitable ingredients of salads, besides the lettuce, are the various cresses, cher- vil, and the scurvy grass, which, together with other cooling herbs, reduce the effects of cleansing the umours, or, as some say, of purify- ing the blood, and are at the same time diuretic, especially if eaten in spring, and upon an empty stomach. —See Sulad.s. LEVERET S.—The young of hares, than which they are easier of digestion, and are far more prefer- able.—See Hare. LEVURE.—The yeast and lees of beer, put into canvas bags to drain, and some water added, to assist in carrying off the bitter flavour of the hops. Sent from I'landers to Paris for the use of the bakers. LIAISON.—A finish with j'olks of eggs and cream, for ragouts and sauces. LIVER.—The livers, especially of animals full grown, are hard of digestion, engender gross humours, and are apt to breed obstructions, although they afford nourishment. The livers of younger beasts, espe- cially during the time they are suck- ing, are better and moistcr; and yet they are not exempt from offending weak and delicate stomachs. LOBSTER. — The lobster is an animal of so extraordinary a form that those who first see it are apt to mistake the head for the tail; but it is soon discovered that the animal moves with his claws foremost, and that the part which plays within itself by joints, like a coat of armour, is the tail. The two great claws are the lobster’s instruments of provision and defence ; these, by opening like a pair of nippers, have great strength, and take a firm hold by being notched like a saw. Besides these powerful instruments, the lobster has eight legs, four on each side, and these, with the tail, serve to give the animal its progressive motion. Between the two claws is the animal’s head, very small, and furnished with eyes that seem like two black horny specks; and these it has a power of advancing out of the sockets, and drawing in at plea.sure. The mouth, like that of insects, opens the long way of the body, not cross ways, as with the higher race of animals: it is furnished with two teeth, for the comnuinition of its food; but as these arc not suffi- cient, it has three more in the sto- mach, one on each side, and the other below. Between the two teeth there is a fleshy substance in the shape of a tongue. The intestines consist of one long bowel which188 LO LO reaches from the mouth to the vent; but what this animal differs in from all others, is, that the spinal marrow is in the breast bone. It is furnished with two long feelers or horns, that issue on each side of the head, that seem to correct the dimness of its sight, and ajiprise the animal of its danger or prey. Every lobster is an hermaphrodite, and is supposed to be self-impregnated; the ovary or place where the spawn is first pro- duced is backwards, toward the tail, where a red substance is found, when too full for exclusion. From this receptacle there go two canals, that open on each side at the jointures of the shell, at the belly; and through these passages the spawn is excluded and placed under the tail, where the animal preserves them from danger for some time, until they come to maturity; when, being furnished with limbs and motion, they drop off into the water. When the young lobsters leave the parent they immediately seek for refuge in the smallest clefts of rocks, and crevices, at the bottom of the sea, where the entrance is but small, and the opening can be easily defended. There, without seeming to take any food, they grow larger in a few weeks time, from the mere accidental substances which the water washes to their reti’eats. By this time also they acquii'e a hard, firm shell, which furnishes them with both offensive and defensive armour. They then issue from their fortresses, and boldly creep along the bottom in hopes of meeting with more diminutive plunder; the spawn of fish, the smaller animals of their own kind, but chiefly the worms that keep at the bottom of the sea supply them with plenty. They keep in this manner close among the rocks, busily employed in scratch- ing up the sand with their claws for worms, or surpi'ising such heedless animals as fall within their grasp : thus they have little to apj)rehend except from each other; for in them, as among other sea animals, the lai’ge are formidable enemies to the small. But this life of abundance and security is soon to have a most dan- gerous interruption, for the body of the lobster still continuing to in- crease, while its shell remains in- alterably the same, there comes on a necessity of getting free. The young of this kind, therefore, change their shell oftener than the old, who remain in the same shell often for two years together. In general, however, all these animals change their shell once a year; and this is not only a most painful operation, but a dangerous one. Their molting sea- son is generally about the beginning of summer, at which time their food is in plenty, and their strength and vigour in the highest perfection. For some days before their change, the animal discontinues its usual vora- ciousness, it lies torpid and motion- less as if in anxious e.xpectation of its approaching change. Just before casting its shell it throws itself upon its back, strikes its claws against each other, and every limb seems to trem- ble, its feelers are agitated, and the whole body is in violent motion; it then swells itself in an unusual man- ner, .and at last the shell begins to divide at its junctures, particularly at the junctures of the belly. It also seems turned inside out, and its sto- mach comes away with its shell. After this, by the same operation, it disengages itself of the claws, which burst at the joints; the animal with a tremulous motion casting them off as a man would kick off a boot. Thus in a short time this wonder- ful creature finds itself at liberty, but in so weak and enfeebled a state, that it continues several hours mo- tionless. Indeed so violent is the operation, that many of them die under it. Immediately after this change, they have not only the soft- ness but the timidity of a worm.LO LO 189 Every animal of the deep is then a powerful enemy, which they can nei- ther escape nor oppose ; and this in fact, is the time when the dog-fish, the cod, and the ray, devour them by hundreds. But this imbecility continues only a short time, for the animal in less than two days is seen to have the skin that covered its body grown almost as hard as before; its appetite increases; and strange to be- hold ! the first object that tempts its gluttony is its own stomach, which it so lately was disengaged from, this it devours with great eagerness; and some time after eats even its fonner shell. In about forty-eight hours, in proportion to the animal’s health and strength, the new shell is perfectly formed, and as hard as that which was but just thrown aside. When the lobster is completely equipped in its new shell, it then appears how much it has grown in the space of a very few days; the dimensions of the old shell, being compared with those of the new, it will be found that the creature is increased above a third in size. The creature thus furnished, not only with a new covering, but also a greater share of strength and courage, ventures more boldly among the ani- mals at the bottom, and in its com- bats often suffers mutilation. A joint, or even a small claw, is sometimes snapped offin these encounters. To come off with the loss of a leg, or even a claw, is no great calamity; the victor carries off'the spoil to feast upon at his leisure, while the other retires from the defeat to wait for a thorough repair. This repair is not long in procuring: from the place where the joint of the claw was cut away, is seen in a most surprising manner the renovation of a new claw. This at first is small and tender, but grows in the space of three weeks to be almost as large and as powerful as the old one, but never arrives to the full size; and this is the reason we generally find the claws of the lobsters of unequal magnitude. Of this extraordinary, yet well- known animal, there are many va- rieties, with some differences in the claws, but little in conformation. Some are found above three feet long; and if we may admit the shrimp, and the prawn into the class, though un- furnished with claws, it is seen not above an inch. These all live in the w'ater, and can bear its absence for but a few hours. The shell is black when taken out of the w'ater, but turns I’ed by boiling. The most com- mon way of taking the lobster is in a basket or pot, as the fishermen call it, made of wicker-wood, in which they put some kind of garbage for a bait, and then throw it to the bottom of the sea, in six or ten fathom water. The lobsters creep into this for the sake of the bait, but are not able to get out again. The river crawfish differs little from the lobster, but in size, and that it lives in fresh water, and the other only in the sea. LOBSTERS, To Choose.—If a lobster be fresh the tail will be stiff, and pull up with a spring, but if it be stale the tail will be flabby, and have no spring ; this, however, only concerns lobsters that have been boiled, and it is much better to bu}' them alive and boil them yourself, taking care they are not exhausted by too long keeping. If lobsters have not been long taken the claws will have a quick and strong motion upon squeezing the eye, and the heaviest are esteemed the best. The cock-lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail; the two upper- most fins within his tail are stiff and hard; but those of tbe hen arc soft and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller than the female, has the highest flavour, the flesh firmer, and the body of a rixl- der colour when boiled. Those of a middle size are best. Never take them when the shell is encrusted, it is a sign they arc old.MA 190 MA LOBSTERS, TO Pot.—Take the meat and eggs from the shell; sea- son them with powdered mace, cloves, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and anchovy- liquor. Pound the meat in a marble mortar, and reduce the liquor, hy evaporation, to a thick jelly; then put it and the meat together-, with about one quarter of its weight of butter; mi.x altogether, and press it into a small pot; cover it with melted butter. When it is cold, put paper over the pots, and set them in a dry place. Craw-fish, shrimps, crabs, and prawns, may he potted in the same way. LYMPH.—The liquid contained in the lymphatic vessels.—(See Lym- phatics^. The solid part of the lymph, which may be called clot, has con- siderable analogy with that of the blood. It becomes scarlet red in contact with oxygen gas, and purple when plunged in carbonic acid. The specific gravity of lymph is to that of distilled water as 1022.28:1000.00. Chevi-euil, a French chemist, ana- lysed the lymph of the found it to contain ;— dog, and Water 92G.4 Fibrine 004.2 Albumen 61.0 Muriate of soda . . . 1.1 Carbonate of soda . 1.8 Phosphate of lime Phosphate of magnesia} 0.5 Carbonate of lime Total . . 1000.0 The quantity of lymph in the human body appears to be very great, as the system of the lymphatic vessels forms no small part of it. Its constituent principles appear to he albuminous, water, and a little salt. The lymphatic vessels absorb this fluid from the cellular membrane of the whole body, from all the vis- cera, and the cavities of the viscera or bowels, and convey it to the tho- racic duct (see Thoracic Duct), to he mixed with the chyle (see Chyle), and ultimately to be converted with the latter into blood, for the support of the animal economy; its use being the superfluous nutritious jelly from every part of the bodjq to be con- verted, by the means akeady stated, into the nature of the animal; and, lastly, the lymph has mixed with it the superfluous, aqueous vapour, which is effused into the cavities of the cranium, thorax, abdomen, &c. LYMPHATICS. — The name of the absorbent vessels, can-ying a transparent fluid, termed Imyph, into the thoracic duct from every part of the body. The lymphatic vessels of the human body are small and trans- parent, and originate in part of the system. With the lacteal vessels (see Lacteals) of the intestines, they form what is anatomically termed the absorbent system; and they ter- minate in the thoracic duct. Their office is to take up, or suck in, sub- stances applied to their mouths; for instance, the vapour of circumscribed cavities, and of the cells of the cellu- lar membrane, are removed by the lymphatics of those parts. And in this manner mercurj-, and other sub- stances are conveyed into the system when rubbed on the skin. M. M ACC ARON I.—Maccaroni and vermicelli are made of starch beat up with yolks of eggs and dried. These, as well as the different dishes made of flour mixed up with paste, and either boiled in w-ater or stewed in butter, are all calculated for pa- tients and convalescents, to whom they .are frequently administered. A paste when it is so inelastic that it can be formed into balls, is extremely difficult to be digested. All unfer- mented pastr)' is excessively trying to the stomach; and instead of being191 MA MA a subject of surprise that the lovers of such dainties are continually trou- bled with indigestion and other com- plaints of the stomach, it would be against the order of things if they were otherwise. MACE.—The unctuous membrane enveloping the shell of the fniit whose kernel is the nutmeg. It is of an extremely fragrant, aromatic, and agreeable smell, and of a plea- sant, but acrid, and oleaginous taste. Mace is of an astringent and drying nature, and is used as a corrector in cardiac and cathartic compositions. Its general qualities are nearly simi- lar to those of the nutmeg, with the exception of its sitting easier on the stomach.—See Nutmeg. MACK.VREL.—The mackarel is a summer fish of passage, that %dsits our coasts m immense shoals, from the Mediterranean. Being very ten- der and unfit for keeping, and the periods of its arrival rather uncer- tain, the legislature on these accounts allow it to be sold publicly on Sun- days. Law ordered that Sunday should have rest, And that no nymph her noisy food should sell. Except it were new milk or mackarel. The form of the mackarel is very elegant, and when alive nothing can surpass the brilliancy or beauty of its colours, which death greatly im- pairs, but does not obliterate. It loses its life as soon as it leaves the water; and the fresher it is the bet- ter. The roe of the male is soft like the brains of a calf; that of the female is full of small eggs, and called hard roe. To make Mackarel-roc Boil the roes of mackarel (the soft roes are best), bruise them with a spoon with the yolk of an egg, beat up with a very little pepper and salt, and some fen- nel and parsley boiled and chopped very fine, mixed with about half a pint of thin melted butter; mush- room ketchup, walnut pickle, or soy, may be added. Fennel and Butter for Mackarel, —Wash some fennel very clean, and pick it carefully sprig by sprig; put a tea-spoonful of salt into half a pint of boiling water, boil the fennel about ten minutes, drain it in a sieve, mince it quite fine, and then bruise it to a pulp. For mackarel sauce or boiled soles, some cooks take equal parts of fennel and parsley; others add a sprig of mint, or a couple of young onions choj)ped very fine. MADE DISHES.—As this is a very important subject, connected with culinary operations, it may not be irrelevant to lay down some gene- ral hints. Under this consideration, it is an important point to take care that all the copper vessels be well tinned, and kept perfectly clear from any foulness or grittiness. Before you put eggs or cream into your white sauce, see that all the ingre- dients are well boiled, and the whole of a proper thickness, for neither eggs nor cream will contribute much to thicken it. After these are put in, do not stir them with a spoon, nor set your pan on the fire, lest it should gather at the bottom and be limpy, but hold your pan at a proper height from the fire, and keep shak- ing it round one way, which will keep the sauce from curdling, and be particularly cautious that you do not suffer it to boil; remember to take out your collops, or whatever you are dressing, with a fish-slice, and strain your sauce upon it, which will prevent small bits of meat mix- ing with the sauce, and thereby leave it clear and fine. — See Culinary Poisons. In browning dishes, be particular that no fat floats on the top of your gravy, which will be the case if you do not properly skim it. It should be of a fine brown, without any one predominant taste, which must de- pend upon the judicious proportion in the mixture of your various ingre-MA MA 192 dientsi If you make use of wine or anchovy, take off its rawness by put- ting it in some time before your dish is ready; for nothing injures the re- putation of a made-dish so much as raw w'ine or fresh anchovy. Be sure to put your fried force-meat balls to drain on a sieve, that the fat may run from them ; and never let them boil in your sauce, as that will soften them, and give them a greasy ap- pearance : to put them in after the meat is dished up is indisputably the best method. In almost every made- dish you may use force-meat balls, molds, truffles, artichokes, bollines, and pickled mushrooms; and in several made-dishes a roll of force- meat may supply the place of balls, and when it can be used with pro- priety it is to be preferred. Broivning, to colour and flavour Made Dishes.—Powder four ounces of double refined sugar, put it into an iron frying pan with an ounce of fresh butter, mix these well over a clear fire, and when it begins to froth, hold it up higher; when it comes of a fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port wine, and afterwards the remainder, slowly and judiciously stirring it all the time. Add one ounce of Ja- maica, and the same quantity of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blocks of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same of walnut, ketchup, some acid, and the finely paired rind of a lemon; boil the whole slowly for the space of fifteen minutes and a half, pour it out into a basin till cold, skim it, and bottle it up for use. It is not an uncommon thing at many tables, where every thing else is done well, to find very indifi’erent stuffing; no one flavour should pre- dominate too much: a common fault is, tluit the taste of lemon peel and thyme overcomes all others, they should, consequently, be used in small quantities, and be consistent enough to cut witli a knife, but not dry and heavy; herbs are a very essential ingredient, and it is not the copious but judicious use of them that gives to the French cookery its superior eminence in point of flavour. The ■principal ingredients in Force- meats, are—Cold fowl, veal, mutton, scraped ham, or gammon. Fat bacon, or the fat of ham, beef-suet, veal- suet, butter, marrow, crumb of bread, parsley, white pepper, salt, nutmeg. Cold sole, oysters, anchovy, lob- ster, tarragon, savoury, penny-royal, knotted-niaijoram, thyme, lemon thyme, basil, sage, lemon-peel, yolk of hard eggs, yolk and white of eggs well beaten, to bind the mixture. Mace, cloves, cayenne, garlick, pepper, shalots, onions, drives, chervil, Jamaica pepper finely pow- dered, or some cloves. MADEIRA.—The wine thus called is the produce of Madeira, a beautiful and fertile island, situated in the Atlantic Ocean. The wines of Madeira are greatly improved bj' the heat of the sun, and therefore acquire a considerable augmentation of price, by being conveyed across the Equator previousl}' to their ar- rival in England. — See Spanish Wines. MADELEINES.—Cakes, made of the same composition as pound cakes. MAIGRE, (.\o). An Maigre.— Soups, &c., dressed without meat. MALAG.-V.— See Spanish Hines. MALLOW.—This plant is suffi- cientl}^ known to need no descrip- tion. The entire plant, that is, leaves, flower, and root, contains much mu- cilage, and are demulcent in stran- gury, catarrh, inflammation of the lungs, and dysentary. The decoc- tion may be taken ad libitum. MALMSEY.—This wine was for- merly the produce of Candia, the islands in the Archipelago, and the Morea, in Greece; but is now chiefly brought from Madeira, and some from Spain. It is a sweet winej MMA MA 193 a golden, or brownish yellow colour, and to tliis is applied an Italian pro- verb,—“ Manna to the mouth, and balsam to the brain.” Malmsey is supposed to have received its name from Malvasia, a small island, east of the Morea, a peninsula in Turkey in Europe. The French call this \vine Malvoisac. The Duke of Cla- rence, brother to Edward IV., is said to have been, at his own request, drowned in the tower, in a butt of malmsey. MALT. — Barley cui-ed, or pre- pared for making a potable liquor, under the name of beer or ale. Bar- ley is converted into malt by being steeped in water and fermented, and then dried on a kiln, which is a sort of stove so constructed as to admit heat for the purpose of dicing any thing. It is a wholesome and nutritious grain, containing a soft, balsamic, oleaginous essence, highly agreeable to the palate, and healthful to the constitution; but by no means in- toxicating, except when used in very large quantities. It may be made from any species of barley soaked in water for two or three days, or until the water turns reddish, then drain- ed, spread about two feet thick on a floor, where it heats, and emits its root or spike : it is then spread thinner for two or three days, then heaped up anew until it heats again, finally dried in a kiln, and the roots separated by screening. Five pounds of spring barley produce about four of malt. Malt is used to make an altera- tive, analeptic infusion, and its de- coction is fermented to form beer and ale. The exhausted malt left from brewing, called grains, is used in London as food for cows, to whose milk it communicates a peculiar fla- vour, and a tendency to putrcsce. Pale malt is the most nutritious, be^g, from the tender method of drying it, nearest to the original barley-corn. It likewise contains more of the alkaline and balsamic qualities than the brown malt, which, enduring greater heat in the kiln, is sometimes so crushed and burnt, that its mealy parts lose a great poi'- tion of its essential salts and vital properties. Amber malt is that which is dried in a middle state be- tween pale and brown, and is now much in use, being the most plea- sant and free of either extremes. Patent malt is kept heated to 430° F., until it acquires a dark cho- colate colour. It is used to colour beer: one pound, with seventy-nine of pale malt, gives the colour and flavour of porter. The pale malt is esteemed of all others the most nutritious, as being more closely allied to its original bailey-corn, in consequence of being more slowly and slackly dried, by means of a leisure fire, and a suffi- cient time allowed it on the kiln, and due care taken of it during the whole process. The flour of the grain re- mains in due quantity, and it pro- duces a greater strength of wort than the brown high-dried malt, conse- quently it fetches a better price in the market. The amber-coloured malt is that which is dried in a me- dium degree, between the pale and the brown; and is very much used, as being free from either extreme. Its colour is pleas.ant, its taste agree- able, and its nature wholesome, which is preferred by many, as the best kind of malt. This is browed by some cither with hard or soft water, or with both. The broimi mall is the soonest and highest dried of any. It is even dried so liard that it is diffi- cult to bite some of its corn asunder, and is often so crusted, or burnt, that the mealy part loses a great deal of its essential j)roperties, which fre- quently deceives the ignorant brewer, who hopes to draw as much drink from a quarter of this, as he does from the same quantity of the paler or amber sorts. This malt is thought by some to occasion the gravel and sMA MA 194 stone, as well as the heart-burn; of this, however, there is no truth, though it may not be so healthy to those who are predisposed to, or la- bouring under, any of these com- plaints. Pale and amber malts, dried with coke or culm, obtain a more clear, bright, piile colour than if dried with any other fuel, from the absence of smoke produced with these fuels. Brown malts are dried with straw, wood, and fern. The straw-dried is ))referable to that dried with wood, the smoke of which communicates to it an almost insupportable flavour which few can relish; though it is apt to part with it in time, in con- junction with the strength and the great quantity of the hops that are used in its preservation. The fern- dried malt labours under the same inconvenience of the smoke from this vegetable, wdth which many quarters of malt are dried, on ac- count of its cheapness and plenty. MALT-LIQUORS.—Having ad- verted to the different products of malt-liquors, namely. Ale, Beer, Porter, to which we refer, we now ])Vo))ose to offer some obseiwations, founded on general experience, touching the nutritive as well as me- dicinal properties of these liquors. Fermented liquors drank at proper times, and in moderate quantity, are allowed to bo both proper and neces- sary for those who perform laborious w'orks; but the salutary proportion of these drinks is too apt to be ex- ceeded, when opportunities occur, by people whose gratifications are few in number, and of rare occur- rence. As it is impracticable to prevent such excesses altogether, we would suggest that, if they must take place, malt-liquor is found by experience, when good and unadul- terated, to be much less injuidous to the health and constitution, than di.stilled or ardent spirits. It was the practice once (whether it be so now or not, to the same extent, we cannot positively say) of farmers, from a principle of economy, to treat their servants, and those with whom they are associated, with spirits and water, instead of malt liquor. Should, however, such a practice now exist, it ought by all means to be discou- raged, as spirits are much more in- flammatory than malt drinks, and produce more readily obstructions and inflammatory disorders, espe- cially of the liver and mysentery. The temporary delirium of intoxica- tion that they produce, is said to be much more violent and dangerous than that which follows from taking too hu-ge a quantity of malt liquor. A volume, in fine, of useful pre- cepts, might be written on the sub- ject of malt liquor, as it regards the health of those who use it. We shall, however, confine ourselves to a few general observations, inter- mixed with the results of some sci- entific experiments, by which the reader who values his health may derive both benefit and information. Now, the effects of alcohol or spi- rit, under whatever form it may be taken into the stomach—whether in the form of Wine, Spirits, or Malt- liquors, is, to act upon the nerves, and through the medium of the nerves on the brain, first producing a gene- rous tide of cheerfulness, and gaiety, and hilarity; and secondly, a lan- guid, listless, and not always un- pleasant state of weariness, or kind of half-stupefaction. If the potations have been more copious than mode- rate, the brain and nerves are jiut upon the stretch, from which they seldom recover, without producing severe head-aches, and uncomfort- able sensations about the regions of the stomach and liver. If these po- tations be often repeated, they come, of course, to produce diseased affec- tions of the nerves, brain, stomach, and liver, which will resist curative means in the e.xact ratio of the length of time they have existed in the con- stitution. I3ut if genuine malt liquor195 MA MA be taken in moderation, tlie gentle excitement it communicates to the nerves will give strength to the body, and rouse the mind to vigoi-ous activity; it will impart health to the blood, and give to the skin all the freshness of youth. In w'eak and emaciated constitutions, provided there exist no organic affections, the stomach and bowels not deranged, nor the mind fretful, it will often, when taken in small quantities, pro- duce both strength and plumpness. Such are the effects of mere malt spirit, without the addition of hops, or the presence of acid, which will be immediately considered. The following results of experi- ments made by Mr. Brande, will enable our readers to judge of the quantities of spirit contained in the different sorts of malt liquors. In Burton ale, he found almost nine parts in the hundred to be spirit; in Dorchester ale, about the same; in brown stout, a little less; in Edin- burgh ale, about six or seven parts in the hundred; in London porter, about four or five; and in small beer, only from one to tw'o parts of spirit in the hundred. It hence appears, that Burton and Dorchester ales are by far the strongest in spirit, and that, therefore, they ought to be used in small quantities, and with much caution, while London porter and beer, (so far as the spirit contained in them may be concerned), may be drank in almost any quantity, w'ith- out much risk or injury. The hops, which form a principal ingredient in malt liquor, from their strong narcotic quality, tend in some measure, it may he presumed, to allay and keep in check the hilarity of the mind jiroduced by the malt- spirit.—(See Hops.) So far, then, our health is in little danger from these ingredients (malt and hops); but it is not so with other accidental, as well as intentional principles; by the first, or accidental, is meant the acid which is always more or less present in all malt liquors, and con- stitutes the tart flavour called hard- ness. This acid is not an addition of fraud or adulteration, but arises dur- ing the fermenting process. When taken into the stomach, it has the effect of leaven; a small portion leavens the whole mass of food and drink in the stomach, and makes it sour, and consequently produces heart-burn, vitiated bile, nausea, headach, and either constipation or a too relaxed state of the bowels, ac- cording to circumstances, the quan- tity consumed, and the strength of the constitution to resist it. It is this acid which is the chief cause of gout, rheumatism, gravel, stone, &c. To avoid these, all malt liquors should be drank as mild as possible, when the deleterious acid is in small quantity. A few grains of the carbon- ate of soda will correct this acidity; and where any of the consequences arise, some alkaline purge may be taken, as the best remedy. Capsicum and grains of paradise are used to give a pungent taste to weak beer; but, to avoid detection, the brewers mostly use the concen- trated tinctures; and ginger, cori- ander seed, and orange peel, are used to flavour it: besides these, opium, cocculus Indicus, mix vo- mica, tobacco, and extract of poppies, are used to increase the into.xicating qualities. Quassia is employed, in- stead of hops, as a bitter; hut as thip does not precipitate the mucilage, the beer soon grows muddy, unless kept very cool. Mild, or new beer, is made to taste like stale, by adding a little oil of vitriol, or some alum; and, on the other hand, stale or sourish beer is made to resemble mild, by neutralising the acid by means of oyster shells, chalk, and other alkalious substances. 'file presence of the sulphate of iron (see Iron, Sulphate of) may be detected in malt liquor, by a strong solution of galls (see Galls), which, dropped into the suspected article will turn it of a black colour, and afterwards dejiosit a black scdimetil19G MA MA if iron be held in solution; and, wliich is a much move delicate test, prussiate of potass, or ferro-cyanate of potass, a few drops of the solu- tion of it dropped in the suspected beer, will, if iron be present in the most minute state, give a blue-green- ish colour in the menstnjum. When jjroperly fermented, well hopped, and of moderate strength, malt liquors are wholesome, nutri- tive, and refreshing. It has been observed, that those who drink sound malt hquors, are stronger than those who drink wine; and to those wljo are trained to boxing, and other athletic exercises, old home-brewed beer is particularly recommended, drawn from the cask and not bottled. Hence Jackson the pugilistic trainer, asserts, that, if any person accus- tomed to drink wine, would but try jTialt liquor for a month, he would find himself so much the better for it that he would soon take to the one and abandon the otlier. Good home- brewed beer has been styled the Vi- num BriUnmiciim, or British wine— also liquid bread. Indeed, it is a sub- ject of much regret that so few fami- lies in this kingdom brew their own drink, but put up with the half-fer- mented, adulterated wash formed in public houses, or with the no less adulterated stuff called porter, sub- ject to the frauds of the brewers, and the ulterior sophistications and bad management of the uiqjrincipled pub- lican. Small beer is best calculated for table use, or to allay thirst, being less heating and stimulating than other malt liquors. Wlien drank soft and mild, after being thoroughly I'er- mented and purified, it forms an ex- cellent diluent with food, especially at meals. Sydenliam was in the habit of using it in this manner, both at dinner and suj)per, and he justly con- sidered its being well hopped a great advantage. It is doubtless the best fermented drink that can be used at meals by persons in the middle and up])er ranks in life, who are in the habit of drinking wine after dinner. And as it abounds with fixed air, it is the most useful diluent for labourers, because it cools the body, abates thirst, and, at the same tune, stimidates, in a moderate degree, the animal powers; but when stale and hard it is unwholesome to everybody. Sound strong beer is a most use- ful drink to the weak, the lean, and the labourer, provided they are not very subject to flatulenc}^ nor troubled with disorders of the breast. If taken in moderate quantity, and of the best quality, it will be found of great service to the invalid in restoring his strength and spirits. Bottled beer is always more flatulent than that drawn from the cask. Strong ale is the most nutritive of all malt liquors, but being digested with greater difficulty than the other sorts,, it cannot be taken with such safety but by tliose who are strong, and who use much active exercise. The best ale is made from fine pale malt, and with hops of the finest quality. It should sparkle in the glass, and the smaller the bubbles the better. Pure ale drinkers are among the healthiest and freshest- looking subjects of our population- such as our country gentlemen and wealthy farmers. On the authority of Sir Lucas Pepys, Edinburgh ale is pronounced to be the superb liquor for those whose constitutions have been weakened by the gout; and the late Di-. Gregory of Edinburgh, recommended it in indigestion, and by its means, with intermediate la.xa- tives, to keep the bowels open ; Ur. Marshal Hall has successfully treated many cases of weakness.* In fine, • In our endeavours to procure a well-brewed and wholesome malt liquor for nutralive and lestorativepurposes, in certain constitutions, it was our good foitune to be directed to hit. Barnes’, 17, Cullum Street, who keeps some of the best London and Edinburgh bottled ales, porters, &c., in the metropolis—old, pure, and free from every kind of adul- teration.—Ed.MA 197 MA in some cases of general weakness, where the individual is evidently re- covering, and is possessed of a toler- able share of strength and stomach, we have found a little of the finest ale daily to be an excellent restorative. The age of malt liquors is the last thing by which they are rendered more or less wholesome.* Age, has apparently in this respect, the same effect as hops; and those liquors that are kept longest are evidently the least viscid. But this is generally de- termined by their degree of strength, in proportion to which, they will sooner or later come to their full perfection, as well as decay; for when ale or beer is kept till its particles are broken, and communicated as far as they are capable, then it is that they are at the highest state of per- fection ; and beyond this they will be continually on the decay, till the finer spirits have entirely escaped, leaving the remainder sour and va]>id. MALT SPIRIT.—Made by mix- ing sixty quarters of barley grist ground low, and twenty quarters of coarse-ground pale malt, with 250 barrels of water-, at about 17° F. taking out about thirty barTels of the wort, and adding to this ten store of fresh porter yeast, and when the remaining wort is cooled down to 55° adding ten quarters more malt, previously mixed with thirty barrels of wann water, stirring the whole well together, and putting it to fer- • Mr. Reynoldson, in his'J’reatise on -Malting, remarks, that when ale was exported to Russia, the more wealthy of the inhabitants of that country selected the most rich as their choicest diink; and they had a peculiar mode of distin- guishing its quality; for by pouring a little into the palm of one hand and rub- bing it with the other, they, by the odour it emitted, ascertained its goodness. The best, say they, sends forth a rich odour, like an assemblage of flowers ; but if any adventitious flavour has been contracted, they could detect it by this method, and then estimated the quality accordingly. ment along with the reserved yeasted wort. This wash, by the saccharo- meter, will befound to weigh 28-32 lb. per barrel, more than water. In the course of twelve or fourteen days, the yeast head will fall quite flat, and the wash will have a venous smell and taste, and not weigh more than 2-4 lb. per barrel, more than water. Some now add twenty pounds of common salt, and thirty pounds of flour, and in three or four days put it into the still, previously stir- ring it well together. It is estimated that every six gallons of this wash will produce one gallon of spirit at 1 to 10 over proof, or eighteen gal- lons of spirit from each quarter of grain.—Gray’s Siqrplement. In Holland, they fii'st mix ten quarters of rye meal with a small quantity of cold water, and then add as much boiling water as is necessary to make a thin mash, and set it to ferment with a small quantity of yeast; about the third day they add three quarters of malt meal previously mixed with warm water, and as much yeast as at first, stirring the whole well together; this wash weighs only eighteen pounds per barrel more than water, and sometimes less: their stills are from 300 to 500 gallons each, and they draw in the first dis- tillation, three cans of phlegm after the runnings cease to burn on the still head, and five cans when dis- tilling lotu wines. MANGEL WURZKL {Root of Scarcity).—The following account of the mangel wurzcl, or root of scarcity, is extracted from a pam- phlet, translated from the French of the Abbe do Coimnerellf, by the late Dr. Lettsom, who, in an advertise- t The Abl)6 de Coinmerell observes, when speaking of the general utility of this root, that, “ in years of scarcity, it will afford to men a healthful and agree- able food, and, when forage is scarce or dear, will furnish cattle, both in summer and winter, with a cheap and abundant nourishment.” s 3MA MA 198 ment prefixed to this pamphlet, observes that in the Midsummer of 1786, a few seeds were given him, said to he those of a dietetic vegetable known in France under the name of the racine de disette. As he was then ignorant of its cultivation and qualities,, he planted the seeds in light earth, which was then placed in his hot-house. They vegetated in about a week, and in the space of two months had acquired stalks of the thickness of a goose-quill, w’hen they were tran'Sjjlanted into the open air. Although this w'as in Septem- ber, they continued to increase ra- pidly, and preserved their verdure throughout the winter. In this sea- son he plucked off some of the leaves, and had them boiled for the table; they were of a fine green colour, lighter than spinach, and something like it in taste, with a flavour some- what resembling that of asparagus. At this period. Dr. Lettsom took up three roots, each about four ounces in weight, which, after boiling, eat very much like parsnips, and had the same shape of the roots. So much had Dr. Lettsom expe- rienced of the cultivation and use of this vegetable, when the Abbe de Commerell’s account of it fell into his hands ; a translation of which he immediately procured, and publislied, in order to difiUse the knowledge of so beneficial an article of diet. “Though this country,” says the Doctor, “ does not spontaneously pro- duce any great variety of vegetables ]iroj)er for the table, yet by the intro- duction of foreign products, and the arts of culture, it nourishes in its bo- som, at this time, the greatest and most useful varieties of fruits, and other dietetic vegetables, in the world. 1 conceive, however, every additional article of nourishment, especially like this almost incredibly abundant, and at the same time salutary both to the human and brute species, must, like the potatoc which Raleigh brought from America, prove an interesting acquisition to the public. I calcu- late, from the product of my garden, that a square yard of ground, planted with mangel wurzel, w'ill yield fifty pounds in weight of salutary food; an abundance equalled by few, if any other plant hitherto cultivated in Europe. “ The last winter was unusually mild; during the w'hole of which, this vegetable retained its verdure, as has been already observed: and as it has never experienced any other winter here, I cannot determine what efiect a severe season might produce. I remarked, that the new shoots aug- mented by plucking "the leaves of a preceding growth; and that even the stalks that shot into flow'er in June 1787, and were accidentally broken off, were replaced by fresh stalks and flowers in the succeeding month; less strong, indeed, but more numerous.” The Abb6 de Commerell says, that this root is not known in France, or at least very little. It has no proper name in French, and he has not been able to find a description of it in any botanical work. In Germany, where the greatest advantages have been derived from it, it is called Dick Ruben (the Great Turnip); Dick Wurzel (the Great Root); and Man- gel Wurzel (the Root of Scarcity). He uses the last denomination, the Root of Scarcilg, because it is a literal translation of the name often given to it by the Germans, and be- cause it is expressive of the proper- ties of the plant which it denotes. It might, indeed, be called the Root of Abujidunce, which would be no great deviation from the German name, and which would be expressive of one of the princijuil propei'ties of this plant; which is, constantly to thrive, and to produce a very great crop, even when other kinds of roots and vegetables fail, and when there is a general senreit}' of forage. This root ought not to be put into the class of turnips, nor into that of carrots; and although by its exter-MA MA 199 nal appearance, and its seed, it very much resembles the beet-root, it is superior to it in every respect, and appears to form a distinct species. Its culture is so easy, its advantages so numerous, and it will answer so completely the purposes of any other forage, that it seems to him to deserve to be adopted every where, and to have the preference, even in the best years, over all other roots with which beasts are nourished. It may be planted in open fields, and in lanes ; it Avill succeed in all lands, and espe- cially in those that are moist and light. If in hard and clayey grounds it is prevented from making its way far into the earth, it will extend itself horizontally, and it will produce above the surface that which the nature of the soil hinders from being produced beneath it. This most valuable root is not affected by the vicissitude of the sea- sons, and has no destructive enemy; the insects and vermin, which make ravages on all other kinds of vege- tables, neither touch nor injure it. It is not attacked by blasting or mil- dew, and the greatest drought does not affect its vegetation ; it does not injure the soil that nourishes it; but prepares it to receive, before the win- ter, the corn and other seeds which may be intended to be deposited in it. In order to induce persons to en- gage in the cultivation of a root so valuable, and to cause it to succeed in all hands, the Abbe points out the time and the manner of sowing, transplanting, and cultivating it, and of gathering in the leaves; which succeed each other, without ceasing, in the greatest abundance, and which are higldy useful, especially for horned cattle. He then treats of the croj) of roots, of the manner of preserving them, and of the method and time of replanting them, in order to obtain seed; in what manner the roots are to be pi-eparcd for nourishing and fattening large cattle, and even for rearing young calves, that the owners are desirous of weaning soon after their being calved. But for these par- ticulars we must necessarily refer to the pamphlet itself. In the mean time, we shall extract some farther observations respecting the peculiar excellencies of this root. Oxen, cows, and sheep, readily eat the leaves, they nourish them, and they are even fattened by them. They are given to them entire, as they come from the field. Poidtry will eat them, when cut small, and mixed with bran. Even horses will like these leaves very well, and may be fed with them during the winter. Nothing more is necessary for this purpose, but to cut them small, with a proper instrument. Milch cows, and which is intended to continue as such, may, without the least inconvenience, eat of these leaves, for their whole nourishment, during eight, and even to fifteen fol- lowing days. From the vei-y first days, they will give a greater quan- tity of milk, and cream of the very best quality; but if they should be continued to be fed with this forage only, it would soon be apparent that they fattened at a surprising rate ; in a short time the milk will dimi- nish, and the substance turn entirely to fat. These leaves produce the same efl'ect on sheep and oxen ; from whence a judgment may be formed of the groat facility with which they may be fattened, by this species of nourishment alone. The leaves of this root will also afford to men a wholesome and agreeable food ; they have not an earthy taste, like beets; their taste resembles that of the Cardan d’ Es- pagne, and they may be eaten in the same manner. They may be dressed in different ways; they are consi- dered as a kind of spinach, and are j)referrcd to it by many persons; they may be eaten from the sj)ring to the month of November; by their continual re-production, and greatMA 200 MA abundance, they are liighly useful to farmers, to country people, and in all houses in which there are many servants. The roots, when dressed, tliey may eat themselves in the win- ter; and they may be dressed many ways. The root of scarcity is a very good root, of an agreeable taste, much superior to the red heet, and at least equal to the turnip. Besides these advantages, the root of scarcity also possesses many others; particularly, the certainty of an abundant crop, however intem- perate may he the seasons. If this root be cultivated, it will not be necessary that cattle should pasture in the meadows, and eat the produce of them during the summer; but all the grass which the meadows produce, may then be converted into hay. How much, indeed, may they not sell of it, since, even during the winter, they may at least save two- thirds of it? And, in short, as the root of scarcity will I'ender it easy to feed beasts in the stable during the whole year, this circumstance will also greatly increase the quantity of dung, which is so necessary in agri- ciUture. In consequence of these advan- tages, forage may always be kept at a moderate price; for this root yields a much greater produce than other kinds of forage, and surpasses them even in those years in which they are tlie most favourable. When this I'oot is become sufficiently known, culti- vators will undoubtedly prefer it to all the other kinds of forage. “ The numerous experiments,” concludes the Abb6, “ that I have made, especially in the year 1785, relative to the culture, the produce, and the use of the root of scarcity, have convinced me, that it deserves to obtain a decided preference over all other roots, and even over tur- nips. Whether I am partial, or en- thusiastic in my attachment to it, may be determined by considering the reasons which I am now about to enumerate.” Recapitulation. 1. This kind of root may be eaten by men during the whole year: it is agreeable and wholesome, and does not cause flatulencies, as turnips do. 2. As the root of scarcity is not attacked by the catei-pillar, or by any other insect, its success is certain every where: it suffers nothing from the vicissitude of the seasons. Nei- ther our own turnips, nor those of England, possess these advantages. 3. The leaves of the root of scar- city afford an excellent food for all kinds of cattle, during four months in the year ; whilst turnips produce leaves only once a year, and even then are tough, and injured by insects. 4. The root of scarcity may be well preserved during eight months in the year, and is not subject to become rotten, as is the case with turnips; which, from the end of March, become stringy, tough, and pongy. 5. There is no kind of turnips which ever succeeds perfectly; they often fail entirely, especially in hard lands; they require a light, good, and sandy soil; but the root of scar- city will succeed every where; the cultivators of different kinds of lands may be equally assured of success ; and farmers and labourers may be greatly benefited by tins resource. 6. The milk produced by cows who have hecn nourished for some days together with turnips, contracts a taste like tallow, or strong, sour, and disagreeable ; but those who are fed with the root of scarcity, produce both milk and butter of an excellent quality. This excellent forage will afford subsistence to all kinds of cattle, and especially at that time when grass, so useful and necessary to cattle, is yet scarce ; and it will be seen, by their vigour and their sleekness, how much it has contributed to their health. “The root of scarcity is never disliked by cattle; they eat it alwaysMA MA 201 with the same avidity, and the same pleasure ; and they have nothing to fear from those unhappy accidents, which sometimes result from the use of turnips. How much is it to be wished that these united advantages, which are founded upon constant experience, may destroy that dis- trust, and those prejudices, wliich this new root may, perhaps, at first inspire among the French; for it is only in some provinces in Germany, in which it is cultivated with the greatest success, that the preference is given to it over every other kind of fodder, and in which it is em- ployed for fattening the greater part of those herds of cattle, which are every year brought for sale into this kingdom. “ I shall esteem myself happy, if the truths which I have stated should encourage the cultivation of a root, which may increase the riches of the state, and contribute to the ease, and to the happiness of the people.” MANGO.—Tile fruit of a large tree, growing in the Isle of Java, and other parts of the East Indies; but according to Major Campbell, Goa produces the best mangoes in the world (see Journey, part 111, p. 2.3). They are brought into Eu- rope either candied or pickled. In the latter case they are opened with a knife, and the middle filled up with fresh ginger,garlick,mustard and salt, with oil or vinegar. This fruit when ripe, is eaten by the natives, with or without wine, or macerated in wine. The bark and gum of the tree are also used medicinally ; and the stalks calcined are said to take away warts. MANNA.—The concrete juice of tlie ash, growing in Sicily and the southern parts of Europe. Briaii9on manna is esteemed the best. A si- milar juice may be obtained from the larch tree. It exudes from every part of the tree; but for a more abundant supply, incisions are made through the bark, whence it flows more freely, and is soon inspissated by the sun’s heat. The whitest, lightest, purest, dryest, and that which has a crystalline appearance when broken, a sweet taste, and rather biting to the tongue, is to be preferred, 'riiis is called flake manna, to distinguish it from a coarse com- mon sort. It contains much sac- charine principle, mucilage, and aroma. It is a medicinal drug of great use in common practice as a gentle purgative, from one ounce to one and a half; it is, however, by no means, alone, a good purgative for adults, although it enters very well into combinations. It is very use- ful for children who are habitually costive, where there is not much glairy matter containing calomel. With an equal quantity of the oil of almond, and the addition of a little water, it forms an useful emulsion in cases where opium is necessary, as it prevents costiveness in the teeth- ing and pulmonary complaints of children. Manna is classed among the num- ber of gums. The peasants of Mount Libanus, in Syria, it is said, eat manna ordinarily, as others do ho- ney; and at Mexico they have a manna which they eat as we do cheese. It is sometimes counter- feited by compositions of sugar, honey, and purgative materials. M .'V N N A-G R A S S. {Fcstucca fluilam).—So called in Germany and Poland, because its seeds have a re- markably sweet and .agreeable taste, particularly before the plant comes to its full growth. It excels in rich- ness and nutriment all the other ve- getable productions in Europe; and, boiled in milk, it affords excellent soups as well as puddings. Two ounces of this manna, properly cook- ed in milk and water, would be a sufficient meal for the most robust and Laborious man. Roiled in water alone, in the proj)ortion of one ounce to three pints of water evaporated to one quart, with the addition of some sugar and while wine, it makes202 MA MA an agi-eeable and nourishing diet for lying-in women and other patients for whom animal food is improper, and whose situation requires the oc- casional stimulus of wine. MARINADE. —A prepared pickle for meat, &c. MARJORAM, {Origanum, L.)— There are four different species of marjoram cultivated, all of which grow in gardens: namely, the pot, sweet, winter, and common; all of which, hut especially the first three, are aromatics of sweet flavour, much used as relishing herhs in soujis, hroths, stuffings, &c. The young, tender tops and leaves, together, are used in summer in a green state; and they are dried for winter. Marjoram is cephalic, fortifies the nerves, and comforts the hraiu. Tlie powdered herh is used as snuff in affections of the head; and the leaves as fomentations. It is also used in certain cases to give animal suh- stances a higher flavour. It increases the animal spirits, though when used to excess, it produces heat and raises the pulse. It agrees in cold wea- ther with melancholy and phlegmatic constitutions, and such as have a difficult or laborious digestion. The tops of all sorts of marjoram are to he gathered, for summer use, when they are in full bloom, in July or August, for preservation through the winter. MARROW.—The marrow of ani- mals, used in moderation, is nutri- tious and strengthening. If used too freely by weak and impaired sto- machs, it blunts the appetite and deranges the stomach. Marrow pud- dings arc esteemed a great luxury; and when properly made, are cer- tainly an exquisite dish for strong digestive organs, though it is by uo means adapted for the sick or con- valescent. MARSII-TREEOIL, Buckhean, or Bogbean, {Menyanthes trifoUala). —A plant with large oval leaves, pointed at each end like those of the garden bean, set three together as long pedicles, which embrace the stalk at some height, and, there parting, they leave it naked to near the top, where issues forth a short spike of pretty large reddish-white monapetalous flowei-s, each of which is cut into five segments, hairy on the inside, and followed by an oval- seeded vessel. It is perennial; is exceedingly common in most places, and flowers in May. The leaves have a bitter taste, which they im- part to water and spirit. It is said to cure the rot in sheep. Of all the mild and excellent tonics and stomachics, it is one of the best: the infusion creates an appetite, strengthens the digestive organs, and gives a sensation of strength to the whole system. In want of appetite from mere want of tone, nervous headach, intermittents, &c., it is very useful, and particu- larly in scurvy. Boerhaave relieved himself of the gout by the fresh juice mixed with houey. And a drachm of the powder two or three times a day has expelled worms; hut every tonic that gives vigour and strength to the intestines will do the same, namely, act as an anthelmintic. It has been employed in the place of hops, openly, on the Continent, and privately (at one time) as has been said, in this country. The leaves were collected when mature, and dried in the shade to preserve their colour. They were then boiled and skimmed, to free them from their e.xcess of roughness; and the re- maining extract was preserved and put into the fermenting tun in such proportions as the brewer judged proper, or as his druggist chose to direct. These leaves have very nearly the flavour of the hop; and an ounce of the former is said to he equivalent to half a pound of the latter. It should he observed, how- ever, for the guidance of any one who shall dare to use them, that, although they stand recommendedME ME 203 in the modern Pharmacopoeias, the quantity of a drachm taken in pow- der “ purges and vomits” MASK. — In the culinary art, mask implies to cover completely. MASTICATION.—The act of chewing the food. The aliment be- ing taken into the mouth is retained there, and brought under the action of the teeth by the lips, buccenator muscles, and tongue. By the lateral motions of the lower jaw, the inferior molar teeth grind the alimentary substance against the upper ones. During this lime, the food becomes mixed with the saliva and mucus of the mouth, which convert it into an easily swallowed bolus, and also fits it for future digestion and assi- mulation. MEAD.—A wholesome, agreeable liquor, prepared with honey and water. Mead is a liquor of very ancient use in Britain, and some per- sons consider the best sort scarcely inferior to foreign wine. It is thought probable, that before the introduction of agriculture into our island, mead was the only strong liquor known to the inhabitants and their poste- rity, long after they had become acquainted with other liquors.—See Metheglin. ME.-VT.—Directions for Carv- ing DIFFERENT .loiNTS, &C. OF Meat. 1. The Itch or II Bone. (See p. .'5.3). —The outside of this joint is very much influenced in its flavour from the water in which it is boiled; a thick slice must, therefore, he cut off the whole length of the joint, cutting it all the way even, and through the whole surface; the soft fat, which resembles marrow, lies on the back, and the firm fat must be cut in thin horizon- tal slices; hut as some people are fond of the soft, others of the hard, it would he proper to ask them which they prefer. The upper part, as it is generally placed in the dish, is the handsomest, fullest of gravy, most tender, and is enriched with fat; yet there are some people who prefer a slice on the under side, though it is quite lean. 2. Sirloin of Beef.—With respect to the carving of this joint, it is im- material whether the whole or only a part of it he brought to table. The meat on the upper side of the ribs is firmer, and of a closer texture, than the fleshy part underneath, which is by far the most tender, and of course preferred by many people. To carve this joint, the different tastes of people must be consulted, and each person helped to that part which is most agreeable to them. Some begin to carve it at the end, first cutting off the outside; while others begin in the middle of the most fleshy part. The slices must be cut neither too thick nor too thin. 3. Brisket of Beef—This part is always boiled, and is to he cut the long way quite down to the bone, after having cut off the outside, or first cut, to which you must never help any one, unless they desire it, which is seldom the case. The fat cut with this slice is of a firm, gristly kind, though one of a softer nature may be found underneath. 4. Buttock of Beef—'fills part is always boiled, and requires few di- rections as to the manner in which it ought to he c.arved. A thick slice should be taken oft’ all round it. When you come to the juicy and prime parts of it, you must be care- ful to cut it even, that it may have a graceful figure, should it be brought up again the next day to table. 5. Ojc Tomjae.—This must not ho cut long ways but .across, and in the thickest jiart, and taken from thence in slices; the most tender and juicy ])art is about the middle, and near the root, for tow.ards the tip the meat is both closer and drier. A tongue is generally eaten with white meat, veal, chicken, or turkey; and when- ever you help any person to the one, you must also help them to the other.ME 204 ME G. Breast of Veal.—A breast of veal must be cut across quite tbrougb, dividing tbe gristly from tbe rib- bones; this is called cutting the brisket from tbe ribs; the brisket may be cut into pieces as wanted, for some prefer this part to tbe ribs. It needs no particular directions bow to separate tbe ribs, since all tbei'e is to do is, to put the knife in at tbe top between any two, and continue downwards till they be separated. Remember to give a piece of the sweet-bread to every one you help, as that is reckoned an epicurean morsel. 7. Knuckle of Veal.—This is al- ways boiled, and much relished on account of the fat, sinewy tendons about the knuckle, for if it be lean it is not worth dressing; you can hardly cut this joint amiss, though it is usual to begin in the thickest part, from whence some fine slices maybe taken. The bones about the knuckle may be easily separated at tbe joints, and afford delicate picking. 8. Fillet of Veal.—This is tbe thigh part, and is the same part in the calf as that which is called the buttock in the ox. Many people esteem the outside slice of a fillet of veal a great delicacy, because it is most savoiu-y; but every one does not think so; the question should therefore be put, before you help any one to it. If no one choose the first slice, lay it in the dish, and the se- cond cut will be white meat, but take care to cut it even, and close to tbe bone. A fillet of veal is usually stuffed under the skirt or flap, with a pudding, or force meat; into this you must cut in a line with the sur- face of the fillet, and take out a thin slice; this, and a little fat cut from the skirt, must be given to each person at table. 9. Calf's Head. — Calf’s head, boiled, is an elegant dish, and affords many delicate bits; when young it is perfectly white, and tbe fat very fine; it must be cut quite along tbe cheek bone, in the fleshy part, from whence many handsome slices may be taken. In the fleshy part at the end of the jaw bone lies pai't of the throat sweet bread, which is esteemed the best part of the head. Many people are fond of the e)'e, which must be cut from the socket, and cutting quite round, keeping the point of the knife slanting towards the middle, so as to divide the meat from the bone. Though the eye of the calf’s head is seldom divided, yet if the company be large, you may cut it in half, and so make it serve two people. The palate is also much esteemed by some people, and is found on the under side of the roof of the mouth; it is a crinkled, white, thick skin, and may be easily separated from the bone by the knife, by lifting up the head with your left hand. When you serve any person with a slice of the head, you must inquire whether they choose to have any of the tongue or brains, which are generally sensed up in a separate dish; a slice from the thick part of the tongue, near the root, is best. 10. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of mut- ton whether boiled or roasted is car- ved in the same manner, though there are two methods of cutting it; some cut it longways, but the most general method is to cut it cacross in the thickest part, quite down to the bone, dividing the gland called “ the Pope’s eye,” of which many gour- mands are e.xtremely fond. Tbe most juicy parts of tbe leg are in the thick part of it, but many prefer tbe drier part of a leg of mutton, which is about the shank or knuckle, called by some venison, tbough it is certainly the coarsest part of the joint A leg of wether mutton, which is genendly the best flavoured, may be easily known by the kernel—a little round of fat at the top of the thick part. 'I'lie meat about the cramp bone, is es- teemed a delicate morsel. 11. Shoulder of Mutton—This joint has not unfrequently been salted andME 205 ME boiled by whimsical gourmands, but it appears oftenest and is most fami- liar to us in a roasted form; it is a joint very full of gravy, and much more so than the leg, on which ac- count it is preferred by many people. There are also a variety of nice cuts in it: it must be cut in the hollow part, and the knife should go down to the bone. The gravy then runs fast into the dish, and the part cut opens wide enough to take many slices from it; the best fat, which is full of kernels, lies on the outer edge, and is to be cut in thin slices. If there be many at table, and the hol- low part of the joint be all cut away, some good and delicate slices may be taken from each side of the ridge of the bladebone ; on the under side of the shoulder are two parts very full of gravy, and which many people prefer to those of the upper side, the parts about the shank are coarse and dry, as about the knuckle in the leg, yet by some they are preferred to the more juicy parts. 12. Saddle of Mutton.—A saddle or chine of mutton, consists of two un- divided loins, the back-bone running down the middle to the tail. In car- ving this you must cut a long slice on either side of the fleshy parts. There is seldom any gi’eat length of the tail left on; but if it be sent up with the tail, many will be fond of it, and it may be easily divided into several pieces, by cutting between the joints of the tail, which are about an inch apart. 13. Fore-quarter of Lamb.—This joint is always roasted; and when it comes to table, before you help any one, you must separate the shoulder from the breast. The shoulder being thus taken ofT, a lemon or orange should be squeezed upon the part, then sprinkled with salt, where the shoulder joined it, and the shoulder should then be laid on it again ; but if the fore-quarter be grass lamb and large, the shoulder should be put into another dish, when taken off. and cut up in the same manner as a shoulder of mutton. The gristly part must then be separated from the ribs, and then all the preparatory business will be done. The ribs are generally most esteemed, and one or two may be easily separated from the rest. Each person at table should be asked which they prefer, the ribs, the gristly part, or the shoulder. 14. Spare-rib of Pork.—A spare- rib of 2)ork is carved by cutting out slices in the thick part at the bottom of the bones. When the fleshy part is cut away, the bones, which are esteemed very sweet iricking, may be easily separated. Very few people admire the gravy of jjork, it being too strong for most stomachs. 15. Hams.—There are three me- thods of carving a ham ; some begin at the knuckle, some at thick end, and others in the middle, which is perhaps the best method, as you then come at once to the prime of the meat; be careful to cut it thin, and by no means in thick and clumsy jjieces. 16. Roasted Pkj.—A pig is seldom sent whole to table, but cut up by the cook, who takes oft’ the head, splits the body down the back, and garnishes the dish with the chaps and ears. Before any he helped, separate the shoulder from the car- cass, and then the legs. The most delicate parts of the pig are about the neck; the ne.Kt best parts are the ribs; but in a young pig there can- not be many coarse bits. Some are fond of an ear, others of a chap, and may consequently be all pleased at an easy rate. 17. Haunch of Venison. — First cut it across down to the bone, at some little distance from the knuckle; from the middle of that cut, take another stroke as deep as you can the lengthways, so that the two strokes will then form something like the letter 1'; you may then take out lengthways as many slices as you please. Slices of venison should not be cut thick, nor yet too thin, and TME ME 206 some fat, and plenty of gravy, should be given with them. Currant jelly should always be on the table, for those who choose it.—See Butchers' Meat. MEDLARS.—There is a strong resemblance between medlars and sorb apples; they ripen in the same manner, and possess the same pro- perties. Medlars, however, are more astringent than sorbs, and the riper they are the more this astringency diminishes. The leaves and flowers of medlars are also astringent, and are used in decoction as gargles, in disorders of the throat. Eaten to excess, medlars do not easily digest; tliey encumber the stomach, and re- tard the digestion of other aliments. In winter they agree with young ]>eople of a bilious constitution, and with such as have a weak stomach. They are reputed by the older writers to prevent intoxication, check vomit- ing, and diarrhcea. They are also reputed good for diminishing and expelling urinai’y calculi. Those that are full, ripe, large, and pulpy, have the most sweet and agreeable taste; consequently are the best. MELONS.—A species of cucum- ber, though melons are more aro- matic, and, in this respect, more wholesome. Water melons, how- ever, require more spice and wine than musk melons, as they partake still more of the nature of cucumbers. Melons, eaten after supper, are said to have caused the indigestion that proved fatal to George I., who ex- pired in his carriage, on the 21st of June, 1727, O.S. at a short distance from Osnaburgh, in Germany. There is a great variety of this fruit culti- vated in different parts of the world, but that sort called the Canteloupe melon, so called from a place near Rome, whither it was brought from Armenia, a country west of the Cas- ])ian Sea, in Asia, is in the greatest esteem among the curious. “The watermelon,” (C. citrul- lus), says Dr. Shaw, “is, doubtless providentially calculated for the southern countries, and affords a cool, refreshing juice, assuages thirst, mitigates feverish disorders, and compensates thereby, in no small degree, for the excessive heat. In Moldavia, a district in Turkey in Europe, the abundance of melons, and the fruit of the strawberry-tree, make up for the scarcity of good water. Melons are sometimes car- ried to very distant places. Sir John Chardin ate, at Surat, melons that had been sent from Agra. The best, he says, grow in Korassan, near Little Tartary, whence they are car- ried to Ispahan, for the king, and to make presents of.—(See Harmers Ohserv. vol. iii, p. 181). And Mr. Coxe {Trav. vol. i, p. 255) says that a small sort of melon, of exquisite flavour, is sent from Astracan to Moscow, a distance of a thousand miles. The fruit is large, green ex- ternally, white fleshed, reddish to- wards the centre, succulent and re- freshing, but not high-flavoured. It is generally considered as the melon of the Jews, mentioned in various parts of the Bible. M E T H E G LIN.—A species of mead, prepared from honey boiled with water, and fermented; and one of the most pleasant and general drinks that the northern parts of Eu- rope produce, and much used among the ancient inhabitants. “ The juice of bees, not Bacchus, here behold, AVhich British bards were wont to quaff of old; The berries of the grape with Furies swell, But in the honey-comb the Graces dwell.” From the custom of drinking a beverage made with honey, for a thirty days’ feast after a wedding, comes the exjtression honey-moon, a phrase derived from the Teutones, an ancient people who inhabited the northern parts of Germany, not toMI 207 MI be found in the warm wine latitudes. It is said that Attila, king of Hun- gary, notorious for the horrible ra- vages that he committed both in Gaul and Italy, drank so freely of hydromel (a kind of mead, or me- theglin, as the word imports) on his wedding-day, that he was found suf- focated at night; an event which occurred in the year 453; and with him expired the empire of the Huns. MILK.—As occupying a middle rank between animal and vegetable food, we shall here notice milk and its various products, and treat of each under its respective head. Milk is the proper and natural food of the young of all animals of the mammalia class; and cow’s milk constitutes a principal part of the daily diet of a great proportion of the human race, both in the infant and in the adult state. In conse- quence of the great abundance of oily and cheesy matter contained in milk, the milk of cows is by no means so well adapted to infants as human milk; but as the mode of living in civilized society often depraves the quality of women’s milk, or prevents its due secretion, cow’s milk, in too many instances, becomes a necessary substitute. On such occasions, as it is too heavy to be given alone, it should be diluted with water: and as it is disposed to become more ascescent than human milk, and from that cause to produce grij)ing and other disorders in the bowels of young children, it will be often useful to mix with it decoctions of animal substances, such as chicken or veal broth, or decoction of hartshorn shavings; of which last two ounces should be boiled in a quart of water, over a slow fire, till the whole be reduced to a pint; when, after it has become cold, it wilt be of the con- sistence of a light jelly. This, mixed with about twice its quantity of cow’s milk, with the addition of a little sugar, forms for young subjects a proper aliment, approaching nearly to the nature of human milk. Milk is of very dificrent consist- ence and properties, not only accord- ing to the various kinds and species of animals, but also in the same spe- cies, in consequence of the difference of feeding, constitution of body, age, time of milking, and other circum- stances. Among the articles of nou- rishment, milk takes the lead. It aflbrds the best nutriment to persons whose lacteals and blood-vessels are too weak for deriving nourishment from other provisions; because it is already converted into an alimentary fluid in the intestines of an animal. Nature having appointed this bland fluid for the food of children, who, on account of their growth require much nourishment, it may hence be concluded that it is easily digested by healthy stomachs. Milk-porridge, as well as those dishes in the compo- sition of which milk and flour are used, have a manifest tendency to obstruct the lacteals or milk-vessels of the intestines and the mysentery, a circumstance which renders them completely unwholesome, particu- larly to children. Though an animal substance, milk does not readily become putrid; and being possessed of the power of vegetable aliment, it sooner turns sour than putrid. It affords a sub- stantial alimentary fluid; and hence it is of service to persons weakened by dissipation or disease. As the milk of animals contains more cream than that of the human breast, it ought to be diluted with water when given to infants. It combines both saccharine and oily particles, and is a very serviceable article of diet, in a putrescent state of the blood, in inveterate ulcers, and in the scurvy. It is well calculated to assuage rigi- dity, cramps, and pain.s, being a dilu- ent iind attenuating remedy, espe- cially in the state of whey; it pro- motes j)erspiration and evacuation in general, and is highly beneficial in spitting of blood, bysterics, hy- pochondriasis, dysentery, inveterateMI MI 208 coughs, convulsive affections, the putrid sore throat, and in complaints arisuig from rvorms. It is also used for fomentations, baths, emollient injections, and washes for inflamed parts. If intended as a medicine, it should be drunk immediately, or soon after it comes from the cow, because, through boiling, and even by long standing, the best and most nutritious balsamic particles evapo- rate. Milk is used in consumptions, es- pecially in their early stage. In gouty affections, after the paroxysm has subsided; in small-pox, diluted with water, as common drink; in measles, particularly the malignant kind, diluted in the same manner; in cases where mineral and animal poisons have been swallowed — in strangury and dysury, from the ab- sorption of cantharides after the ap- plication of a blister; in fluor albus, syphilitic affections, and in many spasmodic and nervous diseases. It is generally improper in inflamma- tory fevers, unattended with pustu- lous eruptions, in bilious fever, cases of scrophula, rickets, &c. When milk is used medicinally, it is often serviceable to dilute with Pyi mont, Seltzer, or some other pro- per medicinal water; and to prevent acidity, as well as to make it sit easier on the stomach, lime-water, and some of the distilled aromatic waters, are occasionally mixed with it. To obviate costiveness, which milk is apt to induce, it is often pro- per to mix brown sugar or magnesia with it, or to boil it with oatmeal, veal broth, &c. The milk to be employed for diet in diseases ought to be taken from healthy and well-nourished animals; for we see in children how much depends upon the health of the mother, and how suddenly they suffer from an unhealthy and passionate nurse. In spring and summer, milk is peculiarly good and whole- some, on account of the salubrious nourishment of the herbs. In winter it is much inferior. It is further necessary that the animal furnishing the milk should be kept in the free air, and have daily exercise. In order to obtain good milk, it woidd be adviseable for private families who have the opportunities, to keep a cow; for besides the adulteration of that which is sold, cows are frequently milked at an improper time, by which the milk is much injured, and cannot be wholesome. The best milk is obtained from the cow at three or four years of age, about three months after producing the calf, and in a serene spring morning. Good cow’s milk ought to be white, without any smell; and so fat, that a drop being allowed to fall on the nail will not scatter in divisions. It is lighter, but contains more watery particles than the milk of sheep and goats; while, on the other hand, it is more thick and heavy than the milk of asses and mares, which come nearest the consistence of human milk. Ewe’s milk is rich and nourishing; it yields much butter which, however, is so unsavoury that it cannot be eaten. Both this and goat’s milk produce much cheese, which is tough, strong, pungent, and difficult to be digested. As goats are fond of astringent herbs, their milk is superior in strength to that of other animals, hence it has been sometimes used with the most happy success in hysteric cases. Goat’s whey and asses milk are chiefly used in pulmonary complaints; and where asses milk cannot be procured, that of mares may be used as a substitute. Milk consists of caseous, butyra- ceous, and watci-y parts; that which contains a well-proportioned mixture of the three, is the most wholesome. But this mixture is not always met with in due proportions—frequently the two first, namely, cheese and butter, predominate; and in this case it affords indeed a sti'ong food, but is difficult of digestion. If theMI MI 209 water forms the greatest proportion, it is then, easily digested, but less nourishing. This is particularly the case with asses milk, which more than any other affects the urine and stool, while it has a tendency to purify the blood. On account of the warmth, and the mechanical process of the diges- tive organ, joined to the chemical properties of the acid generated in it, milk necessarily coagulates in every stomach. The caseous part is dissolved, and diluted by the ad- mixture of the disgestive liquors, and thus prepared for being changed into a pure chyle or milky fluid. Indeed, it makes but very little difference, whether we take cream, cheese, and whey in succession, or whether we consume them united in the mass of the milk; in the former case, the separation takes place without, and in the latter within the stomach. It is, however, improper to eat acid substances together with milk, as this mass would occassion fermen- tation and corruption ; while on the contrary, the natural coagulation is only a separation of the constituent parts, not a transition of this mild fluid into the stage of acid fermen- tation ; for this is prevented by the saponaceous digestive liquors, though the milk itself be coagulated. Y et milk is not a proper food for the debili- tated in all cases; nay, indeed, under certain circumstances, it may even be hurtful. For instance, it does not agree with hypochondriacs, as it occasions cramp of the stomach, cholic, heart- burn and diarrhoea. It disagrees also with the plethoric, the phleg- matic, and the corpulent; but par- ticularly with tipplers, or those ad- dicted to strong spirits. 'I'he buty- raceous and caseous parts may ob- struct digestion and oppress the sto- mach. And some milk is unfit for use, on account of the chemical decomposition which has taken place in its constituent parts, and because it can hardly be digested by the most powerful stomachs : even sweet milk ought not to be eaten together with flesh, and in most cases the whey is preferable to the milk. With these exceptions, milk may be pronounced an excellent species of diet, which does not require strong digestive organs, unless a variety of other sub- stances be eaten with it. On the contrary, pei-sons much reduced in bodily vigour have received benefit, and in a great measure been cimed, by a milk diet alone. We daily observe children at the breast, with the natural disposition to acidity and viscosity, feel its bad eflects only, when, together with milk, they are fed upon cakes, pastry, gingerbread, and other trash. Milk being free from all acrimony, produces whole- some, light, and sweet blood. Sugar aird salt are almost the only proper spices to be added to it. The following are the principal products and preparations of milk in dietetic and medicinal use : e. g. Butter, Cream, Cheese, Curds,—which see. Butter-milk is a species of whey, but contains a great number of butyraceous particles. If it be drunk while new and sweet, it is refreshing and cooling. The Persians, and other inhabi- tants of the East, prepare a kind of wine from milk, which possesses all the properties of intoxicating liquors; although it is suspected that they make some addition to the sweet whey, after the caseous parts are separated from it, by which they induce a vinous fermentation. Whether they add honey, sugar, or any mucila- ginous vegetable, containing the saccharine principle, we shall not attempt to decide; but it is well known, that the Chinese ferment and distil a liquor from a mixture of rice and veal, which is not unpleasant when new. MILLET.—Ilirse or Millet, is inferior to either oats or barley; it possesses too crude a mucilage to T 3MU 210 MI relaxed or inactive stomachs. Tlie common millet is grown on the Continent as a garden plant for its seeds to be used as a substitute for rice; the Polish millet, (Digitaria SanguinaUs) is grown for this puii>ose in the cottage garden of Poland; as is the carnation poppy (papaver semniferiumj, for its seeds, which form a seasoning to buck wheat porridge. MINT. {Mentha), — There are three species of mint cultivated in gardens. The principal are, 1. The peppermint, {M. Piperita, L.) which may be easily distinguished by its subcamphorated odour, and blackish purple flowers, which appear in Au- gust and September. It is found in watery places. It is almost entirely reserved for distillation, for which purpose it is extensively cultivated in low, rich, soft, marshy lands, espe- cially such as can be irrigated and flooded. 2. The Spearmint {M. Viridis).— This sort rises from two to three feet high, with sessile, lanceolate, naked leaves; the whole plant has a red- dish green hue, is occasionally found in marshy situations, and flowers in August. There is a narrow and a broad-leaved variety. The young leaves and tops are used in spring salads, and form a flavouring ingre- dient in soups. They are also em- ployed to give flavour to certain dishes, as peas, &c., being boiled for a time and then withdrawn, in the manner of garlick. Tliis species is somewhat weaker than peppermint. .‘5. The Penny-royal Mint (M. Pnlegium).—This is a trailing plant, with small, smooth, ovate leaves. It is indigenous in watery pastures and places subject to inundations. It flowers in September. It is used in difierent branches of cookery, and also for distilling pennyroyal water. It is warm and grateful to the stomaeh, quicklj' expelling wind, and taking off sickness and disposition to spasm. The infusion may be drunk ad libitum. MOORHENS.—The moorhen is a water-fowl, with a slender body, small head, feathers of various co- lours, long black bill, a little crooked, the tail short, and legs rather long, which enable it to explore the water with ease in quest of food. The moorhen does not swim so easily as other water-fowls. They live upon small fish, little worms, insects, plants, and other things, both out and in the water. When young and fat, moorhens are served up to the first tables, though they are not all good alike. There are some of them that taste of the mud and fish on which they feed—others again have an exqui- site flavour. From these birds feed- ing on the grossest substances, their flesh is also full of gross juices, still nutritous enough as a solid food, and fit for those who have strong sto- machs and good digestion. MULBERRIES.—There are two sorts of mulberries, the white and the black, the fimt of which is not used in foods. They are good to qualify the sharp humours, to quench thirst, to allay evacuations upwards and downwards; they create an ap- petite, and provoke the salivary dis- charge; before they are ripe, they are detersive and astringent; and are not unfrequcntly used as gargles for diseases of the throat. They pro- duce flatulency, and do not agree with people predisposed to colic. The large, plump, and full ripe ones, gathered before the sun rises, are the best; and in such condition will be found to have a sweet and agree- able taste, and not injured by in- sects. They agree, in hot weather, with young, bilious, and sanguine people. The poets gave the mulberry-tree the epithet of prudent, because it does not begin to bud till the sharj)- ness of winter is quite gone. In short, it docs not bud till the month of May, and bears no fruit till Au- gust and September. Horace makesMU MU 211 an eulogiiim upon mulberries, and recommends the gathering of them before sun-set. “ Ille salubres .^Istates peraget, qui nigris prandia moris Finiet, ante gravem, qu!E legerit, arbore solem.” The bark and root of the mul- berry-tree are detersive and apei'ient. Wheir mulberries are but young, they are bitter and harsh, and after- wards become sweet and pleasant, in the same manner, and for the same reason as grapes, which are at first harsh, and afterwards acquire a sweet taste. It is said that white muIbeiTies were originally produced from a common mulberry being grafted on a white poplar. These mulberries have a kind of honey, insipid, and disagreeable taste; con- sequently they are not used in foods. hi U M.—A wholesome kind of malt liquor, brewed chiefly from malt made from wheat instead of barley. It is not thought fit for use till it has been full two years in the cask. It is much drank in Germany; and Brunswick, in Lower Saxony, is the place of the most note for making it; hence it is frequently called Bruns- wick mum. it is sometimes im- ported into this country, and our own brewers also make small quan- tities of this bulk-increasing liquor. Good mum cannot be brewed, even without duty, at less than five shillings a gallon, being equivalent to one shilling the quart bottle. It requires to be made in quantities of ten gallons at least, and is seldom fit for bottling in less than a twelve- month. MUSHROOM ( Agaricus campes- tris, L.)—The mushroom is a well- known native vegetable,springing up in open pastures, in .\ugust and Sep- tember. It is most readily distin- guished, when of middle size, by its fine pink or flesh-coloured gills and pleasant smell; in a more advanced stage, the gills become of a chocolate colour, and it is then more apt to be confounded with other kinds of du- bious quality; but that species which most nearly resembles it, is slimy to the touch, and destitute of the fine odour, having rather a disagreeable smell; farther, the noxious kinds grow in woods, or on the margins of woods, while the true mushroom springs up chiefly in open pastures, and should be gathered only in such places. Mushrooms have been long used in sauces, in ketchup, soy, and other forms of cookery. They are of a tough, leathery consistence; and being almost indigestible, they afford little nutriment, notwithstand- ing they in a great measure resem- ble animal food. Pickled with vinegar or salted, mushrooms become still more tough; and roasted with butter, they are an indigestible mass, and extremely liable to turn rancid in the stomach.—See Ketchup, Soy, ^c. Pliny exclaims against the luxury of his countrymen in the use of mushrooms ; and wonders what ex- traordinary pleasure there can be in eating such dangerous food. The ancient writers in the Materia Me- dica, seem to agree that mushrooms in general, are unwholesome; and the moderns, Lemery, Allen, Geof- frey, Boerhaave, Linnaeus, and others, concur in the same opinion. There are numerous instances on record of their fatal effects, and almost all authors agree that they are fraught with poison. The common esculent kinds of fungi, if eaten too freely, cause heart- burn, sickness, vomitings, diarrhoea, dysentei'ies, and other dangerous symptoms. It would be well, there- fore, they were either banished from the table, or used more sparingly; but if the palate must be indulged in these treaeherous gratifications, or as Seneca terms them, “ this volup- tuous poison,” it is necessary that those employed in collecting them, should be extremely cautious, lest they collect such as arc absolutely212 MU MU pernicious. The edible mushrooms at first appear of a roundish form, like a button ; the upper part and tlie stalk are very thin; the under part is of a livid flesh-colour; but the fleshy part when broken, is very white. When they are suffered to remain undisturbed, they will gi'ow to a larger size, and expand themselves almost to a flatness, and the red part underneath will change to a dark colour. Poisonous mushrooms may be dis- tinguished from the edible ones by their botanical characters, and by the following characteristics. They grow in wet shady places, have a nauseous odour, and are softer, more open and porous; have a dirty- looking surface, sometimes a gaudy colour and many very distinct hues, particularly if they have been covered with an envelope; they have soft bulbous stalks, grow rapidly, and corrupt very quickly. The following Catalogue of Edible and Poisonous Mushrooms is taken from Sowerby’s splendid work on English fungi. EDIBLE SORTS. Agaricus Campestris (1), common field, a cultivated mushroom. A. Chantarellus (2), chanterelle. A. Violaceous (3), violet or blue. (1) There are several species of aga- ric that go by this term; as the agaricus edulus, chanlercllus, deliciosus, violace- ous, &c.; but the eatable mushroom of this country, is the agaricus campestris of Linnajus. Similar to it in quality is the champignon. Broiled, with salt and pepper, or stewed with cream and some aromatic, they are e.\tremely delicious ; and if not eaten to excess, salubrious. Great care should be taken to ascertain that they are the true fungi. (2) The agaricus chanlercllus is es- teemed a delicacy by the Freiicli. Broil- ed, with salt and pepper, it has much the flavour of a roasted cockle. (3) The violet mushroom requires much boiling, but when sufficiently done and seasoned, it is as delicious as an A. Cinnammeus (4), cinnamon. A. Deliciosus (5), sweet mush- room. A. Pratensis (G), champignon. A. Lactifluus, milky. A. Procerus (7), the grisette of the French, or tall. A. Aurantiacus, orange. A. Solitarius, solitary. A. Virginius, mauseron mush- room. A. Orcades, fair}- ring, or Scotch bonnets. DANGEROUS SORTS. Agaricus campestris, var., danger- ous variety of cultivated mushroom. A. Clypeatus, long stalked. A. Muscarius, reddish. A. Piperatns (8), pepper. A. Campanulatus, bell. A. Mamimosus, nipple. A. Aurantiacus, var., dangerous variety of orange mushroom. A. Necator A. Vinosus, poisonous or toad- stool. oyster. Hudson’s bulbosus is only a variety of this. (4) Brown mushroom. This species of agaric is of a pleasant smell. When broiled it gives a good flavour. (5) This fungus, well seasoned and then broiled, has the e.xact flavour of a roasted muscle. It is in season in Sep- tember. Care must be taken not to con- found it with the agaricus necator, or therologus gains, which have yellow milk and are deleterious. (6) The champignon of Hudson’s Flora Anglica. This plant has but little smell, and is rather dry; yet when broiled and stewed, communicates a good flavour. (7) This is the best, and the most usually eaten of those the gills of which do not melt into a black liquor. (8) The plant thus named by Lin^ nams is the pepper mushroom ; also called pepper agaric. When freely taken, fatal consequences are related by several writers to have been the result. When this vegetable has even lost its acrid juice by drying, its caustic quality still remains.213 MU MU The medicinal treatment of per- sons affected from eating poisonous fungi, consists, in the first place, in giving an emetic of tartarized anti- mony; followed by frequent small doses of Epsom salts, and stimulating clysters. After the poisonous sub- stance is removed, ether, with small quantities of brandy and water, may be administered; but if inflammatory symptoms manifest themselves, such stimuli should be omitted, and other appropriate means resorted to, as circumstances may indicate. — See Culinary Poisons. None of the following species are known to be dangerous; they are sold for food in the markets of Tuscany, and other foreign places: viz. The musk champignon (Agariciis ara- neosus; cortinellus: albellus); the mugnaco (eburneus); thejozzolo; virginens; the petite oreillette; au- ricula, the escoubarbe; eryngii, the ciccioli, which grows on the sea- holly ; ilicinus; tortilis, the mous- seron de Dieppe ; trestis, the fungus appossionato ; nivalis, thefungodor- miente; socialis, pivonlade d’Ecosse; palomet, the palombette ; virens, the verdone ; translucens, the pivoulade de saule ; deliciostts ; S2ibdulcis; pi- peratus; procerus ; cylindraceus ; at- tenuatus; asper; solUarius incarna- tus ; vayinatus, Tmdi aroideus. The bug agaric ( Agaricus musca- rius*) so called from its known vir- tues in destroying bugs, is not much known in this country. Haller re- lates that si.\ persons were poisoned with it at one time in Lithuania, and that in others it caused delirium. The following account, from Orfila, of the effects of this species in the animal economy, is interesting. Se- veral French soldiers ate, at two leagues from Polosck in Rus.sia, mushrooms of the above kind. Four of them of a robust constitution, who * The agaricus - stipitatiis, lamellis (lemidiatis snlitarius, stipite uolvalo, apice dclatato, basi ovato, of Linnasus. imagined themselves proof against the consequences under which their feeble companions were beginning to suffer, obstinately refused to take an emetic. In the evening the follow- ing symptoms appeared :—anxiety, sense of suffocation, ai'dent thirst, in- tense griping pains, a small and ir- regular pulse, unusual cold sweats, changed expression of countenance, violet tint of the nose and lips, gene- ral trembling, foetid stools. These symptoms becoming worse they were carried to the hospital. Coldness and livid colour of the limbs, a dreadful delirium, and acute pains, accompanied them to the last mo- ment. One of them sunk a few hours after his admission into the hospital; the three others met the same fate in the course of the night. On opening their bodies after death, the stomach and intestines displayed lar'ge spots of inflammation and gan- grene; and putrefaction seemed ad- vancing very rapidly. The bug agaric is employed exter- ternally to strumoust, phagedenicj, and fistulous ulcers, as an escharotic ; that is, a substance which possesses the power of destroying the texture of the various solid parts of the animal body to which it is directly applied. The consumption of mushrooms invariably does more harm than good, and whenever they are used it ought to be in moderation; and a little brandy or wine should always succeed their use. Many lives have been lost by eating mushrooms, which gave Pliny occasion to ex- claim against the luxury of man- kind, who, to gratify their ap]ietites, very often run the ri.sk of their lives, by eating such equivocal substances. Nero, the Roman tyrant, called mushrooms the food of the gods, be- cause the emperor Claudius, whom + Ulcers, partaking of the nature of scrophula or ring-worm. I An ulceration which spreads very rapidly.MU MU 214 he succeeded, was poisoned by eat- ing them, and was afterwards deified. The best and safest mushrooms are those which spring up in one night upon a dung bed; where gardeners have found the art to make them grow all the year round. As a test of their being wholesome, they ought to be white above, reddish under- neath, pretty large, plump, tender, easily broken, and of an agreeable taste and smell. The mushrooms that grow in meadows are also very good, as appears by the following lines:— Pratensis optima fungis Natura est; aliis male creditor. It is also to be noted, that if mush- rooms do not retain their natural colour after they are washed, but turn either blue, red, or black, they ai'e dangerous, and ought conse- quently to be rejected. MUSK.—A concrete animal sub- stance found in a quadruped (the Moschus Moschifera of Linnmus) of the goat kind, inhabiting Thibet and other parts of Asia. It is found in the male only, in a bag situated be- tween the navel and the anus, of the size of a pigeon’s egg when cut out. Its odour is peculiar to most people, if not too strong. The best comes from China. It is of considerable use among perfumers and confec- tioners, and is also employed medi- cinally in spasmodic disorders, as hiccup, fevers, &c., and particu- larly in convulsive complaints. The effects it produces are case from pain, quiet sleej), and copious per- spiration. It does not, like opium, leave behind it any stupor or lan- guidness. MUSSELS.—A common species of shcll-fisb. Tlicy are of a more solid texture than oysters, and con- sequently not so easily digested. The sea mussels afford a hard, indiges- tible, and, as some imagine, a poi- sonous food. Although the examples of their deleterious nature are very rare, yet they ought not to be eaten without vinegar, or some other ve- getable acid, acting as a corrector of their bad qualities, or, in the opinion of others, as an antidote. They should also be deprived of the little green weed that adheres to them, which is decidedly injurious.—See Fish, Poisonous. MUSTARD.—An ingredient so necessary in all cold salads, and those of the crude kind, that it ought never to be omitted. The flour of mustard is used as a condiment; and the seeds are said to be highly bene- ficial in indigestion, and rheumatic affections. The administration of the white mustard seed has been recently rerdved, with all the confidence that usually attaches to a new medicine. It is certainly beneficial in morbid cases of the intestinal canal; “but,” says Dr. Paris, “according to my experience, it is ser\'iceable only in such cases as are marked by ali- mentary torpor. In affections at- tended with muscular irritability, or in those associated with a diseased state of the mucous surfaces, it is unquestionably useful. I have known it to ensure a regular alvine dis- charge in persons of costive habits; and I have also found it to correct that species of diarrhoea which attends a diseased condition of the mucous membrane of the intestines.” The unbruised seeds of the white mustard were much recommended by Dr. Mead in abdominal dropsj'; and by Bergius in agues; and their virtues have been highly extolled by nu- merous writers, in stimulating the stomach and intestines. It is, how- ever, observed by Cullen, that the seeds given in this form are never broken down or dissolved in the stomach, but pass away entire by stool; conscquentlj', he inferred that they were incapable of producing any beneficial effect. 'J'his state- ment appears to have bro\ight them into such a state of disrepute, that they fell into disuse, and it is only ofMU 215 MU late that they appear to have gained anything like professional confidence. Their administration requires cau- tion; if any inflammatory irritation exists, they must prove injurious: where, however, there is a sluggish or deficient secretion of the aliment- ary juices, their utility is unquestion- able. In administering them, how- ever, as a remedy, caution must be observed, lest they accumulate in the bowels; as it is not improbable that, from the offensive nature of the evacutions of some who have taken them, that they disengage a portion of sulphuretted hydrogen in their passage. MUTTON. — This is the com- mon name of the flesh of a sheep after the animal has been killed, and has been frequently prefer- red to the flesh of all other quad- rupeds, even by persons of the highest rank, who had access to the choicest viands. Besides its intrinsic excellence as a species of food, mut- ton has the advantage of being more generally suited to different climates : whereas, beef requires a very nice intermediate state, which it seems chiefly to enjoy in England; for, although Scotland supplies what are esteemed excellent cattle, it is in the rich English pastures that they are brought to perfection. Now the sheep can he brought almost to the same perfection in Scotland as in the southern countries. Bacon, in his Natural History, observes, that the flesh of mutton is better tasted where the sheep are fed upon thyme and wholesome herbs. Hence, the mutton fed on the delightful downs of Banstead, in Surrey, which .are covered with thyme, is generally .allowed to be some of the sweetest and best flavoured in the kingdom. The mutton of sheep fed on dry pastures, is a better and more nou- rishing food than that of others reared in moist places. Those also fed near the sea-shore are excellent meat; the saline particles which they imbibe, giving at once consistence and purity to their flesh. The meat of rams is tough and unpleasant; but that of ewes, and still more that of wethers, is of a rich and viscous nature. Young mutton is juicy and easily digested, but is rather tough, and h.as not that balsamic alimentary juice peculiar to sheep above a cer- tain age. Tup-mutton, from its strong and disagreeable smell, besides being extremely tough and difficult of di- gestion, is never eaten but by those who cannot afford to purchase mut- ton of a better qu.ality; and ewe- mutton, if it be more than between two and three years old, is likewise tough and coarse. Wedder-mutton, or the flesh of the castrated animal, is most esteemed, and is by far the sweetest and most digestable.—See Lamb, Sheep. A ro.asting piece of mutton ought to be exposed to the open air for several days, according to the w'ea- ther and season; it then affords a p.alatable dish, which is easily di- gested, and agrees wdth every con- stitution. But the fat of mutton is almost indigestible ; for it easily coa- gulates in the stomach, and oppresses that organ; hence, the lean part of mutton is more nourishing, as well as more conducive to health. The feet of sheep are nourishing, on account of their jelly, and are of great service for injections, in those diseases which originate from acri- mony in the intestines. MUTTON, TO Choose.—Sec Butcher’s Meat, i^'c.NE 216 NI N. NECTAR.—A wine made from honey. NECTARINE.—SeePeflc7« Tree. NECTARIUM. (Lat.)—(Derived from Nectar, because it contains a sweet, honey-like fluid). In botany it means the nectary or honey-cup. An accidental part of a flower which does not come under the description of any of its organs. It may he defined, that part of the corolla which contains, or which secretes honey, though it is not necessary to a nectary that honey be present. Scarce a flower is to be found that has not more or less honey, though it is far from universally, or even generally, formed by an apparatus separate from the petals. In mono- petalous * flowers, or the lamium album, the dead nettle, the tube of the corolla contains, and probably secretes, the honey without any evi- dent nectary. The most indubit- able, however, of all nectaries, as actually secreting honey, are those of a glandular kind. In the natural order of cruciform plants, composing the class tetradynamia, f there are generally four green glands at the base of the stamens, as in dent- aria,\ and sesisymbrium, whilst in Pelargonium the nectary is a tube running down one side of the flower stalk. The elegant parnassia has a most elaborate apparatus or nectaiy. (Smith). Vauxhall nectar (mock arack), i. e. made with rum, two • A flower, having only one petal (the name of the coloured leaflets of a flower), as that of the convolvolus pri- mula, &c. f A word of Greek derivation, signify- ing six stamens, four longer than the other two. f Plumbago Euronma, the systematic name of the tooth-wort. Deutaria. Dentillaria. pints; flowers of benjamin, twenty grains. NITROGEN. —A simple sub- stance, called azote by' the French chemists. It enters into a variety of compounds, and forms more than three parts in four of the atmosphe- ric air. The existence of nitrogen gas, as distinct from any other gaseous substance, was first noticed by Dr. Rutherford, in 1772. La- voisier, who called it azote, because it is unable to support the respiration of animals, discovered that it is a constituent part of the atmosphere in 1775; and the same discovery was made soon after, or about the same time, by Scheele. Pure niti'ogen is a colourless gas, wholly' devoid of smell and taste. It does not change the colour of vege- tables, and is distinguished by other gases more by negative characters than by any striking quality'. It does not support combustion; but, on the contrary, extinguishes all burning bodies that are immersed in it. No animal can live in it; still it exerts no injurious action either on the lungs, or on the system at large; the privation of oxygen being the sole cause of death. It is not inflammable, though, under favour- able circumstances, it may' be made to unite with oxygen. Water, when deprived of air by ebullition, takes up about one and a half per cent, of it. Its specific gravity'is 0.9722, on the assumption that air consists of one measure of oxygen to four of nitrogen, and that 1.1111 is the spe- cific gravity of oxygen gas, and, therefore, 100 cubic inches of it, at the mean temperature and pressure, will weigh 29,652 grains. Nitrogen gas is easily' prepared by burning a piece of phosphorus in a jar full of air inverted over water. The strong aflinity of phosphorus forNU NU 217 oxygen, enables it to bum till the whole of that gas is consumed. Tlie product of the combustion, phosphoric acid, is at first diffused through the residue in the form of a white cloud; but as this substance is rapidly ab- sorbed by water, it disappears en- tirely in the course of half an hour. The residual gas is nitrogen, con- taining a small quantity of carbonic acid and vapour of phosphorus, both of which may be removed by agita- ting it briskly with a solution of pure potash. This gas may also be pro- cured by exposing a mixture of fresh muscle and nitric acid of specific gravity 1.20 to a moderate tem- perature.* A large quantity of gas- eous matter is evolved with effer- vescence, which is nitrogen mi.xed with carbonic acid; the latter must be removed by agitation with lime water but the residue still retains a peculiar odour, indicative of the pre- sence of some volatile principles, which cannot be wholly separated from it. The theory of this process is rather complex, consequently may be more conveniently studied in more elabo- rate works; as well as the other modes employed in obtaining it.See—0.ryye«. NON-NATURALS.—Under this term,'ancient physicians, from whom it is derived, comprehend Air, Meat, drink, sleep, and watching, motion and rest, the retentions and excre- tions, and the affections of the mind (all of which see); or in other words those principal matters which do not enter into the composition of the body, but which at the same time are necessary to its existence,—called by Galen, Conservatrices Naturaj. See Dietetics. NOUILLES.—An Italian paste resembling macaroni; it is flat in- stead of being in pipes. NUTMEG, (Nhx J\fi/ristica).— Tlie aromatic kernel of a large nut, produced by a tree said to resemble • See Eleircnts of Chemical Philo- sophy, by Sir Humphry Uavy. the pear tree, growing in the East Indies, particularly in the Molucca Islands, and Botany Bay. Those of the latter place are by no means so good as the former, being spongy and cellular. There are two sorts of it, male and female; the former of a large and oblong shape, the latter soft and round: the small round ones have most aroma and fragrancy; the otliers are spongy. The nutmeg is enclosed in a hard shell. Mace is a reticular substance round this shell, and there is a third coat, like that of a walnut. It is moderately warm, grateful to the taste, and unc- tuous to the feel. It is an excel- lent carminative and cordial; when toasted, so as to lose some of its es- sential oil, it is useful for children who have weak bowels, becoming gently astringent and cordial. In diarrhoeas and languor of the bowels, it is very useful, combined with a few grains of rhubarb or prejjared chalk. The spirit of nutmeg is an useful aromatic. Take, Ilhubarb ... k drachm Magnesia ... 1 drachm Peppermint water 2i ounces Sj)irit of nutmeg . 3 drachms. Mix. Two tea-spoonfuls may be given occasionally to a child from six to twelve months old, and the dose proportionally increased to the age of the subject, cither to purge or strengthen the stomach, &c. If nutmegs be digested with spirits, the colour, aroma, and stimulatino- properties are taken up, and a white unctuous substance left behind. This, the druggists formerly used to im- pregnate with a few drops of some essential oil, and sell it as the oil itself. Nutmegs yield, by distilla- tion, a very fine essential oil, which is very grateful, and possesses the flavour of the sjiice in perfection; two drops being nearly equal to a pound of the ])()wder.—See Mace. NUTRITION.—The function of nutrition may be considered as the completion of assimilation. The uNU 218 NU food, changed by a series of decom- positions, animalized, and rendered similar to the being which it is de- signed to nourish, applies itself to those organs the loss of which it is to supply; and this identification of nutritive matter to our organs con- stitutes nutrition. The constituent parts of the living body are conti- nually on the decay, and a variety of causes are as continually carrying them oif; several of its organs are constantly engaged in separating humours, wliich pass off loaded with a part of its substance, consumed by the united action of air and caloric; while internal friction, by a pulsatory motion, detaches its particles. In this manner the animal machine is continually being destroyed; and, perhaps, at distant periods of life, it does not contain a single particle of the same constituent parts. The faculty of feeding, that is, of repairing the successive waste of the bodj', supposes a delicate sentiment, capable of choosing the aliments necessary and fit to be converted into or assimilated with our sub- stance, of rejecting such as are not analogous to its actual condition, or are not proportioned to the actual power of our organs of arranging the instruments which ought to di- vest these aliments of their nature, and of distributing exactly and pro- portionately throughout every jrart of the living body, the produce of their digestion. Every circumstance which accompanies the exercise of this function proves two essential points: the first, that the immediate organ in which it is exercised is not the only instrument; the other, that it is not the efiect of the particular sensibility and action of that organ, but of the general active principle, in which are united all the sensa- tions, and from which every motion emanates. This principle, in fact, serves as a distinguishing mark among all the important sensations which it is possible for the animal to experience, and which solicits it to recruit its exhausted strength, and to fortify, by fresh supplies, its de- pendencies, weakened by the suc- cession of vital motions. This sen- sation is subordinate to it; it is modified by it; and it is this alone which causes it to exist; for hunger is seldom proportioned to the real want of the living body; imaginary want, or habit, being the most fre- quent cause of this mute inquietude, which often induces us to take food. We succeed in silencing this sensa- tion, by giving it in exchange inte- resting occupations to which the mind yields. Strong passions, diseases, and other affections, may, for a length of time, suspend the impressions of hunger. One might easily believe, by seeing the solution of solids, and the putrid fluids of animals which have died from hunger, that these phenomena are the natural effects of the swooning of a body, which, like a flame, is extinguished for want of aliment, were it not known that ma- niacs can live for several months without eating. Might not the sudden changes sometimes occasioned by hunger be rather the result of a wandering sensibility, which, in its despair, reacting upon all the organs submitted to its influence, interdicts the order of their movement, de- stro3fs their texture, and abandons the fluids which they contain to all the energy of the physical causes which tend to change them?—See Hunger. An experiment made with madder, which, when mixed with the food of animals, reddens their bones, proves in a decisive manner this perpetual decomposition of living animal mat- ter, since, to remove or obliterate en- tirely the diffused red colour thus given to bones, it is only necessary for a time to suspend the use of the root. Therefore, if the compact and solid parts be in a continual motion of decomposition and recomposition, there can be no doubt that this mo-NU 219 NU tion must be more rapid in those parts the constituent principles of which are in the smallest degree of cohesion, as in the fluids. It has been a subject of considera- tion, to determine the period of the entire renovation of the body; for which, however, it has been said that an interval of seven years is neces- sary, for the same particles to be to- tally obliterated, and their place supplied by others; and this change, it woidd appear, is more rapid in infancy and youth; it would also seem to be retai-ded in manhood, and to require a very long time to be accomplished in old age, when all our parts assume a remarkable degree of fixity and consistence, at the same time that the vital actions become more languid. There is little doubt that sex, constitution, climate, profession, mode of living, and a variety of other causes, tend to accelerate or retard this period; so that it is impossible to affirm anything certain relative to the pre- cise time of its duration. NUTS.—The use of nuts, espe- cially dry ones, incommodes the throat, the tongue, and the palate: they are very difficult of digestion.— (See Filberts). Nuts taste well enough when they are fresh; but as they grow old, so they become oily, prejudicial to the taste as well as health. Preserved nuts ai’e very agreeable and wholesome; they for- tify the stomach, provoke appetite, correct fetid breatli, stimulate the seminal vessels, and do not pro- duce the effects attributed to the nut in a dried state, the sugar having coiTected the saline property of the former. They agree best witli people advanced in years, and those of a phlegmatic and melancholic consti- tution.—See Walnuts. NUX VOMICA, (VomieNuts). —The seeds of a large tree, named Strychnos, growing in the East Indies; the fruit of the tree is a globular berry, of an orange colour. Nux vomica is a seed or kernel, of a flat, roundish form, about an inch broad, and a quarter of an inch thick, with a little prominence in the middle, on both seeds of a grey colour, covered with a kind of w'oolly matter, and is internally tough, and exceedingly hard, like horn. It contains half its weight of a bitter, gummy matter, and some portion of resin. It has a bitter taste, and is void of smell. St. Ignatius’s bean has been supposed to be the same thing; but it is quite distinct. It was long considered as a poison, and it does kill many animals. Gesner gave ten grains to a dog; the result was, the animal died comatose and convulsed. Gesner recommends it in the plague, and it has been pre- ferred to bark in intermittents. A tailor used it as a nostrum in agues with great success. It is not much used at present in this country. It is a tonic, combined with certain narcotic powers, determining to the head. It increases the strength and appetite, heginning with four or five grains twice a day. It is never proper where there is a tendency to apoplexy, as wherever there is gid- diness or stupor no tonic is proper. MM. Pelletier and Caventon dis- covered strychnine, one of the new vegetable alkalies, in 1818, in the fruit of the Strychnos Ignatia, and Strychnos Nux Vomica. It is one of the most virulent poisons hitherto discovered, and is the poisonous jirinciple of the substance which contains it. It has since been e.\- tracted by the same chemists from the upas. Its energy is so violent, that half a grain blown into the throat of a rahbit occasioned death in the course of five minutes. Its operation is always accompanied with symptoms of locked^ jaw, and other tetanic affections. It is suspected that what at one time was generally sold to brewers for cocculus Indicus was really nux vomica; and that the numerous bodyoc 220 OC of quacks who dubbed themselves amara (bitter bean) and nux co- brewers’ druggists, and who were mica under the name of cocculus almost annihilated some twelve or Indicus, when pleading to the minor fourteen years ago, passed the faba offence. OATS.—When deprived of the husk, and reduced to groats or grits, oats are used as the common dish for the infirm and sick. They im- part to water a thick mucilage, which, with the addition of a few currants boiled in it, is of a nourishing and slightly aperient quality. Not much more than half a century ago, it was computed that nearly a fourth part of the inhabitants of Great Britain lived upon oat bread; and it is sup- posed under an impi'oved system of agriculture, more nourishment per acre may be obtained from oats, than from the same quantity of barley or rye; but to wheat it is evidently inferior (see Groats). Porridge made of oatmeal, the common food of children, and the working classes of adults in Scotland, is not so heavy as that of wheat flour, or hasty pudding; though both of them require vigorous digestive organs, robust constitutions, and strong exercise, in order to produce a proper nutriment.—See Breads Porridge, &c. OCTOBER BEER.—Old or strong beer is designated by the term October, because that month is held to be peculiarly propitious to the brewing of this grateful beverage. Nor wanting is the brown October, drawn, Mature and perfect, from this dark retreat Of thirlg-gears; and now his honest front, Flames in the light refulgent, not afraid Even with the vineyard’s best produce to vie. THOMSON. Practical brewers are well aware that the peculiar flavour, and other qualities of malt liquor, depend very much on the water used, the tem- perature of the air, and the parti- cular exposure of the malt-house as well as the brew-house. London porter, therefore, can only be brewed in London, for W'ere the same in- gredients used in any other place, where the same water and other causes conspire to produce the well know'u qualities of this drink, the same results w'ould not be produced. Hence the impracticability of follow- ing the directions laid down in books for making Edinburgh, Burton, and Windsor ales ; for without the same water, aud the same exposure as the famous breweries in those particular places, it would be impossible to produce similar drinks. It is these several circumstances which influ- ence the qualities of beer brewed in October, Avhich for ages has acquired so high a reputation. The state of the air, except so far as regards its temperature, cannot be so parti- cularly appreciated ; though some of the changes which take place in water, are known. The decay of vegetables, in immense quantities, must tend to impregnate both rivers and springs with putrid matter, wbicb, if not in great excess, nmy be rendered inoffensive, by combining with the earthy salts of the water ; and, at the same time, these salts will in some degree be neutralized, and the water rendered softer than before; it need not, therefore, be told that the softer the water the better adapted it is for brewing. A late author is, consequently', decidedly wrong, when he say's it is to an erro- neous prejudice that October beer owes its fame, and that that which is brewed in February aud March must be better,—See Malt Liquors,221 OD OD ODOURS.—Scents, whether good or bad, but most properly applied to a sweet one. Fragrance ; pei'fume. There are many things which emit a very rank and disagreeable smell, which, notwithstanding, are noways hurtful to the body, but remedy certain ailments, and discuss and dissipate any turbid or infected air. Of this sort are castoreum, galbanum, sagapenum, assafoetida, the herb an- agyris, or beautrefoil, sulphur, gun- powder, and the stench arising from burnt feathers, leather, and horn. Wo- men are relieved by such smells, and more particularly virgins, in all suffo- cations, strangulations, and hysteric affections; and wherever offensive exhalations proceed from carcasses, marshy grounds and stagnant waters, which beget putrid fevers, dysen- teries, pestilential and contagious diseases, any of the foetid matters just enumer^ited are reputed to meliorate or purge away the nox- ious effluvia. Those who travel into Germany, and many other countries on the Continent, ma}' observe how diligent the inhabitants are, under the apprehension of a plague, or any epidemical disorder, to preseiwe their habitations from infection. The common people are seldom remarkable for delicacy, but must decline it on such occasions, usually burn scraps of leather, horn and bones; and the fumigation is found always powerful enough to expel any malignant quality of the air. Hence the proverb among them, “horns are burnt there,” to denote that places, infected with the plague or contagious diseases, are to be avoided. A similar remedy we find to have been often adopted in populous towns and cities in any grievous epidemy, by the firing off, towards the evening, of great guns. This notion seems to have been borrowed from Hippocrates advising the kindling of great fires in streets, for dissipating clouds and clearing away infection. But if certain fetid smells recommend themselves by their utility, being endued witli qualities truly salubrious, the same cannot be said of those odours that are sweet and agreeable. Nothing is so pernicious to females, and those of delicate constitutions, as the com- bined smell of flowers, especially in any close place from whence the external air is for any time excluded. Fainting fits, and sometimes death, are the consequences of abiding or sleeping amidst the effluvia which emanate from flowers. How many instances have there been of persons becoming delirious, and struck with madness, by breathing the agreeable odour of beans in bloom! There are, indeed, some smells that dis- sipate fumes, and disperse whatever may be unfriendly to the bi'ain, by recruiting animal life, and raising the languid spirits—some of this class are vinegar, rose-water in which cloves have been macerated, and new bread dipt in odoriferous wine ; but there are others which e.xcite pain, and superinduce a torpor, heaviness, and sort of stupefaction, as garlic, onions, leeks, elder, worm- wood, rue, southernwood, and many aromatics which exhale a smoky and heavy odour, affecting the head and twitching the nostrils. In short, whatever is intensely odorous is hurtful to the head, by suddenly attracting heat and moisture to the upper parts; and on some habits of body it acts as^ smoke confined in a room, intercepting and stopping respiration, unless doors or windows are opened to the admission of the air. Physicians, in visiting the sick, and before ever they have seen them, form frequently certain prognostic.-* on the event of the sickness, from tlie cadaverous smell that affects them; but in this respect dogs are more sagacious than men, being at- tracted by the smell of death, and often seeming, before the patient has expired, to demand their prey, or rather to prognosticate the event, by222 OD OD a continued howling. “Whilst I lived at Roper’s” {vide Arts of Copenha- gen), says a writer, “ which was seven years, I took notice of a little dog of a chestnut coloin-, that very often boded the death of sick per- sons, without being once, for aught I conld learn, mistaken. Every time he barked at night under the win- dows of any one whose sickness did not even appear dangerous, it hap- pened infallibly that the sick person died that week. I knew, also, a young man that had been bitten by a mad dog, who could distinguish his friends at a considerable distance by the smell, before he could even distinguish them by the sight. A lady of my acquaintance (continues the same author) had a favourite monkey, and the monkey in return to the kindness of his mistress was so fond of her, that he would scarce ever leave her. But his admirable and nice smell, in distinguishing contagious distempers, was, no doubt, the cause of shewing a different in- clination. The measles became epi- demical in the country, the lady fell sick of them, and some days before, when there was no indication of sickness, the monkey abandoned bis mistress, and would not appear in her chamber, as if by the acuteness of his smell he bad been sensible she would soon sicken: as soon, how- ever, as she recovered, he return- ed to her with all bis accustomed familiarity. Some time after the lady had a slight fever, but with- out any appearance of malignity. The monkey remained with her as a constant companion, and seemed to have a thorough knowledge of the difference of distempers. Ilis pre- sence, also, in the last conjunc- ture, might have been of advantage to his mistress, if it be true, as it is said, that the flesh of the monkey is a good febrifuge to tbc lion.” This relation is concluded with another account of the surprising influence of odours upon animals—“ Being at Rome, and having engaged with other gentlemen to take a journey to Naples, we all set out together, to the number of thirty-two, on horse- back, that, by being thus united in a body, w'e might be in a better state of defence against a number of assas- sins and banditti who infested the high roads. On the third da)’ of our journey one of the horses of the troop was so fatigued, that he could scarce keep pace with the rest, and some- times could not be got forward. His rider was at a loss to account for this, when all of a sudden his horse took heart; but some time after- ward falling into bis former lassitude, the rider was again brought into the same dilemma. Surprised at this alternative of strength and weak- ness, and endeavouring to know the cause of it, he observed, at last, that his horse went on \’ery well when he followed a mare on which one of the gentlemen rode, but that he imme- diately became spent and tired at a distance from her. After this ob- seiwation he begged the gentleman not to leave him; and his horse, in this manner, animated by the smell that exhaled from the other, carried him with as much spirit as be could wish, to the end of the jom-ney with the rest of the company.” Under odours maybe ranked what are termed aerial poisons, by which, though death frequently occurs, many accidents happen. The cause here is the inhalation of the pernicious fumes of certain metals; the vapours arising from charcoal, coke, or from liquor in a state of fermentation; as well as from sleeping in close un- ventilated apartments, or respiring the foul air of wells, privies, caverns, and the like. As a necessary pre- caution, and to guard efl'ectually against the accidents that m.ay happen from the above-mentioned causes, pits, wells, cellars, deep vaults, or other places, that have long been pent up from air and light, ought never to be entered immedi-OF 223 01 ately after opening tliem ; a lighted candle or torch should first be let down, for where these will not burn animal life cannot long be sustained. —See Smell. OFFAL.— The lungs of animals contain nothing but air and blood- vessels, which are very tough, solid, difficult to be digested, and afford little nourishment. Besides, on ac- count of the encysted breath, and the mucus contained in them, they are in reality disgusting. The liver, from its dry and earthy consistence, produces a vitiated chyle, and ob- structs the vessels—hence, it requires a great quantity of drink, and ought never to be used by the plethoric: the blood-vessels and biliary parts adhering to it, are particularly dis- agreeable. The heart is dry, scarcely digestible, and not very noiu-ishing. The kidneys are also acrid, hard, tough, and not easily digested by the delicate. These intestines, however, of young animals, such as calves and lambs, produce aliment suffi- ciently wholesome. The blood of animals is completely insoluble, and consequent!)' in no degree nourish- ing.—See Oils, Animal. OIL.—Oil is preferable to ani- mal fat, but ought to be fresh, mild, and of a sweetish taste; it seldom or never agrees with weak stomachs; for in them, even in its mildest state, it easily generates a rancid acrimony, extremely injurious to digestion. It should be eaten with much bread, when used in salads or otherwise, as it requires a powerful and active bile to assimilate it to alimentary matter. Olives and almonds yield the greatest quantity of oil; and next to I’ro- vence oil, that expressed from wal- nuts and chestnuts is the sweetest and easiest of digestion. All oily substances reciuire stronger powers of digestion to reduce them to chyle, and even when thus reduced M. Magcndie found that it was in a less digested state than what was formed from other substances. Besides the oil used for salads (olive oil), and in some parts of Europe for dressing vegetables, it is contained in a large proportion in olives, and all sorts of nuts, which of course renders them difficult of digestion. OIL, CASTOR, PLANT.— cinus Communis, L.J.—The castor oil plant was first cultivated in England, in the time of Turner, who stands among onr earliest botanists, or ra- ther herbalists, and is now annually reared in many gardens in the vici- nity of London. An oil extracted from the seeds of this plant, and known by the name of oleum ricini, palma chrisii, or castor oil, is the drug to which the Pharmacopoeias refer, and which has lately come into frequent use, as a quick but gentle purgative. The oil usually em- ployed in this country is imported from the West Indies, where it is found to be one of the most certain remedies in the dry belly-ach, a species of Devonshire colic. Dr. Cullen observes, that this oil, when the stomach can be reconciled to it, is one of the most agreeable purga- tives that can be employed ; having the particular advantage of operat- ing sooner after its exhibition than any other of the same class of me- dicines. It is particularly suited to cases of costiveness, and even to cases of spasmodic colic, and more to those troubled with hemorrhoids. The common dose is a tablespoonful or half an ounce, though many re- quire double this (pianlitv. OIL OF CINNAMON.—A warm stimulant, and delicious stomachic, given in the dose from one to three drops, rubbed down with some yolk of egg, in a little wine ; it allays vio- lent emotions of the stomach from morbid irritability, and is particu- larly serviceable in debility of the first passages, after any depressing disorder. OILS, ANIM.VL.—The fat and marrow of aninudsadbrd, indeed,solid and elastic alimentary juice, increaseOL 01 224 the blood and fluids, but are difficult to be digested; they require a power- ful stomach, perfect mastication, suf- ficient saliva and bile, and agree best with persons who take much bodily exercise. If not didy digested they occasion diarrhsea, weaken the stomach and bowels, stimulate too much by their uncommon acrimony, and easily turn rancid, especially when eaten with meat much dis- posed to putrefaction. They are apt to destroy the elastic power of the first passages, as well as of the whole body, to produce the heart-burn, cramp of the stomach, and head- ach, particularly in irritable habits, and, at length, to generate an im- pure and acrimonious blood. Among tlie oils and fats produced from ani- mal substances are enumerated— 1. Adipocire. 2. Ambergris. 3. Butyrine. 4. Chlorestine. 5. Dippel, animal oil of. 6. Hircine. 7. Hog’s lard and suet. 8. Phoconine. 9. Spermaceti. 10. Spermaceti oil. 11. Train oil,—which see. OILS, ESSENTIAL.—Essential oils have a penetrating odour and acid taste, which are often pleasant when sufficiently diluted. They unite with fixed oils in every proportion, and are sometimes adulterated with them. The most interesting of this class are— Oil of Anise. Oil of Citron. Carraway. Nutmeg. Cloves. Lavender. Chamomile. Peppermint. Cinnamon. Turpentine. Of these the most important is the last, which is much employed in the preparation of varnishes, and for some medical and chemical pur- poses. The others are used medi- cinally, as carminatives, or as per- fumes. OILS, FIXED.—The fi.xed oils are usually contained in the seeds of the almond, linseed, rape-seed, and poppy-seed; but olive oil is extracted from the pulp which surrounds the stone. (See Olive Oil). They are procured by bruising the seed, and subjecting the pulpy matter to pres- sure in a hempen bag, a gentle heat being generally employed at the same time to render the oil more limpid. With the exception of the palm oil, the fixed oils are fluid at common temperatures, are nearly inodorous, and have little taste. They are lighter than water, are commonly of a yellow colour, but may be rendered nearly or quite colourless by the action of animal charcoal. They undergo consider- able change by exposure to the air. They do not unite with water, though they may be permanently suspended in that fluid by means of sugar or mucilage, so as to form an emulsion. For the most part they are sparingly soluble in alcohol and ether. Strong sulphuric acid thickens the fixed oils, and fonns with them a tenacious matter like soap: and the)' are also rendered thick and %’iscid by the action of chlorine. Concentrated nitric acid acts upon them with great energy, giving rise, in some instances, to the production of flame. Fixed oils unite with the common metallic oxides, and are readily at- tacked by alkalies.—See Olive Oil, Palm Oil, ^-c. OILS, VOLATILE. — Volatile oils are obtained by distillation, water being put into the still along with the plant, in order to prevent the latter from being burnt. It is to the presence of a volatile or essential oil that aromatic plants owe their fla- vour. Volatile oils burn in the open air with a clearer light, and the sole products of the comhustion are water and carbonic acid. They do not readily unite with the metallic oxides, and are attacked with difficulty even by the alkalies. They dissolve sul- phur in large quantity, forming a225 ON ON deep brown-colom-ed liquid, called balsam of sulphur. The solution is best made by boiling flour of sulphur in sph'it of turpentine. Phosphorus may likewise be dissolved by the same menstruum. OLIVES.—The fruit of the olive tree. In their natural state olives are bitter, acrid, and e.xceedingly dis- agreeable ; though their taste is much improved when pickled, as we re- ceive them from abroad, particularly the smaller kind, or Lucca olives. Those of Provence are esteemed ex- cellent. On account of the abund- ance of oil they contain, they are not adapted to delicate stomachs, and are pernicious, especially when eaten for dessert, after a heavy dinner. Though pickled olives are grateful to the stomach, and are supposed to promote appetite and digestion ; the ripe ones are more eaten among the Greeks, forming a considerable part of their food, especially in Lent. There are three kinds of olives fre- quently sold, different in size and quality; namely, those of Verona, in the northern parts of Italy, those of Spain, and those of the south of France. OLIVE OIL.—Olives yield an oil which is the most popular and most universal of all others; being that chiefly used in medicine, in foods, salads, and in various manu- factures. It is drawn or squeezed from the fruit by presses, or mills, for the purpose. The consumption of this oil is incredible, and it is re- puted one of the most useful things in the world. In the bite of the poisonous serpents of this country, taken internally shortly after the wound, and externally ajiplied, it has been extolled as a specific. The sweetest and the most esteemed comes from the southern parts of France, but vast quantities are im- ported from Florence and Lucca. The medicinal properties of olive oil are demulcent, emollient, emetic, and anthelmintic. It is given in jaundice from gall-stones obstructing the flow of bile, in colic, catarrhal affections, and in cases where me- tallic poisons, and other acrid sub- stances have been taken into the stomach, in the absence of more active substances. It is also used in clysters. To excite vomiting it is given from four to six ounces. For other purposes, the dose is from half an ounce to an ounce and a half mixed with water, by means of some mucilaginous fluid, as gum arabic or the yolk of an egg, or a few drops of liipior of ammonia, which will cause the oil to blend with the water', and render it one uniform mass. Olive oil, with butter, constitutes what is called the oleaginous condi- ments. When used as a seasoning to raw vegetables, it checks their fer- mentation in the stomach, and there- by prevents them from becoming too flatulent. Used in this manner in small quantities, it proves a help to digestion ; but when taken in consi- derable quantities, it has an opposite effect, and lays the foundation for bilious complaints.—See Salads. Olive oil is frequently adulterated with oil of poppy seeds, which may be easily detected by exposing a sample to the freezing temperature, when the olive oil will congeal, while that of the poppies will remain fluid. —Slew Land. Med. Pocket Book, p. 222. ONIONS.—The best onions ai'e brought out of Spain and Portugal. They are eaten in a raw state as well as boiled, and arc used in salads. Also shalots, leeks, rocam- bole, and chives. They are stimu- lating, and assist digestion, relieve the bowels, expel flatulency, dissolve slime, or mucus, and are therefore beneficial in diseases which proceed from too much viscidity; besides, they increase the appetite, and ought to be used principally in the raw state, as spices or medicines. They are powerfully expectorant, but should be avoided, or very sparingly226 OS OR used, by very hot, irritable, and cho- leric constitutions. Although these roots are eaten abundantly by whole nations, yet, from their penetrating and volatile smell, which they com- municate to the human breath, it is certain they agree best with indivi- duals of a cold and phlegmatic habit, and those whose stomachs require so powerful a stimulus. The workmen, to the number of 100,000, according to Herodotus, employed for thirty years in build- ing the pyramids of Egypt, expended 1600 talents of silver in radishes, leeks, onions, and garlick, a sum amounting, according to different calculations, to about 400,000/. The Hebrews, in the wilderness, com- plained that manna grew insipid to them ; they longed for the leeks and onions of Egypt. Travellers assure us that in Greece and Africa raw onions are excellent. Pliny re- proaches the Egyptians with swear- ing by tbe leeks and onions of their gardens; and Juvenal ridicules that superstitious people, who did not dare to eat leeks, garlick, or onions, for fear of injuring their gods. ’T is mortal sin an onion to devour ! Each clove of garlick is a heavenly pow’r: O holy nations, and O sacred clods, Where ev’ry fruitful orchard teems with gods. Sat. xiii. Garlick is nearly entirely super- seded in England, such is the aver- sion taken to it; tbough occasionally a dish is rubbed with a clove, to give it a flavour. Tbe sbalot, or rocam- bole, usually supply its place. It must, however, be left to the un- prejudiced epicure to say which he would prefer. Indeed, it is acknow- ledged, notwithstanding the rooted aversion to this condiment, that gar- lick, of all our plants, has the great- est strength, affords most nourish- ment, and supplies most spirits to those who cat little flesh. It seems to have been a considerable article of food in ancient times; and with our Continental neighbours is far from having grown into desuetude. The slender green tops of leeks and chives enter well into compound salads; and are among our best pot- herbs.—See Garlick, Leeks, SfC. ORACH. — Similar to blite, and not much differing in vdrtues, tbough rather inferior. They are aperient; and rather hurt than assist digestion, unless the constitution be strong, cold, dry, or choleric. ORANGE.—The fruit of a tree of the same name. Those in com- mon use with us are the Seville and China oranges. The flowers of the Seville orange are highly odoriferous, and very justly esteemed one of the finest perfumes. The outer rind is an excellent carminative, and tonic to the intestines. The essential oil is stimulant, but does not agree with the stomach. The tincture of orange- peel is an useful preparation. So is the following. Take— Of Seville orange-peel, 3 drachms. Fresh lemon-peel , 2 drachms. Ginger, the root. . ^ drachm. Barley water . . . i pint. Macerate for two hours. Then J'ake— Of the strained liquor, H ounce. Spirit of peppermint, ^ Tincture of lavender, C 4 drachm, each .... 3 Make a draught to be taken twice a day,—in windy colic, or habitual fla- tulency, &c. The juice of Seville and China oranges is a pleasant acid, and of great use in inflamma- tory and putrid disorders, both acute and chronic; it is an useful refrige- rent in inflammatory diseases, and an excellent antiseptic in scorbutic and putrid complaints. When Com- modore Anson sailed round the world, his men were surprisingly recovered from the scurvy by tbe oranges which they found at the island of Tinian, one of the Ladrone islands in Asia. The sweet or China orange was first brought into Europe by the Portuguese; and it is asserted that the identical tree, whence all227 ox OY the European orange-trees of this sort were produced, is still preserved at Lisbon. Those most esteemed, and w’hich are made presents of in India, are no bigger than a billiard- ball. The Maltese oranges are said to be the finest in the world.—The juice of the Seville orange is pre- ferred to that of the lemon; the flavour is finer and the acid milder. —See Lemon. OIl.VNGE FLOWER.—Used both in food and physic. It is pre- sen'ed whole, and by distillation a liquid of a very pleasant smell is ex- tracted. It is much used as a cor- dial in Iiysterical and cephalic cases. The orange-flower water helps diges- tion ; it also refreshes and exhila- rates the mind. The leaves shoidd have an agreeable smell, and be fresh gathered for use. ORTOLAN.—A bird about the size of a lark, though rather smaller if any thing; is usually very fat, and of various colours; the beak and legs are inclined to red. It feeds upon several sorts of seeds, but mil- let is that on which it soonest fattens. It is a native of the southern parts of Europe, as Italy and the south of France. The flesh of this bird is tender, delicious, juicy, and of ex- quisite savour. It is strengthening, nutritive, and easy of digestion, and agrees with all constitutions. OSMAZOME.—The essence of flavour. The pure clement, which gives to the delicacies of the animal kingdom all their flavour, and all their richness; in a word, it is the delicious and pure element which constitutes the rich flavour of game, venison, and turkey, as well as of the more common articles, as veal, lamb, and sucking-pig. The savoury per- fume developed in roasting, &c. The name osmazome was invented by M. Thenard (videTraite de Chimie, vol. iii.) though it is to his country- man M. Rouelle that we are indebted for the discovery, and wlio of course merits our warmest eulogies both as a gourmand and an epicure. The following is M. Thenard’s process for obtaining pure osmazome.—Divide a piece of rump steak, or lean of any sort of meat, into small fragments, and cover it for an hour or two with cold water, pressing it occasionally to squeeze out the juice. Pour ofl' the water, and pi’eserve it, and add a fresh quantity, repeating the same process two or three times. Mix the several waters in a flat basin of china or porcelain, and evaporate till part coagulates, and part remains liquid, the latter of which is to be filtered and evaporated by a gentle heat to the consistence of a syrup, which will be of a deep rich colour: still it is impure and requires ulte- rior fining. This is done by pouring upon it some of the best spirit of wine, which only dissolves the osma- zome, and refuses to take up any remaining animal impurity. The osmazome being now procured in conjunction with the spirit of wine, the latter requires only to be evapo- rated to pi-oduce the genuine osma- zome, which is of a rich yellow brown colour, and of an exquisite flavour. Osmazome is not only the most digestible, but the most nourish- ing element which meat contains. It abounds in the browned savoury crust of roast meats, which owe, indeed, all their piquancy and relish to the osmazome developed on the spit. OXYGEN.—One of the most es- sential and component parts of the air we breathe. O.xygen gas was discovered by Priestley in 1774, and by Scheele a year or two afterwards, without any previous knowledge of the discovery made by Priestley, who named it dephlogisticated air; by Scheele it was called empyreal air, and by Condorcet vital air. O.xygen is so necessary to respira- tion, that no animal can live in an atmosphere wliich does not contain a certain uncombined portion of it; for an animal soon dies if put into a portion of air from which the oxygenOY OY 228 has been previously removed by a burning body. It may therefore be anticipated, that oxygen is consumed during respiration. (See Respii-aiio?)). If abird be confined in a limited qiran- tity of atmospheric air, it will at first feel no inconvenience; but as a por- tion of oxygen is withdrawn at each inspiration, its quantity rapidly di- minishes, so that respiration soon becomes laborious, or soon ceases entirely. If another bird be then introduced into the same air, it will die in the course of a few seconds; or, if a lighted candle be immersed in it, its flame will be extinguished. Respiration and combustion, there- fore, have the same effect. An animal cannot live in an atmosphere which is unable to support combus- tion ; nor can a candle burn in air which is unfit for respiration. Oxy- gen may be obtained from several sources. The substances commonly employed for this purpose are the peroxide of manganese and chlorate of potash. It is colourless, and has neither taste nor smell; it reflects light very feebly, and is a non-con- ductor of electricity. It is heavier than atmospheric air. OYS TERS.—Colchester in Essex, and Milton and Queenborough in Kent, are particularly celebrated for fine oysters. They adhere to rocks at the bottom of the sea, and to the keel and helm of ships; but they avoid as much as possible all places abounding with plants and alga ma- rina, because the fat slime produced by these plants would sutlbcatc them, and their spawn would corrupt and perish in a calm sea. In viewing them attentively by the microscope, a milky fluid is seen, wdiich may be called the seed or spawn of oysters, and of all other testaceous fishes. This liquor is found to be comj)osed of a number of smalt eggs, which float in a viscid humour; and each of these eggs contains an oyster, or an animal of its species. They are very good for eating when they are full of this fecundatory humour, and as long as the eggs in their ovaria continue white, and have not yet assumed the form of an oyster; but when their substance has once arrived at this point of perfection, and is organised, then the fecun- dating humour grows thick and blackish, and every one of the little oysters begins to be covered with a small shell; then the mother oysters become hard, and cease to be good as food. The same happens when they have shed their mehs, or cast their spawn; for their belly dries up, and the rest of their flesh, their mus- cles and their beards, as commonly called, harden and become more solid. The prolific liquor of oysters does not acquire its degi-ee of maturity till the end of the spring; they shed it during the whole sum- mer. This liquor, which floats on the w’ater, fastens, bj- the means of its viscidity, to rocks, stones, or any thing it meets with in the sea; and the little oysters finding a suitable aliment, grow in a short time. Be- cause they have no progressive motion, Aristotle called them aquatic plants! A great number of them perish before they receive any growth; as, for instance, all the spawn that adheres to the sea-weed, or a too liquid slime, is corrupted by the badness of the aliment or the place; though, indeed, the crabs which frequent among marine plants, seem to thrive there, and are very fond of such nourishment. Oysters are consumed, under one form or another, in such numbers, as to have become a valuable article of commerce : to give some idea of its extent, and of the number of hands to which it gives employment, it may be sullicient to mention the oyster fisheries alone. In tbe rivers of this country, more particularly in the Crouch, the Blackwater, and Colne, a great variety of excellent oysters are bred. The boats em- ployed in dredging them are from229 OY OY fourteen to thirty or forty tons bur- then ; and the fitting out of one of twenty tons will require 160^. Of these small ci'aft above 200 are now employed, worked by upwards of 300 men and boys. The quantity of oysters taken in a season is computed to exceed 20,000 bushels, which are chiefly dis- posed of in London; but they are likewise sent to Hamburgh, Bremen, Holland, France, and Flanders. So important, indeed, are the oyster- fisheries of Great Britain, that they have long been an object of attention to the legislatui-e; and they are re- gulated by a court of admiralty. In the month of May the fishermen are allowed to take the oysters, in order to separate the spawn from the cultch, the latter of which is thrown back, to preseiwe the bed for the future. All this month it is felony to carry away the cidtch, and punish- able to take any oyster, unless, when closed, a shilling will rattle between its valves. The spawn is then de- posited in beds or layers formed for the purpose, and furnished with sluices, through which, at the spring tides, the water is suffered to flow. This water, being stagnant, soon be- comes green in warm weather; and in a short time the oysters acquire the same tinge, which renders them of greater value in the market. Three years, at least, are necessary to bring them to a marketable con- dition ; and the longer they remain, the more fat and delicate they be- come. Those artificial beds men- tioned by Pliny, were invented by one Sergius A rata, and first esta- blished on the Lucrine Lake, A.U. 630; and from some circumstances mentioned by the naturalist, it may be inferred that Sergius was no loser by the speculation. In Scotland there arc none of them, but oysters are eaten just as l)rougbt from their native rocks; and though cer- tainly inferior to the genuine “ Pyc- fleet,” yet they arc no despicable dainties. The oyster is a bivalve shell, and there are many others of this kind which are edible. Indeed, none of them, as far as we know, are positively hurtful; though some of the spondyli are hard and disa- greeable, others occasionally act as poison at particular seasons, or to peculiar constitutions, and many are so small or so rare as never to have been used. The pecten maximus, for example, is a much-esteemed species; and the clam (pecten oper- cularis) is very commonly eaten in Scotland. The anomia undulata, at Bourdeaux, is considered as a deli- cacy; while on some parts of the shores of the Mediterranean, the rocks are broken with large ham- mers in order to procure the pholas dactylus, which abounds there, and is admii'cd even at the tables of the luxurious. The razor-fish (solen sele- qua) common on our sandy shores, is an article of food in many places; and when they go to its capture, the Irish are said to have a song appro- propriate to the occasion, whence we may infer that it is a favourite with them. The natives of Orkney and Shetland sup luxuriously on a dish made of the animal of the Myatrun- cata, and named smurslen; and on many parts of the coast of England great numbers of cockles (cardium edule) are gathered, particularly in spring, and in autumn an equal num- ber of muscles (mytelus cdulis), which are eaten roasted,. boiled, or pickled, or by entering into the com- position of sauces, add to the flavour of more substantial viands. Oysters arc eaten both raw and dressed : in the former state, they are in every respect preferable; for by cooking, they are deprived of the salt water, which promotes their di- gestion in ibe human stomach, as well as of a great proportion of their nutritive jelly. Raw oysters are easily digested, and may be eaten with great advantage, by the robust, as well as by the weak and consuinp- XPA PA 230 tive, as this shell-fish possesses more nutritive animal jelly than almost any other. Moreover, they are gene- rally attended with a laxative effect, if eaten in any quantity: hence they afford an excellent supper to those subject to constipated bowels. Oys- ters when eaten in the raw state, are by no means distressing to weak stomachs; and they are so easily acted upon in the stomach as to re- quire little or no aid from the diges- tive power. In a cooked state, they are certainly harder, in consequence of the change produced upon the albumen they contain. They con- tain a considerable quantity of nu- tritive matter within a small compass; and it is only with coarse palates that condiments with them, such as pep- per and vinegar, are allowed to be an improvement. Instances of oysters having ever produced a fit of indi- gestion are very rare indeed. In fine, those whose digestive organs are most deranged, resort to oysters as a sort of pabulum best adapted to that condition of the stomach. They P P A N A D A.—Bread soaked in milk, used principally for quenelles and fine farces. PANCREAS.—A glandular body, vulgarly called the sweet-bread, of a long figure, compared to a dog’s tongue, and situated in the epigastric region, under the stomach. The ])ancreatic duct perforates the duo- denum with the common choledoch duct, which sends the bile there, and conveys its secretion, a fluid similar to the saliva, into the same channel. Although the granulous structure of the pancreas has in- duced anatomists to regard it as a salivary gland, M. Majendie, ne- vertheless, observes, that it differs in the smallness of the arteries which supply it, as well as in not appearing to receive any cerebral nerve. As cast their spawn, which by the dredgers is called spat, in the month of May, after which they are sickly and unfit for food; but in the months of June and July, they begui to recover; and in August, at the com- mencement of which month they are brought to the London market, they are in excellent perfection.— The Colchester, Pyfleet, and Milford oysters, are esteemed the best; though the native Melton are reck- oned very good, being the fattest and whitest. They are known to be alive and vigorous when they close fast upon the knife, and let go as soon as they are wounded in the body. Montanus, a famous Roman epi- cure, is commemorated by Juvenal for so exquisite a taste, that he knew the oysters of Rutubian bay at the first taste. This bay was in the vicinity of Sandwich in Kent, and is at present, in consequence of the receding of the sea, a fertile meadow affording the most luxuriant pasture for cattle. we descend in the scale of ani- mals, the pancreas disappears: it is found in the shark and skate, but in other fishes its place is supplied by ccecal appendages, which afford a co- pious secretion, analogous to the pancreatic juice; a peculiar fluid necessary to digestion, though we are still ignorant of the particular duty assigned to it. The excretion of the pancreatic juice is augmented by the same causes which affect the saliva— namely, by pressure and stimidi. By the former it is cmulged, whenever the stomach, in a state of repletion, is incumbent upon the pancreas. Its use is to assist in the formation of the chyle, or that fluid into which the nutritive particles of our aliment is converted. It is of a limped co-231 PA PA lour.—The quantity of fluid prepared by the pancreas, does not appear to bear a just proportion to its size. Attempts have been made by Dr. Fordyce, and M. Majendie, to collect the pancreatic liquor-, by inserting a quill into the duct in a living dog, although the experiments made by both do not appear to have been very satisfactor}^ It is the opinion of modern physiologists, that the gastric juice is the agent by which digestion is effected; but they are by no means so unanimous as to the immediate cause of chylification. It is not im- probable that the intestinaljuice takes a principal part in this process, although its qualities have not yet been inquired into; for, indeed, the investigation would be attended with almost inseparable difficulties. Since the bile and pancreatic liquor are poured into the intestiires at a small distance from the stomach, it is natural to consider these fluids as useful in effecting the change which the alimentary matter undergoes in the small intestines—namel)', its conversion into chyle. The chyme or aliment digested by the stomach, being rancid, the pancreatic juice has been considered as an useful and necessary diluent, and ])erhaps this fluid may have other properties with which we are unacquainted.—See Abernelhy, on Ike Comlilutional Ori- gin and Treatment of Local Diseases, p. 31. PA RSLEY, {Apium Pelroselinmn). —Parsley, as well as smallage, is of a sweet, stimulating, and aromatic nature. The former especially was by the ancient physicians supposed to purify the blood; an effect which modern medical observers would not only doubt but even ridicule. So much, however, is certain, that pars- ley is a mild aperient and diuretic. Yet for these salutary purposes it ought not to be eaten in a raw, but boiled state. It is not a very conve- nient herb in salad; still it is eaten in various ways, and frequently at breakfast on bread and butter. The indigenous spicy and balsamic herbs, as parsley, marjoram, thyme, sage and the like, cannot be too much recommended for culinary purposes, especially in broths; as they are well calculated, by their aromatic virtues, to assist the digestion of many strong articles of food which daily cover our tables; and these excellent herbs are not liable to the adulterations with which most of the foreign spices are contaminated. PAllSNEP, (Patmaca Sativa).— Besides their sweet mucilage, pars- neps contain somewhat of the aro- matic principle, being more nourish- ing and less flatulent then carrots. To deprive them entirely of the latter quality, they ought to be boiled in two different waters, but by this pre- caution they partly lose their sweet taste, and become less nourishing. First boiled, it is eaten cold as a winter salad, with oil and vinegar. If not well boiled, parsneps are rather difficult of digestion; they are very nutritious from the quantity of sac- charine matter they contain, and in consequence of which they afford a very pleasant drink called parsnep wine. There are two sorts of pars- nops, the garden and the wild; the former is to be preferred because it is thicker, tenderer, and much more agreeable to the taste and smell. PARTRIDGE.—A bird much valued for the goodness of its taste. There are several kinds, which ought to be chosen while they arc young, tender, and well fed. The flesh is restorative, strengthening, nutritious and easy of digestion ; but as it becomes old, the flesh is hard, dif- ficult of digestion, and un])leasant to the taste. The red jiartridge is more esteemed than the others. It agrees in cold weather with all ages and constitutions ; but more especially with ])crsons recovering from sickness and those who are of a cold and phlegmatic tem])cramcnt. Our partridges are nearly as large232 PA PA as a pigeon, and in some placeslarger. Strabo (lih. xv.) Says, tliat Porus king of India, made a present to Augustus, of a partridge that was larger than a vulture. And red ones in the isle of Chio, have been men- tioned as large as hens. White partridges are found in several places, in the alps, mountains ofSwitzerland, and Tyrol; as also ash-coloured ones and others of different hues in various other parts; and all very well tasted. They usually live to the age of fifteen or eighteen years; and, according to Aristotle, some live so long as twenty-five years. They cannot raise themselves high from the earth, being a heavy Wrd, but they fly with much force and activity. PASSER.—In the culinary art, to fry lightly. PASTES, FRUIT.—Fruit pastes, jams, and marmalades, are composi- tions of the pulpy matter of recent fruits, or other vegetable substances, so combined into a mass with sugar, as will cause them to suffer as little alteration as possible in their native properties. 'These comfitures are, therefore, in reality, solid extracts of the pulpy matter of finit conserved by means of sugar. The evapora- tion of the mass is most conveniently performed in broad hollow vessels; and the larger the surface of the vessel, the sooner will the aqueous parts exhale. When the pulpy mat- ter begins to grow thick, great care is necessary to prevent its burning. This accident is almost unavoidable if the quantity be large, and the fire ap- plied as usual, under the pan ; it may, however, be effectually prevented by pouring the mass, when it has acquired the consistence of syrup, into shallow earthen pans,and placing them in an oven, with its door open, moderately heated; which, acting uniformly on every part of the liquid, will soon reduce it to any degree of consistence required. And this may also bo more securely done by set- ting the evaporating vessels in boil- ing water; though this is rather a tedious method. The application of steam to what is called a preserving pan, is the best contrivance for pre- paring jams, fruit pastes, and aU other culinaiy preparations which are liable to get injured by any de- gree of heat exceeding that of boiling water. 2b make Apricot Paste.—Take ripe apricots, boil them till quite soft, mash them, and rub the mass through a splinter sieve; put the pulp into a pan, and to eveiy pound put half a pound of powdered loaf sugar; set it agam on the fire to simmer, till the paste drops off easily from the spoon, then take it from the fire and pour it on a slab. N. B. Peach, quince, plum, cherr)^ and black-currant paste, &c., may be prepared in the same manner. 2. Almond Paste.—Sweet almonds decorticated, one pound; bitter al- monds, the same, half an ounce; sugar, one pound; orange flower water, a sufficient quantity; beat to a paste stiff enough not to stick to your fingers. 3. Abnond Paste for Orgeat.—Boil the almonds in W'ater until the skin parts easily—strain, throw’ the al- monds into cold water, blanch them, and dry, either in the sun or stove, till they are brittle. 'To each half pound of blanched almonds, add ,is much Italian melon seed, steep in cold water, four pints, for five or six hours; strain oft' the water, except about four or five ounces, reduce them to a fine paste, adding pow- dered sugar, Hlb. This paste may be dried in a stove, that it may be kept for some time.—See Almonds. PASTE, THICKENING.—It is customary in the culinary regions to thicken some dishes, broths, soups, gravies, &c., with a compound of two parts of flour, and one of butter, first made into a paste, by beating slowly the ingredients in a pan, till the mass acquires a yellow gold colour, the flour and butter being stin-ed all233 PE PE the time to prevent the mass from burning to the bottom of the pan. The substance tlius obtained is called tliickening, or thickening-paste ; for it is the basis employed by cooks for thickening soups, gravies, stews, sauces, and other dishes. The mass readily combines with water. A large tablespoonful is sufficient to thicken a quart of meat broth. Be- side this thickening paste, other farinaceous substances are employed for the same purposes, such as bread raspings, crumbs of stale bread, biscuit powder, potatoe mucilage, oatmeal, sago powder, rice powder, &c. A cow-heel, on account of the vast quantity of gelatine witli which it abounds, is excellently well calcu- lated for giving body to soups : the cowheel, after been cracked, is boiled with the broth or soup. —See Soups, Gravies, Broth, Sfc. PASTRY.—Various compositions prepared by the pastry cook and confectioner. These dainties would be less objectionable if any method could be devised to prepare them witliout the pernicious ingredients of yeast and fat substances, which load the stomach with a glutinous slime and rancid matter, obstruct the glands of the abdomen, parti- cularly those of the mesenteiy, and have a strong tendency to produce cutaneous diseases. PEACH, {ylmygdalusPersica, L.) —A delicious fruit abounding with juice, and though not very nourish- ing, they do not cause diarrlitea. This salutary fruit was formerly decried as unwholesome; but it is rather serviceable in obstnictions and bilious disorders. Sugar, wine, and the like, diminish the good quali- ties of peaches; and even when preserved in brandy, they are not so wliolesome as when fresh ; since they become hard by artificial prepa- rations. The kerticls likewise of peaches arc a wholesome bitter, and are cleansing, on account of their astringent properties. The kernels. leaves, and flowers, contain prussic acid, which they yield by distillation; the former, consequently, ought to be used sparingly.—See Prussic ylcid. It is a dessert fruit, of the first order, and makes a delicious pre- serve. In Maryland and Virginia, a brandy is made from this fruit.— “ The manufacture of this liquor, and the feeding of pigs, being,” as Braddick observes, {Hort. Trans. ii. 205), “the principal uses to which the peach is applied in those countries.” The leaves, steeped in gin or whiskey, communicate a flavour resembling that of noyeau. As there are several kinds of peaches of an inferior quality, it will be useful to point out the distinguish- ing marks of that fruit in a mature state. The best sort of peaches have a delicate thin skin, which is easily separated from the pulpous part. Those which are naturally smooth, ought to be covered with only a small quantity of down; for too much down or wool on the surface, is a sign of their inferior quality. They are likewise not to be depended upon as wholesome, if they are of a size either too small or unusually large. Their pulp ought to be de- licate, yet solid, somewhat fibrous, and full of juice ; it should not ad- here to the stone or kernel, and ought readily to melt in the mouth. “A good poach,” observes Miller, “ possesses those qualities,—tlie flesh is firm; the skin is thin, of a deep or bright red colour next the sun, and of a yellowish green ne.xt the wall; the pulp is of a 3'ellowish colour, full of high flavoured juice ; the fleshy part thick, and the stone small.” PEAS.—Green peas as well as French beans, boiled in their fresh state, are equally agreeable and wholesome; for they are less flatu- lent and more easy of digestion, than in their ripe state. It deserves to be remarked, in general, that all vege- tables of the pulse kind, as they234 PE PE advance in growth, become more oppressive to the stomach, and con- sequently less salutary in their effects; and yet, persons with whom this kind of pulse agrees well, are apt to experience a degi'ee of flatulence and toi-por after eating them, in con- sequence of the fixed air, which, in common with other vegetables, they contain. Those who are fond of pea-soup, would better consult their health, by boiling the peas whole, than split and deprived of their husks; for these promote the grind- ing of the peas, and prevent them from turning acid in the stomach, which split peas readily do. They are also apt to occasion oppression in the bowels, and a very troublesome heartburn, in some constitutions. The pod of the sugar pea, first ap- pearing with the husks and tendrils, affords a fine acid, enters into the composition of salads, as do those of the hop and vine. Leguminous jn-oductions, as beans, peas, lentils, and the like, all contain a solid mu- cilage or gluten, and afford a rich and strong niitriment, which best agrees with a vigorous stomach. They have also a considerable por- tion of crude particles, which cannot be assimilated to our fluids, and must therefore remain undigested in the bowels, to the great detriment of the alimentary canal. The meal of the leguminous class is digested with more difficulty than that of grain; besides, it contains much fixed air, from which it is extremely flatulent, is apt to occasion costiveness, and to communicate various kinds of acri- mony to the blood. Tliese eficcts, however, it produces only when used frequently and copiously. Hence, broad made of peas or beans, either alone or mixed, and ground together with wheat, is improper for daily use. It must not, however, be imagined, that even the most whole- some articles of food are altogether free from air: this clement is a necessary and useful ingredient to promote the digestion of alimentary substances. The proportion of fixed air varies extremely in different ve- getables : all the leguminous plants particularly abound with it: and even persons with whom they agree well, must have experienced flatu- lency and torpor, after a copious use of peas and beans.—See Vege- tables. PEARS.—Some pears are ex- tremely hard, astringent, and diffi- cult of digestion; but the more juicy pears have a sapinaceous, mellow, nourishing, and digestible fluid : in their effects, they resemble the sweet kind of apples, except that they are less relaxing to the bowels. Peai's are of a more flatulent tendency than plums, peaches, or api'icots, (which see)—especially the hard winter pears, which are eaten at a time when the stomach requires stimulating rather than cooling food. Pears contain but little acid, while they have generally more sugar, and above all, more woody fibre, w'hich is of course indigestible. Those which are not so hard and solid, contain, along with their sugar, a considerable proportion of muci- lage ; wliich, though it is nourishing, is apt to go into fermentation in the stomach and produce flatulence. The very hard sort of pears ought to be prohibited to weakly persons, as their great quantity of woody fibre will onlj' load and fatigue the sto- mach. The astringent sorts produce costiveness—the sweet and mellow are laxative,and to some constitutions prove salutary. They sit all heavy on weak and flatulent stomachs. P.VTE.—.\ raised crust pie. PEPPER.—Pepper is the product of a shrub growing in several parts of the East Indies. Black pepper is an aromatic fruit of a hot dry qua- lity, chiefly used in the seasoning of meats. White pepper is the fruit of the same pc])per with the black, and prepared from it b}^ taking ofl’ the outer bark. Pepper, which isPE 235 PE sold ground, is very apt to be sophis- ticated ; the black, with burnt crust of bread, and other materials; the white with beaten rice. Long j>epper is thus denominated from its form, which is cylindrical, about an inch and a half in length, and of the thickness of a large goose quill. It is of the same genus as the black pepper, hut is hotter and more pun- gent; its chief use is in medicine, where it enters several prescriptions. Guinea pepper is a native of both the Indies, and r.aised in some of our gardens. It is of a red colour, and of an extremely pungent and acri- monious taste. It is sometimes given in small quantities, as one of the highest stimulants; but its prin- cipal use is at table. (See Capsi- cum). A species of this pepper is the basis of the powder brought from the West Indies under the name of Cayenne. Jamaica pepper is the fruit of a tree growing plentifully in Jamaica, and other West India islands. It is a real aromatic, and may supply the defect of cloves, nut- megs, and cinnamon; whence it is called by the English, alhpice, and sometimes pimento. This pepper is accounted the best and most tempe- rate, mild, and innocent of common spices; promoting digestion, and strengthening the stomach. — See Cubebs, 8)C. The different species of pepper, being very heating and stimulating, ought to he used sparingly and with precaution ; yet their peculiar warm- ing and stomachic virtues make them an excellent spice, and proper to he used with fat, tough, and smoked meat, with flatulent vegetables, with cucumbers and melons, as well as with fish, and other substances difli- cult of digestion. For these pur- poses pepper ought to he coarsely ground. If taken in whole grains, it imparts to the stomach only a small part of its virtues, and cannot he re- duced in digestion. In this form it is an old and effectual domestic re- medy of the Germans, against visci- dity in the stomach, flatulency, weak digestion, and consequent giddiness. With this intention, from six to ten grains should he swallowed in the morning on an empty stomach. Yet this is not advisable, unless to stomachs vitiated or long accustom- ed to the use of spices and spirituous liquors, with which aromatics may serve as a substitute for drams. Pepper forms the basis of Ward’s celebrated paste for fistula, namely, black jiepper, two drachms; elecam- pane and fennel seed, of each half an ounce ; mixed up with honey, so as to form an electuary, of which a teaspoonful is ordered to he taken two or three times a day. Pepper being of universal use to correct the cooler herbs, and such as abound in moisture, is an ingredient never to he omitted in salads, pro- vided it ho not minutely ground, in which state it is very pernicious, and frequently adheres and sticks in the folds of the mucous lining of the stomach; when, instead of acting as a corrector, it often causes the heartburn, and, consequently, as al- ready observed, it should he but coarsely bruised. PEltRY.—The juice of pears e.x- ti-actcd and fermented. In colour and taste it roscmhlcs white wine. Bitterish and hard pears arc the best for this purpose. It possesses nearly the same properties as cider. PERSPIRATION.—The vapour secreted by the extremities ot the cutaneous arteries from the external surface of the body. It is distin- guished into sensible and insensible. The former is separated in the form of an iiivisil)le vapour, the latter so as to he visible in the form of very little dro])S adhering to the epider- mis. 'I’hc sccrctorg organ is com- posed of the extremities of the cutaneous arteries. The smell of the perspirable fluid in a healthy man, is fatuous and animal; its taste ma- nifestly salt and annnoniacal. InPE 236 PE consistence it is vaporous or aqueous, and its specific gravity in the latter state is greater than that of water. For the most part it is yellowish, from the passage of cutaneous oil and sebaceous matter of the sub- cutaneous glands. Whatever form the perspiration takes, according to Thenard, it is composed of a great deal of water, a small quantity of acetic acid, of muriate of soda and potass, a small quantity of earthy phosphate, an atom of oxide of iron, and a trace of animal matter. Ber- zelius, a Swedish chemist, considers the acid of sweat not the same as acetic acid, but like the lactic acid of Scheele. The skin exhales, besides, an oily matter, and some carbonic acid. Berthollet, who also has ob- served the perspiration acid, con- cludes that the acid which is present is the phosphoric: but this he has not proved. Many experiments have been made to determine the quantity of transpiration formed in a given time, and the variations that this quantity undergoes. The first at- tempts are due to Sanctorius, who, for upwards of thirty years, weighed every day, with the greatest nicety and patience, his food and his drink, his solid and liquid excretions, and even himself; but in spite of his zeal and perseverance, his results were neither exact nor conclusive. Since the time of Sanctorius several philosophers and jdiysicians have been occupied with the same subject, with better success; but the most remarkable labours in this way are those of Lavoisier and Seguin. The following are the results of their experiments:— 1. The greatest quantity of the in- sensible perspiration (the pulmonary included) is 25.6 grains troy per minute; consequently, 3oz. 1 drachm 36 grains per hour, and 6 lbs. 4 oz. 6 drs. 24grs. in twenty-four hours. 2. The least considerable loss is 8.8 grains per minute; consequcntlj', 2 lb. 2 oz. 3 drs. in 24 hours. 3. It is during the digestion that the loss of weight, occasioned by insensible perspiration, is at its mi- nimum. 4. The transpiration is at its max- imum immediately after dinner. 5. The mean of insensible transpi- ration is 14.4grains per minute; in the mean 14.4 grains, 8.8 depend on cutaneous transpiration, and 5.6 on the pulmonary. 6. The cutaneous perspiration alone varies during and after repasts. 7. Whatever quantity of food is taken, or whatever may be the varia- tions of the atmosphere, the same in- dividual, after having augmented in weight by all the food that he has taken, returns, in twent}’'-four hours, to the same weight nearly that he was the day before, provided he is not growing, or has not eaten to ex- cess. The sweat is more or less co- pious in different individuals, and its quantity is perceptible in the inverse ratio of that of the urine. All other circumstances being similar, much more is produced during digestion than during repose. The sweat in a healthy state very sensibly reddens litmus paper or infusion ; and though colourless it stains linen. Its smell is peculiar and unsupportable when it is concentrated, which is the case in particular during distillation. It varies in respect to— 1. The temperature of the atmo- sphere. For instance, men have a more copious, viscid, and higher co- loured sweat in summer than in winter, and in warm countries than in colder climates. 2. Sex. The sweat of the male smells more acrid than that of the opposite sex. 3. yige. Young people are more liable to perspire than the aged. 4. Ingesta. A sweat having the smell of garlick is perceived after eating that root; a leguminous, from peas; an acid, from acids; a foetid, from animal food only; and a rancid sweat from fat foods, as is remarkedPI PH 237 in Greenland. A long abstinence from drink causes an acrid and co- loured sweat; and the drinking a great quantity of cold water in sum- mer, a limpid and thin sweat. 5. Medicines. The perspiration of those who have taken musk, even moderately, and assafeetida, or sul- phur, smells of their respective na- tures. 6. Region of the lodg. The sweat of the head is greasy; on the fore- head it is more aqueous; under the arm-pits more unctuous; and be- tween the toes it is very foetid, form- ing in the most healthy individual blackish sordes. 7. Diseases. As regards diseases, it varies considerably in regard to quantity, smell, and colour; for the perspiration of gouty persons is said to turn blue vegetable juices to a red colour. Some men also have a lucid sweat; others a sweat tinging their linen of a sky-blue colour. The uses of both the insensible and sensible perspiration are to carry off superfluous materials, eleminate and purify tlie fluids, to moisten the ex- ternal surface of the body, to coun- terbalance the suppressed pulmonary transpiration of the lungs, for when this is suppressed, the cutaneous one is increased ; to supply a watery se- cretion, for when tlie urine is defi- cient, the perspiration is more abun- dant, &c. PERSIC A. — The peach. — See Almonds and Peach. PHLEGM.—A thick and tena- ceous mucus secreted in the lungs. Chem. Water from distillation. PHQ2NIX.—The name of a genus of plants. Class, Diaxia; order, lYian. PUGINIX DACTYLIFERA.— The systematic name of the date- tree. (The Phoenix—frondibitspinna- lis; foliolis cmiformibiis complicalis of Limianis). The fruit is called dactyliis or date. It is fleshy, of an oblong round form, about an inch and a half long, and one in diame- ter, and has in its centre a hard stone. Before they are ripe, dates are rather rough and astringent; but when perfectly matured, they are much of the nature of figs. (See Fig). The dates of Senegal are much esteemed, and possess a more sugary and agreeable flavour than those of Egypt and other places.—See Dates. PIIY S I O L O G Y.—A science which has for its object the know- ledge of the phenomena proper to living bodies. 11 is divided into vege- table physiology, which is employed in the consideration of vegetables; into animal or comparative pbysio- logy, whicb treats of animals; and into human physiology, of which the chief object is man. PICKLE. — A brine or liquor, commonly composed of salt, saltpe- tre, vinegar, &c.; sometimes spices are added, in which meats, fruit, and other articles are preserved and sea- soned.—SeeDr>isalting,TIams, Sugar, in addition to the following:— 1. Pickle for Meats. Brown sugar, bay salt, common salt, of each two pounds; saltpetre, eight ounces; water two gallons. Used to pickle meats, which it gives a fine red colour, while the sugar renders them mild and of an excellent flavour. 2. Eight pounds of sugar, and four ounces of saltpetre, boiled for a few minutes with four gallons of water, skimmed and allowed to cool, form a strong pickle, which will preserve meat completely immersed in it. The same may be used re- peatedly, provided it be boiled up occasionally with additional salt to restore its strength.—See Pyrolig- neous Acid. Fish may be pickled either by dry-salting, or in a liquid pickle. The former method is employed to a great extent on the banks of New- foundland. When a liquid pickle is used, the fi.sb, as fresh as possible, arc to be gutted or not, and without delay plunged into the brine in quan- tity so as nearly to fill the reservoir,PI PI 238 and after remaining covered with the pickle five or six days, they will be completely impregnated with salt so as to he perfectly fit to be re- packed in barrels, with large grained solid salt, for the hottest climates and longest voyages.— See Mack- erel, Salmon, Sfc. The antiseptic property of vinegar is employed with advantage in do- mestic economy, for preserving from decay a variety of roots, fruits, and leaves, and other parts of vegetables, which, by a species of refinement and luxury, are often considered as condiments to improve the relish of several kinds of food. The whole art of preparing vinegar pickles consists in impregnating the vege- table substances with the strongest vinegar, to which are usually added a portion of common salt and the most heating spices. To effect this object, the suhstance to be pickled is usually suffered to macerate, or slightly boiled with the acid, and afterwai’ds kept infused in it, toge- ther with spices and salt.—See Cah- hage, Mushrooms, Walnuts, Sfc. The following notice may serve to assist the recollection of the house- wife of the time when the various making pickles are in articles for season :—■ Artichokes - - Cauliflowers Capsicum pods Cucumbers - - Frencli beans - Mushrooms - - Nasturtium pods Onions - - - July and August. July and August. End of July and bc- ginningof August. Latter end of July and August. In July. September. Middle of July. Middle and end of July. Radish pods - July. Red cabbage - August. Sampliire - - August. Tomatos, orlove- End of July and apples August. All pickles should be preserved in unglazcd earthenware jars, carefully corked, and tied over with a bladder to exclude air. The vinegar used for prepaiing them should always he heated in an unglazed earthenware pan, it ought never to boU, but pour- ed over the substance to be pickled just when it begins to simmer. The spices may be simmered with the vinegar. PIES.—Are those dishes which consist either of meat, or of fruit, covered with a farinaceous emst, en- riched with butter or other fat, and rendered fit for eating by' baking. The crust of the pie is usually made of two parts by weight of wheaten flour, and one part of butter, lard, or other fat. The flour is made into a stiff paste with cold water, and rolled out on a board with a paste pin to the thickness of about one quarter of an inch, the board being previously sprinkled over with flour to prevent the dough from sticking to it. About one-sixth part of the butter, in pieces of the size of a nut- meg, is put over the extended paste, and the whole again dusted with flour, the paste is then doubled up, and rolled out as before. A like portion of butter is again distributed over the paste, which, after being doubled up, is rolled out, and the same operation is repeated till the whole quantity of butter is thus incorporated with the flour. Part of the paste is then laid, one quarter or half an inch in thick- ness, over the inside of a deep dish in which the pic is to be baked, and the meat, cut in chops or slices, is put into the dish, together with the sea- sonings, and a portion of water or grav_v, about a teacup-full to one pound of meat. The contents of the basin are then covered with a lid, made of the remainder of the paste, rolled out rather thicker than the inside lining of the dish, and the lid is made to adhere to the inside sheeting, which should extend over the rim of the dish, by pressing the top paste close upon the margin. A few small holes are then made in the top crust, and the pie is put in the oven. The baking should be slow.239 PI PI If the pie be put into a hot oven the crust becomes liard, and many a cook is blamed for making bad pies, when the fault really lies with the baker. A light and flaky pie-cmst can only be produced by the judici- ous application in the manner stated, of the butter or fatty matter. By this means the butter is distributed, in distinct layers, through the mass of the pie-crust. The flour dusted over each layer prevents the paste forming one mass, or, as it is called, becoming heavy. The more fre- quently, therefore, the paste is rolled out with butter, lard, or other fat, interposed between each layer, pro- vided the layers are dusted over with flour, the more flaky will be the pie; and hence, also, by increasing the quantity of butter, to a certain limit, the flakeness of the pie-cnist be- comes increased. Pastry - cooks usually allow from ten to twelve ounces of butter to one pound of flour, for making a light puff paste, such as they use for tarts and patties. PIGEONS.—There are a variety of the pigeon tribe, which, for our purpose however, we shall simply divide into the tame and wild. The former is well known, and is much used for food. When young the flesh is tender, juicy, and easy of digestion. It is very nourishing, and produces solid and durable food. It is most proper for those whose digestive organs are strong, and are in the habit of taking much exercise even to fatigue. Aristotle observes that a tame pigeon usually lives eight years, though other authors assert that it has lived twenty-two. The wild pigeon is said to live thirty years, and, according to some, forty years. Thus it appears, that domestication shortens the duration of life. Pigeons arc said to be generally of a dry nature, and to differ little from one another inasmuch .as they are more or less so. Their flesh is nou- rishing, because it contains many oily and balsamic parts, yielding good solid nourishment, in conse- quence of the compactness of its fibres. As a pigeon grows old, so in proportion does the flesh become drier, more solid, harder of diges- tion, and fitter to produce gross and melancholy humours; and, on this account, many authors liave con- demned the use of them, considering them by no means as wholesome aliment. They agree, however, at all times, with every age and consti- tution, though those of a hypochon- driacal temperament should use them more sparingly than others. PIKE, (Esox Lucius).—^A well- known fresh-water fish, met with in almost all countries, in rivers, lakes, and ponds. It is seldom found in the sea unless driven there by the rapi- dity of currents. The river pike is reputed a delicious food, and is easy of digestion. The pike may be called a fish of prey, for it not only devours fishes, but animals of other species, as rats, mice, frogs. Some authors assert that it is difficult of digestion, and that it lies heavy in the stomach; that it produces bad juices from living in ponds, where it feeds on mnd, slime, &c.: such bad effects, however, have not been e.x- perienced from it; but Jovius ranks the pike in the number of those foods that have an ordinary taste; and Ausonius does not esteem it so much, and that because it does not taste so well in Italy as in France; for it is pretty well known that the taste of pike, in common with other animals, must vary according to the situation and soil on which it is bred. Care ought to be taken not to eat the rocs of pike, as they are known to produce violent vomiting and purging. It must, indeed, be al- lowed, that all sorts of pike arc not alike wholesome, and that those which inhabit ponds and marshy places, living upon slimy and muddy food, consccptently not so well fla- voured, nor so easy of digestion, andPI 240 PL do not produce such rich juices as the river pike. The pike lives to a great age, a proof of which is afforded by the emperor Frederic II. having thrown one into a pond, to the neck of which a brass ring was attaclied, with a Gi'eek inscription upon it, of which tlie following is a translation: “ I am the fish that was thrown into this pond by the hands of the emperor Frederick the Second, on the 5th of October.” It is affirmed that the pike here {illuded to lived in the pond 262 years, and at the expiration of that time he was found with the same ring. PILCHARDS.—The pilchard is a small salt water fish, larger than an anchovy, bii t smaller than the herring, which in other respects it resembles. Tliey abound in the Mediterranean sea, but ai'e a fish of passage. The chief pilchard fisheries are along the coast of Dalmatia, in the Gulf of Venice; on the coast of France, be- tween Bcllisle and Brest, and along the shores of Cornwall and Devon- shire. It is a saying among the Cornish-men, that the pilchard is the smallest fish in size, the most in number, and the greatest in gain, of any they take out of the sea—an observation amply confirmed by Bor- lasse’s account of this fishei-y. The number obtained at one shooting of the net, is amazingly great. The west country people make a pie of pilchards in the following manner : They clean the white part of some large leeks; scald them in milk and water, and place them in layers in a dish, placing between each layer two or throe salted pilchards, wdiich have been soaked for some hotirs the day before. The whole is then covered with a good plain crust. On taking the pie out of the oven, tlic side crust is lifted up with a knife, and empty out all the liquor, which they supply with half-a-pint of scalded cream. PIMENTO. —Commonly called Jamaica pepper. In smell it resem- bles a mixture of cinnamon, cloves, and nutmeg, whence it has received the name of allspice. It is milder than the East India pepper, and is an useful addition to broths and stewed dishes, when used, as it ought to be, in whole gi'ains.—See Pepper. PIMPINELLA.—See Burnet. PINE-APPLES, (Bromelia Ana- nias).—The best come from warm climates; Africa, Spain, and south of France. They are nourishing, and good for consumptive patients, though thepulj) is somewhat difficult of diges- tion. They agi'ee best with people [ of a dry and bilious temperament. | Confectioners preserve them with ] sugar, after haifing exposed them for ; a time to a certain degree of heat in i an oven, in order to purify them. PLANTAIN TREE. —(J/Hsa 1 Paradisiaca, L. ; called also Musa* ! Palma humilis, Ficus Indica, Bula | Platanus). It grows spontaneously in many parts of India, but has been immemorially cultivated by the In- dians in every part of the continent of South America. It is an herba- ceous tree, growing to the height of fifteen or twenty feet. The fruit is nearly of the same size and shape of ordinary cucumbers, and when ripe of a pale j'ellow colour, of a mealy substance, somewhat clammy, with a sweetish taste, and will dissolve in the mouth without chewing. The whole spike of fruit often weighs forty or fifty pounds. When plantains are introduced to * Tlie word Musa is corrupted or rather refined, from Manx, tlie Egyp- tian appellation of this valuable plant, and is made classical in the works of Liiinaius, by an allusion to i^[usa or muse; or with much greater propriety to Antonins Mvsa, the physician of Augustus, who, having written on some botanical subjects, maj'justly be com- memorated in the above name. '1 he name of a genus of plants: — Class Polygamia ; order, Monoecia. The plan- tain and banana tree.PL PL 211 table as a dessert, they are either raw, fried, or roasted ; but if intended as a substitute for bread, they are cut before they are ripe, and are then either roasted or boiled. The trees being tall and slender-, the Indians cut them down to get at the fruit; and in doing this they suffer no loss, for the stems are only one year’s growth, and would die if not cut; but the root continues, and new stems soon spring up, which in another year produce I'ipe fruit also. From the ripe plantains a liquor is made called Mistaiv. When this is made, the fruit is roasted in its husks, and, after totally beating them to a mash, water is poured upon them, and, as the liquor is wanted, it is drawn off. But the nature of this fruit is such that it will not keep long without running into a state of putrefaction; consequently, to reap the advantage of it at all times, cakes are made of the pulp, and dried over a slow fire: and as they stand in need of mistaw, these cakes are mashed in water, wlien they answer all the purposes of fresh fruit. Dur- ing journeys, these cakes are exceed- 1 ingly convenient for the making of this liquor. The leaves of the tree being large and spacious, serve the Indians for table cloths and napkins. The plantain and banana * trees are among the most important pro- ductions of the cai-th. The banana tree is cultivated on a most extensive scale in Jamaica; without the fruit of which. Dr. Wright says, the island would scarcely be habitable, as no species of provision would supply their place. Even flour, or bread itself, would be less agreeable, and less able to support tbe laborious negro, so as to enable bim to do bis business, or to keep in health. Plan- tains also fatten horses, cattle, swine, * Musa sap'wntum, is the systematic name of the banana tree ; it is also called Jianana, Hanancira, Ficodcs, Ficus Indica, ^fusa fructu cucumcriuo breuiori, senoria, and 2^accvira. fowls, and other domestic animals. The leaves being smooth and soft, are employed as dressings after blis- ters. The water from the soft trunk is astringent, and employed by some to check diarrhtEas. Every other part of the tree is useful in different ways in rural economy. The leaves, independent of being used as already mentioned, for napkins and table- cloths, serve as food for hogs. The banana tree, Musa sapientum, differs from the plantain in having its stalks marked with dark purple stripes and spots. The fruit is shorter, straighter and rounder; the pulp is softer and of a more luscious taste. It is never eaten green ; but, when ripe, is very agreeable, either eaten raw or fried in slices as fritters, and is relished by all ranks of people in the West Indies. Both the banana and plantain were carried to the West Indies from the Canary Islands, whither, it is believed, they had been brought from Guinea, where they grow naturally'. PLETHORA. — A condition of body in which the vessels are fuller of humours than is agreeable with a natural state of health. When the general mass of fluids is increased beyond what is conducive to the per- fection of health, there arises what writers term plethora, which may prove the source of different dis- eases. When, therefore, this over- fulness begins to produce langour and oppression, timely care sbould be taken to reduce the body to a proper standard, by abridging the food, and increasing the natural dis- charges, using more exercise and less sleep. But in opposite circum- stances, where the fluids have been exhausted, the prevention of further waste should be attempted by the use of strengthening stomachics, nourishing diet, and abstaining from mental or bodily fatigue. — See Stomachics. PLOVER.—(See Lapwing). PLUM.—[Primus Domcstica, L.) Y242 PO PL These also possess medicinal proper- ties, being nourishing and attenu- ating. Pmnes or dried plums are of peculiar service to costive habits, affording an agreeable and nutritive food ; but as they are apt to produce flatulency, it would be advisable to eat them either when the stomach is empty, or for dinner, without mixing them with other aliment. Under this limitation, they are both aperient and cooling, .and agree with almost every constitution ; but plums eaten fresh, and not quite ripe, especially in large quantities, are very apt to occasion looseness, colics, and other maladies of the stomach and intes- tines. The larger sort of plum are in general more dangerous, in this respect, than the small ones, as they, particularly the green and yellow kind, are seldom allowed to attain their full degree of maturity. There are several varieties • of plum trees. The best are esteemed a delicious dessert fruit; and the others are used in pies, tarts, con- serves, and sweetmeats. A whole- some wine is also occasionally made from them, with or without other fruits and ingredients. “ Plums,” observes Professor Martin, “ when sufficiently ripe, and taken in mo- derate quantity, are not unwhole- some ; but in an immature state, they are more liable to produce colicky pains, diarrhcea or cholera, than any other fruit of this class. Considered medicinally they are emollient, cooling and laxative, es- pecially the French prunes, which are peculiarly useful in costivehabits. 'J’hc wood of the plum is used in turnery, cabinet work, and in mak- ing musical instmments. The French prunes and damsons are the most emollient and laxative; they are * “ Tusser enumerates ten; Piukinson sixty ; Miller, only thirty sorts. In the Luxemberg Cantaloupe are sixty eight; nearly a hundred names are to be found in the Catalogue of our nurserymen.”— Loudon, p. 722. often taken by themselves to gently move the belly, where there is a tendency to inflammation. Decoctions of them afford a useful basis for laxa- tive or purgative mixtures, and the pulp in substance for electuaries. The damson is only a variety, which when perfectly ripe, affords a xvhole- some article for pies, tarts, &c. POELE.—A light braise for white meats. The difference between this and the braise is, that in the former the meat, or whatever it may be, need not be so much done as in the latter. POISONS.—The ancients con- sidered every thing as poisonous that produced malignant symptoms, and attacked directly what we style the vital principle. Thus, miasma was with them a poison, and their reme- dies or antidotes were accordingly directed to the support and cherishing of the vital heat, and to increase action throughout the body'. Hence also the name of Alexepharmics, and the belief of driving out poison by transpiration. On the other hand, the common idea of a poison by' the moderns is, that it is a substance which, on being applied in one way' or other to the human body', is capa- ble of destroying the action of the vital functions, or of placing the solids and fluids in a situation that prevents the continuance of life. Dr. Mead’s definition of poison in- cludes every' substance which, in small doses, can produce great changes on the living body'. This is evidently' too extensive, since it embraces many articles that are not regarded as poisons, and excludes others that are really' so. Thus a small quantity of bread and water has produced great changes; whilst opium or corrosive sublimate has been taken in large quantities, with- out injurious efl’ects. The definition given by Fod6r6, although liable to criticism, is probably ns unexcep- tionable as any that has yet been oflered. He considers poisons to243 PO PO be those substances which are knowTi by physicians as capable of altering or destroying, in a majority of cases, some or all of the functions of life. (Vol. iii. p. 449). Another interesting question is the manner in which poisons act. This has been a subject of fruitful discus- sion among modern phj'siologists, and our own country has not been wanting in ardent examiners respect- ing it. It is not necessary here to enlarge on the various results ob- tained by experimentalists, nor to enter into a discussion concerning the weight of testimony in favour of the blood-vessels, the nerves, or the lymphatics, as the medium by which poisons produce their effects. The remarkable resistance that is some- times observed to the action of poison, deserves some allusion. In- stances of this nature are so numer- ous, that a selection of the more striking will be sufficient to illus- trate the position. Among the Hungarians, the seeds of the palma christi, are often taken, to the amount of thirty-six grains, without any inconvenience; and some of the French peasantry use a decoction of colocynth as a common purgative. The common dose of the extract of monkshood (aconitum Napellus) is one or two grains, and it is deemed dangerous to use it medicinally in larger quan- tities ; but Fodere was consulted concerning the case of Charles IV. of Spain, who, while residing at Marseilles, was attacked with a rheumatic gout, and he recommended the medicine in question. M. Soria, the king’s physician, replied, that, at a former period, it h.ad been ad- ministered for a length of time, and to such an extent, that the patient took a drachm daily, without any good or bad effects. This monarch was now sixty-two years of age, athletic and had an excellent appe- tite.—Fodere, vol. iii. p. 468. The fumes of mercury, lead, and copper, are well known to be injuri- ous to those who inhale them, yet no fact is better established than that of workmen resisting their effects for many years. “ In the mines of Peru,” says Humboldt, “ from five to six thousand persons are employ- ed in the amalgamation of the mi- nerals, or the preparatory labour. A great number of these individuals pass their lives in walking bare- footed over heaps of brayed metal, moistened and mixed with muriate of soda, sulphate of iron, and oxide of mercury, by the contact of the atmosphere and the solar rays. is a remarkablepJumomenon," he adds, “ to see inen enjoy the most perfect health." Francis’s Inauyural Dissert, on Mercury, p. 27. Again, in all the Savoyard and Swiss alps, milk is collected and kept in small copper vessels, and in Ger- many, preserved fruits are put into vessels of this metal, in order to give them a green colour, and all without inducing any injury. Fodere, vol. iii. p. 449. The most astonish- ing case, however, on record, is that of the old man at Constantinople, who had been in the habit, for thirty years, of swallowing enormous quan- tities of cor-rosive sublimate, until his dose came at last to be a drachm daily. He was living in 1800. These exceptions to general rules are best explained on the principle of idiosyncrasy, or of habit, render- ing the system innoxious to their use. The quantity of opium taken daily by many of the Turks, is a striking proof of the latter. And such extraordinary instances should, above all, never influence the me- dical jurist, nor lead him to the conclusion, that because one person has taken a particular substance without any ill effects, it is, there- fore, not a poison. The academy of Berlin was consulted, in 17.')2, whether copper was a poison.—(See Copper). They replied, that they did not consider it decidedly so, since several had taken it with im- punity, either separately or mixedPO 244 PO with food. Now, if this decision re- ceive a general application, we may undoubtedly adduce examples of wonderful escapes from the effects of almost all noxious substances, and thus destroy the idea of poison alto- gether. FocUre, vol. iii. p. 470. There is another curious fact con- nected with this subject, which it is proper to mention. It is the dif- ferent effects which some substances produce on man and other animals— being noxious to the one, and in- noxious to the other, and vice veisa. Thus sweet almonds kill dogs, foxes, and fowls—aloes are destructive to dogs and foxes, pepper to hogs, and parsley to the parrot. On the con- trary, theleopard’s bane {arnica mon- tana) is fatal to man, while it is food for wild goats and swallows. Hogs feed on henbane (hyosciamus), pheasants on stramonium, and sheep on hemlock and manchineel apple with impunity. Even arsenic is said to prove harmless to the wolf. Beck- man (vol. i. p. 52), in his History of Poisons, says that four drachms of sugar given to a pigeon killed it in four hours; and five drachms, a duck in seven hours. The danger of poison, as well as the rapidity of its action, varies considerably. Animal poi- sons are probably the most speedily and the most certainly fatal, though they would seem to be equalled in both respects by some of the vege- table poisons, when introduced by puncture into the system. We refer particularly to the poisoned weapons of savage nations. Next, the mineral, and, lastly, the vegetable poisons. The latter, though generally slower in their operations, are often no less destructive. Poisons may be intro- duced into the system in various ways:—through the nose, in the form of odours; through the lung.s, by inspiration ; by the mouth and gul- let, in the form of food; by the anus, in the form of injection ; and through the skin by absorption. {Foderc-, vol. iii. j),-181). There are many curious accounts on record of the mode in which poisoning was sup- posed to have been perpetrated. Thus Zacchias says, that Pope Cle- ment VIII. was poisoned by the smoke of a candle, and it has been supposed that dresses and jewels might be impregnated w'ith venom- ous matter. Queen Elizabeth w'as to have been poisoned by spreading some on the pommel of the saddle. “The queen, in mounting, would transfer the ointment to her hand; with her hand she was likely to touch her mouth or nostrils, and such was the virulence of the poison, that certain death must follow.”—(Aiken's Mem. of Q. Eliz.). There is a minute of Council extant, in the hand writing of Cecil, which contains among other things, the following caution : “ That no manner of perfume, either in ap- parel, or sleeves, gloves, or such like, or otherwise, that shall be appointed for yourMajesty’s savor, be presented by any stranger, or other person, but that the same be corrected by some other fume.”—Ibid. vol. i. p. 299. In noticing individual poisons, two modes of arrangement have been pursued by various writers; the one founded on the basis of natural history, and the other upon the action of these substances on the living sys- tem. The latter has of late 3'ears been most generally adopted by au- thors on toxicology, with however great varietj' as to their classification. Nearly all the corrosive poisons, for example, of Fodt>r6 and Orfila,belong to the mineral kingdom, and the septic to the animal, while the acrid, narcotic, and the narcotico - acrid, divide the vegetable kingdom. The division of poisons, proposed by Fo- d6r6, and adopted and modified after him by Orlila, may be introduced in this place. It conndns six classes :— 'J'he Corrosive, or Escharotic Astringent Acrid Narcotico-acrid Sc])tic, and putrefying.* A person is supposed to be poi- soned, if, being in perfect health, he215 PO PO is attacked, after having taken some food or drink, with violent pain, cramp in the stomach, nausea, vo- miting, convulsive action, and a sense of suffocation — or if he be seized under the same circumstances with vertigo, giddiness, delirium, or unusual drowsiness. All these symp- toms, however, may be the effect of sudden disease, and it should be re- collected by the Examiner, whether an epidemic* or sporadic! disease, re- sembling that of the patient, does not exist. Inquiry should also be miide into his strength, mode of life, and habit of body, to ascertain whether he had previously complained of ill health. The time at which the nox- ious substance was taken, and the vehicle in which it was given; the taste or smell that was perceived on its administration, and the food and drink that has been lately swal- lowed, with many more, are all sub- jects which belong to the medical practitioner on being called to an examination, where poison is sup- posed to have been taken or given, as well as the class to which the poison, on being detected, belongs. The following classification of poi- sons, will not only furnish a general theorem for the administration of antidotes, but it will suggest the different forms and modes of admi- nistration of which each particular substance is susceptible; it will shew that certain poisons may occasion death without coming into contact with anypart of the alimentary canal, and that others will produce little or no effect, however extensively they may be applied to an external sur- face. Class T. By acting through the medium of the nerves, without being • A contagious disease, attacking many people at the same time, at the same season, and in tlie same place. ! An epithet for such infections, and other diseases, as seize a few persons at any time or season. absorbed, and without exciting any local inflammaton. a. By which the functions of the nervous system are destroyed. Acrid. Aconite, Jatropha Curcas. Narcotico-acrid. Alcohol, Oil of Tobacco. Narcotic. Essential Oil of Almonds,* Camphor, Opium.* [This mark * denotes that the sub- stance against which it is placed may also act by being absorbed: and thisj, that the article has a local motion]. b. The following act by rendering the heart insensible to the stimulus of the blood. Infusion of Tobacco, Upas Antiar. Class II. This class acts by en- tering the cumulation, and acting through that medium, with different degrees of force, on the heart, brain, and alimentary canal. Corrosive. Arsenic, Emetic Tartar, Muriate of Baryta. Narcotic. Opium,+ Henbane, Lettuce, Prussic Acid. Acrid. Hellebore, Meadow Saffron, Saidne, Squill. Narcotico-acrid. Deadly Nightshade,' Camphor,! Hemlock, Cocculus Indicus. Class HI. By a local action on the mucous membrane of the sto- mach, exciting a high degree of in- flammation. Acrid. Corrosive Subli- mate, V erdigris. Muriatic Acid, Oxide of Tin, Sulphate of Zinc, Nitrate of Zinc, Briony, Elaterium,! Colocynth, Gamboge, Euphorbium, Hodge Hyssop, Acids, Alkalis, Cantharidcs, Croton Tiglium, Ranunculi. There are many diseases and symptoms that are most likely to be Y 3246 PO PO mistaken fov the effects of poison; and they, probably, are peculiarity of constitution (Idiosyncrasy), indi- gestion, and sudden illness. Idio- syncrasy is an inexplicable circum- stance in the animal economy; but, however extraordinary it may ap- pear at first sight, yet it is no less true that individuals will have an antipathy to some particular article of diet; and, in some instances, the bare seeing of it, and in others the eating of it, produces the most alarming consequences. Cheese, and various other articles, have pro- duced such effects. But the most striking cases of resemblance to the effects of poison probably occur in those who, after being long accus- tomed to a particular species of food, for the first time use another kind. The town of Martigues, in France, is almost exclusively inhabited by fish- ermen, who have lived on fish from their infancy. Foder6, during the first year of his residence there, often prescribed meat soups to his sick, but, in every instance, their admi- nistration -was followed by violent nausea and vomiting. They con- fessed that it was the first time they had used any aliment prepared from meat. As regards indigestion, ex- traordinary instances will often occur, in which symptoms the most violent and uncommon suddenly exhibit themselves. This is particularly the case with those who live in a luxurious manner, cat mushrooms and trufiles (see Mushrooms), or shell-fish, at peculiar seasons of the year. A vio- lent pain comes on, the stomach is attacked with spasmodic constriction, green matter is vomited, and we sliould certainly be led to believe that a poison had been maliciously administered, did we not know how vitiated the bile may become, and what powerful efforts are necessary in a weak stomach to throw off indi- gestible food. It is jrroper to recol- lect, that sucb symptoms may occur even in the midst of a repast, and caution is hence required, so as not to confound the cause with the effects of poison. On the srrbject of sudden illness, the following circumstances are recommended, as worthy of at- tention :— 1. The season of the year and the prevailing epidemic. Thus cholera morbus rages in the summer and airtumn, and as colick and vomiting may then be said to be epidemic, we would not, of course, be so much surprised at their sirdden appear- ance, as if they came on in winter. 2. The former habits of the pa- tient; his mode of life and state of health should be ascertained; and we should learn, if possible, whether he has no concealed disease. Sudden death is sooner to be expected in a valetudinarian than in one who has previously errjoyed perfect health. 3. It should be noticed whether fever be present or not. It is an uncommon circumstance, that in- ternal disease of a fatal kind, and of the nature we are now noticing, is present wdthout more or less fever. Poisons, however, during their first operation, are not accompanied with it. Fodere, vol. iv. p. 297. We shall conclude these remarks, referring the reader to those writers on the subject who have treated it in all its bearings, by adding, that there are four generally understood kinds of poison: 1. Mineral. 3. Aerial. 2. Vegetable. 4. Animal. hlineral poisons are to be distin- guished from vegetable ones by their action. The former corrode, stimu- late, and inflame, acting principally through the medium of the circula- tion ; the latter generally stupify, by acting through the brain and nerves, leavinsr no marks of inflammation. None of the mineral poisons termi- nate life till after a most excruciating operation of at least two or three hours; whereas some of the vege- table ones destroy life in a few mi- nutes. From the animal poisons the247 PO PO distinction is remarkable: under this denomination may be classed the bites of sei’pents, such as the viper, and various species of snakes, the virus of hydrophobia, the stings of insects, &c. The aerial poisons (see Odours) operate still more quickly than any of the other classes, and their action on i-espiration is so pe- culiar, that it can seldom be mis- taken.—See Culinary Poisons. PORK.—The ancient physicians considered pork as the best and most nutritious meat, if assisted by proper digestive powers. But they were certainly mistaken in this suppo- sition ; for, although its quality is such as requires a smaller quantity to satisfy the cravings of the stomach, yet veal and beef, taken in increased proportions, afford equal, if not more nourishment, and doubtless a more wholesome supply of animal jelly, than pork, under similar circum- stances of the individual, would pro- duce. By allowing these animals clean food and the enjoyment of pure air and exercise, their flesh might be improved in salubrity; but the farmer is not solicitous about the quality of the meat, if he can produce it in great quantities, in which he is certain to succeed, from the present unnatural mode of feeding swine. Pork yields a copious and perma- nent nourishment, which does not disagree with the robust and labori- ous, but which, from its {ibundance of acrid fat, is not wholesome to per- sons of a weak stomach or sedentary life; as these animals live, and are fed in styes without exercise, and in an impure air. From the want of fresh water, their flesh acquires a tough and strong consistence, and is indi- gestible but by a healtliy bile. Per- sons who have impure fluids, and a tendency to eruptions, as well as those who have wounds or ulcers, should refrain from the use of pork; for this food will dispose them to inflammation and gangrene ; it is equally improper in a catarrhal state of the chest, in weak stomachs, coughs, and consumptions. — Lec- tures on Diet and Regimen, by A. F. M. Willich, M.D. People of delicate habits may some- times eat pork sparingly; but it is an erroneous notion that a dram is necsssaiy to assist its digestion ; for spirituous liquors may indeed pre- vent, hut cannot promote its solution in the stomach. It would be more advisable not to drink for a short time after eating pork, as it is usually very fat, and this fat is more subtle and soluble than any other, and has nothing in it of the nature of tallow. When eaten in moderation, pork is easily digested. With those whose digestive organs are weak, no other s])ecies of meat agrees in general so well, as a small quantity of this. Hence the objections made against it relate more to the quantity than the quality or substance; for if too much of it he eaten, it is apt to cor- rupt the fluids, and to produce acri- mony. It ought therefore to be eaten sparingly and seldom, and the inclination -which many have for this food should be kept within the hounds of moderation. The most proper additions to pork, are the acidulated vegetables, such as gooseberry or apple sauce ; which not only gratify the ])alate, but correct its proj)crties, neutralize, in a manner, its great l>roportion of fat, and thus operate beneficially on the alimentary canal. Upon the whole, it may be said of pork, that the occasional and sparing use of it is sufliciently salutary; but that it cannot be made a principal part of the daily diet, without pro- ducing disorders in many constitu- tions, and jiarticularly in those who arc of a melancholy temperament, and lead a sedentary life. The flesh of the difl'erent genus of this species is edible.— (See Bacon, Butchers' Meat, (ji'c). The flesh of wild hogs, as they have more exercise than the tame, and do not live upon substances so impure and corrupted, is more248 PO PO palatable, easier of digestion, less tough, not so fat; and, on account of their residence in the open air, is, like all game, purer, but more liable to putrefaction. The flesh of the wild hoar is dense, but it is tender, and very nourishing, and more sa- voury than that of the domestic hog. It is in season in the month of Octo- ber. The head is esteemed the finest part. The flesh of the young animal is reckoned a great delicacy. The flesh of the sucking pig is also considered a great delicacy, is very nourishing; but in consequence of the thick and strong juice with which it abounds, it is not very readily dis- solved in the stomach, and therefore is by no means a proper food for weak and sickly persons—See Ba- con, Hams, Smoked Meats. PORK, TO PICKLE.—Bone your pork and cut it in pieces of a suit- able size to lie in the pan into which you intend to place them. Rub them well with saltpetre. Then take two pints of common salt, and two of bay salt, and therewith rub the pieces well. Put a layer of common salt, lay them one upon another as close as you can, and fill up the hollow places with salt. As the salt melts on the top, strew on more; lay a coarse cloth over the vessel, a board over that, and a weight again over that, to keep it down. Thus managed and close covered, it will keep the whole year.—See Dnjsaliing. PORRIDGE {vuhjo, BURGOO). —Oatmeal and water reduced to a certain consistence, and eaten either with milk, butter, small ale, or ti’eacle. This humble dish of our northern brethren, forms no contemptible arti- cle of food. It possesses the grand qualities of salubrity, pleasantness, and cheapness. It, in fact, is a sort of oatmeal hasty pudding without milk, much used by those patterns of combined industry, frugality, and temperance, the Scottish peasantry ; and this, among other examples of the economical Scotch, is well worthy of being occasionally adopted by all who have large families and smaU incomes. It is made in the follow- ing manner:—to a quart of oatmeal add gradually two quarts of water so that the whole may smoothly mix : then stirring it continually over the fire, boil it together; after which take it up and stir a little salt and butter— with or without salt. This quantity will serve five or six persons for a moderate meal.—Oddy’s Family Re- ceipt Book, p. 204. Burgoo is, we apprehend, the sea term, though porridge is the most common acceptation on shore—the latter known, if there be any ditfer- ance in the composition, is made just the reverse, by adding tbe oatmeal gradually when boiling, keeping it up to tbe boiling point until it reach a proper consistence. PORTER. — A kind of malt liquor that differs from ale and pale beer in its being made with high dried malt. According to Dr. Ash, in his Dictionary, it obtained the ap- pellation of porter, from being much drank by porters in the city of Lon- don. 'I'liis happened about the year 1730, from the following circum- stance. The malt liquors in general use prior to that period were all beer and twopennj'; and is was customary to call for a pint or tankard of half and half—that is, half of ale and half of beer, as is the case at tbe present day—half of ale and half of two- penny ; or half of beer and half of twopenny. In the course of time it also became tbe practice to ask for a pint or tankard of three-threads, meaning a third of ale, beer, and twoj)enny — and thus the publican was obliged to go to three casks for a single pint of liquor. To avoid this trouble and waste, a brewer of the name of Harwood, conceived the idea of making a liquor which should partake of the united flavour of ale, beer, and twopeuu)’. He did so, and succeeded, calling it entire or entire- butt beer, meaning that it was drawnPO PO 249 entirely from one cask or butt; and being hearty and nourisbing(particu- larly at the time it was first retailed, at the Blue Last, in the Curtain-road) it was very suitable for porters, and other working people. Hence it oh- taind the name of porter.—Picture of London, 1804. Mr. Pennant, speaking of porter (genuine porter it may be presumed) calls it a wholesome liquor, which he says enables the London porter drinkers to undergo tasks that the gin drinkers would sink under. It is, however, a mistaken notion, as Mr. Colquhoun justly observes, that a large quantity of malt liquor supports labourers of every description. After a certain moderate portion is taken, it not only enervates the body, hut stupifies the senses. A coalheaver who drinks from twelve to sixteen pots of porter in the course of the day, would receive more real nou- rishment, and perform his labour with more ease and a greater portion of athletic strength, if only one-third of the quantity were consumed. He would also enjoy much better health, and be fitter for his labour the fol- lowing day. The sight of a great London brew- house exhibits a magnificence un- speakable. The breweries form an important national concern, as the duty on malt has produced not less than 1,.500,000/. sterling, towards tlie support of the state; and the exportation of porter forms a con- siderable article of commerce. Of capacious beer casks we have the following account. A few years be- fore the death of Mr. I'hrale, the celebrated brewer and biographer of Dr. Johnson, which happened in 1731, an emulation arose among the brewers to exceed each other in the size of their casks, for keeping beer to a certain age — probably, says Sir John Hawkins, taking the hint from the tun at Heidelberg. The late Mr. Whitbread, it is conjec- tured, had constructed one that would hold some thousand barrels, the thought of which caused some uneasiness to Mr. Thrale, and made him repeat from Plutarch, a saying of Themistocles, “ The trophies of Miltiades hinder my sleeping.” Yet the late Mr. Boswell relates, that Dr. Johnson once mentioned that his friend Thrale had four casks so large that each of them held a thou- sand hogsheads. But Mr. Meux, of Liquorpond-street, can, according to Pennant {Account of London, p. 322, edit. 1793) shew twenty-four vessels, containing in all 35,000 barrels; one of which alone holds 4,500 barrels ; and in the year 1790, this enter- prising brewer built another, which cost him 3000/., and contains nearly 12,000 barrels — valued at about 20,000/. A dinner was given to 200 people at the bottom, and 200 more joined the company to drink success to this unrivalled vat.—See Malt Liquors. PORT WINE (vimim Portugalli- cum).—This wine receives its name from being made in the districts ad- jacent to Oporto, or Porto, a i-ich, handsome, and considerable town in Portugal; and on this account, all red wines that come from Spain, or Portugal, are usually called port wines. The Portuguese wines, when old and genuine, are esteemed to be very friendly to the human consti- tution, and safe to drink; but it is generally supposed, that notbalf the quantity consumed under the name of port wines, in the British domi- nions only, comes from Oporto. The merchants in this city, have, how- ever, very spacious wine vaults, ca- pable of containing many thousand ])ipcs; and it is said that 20,000 are annually exported from thence.— (See nine). Negus made of port wine is esteemed one of the most innocent and wholesome species of drink, especially if Seville oranges be added to it, instead of lemons; being drank moderately it possesses several vir- tues in strengthening the stomach;PO PO 250 but, on account of the volatile and heating oil in the orange peel, negus, if taken in great quantities, is more stimulant and drying than pure wine. Persons troubled with the piles, and diseases of the breast, should not indulge themselves in this, nor punch.—See Arient Spirits. P O T A G E. — Another culinary term for soup. POTASS, PRUSSIATE OF.— A test for the sulphate of iron. The prussiate of potass is a very delicate test, and will detect mineral sub- stances, such as iron or copper, in any fluids, in minute quantities, with some little chemical preliminaries to adjust it for accurate results; such as depriving the suspected fluid of its colouring matter, that the action of the test may be less equivocal; this is done by mixing in the suspected fluid, as in beer, some animal char- coal (ivory black) and afterwards filtering it through blotting paper. The above test becomes then more apparent. If iron be present, it turns the iron of a bluish colour. Prussiate of potass is besides a test of copper — corrosive sublimate— muriate of tin—nitrate of bismuth, silver and zinc; although it has no effect on muriate of gold, which latter is also a test for iron.—(See Gold, Muriate of). The triple prussiate of potass and iron in solution, if copper be present, gives a brown precipitate. When very diluted, it will only pro- duce a red colour in the mixture, without any turbidness; but at the end of about twenty minutes, tbe brown precipitate will fall. This is one of the most minute tests of the presence of copper. The ferrocyanate of potass has long been used as a test for copper and iron in solution, and it is hardly possible to imagine any tiling more sensible than its indications. M. Brandenburgh, however, recom- mends as superior to it, the ferrocy- anate of ammonia (prussiate of ammonia and iron). It is easily prepared by pouring ammonia on to Prussian blue in a phial, which must be closely stopped. About six of the former to one of the latter may be used at first; and if, in the course of three or four days, the whole of the sediment has become brown, more of the Prussian blue is to be added, until it cease to change colour. The solution is then filtered, that which remains adhering to the resi- duum being passed through by wash- ing, and is then preserved for use. It should be of a fine yellow colour. —Journal of Science, POTATOES.—The potatoe is a perennial plant, well known for the tubers produced by its roots. The stem rises generally from two to three feet in height, with long and weak branches, furnished with leaves interruptedly pinnate. The flowers are white, or tinged with purple. The fruit is a berry of the size of a plum, green at first, but black when ripe, and containing many small, flat, roundish, white seeds. It is sup- posed to be a native of South Ame- rica, but Humboldt is very doubtful if that can be proved: he admits, however, that it is naturalized there in some situations.* * Sir Joseph Banks (Horl. Tracts, i, 8), considers that the potatoe was first brought into Europe from the mountain- ous parts of South America, in the neigh- bourhood of Quito, where they were called papas, to Spain, in the early part of the sixteenth century. From Spain, where they were called battatas, tliey appear to have found their way first to Italy, where they were received with the same name with the truffle, tara- toujii. The potatoe was received by Clusius, in Vienna, in 1598, from the governor of Mons, in liainault, who had procured it the year before from one of the attendants of the Pope’s legate, under the name of taratoufi, and learned from him that it was then in use in Italy. In Germany it received the name of kartoffel, and spread rapidly even in Clusius’ time. To England the potatoe found its way by a different route, beingPO PO 251 Potatoes are the most common esculent root now in use among us; though little more than a century ago they were confined to the gardens of the curious, and presented as a rarity. They form the principal food of the common people in some parts of Ireland, and are much used by the poorer classes of Scotland, and other countries. There are two va- rieties of the potatoe in general use; one wth a white, and the other with a red root. And besides these, there is a new kind, first brought from America, which that “ Patriot of ever}' clime,” the late Mr. Howard, cultivated in 1765, at Cardington, near Bedford. Many of these po- tatoes weigh four or five pounds each; and hogs and cattle are found to prefer them to the common sort. They are, moreover, deemed more nutritive than others; containing more farina or flour. As an esculent plant, they appear also worthy of cultivation; being, it is said, when well boiled, equal, and when roasted preferable, to the common sort. That species known by the name of waxy potatoe, should be shunned by the dyspeptic, for it is so indigestible as to pass through the intestines in an unaltered state. The same objection applies to the young or new potatoe. The mealy kind more readily yields to the power of the stomach, and affords a healthy nutriment; in some respects it supplies the place brouglit from Virginia by the colonists sent out by Sir Walter Raleigh in 1584, and who returned in July, 1586, ancl “probably,” according to Sir Joseph Banks, “ brought with them the po- tatoe.” Thomas Ilerriott, in a report on the country, published in Dr. Dry’s Collection of Voyages (vol. i, p. 17), describes a plant called openawk, with “roots as large as a walnut, and others much larger; they grow in damp soil, many hanging together, as if fixed on ropes; they are good fooil,.either boiled or roasted.”—Loudon's Cyclopccdia of Gardening, p. 623. of bread, and should be eaten with freedom whenever our food is con- centrated. To the dyspeptic this vegetable has been found to be inju- rious; and, if ever allowed to such patients, it is worthy of remark, that in the roasted state they are more wholesome than in any other form of cookery. The process of mashiny certainly does not contribute to their digestibility; since by such a pro- cess they escape being so intimately blended with the saliva; and when they are impregnated with the fat of roast beef, they ought to be scrupu- lously avoided by weak stomachs. If boiled, care should be taken that they be not over-done, as in this case they are deprived of their nutritious properties. The proportion of starch contained in the potatoe varies ac- cording to the species, but it is fre- quently as high as eighteen per cent. Analysis also discovers a consider- able portion of sugar, water, and a peculiar vegetable juice, even in the driest sorts. The waxy kind, which are those, we believe, only relished in London, seem to contain less fa- rinaceous matter than the Irish or Scots potatoes. It is not to be con- cealed however, that the potatoe, as it belongs to the family of the night- shades, must have some of the qua- lities of a narcotic poison; and we accordingly find that Dr. Latham has tried an extract, prepared from the leaves and flowers by Mr. Hume of Long Acre, which, in the small quantity of two or three grains, acts as an anodyne, and a double dose produces torpor and giddiness.— Medical Transnclions, vi. 62. Like cassava, however, the ])otatoe, if it possess a narcotic juice in a raw state, most certainly loses it by the process of cooking, and becomes one of the most easily digested and nou- rishing articles of vegetable aliment, which, like other vegetables, is not apt to produce viscidity and flatu- lence, though, when used for the whole diet, as it often is among the252 PO PO poor, it is apt to weaken and relax the bowels. The celebrated chemist Parmentiev, for an experiment, lived exclusively on potatoes for a month, wdthout the least effect on his health. The ease and i-apidity with which potatoes are digested, is proved by the remark of labouring people, who sooner feel a renewal of their appetite after them than after any other kind of food. They are most wholesome when either plainly boiled, baked in an oven with their skins on, or coasted in an iron pot. By all these methods the coarse rank juice is either extracted or ameliorated, and the farinaceous part rendered mealy and palatable. By most other me- thods of dressing, their nutritious and digestible properties are more or less injured. Mashed or beat pota- toes, for instance, form a tough paste, which contains a great pro- portion of air beat into the mass?, while it is preparing, and confined by the tenacity of the potatoes. During digestion the air is disengaged, and occasions an unpleasant ffatulence. Cooked under a roast, or roasted or fried with butter or dripping, pota- toes have their farinaceous qualities much injured, and the brown crust usually formed on them, however palatable and savoury, is very indi- gestible, in consequence of partially charring, and of the empyreumatic oil which it contains. This will often derange the most vigorous stomach, and ought never to be touched by the weak. Soup made with potatoes is not so flatulent as pea-soup, nor yet so indigestible. New potatoes, though an agreeable dish, contain very little of the nutritive farina of the mature roots, being chiefly com- posed of mucilaginous mutter, water, and sugar. Neither potatoes nor any other vegetable dish, with the exception of pea-soup, ought ever to be warmed- up after standing over from a pre- ceding meal, as they are then always more or less unwholesome. AVhen mixed with flour (see Bread), po- tatoes are much used to increase the quantity of bread at a cheap rate, and it has now become a common practice with bakers. In Scotland they are kneaded with oatmeal or barley flour, and cakes or bannocks made from the mixture. 'I'he fruit of the potatoe contains a large proportion of acid, which is said by Mr. Bainbridge to be tartaric, with a small proportion of malic acid. M. Vauquelin, in his experiments on the quantity of alkali to be obtained from the leaves and stalks of the po- tatoe, cautions agriculturists against a too hasty adoption of the culture of that plant, for the purpose of ob- taining the potash. The quantity of alkali varies extremely with the na- ture of the soil, being, when carbon- ated, from one pound and three quarters to five ounces, for every hundred pounds of the green stalks, &c.; and it varies also in proportion to the other salts contained in the ashes of the vegetable, sometimes scarcely having a place. The quan- tity of potash yielded by the potatoes is in proportion to the quantity of decomposable salts, as acetates, oxa- lates, tartrates, malates, nitrates, &c. which they may contain. From experiments made in France at various places, it appears that the fruit or apples of the potatoe yield, by proper treatment, as much alco- hol as an equal quantity of grapes. The apples are to be bruised and fermented with about an eighteenth or twentieth part their weight of some ferment, and then to be dis- tilled. A chemist of Copenhagen is also said to have discovered a bril- liant matter for dyeing, in potatoe lops. The mode of obtaining it is, by cutting the top when in flower, and bruising and pressing it to ex- tract the juice. Linen or woollen, soaked in this liquid during fort}'- eight hours, takes a fine solid and pennanent yellow dye. If the cloth be afterwards plunged in a blue dye.PO PO 253 it then acquires a beautiftil perma- nent green colour. M. Pesquier, of Geneva, has ascertained, by some experiments, the presence of sugar in the potatoe, accompanied by a portion of gum. Impressed with the result of his experiments (see Biblio- Iheque Universelle), INI. Pesquier is induced to believe that the value of the potatoe, as an object of culture, will be increased by a knowledge of the above fact; and also to think that it is decisive, but opposing evi- dence, to the opinion, that alcohol could be formed by the substances not containing sugar. POTTING.— .T mode of preserv- ing animal substances, the process of which consists in reducing cooked animal substances to a pulp, by beat- ing the nieat in a mortar, and incor- porating the mass with a portion of salt and spices. The pulp is then put into a jar, and covered with a thick coat of melted butter or lard, to exclude the air. The surface is further protected with a bladder skin tied over the mouth of the jar. The muscular part of meat is best suited for potting, and the quantity of sail and spices employed in the process ought to be in sufKcient abundance. Potted Beef, Game, or Poultry.— To three pounds of lean meat, lialf a pound of common salt, and half an ounce of saltpetre ai-e used; with these ingredients the meat is salted, and left for twelve hours. The meat is then divided into pound pieces, and put into an earthen pan that will just hold it; pour in half a pint of water, cover it close with paste, and set in a very slow oven for four hours. When taken from the oven, pour the gravy from it into a basin ; shred the meat fine, moisten it with gravy poured from the meat, and pound it thoroughly in a marble mortar with fresh butt r, till the paste becomes as fine as possible; season it with black pepper and allspice, or cloves pounded, or grated nutmeg; put it in pots, press it down very close; put a weight upon it, and let it stand all night. The fol- lowing day, when it is quite cold, cover it a quarter of an iuch thick with clarified butter, and tie it over with paper.—See Lobster, to Pot, ^-c. Ham, veal, poultry, game, &c., may all be potted in a similar manner. POULTRY. — Poultry furnishes us with the most valuable aliment, as it has excellent and well-digested fluids, from its more frtajuent exer- cise and constant residence in the open and pure air. Some animals, wlien young, have tough and spongy flesh, which is mollified and im- proved by age, and can be eaten only after a certain time, such as eels and cai-p. Others are hard when young, and must be used early, because that hardness increases with their age ; as the haddock and many other species of fish. The flesh of old animals, that have less muscular parts than the young ones of the same species, is indigestible; and we may lay it down as a general rule, that the more the flesh of an animal is disposed to putrefaction, the more it is imwholesome. Some parts of fowls are less whole- some than others. The wings of those whose principal exercise is flying, and the legs of those that generally run, are tlie driest parts of their bodies: hence, the breast is, in all, the softest and most nutritive part. Young poultry is preferai)le to that of some years old, which has very tough muscles, and is heavier to the stomach. The capon is one of the most delicate dishes; if eaten when young, ho yields a strong and good chyle ; his tiesh is not too heat- ing, nor disposed to putrescency, and the fat itself is easily digested. 'I'ur- keys, as well as guinea or India fowks, yield a strong aliment, but are more dillicult of digestion than the capon, particularly tlie legs, wings, and fat. 'I’liese birds when roasted, are usually filled with some kind of254 PO PO heavy pudding, whicli is a favourite morsel \rith many, but requires the strongest digestive powers. The old prejudices that the flesh of capons is productive of the gout, and that of sparrows bringing on epilepsy, are too absurd to require refutation. POULTRY, METHOD OF FATTENING. —The manner in which birds are fed, influences at once their fatness and their flavour. They seldom get very fat in a state of nature, any more than when domesticated, if allowed to go at large. The art of fattening poultry, consists in confining them, and sup- plying them with abundance of healthy food. Aquatic fowls, parti- cularly ducks aniFyfmra) should be prevented from going into the water, not only because they never get fat when allowed to do so, hut because they acquire a rancid fishy taste from tire food they usually pick up in such ])laces. Fattening of fowls for the London market, constitutes an im- portant as well as a considerable branch of rural economy. They are cooped up in a place excluded from the light, and crammed with paste made of barley meal, mutton suet, and some treacle and coarse sugar, mixed with milk, and are found to he completely up in a fortnight. If kept longer, the fever that is brought on by this unnatural state of reple- tion, renders them red and unsale- able, and frequently kills them.* Rut the flesh of fowls brought to this state of artificial ohesitj', is never so well flavoured, and probably not so salubrious ns those of the same species fattened in a more natural way ; the great secret in having fine ])ullets is cleanliness and high keep- ing with the best corn. The process adopted in diflerent parts of France to enlarge the liver of a goose, is described as follows, by Sonnini.f “ The object of the * Agricultural Report of Berkshire, by William Mayor, L.L.U. 8vo. Lend. 1818. third method is to enlarge the liver. Nobody is ignorant of the endeavours of sensuality, to cause the whole vital forces to be determined towards this part of the animal, by giving it a kind of hepatic cachexy. In Alsace, the individual takes a lean goose, which he shuts up in a small box of wire, so tight that it cannot turn it. The bottom is furnished with a wide grating of rods, for the passages of the dung. In the fore part there is a hole, for the head, and below it a small trough is always kept fidl of water, in which some pieces of wood charcoal are left to steep. A bushel of maize is suffi- cient to feed it during a month, at the end of which time the goose is sufficiently fattened. A thirtieth jrart is soaked in water, each night, and crammed down its throat, night and morning. The rest of the time it drinks and guzzles in the water. Towards the twenty- second day, they mix with the maize some poppy oil, and at the end of the month, it is known by a lump of fat under each wing, or rather by the difficult)' of breathing, that it is time to kill, or it will die of fat. The liver is found then weigh- ing from one to two pounds, and besides, the animal is e.xcellent for the table, and furnishes during its roasting from three to five pounds of fat, which is used in the cookery of vegetables — of six geese, there arc commonly only four (and these are the youngest) which answer the expectation of the fattener. They arc kept in a cellar, or place with little liglit; and the Roman epicures, wlio prized their livers, had already observed, that darkness was favour- able to this kind of education, no doubt, because it prevents all dis- tractions, and directs tlic whole powers towards tlie digestive organs. The want of motion and the difficulty t A celebrated naturalist and tra- veller, a Frenchman by birth, though of Italian parents.PO PO 255 of respiration, may also be taken into account; the first by diminisb- ing the waste of the system, and both by retarding the circulation in the vena portarum ; * by which the blood ought to become hydrogenated, in proportion as its carbon unites itself to the oxygen, which that liquid absorbs; this favours the formation of the oily juice, which, after having filled the cellular system of the body, enters into the biliary system and substance of the liver, and gives it that fatness and size which is so delightful to the palates of every veritable gourmand. The liver only thus becomes consecutively enlarged, and the difficulty of respiration does not appear till the end, when its size prevents the return of the diaphragm. The leanness of geese subjected to this treatment, is often mentioned, but it can only occur in those whose eyes are extinguished and feet nailed down to a board, as the consequence of this barbarous treatment. Among a hundred fatteners,there are scarcely two who adopt this practice, and even these do not put out their eyes till a day or two before they are killed. And therefore the geese of Alsace, which are free from these cruel operations, acquire a prodigious fatness, the effect of a general atony of the absorbents, caused by want of exercise, combined with succulent food, crammed down their throats, in an under oxygenated atmosphere. POULTRY, AND GAME, for each Month in the Year. Capons, Chickens, Fowls, Hares, Partridges, Pheasants, January. Pigeons, tame, Pullets, Rabbits, Snipes, Turkeys, Woodcocks. • The great vein situated at the en- trance of the liver, wliich receives the food from the abdominal viscera, and carries it into the substance of the liver. February. Capons, Pigeons, Chickens, Pullets, Fowls, Rabbits, tame. Hares, Partridges, Snipes, Turkeys, Pheasants, Woodcocks. March. Capons, Chickens, Pigeons, Pullets, Ducklings, Rabbits, Fowls, Turkeys. April. Chickens, Pigeons, Ducklings, Pullets, Fow Is, Leverets, Rabbits. May. Chickens, Leverets, Ducklings, Pullets, Fowls, Rabbits, Green Geese, Turkey Poults. June. Chickens, Plovers, Ducklings, Pullets, Fowls, Rabbits, Geese, Green, Turkey Poults, Leverets, Wheatears. July. Chickens, Pheasants, Ducks, Pigeons, Ducklings, Poults (turkey) Fowls, Plovers, , Pullets, Geese, Green, Leverets, Rabbits, Partridges (young) Wheatears. August. Chickens, Pigeons, Ducklings, Plovers, Pullets, Fowls, Green geese. Rabbits, Grouse, Turkey Poults, Leverets, Wheatears, Pheasants, Wild Ducks. September. Chickens, Pheasants, Ducks, Fowls, Pigeons, Pullets, Geese, Rabbits, Hares, 'J’eal, Larks, Partridges, Turkeys.PO 256 PO October. Cliickens, Pullets, Dotterels, Rabbits, Fowls, Snipes, Geese, Teal, Hares, Turkeys, Larks, Widgeons, Partridges, Wild Ducks, Pheasants, Pigeons, Woodcocks. November. Chickens, Pullets, Dotterels, Rabbits, F owls. Snipes, Geese, Teals, Hares, Turkeys, Larks, Widgeons, Partridges, Wild Ducks, Pheasants, Pigeons, Woodcocks. December. Capons, Pigeons, Chickens, Pullets, Dotterels, Rabbits, Fowls, Snipes, Geese, Teal, Hares, Turkeys, Larks, Widgeons, Wild Ducks, Partridges, Pheasants, Woodcocks. POULTRY AND WILD FOWL, &c.—Directions for the froper Choice of. 1. Bustards, to choose.—The same rule laid down for the choice of a turkey will hold good with respect to this curious bird. 2. Codes and Hens, to choose.— The spurs of a young cock are short, but the same precaution will be as necessary here in that point, as just observed on the choice of turkeys. Their vents will be open if they are stale, but close and hard if fresh. Hens are always best when full of eggs, and just before they begin to lay. The combs and legs of an old bc-n are rough, but smooth when young, 'flic comb of a good capon is very pale, its brca.st is peculiarly I'at, and it has a thick belly and a large rump. 3. Ducks, to choose.—The legs of a fresh killed duck arc limber, and if it be fat its belly will be hard and thick; the feet of a stale duck are dry and stilf; the feet of a tame duck are uiclining to a dusty yellow, and are tliick; the feet of a wdld duck are smaller than those of a tame one, and are of a reddish co- lour. Ducks must be picked dry, but ducklings scalded. 4. Geese, to choose, — A yellow bill, and feet with but few hairs on them, are the marks of a young goose, but these are red when old. Green geese are in season from !May till June, till they are three months old. A stubble goose will be good till it be five or six months old, and should be picked diy, but green geese shoidd be picked scalded. The same rales will hold good for wild geese, with respect to their being young or old. 5. Hares, to choose. — Both the age and freshness are to be consi- dered in the selection of a hare. When old the claws are blunt and ragged, the ears dry and tough, and the deft wide and large; but if the claws be smooth and diarp, the ears tear easily, the cleft in the lip be not much spread, it is young. The body will be stiff, and tbe flesh pale, if newiy killed; but if the flesh be turn- ing black, and tbe body limber, it is stale, though hares are not always considered as the w’orse for being kept till they turn a little. The principal distinction between a hare and a leveret is, that the leveret should have a knob, or small bone, near tlie foot on its fore leg, wiiich a hare has not.—See Hare. 6. Partridges, to choose.—Autumn is the season for partridges, when, if young (the only ones fit for use), the legs will be j^ellowish, and the bill of a dark colour. If they are fresh the vent will be firm; but if stale it will look greenish, and the skin will peel when rubbed with the finger. 1 f they be old the bill will be white and the legs blue; look at the extremity of the wing, if it is sharp pointed and whitish, the birdPO 2o7 PO is still tender, and invariably on the contrary if it is old. 7. Pheasants, to choose. —These birds are of a very fine flavour, and are of the English cock and hen kind. The cock has spurs, the hen none: but she is most valued when with egg. The spurs of a young cock pheasant are short and blunt, or round ; but if he be old they are long and shai-p. If the vent of the hen be open and green, she is stale; and when rubbed with the finger the skin will peel; if she be with egg, the vent will be soft. 8. Pigeons, to choose.—These birds are full and flat at the vent, and limber footed when new ; but if the toes are harsh, the vent loose and open, and green, they are stale; if they be old their legs will be large and red. The tame pigeon is pre- ferable to the wild, and should be large in the body, fat, and tender; but the wild pigeon is not so fat. Wood pigeons are larger than wild pigeons, but in other re.spects like them. The same rules will hold good in the choice of the plover, fieldfare, thrush, lark, blackbird, &c. 9. Rabbits, to choose—The claws of an old rabbit are very rough and long, and grey hairs are intermin- gled with the wool, but the wool and claws are smooth when young. If it be stale it will be limber, and the flesh will look bluish, with a kind of slime upon it; but it will be stiff, and the flesh white and dry, if fresh.— See Rabbit. 10. Turkeys, to choose. If a cock turkey be young it will have a smooth black leg, with a short spur, the eyes will be full and bright, and the feet limber and moist; but you must carefully observe, that the spurs are not cut or scraped to deceive you. When a turkey is stale the feet are dry, and the eyes shrunk. The same rules will determine whe- ther a hen turkey be fresh or stale, young or old, with this difference, that if she be old her legs will be rough and red; if with egg the vent will be soft and open, but if she have no eggs the vent will be hard. To judge of a turkey, that is, when it ought to be cooked, we are recom- mended to leave a few feathers un- plucked to assist in determining their condition. No man who under- stands good living will say, on such a day will I eat that turkey, but let him hang it up by four of the large tail feathers, and when, on paying his morning visit to the larder, he finds it lying on a cloth prepared to receive it when it falls, that day let it be cooked. 11. Woodcocks, to choose.—A wood- cock is a bird of passage, and is found with us only in the winter. They are best about a fortnight or three weeks after their appearance, when they have I'estcd, after their long passage over the ocean. If they be fat they will be firm and thick, which is a proof of their good condition. Their vent will be also thick and hai'd, and a vein of fat will run by the side of the breast; but a lean one will feel thin in the vent. If it be newly killed its feet will be limber, and the head and throat clean ; the contrary if stale. POULTRY, TO Carve. —See also Carving. 1. 7b cut up a Turkey.—To cut up a turkey, secundum artem, raise the leg and open the joint, but be sure not to take off the leg. Lace down both sides of the breast, and open the pinion of the breast, but do not take it off. Raise the “ merry- thought,” between the breast bone and the top, raise the brawn and turn itinwai'ds on both sides,but be care- ful not to cut it off’ nor break it. Divide the wing pinions from the joint next the body, and stick each pinion where the brawn was turned out; cut olf the sharp end of the pinion, and the middle piece will exactly fit the place. In the same manner you may souse a c.apon, cut up a bustard, and allay a pheasant. z3PO PO 258 2. 7'o winy Partridges or Quails. —To wing either of these birds nothing more is requisite than to raise the legs and wings. Use salt and powdered ginger for sauce. 3. To allay Pheasants or Teal. — To allay either of these observe the directions given in the preceding, but use salt only for sauce. 4. To lift a Swan.—Slit it quite down the middle of the breast clean through the back, from the neck to the rump. Divide it into two parts, neither breaking nor tearing the flesh. Then lay the halves in a charger with the slit downwards; throw salt upon it, and set it on the table. 5. 7b display a Crane.—After its legs are unfolded cut off the wings, take them up, and sauce them with powdered ginger, vinegar, salt, and mustard. 6. To dismember a Heron.—Cut off the legs, lace the breast bone down each side, and open the breast pinion without cutting it off; raise the merry - thought between the breast bone and the top of it, and then raise the brawn, turning it out- wards on both sides, but do not break it nor cut it off. Sever the wing pinion from the joint nearest tlie body, sticking the pinions in the j)lace where the brawn was. Re- member to cut off' the sharp end of the pinion, and supply the place by the middle piece. A capon may be soused, a plieasant allayed, or a bit- tern disjointed, in the same manner, using no other sauce than salt. 7. To thigh a Woodcock. •— Raise the legs and wings the same way in which you do a fowl, only open the licad for the brains. In this man- ner you untack curlews, plovers or snipes, using no sauce but salt. 8. To rear a Goose. — Cut off l)oth legsin the manner of a shoulder of lamb, and take off the belly piece close to the extremity of the breast; lace the goose down both sides of the breasl, about half an inch from the sharp bone, divide the pinions and the flesh, first with your knife, which must be raised from the bone, and taken off with the pinion from the body. Then cut oflT the merry thought, and ait another slice from the breast bone quite through; lastly, turn up the carcass, cutting it asunder, the back above the loin bones. 9. To embrace Mallards and Ducks. —First raise the pinions and legs, but do not cut them off; then raise the men-y-thoughts, from the breast, and lace it down both sides with your knife. 10. To carve Fowls.—Roasted or boiled, a fowl is cut up in the same manner as a pheasant, with the ex- ception that the pheasant has the head tucked up under the wing, whereas the head of the fowl is cut off before it is dressed. In a boiled fowl the legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly. In order to cut up a fowl, the best wa)’ is to take it upon your plate. The legs, wings, and merry-thought, being re- moved, take off the neck bones. All the parts being thus separated from the carcass, divide the breast bone from the back by cutting through the tender ribs on each side from the neck quite down to the tail, lay the back then upwards on your jdate, fix your fork under the rump, and lay- ing the edge of your knife on the back, press it down, then lift up the lower part of the back, and it will readily divide with the help of your knife. In the next place lay the lower part of the back upwards on your ])late, and cut off the side bones, or sidesmen as they arc generally called, when your fowl will bo com- jiletely cut up. The epicurean or gourmand morsels are the wings, breast, and merry-thonght, and next to them the neck bones and sides- men. The legs .are generally consi- dered ns coarse, though there was a time when they were esteemed .as the best parts of the fowl. The legs of boiled fowls are more tender than those that are roasted; but everyPR 259 PO part of a chicken is good and juicy. As the thigh bones of a chicken are very tender, and easily broken with the teeth, the gidstle and marrow render them very delicate, 11. To unlace a Rabbit.—Turn the back downwards, and dmde the apron from the belly, this done slip your knife between the kidneys, de- taching the flesh on each side, then turn the belly, cut the back cross- ways between the w'ngs, and draw your knife down both sides of the back bone, dividing the side and legs from the back. Observe not to pull the leg too violently from the bone when you open the side, but with great exactness lay open the sides from scut to shoulder, and then put the legs together. 12. To cut up a Hare.—There are too ways of cutting up a hare, but the best and readiest is to put the point of tho carving knife in under the shoulder, and cut through all the way down to the rump, on one side of the back bone; this done, cut in the same manner on the other side, at an equal distance from the back bone; by this means the body will be nearly divided into three. You may now cut the back, through the spine or back bone, into several small pieces, more or less, as occasion shall require. The back is much the teuderest part, fullest of gravy, and esteemed the most delicate. When you help to a part of the back, you must also give a .spoonful of pudding with it, which' you may now easily come at. Separate the legs from the back bone, they are easily cut from the belly. The flesh of the legs is the next in estimation; the shoulders must be then taken off, which are generally bloody, on which account some people prefer them to the legs. The whole leg of a large hare would be too much to give to one person, it will be therefore proper to divide it, and the best part of the leg is that which comes off near- est from the body. Some people are fond of the head, brains, and bloody part of the neck; but before you begin to dissect the head, cut off the ears at the roots, as man}'^ are fond of them when they are roasted crisp. The head must then be divided in this manner: put it on a clean pewter plate, so as to have it under your hand, and turning the nose towards you, steady it with your fork, so that it may not slip from under your knife, you must introduce the point of tl'.e knife into the skull between the ears, and by forcing it down as soon as it has found its way, tlie head may easily he divided into two by forcing the knife with some degree of strength quite down through the nose. Observation.— This method, how- ever, is to be done only when the hare is a young one, for if it be old, the best method is to put the knife pretty close to the back bone, and cut off the leg; but eis the hip hone will he in your way, turn the back of the hare towards you, and you must endeavour to hit the joint be- tween the hip and the thigli bone; when you have separated one, cut off the other, then cut a long narrow slice or two on each side of the back bone, then divide the back bone into two, three, or more parts, passing youi' knife between the several joints of the back. PRUNUS.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. Class, Jsocandria; order, Monor/y- nia. The name of the tree which bears the plum or prune. Of these are—See Phan. P RU N U S ARMENIACA. — Apricots, which arc the finit of this plant, are, when ripe, easily digested, and arc considered as a pleasant and nutritious delicacy. PRUNES AVIUxM.—The syste- matic name of the black cherry tree. 'I'he flavour of the ripe fruit is es- teemed by many; and if not taken in too large quantities is extremely salutary. A gum exudes from this tree, the projierties of which are similar to the Gum .'\rabic.2G0 PU PR PRUNUS CERASUS.—The sys- tematic name of the red cherry tree. The fruit of this tree possesses a pleasant acidulated sweet flavour, and is proper in fevers, scurvy, and bilious obstructions. Red cherries are mostly eaten as a luxury, and are very wholesome, except to those whose bowels are remarkably irri- table.—See Cherries. PRUNES UOMESTICA.—The systematic name of the plum or dam- son tree.—See Plums. PRUNUS—LAURO-CERASUS. —The systematic name of the Poison Laurel: called also common Cherry Laurel, Bay Laurel, and the Alex- andrian Laurel. The leaves of the lauro-cerasus have a bitter, styptic taste, accompanied with a flavour re- sembling that of bitter almonds, or other kernels of the drupaceous fruits; the flowers also manifest a similar flavour. The powdered leaves ap- plied to the nostrils, excite sneezing, though not so strongly as tobacco. The kernel-like flavour which these leaves impart being generally es- teemed grateful, has sometimes caused them to be employed for culi- nary purposes, and especially in custards, puddings, blanc mange, &c. and as the proportion of this sapia matter of the leaf to the quantity of the milk is commonly inconsiderable, bad effects have seldom ensued. But as the poisonous quality of this laurel is now indubitably jiroved, and known to be the Prussic acid, which can be obtained in a separate form, the public are cautioned against its internal use.—See Cherni Laurel. PRUNUS PADUS. — The sys- tematic name of the wild-chistcr, or bird cherry tree. The bark and berries of this shrub are used medicinally. 'I'he former when taken from the tree has a fragrant and bitter sub- astringent taste, somewhat similar to that of bitter almonds. Made into a decoction it cures intermittents, &c. PRUNUS SPINOSA.—The sys- tematic name of the sloe tree. {Prii- nus Sijlucstris). The juice of the sloe is sometimes used in gargles to tumifactions of the tonsils and uvula, and, from its astringent taste, was formerly much used in hemorrhage, but is now principally emplo3'ed in the manufacture of home-made port wine. PUDDINGS.—Puddings are of two kinds: the first consists of a fari- naceous dough, containing a portion of butter or other fat, inclosing any kind of meat or fruit, and rendered eat- able by boiling; this may be termed a boiled pie. The paste for a meat pudding is usually made with beef suet or marrow, one part of which is chopped as fine as possible, and ultimately mixed with four parts by weight of floim, is made into a paste, ■with water or milk. With this paste a pudding mould or basin, previously rubbed with butter within, is lined, and the meat is added, to fill up the vacancj'. A lid of paste is now put over the meat, and made to adhere to the margin of the dish. The wiiole is then laid over with a wetted cloth, dusted with flour to prevent the dough sticking to it, and then boiled in water till the pudding be sufficiently cooked. The other kind of pudding is a batter, composed of eggs, butter, and flour, or any other farinaceous sub- stance, occasionally' enriched with the admixture of fruit, sugar, and spices, and rendered eatable either by boiling in the manner stated, or by baking in an oven. PULiSES. — All vegetables of the pulse kind are liable to strong objec- tions asarticles of food. Thej' arevery' indigestible, heating, flatulent, and moreover, they contain little noiunsh- ment. Both pease and beans, whether green or dried, are apt to oppress the stomach if eaten too plentifully; and are consequently fitter for the strong and laborious, and those who take much exercise. Pea-soup, although most grateful in cold weather, is in- digestible to weak stomachs. French beans arc, however, an excellent ve- getable production ; that is, the youngPU 2(51 PY green pod, as it is usually eaten with us. The best pot herbs are aspara- gus and artichokes, and are beneficial to those troubled with gravel. Young spring greens and cabbages are wholesome, but after the spring sea son they become indigestible, flatu- lent, and injurious. Young brocoli and cauliflowers oi'e also useful ve- getables ; also spinage.—See Pease, Salads, ^c. PUMPKINS orPOMPIONS.— (Cucurhita, h.)—Ihere are three kinds of pumpkins, all of which are cooling and emolhent. They are difficult of digestion, weaken the stomach, and create flatulent colic. They agree best in hot weather with young bilious people; but persons of a cold phlegmatic constitution ought to abstain from them. They are usually prepared for the table with some aromatic herbs, as pars- ley, mustard, onions, pepper, &c. They are also preserved in sugar, in order to render them more whole- some and pleasing to the taste. They contain an oil in the seed procured by expression, which is recommended to soften the skin and make it softer. Pumpkins ought to be tender, fresh gathered, and with a white and soft pulp.—See Melons. PUNCH.—Of'punch we shall say nothing further (see Ardent Spirits, p. 2.'5), than, as the chaplain in Jo- nathan Wild obseiwes, “ it is a much better orthodox liquor than wine, for there is not a word spoken against it in the Scriptures.” Ardent spirits, however, are rendered still more contracting, and prejudicial to the stomach, when combined with acids, as in punch. Pimch is made in va- rious ways:— 1. Wine Punch.—Arack, two pints; juice of twelve lemons; white sugar, one pound; port wine, two pints; hot tea, six pints. 2. White sugar, three quarters of a pound, flavoured by rubbing ofl‘ tho yellow peel of three lemons; port wine, one gallon; boil, adding at the end, cinnamon, half an ounce; strain, and add arack, one pint, and juice of nine lemons. 3. Tea Punch.—Hot tea, two pints; ai'ack, half a bottle (about thirteen ounces and a half); white sugar, four ounces, flavoured by rub- bing off the yellow peel of four lemons; add juice of eight lemons. 4. Cold Punch.—Arack, port wine, and water, of each two pints; juice of eight lemons; white sugar, one pound. 5. Iced Punch. — Champagne, or Rhenish wine, two pints; arack, one pint; juice of six lemons; white sugar, one pound, flavoured by rub- bing off the yellow peel of six lemons; ice as cream. G. Shrub Punch.—Lemon or lime juice, one pint and a half; strain, and add white sugar, four pounds, rubbing part of it upon twelve of the lemons to get off the yellow peel, before squeezing them; rum, four pints: used to make punch, by put- ting half a pint into two pints of hot infusion of tea.—See Shrub, Swig, Wemuil Bold. PURSliAIN.—Grows in gardens, is put into cooling broths and salads; it purifies the blood, allays sharp humours, is good against the scurvy, and expels worms. It is hard of digestion and creates wind. It agrees in hot weather with young persons of a hot and bilious constitution. PUTRKFAC'ITON.—A state of decay, or rottenness. A change of matter from one condition to an- other; illustrated by the putrid or putrefactive fermentation; the spon- taneous decomposition of such ani- mal and vogetahlo substances as exhale a fetid smell. The solid and the fluid matters are resolved into gaseous compounds and vapours, which escape, and unite an earthy residuum. T’ho requisites to this process arc, 1. A certain degree of humidity, 2. The access of atmospheric air, 3. t\ certain degree of heat:262 QU QU hence the abstraction of the air and water, or humidity, by drying, or its fixation by cold, by salt, sugar, spices, &c., (see Drysalling), will counteract the process of putrefac- tion, and favour the preservation of food, on which principle some patents have been obtained.—See Fermenta- lion, &c. PYRO - ACETIC ACID. — An acid obtained by the destructive dis- tillation of the acetates, from which a modified vinegar escapes. PYRO-CITRIC ACID.—A pe- culiar citric acid, obtained by the as- sistance of fire, namely, by distilling citric acid. PYROLA ROTUNDIFOLIA. See Winter Green. PYROLIGNEOUS.—Of or be- longing to a peculiar acid, thus called from its being distilled from wood by means of fuel. PYROLIGNEOUS ACID.—An acid distilled from wood. In the destructive distillation of any kind of wood, an acid is obtained, which was formerly called acid spirit of wood, but now pyroligneous acid. Fourcroy and Vauquelin, French chemists, shewed that this acid was merely the acetic, contaminated with empyreumatic oil and bitumen. The purified wood vinegar, which is used for pickles and culinary purposes, has commonly a specific gravity of 1.009, when it is equivalent in acid strength to good wine or malt vine- gar of 1.014. It contains about one twentieth of its weight of absolute acetic acid, and nineteen twentieths of water. Moderately rectified pyro- ligneous acid has been recommended for the preservation of animal food; but the empyreumatic taint it com- municates to bodies immersed in it, is not quite removed by the subse- quent ebullition in water. PYRUS.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. Class, Tsocandria; orAer, Pentagynia. PYRUS COMMUNIS.— The common pear. This fruit is analo- gous to that of the apple, but more delicately flavoured. Its juice, when fermented, forms peny. Pears when ripe are easy of digestion, when not consumed in excess. PYRUS CYDONIA.—The sys- tematic name of the quince-tree.— See Quince. PYRUS MALUS.—The system- atic name of the apple tree. The common crab tree is the parent of all the vast variety of apples at pre- sent cultivated. Apples, in general, when ripe, afford a pleasant and easily digestible fruit for the table; but when the stomach is weak, they are very apt to remain unaltered for some days, and to produce dj’spep- sia. Sour fruits arc to be considered as unwholesome, except when boiled or baked, and rendered soft and mellow with the addition of sugar.— See Apples. QUAIL.—Quails are considered by some authors to be very bad food, but on wluU grounds they have not shewn. They arc rather difficult of digestion, espcciall}' when old. Tlie quail is not much l)iggcr than the thrush, finely feathered, and has a pleasant note. Averroes says that it has good juices, and that it is good for persons recovering from sickness, as well ns for those who enjoy per- fect health. G.alen, Pliny, and Avi- Q. cen, assert, on the contraiy, that the quail is very dangerous food; and Galen says that he had seen several j)ersons in Phocis, Roeotia, and Do- ris, that fell into convulsions and epilepsies, that had eaten of them, which he imagines was produced in consequence of the quails of the country feeding upon helleboi-e; though this plant seems to be more likely to cure than to cause epilepsy. The quail does not rise high aboveQU QU 263 the earth, and flies heavily, for which reasons Pliny calls it rather a terrestrial than an aerial bird. It runs extremely quick, and is as wanton and lascivious as the par- tridge. QUAVIVER. (Sea Dragon).—A fish of excellent taste. It is tender, firm, short, and is easy of digestion. There are tw'o sorts, the great and small, the last of which onl)- is used for food. It usually frequents stony and sandy places. It has sharp ve- nomous fins on its back, with which it defends itself against the fisher- men. If they are pricked with them, the place swells, accompanied w'ith pain, inflammation, and fever. These little fins do not lose their piquancy even after the fish is dead; for when the cooks happen to be pricked by them, they suffer the same inconve- nience as if the fish had been alive. QUASSI.\, {Quassia Excelsa).— The virtues of quassia were discovered by one Quassy, a negro, from whom the secret was bought; for a full nar- rative of which see Stedman’s account. It is the wood of the root of a middle sized tree, growing in Surinam. The bark is preferred by the inhabitants. It is used in debility of the stomach and intestines, and in fevers. It is one of the purest, most concentrated bitters, and yet one of the least astringent; so that it is not calcu- lated for hemorrhages, or afl’ections of the intestines; and still it is not a warm bitter, like orange peel, or chamomile. It is frequently used in intermittents. Tissot recommends it for restoring the tone of the sto- mach, when diminished by venereal excesses. It prevents colic, counter- acts spasm, is useful in low fever, and corrects the tendency to vomiting from mere indigestion: e. g. Take—The wood of quassia, 1 dr. Roiling water . . 8 oz. Infuse for six hours. To two ounces of the strained infu- sion add a drachm of the compound tincture of lavender, which is di- rected to be taken three times a day. The consumption of quassia in breweries is immense; it is intro- duced into the malt in the form of extract. It is probably the most harmless of all bitters. The physi- cians prescribe the decoction to their patients, to the extent of a quarter of an ounce of the bark in a day,— as much as the brewer was accus- tomed to put into nine gallons of his porter. When the porter brewers made use of quassia, it was either in small chips or rasped, and put into the copper (with the hops), in a quantity of about an ounce to the barrel. QUENELLES.—A fine farce. It is generally poached when used. QUINCES, {Pgrus Cydonia).— There are two species of quinces, namely, the apple and pear quince: the latter are the most wholesome, particularly those of Portugal. They are an excellent antiseptic, and, in this respect, the best kind of fruit, as they contain an acid, and much mu- cilage. They are not productive of obstructions; but their pulp, like that of all other fruit, is digested with some difficulty. They are generally eaten boiled with sugar, and are ex- cellent in dysentery, on account of their copious mucilage. Quince seeds made into a decoction, are demul- cent and expectorant. QUIN'S SAUCE.—Thefollowing is commonly called Quin’s Sauce, “and was given tome (Dr. Kitch- ener) by a very sagacious sauce- maker.”— Cook's Oracle, p. 339. Two wine-glasses of port, and four of walnut pickle, four of mushroom ketclnq), and half a dozen anchovies, pounded; the like number of echa- lots, sliced and pounded; a tabic- spoonful of soy, and half a drachm of cayenne pepper: let them simmer gently for ten minutes; strain it; and when cold, put it into bottles; well corked, and sealed over, it will keep a considerable time.—See Con- dimenis.RA RA 264 RABBITS.—Rabbits are either ■wild or tame ; tbe first kind are the most dainty and agreeable food, having a greater opportunity of feed- ing on sweet aromatic herbs, such as thyme, juniper and the like, which gives their flesh a richer and more pleasant flavour. They differ much in respect to their colour; some are white and black, others yellow and party-coloured. They are very nou- rishing and afford good food. When too young they are not so whole- some as when of a middling age and size; if they be too old, their flesh becomes dry, hard, and of difficult digestion. Rabbits are in better con- dition for the table in ■winter tlian in summer, because their flesh is then more tender and mellow; and agrees well with any age or constitution. Though a rabbit is in many re- spects like a hare, yet the flesh of the one differs somewhat from the other in taste: the rabbit moister, more tender, as well asmorejnicy. Rabbits to Choose and Carve.— See Poultry, c'j-e. R.\DISH {Raphanus Satimis, L.) —The radish is an annual, a native of China, and mentioned by Gerard, the herbalist, in 1584. The leaves are rough, lyrate, or divided trans- versely into segments, of which the inferior less ones are more remote. In some varieties, the root is fleshy and fusiform ; in others, sub-globu- lar; white within; but black, purple, yellow or white, on the outside; the flowers pale violet, with large dark veins ; pods long with a sharp beak. Formerly the leaves were often boiled and eaten; but now the roots are chiefly employed. These are eaten raw in spring, summer, autumn, and winter. The young seedling leaves are often used with cresses and mus- tard, .as small salad ; and radish seed- pods, when of plump growth, but R. still young and green, are used to increase the variety of vegetable pickles, and are considered a toler- able substitute for capers. All the parts of a radish may be wholesome, though the root is only used as food; they are pulled out of the earth in spring. Such as are tender, juicy, of a sharp pungent taste, easy to be broken, and not very thick, are the best. They agree in cold weather with phlegmatic and melancholy constitutions, provided they have a good stomach. They act upon the urinary organs, and expel gross substances connected there- with. The seeds of the radish are aperient, but if put alone into the mouth they excite nausea and vomit- ing. There is another species called horse-radish (Raphanus Cochlearia), which is used as a condiment to roast meat; and the infusion medicinally, as a stimulant. R AISIN (I i/era).—Raisins are gi-apes prepared by drying them in the heat of the sun, or in the air, to fit them for keeping, and for some medicinal purjioses. Raisins of the sun arc a kind of raisins brought from Spain, of a reddish or bluish colour, seeded, and very agreeable to eat. There are various other sorts, deno- minated either from the place where they grow, or the kind of grape. The finest and best raisins are those called in some places Damascus raisins. These arc distinguishable from the others by their largeness and figure, and wrinkled on the surface; soft and juicy within, near an inch long, and seem transparent, when held against a good light; they have a sweet, agreeable, and vinous taste. The common raisins are the fiaiit of several species of grapes, which arc better or worse, according as they have been more or less carefully cured. The raisins of the sun, or jarRA RE 2C5 raisins, so called, because they are imported in jars, are all dried by the heat of the sun; and these are the sorts used in medicine. All kinds of raisins have much the same vir- tues ; they are nutritive and balsamic; but they are subject to fermentation with juices of every kind, and hence, when eaten immoderately, they often bring on colics. They are not at present much valued in medicine, though they are directed in some compositions, particularly in pectoral decoctions, and other medicines of that intention. Their principal use is in making that favourite Old Eng- lish dish called a plum pudding. R.VM.—The flesh of the ram is seldom eaten because of its unplea- sant smell and rank taste, resembling that of the he-goat. The flesh of the ewe is a little more used, yet not much in esteem, being insipid, vis- cous, and apt to produce gross hu- mours, and bad juices.—See Mutton. R.-\MFIONS {Itapunculus Escu- lent us).—A long and small root, about the thickness of one’s little finger, white and well tasted; it is sown in gardens, and gathered in its tender state to add to salading. It fortifies the stomach and assists digestion, is far more delicate than turnips or radishes ; juice used to allay tooth- ach, an infusion of the seeds used as an eye-wash. RAPE (BrassicaRapa).—The root of this plant is so like that of a turnip, that they can scarcely be distin- guished the one from the other but by the shape. They are sown in moist ground, and much used for food. They are nutritive, pectoral, and lenitive. It is, however, hard of digestion, and creates wind. — See 'I'urnip. RAPESEED. — A seed of the cabbage kind; out of which an oil is extracted which is used by hatters; and serves also to burn. RATAFLV.—A litpior prepared by imparting to ardent spirits the flavour of various kinds oflruit. 1. Ratafia of angelica.—Angelica seeds, one drachm; stalks of ange- lica, bitter almonds blanched, of each four ounces; proof spirit, twelve pints; white sugar, two pounds. Digest, strain, and filter. Cordial and carminative. 2. Ratafia of anise seed. — Anise seed, two ounces; proof spirit, two pints; simple syrup, four pounds. Tincture of vanilla may be added. 3. Ratafia of cherries.—Morello cherries with their kernels bruised, eight pounds; proof spirit, eight pints ; digest for a month, strain with expression, and add sugar, one pound and a half. 4. Ratafia of Grenoble. — Small wild black cherries with their kernels bruised, six pounds; proof spirit, three gallons; digest for a month, strain, add sugar, si.x pounds, and a little lemon peel. 5. Raspberry ratafia. — Raspber- ries, eight pounds ; proof spirit, four pints; sugar, twelve ounces. G. Ratafia of cloves.—Clove pinks, the white heels pulled off', four pounds; cinnamon and cloves, of each fifteen grains; proof spirit, one gallon ; sugar, one pound. 7. Ratafia of orange peel.—Fresh peel of Seville oranges, four ounces; proof spirit, one gallon; sugar, one pound. Digest in six hours. R.VY {Raia).—'I'here are many species of the ray, all inhabitants of the sea. Raia is the name of a genus of lishes of the order Chondropterg- gia. The following are sometimes eaten as food : the .skate ; the thorn- back ; the shark-nosed ray; the torpedo or electric ray, which see. RECrii'TC/VnON.—By rectifi- cation, chemically speaking, is un- derstood a second distillation, in which substances are purified by their more volatile parts being raised by means of heat: thus, spirit of wine, a'ther, &c. are rectified by their separation from the less volatile and foreign matter, which altered or debased their properties. 2 A266 RE RH REFRIGERANT.—That which allays the heat of the body or of the blood. REGIMEN.—A term employed ill medicine to express the plan or regulation of the diet.—See Aliment, Diet. RESPIRATION. —The act of breathing. In respiration, the air is received into the lungs by the en- largement of the cavity of the chest. The power which effects this enlarge- ment, in common, by inspiration, is the diaphragm ; but when it is more difficult, the intercostal muscles and the small pectoral muscle assist. The blood of the pulmonary artery being exposed to the influence of the air in the lungs, is converted from a dark colour into a florid red; it is considered to be decarbonised, that is, carbon is emitted, which, combin- ing with the oxygen of the inspired air, forms carbonic acid; a watery vapour is likewise evolved. Others think that oxygen is absorbed, and that carbonic acid, already formed in the blood, is evolved. When the blood has been properly acted upon, the inspiratory muscles relax, while the abdominal muscles, pressing the viscera upwards against the dia- ])hragm, diminish the cavity of the chest, and then expel the aix'. Respiration may be obstructed from various causes, seated either in the lungs themselves or the sur- rounding parts. But from whatever cause this obstruction may ax-isc, it xxndoxxbtedly pi'odxxces all tliose dis- eases which pi'ocecd froixx an intex- rupted cix'culation. The lungs them- selves also being at length com- pressed, and not suffered sxiflxcicntly to dilate, cannot thx'oxv off the vajxour which ai'ises fi'om them ; hence, they arc frequently oppressed with xnois- lure. At the same time they are irritated, so that a greater quantity of mucus, and tliat of a thicker kind than usual, is scci’cted; by which iixcans the passages through xvliich the air enters them, ai-e stopped up. till a violent cough at length throws off the load. There are other dis- orders also of the respiration, sxxch as cough and sneezing, which, though at first sight they xnay seem very dangerous, are ixot destitute of use, and xnay even be reckoned among the most salutary attempts of nature to relieve the patieixt. Often, however, they are attended xvith dan- ger, orverygreatuneasiness; namely, they are either too violent or attended with pain. It is necessary, never- theless, for a physician to know the natm-e, causes, and effects of these, that he ixiay be enabled to px-omote them xvheix necessary, and to stop them wlxeix they may be hurtfxxl or usgIcss. RHUBARB.—L.). Of rhxxbax'b there ax'e three species in cxxltivation ; the rliaponficiim, hyhri- dum, and 2^olmatiim, aU perennials. The first is a native of Asia, and xvas introdxxced in 1573. The leaves are blxxnt axxd sxnooth, veins redish, some- what hairy xxnderxxeath ; petioles gi-ooved above, and I'oxxnded at the edge. This species (the rheum pal- matum) has been longest in cultiva- tion. The second (7?. hi/bridtan L.) is also a xxative of Asia, introdxxced in 1778. The leaves ax-e large, sonxe- what cordate, smooth, and of a light green. When xxnder good cxxltivation, they ofteix ixxcasure four or five feet in length, the foot-stalk included. 'I'his sort was first introdxxced as a culinary rhubarb by Uickson, V. P. H. S. about twenty’ years xxgo, and is esteemed ixxore succulent tbaix the rhnpoxitic. The palmatum (7f. pal- matum. L.) is a native of Tartarv, distinguished fronx all the others by its elegant palmate leaves. It has becix known in this country since 1758, and is geixerally’ considered as the true Txxi’keyor Rxxssiaix rhubarb. 'J'he two tirst species of rhxxbarb are cxiltivated cntii'ely', and the thii'd in gardeixs priixcipally, for the pe- tioles of the x-oot leaves, which are peeled, cut down, and foxnxxcd intoRI RH 2G7 tarts and pies, in the manner of apples and gooseberries. The hy- brid affords the most abundant and succulent sujiply for this purpose. The medicinal properties of the pow- dered root of i-lnibarb ai'e cathartic, and in diminished doses stomachic and astringent. It is in high esteem as a family medicine. Rhubarb appears originally to have been a native of China and Thibet, but has been transplanted into other countries, and grows well in Europe. It is brought from the East Indies, Turkey, and Russia, and is cultivated in small quantities in England. It possesses considerable stomachic, tonic, and astringent, as well as lax- ative powers, though, after taking it, there is generally costiveness for a day or two. It is employed in indi- gestion as a laxative, and in weak bowels, where the intention is merely to free them from their contents with- out irritating or debilitating them. It is often combined with tonics, whose power, in costive habits, it increases. From fifteen grains to half a drachm is a mild cathartic : it operates slowly three or four hours after it has been taken, without griping, and is more employed than any other astringent purgative, for the following reasons; namely, it does not require a large dose, is very certain in its operation, and does not weaken as many others do. It is used also in hypochondriasis, hys- terics, when these affections are attended with costiveness, and in nervous head-ach: Take— Turkey rhubarb, nutmeg, of each, in powder . J drachm Extract of chamcmile . I scruple Oil of peppermint . . 6 drops Mix, and make thirty pills, three of which may be taken twice a day, or as occasion may require. Also take— Turkey rhubarb. . . J drachm Jalap in powder . . 20 grains Extract of chamomile . 6 drops Oil of cloves ... 6 drops Make thirty pills, to be taken as before. In small doses rhubarb acts as an astringent, and is highly ser- viceable in the bowel complaints of children ; and where there are green and slimy motions, it is the principal remedy: e. g. Take— Rhubarb in powder . 20 grains Chalk mixture . . . Bounces Spirit of nutmegs . . 2 drachms Simple syrup . . . ^ ounce A dessert spoonful every four or six hours, to a child twelve months old. Combined with tincture of opium, it frequently cures diarrhoea. In small doses, it also frequently acts as a stomachic, and increases the powers of digestion : e. g. Take— Rhubarb .... I drachm Castile soap ... 1 scruple Oil of cloves ... 6 drops Make twenty pills, and take one twice a day. Rhubarb imparts its virtues to water and spirits. The compound tincture of rhubarb is a good prepa- ration, and taken, from six drachms to an ounce, it frequently gives re- lief in colicky pains of the bowels. Also, combined with magnesia, it corrects flatulence arising from aci- dity in the stomach, and acts as a tonic purgative. It is one of the best and most approved family medi- cines of the kind. RHUBARBIN.—The name em- ployed to designate the principle in which the purgative property of the rhubarb resides. The active princi- ple of this plant is regarded by M. Naniel, of Milan, as a vegetable alkali; but he has not hitherto pro- duced any proof of its alkaline na- ture.—Journ. Science, v. xvii. p. 172. RHUS CORIARIA. -- See Su- mach. RIBES. — (An Arabian name, properly belonging to an acid-leaved species of rheum; but which bota- nists, for about two hundred years past, have, by mistake, applied to the currant and gooseberry family, andRI 2C8 RI with which it now remains). The name of a genus of plants in the Linnsean system. Class Pentandrla, order Monogynia. The currant tree. —See Currants. RIBES NIGRUM. — (Black Currant). An indigenous plant {racemis pilosis, florihiis ohlongis of Linnaeus), which produces larger ber- ries than those of the red, which are said to be peculiarly useful in sore throats, and to possess a diuretic property in a very considerable de- gree. The leaves of the black currant are extremely fragrant, and have been likewise recommended for their me- dicinal virtue, which Bergius states to be Mundificaus, Pellens, Diuretica. RIBES RUBRUM. — (77;e Red Currant). The racemis glahris pen- dulis,Jloribusplaniuscidis of Linnaeus. The white currant tree is merely a variety of the red; the fruit of both is perfectly analagous, therefore, what is said of one applies to the other. The red currant is abun- dantly cultivated in gardens, and, from its grateful acidity, is very acceptable, either as presented by nature, or variously prejiared by art, with the addition of sugar. Medi- cinally considered, it is esteemed to be moderatel}' refrigerant, antiseptic, attenuant, and aperient. It may be used with considerable advantage to allay thirst in most febrile com- plaints; to lessen an increased se- cretion of bile, and to correct a putrid and scorbutic state of the fluids, especially in hot and sanguine constitutions ; but in tcm])eramcnts of an op))osite nature, it is apt to occasion flatulency and indigestion. TomaJee Currant Jelly.—Mash the currants, and pass them through a s])lintcr sieve, put the jmlp on the fire, stir it with a spoon till it begins to boil; then strain the mass through a flannel bag, to render the juice clear; measure it, and to every jiint put one ])ound and a half of loaf sugar, and let it simmer very gentlj' till you see, by dip])ing a si)oon or skimmer in the jelly, and again raising it, the jelly forms a web upon it, which, if simmered long enough, will remain on the skimmer. Then take it off the fire, let it stand a few minutes till the scum collects on the surface, then remove it, and put the clear fluid into pots. When quite cold, cut pieces of writing paper to the size of the brim of the pots, steep the paper in brandy, and place it on the jelly.—See Vegetable Jellies. RICE (Orysa).—An esculent grain, cultivated in the East Indies, and the Carolinas in North America, of an oval figure, and covered with a husk like barley. Rice contains a thin, unelastic, and easil}' soluble mucil- age. It is the general aliment of the people of the East, with whom it answers the same purpose as bread does with us. There formerly ex- isted a prejudice against the use of rice, that it has not only a tendency to produce costiveness, but also blindness—that it produces costive- ness is only so far true with people of weakened and languid constitu- tions, with whom also it is attended with flatulency, which sufficiently accounts for its secondary effects. And as regards its producing blind- ness, it is scarcely necessary to state that such an idea has no foundation in truth. It is generally considered as astringent, and is, therefore, a popular remedy in diarrhaea—no astringent principle, however, has vet been discovered in its composi- tion ; and it is probable that it is indebted for its properties, on such occasions, to the mild and bland mu- cilage with which it abounds, shield- ing the intestines from acrimonious humours. To avoid the disposition to costiveness and the consequent flatulence attending the use of rice, it ought to be eaten with the addition of some spice, such as cinnamon, fennel, caraway, aniseed, and the like, — particularly by those of a phlegmatic habit, and slow digestion. In India, where this grain is abun- dantly consumed, it is regularly eaten with such quantities of pepper, andRO 26!) RO otlier strong spices, that Europeans, on their first arrival, cannot partake of this high-seasoned dish. From a custom so beneficial in its physical effects, it may be inferred, that the Indians, though directed more by instinct than scientific induction, are altogether unacquainted with the rules of diet. One of the best pre- parations of rice is the mucilage, or jelly, which is obtained by boiling two ounces of it ground to fine powder, and a quarter of a pound of loaf sugar, in one pint of water, until it becomes a transpai-ent thick hroth ; this when expressed through a cloth, and allowed to cool, is a palatable and wholesome jelly. ROASTING. — The process of dressing meat on a spit which turns before the fire. In roasting, as in boiling, it is presumed that the cook would no more think of using a dirty pot in the one, than a dirty spit in the other; and that before either roasting or boiling be attempted, the necessary culinary utensils are in an equal state of readiness. In roasting all kinds of meat, it will be a useful method to add a little salt and water to the dripping pan, and to baste the meat a little with it. Dry the meat before putting it on the spit, and dredge it well with flour, and baste it with fresh butter, because it will give a better colour to the meat. The fire should be regulated according to the subject you intend to dress. If it should be any thing very little or thin, then you should have a pretty brisk fire, that it may be done quick and nice ; if it be a large joint, then see that a large fire is laid on to cook. Roasting should be done by the radiant heat of a clear glowing fire, otherwise it is in fact baked. The fire should always be clear at the bottom, and when the meat is half done, move the dripping pan and spit a little from the fire, and stir it up to make it burn clear and brisk, for a good fire is a most important material in every branch of cooking. If the substance you are roasting is beef take care to paper the top, and baste it well whilst it is at the fire, not forgetting to throw a sprinkling of salt over it. When the smoke draws towards the fire, it is a sign it is nearly done enough, then take off the paper, baste it well, and dredge it with flour, to make it frothy; but never salt your meat intended for roasting before you lay it to the fire, as that will draw out part of the gravy. If you intend to keep your meat a few days before you dress it, dry it well with a clean cloth, and dredge it all over with flour, hanging it where the air can get to it, but take care that you leave no damp place about it unwiped. In roasting mutton or lamb, the loin, the chine, and the saddle, must have the skin raised and skewered on, and baste and flour it to froth it up. All other sorts of mutton and lamb must be roasted with a quick clear fire, without the skin being raised. You must be careful to roast veal of a fine red colour; and if it be a fillet or loin, be sure to paper the fat, that you may lose as little of it as possible; at first keep it at some distance from the fire, but when it is soaked put it nearer. Never put meat of any description down to a burnt up fire, if you can possibly avoid it; but should the fire become fierce, place the spit at a consider- able distance, and allow a little more time. When you lay down veal, baste it well with butter, and before you lay it down give the fire a good stir, and examine it from time to time while the spit is going round; keep it clear at the bottom, and see tliat there arc no smoky coals at the front of the grate, which will not only spoil the look and taste of the meat, but hinder it from roasting uniformly. When the meat is nearly done, baste it again, and dredge it with a little flour. A breast of veal must be roasted with the caul on, till the meat be done enough, and 2 A 3270 RO RO skewer the caul on the hack side of the breast. Pork should be well done, otherwise it will be apt to sur- feit ; when you roast a loin cut the skin across with a sharp knife, that the crackling may eat all the better ; when you roast a leg of pork score it in the same manner as the loin; stuff the knuckle part with sage and onion, and skewer it up. Put a little drawn gi'avy in the dish, and send it up, with apple sauce in a boat. The spring or hand of pork, if very young, and roasted like a pig, eats very well, but otherwise it is much better boiled. The spare rib should be basted well with a little butter, a very little dust of flour, and some small shreded sage and onion. Apple sauce is the one only used for this joint. Wild fowls require a clear brisk fire, and sbould be roasted till they are of a light brown, but not too much, for it is a great fault to roast them till all the gravy runs out, as they thereby lose their fine flavour. Tame fowls require more roasting as they are a long time before they get thoroughly heated; they should be often basted, in order to keep up a strong froth, as it gives them a finer colour and causes them to look better. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour, a middling one half an hour, and a small one or a chicken twenty minutes. Pigs and geese should be roasted before a good fire, and turned quick; the former will take according to size from an hour to an hour and a half to roast. Hares and rabbits require time and care to see the ends are roasted enough. In order to prevent them from appearing bloody at the neck when they are cut up, cut the neck skin when they arc half roasted and let out the blood. Hares will take an hour; woodcocks twenty minutes ; partridges from twenty to twenty-five minutes. Slow roasting is equally advantageous and im- portant as quick I'oasting. The same rule as to time, will be found on calculation to be as near the mark as possible, viz., a quarter of an hour or a few minutes over to the pound. Half an hour before your meat is done make some gi'avy, and just before you take it up put it near the fire to brown, “ Meats in general,” says a French author,* “ ought not to be attacked by too fierce a fire, if they be of a certain size, because the exterior would be grizzled and burnt up, befoi'e the interior could be baked; on the other hand a piece of roast must not be too long exposed to a moderate heat, because that heat which is suflicient to carry off every liquid principle and coagulate the albumen, would condense and dessi- cate the muscular fibres: it ought moreover to be remarked, that the sapidity of viands, roasted or boiled, depends either on the flavour pecu- liar to the meat, or on a partial de- composition of the skin, muscles, and fat. Sapid substances are formed by the sole action of the fire, which did not ju'eviously exist in the un- cooked meat. These substances ai'e the prussic and toonic acids, a little empyreumatic oil, also a little sea salt. All these bodies are stimulant, slightly acrid, they irritate the nerves of the palate, promote the secretion of saliva, and provoke the appetite.” AVe have also the following obser- vations on roasting, from another French writer.f “ The art of roasting victuals to the exact degree is one of the most difficult things in the world to ac- complish, and it is easier to meet with half-a-dozen good cooks than one roaster who is master of this branch of his art. All savaii/s gour- mands are aware that these two important functions camiot be per- formed by one artist, it is quite im- * See Cours Gastiononiiques. Paris, 1819. p. 292. f See Almanac des Gourmands. Vol. i, p. 37.271 RO RO possible to superintend at the same time the operations of the spit and the stew-pan. No certain rules can be laid down for roasting, its perfec- tion depending on so many circum- stances, which are perpetually vary- ing—the age and size (particularly the density) of the pieces, the cpiality of the coals, the temperature of the atmosphere, the currents of air in the kitchen, the more or less attention of the roaster, and lastly the time of serv- ingup. Suppose, for instance, the din- ner is ordered to be on the table at a certain time, if the fish and soup which precede it are much liked, and detained longer than the cook has calculated, or on the contrary they are dispatched sooner than expected, the roasts in the one case will he burnt, and in the other not done enough; two misfortunes, equally deplorable, occur when they may. The first, however, is without a re- medy ; five minutes on the spit, more or less, decides the excellence of this process of cookery ; it is almost next to impossible to hit the exact lime when the meat ought to he eaten, which gourmands or epicures in roasted materials express, bj' saying, ‘ It’s done to a turn,’ so that there is no exaggeration in saying the j)ci-fcct roaster is even more rare than the professed cook. “ In small establishments, where the cook and roaster are one and the same person, it is next to impossible the roasts can he well done ; the spit claims the exclusive attention, and is an imperious mistress who demands the entire devotion of her slave. Rut how can this otherwise he, when the attention of the cook at the same time is equally called to watch her fish and soup kettles, her stew jams, and all their accomjjanimcnts.' It is mo- rally and j)hysically impossible; if she devotes that delicate and constant attention to the roasts which is indis- pensably rc(|uisite, the other parts of dinner will run a great chance to he spoiled, and most cooks would rather sacrifice their charactei’s as roasters than neglect the made dishes and entremets, i^r., where they think they can display their culinary knowledge to more perfection, than sacrifice these to the roasts, the excellence of which will only hear testimony to their unremitting patience and steady vigilance.” The only general rules then that can he presented as regards the pro- cess of roasting, are a diligent atten- tion to time; a judicious and chemi- cal management of the fire, con- formed with frequent bastings, a par- ticular in which our ancestors, as well as in dredging, were very attentive. The ingredients used as dredgers are— ]. Grated bread mixed with flour. 2. Dried & powdered sweet herbs. 3. Lemon peel dried and pounded, or orange peel mixed with flour. 4. Sugar finely powdered, and mixed with pounded cinnamon. 5. Cinnamon, coriander, and sugar finely beaten and mixed with grated bread or flour. G. Sugar, bread, and salt mixed. 7. For young pigs, grated bread or flour mixed with pounded nutmeg, ginger, pepper, and yolk of eggs. The bastings for roast meat con- sist of fresh butter, clarified suet, minced sweet herbs, butter, and claret, especially for mutton and lamb ; cream and melted butter, es- pecially for a flayed j)ig, yolks of eggs, grated biscuit, orange juice, &c. ROB.—An old Galenical term for an inspissated juice: juice made thick; the rob of elder berries, for instance, evaporated by a gentle heat. Its pro])ertics are reputed di- uretic and sudorific. The rob of black currants, or the j>rcceding, diluted with water, is \ised as a de- tergent or cleansing gargle. The pulps or juices of other sweet fruits may he prepared in a similar manner. —See Tamarind Pulp. ROBORANT. —That which is strengthening.—See Tonic.RO RO 272 ROCKAMBOLE. —The Allium Scorodoprasum of LiniiEeus. The root is used for jiickles and high- seasoned dishes. ROCK-SALT. — There are two kinds of rock-salt: theand the fibrous. The princii)al deposit of this salt in Great Britain is in Clie- shire. According to Henry in 1000 parts are contained 983 of muriate of soda, Gj sulphate of lime, a little muriate of lime and muriate of mag- nesia, and ten parts insoluble matter. ROCK-SAMPHIRE. — (Crilh- num).—See Samphire- ROCKET. — Brasscia Eruca. — Brassica Erucastrum Sijlvestris.— Garden Rocket. Roman Rocket. Rocket Gentle. The systematic name of the plant which affords the semen eruacce. Brassica—-foliis lyar- tis, caide hirsuto seliqids glahris of Linnceus. The seeds of this plant and of the wild rocket have an acid taste, and are eaten hy the Italians in their pickles, &c. They are said to be good aperients and antiscorbutics but are esteemed by the Italians for their supposed aphrodisiac qualities. ROOTS.—Roots may be divided into two kinds: namely, such as are used as food, and those which answer the purpose of condiment or season- ing. The following roots are, or formerly were, used as bread:— Adams Needle, Common Arrowhead, Common Potatoes, Eastern Birchwheat, Eatable Arum, Edders, Egyptian A nun, Egyptian Lotus, Indian Bread, • Indian Yams. Spanish Potatoes, Water Dragons. ROOTS.—Occasionally eaten as condiments, or for other family pur- poses. * Tliose marked witli a star will be found under their respective heads. * Caraway, * Carrot, Ceylon Guirlandilla, * Common Ginger, * Onion, Tulip, * Turnip, Earth Nut, or Pig’s Nut, Heath Peas, * Jerusalem Artichoke, * Long Rooted Turnip, Male Orchis, Montague Lilly, * Parsnip, Purple Goatsbeard, Rooted Turnip, » Radish, * Rampion Horse Radish, * Redbeet, * Rocambole, Rush Nut, Sea Holly, or Eryngo Root, * Shalots, * Skirrets, Spotted Ixia, Viper’s Grass, * Goats Yellowbeard. Roots are neither so nourishing, nor so easily digested as animal food. Yet we may consider it as a certain rule, that any kind of aliment, for which we feel a natural and perma- nent appetite, is conformable to our natin-e. — (See Polatoe). Esculent roots are either of the mild or of the astringent and acrid kind. The former are much more nourishing and less flatulent than the latter, which, however, possess more medi- cinal properties, such as the chief species of radishes, onions, garlic, and the like. ROOT OF SCARCITY. —(See Mangel Wurxel). Root red outside, white inside, very nutritive; yields sugar; leaves eaten as spinage. ROSEMARY {Rosmarinus offici- nalis, L.)—The rosemary is a hardy under-shrub, a native of the south of Europe, introduced in or before 1548. The plant is evergreen, rishig some-RY 273 RU times, though rarely, six or eight feet high. The leaves are sessile, linear, dark green above, and grey- ish or whitish underneath ; the blos- soms are of a pale colour. The whole plant is highly aromatic. The flowers and calyces of rosemary, form a principal ingredient in the distilla- tion of Hungary water. Infusion of the leaves are made in some drinks. Sprigs of rosemary are used as a garnish; and were given in Shak- speare’s time as tokens of remem- brance. “ There’s rosemary, that’s for remembrance,” says the dis- tracted Ophelia. In some parts of the west of England and Wales, the sprigs of rosemary are distributed to the company at funerals, and often throw n into the grave upon the coffin of the deceased. ROUX.—Butter and flour blended together over the fire to a proper con- sistence, either white or brown. RU.M, [Molasses Spirit).—Rum is obtained from molasses, by mixing two or three gallons of water with one gallon of molasses; and to every two hundred gallons of this mixture, adding a gallon of yeast; once or twice a day the head as it rises is stirred in, and in three or four days, two gallons more of water are added to each gallon of molasses originally used, and the same quantity of yeast as at first. Four, five, or six days after this, there is added a third por- tion of yeast, as before, and about one ounce of jalap root powdered, (or in winter oz.), on which the fermentation proceeds with great violence, and in three or four days, the wash is fit for the still; one hundred gallons of this wash is com- puted to yield twenty-two gallons of spirit, one to ten over proof.—See Treacle. RUM, .JAMAICA.—Rum is a species of vinous spirit, drawn by distillation from sugar-canes, or ra- ther from molasses, which are the dregs of sugar, and the skimming of the sugar pans, of lees or returns, and water. The word rum is the name it bears among the native Americans. To one hundred gallons of lees, or returns as they are called, ten gal- lons of molasses are added. This affords from ten to seventeen gallons of proof rum, and twice as much low wines. Double distilled rum is rectified to a strength approaching to spirit of wine. RYE.—In some parts of the Con- tinent, rye is much used; but in England, the consumption of it in ordinary seasons is very trifling. In Germany and Sweden, rye, indeed, forms the chief ingredient of their bread. It has one quality which renders it advantageous to the seden- tary and those advanced in years, that is, it obviates costiveness. Rye, by itself, indeed, without mixtui'e of wheat, will actually produce flux in some people ; it is, therefore, neces- sary that the bread be made with two parts wheat to one of rye; and those who even find this too laxative should use brown wheaten bread. The analysis of rye by Sir H. Davy, gave 5 per cent, of gluten. In 3.840 parts of rye flour, M. Ernhof found 2,3.54 parts of starch.— Crell's Annalcs de Chiviie. The ergot or spun-ed rye, either alone, or contaminating rye, has long been deemed a poison. It is stated to have given rise to epidemic dis- eases at various times, in France, Silesia, Prussia, Bohemia, Saxony, and Sweden. Perrault mentions, that in travelling through Bologne, in France, he was informed by some physicians and surgeons of that country, that the rye there was sometimes so corrupted, that those who ate bread made of it were seized with a gangrene, some in one part and some in another—some losing a finger, others the hand or the nose; and that this gangrene was not pre- ceded byiiny fever, inflammation, or considerable pain, but that the parts fell off of themselves. The early symptoms were numbness, cold, andSA SA 274 livid skin, pain and swelling.—{Phil. Trans, vol. ii. p. 758.—Also, vol. lii. p. 529). Tissot, in the Philosophical Transactions, presents a very copious account of tlie disease in question, and divides it into two forms—the spasmodic and gangrenous. It at- tacked persons of both sexes and all ages, and in some instances only the lower extremities became gangi’e- nous, while in others the upper and lower were alike affected. — (Phil. Irans. vol. liii. p. 106). There is some diversity of opinion as to the real -nature of the ergot of rye. Decandolle states, that is a parasitic plant; a mushroom of the genus sclerolicum. Others assert, that it is a disease of the rye. The analysis ofVauquehn, has not led to a decisive result. s. SABATIERE, or SORBE- TIERE.—A pewter or tin vessel, in which are placed the moidds con- taining the substances to be frozen, SACK (Sec).—A kind of sweet wine, now brought chiefly from the Madeira island, and Palma, one of the Canaries. The first is called Ma- deira sec; the latter, which is the richer and better of the tw'o, Canary or Palm sec. The name Sac/t is a corruption of sec, which signifies dry; those wines being made from half dried grapes; hut wine merchants of the jn-esent day use the word soft to denote the same qualit}^. The sack of Shakspeare is believed to have been what is now called sherry. Canary sack is an inferior kind of Madeira. Newmann, Palma sack, 6.59; Brande, Teneriffe, 19.79; Vi- donia, 19.25, of spirit. 1. Sack Posset. (Sir Fleet- wood Fletcher’s). — It has been shewm, in the course of this work, that good living, and indeed what may he called epicurism, is not con- fined to solids alone; it is, in fine, more exquisitely mixed up for the palate in the fluid form ; for in this shape how many choice products may not be chemically blended, to steep the senses in agreeable obli- vion, or to rouse the brorv of care from its loathed melancholy.—See Punch, Stvig, Wassail cup or bowl. Sack posset may be variously made: the following is the manner in which the name of Sir Fleetwood Fletcher’s is fabricated;— From famed Barbadoes, on the western main, Fetch sugar ounces four; fetch such from Spain, A part: and from the eastern coast. Nutmeg, the glory of an eastern toast; O’er flaming coals let them together heat, Till the all-conquering sack dissolve the sweet. O’er such another fire put eggs just ten. New born from tread of cock and rump of hen ; Stir them with steady hand, and con- science pricking. To see the untimely end of ten fine chicken ; From shining shelf take down the brazen skillet; A quart of milk from gentle cow will fill it ; When boiled and cold, put milk and sack to eggs. Unite them firmly like the triple leagues; And on the fire let them together dwell, 'J’ill lUiss sing twice—you must not kiss and tell: Each lad and lass take up a silver spoon. And fall on fiercely, like a starv’d dra- goon. 2. Sack Posset. (Sir Walter Raleigh’s).—Boil .a quart of cream with a sufficient quantity of nutmeg; take half a pint of sack, and the same quantity of ale, and boil them well together, adding as much sugar as may be necessary. Heat a pew- ter dish till it becomes very liot.275 SA SA cover your basin with it, and let it stand by the fire two or three bours. 3. Sack Posset. (Lady Mal- let’s).— Take eighteen new laid eggs, white and all; but remove what is called the tread; heat them well altogether; then take a quart of cold and a pint of boiled sack, which, being skimmed, add three q\iarters of a pound of sugar, and a little nutmeg; boil the whole for a short time; then remove them from the fire, stirring them all the while; add the fluid to the eggs gradually, then mix them all together; keep stirring it on the fire till it becomes sufficiently thick to serve. 4. Sack Posset. (Master Rud- stone’s).—Take sack one part (or brandy the same quantity), a quar- ter of a pint of ale, and three quar- ters of a pound of fine sugar, and boil the whole well together; take two yolks of eggs, and the whites of sixteen eggs, let these be well beaten together, add these, and mix them well with the boiling liquor; then take three pints of milk or cream, and boil down to a quart; let it now stand and cool, till the eggs thicken, then add the milk, stir the whole well together, cover it with a plate, and serve it. SAGE. {Salvia qf/icinalis. L.)— The sage is an evergreen under- shruh, a native of the south of Eu- rope, and mentioned by Gerard, in 1597, as an inhabitant of our gar- dens. It rises idjout two feet high, with wrinkled green cinereous leaves, white, or tinged with white or dusky puqrle. The flowers are terminal in long spikes, of a blue colour, and appear in June or July. It has a fragrant strong smell, and a warm bitterish aromatic taste, like other plants containing an essential oil. The leaves are used in stuffings and sauces for many kinds of lus- cious and strong meats, as well as to improve the flavour of various articles of cookery. 'J'he decoction, called sage tea, is usually made from one variety (the small-leaved green, or sage of virtue), but any of the others are equally fit for this purpose. The varieties of sage are—1. The common, or red: 2. the green: 3. the small-leaved green, or sage of virtue: 4. the broad-leaved, or bal- samic. The red, however, is the principal sort in culinary use, having the most agreeable and fullest fla- vour. The green is next in estima- tion with the cook; but the small- leaved is generally preferred to those to eat as a raw herb, and for decoc- tions ; while the broad-leaved bal- samic .species is the most efficacious in a medical way, and is also a tea herh. Any of the sorts of sage may, however, be used occasionally for these alternate purposes. In gathering sage for use, we are directed to cut or slip off the young side and top shoots neatl}^; and to be careful not to stub too close, espe- cially towards winter, and during that season. In July and the rest of summer, it is usual to gather some of the young top gi'owth to dry for winter. The plants are to be kept in regular bushy heads by cutting away disorderly growths and the decayed flower-stalks in autumn. The virtues of sage have been so extrav'agantly extolled, that, like many other remedies, the plant has nearly fallen into disuse, from the degree of loathing which the pane- gyrics upon it have excited. In the form of infusion, however, it certainly possesses some power in allaying the irritability of tlie stomach, and on many occasions it will fur- nish a wholesome drink. The same observations will also apply to infu- sions of balm and rosemary. A drink e.xtrcmely agreeable to the stomach of convalescents may like- wise be made, by infusing lemon peel in boiling water, and adding a small quantity of sugar to it.—Sec 'Tea. SAGO.—'I'lie medullary part, or marrow, collected from a species of palm tree growing in the MoluccaSA SA 276 and other islands in the East Indies. This substance, although not strictly the fruit of a tree, well deserves the first place here; for it is used as bread by the natives of India, who macerate it in water and form it into cakes. The grains of sago sold in the shops are obtained by a more artificial process; they produce a nourishing and agreeable jelly with water, milk, or broth ; but require to be previously cleaned of the dust, mould, or sea-water. To make a comjdete solution of sago, the first decoction ought to be strained, and afterwards boiled a second time for about half an hour. Prepared in this manner it is a proper dish for the consumptive and convalescent, as well as for those whose digestion is weak or impaired. In ancient times sago was cele- brated as a remedy of great efficacy, as would a])pear from the following lines, from the school of Saler- num:— “ Cur moriatur homo, cui salvia crescit in horto 1 Contra vim mortis, non est medicamen in hortesl Salvia salvatrix, naturre conciliatrix Salvia cum ruta, faciunt tibi pocula tuta.” At present, however, it is not con- sidered as an article of much import- ance. It has the remarkable pro- perty in resisting the putrefaction of animal substances, and is in fre- quent use among the Chinese as a tonic, in the form of tea, in debility of the stomach and nervous system. —See Tea, svbulilutes for. SALADING. —These generally •consist of certain esculent plants and herbs improved by culture, industry, and art of the garden; or according to others, a composition of edible plants and roots of various kinds, to be eaten raw or green, blanched or candied, simple and by themselves, or intermingled according to the sea- son with others; in fine, by salad is understood a particular composition of certain crude and fresh herbs, such as usually are, or safely may be, eaten, with some acetous juice, oil, salt, or other condiments, to give them a grateful gust or flavour. The materials of salads, consisting of roots, stalks, leaves, buds, flowers, &c., are treated under their respec- tive heads, as regards their other propei’ties as well as salads. Under the latter denomination they are here enumerated as follows: — Alexander, Hyssop, Artichoke, Jack by the Asparagus, Hedge, Basil, Balm, Beet-root, Blite, or English mercury, Borrage, Buglass, Buds, Cellery, Corn Salad, Calicis, Capuchin, Capers, Cucumbers, Dandelion, Earth-root, Elder-flower, Endive, Fennel, Flowers, Garlic, Goats’bcard, Hops, The most eminent principles of the salad tribe of vegetables incline, for the most part, rather to acidity, than any other quality, especially sweet, saline, or succident; some judg- ment, therefoi-e, is requisite in mix- ing and adopting the ingredients which are intended to compose salads, so that they may agree with particu- lar constitutions, by adjusting them so that one may not predominate over the other, at the same time that none of their pro])erties be lost. As it is well known that all edible Leeks, Lettuce, Mallows, Melon, Mint, Mushroom, Mustard, Nettles, Onions, Orange, sub-acid, Parsnep, Peas, Pepper, Parsley, Purslain, Rampion, Sage, Red Samphire, Scurvy Grass, Skirett, Trick Madam, Turnips, Viper Grass. plants are not alike in taste and vir-SA 277 SA hie the force and activdty of some plants lie in the roots, and even the leaves of some bitter roots are sweet, and vice versa, and of others in the stem, leaves, buds, flowers, &c.; some exert their vigour, without decoction; others, when a little pressed or con- tused ; others again raw and when mixed with others, and some without any mixture or preparation at all. The collector, therefore, must attend to what he gathers, that they cor- respond to these qualities, and to make them consist as closely as he can of their very tenderest parts, even to their first rudiments. SAL.IDS. — Observations pre- paratory TO THE Dressing of. I. Let the herbaceous ingredients be exquisitely culled, and cleansed from all worm eaten, slimy, corroded, dry, spotted, or otherwise vitiated leaves, and let them be rather spar- ingly sprinkled, than over-much soaked in spring rvater, especially lettuce of the cabbage kind, whose heads are sufficiently protected by the outer leaves wdth which they are covered, .\fter washing, let them remain a short time in the cullender, that the superfluous moisture may drain off, and lastly, let them be all gently swung together in a clean coarse cloth, so that they may be in a perfect condition to receive the fol- lowing seasonings:— II. The salad oil must be very clear, and neither high coloured nor yellow, but with a head rather of a pale olive green, without smell, the least taint of rankness, or any other sensible taste or scent at all, but smooth, light, and ])lcasant upon the tongue, such as the genuine Ompha- line and native Lucca olive afford, fit to allay the tartness of vinegar and other acid, yet gently warming and moistening where it jiasses. Some who have an aversion to oil, substitute fresh butter for it, but the latter is so exceedingly clogging to the stomach, that it is by no means advisable. III. The vinegar and other liquid acids must be perfectly clear, neither sour,vapid, nor spent, but the very best white wine vinegar, whether distilled or aromatic, and may be impregnated secundum gustum, with the infusion of cloves, gilliflowers, elder, roses, rose- mary, nasturtium, &c. enriched with the virtue of the plant. A verjuice, not unfit for salads, is made of a grape of that name, or of the green immature clusters of most other grapes, pressed, and put into a small vessel to ferment. IV. The salt must be of the brightest bay grey salt, moderately dried and bruised, as being the least corrosive. It must likewise be free from clam- miness. V. Sugar, when used as a condiment in salads, ought to be of the best re- fined sort, white, hard, close, yet light and sweet. And here it may be noted, that the sugar, salt and vinegar are to be proportioned, as well as the plants, to the constitution ; the one for cold, and the other for warm stomachs. VI. The mustard must be the best Tewkesbury, or composed of the soundest and weightiest Yorkshire seed, exquisitely sifted, winnowed, and freed from the husks, a little, but not over much dried hy the fire, tempered to the consistence of pap with vinegar, in which scrapings of horse-radish have been steeped ; then cut an onion, and put it into a small earthen gallipot, or some thick glass of that shape, pour the mustard into it, and close it well with a cork. The flour and dust of the bruised seed is soinctimes preserved iu a well- stopped glass, that it may be used fresh when wanted. The seeds of nasturtium are sometimes used as a substitute for mustard. VII. Pepper, whether it be white or black, ought not to be too finely jnil- verized. 'I'be root of the small Lur- net saxifrage, dried, is by some preferred to all other peppers. VIII. The yolks of fresh eggs, newly laid, boiled moderately hard, are to 2 BSA 278 SA be broken and mixed with the mus- tard, oil, and vinegar, and some cut into quarters, and eaten with the herbs. Salad Dishes. — Salad dishes should be of jiorcelain, or of delf ware, neither too deep nor too shal- low ; pewter, nor even silver agree- ing so well with vinegar and oil, which leave their several tinctures behind. There ought to be one dish, in which the vehicles should be mixed, and another to receive the crude herbs upon which they are to be poured ; then, with a fork and a spoon, stir them up together, till all the furni- ture be equally invested. Some who are good economists pour on the oil alone at first, as more apt to diffuse itself than when mixed with acids, which at last are added. In this manner it is incredible how small a quantity of oil will suffice to spread over a very plentiful dish of salad herbs. The salad-gatherer should be provided with a light, neat wicker ba.sket, divided into partitions. Salads to Dress. ■—The ingre- dients of which you intend your salad to be composed being gathered, and proportioned as above, let the endive have all its outside leaves stripped off, slicing in the white. In like manner the celery is also to have the hollow' green stem or stalk trimmed and divided, slicing in the blanched part and cutting the root into four equal parts. Lettuce, cresses, ra- dishes, &c. must as directed bo ex- quisitely picked, cleansed, washed, and put into the strainer, swung, and gently shaken, cither separately or together, as may be agreeable to the taste, some preferring the blanch- ed bitter herbs by themselves, others mingle endive, succory, and rampion, without distinction, and generally cat celery by itself, also a sweet fennel, Clninca ])cp})er and horse-radish may bo lolt out from April to Sep- tember, ami during all the hot months, they arc therefore only nientioncd in the dressing, which should be in the manner stated. Now for the herbs: These being neatly parcelled and spread out upon a clean napkin, are to be mixed together in one of the earthen glazed dishes: then for the Oxoleon. Take of clear and perfectly good olive oil, three parts of the best wbite wine vinegar (lemon or juice of orange if preferred) one part, in w'hich let some scrapings or slices of borse- radish be steeped, with a little salt, (some in separate vinegar gently hruise a pod of guinea pepper, strain- ing both the vinegar and it apart to make use of either, or one at a time, or of both as they please). Then add as much Tew’kesbury, or other dry mustard grated, as will lie upon a half crown piece, beat and mix all these well together, but do not add the oil and vinegar, till you are on the point of eating the salad, and then with the yolk of two new laid eggs, boiled and prepared as before directed, squash and bniise them all into a mash with a spoon ; and lastly, pour it all upon the herbs, stirring and mixing them till they are well and thoroughly imbibed, not for- getting to sprinkle the aromatic herbs as directed, should you think proper, and garnish the dish with thin slices of horse-radish, red beet, barberries, &c. The liquids maj' be made more or less acid according to taste. These rules followed, you have a salad for six or eight people accommodated to art. SALIVA.—The saliva or spittle commonl3' so called, issues from three distinct sets of glands, distri- buted over different parts of the mouth, as the parotid, the suhmax- illary, and the sublingual; and (ac- cording to Ilcrzelius) a portion of it equal to 1000, consists of water 992-9; a peculiar animal matter 2-9; mucus 1-4 ; alkaline muriates 1-7; lactate of soda and animal matter 0-9 ; pure soda 0-2. (Med. Chir. Trans, vol. iii, p. 242). What Berzelius sets down as mucus, isSA SA 279 considered by Professor Thompson and Dr. Bostock, to be albumen. This is insoluble in water, and, when incinerated, affords a large jjropor- tion of phosphate of lime. The tar- tar of the teeth is derived from its gradual decomposition upon them. The recent investigations of Tiede- mann and Ginelin prove, however, saliva to be a more compound fluid than was formerly supjmsed; and one of their principal discoveries is, that the sulpho-cyanic acid, a most active poison, combined with potass, enters into its composition. Its solid contents are found to be one-twenty- fifth per cent. The quantity of saliva secreted daily is considerable. Nash and Langoni estimated it at a pound in twelve hours. Mr. Cruickshank at a pound in twenty-four hours ; but it must vary according to circum- stances. This secretion is more co- pious in children and old persons than in adults; in cold than in warm climates; in the day than the night. The smell or sight of any agreeable food makes the saliva flow into the mouth with considerable rapidity. The same effect results from the irri- tation of smoking tobacco; and from that of bitter, sour, or salt substances in the mouth. The habit of frequently ejecting spittle from the mouth ren- ders an augmented secretion of it necessary. A similar consequence attends those who talk much; and so large is the quantity of saliva secreted during meals, that Sabatier saw a soldier who, at three times, used to wet several towels with what was discharged from a fistula com- municating with the pai'otid duct. Trade d' Anal. tom. ii, p. 171. In disease the quantity of saliva is sometimes increased, sometimes almost suppressed. Its office is two- fold ; that of moistening the mouth in combination with a small portion of mucus secreted by the labial and buscal glands, and that of contri- buting to the digestion of the food in the stomach and duodenum. Under the influence of the irritating pas- sions, and especially of violent rage, it assumes a frothy appearance, and in many animals, becomes poisonous. It is said, indeed, to become so some- times in man himself. Hoffman, Dissert, de Saliva ejusque Morhis, p. 24. When the saliva is secreted in a healthy proportion, and the various muscles of the mouth perform their proper office, it is never discharged from the mouth, unless voluntarily ; but passes rapidly from the fauces into the gullet. But it may be se- creted immoderately, or the muscles of deglutition may not properly per- form their functions; and, in either case, the saliva will flow from the mouth involuntarily, accompanied with a specific difference of symp- toms, which may be distinguished into salivation and drivelling. SALMI.—A highly seasoned hash so called. S.\LMO.—The name of a genus of fishes, of the orderAbdomiiiales. The salmon. Salmo Alpinus. The red char. This beautiful and delicate little fish, and the salmo carpio, or gilt char, are found in the Westmoreland lakes, and in those of Wales and Scotland. They are very rich, and hard of digestion. Salmo Eperlanus. The smelt. A beautiful little fish, found in great abundance in the rivers Tliames and Dee, and in the European seas, be- tween November and February. It is a great delicacy when in season, but not easily digested by weak sto- machs.—See Smelt. Salmo Fario. The common fresh- water trout. The flesh of this fish is very delicate and rich, but hard to digest. Salmo Lacustris. The lake trout. Salmo Salar. The common sal- mon.—See Salmon. Salmo Salmulus. The samlet: the smallest of the British species of280 s.\ SA the Sahno genus. It is found in the river Wye, and up tlie Severn. Salmo Tiiymallus. The grayling salmon, which somewhat resembles our trout. It inhabits the rivers of Derbyshire, and some of those of the North, and near Christchurch, in Hampshire. It is much esteemed for the delicacy of its flesh, w'hich is white, firm, and of a fine flavour, and is considered as in the highest state of perfection in the depth of winter.—See Trout. Salmo Trutta. The bill trout. SALMON (Sahno Salar).—Ti\& salmon is a nortbern fish, being un- known in the Mediterranean sea, and other warm climates; and, ac- cording to some, breeds in the sea; but the opinion of others seems better warranted, that it propagates in the clear sandy parts of rivers, remote from their mouths; hence Walton, the celebrated angler, styles the sal- mon the king of fresh-water fish. This fish is considered as one of the greatest delicacies. It is rich, and of difficult digestion to -weak stomachs; and with some, whose stomachs are not particularly feeble, it uniformly disagrees. The pickled, salted, and smoked, though much eaten, are only fitted for the very strong and active. The chief salmon fisheries in Eu- rope are along the coasts of England, Scotland, and Ireland. The fishing usually begins about the first of J an- uary, and ends by the last of Sep- tember. There are stationary fish- eries in Ireland, Norway, and the Baltic; but those at Cranna, on the river Ban, near Coleraine, in Ire- land, at Berwick upon the Tweed, and those on the Don and Dee, and other Scotch rivers, are the most considerable. The capture of salmon in the river 'J’weed, about the month of July, is prodigious; it not being uncommon to take from fifty to one hundred fish at one haul of the net. Great numbers of these are sent to London in ice, which has been found to preserve them for a considerable time. In consequence of this disco- vei'y several ice-houses have been built at Berwick; and the quantity of ice put into them yearly is aston- ishing. Dr. Fuller, in his history of this tow'n, says that in the winter of 1798, the two companies laid in 7000 cart loads, at the expense of 4.50Z. The earliest salmon that comes in season to the London market is brought from the Severn, and begins to come into season the beginning of November, but very few so early, perhaps not above one in fifty, as many of tbem w'ill not shoot their spawn tilt Januar}’, or after, and then continue in season till October, when they begin to get very thin and poor. The principal supply of sal- mon is from different parts of Scot- land, packed in ice, as already ob- served, and brought by water; many of which are spoiled unless the pas- sage be quick. Salmon gwilts, or salmon peel, are the small salmon, which run from about five or six pounds to ten pounds, are verj' good fish, and make handsome dishes of fish, sent to table crooked in the form of an S. Berwick trout are distinct fish from gwilts, and are caught in the r-iver Tweed, and dressed in the same manner as the gwilt. Calvered salmon is that caught in the 'fhames, and cut into slices alive; and some few salmon are brought from Oxford to London alive, and cut A few slices make a handsome genteel dish, but it is generally very expensive. Salmon requires almost as much boiling as meat, about a quarter of an hour to a pound of fish. A quar- ter of a salmon will take .almost as long boiling as half a one; and you must consider the thickness, not the ■weight. Ten pounds of fine full- grown salmon will be done in an hour and a qu.artcr. The thinnest part of the fish is the fattest. If j'our fish be split, put it on to boil in warm water; if not split, in cold water. If underdone, salmon is verySA SA 281 unwholesome. It is usually served up with shrimp or anchovy sauce. The Thames salmon is preferred in the London market. In some parts of Wales, salmon is cleaned and boiled as soon as caught, and sent up to table cold. In tliis state it is very good, eaten with pepper and vinegai*. Salmon is most plentiful about Midsummer; the season for it is from February to September. Some sprigs of fresh gathered fennel are the usual accom- paniments. SALMON, PICKLED.—Salmon may be pickled in the following manner. The fish is to be cut into proper pieces, but the scales are not to be taken off. Make a brine strong enough to float an egg, in which boil the fish; throw in liquor just suffi- cient to cover it. Do not over-boil it. When boiled enough, lay the fish slantingly, to drain off all the liquor. When cold, pack it close in the kits, and fill them up with equal parts of the liquor the salmon was boiled in (having previously well skimmed it), and the best vinegar; let them stand for a day, fill up again, striking the sides of the kit with a cooper’s adze, until the kit will receive no more; then tread down as close as possible. This is the finest condition of the fish when fresh. Or, Boil as previously di- rected; then take the salmon out, and boil the liquor with bay leaves, peppercorns, and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. The three indispensable marks of the goodness of pickled salmon are, 1. The brightness of the scales, and their sticking fast to the skin; 2. The firmness of the flesh; and, .‘5. Its fine pale rose colour: without these it is not fit to eat, and was either stale before it was pickled, or has been kept too long after. Pickled salmon warmed by steam, or in its pickle liquor, is a favourite dish at Newcastle. S \ L S A F Y. (TragopoQon pra- tense). — The common goatsbeard. The young stems of this plant are eaten like asj)aragus, and are a plea- sant and wholesome food. The root is also excellent, and was formerly used medicinally as a diuretic. It is more easily reared in this country than asparagus. SALT.—Salt is either procured from rocks in the earth, from salt- springs, or from sea-water. The famous salt mines of Wielitska, near Cracow, in Poland, have been worked upwards of six hundred years, and yet present no appearance of being exhausted. Esperie, in Hungary, has also a noted salt mine. Lymington, in Hampshire, though its manufac- ture is greatly on the decline, still makes various kinds of excellent salt, both medical and culinary; there is one admirable salt spring at Droit- wich, near Worcestei', and Cheshire abounds in saline waters. Salt corrodes the fibres of plants, dism'ganises the connection of parts too firm for solution in the stomach, dissolves the glutinous particles, and prepares them for being belter di- gested. Provisions of a tough and viscid consistence require much salt; for instance, beef, mutton, fish, peas, beans, &c. Hence, salt beef and herrings, agree so well with vege- tables, because the abundance of salt in the former, seasons the latter'. But too copious a use of salted ]>ro- visions is extremely prejudicial; they weaken the solids, the blood becomes thin, acrid and disposed to ])utres- cency; and hence, arise scurvy in all its stages, eruptions of the skin, consumptions and other diseases.— See Scurvi/. There is comparatively little dan- ger of using too much salt with fresh provisions, as the only injury arising from an excess of this article woidd be a slight relaxation of the bowels. 'I'lie inqrorlance and value of salt as an introduction into food, becomes continually more evident, as its me- dicinal properties are rendered more 2 B 2282 SA SA distinct and fully known. Among other salubrious properties, may be mentioned its anihelm'mtic virtues, which have been rendered very evi- dent by the publication of some late cases. It appears that whenever salt is denied to the human being, dis- eases of the stomach are general, and that worms are engendered in the body; and in one instance, where a person, from aversion to that sub- stance, had refused it either in food, or in an}' other form, they appear to have been the consequence, and re- mained for many years. In Ireland, salt is a well-known remedy for hots in the horse; and among the poor people, a dose of common salt is esteemed a cure for the worms. Lord Somerville attributes the health of his flock of 203 Merino sheep, which he pmxhased in Spain, principally to the use of which he has made of salt for the last seven years on his farm. These sheep having been accustomed to the use of salt in their native land; his Lord- ship considered, that in this damp climate, and in the rich land of So- mersetshire, it would be absolutely necessary to supply them with it regularly. A ton of salt is used annually for every 1000 sheep; a handful is put in the morning on a flat stone or slate, ten of which set a few yards apart arc enough for one hundred sheep. Of a flock of near 1000, there were not ten old sheep which did not take it kindly, and not a single lamb winch did not consume it greedily. Salt is likewise a pi'eventive of disorders in stock fed with rank green food, as clover or turnips, and it is deemed a specific for the rot. In order to obtain salt as pure as possible, and free from the bitter magnesia, which is a great promoter of putrefaction, the following simple but ingenious jirocess invented by Lord Dundonald, may be easily adopted :—Dissolve as much com- mon salt in a given quantity of water, as it is capable of containing in solution. Take another quantity of salt not larger than the former, and put it into a glass funnel, or similar vessel of wood or earthen- ware, which ought to be lined with coarse thick linen cloth. While the strong brine is hot, pour it over the dry salt, of which it will not dissolve a particle, but merely wash away the magnesia and other impurities ad- hering to its surface; and by repeat- ing this affusion several times, the washed salt will become tolerably pure. The whole of this process depends wholly on the principle that water can dissolve only a cer- tain quantity of salt, and that the magnesia may be washed away with such a supersaturated solution, while the salt to which it adheres remains insoluble. Salt thus purified, ^viU doubtless be more wholesome, and more effectual for all the pui-poses of salting and pickling provisions; as the magnesia contained in the com- mon salt renders double, perhaps treble the quantity necessary, which woidd be required were it in a pure state, or deprived of the magnesia. SALT OF STEEL.— See Sulphate of Iron. SALT OF TARTAR.—See Tartar. SALT, PRLMITIVE.—Under this classification are comprehended, those salts which are considered as simple or primitive, and which are occasionally called simple salts. This order is divided into three genera, comprehending saline terrestrial sub- stances, alkaline, and acids. SALTS, NEU'fRAL.—Under the name of neutral or secondary salts, are included such substances as are composed of two primitive saline substances, combined together in a certain projiortion. Such salts are called neutral, because they do not possess the characters of primitive salts—that is, they are neither acid nor alkaline; e. g. Epsom salts, nitre, &c. But in many secondarySA SA 283 salts, the qualities of one ingredient predominate; as tartar or supertar- trate of potass, has an excess ot acid ; borax, or subborate of soda, an excess of base. The former are termed acidulous, the latter sub- alkaline salts. SALTPETRE, (Nitre).—A neu- tral salt formed by the union of the nitric acid with the vegetable alkali. It exists in large quantities in the earth, and is continually found in uninhabited places. It is found ready formed in the East Indies, in Spain, in the kingdom of Naples, and elsewhere in considerable quan- tities. The uses of nitre are various. It is of great use in the arts. It is added to common salt for preserving meat, to which it gives a red hue; it is an ingredient in some frigorific mixtures; and it is prescribed in medicine as cooling, febrifuge, and diuretic; and some have recom- mended it mixed with vinegar, as a powerful remedy for the sea-scurvy. It is from this salt that one of the most powerful acids, (nitric acid) is obtained.—See Hams. S.\MPniIlE. (Crithnum Mariti- mum), sea-fennel.—A low perennial plant, growing about the sea-coast in several parts of the island. It has a spicy aromatic flavour, which induces tlie common people to use it a.s a pot-herb. Pickled with vinegar and spice, it makes a wholesome and elegant condiment, which is in much cstCGin. S A N G UIFIC A'f K) N.—A n atural function of the body by which the chyle is turned into blood. Its uses are the generation of blood, which serves to replenish the blood vessels, to iiTitatc and stimulate the heart and arteries, to generate or cause heat, to secrete the humours, and to excite the vital actions.—See Chyle. Nu- trition. Secretion. SAUCES. — Sauces are intended to heighten the flavour and to give a higher degree of zest to any dish, whether it be butchers’ meat, fish. fowl, or vegetables. In those kinds of relishes there is but little variety in England; and it was rather sati- rically thought, with no less truth, that “ the English had a great variety of forms of religion and no variety in their sauces; whereas, they had uniformity in the former, and an in- finite variety in the latter.” Melted butter forms the basis of most Eng- lish sauces. Melted butter and oys- ters ; melted butter and parsley; melted butter and anchovies ; melted butter and eggs ; melted butter and shrimps; the same and lobsters, and capers, are nearly all the sauces used in England. In addition to these the following flavoury substances are in common use :—viz. mushrooms, onions, spices, sw'eet herbs, wine, soy, and the usual condiments; but melted buttei-, gravy, or some ferina- ceous mucilage, form the basis or menstruum of all sauces. These sub- stances combined in different pro- portions are quite sufficient to make an endless variety of piqnante sauces, as pleasant to the palate as those of the most confirmed foreign nature. —See Anchovy, Soy, c^-e. Lemon Pickle ; also the following;— SAUCE, Tomatace.—Love apples q. s., stew them in a little water and pulp them through a sieve, then add common salt, ginger, cayenne pep- per, and vinegar; boil, strain, and bottle. , Quin’s. — Soy 81b.; walnut ketchup, mushroom ketchup, of each, 2 gallons; anchovies 8lb. cayenne pepjier 8oz. garlic lib. 2. Distilled vinegar 1 gallon, soy lib. allspice 8oz. 3. Walnut ])ickle half-a-pint; ket- chup half-a-])int, anchovies No. 6, garlic, G cloves, cayenne pepper one drachm. , CouATCii,—-Vrushroom ketchup Gib., walnut ketchup llh., Indian soy. Chili vinegar, of each doz., essence of anchovies loz.—See Soy, Ketchup. Fish-sauce for the whole year.—s^ 284 SA Take 24 anchovies and chop them fine, bones and all; and 10 shalots cut small; of scraped horse-radish as much as you can hold between the twofore-fingers and thumb ; a quarter of an ounce of mace ; a quart of ■white wine; a pint of water; one lemon cut into slices; half-a-pint of anchovy liquor ; a pint of red wine ; 12 cloves; 12 pepper corns. Boil all together, till reduced to a quart. Strain off; cover close, and keep it in a cool dry place. Two spoonsful will be sufficient for a pound of butter. SAUR KRAUT. — Large white cabbages are cut into thin horizontal slices, and placed in a barrel, with a layer of salt at top and bottom, and between each layer of cabbages a board with some weights on it is then put on the top, and it is kept in a cool place for some weeks; a kind of fermentation takes place and vine- gar is formed. Some add juniper ben'ies, coriander seeds, tops of anise, or carui seeds, to the salt, as a kind of spice; it may be dried in an oven without any loss of its flavour. Saur kraut is easily digestible on account of the salt mixed with it, and the acetous fermentation it has under- gone before it is used, and by which process the greatest part of its fixed air is repelled. It operates power- fully on the first passages, being a most excellent antiseptic; it has proved of singular service at sea in resisting the ravages of scurvj', and curing it in the most alarming stages. We are indebted to Captain Cook for introducing this salutary diet among the sailors, in spite of all prejudices, and thus preserving the health of many brave mariners. Lastly, saur kraut has been found the best pre- ventive of e])idemic distempers, par- ticularly of the dyscntciT, and the putrid '>nd pectorial fevers, which it has even frequently cured. S.\US.\(iLS.—Whether fried or boiled, sausages are a substantial kind of nourishment; they conse- quently require a strong stomach and healthy bile to dissolve them. They are not of an acrid nature, provided they have not too much pepper in their composition, and be closely filled, so as to contain no air. Blood sausages, usually called black pud- dings, made of bacon, and coagulated blood, which is totally indigestible, are a bad and ill-contrived article of food, and still more so if they have been strongl3' smoked, bj’ which pro- cess the blood becomes indurated, and the bacon more rancid: thus prepared, nothing can be more per- nicious and destructive to the best fortified stomach. The spices usually added to sausages correct, in some degree, their hurtful properties, but are insufficient to counteract the bad and highly disagreeable effects of rancid substances. I. To make Pork Sausages.—Take six pounds of young pork, free from skin, gristle, and fat. Cut it very small, and beat it in a mortar till it be very fine, then shred six pounds of beef suet, very fine, and free from all skin. Take a large quantity of sage, wash itveiy clean, pick ofl'the leaves and chop it very small. Spread j'our meat on a clean dresser or table, and then shake the sage till over it, to the quantity of three large spoonsful; shred the thin rind of a middling sized lemon very fine, and throw it also over the meat, with as many sweet herbs as, when shreded will fill a large table spoon. Grate over the whole two nutmegs, and add to it two tea sjioonsful of pepper, and a large spoonful of salt; then throw over the suet, and mix the whole well up together. Press the mass down close in a pot, and when you use it, roll it up with as much of the yolk of an egg as will make it roll smooth; make them of the size of a saus.age, and fry them in butter, or good dripping. Be sure that the butter in the pan be hot before you put them in, and keep rolling them about. When they are thoroughly hot, and are of a fine light brown285 SA SA colour, take them out, and serve them up. Veal eats very well done in this manner, or veal mi.xed with pork. It' you choose, you may clean some guts, and fill them with the following substances. 2. Bologna Sausages.— Take Beef suet .... 1 pound Pork 1 pound Bacon, fat and lean . 1 pound Veal 1 pound Cut these up small, and mince them tine. Take a small handful of sage, pick off the leaves, and chop it tine with a few sweet herbs, season pretty' high with pepper and salt: take a large gut, well cleaned, and fill it, set on a saucepan of water-, and when it boils, put it in, having first pricked the gut, to prevent its burst- ing ; boil it gently half an hour, and then lay it on clean straw to dry. 3. Hogs Puddings with Almonds.— Chop fine a pound of beef marrow, half a pound of sweet almonds blanched, and heat them fine with a little orange or rose water, half a pound of white bread grated fine, half a pound of currants, clean washed and picked, a quarter of a pound of tine sugar, a quarter of an ounce of mace, nutmeg, and cinna- mon together, of each an equal quan- tity, and half a pint of sack. Mix these all well together with half a pint of good cream, and the yolks of four eggs ; fill the guts half full, tic them up, and boil them a quarter of an hour. You may leave out the currants for a change, though in this case, a quarter of a pound more sugar must he added. 4. Blood Sausages, or Black Pud- dings.—Take a peck of guts, hoil them half an hour in water, drain them, and put them into a cle.an tub or large pan. Then kill your hog, and save two quarts of the blood, and keep stirring it till the blood be quite cold. Then mix it with the guts, and stir them well together, season the mixture with a tahle- spoonful of salt, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, mace and nutmegs (or half an ounce of allspice) of each an equal quantity. Dry it, boat it well, and mix it. Take a little winter savory, sweet marjoram, and thyme; some pennyroyal stripped of the stalks, and chopped very fine. Of these take just a sufficient quantity to season and give them a flavour, but no more. The next day' take the leaf of the hog and cut it into due or little square pieces; scrape and w-ash the guts clean, then tie one end and begin to fill them. Let the fat be mi.xed in as they are filled, in considerable quantity. Fill the skins three parts full, tie the other end, and make your puddings whatever length you please. Prick them with a pin, and put them into a kettle of boiling water. Boil them very softly for an hour; then take them out, and lay them on clean straw. In some parts of Scotland they make their black puddings with the blood of a goose—the head of which is chopped off and the blood saved, which is well stirred till cold, and afterwards mi.xed with guts or oat- meal, spice, salt, and sweet herbs, according to fancy', and some beef suet chopped. They then strip the skin off the neck, pull out the wind- pipe and fat, fill the skin, tie it at both ends—make a pie of the giblets, and lay the pudding in the middle. •»* M. T. Kerner, a German physi- cian, some years back, discovered a new kind of poison, that arises in smoked meats. It appears from experiments which he has made, that they become subject to some sort of decomposition that renders them venomous. Liver sausages are the most susceptible of it, and the decomposition generally takes place about the middle of April. From his inquiries, the doctor found that of seventy-two persons in Wirtem- hurg, that had eaten smoked sausages, thirty-seven died shortly, and the re- mainder were ill for some time after.SC 28G sc SAUTER.—A culinary term : to fry lightly. SCHlilAS.—The wine of Schiras is not only the best in Persia, but, as some think, in the whole world. It is so extremely potent as to admit two-thirds of water without spoiling the flavour. S C O M B E R.—The name of a genus of fishes of the order Thoracici. Scomber Scomber. — The sys- tematic name of the common mack- erel, a beautiful fish, of easy diges- tion. It frequents our shores in vast shoals, between the months of .April and July (see J\lackerel). Mackerel in London is rarely fresh enough to ajjpear at table in perfection; and either is boiled too much or the roe too little. The best way is to open a slip opposite the middle of the roe, you can then clean it properly—this will allow access to the water, and the roe will be done as soon as the fish, which is seldom otherwise the case. When it is intended to boil mackerel, they are put into cold water with a handful of salt; they are suffered rather to simmer than boil. A small mackerel will be done enough in about a quarter of au hour. When the eye starts and the tail splits they are done, after which do not let them stand in water a moment longer, as they are so deli- cate that the heat of the water will break them. The current notion that mackerel are in the best con- dition when they are full of roe, is not correct, as at that time it is only valuable for its roe, the meat has scarcely any flavour. Mackerel ge- nerally make their appearance ofl’ the Land’s-cnd about the beginning of April, and as the weather gets wann, they gradually come round the coast, and generally arrive off Brighton about May, and continue some months, until they begin to shoot their spawn ; after they have let go their roes, as it is termed, they are called shotten mackerel, and are not worth catching, the roe. which was all that was good of them being gone. It is in the early sea- son, when they have the least roe, that the flesh of this fish is in the highest perfection. There is also an after season, when a few fine large mackerel are caught, namely the herring season, about October, to which some gourmands are ex- tremely partial. These fish having had time to fatten, and recover their health, are full of high flavour, and their flesh is firm and juicy. They are commonly called silver mackerel, from their beautiful appearance, their colour being almost as bright when boiled as it was the moment they were taken out of the sea. Scomber Thynnus. — The sys- tematic name of the tunny fish, which frequents the shores of the Mediterranean. Though a coarse fish it was much esteemed by the Greeks and Romans; and by some is still considered a delicacy.—See Tunny. SCURVY.—The scurvy is a dis- ease of a putrid nature, chiefly affect- ing sailors, and such as are shut up in besieged places, in consequence, as is generally supposed, of being deprived of fresh provisions, &c. It is characterised by bleeding of the gums, spots of different colours, for the most part livid, particularly at the roots of the hairs, occurring chiefly in cold countries, after living on putrescent salted animal food, with a deficiency of aperient vegetsihle matter. The scurvy sets in gradually with heaviness, weakness, and un- willingness to move about, together with great dejection of spirits, anxiety and oppression about the region of the stomach, considerable loss of strength, and debility. .As the disease adwances the countenance becomes sullen and bloated; resjnration is luuTied bj' the leiist motion; the teeth be- come loose; the gums become spongj', swelled, and bleed upon the slightest touch; the breath is very oflensive; livid spots appear on different parts of the body; old wounds that havesc 287 SC long healed, break out afresh; old fractures, disunite ; wandering pains are felt particulaidy by night; the skin is dry ; the urine small in quan- tity, turning green vegetable infu- sions to a blue colour. The last stage of scurvy exhibits a most wretched and truly pitiable condition. The joints become swelled and stiff; the tendons of the legs are rigid and con- tracted ; general emaciation ensues; blood discharges from the nose, ears, anus, and other parts of the body; foetid evacuations are voided by stool; diarrhma and dysenteiy arise, which soon close the wretched scene. The most frequent Causes OF THE Scurvy, at Home and Abroad.—It is observed by Boer- haave, that the scurvy infects the northern regions of the earth more than any other; and yet it seems cer- tain that this is not so much occa- sioned by sharp cold as by other causes. The scurvy, as is well known, attacks, by its worst symp- toms, those who navigate to the East Indies, even under the torrid zone; and it has been observed in France, during the greatest heats of summer, that it has made consider- able havoc, and that many who were beginning to recover, relapsed, and became much worse. Whilst that able physician, Backstrom, was at- tentive to these particulars, he was, in a great degree, confirmed in opinion, “that the true and primary cause of the scurvy was no other than too long an abstinence from every kind of fresh vegetables.” It is certain that he confirmed this opi- nion by many and strong arguments. At the siege of Thorn, besides the inhabitants of the city, some thou- sands of the soldiers were carried off by the disease, whilst nothing of the like happened to the Swedes, the besiegers. It is known that the be- siegers had ])leuty of greens and vegetables, which the besieged were destitute of. W'hilst the imperial army was in winter quarters about Temesw'ar, many thousands of the soldiers died of the scurvy; and, w’hat was remarkable, its rage was entirely confined to the common soldiers, whilst the officers, of all rank, were free from it. But Back- strom observes, that the winter was longer than usual, that the greens and salading in the neighbourhood were destroyed by the late siege, and that, on account of the lakes and marshes near the city, the kitchen gardens were at too great a distance, whence the common soldiers could be supplied with few or no vegetables, though their officers might, by the liberty granted them. But as soon as the earth in the spring yielded new favours, the disease disappeared. 1. Want of Vegetable Food, c^-c. — Putrid Smells, cj-c.—Itis evident that those who go on long voyages, as to the East Indies, are often seized with the scurvy, whilst, for several months together, they are obliged to abstain from vegetables. But as soon as they put in at the Cape of Good Hope, they send their sick to the hospital, and recruit them with broths of fresh meat, in which all kinds of greens are boiled, and with delicious fruits ; and the event is so favourable, that, in the course of about fourteen days, they, for the most part, all return to tlieir duty. These observations are confirmed by others, of the famous Cacchi, who before Blackstrom had published his ingenious treatise on the scurvy, thought much the same of the na- ture and disposition of that disease ; whilst he saw it always follow a long abstinence from vegetables; and, on the contrary, that it was soon overcome by a vegetable diet, so that the bowels were not yet corroded and destroyed by an acrimoii}' of t(K) long standing. But as the winter is severe and long, in regard to the people of the northern clime; as for several months the earth, buried under snow, prodtices no vegetables; and as then they live chiefly on fish.sc SC 288 or flesh dried by smoke or in the air, or seasoned witli salt, it appears why they are more liable to the scurvy than other inhabitants of the globe. The want of vegetable food, which disposes to putrefaction, is there- fore deservedly reckoned among the causes of the scurvy; and, indeed, in the last stage of the scurvy the putridity is so great, that the wretches emit the smell of dead bodies; and hence also, but in another point of view, it plainly appears why those who are obliged to live in an air con- taminated by putrid effluvia, are sub- ject to this disease; those, we mean, who live near the sea, and especially such as live in places that are, from time to time, overflowed by the waters of the sea. Those who have endea- voured to make sea-water wholesome and potable, have met with this par- ticular difficulty, that they were not able to take away the disagreeable and sub-putrid taste; though they could easily separate the sea-salt that was in the water. Whence it is ob- served, that when, at the recess of the tide, the shore, yet moist, is ex- posed to the heat of the sun, a nasty stench is diffused through all the adjacent parts; and this stench is more and more noisome, while fishes of many kinds, as well shell-fish as others, are thrown up on the shore, and soon rot under the waves. If a whale be thrown upon the shore, and there dead, can send forth an intolerable smell for the space of sojue miles, how must it be when a prodigious number of those beasts lie rotting in the sea? There are but few species of fish used for human food ; and the great carcasses of whales,when the fat is cutaway, and the flexible cartilages of the fins, arc left by the fishermen in the sea. If to these be added the softer marine plants, so many in number, and rot- ting likewise in the sea, the drowned bodies of so many men and others, we shall easily be able to account why that immense collection of wa- ters is infested with a putrid and very disagreeable smell. Bad smells are, indeed, in a less degree percep- tible where the sea is deep, because the bodies, sunk in the bottom of the sea, are covered by a vast column of water, and whatever exhales from them is blown off by the winds. But about shores, where the sea is of no depth, and where places are covered sometimes by the flow of the tide, and sometimes not, this troublesome smell is more perceived; and daily observations shew, that people living in such parts are affected with dis- ease, and frequently with the scurvy\ For the same reason, those also are attacked by this disease who live in the neighbourhood of standing waters and marshy grounds, which, in the heats of summei', usually send forth very offensive smells; and more especially if strong and frequent winds do not blow off those noxious exhalations; and they are worse off who live in low, flat, boggy grounds, which are less exposed to the winds. 2. Scurvy, frequent and invete- rate among the Dutch.—Sijmptom.<!, Causes, Sfc.—There are many such pi aces as those above described among the Dutch, and most of the inha- bitants languish with the scuny. The disease is manifest by their cari- ous teeth and bloody gums, and most commonly they become toothless in the prime of life; yet they linger on for a great while on account of their spirit of industry and peq)etual round of labour. This shews, too, that an idle and sedentary life is a disposing cause to this disease; for when animal motion is lessened our humours pass into a glutinous state, and together with acrimony there is generally a siziness of blood; and it has been observed, in those places where the scurvy is frequent, that weavers, tailors, shoemakers, and others, who exercise sedentary arts, are often aflected by this disease. We have seen many who, by a labo- rious and frugal life, had acquiredsc 289 SC money enough to live at their ease towards the decline of their years; but these were always advised to ex- ercise their body by walking some miles every day, which, if they neg- lected, they would soon be disordered by the scurvy. Whenever, in distant navigations, a stormy sea keeps the mariners in perpetual action, they are generally pretty w'cll in health ; hut when the sea has continued calm for any time, symptoms of the scurvy begin to appear; and, for this reason, expert navigators w'ill compel their crew to some labour, even when it might be unnecessary, whilst the calm lasts. 3. Living in Cellars, Damp Places, upon Salt Provisions, Putrid IVater, <^c.—Living in cellars undergoiind, and in moist places, is another cause of the scurvy, and tlie condition of such is made worse by the use of salt provisions. Seamen are obliged to make use of this food in long na- vigations, because flesh meat cannot he long preserved in a fresh state. Slieep, poultry, hogs, &c., are some- times fed and kept in ships, that the mariner may at times have a supply of fresh meat and broth; but this never happens in so great a plenty as to be sufficient for all; and sucli pi'ovisions are generally appropriated to the use of the officers of the ship, and the sick; whence, it is evident, that thick, unctuous, and terrestrial humours must he created, with which the muriatic acrimony mixes. As long as by a strong motion of the body the coalescing of these thick humotirs is hindered, they are in tolerable health, and more particu- larly if the hunumrs are dilated with copious draughts, and the superabun- dant salt is washed out of the blood. But whilst the heats under the equa- tor begin to be felt, the water des- tined for their drink begins commonly to j)titrify and stink in a very loath- some manner, which makes them nattseatc it, or take none of it, or very sparingly. It is true that this putrid water, after some time, begins to deposit a sediment, to become limpid, and again potable, remain- ing good afterwards; but in the mean time, whilst for several days, nay, even weeks, it casts forth a horrid frouziness, and the seamen abstain from drink, a very bad de- position of the humours arises, whilst neither the sizy state of their blood is sufficiently diluted, nor a sufficient vehicle is afforded to pro- mote sweat and urine, that acrimony, by these ways, may be cleared out of the blood. And those, on the other hand, in whom excessive thirst conquers the loathing of stinking water, swallow down with their drink this putrid infection of the water, which will likewise hurt them, and the same sometimes happens in a scarcity of water when the naviga- tion is protracted to a longer time than common by bad weather. 4. Unfermented Farinaceous Diet, ^•c.—Again, as all crude and unfer- mented farinaceous diet (such are the diflereiit sorts of puddings usually made iuEngland by the lower classes), favours the production of a sponta- neous gluten ; and, as in the scurvy, at least that which is incipient, there is such a sizincss of the humours, it a])pcars w hy such food, taken in any abundance, disposes to the scurvy, cs]iecially if hard exercise of the body is used after them. Boer- haave observes, that there is no wholesome pudding made in Eng- land but one, which is the bread ])udding; and that this, to be good, shotdd be of bread well fermented and well baked, light, and ])roperlv seasoned wdth spice. All ])uddings of crude flour, and such as are re- plete with fat and suet, are very pernicious to the hciilth. Strong stomachs of ])loughmen may bear them, and such food, but they are very prejudicial to delicate constitu- tions, and those that lead sedentary lives. I’eas, beans, and such like pulse, are of a similar nature, and 2 csc SC 290 being reducible into meal, they equally acquire a lentoi', being mixed with water, as meal or flour prepared from other grain. Cheese, though pre- pared of sweet and mild milk, if it be rather too old, acquires a great acrimony, so as to bite the tongue. It is known that cheese is prepared, rvith some acid, or the proper coa- gulum called rennet is instilled into the new milk: then the grosser j)art is separated from the thin whey of the milk, and pressed within a thick linen cloth, till all the whey goes out. What is then left in the linen cloth consists of the butyraceous parts of the milk and the cheese pro- perly so called; and this cheese when long kept, on account of its thick buty- raceous admixture, becomes very acrid, not acid, but rather inclining to an alkaline nature. But when the milk is first deprived of its fat cream, and afterwards coagulated, then the cheese made in this manner becomes less acrid by age, but grows hard like a horn, and, held to the fire, it bends also as a horn, but scorches, burns, and stinks. Cheese, there- fore, with an acrimony acquired by age, tends to putrefaction, though prepared from ascescent milk: and, as commonly it is seasoned with plenty of salt, in order for its keep- ing, it is plain why its use must hurt those who are inclined to the scurvy, even from other causes; and it is known, from daily observations, that the scorbutic perceive all these symp- toms, by eating such cheese only for a few days.—See Cheese. 5. Melancholy, a disposing cause lo Sc7irvy.—Many of the causes of melancholy arc likewise favourable for producing the scurvy, whilst they create a stiff sizincss in the humours, by dissipating the thinner parts, and fixing the next; .and hence the authors who wrote of the scurvy, have placed a great allinity between it and the atrabilious cacochymy. The author of Anson’s Voj'age round the World observes, that seamen afflicted with the scurry become cowards, and are terrified with the greatest fear from the most trifling causes; and he also observes, that when any adverse fortune happened, which lessened their hopes of a pros- perous return to their countrj', the violence of the disease was imme- diately increased, so as to strike with death those that were in the last stage of it; and others, who, though languid, could yet do some duty, were instantly obliged to take to their beds. To the preceding may be added, indolence, confinement, want of exercise, &c. Scurvy, Treatment of.—As a means, in the first place, of counteracting remote causes of scurvy, which is the effect of salt provision, and the want of fresh meat and vegetables, every ship bound on a long voyage should be well stored with flour, eggs, rice, pearl barley, oatmeal, groats, peas, sago, vennicelli, portable soup, potatoes, and other vegetables in season, sour kraut, raisins, currants, prunes, and other dried and fresh fruits. The ship should be well sup- plied with spirituous and fermented liquors, as rum, brand)’, beer and porter, together with wine, cider, vinegar, and other acids, particularly the concrete juice of lemons, limes, oranges: also with these fruits in their natural state, live stock, smoke- dried provisions, portable soup, and meats otherwise preserved, &c. The voyages of Captain Cook, as well as that of the unfortunate La Peyrouse, prove beyond a doubt, that by due care and proper regimen, seamen may be preserved from the scurvy and other diseases, which formerly have been inseparable from long sea voy.ages; and th.it they can endure and support the fatigues of the longest navigations in all climates, in all latitudes, in the midst of fogs, and under a burning sun. But when, from want of any of these precau- tions, the disease manifests itself among a number of men, let it beSE 291 sc where it may, either on shipboard or in garrison, the effects are to be counteracted, first by removing the putrid state of the system, by a diet of fresh animal and vegetable food, but more particularly the latter, to w'hich may be added, the free use of ripe fruits. For ordinary beverage, the patient may drink milk, whey, butter-milk, or wort, or an infusion of milk in spruce. One of the most effectual antiscorbutics, and which may be substituted for others in cases of emergency, is lemon juice, with which most ships going long voyages are supplied. Symptoms may also arise in the course of the disease requiring a separate treatment; such as pains in the belly, which are to be allayed by opiates, &c. sponginess of the gums, and looseness of the teeth, by washing the mouth with gai'gles of an astringent and anti- septic nature; * foul ulcers to be cleansed and healed by washing them with lemon juice, &c. The bowels in the course of the disease should be relaxed, if costiveness prevail, by drinking decoction of tamarinds, to which a little cream of tartar has been added. The skin may be kept moist by giving a few grains of the compound powder of ipecacuanha, or the like. In order to restore tlie system after an attack from scurvy, the individual should live upon fresh vegetable and animal food; take the bark with sulphuric acid diluted; live in a free open air ; take exercise, • AtUiseplic, i. e. possessing a power of preventing animal substances from pass- ing into the state of putrefaction, and of obviating putrefaction when already begun—e. g. 'fake— Decoction of bark . 12 ounces, Tincture of myrrh . 3 ounces. Muriatic acid . . 30 drops. Make a gargle. Also, ■fake Infusion of roses . 8 ounces. Alum . ... 2 dracbms. Honey enough to make it palatable. Mix for a gargle . AsCringent. and otherwise lead a life of temper- ance and regularity; for in the cure as well as prevention of scurvy, much more is to be effected by re- gimen than by medicines. SEBACIC.—Of or belonging to suet, or such fat-like substances. SEBACEOUS. — Suety : applied to a gland which secretes a suety humour. SECRETION.—The function of secretion in an animal body, is that process by which a fluid is separated from the blood, though diflerent in its jjroperties from blood. 'I'he organs which secrete the various humours are the glands; and the proximate or immediate cause of secretion is a specific action of the arteries of tliese glands; for every secretion is formed from the extre- mities of arteries. The seci'etion of the bile is no exception to this law, for the vena porta, or great vein, which carries the blood from the abdominal viscera (the spleen, me- sentery, and stomach) into the liver, takes upon itself the functions of an artei-y:—thus the mucous glands secrete mucus; the salival glands, as the parotid, submaxillary, and sublingual, the saliva or spittle so called ; the pencilli of the liver, that is, the innumerable branches into which the vena porta is divided after it enters the liver, thus named from their arrangement resembling a hair pencil, the bile ; the cryptae or con- volutions of the venal artery upon Itself of the kidneys, which arc beau- tifully ramified in the substance of this organ, urine ; the glands of tin- breast, the milk in women, &c. The secreted fluids are the proper stimuli to the receptacles and duels, through which the secretion is to pass to its place of destination; so that the secretions move along the secretory ducts by means of the con- tractibility of the coats of the ducts, and the assistance of ncighbouiing moving powers. Hence the neces- sity of a healthy secretion to the regular performance of every func-292 SH SE tion connected with the animal eco- nomy :—as from whatever cause the function of secretion may be arrested, constitutional derangement more or less, is the consequence ; and thus it continues, is aggravated or di- minished, in proportion, as the secre- tions are restored to their healthy actions, and the reverse.—See Di- gestion, Nutrition. SEEDS, GRAINS, and PODS of HERBACEOUS PLANTS EATABLE. American Ground Nut, Angular-stalked Pea, Arabian Coffee, Bastard Locust Ton, Carob, or St. James’ Bread, Cashew Nut, Chicken Pea, Chocolate Nut, Cocoa Nut, Common Garden Pea, Bean, Kidney Bean. Common Walnut, Chestnut, East India Kidney Bean, Eastern Macardiuni, or Malacca Bean, French Physla Nut, Hazel Nut, Incurved podded birds-foot trefoil, Indian Physia Nut, Je.suit’s Nut, Lentil, Pistachia Nut, Pigeon Pea, Sea Pea, Squai'e-podded crimson Pea, Stone, or Manured Pine, SweetCassia, orPudding-pipe Tree Sweet-scented Vfinilla, Sweet and Bitter Almonds, Tamarind, Trifoliate-leaved Tinq)entine Tree, White-Howering Lupin. SEIDLITZ POWDER.—A very useful and fashionable compound, composed of dried carbonate of soda and dried tartaric acid, which arc mostly in separate parcels. When mi.ved with a quarter of a pint or more of pure water, it effervesces and forms a pleasant aperient, in imitation of Seidlitz water. Seidlitz powders may be imitated as follows :— Take Two spoonfuls of Rochelle salts. Forty grains of carbonate of soda. Mix, and put into a glass with half a pint of cold water. Then take Thirty-five grains of tartaric acid; or the same quantity of citric acid, which put into another tumbler with half a pint of cold water; then pour the one into the other, and drink them quickly. This makes an ex- cellent cooling draught, similar to soda water. SHAD.*—The shad is a sea fish, though met with in rivers, to which it usually resorts in the beginning of the spring. When it first leaves the sea, it is lean, dry, and iU-tasted; but after it has been in fresh water for some time, it grows fat, plump, and savoury. Shad is pickled to keep, though in this condition it loses much of its fine flavour. It is very nourishing; but when not fresh it has a certain pungency in it which rather incommodes tender gums, and causes thirst. When taken in the sea it is also a little hard, and not so easy of digestion as that taken in fresh water. It is best in spring, at which season it agrees with all ages and constitutions, if eaten in mode- ration. SHADDOCK.—The fruit of the Citrus Decnmana, a species of orange. In lemons, oranges, and other fruits of that kind, three different sub- stances are met with; namely, the external rind contains an essential oil, stronglj' astringent and heating; the second or white rind is tasteless; the third part is a salubrious, cooling and acid pulp, highly efficacious in counteracting the ])utrid tendency and dissolution of the blood. The juice of lemons and limes (see Le- mon) is one of the strongest vege- • In Latin the shad is called alosa, ab alciido, to nourish, because it is very nourishing.—Lcmery.SI 293 SH table acids,* and that of oranges and shaddocks, though milder, is not less salutary. All these acids are of a saponaceous consistence; they thin or attenuate the fluids, remove ob- structions, promote digestion, ])ro- voke the appetite, allay thirst, refri- gerate the blood, and counteract pu- trefaction; are an excellent remedy in pectoral, bilious, and inflamma- tory diseases, and affections of the kidneys. They are also antiscorbutic. SHALOT.—The Allium Asca- lonicumoi Linnaeus. An useful escu- lent root, possessing all the virtues of garlick, with less pungency, and like onions, garlick, and chives, are stimulant; they assist digestion, re- lieve the bowels, dispel flatulency, dissolve slime or mucus, and, con- sequently, are beneficial in diseases proceeding from, or accompanied with, too much viscidity; they also provoke the appetite, and ought to be used principally as spices or me- dicines. These roots are all power- ful expectorants, but should be avoided by hot, irritable, and cho- leric constitutions. And although they are eaten in large quantities by whole nations, yet, from their pene- trating and volatile smell, which they communicate to the breath, it is certain they agree best with indivi- duals of a cold and phlegmatic habit, and where such stimuli may be re- quired. SHERBET.— A delicious beve- rage, composed of cream, mixed with various articles, such as almonds, tea, pistachios, coffee, chocolate, &c., and sugar, and then iced. It may also be made with the juice of va- rious fruits, sweetened to the taste. It is a compound liquor, and usually prepared for punch, before the spirit is added. SHERRY.—A Spanish wine. It may be imitated as follows: loaf su- gar, thirty two pounds; sugar candy, ten pounds; water, sixteen gallons; boil, add pale wort (as for Madeira), yeast, one pound, on the third day, and raisins, stoned, eight pounds, and in two or three days more a gallon of brandy. Bung it down for four months; draw it off into another cask, add another gallon of brandy, and in three months bottle it. In- ferior to our own fruit wines.—See Spanish Wines. S II R U B.—A spirituous liquor, composed of the juice of oranges, mixed with brandy and rum. e. g. Put a quart of Seville orange juice to a gallon of rum, with three pounds of lump sugar, and a handful of the peel, pared extremely thin; let it stand in the cask for .3 months, then filter it through a cloth, and bottle it. SIESTA.—The afternoon’s nap, in which the Spaniards and Italians freely indulge; and, although itagrees with most foreigners in Spain and Italy, it is liable, nevertheless, to bring on apoplexies in cold climates, where meat, and soporiferous malt liquors are used in great quantity. Travellers in warm climates, who may be invited to an afternoon's sleep, ought to observe that the du- ration of it should be proportioned to the quick or difficult digestion of the individual: a quarter of an hour, or half an hour, is sufficient; and people should always be roused be- fore the expiration of an hour. To sleep in an horizontal position would be prejudicial; the fittest place for this kind of rest is in an arm-chair, or a canopy. The head ought to be well raised, and the body inclined backwards, with a little inclination to the left side. Every thing that has the smallest tendency to impede the circulation of the blood, should be removed, or slackened, otherwise violent headachs will be experienced, and disturbed sleep.—See Sleep. SINAPIS.—The name of a genus of plants in the Liniiman system. Class, Tetradynamia; order, SiU- quusa. Mustard, which see. SIRLOIN.—The most popular joint of beef is universally allowed to he the loin, which, on account of its 2 c 3SK SI 294 once having been actually knighted by one of our kings,* in a fit of royal condescension and jocularity, is now denominated sirloin. This ample joint has given rise to a well-known popular ballad, styled “The roast beef of old England;” and it still continues to cut a conspicuous figure at the tables of all “ who hospitably live, And strangers with good cheer re- ceive.”f Two sirloins joined together, without having the back bone cut asunder, are called a baron of beef. Thomson places the sirloin at the head of his autumnal feast: “ First the fuell’d chimney blazes wide; The tankards foam; and the strong table groans Beneath the smoking sir-loin, stretched immense From side to side, in which, with des- perate knife. They deep incision make, and talk the while Of England’s glory, ne’er to be defaced, While hence they borrow vigour.” SISYMBRIUM.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linntean sys- tem, so named from their fringed roots. Class, 'retradynamia; order, Siliquosa. SISYMBRIUM NASTURTIUM —The systematic name of the water cress, called also Nasturtium aquati- cum.-—See Water Cresses. SITIOLOGY. — (Derived from two Greek words, signifying aliment, and a discourse). A doctrine or treatise on aliment. SIUM.—The name of a genus of plants in the Linnoean system. Class, * The second Charles, the merry kins:. See “ The Knighthood of Sir- Loin,” in a work entitled " The Merry Droll.” t I'he hospitality of real benevolence gives what is plain and substantial, with kind looks, kind manners, and a hearty welcome. Pentandria; order, Siliquosa. The creeping water-parsnip {Siam nodi- fiorum), a plant admitted into the Pharmacopoeias, as possessing anti- scorbutic properties. It is not nau- seous, and children may take it readily, if mixed with milk. SIUM SISARUM.—See Skirret. SKATE.-—When good, skate are very white and thick; if dressed too fresh, they are hard and unpleasant to the taste; they should therefore be kept a day or two, but not long enough to produce an unpleasant smell. SKATE, To Boil.—Put it into a fish kettle, with cold spring water, and plenty of salt; as soon as it boils set it aside, to simmer gently till done, and serve it up on a fish plate, with anchovy sauce in a boat. SKATE, To Fry.—The skate must be nicely crimped, then tossed on an egg, beaten up with pepper and salt, then on crumbs of bread, laying them on paper as they are done: have ready a stewpan nearly full of lard; when very hot, put in two or three pieces at a time to fry quickly, and when thoroughly done, put them on paper to drain from the fat. Serve them up in a dish gar- nished with fried parsley, and shrimp sauce in a boat. SKINK (Sciiicits). — An amphi- bious animal of the lizard species; caught about the Nile, and thence brought in a dried state to this country. It is remarkably smooth and glossy as if varnished. The flesh of the animal, particularly the belly part, has been said to be diure- tic, alexipbarmic,* aphrodisiaef, and useful in leprous disorders. * A medicine supposed to preserve tlie body against the power of poisons, or to correct or e.vpel those taken. The an- cients attributed this properly to some vegetables, and even waters distilled from them. 'I'hey, however, are now but seldom used. t That which excites a desire for veuery.SL 295 SL SKIRRET, (Sium sisarum, the siser, or skirret).—The root of this plant is eatable, but now out of use, though cultivated in the time of Gerard and Parkinson. Its flavour is said to be aromatic, with a sweet- ness not acceptable to every palate, and of a flatulent and indigestible nature. Both the skirret root and the scorzenera of Spain possess more spicy and stimulating than nutritive qualities. Like celery, parsneps, and turnips, they are diuretic, and con- sequently in a slight degree stimu- lating. The skin-et is so tender that it can scarcely bear to be boiled; hence it is mostly eaten in a crude state, like fniit; or it may be used as an excellent ingredient in soups and broths. The scorzenera, on the conti-ary, ought to be deprived of its black skin, and only eaten when boiled. By soaking the raw root for half an hour in cold water, it not only loses its bitter taste, but like- wise is rendered less flatulent.—See Slum, &e. SLEEP.—That condition of the body in which the internal and ex- ternal senses are temporarily sus- pended, the object and design of which is, not only to i-enovate, during the silence and darkness of the night, the vital energies that have been exhausted during the day, but also to assist nutrition.—See Nutrition. During sleep, the circulation and respiration are retarded, as well as the different secretions, consequently digestion is carried on with less rapi- dity. It is not well explained on what basis some authors have as- serted that absorjition alone acquires more activity during sleep. Since the functions of nutrition continue during sleep, it is apparent that the brain has ceased to act only with regard to muscular contraction, and as an organ of intelligence, and that it continues to influence the muscles of respiration, the heart, the arteries, the secretions and nutrition. Tlie ordinary duration of sleep varies, in different individuals, either from habit or serenity, from six to ten hours. It is prolonged by fatigue of the muscidar system, strong mental exertion, lively and multiplied sen- sations, habits of indolence, the im- moderate use of wine, and of too strong food. Infancy and youth, whose life of relation is very active, have need of longer repose. Maturer age, more economical of time, and harassed with cares, devotes to it but a small portion of time. Very aged individuals present two very opposite modifications ; either they are almost always slumbering, or their sleep is very light; but the reason of the latter condition is not to be traced to the foresight they ha\’e of their ap- proaching end. By uninterrupted and tranquil sleep, properly limited, the corporeal and mental powers are renovated ; but if it be accompanied with disagreeable dreams and un- pleasant sensations, or even unduly prolonged, far from recruiting, it exhausts the strength, fatigues the organs, and notunfrequently lays the foundation of diseases, as idiotcy or mania. A question that has been often agitated is, whether it be ad- visable to sleep after dinner? This, however, can only be decided by a variety of concurrent circumstances, such as custom, bodily constitution, age, climate, and the like. Digestion is evidently promoted by preserving the body quiet after a meal; this we are taught by animals, particularly those of the ruminating class, which lie down after eating. Exercise ought to be taken before dinner. “ Natursi,” says the learned Haller, “ omnia animalia a pastu quiescerc docuit: ” but with many the dinner hoar inter- feres with such a custom. 'I'hemost easy position for effecting digestion is sitting in an easy chair, and in this posture any one, without risk or in- convenience, may freely indulge in a short sleep, after a hearty meal, should the drowsy god at such a time invite to repose, and rouse up from296 SL SL it with renewed vigour and cheerful- ness. The horizontal posture, par- ticularly in full habits, is rather an impediment to digestion, as the descent of the blood is somewhat retarded, and heaviness and pro- tracted sleep is the consequence. When the stomach is weak other means are used to facilitate digestion, such as taking bitters, alkalies, water impregnated with carbonic acid gas, and tbe like after a meal; the use also of spices, diluting the food, or cutting it into very small pieces. Digestion is also assisted by taking small quantities of food at a time, by which precaution the excitability of the food is never exhausted—a measure more especially necessaiy in debilitated stomachs. But the most injurious means of all is stimu- lating the stomach by distilled or fermented liquors ; for although such alteraative may for the time being answer the purpose, it soon produces vei-y bad effects, and greatly incom- modes the stomach. In a weak and slow state of diges- tion, after having taken hard or solid food, a short sleep may be indulged in, rather than after a meal consist- ing of much nourishment, as by its nature is easily digested. But young people of weak and delicate habits of body ought not to sleep too much, though their weakness induce them to repose; for the more they indulge in sleeji the greater will be their sub- sequent languor and relaxation. In- dividuals again of a strong and healthy habit of body and who digest their food rapidly, may take gentle exercise after their meals, if they have taken food of an easily digestible na- ture, requiring but little assistance but that of the stomach and its fluids. And indeed, such persons, should they have taken aliment difficult of digestion, ought to remain quiet after dinner, and may occasionally allow themselves an hour’s sleep, in order to support digestion.—See Siesla. To the aged, emaciated, and those of an irritable habit of body, as well as to those who have spent the pre- ceding night uneasily and sleepless, or have been otherwise fatigued, in order to restore regularity in the in- sensible perspiration, to rest a little after dinner may be productive of beneficial consequences and cannot possibly, while nature courts such an abstraction from the cares of the world, be attended with any incon- venient effects ; though in such cases the body should be well protected from the influence of cold. Those who give way to sleep at any time of the day are usuallymore heavy and indolent after it than before. A nap after dinner ought not to exceed an hour; half or even quarter of the time will suffice in the inclined posi- tion in an arm chair, a position the best that can be occupied by those of full plethoric habits of body; since they are less subject to a detennina- tion of blood to the head, and con- sequently to headach. A great deal, in fine, will depend in either case upon the manner the individual places himself in bed, as well as in the posture to which people have ac- customed themselves. Lying on the back, with the arms over the head, retards the circulation of the blood to the upper extremities, and is fre- quently the cause of serious conse- quences. It is no less injurious to be in a crooked or bent posture, or with the breast very low and bent in- wards ; by which the intestines are compressed and obstructed in their motions, so that the blood is impeded in its circulation downwards—the consequence of which may be giddi- ness and even apoplexy. Lying on the back is equally as improper, and is productive of frightful dreams, as well as the invasion of those lethargic fiends, the nightmare and blue devils. The reverse position, that is, 13’ing upon the abdomen, is likewise injuri- ous, as in this posture the stomach is compressed, re.spiration impeded, and the entire circulation of the chest and297 SM SM abdomen retarded to the great detri- ment of health. The most proper posture then in bed is on one side, with the body and limbs gently curved, so that the upper parts of the fabric may be higher than the lower. When the head is placed high a short sleep is more refreshing than when it lies too low. Sleep without dreams, of whatever nature they may be, is more salutary than when attended with such fancies. Dreams, never- theless, of an agreeable kind, j)ro- mote the free circulation of the fluids, the better digestion of the food, and an efficient state of the perspiratory medium.—(See Perspiration). The contrary takes place in unpleasant dreams, which e-Kcite anxiety, terror, grief, fear, and other depressing passions. In the latter case, they are symptoms of irregularity in the system, of an approaching disor- der, or they are occasioned by an improper posture in the bed. The functions of the body, as already ob- served, are obstructed by such dreams, and the animal spirits which require to be renovated and supported, are exhausted by violent emotions, in- somuch that the functions both of body and mind are in a state of ex- haustion rather than in one of revi- goration. To people in a good state of health it is probably of no great importance on which side they lie, and though, in this respect, they may fairly follow their own feelings, it would never- theless be an amelioration were they to accustom themselves to alternate the position. It has been alleged by some dietetical observers, that it is better to lie in the evening on the right side, and in the morning on the left, upon the consideration that in the evening the aliment may more readily leave the stomach ; and that afterwards this organ may be better warmed by the liver.—See Digestion, Suppers, Sfc. SMALL HEMLOCK.—This has often been mistaken for parsley and has produced deleterious effects. The hemlock dropworth (cenanthe crocata) is also an active poison, and it has too often proved fatal by being eaten in mistake instead of water parsnep. The root of this plant is not unplea- sant to the taste ; it is esteemed to he the most deleterious of all the vege- tables which this country produces. It is related that some French pri- soners at Pembroke who had been out in the field a little before noon had partaken of this root, which they supposed to be celery, and were near being destroyed; though they all ultimately were recovered from its effects, excepting one. At Clonmel, in Ireland, eight boys, mistaking this plant for water parsnep, ate plenti- fully of its roots; about four or five hours afterwards the eldest boy be- came suddenly convulsed and died : and before the next morning four of the other boys died in a similar man ner. Of the other three one was maniacal, one was maniacal several hours, another lost his hair and nails, but the third escaped unhurt. Nu- merous other cases are recorded both at home and abroad of fatal effects from mistaking this plant for either celery or water parsnep. SMELL.—Smell is exerted essen- tially at the moment when the air traverses the nasal fossm in proceed- ing towards the lungs. When the air proceeds from the lungs easily, an odour is perceived; though this may occasionally in organic diseases of the chest. The mechanism of smell is extremely simple; it being merely necessary that the odorife- rous particles should be stopped upon the pituitary membrane,* par- ticularly in jilaces where it receives the filaments of the olfactory nerves. • Sclinciderian membrane. The mucous membrane that lines the nostrils and sinuses communicating witli tlie nose is thus called, because it secretes tho mucus of those parts, to which the ancients assigned the name of jntuita,298 SM SM wliich it is generally agreed is es])e- cially employed in transmitting to the brain the impressions produced by odoriferous bodies; but there is nothing to prove that the other nerves, which are placed upon the pituitary as well as those near it, may not concur in the same func- tion {Majendie). Physiologists have not yet determined the use of the external nose in smelling; though it would appear to be intended to direct the air charged with odours towards the superior part of the nasal cavities. Persons ■with deformed noses, or if broken, such as have small nostrils di- rected forwards, have generally little or no smell. The loss of the nose, the consequence of either sickness or accident, causes almost the entire loss of smell; though this sense is re- covered by the use of an artificial nose.—See Odours. SMELT, {Salmo Epcrlamts).— Smelts are allowed to be caught in the Thames on the first of November and continue till May. The Thames smelts are the best and sweetest, for two reasons; they ai’e fresher and richer than any other you can get: theycatch them much more plentifully and larger in Lancashire and Nor- folk, but not so good; a gi-eat many are brought to town from Norfolk, but barely come good, as they are a fish that should always be eaten fresh; indeed all river fish should be eaten fresb, except salmon, which, unless crimped, eats better the second or third day; but all Thames fish particularly should be eaten very fresh, no fish eats so bad kept. The smelt is considered an excellent fish when fresh, and has a smell similar to that of a newly cut cucumber. When good, the scales have a fine slivery hue, and the body is very stifi'; when stale it is flabby. Smelts, and other small fish, toCook. ■—Clean your smelts, gudgeons, or sprats, thoroughly in a cloth, fry them plain, or beat an egg in a plate, dip them in it, and then in very fine bread crumbs, that have been rubbed through a sieve, the smaller the fish the smaller the bread crumbs should be. Biscuit powder is still better. Fry them in plenty of clean lard or dripping; as soon as the lard boils and is still, put in the fish: when they are delicately browmed they are done; this will barely occupy a couple of minutes; drain them in a hair sieve placed before the fire, turning them till they are quite dry.—See Salmo Eperlanns. SMOKE-DRYING.—The art of curing animal substances by means of tbe smoke of a wood fire, &c.— The custom of curing hams in this manner is of vei-y ancient date; it was well known to the Romans; and it is mentioned by Horace. “ Fumosae cum pede pernae.” Sat. ii. 2—117. Although there are many places on the Continent celebrated for the flavour of their hams, WestjDhalia, nevertheless, stands foremost on the list—(See Hams). The method of curing bacon and hams in this place is done as follow's :—Families killing one or more hogs a year, a common practice with private individuals in this part of the world, have a closet in the garret, joining to the chimney, made smoke tight, in which they hang their hams and bacon to be gradually dried by the wood smoko alone, and not by the heat proceed- ing from the fire. The smoke of the fuel is conveyed into the closet by a bole in the chimney near the floor, and a place is made for an iron stopper to be tbnist into the funnel of the chimne\', to force the smoke through the holes into the closet. The smoke is carried ofl' again by another hole in the funnel of the chimney, above the said stopper, almost at the deling where it escapes. The upper hole must not be too big, since the upper hole should always be full of smoke, and that formed by wood fires; or in flues the bacon and299 SM SM hams may be simply placed, as we see done in various parts at home, in the vicinity of an open fire-place, where wood or turf is burnt, so as to be continually exposed to the smoke arising therefrom.—See Dry Salting, Hams, Pyroligneous Acid. SMOKING.—Smoking, which may be considered as a refine- ment in the use of tobacco, has nearly, if not more votaries than either snuff- taking or chewing. Smoking pi'oduces a sort of tempo- rary stupefaction, or rather delirium of an agreeable kind, in which the body and mind are involved, and brings on a languor and sleepiness, which habit renders as agreeable as rest to the weary. Smoking allays irritability for a time, and soothes the anguish of mental inquietude, which is rendered so agreeable by habit, that when once acquired is seldom relinquished for the remain- der of life. The first smoking of tobacco always produces distressing- symptoms— many people have de- stroyed themselves by it: moderate smoking is useful, it has cured the toothach, arising from inflammation of the membrane, but it is not used when the gums are much inflamed. Tissot and Jhichan. Frequent smoking, unless care be taken, turns the teeth first yellow, and afterwards black; white short ebay pipes are apt to corrode them to such a degree as to infect the breath, and often to produce foul ulcers in the gums. In delicate persons, smoking, it is said, dries up the body, by producing a waste of the fluids, and vitiating tlie digestion and assimilation of food, as well as impairs the mental faculties, and particularly the memory — indeed, this is by no means improbable, though it happens that not ten in the hundred of delicate constitutions ever habituate themselves to smok- ing, and even with these, in a mo- derate degree, it must prove more beneficial than otherwise. It has been observed, in commendation of tobacco, that it reduces corpulence, and will render the fattest people lean. This, in some degree, we admit; but it is on the principle of spoiling digestion, that it acts thus. A gentleman, of good constitution, and fond of e.xercise, but who, not- withstanding all his toils, became exceedingly corpulent, was advised to chew tobacco, according to the directions of a person in rvhom he confided; and certainly he grew thin, and in time got rid of an almost lethargic drowsiness, with an un- wieldy corporation, which had stuck to him for a considerable time : but the effect did not stop where he desired—his digestion was quite de- stroyed, his flesh continued to waste, he became subject to terrible bilious vomitings, and died in spite of all assistance, after having been reduced to a skeleton. King .James, independent of his “ Counterblaste,” as Mr. Grainger observes, professed still further his dislike to tobacco, that he was heard to say, “ were he to invite the devil to a dinner, he should have three dishes: first, a pig ; second, a poll of ling and mustard; and third, a pipe of tobacco for digestive.”—{Biog. Hist. Eng. vol. ii, p. 1). One of our best modern poets, has also expressed a jjointed dislike to the use of tobacco, but for a rea- son much more cogent tlian any of those assigned by the pedantic “ British Solomon — Pernicious weed ! whose scent the fair annoys, Unfriendly to society’s chief joys, 'I'hy worst effect is banishing for hours Tlie sex whose presence civilizes ours ; I'hou art, indeed, llie drug a gard’ner wants. To poison vermin that infest his plants; Hut are we so to wit and beauty blind. As to despise the glory of our kind. And shew the softest minds and fairest forms. As little mercy as the grubs and worms! Cowi'iu. Tobacco, however, is not witluaU300 SN SN its able advocates. Dr. Johnson once remarked, that since the disuse of smoking among the better sort of people, suicide has been more fre- quent in this country than it was before. Its praises have been sung by Philips, in all his poetical pro- ductions, except “Blenheim;” and his “ Splendid Shilling,” says one of his biographers, owes part of its lustre to the happy introduction of a tobacco pipe. In his “Cider,” may be read the following eulogiuni on this “sovereign herb,” as he else- where styles it;— “ To sage experience we owe Tlie Indian weed unknown to ancient times; Nature’s choice gift, whose acrimonious fume Extracts superfluous juices, and refines The blood distemper’d from its noxious salts; Friend to the spirits, which, with vapours bland, It gently mitigates ; companion fit For pleasantry and wine; nor to the bards Unfriendly, when they to the vocal shell, M arble melodious their well-labour’d songs.” SNUFF.—Tobacco in a state of minute pulverization. The effects of tobacco, in whatever form it may be used, have been variously stated; and it is our opinion that the pecu- liar effects of using it in the form of snuff are the most objectionable. As the nerves of the nostrils are more exposed, or thinly covered, than in any other part of the body, they are extremely sensitive, and when snuff is ajrplied to them, all the nervous system becomes affected by sympathy; hence snuH-taking, like tobacco-smoking, has a narcotic effect on the brain, and, through the brain on the mind itself, which par- ticularly' tends to weaken the me- mory. Ifsnull'bc used medicinally, that is, as a sternutatory, to promote sneezing, and on occasions requiring such a stimulant, it may be j)roduc- tive of some advantage, particularly where tliore is a congestion of pitui- tous humours, consequently may afford relief both to the head and eyes. If, however, the stimulus of the snuff be too violent, it may bring on so profuse a discharge from the nostrils as may relax and corrode them, and produce an incurable po- lypus, or a concretion of clotted blood, so as to block up the nostrils altogether. In a variety of affec- tions of the head, eyes, and eai-s, the taking of snuff may occasionally supply the place of an artificial drain ; though an extravagant use of it will assuredly produce a con- trary effect, such as accumulations of matter in the head, bleeding of the nose, and other complaints. To those w'ho are consumptive, who are subject to spitting of blood, or have symptoms of internal ulcers, nothing can be more prejudicial than snufl- taking. The practice infallibly viti- ates the smell, consequently must impair the taste, and also blunts the hearing; for as the internal or eusta- chian tube of the ear opens directly behind the back part of the nostril, particles of the snuff often lodge and accumulate thei'e to a very injurious degree. By' stimulating the nerves of the eyes, also, it often brings on serious diseases of the sight; so that it appears to be hurtful to all the senses e.xccpt that of touch. If taken too freely, snuft' may fall into the stomach, and ]>roduce disorders of digestion; it may also occasion continual and troublesome flatu- lence; for when the nose is ob- structed, the pei'son must breathe chiefly by the mouth, and in this xvay must swallow large quantifies of air, which mav extend the sto- mach, doing much injury to the he.alth. An elderly gentleman, some years ago, nsed to frequent a coffee- house near the Exchange, who could not breathe but with his mouth open; and from whose right nostril there hung the end of a polypus, or fleshy tumour, the remainder of which filled the cavity on that side. This prevented his breathing throughSO SN 301 that nostril, and he could make very little use of the other from a similar cause. Nothing appeared exter- nally on that side; but he was sen- sible of the same swelling within. His sufferings were extreme; yet to himself the greatest was, that he could no longer take snuff, to which he was accustomed. Shortly after- wards he scarcely appeared to be the same person. A surgeon of eminence had undertaken to cure him, after many had declined it; and by attacking, from within, his mouth, which could not be got at by way of the nostrils, he made a per- fect cure. The greatest advantage of all was, that his long disuse of snuff, with the sense of the mischief it had done him, prevented his re- turning to the custom. By excessive indulgence, the sti- mulus of snuff is lost; it diminishes gradually, until its excitement is no longer felt. It is now that snuff- taking may truly be called a beastly habit. The immediate effect of a pinch of snuff, in quickening the imagination, is like that of a glass of spirituotis liquor to some people, in communicating cheerfulness; it is a false fire in both; it is most per- ceived by those who are the least accustomed to either; use wears their stimulus out; since by those who habituate themselves to snuff or drams, the one too often the inse- parable companion of the other, no exhilarating effects are felt; and for the rest, all that can be said is, that both affect the brain in a sensible degree, blunt the faculties, and often terminate in a condition bor- dering on absolute stupidity, torpor of both body and mind, and, as it were, a lethargy of the whole system, mental and coi"poreal. No public speaker, teacher of languages, or professional singer, ought to alnisc tlie use of snuff; as it evidently, when carried to an inveterate extent, injures articulation, and weakens the force and intonations of the voice. by impeding the free exit and ad- mission of air to and from the lungs. —See Smoking, and Tobacco. SODA.—Obtained by the com- bustion of marine plants, such as the salsola soda; the residue being dis- solv'ed, and subjected to several che- mical processes, in order to separate the impurities. It is made in great abundance in Spain. SODA POWDERS. — The fol- lowing ingredients are to be divided into two separate powders as directed, and added to the water, to be drank in a state of effervescence:—Take Carbonate of soda . ^ drachm In each blue paper. Acid of tartar ... 25 grains In white paper. Water pint. Divide the water into two tumblers; into one put the carbonate of soda, and in the other the tartaric acid, then pour the one into the other and drink. SODA W/VTER. — Made with prepared natron and acid of tartar, in the above proportions, and bottled. Used in large quantities as a cooling beverage in summer, and supposed to be beneficial in gravel and stone. Tlie modern custom of drinking soda water during, or immediately after dinner, has been a pregnant source of dyspepsia. By inflating the stomach at this time, those musculary contractions ai-e counteracted which are so essential to chymification. “ The quantity of soda thus intro- duced scarcely deserves notice ; with the exception of the carbonic acid gas, it may be regarded as water, more mischievous only in conse- (picnce of the exhilarating quality inducing us to take it at a period at which we should not require the more simple fluid. ”—Paris. Late discoveries have shewn that the carbonic acid exists in a liqiiid state in soda water ; when, therefore, it is hastily sw.allowed, it robs the stomach of a certain portion of heat, as it passes from a liquid into a 2 D302 SO so gaseous state. It will therefore cool as well as distend that organ. SOLES.—Soles are generally to be procured good from some part of the coast, as some are going out of sea- son, and some are coming in, both at the same time. Great numbers are brought in well-boats, alive, that are caught off Dover and Folkstone, and some are brought from the same places by land carriage. The finest soles are caught off Plymouth, near the Eddystone, and all the way up the Channel, to Torbay, and frequently w'eigh eight or ten pounds per pair. They are usually brought hy water to Portsmouth, and thence by land; but the greatest quantity are caught off yarmouth and the Knole, and off the Forelands. They should be quite fresh, or the best cook will never make them look well. SOLUTION.—The act of sepa- rating or dissolving. Solution takes jdace in the stomach, where the food is changed into a pulp, is dissolved, according to its greater or less solu- bility, and its nourishing particles are absolved. Assimilation only begins when the solution has already taken place in the stomach; when the nu- tritive substance, or the alimentary juice, is inhaled by the absorbent ves- sels, and conducted to the blood by means of the lacteals. Assimilation, therefore, is that function, by which the aliment is, as it were, assimilized : hence it has been conjectured that animal food is sooner digested than vegetable, as being move easily con- verted into animal fluids, and more an'alagous to our nature. The subject relative to the solu- bility of animal food, requires less our consideration than has hitherto been imagined, notwithstanding the dif- ferences between animal food so called, the first of which regards their solubility, as dejiending on a lax or firm texture of their different kinds, for which there are instances of per- sons of a weak and delicate stomach being incapable of breaking down the texture of vegetables, or even of dis- solving a light pudding, to whom hung beef or a piece of ham are not only very grateful, but easy of diges- tion. None of the theories given for the solution of animal food in the human stomach seem to have suffi- ciently explained this process.—(See Diffestion). There is a difference of solubility with respect to the man- ducation of animal food, for which bread is extremely necessary, in order to keep the more slippery parts in the mouth till they be properly commi- nuted.—See Manducation, ^-c. Our rejection of the firmer parts of animal food, such as bull beef and carnivorous animals generally, ma}^ be adduced as another proof of our regard to solubility, the effects of which seem also to be the base of our choice between fat and lean, young and old meat. In the lean, although perhaps a single fibre might be suffi- ciently tender, )’et these when col- lected in fascietdi, or bands, are very firm and compact, and of difficult solution ; whereas in the fat there is a greater number of vessels—a greater quantity of juice, and more interpo- sition of eellular substance, conse- quently, more solubilit)’. Again, in young animals, there is, probably, the same number of fibres as in the older, but in the latter the}' are more con- nected ; whereas, in the older, the growth of the fibre depending on the separation, and the increase of vessels and cellular substance, the texture is less firm and more soluble, qualities which, with regard to the stomach, are at that time too much inci'cased hy the alkalescency of the animal. To these causes may also be attributed our preference for castrated animals, namely, from their disposition to fatten after the operation. (See Alka- lescenci/). We choose between meats recently killed, and those that have been kept for some time after, merely with a view to the facility with which the latter, sooner than the former, is dissolved in the stomach. The pu-303 so SO trefactive process begins as soon as meat is killed, which is commonly allowed to proceed a little, as this process is the most effectual breaker down of animal matters, as well as a great assistant in solution. The length of time that meat ought to be kept after it is killed will de- pend upon its tendency to undergo the putrid fermentation, and the de- gree of those circumstances which are inclined to favour it. For in- stance, in warm climates, where meat will not keep above four or five hours, it is used in a more recent state than in colder countries. Boiled or roasted meats create a difference in the facility with which solution is effected. By boiling, the juices interposed between the fibres are extracted; the fibres are approx- imated closer to each other, and rendered more difficult of solution, a circumstance, too, which is in- creased by the juices, which are much more alkalescent than the fibres, (see Cookery). But when it is wished to avoid the stimulus of alkalescent food, and the quick solu- tion of it, as in some cases of disease, the roasted should not he selected. Of roasted meats, the question may be asked, which is the most proper; those which are most or least done ? To this we would reply, that that which is least done is certainly the most soluble. Even raw meats are more soluble than dressed; at least. Dr. Cullen was made acquainted with this circumstance, l)y a person who, from necessity, was obliged for some time to live upon it in this state. Still, at the same time that meats little done are very soluble, they are very alkalescent, so that when alka- lescency is to he avoided in the alimentary canal, the meats most roasted should he prefeiTed. Those who throw away the liquor of boiled meats do very wrong, for, inde- pendent of its furnishing a fluid of a nutritious quality, it increases, from its greater alkalescency, the solubility of the meat. Pure blood has been thouglit in- soluble. It is, undoubtedly, very nutritious : and though, out of the body, like the albumen of eggs, it seems very insoluble; yet, like that too, in the body, it is commonly very easily digested. Moses very properly forbade it to the Israelites, as in warm countries it is highly alka- lescent, and even in cold climates, when it was used in great quantities, the scurvy was more prevalent; but to a moderate use of it in European climates, no particular objections are alleged. Viscidity of the alimentary juice is another variety of solubility. For this reason, the meat of young animals appears more soluble than that of old, not only on account of its greater compactness and firmness of texture, but also from the greater viscidity of its juice. In proof of this assertion, nothing is more com- mon than to be longer oppressed from a full meal of veal, than from an equal quantity of beef. Owing also to the greater viscidity of the juice of young animals, the ten- dinous and ligamentous parts are longer retained in the stomach than such as are purely muscular. Fishes, whose muscular parts are exceedingly tender, arc, from their glutinous and viscous nature, longer in being dis- solved. Eggs, in like manner, which are exceedingly nutritious, have the same property, and cannot, on this account, be taken in great quantities, in consccjuence of the stomach being peculiarly sensible to gelatinous sub- stances; on wliicli account nature, probably, bas taught us, by a sort of instinct as it were, to limit ourselves in tbe use of tbese nutritive sub- stances. With respect to solution, the oils of animal food must be taken into the account. These, when tole- rably ])ure, arc the least putrescent part of it, and, by diminishing the cohesion of the fibres, render them more soluble. On this account, the lean of fat meat is more easily dis- solved than other lean. But by exposure to much heat, the oil isSP 304 so separated from the meat, leaving the solid parts less soluble, becoming itself empyreumatic, rancid, and of difficult assimilation in the stomach. Fried meats, for the preceding rea- sons, as well as baked meats, from the adhesiveness of the paste, are preparations which lessen the solubi- lity of the food. From this it appears that the preparation of food, by fat- tening and keeping it for some time previous to killing, although it may promote a disposition to gormandize, will nevertheless increase its dispo- sition to solution. SORB APPLE. {Sorha, from sor- bere, to swallow, because this fruit, says Lemery, when ripe, is soft and easy to swallow).—The service tree, sorbus domestica. Fruit rough, very astringent, even when softened. Sorb apples do not ripen upon the trees, as other fruits do; they are gathered in autumn and spread upon straw, where, after they have lain for some time, their consistence is very much altered, so that from being hard, bitter, and unpleasant, they become soft, sweet, and delicious. Those that are large, full ripe, well tasted, and of an agreeable smell, ought to be selected. The extracted juice of the soih apple ferments, and becomes vinous, like peny. They agree in the winter with young bilious people, and those who have weak stomachs, provided they be used in moderation. The berries of the wild service tree (sorbus aucu- paria) are astringent, and it is said they have been found serviceable in allaying the pain of calculous affec- tions of the kidneys. SORBIC ACID.—Obtained from the berries of the mountain ash (Fraximis Sijlves/ris). The acid of apples, called malic, may be ob- tained most conveniently, and in greatest purity, from this source. This was supposed by Donovan and Vauquelin, who wrote good disserta- tions ui)on it, to be a new and pecu- liar acid; though it now appears that the sorbic and jmre malic acids are the same. Bruise the ripe berries in a mortar, and then squeeze them in a linen bag. They yield nearly half their weight of juice, of the specific gravity of 1.077. This viscid juice, by remaining about a fortnight in a warm temperature, experiences the vinous fermentation, and would yield a portion of alcohol. By tliis change it becomes bright, clear, and passes easily through the filter, while the sorbic acid itself is not altered. SORREL. (Rimex acetosa). — Sorrel possesses an acrid acidity, which deprives the teeth of their enamel, and ought to be avoided by those who are already troubled with an acid taste in the mouth. Boiling renders it bland, and deprives it of its sour acrid taste. SOY.—The seeds of the Dolichos soya: peas or kidney beans are fre- quently substituted for them. A highly flavoured and agreeable sauce, used with fish, and in the composi- tion of other sauces, (see Sauces). It is made as follows:— Seeds of dolichos soya (peas or kidney beans may be used for them) one gallon; boil till soft; then add bruised wheat, one gallon; set them by in a warm place for twenty-four hours, and afterwards add common salt, one gallon; water, two gallons. Put the whole in a stone jar, and bung it up for two or three months, shaking it very frequently; press out the liquor; the residuum may be treated afresh with water and salt, for soy of an inferior qualit}'. 2. Strong purl boiled down to one half; add red herring, anchovies, Spanish liquorice, and garlick: when shaken it should leave a yellow brown colour on the sides of the vessel* SPANISH WINES.—The prin- cipal Spanish wines are SheiT}', Pa- caretta. Mountain, .and Tent. Sherry is a sort of sec, or dry wine, prepared about Xeres, in the diocese of Se- ville; and hence called, according toSP SP 305 our orthograi)liy, Slierris or Slierry. (See Sack, and Sherry). The wines most remarkable in Cadiz are Slierry and Pacaretta, both from Xeres and its vicinity. In the district of Ma- laga there are 14,000 vine-presses, chiefly employed in making the rich wines, which, if white, from the nature of the country, are called Mounfain; if red, from the colour, vino Unto, known to us by the name of Tent. The wine of La Mancha appeared to Mr. Townsend to be the best in Spain; it had, he says, the flavour of the richest Burgundy, and the strength and body of the most generous Port.—See his Jour- ney, vol. ii. p. 2G3; vol. iii. p. 29. SPERMACETI. — An unctuous fatty substance, found in the head of some species of whales {acipenser macrocephalus), and is generally mixed with oil, from which it is juiri- fied by alkaline ley. In a pure state it has no smell, and very little taste; it turns rancid by keeping. Mixed with the yolk of an egg or gum arable, it forms an useful emulsion in coughs, colds, and stranguary from the use of cantharides. It is also useful in dysentery and ulcerations of the intestines, and particularly catarrh, slight inflammation of the lungs, dry cough, w'ant of e.xpectora- tion, and shortness of breath:—e. g. Take spermaceti . 2 scruples. Yolk of egg . quant, sufi'. Syr. of Tolu. C. Spirit of vitrio- lated ether . 10 drops. Distilled water 1^ ounce. Make a draught, to he taken every four hours; in Asthma, Dry Coughs, Spermaceti ointment is softening and emollient to abraded surfaces, and is the proper drawing to a blister of Spanish flies. It is also a compo- nent part of most pastes and cosme- tics, from its softening the skin and rendering it smooth. SPERMACETI OIL. —The oil of a particular species of whale (see Spermaceti), found in a large trunk four or five feet deep, and ten or twelve long, filling almost the whole cavity of the head, and seeming to supply the office of cerebrum and cerebellum. The oil drawm from the other parts of the same fish is nearly three times the value of the common black whale oil. It is used for chamber lamps; ihe common whale or train oil, as well as that of some other fish, is used for street lamps and other purposes. SPICES.—Spices, of themselves, are not nourishing, but are used merely to improve the taste and fla- vour of substances, to prevent flatu- lency, and promote digestion. Some spices are c.xtremely volatile, and occasioning too strong a stimulus do more harm than good. As they are apt to heat the blood, to increase perspiration, occasionally to afl’ect the head, and to stimulate the nerves, spices in general should be used only by persons of a strong constitution, or by those of a lax fibre and cold phlegmatic habit: but individuals naturaliy lean and dry, as well as the choleric and phlegmatic, ought to be sparing and cautious in the use of heating drugs. The most conducive to health would be the indigenous spices, though some of the foreign kind have now become indispensable in our present mode of living.—See Condhnents. Also, Cardamons. Caraway. Cinnamon. Cloves. Cubebs. Ginger. Nutmegs, &c. SPI KEN A RD.—An odoriferous plant, abounding in the island of Java and other parts of the East Indies. Its ointment was in high estimation among the ancients. The Evangelist Mark (chap. xiv. ver. 3) relates, that while our Saviour sat at table in the house of Simon, the leper, in Bethany, a village near 2 D 3 Pepper. Pimento. Salt. Sugar. Vanilla. Vinegar, &c.SP SP 306 Jerusalem, a woman entered with an alabaster pot of this ointment, which having broken, she poured the con- tents on his head. SPINAGE. — Spinage is a favourite dish with many, affords but little nutriment, passes quickly through the stomach and bowels, al- most indigested ; and bemg usually dressed with butter, it weakens the alimentary canal, produces looseness, and consequently is not proper food for weakly constitutions. In languid stomachs spinage is apt to produce acidity and the heart-burn. Spin- age was formerly not eaten in salads ; and the oftener now in a crude state it is left out, the better; and the wild succory with the nar- row dark leaf, seasoned a little with sugar and vinegar, is eaten by some in summer, though it is more grateful to the stomach than the palate. Those that are tender, soft, juicy, well cultivated, and that grow in a fat soil are to be selected. It agrees at all times with young people of a hot and bilious constitution. SPIRIT, (Spiritus).—A name formerly given to all volatile sub- stances collected by distillation.— Three principal kinds were distin- guished: inflammable or ardent spi- rits, and alkaline spirits. The word spirit is now almost confined to al- cohol.—See Alcohol. SPIRIT OF WINE.—All spirit one to twenty overproof is thus deemed in the English laws: the London College and that of Edin- bm'gh, order it for medicinal use to have the specific gravity of 835, but the Dublin only 849. 2. Molasses spirit, thirty gallons kali puri. Gibs.; draw twenty-five gallons, add faints of spirit of wine, five gallons kali puri. Gib., draw twenty gallons rectified spirit, and five gallons faints. SPIRIT, PROOF.—Differs from the raw spirits above described, al- though of the same strength, by being always formed of spirit of wine diluted with water. The Lon- don College mentions no proportion, but requires the spec. grav. of 930; the Dublin advises the mixture of four measures of rectified spirit ■with three of water; and the Edinburgh orders equal measures of their al- cohol and water, the spec. grav. of which mixture they quote as 935. The chemists in London are in the habit of making their proof spirit by taking half spirit pint of wine and half water, whenever it is required, as they seldom or never keep it in that state. SPIRIT, FROM FAINTS.—In rectifying spirits, and in distiOing compound spirits after the first strong portion has been drawn off, the weaker, and in some cases disco- loured spirit that arises, is saved, as long as it will take fire when thrown on the still-head, by a candle or lighted paper, under the name of faints, and when a sufficient quantity has been collected, it is rectified: the spirit thus obtained is principally used to make anise-seed cordial, as the strong flavour of the anise seed will overpower any other flavour the spirit may have acquired. The various degrees of strength of spirituous' liquors, were technically denominated by numbers, referring to an arbitrarj' strength, called in the English law, proof spirit, a gallon of which weighs 7 lbs. 11 ounces, 3 drachms, avoirdupois. When spirit is said to be one to three overproof, it is meant that one gallon of water added to three gallons of the spirit, will reduce it to proof; on the con- trary, one in three under proof, sig- nifies that in three gallons of that spirit there is contained one g.allou of water, and the remaining two gallons are pr-oof spirit. As a gallon of water weighs by law 8 lbs. 7 ounces, 5 drachms, avoirdupois, the specific gravity of proof spirit is to that of water, as 910 to 1000. Of late by a new regulation of the excise laws, the use of a hydrometer is in-307 SP ST Irodiiced, which shews the numher of hundred parts of spirit that any liquors contain above proof, or their deficiency below proof.—See Molasses Spirit, Rum.—See also Malt Spirit. SPRATS. (Cltipea Sprattus).— Belly fin nine rayed; flesh dry. Headed, gutted, and pickled in vine- gar, used for anchovies.—(See An- diovies). Salted in brine and not gutted; retailed at Id. per pound— about fifty fish. SPR.\T POWDER.—Head and gut the sprats, float them over with vinegar, add a little suet and allspice, bake for two hours, rub them through a hair sieve, and proceed as in making anchovy powder. Sprats made into paste with dried flour, roll out thin, dry, and reduce to a fine powder. SPROUTS AND PITHS.— Edible. Bamboo Cane, Black Cauliflower, Cabbage Tree, Cauliflower, Common Cabbage, Turnip, Early Battersea Cabbage, Green Savoy Cabbage, Golden Purslane, broad leaved. Paper Rush, Siberian Brocoli, Sago Palm Tree, Red Berry, Rough Pinewood. N. B.—Some of these may be con- sulted under their respective heads. SPRUCE.—Spruce heer is a kind of diet-drink, made by infusion or coction of the leaves and small branches of the black and wliite spruce fir, and reckoned antiscor- butic, and a purifier of the blood. It is much drank in America; and at present consideralile quantities arc consumed in England. Arbuthnot considered it a good balsamic in some internal disorders. Spruce Beer, White, to make.—To ten gallons of water add six pounds /V of the essence of spruce; add yeast. and work as in making ginger heer. Bottle immediately, in half pints. Brown Spruce.—As the white, using treacle instead of sugar. Spruce Beer Potvders. — White sugar, one drachm, two scruples; ginger, five grains; natron, pre- pared, twenty-six grains; essence of spruce, ten grains; in each blue paper. Acid of tartar, half a drachm in each white paper, for half a pint of water. STAG.—See Venison. STALKS, AND SHOOTS.— Edible. Angelica, Asparagus, Burdock, Black Bryom, Chardoon, Common Alexander, Cotton Thistle, English Mercury, Garden Celeiy, Greater Syrian Dog’s Bean, Milk 'I'histle, • Mountain Sow Thistle, Purple Goatsbeard, Rhapontic Rhubarb, Rosebay Willow Herb, Sea Bindweed, Spatling Poppy, Siberian Nodding Crocus, Smallage, Sweet .‘\zorian Fennel, Sugar Cane, Thracian Bell Flower, Wild Hops, Yellow (ioatsbeard. N. B.—Many of these maybe con- sulted under their respective heads. STARCH, (Amiitine).— St.u’ch exists ahundantly in the vegetable kingdom, and is one of the principiU ingredients of most varieties of grain, of some roots, such as the potatoe, and the kernels of leguminous plants. The Indian arroiv-root, prepared from the root of the Maranta arun- dinaceu, has all the characters of pure starch. Sayo, obtained from the pith of an East Indian palm tree (Cycas circinalis), and tapioca, from the root ^ jht /VCV ^ C. 4- yj308 ST ST of the Jatroplia manihot (casada), are chemically the same substance. They both exist in the plants from which they are extracted, in the form of starch, but as heat is employed in their preparation, the starch is more or less completely converted into amidine. Salop, when obtained from the Orchis mascula, consists almost entirely of the substance called has- sorin, with a small quantity of gum and starch. STARCH, COMMON.—Starch mixed with powder blue, to give a bluish tinge to the linen, which is stiffened with its solution in boiling water; this colour being given to it, in opposition to the yellow starch, tinged with saffron or turmeric, for- merly employed, but which went out of fashion on the e.xecution of the famous midwife, Mrs. Turner, who was hanged in a ruff of that colour: used as a cement, but unfit for internal use. STARCH, POTATOE—Maybe made from frozen potatoes, in as large a quantity, and as good, as from those which have not been spoiled by the frost, very white, crimp to the fingers, and colours them, friable, heavy, sinking in water; when held tow'ards the light it has shining particles in it; dis- solves in boiling water as easily as true arrow-root. One hundred pounds of potatoes yield ten pounds of starch. S T A R C II, WH E A T.—From wheat flour, by washing it in sacks in a current of water, which carries ofl' the starch and saccharine sub- stance, and leaves the gluten in the sacks. The water being received in troughs, is left to ferment, which decomposiitg the saccharine sub- stance, renders the starch that is deposited on standing, very pure and white; this starch is friable, easily pulverised, crimps between the fin- gers, without smell or taste. Wheat in France yielded almost three- fourths its weight, but in Sweden not quite half its weight; does this depend upon climate? Demulcent, perhaps astringent; used for glysters in diarrhoea, dysentery, &c. S T A R L 1 N G.—A well known bird, about the size of a blackbird. Its flesh is nourishing, and yields good and solid food. The leaner a starling is, the older the bird grows, the harder and tougher the flesh; the taste degenerates, and it is not so easily digested. This bird is na- turally of a hot and dry tempera- ment, and when not young and fat it ought not to be eaten. During the vintage season, the starling is observed to be fatter, more delicious, and better tasted, than at any other time. Galen (Sanilat. lucend. lib. vi.) places the starling in the list of atte- nuating foods, and that has a good juice; which can only be applied to that which is young, fed with good food, and lives on the mountains. STEARINE.—The chief ingre- dient of suet, butter, and lard, and is the cause of their solidity; whereas oils contain a greater proportional quantity of elaine, and are conse- quently fluid. These principles may be separated from each other by ex- posing fixed oil to a low temperature, and pressing it when congealed be- tween two folds of bibulous paper. The stearine is thus obtained in a separate form; and by pressing the bibulous paper under water an oily matter is procured, which is elaine in a state of purity. This principle is peculiarly fitted for greasing the wheels of watches or other delicate machinery, as it does not thicken or become rancid by exposure to the air, and reipiires a cold of about 20° h'. from congelation. — See Oils, Animal. S T E W I N G.—The process of stewing differs from roasting and broiling, by the heat being applied to the substance through a small portion of a liquid medium; and from boiling and frying, in its being con- ducted by means of a watery, insteadST ST 309 of an oily nicnstmum. It is requi- site, during this culinary process, that the fire should be moderate, for a strong heat suddenly applied would be very injurious. The liquids em- ployed as the medium for applying the heat are usually water, gravy, or broth, the quantity of which must be such as shall prevent the meat from burning and adhering to the pan. It is not requisite that the liquid be made to boil in stewing. It should only be raised nearly to a simmering heat, which will retard the fluid being evaporated too quickly. The close- ness of the vessel will also prevent tlie waste of the liquid. If it dimi- nish too quickly, it must, from time to time, be replenished. The management of the fire in cooking, is, in all cases, a matter of importance, but in no case is it so necessary to be attended to as in preparing stews or made dishes; not only the palatableness, but even the strength or richness of all made dishes seem to depend very much upon the management of the heat employed in cooking them. The most j>roper sorts of animal food for stewing are such as abound in fibrine, and which are too dry or too tough for roasting. AVhen beef or mutton is rather old and too coarse flavoured, and not tender enough for the spit or the gridiron, it may, hy stewing, he not only ren- dered tolerably palatable, but even sometime.s savoury and good. But the stewing process is not confined to flesh of this sort; for veal and other young flesh which ahounds in gela- tine, when properly stewed, is much relished. The vegetables most usually stewed are carrots, turnips, potatoes, pease, beans, and other leguminous seeds. Some fruits are also cooked in this way. Rationale. — Stewing is nothing else than boiling hy means of a small quantity of an aqueous fluid, and continuing the operation for a long time, to render the substance tender. to loosen its texture, to render it more sapid, and to retain and con- centrate the most essential parts of animal or vegetable food. If the stew-pan be close shut, it is evidejit that none of the nutritive principles can escape, and must either be found in the meat itself or in the liquid. The water or gravy in which the meat is stewed, being capable of dissolving the gelatine and albumen, the greater part of them become separated during the simmering pro- cess. Now, since the firm texture of the bundles of fibres of the meat is owing to the solid gelatine and albu- men glueing them, as it were, toge- ther, when they are dissolved and disengaged, the meat must become greatly disorganized. These prin- ciples, as well as the fat and osma- zome, are partly disengaged from the meat, and become united with the gravy. It is to these, indeed, that the gravy owes all its richness and excellence. The muscular fibres and the tendons acquire a gluey appear- ance and texture, and the whole forms a savoury gelatinous stew, gravy, or sottp. No scorching or browning of the meat takes place if the process is properly conducted ; for the temperature to which it is exposed does iiot exceed the boiling point of water. In the stewing of vegetables, saccharine matter is formed, the starch and mucilage are rendered soluble, and, of course, set free the woody fibre, which either floats through the licpiid, or adheres together very slightly. It accordingly constitutes either a pasty fluid, or converts the vegetables to a soft pul]); sometimes their original shape being preserved entire, an'd at other times not. Stews are very ea.sy of diges- tion when they are very plain, in which case, they fall short, in point of nourishment, of meat that is broiled or roasted. Their best pro- perties, however, are frequently de- teriorated or injured by too high seasoning, and the addition of stiinu-310 ST ST lants and indigestible compounds, many of them much more calculated to derange the functions of the sto- mach than to afford nourishment. STOMACH. — The human stomach, the viscus or bowel in which digestion is performed, re- sembles, as much as any thing we know, the paunch, if it may be so termed, of a pair of bag-pipes. It is situated on the left side of the dia- phragm or midriff. The mouth com- municates directly with the stomach, by means of the long and narrow membranes and a muscular canal, called the oesophagus or gullet, which in many animals is so capable of being dilated as to enable them to swallow animals much larger than themselves. The stomach of an adult is capable of containing upwards of three quarts of water, and has two openings; the superior or upper one, connected with the gullet, is called the pylorus or pyloric opening; the inferior is termed the cardia or car- diac opening, which descends some- what into the cavity of the duodenum, or first small intestine.—See Ali- mentary Canal. The situation of the stomach varies in respect to its state of fullness or emptiness. It is amply furnished with nerves from each nervous sys- tem, a circumstance to which its great sensibility is traced, and also from which it is so readily affected by all kind of stimuli, whether external as cold, or internal, as food and its own fluids; or mental; whence also the great and surprising sym])athy between it and most of the other natural functions, to which may be referred the influence of all the pas- sions of the mind, as well as the re- action of the healthy condition of the stomach upon the tranquillity, which follows, of the mind. The abundance and utility of the blood vessels of the stomach arc no less re- markable. Its arteries ramifying infi- nitely upon the celhdar membrane, secreting the gastric juice, which appears to be continually stream- ing from this organ.— (See Gastric Juice). In carnivorous animals, which swallow voraciously ; for instance, the wolf, the stomach is very large; but in many of tbe herbivorous kind it is of considerable size; and particu- larly in such as ruminate, its muscu- lar fibres are proportionably stronger, and capable of voluntary motion. The process of rumination implies a power of voluntary motion in the oesophagus; and indeed the influence of the wilt throughout the whole operation is incontestable. Rumina- tion is not confined to any particular time; since the animal can delay it, according to circumstances, till the paunch is quite full. In the oc- casional examples of the power of rumination in man, the operation is also found to be quite voluntary. The opening of the gullet into the stomach is marked by some differ- ences, both with regard to its size and mode of termination—circum- stances which explain why some animals, as the dog, vomit very easily; while others, as the horse, are scarcely susceptible of this ope- ration : which, in the latter, is also partly hindered from taking place through the mouth, by the complete manner in which this cavity admits of being separated from the gullet, by the thin membrane {velum palati) of tbe palate.—Blumenbacli s Comp. Anat. p. 82—87. Second edition. In its substance, the stomach con- sists of three principal coats or layers, the external and internal of which are membranous, and the middle muscular. The internal coat, more- over, is lined with a villous or downy apparatus, and is extremely convo- luted or wrinkled ; the wrinkles in- creasing in size as the diameter of the stomach contracts. “ There was a time when persons thought the wrinkles in the internal coat of the stomach, rubbing against each other, produced hunger; hence the \mlgar phrase, ‘ Come, take the tvrinkles outST ST 311 of your stomach,’ by satisfying the appetite: but all that is mere non- sense. ”—Abernetluj. As regards the physiology or func- tions of the stomach, the late John Hunter was the first man who broached those opinions which are generally accredited, or have not, till very lately, been disputed, which is, that digestion depends upon the suf- ficient quantity of the liquid which the stomach secretes of the gastric juice, and that this liquor has the property of rendering any nutritive matter solid, so that it should not pass through the pylorus until it had undergone the solution by the gastric fluid. If the white of an egg he given to a hungry dog, in a few minutes it will be as hard as if it had been boiled for hours. The juice of the stomach instantly curdles milk. Take the gastric juice out of the stomach of a calf just born, and it has most curious properties; the little there is of that liquid they dry, then dissolve it, and then curdle gallons of milk with it. Then as the fluid of the stomach has the power of dis- solving that which is nutritive, the question is, why does it not dissolve itself, it is flesh? But it is the life of the stomach that preserves it from this action. There is no chemical agent will act upon it. Worms live in the stomach, and yet there is no doubt but that a meal of dead worms would fonn a very nutritive repast for a dog. But does the gastric fluid ever dissolve the stomach in whicli it is secreted? We are told it does: for instance, if a man eat a hearty meal, and is suddenly afterwards killed by a blow on the head, as has often occurred, it will be observed that the gastric fluid is acting not on the food, but on the stomacli; that it makes a hole in tlie stomach, and that food gets through that hole into the belly. Various stomachs have been examined after death, having these appearances. — See Guslric Juice, Indiyestion. STOMACH, DERANGED.—The bad effects that may arise from an ac- cumulation of noxious matter in the stomach and the first passages, are to be obviated, generally, by the prudent administration of emetics and purgatives, abstaining at the same time from aliment likely to produce them. For example, crude vegetables, milk, butter, .and other oily substances, are to bo avoided by persons troubled with sourness in the stomach; brisk exercise, especially riding on horse-back, is to be used ; and iibstinence from .all fermented liquors. Their common drink should be pure w.ater, or water with a little nun or brandy in it. The Seltzer or Pyrmont w'aters .arc to be drunk me- dicinally ; and aromatic bitters, in- fusions, or tinctures, acidulated with sulphuric acid, to strengthen the fibres of the stom.ach, and promote the expulsion of its contents, after they have been sufficiently long re- tained, e. (j. Take Wine of iron . . 1 oz. Infusionofgenti.au . 6 oz. Tincture of cascarilla 4 drs. M.ake a mixtiu'e, .and take two table spoonsful tw’ice or three times a d.ay; preceded by some antacid ape- rient medicine.—See Antacids. In order to procure relief, magne- sia or prepared chalk m.ay be used, made into lozenges with a little sugar and mucil.age; and in this form may be conveniently carried about in the pocket, and taken occasionally by persons troubled with heartburn, and acidities in the stomach.—(See//e«rt- burn). In persons where there is a redundance and stagnation of bile, and an uiqdeasant bitterness in the mouth, the bowels should be kept freely open by taking occasionally small doses (from live to fifteen grains) of pure aloes, castor oil, cream of tart.rr, and the like. When there is a tendency to einpyreumatic rancid accumnlation in the stomach, all the various kinds of oily and high seasoned articles of diet, generally312 ST ST termed made-dishes (which see) are to be avoided; eating sparingly of plain meat, without rich sauces or much gravy—in which cases the most proper drink is pure water or toast water. STOMACr-r, REGULATION OF.—It has been well observed that “ temperance is the best physic although the ancient physicians did not hesitate to I'ecommend occasional indulgence, and allowed people to exceed both in eating and drinking; but it is safer, if there be any safety in danger, to go to excess in drinking tlian in eating; inasmuch that in the fonner, should the debauch cause any extraordinary or distressing de- gree of pain or sickness, and should a temporary fever ensue, it may for the most part be shaken off, either by lying in bed and encouraging perspiration ; or getting on horse- back and using brisk exercise, to restore the body to its natural state. Should a person overload his stomach, that is, go to excess in eating, espe- cially in high seasoned things, with rich sauces, a draught of cold water acidulated with lemon juice or sul- phui'ic acid, will take off the sense of weight at the stomach, and assist the digestive process by moderating and keeping within hounds the alimen- tary fermentation, thus preventing the generation of too much air. The luxury of ices may be of real service at the tables of the great, for produc- ing similar effects to the acidulated cold water. Persons under these circumstances should not lay them- selves down to sleep, hut, ou the con- trary, keep up and use moderate exercise until they feel sensible of the stomach being unloaded, and that they no longer experience any oppressive weight in that bowel, 'file stomaeh should always be al- lowed time to empty itself before it is filled it again. From necessity a man may be obliged to fast, he ought, if possible, dtiring that time, to avoid laborious work. After suf- fering from extreme hunger, people should not at once gorge or fill them- selves ; nor is it proper after being once filled, to enjoin an absolute fast: neither is it safe to indulge in a state of total rest immediately after exces- sive labour ; nor suddenly to fall to work after having been long with- out motion: in a word, all changes should be gradually made ; for though the constitution of the human body be such that it can bear many altera- tions and irregularities without much danger, yet, whei-ever the transitions are extremely sudden, there is a great risk of jiroducing some degree of disorder. The most obvious operation of bitters is, that being taken into the stomach they increase the appetite for food, and promote digestion of it: but let it be taken for granted that these functions depend upon the tone of the muscular fibres of the sto- mach ; and therefore we ma}' sup- pose that the improvements of these functions depend upon an increase of tone in these fibres. And farther, as loss of appetite and indigestion can often he distinctly perceived to occur from a loss of tone in the sto- mach ; so bitters, as they are often effectual in curing these disorders,' may be presumed to do it by restoring the tone of this organ. The medi- cinal part of bitters of eveiy kind may be extracted either by watery or spi- rituous menstrua; and such extrac- tions may contain the virtues of the substance from which they have been taken ; though probably never to the same extent; consequently the bitter in substance in certain cases is the onl}f cffcchial mode of exhibiting it. There are cases, however, where the stomach will not bear either the bark or bitters in substance, and therefore it becomes necessary to obtain these virtues in a liquid form ; in the ma- nagement of which there are several l)articulars that demand attention. I5y infusion in hot water, and even in cold water, bitters give out their313 ST ST virtues; though with this tempera- ture of the menstruum they never yield a strong impregnation, though generally it is the most agreeable to the palate and stomach. Warm water, though under the boiling heat, extracts more powerfully than cold, and the more as the temperature of the water is increased. With respect to every temperature, this is especi- ally to be attended to, that by infusion bitters suffer a gradual decomposi- tion, and consequently the matter extracted is different aceording to the length of time that the menstruum has been applied ; so tliat the tem- perature being given, whatever is ex- tracted in the first hour is lighter and more agreeable matter than what is extracted after many hours’ infusion. And as regards tinctures made with a proof spirit, the same things are to be observed as of those made with water, that there is a gradual decom- position of the substance, and there- fore that the tinctures made by a short infusion are more agi'eeable than those that have stood longer. STOM.ACHICS. — Medicines to fortify the stomach and system gene- rally. Among the principal of these may be classed the tonic bitters— various kinds of wine, some of the preparations of iron, carminatives, &c. e. g.—See Tanics. * Calumba. * Chamomile. Augustura Bark. Bark, Peruvian. * Gentian. * Rhubarb. * Orange and lemon peel. Essential oil ofjuniiier. Plaster of labdanum, &c. (Those* marked thus, may be con- sulted under their respective heads.) STOxMAClI-PUM P.—A stomach syringe or instrument for diluting and washing away various jjoisons taken into the stomach, either by ac- cident or design, was first suggested by Boerhaave; since revived by Renault in his work on poisons. Dr. Monro afterwards gave drawings of instruments for the removal of lau- danum from the stomach.—{Thesis de Dysphagia. Edinb. 1797). But until Dr. Physic (see Eclectic Re- pertory, vol. iii. p. Ill) proved the utility of the stomach-pump in the case of a child poisoned with lau- danum, the invention gained little attention. The stomach-pump as now perfected, appears to be admir- ably adapted to the joint object of enlarging the gullet by gradual dila- tation, and of conveying any quan- tity of food that may be desirable. The instrument, as regards its struc- ture, consists of an elastic gum tube, a quarter of an inch in diameter, and two feet and a half in length, termi- nating in the lower extremity, or that introduced into the stomach, in a small globe of ivory with various perforations, which for the present purpose must be omitted, and filled at the iqiper end either by a screw or a plug, to an elastic bottle of suf- ficient size to contain at least a quart of liquid, with a stop cock fitted to it, as in what is called the hydrocele bottle. Instead of the bottle, a pewter syringe may be adapted, of equal capacity, and used in the same manner. The bottle or syringe being filled with warm water, and fitted to the tube already introduced into the stomach by the mouth or a nostril, on turning the stop-cock the water or other litpiid may be easily forced into the stomach, and withdrawn by a reverse action : and hence, lauda- num or any other deleterious ingre- dient capable of dilution, may be pumped up in a diluted state till the stomach i.s entirely unloaded; and liquid food to any extent, rnay be introduced at option. STRAWBERRY, (Fragaria).— Like grapes, strawberries are resol- vent and laxative without debilitating. If eaten ])lentifully, they have been found a safe jireventive against the gravel, as stands attested by the ex- perience of the celebrated Linnteus. 2 li314 su SU Yet tlie small stones contained in strawberries, as well as in grapes, are said to accumulate in the intes- tines of some individuals, and to give rise to the most obstinate constipa- tions, nay even to the iliac passion (violent colic, terminating in an in- version of the peristaltic motion). The best method of eating straw- berries is with pure water, and sweet- ened with a little sugar; they are more heating with wine, but less wholesome ; with milk or cream they are an agreeable hut improper com- position. As a medicine, the wild strawberry is far preferable to any other. A pleasant drink is made of strawberries, water, and sugar, which is much used as a cooling and re- freshing beverage in summer, to quench thirst. They agree well with young people of a sanguine and choleric complexion, and are not injurious unless taken in too great a quantity at a time. STURGEON.—A large fish living both in the sea and fresh water-. It has an excellent taste ; it grows fat in the rivers, and becomes more de- licious than if it had lived in the sea. It usually weighs about a hundred pounds, and doubles this. It is a strong and vigorous fish; but as it has no teeth, it can only feed on the filth and froth of the sea. It is very rare in France. It is usually pickled in those places where it is caught in great plenty, and exported. The belly is reckoned the best part of the fish. It was much esteemed by the ancient Romans ; it is a nourishing and solid food, rather difficult of di- gestion, and apt to derange the sto- mach; but if moderately used by strong and bale young people, with good stomachs and who use exercise, it always agrees well.—See Fis/i. substances, indigesti- ble.—Many substances arc so hard and intractable as to resist the ac- tion of the digestive organs, with- out undergoing any other change than that of being softened or other- wise partially altered, instead of being entirely subacted, and reduced to cli3’me or chyle. Such in parti- cular are the seeds of plants; and it is well worthy of observation, though hitherto it has been overlooked by physiologists, that, while birds or other animals derive from this kind of food a very valuable nutriment, not- withstanding that it passes through them without being completelj- di- gested, the seeds themselves thus acted upon derive also a reciprocal benefit in many instances; and are by that means rendered more easily capable of expanding the soil into which they are afterwards thrown as by accident, and have their produc- tive power very greatly increased. The olive tree, till of late years, has only been raised in the south of France by cuttings, or wild plants obtained from the woods. It was remarked by an attentive inhabitant of Marseilles, that when produced naturally, it is by means of kernels carried into the woods, and sown there by birds which had swallowed the olives. By the act of digestion, it was further observed, these olives are deprived of their natiu-al oil, and hence the kernels become per- meable to tbe moisture of tbe earth; the dung of the bird at the same time serving for manure, and per- haps the soda which the dung con- tains, by combining with a portion of the oil that has escaped digestion, still further favouring germination. In prosecution of this fact, a number of turkeys were made to swallow ripe olives ; the dung was collected con- taining the swallowed kernels, the whole was placed in a stratum of earth, and frequently the kernels thus treated vegetated easily, and a number of j'oung plants were pro- cured. And in order to produce xipon olives a similar efl'ect to that c.xperienced from the digestive power of the stomach, a quantity of them were afterwards macerated in an alkaline lixivium; thej- were thensu SU 315 sown, and proved highly productive. Most of the plants found on coral islands, and in various places, are propagated by the same means of passing through the digestive canal; and it is probable that the seeds of many of them are equally assisted by the same process. And even when they are completely disor- ganized and digested, the material to which their refuse is converted, and which, combined with the ani- mal secretions that accompany it, is called dung, very powerfully contri- butes, as every one knows, to render the soil productive. So that by the wisdom of Providence, animal and ve- getable fructification are reciprocally dependent on each other, and are alternately causes and eflects.—See Gastric Juice. By some of the numerous experi- ments of Gosse, of Geneva, per- formed upon himself, he ascertained that the animal and vegetable fibre, concrete albumen, white and tendin- ous parts, paste containing fat or butter, substances which have either not undergone fermentation, or which do not readily undergo that process, remain longer in the sto- mach, offer more resistance to the gastric juice, than the gelatinous parts of animals or vegetables, fer- mented bread, &c.; that the latter required but an hour for their com- plete solution, while the former were scarcely dissolved at the end of several hours. The following are the result of some of Gosse’s expe- riments :— 1. Substances that were not digested in the usual time hi the stomaeh. a. Of the Animal kind, were ten- dinous parts, bones, oily or fatty parts, indinated white of egg. b. Of the Vegetable kind, oily or emulsive seeds — expressed oils of different nuts and kernels, dried grapes, and the skins of fish, rinds of farinaceous substances, pods of beans and pease, skins of stone fruits, husks of fruit, with grains or seeds, capsules of fruits with grains and ligneous stones of fruits. II. Substances jmrtlg digested.— Pork dressed various ways, black puddings, fritters of eggs, fried eggs and bacon. Vegetables. —Salads of different kinds, rendered more so when dress- ed—white of cabbage less soluble than red—beet, cardoms, onions and leeks—roots of scurvy grass, red and yellow carrots—succory, are more indigestible in the form of salad than in any other way. The pidp of fruit with seeds when not fluid— warm bread and sweet pastry, from their pi-oducing acidity—fresh and dried figs. By frying all these sub- stances in butter or oil, they became still less soluble. If, however, they are not dissolved in the stomach, they become so in the course of their passage through the intestines. —See Solution. III. Substances easy of Digestion, and which are reduced to Pulp in an hour, or an hour and a half.—Veal, lamb, and in general the flesh of young animals, are sooner dissolved than that of old. Fresh eggs, cows- milk; perch boiled with a little salt and parsley; when fried or seasoned with oil, wine, and white sauce, it is not so digestible. Vegetable Substances.—Herbs, as spinach mixed with sorrel, are less soluble; celery, tops of asparagus, hops, bottoms of artichokes, boiled pulp of fruits seasoned with sugar, pulp or meal of farinaceous seeds, different sorts of wheaten bread, without butter, the second day after baking, the crust more than the crumb; salted bread of Geneva more so than that of Paris, without salt; brown bread, in proportion as it con- tains more bran, is less digestible. Rapes, turnips, potatoes, parsneps, not too old. Gum arable, but its acid is soon felt; the Arabians use it as food. IV. —Substances tvhich facilitate the rnenstruing power of the gastricSU su 31G juice.—Among these ave sea-salt, spices, mustard, scurvy grass, horse radish, capers, wine, spirits in small quantities, cheese, particularly when old, sugar, various hitters, &c. V.—Substances which retard the gastric poiver.—Water, particularly hot, taken in large quantities, occa- sions the food to pass into the intes- tines without being pi'operly dis- solved. All acids and astringents: Peruvian bark taken half an hour after dinner stops digestion. Also all unctuous substances; kermes, corrosive sublimate. Gosse also ob- served that employment after a meal suspended or retarded digestion ; as well as leaning the breast against a table; and that repose of mind, ver- tical position, and gentle exercise promoted it. — See Gastric Juice. Digestion. SUCCORY.—There are two kinds of succory, the garden and the wild. The latter is but little used for culi- nary purposes, owing to its bitter taste, though it has been employed medicinally. It is divided into several species, and grows in kitchen gardens; that which is tender, young, and well-tasted is the best. It is of a moistening and cooling na- ture, provokes urine, allays thirst, and creates an appetite. It agrees in hot weather with young, bilious, and sanguine complexions, and those who have a hot stomach. SUGAR.—Sugar is a very sweet agreeable saliue juice, expressed from a kind of canes or reeds, growing in great plenty in the East and West Indies. It is supposed that sugar was not known amongst the ancient Greeks and Romans, who used only honey for sweetening, but this ques- tion is not yet entirely decided among the learned, who are moreover di- vided concerning the country to which it was indigenous. Some say that it came originally from China, by way of the East Indies and Ara- bia into Europe, others assert that the sugar cane is ns natural to Ame- rica as India, while others maintain that it was not known in .America till the Europeans transplanted it thither. According to the now prevalent opinion, sugar had its origin in the eastern part of Asia. From that continent it was trans- planted to Cyprus, thence to Sicily, thence to Madeira and the Canary Isles; and from these last to Brasil. Where, indeed, some suppose that sugar was originally and spontane- ously produced. About the year 1506, sugar canes w'ere brought from Brasil and the Canaides, and planted in Hisj)aniola; and in 1641, they were transplanted from Brasil to Barbadoes, and thence to our West India Islands. Our ancestors made use of sugar rough as it came from the cane; the boiling, baking, and refining of it being, comparatively, a modern invention. SUGAR, WHITE.—The essen- tial salt of the sugar cane, prepared by clarifying the juice with eggs or blood, getting rid of the superfluous acid by the addition of lime water, and evaporating it till the sugar crys- tallises on cooling. The uncrystalliz- able portion (treacle) is then drained from the granular mass, and that which remains in the first instance got rid of by passing small portions of water, or, according to a late im- provement, of saturated sjmip through the mass : 1121bs. of raw sugar ^fields on refining 56 of refined lump, 22 of bastards, 29 of molasses, and 6 of dregs. The different proportions of treacle left in the sugar occasioning a corresponding variation of colour through all the shades, from dark- redish brown to a ])ure brilliant white; the brown, cheaper kinds, being used in clysters, in making wines, and in those syrups which are of a dark colour. The white refined sugar for medicines and light coloured syrups. Sugar is nutritive, and lax- ative, but griping; externally applied to tdcers it is escharotic. SUGAR-CANDY, WHITE. —SU su 317 Sugar crystallised by the saturated syrup, being left in a warm place, from 90 to 100 degrees Fahrenheit, and the shooting promoted by plac- ing sticks or a net of threads at small distances from each other in the liquor; it is also deposited from compound syrups, and does not seem to retain any of the foreign sub- stances with which they were loaded. It may, however, be coloured red by means of cochineal. Being longer dissolving than sugar, it is used in coughs to keep the throat moist, and is also blown into the eye as a very mild escharotic in films or dimness of that organ. SUG.\R^ BEET.—Made from red or white beet root, or from the man- gel worsel, by decoction in water, expression, and evaporation, or by simple expression of the juice : it yields 1-lOOth of sugar.—See Beet. SUG.VR, BIRCH.—Is made by wounding the trees in the spring of the year, by boring a hole under a large arm of the tree, quite through the wood as far as the back on the opposite side, collecting the sap that flows from the wound, and evaporat- ing it to a proper consistence. These are the native sugars of cold coun- tries, and might be made in England for all the purposes of home con- sumption. Sugar from the maple and walnut trees is made in the same manner. The sap of the sugar maple yields about 1 lOth. Sugar from apples and jiears is obtained by expressing the juice, adding chalk to remove the super- abundant of acid, and evaporating it to a due consistence; it does not crystallise, and is a kind of white treacle. One cwt. of apples yields about Sllbs. of juice, wbicb will produce nearly 121bs. of tins sub- stance. Palm sugar is manufactured on a large scale from various species of palms, particularly the Palmyra, or borassus flabclliformis, which by cutting off the tip of the spadix, fur- nishes daily and for five successive months about six pints of toddy, and this again affords by evaporation a pound of sugar'. The wild date,or elata sylvestris, bleeds for three months successively, and the cultivation is so managed that toddy may be pro- cured all the year round ; fifty trees yield daily about seventeen gallons of toddy, furnishing by evaporation about 46lbs. of jagoi'y. Sugar may also be made from various other plants and fruits. SUGAR, AS AN Antiseptic, in PRESERVING VEGETABLE AND AnIMAL Substances. — Although sugar has the property of preserving vegetable substances from decay, it is in con- sequence of the price only used for fine fruits, and aromatic substances. The preservation of the latter, by means of sugar, constitutes a princi- pal part of the art of the confectioner, where considerable attention to many minutiae is necessary for the success of each preparation. Vegetable sub- stances may either be candied or preserved in syrup, or their juices may be employed in making syrups, jellies, or fruit cakes. The art of con- fectionery is very difficult, and suc- cessfully to attain requires attention to many particulars which, at first, may aiipcar frivolous, and even im- proper, but which by experience have ultimately been found to be no less essential. 'I’he classification and boiling of sugar to its proper degree is of primary importance, and has not, ])erhaps, been sufficiently ex- amined by scientific men. A weak syru]) has a tendency to ferment, and (juickly becomes sour if kept in a temperate degree of heat, consequently it is not calculated to prevent the natural fermentation of vegetable juices, which always in- crease its disposition to corrupt. It has been ascertained by pharmaceu- tists, that a solution prc])arcd by dissolving two parts of double refined sugar in one of water, or any watery fluid, and boiling the solution a little, 2 e 3su 318 SU forms a syrup which neither ferments nor crystallises; and this proportion may be considered the basis of all syrups, and seems to be tbe degree of boiling syrup called smooth by the confectioners, as exemplified in their synips de capillaire and orgeat. Sugar is equally powerful in preserv- ing animal substances from putre- faction. As a novelty to foreign artists we translate, from their great precursor, Coelcus Apicius, a method of preserving meat without salt:— “ Let fresh meat of any kind be covered with honey; but bang up the vessel, and use when you please. This succeeds better in winter; but will last a few days in summer. The same may be done with meat that has been cooked.”—Lib. i. cap. 8. A variety of other methods have been attempted for the preservation of food, but these have been rather matters of curiosity than utility.* Wet Preserves in Syrup. — In making wet preserves in syrup, it is necessai'y to consider the manner in which the several degrees of strength in syrup is to be judged of in boiling. If moist sugar be used, the syrup must be clarified as follows:— To clarify Moist Sugar.—Break the white of an egg into your pre- serving pan, put in four quarts of water, and beat it up to a froth with a whisk, then put in twelve pounds of sugar, mix all together, set it over * The property of charcoal to restore sweetness to meat beginning to be tainted, was first pointed out by M. Lowitz, in Petersburg!), 1786, who made numerous experiments on the subject. In tite fourtii volume of tbe ■Tournal of Science, there is an account of some successful experiments, in which alternate layers of meat and charcoal were packed in canisters previously filled with carbonic acid, and then care- fully luted and covei’cd with bladders. See also .Tournal de Pharmacie, for September, 1810, for some experiments made by Professor Raymond, )ipon the antiseptic properties of chlorine. the fire, and when it boils put in a little cold water; in this manner proceed as often as may be necessary till the scum appears thick on the top, then remove it from the fire, and let it settle; take off the scum, and let it pass through a straining bag. If the sugar should not appear very fine, you must boil it again be- fore you strain it, otherwise in boiling it to a height it will rise over the pan; having thus finished the opera- tion you may proceed to clarify your sugar according to the various de- grees in which it may be wanted. 1. First degree, called Smooth or Candy Sugar. — Haxdng clarified your sugar as above directed, put tbe quantity you may bave occasion for over the fire, and let it boil till it be smooth, which may be known by dipping the skimmer into the sugar, and then touching it between your fore-finger and tbumb, and on im- mediately opening them you wUl see a small thread drawn between, which will immediate!)' break and remain as a drop on your thumb. This will be as a test of its smoothness in some degree. Then give it another boil- ing, and it will draw into a larger string, when it will have acquired the first degree above-mentioned. 2. Second degree, called Blown Sugar.—To obtain this degree tbe sugar must be boiled longer than in the first process, and then dip your skimmer, shaking oil’what sugar you can into the pan, then with your mouth blow strongly through the holes, and if certain bladders or bub- bles blow through, it will be a proof of its having acquired the second degree. 3. Third degree, called Feathered Sugar.—This degree is proved by dipping the skimmer when the sugar has boiled longer than in the pre- ceding degree. First shako it over the pan, then give it a sudden flirt behind yo)i, and if it be enough the sugar will fly off like feathers. •1. Fourth degree, called Crackled ISU su 319 Sugar.—Having suffered your sugar to boil longer than in the last degree, dip a stick into the sugar, and im- mediately put it into a pan of cold water, which you must have in readiness for that purpose ; draw off the sugar that hangs to the stick into the water, and if it becomes hard, and snaps in the water, it has ac- quired the proper degree; but if otherwise, you must boil it till it answers that trial. You must take particular care that the water you use for this purpose be very cold, otherwise it will lead to mistakes. .5. Fifth degree, called Carmel Sugar.—To obtain this degree your sugar must boil longer than in either of the former operations. Y^ou must prove it by dipping in a stick, first into the sugar and then into cold water; and you must obsei've that as soon as it comes to the carmel height it will snap like glass the moment it touches the water, which is the highest and last degree of boiled sugar. Take care that your fire be not very fierce when you submit the sugar to this opei'ation, lest, flaming up the side of the pan, it should cause the sugar to burn, which would discolour and spoil it. If refined sugar be used either in the various processes of confectionery or w'et preserves in syrup, it need only be melted over the fire in a quarter, or, at most, one-third of water, and as the water evaporates the syrup must be taken up with a large .spoon, and let fall again into the pan. If during this manipula- tion it forms a broad sheet as it falls, it is said to be boiled to a candy height, and will exhibit, when taken from the fire, but still warm, 30“ of Beaume’s hydrometer ; if it has not been boiled (luitc so far, the sheet is formed but imperfectly, and it exhi- bits a smaller number of degrees; it is then said to be boiled to a weak candy height. In shaking the ladle of syrup when in this state, it runs over in the form of the feathers of a quill. or drops in the manner of pearls, which, being received in a glass of water, ought to fall to the bottom in solid and brittle globules. If the boiling be continued a little longer these effects are produced in a more perfect manner, and the syrup exhi- bits 37“ by the hydrometer; it is then said to be boiled to a full candy height: if it now be stiiTed until it becomes cold, it forms a dry pow- dery mass. As all the wmter is now evaporated, if the sugar is continued on the fire, it begins to turn red, and acquires a burnt taste. To preserve fruits then, which are the substances usually preserved in syrup, the latter is boiled to a w’eak candy height, and poured hot upon the fruit so as to cover it: the juice of the fruit of course weakens the syrup, which must, therefore, be poured off the next day and reboiled to the former height, and then pour- ed on the fruit again, and this must be repeated even a third or fourth time, if the fruit be very juicy, until you are sensible the syrup is no longer weakened by the juice of the fruit. Drg Preserves in Sugar. — First soak j'our fruit, if it be juicy, in hard water or in w’eak alum water, to harden it, and then drain it. Upon the fruit, either prepared or not, syrup boiled to a certain height, and half cold, is to be poui'cd on it. After some hours, the syrup, weak- ened by the juice of the fruit, is poured off, reboiled, and poured on again, and this to bo repeated a third time if necessary. When the syrup is judged to he no longer weakened, the fruit is taken out of it and drained. Candied Angelica.—The stalks arc to be boiled for a quarter of an hour in water, to take away their bitter- ness, and some of their strong scent; they are tlicn to be ])ut into a syrup boiled to a full candy height; kept on the fire till they appear quite dry, and then taken out and strained.320 SU su Candied Orange and Lemon Peel. —The peels are to be soaked in cold water, frequently changed, till they lose their bitterness, and are then put into syrup till they become soft and transparent, when they are to be taken out drained. Preserves in Honey.—Seeds and fruits may be presei'ved by being put into honey, and on being taken out, washed, and planted, they will vegetate. Honey has also been used to preserve the corpses of per- sons who have died at a distance from home, that they might be con- veyed thither. The Spartans who fell in battle were usually buried on the spot; but the bodies of their kings were preserved in honey and carried home. Preserves in Brandy, and other Spirits.—Plums, apricots, cherries, and other juicy fruits, ought to be gathered before they are ripe, and soaked for some hours in very hard water, or in alum water, to make them firm. As the moisture of the fruit weakens the spirit, it ought to be strong, and to each quart of it two ounces of sugar ought to be added.—See Fish, preservation of. SUMACH {Rhus Coriaria).—A small tree, a native of the south of Europe. It is singular that this is the only species of the genus rhus which is perfectly innocent; the others being active poisons. The berries, which are red, and of a roundish compressed figure, contain a pulpy matter, in which is lodged a brown, hard, oval seed, manifesting a con- siderable degree of astringency. The pulp, even when dry, is grateful, and has been discovered to contain an essential oil, similar to that of wood sorrel. An infusion of the dried fruit is not rendered black by a solu- tion of iron : hence it appears to be destitute of astringency. But its acidity is e.xtrcmcly grateful; con- .scquently, like many other fruits, these berries may be advantageously taken to allay febrile heat, and to c jrrect bilious putresccncy. SUPPER.—The objections against suppers are by no means general; consequently, do not apply to every account and condition. A late sup- per of heavy materials, is decidedly an enemy to sleep ; and, on the other hand, going to bed without anj' sup- per often prevents sleep. Mankind, says Dr. Franklin, since the improve- ment in cookery, eat about twice as much as nature requires. Suppers are not bad if we have not dined; but restless nights naturally follow hearty suppers after full dinners. Indeed as there is a difference in constitutions, some rest well after these meals; it costs them only a frightful dream, as an apoplexy, after which they sleep till doomsday. No- thing, continues the same authorit}', is more common in the newspapers, than instances of people, who, after eating a hearty supper, are found dead in bed in the morning. “ I avoid,” said Mr. Pennant, “ the meal of excess, a supper; and my soul rises with vigour to its employs, and I trust, (he adds) does not disappoint the end of its Creator.” The sleep of the labouring man is sweet, whe- ther he eat little or much : for “ Couch’d on his straw, and fancy free, He sleeps like careless infancy ;” Scott. but the abundance of the rich will not sutler him to sleep.—See Sleep. As regards the times of eating, observed by our ancestors, some in- formation may' be collected by the following extract from the “ Haven of Health,” bj^ Thomas Cogan, M..\. and M.B. “ When four hours (says hel be past after breakfast, a man may safely taste his dinner; and the most convenient time for dinner is about eleven of the clock before noon. Yet, Diogenes the philoso- pher, when he was asked the ques- tion, what time was best for a man to dine? be answered, for a rich man when he will, but for a poor man when he may. But the usual time in the Universities is eleven, andSU su 321 elsewhere about noon. At Oxford, in my time, they used commonly at dinner, boyled bief with potage, bread and beere, and no more; the quan- tity of bief was in value an half-a- penny for one man; sometimes, if hunger constrained, they would dou- ble their commons.” Then of sup- per ; “ about four hours or si.x after we have dined, the time is conve- nient for supper: which in the Uni- versities, is about five of the clock in the afternoon.” “The modern hours of eating,” says another, “have arrived at an excess that is perfectly ridiculous. Now what do people get by this? if they make dinner their principal meal, and do not wish to pall their appetite by eating before it, they injure their health. Then in winter they have two hours of candle light before dinner, and at supper they are at table during the pleasantest part of the day; and all this to get a long morning—for idle people, to whom one would suppose the shortest morning would deem too long.”—Warner's Antiq. Culin. p. 134. “ The stately dames of Edward the Fourth’s court rose with the lark, dispatched their dinner at eleven o’clock in the fm-enoon, and shortly after eight were wrapped in slumber. How would these reasonable people (reasonable at least in this respect) be astonished, could they but be wit- nesses of the present distribution of time among the children of fashion? Woidd they not call the perverse conduct of those who rise at one or two, dine at eight, and retire to bed when the morning is unfolding all its glories, and Nature putting on her pleasing aspect,—absolute insanity?” •—Pye's Sketches, 12mo. 1797, p. 171. In the Northumberland House- hold Book (pp. 314, 318) for 1.512, a thousand pounds, it is there stated, was the sum annually expended in house-keeping. This maintained one hundred and sixty-six persons. Wheat was then five shillings and eightpence per quarter. The family rose at six in the morning; my Lord and my Lady had set at their table for breakfast, at seven o’clock, A quart of beer, A quart of wine. Two pieces of salt fish. Half a dozen red herrings, A dish of sprats !! ! They dined at ten—supped at four in the afternoon—the gates were all shut at nine, and no further ingi'ess or egress permitted. In the time of Elizabeth, the nobility, gentry, and students, dined at eleven o’clock in the forenoon, and supped between five and six in the afternoon. In the reign of Charles II., four in the afternoon was the hour appointed for acting plays. At present, even dinner with people of quality is con- siderably latter. As our ancestors breakfasted early, they also dined early, and had at least two meals after this, as appears from the allowance appointed for a lady Lucy, who seems to have been one of the maids of honour in the court of Henry VIII. This lady, it appears, was allowed for breakfast— A chine of beef, A loaf, and A gallon of ale. There is an account also of the breakfast of an Earl and Countess, in the Lent season—namely, A loaf of bread, 'Lwo manchettes, * A qviart of beer, A quart of wine. Two pieces of salt fish. Six baconed herrings. Four white herrings, and A dish ol'sprats. As regards the quality of different meals at the present day, it appears that we depart more from the custom of our hardy ancestors with re- spect to breakfast than any other meal. The contrast at first sight appears trulj' ridiculous. A maid of * Loaves of a coarser kiud of bread.SW 322 su honour in llie court of Elizabeth, breakfasted upon beef, and drank ale after it; whilst the sportsman, and even the day-labourer, now break- fast upon tea! The same lady who had so solid a breakfast, had for dinner—■ A piece of boiled beef, A slice of roasted meat, and A gallon of ale. IN THE AFTERNOON. A manchette, Half a gallon of ale. FOR SUPPER. A mess of porridge, A piece of mutton, A cheat (a finer loaf). And a gallon of ale. To be sociable after supper, there was left on the table— A manchette loaf, A gallon of ale, Half a gallon of ale. Tliis lady had therefore four heavy meals; instead of which it would be better to recommend the modern plan of late dinners; but, because long fasting is injurious, and when very hungry, one may be incensed to eat more at this principal meal than can be digested, cold meats or soups may intervene by way of collation. For dinner, it w’ould be advisable with ail who entertain a proper sense of the importance of health, to keep as much as possible to one dish. To prefer mutton* to lamb, lamb to chicken or veal, and beef, if tender, to either of the three last; and as fish is soon digested, to unite some butchers’ meat to it, and to add to these vegetables; and for convales- cent and weak persons, we would * When Saactorius ate mutton, which was a food peculiarly grateful to his stomach, his feelings were pleasant, and his perspiration was copious ; when he ate pork, goose, duck, musiirooms or melons, he felt heavy and oppressed ; and found by the balance that his per- spiration diminished one-half. This proves that the perspiratory discharge is nujch under the influence of the stomach. estreat those heterogeneous combina- tions called puddings; and, with the exception of the fruit, the ciaist of all pies should be condemned. The readers will here recollect, that al- though eggs and milk are both rec- koned wholesome separate, when combined they form a compound suited only for strong stomachs. A late dinner gives a long morning, and precludes the necessity of a hearty supper, and tea may become its sub- stitute. Large meals are ever hurt- ful to a tender constitution. Pastry, and high-seasoned viands, or dainties, are bad on two accounts—first, be- cause they tempt people to eat more than enough, and secondly, because they are hard of digestion. SURFEIT.—The consequence of excess of eating and drinking; or of something unwholesome or improper existing in the food. Its symptoms are a heavy load or oppression at the stomach; acccompanied with nausea, sickness, obstructed perspiration, and eruptions in the skin.—SeeGluttony. SWINE BREAD. —A sort of root or pul2)3' shapeless lump, of dif- ferent sizes, uneven, and growing in the earth, without shooting out any plant, which is supposed to be a rea- son for its delicious taste. It is much used in food ; and is served up after being roasted in ashes, or pre- pared with wine. Some pulverise it and add it to sauces. The ancients were divided in their opinion with respect to this production; some jiretending it to be good food, others that it was bad; hence it may be concluded that it produces both good and bad efiects. It is of a restora- tive nature and fortifies the stomach ; but when used immoderately it at- tenuates and divides the humours. It grows plentifully after autumnal rains and thunder storms. The an- cients fancied it had no seeds, and that it was formed of the coagulated juice of the earth or the earth itself, whose parts stagnantly unite toge- ther; which gave occasion for theTA 323 TA pun contained in the two following lines:— Semina nulla damns, nec semine yiasci- mur nllo ; Sed qui nos mandit semen habere putat. Avicen believed that swine-bread produced apoplexy and palsy. SYRUP.—The name syrup is given to sugar dissolved in water. Syrups ai'e generally made with the juice of vegetables or fruits, or by adding vegetable extracts to other substances. To keep s}'rups with- out fomenting, it is necessary to attend to their temperature, and to keep as near 5.5°F. as possible. A good cellar will ensure this purpose; for there are few summers in which the temperature of such places rises to GO® F. Phai-maceutists have as- certained, that a solution prepared by dissolving two parts of double refined sugar in one of water, or any watery fluid, and boiling the solution a little, forms a syrup which neither ferments nor crystallises; and this proportion may be considered as the basis of all syrups, and seems to bo the degree of boiling syrup called smooth (see Sugar) by the confectioners. After having squeezed the fruit for the syrup, leave the mass for several days undisturbed: a slight fermenta- tion takes place; this will separate the mucus and rich parenchyme, which rendered the juice viscid. These matters subside gradually, and very often the liquor appears per- fectly clear. The liquor indeed may he separated by decantation: then keep w'hat remains under the press, and this, though it will not produce a juice so clear as the preceding, very soon will become so, especially if put into bottles immediately it is expressed, and suftered to ferment for some days. T. TAMARINDS.—The fruit of the tamarind-tree, which grows in the East and West Indies. 'I'he oriental sort is drier and darker coloured than the occidental: the former is sometimes preserved without the ad- dition, but the latter has always an admixture of sugar. They are more frequently employed for medicinal purposes, than as an article of diet; but the .\fricans, and the people of many of the oriental nations, where they are common, make them into a sort of confection with sugar, which they eat as a delicacy, and which cools them in the violent heats of their climates. The pulp of this fruit is one of the most grateful acids; which, if taken in the quantity of from half an ounce to an ounce, or more, proves gently purgative. By its acidity, it is well calculated to quench thirst, and allay immoderate beat; for this purj)ose, it is in common use in inflammatory disorders, and correct- ing putrefaction.—See Imperial. TANNIN.—A sidjstance existing abundantly in the excrescences of several species of the oak, called gall-nuts; in the bark of most trees ; in some inspissated juices, such as kino and catechu ; in the leaves of the tea-plant, sumach, whortleberry, and in all astringent plants, being the chief cause of the astringency of vegetable matter. It is frequently associated with gallic acid, as in gall nuts, most kinds of bark, and in tea; but in kino, catechu, and cinchona bark, no gallic acid is present. The mostcharacteristic])ropcrty of tannin is its action on a salt of iron and a solution of gentianine. With the peuxide of iron, or better still with the protoxide and ])aroxide mixed, tannin forms a black coloured com- pound, which, with the gallate of iron, constitute the basis of writing ink and black dye. For the discovery of artificial tannin, an interesting substance, by Mr. Hatchet,—(see Philosophical Transactions for 180.5 and 180G). Is it not an unfrequent practice to administer medicinesTA TA 324 containing tannin in cases of debility, and at the same time to prescribe gelatinous food as nutritious, which is evidently improper, as the tannin from its chemical properties, must render the gelatine indigestible. TARTAR.—A vegetable produc- tion, which forms itself on the sides of casks in which new wine is put. It is of a solid consistency, and is thence called by the Germans Wein- stein, or wine-stone: when burned to ashes, this substance yields a pure vegetable fixed alkali, called salt of tartar. The reader is desired to distinguish between cream of tartar and salt of tartar ; they are both salts, but not of the same class. Cream of tartar is an acid, and is prepared from tartar by dissolving it in water, and crystallizing the solution. The sweet wines afford less tartar than the sharp ones, and it is also less valuable. The tartar of Rhenish wine is better than any other, and, in gener'al, those wines which have the most acidity in them yield the most tartar, and that in the largest crystals. Tartar is white or red, according to the colour of the wine from which it is produced. That brought from Germany is the best. Salt of tartar is an alkali, and is pre- pared from tartar by burning it, the acid being probably changed into an alkali by tlie fire. Salt of tartar, as well as all other vegetable fixed alkalies, when pure (for, when puri- fied, they are all the same) attract very strongly the humidity of the air, and thereby melt, as it were, into a fluid, which, from its being ])ro- cured in this singular wa}', and from its having also an unctuous appear- ance, though it has no other property of an oil, has been called oil oj tar- tar per (liUqnium.—Sec IVines. TARTAR, CREAM OF.—Cream of tartar is reputed a great sweetener of the blood, for which some take it in whey or water gruel, or combined with rhubarb or jalap, in the spring time. Alone it is purgative, from two drachms to half an ounce. It forms an agi-eeable cooling drink, sweetened to the taste. In large doses it acts as a hydragogue cathartic, producing a considerable discharge of serous fluid into the intestines; hence its use in di'opsical complaints. Often repeated, however, it is liable to occasion debility of the digestive organs. As it decomposes the car- bonate of potass, the cream of these salts will afford a very pleasant pur- gative draught. TASTE.—The principal organ of taste is the tongue; and the nearer the top the more acute—the nearer the root the more obtuse. Nothing can be tasted which is not capable of being tasted by the saliva. Neither is it sufficient for a body to be solu- ble that may be tasted; it must have some saline or acrid property, in order to stimulate the nervous sub- stance of the tongue—hence, what- ever has less salt in it than the saliva, is totally insipid. The taste is rarely found to be too acute, unless through some fault in the epidermis covering the tongue. 'When this is wounded, or removed, or diseased, then the taste, becoming too acute, is painfid, &c. The sense of taste may be im- paired, like that of any other exter- nal sense, from various diseases of the brain and nerves; of winch, how- ever, there are but few instances. In some people it is more blunted, as well as more acute than in others; and where the sense of taste is defi- cient, that of smelling is also. It is sometimes deficient owing to the want of saliva; for a dry tongue can- not perceive any taste: hence this sense is very dull in many diseases especially in fevers. See. It is also frequently de])ravcd; as when, for instance, wc have a perception of taste without the apjdication of any thing to the tongue; or, when any thing is applied to it, we feel a taste different from what it ought to be. This hajjpens, for the most part, from a vitiated condition of the saliva, which is itself tasted in the month. Indciiendent of this, the taste may325 TE TE be vitiated from other causes, &c. In almost every disease, especially in fevers, physicians inquire into the state of the tongue, and not without the greatest reason ; as from this they can judge of the state of the stomach, of the thirst, or rather the occasion the patient has for drink, when, on account of delirium or stupor, he neither feels his thirst, nor is able to call for drink. And, lastly, from an inspection of the tongue, physicians endeavour to form some judgment concerning the nature, increase, and remission of the fever. TEA.—The tea-tree, which has employed the pens of so many emi- nent writers, still deserves some at- tention, as the nature and properties of it are but imperfectly understood. It is of a genus of plants which botanists call Then, belonging to the class ti'igjmia. Of this genus, Lin- naeus enumerates two species, viz. the bohea heavy flower with six pe- tals, and the green tea, having flowers with nine petals. But Dr. Lettsom, in his botanical description of the tea plant, thinks it most probable, that there is only one species, and the difiercnce between the green and hohea teas depends on the nature of the soil, culture, age, and the man- ner of drying the leaves. He adds, it has even been observed that a green tea tree, planted in the hohea country, will produce hohea, and on the contrary; and on his examining several hundred flowers, brought both from the hohea and green tea countries, tlieir botanical characters have always appeared uniform. Tea has been known in Europe above two hundred and twenty years, for the Dutch East India Company (who first imported and raised its repu- tation in Europe) was founded in 1002, upon a contribution at their first set- tlement of 0,459,840 florins. The English East India Company was formed near the latter end of (iueen I Elizabeth’s reign, their charter being I dated in 1599, and their fii'st fleet set out in IGOO. But they made no figure before King James I. bestowed his favours upon them. The French East India Company was established in 1C64. The Dutch in their second voyage to China carried thither good store of dried sage, and exchanged it with the Chinese for tea; they had three or four pounds of the last for one of the first, calling it a wonderful European herb, possessed of as many virtues as the Indians could possibly ascribe to their shrub-leaf; but be- cause they exported not such large quantities of sage as they imported of tea, they bought a great deal, and gave eight pence or ten pence a pound for it in China. And when they first brought it to Paris, they sold it there at about thirty livres a pound, though it was not of the best sort, for that comes from J apan, and has often been sold at a hundred livres a pound. But about thirty years ago, the Chi- nese sold it at threepence, and never above nine pence a pound, though frequently mixed with other herbs to increase its quantity.—See Sax/e. Tea has met with very different opinions, according to the various humours of those who have ventured publicly to offer their sentiments upon it. Some ascribe such sovci'eign virtues to this exotic, as if it were able to eradicate orprevent the spring of every disease, and extol it to such a degree as to render their panegyrics in favour of it, more like satire than praise. Others on the contrary are equally severe in their censures, and have imputed the most pernicious consequences to it, accounting it no better than a slow hut efficacious poison, and a seminary of diseases. While others again seem to question the virtues ascrihed to tea, and ima- gine them industriously magnified to promote and encourage the importa- tion of it to increase the merchant’s gain. One great reason of these diflerent sentiments concerning this foreign leaf is, that authors who have written upon it, have not taken the 2 F326 TE TE trouble to make due inquiry into its virtues, and properties, but have rather taken them upon trust, than examined the truth of what they affirm or deny, by a sufficient num- ber of experiments and observations, whicli alone might have afforded some satisfaction as regards this popular herb, by enabling them to account rationally for its various surprising effects. 'I'here are two species of the tea tree, viz., 1st. The bohea or black tea; and 2d. The viridis or green tea : both of rvhich are natives of China or Japan, where they attain the height of five or six feet. Great pains are taken in collecting the leaves singly, at three different times, viz., about the middle of February, in the beginning of March, and in April. Although some writers assert that they are first exposed to the steam of boiling water, and then dried on copper plates; yet it is now understood, that such leaves are sim- ply dried on iron plates, suspended over a fire, till they become dry and shrivelled; when cool they are packed in leaden boxes to exclude the air, and in that state exported to Europe. In Britain teas are divided into three kinds of green and five of I)ohea. The former class includes 1. Jmj)erial or bloo7>i tea, having a large leaf, a faint smell, and of a light green colour. 2. Hyson, which has small curled leaves of a green shade inclining to blue. 3. Singlo tea, thus termed from the place where it is cultivated.— The boheas comprehend, 1. Souchony, whicli on infusion imparts a yellowish green colour. 2. Camho, a fine tea emitting a fragrant violet smell, and yielding a pale shade; it receives its name from the province where it is reared. 3. Pekoe tea, is known by the small white flowers that are mixed with it. -1. Congo, has a larger leaf than the preceding variety, and yields a deeper tint to w'ater. 5. Common bohea, the leaves of which are of an uniform green colour. There are besides other kinds of tea sold under the names of gunpowder tea, &c., which differ from the pre- ceding only in the minuteness of their leaves, and being dried with addi- tional care. Tea, in its natural state, is cer- tainly an aromatic, slightly astrin- gent, and somew'hat narcotic, plant; on which account the Chinese refrain from its use, till it has been divested of this property by keeping it at least tvveh'e months. If, how'ever, good tea be drank in moderate quantities, wnth sufficient milk and sugar, it invigorates the system, and produces a temporary exhilaration; but when taken too copiously it is apt to occa- sion weakness, tremor, palsies, and various other symptoms arising from narcotic jilants, while it continues to aggravate hysterical and hypochon- driacal complaints. Tea has also been supposed to possess consider- able diuretic and sudorific virtues, which, however, depend more on the quantity of warm water employed as a vehicle, than the quality of the tea itself. Lastly, as infusions of these leaves are the safest refreshment after undergoing great bodilj^ and mental exertion, they aflbrd an agreeable beverage to tliose who are exposed to cold weather; at the same time tending to support and promote per- spiration, which is otherwise liable to be impeded. A certain writer, who we think proceeds somewhat too far in his in- vectives against this article of con- sumption, observes that “ it had been well for the inhabitants of Great Britain if the tea leaf had never found its way into this country; they would not then have been tor- mented as thousands of them now iire, with an incurable train of ner- vous symptoms, with stomachic and bowel complaints, and with hcadach.327 TE TE To the abuse of tea may be ascribed in a great measure tlie increased frequency of cousumptiou and many of the disorders of children, especi- ally hydrocephalus (water in the head) rickets, &c., may be traced to the same source.” “The tea leaf, when fresh from the tree, is evidently poisonous. It is tme that it loses some of its acri- mony by drying, but even in the state in which it is sent to this coun- try it retains much of its narcotic nature. What serious mischief then are they bringing upon themselves, who, as is the case witli too many of the lower classes of society, make it a principal part of their daily sub- sistence ! The money which should go to purchase wholesome and sub- stantial food, is squandered away in procuring what of itself affords no nourishment at aU; for whatever nourishment is derived from the in- fusion of tea, is owing to the sugar and milk which are added to it, and were it not for these additions its deleterious effects would be much more powerfully felt. The time, it is hoped, is not far distant when the poor shall be enlightened upon this important point. The next genera- tion will hardly believe that their predecessors took such extraordinary delight in defrauding their body of its proper aliment, and in bringing upon themselves infirmity and dis- ease. Let the rich and the intem- perate indulge, if they choose, iii the narcotic draught; to their heated and oppressed stomachs it may do no harm, it may even afford momen- tary relief—but let the poor abstain from it; they have no feverish thirst, no feverish heat to allay after their noon repast. To them it is totally unnecessary as a help to digestion, and as an article of sustenance it is worthless and improper; they would therefore be better, infinitely better, without it. Besides its narcotic ipia- lity, there is another property of the tea leaf which renders its continued use injurious to the constitution; we mean its astringeney. Add to these the warm water, and we have in this unnatural beverage, the infusion of tea, three different powers concurring to disorders, first, the organs of digestion, and ultimately the whole system. “ If it be asked what are those who have been long accustomed to tea to substitute in its place? We answer, milk, milk porridge, gruels, broth, cocoa, or the like for breakfast. And in the afternoon milk and water; orgeat, or lemonade in the summer, and coffee in the winter. It should be understood that the preceding re- marks apply to the general abuse of tea as an article of sustenance; for its occasional employment in a diet- etical and medicinal wiiy in some kinds of sickness is often of use. Thus the simple infusion, without sugar or milk, is a good diluent and sedative in ardent fevers, and as it promotes perspiration and urine it is frequently drunk with advantage in colds, catarrhs, rheumatism, &c. It is also serviceable in cases of surfeit and indigestion.” The Chinese know nothing of im- perial tea, flower of tea, and many other names, which in Europe serve to distinguish the goodness and the price of this fa.shionable commodity : but besides the common tea they have two other kinds, viz., the voui and soumlo, which are reserved for people of the first quality and those who are sick. We have two principal kinds of tea in Europe, viz., green tea, whieh is the common tea of the Chi- nese, &c., which is gathered from the plant in April: it is held to be very digestive and a little astringent; it gives a j)alish green tincture to water and its leaves are much twisted. The seeond is boliea tea, which is the voui tea, or ban tcha of the Chinese. F. le Compte makes this onlj' differ from the green tea, by its being gathered a month before, viz., in March, while in the btid, and henceTE TE 328 the smallness of the leaves as well as the depth of the tincture it gives to water. Others take it for the tea of some particular province ; the soil being found to make an al- teration in the properties of the tea as much as the season of gathering it. It is all bought at Nankin and thence brought to Europe, where it is now much in vogue. As to the differences in colour and flavour peculiar to these two kinds and to their varieties, Dr. Lettsom thinks that there is reason to suspect that they are in some measure ad- ventitious or produced by art. He has been informed by intelligent persons who have resided some time in Canton, that the tea about that city affords very little smell while gi'owing. The same is observed of the tea plants now in England, and also of the dried specimens from China. We are not, however, as he observes, to conclude from hence that art alone conveys to teas when cured the smell peculiar to each kind, for our vegetable grasses, for instance, have little or no smell till they are dried and made into hay. As to the opinion that the green tea owes its verdure to an efflores- cence acquired from the plates of copper, on which it is supposed to be cured or dried, be shews that there is no foundation for this suspi- cion. The infusions of the finest im- perial and bloom teas undergo no change on the affusion of a volatile alkali, which would detect the minu- test portion of copper contained in them by turning the liquors blue. The tine green colours of these teas, with as little reason, have been attri- buted to green copperas, as this me- t.allicsalt would, on itsbeing dissolved in water, immediately act on the astringent matter of the leaves, and convert the infusion into ink, as hap- ])ens when a chalybeate water has been employed in the making of tea. On the whole Dr. Lettsom thinks it not improbable that some green dye. prepared from vegetable substances, is employed in the colouring of the leaves of the green teas. And Neu-. mann suspects that the brown colour and the flavour of the bohea sorts are introduced by art: both the green and bohea teas have an agreeable smell, and a lightly bitterish sub- astringent taste ; with solution of cha- lybeate ^dtriol they strike an inky blackness. They give out their smeU and taste, both to watery and spiri- tuous menstrua; to water the green sorts communicate their own green tincture, and the bohea their brown; but to a i-ectified spirit they both im- part a fine deep green. The extracts obtained by gentlj' drawing ofiT tbe menstnia from the filtered tinctures are very considerably astringent, and not a little ungrateful, but the spirituous more so. Savary also speaks of a sort of red tea or tartar tea, called honan tcha, which tinges the water of a pale red, and which is said to be extremely digestive : by means hereof it is that the Tartars are said to be able to feed on raw flesh. Its taste is earthy and much the least agreeable of them all; but this is scarcely known in England. Tea is to be chosen of the briskest smell, and as whole as possible, and the greatest care is to be taken that it have not been exposed to the air to fall and evaporate. The drink tea is made in China, and throughout the greatest part of the east, after the same manner as in Europe, viz., by infusing the leaves in boiling water, and drinking the infusion hot In- deed among us it is usual to temper its bitterness with sugar, hut the ori- entals use it without the addition of sugar or milk; however, the .Japanese are said to jirepare their liquor in a somewhat different way, viz., by pulverising the leaves, stirring the porvder in hot water and drinking it as we do colfee. But from the ac- count given by Du liable, this me- thod is not peculiar to the .Japanese,TR TE 329 but is also used iu some provinces in China. The common people who have a coarser tea boil it for some time in water, and make use of the liquor for common drink early in the morning; the kettle filled with water is regularly hung over the fire for this purpose, and the tea is eithev put into the kettle inclosed in a bag, or by means of a basket of proper size pressed to the bottom of the vessel, that there may be no hindrance in drawing off the water. The Bants- jaa tea only is used in this manner, whose virtues being more fi.xed, would not be fully extracted by infusion. The Chinese are always taking tea, especially at meals, it is the chief treat wherewith they regale their friends; the most moderate take it at least three times a dav, others ten times or more, and yet it is computed the consumption of tea among the English and Dutch is as great in proportion as among the orientals. .\s regards the properties of tea they are strongly controverted ; the East- ern nations arc at least as much pos- sessed with an idea of their extraor- dinary virtues as the Europeans, but it is perhaps because imagination bears as great a sway there as here. The reason why the gout and stone are unknown in China is ascribed to the use of this plant. Tea is extolled ;is the greatest of all medicines: moderately and pro- perly taken, it acts as a gentle astringent and corroboi-ative; it strengthens the stomach and bowels, and is good against nauseas, indi- gestions, and diarrhoeas. It acts also as a diuretic, and a diaphoretic; the immoderate use of it, however, has been very prejudicial to many, who have been thereby thrown into dia- betes. Erom the contradictory opi- nions, even of medical writers, on teas, the natural inference seems to be, that they possess neither no.xious nor beneficial powers, in any very considerable degree. They seem, when moderately used, to be for the most part innocent; in some cases they seem to be salutary—in others they are apparently prejudicial; they dilute thick juices, and quench thii-st more effectuall}', and pass off by the natural emunctories more freely than more watery fluids; they refresh the spirits iu heaviness and sleepiness, and seem to counteract the operation of inebriating liquors. From their manifest astringency, they have been supposed to strengthen and brace up the solids, but this effect experience does not coun tenance, as it is in disorders, and in constitutions wherein corrobo- rants are more serviceable, that the immoderate use of tea is peculiarly hurtful; in cold, indolent habits, cachexies, chlorosis, drojjsies, and debilities of the nervous system. Dr. Lettsom has particularly in- quired into the medical qualities and effects of tea, and having observed that infusions of bohea and green tea contribute to preserve sweet some small pieces of beef immersed in them, he infers that they possess an antiseptic power when applied to the dead animal fibre, and from their striking a purple colour with salt of iron, be deduces their astringent quality. From other experiments, he concludes that the activity of tea chiefly resides in its fragrant and volatile parts, and that if the use of it be beneficial or injurious to any particular constitution, it becomes so principally by means of this odorous fragrant ])rinciple. Me apprehends that it is the safest course to use the infusion of the more ordinary kinds of this plant, which abound less with this fragratit principle; or the tea may be boiled a few minutes in order to dissipate this volatile part, which stands charged as the cause of those nervous affections that are said to be ju'oduced or aggravated by the use of this licpior. By this process may likewise he extracted more copiously the more fixed, bitter, and stomachic parts of this vegetable. Dr. Lettsom, 2 F 2330 TE TE who seems to be thoroughly per- suaded of the occasionally noxious effects of this volatile principle, in the finer teas especially, recommends this last mentioned mode of making tea, or the substitution of the extract instead of the leaves, by the use of which, the nervous relaxing effects which follow the drinking of tea in the usual manner, would be in great measure avoided. This extract has been imported hither from China, in the form of small cakes, not exceed- ing a quarter of an ounce each in weight, ten grains of which might suffice one person for breakfast; but it might easily be made here by simple decoction and evaporation, by those who experience the noxious qualities of the volatile principles of this plant. It may be farther ob- served, that the effect of drinking large quantities of any warm aqueous liquor, would be to enter speedily into the course of circulation, and pass off as speedily b}' urine or pers- piration, or the increase of some of the secretions. Its effects on the solid parts of the constitution would be relaxing, and thereby enfeebling. If this warm aqueous fluid were taken in considerable quantities, its effects would be proportionable, and still gi-eater if it were substituted instead of nutriment. The infusion of tea, however, has these two pecu- liarities : it is not only possessed of a sedative quality, but also of con- siderable astringency, by which the relaxing power ascribed to a more aqueous fluid is in some measure corrected on this account. It is, j)erhaps, less injurious than many other infusions of herbs, which, be- sides a very slight aromatic flavour, have very little, if any, stypticity to prevent their relaxing and debilitat- ing effects. So far, therefore, tea, if not too fine—if not drunk too hot, nor in too great quantities, is, perhaps, preferable to any other known vege- table infusion; and if wo take into consideration, likewise, its known enlivening energy, our attachment to it will appear to be owing to its superiority in taste and effect to most other vegetables. Tea may be con- sidered as a very powerful aphrodi- siac, and Dr. Percival imputes the immense population of China among other causes to the general use of it. Whether tea possesses any diu- retic, diaphoretic, and other virtues, for which it has been celebrated, is rather doubtful, as these may be in part owing to the great quantities of warm water with which the infusions of it are made. Good tea, particu- larly the black sort, made strong, and used in a moderate quantity, is antispasmodic and refreshing; it is, therefore, calculated to relieve the cramp of the stomach, and pains of the abdomen, if they proceed from flatulency. But, according to cir- cumstances, it may even increase spasmodic contractions; for instance, if they arise from a vitiated bile, from worms, or from hysteric and gouty complaints, in either of which cases tea will most certainly not relieve, but rather prolong the spas- modic contractions of the vessels. The relaxation which tea occasions in the first passages, renders it pecu- liarly hurtful to females of lax fibres, or thin blood and irritable habits. To enumerate the great diversity of nervous symptoms attending its abuse in such constitutions would lead us too far from the prescribed limits; but so much is certain, that the vapours arising from liquors drunk very hot like tea, weaken the lungs, and dispose their votaries to frequent colds and catarrhs,which the more readily make a transition into consumption. Individuals of a rigid and solid fibre, ofa dry and firm body, may be allowed to drink tea in mode- ration, as it will not easily hurt them. By adding a spoonful of old Rhenish wine, or ardent spirits, to every cup of tea, it may be so far imjrroved as to make it less flatulent; but the frequent repetition of it, even in thisTE 331 TE form, must be detrimental to the body. A moderate use of tea may sometimes be of service to persons in a perfect state of bealtb, yet, for daily use, it cannot be recommended. It, doubtless, occasions a gentle sti- mulus, and rouses the mind for a short time ; bence it is, perhaps, the best and safest refreshment, after violent heat and fatigue of the body. Hence, as tlie means of increasing perspiration, tea is an useful beverage to travellers in cold weather, when insensible perspiration is liable to be checked. Hypochondriac and hys- tei'ic people, however, are much de- ceived in the efficacy of tea as a diluent drink; for all the evils arising from relaxation, a weak stomach, and flatulency, under which such persons usually labour, ai'e, by the habit of diinking tea, increased to the most alarming degree. The cold stomach which they propose to warm by it is a mere phantom of the brain, for tbis sensation of cold is nothing but relaxation,which, instead of being removed by hot litpiors, is increased by every repetition of tbem. Des Guignes gives the following characters of the dilierent kinds of tea, as he observed them in China, using the common English ortho- graphy, with their usual price at Canton. 'J’he following are called generally black teas: — Bohea tea, from Bo-he, the name of a place, is of a black cast, and yields a deep yellow infusion ; sells in China for twelve to fifteen taels, 6.9. 8(1. each, per ]>ic, about 130lbs., 01’, from Did. to t)^d. per pound. ConyoH tea, from coat) fou, great care. Tbe infusion is lighter than that of bohea, rather gi'een, and seldom of an agreeable smell; sells for 25 to 27 taels, or from \b\d. to 16W. per pound. Souchonij tea, from se ow chomj, a very little sort. The infusion is a fine green, smells agreeably; tbe leaves ought to have no spots on them : sells for 40 to 50 taels, or from 2.S'. to 2s. Q'^d. Pekoe tea, from pe kow, white leaf bud. The infusion is light and rather green, has a violet scent, and a very fine perfume in the mouth; sells for 31 to GO taels, or, from Is. 9d. to 3s. \d. Imperial tea—mao fcha, of the Chinese, has a green cast; the infu- sion is also green, the leaves large, and of a fine green ; has a slight smelt of soap. To these may be added:—> Campoi tea, which is intermediate, between congou and souchong. Padre, or chomj tea, a vciy fine souchong, imported in papers for presents. Caper lea, made into balls with gum, and scented, imported only in small bo.xes. ’V\\c green teas of Des Guignes are, Songlo lea, from the place where it is grown ; has a leaden cast, the infusion is green; the leaves are longer and more pointed than the black teas; sells for 21 to 2G taels, or from Is. Zd. to 1.9. dd. The infe- rior sorts have yellow leaves, and a smell of sprats. ligson tea, from he tchune, first crop, is of a leaden cast; the infu- sion is a fine green, the leaves are handsome, without spots, and open quite flat; it has a strong taste, and a slight smell of roasted chestnuts; sells for 50 to GO taels, or, from 2.9. Gd. to 3.9. \d. Tchu Icha, of which be gives no cbaracters, but it sells for G5 to 70 taels, or 3«. Ad. to 3.v. Id. per lb. Besides, there arc inq)orted into England these green teas :— ligson skin or bloom tea, being the large loose leaves ofthe hyson ; afaint dclii'ate smell; infusion a pale green. Superior hgson skin, intermediate between byson and hyson skin. Clnnpowder tea, a superior hyson, in small round grains, of a blooming greenish hue.TE TE 332 Chilian or cowslip hyson, a scented Iryson, mixed with small berries that give it a cowslip flavour. The Ankay teas obtained from An Khe have the same appearance as the Canton teas, but are inferior in flavour and generally sell from 4(^. to Is. a Ih. lower. They are supposed to be picked from wild tea plants. The leaves of tea having little or no smell, they are rendered fragrant by mixing with them the leaves of olia fragrans and camellia sesanqua. TEA, SUBSTITUTES FOR.— It would undoubtedly he more con- ducive to health if we could alto- gether dispense with the use of warm liquors, at least when in a healthful state. But if this practice must he indulged in, we ought to choose the herbs growing in our own meadows and gardens, instead of making our- selves tributary to distant nations. With this intention the late Ur. So- lander introduced his sanative tea, not with a view of making it a secret or quack medicine, under which cha- racter it is now sold in this country, hut of recommending the use of it to those individuals who require diluent liquors, and to the heavy, sluggish, and phlegmatic. Dr. Tissot had previously recommended the stalks of cherries and the leaves of peach and almond trees, to the poor jjeople of Switzerland, as substitutes for tea, but we possess a vardety of plants in- finitely superior to these, of which I have myself occasionally made trial. I shall divide them into 3 classes, viz. 1st. 'J'he strong, spicy, and bal- samic plants, such as balm, pepper- mint, sage, and the like. 2d. The strongly aromatic flowers among which those of the rosa pim- pinellafolia (or the rose whose leaves rescmljlc those of the Burnet saxi- frage), and the woodroof or the aspenda odernta, L., deserve the first place, and far excel in flavour all the teas imported from China; and lastly, •'5d. The mild aromatic leaves and blossoms of trees and shrubs ; for in- stance, the blossoms of the lime tree and the black thorn, the leaves of the peach and almond trees, and particu- larly the first tender leaves of the ivhortle berries or the vaccinium myr~ tillus, L., which cannot be distin- guished from real tea when properly gathered and dried in the shade. After having pointed out the best substitutes for Indian tea, we cannot suppress our earnest w'ish that even these indigenous vegetables may not be abused by decocting them in too much water, which, when swallowed hot, must be detrimental to the sto- mach, the lungs, the nerves, and the whole human frame. This import- ant article cannot be better concluded than by quoting the prophetic words of an experienced physician. “ Tea,” says he, “ will induce a total change of constitution in the people of this country. Indeed it has gone a great way towards effecting that evil al- ready. A debility, and consequent irritabilit}' of fibre, are become so common that not only women but even men are affected with them. That class of diseases which, for want of a better name, we call nervous, has made almost a complete conquest of the one sex and is making hasty strides towards vanquishing the other.” And Dr. Buclnan emphati- cally observes, “ did women know the train of diseases induced by debi- lity, and how disagreeable these dis- eases render them to the other sex, they would shun tea as the most deadly poison ; no man can love a woman eaten up with vapours, or worn down with diseases arising from relaxation.” J'arioiis ways of making tea.—“ The Japanese reduce their tea to a fine ])owder by pounding it; they put certain portions of this into a tea cup, pour boiling water upon it, stir it up, and drink it as soon .as cool enough.” Duhiiison's method.—“ Put the tea into a kettle with cold water; cover it close, set it on the fire, and make it all but boil. When you see a sortTE 333 TE of white scum on the surface, take it from the fire; when the leaves sink it is ready ” “ The night before you wish to have tea ready for drinking, pour out as much cold water as yon wish to make tea; next morning pour off the clear liquor, and when yon wish to drink it make it warm.” See L’art du le- monadier,'' de Dubidson. Paris. The usual way, however, by infu- sion in boiling water, or water that has just ceased to boil, appears to be the most preferable mode. The “ Chinese put a drachm of tea to a pint of water, and frequently take the yolk of two new laid eggs, and beat them up with as much fine sugar as is sufficient for the tea, and stir all well together.’’—Sir Kenelm Dighjj’s Cookerij. London, 1669. TEAL.—This fowl is placed among the number of wild ducks.—See Duck. TEETH.—Small bones, the well known organs of mastication, fixed in the alveoli or sockets of the upper and lower jaw. In early infancy nature designs us for the softest aliment, so that the o^ums alone are then sufficient for the O . puqiose of mauducation ; but as we advance in life and require a different food, she wisely provides us with teeth, which are the hardest and whitest of our bones ; and at full maturity they usually amount to thirty-two in both jaws—namely, sixteen above and as many below. Their number, however, varies in different subjects, though seen to ex- ceed the above number, and rarely known to be fewer than twenty-eight. Every tooth is composed of its enamel and its internal bony substance; and each may be divided into two parts, viz., its body, or that part which appears above the gums ; and its fangs or root, which is fixed info the socket. 'I'lie teeth of each jaw arc commonly divided into three classes— the incisors or cutting teeth, the ca- nine, and the molarcs or grinders. 1. The incisors are the four teetli in the forepart of each jaw : they derive their name from the office they are made to perfoi'm in dividing ami cutting the food in the manner of a wedge. 2. The canine are the longest of all the teeth, and derive their name from a resemblance to a dog’s tusk. There is one of these teeth on one side of the incisors, so that there are two in each jaw. They are not calculated, like the incisoi's, for cutting or divid- ing, or for grinding the food, but ap- pear rather intended for laying hold of substances. Mi-. Hunter remarks of these teeth, that we may trace them in similarity of shape, situation, and use, from the most imperfect carnivorous animal, which is believed to be the human species, to the lion, which is the most perfectly carnivo- rous. 3. The molares or grinders, of which there are ten in each jaw, are so called, because, from their size and figure, they are calculated for grinding the food. The canine and incisors have only one fang; but the three last grinders in the under jaw have constantly two fangs, and the same teeth in the upper jaw three fangs. These fangs are sometimes divided into two points near their base, and each of these points has, probably, been occasion- ally considered as a distinct fang. The grinders likewise differ from each other in appearance. The two first on each side, which have very pro- perly been named biscuspid, or two pointed, from having a double point, seem to be of a middle nature be- tween tbe incisors find grinders ; they luive in general only one root, and the body of the tooth terminates in two points, of which the anterior one is highest, so Unit the tooth has in some measure the appearance of one of the canine. The two grinders ou each side beyond these are much larger. 'I'licir body forms almost a square with rounded angles; andTE TE 334 their grinding surface has commonly five grinding points or protuberances, two of which are on the inner and three on the outer part of the teeth : the last grinder is shorter and smaller than the rest, and from its coming through the gums later than the rest, and sometimes not appearing till late in life, is called dens sapien- tia, or tooth of wisdom ; on which the variation in the number of teeth usually depend. The teeth are subject to a variety of accidents and diseases. The gums necessarily become so affected as to cause them to fall out, and the teeth themselves are frequently rendered carious by causes which hitherto have notbeen satisfactorily e.xplained. The disease usually begins in the side of the tooth that is not e.xposed to pressure, and gradually advances till an opening is made in the cavity, when the tooth is liable to consider- able pain from the exposure of the nerve to the influence of the air. Independent of these accidental means by which the teeth are occa- sionally affected, old age seldom fails to bring with it certain and natural causes for their removal. The sock- ets fill up, and the teeth consequently fall out; the gums then no longer meet in the forepart of the mouth, the chin projects forwards, and the face being rendered much shorter, the entire jrhysiognomy appears consider- ably altered. The formation and structure of the human teeth sufliciently indicate their use. It is from these circumstances that men may be considered as par- taking of the dift'erent classes of ani- mals; and as approaching more to the nature of the carnivorous than the herbivorous tribe, though upon the whole formed for a mixed aliment, and fitted equally to live upon flesh and vegetables. Those therefore who would confine a man entirely to vegetable aliment do not ajipear to have studied nature. As the grinders arc the last teeth that are formed, so are they usually the first that fall out —indicating, as it would appear, that the same kind of food is required in old age as in infancy. The teeth serve also another and secondary purpose besides their use in mastica- tion ; that is, they essentially assist in the articulation of the voice. Va- rious dentrifices are used in order to preserve the teeth, purify the breath, cleanse the interior of the mouth, and to resist the destruction of the enamel,—many of which are besides excellent correctors of a scorbutic tendency in the gums. An elegant preparation of this kind is, Smith’s Antiseptic Dentrifice, prepared at Mr. Chalk’s, No. 47, Minories. Its properties have been highly extolled, and it is in high repute as an accom- paniment to the toilette. Charcoal, myrrh, cream of tartar, Peruvian bark, have likewise considerable claims as antiseptic tooth powders, and with which people in general are bv no means unacquainted. 'fE M PE IIA MENT.—The pecu- liar constitution of the humours. Temperaments have been vaidously distinguished ; the division most ge- nerally received is that of Hippo- crates ; namely, into the sanguineous, phlegmatic, choleric, and melancholic; founded on the supposition that the human body contains four humours very dilferent with respect to heat, cold, moisture, and dryness, that is, blood, phlegm, yellow bile, black bile; which several humours are frequently brought up in vomiting and discharg- ed per (intnn ;iilso that health consists in a due mixture of these four hu- mours, and di.scase is the consequence of a superfluity of any of them. But Galen, always partial to subtleties and divisions, has reckoned up nine kinds of constitutions, namely, four simple, the hot, the cold, the moist, and the dry; the cold and moist, the cold and dry ; four confirmed—the hot and moist, the hot and dry, the cold and moist, the cold and dry ; and one moderate healthy temperament, con-335 TE TE sisting in a mediocrity, inclining to no extreme. The division of Hippo- crates being the most simple, is that which is generally preferred and best understood. It is not easy, however, in every instance, to distinguish these various constitutions; but any person capable of reflection, &c. may, by ob- servation and experience, discover the temperament of which he himself principally, partakes; consequently, by proper precautions guard against the inconvenience it may be exposed to. As regards these temperaments it follows that there can he no such thing invented by man as an universal remedy to prevent or cure all kinds of diseases; because that which would agree with the hot must disagree with the cold. Again, we cannot with certainty vouch for any particular kind of food or medicine that will agree with this or that individual until we are acquainted with his particular temperament; and consequently that it is absurd to prescribe a method of diet or physic for any man without such knowledge. TEMPER.^TURE. — A definite degree of sensible heat as measured by the thermometer. The power of producing cold is very limited still, compared with that of e.xciting heat. Hitherto no one has been able to sink the temperature of any substance below 90° or 120° below the freezing point of water; but an air furnace was constructed by Mr. Wedgwood, in winch he raised a heat equal to 185 degrees of his pyrometer, or 2512° of Fahrenheit; and by means of oxygen gas more intense heats than even this have been produced. The temperature at which vapours rise with sufficient force for causing the phenomena of ebullition, is called the boiling point. The heat recpiisite for this effect varies with the nature of the fluid. Sulphuric a3thcr boils at ----- 90° F. Alcohol - - - - 173° Pure water - - 212° White oil of turpentine must be raised to 310 and Mercury - - - - 000 before either exhibits marks of boiling. The boiling point of the same liquid is constant, so long as the necessary conditions are preserved, although liable to be affected by several cir- cumstances. The nature of the ves- sel has some influence upon it; Sir Gay-Lussac observed that pure water boils precisely at 212° F. in a metal- lic vessel; and at 214 in one of glass. The circumstance, however, which has the greatest influence over the boiling point of fluids, is the vacation of pressure. All bodies upon the earth are constantly exposed to con- siderable pressure. Liquids are ex- posed to this pressure as well as solids, and their tendency to take the form of vapour is very much coun- teracted by it. And as the atmo- spheric pressure is variable, it follows that the boiling point of liquids must vary also. The influence of the atmosphere over the boiling point, is best shewn by removing its pressure altogether. The late Professor Robinson, found that fluids boil in vacuo, at a tem- perature 140° lower than in the oi)en air.—(H'o/laslon, P/iil. Truns. 1817). Thus, water boils at 70°F.; alcohol 30° F.; and ellier 44° F. This ]irovcs that a liquid is not ne- cessarily hot because it boils. The heat of the hand is sufficient to make water boil in vacuo, as exem- plified by the common pulse glass; and ether, under the same circum- stances, will enter into ebullition, though its temperature be low enough for freezing mercury.—See Boilinrj. Tltermomeler. T E M P E R A'l’U RE, RFi DUC'f I ON OF.—Ry a moderate reduction of temperature, vital and chemical ac- tion arc retarded, by reducing to a state capable of freezing the juices and fluids of organised bodies, by destroying vitality, and coverting the water present into ice, and thusTE TH 33G removing a condition essential to chemical action. Many vegetables, and some animal substances, such as eggs, possess what is termed latent life, and as long as this is not anni- hilated, they resist fermentation. A very low temperature destro)'s this principle, while a higher one calls it into action; after wliich, it cannot be suspended without being destroy- ed altogether, and thus it is longest preserved in a temperature just a little higher than the former. An egg that has been frozen is killed, and soon after it is thaw'ed, rots. On the other hand, by incubation, or an equal degree of heat, the life of the chick becomes active, and cannot again be checked with impunity; while, at a modei'ate low tempera- ture, the latent life of an egg conti- nues a great length of time, ready to be excited into action when placed in favourable circumstances, and resisting the natural tendency to chemical change. The same obser- vation nearly applies to vegetables. Succulent roots, ibr instance, can be long preserved in a moderate low temperature, hut if it be raised, they begin to shoot; or if it be reduced too much, they die and soon rot.— See Heat. Cold, Preservative ef- fects of. TENCH.—There are two kinds of tench. The sea tench {Merida sen tinea marina) which is not used as food; and the other a fresh water fish well known. It varies in size— some of them are as large as carp, having two small stones in their heads, to which various medicinal pi'operties were ascribed by the ancients. The tench affords toler- ably good nourishment; although condemned by many of tlie ancient physicians, on account of its viscous and excremcnlitious juices. Lemcry, although he does not consider it to be very wholesome, does not, how- ever, believe it to Ire pernicious, having observed no bad effects from its use. It agrees at all times with young bilious people who have a good stomach, provided it be used in moderation. It prefers muddy and standing waters to such as are clear and rapid ; consequently is met with chiefly in pools, lakes, and marshes, rather than in rivers, in which, nevertheless, they are some- times found, but more especiall)’ in those that are full of mud and dirt, on which they feed; and hence the I'eason why they have been disap- proved of. Authors inform us, that there is such a particular partiality existing between the tench and the pike, that notwithstanding the latter devours eveiy other kind that comes in his way, it spares b}' some unac- countable forbearance the tench.* THERMOMEfER.—An instru- ment to shew the relative heat of bodies. Fahrenheit’s thermometer is that chiefly used in England.—(See Zero. It consists of a glass tube, con- taining a portion of mercury, with a graduated plate annexed to it. The tube is hermetically sealed, to preserve the metal from the pressure of the atmosphere. The manner in which a thermometer is affected by the temperature of bodies, is as follows : —When this instrument is brought in contact with any substance, the mercury expands or contracts, till it acquires the same temperature; and the height at which the mercury then stands in the tube, indicates the e.\- act temperature of the substance to which it has been applied. The thermometer docs not shew the quan- tity of caloric or principle of heat in all bodies, such, for instance, ns that which is latent, or chemically com- bined with any body; as in fluids, which rcaptire a certain portion of * 'fins fish is called in Latin, tinea, quasi tincta ; and indeed it has a colour distinct enough from most other fishes, liy some it has been called piscis igno- bilis, vilis, and pauperiorum cibus; ami Ausonius calls it vulgi solatium, which denotes the little value put upon it by the ancients.337 TH Til caloric to keep them in a state of fluidity, such portion is not indicated by the thermometer. The property called temperature of bodies, does not shew the measui-e of their caloric, but merely the degree of dilatation which the caloric they contain in a disengaged state, is capable of pro- ducing in the substance of which the thermometers are formed. Every substance requires its own quantity of caloric to raise it to a given tempei-ature ; but when raised to that temperature, every further degree of caloric is precisely shewn by the thermometer. The caloric of fluidity is that portion of heat which is a necessary part of fluids; though different fluids require dif- ferent portions of it to preserve them in a fluid state. All fluids operate upon the thermometer in the same manner as solids; for whatever sen- sible caloric may be contained in any liquid, that portion is accurately shewn by the thermometer. Nature is uniform in all her results; for, if a thennometer be ever so often plunged into boiling water, it will always stand at the same point, pro- vided the pressure of the atmosphere be the same. Melting snow will always shew the same degree upon the thennometer, in whatever state the atmosphere may be. As regards the range and regula- tion of themselves, that of Fahrenheit between the freezing and boiling points of water is divided into 180°; and as the greatest possible degree of cold, was supposed to be that produced by mixing snow and mu- riate of soda, that was made the zero—thus the freezing point became 32°, and the boiling j)oint 212°. The centigrade thermometer of modern temperature, ])laces the zero at the freezing point, and divides the range between it and the boiling jioint into 100°. This has long been used in Sweden, under the name of Celsus’s thermometer. Reaumur’s thermo- meter, formerly used in France, divides the space between the freez- ing and boiling of water into 80° ; and, like the centigrade thermo- meter, places the zero at the freezing point. De Lisle’s thermometer is used in Russia. The graduation commences at the boiling point, and increases towards the freezing point 1.50°. In Wedgewood’s pyrometer, the zero corresponds with 1077° of Fahrenheit’s, each degree of which is equal to 130° Fahrenheit. There- fore 180° F. = 100° C.=80°R. = 150 De L, = 13-18ths W.—See Tempera- ture. THIRST.—The sense of hunger is well known to be seated in the stomach (see Hunger); that of thirst in the mouth and fauces. It is a feeling of a still more imperious kind than hunger; particularly in hot climates, or when any of the watery secretions are increased. It is one of the most distressing symptoms of fevers and inflammatory complaints, especially in inflammation of the stomach. Hot spices, saline sub- stances, and, more particularly, com- mon salt, increase it, as do all causes augmenting the different secretions. The end of drinking, therefore, would appear to be to repair the losses sus- tained in the fluids. If thirst be not appeased, a general irritation comes on; the sensation of dryness in the mouth and fauces augments, accom- panied with a burning feel and an accelerated pulse. Although thirst appears at first very oppressive, drink is by no means so necessary to the continuance of the life of every ani- mal, as solid food. Several species of warm-blooded animals, as parrots, quails, mice, and others, can subsist without drinking; and individuals of the human race have been known, by dint of perseverance, to conquer the sensation of thirst: and Sir George Raker has recorded a case in the 'I'ransactions of the College of Physicians, of a man who lived in a state of perfect health for many years, without drinking. 2 GTH 338 TH Thirst and hunger are the two incentives which, when combined, promote the common purpose of rendering the animal attentive to its own preservation. When their call is obeyed, they afford a source of pleasure ; as much as when they are neglected or resisted, they are a cause of great and even fatal suffer- ing : but in the production of these two very opposite results, pleasure and pain, thirst is far more energetic and intense than hunger. Tlie quick- ness with which the taking of drink appeases the first of these sensations, contrasted with the slowness with which solid food is taken into the stomach, may, perhaps, in some measure tend to explain the really greater enjoyment generally felt in quenching thirst than in satisfying hunger.—{Dr. Mason Goode, vo\. 1, p. 132). Himger onAthir.st axe mere .sensations, sensations of the stomach, and they seem really to be incompa- tible with one another; for a thirsty animal is not hungry. Hunger does not produce thirst; and an animal does not drink till it has digested its food. People will say otherwise; they will say, I have seen a cow drink the moment she began to eat. Well, so they may, for that is just the time when she should drink; the stomach is then empty, and the water that she then drinks does not remain above what the cow may have just at that instant ate, but it jiasses down into the stomach, and fills the paunch, enters into and fills uj) the cooking cavities, as I may call them. People feel hungry when their stomach is full; this you will frequently find to be the case. A healtby young man, after eating a pound of beef steaks, and after having washed them down with a good (juantity of strong drink, will bo as hungry as if he had never seen the beef steaks, and ready to swallow a barrel ol oysters. There are ])ooplc who oat continually, and are never satislied but when they are eating. Abernethg's Lectures, p. 352. This desire of always eating is a morbid sensation; which may be allayed by putting the feet in cold water; as was the case of a woman in Bartholomew Hospital, who was eternally eating. {Vide Op. Citat.) E.xtreme thirst is a morbid sensation; and this morbid sensation must be first cured before you have any con- trol over the immoderate thirst.—See Thirst, excessive. The principal intention for which thirst and hunger are instituted being the nourishment of the body, the importance of the latter sensation is sometimes represented as more in- tense and more evident than that of the first. Solid food gives out the essential parts of the blood, and the utility of drinks, in relation to this fiuid, is not always so manifest. Hunger and thirst differ strikingly from one another in the time and situation of their development, as well as in their local and general phenomena. Contrasted with hunger, thirst comes on suddenly, and if it be not quenched, it creates a state of suffering—real pain. It is not at all like what, in relation to hunger, is called an appetite, which enters into the class of agreeable sensations. In tbirst, the mouth, and especially the throat, are affected; in hunger, the stomach is the seat of uneasiness. Thirst, even when not very ardent, is accompanied with a true local and general excitement, while hunger, if at all protracted, occasions chilliness, ])alcness, and a disposition to faint- ness. The differences between hunger and thirst, when long continued, and assuming the character of diseases, or rather between the effects of a total abstinence from drink, and those of a complete abstinence from solid food, are still more strongly marked. Death, which is the end of unappeased hunger .and thirst, takes ))lacc much sooner from thirst, and the more so, because no remission en.sucs in the cruel and progressive c.ause of its symptoms. Death, from want of solid aliment, always ap-TH TH 339 proaches more tardily, and its phe- nomena, characterised by irregular paroxysms, are attended with remis- sions of greater or less continuance. One of the first effects of the gene- rality of diseases is to increase thirst, and to make the patient require a larger proportion of drink, while the appetite is more or less completely annihilated, and a necessity for ab- stinence produced. Through the pro- gress of diseases, while thirst con- tinues, the appetite cannot retuni, and even if it were, in this state of things, it would only be a fallacious indication of a fictitious want, that could not, with safety, be gratified. The decline of the disease, and the approach to a state of convalescence, denoted by the gradual diminution of the thirst, are the surest indications of the return of the appetite. And as regards the therapeutic means, it is equally a fact, that drinks which extinguish or allay thirst, create ap- petite. Certain medicines also, par- ticularly antispasmodics and opium, which are known to diminish hun- ger, excite a good deal of thirst, and lastly, all generous alcoholic wines, which allay or delude the sense of hunger, have, at the same time, an opposite effect upon the sensation of thirst. THIRST, EXCESSIVE. —Con- stant craving of drink, accompanied with a sense of dryness in the mouth and throat. Simple thirst is a natural feeling; immoderate orinextinguishahle thirst the result of some diseased action, or a symptom of some other complaint, or some peculiar state of the body, the removal of which alone will effect a cure. As a symptom, immoderate thirst is chiefly present in the hot fit of inflammatory fevers, in dropsy, dysentery, diarrhoea, diabetes, and other discharges. It is, also, fre- quently excited in wet-nurses, as soon as the child takes hold of the nipple; but perhaps is not only more powerfully excited, but also more intolerable under the torture inflicted to extort a confession of guilt, in which case it is said to form the worst part of the punishment. The intense agony brought on by immo- derate thirst, the consequence of bodily suffering, is well delineated in the heart-rending description of the fatal event that took place in the black-hole at Calcutta; see Annual Register, 1758. The most grateful palliatives to immoderate thirst are the vegetable acids, especially the ascescent fruits, and a decoction of sorrel leaves, slightly inspissated with gum arabic, and sweetened to the taste. Liquo- rice root, which among the Greeks held so high a reputation as a slaker of thirst, as to be designated the '• thirst extinguisher,” has little ox- no effect. And, as suggested by Di-. Cullen, it is most probably ti-ue, that it only acts in this manner -,vhen the root is well chewed, by which means the salivai-y glands become stimu- lated, and yield a moi-e copious secre- tion, which has the effect ofmoistening the fauces, and consequently, of allaying the thirst. THIRST, MORBID. —Tlie de- sire for drinking excessive, or im- paired. As regai-ds the immediate cause of thirst, many vague hypo- theses have been suggested; the least plausible of which ai-e here passed over in silence. By some, thirst is imputed to the di-yiiess of the nerv- ous papillae of the pharynx, arising from a diminution of the salivary and mucous secretions. Yet in a variety of cases, thirst exists quite independ- ently of a want of moistme in the pharynx; while suclx bevei-ages as are calculated to prevent the dry state of that organ, do not always succeed in quenching thii-st; and, in many instances, the best means of assuag- ing it, whatever may be its violence, are certain general therapeutic plans, which cannot possibly operate by moistening the pharynx, or its nerves. In thirst, there is, pei-haps, alwaysTII 340 TH a sense of dryness in the fauces ; and yet dryness of this organ does not appear to be the cause of tliirst; the intensity, at least, of the feeling, does not appear to depend on the inten- sity of the dryness : for there is some- times hut little thirst, where the tongue to its very roots is covered with a thick and dry crust, as in the height of continued fevers ; while it is often intense under the influence of violent passions, and intolerable on a surcharged stomach, while the tongue and fauces are not afiected whatever. Other physiologists have attributed the cause of thirst to a diminution of the aqueous part of the blood. Bi- chat inclined to this theory, and con- jectured that the introduction of water into the veins would, by its mi-ving with the venous blood, have the eflect of quenching thirst in the same manner as drink taken in the ordinary way. This conjecture is now ascertained to be a fact. Baron Dupuytren, by injecting water, milk, whey, and other fluids into the veins, frequently appeased the thirst of animals subjected to experiment, and long exposed to a burning sun. By varying these experiments with liquids known to be agreeable or un- pleasant to dogs, he found tliat the animals derived from tliese liquids so employed, the same sensation of taste as if they had been given by the mouth. In fine, wlicn milk was thrown into the jugular veins of dogs, they made a lapping motion witli their tongues, just as if they were taking the milk uj) with them. Some analogous experiments were made by Ortila, who had fre(iuent occasion to tic the gullet of dogs, in order to pre- vent the expulsion of the poisons wliich they had been made to swallow. In order to aj)))ease the thirst, excited by the fever resulting from the ex- tensive wound in their necks, ho injected waterinto their jugular veins. By Ibis method of (pienching thirst, the only one practicable while the gullet was tied, which was practised in a great munber of instances, he always succeeded in affording imme- diate relief. The blood of animals which had long been in a thirsting state, was also submitted to distilla- tion, and it was found that the dimi- nution of its watery part was always in proportion to the length of their abstinence from drink. — See Diet, dcs Sciences Med. tom. ii, p. 4G9. The ordinary modes of quenching the agonizing sensations of thirst and hunger are well known to be eating and drinking, yet when these cannot be used, other means are substituted. For instance, violent pressure against the coats of the stomach, whether e.xternally or internallv, is well known to take oft’ the gnawing sensation of hunger ; and stimulating tlie fauces, to take oft’ the burning faintness of thirst. It is on this last principle, that chewing a mouthful of hay alone, or simply moistened with water, proves so refreshing to a tired horse, and is found so serviceable, when we dare not allow him, during a long day’s journey, to quench his thirst in the natural way. Savages and wild beasts are equally sensible of the benefit to be derived from pressure during hunger, and adopt it on all convenient occasions where no oppor- tunity is aftorded them of assuaging it in the usual way. The maris or pangolin, an animal that swallows its fo'ad whole, will swallow coals, stones, or any other substances, if it cannot obtain nutriment; not that its instinct deceives it, but for the pmqjose of ac(iuiring such a |)rcssure as may blunt the sense of hunger which it finds intolerable, .\lmost alt car- nivorous animals pursue the same plan; and a miscellaneous mass of pieces of coal, stone, slate, and earth, or other hard materials, is often met with in the stomach of ostriches, cassowaries, and even toads. 'I’ho inhabitant of Kamschatka secures the same object by swallowing saw- dust ; and some of the northernTH 341 TH Asiatic tribes, by a board placed on the region of the stomach, and rudely laced behind with cords, drawn tighter and tighter according to the urgency of the sensation. At home, a similar e.\pedient is often resorted to by binding a handkerchief round the region of the stomach. It is not impossible, therefore, for a time, to overcome these natural sen- sations without the natural means; and it is equally known that the passions of the mind have as strong an influence ov'er both hunger and thirst as any of the substitutes above adverted to.—See Hunger, S^-c. THISTLE {Carduus Marianus). The lady’s, or dappled thistle.—Tlie young stalk, about the month of May, peeled and soaked in water, boiled or raw, is a very wholesome salad, eaten with the usual condiments. Some eat them sodden in broth, or baked in pies like artichokes; others prefer the tender stalks boiled or fried. The leaves when young sur- pass when boiled the finest cabbage, and in that state are diuretic. THORN APPLE {Datura Stra- monium).—Numerous cases are on record of the poisonous effects of tlie leaves and seeds of this plant. When some of the British troops were under Sir J. St. Clair. (17G5) in the vici- nity of Elizabeth town, New Jersey, three of the soldiers collected a quan- tity which they mistook for iambs uarters (cbenopodium album), and ressed and ate it. One of them beccame furious and ran about like a madman. The second was seized with genuine tetanus or universal cramp, and died. The stramonium was some years since used to a con- siderable extent in asthma, and there is reason to believe, that in some cases it proved deleterious. It is so violent, that it ought to be ba- nished from practice till at least ex- periments have shewn its utility.— See Culinart/ Poi.ions. TIIO RNBACK. —{Raia clavata). A well-known salt water fish. It has a good taste, and is much used as food. It is rather hard of digestion, IS apt to generate wind, and to pro- duce heavy and gross humours; and if eaten before it lie some time it will be attended more or less with the above efiects. There are several kinds of thorn- backs, some of which have their backs all over diversified with white spots like stars ; though on others they are only seen on the tail. A thornback ought to be chosen when they are plump and tender; and they should be some time before they are cooked. It breeds abundantly, and there is never any lack of it in the market. It is salted in some places and dried in the sun or by means of fire. When well dried it will keep a long time.— See Raia. THYME, {Thymus Vulgaris).— There are two species of tlijune cul- tivated for culinary purposes—the common and the lemon thyme. The common or garden thyme (Thymus Vulgaris, L.), is a low evergreen under shrub, a native of Spain and Italy, and cultivated in this country since 1548, and probably long be- fore. It seldom rises above a foot high, has smaller flowers than the common noted thyme, and is fine and delicate in its flavour. There are two varieties of the broad .and n,arrow Ic.aved, besides the varie- gated, grown for orn,ament. The indigenous, spicey, and b.alsamic herbs, such as thyme, sage, parsley, marjoram, cannot be too much re- commended for culinary use, espe- cially in broths; as they are well calculated, by their aromatic virtues, to assist the digestion of many strong articles of food, which daily cover our tables, and these excellent herbs are not liable to the adulterations with which most of the foreign spices are vitiated. It possesses nearly the same virtues as marjoram and produces the same effects. The powers ascribed to this herb by the old physicians are, that it 2 c 2TO TO 342 strengtliens the brain, and attenuates and ravifies the viscous humours. It is good in asthmas, creates an appetite, assists digestion, expels wind, and resists poison. Its too fre- quent use puts the humour into too violent an agitation. It is good in cold weather, for old people,for phlegmatic habits, and weak stomachs. Wild thyme, or the common thyme, contains less essential oil, and is much milder than the garden thyme. Although neglected, it has considerable powers as a gentle sti- mulant and diaphoretic. It recovers the head-ach from intoxication.— Half an ounce of the leaves may be infused in eight ounces of water, and taken during twenty-four hours. Thyme possesses nearly the same virtues as marjoram, and produces the same effects. The powers as- cribed to this herb by the old physi- cians are, that it strengthens the brain, and attenuates and rarities the viscous humours. It is good in asthma; creates an appetite; assists digestion; expels wind, and resists poison. Its too frequent use, say the)’’, puts the humours into too violent agitation. It is good in cold weather for old people, for phleg- matic habits, and weak stomachs. The young leaves and tops of the lemon thyme {T. Cilnodorus, P. S.) are used in soups, stuHings, and sauces. For these j)urposes, the broad-leaved common is generally preferred; hut the flavour of the yellow is much liked in peculiar dishes. TOBACCO.—This plant was not known in Europe till after the disco- very of .Vmeriea by the Sj)aniards, and was first imported about the year l.'iGO. It received its name from Tobacco, a ])rovince of Yucatan, in New Spain, North America. It was brought into England in the reign of (i. Elizabeth, and it is supposed, cither by Sir Francis Drake or Sir Walter Ualeigh. 'I'lic leaves of tobacco have a strong: O disagreeable smell, a very burning taste ; distilled in a retort, without addition, they yield an acid, empy- reumatic, poisonous oil. They give out their acrid matter both to water and spirit, but most perfectly to the latter. The several sorts of tobacco imported from abroad are stronger in taste than that of our own growth, and the extracts made from them much more fiery, but in less quan- tity. Taken internally, even in a small dose, or decoctions used of it as a clyster (as in strangulated her- nia) tobacco proves violently emetic and cathartic, occasions extreme anxiety, vertigoes, stupors, and dis- orders of the senses. In all cases where it is used medicinally much caution is necessary. I'he most fre- quent adoption is by way of snuff, as a sternutatory, or as a masticatory, by chewing it in the mouth, or by smoking it in a pipe.—See Smoking, and Snuff. Armurath IV., emperor of the Turks, the grand duke of .Muscovy, and the emperor of Persia, prohibited the use of tobacco in their states : and our James I. wrote a treatise ex- pressly against it, entitled “ A Coun- terblaste to Tobacco.” By a Bull of Pope Urban \'1II. such are ex- communicated as take tobacco in churches. The smoke of tobacco received by the anus is said to be of singular effi- cacy in obstinate constipations of the bowels. Hoffman observes that horses have often boon relieved by this re- medy, but in the human subject it has been rarely tried; and on the same authority some of the common ])eoplc who laboured under excruciat- ing ])ains of the intestines, have been freed in an instant from all pain by swallowing the smoko. Both the de- coctions and the smoke are not unfre- quently injected in cases of incar- cerated hernia, and often with suc- cess. The smoke thus applied is recommended as one of the principal means for the revival of persons ap-343 TO TR parently dead from drowning or other sudden causes; though it is now disused in these cases, as, from its narcotic power, being prejudicial. Tobacco is sometimes employed ex- ternally in unguents and lotions, for clearing foul ulcers in cattle, destroy- ing cutaneous insects, &c.; it appears to be destructive to almost all kinds of insects, to those produced on vegetables as well as on animals. A strong decoction of the stalks, with shai’p-pointed dock and alum, is said to be of good service used externally in cutaneous distempers; especially the itch: some boil them for that purpose in urine. The same decoc- tion is said to be infallible in curing the mange in dogs. Tobacco beat into a mash with vinegar or brandy, and laid on the stomach, has some- times good effects in removing hard tumours of the hypochondria. We have the history of two cures made by such applications in the Edinh. Med. Essays, vol. ii. p. 41. The juice of this plant is said to be good against ulcers and mortifications. Some caution, however, is requisite even in the external uses of tobacco, particularly in solutions of contin- uity ; as there are instances of its being thus transmitted to the blood so as to produce violent effects. A drop or two of the expressed oil, put on the tongue of a cat produces vio- lent convulsions and even death itself in the space of a minute; yet the same oil used on lint, and applied to the teeth has relieved the toothach : though it must be to those that have been used to tobacco, otherwise great sickness, retching, vomiting, &c. happen, when it is thus applied ; and even in no case is the internal use of it warranted in ordinary practice. TORTOISE {Tesludo—from testa, a shell, because it is covered with a shell. The name of a genus of animals, of the class amphihia, and order of reptiles).—The land tortoise is found in mountains, forests, woods, fields, and gardens. It lives upon fruits and herbs, worms, snails, and other insects. It may also be fed in houses with bran and flour. They hide themselves in winter time in caves and crevices, like the serpent tribe. The flesh of the tortoise is very good, and resembles veal. It seems rather strange, that Galen, and others who have treated of foods, should say nothing of this animal. Their flesh is nourishing and solid food; but, as it is hard and viscous, it ought to be well boiled before it be brought to the table; and well seasoned with such things as may assist digestion. There are several kinds of tortoises in reference to the places where they live : those found on land, are called land tortoises—others are sea-tor- toises ; a third fresh-water ones, and a fourth kind live in muddy places. Most of them are amphibious; and all possess nearly the same flavour and nutriment. It agrees at all times with young persons of a hot and bilious constitution, with those that are used to much exercise, and that have a good stomach.* TOUMER, or TUM. — In the culinary art to stir a sauce ; also to pare and cut roots, vegetables, and fruits neatly. 'I’OURTE.—A puff paste pie. TR AININ G, G Y M N A STIC.t— Athletic exercises, judiciously adapted * Pliny says, there are sea-tortoises in tlie Indies so large, that the shells of each of them are hig enough to cover small houses, and to make liarks of, with which the people of lliese countries sail into the islands of the red sea. Galen, and other ancient authors, who have treated ol foods, make no mention of this animal. t The word gymnastic is derived from the Greek ’'/vpi'ov, which means 7udced, performed by men nakcil, in the public games. The term is applied to a method of curing diseases by exercise, in that part of physic which treats of the rules that are to be observed in all sorts344 TR TR to diffevent constitutions, situations, and ages, in which the Greeks, from whom gymnastic exercises are de- rived, attained an extraordinary de- gree of perfection. The great ad- vantage of a course of bodily exercise cannot be disputed, when it is con- sidered how many individuals meet with a premature grave from tvant of activity, motion, and nervous energy, though their organisation may in no respect be deficient. Besides, a body inured to frequent and laborious ex- ercise, will not be easily affected by external causes of disease, being se- cured, as it were, by a coat of mail, against the attacks of many acute disorders. The Greeks attempted to cure diseases in their first stages, or at least to arrest their progress, by the systematic institution of gym- nastic exercises. They caused the patient to move in various postures, applied gentle friction to the whole surface of the body, and used a variety of methods to overcome the languor of the muscles, by rousing the muscular energy. In relaxed and emaciated individuals, whose organisation is deficient in the proper of e.xercises for the preservation of health. This is said to have been invented by one Ilerodicus, born at Salymbra, a city of Thrace, or, as some say, at Leu- tini, in Sicily, lie was first master of an academy, where young gentlemen came to learn warlike and manly e.ver- cises, and observing them to be very liealthful on that account, he made ex- ercise become an art, in reference to the recovering of men out of diseases, as well as preserving tliem from them, and called it gymnastics, which he made a great part of his practice. But Hippo- crates, who was Ids scholar, blames Idm sometimes for his evee.sses with this view ; and I’lato exclaims against him with some warmth, for enjoining his patients to walk from Athens to Megara, which is about twenty-five ndles, and to come home on foot as they went, as soon as ever they hud but touched tlie walls of tire city.—Hooper's ^fcdical Dic- tionary. degree of tone or elasticity, this method must be allowed to possess great advantages, though it will not admit of being applied indiscrimi- nately to all diseases. All who wish for health, vigour, and a long and happy life, will study the art of gymnastic training, by suitable exercises, and a diet best adapted to constitution; and as Cap- tain Barclay’s work on Training is not only e.xpensive, but out of print, and as there is no book on this im- portant science to be had at a mode- rate charge, we shall avail ourselves of the present opportunity to throw together some improved observations on the subject, and their application to the strengthening of nervous and debilitated constitutions, as well as for the purposes of gymnastic enter- prises. Training, according to the method now established, consists in a series of e.xercises and regimen, particularly' adapted for the purpose of gaining additional strength, in order to undertake any' Herculean feat, as running, walking, boxing and the like. It was known to the an- cients, who paid considerable atten- tion to the means of augmenting corporeal vigour and activity', and accordingly, among the Greeks and Romans, certain rules of regimen were prescribed to the candidates for gymnastic celebrity. We are not, however, in possession of any' de- tailed account of the particular kind of diet in use among the Greeks previously' to the solemn contest at the public games, although we are assured that the strictest temperance, sobriety, and regularity' in living were indispensably' requisite. The candidates, at the same time, were subjected to daily exercise in the Gymiiasitim for ten months, which, with the prescribed regimen, consti- tuted the preparatory course of train- ing adopted by the .Athletae of ancient Greece. Among the Romans, the exercises of the Palevstra degenerated from the rank of a liberal art, and315 TR TR became a profession winch was em- braced only by the lowest of man- kind. The exhibitions of the gla- diators were bloody and ferocious spectacles, which evinced the bar- barous taste of the age. The com- batants, however, were regularly trained by proper exercise, and a strict observance of regimen. In the more early stages, their diet consisted of dried figs, new cheese, and boiled grain. But afterwards animal food was introduced, as a part of the ath- letic regimen, and the preference was given to pork, which, Galen asserts, contains more real nutriment than the flesh of any other animal used as food—a fact which, he adds, is de- cidedly proved by the example of the Athlette, who, if they lived but for one day on any other kind of food, found their vigour manifestly im- paired the next. The preference, however, that was given by the an- cients to pork does not con-espond with the practice of modern trainees, who entirely reject it in their regi- men, though in the manner of pre- paring their food they exactly agree, roaxlimj or broiling being preferred to boiling by both, and bread unfer- menled, to that prepared by leaven. A very small (juantity of fluid was allowed, and this was principally water. When the daily exercises of the ancient Athletm were finished, they were refreshed by immersion in a tepid bath, where the scurf, pus- tules, or other unctuous or clammy exudations and adhesions were re- moved from the skin by the use of the strggil* The skin was then di- ligently rubbed dry, and again anointed with oil. If thirsty, they • An instrument used to scrape off the sweat during the gymnastic exercises of the ancients, and in their baths. Strigils were made of rnetal, horn, or ivory, and were curved. Some were made of linen, thougli coarse clotlis may he advanta- geously adopted for it with the same intention. were permitted to drink a small quan- tity of warm water. They then took their principal meal, after which they used no more exercise that day. They went occasionally into the cold bath in the morning. They were permitted to sleep as many hours as they chose, and great increase of vigour, as well as of bulk, was sup- posed to be derived from long conti- nued and sound repose. Previously to entering on this regimen, they were subjected to the evacuating process, by means of emetics, which they preferred to j)urgatives. The sexual intercourse was strictly inter- dicted, and “ to exercise their pa- tience, and accustom them to endure pain without flinching, they were occasionally flogged on the back with the branches of a kind of rhododen- dron, f till the blood flowed pretty plentifully. By diminishing the quantity of the circulating fluid, this rough kind of cupping xvas also con- sidered as salutary in obviating the tendency to plethora, to which they were peculiarly liable.” Pure and salubrious air was deemed an indis- pensable auxiliary, and accordingly, the principal schools of the Roman AthletBB were established in Capua and Ravenna, the most beautiful places in all Italy. The mode of training for strength and address practised by the ancients, hears some resemblance to that now ado])ted by the moderns. But as modes of living, climate, and habits of life were somewhat different to those of the present age, the treat- ment now rccpiired to produce the same elfects admits of variation, of which the following constitute the principal points to he attended to :— The first operation consists in clearing the stomach and bowels of all ob- structing and unwholesome suh- t The name of a genus of plants in the l.innncan system, so called because its flowers resemble the rose. Class Dccandria, order Monoggnia,346 TR TR stances, and to bring the organs of digestion into a healthy state; for if this be not premised, the subsequent food and exercise will only be thrown away, and the person will never gain in strength. For this purpose, it is the practice of modern trainers, as it was that of the Athletae of Greece and Rome, first to give an emetic. John Smith, of Yorkshire, gave, as an emetic, twenty grains of ipeca- cuan with one grain of tartar emetic, and this is a very good form. Smith’s practice of taking blood from the arm in plethoric habits, is not so much approved of, as blood-letting has a tendency to produce fat, and it is not, on that account, followed by other trainers ; for all appearance of fat is injurious to perfect vigour, and produces oppression of the lungs. Such persons, therefore, who have been properly trained till they are in high athletic condition, have no fat. The same is true of trained race-horses and game-cocks; for when any of these has been killed by accident, while at the top of their condition, not a particle of fat has been found in their bodies, making allowarrce, of course, for the socket of the eye, and other parts, where there is always less or more natural fat, even in the leanest individual. This emetic plan ought, we are of opinion, to be much more frequently used than it is, both in training and in common life; as it not only clears the stomach of stagnant and ofiensive matters, but it likewise clears the lungs of phlegm, and the pores of the skin of all ohstruction, while it also strengthens the stomtich by re- lie ving it of an oppressive load. It has, we believe, fallen into disuse cliielly from the reluctance of people to the disagreeable operation. * A small bleeiling, ami subsequently a piirgalir c, to prerede the emetic, would reilaiidy be the safest practice. Indeed tile luopiiety of emetics at all is very questionable in training. Ed. A purgative is given a day or two after the emetic, in order to unload the bowels. The medicine chiefly used by Mr. Jackson and other cele- brated trainers, is from one to two ounces of Glauber’s salts; the same dose to be repeated three times at the interval of two days. Epsom salts might be preferable, as they are milder in their operation, and do not so much irritate (he bowels. Calomel, or the milder preparation of the blue pill would form here a good fore- runner to the salts, by being taken in the dose of three or five-grain pill, the night before at bed-time. In training race horses and game cocks, a similar kind of purgative treat- ment is had recourse to: the cocks have barley, which is to them a scouring food. The next thing to be attended to, after the stomach, the bowels, and the rest of the organs of digestion are brought, by the means recommended, into healthful action, is a course of strengthening diet. The ancient Athlete, as pre- viously observed, esteemed pork to be the most invigorating food; but the modern trainers prohibit this article altogether, as it is apt to purge some people, and recommend only beef, mutton, and fowls. It may be remai-ked, however, that the pork in ancient times was not house-fed, and bloated by the art of fattening; but was had from the woods and fields, where the swine were fed on roots and acorns, and had abundant exer- cise in the open air. It does not appear either, that the ancients had good beef or mutton.—(See Pork, Poultry). It has been observed, that men will relish and digest beef much longer, without change, than any other sort of food; and beef has been found to contain more sti’ength- ening nourishment than mutton, though the trainers think mutton is more easily digested. Some doubts, however, are entertained on this sub- ject. Tlie whiter any animal food is, it contains the less of the stretigth-TR TR 347 ening principle, produces less excite- ment of the animal spirits, though it is not on that account the more easily digested, but the contrary. Pork, a white fibred flesh, is the hardest to digest of any, and contains much less nourishment; and as mutton is paler than beef, we would say, that it not only contains less nourishment, but that it is of harder digestion, and is more apt to ferment in the stomach and cause flatulence, colic, and griping; in the same way as mutton broth, when set aside, will ferment much sooner than leg-of- beef soup. Veal and lamb, which are also pale meats, are never allowed; and here may also be remarked, that soup made from either of these can- not be preserved sweet and free from fermenting for many hours in sum- mer. As a change of diet, fowl or rabbit is permitted once a week or so, but never unless with vinegar.— This, we conceive, erroneous. As the fibres of both fowl and rabbit are very pale, they can contain but a very small portion of nourishment, and must readily run into fermen- tation in the stomach, which the vinegar, far from counteracting, will promote. That the tendency to fat, may be in some measure prevented by the vinegar and the diminution of the nourishment, or that the change may produce more relish for the beef on the following day, are the chief circumstances on which it can he defended. No food indeed is likely to be easily digested, or to afford great nourishment, if it be not eaten with relish ; but it must be carefully noted, it does not follow, that all food which is relished is easily di- gested or very nutritive.—See Mut- ton, Veal, ^-c. The sinewy legs of fowls are by some trainers highly approved of, on the principle, probably of their being strong and tough in the fibres, and of their being, therefore, capable of imparting strength to those who eat them. This is the old foolish doc- trine of signatures, which recom- mended saffron, celandine, and bar- bery bark in jaundice, because they were yellow like a jaundiced skin; poppies for diseases of the head, because the seed vessel is like the head; and pile-wort for piles, be- cause the root of the herb resembles that disease.* We are quite certain that the sinewy legs of fowls have very little more nourishing power than the white of an egg; and it is well known that is but little, as the nutritive part of an egg is the yolk. The raw yolk of an egg is sometimes, therefore, given by trainers in the morning, and is said to prevent bilious complaints. This must be a mere fancy, and about as well found- ed as that of the physicians, who forbid bilious patients of eating the eggs at all. 'J'hcre are no circum- stances known to us which could establish the fact of eggs having any effect whatever on the bile or the liver. Fish is prohibited: the trainers say it is watery, and contains but little nutriment. On what the stimu- lant quality of fish depends is not yet understood, as from its white fibres, and chemical composition, it might be suj)poscd to be rather inert and mild. Salmon, char, and stur- geon, are probably more nutritive than rabbit or fowl, in the case of a change of diet being desirable, for one day in a week or a fortnight. Neither butter nor cheese is al- lowed, on the siqiposition that they arc both innutritive, and of difficult digestion. Rutter, besi<tes, like cream, is apt to produce fat, and to make the muscles lax and flabby, the very reverse of that for which tl’.e process is intended. Cream-chccsc is, of course, still worse than the common sorts. Every s])ecic.s of fat meat, • FiV/c Crollius, Ifasilica riiymica el de Signaluris, and Dr. A. Paris, Pliar- niacologia, vol. i. p. 43. 5tli edit.TR Til 348 whatever It may be, is sh-ictly pro- hibited, as it is said to create bile, and foul the stomach. It does this, we conceive, chiefly by its being so indigestible, that it runs into fermen- tation before the stomach can act upon it, producing an acid, which causes irritation. Lean meat, con- sequently, is uniformly preferred to fat; and, what appears to be incon- sistent with the recommendation of the sinewy legs of fowls—the lean of fat meat is preferred to the lean of lean meat, which so far from being sinewy, is the most tender, juicy, and sapid. The use of every kind of vegetables is rigidly prohibited, such as turnips and carrots, which are said to be of difficult digestion; and potatoes, which are said to he too watery a food, fl’his is philosophically cor- rect, except that potatoes are far from being a watery food, if of good qua- lity, and cooked as we have directed; but even so, they are not very fit for producing firm muscularity. Cab- bage, and every sort of salad, are greatly worse for afibrding nourish- ment. Stale bread is the only article of this species of food allowed. New bread is apt to swell on the stomach, and prevent digestion. Mot rolls would in a few days ruin the training of a fortnight. Biscuit, or bread toasted hard, without much brown- ing, we should prefer even to the best stale bread. The ancient.Athletse used unleavened bread, and this is perhaps still better, though we fear few of our training men would relish it. AVith respect to biscuit, it is well known that people recovering from fever, and other exhausting diseases, sooner acquire strength with it than with bread, and sailors feel a sensible diminution of strength, when at any time they give up their biscuit, and live on bread. No kind of pies, jnuldings, hard dumplings, or pastry, arc ever used ; and the trainers say one might as well take earthenware into the stomach, they are so very indigestible—an opinion in which we decidedly concur; and nothing is a greater source of indigestions and surfeits in England, than the enor- mous consumption of indigestible articles of this description. Having given an ample detail of those articles of food which experience and observation have concurred in proving to be the most strengthening and nutritive, for those who are to be prepared for gymnastic exertions, as well as for those who have been en- feebled by disease, or from natural constitution — we shall next consi- der the equally important subject of dressing these aliments, so as best to retain and improve their nutritive properties. On this topic we can afford to be the more brief, since having alread)', under the heads of baking, broiling, boiling, roasting, frying, and stewing, furnished a state- ment of the comparative merits and advantages of these culinary pro- cesses, and entered as far into the science of the subject as the present state of knowledge can permit ns; we must now be satisfied with the application of our principles to use- ful practice. As regards the mode of dressing food for men in training—all sub- stances, however nutritive in them- selves, are forbidden to be boiled, stewed, fried, or baked—evenbrasing is not permitted. All soups, accord- ingly, such as ox-tail, beef-tea, mut- ton broth, mock turtle, and mulliga- tawny, are most strictly prohibited, as tending to drench the stomach, reduce the strength, and make the muscles soft and flabbj'; the only exception is, that when a purgative dose of salts has been taken, a little warm gruel is, jiroperly enough, allowed to ?rork off' the physic, and as the first meal after, a little boiled mutton with broth. As this, however, is a strong exception to the usual lule of diet, tile trainers are very parti- cular about both the mutton and the broth; all the fat being carefully319 TR TR removed from both. The broth is diet, by the previous process of salt- for this purpose set aside to cool, and ing. This process is found not only the cake of fat on the top taken off to harden the fibres of the meat, and before it is given ; then it is warmed make it more indigestible, but also to up, and again carefully skimmed, deteriorate the animal juices, while it When beef-tea is given instead of broth, which sometimes happens, the fat is got rid of in the same way. So very different are the notions which trainers have learned from experience respecting the effects of fat, and those usually maintained by the vulgar, of its highly nourishing properties. In speaking of liquid food, it may be mentioned that no preparation of viilk is permitted, as if it is strong and new, it is heavy, and apt to de- range the stomach ; and if sour, as in the state of butter-milk, though it is not so apt to disagree, it is weak and watery, and productive of little nourishment. All the cream, and the buttery parts of milk also, have the quality of producing fat, rather than firm muscularity, 'fhe nutritive properties of milk, indeed, are very ill understood by those who have taken up fanciful and romantic notions of pastoral diet, and the hcaltluTiess ofnistics who use it liberally. It is not the milk diet, we are bold to say, that makes shepherds healthy and vigorous, so much as their constant exercise in the open air, which will render almost any diet so far whole- some and 7iutritive. The adoption of the milk diet of the peasant, with- out his exercise, would not answer the end. Fewterel, however, ])ie- scribed rennet milk for drink, and milk j)ottage for supper ; but his sy.s- tem was a bad one. Iloilim/, as we have seen on that article, deprives the meat of many of its best juices, and other nourish- ing pro])ertics, which arc washed out of the fibres by the constant entrance and recess of the water during the process. Roiled beef, indeed, when not too much done, contains a large enough portion of nourishment for common cvery-day life; but it is rendered totally unfit for a training is apt to produce thirst, a circum- stance above all others to be avoided in training, for thirst always indicates the presence of some unwholesome stimulus, or excitement, and during its continuance wnastes down the sub- stance of the muscles, by the absorb- ents making an extra demand on their juices.—See BoU'mg. Stewing has a like effect to boiling, in wasting the nutritive parts of the meat; and it appear-s also that stewed meat is still less easy of digestion than that which is boiled. Frying is, of all the modes of cookery, the worst for training, as it cannot be performed without fat or oil; two things which, as we have seen, are in all stages of training most strictly prohibited See Stewing. The first allow'ahle mode of dress- ing meat, so as to retain and improve its nourishment, is roasting. By this jirocess, however, there is still a con- siderable loss of substance, amount- ing to from thirty to thirty-five per cent, in beef and mutton, or nearly a third of their original weight. I t is not, we conceive, much known in this country, that tlic French have a way of roasting meat without much waste, or loss of its juices. The joint to he roasted, say.s tlie Almanack dcs Gourmands, is to be immersed for a few minutes in melted suet, which will form a coating around it, by penetrating the surface for a little way, which will ])rovc a barrier of resistance to the exit of all tlio juices of the interior. We cannot, however, answer for the ])i ocess, as ])roducing either a wholesome or a savoury joint. If meat is to be roasted for a person in training, it ought to be i>ut down to a brisk fire, and not done in the usual way of allowing the heat gra- dually to ])enctrate to the centre. The outside, indeed, ought at first to 2 IITR TR 350 be lialf-chavrecl by a brisk heat, and this will form as strong a barrier as the French melted suet, in prevent- ing the escape of the juice. Care must be taken that none of the out- side, half-charred pieces be eaten, as these would most certainly injure the stomach : only the under-done parts in the interior are to be used, the more raw they are the better, pro- vided they be quite hot, and that the person can relish them ; this last cir- cumstance is indispensable, as food that is not relished is never easily digested ; for the stomach being put out of humour with it at first, takes some time to recover its tone.—See Roasting. BroUing, however, is by far the best mode of dressing meat for training, as it is a much more perfect way of preventing the escape of the juices than even the process of roast- ing, performed as we have just di- rected, by first semi-charring the outside. The great staple articles, therefore, of training are beef steaks and mutton chops, broiled and under-done, with the fat all carefully cut ofl’ before they are brought to table.—See Broiling. The seasoning is also of great im- portance; for, by improper and high seasoning, all the other parts of the process, however carefully attended to, may be ruined. Mustard, pepper, and all hot spices, arc prohibited, as producing a high stimulus, and con- sequently reducing the volume of the muscles by absorption. We ought not, however, object to a very little plain mustard, if th.e under-done meat could not otherwise be relished. Salt is more objectionable, from its tendency to produce thirst, though few can do well without it. Ur. Darwin was a declared enemy to salt altogether, and for a singular reason, namely, because it is the only ntincral substance used at table. 'Ihe fact is, that all animals, and pariieularly man, are the better for f'alt, if it bo not taken in too great quantity. Salt provisions, however, it is to be carefully noted, are always inferior in nutriment and digesti- bility to fresh, and ought, as we have already said, never to be used in training.—See Salt. Vinegar is the favourite condiment with modern trainers, though Few- terel denounced all acid juices; but it is, we imagine, a much more questionable seasoning than either mustard or pepper. It certainly prevents thirst. In Yorkshire, the trainers have the meat steeped in vinegar. Time and Quantity of Eating.— There is not a more important part of the regimen to be observed by a person under training, than the time of taking his meals, and the quantity of food he ought to use. In ordi- nary life, and more particidarly in fashionable life, this is very erro- neously managed; for nothing is more detrimental to health than ir- regular hours, long fasting between meals, and tliis followed by every kind of repletion. The trainers allow only two full and substantial meals in the day, namely, breakfast at eight, and dinner at two, according to Mr. Jackson; and at five, according to Mr. Hall, of Yorkshire. When the ])crson cannot do without supper, a biscuit and a little cold meat is allowed at eight in the evening; but it is supposed that suppers of all kinds have an injurious effect on the lungs, or as they e.xprcss it, on a man’s wind. With deference, how- ever, to these authorities, an early, light, and nutritive siqiper, would grcatl}' benefit the trainee, and pre- vent the bad consequences to the wind, of going to bed with a full stomach. The breakfast is a la fourr/ietle, that is, a meat breakfast. Those accustomed to tea or coft'ee to br-eakfast, will find this one of the hardest rules to comjily with. In- deed it is a standing rule of dietetics to interfere as little as possible with a customary breakfast, for the sto-TR 351 TR mach can bear a change in any meal without injur_v sooner than in this. The dinner is the same. As relates to quantity, the trainees are usually allowed to eat as much as they please, and it may be re-- marked, that, confined as they are to almost one dish, with little variety of cookery or seasoning, there is very little danger of their eating too much. The stomach is very easily satisfied with a single dish; nobody, not even a voracious child, will eat too much plain bread. The ancient Athletae, who did many -v'ery erro- neous things, actually gorged them- selves with food. It is remarked by Mr. Jackson, that little men eat as much as large men, and sometimes more; but this depends much on constitution and habit. Training sharpens the appetite, and therefore more food will be taken after it has been some time persevered in than at first. One rule ought never to be dispensed with, namely, to have some evidence of the appetite, that a pre- vious meal is digested before taking another. In training game cocks this is always ascertained, by feeling ■whether the crop is empty. As regards science of drinking and the quantity.—The leadine rule in training is, that the less that is drunk the better, as in proportion to the quantity taken the flesh becomes more flabby, and the muscles less firm and vigorous. Mr. Jackson and Captain Barclay give their word for the experience of the thing; but our opinion of the subject is, that the quantity of drink must depend, in a great measure, on the sort of food eaten, as well as on the kind of li<pior used. If you live almost wholly on vegetable food, like an Irish peasant or a Hindoo, you will for the most part require no drink at all, except when exhausted by heat and j)erspi- ration ; for water constitutes so large a proportion of all vegetables, tliat little else is necessary. The peasants, accordingly^ who live on vegetable food, seldom di-ink any thing but ardent spirits, and that necessarily in small quantity. They seldom or never drink large quantities of beer or porter, and have little relish for it. The case is very different with those who live on a large proportion of animal food, as in the case of the working classes in London, who could not live were they not to in- dulge in copious libations of some kind or other; for as their animal food contains but little water, and besides is strongly stimulant, and spurs on the secretory glands to take so much fluid from the blood, there must be a supply provided to over- balance the expeirditure, or intoler- able thirst, fever, and other diseases will follow. If, therefore, you eat a large quantity of beef or pork, nrore particularly if it be salted, or if you drink much wine, or hard malt liquor, the stimulus which it produces on the glands causes a greater expenditure of fluids than it supplies. For ex- ample, it spurs on the kidneys to give out more urine, the liver to give out more bile, tbe skin to throw ofl’ more perspiration, the lungs to throw off more moisture, and the fountains of the mouth to produce more saliva— and of course all these are to be sup- plied from the blood, so long as it can afford such supplies. 'When the blood has at length parted with as much fluid as it can spare, the foun- tains of the mouth, as well as the liver, kidneys, lungs, and skin, thirst for more, and become hot and uneasy because they cannot get it. Training, it will follow, must produce consider- able thirst, as there is so much ani- mal food used, which produces a high stinudus, and so little w’atcry veget- able food. The sensation of thirst is given us to indicate the want of fluid in the blood, for when in its course the blood comes to tbe fountains of the mouth, and cannot sup[)ly fluid enough to moisten them, thirst is the necessary consequence. But when352 TR TR tills is the case, it must be obvious that drinking will not, and cannot, immediately quench thirst, be the drink taken what it may, in quan- tity or quality ; for before it can pro- perly quench thirst, it must pass into the stomach and be digested, to fit it for mingling with the blood, and this process also requires some time. From not knowing this simple fact, many persons when thirsty drink too much, and oppress their stomachs with a superfluous quantity of liquor. We have known even water-drinkers very much injure their stomachs by too copious libations.—See Thirst. We shall now offer a few remarks, on the practice of Mr. Jackson, Captain Barclay, and other celebrated trainers. Those, in fact, who are put under training for pugilistic purposes, are prohibited from exceeding three English pints of malt liquor during the whole day, to be taken after breakfast and dinner, and but little after supper. The trainers for run- ning are allowed a little more, but are restricted to four pints a day. Ihe ancient Athletm were also al- lowed but a very small quantity of liquid; the dry diet, as it is called, having i'ormed an indispensable part of their s3 stem. The reasons which modern trainers give for their restric- tions are, that the belly is a])t to swell from co])ious drinking, and that it is bad for the wind. Drinking besides promotes pcrsj)iration and urine, which are extremely weaken- ing, unless produced, say they, bv exercise. Mr. Jackson observe.s, that if a person having <i tendency to cor- pulence, would restrict himself to three jiints daily, instead of copious draughts and large quantities of liquor, he would, in less than two months, find himself two or three pounds ligbler. Jo yueneh thirst immediately, trith- out driiiliiiy.— If it becomes at anj' time Iroublc.some, as it sometimes does during ;i course of training, on the priucij)les already laid down, it will be at once manifest to all, that the speediest way of quenching thirst is—not to supply liquid, but to pre- vent its expenditure, and to soothe the glands of the mouth, &c., which crave supply. Economists and misers w'ell know, that “to save is to gain.” On this principle then, by applying cold water to the skin, you stop the pores and diminish perspiration ; even dipping the hands in cold water has often an instantaneous effect in quenching thirst. At sea, this is of the utmost consequence, when water becomes scarce ; bathing in salt water being the best remedy for the tor- ments of thirst. Great draughts of liquor are thought to be veiy inju- rious, as this onl}' deluges the sto- mach without quenching thirst, which is more effectually accomplished by taking the liquor in mouthfuls 011I3'. The articles on thirst and hunger will be read here with advantage. Medicinally speaking, as regards drink,—we would sa3' that water would he the best liquor in training; but it is never given alone in modern times, as it is thought to be a weaken- ing diluent. The ancient Athleta?, however, were allowed nothing but W'ater, or some sort of thick sweet wine. The drink preferred in modern training is good old malt liquor in bottles, and as mild as possible, with- out any perceptible tartness or harsh- ness. It is occasionally taken with a toast in it, but this is optional. Those who do not like malt liquor, particularly for breakfast, may have iuilf the quantity of wine and water. Even tea (not hot) is j)ermilted, but this reluctantlv, as it is not considered strengthening. Hot, or even warm liquor of any kind, is reckoned very weakening, and is never given except warm gruel or beef tea, when taking jdiysic. Those who have been ac- customed to wine and insist upon having it, arc recommended to take red wine, in the quantity of half a ])int to dinner, but none is allowed for supper. Mr. Jackson, however.353 TR Til IS positive that if a person accustomed to wine would relinquisli it for malt liquor, a few weeks would convince him of the superiority of the home- brewed over the foreign stuff’. No spi- rits are ever permitted, not even with water, under any pretence or consider- ation whatever. We may also men- tion, that no milk is allowed, as it is, particular!}' when strong and creamy, of a fattening and weakening quality. No drink is permitted before meals, unless there be distressing thirst. The articles of food and drink, tliough of primary 2iecessity, are far from being sufficient to complete the art of training. You may, indeed, most rigidly avoid slops and boiled mutton, beef and greens, beans and bacon, pea soup, strong brandy, and all such weakening stuff's, and you may regulate your meals and the quantity of malt liquors to the near- est point of these directions, and still be as far wide of proper training, 'file human system is so constituted, that it requires many concurring circumstances, all acting towards a genei'alend, to accomplish the wished for object of giving to it the highest measure of strength, and hence the supreme folly of those who go to their apothecaries aiid their physi- cians, and say, “Do, doctor, give me something to strengthen me.” There is, you may bo assured, no such thing in e.'cistence as a strengthening me- dicine, or it would have, long ere this, been discovered, if not by the doctors, at least by the training getiius of Jackson, Barclay, or John Smith. Indirectly, indeed, there may be such a thing: a lancet, for ex- ample, is a capital strengthener when it serves to remove an op[)ressive and weakening quantity of blood; or a blue pill, when it drives a mass of stagnant bile from the liver into the bowels, and so puts the machinery of digestion into order. But the only genuine art of strengthening must not be limited to one or two things alone, but should comprehend proper food and drink, good air, the due regulation of sleep, the due propor- tion of healthy exercise and intervals of rest, and the proper quantity and kind of clothing. The intention of exercise in train- ing, is to brace the sinews and the muscles, and give them ease and agility, while at the same time the perspiration produced carries off' the fat—well known to be the clog of activity and the sui'e test of weak- ness, usually arising from gross living and indolence. The more frequently and vigorously any member of the body is exercised, the more blood will flow to that member. The practical rule which this philosophy teaches us then, is, that whatever member you wish to make strong— exercise it vigorously and constantly, for a long period, which will to a certainty drive thither a superabund- ant flow of nourishing blood and ren- der it vigorous. The second inten- tion of exercise is to promote ease and agility; and the science of this is founded on the law of our system, that the oftener we do any thing it becomes the easier, and the more glibly do the sinews and muscles slide upon one another. Behold a dancer or a player on the piano-forte, and you will see with what ease and ra- pidity they perform the most com- plicated movements; and all from repeated exercise. This is not, however, of so much moment as the reduction of fat by perspiration, which, in training, is eff'ected by hard cxci'cisc. But exercise is no less effectual in j)rcvcnting the col- lection of fat, than removing it when collected. The indolent and idle, who load their stomachs with fat pork, or thick muddy porter, or any other improper diet, and never move a muscle of their body when they can avoid it, must become fat in the following way; fat is the su- ])crfluou3 nourishment which the blood, in its sluggish course, can find no place in want of, and it accord- 2 n 3TR TR 354 ingly throws off the greasy load into every b}'e corner of the body, some- times between the muscles, but oftener under the skin, or about the stomach. Fat tlien, or corpulence, is clearly a disease of repletion and indolence, for which exercise is the sovereign specific cure. For the purpose, say Captain Barclay and Mr. Jackson, of gaining strength, of diminishing and thinning the blood, and of improving the wind, it will be necessary for the person under training to begin his e.xercise early in the morning: in summer not later than five, and in winter as soon as the day dawns. A run, or jog-trot, of three miles twice a day, is a common task for pedestrian training, for other pur- poses less than this will suffice. If this produce much perspiration, he must, to prevent rheumatism, be carefully rubbed dry as soon as he comes home, lying down on a couch till an assistant does this, and gra- dually puts on his clothes, one limb after another, on the dried parts, and then does not go out again till com- pletely cool. 11 is one of the standing rules of training, that perspiration never weakens the body when pro- duced by exercise; but it always does so when it is produced by sweating drugs, hot slops, or any other unnatural method. The rea- sons of this will appear manifest from what has just Irecn said with respect to the stream of the blood, and from what we have so often ob- served in this publication respecting the want of nourishment in the strongest soups. An hour after breakfast, the exercises are selected from manly s])orts, such as cpioit.s, cricket, foot-l>all, fencing, and s})ar- ring. Fives, we • should reckon a good exercise, jiarticularly if played, as ill Seotlaiul, with the bare band, without battledores, in which case the ball must, of course, be sol'ter and rather ligliter. The more cheerful the exercise is, the better it will prove, as any thing which dulls or deadens the animal spirits is very injurious to training. A fit of low spirits will ruin, in a single day, the training of a whole week; and we should, therefore, prefer any light game, such as golf, which requires walking, and at the same time keeps the mind alive, to simply walking without any object but e.xercise. Short shooting excursions we should also recommend on the same prin- ciple, wherever it shall be conve- nient. Fishing is too inactive and raw an exercise, but gardening, and particularly digging, we should highly recommend. So tvell aware were the more ancient trainers of keeping the mind amused while the body was exercised, that music and dancing wei’e among their principal e.xercises. Dancing is still recommended by our modern trainers, but not insisted on. Another indispensable rule in training is, that if the person trained becomes very much and rapidly thinner or feverish, his exercise must be diminished. This, however, we should say, ought to be kept from the knowledge of the persons themselves; for as training will, in all cases, make a man thinner, the propensity to in- dolence would soon discover that so much exercise might he dispensed with, and give rise to comparative idleness, to the entire loss of time and strength. No reading, writing, cards, nor other sedentary employ- ment or amusement is permitted, as this tends to drive the blood to the head, and produce stupor, weight, or giddiness, and impairs digestion and strength. In the article Sleep, which may he consulted, we have laid down certain rules; and here it may not be irrelevant to notice this func- tion as regards training. It is impossible to determine to a mi- nute the proper (piantity of sleep necessary for every individual, as some can do with nearly half of what is indispensable to others. ItTR 355 TR is a good rulp to jjvoportiou it to the exercise of the mind and body, re- membering that the exercise of the mind always requires one-third or fourth more tlian the exercise of tlie body. If the person under training, therefore, be of a tliinkiug, contem- plative turn of mind, he will require eight hours sleep; while a person of a light, stupid, or thoughtless turn will be as much refreshed by six, though the bodily exercise of both is the same. A great deal also depends on the habit of the person ; thougli we should say nine hours is too mueh and four hours too little for any one in training. It is indispensable to go to bed not later than ten, and rise not later than six, taking a short walk, or some slight exereise, pre- viously to lying down. The bed should not be soft (a hair mattrass is best) nor loaded with bed-clothes, as the more coolly you lie, the less strength you will lose. As an indispensable supplement to the rules and directions just laid down in this article on gymnastic training, for exercise and sleep, we shall now advert to the qualities of the air, and the kind of dress most proper for promoting strength ; since, without attention to these, what has already been said might prove alto- gether abortive, and go for nothing. It may be possible to live for some days without food ; but it is impos- sible to live many minutes without air. Since air, therefore, is so neces- sary for living at all, good air must be highly requisite for those who wish to improve their strength. AVe shall see shortly how the air acts in purifying the blood, carrying off its refuse, and brightening its colour from a blackish pui])lc to a bright crimson. This purilication is per- formed in the lungs; every breath which we draw, ai\d a purified stream of blood, is, at the same time, sent to every part of the body, to supply nourishment, and repair its waste, wear and tear. Now it must be plain, if the air breathed be already loaded with smoke, and foul exhala- tions from the dirty alleys and lanes of a city, that it cannot render the blood so bright a crimson as if it were free from all impurity. This, therefore, teaches us what is also well known from experience, that the impure air of cities is unfavourable to health and strength; though it is no less a mistake, however, that the country air is always superior to the air of the town. Purer, it may be, from smoke and other exhalations; but it may be at the same time loaded with moisture, which will equally prevent it from brightening the colour of the blood. Very cold air again will so contract tiie blood- vessels in the lungs, that less blood will be exposed to the purifying pro- cess, which will, accordingly, be im- perfect, and weakness will increase, in spite of good food and proper ex- ercise. One strong proof of this is the diminutive dwarfish stature of the Laplanders. They can certainly bear more cold ; but it conveys rather a false idea, to talk of the Imrdij in- habitants of the exti'eme north. Very warm air is weakening, for the very o])posite reason. The relaxed ves- sels of the lungs exj)ose enough of blood to be purified; but the worst of it is, that too much of the thin parts of the blood is carried off by the breath, and what remains is, conse- (piently, too thick and phlegmy to flow in a rapid and smooth current through the body. Trainers, there- fore, should, as far as it is possi- ble, select such air as is neither too cold nor too hot; too damp, nor too dry (though, cxcc])t in the Great Desert, we know few places where air is dry to a fault) and such as is not too confined and im))ure. It is, we confess, extremely diilicult, often impossible, to find air with these conditions; but where any of the ofl ensive circumstances just men- tioTied greatly superabound, an arti- ficial atmosphere must be contrivedTR 356 TR within dooi's, such as in W’ct weather, a large, open, well ventilated room, Avith a good fire in it, for the stated tasks of exercise to he performed in. If the air is very cold, as during a hard frost, more exercise ought to be taken to stimulate and relax the contracted vessels in the lungs, and when it is very warm, as in summer, the exercise ought to be proportion- ally less. When the training is rigid, all low situated places, and the neighbourhood of marshes, lakes, canals, and slow running rivers should be avoided, and a high airy place chosen. It is of the greatest import- ance that this rule should be fol- lowed at night, and that the bed chamber be spacious and w'ell venti- lated. Sleeping in good air will contribute more .to strength than even living in good air by day. The practice of Jackson, however, is not to mind the w'eather, but exercise both on wet and dry days, taking care to change the wet clothes on coming home. In the former parts of this subject, W'e have shewn the necessity of re- ducing all appearance of corpulence by perspiration. Now, this end can- not be attained rvithout strict atten- tion to dress. In order to increase perspiration, says Jackson, an extra quantity of clothes is necessary, par- ticularly during the morning race. The race is always performed in a flannel dress, but the walk may be taken in the usual clothes. The young are recommended, by the same great training authority, to wear calico next the skin; but by older men, flannel is preferred. 'I'hose who arc trained for running, are put between feather beds and loaded with clothes, to increase perspira- tion ; but this is not done in other cases. With res])cct to the bed- clothes, we have formerly said that they should be light, that the ])crson in.ay not be heated Avhile aslecj), as this is extremely weakening. It is also imj)ortant that there be no cur- tains to the bed, or at least that they be kept closely tied up during the night. Nothing is more prejudicial to strengthening and healthful sleep than close curtains. W'hoever has studied the art of training must have often remarked, that the increase of strength, or the increase of weakness, though much influenced by rvhat is taken into the stomach, and by its powers of diges- tion, yet a great deal depends on the management of the skin : and unless that is properly attended to, your training may all go for nothing. The stomach and bowels may be in healthful order, your wind may be sound, and your lungs playing and fluttering as freely as an aspen leaf, and yet may your skin, bj’ improper management, soon throw' the whole into disorder. Recollect for a mo- ment, that nearly two-thirds of all that you eat and drink passes off by the skin, and you will at once see the importance of keeping the pores open, and taking care not to stop or impede the free passage of perspira- tion. The subject is so extensive, that we easily could, and perhaps maj',, Avrite a volume upon it. In the mean time,Ave must be contented Avith a few practical remarks, as ap- plicable to training. In order to keep the pores of the skin free to admit the escape of the perspiration, it is indispensable that it be kept clean, and jmrged of all the greasy scurf which naturally col- lects upon its surface. We should, therefore, recommend that the Avhole body be carefully Avashed, at least once a week, taking care to let this be done as s{)cedily as possible, to ]>rovent the bad effects of cold. AVatcr somewhat warm, is the best for cleaning the skin thoroughly; and to prevent its oj>ening the pores too much, it oxight to be immediately followed up by a second wash of the coldest Avatcr that can be procured, or a ])lunge into the cold bath. Fcwtcrcll, w ho was of the old school.Til TR 357 prohibits the use of soap in these wasliings; wliy, he does not inform us. We can see no harm, but the contrary, in the moderate use of soap; tliougli it does act injuriously, as we have seen, on the delicate skins of fine ladies. Soap, however, may be abused; for it may strip the skin of too much of its natural oil, and, by thus rendering it too dry, it may obstruct the pores, and stop perspiration. The cold bath is re- commended by Jackson, three times a week; and he very properly prefers sea bathing to fresh water bathing. But if it is inconvenient to go to the sea side, a quantity of salt thrown into the cold bath will render it better. The use of the salt is to smart and stiimdate tlie skin, and consequently to open its pores.—■ Jackson says, that the shorter time a person remains in the water the better; and we believe this agrees with e.xperience, though we are not quite clear about the philosophy of the thing. Fewterell recommends the arms and loins to be w'ashed with cold water. We should object to the loins, as likely to cause colic and other evils, except when the whole body is washed at the same time, which diminishes the hazard of this occurrence. Jackson again informs us, that it is of great advan- tage to prevent colds, to have the feet bathed in cold water every morn- ing. This wc should, for the same reason, disapprove of, except in the case of a general bath; or if it is done, wc should say that the feet ought to be suddenly plunged into the cold water, ami as suddenly withdrawn, and instantly rubbed dry. Friction in Training.—This is a point in which we think the ancient Athletic excelled the modern trainers. Ill training race horses, indeed, it is much better understood and more employed than in the more iiiqiortant training of men. On the [irinciiiles just laid down, we say, that if you rub the skin till it glow, you will stimulate the pores into healthy ac- tion, and also draw to the part rub- bed a great quantity of blood, as you will see by the increased redness of the part. Now all the perspiration must come from the blood; and con- sequently, if you both open the pores of the skin and bring thither a greater flow of blood, you will, to a cer- tainty, increase the perspiration— and, of course, reduce your fat, and improve your wind. The only friction mentioned by Jackson is performed after hard ex- ercise, and particularly after the morning run, when he recommends the skin to be rubbed dry, and im- mediately clothed, one limb after another. We should advise the daily use of the flesh-brush, for not less than a quarter of an hour, morning and evening. Nothing acts more powerfully on the wind, and on the process of digestion. Abstinence andCvntinence in Train- ing.—We have already adverted to the necessity for strict abstinence from all excess and Indulgence of the appetite, in food and liquor. It is even more important that, if the jierson under training is married, he should sleep out of his own house; and if unmarried, must submit to a similar precaution. This is the judicious jireccpt of John Hall, of Beverly; and we believe it is fol- lowed by Jackson and Capt. Barclay. 'I'he ancients were also well aware of its importance; hence the verse of the Roman poet, respecting the man who wished to excel in the race— “ abslinnit J'enere et Iktccho ”—ho quite renounced both love and wine. Although, as observed, the prin- cipal thing to be attended to in train- ing depends upon sweating, e.xercise, Mu\ feeding, yet the object to be ob- tained would be defeated if these were not adjusted, each to the other, and to the constitution of the individual, with which the trainer should make himself jierfectly ac([uaintcd. If n man retains his health and spiritsTR 358 TR (luring tlie process of training, im- proves in wind, and increases in strength, it is certain the object will be secured. But if otherwise, it is to be aj)prehended that some coq>oreal defect exists, through tlie want of skill or management of the trainer, and which ought immediately to be attended to by making sucli altera- tions as the nature of the circum- stances may demand. Hence it is evident, in many instances, that the trainer must be guided by his judg- ment, and that no fi.xed rules, with any degree of certainty, are within his control. It is impossible to fi.x any precise period for the completion of the training process, since much will depend on the previous condi- tion of the person to be trained; but from two to three months, generally will be found sufficient, with any- thing like condition at the com- mencement, and a cheerful and re- gular adherence to the prescribed mles. Sir John Sinclair observes, tliat, “Training always appears to improve the state of the lungs. One of the most striking effects of it is, to improve the wind; that is, it enables a man to draw a larger inspiration, and to hold his breath longer.” He likewise adds, that, “ By training the mental faculties are also im- proved; the attention is more ready, and the perception more acute, pro- bably owing to the clearness of the stomach, and better digestion.”—See Code of Health, vol. ii, p. 103. The question has been agitated, whether training produces a penna- nent, or only a temporary effect on the constitution? It may be an- swered, that if a man be brought to a better habit of l)ody, and the function of respiration, and corporcid vigour, be improved by it, such a state of healtli will unquestionably exist, until derangement supervene, cither from accidental or naluriil causes. H) lor instance, he should relapse into irregular habits, neglect the means of preserving his hciilth by omitting to take the regular exer- cise, or by indulging in excesses of any kind, then must it be expected that such inroads made upon the constitution must eventually dilapi- date the system. But, on the other hand, by an adherence to the train- ing plan, its good effects will be ex- perienced, until the gradual decay of the natural functions ease him dovni gently, not violently, to the grave: consequently, it may be admitted that the benefits arising both to body and mind from a judicious and well- conducted process of training, are not merely of an evanescent nature, but that they may be made perma- nent by proper care and attention. Simplicity in the rules of training is certainly a strong recommendation to those desirous of submitting to the experiment; and the whole process may be illustrated on the following principles;— 1. Evacuation, which cleanses the stomach and alimentary canal. 2. Sweating (see Perspiration), which removes the superfluities of flesh and fat. 3. Exercise, which improves the respiratory organs, vulgarly called the “ wind,” strengthens the mus- cular system, and gives tone, vigour, and elasticity to the whole frame. 4. Diet and regimen, which nou- rish and support the whole. Add to these the influences of air, sleep, and passions of the mind, and their regulation, and the whole phi- losophy of training maybe embraced at a single glance. The criterion to go by, in order to ascertain whether a person has been projierly trained, is the state of the skin,* which becomes smooth, tense, * In directing the attention to the excretions of the body, the sympathy existing lietween the skin and the sto- mach ought not to be overlooked. If the vessels of the skin, for instance, be universally excited, and this excitation be long continiie.l, they will at length fall into a state of indirect debility,TR TR .359 elastic, and clear-coloured. The flesh is also firm, and the individual feels himself light, and full of sj)irits; though, in the progress of training, the condition of the man may be ascertained by the effects of the sweats, which cease to reduce his weight; and by the manner in which he performs one mile at the top of his speed. “ It is as difficult to run a mile at the top of one’s speed, as to walk a hundred;” and, therefore, if he performs this short distance well, it may be concluded that his condition is perfect, or that he has derived all the advantages which can possibly result from the training process.* * On the princijilcs of training here laid down, those appli- whence a sense of faintness, loss of ap- petite, and inability to digest solid food, will be experienced; a fact, explaining the diminished appetite of which persons complain in hot weather, and that uni- versal custom in tropical climates, of combining the food with large quantities of aromatic stimulants. One of the most striking instances indicative of this concert between the skin and the sto- mach is to be met with in cases where cold or wet has been applied to the lower extremities; often producing vo- miting, &c. • J'he manner in which horse-jockeys are trained difl'ers from that applicable to pedestrians and pugilists. As regards jockeys, the object is to reduce their weight, upon the wasting system, by means of purgatives, emetics, sudorifics, and low diet. I'lieir bodily strength is of little importance, as they have only to manage the reins of the racer, whose fleetness depends upon the weight he carries; and the muscular power of the rider is of no conse(|uence to the lace, provided it be e<|ual to the fatigue of a three or four-mile heat. Training for pugilism is nearly the same as for pedestrianism, the object in both being principally to obtain additonal wind and strength; hence training for health and a good condition of body is the same, according to constitution; the whole being founded on the due regulation of the non-naturals. cable to convalescents and valetudi- narians may be modified, and the diet, exercise, sleep, and other non- naturals, regulated by consulting the different articles relating thereto, under their respective beads. TRE.VCLE (Molasses).— A very impure refuse of sugar, from which it drips, though it is susceptible of being employed in a new ebullition,by which a second quantity of sugar m.ay be obtained from it. The remainder of the molasses is emjiloyed to yield rum by distillation. The French pre- pare from the mixture of molasses with water, a species of wine of good quality. In its preparation, the solu- tion is brought into fermentation, then passed throitgh strainers to purify it, then put into casks; and after clearing it in these, transferred into others, in which it is to be pre- served for use.—See Sugar. TREACLE, VENICE.—A com- position which originally consisted of but few ingredients ; namely, twenty leaves of rue, two walnuts, two figs, and a little salt. It is named Mithri- datium, after Mithridates king of Pontus, who experiencing the virtues of the sim])les separately, afterwards combined them. Of the above pre- paration Mithridates, we are inform- ed, took a dose every morning, to guard himself .against the effects of poison. A prei)aration resembling it is still made at Apothecaries’ Hall, though seldom used. There are, how- ever, some physicians of the ])resent day who prescribe it, in the dose of from ten grains to a scruple, against nervous irritations. TROILEOLUM MAJUS. —The systematic name of the Indian cress, greater Indian cress, or nasturtium. This plant is a native of Peru: it was first c.arried to Prance in 1981, and there c.allcd the Grand Capucin. In its recent state, and more e.spe- cially its flowers, it has a smell and taste resembling those of water-cress ; and the leaves on being bruised in a mortar, emit a pungent odour, some-3G0 TU TR what like that of horse-radish. By distillation with water they impreg- nate the fluid in a considerable de- gree with the smell and flavour of the plant. Hence the antiscorbutic character of the nasturtium seems to be well founded, at least, at far as may be judged from its sensible qua- lities : consequently, in all those cases where the w'arm and antiscorbutic vegetables are recommended, this plant may be occasionally adopted as a pleasant and efiectual variety. Persons to whom the nauseous taste of scurvy grass is intolerable, may find a grateful substitute in the nas- turtium. The flowers are frequently used in salad, and the capsules are by many esteemed as a pickle. The flowers in the warm summer months, about the time of sunset, have been observed to emit sparks like those of the electrical kind. TROPHIS AMERICANA.—Red- fruited Bucephalon. The fruit of the plant is a rough red berry, eaten in Jamaica, though not very pleasant. TROUT.*—A well known delicious fresh water fish, and used at the daintiest tables ; it is covered with small scales, usually streaked with red according to the line ;— Purpurcis<jiie so/ar stcllalis Icrgora gultis. The river trout comes into season in April, and continues till Jidy. Those caught near U.xbridge conic to Lon- don quite alive. 'I'iic salmon trout is more valued for the delicacy of its flavour than any other .sjiccies. In summer the trout is more delicinns than at any other time. There are several sorts of trout, which difl’er ac- cording to the places they inhabit, both in colour and magnitude ; some * 'file etymology of trout is thus given l)y I.ciuery, a Ficueli writer on foods. “ A trout, ill latiu, is called Inilln, a triulendo, quasi trusilis ; being so much as to say, forcing its way, hecauso it many limes swims against the current ol the water, and forces the waves strangely.” are found in deep and rapid rivers, others in lakes ; some are of a black- ish colour, others redish or rather of a gold colour, which made it be called in latin aurala. The trout supplies good chyle, digests easily, and possesses aphro- disiac properties; but it easily cor- rupts and becomes putrid, conse- quently should be eaten as soon as possible after it is taken out of the water. It contains much oil, volatile salt, and phlegm. In summer time it agrees with any age or constitution. There is another kind of trout, rather different from the others of the same species, which in Latin is called thy- mallus, or thyme arbore, because it smells like thyme ; it is delicious eat- ing, easy of digestion, has good juice, and so nutritiousljf wholesome that it is frequently allowed to the sick. In shape it resembles the common trout, and equally lives in clear and running waters; it feeds also on the same food, and in some places is more valued, from the goodness of its taste, than the other sorts of trout. Its fat is said to possess the following medicinal properties, namely, to re- move the prints of the small-pox, deafness, and “drummings of the ear, specks and catarrhs of the eye.” —See Sahno. TRUFFLES.—The truffle of the mushroom, is a species of fungus common in France and Italy,growing gcncrallv about eight or ten inches below the surface of the ground. As it imparts a most delicious flavour it is much used in cookery. \\'hcn dug out of the earth, it re(]uires a great deal of washing and ])icking before it can be ajqdied to culinary ])urposes. AVhen washed, the water should be warm, and frequently changed. Trntiles lose much of their flavour when dried.—See Mushroom. TU BEBC)SE. —Tuberous: Knob- bed ; applied to ])arts of plants. Tho root so called is of many kinds. The most genuine consists of fleshy knobs, various in form, connected by com-361 TU TU mon stalks and fibres; as the potatoe, and Jerusalem artichoke. TUBULOUS,—TaiMto-. A leaf is so called which is hollow within, as that of the common onion. TUNNY.—A large and thick sea fish, abounding on tbe coasts of the Mediterranean, where it is cauglit and pickled. It is firm, crisp, and of an excellent taste. The most de- licious part of the fish is the lower bellj'. They are sometimes, how- ever, too fat, are difficult of digestion, and relax and weaken the fibres of the stomach ; consequently those parts that are not so loaded with fat are to be preferred for their wholesomeness though they are not so well tasted as the other. It is usually eaten in win- ter and autumn, and agrees with young, bilious, and sanguine people, who have a strong stomach, and are in the habit of taking much exercise. TURBOT f Pleuronectes Maximus, order T/ioracici).—This delicious fish is in season the greatest part of the summer. When good, it is at once firm and tender, and abounds with rich gelatinous nutriment. M. Ude says that he has ascertained by many years’ observation, that a turbot kept too or three days is much better eating than a fresh one. It inhabits the fluropean and Mediterranean seas. It is a finely flavoured fish wlien in season. The flesh is firm, and easy of digestion. It sometimes grows to the weight of thirty pounds. Ron- delct says be has seen turbots five fathoms long, four in breadth, and a foot thick.* * Juvenal, in his fourth Satire, gives us some idea of the value the ancients set upon a turbot (called in Latin U/iomhus, from its being large, flat, and resembling a lozenge), by the fol- lowing humorous interlude of Domitian the emperor, who one day convoked the senate to know in what fish-kettle they should cook a monstrous turbot which had been presented lo him. The senators gravely weighed the matter ; but as there was no utensil of this kind big enough, it was proposed to cut it iit The finest turhots brought to the London market are caught off the Dutch coast, or German Ocean, and are brought hither in well-boats alive. The commencement of the season is generally about March and April, and continues all the summer. Like other fish, turbots do not spawn all at the same time; there is, therefore, alwaj's good and bad all the year round. For these some years past, there has been an immense quantity brought to London, from all parts, and of all qualities. A great «iany from a new fishery off Hartlepool, which are very handsome looking fish, but by no means equal to those caught on the Dutch coast. Many excellent turbots are caught offDover and Duugeness; and a large quan- tity brought from Scotland, packed in ice, which are of a very inferior quality ; and are generally to be pur - chased for about one-fourth of the sum given for good turbots. Being drawn and washed clean, if it be quite fresh, and kept in a cool place, it may, in moderate weather, be ])reserved for a couple of days. An hour or two before dressing it, soak in spring water with some salt in it,—then score the skin across the thickest part of the back, to prevent breaking on the breast, which will hapjien from the fish swelling and cracking the skin, if this prevention be omitted. The thickest part of the turbot is the favourite; and the carver of this fish must remember to ask his friends if they axe fin-fanciers. It will save a troublesome job to the pieces : tliis advice was rejecled. After imicli argument and deliberation, it was resolved that a proper utensil should be made for the jiurpose ; and it was more- over decided that, whenever the empe- ror went to war, a great number of jiot- ters should accompany him. The most jrleasing part of the story is, that a blind senator appeared to be in ecstasy at the sight of the turbot, by continually praising it, at the same time looking in the very opposite direction !US 3G2 Us carver, if the cook, when the fish is boiled, will cut the spine bone across the middle.—See Fish to Carve. TURKEY.—Turkeys w’ere first introduced into Europe from Mexico or Yucatan, and imported into Eng- land, probably from Spain, as early as the year 1524. Since that period they have been successfully reared ill this kingdom; so that in 1585 they made a dish even at our rural feasts. But in France they were so rare, that the first eaten in that country appeared at the nuptial feast of Charles XI. in 1570. The largest Turkeys in England are reared in the county of Norfolk. Some of them w’eigh upwards of 30 lbs. when prepared for dressing. Those that are young, tender, fat, and well fed, are the best. TURNIPS.— {Brassica Rapa).— These roots were brought into this country from Hanover; they are now much cultivated as food for cat- tle. Turnips are nutritive, but fla- tulent, and not easy of digestion ; they become still more indigestible when of a large size and long pre- served in cellars. 'I he least flatu- lent and most nourishing of these roots are the long kind, or Sw'edish turnip, introduced some years ago into this coiintr)'. TURTLES. (See Tortoise).— In some countries the turtle is esteemed a delicate dish, and yet, as they contain a large portion of fat, the stomach cannot easily digest them without the addition of much salt. The same observation applies to the legs of frogs of a certain spe- cies, which are also considered as an epicurean dish with our Continental neighbours; also the West Indian guana, a species of lizard, two or three feet long, of a most forbidding appearance; but its flesh is delicate and salubrious, much resembling that of a chicken. Turtle soup is light and highly nutritive, and forms a prominent and very desirable and proverbial dish at our civic feasts. “ The usual allowance (of turtle soup) at a turtle feast, is six pounds live weight per head: at the Spanish dinner at the City of London tavern, in August, 1808, 400 guests attended, and 2,500 lbs. of turtle were con- sumed.”—See Bell's Weekly Messen- ger, August 7, 1803. TURTLE-IDOVE.—Another and finer kind of pigeon than either the ring-dove or tame pigeon : the cock is usually of an ash colour, with a black ring round his neck : there are also some of them white, especially in cold countries. The flesh of the turtle-dove is not so dry as that of the wild pigeon. It is better tasted, and produces good juice : when this bird is fat, tender, and young, it constitutes a delicate food, and is what the poet Martial says of it:— Dummihi pinguis eris turtur, lactuca val bis, et coebleas tibi babe; perdere nolo famera. Galen also extols the goodness of the turtle, and says, that it is of a food neither too gross nor too slight, and in a word ver}'' wholesome. — See Pigeons, Ring-Dove. TYRE.—A composition of butter- milk and milk: made by adding a little butter-milk to warm fresh milk, and letting it stand all night. It is much used in India, being eaten with rice; it is slightlj' acid and laxative; it is also churned for butter. U. USQUEB.'VUGII.—The Irish for dram, and made of cinnamon, cori- mad-water. Originally the pure ander, nutmeg, mace, aniseed, spirit called w'hisky, a term obtained citron, thyme, balm, savory, mint, from ns(iuebaugh. The usquebaugh rosemary, Spanish liquorice, sugar of the present day is a strong, ricli, caiuly, raisins, currants, and dates, compound spirit, chiefly taken as a infused in brandy.VA VE 363 V. VALERIAN.—The root of this plant is antispasmodic and tonic; and is sometimes highly beneficial in those diseases which appear to he connected with a morbid suscepti- bility of the nervous system, as in hysterics, pain of one side of the head, and in some species of epi- lepsy; it is of service also in some cases of hypochondriasis, or lowness of spirits, and may often be advan- tageously combined with Peruvian bark. Its great disadvantage is its smell and taste : the aroma arising from it pervades the whole body, and seems to be carried off by per- spiration ; this is an insuperable ob- jection to it in the higher ranks of life, and less than a drachm to a dose does no good. In one kind of epilepsy it more particularly does good, that is, where it is symptom- atic of an affection of the stomach, which is common to young people from excess in eating and drinking; when thus the stomach loses its tone, it is relieved by a large dose of Va- lerian, conjoined with ipecacuanha: e.(j. Take Valerian in powder, 1 dr. Ipecacuanha - - 1 gr. Make a powder, to he taken three or four times a day, out of any conve- nient vehicle, as wine, water, &c. It is very nauseous, but when thus taken largely, it is highly beneficial in palsy, especially when it arises from mere nervous weakness. A strong infusion of the root, joined with the tincture, answers as well as the powder. Thus— Take Valerian root - 6 drs. Horse-radish - 3 drs. Water - - - 1 pint. Boil down to ten ounces, and strain ; then take The strained liquor - l^oz. Carbonate of ammonia 6 grs. Valerian in powder - 20 grs. Syrup of saffron - - i dr. Make a draught, to be taken every fourth or sixth hour. The ammoniated tincture of vale- rian is an elegant and efficacious cordial and antispasmodic, of great benefit to the nervous and low spirited. The dose is from one to two or three tea-spoonsful, twice a day in water. Sir John Pringle found an infusion of valerian keep meat better than sea salt, or an infusion of bark ; hence he regarded it as more anti- septic ; but this is not to be admitted, as the action of medicines on living matter is different from chemical action.—See Stomachics. VANILLA The pod of the Epidendron, (L.) : growing in Cay- enne, and some parts of Spanish America. The largest pods are sometimes six inches long, and almost triangular, soft, oleaginous, externally of the appearance of leather, and internally filled with a dark brown pulp, in which we find a great number of small black or brownish red and shining seeds. I’liese have a pungent aromatic and oily taste, and a strong balsamic odour, much resembling that of the Peruvian balsam. A small propor- tion of these seeds—for instance, a grain to an ounce—is sufficient to impart to chocolate the very agree- able flavour which we generally meet with in that imported from Spain. Vanilla is warming, resol- vent, strengthening to the stomach, and a remedy for flatulency. In chocolate it assists the digestion of the oily substance of the cacao. VANN Ell.—Incookciy. To turn up sauce, or other liquid, in a spoon, and turn it q\iickly over. VEAL. The flesh of calves.— Veal, in a dictetical point of con- sideration, is tender and nourishing; but not so easily digested, nor so well suited to weak stomachs as isVE 364 VE commonly imagined. It is matter of just complaint, that the same in- jurious methods are practised in the rearing and management of calves, as have been already noticed with regard to lambs. By such treat- ment the quality of the meat is much depraved. Although veal affords less nourishment than the flesh of the same animal in a state of ma- turity, it contains many nutritious and earthy particles, and produces little or no disposition to flatulency; it ought not, however, to he exposed in the market, till the calf is at least six weeks old, and have been fed, if possible, on the mother's milk. Veal is not of a heating nature, and may therefore be allowed to febrile pa- tients in a very weak state, especially with the addition of some acid : it is also the most proper food for persons who have a disposition to hemor- rhage. On account of the great proportion of viscidity it contains, persons disposed to phlegm and com- plaints of the abdomen, ought to abstain from its use. For these reasons, veal-broth is recommended, especially in pectoral and inflam- matoi-y diseases. The lungs, the liver, and tongue of calves, are less viscous than the flesh; and being soft, mild, and easily digested, they are very proper for sick persons and convalescents. No animal fat is lighter than this : it shews the least disposition to putres- cency ; and it may therefore be used, in preference to any other, by per- sons of a scorbutic taint. The fat of veal shoidd not be boiled, as that operation softens its fibres too much, dissolves the jelly, and renders it unfit for digestion. But, by roasting, it becomes drier, and somewhat more solid; both the serous and thick parts of the blood arc incrassated in the external vessels, the fibres are dried uj), and a crust is formed, be- neath which the fluids are moved, and clianged into a vapour, by the continued application of heat. In this operation all the fibres lie, as it were in a vapour bath, and are per- fectly softened without losing any of the jelly. Roasting, therefore, may be considered as the best mode of preparing this meat for the table. Baking also forms a crust over it like roasting, hut the fat incrassated by heat may occasion inconvenience, as it possesses an oily acrimony, and is with difiiculty digested. — See Training. For the above reason, it is impro- per to eat the burnt crust of any meat, of which some persons are particularly fond, though it contains an empyreumatic oil, highly perni- cious, and altogether indigestible. For roasting, the mellow and juicy kidney piece, or the breast of veal, deserves the preference : the leg is too dry and fibrous ; it requires good teeth to be well chewed, renders their use more necessary than any other dish, and is frequently trouble- some to the stomach. In short, veal does not agree well with weak and indolent stomachs, which require to be exercised with a firmer species of meat. When boiled it is but slightlj' nourishing; and when we make a meal upon veal alone, we soon feel a renewal of the cravings of the appe- tite. For removing the acid from the stomach, veal is the most impro- per article of diet. But to patients just recovering from sickness, first may be given veal-broth, then roasted veal, and lastly, beef. — See Feal, under Butcher's Meat to choose. VEGETABLES. — A substance endowed with life, partlj' or wholly fixed within the earth, and which derives its nutriment from vessels in the outer surface of the roots. Ve- getables form one of the three great divisions of nature. The most strik- ing difl'erence between animals and vegetables is, that the former are in general ca])able of conveying them- selves from jdace to place ; whereas, the latter, being fixed in the same place, absorb, by means of their rootsVE VE 365 and leaves, such support as is within their i-each. All plants appear to require for their support water, earth, light, and air. Various experiments have been instituted, to shew that water is the only aliment which the root attracts from the soil. The same quantity of water is not requi- site for all plants; those that tran- spire little, do not stand in need of any considerable quantity of this fluid, and accordingly they are fixed upon dr}' rocks—for example, the mosses and lichens. The leaves of vegetables have likewise the property of absorbing water, and of extract- ing from the atmosphere the same principle which the root draws from the earth. But water plants, that is, such as live in the water, have no need of roots ; they receive the fluid at all their pores. Dung mi.xed with earths and decomposed, not only affords the alimentary principles spoken of, but likewise favoiu's the growth of the plant by that constant and steady heat which its farther decomposition produces. Light is almost indispensable to plants. In the dark theygrowpale, languish,and die. One of the principal advantages resulting to Europe, from exploring distant regions, has been the intro- duction of some of the most useful plants and fruits that are now cul- tivated with so much advantage. From the discovery of America, one of the most important benefits per- haps that we have received, was the introduction of the jiotato; a root by far the most useful of all that we have among us. 'I'lie pear, the peach, the apricot, and the quince (which sec), were respectively brought from Epirus, Carthage, America, and Syria. They were first trans])lanted into Italy; and thence disseminated by the Romans, through the northern and western parts of Europe. Fruit, says Andrews (Hist. Enej.), seems to have been very scarce in England, in the time of Ilenry VII. In an original MS. signed by himself, and kept in the Remembrance-office, it appears that apples were paid for, not less than one or two shillings a piece; that a red rose cost two shill- ings ; and that a man and woman had eight shillings and fourpence for a few strawberries. It was not till the latter end of the reign of Henry VIII. (1547), that any salad, car- rots, or cabbage, or other edible roots, were produced in England. The little of these vegetables that was used, were formerly imported from Holland and Flanders. Queen Catherine (Henry’s first consort), when she wanted a salad, was ob- liged to dispatch a messenger thither on purpose. Sundry other kinds of fruit and plants were also first cultivated in England during the reign of the Eighth Henry, particularly apricots, artichokes, pippins, and gooseberries. The latter are said to have been brought from Flanders. The currant tree was conveyed from Zante, by the Venetians, and planted in Eng- land in the year 15o3. Asparagus, beans, peas, and cauliflowers, were introduced about the time of Charles the Second’s restoration (1600).— Cabbages were introduced into Scot- land by the soldiers of Cromwell’s army. 'I'lie delightfid ornaments of our gardens, the most beautiful and fragrant flowers, are also foreign jiroductions. For instance, among others, the jessamine came from tlie East Indies; the tuliji, the lily, and several others from the Levant; the tuberose from Java and Ceylon the carnation and pink from Italy; and tlie auricula from Switzerland. The modern taste for flowers, came, it is said, from Persia to Constanti- nople, and was imported thence to Eurojie, for the first time, in the sixteenth century. At any rale, we find that the greater part of the productions of our flower gardens were conveyed by that channel.-— 2 I 3VE 3G6 VE (Beclcman's Hist, of Inventions').— With what goodness, observes the pious Sturm, does God thus provide for our happiness and enjoyments, by making even the most remote countries contribute to them. Let it moreover he considered, that nuts, acorns, crabs, and a few wild berries, were almost all the variety of vege- table food indigenous to our island. The meanest labourer, as Dr. Aiken justly remarks, is now fed with more wholesome and delicate aliments than the petty kings of the country could obtain when in its uncultivated state. VEGETABLE ACIDS.—There arc reckoned at present among chemists upwards of twenty vege- table acids, though hut few of these iire met with iu common articles of vegetable food. They appear to he more refreshing to the system than affording much real nourishment; which, when it is observed to take place, may perhaps be more justly referred to the other principles with which it is combined. For instance, in the orange and apple, the acid is combined with sugar and mucilage ; and in sowans, or flummery, and starch-maker’s water, in which it is combined with starch and gluten.— See Acids, Vegetable. VEGETABLE ALIMENT. — Vegetable food is more ancient than any other species of aliment. As constituting the food of animals, ve- getables are the foundation of all our nourishment, for through this means animals arc nourished, which in their turn afford nutriment to man. 'fhere are indeed no circumstances under which animal food should be solely used. This has been confirmed by every rational experiment hitherto made ; and a ])crson confined 011I3' for a few days to this mode of living, has brought on such diseased action as to have obliged him to desist. In- dependent of this, by stimulating to an extreme degree by animal diet. the springs of life are urged on too fast and preternaturally, and of course weakening exertions of the system ensue, which, from their ex- cess, induce eaidy decay. Thus child- hood is prematurely ushered by it into manhood; and the powers of manhood, soon exhausted, display' the infirmities and progress of age, at a period when vigour and strength should still be in perfection. A diet of vegetable food, on the contrary', is conducive to long life: it neither accelerates the vital energy', nor ripens the fruit before its time; but with a slow and regular step, brings forward the different stages in due season, and with all the advantages which their proper maturity' ought to confer upon them. At the same time, while the good effects of a vegetable diet are pointed out, in arresting the progress of life, and giving a greater permanence to existence, we by' no means approve of it as a diet to he entirely trusted to. On the exclusive use of a vegeta- ble diet, declaiiners against it have not taken into view the various and new circumstances of situation in which man is now placed. He is no longer the child of nature, nor the passive inhabitant of one genial spot, as when ho was first formed. He is now a citizen of the world at large ; exertion and foil are his constant attendants, and he requires a more ready and assimilated nourishment than vegetable food can convey'. In many' situations, alas! the vigour of his system is weakened by extremes of temperature, which demand, to counteract them, the most stimulant and invigorating food he is capable of acquiring. The excellence of ve- getable food, therefore, used alone, is confined to mild tem])erafure, and a passive state, and then it certainly deserves that preference which hu- manity and philosophy have bestowed upon it. Vegetable food, considered as con-3G7 VE VE veying a nourishment insufficient for our present civilised state, it may not be irrelevant here to make some remarks on the inconvenience con- sequent upon its being used in excess. The first inconvenience of the ali- ment under consideration is, its con- stant tendency to ascescency; but this is hurtful only when it takes place to a morbid degree. If a na- tural tendency to ascescency prevails in the stomach, as a step towards assimilation, it cannot fail to be noxiously increased by the sole use of vegetables; and the counteracting of this state, or checking the ten- dency to fermentation, must be the great secret in the regulation of vegetable diet. This secret, no doubt, depends upon the preventing, by our choice of vegetables, excess in the proportion of the fermentable or sac- charine matter, and in exciting the action of the stomach, so that the vegetable food may not be too long retained upon it. The next inconvenience alleged against vegetable diet is, its difficulty of assimilation. That vegetable ali- ment is more difficult in being re- duced to nourishment seemsgenerally admitted, and in the end produces a greater quantity of faeces. When received into the stomach, it is like- wise superficially lighter than the gastric fluids; hence it floats near the top of the stomach, and causes eructations. This uiMjasiness is not felt for some time after its reception, hut it soon begins to operate in the upper oi'ifice of the stomach. This difficulty of assimilation in vegetable food may, however, be got the better of, by a proper selection of it, and it will also bo chiefly felt in weak sto- machs, but will by no means affect the vigorous and robust. A third inconvenience attending a vegetable regimen is, its extrication of a considerable quantity of air, by which the stomach becomes distended often to an enormous degree, and much uneasiness is produced in the adjacent organs. The extrication of air is common to all vegetables; it varies, nevertheless, extremely, in different kinds of them, and it is from this circumstance that the flatu- lency' and torpor is experienced which succeeds a full meal of them. Hence all vegetables that contain much of it should undergo a previous preparation before being used as food. These are the principal in- conveniences attending a vegetable regimen; while, on the contrary, to counterbalance them, this species of diet is always found to promote or sharpen the appetite, and to keep the stomach in an active state. Neither are any constitutional disorders the consequence of it, as happens from animal food; for whatever morbid symptoms arise under its nse, they are confined almost exclusively to the stomach and bowels, and seldom carry any hurtful effects into the system at large ; neither do any evils arise from occasional excesses in its use, and the mischiefs of repletion, or even fulness, are avoided by it, unless in eases of extreme indolence, or where a continued course of in- temperance is pursued, as i-egards the quantity taken: by its moderate stimulus, it counteracts the dispo- sition to an inflammatory state, and, in many cases, proves highl}' ser- viceable in checking the violence, and arresting the progress of several constitutional diseases. Independ- ently of its nature, it is of great im- portance to the stomach, by giving that proper distension which this organ retpiires, in order to its healtliy action. The wisdom of nature lias pro- vided that the extent of vegetable food should be much greater than of animal food, as the former is the foundation of nourishment for all the animated creation. Hence we find that there is scarcely any vegetable that does not all'ord nourishment to some animal, and there are many which, though naturally of a dele-VE VE 368 terious quality, can, by proper prepa- ration, be converted in to nourishment for man. Those vegetables that are of a mild, bland, agreeable taste are proper nourishment, while those of an acrid, bitter, nauseous nature are improper. We use, indeed, several acrid substances as food, but the mild, the bland, and the agreeable are in largest proportion in almost every vegetable; such as are acrid, and at the same time of an aromatic nature, are not used as food, but as spices or drugs, which answer the purpose of medicines, rather than any thing else. Althoiigli not un- frequently acrid and bitter vegetables are admitted as food; for instance, celery and endive are used in com- mon food, though both are substances of considerable acrimony; but it must be observed, that wlien we use them, they are previously blanched, which almost totally destroys their acrimony; or if we employ other acrid substances, we generally, in a great measure, deprive them of their acrimony by boiling. In different countries, the same plants grow with different degrees of acrimony. Garlic, for example, sel- dom, in this country, enters one’s food ; but in the southern countries, where this plant grows more mild, it is frequently used. The plant which furnishes Cassada, which in itsviant state is of a very acrimonious and poisonous nature, afl’ords can instance of the necessity of preparing acrid substances, even in the hot countides, and there are other plants, such as wnke-rohin, which, in their natural state, are so acrimonious, that they cannot ho swallowed with safet}', yet, when deprived of that acrimony by boiling, afford good nourishment. Vecjetable and An'nnal Food, dif- ferences between.—Vegetable differs from animal food in several respects. l.sV. It has a greater tendency to acidity, whilst animal food of all kinds inclines more to alkalescency and putrefaction. 2nd. With regard to their difference of solution in the stomach, heaviness, is seldom felt from vegetables, except from farinaceous paste, or the most viscid substances ; while heanness from animal food is more frequently noticed, especially when taken in any great quantity. 3rfZ. With regard to mixture, there is no instance of difficult mixture in Vegetables, except in vegetable oils ; while in animal food especially, the fatter meats, both from viscidity and oiliness, are in this re.spectrefractory. ‘Uh. When the putrescency of ani- mal food has proceeded too far, it pi'oduces an active stimulus, causing diarrhoea, dysentery, &c. These effects, however, are of rare occur- rence, whereas from vegetable food and its acid, which, united with bile, proves a pretty strong stimulus, they more frequently occur; however, they are of less consequenee, if the degree of refrigeration be not very great. bill. Wherever neither putrefac- tion nor acidity have gone to any great length, animal food keeps the belly more regular. Gth. Vegetable food gives a greater proportion of succulent matter, and when exsiccated hj‘ the stomach and intestines, is more apt to stagnate, and produce slow-helly and costive- ness, than stimulating animal food, which before it reaches the large in- testines, wher(? stojqiage is made, it has obtained a putrefactive tendency, and gives a proper stimulus: thus, those who are costive from the use of vegetables, when they return to animal food, are considerably ame- liorated in their natural bodily health. Exclusive of the foi'egoing obser- vations, it is pretty generally known, that animal food is considerably more nutritive than vegetable, al- though they both produce a blood of the same kind, hut different in quality, 'fhe former affords a more dense, stimulating elastic blood than the latter which stretches, andJ VE 369 VE causes a greater degree of resistance in the solids, as well as excites them to stronger actions ; and in autumn, when there is a tendency to dysentery if it be obseiwed that eating of fruits brings it on, it is rather to be ascrib- ed to their cooling than to their stimulating the intestines. Quanlity of Nutriment afforded hy Animal and Vegetable Food.—With respect to the quantity of nutriment contained in or afforded by animal vegetable food, it is of two kinds. The first repairs the waste of the solid fibres: the other supplies cer- tain fluids, the chief of which is oil. Now as animal food is more easily assimilated, and also longer retained in the system, and as it contains a greater proportion of oil, it will afford both kinds of nutriment moi'e co- piously than vegetables. The dif- ferent degrees of perspirability of these foods are not yet properly de- termined. Sanctorius, who first called the attention of pliysicians to tlie transpiration of the skin and lungs, which he proved to exceed the other secretions of the body considerably in weight, constantly speaks of mutton as the most per- spirable of all food, and of vegetables as checking perspiration. This, it would appear, is in consequence of the different stimulus those foods give to the stomach, so that persons who live on vegetables have not their perspiration so suddenly e.x- cited. Another reason why vege- tables are less perspirable is, because their watery saline juices are deter- mined to the kidneys and passed off' by urine, while the more perfectly mixed animal food is more uniformly diffused over the system, and so passes off by perspiration. Eor these reasons, the statements of Sanctorius may be understood, for vegetable 'aliment is no longer retained in the body, but mostly takes the course of the kidneys. Both, however, in this respect arc equally perspirable; as it is ascertained, that a person living on either, returns once a day to his standard weight; and if we consider the little nourishment contained in vegetables, with the great tendency of animal food to corpulency, it must be allow'ed that vegetables are more quickly perspired than animal food. Among the various other properties of vegetable food, it has been espe- cially considered by all authors, as having most influence on the powers of the mind, and in preserving a delicacy effecting a liveliness of ima- gination, and an activeness of judg- ment ; but in proportion to those superior qualities, it must he ob- served, that this state of the body is equally the attendant of timidity, fluctuation and doubt: animal food, in the other extreme, gives a stronger vigour, and firmness of pui’pose, fitted for the most active exertions in life. By a mixture of diet, these two extremes come to be counter- acted ; the body possesses a proper share of vigour, and correspondent to this, the mind displays a firmness and capacity suited to every valu- able purpose ; the diet then produc- ing this state may properly be called temperance, without limiting the in- dividual to an exact portion of either kind of food, or tying him up by the absurd and sickly system of Cornaro ; and this state will be properly regu- lated by the experience and feelings of each individual, both in regard to the quantity and quality of nourish- ment. In the use of vegetable, sis well as animal food, attention should be equally paid to the proportion taken, as to the state in which it is used; the fact is, therefore, that these must be regulated by the three circumstances—of season, wjiy of life, and climate. With rcs])ect to the first, in sum- mer the quantity of vegetables should always be increased, whatever our habits may be ; the propriety of this is evidently pointed out by Nature, from its abundance at this period.VE VE 370 The increase of vegetable food is also the more necessary, if the appe- tite be naturally keen and healthy, as a more strongly nourishing ali- ment would at this time expose to all the effects of putrescency, which the increase of the vegetable diet will on the contrary counteract. The habits of life must also regulate a good deal the proportion of vege- table nourishment: an essential cir- cumstance in the use of all diet, is the production of such a distension of the stomach and bowels, as may enable them to act properly on their contents. In the sedentary and in- active. it is particularly desirable that this distension should be produced by food of a less nourishing kind; and that no more nourishment be received than the wants of the system require. Hence in these cases, a vegetable diet is to be preferred, while in the active and laborious the plan should be reversed. It is a fact sufficiently established, that the proportion of vegetable food, should in a great measure be regu- lated by the climate; as there is little doubt, that the mortality of warm climates is aggravated by the too abundant use of animal food; and that a diet of a vegetable and asces- cent nature, with a large proportion of condiment, such as we find used by the inhabitants of those countries, is best suited for the preservation of health; for, by this excess of con- diment, the morbid effects on the stomach and bowels natural to vege- table food, are counteracted, and the chyle formed from them passes into the circulation in a proper state for supporting the body in such a situa- tion. On the other hand, in a colder region, a pennancncc of nourishment is required, which animal food parti- cularly conveys; and as this nourish- ment is less apt to disorder the stomach or bowels, no great portion of condiment is necessary, cither as a stimulus to (he organ, or in order to avoid any hurtful consequences that may arise. The proportion therefore of vegetable food is clearly pointed out to be small, and chiefly of the farinaceous, or least ascescent kind. The state also in which vege- table food is used, is of equal im- portance with the proportion of it taken; thus vegetable food particu- larly requires to be used in a fresh state—for, by being kept, many kinds of vegetables lose their pe- culiar flavour, taste, and smeU, in consequence of which they become indigestible. This particularly is the case with the ])ulses, herbs, and roots. VEGETABLES, CULINARY.— Though under this head no arrange- ment can be absolutely perfect, from the circumstance of some of the plants being used for diflerent pur- poses, it will answer our object in the present instance, to give an alpha- betical catalogue, and refer the reader to the individual under its proper head. 1. Aceiarious Plants or Salads— comprehending all small salads, e.p. American cress, winter cress, dande- lion, celery, lettuce, endive, succory, mustard, corn-salad, rape, garden cress, water cress, brook-lime, scurvy grass, garden rocket, burnet, buck- thorn plantain (see Plantain), ox- eye-daisy, and others, as sorrel, sarragon, Indian cress, &c. 2. Alliaceous Plants, correspond- ing with the onion, leek, chives, gar- lick, shalot, and rocambole. 3. Asparaginous Plants, including asparagus, sea-kale, artichoke, car- doon, rampion, alexanders, hop, bladder-campion, cotton thistle, and milk thistle. 4. Cabbage Tribe.—The white and red cabbage, cabbage-colewort, savoy, Brussels sprouts, borecoles, or winter greens, cauliflowers, and brocolis. 5. Fungi, British, edible.—Com- prehending the dulse, tangle, &c. G. Fungi, British, edible.—Includ- ing the mushroom, truffle and morel.VE 371 VE 7. Plants, Leguminous, e. g.—The pea, and kidney-bean. 8. Plants, Spinaceous. — Compre- hending the garden spinage, Jeru- salem artichoke, turnip, carrot, pars- nep, red beet, skirret, scorsonera, salsify, and radish. 9. Plants used in Preserves and Pickles.—Comprehending love apple, egg plant, capsicum, caper, samjjhire, and the red cabbage. Indian cress, radish, kidnev-bean, marsh marv- gold, &c. 10. Plants used in Confectionery. —Tarts, domestic medicine, includ- ing rhubarb, gourd, angelica, anise, coriander, caraway, rue, hyssop, chamomile, elecampane, liquorice, blessed thistle, wormwood, and some others. 11. Pot Herbs and Garnishings.— Comprehending parsley, purslane, tarragon, fennel, dill, chervil, horse- radish, Indian cress, marygold, borage, and some others included above. 12. Sweet Herbs, as thyme, sage, clay, mint, balm, marjoram, savory, basil, rosemary, lavender, tansy, costmary, and some of those above enumerated—to which may also be added, such edible indigenous plants as are neglected, or not cultivated, including the sea-beet, nettle, sea- peas, and a variety of other natives. VEGETABLE PRODUCTIONS, WHEK IK SEASON. — The following is a monthly view of the different vegetable roots, and sweet herbs, com- monly called garden stuff’, in season during the year. January. Artichokes, Jeru- iNIushrooins, salem, Mustard, Asparagus, Orange, Beets, Parsley, Brocoli, white and Parsiieps, purple. Potatoes, Cabbages, Radish, Cardoons, Rape, Celery, Sage, Chervil, Savory, Cresses, Scorsonera, Colewort, Skirrets, Cucumbers, hot- Sorrel, winter. house. Spinach, Endive, Tarragon, Hyssop, Thyme, Lettuces, Turnips. Marjoram, pot, February. Asparagus, Lettuces, Beaus, Kidney, Marjoram, Brocoli, White Mint, and Purple, Mustard, Burnet, Parsley, Beets, Radishes, Cabbages, Rape, Savoys, Cardoons, Celery, Savory, Chard, Skirrets, Chervil, Sorrel, Cresses, Thyme, Colewort, T ansey. Cucumbers, Tariagon, Endive, Turnips. March. Artichokes, Jeru- Lettuce, salem, Marjorum, Pot, Beets’, Mushrooms, Borecole, Mustard, Brocoli, Onions, Burnet, Parsley, Cabbages, Parsneps, Cardoons, Radish, Carrots, Rape, Celery, Chives, Savoury, Winter Savoys, o' o Shalots, Cresses, Spinach, Tansey, Cucumbers, Endive, Thyme, Fennel, Turnips, Garlick, Tarragon. Hyssop, April. Brocoli, Onions, Young, Burnet, Paisley, Celery, Radishes, Chervil, Sorrel, Colewoit, Spinach, S|)routs, Endive, Fennel, Thyme, Lettuces, Tarragon. M AY. Asparagus, Cresses, Artichokes, Cucumbers, Balm, Fennel, (iabbages. Kidney Beans, Cairots, l.ettuces. Caulillowers, Mint,VE 372 VE Mustard, Radishes, Potatoes, Young, Spinach, Parsley, Sorrel, Pease, Turnips, Purslam, Tragopagon. June. Asparagus, Parsley, Artichokes, Parsneps, Beans, Peas, Cauliflowers, Potatoes, Cresses, Purslane, Cucumbers, Radishes, Kidney Beans, Rape, Lettuces, Spinach, Onions, Turnips. July. Artichokes, Mint, Balm, Mushroom, Beans, Onions, Cabbages, Potatoes, Carrots, Purslane, Cauliflowers, Peas, Celery, Scorsonera, Chervil, Sprouts, Cresses, Sorrel, Endive, Salsify, Fenochia, Radishes, Garlic, Turnips, Kidney Beans, Lettuces, Thyme. August. Artichokes, Mushrooms, Beans, Onions, Beets, Peas, Cabbages, Parsley, Carrots, Radishes, Cauliflowers, Savory, Celery, Scorsonera, Endive, Shalots, Fenochia, Sprouts, Garlic, Salsify, Kidney Beans, Turnips, Lettuces, Marjoram, Thyme. September. Artichokes, Lettuces, Beans, Mushrooms, Beets, Onions, Cabbages, I’eas, Carrots, Potatoes, Cauliflowers, Salsify, Chervil, Scorsconera, Fenochia, Shalots, Garlic, Sjjrouts, Kidney Beans, Sorrel, Leeks, Turnips. OcTODEU. Heels. Cabbages, Parsneps, Cardoons, Potatoes, Carrots, Salsify, Cauliflowers, Savoury, Celery, Scorsonera, Chard, Shalots, Chervil, Skirrets, Endives, Sprouts, Fenochia, Rocambole, Garlic, Turnips, Leeks, Thyme. Lettuces, November. Beets, Parsneps, Cabbages, Parsley, Carrots, Potatoes, Cauliflowers, Rocambole, Cardoons, Salsify, Celery, Savoys, Chard, Scorsonera, Coleworts, Shalots, Endive, Skirrets, Leeks, Spinach, Lettuces, Sprouts, Onions, Turnips. December. Asparagus, forced. Onions, Beets, Parsley, Brocoli, white and Parsneps, purple. Potatoes, Cabbages, Rocambole, Cardoons, Salsify, Carrots, Savoys, Celery, Scorsonera, Cresses, Shalots, Endive, Spinach, Garlic, Skirrets, Leeks, Turnips, Lettuces, Thyme. VEGET.\BLES, to ruEPARE for KITCHEN USE.—On the vegetables you intend for immediate n.se, the greatest care and attention ought to be bestowed. After you have seen tliat your greens are nicely picked, lay them in a clean pan, out of the way of sand or dusl, which are apt to hang round wooded vessels. Boil all your greens in well-tinned copper saucepans hy themselves, and be sure to let them have plenty of water. Boil no kind of meat with them, as it will discolour them, and use no iron jians, these being very improper for the purpose; but let them be either co])per, brass, or silver. Many cooks spoil their garden stufl’ by Anicliokes,VE 373 VE boiling them too much. All kinds of vegetables should have a little crisp- ness, for if they be boiled too much, you will deprive them of both their sweetness and appearance. It is very important to those who are not in the constant habit of attending mai-kets, to know when the various seasons commence for pur- chasing sweet herbs. All vegetables are in their highest state of perfec- tion, and fullest of juice and flavour, before they begin to flower. The first and last crop have neither the fine flavour nor the perfume of those which are gathered in the height of the season, that is, when the greater part of the crop of each is ripe. All vegetables of this kind ouglit to be gathered on a dry day ; in order that they may preserve their colour when dried, cleanse them well from dirt and dust, cut the roots off, separate the bunches into small ones, and dry up by an artificial heat, that is, by means of a stove, or in a Dutch oven, before a common fire, that the dessication may be speedily finished. In applying the heat, the most re- (piisite and only caution is to avoid burning them, and of this a suflicient test is afforded by the preservation of the colour, .\fter they arc thus dried, it is usual to lay them by in paper bags, in a dry ])lace, though the best way to preserve the flavour of aromatic herbs is to pick off the leaves as soon as they arc dried, to pound them, and to jiass them through a hair sieve, and keep for use in well stopped bottles. Vegetables by maceration are re- duced into amylum, or starch, gluten, or vegcto-animal matter, mucilage, or mucus, besides the parenchyma, or refuse which remains behind. Some have supposed that the pro- portion of nutriment of farinaceous matter was according to the <iuantity of vegeto-animal matter, and is imso- luble in cold water, but forms a kind of mucilage in boiling water. No vegetable matter forms so much gluten as wheal, vermicelli and mnea- roiii (which see), which is starch beat up with yolks of eggs and dried. Barley is by some considered a better aliment than wheat, because it consolidates a greater proportion of water by long boiling; they having established, as a general rule, that the more water a substance can con- solidate, the more nutritious it is. Boiled vegetables are more nutri- tious than raw; they are also better eaten when warm. Potatoe is the most valuable matter we have; after wheat, oats, and barle}% parsneps and carrots are more nourishing than even potatoes. Barley made to grow, and then the growth stopped and dried, aflbrds a great deal of sugar. Such substances as can be made sweet, are more nourishing than before. VEGETABLES, To Preseuve. —Carrots, parsneps, and beet-root, are to be kept in layers of dry sand ; they should not be divested of the earth which attaches to them, on taking them out of the ground. The same observation applies to potatoes. Onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. Parsley should be cut close to the stalks and dried in a warm I'oom, or on tins in a very cool oven; it jircserves its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Cut cauliflowers when cpiite dry, with the leaves on, and bang them up by the stalk, they will keep long in it cellar; they ought to lie in water two or three hours, and afterwards to be boiled with a great deal of siilt. .Artichokes, slowly dried, ought to be kept in paper bags. Truffles, morels, lemon peel, &c., in a dry place ticket- ed. Small cabbages laid on a cold stone floor, before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very fine for many weeks, although the outer letivcs may be (juite spoiled. As substitutes for garden vegeta- bles, ho])-tops growing on hedges are good in the spring, boiled in little 2 KVE 374 VE bunches, and served up as aspa- ragus. Turnip-tops are very whole- some, they have a most pleasant hitter taste, and are an excellent and acceptable substitute for greens in a frosty spring,—and are by many pre- ferred, with roast veal. The tops of young green nettles may be used as above, and they are considered to be ])articularly salutary in the spring, during which season they are eagerly embraced by many, both for medi- cinal and dietetical purposes. In consequence of a great propor- tion of vegetables being used in a recent state, the sooner they are gathered the better. Vegetables in general, should be kept apart, for if laid in eontact, in a very short time they give off their peculiar flavours to each other. Leeks or celery will quickly spoil a whole basket of cau- liflowers, or the finer vegetables. Another rule is, that they should not be kept in water till they are about to be used, as the flower thereby is greatly injured; but if, by having been cut or gathered some- time, they have become flaccid, it is then absolutely necessary to restore their crispness before cooking them, otherwise they will be tough and unpleasant. This is to be done when the size of the vegetable admits of it, as cauliflower, salad, celery, &c. by cutting ofl' a jiiece of the stock, and setting the fresh surface, thus exposed, in water, which will be ab- sorbed. In other cases the whole vegetable must be immersed in the water. As most vegetables are more or less succulent, their hill proportion of fluids is necessary for their re- taining that state of crispness or ])lum])ucss, which they have when growing in the natural state, ^\'hen they are cut or gathered, the exha- lation from tlieir surface, wh.ilc from the open vessels of the cut surface there is trequently considerable exu- dation or eva])oration, by which moans their natural moisture is di- minished—the tender leaves become flaccid, and the thicker masses or roots lose their plumpness. These circumstances are not only less plea- sant to the eye, but are a real injury to the nutritious parts of the vege- tables : for in this flaccid and shri- velled state, their fibres are less easily divided in chewing, and the water which exists in their substan- ces, in the form of their respective natural juices, is directly nutritious. The first care, thei-efore, in the pre- servation of succulent vegetables, is to prevent them from losing their natural moisture. As regards the tender succulent vegetables, owing to a constant e.x- halation taking place from the sur- face, it is not altogether possible to prevent them from losing their nu- tritious moisture while its supply is cut off. The principle then of pre- sei'ving them is to retard and diminish the exhalations: and this is most effectually done by protecting them from the rays of the sun, from air and heat. Even growing vegetables become flaccid in a hot sun, in con- sequence of the exhalation at that time being greater than the supply: and exposure to the sun is absolutely ruinous to all the more delicate ve- getables. The operation of heated air being slower on the one than on the other, but similar in its eflects. "With the view, therefore, of pre- serving succulent vegetables, they should be kept in a cool, shady and damp place. They should also be kept in a heap, and not spread out, which greatly influences their shri- velling. But when accumulated in too large heaps, for any length of time, they are injured in another way, by their heating as it is termed, which is the commencement in them of a chemical change, or fermenta- tion, which altogether alters their nature. In many cases the chief object is to prevent evaporation. \'egctables intended to be stored U]), such as potatoes, turnips, ciirrols, and similar roots, should never beVE 375 VE divested of the earth adhering to tliem when taken out of the ground, because the little fibres by which it is retained are thereby wounded, and the evaporating surface is increased. They should also be wounded as little as possible, and the tops off turnips or carrots should be cut off close to, but above the root. The next thing to be attended to, is to protect them from the action of the air and frost. This is effected by laying them in heaps, burying them in sand or in earth, immersing them in water or covering them with straw or mats. The action of frost is most de- structive, as if it be considerable, the life of the vegetable is destroyed and it speedily rots. A less degree of frost effects a singular, but hurtful change upon the potatoes, by con- verting part of its starch or mucilage into sugar. The germination of seeds also con- verts their starch into sugar, as is exemplified in the malting of bar- ley. But even after this change has been induced, if the substance be thoroughly dried in a kiln, or other- wise, it will remain along time with- out decay.—See Fruils. VEGETABLE PRODUC- TIONS, DIVISIONS OF.—The following vegetable productions used as food in the order in which the esculents appear in Bryant’s Flora Dietetica, viz.;— 1. Apples, 7. 2. Berries, 8. 3. Flowers, 9. 4. Fungi, 10. 5. Grain, H. 6. Leaves, 12. Legumes, N uts. Roots, .Shoots, Stalks, Stone Fruits. {See the above in their respective alphabetical order). The vegetable food of the inhabi- tants of different countries varies with the productions of each : in hot climates, nature, lavish of her stores, pours forth spontaneously a profusion of vegetables, suited to the indolence of the natives, in the temperature and colder climates what nature has abridged. Thus, in our own country, to which nature, with a sparing hand, has administered the necessaries of life, we are enabled to indulge in the luxuries of the Indies. The pine apple, the grape, the melon, and a variety of other delicious fruits, are here brought to a degree of perfec- tion rarely seen even in countries which gave them birth. Certain nations are in the practice of living on a greater variety of vegetables than others. The French, whose cookery is so highly esteemed by some, use a number of herbs scarcely known to us. The Dutch also are celebrated for the produc- tions of their kitchen gardens. The English, as a nation, are certainly more in the practice of eating veget- ables than formerly, hence perhaps the sea sem-vy has in a great degree been banished from among us, and the community benefited in various ways. The various articles of nourish- ment we derive from the vegetable kingdom, may with propriety be divided into five orders. I. The diflerent sj)ecies of farina, or grain, such as wheat, rye, barley, and oats. II. The legumes, or pulse, such as peas, beans, &c. III. The various kinds of salads and pot-herbs. iV. All the diflerent roots; and V. I'ruit, or the productions of trees and shrubs. The first of these, namely, the farinaceous, are very nourishing on account of the copious mucilage they contain, but they are likewise difli- cult to digest.—.Sec Bread. 'I'hc second order of vegetable aliment includes all the leguminous productions, as beans, ])cas, lentils, and the like; these contain a solid gluten or mucilage, and afford a rich and strong nutriment, which best agrees with a vigorous stomach. They also have a considerable pro-VE 376 VE portion of cnule particles, which can- not he assimilated to our fluids, and must, therefore, remain undigested in the bowels, to the great detriment of the alimentary canal. The meal, or farina, of the leguminous class is digested with more difficulty than that of grain; besides, it contains much fixed air; on which account it is extremely flatulent, is apt to occa- sion costiveness, and to communicate various kinds of acrimony to the blood. These effects, however, it produces only when it is eaten too frequently and copiously. Hence bread made of peas or beans, either alone or mixed, and ground together with wheat, is improper for daily use. We must not, however, imagine that even the most wholesome arti- cles of food, are altogether free from air. This aliment is a necessary and useful ingredient to promote the digestion of other alimentary substances. The proportion of fixed air varies extremely in different ve- getables ; all the leguminous plants particularly abound with it; and even persons with whom they agree well, must have experienced flatu- lency and torpor, after a copious use of ])cas or beans. Those who are fond of pea soup would better con- sult their health by boiling the peas whole, than split and deprived of tlieir husks; for these promote the grinding of the peas, and prevent them from turning acid in the sto- mach, which s])lit peas readily do; they are also ajit to occasion oppres- sion in the bowels, and a very trouble- some heart-burn. 'file third order of vegetables com- jirises the various kinds of salads and herhsused in cooking; such as greens, cabbage, spinacb, and the like. These contain a great jiroportiou of water, and little nourislnnent ; they serve to fill the stomach, resist jnitrefactiou, and may, tbevcforc, be eaten more trecly in summer than in winter; being besides of a softening, laxative, saponaceous, and consequently sol- vent nature. They are well calcu- lated to relieve the bowels, on account of their water}' consistence; they are of peculiar service to lean people, to those who lose much moisture by perspiration, or who are troubled with flushings and undulations of the blood ; (in which case animal food is improper)—and as these vegetables contribute to promote insensible perspiration, they are cooling, and assist all the emunctions of the bod)'. Their nourishment is in proportion to the mucilage they contain ; but as this is in a very diluted state, the aliment they afford is inconsiderable, 'fhey are further distinguished by thin, earthy, acrid, and aerial parti- cles, both with respect to their nutri- ment, and their effect iqion the first passages. 'riicy become soft by boiling, many of the aerial particles are e.xpelled, and are thus rendered more digestible ; but the practice of boiling them in large quantities of water, which is afterwards jioured off, is extremely absurd and injudi- cious, for, with the water, their best and most nutritious parts are conse- quently thrown away, hence these vegetables ought to be thoroughly washed, and cabbage exccjited, stewed in a small quantity of water, which will be so far reduced by slow boiling, that it may be brought to the tabic with the substance dressed, 'fo improve their relish as well as to render these vegetables less flatulent, sjiices are generally added with a view to assist digestion; and for the same reason they are eaten in a raw state, with vinegar, salt, ])cpper, and the like. Berries. — Indigenous, or native berries. Bearberr)’, Blackworts or bilberry. Chili strawberry, Chinese strawberry. Cloved berry. Common barberry, bramble, English juniper,377 VE VE Common strawberry, Devonshire strawberry, Dewberry, Dogs’-rose, Gooseberries, Hautboy strawberry. Maple-leafed service, or sorb. Minion-wood strawberry. Mountain strawberry, Northumberland strawberry. Raspberry, Red-blossomed strawberry. Red and white currants. Red worts, or cranberry. Royal hautboy, wood strawberrj'. Smooth-stalked raspberry, Shmbby strawberry, Swedisb-green strawberry, - juniper, Virginia scarlet-blossomed straw- berry, scarlet strawberry. Wild Virginian strawberry. White bean tree. White raspberry. Wood strawberry. Foreign Berries, often raised in gardens and stoves. Annual guinea jrepper, Apple guava, Apple-shaped granadilla. Banana, or small fruitedplaintain, Bay-leafed passive flower, Bengal quince. Black-fruited mulberry. Common citron, fig, grape, lemon, orange, Corinthian currants. Custard apple. Dwarf fig, Hermaphrodite-fruited fig, India date plum. Lime-tree, Love-apple, Mad-ai,ple, Mammee, Medlar, Mexican medlar, Pawpaw, or popo. Palestine nightshade. Pear guava, or bay plum, shaped pawpaw. Penguin, Perennial guinea pepper. Pine apple, Pishamim plum. Plantain tree. Pomegranate-leafed malfrighia. Prickly pear. Purple-fruited fig, Sapadillo, Shadock orange. Smooth-leafed Barbadoes cherry, Sour sop Star apple. Sweet soj). Sycamore, or Pharoah’s fig. Red-fruited raspberry, True service apple. White-fruited mulberry. Leaves.—(See also Salads'). The following leaves are eaten as pot- herbs :— Cabbages, Celery, Common chervil, hyssop, maijoram, ox tongue, sowthistle, thyme, Fine-leaved sweet marjoram. Garden rosemary. Green and red sage. Leeks, Mustard thyme. Parsley, Pot marjoram. Rock samphire, Summer savoury, Sweet-scented basil. Tea sage, White beet, Winter savoury, Winter sweet marjoram. Wood sorrel. Flowers.—The following flowers are edible. Annual sunflower, Caperbush, Cardoon, Common Judas tree. 2 K 3378 VE VE Common marigold, Cotton thistle, Dwarf carline thistle. Globe artichoke. Green and French artichoke, Indian cress. Marsh marigold. Small Indian cress. Safflower. The fourth order of vegetables con- sists of all the esculent roots, or such as ai’e used at our tables ; they are cither of the mild, or of the astrin- gent and acrid kind. The former are much more nourishing and less flatulent than the latter; which, how- ever, possesses some medicinal pro- perties, such as the various species of radislies, onions, garlic, and the like. Roots are neither so nourish- ing nor so easily digested as animal food. Yet we may consider it as a certain rule that any kind of aliment, for which we feel a natural and per- manent appetite, is conformable to our nature. Of this kind is that heneficial root the potatoe, which in the most simple preparation, and without any addition, affords an agreeable and wholesome food to almost e\'ery person, and particu- larly to children. It is one of the highest alimentary substances, occa- sioning neither viscidity nor flatu- lence, and can be hurtful only when immoderately taken. Rut being a dry vegetable and containing many earthy particles, it requires a |)ropcr quantity of drink to pr-event obstruc- tions. Its excellent nourishment is sufflcicntly obvious in the healthiness of those country people, whose prin- cipal food is potatoes, as well as in animals that arc fattened upon these roots.—Sec J^o/atocs—Roots. The fifth and last order of vegetable substances coiu])rehends the fruit, or ])roductions of the difl'erent trees and shrubs.—See Fruit. VENISON.—'I’he flesh of deer, game, or lieasfs of chase. The flesh of the deer kind, as the buck, the doe, the hart, the hind*, and also that of hares, contains much good nutri- ment ; but to the injury of health, these animals are generally eaten w'hen half putrified, though they are naturally much disposed to putres- cency. When properly dressed, they afford a mellow food, and are readily assimilated to our fluids. But as wild animals, from their con- stant motion and exercise, acquire a drier sort of flesh than that of the tame, it should never be boiled, but always ought to be roasted or stewed. From the same cause, the fluids of wild animals are more heating, and more apt to putrify, than those of the domestic kind. Persons, there- fore, w'hp are pre-disposed to scurvy or other putrid diseases, should not eat much game, especially in sum- mer. This pernicious tendency of game may be corrected by the addi- tion of vinegar, acid of lemons, or wine ; salad also is very proper to he eaten with it. Those parts of wild animals which have the least motion, are the most juicy and palatable : the back for instance, is the best part of a hare. Venison that is well fed, and killed at a proper season, is con- sidered not only the most wholesome of that kind of flesh, but also the most delicious. It is more tender than mutton, and much easier of digestion. The fat is a great deli- cacy', and very much esteemed by the veritable epicure.—SccFood,Animal, Varieties of. \'KRI)iGRIS, (.Erugo erris).— An impure subacetatc of copper. It is prepared by' stratifying copper- ])lates with the husks of grapes, after the expression of their juice, and when they have been kept for some time imperfectly exposed to • Tlie tonii venison is also applied to the flesli of beasts of game — that is, animals that are caught by way of liunt- ing. Huntsmen have agreed tliat every beast of the forest that is food for man, as bears, hares, &c., is venison.VI VI 379 the air, in an apartment warm but not too diy, so as to pass to a state of fermentation, when a quantity of vinegar is formed. The copper-plates are placed in jars in strata, with the husks thus prepared, which are covered. At the end of twelve, fifteen, or twenty days, these are opened : the plates have an efflo- rescence on their surfaces of a green colour and silky lustre; they are repeatedly moistened with water; till at length a crust of verdigris is formed, which is scraped oft' with a knife, put into bags, and dried by expo.sure of them to the air and sun. It is of a green colour, with a slight tint of blue. It is used in medicine as well as the arts. For the dele- terious properties of verdigris, which results among the foremost of the culinary poisons, and for cases and symptoms, antidotes, and proofs of its existence, &c., see Copper. VINEG.VR.—Good vinegar has ever been accounted salubrious when discretionally used, especially in bilious constitutions; and in epi- demic diseases, it is an experienced preservative. The learned Boer- liaave extols its efficacy in ])utrid fevers, small-po.x, and the bites of venomous insects. It is an excel- lent preserver of animal substances from putrefaction, especially in warm temperatures. It j)roinotes digestion, and is, perhaps, never communi- cated to the blood in its acid state, hence it is an erroneous notion that vinegar is detrimental to the se- cretion and ([iiality of the milk in wet nurses. In some individuals, however, it is apt to produce a sudo- rific effect, and even laxity of the bowels, on account of its astringent property ; but used with moderation as an article of seasoning rather than drink, especially with animal food in warm weather, it is both savoury and wholesome. But nothing short of good vinegar ought to be obtained ; since various kinds of it, which are made of sloes, the husks of nuts, and other strong astringents, certainly arc pernicious. The best vinegar, for common use, made about London, is excessively bad, when compared with that which is made from good white wines, raisins and sugar. That made from sour wine or ale, cider or beer, is, notwithstanding its austere taste, not to be accounted perfect vinegar. When any of these does not turn out sufficiently acrid, oil of vitriol is frequently made the com- pensative substitute. Individuals subject to habitual costiveness, or those who labour under spasmodic complaints of the bowels, colic, and other concomitant S3'mptoms of flatulencj^ ought to abstain from the use of vinegar and all vegetable acids. When vinegar is employed to fumigate the cham- bers of the sick, it should be boiled in glazed e.arthen pipkins and passed about the bed. Acetic acid, or distilled vinegar, possesses the same virtues as com- mon vinegar, though in a stronger degree; and is principally used for pharmaceutical purposes. The strong acetic acid of the Edinburgh phar- macopoeia, is employed as an ana- lej)tic remedy, and is snuffed up the nostrils in faintings, as|)hj'xy, hysterics, headachs, &c. VINEGAR, BicKi.Es in.—Many of these are kept in the shops : the vegetables soaked in salt and water for some boiirs, then drained, and boiling vinegar jioured upon them ; in a few days the vinegar is poured off, boiled a little, and tben jioured on again; if the vinegar is good, and the substances are not too moist, it is sufficient to pour it cold iqion them, and keep the vessel closely covered, 'file white vinegar, or iiyroligneous acid, much diluted, maybe used still more advantagcousl}'’. The ancients had several kinds of vinegar, which they used to drink. The Roman soldiers wore accustomed to take it in their marches. The Bible represents Boaz, a rich citizen of380 WA WA Bethlehem, as providing vinegar for his reapers, into which they might dip their bread, and kindly inviting the amiable Ruth to share with them in their repast; hence it may be inferred that the harvesters, at that period, partook of this liquid for their refreshment, a custom still prevalent in Italy and Spain. There was, however, a kind of potent vinegar, which was not proper for drinking, at least, till well diluted.—(See Psalm h\ix, 21, and compare Prov. X, 26). We must distinguish then between that vinegar and small wine, which was used as a drink, and that which was of considerable strength, and employed in sauces. Some sup- pose that oil was usually mingled with the vinegar, which was taken as a beverage. The Algerines even indulge their miserable captives with a small portion of oil to the vinegar which they allow them with their bread. Mr. Joseph Pitts, who was taken prisoner by the Algerines and sold for a slave, in the account of the treatment which he and his companions received from these now subjugated pirates, of which he com- plains with some asperity, says that his allowance was five or six spoon- fuls of vinegar, half a spoonful of olive oil, a small quantity of black biscuit, a pint of water, and a few olives a day. VINEGAR, AROMATIC. — Commonly used as an odorament, and is an elegant improvement of the vinaigre de quatre voleurs. VORACITY—(See Gluttony). w. W ATER.—Water is a transparent colourless iluid, without taste or smell, in a very slight degree compressible. When pure, it is not liable to spon- taneous change; it is liquid at the common temperature of our atmo- sphere, assuming the solid form, at 32° of Fahrenheit, and gaseous at 212° ; hut returning unaltered to its liquid state, on resuming any degree of heat between these points. It is capable of dissolving a greater num- ber of natural bodies than any other fluid wliatever, more particularly those known by the name of saline. It also performs the most important functions in the vegetable and ani- mal kingdoms, and enters largelj' into their composition, as a consti- tuent part. The simple waters arc the following: 1. Distii.i.ud Water. 2. Rain Water. 3. Ice and Snow Water. d. hiMUNG W ATER. •1. River Water. 6. Stagnated Water. 1- Hater, distilled,—This is the lightest form of all others, holding neither solid nor gaseous substances in solution ; is perfectly void of taste and smell—colourless, and beauti- fully transparent—has a soft feel, and wets the fingers more readily than any other. It mixes unifonnly with soap, into a smooth opaline mixture; but it ma}' be added to a solution of soap, in spirit of wine, without injuring its transparency. The clearness of distilled water is not impaired by the most delicate chemical re-agents, such as lime water, a solution of barytes in any acid, nitrated silver, or acid of sugar. Wlicii evaporated in a silver vessel, it leaves no residuum ; if preserved from access with foreign matter floating in the air, it may he kept for ages unaltered, in vessels upon which it has no action, as it docs not possess within itself the power of decompo- sition. As it freezes exactly at 32° of Fahrenheit, and boils at 212°, under the atmospherical pressure of 29. 8 inches, these points are made use of as the standard ones for thcr- inomctrical division, and its specificWA 381 WA weight being always the same, under the mean pressure of temperature, it is employed for the comparative standard of specific gravity, &c. Distilled water is seldom emploj'ed to any extent in the preparation of food, or in manufactures, on account of the trouble of procuring it in large quantities ; but for preparing a great number of medicines, and in almost every one of the nicer chemical pro- cesses that ai’e carried on in the liquid way, this water is an essential requisite. 2. Rain Water. — The next in purity to distilled water is that which has undergone a natural distillation from the earth, and is condensed in the form of rain. This is a water so nearly approaching to absolute purity as probably to be equal to distilled water, for every purpose, except in the nicer chemical experiments. The foreign contents of rain water appear to vary, according to the state of the air through which it falls. The he- terogeneous atmosphere of a smoky town will give some impregnation to rain, as it passes through, and this, though it may not at once be percep- tible, on chemical examination, will nevertheless render it liable to spon- taneous change, and hence rain water, if long kept, esiiecially in hot climates, acquires a strong smell, becomes full of animalcula', and is in some degree j)iitrid. The sj>ecilic gravity of rain water is so nearly the same as that of distilled water, that it requires the most delicate instru- ments to detect the difierence. llain that falls in towns actpiires a small quantity of the sulphate of lime and calcareous matter, from the mortar and plaster of the houses. 3. Ice and Snow ll'afer are equal to rain water in purity, and when fresh melted, contain no air, which is expelled during freezing. In cold climates, and in high latitudes, thawed snow forms the constant drink of the inhabitants during winter, and the vast masses of ice which float on the Polar seas, afford an abundant supply to the mariner. It is well known, that in a weak brine, exposed to a moderate freezing cold, it is only the watery part that congeals, leaving the unfrozen liquor proportionably stronger of the salt. The same happens with a dilute solution of vegetable acids, with fer- mented liquors and the like, and advantage is taken of this property to reduce the saline part to a more concentrated form. Snow water has always lain under the imputation of occasioning those strumous swellings in the neck, which deform many of the inhabitants of the Alpine valleys, which with us are called Derbyshire necks, although this opinion appears in some measure to be controverted, in consequence of the disease being known to occur in places where ice and snow are never seen, as well as from the fact of its being quite unknown in Chili and in Thibet, though the rivers of those countries are chiefly supplied by the melting of the snow, with which the moun- tains are covered. 4. Spring Water. — Under this comprehensive class are included all waters that spring from some depth beneath the soil, and arc used at the fountain head, or, at least, before they have run any considerable dis- tance cx])osed to the air. It is ob- vious that spring water will be as various in its contents, as the sid)- stances that compose the soil through which it flows. When the ingre- dients are not such as to give any pecidiar medical or sensible ])ro]>cr- ties, and the water is used for com- mon pur])oses, it is distinguished ns a hard or soft sjiring, sweet or brackish, clear or turhid, &c. Ordi- nary springs insensibly pass into mineral springs, as their foreign con- tents become more notable or un- common ; though sometimes waters have acquired great medical rc])uta- tion from mere j)urity. Ily far the greater number of springs are cold ;382 WA WA but as they take their origin at some depth from the surface, and below the influence of the external atmo- sjfliere, their temperature is in gene- ral tolerably uniform, during every vicissitude of season, and always several degrees higher than the freezing point. Others again arise constantly hot, or with a temperature always exceeding the summer heat, and the warmth possessed by the water is entirely independent of that of the atmosphere, and varies little, winter or summer. One of the principal inconveniences in almost every spring water is its hardness, owing to the presence of earthy salts, which, in by far the greater number of cases, are only the insipid substances, chalk, and selenite, which do not impair the taste of the water, whilst the air which it contains, and its grateful coolness, render it a most agreeable, and, generally, a perfectly innocent drink; though sometimes, in weak stomachs, it is apt to occasion an uneasy sense of weight in that organ, followed by a degree of dyspepsy. The quantity of earthy salts varies considerably; but, in general, it appears that the proportion of five grains of these in the pint will con- stitute a hard water, unfit for wash- ing with soap, and for many other pinqjoses of household use or manu- factures. The water of deep wells is always, ctrteris paribus, much harder than that of s])rings which overflow their channel; for much agitation and exposure to air produce a gradual deposition of the calcareous earth, and hence sju'ing water often encrusts, to a considerable thickness, the inside of any kind of tube through which it flows, as it arises from the earth. The specific gravity of these waters is also, for tlie most jiart, greater than tliat of any other kind of water, that of the sea excepted. Springs that overflow their channel, and form to themselves a limited well, pass insensibly into the state of stream or river water, and thereby become altered in some of their che- mical qualities. 5. Water, River.—This, in gene- ral, is much softer and more free from earthy salts than the last, but contains less air of any kind, for by the agitation of a long current, and in most cases by a great increase of temperature, it loses common air and cai'bonic acid, and with this last most of the lime which is held in solution. The specific gravity thereby becomes less, the taste not so harsh, but less fresh and agreeable, and out of a hard spring is often made a stream of sufficient puritj’ for most of the purposes where a soft water is required. Some streams, however, that arise from a clean silicious rock, and flow in a sandy or stonj' bed, are from the outset remarkably pure. Such are the mountain lakes and rivulets in the rocky districts of Wales, the source of the beautiful waters of the Dee; and numberless other rivers that flow through the hollows of every valley. Switzerland has long been cele- brated for the purity and excellence of its waters, which pour in copious streams from the mountains, and give rise to some of the first rivers in Europe. Some of them never freeze in the severest winter, the cause of which is probably, as Haller conjectures, that they spring at once out of a subterraneous reservoir so deep as to be out of the reach of the frost, and during their short course, when exposed to day, they have not time to be cooled down from fifty degrees, their original temperature, to below the freezing point. Some river waters, however, that do not take their rise from a rocky soil, and are indeed at first considerably charged with foreign matter, during a long course, even over a rich cultivated plain, become remarkably pure as to saline con- tents, but often fouled with mud, and vegetable or animal exuvire, which areWA 383 WA rather suspended than held in true solution. Such for instance, is that of the Thames, which taken up at London at low water, is a very soft and good water, and after rest and filtration, it holds hut a very small portion of any thing that could prove noxious, or impede any manufacture. It is also excellently adapted for sea voyages; but it here undergoes a remarkable and spontaneous change. No water carried to sea becomes sooner putrid than that of the Tliames. W'hen a cask is opened, after being kept a montli or two a quantity of inflammable air escapes, and the water is so black and offen- sive as scarcely to be borne. Upon racking it off, however, into large earthen vessels, (oil jars are com- monly used for the purpose), and exposing it to the air, it generally deposits a quantity of black slimy mud, becomes clear as crystal, and remarkably sweet and palatable.— (See Observations on the Purifications of corrupted IVaters). The Seine has as high a reputation in France, and appears from accurate experiments, to be a river of great ])urity. It might he ex[>ected that a river which has passed by a large town and re- ceived all its impurites, and been used by numerous dyer.s, tanners, hatters and the like, who crowd to its banks for the convenience of plenty of water, should thereby ac- (juire such a fullness as to bo very perceptible to chemical examination for a considerable distance below the town; but it appears from the most accurate examination, that where the stream is at all considerable, these kinds of impurities have but little influence in permanently altering the quality of the water, especially as they are for the most part only suspended, and not truly dissolved, ami therefore mere rest, and espe- cially filtration, will restore the water to its original purity. Proba- bly, therefore, the most accurate chemist would find some difficulty to distinguish water taken up at Lon- don, from that procured at Hampton- court, after each has been purified by simple filtration, &c. Stagnated ll'oters.—The waters that present the greatest impurities to the senses, are those of stagnated pools, and low marshy countries. They are filled with the remains of animal and vegetable matter under- going decomposition, and during that process, becoming in part solu- ble in water, thereby affording a rich nutriment to the succession of living plants and insects, which are sup- plying the ])lace of those that perish. From the want of sufficient agitation in these waters, vegetation goes on undisturbed, and the surface beomes covered with converva,* and other aquatic plants; and as these stand- ing waters are in general shallow, they i-eceive the full influence of the sun, which further promotes all changes that are going on within them. The taste is generally vapid, and destitute of that freshness and agreeable coolness which distinguish sj)ring water. It should however be remarked, that stagnant waters are generally soft, and many of the im- purities are only suspended, conse- (piently separable by filtration ; and perhaps the unj)alatableness of the drink has caused it to he in worse credit than it deserves, on the score of salubrity. The decidedly noxious effects produced by the air of marshes and stagnant j)ools, have often been supposed to e.xtend to the internal use of these waters; and often, espe- cially in hot climates, a residence near these places has been as much condemned on one account as on the other, and in like manner, an improvement in health has been as much attributed to a change of water as of air. * ’I'lie name of a genus of ]>lants in the l.inncan system : a kind of moss, named from its use formerly in healing broken bones.384 WA WA WATER, MEDICINAL PRO- PERTIES OF.—If there is in na- ture a medicine that deserves the name of universal, it is in our opinion common water. The use of it is so general and so necessary to us all, that we can neither live nor preserve our bodies sound and healthy, with- out it, for it guards against every disease, protects and defends the body from all kinds of corruption that may prove fatal to life, and an- swers all possible intentions of cures, so that without it no disorder, whe- ther chronic or acute, can be hap- pily and successfully removed. In confirmation of this opinion, we shall not insist on the medicinal springs, whether hot or cold, nor attempt to prove their salutary virtues in sub- duing various disorder's, but confine ourselves entirely to common water, the universal use of which we at present design to recommend. Rut since there is a great differ- ence between different writers, we are carefully to inquire which are best calculated for answering this medicinal intention. The true way of examining whether the waters are pure, is by chemical experiments, two of which we have singled out for our own use, anti recommended to others, as exactly discovering the purity or impurity of waters. The first is by dropping into them oil of tartar, and the second a solution of silver in aijuafortis. If the waters are pure, such as rain water, water distilled and some sorts of spring water, no al- teration will follow on dropping these liquors into them; but if gross and impure, they turn milky with oil of tartar {solution of potash), especially if they abound with a chalky earth, and tlie solution of silver turns im- pure water thick, grc}'coloured ; and it they participate ol'iron almost red. The effects of waters also manifest their nature, subtility, and juirity; thus, those that arc light and soft seem best lor mollifying the bones of animals, and the boiling of sea-tish. Bleachers find a remarkable differ- ence in waters, the softer and fatter sorts serving better to wash and bleach, than such as are ponderous, hard, and take soap with difficulty. Bakers find, that the more soft and subtile tvaters make their bread rise well. Gardeners observe, that such w'aters as are light, subtile, and spi- rituous, are much better for their plants than hard. Masons, and makers of figures in plaisterof Paris, find hard water the best, and can scarce work with soft, so as to give their work a proper degree of strength and firmness. Chemists find that rain water is best suited to wash their magisteries iind metal- line powders, as readily dissolving the salts, which hard spring waters will scarcely affect. We daily observe in the domestic operations of brew- ing, washing, making tea, &c., that the more subtile and soft sorts are better than spring water. But for medicinal purposes we prefer rain water, being naturally distilled by the sun, and thus rendered subtile, and fitter for solutions, infusions, extracts, and all internal uses. How- ever, this water being mixed with various mineral, vegetable and ani- mal e.xhalations, is thence rendei'ed easily corruptible, if exposed to the open air, or suffered to stand long in wooden vessels. The rain that falls in the month of March, will keep longer, as not then receiving so many effluvia: the better to fit this water for medicinal use, it shoidd be kept in earthen vessels stopped close, and thus if it be collected, not in cities and towns, from the spouts of houses, but in the open fields, it may be kept sound and fit for service several years. Next to rain water in point of goodness is that of rivers,'but as rivers proceed from springs, situated in high and mountainous places, and as rains increase these springs, which, running over vast tracts of land, absorb many different matters from the earth, hence rivers become more385 WA WA turbid and impure, the larger the tracts of laud are, they waste iu their course; add to this, that they attract numerous heterogeneous parts from the bottom they flow over, whence there often arises a considerable dif- ference between rain and river water. Lastly, rivers being perpetually ex- posed to the open air and the action of the sun, have their most subtile parts exhaled and sublimed into the atmosphere so as to supply the mat- ter of clouds and rain. There is also a great difference between the waters of rivers; for those that have a swift course or run violently down from the mountains where tliey rise into the lower plains, are very different from those where the course is slow and gentle, and which rise in lower places: thus rapid rivers usually afford a light and subtile water not very subject to corruption, though somewhat im- proper for the feeding and nourish- ing of fish, because the rapidity of the motion prevents the spawn of the fish from adhering to the banks, so as to be there animated by the heat of the sun; but if these rapid rivers do not greatly abound with fish, the few they produce are excellent and well tasted. The rivers that flow gently differ from the former, not only on account of the immense quantities of fish they breed, but also because they generally run on fat clayey bottoms, or such as afford j>roper retreats and nutriments to fish, whence such rivers are not so clear and crystalline as those of a rapid course, but tben such waters are of a softer nature and serve for the purposes of washing, fulling, scouring, &c., without any consi- derable addition of soap. River waters are not, therefore, all alike, or equally ]>roper for medicinal j)ur- poses; those that should be made choice of on that account are clear and light, do not easily corrupt, and exhibit no alteration on the addition of oil of tartar or any metallic solu- tion ; and it must be constantly ob- served that rivers of a rapid course are universally more wholesome than those which flow with a slow and gentle current. Spring waters are also observed to difl'er in their virtues; for according to the different nature of the soil or the earthy matters they meet with or imbibe, they receive a different nature and disposition, whence we seldom find springs of a perfectly pure and light water. The gi-eatest ])art of them leave on distillation a copious earthy substance ; there are but few that do not turn thick with metalline solutions or alkaline salts; some of them contain common salt, and others a subtile volatile vitriol. If they contain common salt, oil of tartar will discover it, by its turning milky; if they contain a vitriolic principle, the infusion of galls will turn it black. Others again contain particles of iron, and thence acquire a styptic taste, and on standing some time in a hottle deposit an ocher. It is, therefore, the business of art and industry, out of so large a number of springs wherewith nature supplies us, to discover the most wholesome, which are known by their lightness, transparency, purity, long keeping, and the trials above mentioned: there is another difference observable in spring waters, some being hard and others soft; the latter will keej) the longest, and will not so easily freeze as the former. Roth of them are wholesome and medicinal, if pro- perly adapted to the disease and con- stitution of the ])atient. llavitig thus shewn which waters are most proper for medicinal uses, and how they are distinguished and exanuned, we shall jiroceed to prove the excellency and universal virtue of pure water. Pure and light waters are agreeable to the different natures and constitutions of all men for the circulation of the fluids, being that which preserves and secures the body from corruption, and keeps the blood 2 LWA 386 WA and juices in a thin moveable state, water must be therefore necessarily appropriated to the producing of that effect. Every one will readily grant that a proper fluidity of the blood is highly necessary to procure a free and equable circulation, by means whereof the vessels are kept always open, obstructions prevented, excre- tions secured, stagnations and impu- rities of the juices prevented, and the causes of diseases cut off. And whether there be in nature a more proper remedy for procuring this fluidity to the blood, we leave to the judgment of sober and experienced physicians. To us it appears that pure and subtile water exquisitely divides the solid and viscid parts of the blood and juices, so as to prevent their coagulating orrunning together, at the same time that it dissolves the excrementitious matters of various kinds, whether earthy, saline, or oily, and discharges them by the pro- per outlets. And hence -we conceive is the reason why the drinkers of water, provided it be pure and excel- lent, are more healthy and longer lived, than such as drink wine or malt liquors, and why it generally gives them a better appetite, and renders them plump and flesh}-, for certainly water is a very proper men- struum for dissolving the aliment, extracting its chyle or nourishing part, and carrying it through all the innermost and finest canals of the body. Besides, it readily washes off and dissolves that tough and viscous slime which lines the glandular coats of the stomach and duodenum, or first division of the intestines; whereby the dissolving juices of the bowels, which arc the immediate in- slruments of digestion, may more plentifully mix with the food and |)crform their office. Those who drink water are observed to have much sounder and whiter teeth than others, for putrefaction and corrup- tion of the teeth are caused by the scurvy, a disease prevented by the drinking of pure water, which actu- ally cleanses and washes the blood, and discharges its impurities. Add to this, that drinkers of water are brisker and more alert, in all the actions both of mind and body, than such as use malt liquors; most of which produce clammy, viscid and sluggish juices, hardly capable of passing through the exquisitely fine vessels of the brain and nerves, whence proceed indolence and weak- ness of the limbs both to sense and motion. Having thus considered the sin- gular efficacy of water, by way of prevention, we come next to examine what it will perform in the cure of diseases. Physicians divide all dis- tempers into acute and chronical. Of the acute kind, the principal are fevers; and experience shews that if water be not the only thing, there is no better remedy yet found, than a free and copious use of it. Whence Hippocrates and others highly re- commend an aqueous ptisan, or me- dicinal drink for this pui-pose. And accordingly by this alone, with the assistance of rest and temperate warmth, the most violent fevers have been frequently cured, without any other medicine. The caution re- quired in the use of water for this distemper is not to give it too cold, especially near the crisis and when there is reason to fear an inflamma- tion, nor when the body is stiff and rigid, and the external parts parched and bound up; but to wait for the time when there appears a disposi- tion to sweat, for then it is always proper to give water in large quan- tities. Those called chronical diseases, gener.-illy arise from an obstruction of the viscera and glandular parts, or an overcharge and foulness of the juices, with the stagnation thereof in the larger vessels. All which, ac- cording to the rules of reason and ex- j)criencc, are to be removed in order to complete the cure ; but to produceWA WA 387 this effect, there is not a more ser- viceable remedy than pure water. How eminently serviceable the me- dicinal waters both of hot and cold springs are for this purpose, is well known from experience; but the greater part of their efficacy in this respect is, be3'ond all dispute, owing to the quantity of pure elementary water thej'- contain. The singular efficacy of pure hot water also ap- pears from the nature and use of drinking tea, for it is certainly a mistake to attribute all the good effects of tea to the leaves of the plant. The principal virtue of this infusion is, doubtless, owing to the quantity of pure hot water employed in the making of it; while the herb by its astringency prevents the fibres of the body from being too much re- laxed and weakened by it, therefore, as numerous diseases are attended with a strong contraction of the fibres, all physicians who are well versed in practice, will be cautious of allowing too freely this astringent plant in such cases. That tea is an astringent or styptic plant appears from several experiments, particu- larly from its turning inky with a solution of iron or the chalybeate waters, like oak bark, balustines, and other astringent vegetables; and to speak a serviceable truth, we have in our own country many plants whose virtues exceed those of the Indian tea; and choice should be made of those plants for medicinal use according to the difference of distempers. Thus, for example, in diseases of the breast, Paul’s betony is proper; common betony in disor- ders of the nerves; balm and penny- royal in disorders of the uterus ; ground ivy in ulcers of the kidneys; buck bean in tlie scurvy, &c.; being respectively made into tea with the purest water and drank hot. Again, common chamomile may be advan- tageously used by way of tea against the cholic; parsley in the stone; crowfoot in the moist asthma, &c. Rosemary tea is by many recom- mended as excellent in many ner- vous diseases, viz.—the epilepsy, palsy, and apoplexy, and for defend- ing the body and preventing the catching of cold, especially if made with the flowers of the plant. But in all teas it is a caution of the highest moment that the water designed for the infusion be not suffered to boil long, but as it simmers strongly, im- mediately be poured upon the plant in order to prevent the loss of its most subtile parts. It is well known that a fulness of blood, and juices, brings on many distempers, but to prevent this ful- ness, the most proper thing is hot water, made into an infusion with herbs, which thus, by dissolving the glutinous humours, prevents the mass of blood from increasing too fast. A free use of water is equally serviceable in purifying bad juices, as it readily washes off their impure, saline, and drossy parts, through all the excretory passages of the body ; besides this, the drinking of water promotes all the evacuations, keeps the belly soluble, preserves the uri- nary passages open, washes and cleanses the same from the adhesion of gravelly or stony matter, and powerfully promotes thatmosthealthy discharge of insensible perspiration. Lastly, water is tlie cftectual vehicle of all other remedies. Thus, anti- scorbutics and vegetable medicines, appropriated to cleanse the blood, prove of little service in correcting the depravities of the humours, un- less their virtues are carried by the assistance of water, in the form of decoctions and infusions, into the juices and remote parts of the body. To sum up all; in whatever cases there is a necessity, either of altering, evacuating, opening, or resolving, water is, at all times, the best of remedies. WATER, PURIFICATION OP COR- RUPTKD.—As the health of man prin- cipally depends on the purity andWA 3S8 WA solubility of the water he uses, we ought, where necessar}', to deprive it of its pernicious qualities, and this can he done by boiling and filtering, but most effectually by distillation. The putrid substances in the water may he corrected by the addition of an acid. Thus half an ounce of alum in powder will make twelve gallons of corrupted water pure and trans- parent in two hours, without impart- ing any sensible degree of astringen- cy. By the addition of a very small quantity of quick lime, water may he preserved from corruption in long voyages; or, to prevent water from putrescence at sea, add a small quan- tity of alkali and vitriolic acid to every cask, which will preserve it pure and wholesome for a twelve- month. Charcoal powder has also been found to be excellently adapted to check the putrid tendency of water, and for this reason the staves of the casks used on shipboard ought to he well burnt in the inside, to keep the water from corruption. Vinegar, or other strong acids, are also well cal- culated to correct putrid water, and may ho either mixed with it, or drank immediately after, to prevent its had effects. Water being one of those .sub- stances without which mankind can- not exist, is, it is generally known, apt to become putrid, and to con- tract, in consequence of this occur- rence, qualities which render its use unsafe. This circumstance is the more particularly cmharassingduring sea voyages!, and it deserves no less consideration in those districts where the inhabitants arc often obliged to make use of stagnant water, or of such as, from its hepatic taste and smell, is very disagreeable. 11 would he useless here to enumerate the various disorders occasioned by the use of such waters; hut it i.s’ un- doubledl}', an object of great im- jiortance, to make known the means by which the putrefaction of water may be j>reventcd, and by which that water, in which putrefaction has already taken place, may be rendered perfectly sweet. It has been found by repeated experiments on the purifying powers of charcoal, that amongst other pro- perties, it possesses that of almost instantly depriving the most putrid water of its bad smell. From this circumstance it was suggested, that the same substance might have a very powerful efiect in preventing water from becoming putrid, which it was afterwards actually found to do. WATER, &C. TO PRESERVE PURE. —Pure water, properly so called, when deprived of all heterogeneous parts, is not subject to become putrid, but it is very difficult to keep it long in a pure state, on account of its dissolving powers. To preserve water for ail}' length of time in that state, it would be necessary to keep it in a vessel of glass, or of earthenware; but the brittleness of these vessels renders it impossible to make use of very large ones, and we are obliged to have recourse to wooden vessels, which, though they are not subject to be broken, like the others, have the great disadvantage of imparting to the water a large quantity of mu- cilaginous and extractive particles, which hasten its putrefaction. It is well known that these particles, in a state of division, furnish an innume- rable quantity of living creatures, the almost pciqietual destruction and regeneration of which communicate to water that degree of corruption and initrefaction, which renders its use so dangerous. It is not, there- fore, from the water itself, but from the continual decomposition of the substances dissolved in it, that its disposition to putrefaction arises. From what has been said, then, it evidently ap])ears that the tirst means of ])rcscrving from putrefaction water which we are obliged to keep in wooden vessels, or casks, consists in having these reservoirs perfectly clean. The smallest quantity ofWA 389 WA matter already corrupted being left in them, acts as a real ferment, and very quickly disposes the fresh water, with which these vessels are tilled, to become putrid in the same manner. For this reason, it is advised* that the casks or other vessels be well washed with hot water and sand, or with any other substance capable of removing the mucilaginous particles, and afterwards that a certain quan- tity of powder of charcoal be em- ployed, which will entirely deprive such casks, or other vessels, of the musty or putrid smell they may have contracted. When water is preserved by having certain substances mixed with it, these substances act either by their anti-putrescent powers, or by mechanically absorbing the pu- trified particles. Vitriolic acid pos- sesses the first of these properties, and powdered charcoal fulfils the second intention in a very striking manner, and the effect of the latter is rendered much more speedy by using it along with the former. Proportions of Charcoal and Vi- triolic Acid, ^-c.—From experiments made to ascertain in what propor- tions these two substances might be advantageously used together, it was found that one ounce and a half of poivdered charcoal, and twenty-four drops of the concentrated vitriolic acid (sulphuric acid), are sufficient to purify three pints and a half of cor- rupted water, and do not communi- cate to it any sensible acidity. This small quantity of vitriolic acid renders it unnecessary to use more than one tliird part, at most, of the charcoal powder which would be wanted if the acid were not used ; and the less of that powder employed, the less the quantity of water lost by the opera- tion, which in sea voyages is an object worthy of consideration. In proportion to the quantity of acid • See Mr. Lowitz’s Memoir, read at the Kconomical Society at St. Peters- burgh. used, the quantity of charcoal may be diminished or augmented, and it should be observed, that all acids produce nearly the same effects. Neutral salts also, particularly nitre and sea salt, may be used for the puqrose in question, but vitriolic acid is certainly preferable to any of these. Water purified by means of this acid and charcoal, will keep a longer time than that which is purified by char- coal alone. The cleanness of the casks in which w'ater is kept during sea voyages, is an object which should never be neg- lected, and it would not be amiss if the operation were repeated every time they are about to be filled with fresh water. Six or eight pounds of charcoal are advised to be used for each cask, it being better to use too much than too little, and as much of the vitriolic acid as is sufficient to communicate to the w'ater a scarcely perceptible degree of acidit}'. To prevent the charcoal from settling at the bottom of the cask in the form of a paste, it will be proper to stir the whole together with a stick, at least twice every week, by which means the charcoal will be better dispersed through the whole mass of water, and, consequently, will perform its office more completely. Properties of Charcoal and Vitriolic Acid.—Powder of charcoal and vi- triolic acid are two anti-putrescent substances. The first prevents the water from acquiring that yellow colour, which it usually contracts by time, and the acid particularly con- tributes to clarify the water, which the powder of charcoal, when em- j)loyed alone, generally renders tur- bid. If we wish to make use of the water so preserved, it sliould first be tried, by passing a small quantity of it through a strainer, in the form of a jelly bag filled with powder of char- coal: such a strainer, or bag, should always be in readiness, to be made use of for this purpose. Directions for purifying any given 2 L 2WA WA 390 qtianlily of corrupted Water.—When it is intended to purify any given quantity of corrupted water, we sliould begin, by adding to it as much powder of cliarcoal as is ne- cessary to deprive it entirely of its bad smell; and in order to ascertain whether the quantity added be suffi- cient to clarify the said Avater, a small quantity of it may be passed through a linen bag, two or three inches long: if the water thus fil- tered has still a turbid appearance, a fresh quantity of jiowdered charcoal must be added, until it becomes per- fectly clear. The whole of the water may thus be passed through a filtering bag, the size of w'hich should be pro- portioned to the quantity of water. If vitriolic, or any other acid can be procured, a small quantity of it should be added to the rvater before the charcoal powder is used, the quantity of acid being regulated in proportion to tbe state of putridity in which the water is actually found, and which should be added in quan- tity sufficient to communicate to the water a degree of acidity just percept- ible to the taste. If the water be merely intended for dressing meat and vegetables for the ship’s company, instead of acid, such a quantity of sea salt as Avould have been j)roper for seasoning the above articles may be employed. Saline substances, like acids, hasten the effects of the charcoal jiowdor. By making use of acids (as has already been observed) a much less quantity of ])owdered charcoal is ne- cessary ; and so easy is the ])rocess to any one accustomed to operations of this kind, that four or five minutes only are rcHpiircd to render several gallons of ])utrid water fit to drink. In like manner, to improve the taste of those spring waters which natu- rally have an hcjialic flavour, and arc therefore unpleasant to use, no- thing more is necessary than to filter them throtigh a bag, half filled with powdered charcoal. If such Avaters are not very much loaded Avith mucilaginous particles, the ad- dition of an acid is not necessary. Method of i^rcserving Charcoal on Board of Ships.—Powdered charcoal is a very light substance, a quality Avhich, perhaps, may appear embar- rassing, on account of the room it Avill take up in a ship, supposing the quantity of it to be in proportion to the quantity of Avater taken on board. The folloAving is the re.sidt of Mr. LoAvitz’s experiments, relative to the space required for storing charcoal. First: fotir ounces and a half of poAvdered charcoal, a quantity Avhich is sufficient to purify three pints and a half of water, Avhen no acid is made use of, take up as much space as sixteen ounces of water; but if this jiOAvder be strongly compressed, it Avill take up only the space of nine ounces of Avater; consequently, it Avould require tAvo casks of poAvdered charcoal to purify eleven casks of Avater. Secondly, an ounce and a half of powdered charcoal is suffi- cient to purify three pints and a half of Avater, provided a small quantity of vitriolic acid, or sea salt, is at the same time made use of. One cask of poAvdered charcoal, therefore, if tightly packed, is sufficient for seven- teen casks of Avater. In another experiment made on this subject, it Avas found that six drachms of poAvdered charcoal Avere sufficient to deprive three pints of Avatcr of its bad smell, and to render it ))erfectly clear, provided, at the same time, tAventy-ibur drops of vi- triolic acid Avere added. In this Avay, therefore, one cask ofpoAvdered char- coal Avould be sufficient for thirty- four casks of corrupted Avater. These cxi)eriments, however, must be con- sidered as liable to some variation, for, in order to obtain clfects equal to those related, the charcoiil poAvder must be ])rcparcd Avilh the greatest care. It must also be observed, that though the above small quantity Avas found sutiicient to deprive the AvaterWH 391 WA entirely of its bad smell, and to render it very clear, a larger quantity will be required to deprive it of its bad taste. In order to save the charcoal powder on board of ships, as it is an article not easily procured at sea, the powder that has been used should not be thrown away; for if it be afterwards %vell dried, and again beat to powder, it will, by that means, acquire new surfaces, and serve a second time to purify a quantity of water, almost as great as that for which in the first place it was used. And, indeed, it may even be applied to the same purposes, after it has been frequently used, in the same manner ; as, by making it red hot, in a close vessel, it will thereby resume its purifying properties. This process is, doubtless, a troublesome one on shipboard ; but it is possible, under some circumstances, that it may be rendered less dilHcult. As on board of all ships there is every day a fire, economy suggests that the charcoal of the wood which is used should be saved, and instead of letting it burn to ashes, it should be extinguished by water, or other means, and kept for use when wanted. The cinders of pit-coal, provided they are perfectly burnt, and reduced to powder, may serve, in cases of necessit}', for the purification of water; but when this kind of coal is made use of, no acid of any kind must be added to the water, as the metallic particles which pit-coal con- tains, even after it is thoroughly burnt, might, if acids were employed, communicate dangerous qualities to the water. It is proper here to observe, that charcoal takes from the water a part of the acid which has been made use of. If two droj)s of sulphuric acid (oil of vitriol) arc put into four ounces of water, the water will be- come scnsilrly acid ; but this acidity will immediately disappear, if a small quantity of powdered charcoal be added to the water. WELSH RABBIT. — Toasted cheese and bread. Dr. King, in his Art of Cookery, eulogizes this pi- quant morceau in the following strain : “ Happy the man that has each fortune tried, To whom she much bath given, and much denied; With abstinence all delicates he sees, And can regale himself on toast and cheese.” It is made in the following man- ner : upon a slice of bread cut about an inch thick, the crust pared off, and slightly toasted, so as just to brown it on one side, lay a piece of good, fat, mellow Cheshire or double Glo’ster cheese, a quarter of an inch thick, not so l)ig as the bread by half an inch on each side. Pare off the rind of the cheese; cut out all the specks and rotten parts, and laj' it on the toasted bread, on a cheese-toaster; carefully watch it that it does not burn, and stir it with a spoon to jrrevent a pellicle from burning on the surface. Season it secundum (jaslam with good mustard and salt. WHEATEAR. — A small bird, esteemed very delicate food. It is dressed and eaten in the same man- ner as larks. W11E AT (Triticnm).—The seeds of the Trilicuni lubernum, and cesli- viiin of Linmeus, are so termed. It is to these plants we tire indebted for our bread, and the various kinds of pastry and confectionery. Tlie wheat, after being thrashed and winnowed, is grounci between two millstones, and then sifted to obtain its farina or flour. Tlie farina of wheat may be sejrarated into its three constituent j)arts, in the following manner; the flour is to be kneaded into a paste with water in an earthen vessel, the water continuing to pour iqjon it from a cock, which, as it falls iqron the ])aste, takes up from it a very line white powder, whereby it acquires the colour and consistency of milk. This process is continued till theWH 392 WH water runs off clear, when the flour will be separated into three distinct parts—namely; a grey elastic sub- stance that sticks to the hand, which, owing to its properties, has acquired the name of the glulinoiis, or vegeto animal part; a white powder which precipitates to the bottom of the liquid, and is the f<eculum or starch; a substance which remains dissolved in the water, which appears to be a kind of mucilaginous extract. The word corn, in the general ac- ceptation of the term, denotes either a genus of plants which have all a grain or an ear fit for bread, the ordinary food of man {s,ee Bread), or the grain, or seed, of that plant, sepa- rated from the spica, or ear. In the commerce of grain it generally means wheat; but the farmers rank among the number of corns, several other grains, as rye, barley, &c. Authors are much deceived concerning the discovery and culture of corn. The common opinion, however', is, that in the first ages meir lived on the spontaneous fruits of the earth, as acorns, &c., having neither the use of corn, nor the art of preparing or rendering it fit for consumption.* Ceres has the credit of being the first that pointed out the use of this plant, on which account she was ranked among the gods : and lienee Ceres is metaphorically called both bread and corii, as the word Bacchus is some- * Tlie Athenians pretend that it was among them that the art of raising corn began; and the Cretans, Sicilians, and Egyptians lay claim lo the same. Some think that the claim of the Sicilians is best supjiorted, that being the country of Ceres ; others, however, maintain, that it was in Egypt that the cultivating this grain had its origin. And it ap- jicars from both sacred ami profane hi‘ - tory, that Egypt was anciently the most fertile of all other countries in corn ; furnishing with it a consideralile ]iart of the people subject to the Uonian em- pire, and was therefore called the dry nurse of Home and Italy. times used figuratively to signify wine. “ Bacchus and Ceres, pow’rs divine. Who gave us corn for mast,* for water, wine.” Dryden’s Virgil. The process attending the cultiva- tion of corn is well described in the following lines;— “ The husbandman Pursues his cares ; his plough divides the glebe ; The seed is sown ; rough rattle o’er the clods The harrow’s teeth ; quick weeds his hoe subdues; The sickle labours, and the slow team strains. Till grateful harvest-home rewards his toils.” Independently of changes already mentioned, flour, from whatever spe- cies of corn it may be obtained, is likewise disposed to the vinous fer- mentation, on account of its sac- charine contents. 'The aptitude for fermentation of these farinaceous seeds increases, if they' first be con- verted into malt; inasmuch as by this process the gluten (see Gluten), which forms the germ is separated, and the amylaceous or starchy part appears to be turned into saccharine matter, (see Fermentation of starch and malt). WHEAT, BUCK.—{Polygonum Fago})grum). This grain constitutes the principal food of the inhabitants of Russia, Germany, and Switzer- land. WHEAT, EASTERN BUCK. {Polygonum Divaricatum). The roots reduced to a meal, are the ordinary food of the Siberians. WTIEAT, INDIAN.—See Zea Mays. WHEAT, TURKEY.—A native of America, where it is much culti- vated, as it is also in some parts of F.urope, especially in Germany' and Italy. * iUast is the fruit of the oak and beech.393 wn wn There are several varieties of Tur- key wheat, differing in the colour of the grain, and which are frequently mixed in our gardens by way of curiosity, and by which the plant is well known. It constitutes the chief bread corn in some of the southern parts of .\merica; hut, since the in- troduction of rice into Carolina, it is but little used in the northern colo- nies. It makes a principal part, too, of the food of the poor people in Italy and Germany.* * This is the sort of wheat mentioned in the book of Ruth, where it is said that Boaz treated them with parched ears of corn dipped in vinegar. This method of eating the roasted ears of Turkey wheat is still practised in the East : they gather in the ears when about half ripe, and having scorched them to their minds, eat them with as much satisfaction as we do the best dour bread. In several parts of .South Ame- rica, the lipe corn is parched, and never made into bread, but ground between two stones, mixed with water in a cala- bash, and thus eaten. The Indians make a sort of drink from 'I'urkey wheat, which is called bid—a !i(|uor of a very windy and inebriating nature, with nearly the same taste as sour small beer. But it is not used in common, the na- tives being too indolent to make it often ; it is therefore kept for the most part to celebrate their feasts and wed- dings, at w hich time they get intolerably intoxicated with it. The manner of making their drink is as follows: a par- cel of corn is steeped in a vessel of water till it becomes sour; after which the old women, being provided with cala- bashes for the purpose, chew some grains of the corn in their mouths, and, spitting it into the calabashes, empty them, spittle and all, into the sour li- t|uor, having previously skimmed off the latter into another vessel. The chewed grain soon excites a fermentation ; and when this subsiiles, the lirpior is drawn off from the dregs, and set aside till wanted. In some of the South Sea islands, where each indivirlual is his own lawgiver, it is no unusual thing for a near relation to exonerate a murderer for a good debauch of bid, the name of this liipior. WHEAT, TO TEST AND ANALYSE. —A grain of wheat is naturally composed of an outer rind or husk, called the skin or bran, a layer of soft, sweetish substance, constituting about half the grain, which is not easily ground to fine powder, and forms the coarsest of the Hour; and the kernel or heart, which is hard and mealy, is easily ground, and forms the finest ]>art of the flour. The chemical elements of wheat, are starch, gluten, and sweet mucilage, the proportions of which vary considerably, according to the season, or to the season of the year. The method of analysing wheat is to form the flour into a stiff paste, and knead it under water till it becomes grey, and somewhat semi-transpa- rent ; then let a stream of water play upon it, while it is being thoroughly kneaded. The paste will now be the gluten of the wheat; the starch will fall to the bottom of the water ; and the mucilage will be procured in the form of a syrup, by evaporating the liquor in a warm place. By this method, the proportions of each of these substances in any specimen may be easily and pretty accurately ascertained. WHET.—The act of giving an edge or sharpening. Any thing that ju'omotcs appetite or hunger. A jtrovocative. A devil; or high-sea- soned article. WHEY.—The liquid which re- mains after the scjttiration of the curd ; a thin and almost trtinsparent fluid, of a yellowish green colour, and a jtleasant sweetish taste. It usually conttiins a portion both of curd and butter ; the formerof which may be septirtited by a boiling heat, in the form of coagulum. The but- tery matter also separates by heat, especiidly if the whey he previously allowed to become sour. In its re- cent stiite whey conttiius some acetic acid. When whey htis heen de- jirivcd of the butter and curd as much as it can, and is slowly evaporated,WH 394 WI ityields thepeculiar substance termed sugar of ynilk" which may be ob- tained by clarification with the whites of eggs, in the form of crystals. The presence of this saccharine matter neld in solution in whey enables that fluid to undergo the vinous fermen- tation ; and is accordingly employed by the Tartars for making a sort of wine called Koumiss. For this pur- pose the milk of mares is chosen, as it contains a larger proportion of sac- charine matter than that of the cow. Whey also contains several saline bodies, viz., muriate of potass, phos- phates of lime and of iron, and sul- phate of potass; also a peculiar animal matter, which gives a pre- cipitate with infusion of galls, and affords carbonate of ammonia by distillation. From these investigations the con- stituents of skimmed milk from the cow appear to be, according to Ma- jendie—• Water. Curd, with a little cream, 926.75 Sugar of milk, .... 28 Muriate of potass, . . 35 Phosphate of potass, . . 1.70 Lactic acid, acetate of pot-") ass, with a trace of lactate I 0.25 of iron, J 6 Earthy phosphates . . . 0.30 10 0 To make Whey.—Cows’ milk, one pint and a half; cream of tartar, half an ounce; boil the milk, add the salt, and strain. _ 2. Alum Whey.—Cows’ milk, one pint and a half; alum, two drachms and a half; then boil together and strain. 3. Mustard Whey.—Cows’ milk, two pints; bruised mustard seed, two ounces ; boil together and strain. 4. U'ine Whey.—Cows' milk, two pints; spring water, one pint; boil, and add white wine, half a pint. 5. Llarijicd Whey.—Cows’ milk, SIX pints; rennet, q. s. Let it stand in a warm place for some hours. strain, add the whites of three eggs, and cream of tartar, half a drachm ; boil and filter through paper. Whey is highly nutritive, diluent, aperient, and diuretic. It is given in consumptions, dysenteries, jaundice, and other diseases; either alone or mixed with mineral waters, and sometimes impregnated with the juice of medicinal herbs. WHISKEY—(From usquebaugh, the Irish nomenclature for it). A diluted alcohol obtained from distil- ling malt.— See Usquebaugh and Ardent Spirits. WHITE B.\n .—Tliis fish, long supposed to be the fry of some large species, and generally thought to be that of the barbel, is now considered as that of a distinct species. It is reckoned an epicurean dish, hut in the estimation of some gourmands there are other small fry at least equal to it. WHITING. —A sea fish that often comes near the shore. It is very common in our markets, and is valued for the goodness of its taste. It is nutritive, produces good juice, sits light on the stomach, and is easily digested. WILD BOAR.—The wild hoar is very nourishing, and is food that does not waste; but yet easier of digestion than common pork. It produces gross humours, and is not adapted to idle or sedentary habits. The flesh of the wild hoar is good, chiefly in winter, for young people of a hot and bilious constitution, for those who have strong stomachs and work hard. That is best which is fat, and has been well hunted. The wild boar is not of so moist a nature as the common hog, owing to the exercise and different food it lives upon: its flesh consequently is not so viscous, is more agreeable to the taste, and easier of digestion. The flesh is very nourishing, hut, as ob- served, proper only on strong sto- machs and those who use a deal of exercise.WI WI 395 WILD CUCUMBER—The wild cucumber differs from that generally used for food; it contains a viscous and very sharp juice; which being evaporated to a certain consistence is called elaterium, used medicinally in dropsical complaints, and is gene- rally of a very active nature. WILD DUCK. — There are se- veral sorts of wild ducks, differing one from another in bigness, form, colour, and crv.—See Duck, Teal. WILD PIGEONS—See Pigeons. W'INE.—Wine is defined a brisk, agreeable, spirituous, and cordial liquor, extracted from vegetable bo- dies, and fermented. All sorts of vegetables, fruits, seeds, roots, &c. may be made to afford it; as grapes, pulse, pease, turnips, radishes, and even grass. The word wine, how- ever, is appropriated in a more parti- cular manner to the fermented juice of the gi-ape. Of the various sorts made in f'rance, Germany, Spain, Portugal, Hungary, and Italy, con- cerning the acquaintance which our ancestors had with wine, it has been conjectured that the Phoenicians might possibly have introduced a small quantity of it; but the liquor was very little known in our island before it was conquered by the Romans. All vegetables, nutritive and ani- mal matters which contain sugar ready formed, are susceptible of spirituous fermentation. For in- stance, wine may be made of all the juices of plants, the sap of trees, the infusions and decoctions of fari- naceous vegetables, the milk of fru- giverous animals; and lastly, it may be made of all ripe succulent fruits. But of all other substances suscept- ible of the spirituous fermentation, none is capable of being converted into so good wine as the juice of the French grapes, or of other countries that are nearly in the same latitude or in the same temperature. The grapes of warmer climates, and even those of the southern provinces of France, do indeed furnish wines that have a more agreeable, that is, more of a saccharine, taste; but these, though they are sufficiently strong, are not so spirituous as those of the provinces near the middle of France : at least, from the latter wines the best vinegar and brandy are made. A temperate use of wine is conducive to health. The functions of both body and mind are roused and facili- tated by it. It has a powerful effect upon the organs of digestion, the circulation and the nervous system, by promoting digestion, strengthen- ing the action of the heart and arte- ries, and raising the spirits. Such is its beneficial operation when mo- derately used. Taken in excessive quantities, it produces opposite ef- fects, destroying the powers of the stomach, inducing emaciation and debility, and occasioning infiamma- tion and obstruction in the liver, lungs, &c. Whence gout, palsy, dropsy, consumption, diabetes, &c. In a dietetical point of view, wines are to be considered as they are either acid, sweet, soft, or austere. The acid wines, of which the hock and Rhenish are the most noted, are the least heating and the most diuretic. The sweet, such as the Frontignac, Malaga, Tent, Cape, are heating and sudorific. The soft or acidi-dulces- cent wines, such as Champagne, claret, Burgundy, Madeira, &c., are less stimulating than the sweet, and more cordial than the acid wines. Of the austere and astringent kind, that which is the most used in this country is red port, which, when it h.is not been mixed with too large a proi)ortion of bratidy, is a generous and stomachic wine, well suited to the generality of British constitu- tions. All wines considered as me- dicines are very valuable, and would be still more so, if the constitution of the English were not so much habi- tuated to them. Wherever the vital powers are exhausted by great evacuations, by over excitement,39G WI WI and where there is not any tendency to inflammation, tliey prove the most useful and most grateful of all— cordials to the stomach. The number of wines used as me- dicines is not very gi'eat; Madeira, port, sherry, hock, claret, and some small French wines. In moderate quantity they are useful towards the end of low fevers, and even of bili- ous ones when the stomach is toler- ably clear; in confluent small-pox, in dysentery, particularly that of camps and ships, which is generally attended with putrid fever. In many nervous complaints; in hooping cough, nothing is better after the first week or fortnight; and in women exhausted with fluor albus or hys- teria. It is one of the best cordial tonics and antispasmodics ; excites the action of the heart and arteries ; increases the secretions and excre- tions ; throws out in health what ought to be thrown out, but which by w'eakness of action is retained; in- creases the secretion of the solids, and thus tends indirectly to the nu- triment of the system. In typhus fever and other diseases, sago, tapioca, arrow-root, and other nutriments, would not sit on the sto- mach without the addition of wine ; it stimulates the chylcepietic viscera. It is also a well-founded observation, that those who indulge in the use of wine arc less subject to fevers of the malignant and intermittent kind; and delirium, which is the conse- quence of excessive irritability, and a defective state of nervous energy, is often entirely removed by the free use of it. Wine is never ])roper when there is local inflammation or strong arterial action. Some pecu- liarities of constitution also prevent its use. Thus some have a disposi- tion ol stomach with which the least acid disagrees; in such even port will produce heart-burn and spasm of the stomach; here spirits and water must be substituted. Wherever the jjatient is bilious—in bilious and putrid fevers, acidulated wines are preferable, as hock, the small wines of Languedoc and Burgundy, and claret; the last is the best wine in fevers, to those who are not accus- tomed to wine; but it produces heart-burn in those who are used to port. Good wine, which “ needs no bush,” is an admirable cordial; and when used in moderation, answers many excellent purposes of life and health. Plutarch, in his Life of Caesar, informs us, that when he had taken Gomphi, a town in Thes- saly, by assault, he not only found provisions for his army, but pbysic also : for there they met with plenty of wine, of which they drank freely. Warmed with this, and inspired by the jolly god, they merrily danced along, and thus shook off the dis- eases contracted by their preceding diet, and changed their whole con- stitution. Wine has been styled the ‘•milk of old age.” Dr. Johnson observed, that it was much easier to be abstinent than temperate,—that no man should habitually take wine as food till he have jtassed the age of thirty at least. Another writer (see Trotter on Drunkenness, p. 151) says, no man in health can need wine till he arrives at forty ; he may then begin with two glasses in the day; at fifty he may take two more. See also. Inquiry into the Effects of fermented Liquors, by a Water- drinker, ISmo. 1820; J.ettsom on the Effects of Hard-drinking, Src. The following is Braitde’s valuable t:d)le of the (piantity of spirit in diil’ercnt kinds of wine ;— 1. Lissa I’ropn. of spirit por rent. . ‘26.47 Ditto . ‘24.35 Average ‘25.41 2. Uaisin wine . ‘26 40 Ditto . 25.77 Ditto 23.20 Average 25.12 3. I\larsala 26.30 Ditto 25.05 Average . 25.09WI \VI 397 Piopii. of spirit per cent. 4. Madeira 24.42 Ditto . 23.93 Ditto (sircial) 21.40 Madeira 19.24 Average . 22.27 5. Currant wine 20.55 6. SheiTy 19.81 Ditto . 19.83 Ditto . 18.79 Ditto . 18.25 Average . 18.25 7. Teneriffe 19.79 8. Colares 19.75 9. Lachryma Christi 19.70 10. Constantia, white 19.75 1 ]. Ditto, red . 18.92 12. Lisbon 18.94 13. Malaga (1666) . 18.94 14. Buceilas 18.49 15. Red Madeira 22.30 Ditto . 18.40 Average . 20.35 16 Cape Muschat 18.25 17. Cape Madeira 22.94 Ditto . 20.50 Ditto . 18.11 Average . 20.35 18. Grape wine 18.11 19. Calcaxella . 19.20 Ditto . 18.16 Average . 18.65 20. Vidonia 19 25 21. Alba Flora 17.26 22. JMalaga 17.26 23. White Hermitage 17.43 24. Rousillon . 19.00 Ditto . 17.26 A vet age . 18.13 25. Claret 17.11 Ditto . 16.32 Ditto . 14.08 Ditto . 12.91 .‘Vverage . 15.10 26. Malmsey Madeira 16.40 27. Lunel L5.52 28. Sheraaz 15.52 29. Syracuse L5.28 30. Sauterne 14.22 31. Burgundy . 16.60 Ditto . 15.52 Ditto . 13.00 Ditto . 11.95 Average . 14.57 Pi opn. of spirit 32. Hock . per cent. 14.37 Ditto 13.00 Ditto (old in cask) 8.88 Average 12.08 33. Nice 14.63 34. Barsac 13.86 35. Tent 13.20 36. Champagne (still) 13.80 37. Ditto (sparkling) 12.80 38. Ditto (red) 12.56 39. Ditto (ditto) 11.30 40. Cote Rote 12.32 41. Gooseberry wine . 11.84 42. Orange wine, average ' 1 of several samples made by a ; > 11.26 Londo in manufacturer ' I 43. Tokay 9.88 44. Elder wine . 9 87 45. Cider, highest average 9.87 Ditto, lowest ditto 5.21 46. Perry of 4 samples 7.26 47. Mead 7.32 48. Ale (Burton) 8.88 Ditto (Edinburgh) 6.20 Ditto (Dorchester) 5.56 Average 6.87 49. Brown Stout 6.80 50. London Porter (average ) 4.20 51. Ditto small beer (ditto) 1.28 52. Brandy 53.39 53. Rum 53.68 54. Gin 51.60 55. Scotch Whiskey 54.32 56. Irish ditto 53.90 WINES, ADULTERATION OF.—Wines differ in many particu- lars, but what most interests tlie medical pi'actitioner is their fjuantity of alcohol. They all consist of alcohol, water, and a peculiar acid; there is tdso the colouring matter, and an essential oil; other ingre- dients are also very fretiueutly added for different puqtoses, as cochineal for colouring, sulplmric acid or alum to render some wines rougher; and cerussa acetata (sugar of lead) to render others sweeter which have become acid ; this latter is tbc only sophisticative ingredient we bave to fear ; all other substances, as opium, coculus ludicus, alum, &c., when compared with this, are of little con- 2 M\V1 WI 398 sequence; they inebriate and pro- duce lieadach, but are not poisonous. If there be sugar of lead in wine, it may readily be detected by any kind of sulpburet soluble in water; there will be a precipitate of a brown or black powder; the acid of the wine unites to the alkali of the sul- pburet, and the sulphur uniting to the oxide of lead, forms this black powder. If no lead be present, a precipitate of a white powder will ensue ; here the precipitate of the sulphur, the acid of the wine, com- bining with the alkali of the sul- ])buret. If there be copper or iron in wine, there will also be a preci- pitate of a black powder; but the wine impregnated w'itb copper will be discoverable by the taste; and iron is not dangerous. To know if the precipitate be lead, if it be melted on charcoal, it will then run into globules. Alum may be discovered by pouring on it a little strontia or barytes. If there be alum, there will be a precipitation on the sides of the glass, which will be close like clay. For the detection of lead in wines, a test invented by Dr. Habne- man, and known by the name of llabneman’s wine test, is recom- mended for its delicacy. It is pre- pared by putting together, into a small phial, sixteen grains of sul- pburet of lime, prejrared in the dry way, and trventy grains of cream of tartar. The phial is to be filled with water, well corked, and occasionally shaken for the space of ten minutes. When the powder has subsided, de- cant the clear liquor, and jircscrve it in a well-stopped bottle for use. This liquor, when fresh jirepared, detects the presence of lead by a dark coloured precipitate.—Ilennj's Che~ mistr;/, vol. ii, p. 275, Wine may also he sophisticated by alcohol, cs])ccially in taverns, where the additions are, to one hogshead of port, half a hogshead of cider to give it bulk; and to give it strength and to keep it, one third of English spirit; alum also is added, to give it rough- ness, and cochineal, as already ob- served, to colour it. In this con- dition it is more hurtful than genuine wine, in consequence of the brandy not entirely incorporating with the wine, nor combining chemically with it, as alcohol, by fermentation. To know if the spirit is added after the wine is made :— 1. The spirit may easily be had by distillation at a low temperature. 2. Pour some red wine that is suspected into a vessel with a long neck, and into another genuine wine; then add perfectlj' dry potash sufficient to saturate them; when the wine to which the spirit was added wdll have alcohol swimming at the top, while the other will not Alcohol may be obtained from every wine by distillation, and an acid can be discovered by a paper dyed blue with litmus: but the pro- portions of these ingredients are very different. The quantity of alcohol makes them more or less stimulant; hut the strong wines, as port, Ma- deira, and sherry, yield much more alcohol than they naturally possess, as foreign merchants are obliged to raise them by pure alcohol to the English standard before they leave their country. Another difference is, that the acid in some is very abundant, as in Rhenish, claret, hock &c. Again, they differ in their flavour according to their quantity of saccharine matter. Some dry, strong wines have all their saccha- rine matter turned into alcohol; but there are many where the saccharine matter in the juice is so excessive, that as soon as a small part of it is converted into alcohol, it puts a stop to the vinous fermentation ; nor is this yet jiroperly explained—thus, in Tokay, Cape wine, and some others. Some have an astringent jn ojicrty, as port; still very often this property is superadded ; but port is naturally more astringent. For the individual history of theWI WI 399 wines of respective countries, &c., see those of the following, marked thus\, under their respective heads: Burgundy wine Lebanon, f Champagne, Lesbian, Chios, f Claret, t Madeira, t Malaga, Constantia, t Malmsey, Corsican, Muscadine, f Domestic, Opimian, t English, Palm, Falernian, t Port, Florence, t Rhenish, t French, t Sack, t German, t Schiras, f Greek or Turkey t Sherry, Helbon, t Spanish, f Hock, t Tokay. f Italian, It would appear that the ancients were aware that lead both amelio- rated harsh wine and preserved it from acidity, and that the acid of the wine had the power of dissolving it; for, when the Greek and Roman wine-merchants wanted to know whether their wine was spoiled, they immersed in it a plate of lead, which could only be to observe whether the colour of the lead was changed by erosion. 'I’hey were also aequainted with a mode of improving and cla- rifying wine, by boiling it with lime or gypsum; a method supposed to be still practised in some parts of Spain, and in the island of Zante : but it is considered no farther pre- judicial than as it tends, if used in too large a quantity, to deprive the liquor of its spirituous parts. That the custom is of very ancient date in the former country, is proved by a decree of the states of Arragon, in 1348. The presence of metals in wine may be detected by the ap- plication of the arsenical liver of sulphur ; but its use is not decisive of the particular kind cmjdoyed, as it precipitates all metals black with- out distinction. Among the innocent articles with which wine has been mi.xed, we find mustard and mug wort mentioned in the year 1484; and in the follow- ing century, milk was included in an imperial ordinance against adul- teration. The effects of the latter, however, are only to clarify the liquor, and to render the tint more pale, and are otherwise wholly im- perceptible : it was known to the ancient Greeks ; and is still used in small quantity, and for white wine alone. The Greeks and Romans used also to boil much of their wine until only a certain portion of it remained ; and when by this opera- tion it was deprived of some of its watery particles, it was mi.xcd with honey and spices. This method, with the exception of the mixture of spice and honey, is still applied to some kinds of new wine in Italy ; where it is now, however, used for salad and sauces, under the name of musco catto. It is said to be also employed in the preparation of the Spanish and Hungarian sweet wines; but the fact is, it is obscured in considerable doubt. There is also another mode of preparing wine, which cannot properly be called adulteration, but which was formerly considered so unwholesome, as to have been prohibited in Germany in 1472. It is effected by stopping the fermentation at a certain period, by whieh the original sweetness of the grape is in a great part retained, and on being exposed to the air, tlie fermentation recommences. I’he prejudice against this method no longer exists, and it is frequently employed in Germany and France. 'I'he common appellation of wine thus treated, is slam tuine; but the French, who prepare considerable quantities in this manner, at Ror- deaux, designate it vin en rage. Brazil wood, or the husks of elder- berries, and l)ilbcrries, are employed to impart a deej) rieh purple tint to red port of a j)ale red colour ; gyp- sum is used to render cloudy wine transparent: an additional astrin- gency is imparted to immature red wines by means of oak-wood saw-WO wo 400 (lust, and the husks of filberts—by these, and such means, it is that a mixture of spoiled foreign and home- made wines, is converted into the wretched compound, frequently sold as genuine port. Various expe- dients are resorted to, for the pur- pose of communicating particular flavours to insipid wine. Thus, a nutty flavour is produced by bitter almonds; and the ingredients em- ployed to form the bouquet of high- flavoured wines, are sweet-briars, oriice root, celery, cherry and laurel water, and elder flowers. Also, claret can be squeezed out of the sloe, and sparkling champagne from an apple; and thus are metamor- phosed the health stealing drugs wlience spring many of the afflic- tions of the great, from which the poorer classes are e.xempted. Wines are usually doctored, as it is called, in order to give them peculiar fla- vours, and render them similar to some celebrated grape wines. Thus, bitter almonds are added to give a nutty flavour; sweet-briar, orrice root, celery, cherry, laurel water, and elder flowers, to form the bou- quet of high flavoui'cd wines; alum, to render young and meagre red wines bright; Brazil wood, cake of pressed elder berries, and bilberries, to render pale faint port of a rich deep purple colour; oak sawdust, and husks of filberts, to give addi- tional astringency to unripe red wines; and a tincture of the seeds of raisins, to flavour fictitious red wines. Wine is also coloured with red beet, but in this case it is ren- dered colourless by lime water.— See Tests. WOODCOCK.—Woodcocks are found in almost every part of the world; and are served vq> to the best tables for their delicious taste. They appear at all times, but more especially in winter, for then they leave the mountains on account of the snow. They resemble a par- tridge, but their bill is considerably longer. Tliey live upon flies and worms. The snipe is another kind of woodcock, differing only from the other by not being so big. The snipe is excellent eating, and is more easily digested than the woodcock. The good taste of both these birds proceeds from the purified juices con- tained in them ; as also from their volatile and exalted principles : it is the same principles also that make the flesh of these birds restorative, and corroborant. Tliey agree in winter with all ages and constitu- tions, provided they be used mode- rately. Woodcocks should not be drawn, as the trail is, by the lovers of haut gout,” considered a ‘^borine bouche.” This bird has so insinu- ated itself into the favour of refined gourmands, that the same honours are paid to it as to the grand lama, making a ragout of its excrements, and devouring them with ecstasy— {•see Almanach des Gourmands, \o\. i. p. 5G). The wing of the woodcock is always very tough, that of the partridge very tender. The breast of all birds is the most juicy and nutritious part. WORMWOOD.—bitter tonic plant, of considerable service in in- digestion and low spirits. It has also been used with ach'antage in ague, gout, and scorbutic complaints. Its power in expelling maw-worms is well known. The infusion of wormwood is made by pouring a ])int of boiling water on an ounce of the plant, of which two tablcspoons- ful may be taken twice or three times a-day. Infused in ale, wormwood makes what is called purl. WORT.—By wort is understood the oily, spirituous part of the malt, obtained by infusions of warm water that lie and soak with the grain, one, two, or more hours, which gra- dually opens the pores, whereby it gives out its virtues more freely : bj' the further assistance of a cover of fresh malt, which here prevents the escape of the finer, and more pene-YA YA 401 trating parts of the water by steam, and causes a more equal distribution of them througbout the body of the masli, by a due confinement of tbe heat; and being swelled and satu- rated to its utmost distension, returns the overplus liquor charged with the sweet, balsamic, nutritive part of its flour; and so continues to give out the same in i-egular tincture, by the several lodgings over, or washings, that leisurely follow, and are con- stantly discharged by the cock with- out stopping, till the proper quantity is got off in a fine transparent stream. It would appear that neither cold nor boiling water will produce a good solution of saccharine matter from malt; cold water takes up little or none of the sugary principle of malt, and forms a spiritless and ascescent drink ; boiling water forms a mucilaginous fluid, wbich, what- ever it may contain, cannot be drawn off from the grains, consequently it is lost. But water at a medium temperature .acquires a full sweet- ness, and readily parts with the undissolved m.atter : though water of a high temperature (much under the boiling point) will dissolve or form a greater quantity of saccharine matter from the malt, it is, never- theless, uneconomical; for the malt in such cases is usually a little set; and there is a loss of the liquor, because it is held involved in the pastry grains; the second mashing m.ay lessen the loss, but will not compensate the deficiency. It is plain, therefore, that the first mash- ing should be m.ade with wiirm water; the second with hot water and the third with still hotter; for in each succeeding mash, there is less risk of the malt setting, as the starchy matter has been removed. “In se- lecting a proper temperature for the water-, the regulation of our choice will depend upon two qualities of it; namelj-, its sufficiency to extract the saccharine matter, and its insuffi- ciency to set the goods. Both these points require attention for the at- tainment of the greatest quantity, as W'ell as the best qiuality of the produce.—150® can never hurt malt of any kind, or under any circum- stances of fineness of the yeast, or temperature of the air, or slackness of drying: for pale malt that has been dried, (provided the atmos- phere does not exceed 50°), the heat of the first mash maybe 170°; of the second 180°; and for the third, the heat may be, and never ought to exceed, 185°.”—Town and Conn/ri/ Brewery Book, 1831. The medicinal properties of wort are .aperient, and antiscorbutic. From one to four pints daily have gene- rally been directed. The proportion recommended in preparing it, is one measure of ground malt, to three etpi.al measures of boiling water. Tlie mixture must be well stirred, and left to stand covered tbree or four bours. It sbould be m.ade fresh every day. The goodness of malt may be j>roved by the wort, in the following manner:—When a person uses more than one sort of m.alt, he m.ay prove tbe goodness of it by the wort, by weighing a quart of the latter of each brewing, and that which is he.aviest is best. Y. Y.\MS.—(Dioscorea Alai a*).—A root of a farinaceous and wholesome nature, much cultivated by the inha- * 'I'lie name of the plant which affords this esculent root, which, however, is obtained from their species—the alata. bitants of the West India islands, and is of great use to them in vic- bulbifera, and saliva. 'I'hcy grow spon- taneously in both Indies, and their roots are promiscuously eaten, as the potatoe is with us.YE 402 YE tiialling their negroes. The white people also eat them with salted provisions, as well as make puddings of them, when ground down into a coarsish flour. These roots run as large as a man’s thigh; they are of an irregular form, and of a dirty brown colour on the outside, but w'hite and mealy within. They are roasted or boiled for food, and some- times made into bread, for which they are an excellent substitute, as well as for potatoes. These plants grow wild in the woods in the island of Ceylon, and on the coast of Mala- bar, and they are supposed to have been carried from the East to the West Indies. There is a great va- riety in the colour, size, and shape of yams. Some are generally blue, or brown, round or oblong, and weigh from one pound to two. When dressed, they are esteemed nutritive, and easy of digestion, and are pre- ferred to wheaten bread. In taste, they resemble the potatoe, but are more viscous. The negroes boil and mash them; they are also ground and made into bread and puddings. AVhen they are to be kept for some time, they are exposed upon the ground to the sun, as onions are done with us, and when sufliciently dry, are put into dry sand in casks, and placed in a dry vault, where they remain often for many seasons, without losing any of their primitive goodness. YEAST.—A substance generated during the vinous fermentation of vegetable juices and decoctions, ri- sing to the surface in the form of a frothy, flocculeiit, somewhat* viscid matter, the nature and composition of which iirc unknown. Its most remarkable property is that of ex- citing fennentation.—(See Fermen- tation). The following methods of making good yeast arc easy and ex])cditious. Boil one pound ofgood flour, a cjuarter of a pound of brown sugar, and a little salt, in two gallons ol water, for an hour, and when milk warm, bottle and cork it for use, for which it will be fit in twenty-four hours. One pint of this yeast will make eighteen pounds of bread. Again, to a pound of mashed pota- toes (mealy ones are best) add two ounces of brown sugar, and two spoonsful of common yeast. Keep it moderately warm while fermenting. N.B. This recipe is, in substance, from Dr. Hunter, who observes that yeast so made will keep well. No sugar is used by bakers, who add the pulp of potatoes to their rising. Another Method.—^Boil for half an hour two quarts of water, thickened with about three spoonsful of fine flour, and sweetened with nearly half a pound of brown sugar. When almost cold, put it into a jug, adding four spoonsful of fresh yeast; shake it well together, and let it stand un- covered near the fire for a day to fer- ment. There will be a thin liquor on the top; pour this off; shake the remainder, and cork it up for use. To make a half-peck loaf, a quarter of a pint of the above may be used. 7'o make Yeast for a whole Year, at little E.vpensc.—“In Long Island,” we are told by Mr. Cobbett, “ they make ijcast cakes. A parcel of these cakes is made once a year. That is often enough. And when you bake, you take one of these cakes (or more, according to the bulk of the batch), and with them raise your bread. The very best bread I ever ate in my life, was lightened with these cakes.” The materials for a good batch of cakes are as follows :—three ounces of good fresh hops, three and a half jiounds of rye-flour, seven pounds of Indian corn-meal, and one gallon of water. Uub the hops, so as to sepa- rate them ; jmt them into the water, which is to be boiling at the time, let them boil half an hour; then strain the liquor through a fine sieve into an earthen vessel. While the liquor is hot, put in the rye flour, stirring the liquor well and quickly.ZE ZY 403 as the rye flour goes into fermenta- tion. 'J'he clay after, when it is working, put in the Indian meal, stirring it well as it goes in. Before the Indian meal be all in, the mess will be very stiff, and it will, in fact, be dough, very much of the consist- ence of the dough that bread is made of. Take this dough, knead it well, as you would a pie-crust; roll it out with a rolling-pin, as you roll out pie-crust, to the thickness of about a third of an inch. When you have it (or a part of it at a time) rolled out, cut it up in cakes with a tumbler glass turned upside down, or with something else that will serve the same purpose. Take a clean board (a tin may be better), and put the cakes to dry In the sun. Turn them every day, let them receive no wet, and they will become as bard as ship-biscuit. Put them in a bag, or box, and keep them in a place per- fectly free from damp. When you z ZERO.—The point from which the scale of a thermometer is gra- duated : e. g. the thermometers of Celsius and Reaumur have their zero at the freezing point; that is, at the point at which water freezes, while the thermometer of Fahrenheit has its zero at that point at which it stands, when immersed in a mixture of snow and common salt. ZESTS.—A term of art used by bake, take two cakes of the thickness above mentioned, and about three inches in diameter, put them in hot water over night, having cracked them first; let the vessel containing them stand near the fire-place all night. They will dissolve by the morning, and then you use them in setting your sponge (as it is called), precisely as you would use the yeast of beer. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.— Mi.x two spoonsful of flour with a pint of milk and three eggs, well beaten, add a spoonful of salt, and a little ginger grated ; butter the pan, and put in the mixture. When browned b}' baking under the meat, turn the other side upward, that that may be browned also. It should be made in a square pan, and served up, cut in pieces, neatly arranged upon a dish. The richness of the pudding is increased according to the number of eggs put into it. confectioners. The peel of oranges, lemons, or citrons, cut from top to bottom, in small slips, or zests, as thin as possible. ZYMOME.—\ tough, hard sub- stance, though it does not possess the viscidity of gluten. It is insoluhle in water and alcohol, but is dissolved in vinegar and mineral acids, by the aid of heat, and forms a soap with pure potass. Lond III : primed by Mamiing & Smiliisoii, Londun House Yaid.4 4 % •J \ f i. I I3 I4 1 * *• • Jk A « I P ’* tr A r- ii~i