Q AWE. SECOND EDITION. <*&r LONDONl HORACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.O. Price One Shilling.22101424277Med K8581*'^:*** -1I THE “QUEEN” COOKERY BOOKS No. 5. MEATS AND GrAJVTE. COLLECTED AND DESCRIBED BY S. BEATY - POWNALL, Departmental Editor “Housewife and Cuisine,” Queen Newspaper, and Author of “ A Book of Sauces.” SECOND EDITION. LONDON: HORACE COX, “QUEEN” OFFICE, WINDS OK HOUSE BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. ,1902.-3>o^ £f-o 2_ LONDON PRINTED BY HORACE COX, WINDSOR HOUSE, BREAM’S BUILDINGS, E.C. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. aj 'XPREFACE. Little, if any, originality is claimed for the following recipes, most of which have appeared in the Cookery columns of the Queen during the last eight or nine years, from whence they have been collected at the request of many readers of the Queen, to save reference to back numbers not always within reach. Additional recipes have, how- ever, been given, to bring this little work as much up to date as possible; but all these, like the previous ones, have been carefully tested, and are all (as I know from practical experience) well within the capacity of any ordinary “ good plain cook,” gifted with fair intelligence and a little goodwill. I desire also to take this opportunity of acknow- ledging my indebtedness to the various authors of standard foreign cookery books, and also to offer my grateful thanks to Mrs. A. B. Marshall, and several other well-known chefs', whose kindness has so materially helped and rendered possible my work in tlmse last years. S. Beaty-Pownall. June, 1902.CONTENTS On tlie Choice, &c., CHAPTER I. of Meat PAGE 1 Beef CHAPTER II. ... 21 Yeal CHAPTER III. 50 Mutton CHAPTER IV. 66 Lamb ... CHAPTER V. 92 Pork ... CHAPTER VI. ... 99 Venison CHAPTER VII. 107 Poultry- CHAPTER VIII. 119 Poultry (Continued) CHAPTER IX. ... 144 Game ... CHAPTER X. ... 163 40 Puddings and Pies CHAPTER XI. ... 187 Supper Dishes CHAPTER XII. 211A dvertisements. By Appointment to the KING and the Prince of Wales. D. S. F. MUSTARD. See that Colman’s name is on the Tin. „ CORN FLOUR. flljjJll / F°r Blanc Manges, Custards, &c. Self-Rising Flour. For Bread, Pastry, Cakes, Puddings, Scones, &c. 108, CANNON STREET, LONDON, and CARROW WORKS, NORWICHMEATS. oo^gcjo-o CHAPTER I. ON THE CHOICE AND CUTTING UP OF MEAT. Commonly speaking, the word “ meat ” is applied only to butcher’s meat, as it is called, i.e., beef, veal, mutton, lamb, and pork. Besides these, however, we can reckon for our joints on venison, poultry, and game. In France, and indeed abroad generally, fish is often pressed into the service to act as the releve or joint; but, though this is both a whole- some and pleasant variety, fish “ joints ” need not be considered, for the present. It must be borne in mind that the housekeeper who knows the various joints, and also can distin- guish between good and inferior meat, is placed at a considerable advantage over the woman who has to trust to her tradesman or her cook in this matter.MEATS. 0 It may, therefore, be well to begin first by des- cribing the appearance of the various kinds of meat. In beef the fat should be of a rich cream or pale butter colour; if it is deep yellow, of a decided shade, the animal has probably been fed almost exclusively on oilcake, and its flesh will as a result be coarse and greasy. The fat should not be over- abundant, and if it is so distributed as to marble the meat delicately, the latter is pretty sure to be of excellent quality. The suet should be white and quite firm. The lean should be of a clear, bright, cherry-rod, evenly and rather closely grained, and elastic to the touch. Any beef of a dark brown, almost livid, shade of red may be safely rejected as of inferior quality. The finest beef is obtained from Scotch bullocks, fed on old, long-established English pastures. Ox beef is the best, and indeed almost the only sort kept by good butchers, though lieifei beef, which is lighter in colour and smaller in the bone than ox beef, is not to be despised. Bull beef is to be seen occasionally (though seldom, if ever, at a first-rate butcher’s), but is easily detected by its deeper colour, coarser grain, and unpleasant smell. In choosing beef, look, if possible, at the kidney, as this is a pretty safe test, a good one being of a deep rosy red, with firm, elastic, and cream-coloured fat whilst that of an inferior boast will almost certainly be of a dark purplish brown, and deficient in fat, while what there is of it will be rather flabby and pinky in colour. Over-fat beef is always wasteful, and in general rather coarse; but over-lean beef betrays bad feeding and probable toughness. ItCHOICE AND CUTTING UP OF MEAT. may be well to give the young housewife the benefit of M. Gouffe’s advice on the subject of meat and its choice. This well-known chef says: “ First of all make a point of acquainting yourself with the current prices of the articles you intend purchasing ; never rely solely on one tradesman, nor place entire confidence in bis statements, but trust a good deal to your own judgment; very few, even of the most superior provision dealers, can resist the temptation of relieving themselves of doubtful commodities at the expense of an inexperienced customer.” This advice is, of course, given to French housewives, who do their own marketing in many cases, which is a practice few British housekeepers have time or opportunity for. Still, it is a good thing to visit occasionally even so unattractive a shop—as it is to many women—as a butcher’s, as you learn a good deal in that way (remember, unless you think it worth while to look after your own interests, no one else will), and you will soon see how differently customers are treated. The woman who insists on getting the joint of the size and kind she requires, ruthlessly returning the one that does not come up to her mark, soon becomes known, and is respected (and, if a good and practically ready-money customer, also feared) accordingly. For her you will see the dainty well-floured little joints hanging up labelled ; no makeweight in the shape of superfluous bone or fat will find its way into her house; the butcher is far too well aware of the result of such treatment to venture on it. At the same time, it must be remem- bered that the cook needs as much watchfulness as b 2MEATS. 4 the butcher. If dishonest, she will allow the trades- men to send inferior goods whilst charging for the primest quality, and will encourage a proportion of fat with every joint that no good housekeeper would ever dream of permitting, as it increases her per- quisite of dripping and kitchen fat. Insist on a ticket hearing the date and weight of each joint accompanying it into the house, and resolutely enforce the appearance of these tickets each week when the butcher’s book comes up for payment. Also now and again pay a surprise visit at the time of the butcher’s visit, and see the meat he has brought and verify its weight for yourself. This will often open your eyes as to the discrepancy between the weight of the meat as in your butcher’s book and the look of the joint on the table. More- over, a careless cook without the least dishonesty will waste and then throw the blame on the tradesman. To return, however, to our beef. Where economy has to be considered, frozen meat is often bought, and if obtained from a trustworthy source and pro- perly treated will be little inferior to the average home-fed beef, though it must be confessed that natu- rally it will not bear comparison with really first-rate English-fed Scotch ox beef. Foreign meat is judged in much the same way as the home-grown, though a somewhat darker purplish tone of the flesh tints, in the round especially, may be observed. It is also moister on the surface than English beef; but be careful in this matter, for foreign beef badly, or too rapidly, thawed will “ weep,” as it is technicallyCHOICE AND CUTTING UP OE MEAT. 5 called, till all the juice and nourishment has exuded from it. Beef is at its best in winter, as then only can it be hung long enough to be really tender. Veal should be plump, finely grained, but rather less closely textured than other meat. It should be of a delicate pinky colour, the fat, which should be evenly and not too abundantly distributed, of a pure white, and semi-transparent; whilst the kidney should be small and surrounded by a delicate, sweet- surell ng suet. B/emember that veal taints very quickly, and is then most uirwholesome; so in hot weather twenty-four to thirty-six hours is the utmost limit it should be given. The calf should be from two to four months old. Mutton, to be in perfection, should be at least four years old, a park-fed wether of four or five years being esteemed the most perfect mutton obtainable. Nowadays such perfection is seldom attained, save in some very large households, where a small flock is kept up for family use. Next to this mutton come the down and hill mutton. The sheep fed on the salt marshes, the pr^-salo of the French, or our own down mutton fed near the sea coast, are cases in point. This mutton is usually black-faced, and smaller in bone and build than the ordinary inland- fed sheep, though the locally famous Romney Marsh mu-1 ton, when in perfection, combines size with flavour. It is not difficult to tell the age of a sheep with a little care. Look at the breast bones when the sheep is “ dressed,” as it is technically called when prepared for show in the shop. If these bones areMEATS. 6 quite red, the sheep is little more than a lamb, and under a year old; if the bones are beginning to whiten at the upper anil lower bones, though the middle of the breast bone is still reddish, the animal is between one and two years ; and thenceforward the bones will grow more generally white till at four years old they are perfectly white. Always choose small-boned, rather small mutton, with very white and firm waxy fat, not too abundant, but evenly distributed, the lean being of a purple-brown of a darkish tint when freshly cut, whilst if seen through the skin of the leg it is apt to look quite purple; it should be fine in the grain, plump- looking, and much drier than beef on the surface. Well-hung good mutton looks quite dry, whilst its colour darkens almost to black ; such meat is always good. In cool, dry weather, in an airy dry larder, mutton will hang advantageously for a fortnight to three weeks, and at any time should hang a week before eating. Like beef, frozen mutton is coming into use, though it is not so popular as it deserves to be for two reasons : one is the trouble in thawing: it properly, the second is that when thawed it is very apt to look anything but appetising in its raw state. Unthawed, the fat is perfectly white, and the lean is of a very pale pink shade ; when, however, it is thawed it looks very often as if in an advanced stage of decomposition, especially if seen through the skin, as on the leg, when it has an absolutely appalling range of colouring, from a greenish yellow to a deep purple. All this, however, disappears when it is cooked; and if properly treated, frozenCHOICE AND CUTTING UD OF MEAT. meat, if not perhaps to be reckoned with really first-rate home-grown mutton, is at all events deci- dedly superior to a great deal of (so-called) English mutton. Remember that the best way to thaw this meat is to hang it for several hours either in the kitchen or in some place of about the same tem- perature, remembering that it should, save in very dry, cold weather, be cooked as soon as it is properly thawed. Remember, also, that owing to the extra quantity of moisture it possesses, joints of it should be hung with the uncut part down, i.e., in hanging a leg be sure to hang it by the thick part, leaving the shank end down—or, in thawing, the juice would run out at the cut part. This is, by the way, one great reason for the prejudice against frozen meat, as being “ so dry.” One more note about thawing meat, and a gruesome one. Be careful where it is hung, as all moisture is attracted by cold, and any steam or exhalations from drains, &c., will infallibly gather round the meat, and, as the frost in the latter gives, will taint and corrupt it. Lamb should be plump, a pale brownish pink in the lean, with opaline and firm, hard fat. A faint bluish tinge is generally noticeable in the latter. Be sure the butcher always sends a piece of “ caul ” (a thin, semi-transparent membrane) over the fat to protect it whilst roasting. “House lamb” is in season from Christmas to Lady Bay, and is so-called from its having been born about midwinter, and, consequently, reared under shelter and principally fed on milk. “ Grass lamb ” succeeds to this, and is the young lamb brought up naturally, more or less8 MEATS. out of doors, on the young spring grass. Lamb, to be in perfection, should he from four to five months old. Fresh pork requires great care in its choice, and should never be bought, from any but a first-rate source; moreover, it should never be used in the summer, as it is then absolutely unhealthy. It should be small, and not too fat. For eating fresh, a pig of five to six score (1001b. to 1201b.) should be chosen, as it gives the nicest and daintiest joints. The fat should be a pure white, free from any bruises or discolourations. which (like kernels in the flesh) betray unhealtliiness. The lean should be of a faint mushroom pink, closely and finely grained, and per- fectly even in texture. For eating fresh, a “ porker,” i.e., a pig of one year or under, should be chosen. It is well to bear in mind, when choosing meat, that the smaller, in reason, the more appetising the meat is. This is specially the case where a small family has to be catered for. For instance, 41b. to 61b. is an ample-sized piece for a few people; but when taken from a large beast, if the ribs or sirloin be chosen, it will look like nothing but an overgrown chop ; whereas if cut from a small animal, a piece of equal weight will be a neat miniature joint. This applies to all animals, to none, however, more forcibly than to oxen. But butchers will not supply this as a rule to any but regular and valued customers, as small meat is by no means so profitable to them. Having settled on the meat you intend to buy, it is well to have a clear notion of what joints there are, and we may as well begin with beef.CHOICE AND CUTTING UP OF MEAT. 0 The usual joints are the sirloin, the ribs, ilie round or the topside, the brisket, the aitchbone, and the buttock, or silverside, as it is also called. Besides these there are inferior pieces, such as the thick and thin flank, the chuck and middle ribs, the leg of mutton piece, the shin, and the neck, clod or sticking piece. These the wholesale butcher easily recognises, but individual and family wants have created a d uiand for various cuts, and in conse- quence the side of dead meat cut up by the local butcher often differs in some points from the plan of the wholesale salesman. A sirloin may be roasted whole with the fillet or undercut, or it maybe boned, rolled, and roasted; or the fillet may be removed, in which case it is almost always boned and rolled. When a sirloin is very large and long boned it is better to divide it as above, removing the streaky square piece at the end, which may be either used for baked Irish stew, or it may be salted and then boiled. A fillet or undercut may be larded and roasted, or braised whole, as a miniature joint, or it may be sliced down for fillets or small steaks. Abroad the biftech, or filet, is always cut from this part, as it is more tender than other portions of the meat; but in England the rump steak is preferred because of its superior flavour. The ribs may be either roasted whole, or they may be boned, rolled, and either roasted or braised. It should be borne in mind that in choosing ribs for one’s joint it is well to stipulate for the “ foreribs,” i.e., those next to the sirloin, as the “middle” andMEATS. 10 “ cliuck ribs,” sometimes called the “ wing ribs,” have the bones so long as to produce a most ungainly joint, and are not economical from the large proportion of bone to meat they possess. The rump is the portion from which are cut the finest steaks for broiling; when cut in a piece with the two sirloins, saddle fashion, it forms what is called the “ baron of beef,” a joint more often heard of than seen. The aitchbone, just under the rump, is roasted, but more frequently slightly salted and stewed or boiled. Its chief objection is the ungainly bone in the centre of it. The round comes next. The round is often divided in two, the inner side being called the topside or “tender round,” the outer one being known as the silverside. The whole round is usually roasted ; or else spiced, stewed, and pressed, and then served as “ spiced beef.” When divided, the topside, from its freedom from bone and superfluous fat, forms a most economical roast, though the meat is perhaps hardly so fine as that of the sirloin. The silverside is usually salted and boiled, though if stewed fresh with vegetables, spice, &c., it makes a most excellent joint, It is economical to buy a good piece of the round, as it can hang, and will then afford excellent steak for pies and puddings, and even for frying, though, of course, not so deli- cate as the rumpsteak, but it is delicious as stewed steak. It must be remembered that, as these last joints have no bone and little or no fat of their own, the butcher will, unless checked for it, all but invari-CHOICE AND CUTTING UE OE MEAT. 11 ably send a “ makeweight,” as lie calls it, of either bone or extraneous suet, as large as lie thinks the inexperience of the customer, or the carelessness of the cook, will permit. The veiny piece lies below the round, and is used for inferior steak, and is also most excellent for stews, ragouts, &c. The jlanlcs, thick and thin, come next; the thick flank next to the veiny piece, whilst the thin flank divides the thick one from the brisket. The thick flank boils and stews admirably, whilst the thin flank is excellent for soup or broth, and for collaring. The best “mutton” broth is made from this thin flank of beef (if the bull may be forgiven), though in Scotland it is often replaced by the “ runner,” thick or thin, which is shown in the diagram giving the Scotch method of cutting up beef. The brisket, which answers to the breast of mutton, is not so delicate for salting and plain boiling as the silverside ; but if salted and slightly spiced, stewed with vegetables, pressed, and allowed to cool in its own gravy, produces a most delicate lunch or break- fast dish. Its only fault is a tendency to an undue amount of fat. The leg of mutton piece is in reality the top of the foreleg, and though, like the veiny piece of the thick and thin flanks, butchers contemn it as “ inferior,” it is most juicy and excellent if hung, especially for ragouts, for which indeed in France it is usually reserved. The neck, clod or “sticking piece” as it is also called, is used for stock making, and for clarifying soup.MEATS. 12 The hough and the shin are also used for what cooks call “ gravy meat,” though for this in reality a coarse strip known as the “ skirt ” is to be preferred, and very often the top of the hough, if nicely stewed, will produce an excellent dish of stewed steak, &c. The ox-liead makes excellent brawn and soup, and the cheek if nicely spiced, seasoned, and stewed, will produce a very appetising “ stew ” for household use. The tail is used for soup, and also for entrees, as are also the liver, sweet and throat breads, the palate, &c. The heart is good, roast or stewed; whilst the feet or “heels” make good jelly, and when stewed, a most nourishing dish for invalids. But for these the beast must be young. There is a joint well known in America, and much appreciated also at home, known as “ a porterhouse steak.” This is simply a rib cut off like a chop from the loin of mutton. It is expensive, as it must be cut from the sirloin to ensure the undercut. It is broiled. Veal is usually divided into the loin (corresponding to the sirloin), the best end of the neck (or the ribs of beef), the chump (which answers to the rump and aitchbone of beef cut into one piece), the fillet (or round of beef), and the neck, breast, and shoulder, which answer exactly to similar pieces in mutton. In fact, veal is cut up partly like beef and partly like sheep. An illustration is also given of the French mode of cutting up veal, as it helps to explain many foreign recipes. The loin is roasted, so also is the neck ; the fillet is used for fricandeau, cutlets, &c.; the breast can be stewed, braised, or collared; the shoulder isCHOICE AND CUTTING UP OF MEAT. 13 roasted, or boned, stuffed and stewed ; whilst the knuckle of veal, answering to the liougli or shin of beef, is excellent for stock, and also for stewing. All skin and bone from veal should be utilised for soup, being peculiarly gelatinous and delicate. It must be remembered that the udder, or the firm white fat attached to the fillet, and the kidney suet are especially delicate, and are always carefully reserved by French cooks for the preparation of all kinds of delicate forcemeat where they replace the butter usually used for the purpose in England. In mutton, the leg, the liaunch (i.e., the leg and part of the loin), the loin, and the saddle (the two loins cut in one) are the best roasting joints, though the best encl of the neck will also make a neat little joint for a small family, whilst a well-hung and a well-roasted shoulder is certainly not to be despised, with all due deference to the smart club man, who imagined “ Awli! shouldah of mutton! Why, don’t they make glue from that ? ” A shoulder also, if boned, stuffed, and rolled, is good whether braised or roasted. For boiling, the leg and the neck are to be preferred, whilst the breast, if not too fat, is good rolled and stuffed, or collared. Lamb is cut up and treated much like mutton, save in the early part of the season, when it is simply cut into four quarters and roasted. In pork the divisions are the leg ; the loin which contains the loin and the chump end (answering to the sirloin and rump of beef); the neck, from the end of the loin to the scrag, locally often called the sparerib ” ; the belly or spring (answering to theMEATS. 14 the thin flank or brisket of beef) ; and shoulder. sometimes also called the “ hand,” which include? both the shoulder and the breast. The sparerib, the loin, and the leg are all roasted ; the leg is also of'ter slightly salted and then boiled, treatment also bestowed on the hand, which is usually too fat tc roast well. The spring is slightly salted, boiled, and then usually served cold, for breakfast or lunch. The head, after removing the cheeks, is usually made into brawn, the tongue, feet, and ears being mixed with it. This will give a general idea of the method of cutting up and utilising the various parts of the animals. The average weights, roughly speaking, are as follows:— Beef—Sirloin, from 51b. or 61b. (if small) to 141b. Bibs, 2|lb. or Bib. to 141b. Aitchbone, 81b. to 161b. Brisket, 41b. to 121b. Bound of beef, 41b. to 241b. upwards. Fillet, lib. up to 61b. or 81b. Porterhouse steak, 241b. to 341b., according to size of beef. Mutton—Leg, from 91b. to 101b. Shoulder, 71b. to 81b. Neck, whole, 611). to 81b. ,, sci’ag, 31b. to 4 lb. ,, best end, 31b. to 41b. Saddle, 101b. to 141b. Loin, 51b. to 81b. „ best end, 31b. to 41b. „ chump, 21b. to 41b.15 CHOICE AIS1D CUTTING UP OE MEAT. 1. Sirloin, or bade sye. 2. Heuk bone. 3. Buttock. 1 Togethertbe 4. Large round. ) Rump. 5. Small round. 6. Hock or bougb. 7. Thick flank. 8. Thin flank. 9. Nine holes. 10 & 11. Large and small runner. 12. Spare or fore sye. 13. Brisket. 14. Shoulder sye. 15. Skin. 10. Neck. 17. Sticking piece. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Aitchbone. 4. Round. 5. Mouse round. 6. Veiny piece. 7. Thick flank. 8. Thin flank. 9. Hough. 10. Fore rib. 11. Middle rib. 12. Chuck rib. 13. Leg of Mutton piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek.16 MEATS This average is for medium-sized mutton (always the best, as heavier meat is as a rule much coarser than the smaller kind). Frozen meat generally runs from lib. to 21b. smaller for each joint, whilst Welsh or moor-fed sheep is but little more than half ibe weight, joint for joint, of the ordinary mutton. 1 & 4. Thick flank or Tendc de tranche. 2. Calotte, or rump. 3. Gate a la noix, round and aitchbone. 5. Aloyau, or sirloin. 6. Paleron, or shoulder. 7. Cofcs, or ribs. 8. Talnnde de collier, or collar- bone. 9. Surlonge. 10. Bavette d'aloyau, or fag end of the sirloin. 11. Collier, or neck. 12. Breast. 13. Hough, or Gtte. 14. Plat de c6te, end of ribs. 15. Cheek. Lamb runs about the same weight as Welsh mutton. Pork must always be small, if it is to be delicate when eaten fresh. The diagrams show how the meat is cut up in various parts.CHOICE AND CUTTING UP OF MEAT. 17 From these illustrations it is easy enough to notice the differences between the various methods of cutting up. The English plan is in every case best suited to the national taste, which runs towards roast or broiled: whereas the Scotch plan is better ENGLISH MUTTON. SCOTCH MUTTON. 1. Shoulder. 2. Scrag. 8. Breast. 4. Loin. 5. Leg. 6. Best end of neck. Both loins in one forms saddle. The dotted line shows division of breast said neck after shoxdder is removed. 1. Gigot, or leg. 2. Loin. 3. Back ribs. 4. Breast. suited for boding or stewing; and the French is specially designed for the preparation of small dishes and little entries—large joints, as we under- stand them, not been generally popular in the French Cuisine. 018 MEATS. BEEF BT THE FRENCH METHOD. A. Le jar ret, or shin. B. Le gtte, or moose round. C. Le gtte d la noix, a compound joint made up of part of the rump, aitchbone, and the round D. Tende de tranche, or thick flank. E. La tranche, or the top side. E. La culotte, or the rump. G. Le rognon, or kidney (the filet, or undercut, is below the kidneys). H. Le flanchet, or thin flank. I. L’aloyau, or sirloin. J. Lescdtes couvertes, or fore rib. K. La poitrine, or the brisket. L. Cotes d'aloyau, middle rib. M. & N. La gore, ou le collier, the neck, clod or sticking- piece.CHOICE AMD CUTTING UP OF MEAT. 19 VEAL AS IN FRANCE A. he jar ret, or knuckle. B. La rouctle, or the fillet. C. Le cuissot, or chump end of the loin. (The portion from C. to E. is the piece known on Erench menus as Za longe, whilst the portion lying between the tail and the kidney, is known as the quasi.) The two dishes known on menus as Noix and Ro die are really cut out of this part, the former being cut lengthwise and the latter across. These pieces are generally used for Fricandeau and other dishes fin own in France. D. he rognon, or kidney. E. to F. Le carri, or the best end of the loin, including the kidney. E. Les c6telett.es de filet, or fillet cutlets. G. Les tendrons, or gristly part of the breast. H. Les cStelettes, or best end of the neck. I. La poitrine, or the breast. J. L'Spaule, or the shoulder, K. Le collet, or the neck. C oMEATS. 20 The various names locally given to the different parts of the animal are attached to the diagrams, as literal translation as would be intelligible being given with the French illustrations. Mutton is cut up in France pretty nearly on tlie Scotch plan, as the illustration shows. The parts are: A. Le gigot, or leg; B. Le Jlanohet, or loin; C. Les cdtelettes, or best end of the neck; D. Le carri, or fillet, generally served, however, saddle-fashion; E. Le collet, or scrag; F. L’ipaule, or shoulder; G. La poitrine, or breast.CHAPTER II. BEEF. Beef in joints maj be roasted, baked, stewed, braised, or boiled as taste and convenience dictate, though in most cases nowadays the first process, roasting in front of an open fire, is seldom managed, thanks to close ranges; but, undoubtedly, meat cooked in this way is infinitely superior to a joint that has been baked, however carefully the cooking has been managed. Of old roasting was the great talent of the British cook, who appeared born with the instinct of the roaster and broiler (and remember a great French authority declared “ on devient cuisinier, mais on nait rotisseur”), a great gift, for indeed roasting almost needs instinct. Fires differ in intensity ; the meat differs in substance, in thick- ness, in grain; the very temperature affects the period required to bring the joint to perfection, &c., so that it is no easy matter to decide just the time that will be needed to roast or bake a joint. Boughlv speaking, for thick pieces, such as the sir- loin, the round, &c., twenty minutes to the pound, and fifteen minutes over will be found a fair average,MEATS. 22 whilst for thin pieces, such as ribs, &c., fifteen minutes for each pound, and fifteen minutes over will be ample. Yet a good deal has to be considered even with these averages. Always test a joint before lifting it from the fire by pressing the thickest part with the finger; if it gives, the meat is ready, if it resists, however slightly, it is not thoroughly cooked. In roasting, be careful to have the fire pro- perly made up, and keep it duly replenished from the back, so as never to let it get low, and always to keep a bright surface towards the meat. Of course, if the fire is let down, the roasting of the meat suffers. Again, attention must be paid to draughts ; a screen should always be placed round the meat and fh*e to exclude these, or the joint will take much longer to cook. It should be for the first ten minutes, as near as may be to the fire without actually scorching it, so as to close the pores of the meat on the surface, thus retaining the gravy, and preventing the hardening and consequent toughening of the albumen, a substance contained in all meats —and also in eggs—on which the nutritive value of both depends. (The principle is the same as in frying, when the substance to be fried is plunged into so-called boiling fat to crisp and close up the surface.) This being accomplished, the meat should be drawn a little away from the fire and allowed to cook more slowly. An important part to be noted is the basting; this consists of pouring the gravy and fat that has “dripped” from the joint at intervals over it to keep the surface moist; this pro- cess should be repeated frequently during the23 BEEF. cooking, some cooks asserting that it should be done every ten minutes or so, whilst others say that for a medium-sized joint five or six times is the least number of times it should be so treated. It is cer- tain that on attention to this point the excellence of roast meat depends almost entirely. To ensure a proper amount of basting material some cooks place either a piece of suet or dripping, or a little good gravy or stock, in the dripping-pan when they put down the meat; whilst others, again, rub the joint well over with clarified dripping, and fasten a paper liberally coated with dripping or butter over the joint at the beginning, removing this about twenty to thirty minutes before the joint is cooked to allow of its browning nicely. Personally, the last method appears to me the safest, especially in these days when few can afford the services of a culinary artist. When meat is baked, it takes about the same time as for roasting, but it requires (and only too seldom gets) also equal attention in the matter of basting. In baking, the plan of wrapping the joint in paper rubbed with fat is especially to be insisted on. Where the joint is lean, it is well to melt a little of its own fat, i.e., using beef fat for beef, mutton fat for mutton, &c., and place it in the dripping-pan in readiness to baste it at once. The same rule applies to baked as to roast meat, i.e., the oven should be hotter at first, to crisp the surface, and then allowed to slacken a little to finish the cooking, for the slower the meat is cooked after the initial ten minutes the better and juicier it willMEATS. 24 be, if attention is paid to the basting. Unfortu- nately, most cooks appear to think that when they have rolled np the meat in the prepared paper and put it in the oven, their responsibilty ceases until the clock tells them it is time to lift the joint from the oven. It is to this in reality that so much of the dislike to baked meat is due. If baked meat is ever to be satisfactory it must be remembered that a special double roasting tin is indispensable. It consists of two tins, the outer one of which is filled with boiling water (a supply of this being carefully kept up), the inner one acting as dripping-pan, whilst the meat to be cooked rests on the gridiron on top, and so does not sodden from lying in the gravy, as it does in the ordinary baking tin. In someliouses the gas stove has a roasting oven specially prepared for this purpose, and, in that case, with proper attention, there should be little difference between meat thus treated and that cooked at an open fire. Broiling, like roasting, implies the direct action of the fire, and, indeed, the scorched, or “ fire ” taste is considered by connoisseurs indispensable for any- thing cooked by this process. The meat to be cooked, after trimming, should be placed over a clear, glowing fire, without smoke or flame, on a gridiron (previously heated, then brushed over with a piece of suet or white wax, and then again heated when the steak is placed on it) and one side is allowed to cook for about a minute; it is then carefully turned and the other side similarly treated, turning it thenceforward about every two minutes till it is25 BEEF. done. If steak tongs are not at Land, either use two spoons to turn the meat, or stick a fork into the fat, but never into the lean, or the gravy will escape. The time required for broiling depends on the thickness of the meat, which should never be less than l^in. thick, and is usually l|in. thick. A steak to be well done, if 1^-in. thick, will take fifteen minutes, or, if underdone, twelve minutes’ cooking; but, if thicker, will need from eighteen minutes upwards if to be well cooked, or fifteen minutes upwards if liked underdone. The average cook will seldom be successful in broiling a steak over ljin. thick, though a chef glories in a well-cooked Chateau- briand, which, in these days, means simply a rump steak from 2in. to 2fin. thick. The secret of broiling is care. It is commonly asserted that only in a grill room can you depend on getting a well- broiled steak with its accompaniment, a floury boiled potato; but the reason for this assertion is easily given. It consists in the attention paid to the process. In a grill room one or more cooks do nothing else but attend to the grill, and consequently their whole attention is bestowed on it, and, more- over, constant practice induces an almost instinctive experience as to times and conditions, which alone suffice to ensure success. The ordinary cook con- siders broiling a “ common ” form of cookery, and neglects it accordingly. Boiling, stewing, and braizing ar*3 three processes concerning which the average “ good plain cook ” knows little, and usually cares less. To boil a joint she puts it swimming in a bath of cold *r tepid water, brings this to the boilMEATS. 26 at a liand gallop, then throws in salt a discretion (or rather indiscretion), adds in what she considers suitable vegetables, or very possibly forgets these till it is time to put in the suet dumplings always accom- panying British boiled beef, and lets the wretched thing cooh at the same violent speed, till the proper (?) time has been expended, when she forks it out, and is very much surprised to find it a stringy, leathery mass, redolent of nothing but the saltpetre used in pickling it, with a pulpy mash of vegetables boiled to rags, and some lividly-white bullets of suet paste that give one indigestion only to think of! Needless to say that the liquor in which the ill- treated joint was cooked, and which naturally con- tains all the nutriment that has not flown off in steam, is promptly emptied down the sink, fat and all, regardless of its merits as foundation stock for all kinds of broths and purees, whilst the fat, declared by an eminent French chef to be the best frying fat procurable, goes to clog the unfortunate and never-flushed sink waste-pipe ! For boiling, allow the same time as for roasting, i.e., twenty minutes to the pound and fifteen minutes over, cooking sharply at first, allowing it to simmer only afterwards till cooked. Remember, save when wanted for soup, meat should always be put on in boiling salted water, allowed to return to the boil (from which the cold meat throws it off), then kept boiling for five minutes after reaching the boil, after which it is drawn a little to the side and kept simmering only, steadily, till done. For salting water the usual allowance is two good tablespoonfuls27 BEEF. of salt to tlie gallon of water. Eeinember that when simmering, water ripples gently all over, but does not bubble; if water bubbles whilst the meat is sup- posed to be simmering, it is a sign that it is getting on to the boil; whilst if its surface is perfectly still, there is not enough heat, and the meat is only steeping. Stewing differs from boiling simply by a less quantity of liquid being used, and the absolute necessity for slow cookery. A stew allowed to boil is a stew allowed to spoil. For stewing, the meat is put into the pan with its accompanying vegetables, and the liquid, cold, is poured over and round it, allowing about half a pint of liquid (water or stock) to each full pound of meat. The cover is now placed on the pan, the meat brought very gently to the boil, then at'once drawn to the side and only allowed to simmer for the rest of the time, care being taken that it does not “ catch ” or burn in the process. Where meat cooked in this way has to be left to mind itself, it is wise to lay a sheet of buttered paper over it, under the pot lid, as this diminishes the risk of burning. Some people first brown the meat and vegetables to be stewed by heating a little dripping (say an ounce for 21b. or 31b. of meat), then laying in the meat, &c., and frying it for twelve to fifteen minutes till lightly coloured, the cold liquid being then poured in and the whole finished off as before. Cooked thus, it is perhaps more succulent than when plainly stewed, when the meat is apt to have parted with a good deal of its savour in favour of its gravy, &c. Braising involved originally heat both top and28 MEATS. bottom, the hot ashes (braise) being placed on the strong rib-edged lid of the pan prepared for the purpose. It differs from stewing in the fact that the meat to be cooked is more properly steamed than even simmered; the vegetables and other accessories being placed in the bottom of the pan in a mound, the meat placed on this, and only just sufficient liquid poured in at the side to come up to, but barely reach, the meat, which is covered with a buttered paper, the hot ashes then placed on the close-fitting lid, and the whole allowed to cook gently over, but not on, the fire ; nowadays, when our ovens are arranged with both top and bottom heat, the meat to be braised is, when thus prepared, placed in the oven and cooked gently, care being taken to keep it delicately basted at intervals over the paper. Some cooks gently fry the vegetables, meat, &c., as described for the stewed steak, before adding the liquid, which must be carefully renewed as it evapo- rates. It takes from twelve to fifteen minutes for the initial frying. With regard to the time taken for either stewing or braising, it is difficult to be accurate, as size and thickness naturally must be considered. As a general principle, from thirty to forty minutes for the pound for a thick piece is the least that is needed, whilst for a steak, if tender, one and a half hours will be sufficient for quite a large piece. All meat before cooking should be neatly trimmed and fastened into shape either by skewers or tapes. The meat should also bo carefully weighed after preparation to ensure the proper allowance of29 BEEF. time, and all the points alluded to above, such as thickness, condition, &c., studiously attended to. Lastly, there is one point to be mentioned before proceeding to specify recipes, and that is the question of cleanliness. The average English cook, and even the averagely well-taught cookery teacher, insists that no meat intended for roasting, &c., should ever be washed, but simply wiped over with a damp cloth. Now, with all due deference to authority, I confess that I follow the Jewish custom (and please note that their longevity and general freedom from epidemics is held to be due to their sanitary care in the matter of food), and uphold the absolute necessity of washing every bit of meat that comes into the house, a necessity that no one who has once allowed their imagination to reconstruct either an open butcher’s shop, or the carts coming from market, to be seen in our streets will dare deny. The Jewish plan is to place the meat in a pan kept for the purpose, then cover it from the tap with cold water, and let it stand for half an hour; after which every clot of blood is well washed off, the meat is then placed on a salting board (a basket lid, or a board perforated with holes), in a slanting position to let the water drain off; after this, finely powdered salt is carefully strewed on the meat in every part, and it is again left for an hour; it is then well rinsed three times in fresh water, and, lastly, is carefully dried in a clean cloth. This is called “ koshering.” Now, without being quite so parti- cular, I do consider it well to thoroughly wash the meat when brought into the house, then drying it30 MEATS. very carefully in a clean cloth, after which it is treated in the usual way. Boast sirloin of beef.—Trim the meat neatly into shape, and weigh it; now skewer it into place, tieing it up if preferred ; then rub it all over with clarified beef dripping, and tie it up in a paper generously spread with either dripping or butter (the former for choice), and roast or bake it, being careful to put it to the hottest part of the fire or oven for the first part of the time. Keep it well basted, and allow it to cook twenty minutes to the pound, removing the paper half an hour before the meat is done, and allowing it to brown. When ready, remove the skewers, replacing them with plated ones if neces- sary, and serve on a hot dish, with a little of its own gravy round it. (For this, pour off the fat very carefully from the dripping pan, and then add some (not too much) boiling water, or, if liked, good stock instead, stirring this well round to absorb all the little browned blisters of gravy that will be found adhering to the pan; let it all just boil up and use.) Beef roasted in this way can be served with any garnish, such as horseradish, &c., to taste. Any joint can be roasted according to these directions, and served with any nice garnish to taste. If to be eaten cold, the meat should be roasted till cooked, then lifted out into a pan and allowed to get cool untouched; in this way it will be found particularly juicy, as the gravy will still be in it; close observation will show how the gravy, or juice, runs out on being first cut. Sirloin of beef stewed.—Remove the fillet or undercut (which can be used either braised or roast,BEEF. 31 or may be cut up and served as filets) and carefully cut away the bone; now lay the meat flat on the table, dust it well with quatre Spices (or seasoned pepper), and then cover it with thinly sliced streaky bacon (the cheap parts do for this); now roll it up neatly into a round, and tie it into shape; place it into a conveniently-sized pan with its own bone broken up, and a veal bone or so if handy, and just enough ordinary bone stock to not quite cover it, with salt to taste. Let it all boil up, then skim it carefully till no more scum rises, when you add three or four carrots, the same of leeks (or a large onion stuck with six or eight cloves), and a good bunch of herbs; let this all cook steadily for an hour, then add in a good blade of mace, and half a teaspoonful of peppercorns. How let it all reboil, then let it simmer at the side of the stove for four or five hours, or more, according to the size of the beef; now take up and serve with any garnish, such as pilaff, risotto, macaroni, or vegetables to taste. If liked plain, lift out the meat and keep it hot, boil down the liquor in which it cooked, carefully removing all fat; strain it on to some good brown roux, add wine, &c., to taste, boil up, and serve round the joint. This is a very economical joint, and if liked, wing ribs, thick flank, &c., may be used instead of sirloin (though this is nice when the fillet is required for separate use), whilst veal stuffing, delicate sausage meat, &c., can be used instead of the quatre epices and the bacon. A sirloin in England is a somewhat expensive dish, as it is not fully utilised, roasted as it is entire, with the undercut32 MEATS. (which is never so good to eat cold) and the fag end or tail piece, to say nothing of the lump of suet the butcher sees fit usually to skewer in. So where economy has to be considered, remove the undercut, which can be served up in various ways as filets de bceuf with various garnishes ; treat the actual sirloin as above, or roll and roast it, after removing and “rendering down” as much of the suet as you cannot get the butcher to remove; whilst the fag end can be used up for various household entrees ; for instance, it may be gently stewed with herbs, vegetables, and spice like the sirloin, and served with carefully and separately cooked cabbage, or a puree of lettuce, &c.; or it may be finely minced (raw), mixed with a little fat bacon or ham, and used as stuffing for a vegetable marrow, cucumber, &c., or it will make excellent Irish or Welsh stew (given later). Thus, a sirloin will afford a small family three separate and fresh joints, which, where cold and recooked meat is objected to, is a consideration. Bouilli (pot au feu).—Take a nicely shaped piece of round, or thick flank, or even brisket if not too fat, beat it well all over, and hang it for a couple of days or so, then rub it well with salt and pepper, and put it into a pot with salted water (for this dish an earthen marmite of fireproof clay is far and away the best), adding to it a veal bone or two, and some poultry trimmings (neck, legs, gizzards, &c.), and bring this all to the boil as slowly as possible. (A pound of meat should be allowed for about a litre of water, i.e., rather less than one and three-quarter pints.) As soon as it has boiled up, skim it veryBEEF. 33 carefully till little, if any, more scum rises, then put in the vegetables, two or three carrots according to size, a turnip, two or three leeks, a blade or two of celery, an onion stuck with three or four cloves, and a bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, bayleaf, &c.); cover down the pot closely, let it reboil very gently, and then only simmer steadily and quietly till the meat i is cooked. Eemember it must never be let go off the simmer, and must be looked to now and again to see if it needs skimming. If the liquid is allowed to boil and so evaporate, the part of the meat left uncovered will turn black and harden. When cooked and quite tender the meat should be lifted on to a hot dish and served with a garnish of its own vegetables, neatly trimmed, or a nice young cabbage (parboiled for twenty minutes in boiling water, then finished off in a little of the beef liquid), drained and quartered. The whole of the liquid of the pot au feu is never served with the meat, but is strained off and used for a light consomme, or a base for any soup such as Julienne, &c., whilst the meat is served with either sauce piquante or sauce tomate handed round in a tureen. This bouilli, if properly made, will be found deliciously tender and succulent, and forms a nice change from ordinary boiled beef. When cold it makes an excel- lent dish en vinaigrette, i.e., sliced thinly or minced, and served strewed with minced chives and parsley and a French salad dressing, or by the following recipe: Slice thinly some beef (either roast or boiled will do)—or some people mince it roughly—and place a layer of this in a salad dish, then sprinkle it thickly D34 MEATS. with minced chervil, shallot or chives, cress, a little parsley, capers, and sliced gherkins, with some well- washed and boned anchovy fillets, or fillets of cold bloater or kippers ; prepare a French salad dressing of oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper, and pour this over it, but without stirring it up, till it is helped. It is a very different dish from what is called “ soup- meat” in England. A tablespoonful or two of brandy, or a gill of cooking wine, and some well- washed bacon rinds are a great addition to either stewed or braised beef. The above directions will show how the ordinary joints may be cooked, but perhaps it may be well to mention a few smaller joints, and some from so- called inferior parts which come in very handy for small families. Fillet of beef.—Remove all the superfluous fat taken from 31b. or 41b. of beef fillet, tie it neatly into shape, and marinade for one or two hours with oil or clarified butter, sliced carrot, turnip, herbs of all kinds, peppercorns, and sliced lemon. When to be cooked wrap the fillet in a well-gi*eased sheet of paper, strewing it with the marinade, vegetables, and a few drops of oil. Fasten it up tightly, and roast or bake it, basting it generously, and cook it for about two hours for 41b. or 51b. of meat. Then remove the paper, and brown it a little in front of the fire, after wiping off the herbs, &c., and serve garnished with horseradish or horseradish sauce in a boat, and any good brown sauce to taste, round it. The fillet can also be larded with nice lardons of fat bacon rolled in quatre Spices, carefully trimming them with a pair35 BEEF. of scissors, tying the meat into a neat shape, and either roasting or braising it to taste, like any other piece of meat. Fillet of beef, being somewhat expensive, is usually served with very rich sauces and accessories. A nice piece cut from the round at the top of the leg is often used instead of the fillet, if the latter is to be braised, and if the process is carried out carefully it makes a dish little inferior to the more aristocratic cut. Unfortunately, British house- wives seldom appear to realise that a nicely-cooked “ inferior” joint, from a well-fed, well-kept beast is much to be preferred to the “best” joints of a less delicately-fed animal. Beef en casserole (or Welsh stew).—Cut up 21b. or 31b. of thick flank or leg of mutton piece of beef into neat pieces, lay it in a pan with about a quart of cold water or bone stock, bring this to the boil, then let it stew very gently for an hour, when you add to it either twenty-four button or silver onions, or the white part of ten or twelve leeks, and five or six young turnips sliced, a lump of loaf sugar, a small teaspoonful of salt, and half that quantity of white pepper, and let it all stew gently together for one and a quarter to one and a half hours. Either turn it all out on to a hot dish, or serve it in the casserole in which it was cooked. a la bourguignotte.—Cut the meat from the round, fillet, or even the leg of mutton piece, into neat pieces, and toss these with some button onions in either butter, oil, or well clarified beef dripping, till lightly coloured, then turn them all into a casserole, or an earthenware marmite (a jugging pot answers d 236 MEATS. admirably), with some finger-long and thick strips of bacon or ham, a full bouquet garni (bayleaf, thyme, parsley, green onions, a blade of mace, two or three cloves, and a strip of lemon peel, all tied up together), with a couple of mushrooms, or a sliced tomato or so (with truffles if handy) ; pour over all this eithei three-quarters of a pint of Bur-gundy or a quarter the quantity of sherry and the same of stock, an ounce of glaze or Lemco, and seasoning to taste. Cover this down closely, and let it cook very gently in the oven with heat top and bottom. In using sherry be careful not to overdo it; for an average dish a fair- sized sherry glassful mixed with an equal quantity of strong stock will be found ample; skim well. Porterhouse stealc.—Cut one or more slices fully l|in. thick off the thickest part of the sirloin, with the fillet or undercut attached, making it look like a gigantic loin (mutton) chop. Flatten this meat slightly with a cutlet bat or a heavy cook’s knife, brush it over with good oil or liquefied butter, pepper lightly with freshly-ground black pepper, and grill the steak for fifteen to twenty minutes, according to thickness and the amount of cooking desired. This steak can then be served in a variety of ways ; a pat of uny savoury butter (such as anchovy, maitre d’hotel, Perigord, or many other butters) being placed on the hot dish, the steak laid on it, and another laid on the top, so that it is well melted over the meat by the time the latter reaches the dining- room. It can also be served with broiled mush- rooms or tomatoes cooked thus : Put 2oz. of butter or clarified dripping in the pan, and lay into this (whenBEEF. 37 melted) five or six tomatoes halved, skin side down- wards, and let them fry for five minutes without turning; when the steak and the tomatoes are cooked, salt both lightly, dish on a very hot dish, either with or without the savoury butter, and garnish with the tomatoes, horseradish sauce, or any other sauce to taste. Another form of this dish is prepared as follows, though for this a very thick slice is generally chosen instead of the rib steak : Cut the meat fully 2in. thick, and slit it halfway through horizontally, lay inside it a thickish layer of d'uxelles mixture with a minced anchovy and a very little minced tarragon; fold the steak back into shape, brush it over with a little oil or clarified butter, and broil it for twelve or fifteen minutes till three parts cooked. Now lift it off the grid, lay it on a sheet of buttered paper pre- viously spread with some more of the d’uxelles, place a little more of the latter on top of the meat, fold the paper over tightly, and finish off over the fire or in a sharp oven till the paper browns lightly and puffs out, and serve very hot without removing the paper. This is sometimes called “ Chateaubriand four re,” and the filling may be varied according to taste and convenience. Rolled stealc.—This makes a very nice small joint, and can be made from various parts of the animal, viz.: with rump steak, round, leg of mutton piece, or even the flank, as preferred. Cut a rather large steak about l|in. thick, flatten it out and trim neatly, then sprinkle the inner side with fine salt and cayenne; have ready a roll of any nice forcemeat to38 MEATS. taste, also neatly shaped, and place this at one end of the steak, rolling the meat over it, tying it into shape, and, if to be roasted or baked, wrapping it in a sheet of paper generously spread with either butter, oil, or clarified dripping, and cook for one and a half to two hours, according to size. (If an inferior part of the beast is taken, it is better to braise or stew this dish, first frying it to a delicate brown with its vegetables, and one or two pieces of bacon rind, or a slice or two of smoked ham.) When nearly ready, say about twenty minutes before it is cooked, remove the paper, lightly flour the roll, and keep it well basted till it is perfectly cooked, and serve with any good brown or tomato sauce. The forcemeat may vary to any extent, from plain veal forcemeat of herbs, breadcrumb, &c., to sausage- meat, oyster farce, or the following, when the rolled steak is to be used for a dinner party: Mince finely and mix well lib. nice lean and Mb. fat pork, |oz. salt, ^oz. white pepper (or preferably an ounce of quatre apices, or Gouftc’s mixture), half a teasjxmnful of finely minced parsley, thyme, and shallot; then add about 4oz. of truffles, sliced or cut into small cubes (or if these are not obtainable fresh, use the contents of a small jar of pate de foie gras truffe), and a glass of sherry or Madeira. When this farce is used, roast or bake the meat (which should in this case be the best rump steak), and keep it well covered with a generously buttered paper, crisping it at the last in the oven, by setting it in a rather deep baking dish, with a small half bottle of champagne j brush the meat oyer with thin glaze, and39 BEEF. keep basting it with the wine till it is crisp and brown on the surface, and the wine is mostly absorbed. Dish on a hot dish and serve with a puree of either spinach or mushrooms, with champagne sauce, handed round. If preferred, the meat may be basted with half stock, half sherry, and be served with a rich Perigeux sauce. For ordinary purposes tomato sauce may be recommended. Brisket of beef all'agro dolce. (A Jewish dish.)— Choose a nice piece of brisket or thick flank, not too fat, of, say, 2|lb. to 41b., and put it on with sufficient water to cover it, bring it gently to the boil, then draw it to the side of the sto ve and let it simmer gently, but steadily, for two and a half hours ; then add to it 21b. of French beans, strung and cut as for boiling, one small Spanish onion sliced, with pepper and salt to taste, and let it stew gently for another half hour, or until the beans are nearly done; now pour on to a small teacupful of brown sugar (say 3oz. to 4oz.) as much good vinegar as it will absorb; then add this to the stew and finish cooking the beans for a few minutes, shaking the paD, or gently stirring up its contents all the time, to get the sugar and vinegar well mixed into the rest of the ingre- dients. Another dish somewhat similar to this is made with haricot beans. Soak from three-quarters to a pint of haricot beans over night; next day put into a stewpan, or, better still, a fireproof mar mite, 31b. of lean brisket, a finely minced onion, a table- spoonful of moist sugar, the soaked beans, pepper, salt, and ground ginger to taste, and from three- quarters to a pint of water, bring it all gently to theMEATS. 40 boil, fSien stew it very slowly for four to five hours (the more gently this is cooked the better it will be; almost any parts of the so-called “ inferior ” pieces of beef may be used thus); half an hour before serving skim it well, and add about a good table- spoonful of brown roux to the mixture, and when coolced serve very hot. iStewed brisket of beef.—Choose a nice piece of not too fat brisket of any suitable weight, and remove all the bones, wipe and well flour the meat and then lay it flat on the board, dredging it well with quatre e-pices or Gfouffe’s mixture, together with finely-minced herbs, using double the quantity of parsley to the other herbs. Now roll it up, tying it neatly into shape; melt 3oz. or 4oz. of beef dripping, and brown the meat in this for twelve to fifteen minutes, turning it well, then pour off the fat; add sufficient warm (not hot) bone stock to cover it, and the ordinary stock vegetables, a good bouquet of herbs, &c., and simmer steadily for three or more hours, according to size. Thicken and flavour the well-skimmed liquor, and serve with its own vege- tables neatly dished. Brisket of beef may be used for this purpose without rolling, in fact, many persons prefer it; it is boned by the removal of the flat bones, and fried for a few minutes in clarified dripping, covered with the stock, brought to the boil, well skimmed, the vegetables added, and finished off as above. Remember, however, that rolled beef takes double the usual time of cooking. Brisket of beef is often stewed in this fashion, and, when done, is turned out into a flat-bottomed pan, its liquor41 BEEF. poured round it, a clean plate turned over it with a good weight on top of it, and then left to cool in its own gravy. When perfectly and absolutely cold, lift it out, trim it neatly, and cover the top with just liquid glaze, or, if preferred, dark aspic jelly ; leave this till set, and then serve cold for dinner or lunch, garnished with parsley. The great secret lies in not touching it till perfectly cold right through. Brisket of beef may be cooked thus, plain, or slightly pickled ; but in the latter case remember the pickle should be a sweet one. The nicest pickle for this is the follow- ing : Mix together (dry) -|lb. bay salt, 4oz. common salt, 6oz. moist sugar or treacle, foz. salt- petre, and |oz. of freshly-ground black pepper, warm it all well near the fire, then rub the piece of meat with it for ten or fifteen minutes; now pour the rest of the salt, &c., over it, and leave it in the salt for a few days, more or less, according to the degree of salting required (for a small piece, r*ay 51b. or 61b., three to four days will be ample), well rubbing and turning it daily. The meat to be salted should be perfectly fresh, and in good condition. The following pickle involves less trouble and also produces excellent results : Boil together for twenty minutes, skimming carefully, a gallon of water, l~Vo. of bay salt, lib. of coarse, dark brown sugar, loz. of bruised black peppercorns, and l|oz. saltpetre; when sufficiently boiled let it stand till cold, and then put in the meat. This pickle, known as Hamburg pickle, is excellent for tongues, and all sorts of pieces of meat intended for stewing and eating cold.42 MEATS. Baked Irish stew.—For this use either a plain round tin, or a proper “ hot-pot ” dish; brush the bottom over with a little clarified dripping, and place in the bottom a layer of sliced onion (mind this is as flat as may be), on this lay some beef steak cut into neat pieces about fin. thick ; then cover this with sliced potato, and repeat these layers (carefully seasoning each with salt and black pepper), till the dish is full, finishing with the potatoes, for which the top layer should be twice as thick as the other ones. Indeed, many cooks purposely use the three-cornered pieces left from slicing for the top ; pour in about half a gill of either stock, water, or water flavoured with a few drops of essence of anchovy, Worcester sauce, &e., as you please, and bake. For lib. of steak, which makes a nice dish for three or four persons, you will need three or four good onions, and three or four large potatoes (these must both be raw). This is really a form of hot-pot, which is in many places a dish of great local celebrity, and is made with all sorts of ingredients, such as mutton chops or cutlets, kidneys, game, or poultry, cut up and seasoned to taste with spice, bacon, or ham, or tongue, &c.; but the process is the same in each case. Beef steak pudding.—Butter a pudding bowl and line it with some good suet crust, and cut some beef steak into neat pieces; dip each into quatre epices and a very little flour, then fill up the basin with this steak, and pour in rather more than a gill of either bone stock or water, with a few drops of43 BEEF. essence of anchovy or Worcester sauce. Cut out a round of the suet crust and cover the pudding with it, moistening the edges and pressing them well together. Dip a pudding cloth in boiling water, dredge it lightly with flour, then tie it over the basin ; put the latter into a saucepan of boiling water, and boil. This takes a considerable time, a pound of beef made into a pudding requiring at least two and a half hours. Meat puddings are amongst the things that can be varied almost indefinitely ; almost all meats can be cooked in this way. Some cooks add a little beef or sheep’s kidney to their puddings, which undoubtedly adds both to the flavour and the gravy. Poultry, game, or rabbits cut up into small pieces, are excellent in puddings, but a thin slice of beef steak, well seasoned with pepper and salt, should always be placed "at the bottom of the basin. Economical housekeepers may be glad to know that, not only is rump steak unne- cessary for this, but that the despised “beef skirt ” is preferable, as beef steak is only too apt to harden when boiled, whereas the beef skirt cooks well and gives out a generous portion of excellent gravy. Red-legged partridges mixed with cubes of salt or fresh pork and oysters, with the above-men- tioned beef skirt, make a delicious pudding. Failing the partridges, rabbits or veal may be used, but in this case mushrooms and a little finely-minced onions should always be added. There is a wonder- ful dish, well known in Fleet-street as the “ Cheshire Cheese pudding,” which is a toothsome combina- tion of steak, mutton kidneys, oysters, mushrooms,44 MEATS. and larks (or, as some of the irreverent call them, London sparrows), cooked as above, only alJowing rather longer for its cooking. A “snipe pie.”—A well-known dainty, which may be economically prepared with foreign game, the beef skirt (duly seasoned) lining the crust, and the whole birds, previously deprived of their heads, feet, and gall, being packed in with pepper, salt, and, if at hand, some mushrooms, together with a little stock or water. This pie, if made with three snipe, will take from two to two and a half hours’ cooking. Collared beef.—Mix together Joz. each of salt- petre and black pepper, 6oz. bay salt, and 2oz. common salt, with 4oz. or 5oz. of sugar (moist), and with this mixture rub the beef (about 61b. or 71b. of thin flank) and leave it in the mixture for fourteen to sixteen days, turning and rubbing it daily. Now rinse it quickly, remove the bones and the tough inner skin, sprinkle the inner side with minced parsley, thyme, bayleaf, and mushrooms (this is optional) ; roll it and tie it into shape, then tie it up in a clean cloth like a galantine, lay it in a pan just large enough to hold it comfortably, pour over it sufficient cold water or stock to cover it; bring it to the boil, and let it simmer steadily and gently for three to four hours. If to be served hot, remove the cloth and serve with either tomato or brown sauce. If to be eaten cold, place the tied-up meat in a flat- bottomed dish, pour its liquor round it, cover with a weighted plate, and leave it till perfectly cold, when it can be freed from the cloth, the fat wiped off, and glazed with liquid glaze or aspic jelly, and servedbeef. 45 cold for dinner or lunch. A little spice added to the pickle is by some considered an addition. Old- fashioned cooks used to lightly pickle a breast of veal in the same way as the beef, and then the latter was boned and seasoned, the similarly treated breast of veal laid on it, and the two rolled up together, finishing off as before. Boiled beef.—Take a nice piece of silverside or round, or even the aitchbone, after it has been salted for five or six days, wash it well, and, if very salt, soak for a few hours ; then place it in a pot suffi- ciently large to allow of its being thoroughly covered, and pour in sufficient boiling water to cover it well; let it reboil sharply, then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer steadily for three hours or more (for apiece 101b. or so in weight), being careful to skim it well as it boils up, till no more rises, and not to let it boil again after the first boil up, but to keep it simmering only, or the meat will be hard and tasteless. Carrots and turnips are usually cooked with the meat, the former taking, if large, from one and a half to two hours’ steady cooking, the latter forty-five minutes to one and a half hours, according to size and age. Suet dumplings, nicely cooked, are put in with the meat ten minutes before the latter is dished, and, like the vegetables, served with it. For the dumplings, shred very finely 2oz. of either suet or dripping and rub it into half a pound of flour, previously sifted with three-quarters of a teaspoonful of baking powder and one teaspoonful of salt, and work it to a stiff paste with tepid water; then cut it into eight pieces, roll these into balls, lightly, on a46 MEATS. floured board, throw them into boiling water, and let them cook till they rise to the surface of the water. Let these cook with the meat for the last ten minutes. Beef, if salted, takes about twenty minutes sim- mering to the pound after the initial boiling up and skimming (this takes from five to ten minutes), and from ten to fifteen minutes over; but this, it must be carefully remembered, is counted from tlie boiling up and skimming, as said before. Ox heart.—This is frequently considered too coarse and greasy for a dainty menu; but if carefully pre- pared it will be found very palatable. The great secret in its cooking is careful cleansing and stuffing, while, when served, the plates and dishes must be piping liot; indeed, hot water dishes are best for this. Choose a heart that has hung three or four days, remove all the pipe and the blood, and soak it for an hour in warm water (some cooks even parboil it) ; then wipe it well, season with salt and coralline pepper, and fill it well with rather highly flavoured veal stuffing, sewing it up carefully. Now rub it all over with warm dripping, wrap it in a sheet of paper generously brushed with dripping, tie it up, and eithe rset it on the roasting tin in the oven, or hang it up, thick end uppermost, and roast in front of a clear fire. A fair-sized heart takes from three to three and a half hours to cook. Keep it plentifully basted whichever way you cook it, and when cooked remove the paper, and place on a very hot dish, with any rich sauce to taste, a garnish of cooked vege- tables, and currant jelly.BEEF. 47 Remember, if roasted, the heart must be tied to the jack with string and never pierced with the hook. Heart is excellent hashed like hare (with which it may m an emergency be mixed with little or no fear of detection). Hearts, either ox or sheep, are delicious sliced and jugged precisely as you jug a hare with the same accompaniments. Boast tongue (an old Lincolnshire receipt).— Choose a nice plump, fresh tongue and rub it thoroughly with a pound of salt, letting it lie in the salt for five days ; after this, boil it steadily for two and a half hours. Then peel off the skin, brush the tongue well with beaten egg, crumb it generously, and roast or bake it for half an hour, browning it well, and keeping it carefully basted. Serve with rich brown gravy, or good brown sauce, to either of which you have added a gill of port wine and a good dash of cayenne. Pot roast.—Cut up some beef from the top of the shin or the leg of mutton piece into neat pieces, and pack these into an earthenware crock in alternate layers, with salt pork or bacon thinly sliced, sliced carrots, turnips, and onions, seasoning each layer with pepper, salt, powdered cloves, bayleaf, and minced thyme and parsley ; when the crock is about full pour in about a tumblerful of hard cider or vin ordinaire (or failing this two gills of sherry and water and half a gill of good vinegar), cover down tightly, luting down the lid with water paste to keep in the steam, and leave the crock thus prepared for five to six hours in a slow oven. When ready to serve, remove the lid and the paste, skim thoroughly,MEATS. 48 and disli. Any part of beef can be used in this way, which is often in America made with oxcheek, after soaking it for six hours and removing the bones, &c. Ragout aux gniocchi a la romaine.—Cut into neat pieces about a pound of the leg of mutton piece (this part is the juiciest for this purpose) ; then chop up about 2oz. each of onion and fat bacon (this is a capital way of using up the fat end of a ham or a piece of pork), and fry these together till nearly cooked ; then add a good wineglassful of claret, and when this is all reduced to almost a glaze, put in about a pound of fresh tomatoes, or half a tin of the canned ones, half a pint of water, salt, black pepper, and the meat; just bring it to the boil, and then let it stew very gently for an hour and a half. Mean- while take about half a teacupful of semolina and mix it with a little cold milk; then bring to the boil a short pint of milk, and, when boiling, stir the mixed semolina very gently into it, and let it boil, stirring all the time till it will come away clean from the sides of the pan; now turn it out, and when cool lift it out in dessert- spoonfuls, and arrange a layer of these at the bottom of a pie dish, sprinkling these with grated Parmesan cheese, white pepper, and tiny morsels of butter or clarified dripping, and repeat these two layers till the dish is full; then cover it with some of the gravy from the meat, and set it in the oven till quite hot; dish the meat neatly on a hot dish with its gravy, and serve the gniocchi separately. If care- fully made, this is a delicious ragout.49 BEEF. Pieces of the thick flank, or the veiny piece, or the leg- of mutton piece, if carefully stewed as above, are excellent served whole with either the gniocchi or with macaroni alia romana or alia Milanese, or with rice pilau. Moreover, these dishes have the merit of being both succulent and uncommon. ECHAPTER III. VEAL. Veal is probably far better understood and utilised on the Continent than it is with us, where roast loin or fillet, stewed or boiled knuckle, cutlets, and veal pie appear pretty well to exhaust the list of available methods. These are all extremely good in their way, though somewhat wanting in variety, and certainly not using up the animal as fully as it might be. It must first be impressed on the cook that, like all white meat, veal requires to be thoroughly cooked, raw white meat being most unwholesome; next it must be slowly cooked, for if hurried it loses all its delicacy. Twenty-five minutes to the pound and 15min. over is the recognised allowance of time for roasting veal; for boiling it should take longer, as properly speaking it should never, after the first boil up, be allowed to boil at all, but be kept gently simmering till thoroughly cooked. Lastly, when roasted the joint should be wrapped in a sheet of paper liberally spread with either butter or well clarified veal dripping, and must be basted with theTEAL. 51 utmost liberality. Neglect of this point will utterly ruin veal. Directions for cutting up the veal either by the French or the English method have already' been given ; but it may be observed that the four joints which so often appear on foreign menus are by no means so recondite as their unaccustomed names would lead one to fancy. The longe is practically the loin, extending from the “ best end of the neck ” to within 4in. of the tail; the quasi reaches right from the tail to the kidney; the rouelle and the noix are really the same piece, and correspond in great measure with the English “ chump end,” the only difference being that if the chump end is cut lengthways it is known as the noix, whereas if divided crossways it becomes the rouelle. The fricancleau, so well known to travellers, and apparently so little known to the ordinary British cook, is, strictly speaking, a nice cut of the fillet, a part of the calf corresponding with the round of beef, the piece containing the “ pope’s eye” being the prime cut. But, failing this, any nice piece of veal which can be trimmed and tied, or skewered, into shape will really answer capitally, though if it is very lean it will need larding, i.e., strips of bacon rolled in mignonette pepper will have to be stitched either through, or on the surface of the meat, to give it the necessary fat. This is by no means so difficult a job as people fancy, and a little attention is all that is needed. Have a square block of either French larding bacon or the ordinary fat bacon (larding is an excellent way of using up the pieces of fat bacon often wasted in a house, as “ no one e 2MEATS. 52 can eat that greasy stuff ! ”). Choose a larding needle, and, after slicing down the bacon from |in. to |in. thick, cut these slices into strips about 2iu. long, and as wide as they are deep, being careful to get them exactly to fit the needle, for if too large they will be pressed out in passing through the meat, whilst if too small the needle will have no hold on them. You then either pass these strips right through the meat, leaving the ends sticking out on each side, or you raise a welt of the meat between the finger and thumb, and sew the fat through this, allowing both the ends to come through on the surface. Of course, the appearance of the dish depends greatly on the evenness with which this is clone, whichever plan be adopted.—Remember always to keep larding bacon in a cool place, if possible on ice, for some time before use, to ensure its firmness.—Another point well worth attention is that of the marinade. Yeal is in itself a decidedly tasteless meat, and depends for its savour in great part on the adjuncts used in its preparation; and remember, the more highly flavom-ed the meat is when hot, the more toothsome will it be when cold. Yeal is undoubtedly nourishing, and light of digestion, but savoury in itself it cer- tainly is not, as many an unlucky invalid condemned (as a treat too!) to a boiled knuckle of veal will mournfully testify. Yet try the said knuckle thus : Remove the bone, and replace it with some strips of bacon previously rolled in either quatre Spices or M. Gouffe’s mignonette (for this pound together as finely as possible, and then sift, 4oz. each of dried thyme and bay leaf, 2oz. each of marjoram andYEAL. 53 rosemary, and when this is all in a fine powder, sift into it 4oz. each of ground nutmeg, and red, Nepal, or coralline pepper, 2oz. freshly ground black pepper, and a short foz. of cayenne; when thoroughly blended store in tightly stoppered bottles ; this mixture, for use, is mixed with ordinary fine salt in the proportion of loz. of the mixture to 4oz. of salt, and makes a most delicious seasoning for all sorts of stews, pies, galantines, &c., as may be needed) ; now tie the leg back neatly into shape, and lard it or not as you please. Let it stand for an hour or so in vinegar, turning it two or three times during the time, then wipe it well, brush it over with salad oil, and set it in a baking tin previously thickly lined with a few slices of beef or veal kidney, sliced onion and carrots, a shallot or two, some broken up parsley, a tablespoonful of well clarified dripping, a strip or two of well-scraped L acon rind, and about a gill of stock. Bake it very gently, allowing fully two hours for a piece weighing from 41b. to 51b., and keep it thoroughly well basted. When perfectly cooked, take it up, remove the string, dish on a hot dish, strain the gravy over and round it, and serve veiy hot. This is excellent hot, bat cold it is absolutely delicious. If preferred, the leg or shoulder may be stewed thus: Bemove the bone, season the inside lightly with pepper and salt (or either of the two savoury peppers mentioned above), and skewer or tie it neatly back into shape, and lard it evenly with seasoned lardoons. Then for each pound of meat melt an ounce of butter or well clarified veal dripping, and brown the veal gently in54 MEATS. this over a clear but not too quick fire in the un- covered pan, till it is of a rich, even golden brown all over; now add a little salt, pepper, and half a bay leaf (for a piece of, say, 31b.) Then pour in a table- spoonful or so. of stock, or failing this of water, put the lid on the pan, weighting it down to keep in the steam, and leave it over a very gentle fire for two to three hours, according to the size of the meat. When cooked, lift it on to a hot dish, carefully skim the gravy, and pour it over the veal. It is then served as Veau au jus. This very homely dish can be varied in all sorts of ways. For instance, the piece of fillet containing the pope’s eye may be chosen, cooked first in butter and then in good stock, to which a third part of sherry or red wine has been added, and when dished it may be sent to table with a puree of sorrel, spinach, or lettuce, as filet (or fricandeau) de veau d Voseille, aux epmards, &c., according to the garnish ; or failing these, broccoli tops or turnip tops prove an efficient substitute, if boiled in salted water, strained very dry, chopped extremely fine (or even sieved), and then heated with a little pepper, salt, and butter, or some of the gravy from the veal. As said above, any nice lean piece of veal can be used for these dishes, but if using the shoulder, when removing the bone leave a little of the meat on it, and the blade bone will then make a most excel- lent grill. Breast of Veal Stuffed and Stewed.—When the tendrons (i.e., the gristly pieces at the end of the bones at the thick end of the calf’s breast, which are usually cut off and served as a specially delicateYEAL. 55 entree) have been removed, bone the breast, bat it out flat, trim it neatly, season it nicely with pepper, salt, and a very little spice to taste (or use either quatre epices or mignonette), lay on this a layer of very thin slices of fat bacon; have ready a roll of any delicate forcemeat, or even nice sausage meat, or plain veal herb farce ; place this roll at the end, and now roll up the meat, keeping it compact and closing in the ends as much as po>sible; skewer or tie it into shape, let it gently brown in a little butter or clarified veal dripping, then add to it sufficient good, quite hot, stock not quite to cover it and the ordinary braising vegetables (carrot, onion, turnip, herbs, &c., with a slice or two of smoked ham or bacon), and let it stew gently till cooked (the slower this is cooked the better) ; then lift it out, skim and slightly reduce the gravy, brush it over the veal, and serve the latter either plain or with any nice dressed vegetables to taste. This dish can of course be made more or less rich according to the ingredients used. It is particularly good if stewed quite plainly, with only a thin layer of forcemeat instead of a roll, then when cooked it is lifted out, well drained, thoroughly brushed over with good salad oil, and rolled in freshly made fine breadcrumbs seasoned highly with pepper, salt, minced chives, and parsley, and quickly grilled over a clear fire. It is served very hot with sauce piquante, grill sauce, tomato, or any other sauce to taste. (Breast of mutton is also excellent treated in these ways.) Breast of veal is more or less ignored in England, but abroad it is treated as a delicacy and servedMEATS. 56 with all sorts of savoury addenda. For instance, a breast of veal is so boned that the inner skin forms a kind of pocket, and in this is packed a mixture of asparagus points, artichoke bottoms, chopped spinach, onion, mushrooms, truffles, finely minced bacon, and a good cupful of breadcrumbs scalded in milk, squeezed dry, and then mixed with the rest, binding it all with the yolk of an egg and seasoning it highly. It is then skewered or tied into shape, an earthenware marmite, which will fit the oven and will just hold the meat and its adjuncts, is lined with bacon rind, sliced onions, mushrooms, &c.; the meat is laid in and allowed to cook, closely covered, very slowly. This, of course, is a somewhat expensive dish, but it is very good, and makes an excellent piece de resistance out of a despised joint, which may come in bandy on occasion. Hound of veal a la menagere.—Take a nice round from the top of the fillet, weighing about 61b., bone it and tie it neatly into shape; melt a little butter or clarified dripping in an earthenware marmite or a stewpan that will fit the oven, lay in the veal and let it brown till of a nice golden colour, then moisten it with a quart of stock, add three whole carrots, two onions (each stuck with a couple of cloves), a good bouquet (thyme, parsley, green onion, lemon peel, bay leaf and a tiny blade of mace), with salt and pepper to taste. Bring it gently to the boil, then let it simmer slowly and steadily for about hours, with the lid of the pan only half on, being careful to baste the meat frequently with its liquor. At the end of this time, lay in a butteredTEAL. 57 paper, cover the pan down closely, set it in the oven with heat top and bottom, and let it simmer gently for half an hour longer, basting it four or five times during this half hour. When the veal is cooked (try it with the point of a trussing needle or a small skewer), lift it out and keep it hot; lift out the carrots, keeping them hot also, and strain the gravy ; skim it well, reduce by rapid boiling till all but a glaze, then dish the meat, garnishing it with the carrots cut into neat shapes and a dozen or so of small button onions stewed and glazed in butter, pour the reduced gravy over and serve. This veal is particularly good cold, if, when cooked, it is lifted into a basin, its strained gravy poured over and round it and left till next day, when it is turned out on to a dish and served. The gravy will be a firm ■jelly. If a piece of veal like this is larded with seasoned lardoons and browned in a pan with some sliced bacon, an onion, a carrot, and a head of celery, all sliced, together with a bay leaf and some branches of thyme ; then simmered very gently as before in one and a half pints of stock and half a pint of white wine (French) for three hours, and after skimming and reducing the gravy, it is sewed with its gravy on a bed of boiled macaroni, spaghetti, or ravioli, it is called a Vltalierme, and makes a very pleasant change. This also is nice cold. Ragout of Veal a la Paysanne. — Melt 2oz. of butter or clarified dripping in a pan, lay in the neck, breast, and the trimmings of some veal cutlets, all cut up into pieces l^in. to 2in. by 3in., with a couple of bay leaves and some thyme ; toss this all over theMEATS. 58 fire till nicely browned, then strew a couple of table- spoonfuls of flour over the meat, and stir it together over the fire for three or four minutes till the flour also is lightly browned; now add half a pint of stock and a gill of white wine (any light French wine is best), season to taste with salt and pepper, then cover down pretty closely, and let it simmer at the side of the stove for an hour, stirring it every ten minutes or so ; now pour in a pint of stock with three or four fresh tomatoes, skinned and quartered; boil up sharply for fifteen minutes, then lift out the thyme and the bay leaves, put in some potatoes, peas, and mushrooms, all previously cooked separately in stock, mix these well into the stew over the fire till it boils up again, and serve. Roast Loin of Veal.—Take about 51b. or 61b. of loin of veal, including the kidney, remove the chine bone, and roll the flap over the 'kidney, tying it into place. Roast it for at least two hours before a moderate fire, basting it every ten or fifteen minutes, sprinkling it with a little fine salt just five minutes before lifting the meat from the fire, place it on a hot dish, and pour over and round it the gravy previously skimmed and strained, and serve with seasoned watercress. Fricancleau.—Choose 2|lb. to 31b. of nice fillet of veal, lard it very closely right through (unless you have the pope’s eye cut, when it only needs super- ficial larding), and tie it up into shape, keeping it as thick and round as you can. Line a stewpan with sliced carrot, add a moderate sized onion, stuck with two or three cloves, a good bouquet, some well59 YEAL. scraped bacon rinds (those from the breakfast bacon do excellently well), a slice or two of lean ham or bacon, and pepper and salt to taste. Lay the veal on this, pour in at the side hah a pint of good stock, place the pan on the fire, covering the meat with a sheet of buttered paper, and let it simmer gently for three hours, being careful to turn it when half done, and basting it generously and constantly with its own liquor. It should be a rich golden brown when done. Now lift out the fricandeau, and keep it hot; strain and skim the gravy thoroughly, let it reduce almost to a glaze, then thicken it with a tea- spoonful of fewde (potato flour) dissolved in a little water, boil it for one minute, and brush the frican- deau over with this glaze, using any that may be left to moisten the vegetable puree always served with this dish. English cooks, to save themselves trouble, do not reduce the gravy, but simply paint the fricandeau over with half melted glaze and set it in the oven to crisp the lardoons, and use up the gravy with the vegetable puree. All kinds of vege- table purees are served with fricandeau, though in France sorrel (oseille) is considered the most appropriate, or, failing that, lettuce; but tomato is also very nice, and as we prefer our veal in winter (abroad it is considered in highest season from May to September) turnip tops, &c., are to be recom- mended. If properly cooked this dish is deliciously tender. Veau en Pilaff.—Cut up about 31b. of knuckle of veal and stew it in about three pints of veal stock (that made from the knuckle bone will do, as60 MEATS. it need not be strong), with a few peppercorns, an onion or two chopped, a couple of; cloves, and a bunch of herbs ; after it has cooked for about an hour and the meat is quite tender, lift out the latter, and use the liquor, of which there should be a quart, to cook the rice. Well wash lAlb. of good Patna rice in tepid water, then place it with the quart of stock in a closely-covered pan over a sharp tire ; bring it to the boil, and at this point add in a bay leaf and a tiny pinch of saffron, diluted with a little stock. Keep it boiling sharply till done in a tightly closed pan, then dish as a well, and serve with the meat in a little of its own gravy in the centre, Or ; when the rice is cooked, toss the meat in a little butter or clarified dripping till nicely browned, then stir it and its gravy altogether on the dish and serve very hot. Or; the meat is cut small and carefully fried in butter or ghee, allowing one onion and one mango (or three or four raisins) to each pound of meat; the pan is rubbed with a fresh-cut clove of garlic, and the meat is sprinkled with curry powder whilst it is cooking; it takes half an hour’s steady cooking, and must be turned constantly during the process. The rice is cooked, as in the previous recipe, till three parts done ; it is then drained and finished off in butter till nicely coloured but not hard, seasoning it with lemon juice, spice, diluted saffron, &c., to taste. Remember a bay leaf should always be cooked with the rice (though it may be removed before serviug), and fried onion rings, shred chillies, raisins stewed in stock, blanched almonds, &c., can all be added toVEAL. 61 the pilaff as taste and convenience dictate. These pilaffs are equally good made with fowls (especially old ones), mutton, &c. Hotpot.—This is excellent made of veal, though it is a form seldom seen. For this wash and dry lflb. of scrag of veal and cut it up into neat pieces; also cut up about 4oz. of fat bacon or pickled pork into medium-sized dice. Have ready parboiled 21b. of potatoes and lib. scalded onions; slice these rather thickly; prepare a flavouring mixture by well mixing a teaspoonful each of salt and finely minced parsley, half a teaspoonful of freshly ground pepper (black), and a good pinch of powdered thyme; now line a well-buttered hot-pot dish with potatoes, then put in the meat, and, lastly, the onions, repeating these layers till the dish is full, finishing with the potatoes on top, pour in half a pint of stock or water, cover the dish with an old plate and bake for one and a half hours; then lift off the plate, put some little bits of butter over the top, and return it to the oven to brown for a little. Needless to say that for domestic purposes clarified dripping is quite as good as butter. The above recipes will give an idea of the many ways in which veal may be served ; but, manifestly, in a book of this size it is impossible to give any- thing like an exhaustive list. To show how great the variety may be it may be mentioned tl a" all the following garnishes suit fricandeau, roast or stewed loin (or longe), &c. : d la Bruxellaise, i.e., with delicately boiled Brussels sprouts, tiny sausages, and bechamel sauce.62 MEATS. a la Cambaceres, i.e., sliced tongue and truffles cooked in wine, and a good white Italian sauce. a la Chipolata, i.e., tiny smoked Chipolata sausages, broiled mushrooms, rolls of fried bacon, stewed chest- nuts, all tossed in a rich and rather highly flavoured, brown gravy. The meat for this should properly be braised, and, if liked, tomato sauce mav be used. (Most fine poultry is good garnished thus.) a la Cremiere, i.e., with poached eggs and a very creamy rich bechamel sauce. a la Fermiere.—For this the veal should be braised without previous frying, and be kept as white as possible ; it is then served either with a ponlette or pascaline sauce, and a garnish of peas and small sprays of cauliflower. d la Jardiniere, i.e., served with a piece of good boiled bacon and a good jardiniere garnish (all kinds of nice young vegetables cut into shapes, separately cooked and glazed in stock and butter.) a la Princesse, i.e., rolled, stuffed with a rich forcemeat, flavoured with ham, mushrooms braised, or roasted and served with sliced tongue or ham and a very creamy veloute sauce. a la Lombarde.—Serve braised, with a sauce made of two parts allemande and one part rich tomato sauce, with a garnish of fried croutons spread alternately with anchovy and ham butter. a la Mancelle.—Braised and served with a demi- glace, and a garnish of stewed chestnuts. d la Ste. Claire.—Roasted or cooked in papillote, and served with fried ham and tomato sauce. In short, almost any of the garnishes and man}63 YEAL. of tlie sauces given in No. IY. of the Queen “ Cookery Books,” on “ Entrees,” may be utilised with veal. The tail, heart, and liver of the calf may be treated like the corresponding parts of the ox, though naturally they are more delicate in every way. Lastly, there is the calf’s head. Calf’s Head au naturel, also known as d V Anglaise. —Steep a whole or half a head for twenty-four hours in cold, well-salted water, changing the latter occa- sionally ; then bone the head carefully with a sharp pointed knife and remove the brains. When boned, roll up the head in a bolster shape, in a piece of well- buttered muslin, tying it neatly into shape with broad tape ; now place it in a pan with (for half a head) a tablespoonful of salt, one or two carrots, two or three onions, a leek, two or three blades of celery, a good bunch of herbs, with sufficient cold water to cover it all; bring it to the boil and skim thoroughly, then close down the pan closely and let it simmer gently and steadily for three and a half to four hours according to size. When cooked, remove the cloth, set the head on a hot dish and serve with parsley sauce to which you have added the blanched and minced brains, and the tongue previously cooked, skinned, and halved. The brains should be skinned, placed in a pan with sufficient salted cold water to cover them, with a tablespoonful of white wine vinegar, a good bouquet garni (i.e. thyme, parsley, two or three green onions, a bay leaf, a strip of lemon peel, and a tiny blade of mace), and brought slowly to the boil, when they are drained, and left till cold. Some people fringe the ear by64 MEA.TS. slitting it with scissors before sending it to table Cooked in this way calf’s head may be served with tomato or other sauce to taste, and when cold is good if cut into neat pieces, and served either en vinaigrette (i.e., a plain French oil and vinegar dressing), or with any form of mayonnaise or tartare sauce. Abroad, however, the calf’s head is cooked somewhat differently, and if to be served subsequently en tortue, it is well to follow the Continental directions. For this see that the head is well scraped, washed, &c., then tie it up in thin muslin and soak it for half an hour in boiling water, which must be kept hot all the time. Then drain the head, rinse it in fresh cold water, and wipe it carefully in a very clean soft cloth. Now place siifficient fat or dripping (of course properly clarified, and preferably veal dripping) in a pan—large enough to hold the head, &c., comfortably —to well cover the bottom of the pan when melted, and stir to this four good tablespoonfuls of flour and a small sliced onion; pour to this from three to four pints of water, add three sliced carrots, and one onion stuck with three or four cloves, some pepper- corns, salt to taste, and a bouquet garni as ia the previous recipe. Lastly add a teaspoonful of vinegar, bring the whole to the boil, lay in the head, let it re-boil, then cover down closely and let it simmer steadily for two and a half to three hours. Allow it to get thoroughly cold before cutting it up for tete de veau en tortue, &c. The calf’s head en tortue is simply a rich hash, a brown roux being prepared in which a sliced and minced onion or two have been fried ; dilute this with stock sufficient to65 VFAL. make tlie needed gravy, let it boil up, then add a gill or so of wine (Marsala or sherry is best), a little glaze, and a good dust of cayenne or preferably, coralline pepper; let it boil up sharply, then lay in the calf’s head cut into neat pieces, and well seasoned with salt and pepper, and let it all stew gently together till the meat is quite hot and the gravy thick. Add a squeeze of lemon juice, and if necessary a little cayenne, and serve. Calf’s Head Braised.—For this prepare and bone the head as in the first recipe, and lay it flat on the table. Have ready a rich forcemeat of minced and pounded veal, ham, &c., to which you have added the contents of a small jar of pate de foie gras. Season with mignonette, and bind with one or more egg yolks ; make this into a roll and place it on the calf’s head, rolling this latter up and carefully sewing it up to cover the stuffing well. Tie it into shape in a clean cloth, and place it in a convenient-sized pan previously lined with a slice of veal, some ham or bacon trimmings, some sliced carrots, spice, and a good bunch of herbs ; moisten it all with a good glass of wine and half a pint of stock, bring it gently to the boil, fhen let it simmer slowly and gently for four hours ; lift the head (after well draining it, and removing the cloth, string, Ac.) on to a hot dish ; add a glass of Madeira or sherry to the sauce, after straining and well skimming the latter, and let it boil up sharply to reduce it a little, season rather highly with lemon juice, coralline pepper, &c., pour it over and round the head, and serve with a good financiere garnish. F( CHAPTER IV MUTTON. Somewhat lias been already said concerning the choosing and cutting up of mutton, and also the age at which it is most delicate for the table, though, alas! the five-year-old wether, so dear to the epicure, is fast becoming an unknown quantity in the land, as economic reasons forbid its beingr left so loner unprofitable. A point to be considered when choos- ing mutton is with regard to the locale in which it has been fed. Undoubtedly, the finest is that which has grown up on the chalky sea-blown downs of southern England, the moor pasturage of Devon- shire, or the rocky herb-covered hills and valleys of Scotland and Wales. In the salt marshes of the Eastern counties again, there is much local ap- preciation of the Itomncy marsh mutton, which, though large, possesses, from the salty nature of its pasturage, the flavour which has made the famous French pre sale mutton the rival of our own incom- parable Southdown. All these kinds, however, are decidedly deficient in fat, a deficiency that often troubles the unlearned housekeeper, who complains67 MtTTTOtt. of the “ dryness *' of the moor-fed mutton, as com- pared with the fat of the larger sheep grown in lusher, even ranker pasture. But all. connoisseurs know the superiority of the smaller, more delicately fed animals, as compared with the larger and coarser inland sheep. The length of time mutton will hang is a great deal a question of temperature and convenience. Granted a well-ventilated larder and dry weather a leg may hang with perfect safety for four or live weeks, and even perhaps longer. But if the larder is insufficiently airy, or damp, muggy weather sets in, the same joint will hardly keep in condition for a quarter of the time. Anyway, meat hung requires constant looking after and attention. The loin, especially the kidney end, and the underpart of the shoulder are parts that need special attention. Some cooks sprinkle the meat that is to hang with freshly ground pepper and powdered charcoal, whilst others again trust, and not uselessly, to the preser- vative powers of salt, or the efficiency of a pinch or so of ground ginger, mixed with the pepper. It may he w'ell here to mention an old world practice, which, though out of date perhaps nowadays, is none the less effective. Many have seen the fig trees that are so often trained round the windows of the kitchen or the housekeeper’s room in old country houses, but probably few know the reason of their presence. In the days when the home larder and store room had to supplv all provisions, occasionally it happened that a sudden rush of guests found the larder unprepared. Meat was there, but not sufficiently tender to make f 26§ Meats. its appearance on the table a credit to the house- keeper. So a joint was promptly stitched or tied up in a piece of coarse muslin, and the whole was then nestled in amongst the fig tree branches, and left for a few hours, when on being taken down it was found to be in good cooking order. I am not sufficiently scientific to explain this process, but its success is undoubted. The remarks anent roasting beef apply equally cogently to mutton, which, like all brown meat, does not need to be so thoroughly cooked as does white meat; though, of course, the time bestowed on it must be a matter of personal taste, as some people are almost cannibals in the matter of under- done meat, whilst others again prefer something between a cinder and shoe leather. According to M. G-ouffe, a leg of mutton duly roasted should take, for say a 71b. joint, one and a half hours; a leg of mutlon of about 61b. will need about one hour and twenty minutes; whilst 31b. of loin of mutton will take about thirty-five minutes. English cooks say fifteen minutes per pound, and fifteen minutes over for thin pieces, or twenty minutes per pound, and from fifteen to twenty minutes over for thick joints, such as legs of mutton, Ac. Baking takes about as long; but remember in this case constant and generous basting is indispensable, if the meat is not to dry up to a stick. The best way with any fat or thick joint is to brush a paper over pretty thickly with warm fat or dripping, and then to fold it round and over the joint after the latter has received its first preliminary basting with hot69 MUTTON. fat. The joint is then basted over the paper, the latter being taken off sufficiently long before the joint is ready, to allow of the latter being nicely browned and crisped before the tire. If the paper is left on too long it will give a greasy taste to the meat. To roast a joint of mutton, melt some dripping carefully in the dripping pan, and as soon as the meat is put down baste it plentifully with this; let it cook sharply rather close to the tire, then draw it a little further off and let it cook more slowly and solidly, to ensure the thorough cooking of the thick part. Baste often; this cannot be done too frequently. If flour is used to froth up the meat, as advised in some cookery books, mind it is dredged on sufficiently long before the joint is done to ensure the flour being thoroughly cooked, for the raw, harsh taste of uncooked flour found with carelessly cooked meat, is most nauseous. (Personally I prefer my roast meat unfloured.) When ready the meat should be of a rich, golden brown. As regards the gravy, pour off the fat from the dripping pan very carefully, and then add either sufficient boiling water or stock (the shank bone of the leg, which should always be removed before roasting, will provide plenty of this), stirring it well round the pan, and being specially careful to incorporate in the liquid all the little blisters of crisp brown that will be found adhering to the pan ; then when it has all dissolved and the liquid is of a uniform brown tint, salt it lightly and reheat, pouring a little over the joint and sending up the rest in a well-scalded tureen. Even the jelly, whether blackMEATS. 70 or red currant, or rowan jelly, sent to table with mutton, is considered by connoisseurs improved by being slightly warmed (not melted); as mutton cools so quickly, anything tending to chill it is to be deprecated. Moreover, heating does not spoil the flavour of either jelly. When roasting be careful of draughts, which interfere with the proper cooking of the joint (hence the screen always seen with a jack), and see that the fire is kept to a steady heat with a bright glowing surface towards the meat. If it must be made up during the process, draw the hot part forward and put in the fresh fuel at the back N.B.—Meat takes a trifle longer to cook in cold weather. The above remarks apply to all joints, so no further directions for roasting or baking need be given, save to repeat as regards the latter, the im- perative necessity of plentiful and constant basting. As so often people complain of the difficulty in small families of using up a leg of mutton without exposing oneself to a course of “ cold mutton again ! ” the first recipe shall be one for the treatment of a leg by which three fresh “ joints ” may be obtained from the same leg. Out the leg neatly into three parts, consisting of the top, which will form a nice fillet; a thick steak (the “ pope’s eye steak ”) from file centre; and lastly the knuckle. The latter may be delicately boiled or steamed, and served with caper sauce; or it may be cooked an jus, a particularly succulent method of preparing it. For this dust the cut part lightly with flour, season it to tfiste with pepperMUTTON 71 and a little salt, and lay it in a pot that will just hold it comfortably, with three moderate onions, one stuck with a clove or two ; close the pan down very closely, aud let it all cook at the side of the stove very slowly for two to two and a half hours till the meat is perfectly tender, and the gravy is rich. Another way of doing the knuckle is to season it well, and inclose it in suet crust like a pudding, adding a sliced onion or two, and one or two kidneys to it if liked, and then boiling or steaming it precisely as if it were a meat pudding. The steak is perhaps nicest if grilled or broiled, though it may be stewed or braised if preferred. If broiled, serve it w7ith either a pat of any savoury butter under and upon it, or with brown oyster or shrimp sauce, and a garnish of broiled mushrooms, baked tomatoes, or fried potato straws or ribbons, as you please. Where two steaks are available, one steak is seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper with a very little grated lemon peel, a rich oyster force- meat (or any rich forcemeat to taste) is spread about an inch thick, the other steak, previously seasoned, is next laid on the first, sandwich fashion ; t hey are then brushed over with oiled butter or salad oil, and broiled or toasted in a Dutch oven for about thirty minutes or so, according to their thickness. Serve with good gravy, to which you have added the oyster liquor, a drop or t.wro of essence of anchovy, a tiny squeeze of lemon juice, and salt and pepper to taste. Bone the top part of the leg and fill this cavity with any good forcemeat to taste tie the joint upMEATS. 72 in a buttered paper, and roast it, keeping it well basted. Serve witli its own gravy, and a garnish of fried tomatoes, mushrooms, &c., to taste. Another plan is to lard the top side neatly, and then to lay it for eight to twelve hours in a marinade made of onions, thyme, parsley, cloves, peppercorns, bay leaf, and where the flavour is not disliked, a clove of garlic, all boiled up together in a little water and vinegar, and used warm. When ready lift it out, drain it a little, then roast it, keeping it well basted with the marinade. Dish on a hot dish, with some good brown sauce to which you have added a little of the strained marinade. Roast leg of mutton may be served with a variety of garnishes; for instance, with a rich puree of onion, either white or brown (d la Soubise), or with stewed haricot beans (d la Bretonne), first soaked for ten or twelve hours, then slowly boiled in cold fresh water, allowing them only to simmer after the first boil up ; when soft they are stirred either into a little brown sauce or mixed with a very smooth brown onion puree or sauce. Stewed chestnuts or broiled mushrooms, artichoke bottoms, tomatoes, &c., may all be used as garnish. Needless to observe that other joints of roast mutton can be served with the same garnishes. Then again a leg of mutton is delicious braised, or it may be boiled and served with various sauces. Leg of Mutton with Parmesan and Cauliflower.— Boil a small leg of mutton (or a knuckle) in the usual way, and have ready one large or two small cauliflowers, separately boiled ; now put a layer of73 MUTTON. good veloute sauce on a very hot dish, Btrew this with grated Parmesan cheese, lay the kg of mutton upon it, with the broken-up cauliflower, pour the rest of the sauce over it, strew more cheese over and set it in the o\en with heat top and bottom, till the sauce is nicely browned. Boiled Leg of Mutton.—Trim the meat as for roasting, wrap and tie it in a clean cloth, then place it in a convenient pan with sufficient boiling water to cover it perfectly, season to taste with salt, lay in some neatly trimmed vegetables, such as celery, carrot, leeks, turnip, onion, and a good bouquet, with a few peppercorns and a clove or two. Watch it reboil, then skim well, drawing it afterwards to the side, where it must simmer gently for two and half to three hours, according to the size and thickness of the leg; when cooked remove the cloth, put the leg on a very hot dish, strain a little of its own liquor round it, garnish with the vegetables, ami serve with caper sauce.—The liquor makes an excellent founda- tion for rice or other broth.—The shoulder, neck, &c., can be also boiled thus, allowing time according to weight and thickness. Braised Leg of Mutton.—Choose a nicely shaped leo- about.71b. weight, and remove the bone, season- ing it with coralline pepper, salt, and a little mignonette pepper, or quatre eyices, as you choose, with a very finely minced shallot or two; tie it neatly back into shape with broad tapes or fine skewers; lay into a good-sized pan 4oz. of fat or butter, a carrot, a blade or two of celery, two onions, two tomatoes and four or five mushrooms,MEATS. 74 all sliced, with a good bunch of herbs; lay the meat on this, cover it all with a buttered paper, and fry it all for fifteen or twenty minutes over a moderate fire. Now add a gill of claret and half a gill of mushroom ketchup or sherry, and let it simmer gently till the liquid is nearlv absorbed, then pour in at the side half a pint of good brown gravy or stock, cover the pan and set it in the oven for two -and a half hours. Be careful to keep it well basted all the time, adding a little more stock as that in the pan reduces. When ready remove the strings and skewers, brush the leg over with warm glaze, and serve on a hot dish with its own gravy, strained and well skimmed, round it. Any good rich sauce may be sent to table in a sauce-boat with it, according to the garnish used. Ley of Million stuffed with Oysters.—For this it is well to choose a nicely hung leg of Welsh mutton. Prepare a forcemeat with twelve or fourteen bearded oysters (stew the beards to extract all possible liquor) minced not too finely, 4oz. or 5oz. of freshly grated white breadcrumbs, a piece of finely grated lemon rind (do not overdo this), a tea- spoonful of minced parsley, white pepper, salt, and a very little cayenne to taste, a grate of nut- meg, an anchovy (washed, boned, and minced) or a little essence of anchovies, the hard-boiled yolk of an egg, a small, finely minced onion. 3oz. to 4oz. of finely minced suet (veal suet is the best), the yolk of an egg, and sufficient of the oyster liquor and that obtained from the oyster beards to make the farce into a nice mass. Insert this under the75 MUTTON. skin of tlio leg in tlie thickest part, under the flap, and at tlie knuckle, then roast it, keeping it well hasted. Serve very hot with brown oyster sauce flavoured with a little essence of anchovy. Leg of Mutton ci la Russe.—Choose a good, well- hung leg and three parts roast it, then place it on a fireproof dish, pour two good glassfuls of brandy or eau cle vie over it, and set it over a slow fire till the brandy is quite warm; now set the spirit alight, keeping it well stirred as long as it will burn, by turning and returning the joint in it. Then add to the meat a little good gravy ; let this heat, remove all fat, and serve very hot. d la 'polonaise.—Braise a well - hung small leg till three parts cooked, then drain it well and slice it down into large slices without, however, separating these from the bone; have ready mixed some miuced parsley, chives, shallot, powdered ginger, freshly ground black pepper, salt, finely grated white breadcrumbs, and fresh butter, and spread each slice of meat with this mixture, press it all back into shape, and put it into a pan that will just hold it, moistening it with a little of its own liquor and a glass of champagne. Close down the pan closely, and let it cook for half an hour with heat above and beneath, then skim off any fat there may be, squeeze the juice of an orange over it all and serve very hot. a la Durand.—Bone a well-hung small leg of mutton and season the inside with small strips of ham, fillets of anchovy, minced parsley, a little powdei'ed bay leaf, minced shallot, and if at76 MEATS. hand sliced truffles, seasoning this all -well with quatre epices; now tie it back neatly into shape, and place it in a pan, previously lined with 3oz. or 4<oz. of clarified dripping, an onion or two, one or two tomatoes, a carrot, and a little celery, all sliced, a good bouquet, and a few mushrooms; cover with a sheet of buttered paper, fit down the lid of the pan, and let its contents fry till nicely cjratine at the bottom of the pan (i.e., from fifteen to twenty minutes), then add a good gill of claret or Burgundy, and a wineglassful of eau de vie, and when this has been well reduced by gentle simmering, pour in half a pint of good brown stock, and set the pan, closely covered, in the oven for two to two and a half hours, keeping it well basted all the time, and adding more stock as that in the pan reduces. When cooked, lift out the leg, brush it over with just liquid glaze, allow the liquor in the pan to cool a little, then skim off the fat, add to it about half a pint of good brown sauce or espagnole, as you please, let it boil up, then strain some over and round the joint, and send up the rest in a sauceboat. Garnish the leg with a hot financiere garnish, some button mushrooms, sliced truffles, and either prawns or crayfish. This is a somewhat expensive if excellent dish, but it need hardly be said that the same kind of dish may be evolved by using less expensive materials, leaving out the truffles, financiere, Ac., or replacing them with broiled mushrooms, turned and stewed olives, and some good shrimp sauce, only in this ca,se do not call if ® Purand,Mutton. Shoulder of Mutton Broiled.—Lard a shoulder of mutton neatly with good streaky bacon, and braise it with the same addenda as a leg till all but cooked ; now strew it thickly with seasoned breadcrumbs, to which you have added a little Parmesan cheese and some finely minced sweet herbs, and broil it over a clear fire, moistening it now and again with a little of the braising liquor. with Queen Mary’s Sauce.—Three parts roast a nice, well-hung shoulder of mutton, then put into the roasting tin under it a soup plate with three tablespoonfuls each of hot water and port wine, a shallot and an anchovy, both finely minced, and a little pepper; finish roasting the mutton, keep- ing it well basted with the contents of the soup plate. When cooked, turn up the inner side of the joint, score it across and across with a sharp knife, and strew it thickly with fried breadcrumbs, pouring the rest of the gravy over it. Cooked in this way shoulder of mutton is very good, served with well made Yorkshire pudding; or it can be plainly roasted with the pudding under it, and then be sent to table with a good horseradish cream in a sauce-boat. Or the remains (especially if it was originally under- done) make a very nice broil thus : Score the meat with a sharp knife right down to the bone, then season highly with cayenne, French or English, made mustard, and a very little grated lemon peel ; dip it in oil or warm batter, then roll it in, or strew it thickly with breadcrumbs, broil over a clear fire, and send to table very hot, either with or without a hot grill sauce.?8 meats. Stuffed Loin of Mutton.—Bone a nice well-hung loin, lay it flat on a board, remove all unnecessary fat, and spread it with a goad layer of well-made veal stuffing, to which you have added either a minced anchovy or two, or some essence of anchovy ; now roll up the loin neatly, tying it into shape with broad tapes, brush it all over with liquefied butter, and roast or bake it for one and a half to two hours according to size; it is then taken up, freed from the tapes, and brushed over with liquid glaze ; it can be served plain with its own gravy or with espagnole, or brown caper sauce as you please, or it may be placed on a nice puree of any good vegetables (minced and sieved turnip tops, re-heated in a little gravy and butter are particularly good), to taste, and serve with any sauce you like. It is also good d la Milanaise, if served with cooked macaroni or spaghetti, mixed with grated cheese, and good tomato sauce. It may be observed that a very delicate fricandeau can be made by lifting the whole fillet off the bones of a loin; line a srutable stewpan with 3oz. or 4oz. of clarified dripping, a slice or two of beef, or veal and ham, or any trimmings of these, with a carrot or two, an onion sliced, and a good bouquet; lay the fricandeau on this, cover with a buttered paper, and let it fry gently for twelve to fifteen minutes; then add some good stock and allow it to braise very slowly till perfectly done, when you drain and skin the fricandeau, glaze it, and serve on any nice puree of endive, spinach, sorrel, mushrooms, &c. Breast of Mutton.—This is a part of the sheep that is usually despised, but with a, little care it producesMUfTOff. 79 liiost excellent dishes. For instance, any recipe given for the loin is equally good, if a nice whole breast of mutton be used for the purpose. It can also be made into a very fair galantine, using a sausage meat forcemeat, with strips of ham, tongue, anchovy fillets, almonds, blanched and shred, olives, &e., according to what is at hand. It is then rolled up, tied into shape, fastened up in a clean piece of muslin, and braised Avith vegetables, herbs, beef and veal trimmings, &c., in the usual Avay ; then when cooked it is pressed till perfectly cold, when it is freed from fat and glazed, either with aspic jelly, or Avith a good brown sauce, stiffened with gelatine in the proportion of half an ounce to the half-pint of gravy (or, perhaps, a little less, according to the stiffness desired). To many people this Avould be preferable to the aspic, which gives an acid taste not always liked. Breast of mutton treated in this way is also good if served hot with good broAvn gravy or sauce, or any nice vegetable puree. It were much to be desired that British cooks should realise the advantage of nice vegetable purees in eking out and improving the appearance of a dish. Where economy has to be considered, a puree Avill be found of great assistance, whilst macaroni again, which, it must be remem- bered, is decidedly nutritious, is far too much neglected. The pity is that many enthusiasts, Avliilst dwelling quite wisely on the nourishing qualities of pulse of various kinds—macaroni, rice, &c.— forget that their flavour, if served in the severely simple style—which is the first, unassisted idea ofMBaTS. the ordinary “ good plain cook leaves a good deal to be desired by the average mortal, who naturally prefers something more savoury. Perhaps the two following recipes may serve to explain my meaning. Ran.—This is Neapolitan for ragout or stew, and is mostly in Naples made with a piece of beef; but breast, shoulder, or loin of mutton is quite as nice, really. Bone the breast, say, removing all unneces- sary fat, and dust the inside with freshly ground black pepper and minced or powdered sweet herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram, &c.), then lay on this a strip of bacon, both fat and lean, a'so rolled in pepper and sweet herbs, and tie up the meat into a neat roll. Now prepare a forcemeat by mincing pretty finely a good piece of bacon (if this chance to be too lean add to it a little of the superfluous mutton fat), with onion, sweet herbs, and, if liked, a little garlic (remember that if vou wish to obtain the flavour without the strength of garlic you should peel, but never cut, the clove, or the juice exuding will flavour everything hopelessly) ; when this is thoroughly blended put it into a saucepan in a smooth layer, and on it place the roll of meat, turning it till it is nicely browned all over. Now season it with pepper and salt to taste, and add to it some tomato puree diluted with water or stock till of the consistency of thin pea soup; just bring it to the boil, then allow it to simmer very slowlv for three or four hours according to the size and thickness of the meat. When cooked, lift the meat out, strain off the sauce, and use three-quarters of it to moisten some ready cooked macaroni,MUTTON. 81 previously well dusted with pepper, salt, and grated cheese, turning the macaroni well over and over to get it thoroughly saturated with the liquor : then place a thick bed of this on a hot dish, the meat on it, and lastly pour the reserved quarter of the meat liquor over the whole and send to table very hot. This meat is excellent hot, and, if possible, nicer cold. Remember in this as in every case the macaroni must be properly cooked. Boiled macaroni.—For this have ready a large pot of boiling salted water, throw the macaroni in whilst it is at the full boil, and keep it boiling fast all the time, stirring it now and again. As soon as on lifting a small piece and biting it you find the pipe is crisp yet tender, dash in half a pint of icy cold water to throw it off the boil at once, and drain off the macaroni carefully. It is then ready for use, though it is not so pappy as macaroni cooked a, VAnglaise is apt to be, when for a Neapolitan it would be utterly ruined by over- cooking. Macaroni cooked thus and then tossed in any nice gravy or sauce, or mixed with hot butter and seasoned, is a capital accompaniment to many kinds of meat. Be sure it is cooked in plenty of water. Almost every kind of macaroni takes a special time to cook, which must be learned by experience, though in general from twenty to thirty minutes is allowed. For the tomato puree, stalk and quarter some good tomatoes, and boil them in a little water well seasoned with pepper, salt, and a bunch of herbs (parsley, bay leaf, and a good spray of fresh or dried basil) and when thoroughly o82 MEATS. (lone pour them all on to a sieve to drain perfectly. Throw aAvay the water that hows from them, and then press the tomatoes through the sieve, after which the pulp is heated with a piece of butter or well clarified dripping and stirred into the macaroni. When used for the rail, this puree is diluted with water to the desired consistency. Mutton Stew a la liomame.—Cut up about a pound of mutton (say a piece of the leg; if you use the neck or breast a little more must be allowed on account of the bones) into neat pieces, rather more than 2in. long by lin. wide ; then lay in a stewpan about 2oz. of minced onion and the same of minced fat bacon, and fry lightly; when almost cooked add a wineglassful of any red wine, and let it all cook till nearly a glaze, when you add three or four tomatoes peeled and quartered (or if handier take half a tin of canned tomato), half a pint of water, salt and pepper; then add the meat, and let it all cook together very gently for one and a half hours, when you serve it with gniocchi alia romana. For these make a thick porridge with fine semolina, exactly as you would with oatmeal, and when thoroughly cooked turn it out on a slab to get cold. Now have ready a buttered piedish, and lay a series of spoonfuls of semolina porridge neatly at the bottom ; then on this strew a layer of grated cheese, some morsels of butter, and, if liked, a spoonful of the gravy from the meat; repeat these two layers till the dish is full, when you pom* over it rather more of the liquor and set it in the oven till thoroughly hot. Dish the meat with the rest of83 MUTTON. the gravy round and over it, and send the gniocclii to table with it. These are excellent, though perhaps not quite so delicate, if made with Indian cornmeal. This same porridge or polenta, to give it its proper name may also when cold be cut into dice or lozenges, fried in hot fat or oil, and served either with tomato or mushroom puree as a dish by itself, or as an accompaniment to any joint. It is par- ticularly good with mutton. Navarin of Mutton.—This is in reality a form of haricot mutton. It is made thus: Choose a nice and not too fat piece of mutton from the neck, breast, or shoulder, and cut this up into neat, thick pieces. Toss these over the fire in a little well clarified dripping or butter till delicately browned, then strew in about a dessertspoonful of flour and stir this well in, shaking the pan till the flour also is cooked and of a rich dark brown. Then pour in half a pint of hot water (some people use stock, but hot water is really excellent), add a good bouquet, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and a tiny clove of peeled, but not cut, garlic (do not betray the presence of this), cover down the pan and let it all cook gently. Meanwhile, have ready some turnips, peeled and quartered in the same way as you cut up apples for a tart, and fry these quarters in another pan with a little butter and a tiny piece of sugar, till of a golden brown; when coloured, lift them out with a slice and add them gently to the meat and let it all simmer together for an hour. Now lift the meat on to a very hot dish, arrange the turnips round it, free the gravy as much as possible o 284 MEATS. from grease, and strain it through a colander over the meat, &c. Mind the colander is scalded out before pouring the gravy through it, or it will chill the latter. If, instead of turnips, some well-soaked and par- boiled red (dried) beans be added to the meat, cooked as above, in the place o£ tomatoes, the dish results in what may be called Haricot a, la Cyrano de Bergerac, as it is one mentioned with approval by that now popular comic writer of the seventeenth century. For an ordinary, but most excellent Haricot, fry the mutton as above with the addition of two or three medium-sized onions for each pound of meat, and, at the last, add in some carrots rather thickly sliced, or quartered potatoes (these last are optional), and let them finish as above. The difference between a Navarin and a Haricot is that almost any vegetables may be used for the latter, whereas the former, strictly speaking, only admits of turnips. Hotpot of Mutton.—This dish varies in material and also in quality in almost every house. The ordinary form consists of mutton cut into neat pieces, nicely seasoned with salt and pepper, sliced onion and potato, arranged in layers in a ‘ hotpot ’ dish or tin—onions first, then the meat, and lastly the potatoes, finishing with the latter, which should be cut rather thicker for the top layer. Each layer is seasoned as it is put in, a little water, dashed with mushroom or walnut ketchup is poured in, and the whole is then baked for two hours or so according to the size of the dish. This is also excellent made ofMUTTON. 85 beef. Then there is a refined kind made with cutlets from the best end of the neck or loin, carefully arranged with layers of sliced mutton kidneys, raw bearded oysters, and sliced parboiled potato, the whole being seasoned with salt, pepper, coralline pepper, minced parsley, and finely chopped chives or shallot. This is finished off precisely as in the former case. The famous “Lancashire hotpot” is made thus, though with slight variations. The cutlets are trimmed, seasoned, and laid in first into the lightly buttered “ pot,” then a. good layer of seasoned sliced kidneys, very thinly sliced onion, bearded oysters, and sliced, parboiled potatoes, sprinkling this layer with a small teaspoonful of curry powder (this is a matter of taste), and repeat these layers, finishing with potato, which, however for this should be only halved, then add the oyster liquor, and a little good gravy, and bake it all in not too fierce an oven, till the top layer of potatoes is cooked and nicely browned. Add a little more hot gravy before serving. In every case these hotpots are improved by being stood whilst baking in a tin of boiling water, and being covered with a buttered paper. This dish can be made of almost anything, and is equally good with beef, cut up poultry rabbit, &c.; indeed, a very toothsome form, much appreciated by West Country men who approve of “ squab pie,” and such delicacies, is made with small pork chops, onions, apples and potatoes. All these versions are excellent for shooting lunches, <fcc. So also is Irish Stew.—Cut up the scrag and best end of a neck of mutton into neat pieces; peel some good86 MEATS. potatoes, and weigh them after peeling; slice them rather thickly or quarter them, lay a good layer of these at the bottom of the pot, then the meat nicely seasoned with pepper only, then a thin layer of sliced or minced onion, and repeat these layers till the pan is full, finishing with potato ; now pour in some water (cold), bring it to the boil, add the salt, and let it all simmer slowly and steadily for two hours, and serve very hot. Allow for each pound of meat (including the bone), at least two pounds of potato, a small onion, joz. of pepper, ^oz. of salt, and a gill of cold water. This is a very good sportsman’s lunch, as it will keep hot and good indefinitely. Cape Bredee—Cut up about 21b. of mutton (the loin is best, but breast or scrag will do), and fry this, with two onions cut up small, in dripping till of a nice brown, being careful it does not burn. Now add to this twelve or fourteen large tomatoes sliced, salt, a small teaspoonful of sugar (unless the tomatoes are dead ripe), and a quarter of a red chilli, and let this all stew gently in a rather shallow stewpan till the meat is cooked, and there is a rich thick gravy. If the tomatoes are too watery, stew it all for a little, uncovered, to thicken it. As a matter of fact this is really a Malay form of Irish stew, and the native cooks will use all sorts of vegetables for it, with or instead of, the tomatoes. An excellent form of this dish is made by using dried beans instead of the tomatoes. Soak and then parboil two or three cupfuls of dried beans for each pound of meat fried as above with onions, add them to the meat when this is browned, withMUTTON. 87 a pint of the water in which the beans were cooked, and a small cut up chilli, and stew it all gently together till tender, which it will be in an hour or two, according to the size of the meat. Sheeps Head.—This is an essentially Scotch dish, but it is one to which the southerner takes very kindly. In Scotland the head is sent to the black- smith and all the hair, &c., singed off it; it is then laid in hot, or rather warm water and left to soak for some hours. It must now be scraped till perfectly clean, then split and the brains removed. Remove the eyes, scrajie and cleanse the nostrils, and again wash and soak the head in warm salted water. The sheep’s trotters should always accompany the head and be cleaned in the same way. Now put the head and the trotters in a pan with two carrots and a turnip cut up, and water enough to cover them, bring this to the boil, and then let it cook till the skin is tender, which it should be in about three hours. Boil the brains in salted water acidulated with vinegar or lemon juice, for ten minutes, then drain and mince them. Now lay the two sides of the head flat on a hot dish, pour good parsley sauce over them and garnish with the brains, the trotters, and the carrot and turnip with which the head was cooked. T/lien a sheep’s head is cooked in this way in Scotland the liquor is always used for Sheep's head broth. It should be carefully freed from fat when cold; then put on with a teacupful of well washed pearl barley, and left to boil for half an hour; two carrots and two turnips cut into dice, two sliced onions and a bunch ofMEATS. 88 pai’sley are then put in and the whole cooked slowly for two hours, seasoning it with salt only. Sheep’s head cooked thus is often made into a pie. Cook the head and the trotters till the bones will come away, and cut up the meat neatly. Put a layer of this moat iu a piedish, sprinkle it with pepper, salt, powdered ginger and mace, then place on it a layer of sliced bacon and hard-boiled eggs (oysters may be used with or instead of these), repeating these layers till the dish is full, when you cover it with rough puff paste and bake for one and a half hours. Haggis.—This is a dish seldom seen south of the Tweed, and, indeed, there are people who say that it is dying out up in the north, but this may be set down as a libel. Anyway, experto crede, ’tis an extremely toothsome dish if the cook will only take the trouble to make it properly. G-et your butcher to supply you with a sheep’s pluck, and the large and one of the small stomach bags of the animal, wash these latter well in cold water, and then in boiling water, scraping them well, but being careful not to break them. After this leave them in cold salted water till the next day. Well wash the pluck, then put it into a saucepan full of boiling water, leaving the windpipe to hang out over the side that the blood, &c., may escape, and let it boil for one and a half hours ; then lift it out and let it get cold. Now cut away the windpipe with any fat or gristle adhering to it; grate about a quarter of the liver, and mince another quarter with the heart, lights, and about half a pound of good beef orMUTTON. 89 veal suet (the rest of the liver will not be wanted); now mix this minced meat with three or four par- boiled and finely minced onions, two teacupfuls of oatmeal, previously well dried in the oven or toasted in front of the fire, black pepper, and salt to taste, and half a pint of the liquor in which the pluck was cooked. Fill the bags about half full with this mixture (if overfilled they will burst), and sew them up; put them into a large pan full of boiling water and boil them for three hours, pricking the skins now and again to prevent their bursting; then serve on a hot dish without any garnish or gravy. They will be found sufficiently rich. This dish, said to derive its name from the French hcichis (mince), was originally made with the pluck of a deer, which is described as being particularly good; at all events, haggis made with a lamb’s fry and pluck, or with that of a young calf is extremely delicate. In the latter case the mixture is made with a good d’uxelle mince, some rich veal gravy, the yolks of two eggs being also added. Neck of Mutton a la Duchesse.—For this order the whole neck. The cutlets from the best end can be used for another dish. Well wash the neck (or scrag), which must be quite fresh, dust it lightly with flour, and fry it in 2oz. or 3oz. of good clarified dripping till nicely browned; lay in with it five or six onions, two turnips, and one carrot (these may if liked be fried with the meat in the first place), a bunch of herbs, and sufficient good bone stock to cover it all. Cover the pan closely, bring it all90 MEATS. to the boil, and let it simmer gently and steadily till the vegetables are tender (in an hour and a half to two hours) ; then take them out and set them aside, re-covering the pan and letting the neck simmer slowly three or four hours longer. When cooked lift out the neck and keep it hot. Stand the strained gravy in a pan of cold water and skim carefully when cool enough; then reduce it by sharp boiling to about a pint. Return the neck to tliis gravy and let it heat well through for twenty to thirty minutes. Meanwhile mince the vegetables cooked with the neck, put them in a pan with a little butter or clarified dripping, and toss them over the fire till thoroughly hot, when you use them to garnish the neck as you dish it. The neck cooked thus should be carved saddle fashion. Neele of mutton cl la Turque.—For this you require the whole of the neck. With the scrag and trimmings make some good mutton broth, cut the best end of the neck (or carre) into a neat joint, put the broth made the previous day on to boil, then lay into, it the joint with an equal weight of onions, carrots, and turnips (say jib. of each), loz. of celery, a good bouquet, and a due seasoning of salt and pepper. Bring the broth to the boil, then draw it to the side and keep it simmering till the mutton is tender, which it should be in about one and a half hours over a slow fire ; now strain off the broth, leaving the meat in the closely covered pan to keep hot. Bring this broth sharply to the boil) then put into it 6oz. of Patna rice, and keep it boiling fast (stirring it occasionally with a wooden spoon), till91 MUTTON. on testing tlie grains between the finger and thumb, or the teeth, they feel quite cooked but not pulpy (this will take from twelve to fifteen minutes), then drain off all the liquid, return the rice to the dry pan, mix into it, with a fork, about If oz. of butter and a good teaspoonful of turmeric powder, cover the pan with a hot doubly-folded napkin, and leave the pan before the fire for eight or ten minutes till the rice is dry and in grains. Now lift out the mutton, set it on a hot dish, put the rice all round it, and pour over it the broth, thickened with a little white roux, and mixed with a gill of tomato puree.CHAPTER V. LAMB. Of the choice of lamb something has already been said, so that point need not now be considered. Lamb is now practically attainable nearly all the year round, especially by those who do not despise Colonial meat, and, indeed, there are many con- noisseurs who uphold colonial lamb especially as a worthy rival of the home-grown animal. The latter is, however, in season, roughly speaking, from November to August, house-lamb, i.e., that reared under shelter, often actually in the house, and principally if not entirely fed on milk (generally most highly esteemed by gourmets), and grass-lamb, which is brought up out of doors and fed on the young spring grass. The first is obtainable from a little before Christmas until Easter, (i.e., from December to the end of March or the beginning of April), the last comes in about Easter (or April), and lasts till the end of July; sine gua non on the Easter-day dinner table. Lamb is usually, certainly at its first appearance, served in quarters, that is to say, the carcase is93 LAMB. divided lengthwise down the spine, each half being then again divided in two, leaving two haunches, i.e., the hind leg and loin cut in one; and two fore-quarters, this latter comprising the neck end of the animal, including the neck (scrag and best end), the shoulder, and breast. These four joints are each cooked whole as long as the lamb is small, but later, when it has increased in size (or in cases where the family is not large), it is cut up pretty much like a sheep. It must be remembered that lamb, like all young meat, requires thorough cooking to be wholesome. Fore-quarter of Lamb to Roast.—Wrap the joint in the caul or filmy substance any good butcher always sends with lamb for roasting, and cook it at a clear, sharp fire, basting it generously all the time it is cooking (this is a point that needs special attention if the joint is necessarily baked in the oven); roast it quickly, but be careful the fat does not catch, from the close proximity of the fire if roasted at an open fire, or from an over-sharp oven if baked ; ^mb’s fat is peculiarly liable to catch or burn. When cooked and nicely browned it is often considered a good plan to lift off the shoulder with a sharp knife, so as to separate it from the ribs ; a little pat of maitre d’hotel butter, or a little butter rubbed up with cayenne and lemon juice, is by many persons then inserted between the shoulder, or target as it is sometimes called, and the ribs, and allowed to melt there. It is a matter of taste whether this jointing and flavouring be performed after or before it is placed on the table. WhicheverMEATS. 94 metliod is adopted, every cook should be careful to see that the chine bone has been thoroughly divided, and the rib bones divided across perfectly. Neglect of this precaution leads to no end of trouble to the carver, and probably also to the destruction of the tablecloth, for it is well nigh impossible to divide the joint thus after it is dished without splashing the gravy pretty considerably ; even granting the carver possess both the requisite skill and strength for the dissection. Roast lamb is served with its own gravy, freed from grease, just like any other roast joint, mint sauce being sent to table in a separate boat. You reckon about fifteen minutes to the pound, and fifteen minutes over, for the fore-quarter. The hind quarter, or indeed any part of lamb, is roasted precisely as above, only remembering that the hind quarter being more solid and thicker than the fore- quarter, will probably take twenty minutes to the pound. For the mint sauce, mince finely the tops of some well-washed and dried young mint into the sauce- boat, add to this some caster sugar, stirring it well together, then pour over it all some good vinegar (using about five tablespoonfuls of the vinegar to three of the minced mint, and two of caster sugar), and coutinue stirring it till the sugar is dissolved. Let it stand for two or three hours before using it. Another and more delicate form is obtained by putting a gill of best vinegar into a pan with a small tablespoonful of caster or loaf sugar, and reducing it by sharp boiling to half ; now add a full half pint ofLAMB. % water, bring it sharply to the boil, let it boil for one minute, then stir in a good tablespoonful of finely chopped mint, mix it all thoroughly, and serve when perfectly cold. Lamb may also be braised in the usual manner, and is then served with a variety of sauces and garnishes. It must be observed that braising is a method of cooking usually reserved for lamb when large enough to serve in joints. Abroad, lamb when quite young, say about five weeks old, is often roasted or braised whole, and affords a very delicate dish, which is, moreover, also an uncommon one. Lamb, Boasted Whole.—Skin the animal, and cleanse it precisely as if it were a rabbit, which indeed when skinned it resembles not a little ; cut off the feet, and then cover the whole carcase with thin slices of larding bacon (i.e., fat and rather firm unsmoked bacon), and roast it at a clear fire, allowing fully twenty minutes to the pound, fifteen minutes or so before it is done, remove the bacon and let it brown all over equally, then squeeze the juice of a lemon over it, and send to table with a boat of good espagnole sauce. Lamb cooked thus is often placed on a bed of mushroom, or any other puree, and served with an appropriate sauce; or it can be sent to table on a bed of savoury rice, or boiled macaroni, stirred up with good meat gravy and tomato sauce as for ran, and sent up with tomato or curry sauce. Lamb of the same age and size is also braised thus: skin and cleanse it as before, and cut it right across in half, so as to leave the kidneys attached *MEATS. 96 to the hindquarters. Now place both halves in a well buttered stewpan, with a few slices of ham or bacon, a good bouquet garni, two bay leaves, a 3in. stick of cinnamon, a few peppercorns, and pepper and salt to taste. Moisten it with a full pint of mutton broth or stock, bring it to the boil, and then let it simmer very steadily for about two and a half hours, tightly covered down, with fire above and below; or in the oven with top and bottom heat. Dish, strain, and skim the liquor and serve with the gravy poured over and round the meat. Both these processes are applied to young kid as well as to lamb abroad, and, needless to state, that much variety is allowed in the addenda for the braised lamb; red and green peppers, tomatoes, rice, &c., being all utilised. It is useless to repeat these directions, as lamb is always roasted or braised in the same way, the only difference being a question of time, which practice and commonsense will easily settle. So a few of the methods of garnishing this joint need alone be given. Quartier d’Agneau a VHoteliere (or d la Maitre d’Hotel.—For this the fore-quarter is roasted and served with a creamy maitre d’hotel sauce, i.e., a rich white sauce made with new milk, and flavoured with a teaspoonful of freshly minced parsley, a squeeze of lemon juice, and a little white pepper and salt for each half pint of sauce. farci aux huitres.—Remove the shank, raise the thick part from the bone and insert a rich oyster forcemeat, then roast as before and serveLAMB. 97 with Madeira sauce, well flavoured with lemon juice, or a good brown oyster sauce may be used. Leg of Lamb a VAllemande.—(As a matter of fact, a leg, haunch, saddle, &c., can be served thus, or, indeed, by any of the following methods.) Boast and serve with a rich allemande sauce, and either a vegetable macedoine (of young spring vegetables, such as asparagus points, green peas, &c.), or boiled mushrooms. Leg of Lamb a VIndienne.—Boast and serve with a garnish of pickles and chutney, and a rich bechamel, strongly flavoured with curry powder. Another form of this dish is made by boning and stuffing the leg or shoulder with a rich veal force- meat, and braising it, then serving it with its own liquor, strained, freed from grease, and thickened with tomato puree, curry paste, and a little essence of anchovy. Carre d’Agneau a la Valencienne.—The best end of the neck, nicely trimmed, roast and served with its own gravy and a good Valencienne garnish of artichoke bottoms, lobster, or prawns, rice, minced or shred ham, &c. This joint, which is a particularly nice one for a small family, is equally good if served with any good puree of vegetables and its, own gravy; or with mushroom, cucumber, oyster, soubise, tomato, Venitienne, and many other sauces. In short, broadly speaking, as soon as it is large enough to cut up, lamb may be served by any recipe given for mutton, though, of course, the judicious cook will remember, that lamb being a more delicately flavoured meat than mutton, which has a distinctive H98 MEATS. flavour of its own not easily disguised by any sauce, care must be taken to choose addenda that will not overpower, if not actually destroy, the natural taste of the younger animal. As owing to the size of these little books it is impossible for me to repeat information given in previous volumes of the series, I must ask those interested in these recipes to refer to the volume of entrees for the sauces, which are there given in extenso. It may be added that a boiled leg of lamb, especi- ally when small, is a specially delicate little dish, particularly if served with tomato or soubise sauce, or even with a creamy Pascaline, or caper sauce.CHAPTER VI. PORK. It cannot be too often repeated that ill-fed, or out-of-season, pork is not only unwholesome, but actually dangerously so, and it is much to be wished that the authorities could see their way to prevent the sale of fresh pork after the beginning of spring. Abroad, in the south especially, fresh pork is a forbidden luxury from the end of April (or even earlier) till the beginning of November, and we have most of us learnt the hygienic reason for the avoidance of pork by Jew and Mussulman. There- fore, never buy cheap pork, and never deal with a pork butcher you cannot thoroughly rely on. Pork, to Boast.—When the skin is left on (as most people prefer), it should be scored through in narrow strips, as evenly as possible, and, contrary to the usual process, the meat should be placed at first at some distance from the fire, to allow the actual meat to heat through before the skin hardens and browns. Roast pork as a joint is now seldom seen at soigne tables, and still less with the sage and onion stuffing, h 2100 MEATS. formerly considered indispensable. Very often now, the fat, formerly considered the tit-bit, is pared off, and then, naturally, pork takes a shorter time to roast. But the average time is fully twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minutes over. These rules apply to all joints of pork, so need not be repeated. The usual accompaniments of roast pork are apple sauce, and its own gravy, but these may be varied almost indefinitely. Amongst the sauces which go admirably with roast pork are sauce Bobert, remoulade, tomato, poivrade, &e., and these can be served with either the leg, the loin, the spare rib, or the best end of the neck, (which forms a very nice little joint), indifferently. Almost any joint of pork may be pickled and boiled ; for instance, take a leg of pork that has been salted for a few days, and weigh it carefully ; now soak it for half an hour in cold water (this improves the colour), then lift it out, dust it with sifted flour, and tie it up in a delicately clean cloth. Put it into a stewpan with sufficient cold water to cover it thoroughly ; bring this gently to the boil, then skim it well, cover the pan down closely, draw it to the side of the stove, and let it simmer gently till done, allowing twenty-five minutes to each pound of meat. Serve on a hot dish gar- nished with separately boiled cabbages, well drained and quartered, and with neatly shred cooked parsnip. Pease pudding should be served in a separate dish. For this soak 21b. of split peas for twelve hours or so, wash them well, and place them in a pan well covered with cold water; bring this to the boil, then at once strain off the peas, and rinse them101 PORK. well in more cold water; now return them to the stewpan with three quarts of water, a dessert spoonful of salt, a good pinch of cayenne, and 4oz. of butter; bring to the boil, put a cover on the pan, and let it simmer on the side of the stove for about two hours and a half (keeping the peas occasionally stirred), when they should be perfectly tender and quite a puree; pass through the sieve, re-warm in a bain-marie, dish up in a pile, and serve. (Remember the liquor in which pork is boiled should always be kept as a foundation for pea soup.) Boiled pork may be served with various garnishes; for instance, served with stewed red cabbage, carrots, turnips, and poivrade sauce (when it is known as pork a VAllemande) ; or if liked, it can be served with the vegetables used in cooking it, and sent to table accompanied by celery, parsley, soubise, or tomato sauce. Pork again, especially the loin, or the best end of the neck, is frequently braised; that is to say, a large saucepan is lined with four or five carrots, two or three turnips, some celery, and two or three onions, all sliced down, with an ounce or two of pork dripping or lard; the pork is then laid in, the pan carefully covered down, and the whole fried for fifteen to twenty minutes, according to size, then a little stock is poured in at the side, the whole is covered with a buttered paper, the lid replaced on the pan, and the contents are braised in the oven with heat top and bottom ; pork cooked thus may be served on a hot dish with the vegetables cooked with it, neatly cut up as a garnish, its liquor poured round it, or part of it sent to table in a boat; or itMEATS. 102 may be served with piclded cabbage, potato cro- quettes, and little fried balls of sausage meat; or carefully freed from fat and served with orange sauce and sultanas blanched in clear stock; or it may be served with a puree of chestnuts and espag- nole sauce; in short, many sauces to taste may be utilised with this meat. A favourite joint at the present time is a ham, either baked, roast, or braised, and served with various addenda. For instance, trim a nice York ham, and soak it for ten or twelve hours, changing the water now and again; now wipe it dry, fold it in a sheet of well greased paper, and then in a sheet of water paste (i.e., common flour mixed with water to a stiflish paste, and rolled out as required); the ham can now be either baked or roasted for three hours or so, keeping it well basted with fat whilst cooking; when cooked remove the paste, paper, and skin, put it into a baking dish, pour over it one and a half to two gills of wine (sherry, Marsala, or champagne, as you choose), brush it well with glaze, and leave it in the oven for fifteen minutes or so till crisp and nicely browned, basting it now and again with the wine. It may then be served with a puree of spinach, and either champagne or Madeira sauce, according to the wine used ; or it may be served with bigarade sauce, and iced orange salad. (For this free the oranges from all skin and white pith, cut them into the natural divisions, carefully remov- ing all pips, then sprinkle this orange pulp with a little finely chopped tarragon and chervil, a spoonful of salad oil, half this quantity of brandy, and aPORK. 103 dust of caster sugar, pile it up on a disla, and set it on ice till wanted.) To Braise a Ham, soak it as above, then wrap it it in a clean cloth and put it into a pan with plenty of cold water, a good hunch of herbs, three or four green onions, one stuck with three or four cloves ; bring it slowly to the boil, then draw it to the side and let it simmer gently till all but cooked; now lift it out, drain it well, and return it to the pan with a bottle of Marsala or sherry, and simmer it very gently for half an hour, basting it occasionally with the wine. If to be served cold, let it become cold in the liquor it was cooked in; but if to be eaten hot, lift it out, and brush it over with glaze, and serve with braised vegetables and Madeira sauce ; or with a bed of spinach puree and bigarade sauce (good brown sauce to which have been added the juice of one or more oranges—usually Seville oranges, whence its name—and the yellow part of the peel, blanched and shred in Julienne strips) ; or with any other rich brown sauce strongly flavoured with wine, onion, truffles, &c. (Remember any wine left over fr^m cooking the ham should be added to the sauce.) Up to 111b. or 121b. a ham takes twenty- five minutes to the pound, with fifteen minutes over for each pound over 121b. To Boil a Ham, treat it exactly as in the above recipes, then tie it in a clean cloth, put it into a pan of boiling water ; watch this re-boil, then let it cook slowly and steadily, allowing about twenty minutes gentle boiling for each pound of ham. If to bo served as a joint finish it off in the oven as before104 MEATS. basting it well with wine, and brushing it over with glaze, after removing the skin. If to be served cold, skin it and at once strew it over pretty thickly with fried crumbs, or dried and browned bread raspings. A bay leaf or two, a bunch of herbs, and two or three carrots cooked with the ham improve its flavour, and if to be served cold the ham may be left to cool in its liquor, as this renders it mellower, though it does not then keep so well as when plainly boiled. Be sure if a copper pan is used for cooking a ham, to lift the latter out of it the moment it is done, as nothing should ever, on any account, be allowed to get cold in a copper pan. It is a well-known fact that on more than one occasion guests at wedding breakfasts or ball suppers have suffered from in- attention to this point. A favourite, and, indeed, a few seasons ago a very fashionable, dish was boiled bacon and broad, beans. For this choose a nice piece of the back or streaky part of the bacon, and boil it for a couple of hours, then skin it, strew it thickly with dried and sifted breadcrumbs, and serve in a dish with plainly boiled broad beans (if these are old remove the outer skin before dishing them), and send to table with parsley butter sauce in a boat. Sucking Pig is an old-fashioned and excellent, if fearfully rich, dish. The little pig should be small, and is best at three weeks old. It should be cooked as soon as it is killed, as its flesh taints very quickly, and, unless it is fresh, nothing will render the crackling—which is considered a great delicacy by connoisseurs—as crisp as it should be. It is105 PORK. cooked thus: Stuff the pig well with a sage and onion stuffing, sewing up the belly; then brush the pig all over with good salad oil, and wrap it in an oiled paper or one that has been steeped in dissolved butter, tieing this on firmly ; now bake or roast it for two and a half to three hours, according to size, keeping it well basted all the time. As a matter of fact, one of the difficulties about sucking pig is that whilst it is cooking, if to be a success, the cook can never leave it for a moment, as it needs incessant attention. About half an hour before it is finished remove the paper, brush the pig all over with thick cream, and return it to the fire or oven to crisp and colour. It should be, when ready, a deep golden yellow. Now cut off the head, split the body down lengthwise, and lay the two halves on a hot dish with the head at the top. Serve with a good brown sauce, and apple sauce in boats, and currants (which have been well washed, dried, and set in the oven for ten minutes) on a napkin. A sucking pig must be served very hot. For the sage and onion stuffing, peel and cut into small dice six or seven onions and put them on in enough cold water to cover them, with a pinch of salt, and bring this sharply to the boil, when they are all drained, well rinsed in cold water and dried; melt 3oz. or 4oz. of butter in a pan, lay in the onion, and fry gently for twenty minutes without letting this colour; now season with salt, cayenne pepper, and a very tiny dust of sugar ; then. mix in a pint of white freshly-grated breadcrumbs, and two tablespoonfuls of minced sage, stir well together, a.nd use. Sucking pig is also stuffed with106 MEATS. a chestnut and sausage stuffing, and finished off as before ; it is then served with a rich Madeira sauce, to which have been sieved some chestnuts previously- cooked till tender in well-flavoured brown stock ; a Ckipolata garnish being sent to table or not, as liked. For the chestnut and sausage-meat stuffing, peel, scald, and blanch forty to fifty good chestnuts; and boil them in a pint of milk, with a pinch of salt and -§oz. of butter till quite tender, and mix them with a pound of good sausage-meat. Fill the body of the pig with this and sew it up carefully. Or it may be stuffed with a truffle farce, and served with Pcri- geux sauce. For the truffie stuffing, well wash, brush, and dry a pound of nice fresh truffles, and quarter them; mince and pound to a paste ^lb. of very fat bacon, and in this stew the truffles with half a teaspoonful of minced thyme, a shallot, a bay- leaf, and pepper and salt to taste, for ten minutes or so, when the farce is ready for use. Another form of sucking pig is stuffed with a very rich veal force- meat (either with or without pate de foie gras). The pig is tied up in a cloth and stewed very gently in stock with the usual stock vegetables. It is then lifted out, the cloth removed, dished on a hot dish, and sent to table with good espagnole; or, if pre- ferred, with an allemande and a garnish of mush- rooms. If left to cool in its liquor, it is very good cold.CHAPTER VII. VENISON. Of venison there are three kinds known in the British Isles, the red deer, principally found in Scotland and Ireland; the roedeer, best known in the north; and the fallow deer, which is most common in England. The red deer and the roe are drier than the fallow deer, which put on both flesh and fat more freely than their wilder brethren. Buck venison is usually reckoned the best, and is seasonable from June to the end of September, whilst doe venison comes into the market in October, and lasts V* the end of December. Neither should be used at other times. Venison in good condition should have the flesh dark and fine grained, with a plentiful supply of firm, white, and clear fat (this applies to fallow deer, for roedeer especially has little or no fat). The thicker the layer of fat on the haunch the better is the condition of the animal; if the hoof, which is always left on, is deeply cleft, rough, and large, the beast is old, so if the cleft is small and108 MEATS. smooth it naturally is young. Deer, however, like sheep, should be of a certain age to be eaten in per- fection. From four to five years is supposed to be the right period. A fallow deer is cut up in the same way as mutton, of which a diagram was given, though it is not sold in joints as a rule, quarters being generally adopted. Venison, if kept in an airy, cool larder, will hang from one to three weeks, according to the state of the weather, but it needs watching, as in damp muggy weather it turns very quietly. As soon as it is brought in and cut up it should be well wiped all over with a clean dry cloth, and freely dusted with black pepper or ground ginger, or a mixture of both, as you choose. It should be looked over and carefully dried every day, and even twice a day if the weather is doubtful. There is seldom a chance of buying absolutely fresh venison (which it should be to give it a proper chance of hanging), but there is a good deal of difference between hung venison and stale venison which has not been properly looked after, a fact that may be easily ascertained by running a small knife, or very clean steel skewer, well in along the bone, when the difference of smell will betrav the condition. If •/ venison becomes a trifle musty from a little careless- ness, it should be well washed first in tepid water, then in tepid milk and water, well dried, and again freely powdered with ground ginger or black pepper. It must be remembered that, like sheep, deer should be skinned whilst hot, directly they are killed. The haunch, the shoulder, and the breast may all be roasted; so can the neck, but it is better either madeVENISON. 109 into chops or into a pasty ; the shank and head are usually thrown away, but make excellent stock it' properly treated. To Roast the Hauncli.—Well wipe it all over with a damp clean cloth, or, if preferred, wash it care- fully, using’ as little water as possible, then dry it perfectly in clean cloths, and wrap it in a sheet of paper previously well brushed over with salad oil or dissolved butter; cover this again with a sheet of water paste as previously described, and, lastly, wrap this all in another buttered sheet of paper, tieing this firmly into position, and place it before a clear strong fire, keeping it well basted all the time with butter and well clarified fat. It will, if large, take from four to five hours to cook, as it should be rather under than overdone, as it is so dry a meat. From thirteen minutes to the pound is the general reckoning with the paste (which should be from |in. to fin. thick) wrapped on it. About twenty minutes or so before it is done the papers and paste must be taken off, the joint well basted all over with butter, and then lightly dredged with fine, dry, and sifted flour, and delicately browned before the fire. It must be remembered that the fat of the venison is the prime part, so the great object of the cook is to have this in perfection. The gravy is made precisely as for sirloin of beef, i.e., the fat is poured off the top, a gill of boiling water is poured into the dripping pan, and well mixed with the gravy in it, paying special attention to the little brown blisters of glaze adhering to the pan ; skim off the fat from this, salt it to taste, let it boil up, then pour it through ano MEATS. strainer round the haunch, which should be put on a very hot dish. It must be borne in mind that nothing chills so quickly as venison fat, so the dish and also the plates used should be as hot as it is possible to get them. Hot water dishes, where pro- curable, are best for the purpose. Currant or rowan jelly (slightly warmed, that it may not chill tbe meat) should always be handed round, and some cooks send espagnole or sauce chevreuil to table with it; but for well fed, well hung fallow deer venison its own gravy and a little currant jelly are to be preferred. I give the following, “ lifted” from Meg Dod’s admirable Cookery Manual, as I can speak from experience of its excellence for either red or roe deer, or ibex venison, the last probably about the driest form of venison extant. “Rub the haunch well with mixed spices; soak it for six hours in claret to which you have added either a gill of best vinegar, or the juice of three lemons, turning it frequently and basting it well with the liquid. Strain this, mix it with sufficient butter melted, and use this mixture for basting the meat; a large sheet of buttered paper should be wrapped round the joint, soon after it is put down to the fire, and the joint well basted over this ; fifteen minutes before the joint is ready remove the paper, &c., and finish it off as before. For the sauce: To the contents of the dripping pan (which will be very rich and highly flavoured) add half a pint of clear brown gravy, made from the venison, or old heath mutton, boil this all up sharply together, then skim, add a teaspoonful of walnut ketchup (or, indeed, anyIll VENISON. flavoured vinegar, sucli as raspberry, anchovy, or shallot vinegar as you please), bring it just to the boil again and strain it round the joint. It should always be remembered that unless it is fairly fat, it is foolish to attempt to roast this venison, but if needs must, for hashing purposes, only three parts cook it, set it aside uncut till perfectly cold, and when about to hash it have ready some nice slices of good well hung mutton fat, if possible from a roasted loin or neck, but if raw, previously lightly stewed in red wine sweetened with brown sugar, and slightly acidulated with a flavoured vinegar ; add these when cooked to the hash, allowing them to steep well in the venison gravy before putting in the venison itself.” This recipe is also good for red deer. It must be remembered that generous and careful basting is a sine qua non for success in roasting venison, for it is only the fallow deer that can be depended on for fat, and for a haunch of this it may be well to carry out the old directions for carving : Make a sharp slice across the knuckle end to ensure the flow of gravy, then slice the joint thinly the whole length of the haunch, remembering that the choicest part is where the fat is (chiefly on the left side, which is, in consequence, sarcastically called the “ alderman’s walk ”). A sauce sometimes sent to table with roast roe or red deer venison is made by dissolving 4oz. of loaf sugar, or preferably white sugar candy, in half a pint of the very best French white wine vinegar, keeping it well skimmed, and sending it to table in a hot sauceboat. A favourite way of cooking the haunch of venison,ME ITS. 112 especially of roedeer, is this : Either hang it up foi a few days, or take it down after about twenty-four hours, and soak it in sour milk for a couple of days in a cool place ; take it out, dry off all the moisture, remove the skin, lard it plentifully, salt it, and bake it in a fireproof dish in a good oven, basting it with butter or very fresh lard, and pouring a little white or red wine over it occasionally, not more than a couple of tablespoonfuls twice or three times during the cooking process; when the meat is done and of a rich brown, put it on a hot dish, pour a teacupful of sour cream over the meat, and set it in a hot place while the sauce is being made; strain the liquor in which the venison has been baked, put it over the fire in a small saucepan, let it gently boil to reduce it, season it to taste, add a few chopped mushrooms previously slightly browned in butter, finish off with a tablespoonful of fresh cream; let it boil up once more, pour it over the joint, and serve very hot with a compote of fresh fruit and green salad. In America, a roast haunch of venison is often sent to table with the following sauce : Mix together a pint of rich tomato puree with a gill of good strong stock (or a teaspoonful of glaze or of Lemco), then stir in a teaspoonful of chopped capers, and when these are all blended add a good spoonful of currant or rowan jelly, season with salt, a pinch each of sugar and ground ginger, cayenne, and a squeeze of lemon juice, thickening this sauce if necessary with a spoonful of brown roux. Send this to table, very hot, in a boat, pouring a little plain gravy from itself round the joint. f113 VENISON. Shoulder of Venison to Stew.—Bone a well-hung shoulder, lay it out flat on the board, getting the surface as even as possible, then lay over it somethin slices of well hung moor mutton, sprinkle well with spice, and roll it all up tightly, tieing it into shape with broad tape. Place this roll into a pan that will just hold it comfortably, and cover it with good rich stock made from its own bone, or with good ordinary stock; just bring it to the boil, then let it stew slowly and steadily till about three parts done; now add a plentiful allowance of freshly ground black and cayenne pepper, allspice, and lastly, half a pint of good claret, burgundy, or port, and finish the cooking. When tender lift it out, remove the tapes, brush it over with glaze, set it on a very hot dish, strain its own gravy round it, and send to table with currant jelly, and any venison sauce to taste, in a boat. It will take about three hours to cook. This is an excellent way of using lean venison. Venison Collops are an excellent Scotch dish, seldom, however, seen south of the Tweed. For these slice down a piece of the fillet rather thinly (any part that will produce thin cutlet-shaped pieces will do), seasoning each highly with quatre epices; make some good salt butter hot in a stew-pan, and brown the venison nicely in this with some minced onion (taking one middle-sized onion for each ^lb. of meat), and when well coloured add to this a gill each of good strong gravy or stock, and claret or Burgundy, a dust of caster sugar, a sherry-glassful of good white wine vinegar, and some fried bread- crumbs. Now cover down the pan closely and let it i114 MEATS. all stew very slowly till cooked, then dish with its own gravy round it. It will he found convenient, unless the venison is very fat of itself, to add some slices of mutton fat cut from the neck of a well hung sheep (treated as for hash as given above), and cook this with it. Needless, of course, to add that the venison is improved by having been well marinaded previous to cooking. Another Scotch, and most excellent, dish is minced collops, capital— like the preceding—when made of beef, but naturally extremely delicate when made of venison. For this choose a good fleshy piece, and mince it fine, after removing the skin, sinews, gristle, &c.; dredge generously with flour, season well with quatre epices, or kitchen pepper, and mix with a little water or stock; heat some butter or clarified dripping in the pan, and in this brown the mince and a little very finely chopped onion, beating the meat with a wooden spoon all the time it is cooking to prevent its getting lumpy, which it will do if neglected; a little more stock may be added from time to time, to get it to the desired consistency. Serve with sippets of toast round it, and, if liked, poached eggs on top. Beef, veal, hare, &c., can all be cooked in this way. The onion is a matter of taste, but most people like it; indeed, many cooks also allow a bunch of herbs to stew with the meat, of course removing this before dishing it. Venison Steaks are also good, and easily prepared; cut them into shape, brush them well with liquefied butter, roll in seasoned breadcrumbs, and broil over a clear sharp fire. Serve with good venison gravy115 YENlSOST. in a boat. In America these steaks are often served with a little clear gravy round them, and cranberry sauce in a boat. For this lake a pint of well picked and washed berries, put them into an enamel pan with sufficient water to cover them (about half a pint), and cook till tender, when you add from 5oz. to 6oz. of sugar, and lift off the fire directly the sugar is melted. Serve hot or cold (always hot for venison). This mixture, if strained into a mould, will set like a jelly; whilst if the berries are carefully chosen for size and beauty, and cooked very slowly without any stirring, they will be whole in a clear transparent sauce. This sauce is excellent with turkey, poultry of any kind, mutton, &c. Givet de Chevreuil.—Cut the breast, neck, &c., into neat, small pieces, and fry these in clarified dripping, or, preferably, bacon fat, till nicely browned, dredging them pretty thickly with flour; when nicely coloured, moisten them well with equal parts of good red wine (Burgundy or Bordeaux), and strong stock, add a bouquet garni (parsley, thyme, bayleaf, green onion, a strip of lemon peel, a blade of mace, and a suspicion of garlic if liked; this last is not necessary). Let this all cook very slowly, shaking the pan occasionally to keep its contents from sticking. A few silver or button onions, and some mushrooms are great additions to this dish, which can also be made of hare, rabbit, &c. If cooked in an earthenware pan and served in this, it frequently appears, on lunch menus especially, as chevreuil en casserole, from the name of the dish» Roedeer Steaks and Bacon.—Fry the venison i 2H6 meats. steaks till about half cooked, then lift them out, and skewer a thin slice of rather fat bacon on each side of every steak, and finish frying. Serve round a hot dish, with a mound of cranberry jelly or cold sauce in the centre, and hand round bread sauce made with stock instead of milk. This recipe is an American one, and in the United States is seasoned very highly with cayenne, mace, and especially cinnamon. As a matter of fact, you may cook roedeer in almost every way in which you cook hare. . Jugged roedeer, for instance, is particularly savoury. A venison pudding again, if carefully cooked and well seasoned is excellent, and is made precisely like the ordinary beefsteak pudding, unless you follow the American plan. For this you cut the venison steaks into neat small pieces. Have some small birds halved, or poultry, pigeons, or rabbit may be used, allowing equal parts of venison and of the birds, and a good kidney sliced, with a little ham or bacon cut into largish dice. Line a pudding basin in the usual way with suet crust, and pack in the meat, adding at intervals some small pieces of cranberry, blackberry, or even currant jelly, and cover it all with more crust, after pouring in some good strong gravy made from the birds, &c., used in its composi- tion. Boil in the usual way. If all this be packed in a well-buttered pie-dish and covered with short crust, it can be baked, and produces a most praise- worthy pasty. Venison Potted.—Cut some venison steaks into strips, and lay them in a baking pan; cover them117 YENISOX. with red wine and a good lump of butter, covering the whole over with coarse paste. Bake till thoroughly cooked and tender, then lift out the meat, and pound it to a smooth paste with the butter in which it was cooked, which can be skimmed from the surface of the gravy, adding more butter if necessary, together with a little of its own gravy. Season rather highly with pepper, salt, and pounded mace; press it all into pots, set these in the oven for a few minutes, then allow them to cool, and, when cold, cover with clarified butter. All dry meat such as roe and red deer venison, hare, &c., is the better for being larded, with nice 2in. long lardoons of French larding bacon well rolled in quatre epices; roast or bake this joint as you please, but be careful to have it well basted, using for the purpose sour cream, or when this is not at hand use skim milk, adding 2oz. of fresh butter for every half pint of milk. This is served with its own gravy unthickened, but flavoured with lemon juice, freshly ground black pepper, and a little salt. It may be added that smoked venison is occasion- ally to be met with, especially in shops catering for American customers. This meat, which is generally sewn up in canvas like hams, keeps well, and for those who like the flavour is a great stand-bye. If used for steaks or other dishes of the land, the meat should be soaked in water for a little previous to cooking. It may also be boiled, braised, or baked like a ham, but takes a rather shorter time per pound. For instance, it may be marinaded forMEATS. 118 some time, larded, braised, and finally served with a rich Espagnole sauce made with venison bones, &c„ garnished with stewed prunes, when it is known as Cimier (saddle), gigot, or quartier de chevreuil, d la St. Hubert, according to the joint used. This can also be prepared with fresh venison, but must then be marinaded for a good deal longer. Lastly, if it is desired to preserve venison for future use, the joints may be pretty thickly dusted with powdered charcoal, which does not in the least affect the flavour; or, after cutting the meat up into joints, the bones should be carefully removed, each joint being carefully cleansed and cut into suitable pieces, convenient for their subsequent use, and then packed tightly in a large jar. Strew in with them some crushed bay leaves, peppercorns, and pounded mace; cover the whole with good beef suet or mutton fat, melted over the fire and poured in when lukewarm ; when the fat has set tie a muslin over the top, and store in a cold place. Woodcock, snipe, or indeed any form of game, can also be preserved in this way. Separate joints of venison can also be preserved by merely brushing them all over quickly with lukewarm fat; when this is cold tie the meat up in buttered muslin so as to keep off flies and dust. The joint treated in this manner must hang till it is wanted, and not be kept with fresh provisions, but this method rather weakens the peculiar flavour, which is one of the characteris- tics of good game.CHAPTER VIII. POULTRY. For the town cook the choice of poultry implies little beyond the actual looking at the fowl, already plucked, singed, trussed, and ready for either spit or pan, supplied by the special poulterer she affects, but the country cook has far more responsibility. A.s a matter of fact, it were much to be desired that the town cook would not be quite so ready to trust her poulterer, for it implies a distinct loss to her mistress. The feathers need not be considered, for one’s means of utilising these are, to say the least of it, limited. But the giblets and trimmings represent a distinct value, as the tradesman knows full well, for he sells poultry livers by the pound (especially now that fashion no longer insists on the symmetri- cal trussing of liver and gizzard under the fowl’s wmgs when roasted), and the giblets, i.e., the necks, pinions, and trimmings generally, have an acknow- ledged market price of their own for soup making, &c., and add a great deal of flavour to the stock pot of the housekeeper who insists on their presence,120 MEATS. It is the absence of these addenda that recoups the ' shopkeeper for the extra trouble of sending out his poultry ready for cooking. In choosing a fowl there are several points to be considered—age, condition, size, and lastly the use to which the bird is to be put. A little experience will soon teach a housewife to recognise the age. In a young fowl the legs and feet are smooth, the scales on the shanks overlapping but little, whilst the spurs on the cock are either non-existent, or simply little knobs. (Dishonest tradesmen often scrape the legs and spurs to mini- mise the appearance of age, but though the spurs may be satisfactorily doctored, a very little experi- snce will betray the scraping.) After the first year a, fowl’s legs grow rough, the scales increasing in size and overlapping more and more, whilst in the black-legged variety the scales assume a greyish tinge. The comb and the wattles also betray age, but this test is not always to be relied on, as breeds vary in this respect. Speaking generally, however, the comb and wattles should in young birds be small, and lie close to the head, but here, again, a young pullet that has begun to lay will often assume the proportions of a mature fowl. As regards condition. Though a fowl will hang for a few days, it is always best pretty fresh, for if in the slightest degree overhung it is spoiled. For this reason at once reject any fowl that shows the slightest tinge of green on the flesh. Young housekeepers are often tempted by seeing apparently fine chickens and fowls set out on the show board of a poulterer’sPOULTRY. 121 shop ready trussed for cooking, at a price that com- pares most favourably with, and inspires doubts of the honesty of, the prices of their regular tradesman. These fowls are simply birds that the shopman knows require instant cooking to “ save their lives,” as an Irish cook once expressed it, and therefore he trusses them to the best advantage and offers them at a price that will tempt customers and rid his shop of undesirable goods. Such birds frequently answer well, if bought at a good shop, and cooked at once as the shopman will almost always advise, but woe to the housewife who keeps them till next day ! A ehicken or fowl should have a clear unwrinkled skin, the flesh being plump and firm. This, again, is a snare to the young housekeeper, as the town fashion of breaking the breastbone of the fowl gives it an appearance of plumpness that deceives the unwary, who judge by appearance and not by feel. A modern form of preparing poultry and game for table, removes the breastbone altogether, which gives the same appearance of plumpness by careful . skewering, whilst obviating the trouble caused the carver by the smashed breastbone. But this deft manipulation is only known to the most first-rate poulterers, and not even to all of these. For broiling, choose the whitest skinned fowls, and iisregard the colour of the legs, as these are removed for boiling, braising, or stewing; but for roasting, the colour of the skin is not so important, the whiteness of the legs being in this case more to be jonsidered. For roasting and boiling, fowls of a rear and under should be chosen; for braising122 MEATS. galantine, &c., the old fowls, which are larger and also tougher (and consequently cheaper), answer admirably. A recipe will also be given by which even the oldest fowl can be utilised for roasting if imperative, with success, though, naturally, a younger one is to be preferred. For broiling, a young bird is absolutely indispensable. In choosing a fowl always consider the weight in comparison with the size. A well-fed bird, in good condition, is always heavy in proportion to its size; but here, again, beware of exaggeration, for an over-fed, over-fatted fowl is generally coarse, and always wasteful, on account of the fat which simply goes to swell the dripping-pan. The same remarks apply to turkeys. Geese and ducks are judged by the colour of their bills and feet and the roundness of the breast. If the former are yellow and pliable, the bird is young, but as they age both bill and feet darken in colour till they become orange and almost red. Many cooks say that if you squeeze the windpipe close to the body, and it gives easily, that the bird will be tender; whereas, if it resists the pressure, the flesh will be tough. It must be remembered that the excellence of all poultry depends on its feeding, but in no class is this more the case than with geese and ducks, the latter especially being, if unwatched, anything but clean feeders. Fowls are in season pretty well all the year round, though scarcer in the spring; chickens are season- able through the year, but the so-called “ spring chickens ” are best from March to the end of May. Poulardes and capons (especially treated and fedPOULTRY. 123 birds, greatly in request in consequence of their superior feeding and size) are obtainable all the year round, though, perhaps, they are at their very best in September and October. Turkeys are at their best from September to March, after which the turkey poults come in about the end of May, and last till November. G-eese are accounted in their prime from the middle of September (Michaelmas Day, when the “ stubble geese,” fed in the stubble fields after the harvest, come in) to about February; wild ^eese, seen in some parts of the country, are in season from August to March. Goslings, sometimes called “ green geese,” come in about February, and are at their best from the end of May to the end of July, but may be had till the end of August. Ducks are in season from August to February, whilst ducklings come in in February, when they are very expensive, and last till the end of July. Wild duck are in season from August 1 to March 15. Pigeons are in season all the year round. These should always be chosen young and fresh, plump and fat, and with smooth, supple feet. If the legs are rough and dry, they are old; if the vent be green and shrivelled-looking, they are stale, and in neither case should they be chosen. Guinra-fowl are chosen on the same lines as other poultry, and are in season like fowls, all the year round. Practically, however, they are mostly in season from February to June, being seldom sold at any rate, save when game is out, the place of which they take ou the menu,124 MEATS. For the benefit of those who breed their own table- fowl, it may be mentioned that, for table purposes, perhaps the best breed is the Dorking, which is white-legged, broad-breasted, and possessed of a very white and delicate flesh. Next to these, for table purposes, come the Crevecoeur and the La Fleche, both French breeds, and very celebrated in their own country, these, however, are black-legged; then follow the Houdans, pink-legged and finely-fleshed; next the G-ame fowl, dai-ker in the flesh and smaller in size, but excellently, and almost gamily, flavoured; then follow the Langshan, dark-legged, but heavily - fleshed, chiefly . on the breast; and, lastly, the Brahma, a long-legged creature, once very fashion- able, the best parts of which, however, are the thighs. These are given as table birds, and, indeed, there are more varieties, chiefly local, but these may be reckoned the best known and the most generally satisfactory. Having chosen the fowl, the next thing is to prepare it for table. First, in the country at all events, the bird must be plucked and singed. This may be considered an easy matter, but it is doubtful if the amateur who undertakes the task for the first time will quite see where the ease comes in ! The skin of birds, game especially, is decidedly tender, yet unless the feathers, and all the stumps, are carefully removed the bird will be unsightly; while if the skin is torn the appearance will be about equally spoilt. For this reason, where the skin is unusually tender (as it is with long-hung game), many cooks leave the breast feathers on till the bird has been trussed.125 POULTRY. The proper way of plucking' the bird is to hold it in the left hand, and begin plucking under the wing, carefully removing all feathers, but leaving the down to be singed off. You then reverse it, and pluck down the other side in the same way. The next process, is to singe the bird, which is effected by means of a lighted paper, being very careful not to bring it so close as to actually singe the skin. Be careful whilst doing this to remember how the bird is ultimately, to be trussed, getting the partsMEATS. 126 that will then be hidden quite free of down, as you cannot, as with the rest of the bird, remove the overlooked down by re-singeing. The accompany- ing illustration (Fig. 1) is the best guide for the singeing process. Remember that singeing is only to remove the down, so, if after plucking any stumps of feathers are left in, these must be care- fully pulled out, not singed off, which will not effectually remove them. Many cooks singe their poultry, even if trussed by the poulterer, and for this purpose pour a little methylated spirit into an old tin, light it, and, catching the bird at each end, twist it quickly over the flame. The fowl being carefully plucked and singed, it must next be drawn. For this lay the bird flat on its back on the table or a board, cut a slit in the skin of the neck, and through this draw out the neck and cut it off close to the body, cutting off the extra skin so as just to allow a flap of skin large enough to cover the opening of the neck. You now slip your fingers through this opening (some cooks for this cut off the vent and use this opening) and draw out all the inside, carefully wiping out the inside and the flap with a cloth. Be very careful when doing this not to break anything inside, for if by accident the gall bladder should burst it will give a bitter taste that only the most careful washing out subsequently will remove. The next thing is to truss the bird. Scrape the legs well after cutting off the claws (scalding them in boiling water helps this scraping immensely), remove the tips of the pinions and the spur on the second127 POULTRY. joint, and twist each pinion into a triangle, catch- ing the tip of the third joint into the first. You now proceed to truss it. This is done either with skewers, or with a string. The first is the ordi- nary way, and is not difficult. For this lay the bird on its back, and pass a skewer through the first joint of the wing, drawing the middle of the Fig. 2. leg close up to it, on the right side, and pass it through till it catches the wing on the other side, even with the first. Now fasten the neck flap with a small skewer, then put a skewer through the skin of the back, on the right side, and then through the first joint of the leg; catch up a small bit of skin and skewer down the left side as you did the right. The bird is now ready forMEATS. 128 roasting, unless you please to put the well washed liver and gizzard, one under each wing; but this is not a fashion to be commended, the liver being better disposed of in the way subsequently given. This is the ordinary method, but trussing by means of a needle and string is much more to be preferred. For this, lay the fowl on its back, and drawing both legs forward towards the neck, you pass a long threaded (packing) needle through both thighs, under the knee, as in Fig. 2 ; now carry this thread along the second joint, then through the middle of the third joint of one wing, then through the back under the bone, catching down the flap which has been folded down flat on the fowl’s back, then bring it out through the middle of the third joint and129 POULTRY. along the second joint of the opposite wing, as shown in Fig. 3; now tie up the ends tightly, leaving one end longer, by which, when the fowl is cooked, you can draw out the whole string. Next cut the tendons right through with a clear cut, just above the ankle in front and behind, or else cut the feet right off altogether at the ankle joint as you choose. Anyway, do not let the legs stick out stiff and straight as seen in second-rate lodging houses. Now take the bird in one hand and pass a second string through it as in Fig. 4, through the small of K130 MEATS. the bade, through the leg just above the heel, next through the skin and under the breastbone, and out at the other leg as you did on the other side, drawing the string tightly and tieing it as in Pig. 5. You then make a, small incision in the abdomen, just above the vent, through which you pass what cooks call “ the parson’s nose,” tieing this down with a piece of string if it will not remain in position, and removing this string with the rest. If you intend stuffing your fowl with anything you now put it in, Fig. 5. stitching down the neck flap to keep all secure, and your bird is ready for roasting. Por boiling or braising the fowl is a little differently trussed. Having twisted up the wings in the usual way, make a cut through the leg right down to the bone, just above the heel as in Pig. 6, in the leg held up, then inserting the fingers at the vent, you loosen the flesh round the thigh bone, and bending the knee, force the leg back under the skin, allowing the heel to come through the cut made in the first instance.131 POULTRY. thus getting tlio leg into the position shown in Fig. 6 on the right side. This needs great care, as it is very easy to break the skin in the process, which of course destroys the appearance of the bird. Having got the legs into this position you run the threaded needle through and tie the string as previously described. For the second string you Fig. 6. thread it as for roasting, only remembering to pass it over the foot (see Fig. 7), catching the ankle under the skin, and then the end of the breastbone, drawing it through on the other side. This trussing can be accomplished by anyone who will follow these directions carefully, by the help of the illustrations, but a little practice will be needed before it becomes quite an easy matter. s 2132 meats. A turkey is trussed precisely like a fowl, but there is one point needing attention, and this is the sinews of the legs. These must be carefully removed, or the leg will be uneatable. The best way is to hang the bird first by one foot and then by the other to a hook in the wall, and then jerk it sharply, pulling hai’d on the leg, when the “ strings ” or sinews will srive and draw out. Some cooks catch the feet in the hinge of the door and then drag at it as before. Fig. 7. A guinea fowl should be trussed like ordinary poultry, though, in some old-fashioned houses, the head is left, as was the custom with pheasants, in which case the neck is left on; the head, unplucked and carefully wrapped in a buttered paper, is brought round under the wing, the bill being laid across the breast. In this case a cut must be made in the back of the neck to allow of the crop being removed. Pigeons should be very carefully plucked andPOULTRY. 133 singed, and, if possible, should be drawn directly they are hilled. They are trussed like fowls. Geese are trussed somewhat differently. After careful plucking and singeing, and the perfect removal of all quill stumps, cut off the feet and the pinions at the first joint, and the neck close to the back, leaving enough of the skin to form a flap to cover this opening; now draw the bird, well wash and wipe it both inside and out, pass a skewer through the under part of the wing, through the body, and so out through the other wing, then draw the legs up close to the body and skewer them into position in the same way. Some cooks flatten, if they do not actually break, the breastbone, to improve the bird’s appearance, but this is a case of taste, as is also the question of breaking the back- bone, which some aver makes the goose sit more firmly in the dish. (At the same time it may be observed that neither of these fractures are com- fortable for the carver.) The bird is then stuffed, after which the vent must be cut off, and the rump slipped through a slit made on purpose in the skin, as this prevents the escape of the stuffing. It should be remembered that the appearance of a a goose depends greatly on the neatness and com- pactness of the trussing. A duck is treated very much like a goose as far as trussing is concerned, and, like it, may be boiled, braised, or roasted, though the latter is the most usual method of cooking. On the Continent a very favourite way of cooking elderly birds of all kinds is en daube, a very savoury method, which has the134 MEATS. further advantage of using up birds otherwise too tough for the more ordinary forms of cookery. Having thus described the processes of trussing, a few words may be said on larding and larding. The former consists of the application of a slice of Fig. 8. Fig. 9. fat bacon cut fairly thin, slitted as in Fig. 8, and applied to the breast of the bird, as in Fig. 9. The slitting of the bacon is to prevent its curling up as it would otherwise do when cooking. For larding you cut the lardoons and proceed precisely as described in the recipe for fricandeau of veal. Fig. 10 shows the larding accomplished. These two processes are applied to all dry meat, birds especially; fowls are frequently the better for beino- barded, though they, toof are sometime^135 POULTRY. larded; but a guinea-fowl, said to be one of the driest-fleslied birds in existence, can never be cooked without the adoption of one or other of these two processes. Fig. 11. Besides these hints, all that remains to be said of poultry generally concerns the preparation of birds for fricassees, &c., and their boning. Regarding the first, it is safe to say that most cooks will consider any directions as at least super- fluous, if not actually impertinent. Yet even for so136 MEATS. simple a proceeding there is a right as well as a wrong way, and it is well to show the housewife, at least, the correct method. To carve a roast fowl is, to some persons at sdi events, a matter of difficulty, but the novice at cooking will find that to cut up a fowl when raw, is an even stiffer task. Yet, unless the process is carried out successfully and tidily, good-bye to the appear- Fig. 12. ance of your dish ! Moreover, proper division is economical. I have seen an unsuccessful carver after herculean efforts, sufficient one would have thought to dismember a mastodon, much less a poor little chicken, produce four joints from the bird ! Yet properly cut up the same fowl would have easily resulted in twelve, if not fourteen decent helpings. Eather a difference in the housekeeper’s eyes. To begin with, after properly plucking and singeing137 POULTRY. your fowl, lay it on its side on a table, and as in Fig. 11, bold tbe tbigli and tbe leg together in your left hand, and cut right through to the socket of the thigh bone with a sharp cook’s knife; then pull the leg back with your left hand, disengaging the thigh from the socket, cut the skin round neatly, and put Fig. 13. this joint aside. The other leg is obviously treated in the same way. Next cut off the head and neck close to the body, and proceed to remove the wings by laying the bird back downwards, and cutting along the breastbone, about an inch from the ridge, right down to the joint of the wingbone (see Fig. 12) and disjoint the latter from the carcase, cutting right138 MEATS. down and removing the wing. Repeat the process for the other wing. Now hold the bird firmly with Fig. 14. the left hand and insert the knife as in Fig 13, cutting straight through the vent, then pull the breast back, and remove it altogether. Having Fig. 15. removed the inside of the bird, you nexL cut off the rjbs on each side of the back, and trim the piecePOULTRY. 139 neatly, afterwards doing tlie same for the breast, till the two joints appear as shown in Fig. 14. These can obviously be cut into two or even three pieces as may be required. You next treat the leg as in Fig. 15, cutting round the joint, and slipping bach the flesh, when you cut off the bone just where you cut through below the joint; now pull back the flesh into place, and when you have also removed the head of the thigh bone, that joint is ready. Repeat the operation for the other leg, making the two pieces look as in Fig. 16. The wing is then cut into two pieces as shown in Fig. 17. A little attention will soon make this division easy, but some knack is needed in diyiding the joints. XJse $ fairly heavy knife Fig. 16. Fig. 17.140 MEATS. cook’s knife if possible), and cut down sharply and cleanly, to divide each piece as much as may be with one blow (for nothing is more untidy and ill- looking than badly cut pieces for a fricassee), being careful to allow its fair share of skin to each joint. Use the part of the knife nearest the handle to ensure force to the blow, but do not use a meat Fig. 18. chopper, as this is too heavy, and is apt to splinter the bones. Lastly, there is the question of boning the birds. Now this is a case where a demonstration lesson is almost indispensable, as it is far easier to understand the process from seeing than from de- scription. However, where such a lesson is impos- sible, perhaps the following illustrations may assist the expei’imenter. After plucking and singeing theIll POULTRY. fowl, cut the skin round the legs precisely as in pre- paring the leg joint for a fricassee (see Fig. 15), then with a heavy knife strike the leg sharply at the incision, so as to break the bone ; now take a firm hold of the foot, give it a sharp twist, and pull it Fig. 19. off, carrying away the sinews of the leg with it. Next cut off the wings just above the second joint, then slit the skin of the neck across lengthways, pull out the neck and cut it off as close as possible, lastly cutting the skin square. Now lay the bird breast do-'nwards, and cut straight down the backMFA.TS. 142 from end to end (as in Fig. 18), then with a sharp* pointed knife (a small cook’s knife, or a “ turning- knife ” for trimming vegetables, will do), loosen the flesh all down from the carcase, beginning at the neck. When you reach the wing bone, disjoint it from the carcase, and then, slitting it along inwards down the wing joint, take out the bone ; now work Fig 20. down to the leg, and disjoint this at the thigh bone. The other side of the body is done in the same way. Fig. 19 gives the appearance of the bird at this point. Next work along each side, loosening the breast very carefully, as the skin, especially over the breastbone, is painfully easy to injure; when this has been done on both sides of the breast, lift out143 POULTRY. tlie carcase whole, as it stands, and you will find that the bird is all boned save for leg and thigh bones. (The carcase should be drawn at leisure, and con- signed to the stock pot.) To remove the remaining bones, make a cut along the thigh, as in the dotted line of Fig. 20, and then carefully remove the flesh from the thigh bone, and scrape back the flesh from the leg bone, as in the other side of the figure; then pull this leg bone out, and it will bring the rest of the sinews with it. The so-called “wish- bone” and the two large white sinews in the breast must now be removed, and the boned fowl is ready.CHAPTER IX. POULTRY (Continued). Poultry takes, on an average, fifteen minutes per pound and fifteen minutes over for roasting, though, of course, due allowance must he made for the size of the bird, as a full grown fowl (and much more a turkey) will take decidedly longer to cook through than a small chicken, even when the time has been correctly proportioned to the weight, so judgment must be used. It must also be remembered that a little longer time is allowed when birds are cooked in the oven, on account of the delay in opening the oven door, and drawing out the meat to baste it, &c., which, of course, interrupts the cooking. Fowl, to roast.—Choose a nice plump fowl that has hung for one or two days, place a medium onion and a lump of salt butter, of the same size, inside it, then rub the bird all over with good clarified dripping, cover the breast with a large barde of fat bacon, or wrap the bird up in white paper previously rubbed all over with butter or clarified dripping, as you please, and roast in front of the fire,145 POULTRY. or in the oven, for twenty-five to thirty minutes, being careful to keep it. well basted all the time. Then remove the skewers or strings, set it on a very hot dish, and serve garnished with well washed and picked watercress, liberally sprinkled with oil and vinegar, season with salt and pepper, and send to table with gravy and breadsance in a boat. Of course cooked in this way there is no “ liver wing,” but a great improvement is to put the liver inside with the onion and butter, and allow it to cook thus, when you can serve slices of it with each helping of fowl. A turkey is roasted in exactly the same way, only the bird is generally stuffed, a delicate sausage meat and chestnut stuffing being put inside the bird, whilst the crop is stuffed with a good herb forcemeat. For this allow (for a good sized bird) |lb. of freshly grated breadcrumbs, 4oz. finely minced suet freed from skin, &c., two table- spoonfuls of minced herbs, a little salt, white and coralline pepper, and four whole eggs ; work this all to a smooth forcemeat, and use. For the sausage and chestnut stuffing remove the skin from 21b. of nice sausages (or use 21b. of sausage meat), mixing this with the bird’s liver ; make a chestnut farce thus: cut the tops from 21b. to 31b. of good chest- nuts, and bake them for fifteen minutes; now peel them perfectly and lay them in a pan with enough common stock to cover them, bring this all to the boil, then draw it aside and let it all simmer till the nuts are tender, and have absorbed all the liquid (they should be covered whilst cooking with a LMEATS. 146 buttered paper), then rub them through a fine wire sieve, mix with them a small piece of butter, a pinch of sugar, and a dust of coralline pepper, and use. Part of this pure'e can be sent to the table in a vegetable dish, the rest being introduced into the body of the bird in alternate layers with the sausage farce. Some people omit the sausage meat and mix the chestnuts with a little fat bacon cut into dice, and fried. Turkey cooked thus can be either served like the roast fowl, or it may be served with any rich sauce and garnish to taste. Capons and poulards are excellent treated in this way. Guinea fowl is cooked exactly like roast fowl, but the barding, or larding, is absolutely imperative. It takes from twenty to twenty-five minutes or upwards, according to size, and it must be borne in mind that careful and plentiful basting is indis- pensable from the first, for this bird is very dry of itself, and if once allowed to get dry whilst cooking, it is all but, if not quite, impossible to remedy this by subsequent attention. Espagnole, soubise, egg, oyster, and many other sauces may be served with either roast fowl or guinea fowl, instead of its own gravy, if liked. Boast Goose.—After cleansing and trussing as advised above, this bird is stuffed, well rubbed over with dripping, or wrapped in a buttered or greased paper, and roasted or baked for three-quarters of an hour upwards, according to size. It must be well basted and carefully roasted, as it should be a delicate golden colour when cooked. It is then served with a good marmalade of apples (or apple147 POULTRY. sauce) and clear gravy in a boat. For the apple sauce, peel, core, and slice lib. of good cooking apples, and put them in a pan with half a pint of water, Hoz. caster sugar, and about loz. of butter, cook till it is all quite tender, then sieve, re-heat and serve. For the stuffing the ordinary process is to chop up raw onion, sage, and some parboiled potato, with a little minced suet, pepper, and salt, in proportions suited to the consumer’s taste, but this happy-go- lucky method has the disadvantage of frequently disagreeing very decidedly with the said consumer’s digestion, so the following method may be recom- mended :— Blanch four fair-sized onions for five minutes, then drain off the water and replace it with fresh; watch this re-boil, then return the onions to the pan, let them just boil up, and now simmer them slowly and gently till tender. Meanwhile blanch eight or ten nice fresh sage leaves in boiling water for five minutes, then dry them carefully, and add them to the onions (when tender and also dry), and mince them together very finely. Now mix 6oz. freshly grated breadcrumbs to this, dust liberally with qiiatre epices, and, if liked, a squeeze of lemon juice, and, when it is all well blended, work into it 2oz. fresh beef suet chopped, and, lastly, two whole eggs, and use. This will be found far more delicate and digestible than tne usual stuffing, the rawness of which is often most unpleasant. Green geese, though roasted, are not usually stuffed. Ducks are roasted and stuffed precisely like geese, or the stuffing may, if liked, be omitted. Serve with clear brown gravy l 2148 MEATS. and apple sauce, or send to table unstuffed, with a garnish of seasoned watercress and gravy in a boat. They will take from twenty-five minutes upwards according- to size. Chicken boiled.—“ Chicken boiled is chicken spoiled ” is an old saying, also quoted with regard to turkeys; at the same time, if carefully boiled, a fowl is often a very tempting dish. Wash the bird nicely in lukewarm water and, when trussed, rub it well all over (on the breast especially) with a lemon, then wrap it in a buttered paper and next in a floured cloth. Bring some water, slightly salted, all but to the boil, then lay in the fowl, watch the water re- boil, when you draw the pan to the side and let it simmer slowly till the fowl is done, remembering that the slower it cooks the tendex*er it will be. It will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes upwards. It is then lifted out of its wrappings, set on a hot dish, and served with its sauce poured over it, and any garnish to taste. Bechamel, celery, oyster, parsley, or mushroom sauce may be served over and around it. A fancy of the moment is to serve a rich bechamel or allemande sauce with boiled or stewed fowl, using the liquor obtained by boiling down the heads, &c., of some shrimps for the sauce, the fish itself, together with cooked asparagus points, being heated in the sauce and served with it. In Prance an extremely succulent method of serving a not over young fowl is as poule-au-jpot, when the bird is carefully trussed as for boiling, and laid into the stock pot, or the pot au feu, when the140 poultry. latter lias been carefully skimmed and the vegetables added; the fowl being allowed to cook very gently in the stock till done, when it is lifted out and served on a hot dish, with a garnish of vegetables, &c. If a little coarse salt is strewed over it when dished, it is known as poule au gros sel; if again you cook about 12oz. of well washed rice in a little of the stock in which the fowl was cooked, then carefully free it from fat, stir into it a little salt and freshly ground black pepper and a morsel of butter, and dish the fowl on this with a little of the stock as gravy, it becomes poule au riz. This method of cooking a fowl has this advantage, that it adds strength to the soup without losing any flavour of its own. Turkeys may be boiled precisely like fowls, of course taking a somewhat longer time to cook. Both are improved by boiling a head of celery, two or three sliced carrots, a bunch of herbs, and an onion stuck with one or two cloves, with the bird. A delicate celery or onion sauce is on such occasions the usual accompaniment. Again, turkey, like other poultry, may be braised, formerly effected by stewing the bird in a pan which had a lid strong enough to hold red-hot embers, i.e., braise, but is now done by placing the pan in the oven with heat top and bottom. Truss the bird as for boiling (an oldish bird may be used for this dish), after stuffing it to taste, bard it, and wrap it in a buttered or greased paper. Place a fairly thick layer of sliced soup vegetables (carrot, celery, onion—one stuck with two or three cloves), a good bouquet, some slices of smoked ham, veal, the giblets, half a calf’s foot, or the150 MEATS. well scraped rind of some bacon, as taste and conveni- ence dictate ; season with salt, and some peppercorns, and pour in about one and a half pints of good bone or poultry stock, and about half a pint of light white wine (or failing this put a good wineglassful of sherry or Marsala in a small tumbler, add the juice of half a lemon, fill up nearly to the top of the tumbler with water and use), and if liked a table- spoonful of brandy. This is not needed if sherry is used. Cover down closely, bring it to the boil, then only allow it to simmer, gently but steadily, till the bird is cooked, turning it over once or twice in the process. The length of time it will take depends on the size and age of the bird, and the cook; from two to five hours being the extreme limits ; but it cannot be too strongly impressed on the cook that the slower the fowl is cooked the more excellent will it be on the table. Elderly fowls, and, indeed, any kind of poultry are cooked thus with advantage. If to be eaten cold (when it is particularly delicious), lift the pan from the fire, and turn its contents out into an earthenware pan and allow them all to grow cold together. If to be eaten hot, remove the paper and barding bacon, and place it in a baking tin with about half a pint of its gravy and set it in the oven for about eight or ten minutes to glaze, keeping it well basted during the process. Meanwhile strain the rest of the gravy, free it from fat, boil it up sharply to reduce it slightly, and send to table either separately or over and round the bird. A turkey cooked thus is, abroad, called en daube, and the process is applied to almost any kind of meat.151 POULTRY. Braised turkey or capon may be served witli a variety of garnish, from which it takes its name. Pigeons, especially Bordeaux pigeons, are excellent roasted. They should be barded, and roasted for twelve to fifteen minutes, being carefully and fre- quently basted. Then remove the trussing strings or skewers, and" he bacon, and set for a moment or two in front of the fire to brown; then replace the bacon and dish on a hot plate, garnish with seasoned watercress, and serve with clear gravy, or any sauce to taste in a separate boat. Poulet a Vltalienne.—For this shred finely an onion, the red part of a carrot, and a rasher of bacon, and fry these in an ounce of butter till nicely browned ; now add the giblets of the fowl, cut up, and fry for a few minutes longer, then moisten with half a pint of stock of any kind, season to taste with salt and pepper, and, if liked, a tiny pinch of saffron, bring it sharply to the boil, when you add in 4oz. or so of rice, and stir and boil fast till nearly cooked; then stir in two tablespoonfuls of tomato sauce or puree, and three of grated cheese; stir this well together, and let it all cool down, when you use it to stuff the fowl, which is then finished off as in braised turkey. The latter bird is excellent done this way, but will require fully double as much of the rice stuffing. N.B.—It must be remembered that any recipe given for fowls can be utilised for turkeys, and, indeed, in parts where game is abund- ant, also for old game of any kind. Poulet vux asperges,—This is a good way of utilis- ing an old fowl. Truss it for boiling, and put it in a152 MEATS. pan with a quart of cold water, a teaspoonful of salt, a slice of celery root, and one moderate leek. Bring it all to the boil, then skim carefully, after which draw it to the side of the stove ; only allow it to simmer, as gently as possible, till the fowl is tender, then lift out the bird and keep it hot (but without drying it); meanwhile strain the liquor in which it cooked, and in it cook some nice green asparagus (or only the tips), previously blanched for five minutes in boiling salted water; when these are cooked dish the fowl neatly, with a little of its own gravy, and the asparagus round it, and send to table with chervil sauce in a boat. For this you make rather rich melted butter, using half milk, half stock—of that in which the fowl was cooked—say one- third of a pint of each, for an ounce of butter and a dessertspoonful of sifted flour; add to this when well blended a teaspoonful of finely chopped chervil, boil for four or five minutes, and serve. The liquor in which the fowl is cooked should be earefullv saved, as if freed from fat, and garnished with any of the asparagus left over, and heated, it makes a delicate and tempting broth. Poulet au jtis.—Truss the bird as for roasting, with the liver, &c., inside as previously recommended, and bard it neatly ; lay into a stewpan about loz. of butter, and the fowl, and allow it to fry till nicely browned, when you pour in rather less than a gill of good stock, with a seasoning of salt and pepper, cover the pan down closely, weighting it to prevent the escape of the steam, and cook it very gently for one and a half hours, turning it over once during153 POULTRY. the process, as quickly as possible: now put it on a hot dish, remove any fat, and keep it hot. Pour a couple of spoonfuls more of stock into the stewpan, and leave it on the fire for a minute or so, shaking it gently to detach all the gravy adhering to the pan, then strain it over the bird and serve very hot. For this the fowl must be young. Poulet a la Peau de Goret.—Roast the fowl as usual, being careful about the basting. When nearly cooked, run a piece of fat bacon, wrapped in paper, on a skewer, set light to the paper, which, as it burns, will melt the bacon fat, and the drip of this on to the fowls will brown the skin and raise blisters such as one sees on roast sucking pig. Serve very hot with a watercress salad, and either tiny sausages or rolls of fried bacon. Poulets d la Chivvy.—Truss and braise the fowls, using ham instead of bacon, and very rich stock, with, if at hand, truffle trimmings; braise these very gently, and when cooked, dish on a hot dish and serve with a ravigotte sauce. For this take a couple of ounces of rich white roux, and moisten it with about half a pint each of poultry stock and light white wine (not sherry), let it all reduce till smooth and thick, then add a seasoning of lemon juice, salt, and white pepper, with either an ounce or two of Ravigotte butter, or parsley, chervil, chives (or shallot), tarragon, and watercress, in equal proportions (previously blanched for two or three minutes in boiling water, then dried by wringing them in a clean cloth), finely minced, stir it all over the fire till hot, but without boiling, and use.154 MEATS. Ravigotte butter is made in the same way, only when minced the herbs are pounded with one anchovy and loz. or so of butter for each heaping spoonful of the herbs. Poulets aux Tomates.—Remove the breast bones from the birds, and place in each a good lump of maitre d’hotel butter (3oz. of butter mixed with the juice of a lemon, a tablespoonful of blanched and minced parsley, with a seasoning of salt and white pepper), bard the fowls first with sliced lemon, then with fat bacon or a buttered paper, and braise them gently till coolced. They will take about three- quarters of an hour. Now lift them out, remove the paper and the lemon, wipe the breasts of the birds with a clean cloth, dish and serve with a well- coloured tomato sauce all round them. The beauty of the dish depends on the whiteness of the fowls and the rich colour of the tomatoes. Poulets Truffes aux Hmtres.—Roast a couple of nice fowls till nearly done, keeping them wrapped in buttered paper all the time to ensure their whiteness, then when cooked place inside the birds a good pat of butter mixed with truffles cut into dice, some halved oysters, minced parsley, and a tiny morsel of finely minced shallot, or a few minced chives; now butter a stewpan, line it with sliced truffles, fine herbs (chives, parsley, and a mushroom or two all minced), and lastly some bearded oysters, previously just blanched in their own liquor; then more truffles and fine herbs, sprinkle this all with best salad oil or oiled butter, and lastly, lay the fowls on this, and leave them for ten minutes to cook very gently over155 POULTRY. a clear low fire ; then lift the birds on to a hot dish, garnish with the truffles and the herbs and keep hot; meanwhile pour into the pan half a glass of white wine and a little strained stock (in which you have boiled the beards of the oysters), let it just boil up, skim, add the strained juice of a lemon, and strain over the fowls. This is a somewhat expensive dish, but is well worth a trial on occasions. Ghapon Truffe.—This, again, is a cos tly dish, though, like the preceding, is well worth a trial. The simplest way is to order the bird, ready stuffed, from one or other of the excellent French charcutiers to be found in town, but if this is not convenient, here is the proper method: Choose a fine tender young capon, or, failing this, a plump young hen turkey, either being freshly killed. Now take lflb. of fresh truffles, carefully rejecting any that look or smell mouldy; well wash and scrub them with a soft brush until perfectly free from the least trace of sand or grit, then trim rather more than half the truffles neatly into even shapes, as large as the truffles will admit of; meanwhile pound the trim- mings of these with the rest of the truffles in a mortar to a smooth paste with an equal weight of fat bacon (previously rasped finely) ; season with pepper and salt, using freshly ground black pepper by preference, and when this farce is quite smooth mix in the whole truffles and stuff the bird with it. Let it hang for five or six days before cooking it, to ensure the flesh being thoroughly penetrated, or, as French cooks say, “ perfumed,” with the aroma of the truffles. When to be cooked, truss as for roasting,156 MEATS. bard with a generous slice of fat bacon, covering this again with a well-buttered sheet of paper, and roast as usual, only being especially careful as to the frequency and liberality of the basting all the time of cooking. A bird thus stuffed requires, properly speaking, no sauce beyond its own gravy, as it is too rich and highly flavoured of itself to need outside flavours. Poulet a la Montmorency (or fowl fricandeau).— Pluck, singe, and bone a nice fowl, and have ready a stuffing made of a small sweetbread cut into dice, a small tin of pate de foie gras, some sliced truffles or mushrooms, about half as much rasped bacon as you have foie gras, a shallot or two, or some chives, and parsley, all finely minced, freshly ground black pepper, a little salt, and one or more egg yolks to bind it nicely. Stuff the fowl with this forcemeat, sew it up, and fry a few minutes in butter to brown it lightly, then lard it neatly like a fricandeau, and finish it off in the same way. If to be served hot, reduce some of its own liquor to a glaze, paint this thickly over the bird and set it in the oven for a few minutes to crisp, and serve alone, or with any sauce to taste. If to be used cold, turn it into a basin with all its gravy and addenda, and leave till perfectly cold, when the fat is wiped off and the whole is painted over with dark coloured aspic; or its own liquor is reduced, mixed with leaf gelatine (foz. to a pint of liquid), and cleared with an egg white and shell, and used as glaze. Chopped aspic is used with this as a garnish. Poulet a la Dreux.—Truss the fowl as for roasting,157 POULTRY. then holding the bird by the back, dip the breast into boiling water, and at once into ice cold water, as this sets and slightly hardens the flesh ; now lard it nicely with lardoons of fat bacon and smoked ham alternately, and place the bird in the braising pan on a bed of vegetables and fat bacon ; moisten with a little strong stock, cover down with a buttered paper and the pan lid, and set it in the oven to cook, with heat top and bottom, for about three-quarters of an hour. Now dish, crisp the lardoons with a salamander or a red-hot shovel, brush it over with ■just liquid glaze, and serve with an allemande sauce. For this take half a pint of good veloutc (i.e., melted butter made with strong white stock instead of water), bring it just not to ihe boil, then stir into it a liaison made by beating up the yolks of two eggs in about half a gill of cold white stock or cream, with a squeeze of lemon juice, stir this all into the sauce over the fire, without allowing it to boil (or it will curdle !) then add in, as you lift it off the fire, a spoonful of thick cream, or a small piece of butter, and use. Poulet en Casserole.—For this you need an old and large bird. Truss it as for boiling, and place it in an earthenware fireproof casserole, with an ounce or two of clarified dripping, two shallots, a good bouquet (thyme, parsley, bay leaf, green onions, and lemon peel), and a dozen or so of peppercorns; fry this till the fowl is a delicate brown, turning it fre- quently and basting it well to prevent its burning; now pour off the fat, add rather more than a gill of good stock, cover the pot and let it all simmer at the158 MEATS. side of tlie fire slowly and steadily for one and a half hours, hy which time the fowl should be as tender as possible. Remove the bouquet, shim off as much of the fat as may be, cut the bird up neatly, replace in the pan, and serve very hot in the casserole. If you have no casserole, use an iron saucepan, and when about to serve, dish the fowl either on a fried crouton, or a very hot dish, with its accompaniments, saving the bouquet, and most of the fat in the sauce. This is a French recipe ; we, however, stew with the fowl small fingers of ham or bacon, or sausages, according to what we have, and mushrooms when they are plentiful. One great advantage of this dish is that it may be kept slowly simmering at the side of the stove for an almost indefinite time, if for any reason dinner is delayed, without deterioration. It is also an excellent dish for “the hill,” or for a skating party. Poulet a la Turquc.—Truss an old fowl as for boiling, and put it with about a quart of second stock, into a saucepan, together with an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and two bay leaves, and about 6oz. or 7oz. of rice tied up loosely in a bit of muslin; braise gently under a buttered paper till both fowl and rice are cooked, then keep the fowl hot; but put the rice, after well draining it, into another pan with an ounce of butter (or even clarified dripping), a tiny pinch of saffron, and about a handful of sultanas, previously swelled in the stock in which the fowl was cooked. Toss this all over the fire till hot, adding a little butter to prevent its dry- ing- too much; then dish it round the fowl, pouring159 POULTRY. over it enough of the liquor in which the fowl was cooked (freed from fat) to make it moist, but not sloppy, and serve very hot. All sorts of variantes may be found for this dish; for instance, the raisins are replaced by stoned olives, or quartered tomatoes, or green chillies when available, or red chillies (from the pickle bottle) are used, and even a curry sauce is used instead of the traditional fowl liquor, but, though appetising, these are not really strictly correct. N.B.—Neck of mutton cooked in this way is a dish not to be despised. Fowl Pot-roast (a Cape dish).—Truss the fowl when plucked and singed as for roasting (do not forget to put the liver, with a piece of butter and seasoning to taste, inside the bird), then place it, breast downwards, in a baking pot (alias a casserole), with half a pint of water and some butter or drip- ping ; cover down the pot, and leave the bird to cook gently for an hour ; then turn it, add some more fat or dripping, and a wineglassful of wine, cover with a buttered paper, close down, and place live embers on the lid of the pan (or set it in the oven with top and bottom heat), and let it cook till the bird is nicely browned, when it is dished with a garnish of fried bacon and some breadsauce. It will take about one and a half hours to cook, and first and last you should use about loz. of fat, whether butter or drip- ping. If young fowls are used for this, little or no water is requit ed. Old Ford to Coolc.—Lastly it may be as well to give a method of utilising an old fowl. It need hardly be said that, where obtainable, young birds160 MEATS. are to be preferred, but this is not always possible, so tlie following may come in useful: Truss the bird carefully, according to its ultimate cooking, whether roast, boiled, &c., and place it in sufficient stock (or even water) to cover it; watch this reboil, then draw the pan to the side, and let the whole simmer very slowly and gently for several hours (from three hours upwards, according to the age of the bird), then turn it into an earthenware basin with its gravy, and leave it till the next day. It may then be gently roasted, or, preferably, stewed with tomatoes, rice, or any vegetables (tomatoes and green peppers are specially to be commended), or it may be cut up and made into a capilotade, a fricassee, or a pie, as you please. For the second cooking it will take precisely the same time as would a young fowl. But remember the whole success depends on its being only simmered the first day ; if once allowed to boil, it will simply harden into boot leather. Goose cl VEstouffade.—As said before, goose may be roasted, it may even be boiled, according to the rules given for fowls, and certainly can be braised by the directions already given, a little attention being paid to the seasoning, &c. The following will give a good idea of the method, which incidentally also applies to ducks. Stuff the goose with the sage and onion stuffing previously recommended, and truss it like a duck for boiling. Now line a fairly deep stewpan with half a pound of butter, a sliced carrot or two, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, some good turnips, and a good bunch of parsley. Lay the goose on this, and moisten it with161 POULTRY. about one and a half gills of sherry, or the same amount of brandy and water (two parts brandy to one of water), place it over a slow fire, and let it stew very gently (for about one and a half hours for a medium and young bird, but considerably longer for a larger and old goose), turning and basting it constantly to get it equally browned all over. When cooked, pour oft: the butter, lift the bird on to a baking tin, reduce a little of the liquor to a glaze by rapid boiling, brush this over the goose, and let it glaze and crisp in the oven for eight or ten minutes. Meantime strain the liquor, acid to it (after well skimming it) one and a half gills of brown sauce, with the juice of half a lemon; boil it up sharply, let it reduce a little to thicken it, then dish the bird with the braised turnips as a garnish, and pour the sauce round it all, and send to table with either apple sauce or apple compote. Canetons aux olives.—Truss the birds for boiling, and put them in a stewpan with a pint of good stock, a sliced carrot, an onion stuck with two or more cloves, and a good bouquet (thyme, parsley, bayleaf, marjoram, green onions, and thinly pared lemon rind); cover with a buttered paper, bring it to the boil, then draw it aside and let it stew very gently for about one hour and a quarter, after which „ lift the birds out and glaze as with the goose in the preceding recipe. Meanwhile strain the liquor, free it from fat, mix it with about one and a half gills of good espagnole sauce, and about two or three dozen turned (or stoned) olives, let this boil up sharply for a minute or two to reduce it slightly, M162 MEATS. tlien pour it round the ducks and serve very hot. Many people let the stones of the olives stew with the ducks. Remember ducklings need no stuffing. Ganetons aux navets, cooked precisely like the goose a Vestoujfade, are particularly good, only the sage and onion must of course be omitted. It is manifestly impossible, in a book of this size, to give all the ways in which poultry can be served, so that one can only trust that any intelligent cook who has mastered the preceding recipes will see her way to evolving varieties for herself, a plan followed by all good foreign cooks. One point more before this chapter is concluded, and that is, watercress salad. Few garnishes are less expensive than this one, but few are nicer, whilst the improvement it makes in the appearance of a dish needs no telling. Well wash the cress, dry it nicely, then sprinkle it generously with oil, sparingly with vinegar (plain, chili, or tarragon, to taste), a dust of salt and coral- line or freshly ground black pepper, and use.CHAPTER X. GAME. Ag a general principle, the plainer the fashion of cooking the better is game liked, and well hung and properly roasted British game, at all events, will compare most favourably with even the culinary efforts of good foreign chefs and foreign fashions; and usually anything like a good cook, in England, may be safely trusted to roast her game properly. The first question with regard to game of all kinds is the hanging; for it may be accepted that for most people fresh game is little, if at all, superior to ordinary poultry. Still there is a medium in all things, and it must be admitted that a good many persons in their anxiety to obtain the requisite hau gout for their pheasants, &c., run perilously near losing1 their birds altogether through decomposition. A great deal naturally depends on the larder or keeping place. A cool, shady, and airy situation should always if possible be selected, and if a draught is obtainable, so much the better. In the country a hanging safe with perforated zinc sides, appended m 2Meats. 164 to a shady tree (a walnut for choice), is most admirable, but of course a sheltered corner must be fixed upon. Remember the great bugbear of the game-hanging housekeeper is damp; in cold, fresh, airy weather properly cared-for game of all kinds will hang almost indefinitely, but the least damp, especially the class of weather known as “ muggy ” by cooks, will ruin it. Remember also that there is a right and a wrong way of hanging birds. If these are hung up “ anyhow,” or huddled together so that Fig. 21. Fig. 22. the par cannot get freely round them, and one bird rests on the other, they will not “ hang ” at all, but will, to speak plainly, simply go bad from the moment they are put into the larder. Personally, I prefer a long back passage with doors at both ends, and in the ceiling of this hooks fixed, from which depend the meat-hooks known as “ S books,” and on the lower point of one of these the bird is fixed by his chin. Where, however, a good deal of game has to be provided for, it is well worth while getting the165 GAME. patent lioolcs to be procured at moat good iron- mongers. Fig. 21 shows the ordinary “ S hoolr ” fastened to a ring from the ceiling. Fig. 22 shows the quadruple and double hooks, the first holding four, the second two birds, hung by their necks, which are slipped into the forks a a, and are thus kept separate without risk of &ny contact between them. These hooks may obviously be fixed anywhere, and have the further advantage that they can be rendered fly-proof by the use of the hooped muslin bags (also procurable for a few pence at most ironmongers) which can be had in varying sizes. As an average, pheasants should hang from ten to fourteen days in o-ood weather, but if the weather turns close and moist o you will find care required at the end of a very few days ; whilst skilful cooks, with a good larder, will keep the birds for three weeks and even more. Indeed, it is recorded of a gourmet in the Midlands, that on one occasion he astonished his guests by producing at dinner a brace of pheasants at Easter. His well-known character precluded the least idea of any trickery connected with their appearance, but as he observe!, “Easter is very early this year, the birds were shot on the last permissible day, and my larder is A1! ” This, of course, was long before the days of freezing chambers, &c. This very year, in the month of June, grouse were eaten in prime condition which had left their native moors on Dec. 18, 1899. But they owed their excellence to the modern process of “ cold storage.” Partridges must also be hung for some little time before they attain their full flavour, the French166 MEATS. kind, generally known as the reel-leg partridge, require hanging nearly a third longer than the indigenous grey bird, if it is to have a good flavour and tender fl isli. But remember in this, as in all cases, no game bird will taste appreciably “ high ” when cooked unless it has boon hung long enough to become, whilst raw, distinctly, if only slightly, offensive. In fact the tales most cooks could tell, an’ they would, of the state of game before it is cooked, which yet meets with approval at table, would make a good many people inclined to forswear such viands for ever and a day. To know when a bird is properly fit to cook, notice first the condition of the eyes: if deeply sunk, the bird has been killed for several days ; if, when the lids are lifted, the eyes are bright and full, not more than two, or three at the utmost, have elapsed since it was shot. Next, if a feather can be pulled from the tail or the lower part of the back without resistance, the bird is sufficiently hung for all practical purposes, and will be quite tender; if, however, on blowing up the feathers on the lower part of the breast, the flesh has a distinctly green tinge, the sooner that bird is cooked the better for all concerned. Remember the brighter and smoother the plumage the better is the probable condition of the bird. Those that have been shattered by shot, or have, by any accident, been allowed to get wet in any way, or have been packed closely for some time, should always be cooked first, for they will not keep satisfactorily, and if you are buying game, avoid such scrupulously. Otherwise, the test for game is pretty much the sameGAME. .167 as for poultry. One test much favoured by experi- enced cooks is to take the bird by the lower man- dible of the beak, and hold it out straight; if old, it will remain stiff and straight; if young, the beak will give way and bend in the middle. The same rules apply to grouse and moor fowl generally, though, as a rule, they will hang longer than the fatter-fleslied low-countrv birds. For instance, a pheasant from the Eastern counties, as carefully fed as the barndoor poultry, will not keep half as long as the same bird which has skirmished for a liveli- hood on a Scotch moor, though, experto crecle, the difference of flavour between the two birds is won- derful. Woodcock, snipe, and plover do not keep well, as they are undrawn and sent to the table with the “trail,” as it is technically called. Wild duck also, of all kinds, will only hang a few days. Pheasant to Poast.—Truss like a fowl for roasting, though some persons like the unplucked head kept on, when it should be carefully wrapped in buttered paper all the time of cooking, the paper being only removed when the bird is dished. In this case a few of the tail feathers are also restored at the same time. But this is rather old-fashioned nowadays, and is, in any case, a troublesome fancy for the carver. Most cooks nowadays bard the bird with a slice of slitted bacon, removing this just at least for a minute or two to brown the bird, replac- ing it (or not) afterwards, as taste dictates. This barding is indispensable when, as in the present day, baking so often has to replace roasting. One point is imperative, aud that is the necessity for constant168 MEATS. and generous basting. When cooked, put the bird at once on a hot dish (with or without a neatly- trimmed and fried crouton as you please), garnish with watercress salad, and send to table with bread sauce and browned breadcrumbs, and gravy to taste separately. For the bread sauce boil half a pint or so of milk with a few peppercorns, a spray of parsley, an onion stuck with a clove (or preferably two or three young green onions), till well flavoured; then strain it, boiling, on to 6oz. freshly-grated white breadcrumbs; cover down the pan closely, and let it stand on the side of the stove till the bread has absorbed all the milk; then lift out the onion and the parsley, and beat the bread to a smooth pap with a silver fork, let it just boil up, stirring all the time to prevent its burning; now add two good tablespoonsful of cream or new milk, a seasoning of salt and pepper, and serve very hot. Some cooks add mace and nutmeg to this sauce, but these spices are both so strongly flavoured that it is wise to ascer- tain first if they are liked, as, if not liked, they are usually intensely disliked. For the breadcrumbs, take some previously dried and sifted breadcrumbs (these should always be at hand in a soigne kitchen, in wide-mouthed stoppered bottles, either white or brown, the colouring being simply a matter of length in baking) and place them in a hot baking dish with an ounce or two of either butter or delicately clarified dripping, and let them bake very gently, stirring them constantly to avoid burning till the crumbs have absorbed all the fat and are dry and crisp. For the gravy, prepare stock in the ordinary way169 GAME. with game bones (failing these, use poultry bones or stock and the trimmings and giblets of the bird in question, with seasoning, a good bouquet, an onion, and a carrot) ; remove all the fat from this, strain, lightly reduce, and serve in a well-scalded sauce tureen or boat. In Scotland melted butter is often served with grouse or black game, instead of bread sauce, cran- berry or rowanberry jelly sauce also finding admirers. For ordinary purposes roasting is the usual method of treating all these birds, but where game is plenti- ful, variety is charming; and, moreover, old birds have to be disposed of, and for these reasons a few separate recipes are given. Fciisan cl la Gitana.—Truss the bird like a fowl for boiling, then lay it into a stewpan with 8oz. or 9oz. of streaky bacon or ham, cut into strips, and an ounce of butter or clarified dripping. Toss the bird over the fire till nicely browned all over, then pour off as much of the fat as possible without losing the gravy, add to it either two or three sliced Portugal onions, or four or five minced shallots, the pulp of six or seven tomatoes, a bunch of herbs, and a gill of sherry ; cover down closely, and simmer it all gently for forty-five to fifty minutes, basting fre- quently. Add a seasoning of salt and pepper, remove the herbs, place on a very hot dish, and serve with the tomato, &c. If not disliked, a cut clove of garlic rubbed three or four times across the stew- pan in which it is cooked adds greatly to the flavour. Abroad, a fried crouton, delicately spread with a savoury butter of some kind, is often dished170 MEATS. under the bird. Almost needless to say, fowls may be cooked by this or any of the recipes given for pheasants. Fcdsan a V etou fade.—Truss an old bird neatly as for roasting, and lard the breast carefully (the poulterer will often do this for you), wrap it in a slice of fat bacon, and lay it in a stewpan just large enough to hold it comfortably, and previously lined with sliced carrot and slices of fat and lean ham, pour in sufficient wine and good (game) stock to reach up to, but not to cover, the bird; lay a buttered paper over it, fit the lid on closely, and let it stew very gently and steadily for two hours, then lift out the bird and keep it hot, strain off the gravy, remove all the fat, and boil up sharply to reduce it; pour it over and around the bird, and serve. Faisan d la Soubise.—Braise it precisely as you would a fowl, and serve with a rich Soubise sauce poured over and round it. If stuffed with a good oyster forcemeat, braised, and served with a rich brown oyster sauce, it is known as Faisan d la Vic- toria, whilst if stuffed with chestnut stuffing, roasted, and served with watercress, it is known as F. d la Connaught. Pheasant and mushrooms.—Truss a nice pheasant as for roasting, and lard the breast neatly with fat bacon lardons; then stuff the bird with the follow- ing : cut up ten or twelve large mushrooms into four or eight pieces, and mix them with 2oz. of butter, and season highly with salt and freshly ground black pepper; cover the bird with thickly buttered paper, and roast for thirty minutes, keeping171 GAME. it well basted. Now remove the paper, and let it cook, uncovered, for eight or ten minutes to brown nicely, then serve. Few people who have not tried it know how well mushrooms, whether as stuffing, puree, sauce, or garnish, improve most game birds, grouse and black game especially. Black cock, unless very young, should not be roasted, as it is very dry, but it is excellent in that case en casserole (see fowl en casserole), braised, boiled, or stewed, and served with Soubise, celery, mushroom, or any other sauce to taste. Almond saure is often served with game, or even poultry, and is made thus : Blanch a small cupful of almonds and boil till soft in milk and water, with salt, pepper, and a pinch of sugar, then drain and pound to a paste with a little of the milk in which they were cooked. Now stir this with \oz. white roux into about half a pint clear white poultry stock very gradually, stirring it over the fire till thoroughly blended and of a nice consistency. A tablespoonful of cream, either with or without an egg yolk, as a liaison, is a great improvement. This sauce may be made with any kind of nuts, and if preferred brown, bake the blanched nuts before pounding them, and use brown roux and brown game stock. As a matter of fact, most birds are good en casserole. Partridges, besides being roasted, are excellent en casserole, a la Souvarojy', in pies and puddings, braised, or aux choux. For this last, truss two partridges as for boiling (like a fowl), barding each with bacon, and placing an onion inside each. Cut a savoy cabbage into quarters and blanch these, then steeping them for anMEATS. 172 hour in cold salt and water. Now line a good- sized stewpan with sliced bacon, carrots and onions (also sliced), with a good bouquet and a seasoning of salt and pepper. Lay in the partridges, placing the quartered savoy between the birds, with some sliced streaky bacon, or strips of salt pork, and halved sausages or slices of Bologna sausage. Pour in sufficient stock to cover the birds, cover with a buttered paper, set it all on the fire closely covered; bring to the boil, then draw it to the side and let it all simmer very gently and steadily for one and a half hours, when the birds should be tender. Now lift out the birds, bacon and sausages, and keep them hot. Strain the broth into a basin and set it away to cool. Meanwhile stir the cabbage over a moderate fire till it is dry, remove any fat there may be on the stock, add to it more stock—enough to bring it to a pint—and thicken either with 2oz. of roux, or loz. each of butter and flour cooked together till lightly browned and smooth. Halve the birds, dish the cabbage quarters in the centre of a hot dish, put the bird neatly on them, garnish with the bacon and sausage, and serve very hot, with the gi’avv in a boat. There is another dish rather like this, and often served instead, called Chartreuse of partridge.—For this, three-parts cook two birds, and prepare a small savoy cabbage by first stewing it as usual in second stock, then draining it well; cut the quartered cabbage into two-inch lengths, and glaze these in a buttered pan in a little just liquid glaze. Have also ready some cooked and turned carrots and turnips (if you do notm game. wist for the trouble of turning them, slice them about as thick as half-a-crown), line a plain Charlotte mould with buttered paper, and garnish it with rings of the carrot and turnip ; now lay in alternately layers of the cabbage and of the birds cut up into pieces till the mould is full, finishing with cabbage. Steam for a little till firm, then turn out and serve with a good brown sauce made from the giblets and trimmings of the partridges, to which you have added a glassful of Marsala. If liked, the bacon and sausage can be added to this. Landrail (or corncrake).—This bird, which is seldom sold, is in season from the end of August till nearly the end of September, and is trussed like a snipe, a thin skewer being passed through the thighs and body to keep the legs out straight. It is barded, and roasted for fifteen to twenty minutes, and served with fried crumbs and clear gravy, or with bread sauce and a garnish of water- cress. Quail, when served as a rot, are roasted. When picked and singed, they are drawn through an opening at the back of the neck, the neckbone and crop being removed with the head, but the trail being left in, or not, as preferred. When trussed rub the breasts of the birds over with warm butter, then bard first with a slitted slice of fat bacon and next with a nice fresh vine leaf, fastening these by means of a pack thread and skewers. Roast from ten to twelve minutes, basting almost incessantly with blitter, if possible. To serve, remove skewer and strings, do not remove the bacon and vineleaf,meats. 174 dish, each quail on a crouton of fried bread, garni si with watercress salad, and send fried breadcrumbs and a nice clear gravy to table separately, if liked. In the Levant, &c., where quail are plentiful, they are used in as many different ways as partridges, fresh bay leaves being often preferred to vine leaves for the barding. In France, in the autumn, when the vineyards are ready for the vintage, the grive, or thrush, is often eaten like a quail, roasted as above. At that season they are especially fat, from feeding on the grapes. They are also made into pies, &c. Ortolans, or beccaficos, are treated exactly like quail, barded with either a vine or bayleaf, and roasted for eight to ten minutes ; they must be basted incessantly whilst cooking with butter. Larks are treated just like quail or ortolans, the trail being left, or not, as liked; wrap each little bird in a slice of slitted bacon and thread them, half a dozen at a time, on a thin skewer and roast for eight or ten minutes, basting well a’lthe time. Like all other small birds, larks should have small pieces of buttered toast placed under them whilst roasting, to catch the drip of the gravy, &c., when the birds are basted. To serve, slip them off the skewer, place each bird on a piece of toast, and dish with a pile of fried breadcrumbs in the centre, and a garnish of watercress. Wheatears, like ortolans, &c., should be cooked as soon as possible, exactly like larks, either bread sauce or melted butter flavoured with lemon juice being handed with them, also a garnish of watercress.175 GAME!. Huffs and reeves are usually caught in traps and fattened for tlie market. They should be cooked pretty fresh, trussed and treated like woodcock. The ruff is the cock and the reeve the hen bird. Their season is March to May. Ptarmigan are cooked like grouse, &c., and must be freely basted whilst roasting and served very hot, often with cranberry or rowanberry jelly. Their flavour, which is peculiar, is as much disliked by some as it is appreciated by others. These birds should be well hung. Prairie and hazel hens may be treated like fowls or pigeons, or like partridges. They are better for barding or larding, and the former is good if sent to the table with a bigarade sauce— brown sauce flavoured with orange juice and peel, using Seville orange for choice and red wine. Baste well and roast for an hour or so, according to size. These birds, like ptarmigan, are often sent over from Russia and America frozen, so should be hung for an hour or two in the kitchen before use to thaw them, and should be well washed inside and out (British game does not need this) with soda, or vinegar, and water. Many people aver also that this foreign game is better for skinning before roasting, a treatment which certainly improves foreign black game. Capercailzie should always be chosen young, as with age the pronounced flavour derived from the nature of its food will render it uneatable to most persons. It is better for being barded, the bacon being lifted off a few minutes before it is finished to allow of the breast browning176 MEATS. properly. Like black cock, this bird is excellent stewed or boiled (in which case it may be stuffed with chestnuts, and, if liked, a delicate sausage meat farce), a rich celery sauce should in this case always be sent to table with either. Plover are cooked like woodcock, undrawn. They should be roasted with hot buttered toast, seasoned with lemon juice and coralline pepper, under them to catch the drip. The golden plover is best for roasting, the green is better for pie (like pigeon) or pudding. Wooclcoclc and snipe are both cooked exactly as they are shot, and in consequence do not keep well. If buying snipe, look at the condition of the throat and beak; if the former is muddy, and the latter very moist, they are too long kept. Pluck, but do not draw, the woodcock, put them to a sharp fire and roast for fifteen to twenty minutes, watching them and basting well all the time. A woodcock is by connoisseurs considered ruined if overcooked, and it takes very little to bring it to that condition. Put buttered toast under, as described for larks. Pried crumbs, bread sauce, brown gravy, and even bigarade sauce are advised by some cooks, others declaring in favour of lemon-flavoured melted butter, or white sauce. It is certain, however, that no accompaniment of these strongly'-flavoured birds should be very highly tasting, or it will overpower the natural aroma of the bird. Peacoclc, or rather peahen, for the hen bird is considered the best, is a somewhat unusual dish nowadays, but a distinctly good one. Truss the bird like a pheasant, tucking the head, left177 GAME. unplucked and wrapped in buttered paper, under the wing. Either bard or lard the breast, and roast for one to one and a half hours, according to size. To serve, unwrap the head, trim the feathers, glaze the larding with a red hot shovel, and serve with a little clear gravy and seasoned watercress. Wild duck roasted.—Truss like a duck, brush it over well with butter, and cook at a sharp heat for fifteen to eighteen minutes, basting it well all the time. The heat should be fiercer at first to keep the juices well in. A wild duck must on no account be overcooked. Serve with seasoned watercress, a halved lemon and cayenne pepper being handed round. Other people serve orange salad with wild duck, made thus : carefully remove the peel and pith from four or more oranges, and slice down the pulp in its natural divisions, take away any pips or bits of white skin, and sprinkle the fruit with finely minced tarragon and chervil, a dessertspoonful each of brandy and salad oil, and a pinch of sugar; pile this all up on a dish, and leave on ice for two hours or so before serving. Teal, widgeon, and pintail are all cooked the same way, only allowing rather less time on account of size. The following sauce is frequently served with either, or indeed with wild duck also : to a gill of good brown sauce add the strained juice of an orange and a lemon, a good dust of coralline pepper, a small teaspoonful of Lemco, and two minced shallots : bring it all to the boil, skim it, add a wineglassfu] of either port or claret, and a little caster sugar, tammy and use very hot. NMEATS. 178 Canvas-bach ditch.—This is peculiarly a delicacy belonging to the United States, can be tasted in perfection nowhere else, and is a somewhat costly dainty even there. A very good imitation, however, can be made by the curious in the matter of novelty if they stuff a plump British wild duck with celery before roasting, as this gives the flesh some measure of the celery flavour which is the speciality of the canvas-back, and is gained by the birds feeding on the wild celery found in the marshes of America. Boast swan.—Mince finely 31b. of rump steak with three shallots, and season liberally with pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg. Truss the bird like a goose, stuffing it with the rump steak, &c., sewing it up tc prevent the stuffing escaping. The old-fashioned way was to wrap the bird in well greased or buttered paper, then in a flour and water paste (like venison), and lastly in another sheet of strong paper, and roast for about four hours, keeping it well basted all the time. Now it is only wrapped in one coating of paper, and very liberally basted, of course taking only about half the time to cook. When cooked, remove the coverings and froth it with a little flour and butter, and dish up with brown gravy round it, and port wine sauce. This is a Norwich recipe, which town was famous for swans. Swans are at their best from September to November. Wild goose.—The wild goose, or grey lag, is still seen occasionally, and is b}r no means to be despised. If quite young it may be roasted like an ordinary goose, or it may be cooked like the swan, in paste, but stuffed with the following: mince finely togetherGAME. 179 11b. of beef suet freed from string, &c., two shallots, a handful of parsley, a little thyme, sweet basil, and marjoram; to this add a pound of breadcrumbs, fib. of butter, two whole eggs, and a good seasoning of pepper, salt and grated nutmeg; lmead well together and use. A wild goose thus prepared takes about three hours, should be frothed up at the last with butter and flour, and be served with braised onions, and Poivrade sauce. Only a young wild goose should, properly speak- ing, be roasted, as older birds are apt to contract a fishy, rank taste. To obviate this, either skin the bird before cooking, or baste it for the first ten minutes of its roasting with sea or salt water, in which an onion has been boiled. This is a keeper’s recipe, and applies to any water fowl suspected of a fishy taste. An elderly wild goose is excellent braised, stewed, or en daube, and either old or young, if roast d, goes well with celery or mushroom sauce. One hint may here be given with regard to “ mock ” game. If, by any chance, you are short of game for a salmi, &c, take a nice young fowl trussed for roasting, and roast it with the game bird you are about to use, placing it in such a manner that the basting from the game bird falls on the fowl and so flavours it. Then, when half or three-parts roasted, cut up the fowl into neat pieces and leave these to steep till wanted, in strong game stock ; it can then, when wanted, be lifted out and finished off with the other bird, and few persons will detect the difference. Hare to roast.—Choose a nice hare that has hung n 2180 MEATS. for seven or eight days, and slcin it thus: remove the legs at the first joint, then slit the skin down right along the breast, raise the skin and force the hind legs out, leaving the tail on ; now draw the skin back, like a glove, over the back, head, and forelegs, leaving the ears on ; remove the eyes with the point of a knife, then open the animal and remove the intestines, only leaving the kidneys. Be very careful, when doing this, not to break the pouch; should the latter, however, get broken, wipe the hare out well inside, at once, with a dry cloth. Now cut the sinews under the hind legs and press them towards the head, bringing the front ones back so that a skewer can be passed through both legs, on one side, then through the body and out through the two legs on the other, fastening the skewer with a string over the back to keep the carcase in good position. Finally press back the head, keeping it in place with a skewer run through the shoulder, then through the back of the neck, and out again through the other shoulder, fastening it as before, with a pack-thread. Brush all well over with warm dripping, bard the back with a good slice of fat bacon, and roast for twenty to thirty minutes before a sharp fire, accord- ing to the size of the hare and the degree of cooking you prefer. Keep it well basted all the time of cooking. It is impossible to enforce this rule too strongly, for, necessary as it is with every kind of roast meat, it is indispensable with hare, which is but a dry meat at best. When cooked, place the hare on a flat dish, and serve with clear gravy and a garnish of watercress. Some people prefer to lard the backGAME. 181 and thighs of the hare instead of barding it, and there is also a difference of opinion regarding the keeping or discarding of the barde when the animal is sent to table. If omitted, the bacon should be removed a little before the cooking is accomplished, the back should be lightly dusted with flour, the skin being allowed to brown and blister. A hare is also frequently stuffed with a good veal stuffing, to which the kidneys and liver (previously minced and fried in fat bacon with a moderate minced onion, and pounded to a paste) are carefully added. Abroad it is also frequently marinaded with a cooked marinade prepared thus : put into a pan four full table- spoonsful of water, one full one of good vinegar, a sliced onion, two sprays of thyme, a very small bayleaf, some parsley stalks (for cooking always use the stalks, reserving the parsley leaves for garnish), a few peppercorns, a little salt, and about an ounce of butter. Bring this all to the boil, then draw it to the side and let it simmer for five minutes, and when quite cold pour it all over the hare and let the latter lie in this for twelve to twenty-four hours. Baste the hare -with the marinade occasionally during this time. Whilst it is roasting, strain the marinade, using some of it to baste the hare, and put the rest into a saucepar with the liver previously fried in a little butter, then mashed or pounded to a paste with the blood that was in the chest of the hare (which should always be kept for this purpose), stir it all well together, then add the gravy left in the pan, let it just come to the boil, and send to table in a sauceboat. After pouring off the basting liquor.MEATS. 182 rinse out the dripping pan with a little hot stock or even water, and pour this over the hare. This is the Frencli method of roasting a hare, and is excellent. By the way, many cooks use sour cream to baste the hare with, and brush it over with a little before sending it to table. N.B.—If you buy your hare and wish to lard it, be sure to have the thick bluish skin to be found on the lebs, &c., carefully removed or you will have difficulty in larding it; and, more- over, this skin is apt to catch, and then forms a sort of burnt crust utterly destructive to the appearance of the dish. A hare must be cooked slowly to keep it tender, for it is only properly dressed when the long back fillets can be lifted out clean and whole with a silver spoon. A rabbit is excellent roasted like a hare, and may be served with any sauce to taste, tomato sauce being specially to be commended. Ruble de lievre a la creme.—In France when the hare is large and the family is small, a hare is usually divided, the rdble (in England known as the “baron,”) being used for roasting, the rest being turned into a civet, the French form of jugged hare. For the rdble, cut the hare through close to the shoulder blades, leaving the kidneys in the loin, removing the thick skin of the back and also the ends of the hind legs. This piece is then marinaded precisely as described above for twelve hours, basting it with the marinade in the same way. When cooked, set the rdble on a hot dish well covered; now pour off all the dripping in the pan, leaving only the clear gravy, turn this into a clean pan with two good tablespoonsful of strong stock or melted glaze,183 GAME. boil it up for five minutes, tlien stir in off the fire a gill of sour or thick cream, to which you have added a few drops of vinegar, and serve over and with the ruble. Soubise, mushroom, poivrade, or Itcilienne sauce is very good with roast hare. Civet de lievre.—Take the pieces left over from the rable and cut them into neat joints. Put into a delicately clean pan 4oz. or 5oz. of good bacon (rather more fat than lean) cut into largish dice, and fry a delicate brown in about loz. of butter or clarified dripping; then lift it out and in the same pan fry till of a golden brown two dozen butter or silver onions; now lift out these also, and place in the pan an ounce more butter or dripping' and the joints of hare cut up, and fry these. When about half done, dust them well with a dessert- spoonful of flour, and when this has browned pour in about a gill of hot stock or water, return the bacon and onions to the pan with some mushrooms, if at hand, and a good bouquet; then pour over it a gill of claret, to which you have added enough stock or water to cover the hare, &c., and let it all boil up sharply for a few minutes ; now draiv it to the side and let it simmer gently and steadily for one and a half hours. Next add to it the liver of the hare nixed, as for the rable, with the blood of the chest, and let it all stew together for ten minutes more. Lift out the bouquet, place a slice of delicately fried bread, cut into four, on a hot dish, dress the hare, &c., on this, pour the gravy round and serve very hot. If your gravy is tooMEATS. 184 thin, lift out the hare anu keep it hot, boiling up the gravy hard for a few minutes to reduce it. If, on the contrary, it is too thick, add a little hot stock to it, hut of course this must be seen to before dishing it. Naturally if a whole hare is used, the quantities must be trebled. Jugged hare.—Skin and prepare the hare as before, cut it into neat joints, dredge these lightly with flour, and fry a nice brown in boiling butter. Thicken one and a half pints of strong stock with about 2oz. of brown roux (or loz. each of butter and flour fried slowly together till quite smooth and of a pale coffee colour), put this into an earthenware jar (made for the purpose), add the pieces of hare, an onion stuck with four or five cloves, a good bouquet (thyme, parsley, bayleaf), half a lemon peel and a tiny blade of mace, a good squeeze of lemon juice, with a rather strong season- ing of pepper, salt, and cayenne; cover the jar down very tightly, stand it up to the neck in the bain- marie or in a pan full of boiling water and let it cook steadily till the hare is tender, which .it should be in about three and a half to four and a, half hours, according to age. (An old hare is generally used for jugging.) Mind the water out- side the jar is kept steadily boiling all the time. When nearly done, add a gill of port wine and some forcemeat balls fried in a little butter before putting them into the jar. Dish neatly and serve with red currant jelly. A leveret is cooked according to the first recipe jiven for roast hai*e, and is often served with greenGAME. 185 gooseberry sauce made thus: Blanch a pint of green gooseberries in boiling water for a minute or two, then drain in a colander, rub them through it back into the pan, add 2oz. of fresh butter, let them cook till done, and serve. Bottled gooseberries may be used for this sauce, but will not require the prefa- tory blanching, and may need a drop or two of spinach greening, or colouring to bring up the tint a very little; but this must be cautiously done, as any over-colouring is fatal to the appearance of any dish. A few drops of lemon juice may also be useful. It has been said above that rabbit is excellent roasted, and it has the further advautagn of being less often seen than the traditional boiled rabbit smothered in onions, known, when it appears in society, as Lapereau a la Soubise.—Wash the rabbit well, taking care to remove any trace of blood, especially about the head and neck, and allow it to soak for half an hour or so in warm milk, as this improves it immensely. Now place it in a pan with five or six good-sized onions, a good spray of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, two cloves, five or six peppercorns (white), and salt. Cover it all with hot water, bring it sharply to the boil, skim thoroughly, and then allow it only to simmer (for twenty-five minutes if the rabbit is young, longer if old) till cooked. Now lift out the rabbit, keep it hot, and meanwhile strain the liquor in which it cooked and thicken it like melted butter with an ounce each of butter and flour previously cooked together till smooth, rub theMEATS. 186 onions through a sieve, adding a little of the milk in which the rabbit was soaked, to assist the opera- tion. Now work together gradually tbe rabbit liquor, the onion puree, and as much of the soaking milk as may be necessary for the right amount of sauce to cover the rabbit entirely, let it boil up, and continue stirring it over the fire till it reaches the right consistency, then dish the rabbit, pour the sauce smoothly over it, and serve with tiny rolls of crisped bacon. Some people prefer to cook the rabbit altogether in milk, using the soaking milk for this, and adding a little cream or a pat of fresh butter to the sauce just at the last. To truss a rabbit for boiling, after it is skinned, washed, and, if liked, soaked, slip a threaded trus- sing needle through the end of the hind leg, which should be brought forward, and then through the end of the front leg, which should be bent back, and draw it through the body and out through the two legs on the other side, brought into the same position. Now bring the needle back the same way, and pass it through the rabbit’s jaws, the head being twisted round backwards, and pressed against the creature’s side, and tie the two ends of string firmly together. When cooked, the string can easily be pulled out. For roasting, the rabbit should be set up like a hare, the ears, which are cropped close to the head for boiling, being left on. Cooked thus, a rabbit is excellent with many sauces, specially tomato or mushroom, but do not forget the bacon.CHAPTER XI. PUDDINGS AND PIES Puddings and pies are especially British forms of cookery, the former particularly so, for suet crust is a kind of paste foreign cooks appear seldom to grasp. To begin with puddings ; the first thing to consider is the crust, for unless this is right, the whole dish must necessarily be a failure. The ordinary method, for a pudding of 21b. of beef steak, and either six sheep’s kidneys, or half an ox kidney, is to mince very finely -|lb. of good beef suet, removing all skin, string &c., then rubbing it into lib. of flour; now gather it up into a heap on the slab or board, and with your knuckles make a hollow in the centre into which you put half a teaspoonful of salt, and about a gill of water. Now work this all to a rather stiff paste, adding either a little more flour if too soft, or more water if too stiff. Poll it out from a third to half an inch thick, have ready a pudding basin well rubbed over with clarified dripping or butter, as you please, line it with the above paste, and put the rest aside for a cover. This makes a very good everyday1S8 MEATS. suet paste, but for smarter occasions, when the meat pudding is to be a feature, as in the case of wood- cock, small birds, or other delicate puddings, a richer form may be used. For this take lOoz. of fine kidney suet weighed after it has been chopped, &c., lib. of flour, half a teaspoonful of salt, the yolk of a raw egg, and a teaspoonful, or perhaps a very little more, of strained lemon juice. Mix in the usual way, adding as much water as will be needed to produce paste of the right consistency. Then roll out and use as before. These recipes may be honestly recommended, but some cooks add about half a teaspoonful of baking powder as well as the raw egg yolk for each pound of flour, whilst others use a teaspoonful of baking-powder for the pound of flour and no egg. But if properly made, the baking-powder is not required. Lastly, where weak digestions have to be catered for, breadcrumbs dried and sifted may be substituted for some of the flour, allowing 4oz. of crumbs to 12oz. of flour. This crust is said to be both lighter and more digestible than the ordinary suet crust. Atom suet crust again, is much to be recommended and has the further advantage of being equally good baked or boiled (which the other crusts are not, as the suet is often scarcely sufficiently cooked in a baked pie to make the crust digestible). For this paste, with a sharp knife shred down the block of Atora suet as finely as possible, till it either curls or powders as it falls from the knife ; now rub it into the flour with the tips of the fingers as if mixing short paste, and get it to the right consistency, eitherPUDDINGS AND PIES. 189 with water alone, or with egg yolk, lemon juice and water as before. Beefsteak Pudding.—For this take sufficient paste, say from one-half to two-thirds of the first plain paste, and with this line the buttered basin. Cut l^lb. of beef steak up into narrow strips, dipping each into a seasoning made by mixing together one and a half teaspoonsful of salt, about a teaspoon- ful of freshly ground black pepper, and a table- spoonful of browned (not burnt) flour ; then lay these strips into the basin, adding a small piece of fat with each one, and dusting each layer with finely minced parsley and very finely minced shallot or onion (a small onion is enough altogether); now pour in about three-quarters of a pint of either cold stock or water, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and, if liked, a little Worcester sauce; cover with the paste, previously rolled out three-quarters of an inch thick, after wetting the edges, and press these well together, trim off any superfluous paste, tie a cloth over the top, set the basin in a pan containing boiling water enough to cover the pudding completely, and cook for two and a half hours, watching that the pudding is always under water. It is quite worth the trouble to be careful about the temperature of this outer water, for a pudding cooked in water always kept just at boiling point, but never allowed to “gallop,” is infinitely better than one where the water has had to be constantly renewed from evaporation. The above is a simple but excellent form of beef steak pudding, but it may be varied almost indefinitely. For instance, any small birds, such as larks (or evenMEATS. 190 sparrows ! ) may be added in the proportion of four to six birds to the pound of steak; or six or seven sheep’s kidneys (or half a yonng ox kidney), well seasoned with pepper, salt, minced parsley and shallot, may be used for the same quantity of beef ; or oysters, mushrooms, shrimps, and indeed any other addition to taste, may be utilised to the improvement and variety of the dish. A very pretty dish for smart occasions may be made by well buttering some dariole moulds and then lining them with thin suet crust, filling them with pieces of fillet of beef and sheep’s kidney, all cut into rather large dice, seasoning this well with pepper, salt, minced parsley, and two or three chives or a little finely minced shallot; fill up with stock or nice brown sauce to taste, cover and cook as usual for about an hour or more, according to the size of the puddings ; then turn out and serve, one for each guest. These little puddings may be made of any meat, a lark boned and stuffed with the farce given later for pies and laid, breast down, on a little of the farce, and covered with a tiny slice of beef skirt, makes a par- ticularly toothsome dish. It is a secret almost unkuown, and certainly disregarded, by cooks, that in a meat pudding, of which the steak is the only adjunct, beef “ skirt,” if cut thin, is more satisfactory than anything save the best fillet steak, as it gives far more gravy and does not harden in the cooking. The above may serve as a type for puddings in general, of which we now give a few individual recipes. Mutton Pudding.—For this either trim very neatly and rather small, and removing all the superfluousPUDDINGS AND PIES. 191 fat, the cutlets of a neck of mutton, or if preferred, use an equivalent amount of the leg of mutton cut into neat scallops; season well with quatre epices, or mignonette, minced chives or shallot or very finely minced onion, parsley and thyme; now put in a layer of mutton, then one of sliced potato, till the basin is nearly full; moisten as before, with mutton broth if possible, to which you have added a few drops of essence of anchovy, cover down and boil for two and a half to three hours as in previous recipes; then turn out and serve with a little good gravy poured round. Small Bird Pudding.—Any kind of small birds may be used for this; from larks or sparrows to plover or wheatears, or even, low be it said, thrushes, Pick and clean the birds, removing the gizzards, the heads, and feet (for a good sized pudding you require eighteen to twenty-four larks) ; line a basin with the egg yolk and lemon crust, and proceed to pack it with the birds and about |lb. of good bacon or ham cut into neat fingers, in alternate layers, dusting each with pepper, salt, minced parsley, thyme and shallot or chives; then pour in a gill of strong stock, cover and boil for one and a half to two hours. Veal Kidney Pudding.—Poll out the requisite crust half an inch thick, and line a w^ell buttered pudding basin. Now remove the core from a nice calf’s kidney (use two if small), wrash Tvell in weak vinegar and water, cut it into inch dice and mix with it from 3oz. to 4oz. of fat bacon or pickled pork, seasoned pretty highly, rolling it in quatre epices,192 MEATS. mixed witli a little browned flour; then about half fill the basin with the meat, squeezing half a lemon over it all, and adding either five or six nice mush- rooms or a full tablespoonful of tomato pulp; fill up with plain bone stock or even water, cover down, and steam (not boil) for three and a half to four hours. Snipe Pudding.—Pluck and singe three snipe, and remove the gizzard, but do not. draw them, and cut off the heads and feet. Lay a thin slice of beef skirt at the bottom of a basin, lay the snipe on this, breast down, adding, if liked, some mushrooms, or truffles, and moistening it with half stock, half sherry. Cover with paste and boil for two and a half hours. Plover are excellent cooked thus. Rabbit Pudding.—Well butter a basin and line it with paste to taste, then pack in the best pieces of the rabbit cut up small, mixing it with 4oz. or so of bacon or pickled pork cut into inch dice, seasoning the whole with quatre Spices or spiced pepper, minced parsley and shallot; then pour on to it about half a pint of good stock made from the head and trim- mings of the rabbit, slightly thickened with a little roux, cover down and boil for three and a half hours. It may be steamed, if preferred. Mushrooms, oysters, and hardboiled eggs are often added to this pudding and are a great addition, but failing these, add a spoonful or two of mushroom ketchup to the sauce used in moistening the pudding. Partridges, especially redlegs, are excellent this way. Por persons wTho like rich dishes we may recom- mend a form of the old “ battalia pie,” made thus: Line a buttered basin with a rich suet crust, and fillPUDDINGS AND PIES. 193 it in alternate layers with cut-up partridge or quails, a sweetbread cut into half inch dice, cocks’ combs halved, truffles, artichoke bottoms, asparagus points, fresh mushrooms (or failing these bottled champig- nons), hard-boiled egg yolks, and tiny forcemeat balls. Fill up with strong veal gravy and some good thick cream, cover down and boil or steam for two hours or so. If the Atora crust is used, and this pie is baked for two hours, it makes a very nice dish, only then leave a small hole in the top of the paste to allow the gas to escape, use only veal gravy to moisten it and finish by pouring in just at the last some boiling cream. It may be observed, when rabbits, partridges, &c., are used, that if young they may be fried to a delicate brown before putting them in the pie; whilst if old they are improved by being stewed gently till half cooked. The above will give a good idea of the method of making puddings. For pies, several kinds of paste are used, according to the use to be made of them. Common Short Crust.—Mix together lib. flour, a teaspoonful of baking powder, and about half a coffeespoonful of salt; now rub into this 4oz. of well clarified dripping or lard (the dripping is much the best) till it is all in dry crumbs, then add very gradually enough cold water to bring it all to a rather stiff paste, v hich can be rolled easily without sticking to the pastrv-board or slab. (N.B.—Where much pastry is used, it is well worth while to indulge in a marble pastry s^b, which costs only a few shillings, and is an immense improvement t the paste and a oMEATS. 194 great help to the cook.) Roll this out once, and use directly. Rich Short Paste.-—Rub 4oz. to 5oz. of butter or clarified dripping into 41b. of fine flour, mix it with half a coffeespoonful of salt and the yolk of a raw egg, and work it to a stiff paste as before with cold water. Raised Pie Crust.—Rub 4oz. of butter (or Brand’s B B> mm MM* mm mn mm MM) M M M mn ftttM 1 ♦ 1 » » A A Fig. 23. Fig. 24. Marrowfat) into lib. of sifted flour, add half a coffeespoonful of salt and a whole egg, and mix to a stiff paste with a little cold water. Simple Puff Paste.—This is a simpler recipe than is usually given for puff paste, but if carefully carried out, answers very well. Mix together lib, of fine flour and half a coffeespoonful of salt, then work it to a smooth elastic paste with the yolk of an egg and a little cold water. The quantity of this variesPUDDINGS AND PIES. 195 according to the flour used, but from one to one and a half gills is the average amount. Work this paste till it does not stick to the hands, the board, or the ba^in. Now flour the board and the rolling pin well, an 1 roll the paste out, being careful to keep it very even, always rolling from yourself, never towards you or sideways. Keep the paste about one-third as wide as it is long. Now brush it all over with lemon juice, and place from lOoz. to 12oz. of butter over it in little pieces (as in Fig. 23), leaving about an inch clear all round; then flour the surface lightly and fold the paste over in three, bringing the ends a a over to b b, and then turn the ends c c to d d (as in Fig. 24), drawing it round at right angles, so as to have side bd in front of you. Now press the o]3en ends together with the rolling pin, then flatten it across in two or three little ridges, to prevent the air inclosed from making one large bubble, roll it out and put it aside to cool. It should be rolled twice, or if liked, four times in this way, allowing it to rest from ben to fifteen minutes between each rolling. If brushed over with lemon juice between each rolling it both improves the colour and the flakiness of the paste. This paste requires a hot oven, and the last rolling must be particularly even. Beef Steak Pie.—Cut the beef, which should be preferably rump steak, into strips, seasoning them precisely as for beef steak pudding; core and slice down half the kidney of a nice young ox, seasoning this like the beef; now pack the pie dish with a layer of meat and kidney, strewing over it some very finely chopped shallot and parsley, together with hard- o 2MEATS. 196 boiled egg cut into dice or quarters, and repeat these layers till the pie dish is full; then pour in sufficient good stock, or even water flavoured with a little essence of anchovy and Worcester sauce, to come up to the top of the meat, and cover with a layer of puff paste, being careful first to brush the rim of the dish with a little cold water and to press the pastry well down on to it. Make a small hole at the top of the pie with a skewer; trim off the superfluous paste by holding the pie dish in your left hand, and passing a knife, held slanting outwards in your right hand, round the edge of the dish; gather up the trimmings of pastry, roll it out very thinly, and cut out of it some leaves, brush these over on one side with a little cold water and press them flat, in a wreath, round the opening. Gather up the rest of the paste, again roll it out and cut it into squares, place two or three of these one on top of the other, gather up the corners in one hand and cut the knob thus formed through twice at right angles, and either put this rose lightly into the hole previously made or put it on the baking tin by the side of the pie. Dip a pastry brush into some lightly beaten raw yolk of egg, and brush the whole pie delicately over with this. Bake from one and three-quarters to two hours in a moderate oven; when cooked, lift the rose from the hole in the paste, and pour through the latter, by means of a funnel, about one and a half gills of hot, rich gravy, or stock. This pie can be served either hot or cold. The above is only a simple form of beef steak pie which may be varied almost indefinitely by usingPUDDINGS AND PIES. 197 mushrooms, truffles, slieep’s kidneys, liam, or oysters bearded and blanched in their own liquor, as you please. Veal and Ham Pie.—This is made precisely like beefsteak pie, excepting that a layer of nice sausage meat or farce is placed at the bottom of the dish; 21b. of cushion of veal sliced thinly and freed from skin and sinew being used alternately with either ham or lean bacon (for the latter use the gammon) and finish off as before. The best farce for pies may be made thus : Cut lib. of fat bacon into square dice, and fry till lightly coloured, add to this fib. of calf’s liver, and l^lb. of veal, poultry, rabbit, or game (according to the pie you are making), add to this a dozen or so of cham- pignons or six or eight mushrooms ; season it all highly with salt, freshly ground black pepper, and a little cayenne pepper. A very little powdered bay leaf is by many persons considered an addition. Fry this all in butter or well clarified dripping till the meat is perfectly cooked, when you pound it to a smooth paste in a mortar, finishing it off through a wire sieve for any delicate form of pie. Besides this farce, the gravy used in pie-making requires consideration. This is a point only too frequently overlooked, as the fearful messes, apparently com- pounded of shoe leather and greasy water, only too often testify. Properly made pie gravy should always jelly when cold. To make gravy for such a purpose try the following: Put into a stewpan all the bones, scraps, and trimmings of the meat of which the pie is to be made, adding to this any carcases orMEATS. 19S poultry bones, or failing these, a shank bone or two or a veal bone ; now lay in two or three onions, one stuck with two or three cloves, a carrot sliced, a good strip of celery, or some celery seed tied up in a piece of muslin, a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, eight or ten peppercorns, a full bouquet (thyme, parsley, green onion, and lemon peel carefully freed from pith), with salt to taste, and a tiny pinch of sugar. Cover this all with cold water, bring it gently to the boil, skim well, and leave it to simmer by the side of the fire for two or three hours till all the goodness is extracted from the ingredients ; then strain, and when cold remove the fat. Mutton Pie.—This is made very much in the same way as beefsteak pie, only using stock made from mutton trimmings and bones, and alternating the meat layers with sliced potatoes. Season with Gouffe’s mignonette. Giblet Pie.—Have either two sets of turkey giblets or four of fowl; put the livers aside and blanch the giblets for two minutes in boiling water, at once rinsing them well in cold water and draining them on a cloth; now cut them up into neat, not too small pieces, and put them in a stewpan with a carrot, an onion stuck with four cloves, a good bouquet, and a rather high seasoning of salt and pepper or mignon- ette. Moisten it with a quart of bone stock, and let it all simmer together gently for an hour; now remove the bouquet, the carrot and the onion, strain off the gravy and drain the giblets on a cloth. Remove all the fat from the gravy and boil thePUDDINGS AND PIES. 199 latter up sharply for a quarter of an hour to reduce it. Meanwhile cut a pound or a pound and a half of rump steak into small slices, flatten each with a heavy knife dipped in water, or with a cutlet hat, season each piece with pepper, salt, minced parsley, and very finely chopped shallot or chives. Cover the bottom of the pie dish with a layer of this beefsteak, arrange the giblets, with the livers, neatly over it, adding, if liked, some long thin shreds of ham, sprinkle over it some powdered fine herbs, and a little cayenne, moistening it with a reduced gravy, covering it with puff pastry and finishing off as before. The rest of the reduced gravy may be used to fill up the pie at the last. Pigeon Pie.-—About the nicest pie I know is made as follows : Bone the birds and cut them into four ; cut up lib. of nice steak into little squares ; season both pigeon and beef with a little salt, pepper, minced parsley, and shallot, and toss it all over the fire for a few minutes, till lightly browned, in a well- buttered pan. Then arrange the pieces in a pie dish with a little bacon cut into tiny slices, some quartered hard-boiled eggs, and a few mushrooms^if handy; sprinkle the pan in which the birds were fried with a spoonful of flour, stir it well round, then add enough good gravy to moisten the dish, let it just boil up, and pour it into the dish with the birds, &c. Cover the dish with rough puff paste, brush it over with beaten egg yolk, and bake about two hours in a moderate oven. Any game is excellent cooked in this way, and so also are wood pigeons. Chicken Pie.—Wash and dry two chickens, which200 MEATS. should be young and well fed. Put the trimmings, such as the neck, giblets, &c., into a pan with salt, pepper, a blade of mace, an onion, and a good bunch of herbs, cover this all with water, or, if liked, with strong veal or shank bone stock ; bring it to the boil, and let it simmer steadily till all the goodness is extracted from the bones, skimming it carefully. Now line the edges of the pie dish with a strip of puff or flaky paste, put in some of the chicken, then some ham, and if liked, little bails of delicate forcemeat (this is not necessary), cover this with sliced hard-boiled eggs, and season pretty highly with white pepper and salt; now repeat these layers till the dish is full, adding the minced livers of the chickens, and some mushrooms if at hand, with a good dust of minced parsley, squeezing the juice of half a lemon over it all. Now strain the stock on to \\oz. of white roux (or loz. each of flour and butter stirred over the fire till perfectly smooth), let this boil up till of the consistency of cream, and pour it level over the chicken, &c. Cover with puff pastry half an inch thick, and bake about an hour and a half ; then pour in through the opening at the top about a gill of boiling cream. Serve hot or cold. If liked, the bird may be boned to begin with and half a pound of any rich forcemeat to taste should be used, as well as the ham, eggs, mushrooms, &c., a little sherry being added to the gravy. If to be eaten cold for a picnic, dissolve about half an ounce of best leaf gelatine in half a pint of strong veal or poultry stock, letting it boil in a fourth part, and add this to the pie at the last.201 PUDDINGS AND PIES. Chicken and Parsley Pie.—Cut up, wash, and dry a chicken, season it with fine salt; pick and scald some parsley, then squeeze it quite dry, mince it, and lay it in a pie dish; on this lay some of the chicken, then more parsley and chicken till the dish is full. Pour in new milk almost to the top of the dish, cover it with a nice paste, and bake. 'When > ooked, pour off some of the milk, and replace it with half a pint of scalded cream. Puck Pie.—This is an old-fashioned pie, but not by any means a bad one for all that. Carefully scald and cleanse two nice birds and cut them into neat pieces, putting aside the livers and the giblets separately, making the latter into good stock in the usual way with vegetables and seasoning, using bone stock instead of water to cover them. Well wash and par-fry the livers, packing them into the dish with the cut-up duck, and about 4oz. to 5oz. of ham cut into strips; pour to this some of the stock made from the duck bones, previously strained, freed from fat, and flavoured to taste with a little port wine and orange juice (Seville orange being best for this), cover the pie and bake in a moderate oven. When cooked, add in the rest of the gravy flavoured as before. Partridcje Pie.—Pick, draw, and singe three nice partridges, cutting the birds into neat joints and removing the feet, the heads, and the tips of the wings. Cover the bottom of the pie dish first with a thin layer of fat bacon, then a layer of beef or rump steak, cut up and seasoned as for the giblet pie, and on this arrange the partridge joints pretty closely,202 MEATS. with quartered hard-boiled eggs, and mushrooms, if at hand, seasoning it all well with quatre Spices or mignonette, and some finely minced herbs; cover the whole with more slices of fat bacon, and pour over it all some game or poultry stock strongly seasoned with game; cover with puff paste, put the feet tied together into the hole on the top, and bake in a moderate oven for one and a half hours, addins: a gill or so of the game stock, flavoured with a little sherry, at the last. Almost any game, from black game and pheasants downwards can be made into a pie in this way. Lark Pie.—This old-fashioned dish is now seldom seen, though it is a very toothsome one. Take as many larks as you may require, pick and cleanse them, setting aside the livers, with which and some poultry livers, &c., you make a farce. If preferred, the birds may be boned and stuffed with a little truffled pate de foie gras, or they may be simply halved and a slice of fat bacon fastened round each of them; pack the little birds into the dish (or, if preferred, you can make a raised pie of it by lining a raised pie mould with good crust, and packing the birds in this), filling the interstices with the farce, and seasoning the whole nicely; raise the centre in a dome shape and cover the top with some thinly sliced fat bacon and a bay leaf or two, seasoned with spice; cover with a pastry cover, and bake in a moderate oven for two hours or more, according to the size of the pie. When cooked and quite cold, slip a knife round the edge of the top and lift off the cover, remove the fat bacon and the bay leaves, and20S PUDDINGS AND PIES. run over it all a little aspic jelly, replace the cover, and leave it till the jelly is set. For the farce, nr nee roughly 8oz. of livers (game, poultry or calf’s), 4oz. fat bacon, 4oz. lean white meat of any sort, and half a small onion ; put it all into a pan with two bay leaves, loz. of butter, a little parsley and thyme, pepper and salt, and fry it for five minutes or so ; then, whilst still hot, pound it, rub it through a sieve, mix it with the yolk of an egg, and two or three chopped truffles or mushrooms if handy, and use. This will be enough for an average sized pie. Very nice pies may be very easily made with all sorts of things; for instance, pigeons, plover, partridges, rabbits, &c., may all be used, the flesh being removed from the breasts, &c., and cut into neat fillets, the rest of the carcase being used up in the farce, and then the pie is packed with alternate layers of farce, fillets, slices of tongue, ham, or even delicate sausages, hard-boiled egg, cubes of pate de foie gras, &c., according to what is at hand. Snipe Pie.—Treat three or four snipe as described for the partridge pie, removing the legs, heads and wing tips ; quarter the birds, removing the gizzards, but leaving the trail. Now line a dish with thin slices of fat ham, place the birds closely on these, season well with parsley, thyme, a very little powdered bay leaf, pepper and salt, together with the juice of a small lemon; next pour in enough oiled and clarified butter to cover the birds, lay more sliced fat ham over this, and cover with puff paste, finish off as described for partridge pie, and keep it in a cool place till wanted. Widgeon and teal,204 MEATS and even woodcock may be made into pies same way. Woodcock Pie.—Bone from four to six woo and put the bones and trimmings into a pa: two shallots and a good bunch of herbs, cow ill with strong stock, bring it to tbe boi then let it simmer gently at the side of t till all the goodness is extracted from the bon Meanwhile prepare some forcemeat thus finely about -§lb. of raw weal and pound it s then work into it 5oz. of panade (this is melted butter made with an extra quant: fine flour and cooked to a smooth and rather paste) prewiously also pounded, together wit' or 4oz. of pate de foie gras, and a good season salt, white, and coralline pepper, mixing it we two whole raw eggs or three egg yolks ; and, ||| mix in the hearts and liwers of the birds, mine- pounded. Lay tbe woodcock, breasts do a board, spread each with a layer of the then on this put a layer of sliced truffles, second layer of the farce. Line a mould with raised pie crust, pressing it well into the moul at the bottom a layer of farce, then two woodcock, cowering these with sliced truffles the other two birds, with more truffles, and la pretty thick layer of farce, cowering this with fat bacon, and two bay leawes. Cower the usual, leaving a hole at the top, and bak moderate owen till done; then pour in the recower the top and do not touch it till cold, you slip off the top crust, remowe the bacon205 PUDDINGS AND PIES. bay leaves, and cover with finely chopped aspic, and the pastry cover. Hobbit Pie.—Prepare a plain herb forcemeat, as given for turkey, only using half the quantity, and mixing it with the liver and kidneys of the rabbit, and about 4oz. of cold cooked veal or fowl, all previously minced and pounded fine; sieve this all through a wire sieve, and place a layer of it at the bottom of a pie dish, and on this spread a layer of bacon, aud then the rabbit cut into joints, dusting it all liberally with quatre Spices or Gouffe’s mignonette, and filling the spaces between with some of the farce and quartered hard-boiled eggs; now have a second layer of bacon, then more rabbit, and lastly the rest of the forcemeat, covering this again with a few slices of bacon; pour in about half a pint of strong stock made from the head, neck and trimmings of the rabbit, and a piece of gravy or stock beef, flavoured with the usual vegetables. Cover this pie with a good crust and bake one and a quarter horns in a good oven. For this, take one good rabbit and fib. of beef. Hare Pie can be made in precisely the same way, only remember to add a glass of port wine, a teaspoonful of good vinegar, and a good spoonful of red currant jelly to the broth when strained, before adding it to the pie, and season highly with the mignonette. Ham also may be used entirely or half and half with the bacon, if liked, for hare pie. Moreover, both rabbits and hares may be boned, the bones being used for the stock, and the flesh packed into the pie dish in layers withMEATS. 206 the ham or bacon and forcemeat, as you pi It is best to keep a little of the stock l ack, to a<J i i the last, dissolving in it doz. or so of best '+> 1 gelatine if the pie is only to be eaten cold. Be careful to make a good vent hole in any rabbit] and do not put the centre rose in, whilst coo however loosely, as nothing is so unwholes||s not to say actually dangerous, as an unventi rabbit pie. Shropshire Rabbit Pie.—An old-fashioned, extremely good, pie is still made in the com thus : Cut up two rabbits and 21b. of fat pork, or pickled, and season rather highly with pe salt, and spice to taste. (The mignonette is sped]; good for this.) Line a pie dish with good puff p||fc and lay in the rabbits and the pork, mixed, ready some little forcemeat balls, and mix these the rabbit, &c., together with artichoke bottom ^|r in pieces, some bearded oysters, and cocks’ com tin of financiere garnish might be used); grate a : nutmeg over it all, pour in not quite half a pi equal parts of stock (or water) and red wine, <] with puff paste, and bake one and a half hour quick, but not fierce, oven. Hard-boiled quartered eggs are often added to this pie. 4 baked, pour in about a gill of the wine and s with or without a little leaf gelatine; cover the with the pastry rose, and leave till cold. Fo forcemeat parboil the livers, mince and pound fine with an equal quantity of fat bacon, moisti all with the oyster liquor and the yolk of an seasoning it highly, and make into little balls. ! kPUDDINGS AND PIES. ?C7 Grouse Pie—Pluck, draw, and bone two brace of arouse, and stuff the birds with the farce given below. Line a good-sized plain timbale, or cake mould with a good paste (such as the “ rich short paste” given in the beginning of this chapter), and cover the bottom and sides of this with a layer of the farce; lay in the birds, and fill up with a pound of tender rump steak, well seasoned, cut thin, and each piece rolled round a little bit of fat, to fill up the interstices, adding hard-boiled eggs, if liked. Cover with the crust, and bake three hours in a moderate oven. For the farce, par-fry lib. of calf’s liver, cut into dice, in butter, then mix it with Ulb. of veal cutlet, lib. of not too lean ham, a little parsley and shallot, all previously minced, pound it smooth, rub it through a wire sieve and after seasoning it rather highly with quatre Spices or mignonette, stir into it a small bottle of truffles and three hard-boiled eggs sliced, and use. If truffles are not at hand, use a small tin of truffled pate de foie gras, which is often better thau the bottled truffles, as these have only too frequently lost their flavour. This is a super-excellent pie and we11 worth the trouble of making. It is not difficult for an intelligent and willing cook to make a very nice timbale case for this, or any other rich, form of pie thus : Choose a round or oval stewpan which will go into the oven and line it well with the following paste—mix lib. of sifted flour with 4oz. of fresh butter or lard, the yolks of two eggs, a little salt, and sufficient water, to a stiff paste, kneading it well to get it firm; roll it out the208 MEATS. size of the stewpan (which must have been well buttered), put it into the pan, pressing it well in at the bottom and sides to make it take the shape nicely, and then pack in the filling; cover plainly with the paste, and bake. When ready, turn out carefully, cut out a piece at the top, pour in some rich gravy, and fill up the hole with a nice pastry rose, baked separately. Venison Pasty.—Trim the meat from a well hung shoulder, neck, or breast as is convenient, into two inch pieces, season well with pepper and salt, and, if liked, a little nutmeg ; place the pieces, fat and lean together, into a rather deep pie dish (if there is not sufficient fat, take some thin slices from a well hung loin or neck of mutton and use with the venison), pour in a large glassful of port wine (or claret and currant jelly if preferred), with a good slice of butter laid over the top ; cover with a thick water paste (such as is used for roasting venison) and bake in a moderately hot oven for two hours. When cold, remove the water paste (add some strong gravy mixed with wine), re-cover it with another cover of puff paste, ornament with leaves, &c., to taste, and bake in a good oven till the paste is nicely cooked. This is very good and possesses the further merit of keeping for some time, if, after the first cooking, the pie be put away untouched in a cool dry place till wanted, when the water paste can be removed and the pie finished off as above; but for keeping it will need nearly twice as much butter. Squab Pie.—Line a pie dish with a good crust, then put in a layer of apples, dusting these veryPUDDINGS AND PIES. 203 lightly with brown sugar, then a layer of mutton chops well seasoned with pepper and salt, then more sliced apple, next some thinly sliced onions, and repeat these layers till the dish is full, add one pint of water, cover with the crust, and bake. Some West country cooks use pork with, or instead of, the mutton, strew currants and minced parsley between the layers, and finish up at the last with a little boiling cream. Rook Pie.—Pluck, draw, and singe four or more fine young rooks, and remove the backbones (if left in these are bitter), and then steep the birds for one and a half to two hours in water or milk, or half and half, after which cut them into neat joints, seasoning these rather highly with mignonette, and pack them in a buttered piedish in alternate layers with thinly sliced beef steak or ham, some bacon, sliced hard boiled eggs, and little forcemeat balls; add an ounce or so of butter broken up, and about one and a half gills of good strong gravy; cover with a good rough puff paste, and bake two hours or more till the pie is cooked. If the birds are skinned and freed from their backbones, they may be cooked by any recipes for game or pigeon pie. N.B.—This treatment applied to foreign game often renders it thoroughly palatable when otherwise too bitter. Be careful not to break the gall in drawing, but if it b6 broken, soak the bird in strong salt and water. Goose Pie.—This old fashioned pie, once very popular in Lincolnshire and the Eastern counties at Christmas time, was made by boning a goose, a turkey, a fowl, a pheasant, and a partridge or p210 MEATS. pigeon; the turkey was then laid inside the goose, the fowl inside the turkey, the pheasant inside the fowl, the partridge inside the pheasant, and the whole fastened and laid in a pa-te-lined timbale, the interstices being filled up with sliced ham and tongue and a rich forcemeat, such as was given for the grouse or the rabbit pie, made with the livers of the birds, &c. Clarified butter was then poured over it all, the paste cover fixed on, well brushed over with beaten egg, and the whole baked in a good oven for four hours. I have known this dish to be wrapped in buttered paper, then in water paste, and roasted like a haunch of venison. It is an excellent, if somewhat expensive dish, but a very dainty imitation may be made by putting a partridge inside a good fowl, and a quail or a lark inside the partridge, a lump of pate de foie gras going inside the lark, then packing the whole as above in a raised pie mould lined with good raised pie crust, filling it up as described for the larger pie, with the addition of some pate de foie gras.CHAPTER XII. SUPPEK DISHES. Supper is a rather nondescript meal, extending from the magnificent ball supper, with its truffled pates, boar’s head, and dincle en galantine, &c, to the humble repast sacred to Sunday evening, when it is “ cook’s night out,” and the housemaid’s culinary knowledge is on a par with the monkey’s supposed powers of speech. The following recipes, taken from past Queens, have been so often asked for that it may be well to gather them in this form. Spiced Beef.—Choose a nice piece of beef about 101b. or 121b, in weight, from the round, rump, or thick flank as you please, and rub well into it -|lb. of coarse brown sugar (the kind known as “ foot ” sugar is vest for this purpose, but is not always procurable), and let it stand for two days. Mean- while pound together finely a large teaspoonful of mace, the same of black pepper, a small dessert- spoonful of ground cloves, half a teaspoonful of cayenne, a small nutmeg grated, rather less than an ounce of saltpetre, and 2o?;. of juniper berries. p 2212 MEATS. Mix this all with a little more sugar, and then rub it well into the beef, (after the latter has stood two days in the sugar), and again leave it for three days. At the end of these add ^lb. of fine salt to the pickle that will have formed, and rub it all again into the beef, turning and rubbing it with this pickle daily for twelve days. (Where possible it is well to get a man to do this rubbing, on account of the strength required.) It may now be hung up to dry like a tongue, or can be used at once, as convenient. To cook it, if it has been hung and dried (when it is best), wash but do not soak it, tie it neatly into shape with broad tape, and set it in a pan that will just hold it and its addenda comfortably. Pour to it one and a half pints of good beef stock, skimming this carefully as soon as it boils up, then add one small onion, two large carrots, and a good bunch of herbs, bring this all again just (and only just) to the boil, then draw it aside and allow it to simmer gently for four and a half hours. Now lift the meat into a deep earthen- ware pan, pour its own liquor over it, and leave it till well cooled; then set it between two dishes weighting these carefully and rather heavily, and leave it till perfectly cold, when it must be wiped all over with a moist warm cloth, and finally glazed with its own gravy, strained, reduced by rapid boiling, and stiffened with about ioz. of best leaf gelatine to the half pint of gravy ; or with aspic jelly. The latter is the commonest, the former the nicest method. Pressed Beef.—For this many cooks take the saltSUPPER DISHES. 213 brisket procurable, ready salted, of the butcher; or it may be prepared thus: Take 61b. of nice brisket of beef, without bone if possible, but remove any if sent with it. Rub it well over with vinegar and moist sugar, and let it stand in this for an hour or two, then lift it out and put it into a pan with water or ordinary bone stock enough to cover it, together with two or three slices of bacon, fat and lean together (a little of this placed under the beef is good), two small onions, each stuck with three or four cloves, a dozen peppercorns and allspice mixed, a good bouquet (be sure it contains two bayleaves), two carrots, and salt. Bring this again to the boil, then simmer in a tightly covered pan for four to four and a half hours till the meat is cooked. Now lift the pan from the fire and leave it till the meat is fairly cool, when it may be lifted out and pressed between two dishes till perfectly cold. (Mind when pressing beef, or indeed any meat, to get the pressure even. It is no use putting a heavy weight in the centre of the covering dish, and leaving the ends unweighted, or the pressure will be unequal. Three lighter weights of about equal heaviness are far better than one heavy one planted in the middle). Meanwhile strain the liquor (the’e will not be much) left in the pan, and boil it down rapidly till it is a thickisli glaze, and paint the meat over with this. Again let it set thoroughly, then brush it all over lightly with just liquid aspic jelly, or jireferably with gelatine dis- solved in some clear stock, or diluted Consomme Maggi, in the proportion of foz. to loz. of gelatineMEATS. 214 to tlie pint of stock. Apply when just setting. The joint should be trimmed into a neat oblong shape before this last glazing. Or, if you can salt at home, try this way: Choose a nice piece of thick flank or brisket, not too fat, and rub it with the following pickle daily for eight days : Dissolve ^oz. of saltpetre in a very little water, and mix it with 21b. common salt and |lb. of moist sugar. N.B.—In towns the family batcher will often do this pickling for a good customer. It is boned and well drained when lifted out of the pickle, tied into a neat quadrangular shape, and finished off by the above recipj. It may be glazed as above or it may be finished off with the bought glaze to be got from the grocer. As some co<>ks find this difficult to manage properly, here is the proper method: Peel about an inch of skin from the little glaze sausage as it comes from the shop, aur1 place this inch in a jar with a tablespoonful of cold >vater; place this jar in another pan with abouf 1 jvo inches of boiling water in it, and steam the glaze till it is dissolved. Mind the water in the pan does not get into the jar. Soak an ordinary penny gum or paste brush in a little hot water to get it soft, then apply a thin coating of the melted glaze with this all over the surface of the meat, laying it on rather than brush- ing it, so as to avoid any streaks or marks of the brush; when this coating is quite set, apply a second, and, if liked, when this also is firm, give it one more coat, but remember this glazing must not be too thick, and must be laid on evenly or the meat will look vulgar. It is beM to allow half an hour toSUPPER DISHES. 215 the pound of slow simmering for meat cooked thus counting from after the water or stock boils up after, the meat is put in. The success of pressed beef depends on this very slow simmering. Be careful to choose a lean piece. Or: Choose a nice and not too fat piece of the brisket, of 71b. or 81b. (the brisket, or the thick flank, is usually taken for this joint), and rub it well with coarse salt for three days, then pound and mix together loz. each of black pepper and cloves, \oz. mace, 2oz. dark brown sugar, and loz. of juniper berries; rub this well in, turning it and rubbing it daily for three more days ; then add some salt, about |lb., to the pickle that will have formed, and leave it in this for eight or ten days, turning and rubbing it daily ; then take it out, drain well, and either hang it up to dry or use it at once. Tie the meat neatly into shape (it should be an oblong), and lay it in the pan with two or three sliced onions and carrots, a blade or two of celery, a good bunch of herbs, ten or twelve peppercorns and allspice, the thinly pared rind of a lemon, and a small onion stuck with two or three cloves ; cover with cold water or second stock, bring it gently to the boil, skimming carefully, and then draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer slowly but steadily for four hours or so till done; now remove any bores, and let it cool somewhat in its liquor (in an earthenware pan—never let any meat get cold in a metal pan!), then lift it out, wrap it in a clean cloth, and set it in a dish under another, weighted with sufficient weights to press it firmly, and leave it there for ten or twelve hours. When you remove216 MEATS. the cloth, trim it neatly, brush it over with liquid glaze or stiff aspic, and serve neatly garnished with chopped aspic and fresh parsley. If preferred, fresh meat may be used; but then you must increase the quantity of spice put with it when cooking, allowing, say, a blade of mace, twelve or fifteen black peppercorns and allspice, five or six cloves, some green onions, parsley, thyme, bayleaf, and lemon peel tied up together, and the vegetables given above, and finish off as before. Of course, if done by the first method, it has a fuller flavour. Round of beef is excellent pickled in that way. Bceuf en Ohaufroix.—The following is a recipe of Mrs. A. B. Marshall’s, given me a year or two since, whichhas always been such a success that I give it here. Remove the bone, and any unnecessary fat and skin, &o., from a large piece of sirloin of beef, and roll it up neatly, tieing it into a cylindrical shape with broad tape; wrap it in a sheet of paper previously well rubbed over with clarified dripping or butter, and roast (or bake in a very moderate oven) for three hours, keeping it well and constantly basted all the time. When cooked, remove the paper, but leave on the tape, setting it aside till next day, when the string is removed, the ends of the meat trimmed smooth and even, and the surface of the joint carefully masked with brown chaufroix sauce ; the ends must be left plain. Dish when quite cold, and serve garnished with seasoned watercress, seasoned artichoke bottoms, chopped aspic, and scraped horse- radish. This dish can manifestly be as simple, or as ornate as you please, aspic cream set and cut into217 SUPPER DISHES. different shapes, prawns or crayfish, &c., being all pressed into the service, but plain, as suggested above, it is excellent. For the clmufroix sauce, stir together over the fire three-quarters of a pint of aspic jelly, a gill of rich tomato sauce, half a wineglassful of sherry, |oz. of glaze, a teaspoonful (or more to taste) of essence of anchovy, and a dust of coralline pepper, let this all boil up sharply till reduced a quarter part, shimming it well all the time, then tammy or sieve it, and use when cool. A drop or two of carmine may be added to this to bring up the colour if necessary, but be very careful about this, for if in the least overdone it will give a most revolting look to the meat. Any well flavoured brown sauce, such as espagnole, champagne, &c., may be used for this masking, if an ounce of best leaf gelatine to the pint of sauce be boiled down in it, the whole being used whilst almost setting. Braised Beef a la Frangaise.—Put 81b. or 101b. of round or rump of beef into a pan just large enough to hold it comfortably, laying in with it 4oz. sliced ham or bacon, a calf’s foot cut up small, one onion, and two carrots sliced, a bunch of herbs (thyme, paisley, bayleaf, lemon peel, &c.), half a head of celery, a clove of garlic peeled but not cut (cutting it makes the taste st.onger), a few cloves and whole peppers, w:tli salt to taste; then add a full gill of white wine (Grave or Chablis, or, failing this, half a gill of sherry diluted with half a gill of water and the juice of half a small lemon), or a liqueurglassful of brandy, and about a pint of cold stock or water. Cover with a buttered paper, close the pan downMEATS. 218 tightly, and simmer it in the oven with heat top and bottom for four < r five hours. When cooked, take the pan from the fire, let the meat cool a little in its own gravy, then lift it out, and press between two dishes till perfectly cold ; now trim it neatly, and glaze with some of its own gravy; dish with the rest of the gravy (which should be a perfect jelly), chopped finely, and the stock vegetables cut into tiny dice, seasoned with oil and vinegar, pepper and salt, and dished in little preserved artichoke bottoms similarly seasoned. Veal is also good if gently braised, as above, only then use French white wine or the eau de vie, and colourless veal or shank bone stock, and rather increase the quantity there given of sliced ham. Galaniine of Veal.—Bone completely either a shoulder or breast of veal, removing the skin and most of the fat. Pare the flesh off to get it level, and mince this with a little more veal and an equal quantity of fat bacon or ham, seasoning it gener- ously with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg (if liked), spread this farce, which should be very finely minced (or even pounded), over the veal, and on it lay strips of ham. cooked tongue, mushrooms, or truffles, and blanched almonds or pistachios; spread a very thin layer of the farce over this, roll up the veal lengthways, very tightly, tieing it into shape with broad tapes, and then rolling it in a clean cloth or a piece of butter muslin; lay it in a pan that will hold it nicely, with a sliced carrot or two, one or more onions (one stuck with three or four cloves,) some pieces of bacon rind, a good bouquet (thyme, parsley219 SUPPER DISHES. bayleaf, green onion, lemon peel, &c.), and enough light stock, or equal parts of stock and white wine, to cover it. Bring it to the boil, then draw it to the side, and keep it simmering slowly and steadily for three hours or more till tender. Now lift it out, and let it cool in the cloth for a little ; when nearly cold remove the cloth and put the galantine between two dishes under weights till perfectly cold. Mean- while strain the liquor, and put it into a pan over a sharp fire with the well whipped whites of two or three eggs, and keep it stirred till it boils up, when you cover it down tightly and let it simmer steadily . for half an hour ; then strain, and as it is setting (it will be a stiff jelly) use it to paint over the galantine. This may manifestly be varied to taste. Some cooks use sausage meat instead of the veal, whilst others again add the contents of a tin of pate de foie gras truffe to the veal and ham farce, &c. But the principle is always the same. The preceding is the galantine reduced to its simplest form. A somewhat more ornate and fuller recipe is the following : Galantine of Veal.—Take a piece of breast of veal, about twelve to fourteen inches long ; bone and trim it carefully, removing all gristle and supeifluous fat, as well as some of the meat (about lib.). Take the meat and half a pound of fat bacon ; pound together in a mortar, season with powdered spice, sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, then pass the mixture through a wire sieve. Cut ^lb. of boiled tongue in pieces about an inch square; cut half a dozen truffles, each into three or four pieces. LayMEATS. 220 the prepared breast of veal skin downwards on the table, sprinkle it with pepper, salt, and powdered spices; lay the pounded meat, the truffles, and the tongue on it, then roll it up neatly as a rolypoly pudding, and tie it up tightly in a cloth. Put all the trimmings and bones of the breast into a saucepan large enough to hold the galantine, add a calf’s foot cut in pieces, the trimmings of the bacon (they must be perfectly sweet), two or three onions, and two carrots cut in pieces, a clove of garlic, a bunch of sweet herbs (thyme, marjoram, parsley, and bayleaf), cloves, whole pepper, mace, and salt in proportions, according to taste. Pill up with such a quantity of cold water as will leave room for the galantine to be put in. Set the saucepan on the fire, and when the contents boil put in the galantine. Let it boil gently without interruption from two to two and a half hours. Then lift it out, put it on a plate, and when it has cooled a little take off the cloth, tie it up afresh, and lay it between two dishes, with a moderate weight upon it, to remain till cold. Care must be taken in this last oj>eration that the “seam” of the galantine be made to come under- most. When quite cold undo the cloth, glaze the galantine, and garnish it with savoury jelly made from the liquor in which it was boiled. A galantine of fowl is made in pretty much the same way as follows : Bone the fowl and lay it out flat on the table or mincing board, getting it as even as possible ; the meat removed from the legs can be used for this, and221 STJPPER DISHES. if you are using an old fowl (which is generally taken for galantine, as the long cooking makes it tender), pass this meat once or fwice through the mincer before using it for this purpose. Flatten the meat with a wetted roller, and after pulling in the loose flesh or skin, get it into as trim a shape as you can. Now spread all over it a layer of delicately prepared sausage meat (4oz. white bread- crumbs, a good teaspoonful of salt, and about half that of white pepper, to each pound of lean pork), bfing careful to keep this farce a little within the edge of the meat; on this lay strips of rather fat bacon, ham, tongue, and sliced hard-boiled egg, and some sliced truffles or mushrooms if at hand, and cover this again with the sausage mixture ; now roll it up very tightly longways, being careful to keep the farce well inside. Next roll this all up as tightly as you possibly can in a clean wet cloth, tie up the ends well, and fasten it round with broad tape to keep it in a nice bolster shape. Simmer it very gently (allowing forty minutes to the pound) till done, when you lift it out and leave it to press between two dishes under heavy weights. If on lifting it out of the pan the cloth looks wrinkled, take it off, re-roll the galantine, and then put it to press as described above. When perfectly cold remove the cloth, wipe the galantine to take off any fat that may be adhering to it, brush it all over with just liquid aspic jelly, and serve garnished with chopped aspic round it. An old turkey is made into a galantine in precisely the same way. Mutton makes an excellent galantine, if treated in this222 MEATS. way, but the stuffing in this case requires the addition of a layer of veal stuffing, to which you have added an anchovy or two, washed and minced, while brown sauce stiffened with gelatine should be used instead of aspic to glaze it. Olives, if at hand, are a delicious addition to mutton galantine. The breast of either veal or mutton boned makes excellent galantine. You can, of course, make your galantine more or less delicate by adding truffles, pistachios, &c., to the farce, and about half a gill of sherry or Marsala to the stock in which it is cooked. Again there is the— Chaufroix of Fowls.—Roast two large fowls with a piece of buttered paper tied over their breasts, so that they shall not take colour. When cold carve them neatly, taking the fillets from the breast, and carving tbe wings and legs into neat joints; remove the skin from each piece, break up the carcases, and put them, with the trimmings, into a saucepan with sufficient well-flavoured white stock to cover them, and with a couple of shallots, two or three cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper and salt to taste, and a wineglass of white wine. Let the whole boil gently for two hours. Strain the liquor, and free it absolutely from fat. Reduce it on the fire, and add to it, if necessary, a little uncoloured aspic jelly in a liquid state; then stir in, off the fire, the yolks of one or two eggs beaten up with the juice of half a lemon. Dip each piece of fowl in this sauce when it begins to get cold, so that each piece is thickly coated with it all over. When quite cold arrange the pieces on a dish, putting the legs underneath andSUPPER DISHES. 223 the best pieces on the top. Ornament with slices of truffles and chopped up aspic jelly. Stewed Foivl in Aspic.—Truss a large fowl as for boiling (it need not be so very young), and stew it very gently for an hour or so with a few soup vegetables, a bunch of parsley, some young green onions, and a slice or two of lean smoked ham, with seasoning to taste. When quite cooked, lift it out into an earthenware pan, pour the liquor in which it was cooked over it,' and leave it thus till cold. Prepare some white chaufroix sauce thus: Boil together a gill of veloute sauce (i.e., melted butter made with white stock instead of water), a gill of single cream or new milk, and a gill of aspic till it is reduced a fourth part, skimming it carefully. When this is cooling lift the fowl out of the liquor, wipe away any vegetable or fat that may be adhering to it, and then mask it all over with the chaufroix sauce just as the latter is setting, and put it aside till firm. Boar's Head.—Take the head of a bacon pig, cut it low in the shoulders, singe it, and then proceed to bone it, beginning at the throat; the tusks must not be removed, but scraped. Take out the tongue and pickle it in the same way as the head. For the pickle take 31b. or 41b. of common salt, and jib. of salt- petre, pound them well together, and rub them well into the head all over, especially over the eyes and ears, turn it over in the brine each day for a fort- night, then drain and dry it with a cloth. Have ready 31b, or 41b. of forcemeat (as for a galantine), a bottle of truffles, jib. of pistachio nuts previouslyMEATS. 224 blanched, and proceed to line the head in the same manner as a galantine, by putting a layer of: force- meat an inch thick, then fill up with the tongue, cut in six pieces lengthwise, and with the truffles and pistachio nuts, add salt and pepper and a little grated nutmeg; roll it up in a strong cloth, which should be greased, and tie it at both ends to preserve the shape of the head, place it in a braising pan with sufficient stock to cover it, and with any trimmings of game, poultry, or beef bones at hand, put in two carrots, three onions, parsley, thyme, a blade or two of mace, and half a dozen cloves. Leave it to simmer gently for five hours, take out the head, and arrange the cloth tightly round it to preserve the shape, as it will have shrunk considerably in boiling; put it into a deep pan, pour the stock on to it, and leave until quite cold; then remove the cloth, place it in the oven for a few minutes to melt off the jelly, or wipe it with a cloth dipped in hot water and wrung out; glaze it over with a dark glaze, and ornament with aspic jelly, white of egg, and beet- root. Italian paste or macaroni is also often used for the ornamentation; it should be boiled first for ten minutes, and thoroughly divided by pouring cold water over it. Each piece should then be laid on with a trussing needle, and may be very tastefully arranged in a variety of devices. Lard can also be used plain, or coloured red or green, with cochineal or spinach greening, and it should be piped on in the same way as sugar icing is done in ornamenting cakes. All this, however, needs taste and judgment, for if the least overdone it is hopelessly vulgarised.SUPPER DISHES. 225 Lastly there are the terrines and the moulds, both extremely nice for cold meats of any kind. Pies of various sorts have already been described, but the terrine, a form of pie after all, may here be given. Terrine of Hare.—Cut the flesh from a nice hare, and slice it into neat fillets; have readv some stuffing (such as is used for hare) and some fresh sausage meat, with some sliced bacon. Put a layer of stuffing at the bottom of the terrine, and lay on this thin slices of the bacon, then a layer of hare, and lastly a layer of sausage meat, and repeat these till the terrine is full, seasoning each layer with pepper, spice, &c., and sprinkling them with sherry or port wine, and some good stock made from the carcase of the hare ; when full lay a slice of raw fat bacon on the top, cover it with a buttered paper, and stand the terrine in another pan with boiling water, more than three parts the depth of the terrine, and bake it in a moderate oven for one to one and a half hours, according to the size of the terrine. When cooked, remove the fat bacon, and let it get perfectly cold, when a layer of butter (melted) should be run over the top. This will serve as a guide for all sorts of terrines. Fish is particularly good this way, if a nice fish farce is made of common fish and prawns, fillets of lobster or salmon, oysters, &c., are used as the filling. Terrine of Ham.—This is a German recipe, and perhaps for English tastes the quantity of lard might be lessened. Cut up lib. each of veal and fresh pork freed from all skin, sinew, &c.; make 2oz. or 3oz. of butter or lard hot in the frying-pan, then Q226 MEATS. slice into it an onion, add the meat and a tiny bouquet of herbs, and fry all these till cooked. When cool, pound them all in a mortar with about ilb. of lard or bacon fat, and rub this paste all through a sieve. Line a pie dish with some of this farce, and lay on it some ham cut into neat and rather thick slices; repeat these two layers till the dish is full, keeping the farce last. Cover this all with slices of bacon, and over this place the paste, making a hole in the centre of the latter, and filling it with a small funnel of paste. Bake, and when taken from the oven pour in through the funnel a glass of sherry, and when the pie is cold a little liquid lard. Before serving it (it must be perfectly cold), cut round the top, lift off the crust, and remove the bacon and the fat, cover with a little aspic, replace the cover, and leave it for half an hour or so till the aspic is firm. Terrine of Game.— Take pheasants or partridges, woodcocks or snipe, or a mixture of some of them ; bone and cut them up in convenient pieces, larding the breast pieces. Take the livers, parboil them, and chop them up finely with an equal quantity of cooked veal (lean) and of bacon, then pound the whole in a mortar, adding during the process a small quantity of breadcrumbs soaked in stock, a little parboiled onion or shallot, pepper, salt, and powdered spices to taste, as well as some powdered sweet herbs; also add a little fresh butter. When the mixture is thoroughly pounded, pass it through a hair sieve, and then work into it the yolks of one or two eggs to bind it. Make a paste with two partsSUPPER DISHES. 227 of floor to one of butter, salt to taste, and as much water as is necessary to obtain a stiffish paste ; work it quite smooth, roll it out to a thickness of three- eighths of an inch, line a raised pie mould (pre- viously buttered) with it, taking care to make it fit exactly; crimp the edges at the top with a paste cutter, then line the pie with slices of bacon cut as thin as possible, and proceed to fill in with the pieces of game, truffles (previously cooked in white wine), and mushrooms (cooked in lemon juice and water), filling up the interstices with forcemeat. B; careful to pack the whole closely. Put on a cover of paste, make a hole in the centre, put a piece of buttered paper on the top, and bake about four hours in a rather slow oven. When taken out, pour in through the hole some hot aspic jelly. The next day take off the cover and lay on the top a layer of bright aspic chopped up, not too finely. Terrine a la Nerac.—Skin and cleanse one or two good rabbits, and remove all the flesh from the bones ; weigh this, and take twice its weight of raw ham (fat and lean) or fresh pork, and pass this all through a mincer once or twice ; then for each pound of meat add 4oz. of game or poultry livers and rub the whole through a coarse sieve; turn this all into a basin, and work into it a sufficient seasoning of salt, coarsely-ground black pepper, very finely minced or powdered bay leaf, and a spray or so of thyme; line your pate with this farce, pressing it well into shape with your hand, which should be constantly dipped into cold water, so as to get the mixture quite smooth; on this put a layer of any nice fillets of 2MEATS. 228 poultry or game (previously seasoned with salt, pepper, and finely minced herbs), sprinkling these with a little sherry, then a layer of sliced foie gras en terrine, then a layer of very thinly sliced fat bacon, and continue these layers till the dish is full, raising it well in the centre in dome shape ; and lastly, cover the top with a slice of fat bacon and two or three whole bay leaves, all well sprinkled with sherry ; cover with paste, and finish as above. Before serving it the top crust should be cut off neatly with a sharp knife, the bacon and bay leaves removed, and a layer of chopped aspic put over it, and the cover replaced. This makes a most delicious pie for the Christmas sideboard, and is far less troublesome to make than it sounds. Terrine of Game {without game).—At the bottom of a round tin or mould place a few strips of fat bacon, then a layer of forcemeat, made as indicated below, then boned joints of rabbit or poultry, or small fillets of veal, filling up all spaces with the forcemeat, and placing more bacon at the top. Pour half a teacupful of gravy over all, put on the upper crust, fastening the edges well and trimming accor- ding to fancy, When half baked draw the pie out of the oven and brush it all over with beaten egg. Bake altogether about an hour and a half. Force- meat: fib. of calf’s liver fried and simmered until perfectly tender, then pounded with an equal quan- tity of fat bacon, about a teacupful of breadcrumbs, a tablespoonful of mixed and sifted herbs (sage, thyme, parsley, &c.), black pepper and allspice, of each half a teaspoonful, and the same of salt. Mix thoroughly.229 SUPPER DISHES. Terrine Souvarojf.—Pick, draw and singe the birds to be used, halving them if small or cutting them into joints if large. Pack them in a terrine, seasoning them as you do so with a little salt and freshly ground black pepper, and placing a layer of sliced truffles on each layer of bird; if truffles are not at hand mushrooms may be used. When the terrine is filled with these layers pour in sufficient sherry to cover the contents entirely ; cover down the terrine, luting on the cover with a band of paper and egg and flour paste. Set the terrine in a pan of boiling water, and bake for thirty to sixty minutes, according to size. All game birds are excellent in this way, but poultry, pigeons, larks, quail, &c., are also very good. If to be served hot remove the paper band, pin a napkin round the terrine, amd send to table on a napkin or dish paper. If to be used cold, do not take off the paper band till the terrine is wanted for use. Por the luting ■paste mix a little flour with half the white of an egg to a stiff paste. Of moulds there are many different kinds, but all are com enient, and very decorative. The following gives a clear idea of how raw meat can be utilised for a mould. Jellied Veal.—Break a small knuckle of veal into pieces, and lay these in a stewpan with a quart of water, a spoonful or two of chojyped onion, a blade of mace, three or four cloves, a bouquet of herbs, some peppercorns (these might be tied up in a small muslin bag), a sliced carrot, and some salt. Skim the water carefully as it comes to the boil, then let it allMEATS. 230 simmer gently for three or four hours ; now remove the veal, cut the meat up into neat pieces, and lay it in another pan, straining the liquor from the first cooking over it, and allow it to simmer again for half an hour or so. Slice three or four hard boiled eggs, and arrange some of the slices at the bottom of a plain mould, then put in a layer of the veal (when cooled), then more egg, then a layer of small pieces of tongue or ham, and repeat these layers till the mould is full, when it should be put in a cool place to set. Turn it out by dipping the mould in some warm water, and running the blade of a knife round between the jelly and the mould, and serve garnished with watercress. Chicken or game make a somewhat similar dish prepared in this way: Cover the bird with boiling water, let the latter reboil, then skim well, draw the pan to the side of the stove, and let its contents simmer very gently till the fowl is tender, when it must be lifted from the liquor and both left till nearly cold. Now remove all fat from the liquor, put the latter in a saucepan with a clove, a sliced onion, a bouquet, and a small sliced carrot, and |oz. of gela- tine, and simmer it all for ten or fifteen minutes ; now season to taste with salt and pepper, sti a n, and when cool pour some into a mould, leaving this till nearly set. Now shred the flesh of the fowl free from skin and bone, and pack it into the mould with strips of ham or tongue, hard boiled egg, and French gherkins, with alternate layers of the jelly, finishing with the latter, and leaving it in a cool place to set. Then turn out and serve, garnished with salad.231 SUPPER DISHES. Veal Cake —Slice down four hard boiled eggs, and garnish with some of the slices a well-buttered basin or mould, then pack it with alternate layers of veal, ham, and hard boiled egg, seasoning these well with minced parsley, pepper, and salt; when full, pour in a little good, well-seasoned stock, and allow it all to bake steadily for four hours. Let it stand till perfectly cold, then turn it out and serve garnished with chopped aspic and parsley. Fowls, pheasants, &c., can all be used thus, but in their case a little best leaf gelatine must be added to the gravy when strained off, and boiled down with it, to ensure the gelatine being thoroughly dissolved and blended with the stock. Moreover, any cold cooked meat or game can be used up in this way : Dissolve l|oz. to 2oz. of best leaf gelatine in a quart of good clear stock (the stock must be flavoured to suit the meat used) ; cut any remains of cold cooked game into neat little fillets, also some cooked tongue and ham, then pack a mould or basin with the game, ham, tongue, some stoned olives, sliced truffles, sliced hard boiled or plover’s eggs, cubes of pate de foie gras, &c., according to what you have, and now pour in enough of the stiffened stock to cover the contents of the mould, and put it aside till set. Any scraps, however small, can be used up thus, and if set in tiny timbale moulds make an extremely pretty decoration for a mayonnaise.INDEX Barding and larding, 134 Basting, 22, 24 Battalia pie, 192 Beep— a la bourguignotte, 35 „ vinaigrette 33 alia romana, 46 to bake, 21-23 „ boil, 25, 26, 45 „ broil, 24 „ braize, or stew, 27, 23 „ cut up, 2-4 „ roast, 21-23 „ stew, 27, 28, 30 baked, Irish stew, 42 braised, a la Fra^aise, 217 brisket of, a l’agro-dolce, 39 ,, pickled, 41 „ stewed, 40 “ bouilli,” 33 casserole, 35 Chateaubriand, 25 „ fourr6, 37 chaufroix, 216 collared, 44 fillet, plain and larded, 34 frozen, 4 heart, 46233 INDEX. Beef (Continued)— joints of, 9-12 “ Pot-au-feu,” 33 potroast, 49 pressed beef, 212, 215 porterhouse steak, 12, 36 ragout a la Eomaine, 48 sirloin to roast or stew, 30 „ fag-end, to use, 32 “ skirt,” 190 spiced, 211 steak, 25 „ fourr4, 37 „ pie, 195 „ pudding, 42, 189 ,, porterhouse, 12, 36 ,, rolled, 37 Blackcock, 171 Boar’s head, 223 Bouquet garni, 63 Breadcrumbs, 168 Caneton aux navets, 162 „ olives, 161 Capercailzie, 175 Chapon truffe, 155 Chaufroix of fowl, 222 "• Cheshire Cheese pudding,” 43 Duck, wild, 177 canvasback, 178 in season, 123 to roast, 147 Fig tree, use of, 67 Forcemeat, 36, 221 sage and onion, 105, 147 chestnut and sausage meat, 106, 145 truffle, 106 Fowl, boiled, 148 old, to cook, 159234 INDEX. Fowl, potroast, 159 to roast, 145 in season, 122 stewed in aspic, 223 (See also “ poule ” and “ ponlet ”) Galantine of fowl, 220 mutton, 79 veal, 218-220 Game, foreign, 175 to hang-, 163-167 “mock,” 179 Glaze, to use, 214 Gniocchi, 48, 82 Goose k l’estouffade, 160 pie, 209 to choose, 122, 123 to roast, 146 to truss, 133 wild, 178 “ Grives,” or thrushes, 174 Guineafowl, 123, 146 Hare, 179 civet de, 183 jugged, 184 marinade for, 181 rable a la creme, 182 pie, 205 terrine, 225 Joints, weight of, 14 “ Koshering,” 29 Lamb, to choose and joint, 7, 92 forequarter, roast, 93 „ a l’hoteli&re, 96 „ farci aux huitres, 96 grass and house, 92 leg of, a l’Allemande, 97 „ a l’lndienne, 97 „ it la Valenciennes, 97235 INDEX. Lamb (Continued) — leg of, boiled, 98 roast, whole, 95 Landrail, 173 Larks, 174 Leveret, 184 Luting paste, 229 Macaroni, 81 Maggi aspic, 213 Maitre d’hotel butter, 154 Meat, to choose, 2-8 to cut up, 14-20 Melted butter with game, 169 “ Mignonette,” 52 Mutton, 5-6, 66 age of, 5 breast of, 78 Bredee or Brady, 86 fricandeau of, 78 frozen, 6, 7 galantine of, 79 gravy, 69 to hang, 67 haricot, 84 „ & la C. de Bergerac, 81 jelly, 69 joints of, 13 haggis, 88 hotpot, 84 ,, Lancashire, 85 Irish stew, 85 leg au jus, 70 ,, „ Parmesan, 72 „ a la Bretonne, 72 „ ,, Durand, 75 „ „ polonaise, 75 „ „ Busse, 75 Soubise, &c., 72 it236 INDEX. Mutton (Continued)— leg, stuffed, 71 „ „ with oysters, 74 „ boiled, 73 „ braized, 73 ,, in a crust, 71 „ three joints from, 70-72 loin, stuffed, 78 „ a la Milanaise, 78 Navarin, 83 Neck & la Ducliesse, 89 „ „ Turque, 90, 158 Rau, 80 roast, 68-70 shoulder, broiled, 77 ,, and Queen Mary’s sauce, 77 steak, 71 stew, a la Romaine, 82 sheep’s head, 87 „ „ broth, 67 „ „ pie, 88 time to cook, 68 Ortolans, 174 Partridge, to cook, 111, 171 chartreuse, 172 aux choux, 171 Peahen, 176 Peas pudding, 100 Pheasant, to roast, 167 a la Connaught, 170 „ estouffade, 170 „ Gitana, 169 „ Soubise, 170 „ Victoria, 170 with mushrooms, 170 Pies, 193 battalia, 192 beefsteak, 195INDEX 237 Pies (Continued)— chicken, 199 „ and parsley, 201 duck, 201 giblet, 198 gravy for, 197 grouse, 207 hare, 205 lark, 202 mutton, 198 partridge, 201 paste for, 193 „ raised, 194 „ rich, 194 „ rough puff, 194 „ timbale, 207 pigeon, 199 rabbit, 205 „ (Shropshire), 206 rook, 209 sheep’s head, 88 snipe, 44, 204, squab, 208 teal, widgeon, or woodcock, 203 veal and ham, 197 venison, or pasty, 208 woodcock, 204 Pigeons, to roast, 151 in season, 123 Pintail, 177 Plover, 176 Pork, to choose, 8 „ joint, 13 „ roast, 100 (bacon) and broad beans, 104 ham, to braize, 103 to roast, 102 to boil, 103INDEX, 238 Poke (Continued)— leg, to roast, 99 „ (salt), to boil, 100 „ to braize, 100 „ a l’allemande, 100 sucking pig, 104-106 Poultry, to choose, &c., 119, 120 in season, 122, 123 kinds of, 124 to bard and lard, 134 „ bone, 140-143 „ cut up for fricass^s, 135 „ singe, &c., 125, 126 „ truss, 127-133 Poule au gros sel, 149 au pot, 148 au riz, 149 Poui )t a la Chivry, 153 k la Dreux, 156 a l’ltalienne, 151 a la Montmorency, 156 „ peau de goret, 153 ,, Turque, 158 aux asperges, 151 „ tomates, 154 au jus, 152 en casserole, 157 truffe aux huitres, 154 Prairie hens, 175 Ptarmigan, 175 Puddings, 187 beef steak, 189 „ (small), 190 mutton, 190 paste for (suet), 187, 188 „ Atora, 188 rabbit, 192 small bird, 191239 INDEX. Puddings (Continued)— snipe, 192 veal kidney, 191 “ Cheshire Cheese,” 43 Quail, 173 Rabbit a la Soubise, 185 to roast, 182 to truss, 186 Ravigotte butter, 154 Roasting tin, 24 Ruff a and reeves, 175 Salad, orange, 177 watercress, 162 Sauce, allemande, 157 almond, 171 apple, 147 bread, 168 chaufroix, 217, 223 chervil, 152 gooseberry, 185 ravigotte, 153 roedeer, 111, 112 Swan, to roast, 178 Teal, 176, 177 Terrine of fish, 225 „ ham, 225 „ hare, 225 „ game, 226 „ „ (mock), 228 Ncrac, 227 Souvaroff, 229 Tomatoes, fried, 36 puree, 81 Turkey in season, 123 to roast, 145 to boil or braize, 149 en daube, 150 Veal, to cook, 50240 INDEX. Veal (Continued)— a la Bruxelloise, 61 „ Cambaceres, 62 „ Chipolata, 62 „ Cremiere, 62 „ Fenniere, 62 ,, Jardiniere, 62 ,, Lombarde, 62 „ Mancelle, 62 „ Princesse, 62 „ Ste. Claire, 62 an jus, 54 bladebone, to grill, 54 braized, 218 breast, stowed, 54-56 calf’s head au natnrel, 63 „ „ braized, 65 „ „ en tortue, 64 „ „ en vinaigrette, 64 cake, 231 en marinade, 52 en pilaff, 59 fricandeau, 51 „ to lard, 51, 54, 58 galantine, 218, 219 jellied, 230 hotpot, 61, (42) knuckle, to bake, 52 „ stew, 53 loin, roast, 58 ragout a la paysanne, 57 round a l’ltalienne, 57 ,, la uienagere, 56 tendrons, 54 Venison, 107 civet, 115 „ en casserole, 115 collops, 113INDEX. 241 Venison (Continued)— collops minced, 114 haunch, to cook, 109, 112 jugged, 116 larded, 117 potted, 116 preserved, 118 pudding, 116 roe, red deer, or ibex, 110 shoulder, to stew, 113 smoked, 117 steak and bacon, 114, 115 Water, to salt for boiling meat, 26 to simmer, 27 Watercress salad, 162 Wheatears, 174 Widgeon, 177, 204 Woodcock, 176, 204 &o., to preserve, 113Advertisements. IMPERIAL DAMASK TABLE LINEN (Made from Best Irish Flax), IN NEWEST PATTERNS. With Serviettes to Match Cloths. DAMASK IN ALLSIZESAND QUALITIES. Kitchen Damask gives Splendid Wear. OPENWORK TRAY AND SIDEBOARD CLOTHS, Best Linen Sheeting and Pillow Linen. FINEST COTTON TWILL SHEETING. W. J. ROCHE, MANUFACTURER, BELFAST. Established 1859. Write for Samples, Post Free. FOREIGN AND COLONIAL ORDERS HAVE PROMPT ATTENTION.ITl?e series will consist of tl?e following: No. 1;—SOUPS v1 tt 2.—ICES. t, 3.—PICKLES AND PRESERVES. ,t 4.—ENTREES. „ 5.—MEAT AND GAME, f, 6.—SWEETS—Part I. tt 7.— „ Pari II. ,t 8.—BREAKFAST AND LUNCH DISHES. 9.—SALADS, SANDWICHES, and SAVOURIES. „ 10.-VEGETABLES. it—r A k'ftc; Aivrri RiQrTTT'rc