o 5 1Med K9445Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https ://arch i ve .org/detai Is/b28054283CROSSE & BLACKWELL’S MALT VINEGAR, Pure Pickles, Sauces, Potted Meats & Fish, Prepared Soups, Calves’ Feet Jelly, Jams and Orange Marmalade ALWAYS BEAR THEIR NAMES AND ADDRESSES ON THE LABELS, And may be obtained of Grocers and Italian Ware- housemen throughout the World. CROSSE & BLACKWELL, the (Cltteen, SOHO SQUARE, LONDON.Health, Strength and Energy Are quickly obtained by simply taking a few doses of EPPS’S CURA-CENE (Wine of Ozone). The greatest purifier and enricher of the blood known. Its effects are almost immediate, and the cure certain. EPPS’S CURA-CENE (Wine of Ozone)- A guaranteed cure for nervous, physical, and functional weakness singing noises in the head and ears, dimness of sight, and specks floating ’Jefo/e the e% e^ dizdness, failing appetite, pains and aches, heart disease with rising of food, and acidity of the stomach, vomituig, liver complaints, diseases, shortness of breath, kidney diseases, softening of the brain, and 1 sHes^nes , coughs, asthma, and in the early stages of chest diseases and ^^ecline impin ^ blood, with pimples, blotches, and eruptions, flushing, trembling of the m a ^ jouf’ exhaustion, melancholy and loss of memory, indigestion, biliousness, neuialg a, gout, and rheumatism, loss 6f energy, and unfitness for stu.lv, society, or nir^ is not a disease but what this medicine will reach, and in al human 1^?’^’ ^ J,?’ it has thousands of times before, even after everything else had been tried and lailed. IT GIVES STRENGTH AT ONCE and will give more strength in ten minutes than any other medicine will in as many weeks, and is extremely pleasant to take. IT PURIFIES THE BLOOD, rendering the skin clear and transparent, and removing all pimples, blotches and eruptions. It produces new, rich and pure blood, andevepdhing for forming muscle, flesh, bone, brain, &c., and also contains the very elements of Llrl^. IT NOURISHES THE BRAIN, mental exhamstion or overworked brain, supplying at Gie same time iieue, thou^ it, and brain food, and giving a great increase in intellectual power. This Grand RESUSCITATING ELIXIR has been recommended by the most illustrious Physicians Erasmus Wilson, Sir Charles Locock, Physician to the Queen, and Mi. C.vfai Hawkins Serceant-Surgeon to the Queen, who have given their testimonials iinsolicitk : C^iies of wfliieh, together with the opinions of the Press, will be sent to anyone post free. Sold in bottles at 2/9. 4/6 and 11/-, and most Chemists keep it, but any not having it in stock will procure it without extra charge, and there is a t ^tbe buying the larger sizes. Should, however, any difliculty be found in getting it, the Proprietors will send it carriage free. London Agent.s TimMPSOvl'mLi.^ & Co., Great Eastern Street; Sanger ^xmru Street; Hovenden & Sons, 31, 32, Berners Street, Oxford isti'fet, A\ ., and 91-95, CiQ Road- Sutton & Co., 10, Bow Church Tard; Butler & Crispe, 4, Cheapside, Lynch & Co., 192, Aldersgate Street; and May, Rouerts & Co., 9, Clerkeiiwell Road, E.C. EPPS CO., 366, AL13A.NY CA.MBERWELL, LON DON.i “SANA PEDES n (HEALTHY FEET.) A CERTAIN, SAFE, AND SIMPLE REMEDY FOR THE Cure and Prevention of Damp and Unpleasant Smelling Feet. In offering this remedy to those who suffer (and they are many) from this unpleasant affection, the Proprietors have every confidence that they are supplying a long-felt want. For many years the remedy has been used by medical men and others, who have recommended it to their patients and friends, and in no single instance has it failed in affecting the desired result, without any unpleasantness afterwards, as many other applications have done. So far back as 1871, IL II. M. writes :— “ I have prescribed your remedy to many of your patients at this Dispensary—always with satisfaction,—and I think you ought to make it more widely known.” II. E. DA J IS, Esq., AI.D., lorites :—- “Prescribed it frequently -always effectually.” Many Testimonials have been received, which can be verified by inspection. SANA PEDES ” is forwarded by post to any address in the United Kingdom on receipt of Postal Order for 2 6, by G-RIIFFIIT cfe OO., 356, COLDHARBOUR LANE, BRIXTON, LONDON, S.W.ASHTON’S &OUT &HHEH1ATIC CHHE. A certoin remedy for Gout, Lumbago, Sciatica, Kheumatism, Rheumatic Gout and Tic Doloreux, &c. It gives relief in two hours, and cures where everything else has failed. Price 1/1L 2/9, 4/6, and 11/-, Post Free. ASHTON’S ASTHIA CHHE Is the finest complaint. })revented. medicine in the woild for this most distressing Asthma, Bronchitis, Coughs aud Consumption Price 1/1L 2/9, 4/6, and 11/- ASHTON’S HNIYERSAL PILLS. The great remedy for Disordered Liver, Foul Stomach, Loss of Apj^etite, Trembling Sensations, Costiveness, Frightful Dreams, Disturbed Sleep, Impaired Digestion, Headache, and a thou,sand other ills of life ; they are also the female.s’ great friend. Price l/D and 2/9. ASHTON’S CHHATIYE SALYE. An invaluable remedy for Burns, Cuts, Ulcerated Joints, Absce.'^'ses or Inflamed Breasts, and every similar kind of disease. Price 1/D and 2/9. nsrOTE the ^eehessK Most astonishing cures have been efiected by these famous remedies. Particulars on application. If your chemist has not got the above, ask him to order it for you; or sent direct by the Propi-ietor, nJ. WARjNER, 70 & 71, Chancery Lane, London, W.C. Wholesale J gents for London: Messrs. F. SANGER & SONS, W. Messrs. HOVENDEN & SONS, W. Messrs. BARCLAY & SONS, E.C. Messrs. MAY, ROBERTS & CO., E.C. Messrs. WILLIAM EDWARDS & SON, E.C.No. 3, Bolt Court, Fleet Street, London, E.C. I I ! i I 1 I i I j By ANGELINA WORTH. The most Practical, Artistic, and Scientific Dressmaking. Price ij-, Post Free, 1.2. “VIC” PUBLISHING COMPANY,THE TETIE-FIT TEUSS COlPASY, MANUFACTURERS OF SURGICAL APPLIANCES & RUBBER GOODS By Appointment to all the Principal Hospitals, Charities, and Infirmaries, 98 WATERLOO ROAD, LONDON, S.E. 98 AnJOiNiNG Watkrloo Statiox, L.S.W.Ry. c^red RUPTURE TRUSSES, cfr'id. The TRUE-FIT TRUSS is the latest invention, and is rapidly- superseding all others. IT is a most complete remedy, not onlj" for the support, but also the cure; suitable to all the various forms of the complaint, and calculated to ensure perfect security against further suffering or inconvenience. Tlie construction is remarkably light, very strongly made, and so simple and exact that the wearer can turn the pad of the Truss precisely over the part from which the rupture protrudes. By sending the circumference of the body one inch below the top of the liips—stating whether left, right, or double—all applications will receive immediate attention. References can he given to the most eminent Surgeons, Public Institutions, and to persons following the most laborious and trying occuimtions. „ . j Single, 7/6 10/6 15/6 21/6 31/6 42/6. Double, 15/6 21/6 31/6 42/6 63/6 84/6. Highest Awards at Melbourne, Paris and London. ELASTIC SURGICAL STOCKINGS, KNEE CAPS, LEGGINGS, &c., The most efficient means of supporting Varicose Veins, Weakness, Sprains, Dislocation, Rheumatism, Weak Ankles, &c. DIRECTIONS FOR MEASUREMENT. Give Circumference and Length of the part of the Leg to he covered. N.B.—In all cases .allowance will he made for compression, unless ordered to the contrary. N.B.—In articles covering both the upper and lower parts of the limb, it is important to give length required above and below the knee. Extra Strong Elastic Articles expressly made for supporting the Knee, Calf and Ankle, when Shooting, &c. Highly recommended hy many Noblemen and Gentlemev. The ELASTIC .STOCKINGS, BELTS, &c., m.aybe washed with Soap and Water— the only precaution necessary being the use of Warm, not Hot Water; they should be dried in the air, not near a lire. Stocking. Legging. Knee-cap. Anklet. Wristlet. Pripps iCotton, 3/6 3/- 3/3 2/6 2/- each. Trices g^g g^_ g^g ^^gTHE TRUE-FIT CHEST EXPANDING BRACE. RouDd St(oulders, Stooping Habits & Deformities Cured & Prevented. Strengthens the voice and Lungs, relieves indigestion, and is especially adapted for assisting the growth of Children, for promoting Health and Symmetry of Figure ; for Ladies and Gentlemen of sedentary habits, and for persons suffering from Con- sumption, Asthma, Heart Disease, Weakness and Pains in the Chest and Back, Indigestion, &c. LADIES’, 5/6 to 10/6 ; GENTLEMEN’S, 5/6 to 12/6. In ordering Braces, give the Circumference of the Chest and Waist. Chest Expanders, 3/6, 5'-, 7/6,10/6 each Patent Enemas ... 3/6, 5/6, 7/6 ,, Steel Leg Supports 15/-, 17/6,21 6 „ Spinal Supports Urinals (Female) Do. (Male) Stomach Warmers Foot Do. Arm Slings ... Invalids' Belts Ladies’ Belts from 25/- „ 10,6 „ 10/6 „ 2/6 „ 4/- „ 10/- „ 12/6 „ 7/6 Gents’ Belts from 5/- each Cotton Suspender 1'- Silk Do. 2/6 1) Invalid Bed Chairs 18/- 1» Hot-air Bath 16/- 11 Vapour Baths ... 10/6 11 Bed Bests n 15'- 11 Bed Slippers 5/- 11 Water Pillows ... ?? 6,6 11 Bronchitis Kettles, for use over fire 1 b 7/3 11 Patent Bathing Trusses, Singles, 7/6; Doubles, 15/-; Artificial Limbs, Sjiinal Jachets and Sujjports, Leg Irons and Surgical Boots. Arm Slings, and Crxttches, Magnetic Appliances, Elastic Stockings and Belts, Suspenders, Chest Expanding Braces and Protectors, ^'c., kept in stock. THE PROFESSION SUPPLIED. Special attention is invited to the following Articles manufactured on the premises, of superior quality and workmanship, and at moderate prices :— Elastic Abdominal Supporting Belts for both Sexes; those tor Ladies' use (self-regulating) are admirablv adapted for giving adequate support, with extreme lightness—a point little attended to in the comparatively clumsy contrivances and fabrics hitherto employed. Knee Caps and Stockings. Ankle Pieces, to draw on or lace; Riding Belts, Spinal Supports, Invisible Crutches, Arm Slings, Splints, Spring and other Crutches, Artilicial Limbs, Leg Instruments. l)j' whicli the detormed Child may Ijecome straight; Elastic Roller Bandages ; Air and Water Cushions, Beds, Pillows ; Water- proof Hospital Sheetings. AIR d WATERPROOF SURGICAL INDIA RUBBER INSTRUMENTS, dc., With all recent improvements. Hot Water Bottles for Feet, Ear Syringes, &c.. Surgical Indii Rubber Bandages, Ear Trumpets, Conversation Tubes, Cot and Crib India Rubl)er Waterproof Sheets, Chest Expanders, and every description of Patent and newlj'- inveiited French and English Trusses, and other Instruments of the newest Inventions, by skilled Paris and London Workmen. ALL ORDERS EXECUTED SAME DAY. Money Orders made payable to JOHN MELLINGER, Manager, Waterloo Road Post Opice, S.E. 98, WATERLOO ROAD, lONDOR, S.E. 98.A BOON FOR EVERY HOME. ROWLAND'S POLISHING PASTE. POLISHING PASTE. WONDERFUL VALUE, LARGE T I ISr, 2 d. Gives a most Brilliant and Lasting Polish to all kinds of Plate, Brass, Tin, Steel, Copper, Zinc, &c., and is a boon for every home. Never Scratches. POLISHES WITH LIGHTNING BAPIDITY, AND IS BY FAR THE BEST AND CHEAPEST FOR POLISHING HARNESS AND ALL KINDS OF LEATHER GOODS. REGISTERED TRADE MARK. IT IS THE BEST IN THE WORLD Order Rowland's Polishing Paste, a large Tin, 2d. WASH^a A PLEASURE-IO RUBBIia REQUIRED. ROWLAND'S SELF-WASHING TABLETS. HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. WONDERFUL! WONDERFUL!! WONDERFUL!!! On next washing-day place one of Rowland’s Self- Washing Tablets in the Copper, with a little soda, according to the directions accompanying, boil for half-an-hour, and the clothes will come out beauti- fully clean, white and uninjured. A LARGE TABLET ONLY COSTS TWO PENCE. Very Important.—The Editor of the “FAMILY DOCTOR ” strongly recommends all readers to use Rowland's Tablets. They are perfection. Rowland's Self-Wasliing Tablets. Be sure you order tlieiu. Will Save Time, Save Temper, Save Money. TAYLOR & TAYLOR, (Klliole.sale & Crport agents, FACTORY : OFFICES : Artillery Street, Bermondsey, i 23, Laurence Pountriey Lane, LONDON, E.C. j CANNON 81, LONDON E.C., Telegraphic Address—“PRETTINESS, LONDON.”COCA BISCUITS. ^iT |>onal gcttiJVSr ^Tatuitt* ERBACH BROS., 59, Junction Road, Upper Holloway, X- O W D O W, W . COCA, or CUCA, as the Indians call it, must not be confounded with Cocoa, The Coca, or Cuca, Plant (Eiytliroxylon) has been of late extensively used in England, producing marvellous results. Dr. Archibald Smith says that Coca “ increases energy, removes drowsiness, enlivens the spirits, and enables the con- sumer to bear cold, wet, great bodily exertion, and even want of food, to a surprising degree.” Dr. Albert Buck, Dr. Isaac Ott, Prof. Christian, Van Tschudi, Markham, and many other savants, express themselves in terms equally favourable. These Biscuits are a delicious and innocuous form of Con- fectionery, invaluable to Travellers, Cyclists, Cricketers, and Sportsmen. PRICE 1/- PER LB. SAMPLE BOXES SEXT POST FREE FOB TWELVE STAMPS. S9, Junction Road, Upper Holloway, LONDON, N, ALONDON, S.E. STUNT’S AMMO PETRO SELF-WASHING & SAVE TIME! SCOURING BARS SAVE TEMPER!! SAVE MONEY !!! PREVENT DISEASE!!!! ONE PENNY BAN OF “AMMO PETRO,” Placed in a Copper, witli a little Soda, in accordance with Directions given next page, the dirty clothes, hoiled for half-an-hour, will he taken out perfectly clean and uninjured, as “ AMMO PETRO ” CONTAINS NO CHEMICALS ! A whole Family’s Washing to be done in two hours with ONE TABLET! To be procured for ONE PENNY at all Grocers and Oil Shops, or direct from the WORKS: ASTLEY STREET, OLD KENT RD.,LADIES, STUDY TIME AND ECONOMY! STUNT’S “AMMO PETRO” Self-Washing and Scouring Soap MAKES WASHING A PLEASURE! NO *RUBBING REQUIRHD 4* D. W, STUNT’S “AMMO PETRO” Self-Washing & Scouring Soap. NO RUBBING REQUIRED. DIRECTIONS. Fill the Copper half-full of water, and as soon as the water boils, put in one of the Bars, then put the clothes in and add half-pound of Soda. Keep the \ya,ter unfit e boil for half-an-hour, well stirring the clothes with the copper-stick ever}' few minutes; then take the clothes out, and, after letting them drain, thoroughly rinse in cold water. The clothes can then be passed through the blue water. Works: Astley St., Old Kent Rd., LONDON, S.E. ^^ASK FOR STUNT’S “AMMO PETRO,’ From any (Trocers or Oil Shops, and, if not obtainable there, direct from the Works, Astley St., Old Kent Kd., London, S.E.invi::p:R.ovEXD VENTILATED REFRIGERATORS PERPETUAL, SELF-ACTING, AND PORTABLE. “ A provokingly simple adaptation of immutable and unfailing natural law,’’—Sclentijic lieco rd. No Freezing’ Powder, no Mecliaiiical action; not liable to get out of order, no expense after piircliase, and will endure for lialf a lifetime. % MEAT PRESERVED, COOKED OR UNCOOKED. CHEESE KEPT IN NEWLY-CUT CONDITION. WINES, WATER, AND OTHER BEVER- AGES KEPT PERFECTLY COOL IN THE HOTTEST WEATHER. Without trouble, attention, or manipulation from Servants, effects a result as comparatively COLD AS ICE UNDER A BURNING SUN ! ! Butter kept cool and liard in the hottest weather. Milk and Cream kept sweet. Meat preserved (cooked or uncooked). FISH KEPT PEBFECTLY SWEET. Jellies kept deliciously cool. Wine, Champagne, and other Beverages cooled without Ice. Fruit preserved in hot weather. COOLED BY A NATURAL LAW. FAILURE IMPOSSIBLE. NO ICE REQUIRED. PKTCES:—Oval Shape, to cover Dishes, 6 6, 8 6, 10,6, 13 6, 16 6 each. The Set or Nest of Five, £2 15s. 6d. Carriage Free. Postal Orders to X AAT- A T .XOTST HIOLIMIES, 83, Westbourne Road, Barnsbury, LONDON, N,LONDON, W.C. FLORADOR. Newest and Best Food. EQUALLY SUITED fOR ' INVALIDS AND FOR THE F^OBUST. Efislly Digested. Extremely Nutritious. LONDON AND GLASGOW. •♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦• CENTRAL DEPOT: 17, Southampton St., High lolhorn.THE PME COIESTIBIES COMPANY. The object of this Company is to supply the Public with articles of FOOD, CONDIMENTS & BEVERAGES, Prom common necessaries to the greatest delicacies, ALL Warranted Adulteration being now carried on so insidiously, the establishments of the above Company will be welcomed in all parts of London and the Country. Further Particulars of THE PURE COMESTIBLES COMPANY. 278, POETOBELLO EOAD, AND OF THE QUALITY. NOTTING HILL, LONDON, W.THE PURE COMESTIBLES COMPANY (WHOLESALE AND RETAIL) Are connected with the best sources in England and the Continent. TEA, the Best at the Lowest Prices. CIGARS AND TOBACCO. WESTPHALIA, YORK, IRISH & ENGLISH HAMS. Mortadella, Brariswick, Gotha, Italian & Fraijkfort Sausages. POMERANIAN SMOKE-DRIED GOOSE BREASTS AND GOOSE HAMS. FOIES GRAS AND TRUFFLED LEBERWURST. STRASBURG PATES. GAME AND BACON. HAMBRO SMOKE-DRIED BEEF & ROLLS Marinaded Herrings, Lampreys, and Biicklings, GORGONA, DUTCH & NORWEGIAN ANCHOVIES. Caviar, Sardines, a Tomato, in Butter, or in Oil. PERIGORD TRUFFLES, PISTACHIOS, W(ANG0ES, OLIVES & CAPERS. PICKLES, JAMS, JELLIES & DRIED FRUITS. Potted Meats & Fish, Essences and Sauces. Among the latter, the exquisite Speciality, HINDOO CHUTNEE. Price Lists forwarded on appiication to 278, PORTOBELLO ROAD, Netting Hill, London, W.LORIMER’S PEPSINE SAUCE. THE MOST DELICIOUS SAUCE OBTAINABLE. U arranted madef rom Careftdly Selected dc Wholesome Ingredients. FOR USB WITH CHOPS, STEAKS, FISH, CUTLETS, & GRAVIES. In Bottles, 6d. and 1s. each. In addition to the usual ingredients of a first-class Sauce, tliis one contains pure Pepsine, Nature’s remedy for indigestion—hence it is invaluable to all sufferers from that most distressing complaint, by whom it should be taken freely with ever}’ meal. The delicacy of flavour, and the richness and refined zest, com- bined in this justly-celebrated sauce, universally recommend it to the imlate of the most fastidious epicure ; while its judicious combination of selected aromatics proves a most grateful stimulus to the important functions of the stomach, its affluent piquancy lends a peculiar and exquisite enjoyment to the pleasures of the table. All persons wishing to enjoy good digestion should partake of it freely with their meals. TAKE A HARD-BOILED EGG, separate the white from the yolk, break up the white as if masticated, add to it two table-spoonfuls of LORIMER’S PEPSINE SAUCE diluted with an equal quanity of water, mix well and allow the mixture to stand at a temperature of 130 deg. Fah. for a few hours, when it will be found that most, if not all, of the egg has disappeared —has actually been digested as in the living stomach ; a similar result will occur if shreds of beef finely minced are used instead of white of egg. A sauce which does not answer this test is useless, and the only one in the world which will is From “CHEMIST & DRUGGIST,’’ Nov. 15th, 1873. “Mr. Lorimer lias conceived the hajipy tlionglit of introducing a ‘Pepsine Sauce.' The idea seems to be excellent. There is no doubt that the Pepsine does possess great virtue, and we have satisfied ourselves that LOKIMEE'S SAUCE con- tains a fair proportion of this product Nothing could be easier or more natural than to take I’epsine in this form, and we may add, that the Sauce is also of an agreeable and piquant flavour.'’ Dr. ScilACllT, Pre.sident of the “ Apotbeker Yevein,” in a paper read before that scientific body at Berlin, in 1873, referred to LORIMER'S SAUCE in terms of the highest praise, and recommended it in preference to any other form of Pepsine wines, essences, &c. AWARDED SIX GDLD AND PRIZE MEDALS, LDNDDN AND CALCUTTA, 1884. IMPORTANT TEST. LORIMER’S PEPSINE SAUCE- MANVFACTVIiED ONLY BYCYCLOPAEDIA OF FOODS, CONDIMENTS AND BEVERAGES.C[i)cX0|J2etrta at CONDIMENTS AND BEVERAGES. THE GREATEST DELIGACIE8 AND COMMON NECESSARIES. ' BY J. W. HOFFMAN, Consulting Cliemist of THE PURE COMESTIBLES COMPANY, 278, Portobello Eoad, Netting HiU, W. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. LONDON: SIMPKIN, MARSHALL AND CO. Stationer,’ Hall Court.WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No.PREFACE. My attention having for some time been directed to the classification of Food-products, simple and luxu- rious, their description and utilisation, it has been suggested that such a work as the present would he generally welcomed. Encouraged and assisted by scientific collaborators, and, in some instances, by celebrated chefs de cuisine, I have compiled this little volume, which, it is hoped, will be of some practical value and interest to ladies superintending their housekeeping, superior hotel-keepers, or their managers, and to all who concern themselves with the delicacies and necessaries that find their way to the table. In a word, this little book is intended to show the reader at a glance precisely what he wishes to know on the subject, and to give him in a succinct form an amount of information which would otherwise cost him much time and labour to obtain. More- over, the names of new delicacies and foods are here inserted, and the articles described; whilst the foreign terms which appear on menus are translated or explained. Every subject referring to the table is judiciously treated, and all technicalities made intelligible ; in fact, it may confidently be said to all who wish for information upon the subject of foods, condiments and beverages, “ Look within and you will find it.”■li' '■ 1 • * - 4* P % ' . ► » *■ • •» * t • * m • ■ ' - * , * f ■ h f • 4 r >. , ^ r'■■ ■ ■ '*VT ,*,• r 1 » rf^vrrf* . . ‘iiV. ■ 1. , { • * •* ■ *• • W * ■ -1 ' i.ff* « » ' : - *i ./ * i 1 v.^r . ■ - V.L. J ^ 1 « -*t. ‘ 4 • ’ ^ = A • * » ■ '■■■ r •>'^. ^ ^ ti - ' , • •» .1 *■ X. •$ •- ‘ - - . - - I****U.v ' . A ... , y t Ci* r *' 1 * • ^ ^, *''l ^ • » m 1 ■, 1, < . ' ^ •> •'>*/ '. ■ <■ — ,-t • .er ■ ' V . ' . -H' > , t‘ n:, . “.■■ ' * *- * *''■f'^ -1' ^ V ‘ f* f, ^ ft'-- ' %f' ■ ^i.0 ■ .'jft *' v '.H i., * *■ ' ^r*J*r •-.' .» ^ 4 i r '. ► . SP :> ' .* f f '. - • ■ • ^ - • *' j • ♦ < t' • •> . r i t «r rt>;.‘:J If ‘i - f f« T < * • ‘ 4 * ( f ■ ,K f -. -- ' ^ ^ .-,T- • , ,-i*. ■ •■ 1 ' ^ t . /o(. 'r r ; •' ' ' ' *''' ■ - > • * ,1 V - i • ’ '"' ‘r r. 1 f 4 ,* ♦ V- ■ • , V-- - * . f T f . t? ‘ 'V * "' * •' , ^ ■ \ “ ^^' • • fr t '•/*■- *.■ ' *INTRODUCTION. ‘‘ We must eat to live, but not live only to eat,” is a very old and true saying. As far back as history leads us, however, we find eating looked upon, not merely as a necessity, but as an enjoyment, particu- larly on festive occasions, when delicacies, according to the taste of the time, were sought for, splendid auxiliaries of various kinds were added to the meal, and music contributed its share towards the guests’ enjoyment. In eating merely to sustain life, food originall}' was simple, although subject to a good deal of variety at times; the animal and vegetable kingdoms offered, between them, a wide field of choice. The earliest Mosaic records tell us that Abel was a keeper of sheep, while his brother Cain was a tiller of the ground; Esau was a “ cunning hunter,” and was loved by Isaac “ because he did eat of his venison; ” and Jacob, according to most authorities, had a predilection for “ pottage of lentils.” All this indicates that food was somewhat varied, but there is no evidence that anything like elaborate dishes were prepared at that epoch. Later on we find that at the courts of the ancient monarchs, dinners consisted of several courses and of a great number of dishes, the company being enlivened by story-tellers, soothsayers, singers, dancers and acro- bats, whose office it was to amuse and increase the joviality of the guests. Again, we find on the monu- ments of ancient Egypt representations of well-INTRODUCTION. Vlll spread tables, with bottles of wine, figs and grapes in baskets, vegetables and poultry, as well as musicians in the act of playing. But the ancient artists went beyond this ; they show us something of the seamy side also by their representations of men and women, apparently surfeited with gastrono- mic indulgences, carried away from the entertainment in various stages of intoxication. Feasting was also habitual amongst the Persians and Greeks, the Spartans alone retaining their simple mode of living, and restricting themselves to frugal fare. The latter, therefore, had nothing in common with those who deemed eating and drinking the highest of delights, and thus outraged the creed of Epicurus, the Greek philosopher, who taught that the attainment of pleasure should be the chief object in life, but that that pleasure consisted in mental tranquillity. The floors and walls of the dining halls were of the most costly and beautiful marbles; everything about them was grand. In the absence of a roof, they had above them the blue vaulted dome of Heaven, studded with those brilliant star’s which can be seen in perfection only in a southern sky. In mighty Eome somewhat similar fashions to those of Greece prevailed, and everything was even on a more luxurious and ex- travagant scale. The leading citizens sought to outvie one another in the splendour of their feasts, which consisted of hundreds of dishes bearing every conceivable delicacy from their own or from distant countries. They w'ere often prepared from the rarest and most expensive materials, while, to satisfy the craving for extravagance, even pearls and precious stones were sometimes crushed and placed in the tankard of some especially honoured guest by way of rendering his potations still more costly. Others wereIX INTEODUCTIO.>. selfish enough to find a relish in such eccentricities themselves. It is recorded that the famed .<Esop had a pie made of birds that could imitate human voices, at a cost of ^5,000. Clodius, his son, peppered his drink with powdered pearls, and refused the most dainty mixture unless his cook could assure him that a prpcious stone was one of its ingredients. Helio- gabalus delighted in salmagundi made of the tongues and brains of small birds with musical voices or brilliant plumage; and Septimius had a hotch- potch made of meats irrespective of their flavour so long as the names began with the same letters of the alphabet. It is also said that Cleopatra dissolved a pearl valued at £80,000 and then drank the solution. Further, it is stated that in more modern times such vagaries occurred rather with a view of boasting than otherwise. Such was the case when Sir Thomas Gresham, founder of the Eoyal Ex- change, powdered a precious stone of the value of £15,000, and drank it in a glass of wine to the health of Queen Elizabeth, in order to astonish the Ambassador of Spain, wfith whom he had laid a wager that he would give a more costly dinner than the Spaniard could do. This w'as an exceptional case; but during the time that great extravagances were carried on in Kome things were very different in Britain. When the Komans invaded this country they found the living of the inhabitants very simple, but otherwise plentiful. Their meals consisted of roast or boiled meat, game or fish, and a very few vegetables indeed. In fact, it is to the Eomans that we owe the introduction of many vegetables and fruits now so abundantly cultivated to luxurious perfection ; and this is not all for which w’e are in- debted to our conquerors.X INTRODUCTION. Even Koman manners and customs are to some extent reflected in those of society at the present day. After the legions of the Empire departed from our shores the effects of their sojourn amongst us were visible in the impetus given to the polite arts, and to culinary operations especially. The living of the people was greatly improved and the bills of fare became more comprehensive and diversified; vegetables, however, were still comparatively scarce and herbs were substituted. Cooks prided them- selves upon producing sweet and savoury dishes, which were not only pleasing to the palate but were also attractive to the eye, in the form of ships, castles, figures, animals and other shapes. A still more sumptuous mode of living gradually found its way into Britain; wine and beer were copiously consumed, and feasting became an important feature both in public and private life. Intercourse with other nations materially assisted caterers for the table in obtaining a greater variety of articles of food, revealing from time to time in their bill of fare the names of new dishes, to which were added various original inventions. In this respect France quickly acquired and retained the leading place ; nevertheless it must be confessed that some of their dishes have not yet been adopted with great gusto in this country : frogs, for instance, those harmless little creatures, are not yet appreciated by the English public, who again are not particularly partial to cocks’ combs, rognons de coq, or snails; they are well satisfied with the adoption of a mayonnaise, a vol au vent, or a soufflee, but new dishes were introduced and became fashionable. Thus also with manners and customs, that which was once the fashion is not so now.XI INTRODUCTION There are no servants seen now on their knees before the guests presenting them with food upon spits, as represented in a manuscript in the “Cotton Collection; ” nor do we see roasted cranes on the table of the rich, nor “ herring pies,” a dish which was greatly patronised by royalty; no dainty morsels from the whale, nor pudding made with the flesh of a porpoise, as minutely described in the “ Harleian Collection.” We find on record that at the marriage banquet of Kichard, Earl of Cornwall, in 1243, the moderate number of 30,000 dishes were served for the occasion; many similar feasts are related in history. If such gluttony to our ideas is repulsive, the mode of taking food was not less objectionable. Forks being unknown in England, bread and meat were presented to each guest on the sharp point of a knife, who then cut smaller pieces, which he conveyed with the fingers of the left hand to his mouth. Table cloths were likewise unknown, but in the sixteenth century thej'' appeared as a luxury, some costing ^£20 each. With the exception of Cromwell’s time, the mode of living became more refined, and after the return of Charles II. to the English throne French methods of cooking and French observances at the table became more prevalent in this country. Yet they also underwent a change, not only in regard to dishes, but also in the method of serving them. It was customary to place huge joints on the table, towering to such a height as to hide your vis-a-vis from view. It was the custom for host or hostess to carve the joints ; this required skill, to say nothing of the smaller articles, as tongues, geese, fowls, or game. It was also customary to ask the guests individually whether they liked the meatXll INTRODUCTION. well done, or underdone, whether they preferred a wing and a part of the breast, or whether they were particularly fond of the merry-thought, or of the parson’s nose. All this has been annulled by the joints being placed on a side table, carved by the butler, and sent round by servants, for the guests to take their choice. A radical change has also taken place in the arrangements of the dinner table. There are the methods “ a la Russe,” “ a la Fran- caise,” and “ a I’Anglaise.” In Russia they placed all dishes on the table and preceded the dinner by carrying round upon a silver tray savoury meats, as dried salmon, German sausage, caviar, cod sounds, gherkins, olives, anchovies, and other snacks. The wines were drawn up in regimental array before the host, who invited the guests he delighted to honour to partake of special vintages, the wines being sent to them by the hands of the butler. Many other little customs were observed ; but at the time of the Crimean war, a French chef in the service of an aristocratic family in St. Petersburg devised a new mode of arranging the decorations of the table. He placed statuettes and vases in the centre, sparingly but tastefully adorned with flowers, surrounded by the dessert, two articles of pastry, and two of cold meat or poultry. This has been named the method “a la Russe.” In France, where the dinner was more thought of than the decoration, a large epergne, wholly ungarnished, was placed in the centre, six entrees (four hot and two cold), with four removes (two of fish and two of butcher’s meat), were also on the table, awaiting the arrival of the guests; an objectionable practice, for while they were eating their soup the hot entrees and removes were getting cold. The French have a little confectionery onXlll INTRODUCTION. their dinner tables, but no flowers. The English method approximates more to the Russian, though the mode “ a I’Anglaise ” makes a still more lavish use of flowers. The love of flowers, which ladies combine with a gradually increasing taste in decorating the festal board, has led them to pile up floral decora- tions till they turn the table into a miniature garden. Whether this fashion, the French, or the Russian is the best, must be left to individual taste. “ Chaciin a son gout."1 V" .'.C. * •< '■, • _J '1 * ttit-.i** ' -"ii.: 4 j- . w . / ^1 I*->|«(:^», ^ ' ..'I* .*: 'Alt ; • .1 , ;.f > '' iA r '* .,. ‘ c;a'iaio > b.i**ifLl'(r oti?* lav/vi. ^ i t. 4 A . > ■» ' 'l> » • ‘ •••»•• ••■ir-., f Vil;. • i' »• ’’iftfT'-HjtJ;: ' *. * •-' I ' ' * ^ *'•-* i 4^t - jC, i-f;. • - 1 -1,. - »r*l* J',? t'-.-'. .', /> ■> .5-,. V.V^>V-:.4.4ri . . ■■• .-: ': t5^ ■ ^ ♦' ^ . 4, x % '. •■ . - <A-i '- > ”i* “ , •' ‘ ' ,'» =r^ ' ’ '>. ,'"•<.* f ' f i’J I ..i • ■<#<.■>'■. V, It. St.*: ' ' ■* i4i ,4 I .^v '■M: mmrA !•. i* U -'4 rjj. "• 4 I «4 , i.-*jr- t: >■, f.v M i r, . -\. ‘' 'i^** 1^. ■ ^ V v'- ■* *» T ' ■ «* t. r I - > * 1. •• .«hil *■ I *iL'CCgclopjeltiJt at CONDIMENTS AND BEVERAGES. Absinthe.—This liqueur is ordinarily used as a stomachic. Taken occasionally and in moderation it is harmless, hut if frequently drunk it acts as a poison, inducing brain fever, vertigo and loss of sight. So pernicious was it found to be in France, that in 1844 its use in the army and navy was absolutely forbidden. Absinthe is made from wormwood, a plant which has a strong aromatic smell and bitter taste. It is taken in various ways. Plain absinthe is prepared with half a sherry glass of the liqueur and plenty of fine ice in about two wineglassfuls of water. The water is put, drop by drop, on the top of the liqueur and ice, and must be stirred well but slowly. Called by the French military un perroquet. Aerated Waters, like effervescing drinks, are cooling, reviving and quieting to the nerves. They can be drunk alone or with wine or spirits, and they can be used as the basis of a large number of re- freshing cups and beverages. They are made by forcing carbonic acid into water, which dissolves a large quantity of this gas under pressure, but gives off the greater part again as soon as the pressure is removed when the stopper is taken out of the bottle. Potash and soda waters should contain ten to fifteen grains of bicarbonate of potash or soda inait] o, [ale each bottle, hut too often they, like many aerated waters with fancy names, contain nothing besides the carbonic acid. Seltzer water should contain chlorides of sodium, calcium and magnesium, with phosphate and sulphate of sodium. It is named after Setters, in Nassau, where there is a natural spring containing these salts in addition to carbonic acid gas. Lemonade and other fruit beverages are made by adding fruit syrup to a simple aerated water. On a small scale for family use aerated water may be made by means of gazogenes, in which the carbonic acid is first made, and then taken up by water. The principal natural mineral or aerated waters (excluding those employed solely for medicinal purposes) are the “ ^Esculap,” “ Apollinaris,” “ Salu- taris,” “Setters,” “ Yichy,” “ Eossbach,” and “ Hunyadi Janos.” Amongst the favourite artificial beverages of this class may be named “ Ginger beer,” “ Lemonade,” “ Bontha,” “ Zoedone.” Aitchbone of Beef,—This joint lies immedi- ately under the rump, and although not having so good an appearance, is only inferior to it in con- sequence of being not quite so tender. It is generally salted and boiled, and eaten with suet dumplings, carrots and turnips. It contains a good deal of bone, but for all that is an economical joint, as it is generally moderate in price. Ale—{See Beer.) Alexander.—A plant, a native of Great Britain, and may be found in its wild state near the sea- coast. Its flavour is similar to that of the celery, but since the cultivation of the latter it is hardly used as an herb. The name Alexander was probably given to it in consequence of its having been origin- ally brought froin Alexandria.ald] 3 [alm Alderman’s Walk.— The name given to the under cut of a sirloin of beef, in consequence of a supposed especial liking for it by city aldermen. Whether this allegation is true or not, it is certain that considerable quantities of beef are consumed by the city fathers at their various festivities, and perhaps observant guests have had an opportunity of witnessing aldermen “ walking into ” the undercut of the sirloin. Allspice.—Also called Jamaica Pepper, or Pimento. Much used in making curry powder, and in flavouring gravies, potted meats, mulled wine and other drinks. It grows chiefly in Jamaica, and is called allspice because its smell and taste resemble a combination of cinnamon, nutmeg and cloves. It is rather larger than black pepper but less pungent. An essential oil and medicated water are distilled from it, both of which are used as stimulant carmin- atives, and to conceal the flavour of other medicines. Almond.—A fruit much appreciated, and used for a variety of culinary purposes. It is the fruit of a tree somewhat resembling the peach in appear- ance, and will grow in sheltered places even in a temperate climate. It is cultivated in Spain, Italy, and the South of France. There are two kinds of almonds, the sweet and bitter. The best sweet are called Jordan almonds, and come from Malaga, an inferior sort being imported from Valentia. Bitter almonds are mostly from Mogadore ; though they contain the principle of prussic acid, they are harm- less if eaten in moderation, and mixed with the sweet variety are chiefly used in confectionery. Ground with sugar, they form the ingredients for macaroons, the “ Almond Paste ” on wedding cakes, and the celebrated German marzipan. Pounded B[ame alm] 4 with water they yield an agreeable drink called orgeat, much patronised in France. Almonds hnd their way to the table frequently in company with raisins as a dessert dish. The almond is one of the earliest flowering shrubs, and frequently blossoms before the leaves appear. It is capricious, as sweet and bitter almonds grow often on the same tree. Almond Icing.—This is a preparation placed on the top of cakes, previous to their being iced {see Icing). Almond icing is made of almonds blanched and pounded in a mortar, mixed with white of egg and sugar into a stiff paste. This is spread over the top of the cakes and dried in an o^ven. American Drinks.—America is famous for the variety of its drinks, particularly for those iced drinks suitable for the hot weather and of moderate alcoholic strength ; their chief merit lies in the fact that they may be drunk without restriction. To enumerate them would be almost impossible, as a new name, generally an eccentric one, is given when any alteration in the ingredients, however trifling, is made. Amongst those of long-standing popularity may be mentioned sherry cobbler, gin-sling, pick-me- up, brandy smash, mint julep, and corpse reviver. They very generally consist of the juice of some fruit, herbs, or spices, a glass of some spirit, and shaved ice. As they are too cold to place to the lips, they are imbibed through a straw. Some of these drinks consist of a large number of ingredients, and the American saloon-keepers greatly pride them- selves upon their skill in mixing them, during which process ‘‘judges” will adroitly throw into the air the contents of one glass, and catch them inANC] [anc 5 another, presenting them to the guest with the invariable remark, “ Very nice that.” Anchovy.—(Literally meaning “gall-tinctured.”) A fish properly native to the Mediterranean, though caught as far as the Black Sea. It is also obtained from the coasts of France, Portugal and Spain. Neither is it absent from our own shores, the Channel Islands, the British Channel, and the Hampshire coast, each having yielded a certain quantity. Indeed, a practical writer on the subject has expressed his opinion that if the anchovy fisher}^ were properly developed by us the British market might be fully supplied from our own seas. In colour the anchovy is of a bluish green on the back and upper part of the head ; the fins are tinged with green beautifully transparent, and the remainder of the body silvery white, the length varying from five to seven inches. Anchovies are principally caught at night-time, lights being used to decoy the fish into the nets. Its powerful and unique flavour causes this fish to be highly esteemed. It makes excellent sauce, the trimmings and inferior parts being chiefly used for this purpose. Sprats and other small fish are often palmed off upon the public by unscrupulous tradesmen in place of the real article. The anchovy differs in its appearance and character according to its habitat. The Gorgona fish are considered the best, while the Dutch, Eussian, and Norwegian varieties are distinguished by having no scales. Gorgona anchovies are imported both in brine and in oil, the Dutch in brine only, the Eussian in brine and highly spiced vinegar, the Norwegian in spiced brine. In this way can be suited the various tastes of consumers in all parts of the world. Ancient Wines.—Wine was known in the veryANCj 6 ! ANC earliest ages, and as far back as the days of the Patriarch Noah it was undoubtedly of an intoxicat- ing character, not merely the unfermented juice of the grape as some total abstainers affirm. At a later age Athenaeus gives the names of fifty wanes furnished by Greece, Asia, and Egypt ; and just before the Christian era Pliny reckons eighty varieties, most of which were made in Italja The ancients often boiled down the juice of the grapes before fermenting it ; sometimes they added sea- water, and more frequently a decoction of x>itch or rosin with aromatic herbs to increase the flavour.. Often the wines were kept until they dried up to the consistence of honey, Avhen they w^ere diluted with water. The oldest Greek wane of wdiich we have any distinct account w^as the Maronean, produced in the territory of that name on the coast of Thrace. It w^as black, sweet, and usually so strong that it was drunk diluted with eight parts of water. Another celebrated Greek wane, Pramnian, was red, astringent, and strongly resembling the modern port. The wanes produced in the Ionian and yEgean Islands, which were the theme of the Greek drinking songs, were sweet and amber-coloured. The Chian wine was famed for its delicious flavour, wdiile the Phanean was called by \irgil the “ King of A\ines. In Asia Minor wine was famed for its excessive sw^eetness, and many varieties were used by the Greeks only to flavour other kinds. The Pomans reprded the Ealernian as the best of their wines. It is supposed to have resembled sherry or Madeira in quality, but it acquired a bitter taste if kept too long, and was in its prime from ten to tw^enty years old. Setine w’as, according to Pliny, the favourite wane of the Emperoi Augustus, wdiile Surrentine obtained fiom the Em-7 [ani ANGj peror Tiberius no higher praise than that it was generous vinegar.” Horace recommends the Cecuban and the Albanum, which latter was pro- duced near Eome, and did not mature till it had been kept fifteen years. Mamertinum, a light and highly astringent wine, produced near Messina, in Sicily, was introduced by Julius Caesar. Kome could boast of its wine shops, similar to those now existing on the Continent where wine and beer are drawn from the cask, and where Tarragona, Vienne and Languedoc were always to be obtained. The drinking of wine increased by every new con- tact with the East, where the grapes grew of the very best quality ; indeed, Varro relates that when Lucullus was a boy Greek wine was only presented once to the guests entertained at his father’s table; but when Lucullus returned from his expedition into Asia he distributed one hundred thousand gallons of it to the public. Angels on Horseback.—Oysters enveloped in slices of bacon, rolled up and toasted, and served on slices of fried bread or toast. Angostura Bitters.—(>565 Liqueurs.) Aniseed.—The seed of the anise plant, which is a native of Egypt and China. Besides being used for culinary purposes, this seed has been employed for smoking in the same way as tobacco, to promote expectoration in chronic affections of the throat and chest. Sometimes it is smoked by itself, and some- times with stramonium leaves. The seeds are commonly sprinkled upon loaves of bread for Jewish use, and when powdered, often used in horse and cattle medicines. A powerful volatile oil is dis- tilled from aniseed which has a pale yellow colour, and a warm, sweetish taste ; this oil being one ofANi] [APR 8 the ingredients of that household remedy for coughs, “ paregoric.” It is also often used in cough lozenges, as a flavouring for sweets, and in the preparation of syrup of aniseed, a simple medicine frequently given to children. Aniseed oil is also used as a bait in mouse-traps, it having a strong attraction for those tiny quadrupeds. Anisette.—Liqueurs.) Apple.—The original apple in this country is the crab, which is astringent and bitter. It was only through grafting, a method introduced by the Romans, that the great number of varieties were obtained which we at present possess. Over three hundred different kinds are now cultivated which are good, not only for ordinary culinary purposes, but also as an article of luxury. Devonshire, Hereford, Somerset and Worcester may he called the apple counties of England ; in fact, cider (the partly fermented juice of the apple) is principally produced in these coun- ties. The best apples for baking, and cooking generally, are, for early use, the Colvilles, whilst for autumn the Rennett, Yorkshire Greens and Pear- mains are substituted. For the table we have the Margarets, Catshead Codlin, Kentish Codlin, Pear- main, Blenheim Orange, Russets, Ribstone and King Pippins. However, a great variety of very superior apples are now imported from the United States. Canada and Australia. Apricots.—This delicious fruit is a great favourite for dessert; it is also used for tarts, and is made into jam, jelly and marmalade. x\pricots can he preserved whole in syrup or dried; in the latter case, they keep their flavour for a considerable time. The tree is a native of the East, from Asia Minor to China, and was introduced into Europe by[arr 9 ARRj Alexander tlie Great. It has been cultivated in this country since the middle of the sixteenth century, and is usually trained against a wall, the tree sometimes attaining a height of from twenty to thirty feet. In some parts of the south of England it grows as a standard tree ; and though the wall fruit is, perhaps, largest, that of the standard tree has the finest flavour. A peculiarity of the tree is that it produces flowers before it bears leaves. Apricots, in our climate, are very perishable. They should neither be gathered until quite ripe, nor should they be allowed to remain a single day upon the tree after the ripening is complete, as they soon spoil afterwards. Arrack, also called Rack or Raki—A spirituous, liquor in common use throughout India, Ceylon, the Malayan Archipelago, Siam and other Eastern countries. When new, it has a disagreeable oily taste, but the flavour is ^proved by keeping. Arrack is chiefly prepared from the sweet sap of palm trees : an incision being made near the flowers, the sap flows out abundantly and is collected in earthen vessels ; when fermented it is called toddy. This, toddy is sometimes boiled down to make palm-sugar,, commonly called jaggery, but is more frequently con- verted by distillation into arrack. In Ceylon, alone,, it is estimated that 5,000,000 cocoa-nut palm trees are appropriated for the supply of toddy. The manufacture of arrack is very extensively carried on at Batavia, Goa and Colombo. An inferior kind of arrack is also distilled from fermented rice, and an imitation is sometimes made by dissolving a small quantity of benzoic acid in common rum. Small quantities of arrack are imported into England for making punch ; it is a very strong spirit, fre-[ash ARK I 10 quently containing as much as fifty-five per cent, of alcohol. Arrowroot.—This nutritious preparation is obtained from the roots of the Maranta plant, grown in the East and West Indies. When about a year old they are dug up, well washed and beaten to a pulp, which is passed through a sieve, again washed in a stream of water and allowed to settle. The sediment, dried in the sun, is then the arrowroot of commerce. This article, as sold in London, is much adulterated with potato and other inferior starches, which can he easily accounted for, since the price varies from sixpence to two shillings and six- pence or even three shillings per pound. It derives its name from the fact that the Indians use the acrid juice of the maranta to poison their arrowheads with ; * it is therefore necessary that the starch or arrowroot should be thoroughly washed in order to free it from the poisonous substances present in the fresh root. Artichoke.—This familiar vegetable is a hardy thistle-like plant, a native of Barhary and the South of Europe, long cultivated for the exquisite flower- receptacle called choke, and the basis of the fleshy flower scales, which are used as a vegetable. It possesses a delicate and agreeable flavour, and is much used on the Continent cooked in various w^ays. The heads of the flowers, when young, are used for pickling. The flowers curdle milk like rennet, and the plant is said to furnish a good yellow dye. {See Jerusalem Artichoke.) Ashberry.—This is the fruit of the mountain ash, ronan or quicken tree. It is very acid, and has a peculiar bitterness. It is used in preserves, and a jelly is made of it which is eaten wfith venison. The ashberry is not often sold in our markets ; hut as[asp asp] 11 it chiefly grows in countries where deer are hunted, it is easily obtainable by those who wish to have it as an accompaniment to venison. The ashberry is usually red, but there is one variety which is yellow'. The ronan, or mountain ash, is an entirely different kind of tree to our common ash. Asparagus.—This is a very wholesome and favourite vegetable, but is chiefly consumed by the well-to-do classes, at a rather high price, on account of the great expenditure of time, care, and fertilising materials it requires for a comparatively small return. It is abundant in the temperate regions of both hemispheres, and is found in the tropics of gigantic size. It was a great favourite amongst the ancient Eomans, and is now largely cultivated in England. An island on the coast of Cornwall is called Asparagus Island, which is suggestive of the plant being plentiful there. It is extensively culti- vated in France and Germany, but epicures consider the English thin shoots the finest. Asparagus is cooked in various ways, of which one is to boil it until the white part of the stem is thoroughly tender; the asparagus is then cut into convenient lengths, and fried in a batter made with flour, eggs and cream, whereby a very tasty asparagus omelette is prepared. Asparagus is extremely easy of digestion, and is especially suited to the taste and constitution of aged persons and invalids, since it exerts a gently stimulating action upon the kidneys. Aspic.—This is the name of a savoury kind of jelly or glazing used as an outside moulding for cold poultry, game, or fish. Aspic jelly, as it is called, would be more generally used than it is were it not for the trouble of making it, for it gives a most elegant and appetising appearance to cold dishes.12 [aus ass] Formerly it was chiefly made of calves’ feet, but now cooks avail themselves very largely of gelatine, which forms an excellent substitute, while it gives far less trouble in preparation. As aspic, when properly made, should be transparent, it allows the bird or fish which it covers to be seen through it. If made nicely, it should be savoury to the taste, and pale brown or amber in colour. Assiette.—A French term for hors d’ceuvre which a plate is large enough to hold. In Scotland the word is used to denote a dish. Aubergine.—This fruit, which is also called the egg-apple, mad-apple, and brinjal, is eaten in the tropics, and commonly in the East Indies, of which it is a native. It- is seldom seen in England, except in hot-houses. It much resembles an egg in shape, varying in size from that of a hen to that of a swan, and is generally white, yellow, or violet in colour. The aubergine is an annual plant, seldom more than two feet in height, and can be cultivated in temperate regions if the summer is warm. Australian Wines.—Wine-producing has been for many years a growing industry in Australia, principally in New South Wales, Victoria, and es- 13ecially in South Australia. Most of the Australian wines resemble those of France in their general characteristics, the best being nearly equal to the French Sauterne and Chahlis; some white varieties, however, are more like hock. Excellent wines are produced at the South Australian vintages of Higher- combe and Auldana; hut the rough-flavoured Tintara, which closely resembles Burgundy, seems to be the most highly esteemed in the British market. In his ‘‘History of South Australia,” T. P. Stow sa3^s, “ Tlie wines of South Australia[liAI BAC] 13 have secured the approbation of the best judges in Europe, and there will be good markets in the Old World for the produce of her vintages. The home consumption is very great, and continually increas- ing ; in fact, the colonial wine has largely supplante-d the colonial beer in the harvest field, in cafes, and in private houses.” This prognostication has proved to be true, for in 1887, sixty-eight thousand one hundred and eighty-eight gallons of wine were ex- ported from Australia, of which a great portion has been consumed in England. Bacon.—The side and belly of a pig are called bacon, when salted and cured in a way similar to that which converts the leg of pork into ham. The whole side of a pig salted and smoke-dried is called a flitch of bacon. The streaky bacon comes from the belly of the pig. Boiled bacon is a common food among the poorer classes of our country dis- tricts, and when eaten with beans it is a very nutritious article of diet. When cut into slices, or rashers as they are generally called, and fried, either with or without eggs, it is highly esteemed for breakfast. Being fat and rich, it is, however, apt to disagree with delicate stomachs and bilious constitu- tions. In salting pork for bacon, care must be taken not to let the meat soak in brine ; dry salt must be repeatedly rubbed into the meat, and the liquor must be allowed to drain away. In some districts, saltpetre and sugar are used in addition to salt for preparing the meat to be smoke-dried. In Germany, it is so splendidly cured that the bacon may be eaten without any further cooking, and at Strasburg, bacon is thus prepared in very largo quantities. Bain-Marie;—A vessel to contain boiling water,14 [ban bak] into which smaller basins or saucepans can be placed in order to keep the contents at the same tempera- ture. Baking.—Baking is distinguished from boiling by the fact that in the former process the food is cooked by a dry heat; while in boiling, simmering, and stewing it is cooked in water. Baking is also distinguished from broiling, frying and roasting, since by these methods the food is cooked whilst fully exposed to the air, baking being conducted in an oven or some other more or less closed structure in which the action of the dry heat is modified by the presence of the steam from the food. Bread has been baked from immemorial antiquity. We read in the Scriptures of Sarah cooking her cakes upon the hearth. Lot did bake unleavened bread more than three thousand six hundred years ago ; Pharaoh had his baker; and in the ceremonial law given by Moses to the ancient Jews, they were distinctly directed to bring cakes “ baken in the oven.” In modern times, bread is baked in a large baker’s oven, built up with bricks, like a deep recess in the walls, fuel being burned in the oven till it attains a certain heat, when the fire is withdrawn, the oven brushed out, and the dough is put in to be baked. Home-made bread is generally baked in a bright metal oven, fitted up permanently at the side of the fire-place : it is also baked in what is called a French oven, that is, an iron pot with a lid, hung by a hook over the fire, and burning coals or logs of wood are heaped over the lid, so that the loaf of bread is cooked both at top and bottom at the same time. Ovens heated by hot air are now much used for baking bread on a large scale, and these are far more cleanly, etc., than the old ovens heated by burning fuel.15 [bar BANj Banana.—This forms one of the principal sources of food in the tropics. The fresh core of the fruit will yield about forty per cent, of dry meal, hut some varieties contain a far larger proportion of saccharine matter than others. The more mealy varieties are never eaten raw except when ripe, hut the unripe fruit is hoiled and eaten as a vegetable. It is also roasted and flavoured with the juice of oranges or lemons. AVhen dried in ovens or in the sun it is formed into a paste, with spice and sugar, that will keep for years. The sweeter varieties are used in various ways as a fruit.^ These are also preserved hy drying, and thus dried, are imported into this country much more largely in recent years than formerly. The hanana tree is palm-like in appearance, growing to a height of from forty to over one hundred feet; it is a very beautiful object in the Indian landscape, the top forming a crown of oar-shaped leaves, six to ten feet long and two to three feet broad. The fruit grows in large clusters of from thirty to one hun- dred in the centre of this crown of leaves, each fruit measuring from four to twelve inches long and fro one to one-and-a-half inches in diameter. Bantam Fowl.—A very small variety, originally brought from Bantam, in Java, but now largely bred in this country for the sake of their elegant appear- ance and proud gait. Opinions differ as to the quality of this little fowl ^vhen cooked, but there can be no doubt that its eggs, though small, are of superior excellence. Barbel.—A fish of the carp family, the name of which is derived from the barbes at its mouth, it is seldom eaten in England in consequence of its insipidity, and is more valued by anglers for theJJAlij [bar 16 sport they derive from it than by cooks for its adaptability to the table. It varies in length from two to three or four feet, and v^eighs about fourteen pounds; the larger sizes are found in the Thames from Putney upwards. Another sj^ecies is abundant ill the Nile and the Jordan, and is highly appreciated as a food; there it grows to a large size, some- times weighing as much as seventy pounds. The Jews in former times were rather fond of this fish, but do not now esteem it greatly. Barberry.—The ordinary varieties of this fruit are too acid to be eaten raw% but they make excellent preserves, jellies and pickles. The sweet barberry, a native of Chili, may be eaten raw like other fruits; it resembles the black currant in size and colour. A species of barberry that grows in Nepaul produces a fruit which when dried is agree- able, wholesome, and not very unlike the familiar raisin. The barberry is a highly ornamental shrub, usually bearing yellow flowers, and many species have very bright-coloured berries. It is extensively grown in the United States, and is found in all temperate countries except Australia and South Africa, but may be seen growing in the elevated mountain regions of tropical countries. In England it also thrives well. Barcelonas.—(>SVe Spanish Nuts.) Barley.—This is a kind of grain similar to wheat, but it is not so much used as an article of food as formerly. Bread is sometimes made with barley meal in the countries of northern Europe, but in England it is chiefly used as a food for horses and cattle. Large quantities of barley are converted into malt, which is employed so extensively in the brewing of beer. A pudding is sometimes madebar] 17 [bar with barley boiled in milk till it is quite tender; and a broth is made with the shin of beef and barley. Pearl barley is barley deprived of its outer husky ‘ covering) rounded^ and polished in a mill, this is used for making barley water and for thickening soups. _ * Barley Sugar.—A sweetmeat which is some- times made by heating refined sugar to a tem- perature of 160° C. (320° F.), when it melts into a clear fluid which solidifies on cooling into a yellowish non-crystalline mass. It is also made by boiling fine sugar with a very small quan- tity of water till the added water has been all evaporated, skimming off the scum that rises to the surface. It is usually flavoured with essence of lemon or lemon juice. A little fresh butter is rubbed upon a stone or marble slab, upon which, when the sugar is boiled sufficiently, it is poured out; before it gets quite cold it may be easily twisted into the spiral forms in which it is usually seen. It derives its name from the fact that it was originally made with a decoction of barley instead of the plain water mentioned above. Baron of Beef.—Part of the back of an ox, consisting of two sirloins undivided. It is a hand- some joint, but rather difficult to roast. Its principal recommendation is that meat can be cut from it extremely underdone or extremely well- done. It is now occasionally seen at banquets of a convivial character, though in former days it was more frequently introduced and invariably formed part of the feast given when the heir of a country gentleman came of age. It generally appears at the Lord Mayors’ banquets, and also forms part of Her Majesty’s Christmas dinner.[bas 18 BAB] Basil.—A low shrub, originally brought from the East Indies and other tropical countries. It is an annual plant, propagated in this country by seed brought from Italy, because in our climate the seed can seldom he got to ripen. It is included among “ sweet herbs,” having a pleasant aromatic smell and taste, and is used for flavouring soups, especially mock turtle, and various kinds of made dishes. Basil vinegar is made by steeping the leaves in vinegar, and is used for flavouring when the fresh plant cannot be procured. Bass.—A fish belonging to the same order as the perch, and prepared for the table in the same way. It is highly esteemed as an article of food, and its delicate flavour was as much appreciated in ancient times as at the present day. The common bass is rather like salmon in shape and colour, shading off from dusky blue above to silvery white beneath, without the stripes of the perch. It is sometimes called white salmon, or salmon-dace. It attains a weight of fifteen pounds, hut it is usually much smaller. The stone bass, which abounds in the South Atlantic Ocean, Mediterranean Sea, etc., resembles the perch more nearly than any other variety of the bass. It is also called the wreck- fish, because of its following wreckage, or vessels to which barnacles are attached, and it appears to feed upon certain small animals usually found associated with barnacles. It has been, said that the experi- ment of transporting the bass to fresh water ponds and inland lakes has resulted in the improvement of the species. Basting.—This operation consists of pouring liquid by means of a ladle over meat that is being roasted or baked, in order to prevent the out-19 [be A bat] side becoming dry. Basting generally consists of gravy, but for some meats butter, cream, eggs, orange juice, or wine are occasionally used. Bath Chaps.—The cheek and jaw-bone of the pig, salted and smoked. Chaps are now used in various places, but those from Bath were the first to -obtain the reputation of being the best, which they still enjoy.—{See Pig’s Cheek.) Bay Leaf.—This is the leaf of a species of laurel, occasionally used as a flavouring. This should be done with caution, as, like the bitter almonds, over-doses are poisonous. It is exten- sively employed in Sweden and Bussia in the pick- ling of anchovies, and other fish. The cherry laurel is the only one used for culinary purposes, and differs entirely from the classic laurel. The latter was used by the ancients in their sacrifices, and consecrated to priests and heroes, who were rewarded for great enterprises by a crown of bay. The nymph Daphne having, according to the fable, been changed into a laurel tree, it was regarded as sacred to Apollo. Beans.—A very nutritious vegetable, which may be eaten either fresh, dried, or preserved, and con- sequently an acquisition to the winter list of articles of food. There is a great variety of this vegetable —the broad bean, the Egyptian, the haricot, the kidney, the grey, the white, the brown, and the speckled. The French haricot, both blanc (white) and vert (green), has lately been introduced into England in the preserved state, and is steadily advancing in favour. Beans have been known from the earliest times, and, like most ancient articles of food, can be traced to the Egyptian source, whence they found their w^ay into Greece. So highly did cBEC] 20 [bee the ancient philosophers of that country think of the nutritious quality of the beans that Pythagoras cynically forbade his disciples to eat them, calcu- lating on their disobedience, and by that means to increase their desire for them.—{See the Articles on the different .Beans.) Bechamel.—A sauce made of white stock, cream, arrowroot, spices, and herbs. Beef.—From time immemorial beef has been esteemed the most substantial food. Although an infinite variety of dishes can be made from it, it is generally cooked in the simplest manner. In the breeding of oxen upon scientific principles a good deal of money and time have been expended. These cattle vary considerably according to the country in which they are reared, but those fed on the rich low-lying pasturage afford the best beef, and are in their prime for the table when about five years old. —{See Different Joints). Beef, a-la-Mode.—This popular dish is sold in London at houses called a-la-mode beef houses. It is made from pieces of beef stewed, during which process flour is dredged into the water, forming a thick and nutritious gravy. It should be frequently stirred to prevent lumps forming, and various sauces and flavourings are added before it is done. A more elaborate method is to take a large piece of flank of beef, lay on it strips of bacon and seasoning, roll up tightly and stew with vegetables. Veal can be cooked in either of these ways. Beef Olives.—These are a very tasty made dish, and, like many others of the kind, are best made from meat which has already been cooked ; hence they are an excellent medium for serving up joints which have already appeared on the table.BEEJ 21 [bee Beef olives are slices of meat about half an inch thick and four inches square. On them is laid a forcemeat of bread, a little fat, eschalots, pepper and salt, or other flavouring. Variety can be given to them by adding oriental pickles. The slices are then rolled up with the forcemeat inside and stewed together, with gravy made of beef bones. Beef Tea.—The juice of beef infused in hot water. The name has probably been given to it in consequence of the mode of preparing it being some- what similar to that for making tea. The beef is cut into small pieces or shreds, put into cold water, simmered very gently for several hours, and then skimmed, and the liquor passed through a hair sieve, the object being to obtain the essence of the beef .free from fat or particles of meat. Beef tea can be flavoured with vegetables and condi- ments, or even made into a custard with eggs. It is generally given to invalids as a nourishing and easily digestible article of diet. Great facilities for making it are offered by the various extracts of beef now sold, which under certain circumstances are preferable to home-made beef tea. Beer.—Is a drink jprepared chiefly from barley, which is malted and ground, and its fermentable substance extracted by means of hot water, the liquid thus obtained being called “ Sweet Wort.” Hops are then boiled with it and the liquor fer- mented. The art of brewing was known to the ancient Egyptians, Romans, Greeks and Gauls. A kind of wine or beer obtained from barley is men- tioned by Theophrastus, who lived about 300 b.c., as being used by the Greeks both for daily use and on occasions of solemn rejoicings. Pliny, the Roman historian, mentions beer as being in use under22 [bil bee] Caesar. The soldiers were accustomed- to drink both beer and vinegar. Some of the KafSr tribes of South Africa obtained a kind of beer by fermenting millet seed. In olden times the best beer made in England was to be had at the monasteries, and notably those situated near Burton-on-Trent, where the water was found to be most especially suitable for brewing purposes. In Sir Ealph Sadler’s State Papers, Vol. 2, we read that when Mary, Queen of Scots, was confined in Tutbury Castle, Malsingham proposed certain questions to the Governor of the Castle, Sir Ealph Sadler, touching her Majesty’s personal comforts, among which questions was, “ In what place neare Tutbury beere may be provjuled.” To which Sir Ealph replied, “ At Burton, three miles off.” Since then beer has been produced in great variety, and breweries have been established on a gigantic scale. Beetroot.—This is commonly found in extra- tropical regions. It contains a large quantity of mucilage, saccharine matter, starch and alkaline salts. It is a wholesome and nutritious vegetable, and is used for many purposes. Its colour is red, but is sometimes so deep as to appear black. In France and Germany it is extensively used for the manufac- ture of sugar. Cut into slices, covered with water and fermented, and gravy subsequently added, beet- roots may be used for making a very nutritious and palatable soup. It is an ingredient in salads, and even by itself, when properly prepared, forms an agreeable and relishing pickle. Benedictine.—{See Liqueurs.) Bilberry (also called Blaeberry or Bleaberry). —A hardy plant growing plentifully on heaths and other waste places, much admired on account of its[bis 23 bis] pretty, bright leaves, and its pink, urn-shaped flowers, which have a delicate, wax-like appearance. The berries are bluish-black, covered with a mealy bloom. Among the Scotch pine forests the plant grows to a height of three feet, and in some places handfuls of the berries may be gathered as large as the black currants of our gardens. The fruit is very tender, and soon ferments. It is cooked in tarts, or made into jam. In Devonshire bilberries are eaten with clotted cream ; in Poland they are mixed with wild strawberries and milk ; in Germany they are stewed, and, when cold, are sometimes eaten at the com- mencement of dinner in the place of soup. Biscuit.—The name is derived from the French, Bis-cuit, meaning twice baked, and was originally applied to unfermented dough which had been twice baked in order to render it sufficiently dry to keep for a length of time. Biscuits are dry cakes like unfermented bread. They are used as dessert, as an accompaniment to the tea-table, and by sailors and travellers, especially on long voyages. Made of very stiff dough cut into various shapes, the most frequent being discs, biscuits are baked in an oven and then dried by steam heat, or otherwise, until the moisture is evaporated. Ship biscuits are made of wheat from which the coarsest’bran only has been removed. Captain’s biscuits consist of flour only. Fancy biscuits, now made in great variety, generally contain butter, eggs, and various flavour- ings, and are of innumerable shapes and sizes— sometimes ornamented with sugar devices on the top. Bishop.—The name of a drink popular in Ger- many during the Middle Ages. It was probably imported from France or Italy, and, until quiteBLA 24 bis] recently, much in vogue in England. It is made by steeping oranges, both sweet and bitter being used, in claret, and adding sugar, spices and a sprig or two of borage. Bisk .—An ancient dish made of wild and tame fowls, small birds, sweetbreads, cocks’ combs, forced- meat balls, onions and a little white wine. Bisque Soup.—(/S'ee Crayfish.) Blackberry.—Not many edible fruits are found growing wild in our country, but this may be found by the roadside in all parts of Britain and many parts of Europe. The bramble on which the black- berry grows is not much thought of in this country; but in America it is extensively cultivated for the sake of its fruit. The fruit of the bramble is first green, then vermilion-coloured, and finally, when fully ripe, black. It is about the size of a raspberry, but rounder, firmer and full of small hard seeds. The blackberry is not often sold in our towns, except in the poorer neighbourhoods; but to the lower ranks of our villagers it is a veritable godsend; they can have it in abundance for the mere trouble of gathering it. Not only are blackberries eaten uncooked, but they are also used for puddings, pies and preserves. Country folk often mix apples or pumpkins with them in making puddings, pies and jams. A fairly good wine is sometimes made of blackberries. Black Cock.—(/See Black Grouse.) Black Grouse.—These are birds sometimes called black game, and the male the black cock. They are regarded as a delicacy by connoisseurs of grouse, with which they are generally classed for culinary purposes. The male is a large bud with well-marked plumage. The black line of the body »feathers is generally richly glossed with blue on the neck and back. The female is smaller than the male, and less sable in hue, being rather red with black lines, except the tail, which is black, with red stripes and white tips. The feet of both sexes are brown. Black grouse are natives of the extreme north of Europe, living in wooded and mountainous situations, and on uncultivated moors like those of the north of Scotland. The hen builds her nest on the open moors, each brood consisting of some seven or eight birds. Black Puddings.—These are sausages, if pro- perly made, consisting of pigs’ blood, in wdiich is soaked oatmeal and bread-crumbs. This mixture, with the addition of suet, pigs’ fat, herbs and spices, is placed in skins to be boiled. When cold they are generally dressed by broiling or toasting. Eladebone of Veal.—This joint is cut from the lower part of the shoulder, and includes the joint itself. What is called the brisket end of the breast is often included. It can be roasted or cut up for made dishes. It is not considered one of the best parts of the animal, but, nevertheless, possesses all the general characteristics of veal. Blanching.—Blanching is placing meat, veget- ables or fruit in boiling water for a short lime, and then plunging it into cold. Meat is blanched in order to bestow upon it additional firmness, so that it can be larded with greater ease; and fowls or rabbits have by this practice the whiteness of their flesh preserved. Blanching confers softness upon calves’ heads and feet, but no plunging into cold water is needed. Vegetables, when blanched, retain their greenness, and the operation rids them of a certain acrid flavour. Yv'hen the kernels of fruits15LA] [boa 2G are blanched, the skin readily peels off. Almonds especially need blanching, both when used as dessert and when employed for the decoration of sweets. Blanc-Mange.—A sweet dish made by boiling farinaceous substances in milk to the consistence of jelly. The name is derived from the French for white food, and it is essential that a blanc-mange should be white, although there are various mate- rials of which they can be made and flavoured. The name, blanc-mange, is of very ancient date, as it is referred to in the poems of Chaucer. At that time a dish called by this name is supposed to have been made with cream, sugar, flour and chicken. Bianquette.—A wdiite made dish resembling a fricassee. Bloaters.—Bloaters are herrings slightly salted and partly dried. They are very plentiful in all l^arts of Great Britain and Scandinavia. The best known are those cured at Yarmouth, or other parts of Great Britain, and in Norway. The British bloaters are dried in smoke; those cured in Norway are salted and dried, but not smoked. As an article of food this fish is in favour Avith all classes, and is consumed in large quantities during the season, which lasts from July till September. Boar’s Head.—The head is boned and spiced, the skin not being broken. It is sent to table on a napkin, or garnished with a piece of deep Avliite paper. This formed, in ancient times, one of the most im- portant dishes ; at Christmas time it Avas always the first placed on the table. The custom of seiwing the boar’s head on a silver platter at that season is one wdiich still survives in some of our Inns of Court and Colleges. The grizzly head Avas held in so much esteem in MedifSA^al times that it \\’as quite27 [bom BOl] a favourite tavern sign. The “ Boar’s Head is familiar with all the readers of Shakespeare as the resort of the Prince of Wales, Ponis and his com- panion, and the residence of Falstaff and his minions, Bardolph, Pistol and Hym. It still stood in all its native quaintness, in Eastcheap, until within the last twenty-five years. It may be men- tioned that the fame of the grim trophy is not confined to England, but has spread to all parts of Europe, and a variety of traditions of deeds of savage vengeance are recorded in connection with it. Boiling.—This method of cooking does not re- quire much skill, but needs a good deal of caie. The water is put into an iron pot with a lid, which prevents evaporation and maintains the heat le- quired. The fire need not be large ; but it must be so made up at the commencement of cooking that it does fiot require much subsequent tending, as that is liable to raise or lower the temperature. The viands should be placed in cold water, which should gradu- ally be brought to the requisite heat; and while they are in the pot care must be taken to frequently skim off the scum which rises to the surface; if this is not done, the food will be discoloured and the flavour impaired. Bombay Duck.—A fish, about the size of a smelt, having large fins, a very large mouth, and a great many long slender teeth, barbed at the point. It is found in the seas around India. It is also called Bummalo, Bummaloe, Bumbeloe, Bumbalo, or Bumaloe, and zoologists call it Harpodon. When fresh caught it presents a brilliant phosphorescent appearance. It is highly nutritive, and possesses a fine delicate flavour. When salted and cured it is largely exported from Bombay and Malabar as a[BON bon] 28 delicacy. Fryer, writing in 1673 on “India and Its People,” speaks of a fish called Bumbelow as affording the chief sustenance of many of the poor. Bonbons.—The name given to various kinds of sweetmeats made of flavoured sugar, baked in some kind of paste. John Stuart Mill, the distinguished philosopher, has embalmed the name of this dainty morsel in the pages 6f our standard literature; for, in his work on “Political Economy,” he refers to the confectioner who makes bonbons for the mo- mentary pleasure of a sense of taste. The name bonbon is sometimes given to the crackers used at evening parties, because they have a bonbon placed inside.—{See Crackers.) Boning.—To cut out the bones from poultry, fish, or even from joints is not easy, and can only be done after considerable practice; but boning ena- bles carving to be much more easily performed, and adds greatly to the appearance of some joints which can be skewered into a more presentable shape after the bones have been removed. As a general rule, bones should he removed by making an incision on that side of the joint which will be least seen when it is on the dish. If this rule is carefully observed, the bones of poultry and game can he extracted without destroying the shape of the bird. Bontha.—An aerated, non-alcoholic beverage, possessing tonic, carminative, and sustaining pro- perties, which render it i^eculiarly acceiffable to literary men, students, and all persons leading a sedentary life. It is made from tea, extracted in a peculiar manner, sweetened and charged with car- bonic acid gas ; owing to this fact, and to the caffeine (or theine) it contains, Bontha tends to relieve head-bor] [bou 29 ache and to improve the digestive powers.—{See Aerated Waters.) Borecole or Scotch Kale.—It is a favourite kind of green vegetable in many parts of the country, and of late years its use in London and other large towns has slightly increased. It is considered a coarse kind of green, seldom used except by the humbler classes. It will thrive on many a plot of ground too poor for almost any other kind of vege- table. The Scotch used to cut it up in shreds for one of the ingredients in their favourite broth called Kale, whence their cottage gardens in which it was grown came to be called Kale yards, and the Borecole was called Scotch Kale or Kale green. Like other green vegetables, it is very good as a preventative of scurvy, and when eaten with meat counteracts its richness. Bouillabaisse.—A celebrated French soup, made from fish, of which the basis is shell-fish, prawns, cray-fish, crab or lobster. About 30 ingredients are required to produce this extraordinary compound, which counted Thackeray among its devoted ad- mirers. So highly did he prize it, that he wrote an entire ballad in its praise, and in the following verse gave a description of its appetising ingredients :— This Bouillabaisse a noble dish is, A sort of soup, a broth, or stew ; A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes, That Greenwich never could out-do ; Green herbs, red peppers, mussels, saflfern, Soles, onions, garlic, roach and dace, All these you eat at Ferres Tavern, In that one dish of Bouillabaisse. Bouilli.—Fresh beef boiled, generally plf.ced on the table as a joint, accompanied by radiehes, sauce, or other condiments.[bra BOU] 30 Bouillon.—Meat broth, either plain or fla- voured. Braizing.—This is a method of stewing meat in a stewpan called a brazier, which has a lid with an edge round it, on which hot coals are placed. The meat is thus stewed with a fire above it as well as below it, which greatly decreases loss by evapora- tion. Viands to be braized are either larded or wTapped in slices of fat bacon. When the cooking is completed the gravy is poured into a basin and placed in cold water, so that the fat can be skimmed off as it rises to the top, the gravy then is boiled again and poured over the meat. Brandy.—Brandy is the alcoholic or spirituous portion of wine, separated from the aqueous part by distillation. The word is of German origin, and in its German form, Brantwein, signifies burnt wine, or wine that has undergone the action of fire. Brandy is prepared in most wine countries, but that of France is most highly esteemed. Like other spirits, brandy is colourless when recently distilled, but by keeping in casks made of oak it acquires the rich brown colour which is familiar to us ; nevertheless, much of the brandy of commerce is merely a more or less impure grain or potato spirit, coloured with burnt sugar or caramel. The celebrated Cologne brandy, named after a town in the Department of Charente, in France, and that produced at Andaye, seem to owe their excellence to being made from white wine. Brawn.—Originally meaning hard flesh, or flesh put into hard skin. It is now frequently made without the skin, pressed into moulds, from which it is turned out when cold. It mostly consists of boar’s or pig’s head, boned and boiled, and cut upbra] ! BRE 31 with lean beef. These ingredients are seasoned, put into a circular mould, and pressed down with weights. Brazil Nuts.—Also called Juvia, or Castanha Nuts. Commonly placed upon the table with other dessert nuts. The Brazil nut is very much larger than the Spanish nut, and is enclosed in a much harder three-sided shell, with prominently-ridged angles. It has been erroneously thought that Brazil nuts are imported as they originally grew, hut the whole fruit contains four, five, or even eight of these nuts, and it grows to a size so enormously large, that at the period of its fall the natives dare not enter the forests. The locality where the trees mostly abound is on the banks of the Aripecuru, a tributary of the Amazon river, and the native Indians frequent the forests there to collect a harvest of nuts, upon which they depend for their subsistence throughout the year. Bread.—One of the principal articles of food almost all over the world, generally eaten with meat or other articles too rich to be taken alone. It is made of flour and water, raised with brewers’ yeast, “ leaven,” or baking-powder, and baked. There are several varieties: white and brown are made of wheat, black from rye; various fancy cakes from other cereals which are used as bread in wine countries ; and sometimes even from dried sprats. Bread is the most ancient manufactured article of food known, and was invented either by the Egyptians or the Hebrews. Sarah, the wife of Abraham, made bread with flour and water, baked in ashes on the hearth, more than 3,000 years ago. The Greeks are said to have had more than sixty varieties of bread, and it was from them that the Eomans learntbre] [bre 32 the art of making it, 200 years before the Christian era. The use of yeast is of very ancient date, but after the Roman era leaven for a time banished yeast, until about the end of the seventeenth cen- tury, when the bakers in Paris began to import it from the breweries of Flanders. The Government for a time forbade its use, but the prohibition be- came a dead letter in the face of imblic opinion. Now yeast has been in part supplanted by baking- powder. Although the use of fermented bread was general amongst the upper class of Europe, the peasantry for many centuries continued to use cakes, a circumstance handed down in the story of King Alfred being set to watch the dough baking before the fire in a cottage. In Manchester, as late as the year 1800, there was no public baker, although the population was over 100,000. In man}^ countries, notably Scotland, Sweden and Norway, cakes are still used as bread; and in Sweden, where rye cakes are used, baking only takes place twice a year. Breakfast.—This is the first meal eaten during the day, the name being merely an abbreviation of breaking the fast.” The fashions connected with breakfasting have been many and various. In this country the repast has generally been a substantial one, and taken at an early hour. Hot and cold meat, fish, eggs and bacon, hot rolls, tea and coffee form the staple of a good English breakfast; and in many well-ordered houses so much is thought of this meal that there is a fixed hour for it, when all the family take it together. It is more commonly, how- ever, prepared for each member of the family as they rise; a system which, if not very convivial, is much more convenient when every one does not retire to33 [bre breJ rest at the same hour. In France a sumptuous breakfast is seldom eaten, and it mostly consists of little more than a cup of coffee or chocolate, some- times with a roll and butter, generally taken in the bed-room. To make up for this a mid-day meal, called ‘‘ dejeuner a la fourchette,” is taken, and in- cludes meat and wine. In hot countries breakfast is taken at dawn, so that the morning’s work can be got over in time for the siesta, or noon-day sleep, during the heat of the day. The name breakfast is sometimes given to a meal after an important occa- sion ; hence we have wedding breakfasts and hunting breakfasts. These are much more elaborate repasts than the early-morning meal, and comprise all sorts of dishes, joints, entrees, game, pastry, sweets and wine. The subjoined menu, as carried out on the Earl of ’s table, describes the extent to which a meal called breakfast is now-a-day carried. There were between one hundred and fifty and two hundred dishes, consisting of crayfish in jelly, mayonaise of salmon, shrimp patties, lobsters, oyster patties, pheasants, galantine of veal, tongues, ham, caviar, boar’s head, pigeon pie, turkey, foie-gras, game pie, chickens, creams, jellies, French pastry, Charlotte Eusse, ice puddings, apples and rice, tipsey cake, meringues, nougat, trifle, macedoine of fruit, lemon sponge, shaddock, peaches, pears, oranges, apples, Orleans plums, and a choice of superior wines and liqueurs. Breast of Lamb.—The breast is cut from a large lamb, a small one not affording sufficient meat to make this part worth cutting into a separate joint. It is generally stewed, and makes a most tender and delicious dish peculiarly suitable to per- sons whose appetites require tempting.ere] [ERE 34 Breast of Mutton.—This includes all the under part of the sheep from the shoulder to the stomach. The meat is very delicate and peculiarly adapted for stewing. It is frequently boned and rolled, or con- verted into a made dish with vegetables. Breast of Veal.—Breast of veal is cut from the under part of the animal, immediately behind the fore legs. This is esteemed one of the most tender and delicate parts of the calf, although some people object to it as being too fat. It is frequently roasted with bacon, hut more often stewed and flavoured with lemon, parsley and butter, tomatoes, or herbs. Braised breast of veal is a very savoury dish, and the excess of fat may be absorbed by the addition of haricot beans. Veal, having but little flavour of its own, readily takes that of other substances, and is therefore one of the best materials from which highly-spiced dishes can be prepared. Brewing.—The art of brewing a fermented liquor from malt is of very ancient date, having been known to the ancient Egyptians previous to the Exodus. Modern brewing is performed in various ways, accord- ing to the machinery and ingredients used; in all, however, the following processes have to he carried out. Barley from which malt is to he made is first steeped for not less than fifty hours in a cistern of water, in order to assist in the germination of the seed and to allow the refuse which floats in the water to be removed. It is then shovelled into a large wooden box, called a couch, where it remains for twenty-four hours to further advance the germi- nation. The grain is then laid out on a wooden floor, and shovelled daily until the germination is equal throughout the entire quantity. It is then thrown into a kiln at a temperature of 90°, gradu-BRi] 35 [bri ally raised to 18(f°, in order to dry it, a process which takes from one to four days. It is now malt, and after being crushed between metal rollers it is ready for mashing, which consists of moistening it and finally pouring hot water over it. When the liquor, or wort as it is called, has run off, it is boiled in a copper with hops to flavour and preserve it. After having been cooled and strained in a suitable vessel, called hop-back, the wort is then fermented by means of yeast, and when the beer is put into the casks it is cleansed, as it is called, by the yeast being allowed to work through the bung. A few of the finest hops are then placed in each cask, and the beer, after being stored two or three months, is ready for use. Brill.—Called in Scotland, Bonnet Fleuk; in Devonshire and Cornwall, Kite and Brett. It is also sometimes termed the Pearl, from the fact that its skin, the general colour of which is a reddish brown, is dotted with many round spots of a pearly lustre. The flesh of this fish is deemed only slightly inferior to that of turbot. It also resembles the turbot in habits and appearance, though not in size, seldom weighing more than seven or eight pounds. It like- wise bears some resemblance to the sole, differing from the latter chiefly in point of breadth. It is, however, much cheaper than either. Brisket of Beef.—That part of the breast of the ox towards the throat containing the breast bone. The breast bone when first cut from the carcass is divided into half along its wliole length, so that each brisket contains half the breast bone with the com- mencement of the ribs attached on one side. It has a layer of fat next the bone, then a thick layer of lean, and then another layer of fat outside. It is D36 fERI BRi] generally eaten salted, and is preferred by many even to the round of beef. British Wines.—These are made from a great variety of fruits, and from a few vegetable products. They do not contain so much alcohol as foreign wines, but are less likely to injure the constitution than most of the artificial concoctions sold as cheap port or sherrj^ British wines are of two kinds : those made in large quantities by manufacturers, and those made in private houses, called home-made. The purity of the latter can, of course, be more relied upon ; and when their natural fermentation is complete before bottling, and they are allowed to mature, home-made wines form a very pleasant and wholesome beverage. There is a great variety*of these wines; ginger is one of the most popular. Cowslip wine is flavoured with the flowers of the plant of that name, called in Cambridgeshire, pegles. In that county the village children often go about selling this home-made wine, singing as they go :— “Here’s your pegle-wine, Very good, and very fine.” Large quantities of British wine are made from raisins, but the flavour is rather harsh and acid, and decidedly inferior to that made from grapes. On the contrary, sloe wine, made from the sloe berries, when kept for several years, acquires a flavour resembling that of port. An excellent wine for mulling, or for making negus, is obtained from elderberries. Wines are made from blackberries, currants (black or red), grapes, gooseberries, parsnips, turnips and rhubarb. The latter, if properly matured, can easily be mis- taken for champagne, contrary to the general opinion that gooseberry only possesses this quality.Brocoli.—A hardy variety of the cauliflower. There are two kinds : one which is ready for use in the autumn, and the other an early spring vegetable ; both are equally good. Like the cauliflower, brocoli is only a cultivated form of the wild cabbage, and until the end of the seventeenth century, these were not much grown in England. The leaves of the brocoli and the colour of its head differ from that of the cauliflower. It is very easy to grow, and endures the frost without sustaining any injury, but it re- quires plenty of manure, constant watering and good, rich soil.’ It may be grown, however, in the open, and does not require sheltering from the wind. Like all other green vegetables for table, it should always be gathered fresh. All leaves in the least withered should be carefully picked off, and the brocoli should then be washed well in salt water and boiled in an uncovered saucepan. The heads of brocoli plants are often pickled like cauliflowers, and form a very tasty accompaniment to cold meats. Broiling.—To cook over the fire by direct heat. Broiling can be performed upon the wood, charcoal or coals of a slow fire, and this is still done by savages ; but in civilised countries, a gridiron, con- sisting of bars of iron, is placed over the fire for the meat to rest upon. Broiling imparts a burnt flavour to meat, which is as much liked by some as it is disliked by others. Lexicographers make no differ- ence between broiling and grilling; but a scientific chef defines the former as cooking by dry heat over the fire, and the latter as performing the same process in front of it. The modern gas-fires, being free from smoke, are well adapted for broiling. Bros6. Brose is a Scotch dish made b}'’ pouring boiling water, or the liquid that meat has beenBROJ [bru 38 qoiled in, on oatmeal or barley-meal, with small pieces of fat meat, immediately mixing the ingre- dients by stirring. The dish produced is generally denominated from the liquid used : as kail brose, water brose, beef brose. There is another brose known as Athole brose, which is made of honey and whiskey mixed together ; it is used sometimes as a remedy for sore throats arising from cold. In some of the western counties of England, Devonshire, for instance, water brose, or water broth, is some- times used by the country people. It consists of boiling water poured over bread, with the intro- duction of a little butter or fat. Broth.—A soup made by simply stewing meat in water without adding any thickening materials. For invalids, it is one of the most nourishing and palatable articles of diet. Broth is generally made of mutton, chicken or veal, with a little seasoning, and occasionally the addition of a few vegetables cut into very small pieces. Brown Bread.—This is made in much the same way as white bread, but the ingredient em- ployed ought to be flour from which the outer husk, but not the pollard, has been sifted ; a i^ro- portion of rye is frequently added to give it a sweet taste. Brown bread is very wholesome, and is supposed to contain more nutriment than white, but it is not quite so digestible. It i)rovides, however, a pleasant change of diet at the tea-table, and at dinner or luncheon is the orthodox accompaniment to whitebait. Browning.—{See Caramel.) Brussels Sprouts. — A well-known vegetable, having the appearance of a miniature cabbage. Sprouts, in fact, are miniature cabbages growingbub] 39 BUF out of the stalk from which the larger vegetables have been cut. Tender, delicate-flavoured, and very nutritious, they belong to the nitrogenous or flesh forming class of foods, and hence are extremely sustaining. Their greatest drawback is that, like all varieties of cabbage, they are somewhat difficult to digest. The name Brussels sprouts was given to it because the best kinds are raised from seeds which were originally brought from Belgium. They are in season in winter, and partly valued because at that time other fresh vegetables are scarce. When being prepared for table, they should be well washed and cleaned from insects, carefully picked over, put into soft water with salt and a very little soda, if necessary, and then boiled quickly until tender. Bubble-and-Squeak.—A favourite old English dish, made from cold meat (cold boiled beef being preferred, but roast veal or beef may also be used), cut into slices or dice, and fried together with chopped- up cabbage which has been previously boiled, and potatoes, if desired. As all the ingredients have been previously cooked, this is a most economical way of serving up the remains of a previous repast. Buckwheat.—Buckwheat is one of the twenty- seven species of Polygonum, or knot-grass, and is used for making cakes. It grows with an upright, smooth, branchy stem, from about a foot and a half to a yard high ; has heart-shaped, sagittated leaves, and the branches terminated by clusters of whitish, flowers, which are succeeded by large angular seeds. Buckwheat is also used for feeding pigeons and most kinds of poultry. Buffet .— This word originally signified a side- board or cupboard, but now it is frequently used to signify a bar where light refreshments may be ob-tained. A railway station refreshment-room, when there is no accommodation for supplying a substan- tial meal, is generally called a refreshment buffet. Bullace.— A kind of plum, so much like the damson that Hogg, in his ‘‘ Fruit Manual,” says : “ The difference between these two fruits is little more than a name ; the round ones being bullaces, and the oval ones damsons.” The bullace, how- ever, has not the pleasant roughness of taste so characteristic of the damson. There are some varie- ties of a yellowish white colour and others of a bluish black. They ripen later in the season than most plums, and are remarkable because of the im- mense quantity of fruit which each tree usually bears. The bullace-tree is a native of Asia Minor and Southern Europe, but has been for many cen- turies cultivated in more northern countries. It is occasionally found growing wild in the south-western l^arts of England. The cultivation of so many new varieties of plum has somewhat crowded out the bullace, so that it is less patronised now than for- merly, the memory of living men sufficing to mark a rapid decline in its use. The numerous references to the bullace in the writings of early English authors prove that it was in very common use among our forefathers. Lydgate uses the phrase, ‘‘As bright as bullaces,” in a poem published more than four hundred years ago. There is a tree in the West Indies which produces a green egg-shaped fruit, with a pleasant, vinous, aromatic flavour, that is also called the bullace. The same name is also given to the muscadine grape of the United States. Bullock.—(5'eg Ox.) Bullock’s Heart.— The heart of the ox is a favourite dish with some persons in cold weather.[bur 41 bulJ and is said to bo Gcj^nal to liar© if it is liung for a time, although not often included in cookery of a high class. It is best roasted, and should be stuffed with veal forcemeat, rather highly seasoned, tied over with paper, and basted well while roasting. The remains furnish excellent materials for an economical made dish. Heart requires to be served very hot, as it is a meat that soon chills. Bull’s-eyes.— The name given to sweetmeats made of boiled sugar, flavoured with various essences, coloured and moulded in round pieces the size of a bullet. Bull’s-eyes are one of the oldest sweetmeats, and, although the variety of confectionery has so largely increased during recent years, they still find a place in the young folk’s list of delicacies. Buns.—Buns are a form of bread very familiarly known at most tables. They are light and spongy, not baked hard and dry, as biscuits are. The baking involves three distinct processes—the setting of the sponge, making the dough or kneading, and baking or firing. Buns are extensively eaten in England, the Bath bun being much appreciated. As is well known, a special bun is made for Good Friday with the distinctive mark of a cross, and known as “ hot cross buns.” So great is the demand for these that in many bake-houses the men work all the night •preceding the festival. Burdwan.—A dish much appreciated by Anglo- Indians. Almost any kind of cold meat may be used for making it, but preference is given to veni- son or poultry. A sauce for it is made by boiling minced onions and shalots in water, flavoured with cayenne and essence of anchovies, thickened with a little butter and flour, in which the meat is placed until thoroughly warmed.bueJ 4'2 lBL’t Burgundy.—Burgundy is a French wine, named after the province so called ; and, in common with other French wines, finds great favour with English people. It is a light wine, having been allowed to complete its fermentation naturally, and is a favour- ite at the luncheon table, being often recommended to persons of weak digestion. If exposed to the air for any length of time, it becomes sour, and there- fore should not be decanted more than an hour or so before use. Butter.—This almost universal article of food is made from milk, or rather from cream, agitated until the fatty portion separates. Butter was dis- covered at a very early period, and in the first century of the present era Pliny refers to it as to an article of everyday use. “Butter,” he says, “is made from milk, and the use of this aliment, so much sought after by barbarous nations, distin- guished the rich from the common people. It is obtained principally from cows’ milk, that from ewes being the richest; goats also supply some. It is produced by agitating the milk, with a little water added, in long vessels with narrow openings.” About a century later Dioscorides noticed that butter was replacing oil at meals; and Galen praised its medi- cinal qualities. There are many kinds of butter at the present day, which take rank in the market ac- cording to their quality. Butter is affected by the kind of pasture the cows are fed upon, and the method by which the butter itself is made. The best is that produced from pure cream, and this always commands the highest price. Butterine.—{See Margarine.) Butter-milk.—That portion of the cream that is left after the butter has been made from it. ^Yhen43 but] [CAK sweet it is eaten wntli fruit and used in making puddings or tarts ; it is also eaten when sour, with or without sugar. When stale, it is a fattening addition to the food of pigs; also recommended as a lotion for whitening' the skin and preserving the complexion in general. Buttock of Beef.—(>S'6c Rumpsteak.) Cabbage.—This nutritious vegetable has been, through cultivation, transformed into endless varie- ties. Originally it was the wild-growing colew^ort, W'hich can be found on the cliffs of our sea-coast. In its cultivated state it was first brought into this country from Holland, about the time of Henry VIII., when the cultivation of vegetables was here hardly known; but science and labour combined have changed the little wild cabbage, not weighing more than half an ounce, into giants frequently exceeding a hundred pounds in wmght. Cakes.—Cakes consist principally of flour, butter, eggs, milk, (currants, candied peel and sugar. There are, how-ever,a great many varieties, from the “seed,” “ plain,” or “ currant,” to the elaborate wedding cake. Some are covered with an almond paste and sugar icing, and are ornamented w^itli emblematical designs made of real or imitation sugar, and artificial flow'ers. On the cakes eaten on twelfth night are placed figures, crystallised fruit and other decora- tions suitable to the festival. There are many peculiar associations connected with cakes, such as that of placing in a wedding cake a wedding ring and small thimble ; wdien the cake is divided he or she who by chance obtains the ring is supposed to marry first, and she who finds the thimble will remain a spinster. Cake may be said to accompany us through life, for we eat it at christenings, birth-cal] 44 [cal days, school treats, weddings, and even at funerals and ‘‘ wakes.” Of the great variety of cakes the list has swelled already to more than a hundred, of which many bear names indicating their ingredients, the way they are made, or the use to which they are to be put. Thus we find sponge, tip-top, trifle, tipsy, drop, and school cake,. It is to be hoped this last is not named for the same reason that a humourist ascribed to a certain wine called “ school wine : ” when a boy shirked going to school his father merely asked him if he would rather take a glass of the wine or go to school, and invariably the answer was : “I would rather go to school, father.” Calf.—Everyone knows that the calf is the young ox or cow. The difference in flavour is partly owing to the age and partly to the manner in which the flesh is dressed after the animal is killed. In the Scriptures we read of fatted calves, which prob- ably refers to the time when they were fit for eating. It is curious that since the time of tlie Normans, there are several parts of a calf named veal, but not all : thus we read of loin of veal, but calf’s feet, and so forth. These we refer to under their different headings. The calf is generally slaughtered when it is about ten weeks old. It should not be killed when it is too young, as the flesh is not then worth eating. In France, calves cannot be legally slaughtered before they attain the age of six weeks. Calf’s Feet.—The feet of the calf are of far more value for culinary purposes than the feet of many other animals. They are occasionally stewed or fried, but there is too little meat upon them to appear often at table in this form. When boiled they furnish the well-known calf’s foot jelly which is invaluable for making various light additions to theCAL I 45 [cal table, and also as a highly nutritious and palatable food for invalids. Calf’s Head.—The head of the calf, boiled, forms a most nutritious and strengthening dish, and even after boiling may be sent to table in various ways, additional flavour being imparted to it by other meats, vegetables, herbs, or condiments. The brains are generally made into sauce, and the tongue salted often forms a separate dish. The head is improved in appearance by being well soaked in water, which makes it whiter. Calf’s head has been connected with politics, for a club called the “Calf’s Head Club ” existed during the reign of Charles II. It consisted of the most fanatical members of the Puritan party, who dined together on the anni- versary of the death of Charles I., and one of them attired as an executioner threw a calf’s head into a bonfire in memory of the event. It is even said that up to the beginning of the present century Eepublicans in this country often dined together on calf’s head on the 30th of January. Calf’s Heart.—Hearts are much liked by a great many people in cold weather, and the calf’s heart is the most preferred, as it is much more delicate than that of the ox. It is generally stuffed with any of the numerous kinds of veal seasoning, and roasted, but various made dishes can be pro- duced from it. It does not, as a rule, make its appearance on dinner tables where the menu is of a high-class, but some very useful dishes can be made of it, which add variety to the bill of fare of a small household. Calf’s Kidney .—The kidney of the calf does not appear as a separate dish so often as that of the ox or the sheep. It is more generally left in46 cal] [can the loin, to which it imparts an additional flavour. When, however, calf’s kidney is taken from the joint, it is generally used in the same way as that of the ox, and is added to some dishes as an additional delicacy. Calf’s Liver.—The peculiar and somewhat bitter flavour of liver is much liked by some people, as an occasional dish ; hut the rather indigestible character of this viand causes it to be sparingly used. Liver is very close, dry meat, and requires to be eaten with something richer and lighter, such as bacon. It is generally prepared for table by being cut in thin slices covered with egg and bread-crumbs, and fried quite brown. Calf’s Sweetbreads.—A well-known delicacy of which several popular entrees are made. It weighs a little more than one pound, and two or three generally form a dish. Frying is the most frequent way in which they are cooked, but they are occasionally baked or stewed. They are generally covered with eggs and bread-crumbs before cooking (although flour is sometimes substituted), and are most often served in brown gravy. Calf’s sweet- breads are in season from May to August.—{See Sweetbreads.) Canary Wines.—Many of the wines produced in the Canary Islands resemble Madeira, and have very often been sold under that name, though having less of their characteristic perfume. The Canary sect wine, of great repute in former times, was so called because it was made from grapes, or “ vins seccato,” which had been dried. Palma sack was formerly known all over Europe as one of the soundest and most durable of sweet wines, and this vintage is still held in high repute. The Malvasiacan] 47 [can produced in the Canary Islands acquires when about three years old the flavour and perfume of a rich, ripe pine-apple, and it is very different from other wines produced there. The vines, like those in Madeira, suffered severely from that destructive pest, the Oidium, which reduced the amount of wine produced in the Canary Islands to one-tenth. A large pro- portion of the wine imported into this country from the Canary Islands is now sold as cheap sherry. Candied Peel.—It consists of the prepared outer rind of various fruits of the citron family, such as orange, lemon, citron, and lime, encrusted with sugar. It is used in making mincemeat for mince pies, and also to flavour various kinds of cakes and puddings. Being largely used at Christmas time, its price is much higher at that season. Candy.—The candying of various articles is the preserving of them in crystallised sugar. Candied peel is made by boiling the peel in water to extract the bitter taste, then boiling it in syrup, and drying it in an oven with white sugar. Candied fruits are made by boiling the fruits in syrup, drying them in an oven, and sifting crystallised white sugar over them before they are quite dry. Canvas Back Duck.—The bird best known under this name, but more properly called the dun- bird, pochard or duncur, is a native of North America, where it owes its popular name to the wavy lines and speckles on its otherwise white feathers. It is held in high esteem as a choice dish in the United States. Occasionally it may be found in poulterers’ shops in this country, and it has been seen alive in marshy places in the North. The rivers emptying into Chesapeake Bay are its favourite resort. There it rapidly loses the meagrecap] 48 [cap appearance it presents on its first arrival, the district being rich in worms, small reptiles and fish, on which it feeds. By the end of November the bird is in prime condition, weighing about three or three and a half pounds. There are two other varieties of the canvas back which frequent the Potomac, and the sheldrake which resorts to the James Piiver. They are more difiicult to catch than other ducks, being excellent divers and strong on the wing, but they are trapped in the following manner : A net is suspended on poles, over the water, and a bait sub- merged. When the birds endeavour to get the bait they entangle themselves in the meshes of the net and become the prey of the hunters. Capercailzie.—Capercailzie is a bird which belongs to the grouse family, and possesses a j^eculiar flavour. It can be cooked according to any of the recipes given for grouse, and it is much esteemed by those who like wild birds of that description. The capercailzie, wood grouse, or, as it is sometimes called, the cock of the woods, is the largest of the gallinaceous birds of Europe, and is about the size of a small turkey. The male bird is larger than the female, and sometimes weighs as much as fourteen pounds. The general colour of the male bird is black, inclining to brown, very much spbckled with grayish white and light brown, which distinguishes it from another of the same family — the black cock. The tail is rounded and its feathers are nearly black, and some of the larger ones edged at the top with white. The colour of the female is dark brown, except the front of the neck, which is light chestnut tinged with yellow. The capercailzie inhabits pine woods and feeds on berries, seeds and worms. It breeds readily if it is allowed to runcap] 49 [CAP among pine trees, the tender shoots of which also form part of its food. It is generally to be found in the North of Europe, but it is now extinct in Great Britain and Ireland. The last seen in Scotland was shot in 1760. Capsrs.—The unopened flower-buds of a creep- ing plant which grows wild among the rocks of Greece and Northern Africa, and now cultivated in the South of Europe. They are brought to this country from Italy, Sicily and the South of France, after being first pickled in salt and vinegar. The best are exported from Toulon. They are frequently used for sauce with boiled mutton, skate and salmon. In Germany, capers are chopped up with anchovies and spice, and are then spread as a paste on rusks, bread-and-butter, or toast. Cape Wines.—Wines called Cape port and sherry are produced at the Cape of Good Hope. After the must has fermented, the Cape growers im- pregnate their wines with sulphur, either by the addition of flowers of sulphur, or by sulphur fumes ; freshly killed meat is hung up in the wine, and a good dose of the Cape-made brandy, called “ Cape- smoke,” is finally added to fortify it. Vines were first planted at the Cape of Good Hope, in 1650, by the Dutch settlers, and when the Cape became a British colony, large quantities of wine were im- ported into this country, the duty placed upon that grown in the colonies being lower than that imposed upon wines imported from foreign countries. After the equalisation of the duties on foreign and colonial wines in 1860, the imports of Cape wine diminished, and it is now principally used in this country as an ingredient in imitations of Spanish sherry and port. Constantia is the only Cape wine that can be said[cap cap] 50 to have any British reputation, and even this commands a higher indce at Cape Town than it does in London. In 1858, a cargo of it was brought from the Cape to England, and not fetching the expected price, it was taken back, and in spite of the double freight incurred by the second voyage, it was sold at a greater j)rofit than could have been obtained in London. Capillaire.—This name is now given to clarified syrup in which the sugar is boiled to a consistence nearly approaching the candying point. Originally it was made from an infusion of the maiden-hair fern (‘‘Capillaire”), with the addition of a little orange-flower water. At one time capillaire was largely used in France for flavouring cough syrups, whence it acquired a reputation as a pectoral remedy in coughs and colds, but this use is now obsolete. In Boswell’s “ Life of Johnson,” we read that “ He used to pour capillaire into his port wine.” It is still used as an agreeable flavouring for many beverages. Capon.—The capon is the common cock-bird emasculated to develop its growdh and to improve its flavour, and instances have been known where the weight has been as much as nine and a half pounds when drawn. When dressed for table the capon is an esteemed article of food; in fact, a luxury only to be indulged in by the opulent, the price being too high in comparison with that of other food, but it must be acknowdedged that the flavour of the natural bird is far inferior to that of the capon. The capon is best in season about Christmas time. Capsicum.—The capsicum is a species of Solanaceae, and produces the very pungent condi-51 car] I CAR ment known as red or cayenne pepper. It grows on a stunted, bushy shrub, which, although it is produced annually or biennially, invariably foims a more or less w^oody stem. It is cultivated \eiy generally in tropical or subtropical countries for its fruit, which is used either as a medicine, when it forms a useful stimulant, or as a condiment to flavour food. The different species and varieties are difficult to distinguish ; the principal differences, however, are in the form, size and colour of the fruit; but a general distinction is made betAveen two species, one of which furnishes the greater quantity of pod-pepper, while the other is ground, and produces a pejiper known as cayenne. Caramel.—This is a browning to colour liqueurs, wines or gravies. It is made of refined sugar placed in a frying-pan over the Are until it assumes a fine dark-brown colour, and is then reduced with plain or spiced water to a liquid. Caraway.—It grows in all parts of Europe, and has long been cultivated in our own country. “Caraway Seeds” form the distinctive feature of seed cake, and are used to flavour various kinds of confectionery and sweetmeats. It is curious that Avhile they are employed in this country for sweets they are in Germany principally used for savoury dishes, and in the production of the favourit(3 Eussian and German liqueur, “Kiimmel.” Although so much like a seed in appearance, they are the dried fruit of the plant on which they grow. The so- called caraw^ay seeds depend for their aromatic qualities upon a volatile oil, which is separated from them by the process of distillation and used in medicine as a carminative. Oil of caraway is yellow in colour, turning to a light rod if kept for a52 car] i CAR lengthened period; it has an aromatic odour "with a spicy taste. Carbonado.—An ancient dish prepared from a fowl, or joint of veal or mutton, roasted, carved, and marked all over with a knife like chequer work. It was then buttered and placed on a gridiron over a charcoal lire. The upper side was basted and covered with grated bread, after which it was ready to he dished up Avith a sauce consisting of butter, vinegar, mustard and sugar, garnished with lemon. Cardamoms.—These are the wrinkled seeds contained in the capsules of a certain species of Amomum, which abounds in the mountain forests of the coast of Malabar. An aromatic, pungent spice, having a peculiar, agreeable taste, used in medicine on account of their cordial and stimulant properties. They are a favourite condiment in Asia, and are very largely used in Eussia, Scan- dinavia and Northern Germany to flavour pastry and confectionery. Cardoons.—{See Artichokes.) Carp.—A fresh-water fish more largely con- sumed on the Continent than in England. The flavour is generally good, but when bred in ponds they have a muddy taste ; the roe and the tongue are considered great delicacies. The carp' is fre- quently an adjunct to ornamental waters, where it can be trained to rise to the surface at the ringing of a bell for the purpose of being fed. It lives to a great age, it is said until moss grows on its head ; at all events instances are known of its reaching the age of two hundred years. Carrot.—A vegetable which, in Germany, is made into a variety of dishes, both sweet and savoury. It has the drawback of being somewhat[CAU CAS] 53 indigestible, but is very fattening and nourishing. It is a hard, coarse, rough biennial, a nati\e of the northern part of the ^Yorld, but also found on the mountains of the tropics. The garden carrot, which has a white flower, was introduced into England in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and was at first so highly esteemed that ladies wore leaves of it in their head-dress. The carrot can be used instead of malt for beer, and in distillation yields a large quantity of spirit. Its value is proportionate ac- cording as it has more or less of the red than the yellow part. A large red variety is used amongst other purposes by farmers for colouring butter, while the orange carrot is that usually cultivated as a garden vegetable. Casserol.—This is a rice edging for a curry or fricassee. It is made by picking and soaking fine Carolina rice, then boiling it in water wuth a little salt until it is quite tender. It is put round the inner edge of a dish to the height of two inches, smoothed and washed over with yolk of egg. li is then placed for a few minutes in the oven and served with the meat in the centre. Catsup.—{See Ketchup.) Caudle.—A drink made of gruel, flavoured with sugar, lemon-peel, nutmeg, or other spices, to which are added milk and eggs beaten up. It is a favourite drink for invalids, especially to be recom- mended during the early stages of nursing. It is hardly necessary to mention that beer, wine, and even brandy can be added to a caudle. In that case the mixing and proportioning is a privilege religiously claimed by the nurse, if she has not joined the society of teetotallers. Cauliflower.—The most highly-prized of all the54 CAVj [cay members of the cabbage family. The large, bush}% snow-white heads of flowers are beautifully tender and sweet when properly boiled. It should be placed head downwards in salt and water, or in vinegar and water, before being boiled, in order to destroy any animal life that may be concealed inside. Care must be taken not to break the flowery part before sending it to table, and when cooked it should be put into boiling water with salt, because if the water be not boiling when the cauliflower is put in, its flavour is impaired. It is generally eaten with melted butter. In some foreign countries it is eaten with a sweet sauce, and frequently stewed with chicken and green peas, or other vegetable. Cauli- flower is more wholesome, more delicate in flavour, and less likely to produce ill effects than any other member of the cabbage family. A very choice pickle is also made of it. Caviar.—A favourite food in Eussia prepared from the roe of the sturgeon. The finest quality is made from the roe of the sterlet, a species of sturgeon highly esteemed for its flavour and the delicacy of its flesh. The sterlet is distinguished from other sturgeon by its inferior size, being seldom more than three feet in length, and in the river Volga they are said to rarely exceed two feet in length, but their ova are larger than those in other fish. Astracha]! gives its name to the now well-known delicacy ; the Astrachan caviar is by no means un- common in the London markets, and although sturgeon is occasionally found in English rivers, the caviar sold here is all imported. Cayenne Pepper. — This is an extremely pungent, aromatic condiment, which is sparingly used as an addition to many dishes. It consists of55 fCKP CECj tliG ground seeds of ti species of Ccipsicuui, wliicli is red in colour, and grows principally in Cayenne. The pods are also imported and known as “chillies.” There is another kind of red pepper called the bird or guinea pepper, produced by a small perennial shrub which grows in the East Indies, and is more pungent than the common kinds. The plant has been acclimatised in Europe, and its pods are used for pickling. Cecils.—These are entrees consisting of minced meat, bread-crumbs and seasoning, together with anchovies and lemon peel, the two latter ingredients giving them their distinctive character. They are made into balls, with the aid of an egg, fried, and served with gravj'. Celeriac.—Celery.) Celery.—Is a vegetable which can be eaten raw, cooked^in various ways, or added to soups and made dishes. It is indigenous to Britain and growls wild on some parts of the sea-coast, where it is known as “ smallage.” In the neighbourhood of Manchester it grows to a large size. Much more attention than formerly is now, however, paid to its cultivation in this country. A variety is grown in Germany of which only the bulb is used ; it is known in this country as turnip-rooted celery or celeriac. On the Continent it is principally used in soup and as a salad. Celery seed combined with salt is now a favourite condiment. Peat with a clayey or coal sub-soil, answers better for growing celery than stronger land. Most crops exhaust the land, but celery improves it. Cepe.—The common French name for the species of fungus known as boletus. It springs up in summer in the woods and is often of great size.56 [cha cha] Its flesh is thick, firm, and of a yellowish white, having an agreeable, nutty flavour. It is largely cultivated in the neighbourhood of Bordeaux for home consumption and export. There are several pernicious species of the fungus which are also of a yellow or white colour, but on being cut and exposed to the air, they become in a few seconds intensely blue. This distinction between them and the eatable kind is so great that a little care will prevent mistakes being made. Champagne.—A red or white wine, brisk, and more or less sparkling, named after the old French province where it was first made. The best comes from Eheims and Epernay, where the grapes grow on the banks of the river Marne, the district yield- ing about thirty million gallons annually. Large quantities of this wine are now made on French methods in California, and some of the Atlantic districts of the United States. Champagnes are divided into four categories : sparkling granot, ordinary sparkling, half sparkling, and tisane de champagne ; or they may be more familiarly classed as sparkling, semi-sparkling, and still. The still champagne called Sillery is very choice, and much patronised in this country. Dry champagne contains no taste of sugar, but that exported to foreign countries usually has some melted sugar candy mixed with brandy added to it. The grapes from which champagne is made are not left to ripen to full maturity, and after the wine has been bottled a first time the process is not complete until a second fermentation has been allowed to progress in the bottles for about a year and a half. Champagne will continue in excellent condition for twenty or thirty years. It was not held in high esteem before57 cha] r CHA the close of the fifteenth century, and did not attain its present repute till the beginning of the seventeenth century. Macaulay, m referring to Lauzun and the other French allies of Janies ii. who assisted him in attempting to oust William III.’s troops from Ireland, enumerates “ hampers of champagne ” among the_ luxuries they _ were accustomed to enjoy in Paris, and Thomson, in his “ Seasons,” when describing the fruits of autumn, says :— “ The claret smooth, red as the lips we press In sparkling fancy, while we drain the howl, The mellow-tasted Burgundy, and quick ^ As the wit it gives, the gay Champagne.’" Champagne contains a less proportion of alcohol than many wines, but owes much of its exhilarating effects to the carbonic acid it retains through being bottled before the fermentation is complete. A spurious champagne is sometimes made from goose- berries or rhubarb charged with carbonic acid gas. Char.—A delicious fish from nine to twelve inches long belonging to the same family as the salmon and trout, having rich pink and fatty flesh. It is mostly found in the English lake district;, those taken in Lake Windermere are especially good, so much so indeed that being considered a rarity they are often potted and preserved. At the end of autumn and beginning of winter the char quits the lakes for the streams in order to find some stony bed on which to deposit its ova. There is an American variety of an inferior kind, also a denizen of lakes rather than rivers ; when found in the latter it is supposed that during high floods the fish get carried to the outlets of the lakes or pools and thence avoid the rush of waters to the rivers.58 cha] [CHE Charlotte.—The name given to sweet dishes made of an outer case of bread, cake, or biscuits containing stewed apples, cream, wine and flavour- ings. Charlottes are generally made in moulds, but this is not alwa3"S necessary. Charlotte Rnsse.—A sweet entremet made by lining a mould with savoy biscuits fastened together with white of egg. The interior is filled with eggs beaten to a stiff froth with gelatine, to which are added liqueurs, wine and vanilla, or other flavourings. The top is covered with a slice of sponge cake, to give the cream something to stand on when the charlotte russe is turned out of the mould. Chaudfroid.—A dish of cold chicken or similar meat, cut into moderate-sized pieces, and dipped into a hot sauce of stock thickened with eggs and flour. Cheese.—Cheese is obtained from milk, and forms when new the principal nitrogenous food of manj^ labouring people. It is then nutritious, hut not very easy of digestion; while, when it is old, it rather promotes digestion. The qualities of the various descriptions of cheese are due in part to the pasturage of the animals that produce the milk, and in part to the varying proportion of butter fat allowed to remain with the caseine in the manufac- ture. Cream cheese and the rich-flavoured cheeses contain a large percentage of fat, while the hard skim-milk cheese has hut little. The caseine of cheese is the chemical equivalent of the white of (;gg, gluten of wheat, and the fibrin of meat, hlnglish cheeses are known as the Stilton, Cheddar, Cheshire, Wiltshire, Gloucester, and Derby. The United States and Canada are now trying to com- pete with our dairy farmers, and several excellent varieties are produced in those countries. Holland[CHE 59 che] produces some good cheese, hut a prejudice exists here against Dutch cheese ou account of its low price. °The best Dutch Edam cheese, winch always fetches a high price at home, does not find its way into the English market, possibly owing to the iire- judice that Dutch cheese must be cheap, and for that reason cannot be good. Gouda is prepared in Holland from skimmed milk, curdled with muriatic acid instead of rennet, which prevents its being in- fested with mites. Parmesan (named after Parma, in Italy) owes its fine flavour to the rich herbage on which ^ the cows are fed, and to the saffron with which the cheese is coloured. Parmesan cheese is compared to Stilton, but is inferior to it. Roque- fort cheese is made from ewes’ milk. Gruyere and other Swiss cheeses are flavoured with herbs. Brie cheese is a soft, rich cheese, made in France, having a white or creamy colour, veined wdth blue. The richest milk onl}’’ is used in making it, and care is taken to strain it at once and then to add the rennet immediately, so as to produce the curd before the cream has time to separate from the milk. As soon as the curd is formed, the whey is drawn off, and the curd at once placed in a mould that permits the remaining whey to drain out. When sufficiently firm the cheeses are salted on both sides, and after having been exposed in the drying-room to currents of air, they will become covered, in about a month’s time, with a fungus, white at first, but turning blue with red points, which is a peculiar parasite found upon decaying milk. Camembert, Limburg and Gorgonzola command a high price in this country. The competition in the manufacture of cheese is increasing, and has even reached New Zealand, which now sends us loaf cheese.CHE] 60 [CHE Cheesecakes.—Now generally made with flour, eggs and butter, in a very light, flaky crust, hol- lowed in the centre to receive some mixture, such as almond paste, flavoured with nutmeg or other spices. They are a fragile article of confectionery, retaining their name though cheese (or, rather, curds) is no longer one of their ingredients. Cherry.—The fruit of a tree of the same name. Cherries are used, according to their quality, for puddings, pies, tarts, or dessert. Three hundred different varieties are now known, of which the principal are the wdld, the white, the red, the black, and the Morelia. The word cherry is derived from the Greek name of the fruit, Kerasos, yet some have thought that it was derived from Kerasous (or Cerasus), a town in Asia Minor ; other autho- rities maintain that the cherry-tree grew wild in Greece, and that this town received its name from the Greek word for a cherry. Pliny states that Lucullus first brought cherries to Italy, about seventy years before the Christian era, and he re- cords that the Komans afterwards introduced the tree into Britain. The wild cherry is a large forest tree, with reddish coloured wood, which grows darker with age, much used by cabinet-makers ; in some parts of Germany the roads are lined with these trees. The fruit grows in clusters, instead of having only one on each stalk, like the cultivated cherry ; it is also much smaller, nearly black, and somewhat bitter. The cultivated varieties are much sweeter, and range i:i colour from light pink to nearly black. They are named after the locality in which they are grown, after their cultivator, or, maybe, in honour of some person of rank. Of all cherries, the Morelia is the greatest favourite for[chi che] 61 making cherry brandy; the smaller ^-ild black kind, called in Italy Marasca, produces by distilla- tion’ the well-known liqueur, “ Maraschino,” of which the best qualities are made in Dalmatia. In Germany they distil from the fermented juice of the small black cherry a liqueur called “Kirsch Wasser” (verbally translated, “ Cherry Water,”) which inno- cent name is not at all appropriate to a liqueur, agreeable and seductive to the taste, but highly in- toxicating. ^ 1 •. Chervil.—The leaves of this herb, although its root is poisonous, form an agreeable adjunct to a salad. 'Chervil is principally cultivated on the Con- tinent, where it is more largely used than here, but it is not unknown in England. Its peculiar flavour and invigorating properties are appreciated by many, the taste resembling a mixture of fennel and parsley. Chestnut.—The fruit of a tree of the same name. The kernel is the edible portion, which is sur- rounded by a thin, tough shell and a thick outer rind. It is extremely nutritious, easily digested, and can be used in many ways as an article of food. In this country chestnuts are used as a stuffing for turkeys, and as an ingredient in soups and sauces ; in France and Italy they are largely consumed, cooked in various ways, and also made into confec- tionery. They were a favourite food amongst the ancients, who ascribed to the tree a Grecian origin, and named it after the town of Castanca, in Thessaly. Chetney.—{See Chutney.) Chicken.—This is the young of the fowl, es- teemed as the most delicate of all meats, and from its extremely digestible qualities it is peculiarly suited for the diet of invalids. Chicken may be pre-[cno G2 CHI] pared in a variety of ways, and can always be cooked according to any recipes given for fowls.—Fowls.) Chicory.—A plant belonging to the dandelion family ; it is also called succory, or wild endive. On the Continent the young root is sometimes cooked and eaten with meat as a vegetable, while the leaves are used as a salad, like those of endive. In this country the chief use that is made of chicory is to mix the roasted andpowdered root with coffee. In former years nearly all the coffee sold in this country was more or less adulterated with chicory, but now that the vendor is compelled by law to sell every article of food pure, unless labelled otherwise, it is possible to buy pure coffee ; too often coffee sold as mixtures of coffee, or as French coffee, still contains chicory. Chicory is found growing wild on the borders of our corn-fields, but the plant is culti- vated in all parts of Europe, from Italy to St. Petersburg. Chine of Mutton.—{See Saddle of Mutton.) Chine of Pork.—The chine of pork consists of the two hind loins undivided, and corresponds to the baron of beef and the saddle of mutton. It is generally cut from a small pig in which the loins would be hardly large enough to form separate joints. Chives.—A species of onion having its flat bulbs growing in clusters. The young leaves, and also the bulbs, are used for flavouring soups and stews, but not to any very great extent. The bulbs are occa- sionally used for pickling, being more delicate than onions. The young leaves are also used in salads, or chopped and strewed on bread and butter. Chocolate.—This is made from the beans of the Theobroma Cacao tree, a native of the WestCHO] 63 [CHU Indies and South America. The name of this tree has been confounded with that of the cocoa which produces the cocoa-nut, and also with a shrub called the Erythroxylon Coca, the leaves of which have been described by many savants as an almost mar- vellous nerve tonic. To manufacture chocolate the beans are roasted and ground, and the excess of oil is either extracted or absorbed by the admixture of sugar and other substances. Chocolate is often flavoured with vanilla, and is made into a drink with milk. In Spain and France, also lately in England, it is manufactured into a variety of sweet- meats. Chowder.—A dish introduced to this country from America, where it is a great favourite. It contains salt pork fried with onions, alternating with layers of mashed potatoes, and having slices of turbot or other fish in the centre, the whole being flavoured with spices, savoury herbs, claret and ketchup, and simmered just long enough to cook the fish. Chub.—A river fish not held in much regard for table purposes, the body being exceedingly bony, so much so that the skeleton presents a very com- plicated and unique appearance. This fish rather resembles the carp, except that it is of a more silvery hue and longer. It feeds on grasshoppers, cock- chafers, large black slugs, bluebottles, flies, and insects of all kinds. For this purpose it lurks under trees, lying in wait for the caterpillars and similar insects which drop off the leaves. We find the chub generally about mills, piles of bridges, weirs, eddies, and steep banks overhanging with willows. It affords good sport to anglers, who find it wary and shy, as well as defiant. Living mostly inG4 [CID CIIU] clean water it acquires an unusual keenness of sight, and turns up its nose at the line in disdain. A practical handler of the rod, indeed, has gone so far as to assert that the only really successful method of securing our wily friend would he to fish with an invisible line, an article which, however desirable, science seems powerless to furnish us with. Chump'Chops.—Mutton Chops.) Chutney.—Chutnee, or Chutney, an Indian condiment made of a variety of fruits, sugar, vine- gar, and Sluices. Whichever fruit is predominant gives it a distinguishing name, but even then the proportions of the ingredients vary much in the manufacture of the article. A good Indian chutney would be an amalgamation of the different ingre- dients without undue prominence being given to any.^ Cider.—A fermented drink made from apples, much used in agricultural districts, and consumed more generally in the summer-time. The word cider means “ strong drink,” and is derived from the Hebrew word “ shekar,” through the medium of Greek, Latin, and finally of French. The apples are ground to a pulp, then set aside for a day or two to ferment. This pulp is then placed in hair cloths, and the juice expressed. The liquor thus obtained is strained into casks or vats for another process of fermentation. In about ten days, the scum having been removed, the liquor is put into almost air-tight casks to prevent further fermenta- tion, and it is then ready for consumption. There are several varieties of cider, the sweet, the rough, and the sparkling. It has been manufactured from a very early period in Hereford, Worcester, Glouces- er, Somerset, and Devonshire. Cider is alsomade in France and Germany. In the latter country, where it is also called apple wine, it is sometimes flavoured with cinnamon or other spices. Cinnamon.—A delicate flavoured spice used in England and on the Continent, prepared from the bark of the cinnamon tree. This is a shrub of the laurel species, growing wild in the interior of Ceylon and Java, and cultivated in various other parts of the East and West Indies. Cinnamon was widely known and highly esteemed among the ancients, who obtained it from the wandering tribes of Arabia. The bark of the tree consists of two coats or layers. The inner part is peeled out and the bark laid in the sun to dry, when it curls up into rolls, and is then fit for use. Citron.—This fruit possesses properties similar to the lemon. Its pulp is very acid and cooling, and is used for making citric acid; also in the preparation of syrups, lemonade, and punch. The part most commonly used is the thick and tender rind, which, when preserved in sugar, forms a delicious candied peel. The oil of cedrate, or oil of citron, used by perfumers, is also made from the rind of the fruit. Botanists give the name of Citrus to the genus of plants comprising the orange, lemon, shaddock, citron, and lime-fruit. The word citrus is derived from the citron, and gives the name to citric acid, which is extracted from the juice of the fruits. The citron is a native of Northern India, and is cultivated in Southern Europe, and other sub-tropical climates. The fruit sometimes weighs five pounds, and the outer rind is warty and furrowed. The citron wood, or citrus wood, named in ancient history as supplying the most costly furniture wood in use among the Normans, was a kind of fir, and acla] GG [cla tree in no way related to that on which the citron grows. In the United States the name citron is given to certain varieties of the melon, not to be confounded with the fruit citron. Clams.—About fifty species of clams are known, which are all natives of warm and tropical seas, and are thought highly of as articles of food. Their shells are attached by the external surface to sub- marine bodies, such as coral rocks. For shape, they depend upon the body to which they are at- tached, and their colour varies as they are exposed to a greater or lesser light. The best known and most highly estimated are the American or round clam, and the giant clam. The latter attains a great size, and sometimes weighs five hundred pounds with the shell, and twenty pounds without: it is found on the shores of the Indian seas, where the natives consider it a great delicacy and eat it raw. The bivalves called clams which are found on the British coast are nearly oval in shape, and of a rich purple colour. The ordi- nary size of these is two inches by one and a half inches. They are well-flavoured and made up in various ways for consumption. Claret.—A name given to the red wines produced in the country around Bordeaux. They vary greatly in quality, according to the season and the precise locality in which they are made; but the produce of each vineyard usually retains its own special cha- racteristics. The most highly-esteemed brands are produced at the vineyards of Lafitte, Latour and Chateau Margaux. The word claret signifies clear, or clarified, but the name is not used in France, these wines being there called either Bordeaux wines, or specially named after the vineyard where they are produced. The commoner qualities of this red wineCLl C7 CLO are in France called Yin Ordinaire. Claret is a light wine, usually considered the most wholesome that we import. The annual j>roduct of this wine has amounted to fifty million gallons, but of late years the production has been greatly reduced through the ravages of the phylloxera, an insect which has infested French vines for more than twenty years, and has WTOUght much mischief in the vineyards of the Bordeaux district. A fictitious claret is often made by mixing a rough cider with a cheap French wine and colouring it with cochineal, logwood, elderberry, indigo, red cabbage, or beet- root. Clarify .—To render clear or free from incongru- ous matter. Many articles used in cookery require this, and it is effected by bullock’s blood, wdiite of egg, chemicals, or other substances. Lard, butter, and other fat can be simply clarified by melt- ing them either by fire or by placing them in boiling water. Whatever scum rises to the top should be taken off', and the heavier impurities which fall to the bottom will be left as a sediment. Clove.—A spice used for flavouring both sweet and savoury dishes. The clove tree, from which it is gathered, is indigenous to the Molucca Islands. Of the varieties of this spice, the best is called the Eoyal, or Amboyna (the name of the island where it grows), and though smaller, it is more aromatic and darker in colour. The clove, which is in the form of a nail with a globule on the head, grows in large quantities on the extremities of the branches of the tree. They are at first white, then change to green, and afterwards to red, when they become hard. It is remarkable that the flowers, even wEen fully disclosed, emit no smell wdiatever, and it is F68 cob] only as they become dry that they possess their powerful and aromatic flavour. Cob Nut.—The largest variety of the filbert or cultivated hazel. It is extensively grown in the county of Kent, and is a favourite addition to a dessert. Cochineal.—It is largely used in culinary operations to provide a bright red colouring for various articles of food, such as jellies, jams, red cabbage and pickle. Cochineal is an insect similar to our common lady-bird, which feeds upon a particular kind of cactus, in the same way as certain insects are commonly found in our country swarming and feeding upon the stems and buds of roses in hot, dry seasons. The cochineal insect is brushed off the cactus, killed by heat in various ways, and dried for export. The female insects alone yield the well-known colour, and in swarms of cochineal insects there are from one hundred and thirty to two hundred females to each male. The insect is so small that one pound of cochineal contains seventy thousand insects. The beautiful colours carmine and lake are both made from cochineal. Cochineal was first introduced into Europe from Mexico about 1523, and the Mexicans had cultivated both the insect and the nopal cactus on which it feeds before the discovery of their country by Europeans, but both are now more largely cultivated in Guatemala. After the failure of the vines in the Canary Islands through disease in 1858, both the cochineal insect and the nopal cactus were intro- duced there, and their cultivation has proved a great success in those islands. They are also successfully cultivated in Algiers, Java and Australia. The old East India Company offered a reward of ^6,000G9 Lcoc coc] to anyone who should successfully introduce their cultivation into India, but all efforts to rear cochineal in that country have failed. The introduction of aniline dyes has greatly affected the use of cochi- neal. In 1888 its price was only one half of what it had been in 1880. In 1869 six million three hundred and ten thousand six hundred pounds of cochineal, valued at ^£842,921, were exported from the Canary Islands; but in 1886 the export only amounted to one million four hundred and forty-nine thousand nine hundred and sixty-eight pounds, valued at £78,521. Although cochineal has only been known in Europe since the discovery of America, yet from time immemorial there has been a similar insect used as a dye. This was called kermes, and was found upon a species of evergreen oak. It was known to the ancient Phoenicians, Greeks and Arabians. This kermes is still used in Persia and Arabia, although its use in Europe has been superseded by cochineal. Cock-a-leekie.—A favourite dish, or rather soup,, in Scotland. It consists of a capon, or even an old cock, stewed in a stock of medium strength, flavoured with salt and pepper, to which is added a quantity of leeks. When it is done the capon should be cut up and put in a tureen with the stock and leeks. Care should be taken to have enough of the latter, as they are an important part of this dish. Cockle.—This small bivalve is considered to be nutritious, but as a rule shell-fish disagree with some people, and are at all times to be taken in moderation. Indeed, some delicate persons never dare to eat them, as they cause serious internal disturbance. For all that they are held in esteem by the humbler classes, who may often be seen70 [coc coc] enjoying a saucer of these dainties from the stalls in the open air. Cockles belong to the Cardiadae family, so called from their shape, which resembles a heart. They are generally found on the sea shore, but sometimes in rivers, and a variety of the cockle is often to be seen in the Thames near Greenwich, when the tide is high and the water is, therefore, of a salt flavour. The largest are found around the Scilly Islands, the north coast of Devonshire, the Hebrides and Zetland. They are gathered in great numbers for purposes of food, and are always found about low water mark, half buried in the sand. They are very lively, and will live some time after leaving the sea if placed in a basin of water. They should be washed in several waters, and well scrubbed with a brush, and then again put into salt water. They may be dressed in a variety of ways, but perhaps the best is to boil them in their own liquor. Cockles afford considerable sustenance, and it is recorded that during a failure of the potato crop in the Orkney Islands, about sixty years ago, many of the poorer people in Sanda lived for some considerable time almost entirely upon them. Cockles have played a distinguished part in history too, as the pilgrims who returned from the Holy Land wore in their hat a cockle shell picked up on the shores of Palestine. Shakespeare probably alluded to this custom when he wrote :— “ How should I your true love know From another one ? By his cockle, hat, and staff And his sandal shoon.” Cocoa.—This is a beverage suited to persons in whom tea and coffee produce nervous derangement.[coc coc] 7'1 It is more nutritious than tea and coffee, and i^os- sesses a stimulating principle called theobromine, which is similar to the theine in tea and the caffeine in coffee. It is prepared from the seeds of a tree called by botanists, “Theobroma Cacao.” The word Theobroma signifies “ the food of the gods,” and, therefore, shows the estimation in which it was held by those from whom it received its name. The so- called soluble cocoas are mostly compounds of cocoa, arrowroot, and fatty ingredients of various kinds. These do not require boiling, but are ready for use on pouring boiling water over them, adding sugar and milk to taste. In making flake cocoa, the seed is crushed between heavy, heated rollers, so as to he pressed into thin, flaky pieces. This requires boil- ing, so also the cocoa nibs, where the seed is only roughly crushed, and requires boiling for about two hours. The cacao-tree is an evergreen, growing both wild and in cultivation throughout the West Indies, Mexico, Guatemala, and the northern parts of South America. The seed, or cocoa bean, is of an oval shape and about the size of an olive. The best kinds are grown in Mexico, Trinidad and New Granada. Cocoa Nut.—The fruit of a palm which grows abundantly in the East Indies. It consists of a very large outer husk, from the fibre of which cocoa- nut matting is made, surrounding a hard shell, which is lined with a white, fibrous substance. This is the edible portion, and within it is a milky fluid from which a fermented drink can be made. The cocoa-nut, when grated, is eaten in soups, curries, puddings and tarts. Its pleasant flavour has also made it very popular when prepared as sweetmeats, which are known amongst juveniles under the nameCOD I [cod 72 of cocoa-nut ice, chips, candy, toffee, biscuits and tablets. Codfish.—A favourite fish, both fresh and salted; sometimes also dried. In the salted form it is largely consumed during Lent. It grows to a large size, weighing from fourteen to forty pounds, and is principally caught off the coast of Newfoundland, which is one of its favourite haunts as it retires to the Arctic Ocean to spawn. It is, however, also to be found off the shores of Ireland, Scotland, the Orkney Islands, Norway, and the West of England. The regular fishing season commences in April, but in consequence of storms, ice and fogs, many con- sider May quite early enough. The crimson bank cod varies in size; the average length being two and a half to three feet, and the weight between twenty and fifty pounds. The tongue of a cod is considered a delicacy, and in Newfoundland is rolled together with the sound or swimming bladder; the roe pickled or smoked is a favourite delicacy. Every part of the cod seems to be of use : the liver produces the well-known medicinal oil; the intestines are converted into a wholesome dish by French fishermen ; and the Norwegians, Icelanders, and Kamschatkans pound up the bones and skin to feed their animals.—{See Cod’s Sounds and Cod’s Eoe.) Codlin.—This apple is largely grown in Kent and Devonshire, and is one of the choicest table or eating apples, especially the Kentish codlin, which is a delicious summer fruit. They grow to their greatest perfection on standard trees, and often attain a large size. They are somewhat of a lemon- shape, but ribbed, and are of a beautiful green colour, tinted with red, generally on one side only.73 [COF cod] This fruit is of very ancient origin, and was pro- bably introduced into this country by the Eomans. It can now be found all over England, where it has been grafted on a variety of trees, even on the common crab-tree, without losing its superior flavour. ^ Codling. —The young of the codfish before it reaches the weight of ten pounds.—{See Codfish.) Cod’s Roe.—The roe of the cod, like that of other fish, is of two kinds, the hard and the soft; of the former, it has been estimated that a single fish will yield nine million ova. Cod’s roe is eaten fresh, and is considered a great delicacy when salted and smoke-dried, in which state large quanti- ties are imported from Newfoundland. Cod’s Sounds.—The codfish is supplied with air or swimming bladders, by means of which it can ascend or descend in the water. They are called sounds, and are cut out of the fish as soon as it is caught, then salted and packed in barrels. They will keep good any length of time ; and are con- sidered a delicacy boiled in milk or broiled. Coffee.—The infusion of the ground berry of the coffee plant has steadily increased in favour as a refreshing beverage ever since the time of its first introduction. Coffee was originally grown in Arabia, and Mocha coffee is still famed as the best. The plant is extensively grown in the West Indies, and attains a height of twelve to fifteen feet, with laurel- like leaves. The beans are enclosed in a red berry resembling a cherry. When dried in the sun the husk is separated from the seeds, which are then roasted and ground; their well-known aroma is not de- veloped until they have been roasted. The undried beans have a peculiar taste, and are used in the dis- tillation of a liqueur called “Coffee Liqueur.” There74 [col are, curiously enough, many people who object to chicory who will pay a high price for the “ Best French Coffee,” which generally contains it. Coffee was in- troduced into England by a Turkey merchant named Daniel Edwards, whose servant, a Greek named Pasqua, opened the first coffee-house in George Yard, Lombard Street, London. It was then a very expensive drink, as the unroasted berries were from four to five guineas a pound. Coffee has often been erroneously supposed to be injurious, while, on the- contrary, it has been used as a disinfectant. It is related of Voltaire that when a physician told him it was a slow poison, he replied that he had drank it for nearly eighty years, and it had not killed him yet. Colewort, vulgarly called “ Collard,” is a very succulent and nutritious vegetable. It is a cabbage sown in June or July, to be ready for planting out late in autumn or the beginning of winter. The sorts used are the rosette and the hardy green; they are eaten when the leaves are open and before the hearts are formed. The colewort, or collet, is said to have been originally the name of the wild plant from which all the cultivated varieties of cabbage are derived, yet, when asked for in the market it may not be known, as the name is fast getting obsolete. Collaring.—To collar meat it should be put into a pickle of salt and saltpetre, with some sugar, and should be rubbed with the pickle every day for a week at least. A layer of herbs and spice should then be j)laced on it and it should be rolled up, very tightly tied in a cloth, and boiled. When cooked it should be placed under a heavy weight until cold, before the cloth is removed.75 [con col] Collops.—These consist of beef, mutton, or veal, cut into small pieces, or more often chopped fine, like sausage-meat, and mixed with a small quantity of other ingredients, such as flour, bread-crumbs, herbs, condiments, and occasionally wine ; indeed, almost anything may be added as a flavouring, according to taste. The collops may be boiled or fried, and form an excellent made dish, especially in winter. Colouring.—This is made of lump sugar, fresh butter, and a little water, simmered in a tosser over a gentle fire till it is a bright brown. Compote. — Fruit or appropriate vegetables stewed in syrup. Confectionery.—This embraces nearly every article in the shape of sweetmeats. Confecting, which with the aid of chemistry and man’s ingenuity has become an art, can be traced to very remote ages, at least three hundred years before the Christian era. In later ages confectionery was made in much more palatable forms, and rose accordingly in public favour. In the Middle Ages it was made in fanciful shapes, such as those of castles, ships, and mythical creatures, and was principally flavoured with honey and spices. As the various fruits and spices of the East and of the New World were brought to Europe, confectionery became more varied in character. In the present age French, Italian, and German con- fectioners vie with each other in producing novelties that will please the taste and the eye, and fashion chooses from these such as are best suited for the occasion. It would not be a breach of law, but it would be a great breach of conventionality, to offer to your guests hot-cross-buns on Christmas Day, or plum pudding on Good Friday, or to place on the76 [cor con] breakfast table confectionery suitable for dinner. As there is a time for everything, there are cakes for Christmas, birthdays, and. weddings ; the latter, as if symbolically, being generally made of sweet and bitter ingredients. Conger Eel.—The conger eel, sometimes called the sea eel, is very much larger than any other kind, and often grows to a length of eight feet. When cooked it is not so fat as the common eel, and may be boiled, stewed, broiled, made into soup, or cooked in a pie. ' The conger lives in the sea, and does not ascend fresh-water streams like other eels. It is found in almost all the European seas, as well as on the coasts of St. Helena, Japan, and Tasmania. ConsonCLine.—A strong broth without vegetables. Cordon Bleu.—A term applied to a very skilful cook. The origin of this name is rather puzzling, because etymologists with experience of culinary terms are not quite agreed on the subject. Some maintain that King Louis XV. was so delighted with a certain dish set before him at his royal table, that he proposed to decorate the cook who so suc- cessfully pleased his epicurean palate with an order, and chose for this purpose the ribbon of the “ Cordon Bleu.” Another version is that when, in the middle of the eighteenth century, refreshment houses became popular in Paris, a certain damsel who wore the Alsatian costume became notorious through her genius in the art of cooking, and as the badge she wore was of an azure colour, the sob- riquet of “ Cordon Bleu ” was given to her, and eventually to all cooks of celebrity. Coriander.—A sweetish, aromatic spice, much used from very ancient times. It is mentioned in the Hebrew Scriptures, in early Sanskrit authors,77 [CRA and upon an old Egyptian papyrus. Coriander seeds are powdered to mix with other spices in the manu- facture of curry-powder. Confectioners coat the seeds with sugar to make one kind of comfits, and brewers and distillers often use them for flavouring their liquors. In Northern Europe the seeds are often eaten, sprinkled over bread-and-butter. Cori- ander seeds are used medicinally as an aromatic carminative, and as a flavouring to disguise the taste of nauseous medicines. Corn Flour.—A farina made from maize, or Indian corn, also sold under the names of Maizena and Oswego. The flour of maize is yellow, and contains, when freshly ground, an oil which gives it an agreeable flavour and odour, but when exposed to the air it speedily developes rancidity. To pre- vent this the flour is dried at a high temperature and converted into corn flour, which is white and inodorous, containing but little gluten and sugar. It is not suitable for making into bread, but blanc- manges, custards, and milk puddings made with it are of a delicate whiteness, nutritious, and easily digested. Cowheel.—The feet of the ox or cow are ex- tremely nutritious ; so much so, that from them a variety of dishes for invalids are prepared. Cowheel also forms one of the ingredients in a large number of soups; the feet are often stewed, eaten with melted butter, or sliced, and fried with egg and bread-crumbs. Crab.—A member of the shell-fish tribe; the black clawed species is the one which is mostly served at table. As an article of food it is dressed in various ways, preference being given to it when boiled and then dressed in its own shellcra] 78 [CRA with oil and vinegar. The crab is voracious and keen-scented, and, possessing remarkably strong and sharp claws, is enabled to act as a sort of sca- venger of the ocean, quickly disposing of all the decaying animal matter with which the deep abounds. Once a year, the crab, retiring to the hiding-places among the rocks or concealing itself under large stones, performs the feat of changing its shell. Crackers.—A name given to hard biscuits. They are occasionally used in cookery, and when soaked, and flavoured with lemon or spices, are made into pies; cimmbled, they can also be made into pudding. The name cracker is also given to ornamental cases of paper or gelatine, containing two strips of cardboard joined in the centre by a material which explodes when the strips of card- board are pulled apart. In the interior of these crackers is generally placed a bonbon, round which is wrapped a piece of paper bearing a coujplet, and outside a grotesque head-dress of tissue paper. The crackers are intended to be pulled apart by two persons, one of whom becomes the fortunate pos- sessor of the sweetmeat, and the other of only the paper cap. Cracknels.—Biscuits made of paste which is boiled before it is baked. The paste consists of flour, butter, yolk of egg, water and a little flavour- ing. It is cut into triangular or oval pieces, which slightly curl up when boiled. After boiling they are put into cold water to harden, dried, and finally baked. Cracknels easily crumble when broken, and, being extremely dry, are not easily eaten without a liquid accompaniment. Hence they 'are generally taken with wine or similar beverages.cea] [CBA 79 Cranberry.—This fruit grows in a cold climate, and on peaty bogs or marshy ground. The small, pink, juicy berries are very acid, and are highly valued as an anti-scorbutic, being easily kept fresh and good. They are chiefly used for tarts, hut jellies and other preparations are also made from them. In Siberia they are used to manufacture a wine, and an unfermented beverage made from them is sold in the streets of St. Petersburg. Large quantities of this fruit may he collected in a few parts of Britain and of Germany, hut they are chiefly imported from Russia and North America. When gathered by a rake, and sent over in tubs, they often arrive crushed and bruised, but this method of gathering them is going out of use, and they are now chiefly picked by hand and sent in a sounder condition to this country. In Aberdeen and some other parts of Scotland, the red berries of the whortleberry or cowberry are sold under the name of cranberries. Crawfish.—It has been a disputed point amongst the learned, whether the crayfish and the crawfish were two different kinds of fish, or whether the two names were given to one. A large number of authorities write as if either name embraced both. Amongst these are dictionaries by Webster, Wor- cester, and the ‘‘Encyclopsedic Dictionary;” the Encyclopaedia Britannica,” the “ Penny Cyclo- paedia,” Chambers’s “ Cyclopaedia,” and the “ Globe Cyclopaedia;” Wood’s “ Natural History,” Bell’s “ History of British Crustacea,” Rolleston’s “Forms of Animal Life,” Jones’s “Outline of the Organisa- tion of the Animal Kingdom,” Milne-Edwards’ “ Manual of Zoology,” Hoevens’ “ Handbook of Zoology,” the “ Histoire Naturelle de Crustaces,” rcea] 80 [CRA the “ Dictionnaire Universel d’ Histoire Naturelle,” Spiers’s “ French Dictionary,” and Professor Huxley in his monograph on the crayfish. In spite of all that is said by these numerous and weighty authori- ties, it is necessary to notice that there are two varieties of the Crustacea which form the subject of the inquiry. One lives entirely in fresh water and is like a miniature lobster. The other inhabits the sea, and although somewhat like the lobster, it can easily be distinguished from it. It is contended that the former should properly be called the crayfish, and the latter the crawfish. Crayfish.—Not to be confounded with the craw- fish, were much esteemed by the ancient Greeks and Eomans, and are now considered a great delicacy. They bear a resemblance to miniature lobsters, and are found in many British rivers, but only at certain times of the year. They abound in districts where the soil yields an abundance of calcareous matter. They dislike heat and sunshine and are discovered more readily in the cool of the evening. In the winter time they may often be found on the banks of a stream, as they require a large quantity of air. They are very voracious and devour greedily all sorts of refuse. When food is scarce in the water, they often w^ander inland in search of vegetables, but they prefer snails, which they eat shell and all, and they often kill and devour each other. Crayfish are caught in several ways, sometimes in nets baited with frogs, or simply drawn out by the hand from their burrows in the river bank. On the Continent they are eaten in great quantities. Paris alone consumes annually from five to six millions. There are many ways of cooking them. They are made into soups (potage bisque), stewed, potted, or cooked in jelly,[CRE 81 cre] but in England they are mostly used for garnishing dishes. Cream.—This is the fatty part which is mingled throughout the milk as it comes from the cow or other animal, and rises to the top after the milk has been allowed to stand for a time, or is caused to do so by artificial means. It is used not only in the making of butter and cheese, but also in the preparation of various articles of food and delicacies. Double cream is understood to be the thick cream that has been double the time on the milk, namely, twenty-four hours instead of twelve. Devonshire or clotted cream is made by heating milk without bringing it to the boiling point; it will be hot enough when undulations on the surface look thick, and a ring is seen round the pan the size of the bottom; it is then removed to the dairy and skimmed next day. Whipped cream is the white of egg beaten up with cream by means of a whisk. Cream for making butter is now obtained from milk by the aid of a machine called a cream separator. This method secures a larger percentage, and enables the separation to be effected in the hottest weather before any trace of acidity is found in the milk. The many uses of cream need not be enumerated—a strong association of ideas, however, rises with strawberries, strawberries and cream being almost proverbial. Figuratively speaking, the word cream is used to denote the choicest part of anything. Hence the French phrase “ Creme de la Creme,” alluding to persons living in the very height of fashion. Cream, Clotted.—{See Cream.; Creme de Menthe.—(to Liqueurs.) Creme de Vanille.—-(to Liqueurs.)[CRO 82 Cress.—A plant much used in salad and in- cluded with others of a similar kind under the general name of small salad. One variety—a small annual generally growing with mustard, well-known under the name of mustard and cress—is remarkable for the small quantity of soil on which it can be grown. Indian cress (nasturtium) is a luxuriously-growing creeping plant, bearing trumpet-shaped flowers ; the leaves are used for salad and the matured seeds are pickled. {^See Nasturtium.) There is also a land-cress which has a similar appearance to water- cress but grows on land and is sometimes cultivated in gardens. Where it once obtains possession of the ground it cannot he easily exterminated. Then again we have the water-cress.—{See Water-cress.) Crimping.—A method of preparing large fish for cooking. This was formerly done in a cruel manner by slashing the fish at certain distances apart with a knife as soon as it was caught, while still alive. This is now avoided, and the flesh is equally good if the crimping is performed while quite fresh, and placed for some time in cold water containing a little vinegar. Croquettes.—These useful little side dishes are made of minced poultry, fish or meat, and are *very handy and economical, as any small pieces of joints or fish left from dinner can be used in making them. The fish or meat which form their foundation must be highly-seasoned, chojiped very small, mixed with a little sauce to give a flavour, dipped in eggs and bread-crumbs, fried until crisp, and served while hot, with or without sauce. Before being brought to table all the fat should be carefully drained from them, and they should be piled symmetrically upon a hot napkin. ThoughcKo] 83 [cue they are a means of using up odds and ends of cold meat, they can be made of fresh meat if desired, and a great deal of their daintiness depends upon the seasoning. They are called by a variety of names according to the materials which compose them, but the general idea of them is the same, namely, a savoury mince nicely flavoured and bound together with yolk of egg. Unless the fat in which they are fried is quite boiling the croquettes will turn out simply greasy balls of no flavour and quite unappetising. Croquettes are also useful for decorating or garnishing dishes of various kinds. Crouton.—Sippet of bread, fried. Crumpets.—Crumpets are a well-known addi- tion to the tea-table, and are made of milk or water, flour, and yeast, mixed to the consistence of a thick batter, baked in rings on a hot plate over the fire, being once turned during the process. They are toasted on both sides, and buttered before being sent to table. There is a little difficulty in serving, as they must not be placed one upon another, for if this is done the under ones become heavy. Cucumber.—A vegetable used in this country for salads and pickles, and largely consumed in the East as a staple article of food. It is abundant in tropical and warm countries, and particularly so in Hindostan. It is cultivated on floating weeds in the lakes of Persia, China and Cashmere. Its antiquity in the East is. very great, and the Israel- ites, we are told, longed for it in the desert. It has been common in England for about five hundred years, and is now largely “ forced ” in frames in most market gardens. The Germans put the cucumber in salt until it undergoes a vinous fermentation. The Dutch treat it similarly G84 [cur cul] with hot pepper, imported into England as Dutch cucumber. Cullis.—Strong, dark gravy for flavouring and colouring soups and sauces. Cumin.—When powdered, the seeds of this plant are largely used in the manufacture of curry powder. Cumin seeds resemble the more familiar caraway, ibut are larger, lighter in colour, and not so pleasant in flavour. They were well known to the ancients, being mentioned by the Hebrew prophet Isaiah, and in St. Matthew’s Gospel they are named as one of the minor products of the Holy Land on which tithes were paid. During the Middle Ages cumin seed was one of the principal spices in use. In the eighth century one hundred and fifty pounds of cumin seed were annually sup- plied to the monastery of Corbie, in Normandy, and in the thirteenth and fourteenth centuries it was sold in England for twopence per pound. It is now largely used in veterinary medicines. The cumin plant is an umbelliferous annual, indigenous to Upper Egyi^t, and now extensively cultivated in Malta, Sicily and India. Cup.—A beverage made of a combination of liquors, the earliest known form of which, the loving cup, still survives at municipal banquets. The modern ‘‘Cup” was not known in the last century, but now every cup has a distinctive name, generally that of the principal wine it contains. Champagne, Claret, Burgundy, and Moselle are the most popular. The wine is mixed with liqueurs, spirits, lemon-juice, spices and herbs, according to taste, and diluted with soda, seltzer, or other water. Cups are also made of cider, ale, and ginger-beer. Curacoa.—A liqueur, originally made in the[cur cur] 85 island of that naniG in tlio Dutch West Indies. It consists of pure spirit in which orange peel and a little lemon have been steeped for some weeks, to v/hich is added cinnamon, coriander seed, saffron, and sugar. Curd.—That part of milk which has been coagulated by the aid of rennet for the purpose of making cheese. Several sweet dishes can he made with it, which are served with such accompaniments as cream, custard, or even wine. Curds and whey- are often eaten in this country. Curing.—This is the smoking or drying of meat or fish after it has been salted. The flavour of the meat is. much affected when it is smoke dried by the fuel employed; oak shavings are considered the best, hut other woods and peat are often used. An improvised process consists of removing one end of a barrel and hanging the meat inside; it is then placed over sawdust kept smouldering by a red-hot iron inserted in it. Curing can also be effected by the heat of the sun. Attempts have been made to supersede the process of smoking by painting the meat with various anti- septic substances, such as pyroligneous acid or creosote, but this method has not been very suc- cessful. Currants.—These familiar fruits are much used for making puddings, pies and jam. They grow in almost every English kitchen garden, and are especially welcome as they are some of the earliest fruits to ri^Den in this country. Black currants have a rougher and stronger flavour than either the red or white, and differ from them in two other particulars. They grow with single berries on each fruit stalk, while the red and white grow in rows on[cus 8G cur] stalks that have one common stem. The leaves of the black currant have also a strong, i^leasant smell, while those of the white and red are inodorous. The white currant is chiefly preferred for dessert, as it is sweeter and its flavour more delicate than that of the other varieties. Black currant jam, vinegar, and lozenges are all very palatable, and especially useful in some kinds of sore-throat. Home-made wines and jellies are manufactured from all three varieties. One or two leaves of the black currant put in a tea-pot give the infusion a flavour similar to that of green tea, and in Siberia the leaves are frequently used as a substitute for tea. In France, a cordial called Liqueur de Cassis is made from black currants, while an agreeable, refreshing beverage, called Eau de Grosseilles, is made from the red.—{See Dried Currants.) Curry.—This name is given to a dish very popular in India, where it originated. Any meat may be curried, but preference is generally given to fowl, turkey, rabbit, fish, oysters, eggs or other white meat. The meat is cut up, stewed, flavoured, placed in a dish, and surrounded with boiled rice. Curry owes its fame to a powder of the same name which it con- tains. This consists of various seeds and spices ground together, of which there are about twenty different varieties, but, however the ingredients may vary, we find that cayenne pepper, coriander and turmeric are hardly ever omitted. Curry j^owder imparts a yellow colour and pungent flavour, but this latter quality is much exaggerated, as real Indian curries are not very hot in taste. Custard.—This consists of milk, eggs and sugar, baked or boiled, with such flavourings as vanilla, lemon, or fruit. Custards are generally served in87 cus] [dac glasses, or made in moulds, but when combined with other ingredients, the name is given to a larger number of light and extremely palatable additions to a course of sweets. Being very easily digested, custards have always formed an important item in the dietary of invalids. Custard Apple.—A large-sized and most de- licious fruit. In outward appearance it is netted all over, and is dark-brown or greenish in colour. The inner pulp is yellow and of the consistence of custard. It is a native of the West Indies, and is cultivated in Hindostan and the surrounding countries. In India it is called sectaphul or sectas fruit. Small quantities are imported into this country just to increase the number of articles for dessert. The fruits called bullock’s heart and sour- sop are sometimes confounded with the custard apihe, but they are, in fact, distinct from it. Custard Marrow.—{See Vegetable Marrow.) Cutlets.—This word properly means a small slice, but in the conventional sense it means neck chops of mutton, lamb, pork, or veal, when trimmed of the fat. Cutlets are also made of chicken, lobster, salmon, and pheasemt. They form the basis of a variety of made dishes, and are generally regarded as tender and easily digested. They hold an important position as entrees and even as garnishes. Da ce.—A fish found in most of our streams. It is not generally above ten inches long, though Linnaeus tells us that some specimens have grown to a foot and a half. Its very bright scales render it a good live bait for pike, and it is frequently used for that purpose. In February many dace are caught, and at once scotched and. crimped; they are then broiled, and form a very palatable dish. Atdam] 88 [dat certain times of the year vast numbers of these fish swarm on the lower side of the Thames Navigation AVeir, heading up to spawn. They are in full season from October to January. Dampfnudeln.—A very favourite German sweet dish. It consists of flour and milk raised with yeast, and then kneaded into a dough with eggs, butter, sugar, and a little salt. After it has risen a little more, it is made into small balls and warmed in a pan in milk. The balls are then baked in the oven, and served with custard sauce or a compote of fruit. Damson.—The damson, also called the damas- cene, and so named from having originally been brought from the town of Damascus, is considered the best plum for cooking purposes. It has a pecu- liarly rough taste, but this can be neutralised by the addition of sugar, and it is used for tarts, pud- dings, and the well-known jam. The damson is very easily cultivated in this country by grafting on a healthy tree of the same family. As the fruit comes to maturity in the autumn, it offers an ex- cellent addition to the stock of preserves for the winter and following seasons. Damson Cheese.—A preserve made from dam- sons by boiling the fruit to a pulp, and then boiling it again with an equal quantity of sugar. AVhen cold it is of the consistence of cheese. Darioles.—These are a sw^eet dish, made by baking in a mould, lined with puff-paste, a batter of milk, cream, eggs and flour, variously flavoured. Oysters or similar light viands can be mixed with the batter, if 2n*eferred. Dates.—The fruit of a palm, wdiich has been cul- tivated from the very earliest ages. It is oblong[dee 89 in shape, of delicious flavour, and possesses very nutritive qualities. People who have never eaten the fruit fresh gathered can form no idea of its lusciousness. In Arabia it is the sta^ole food. It flourishes throughout Northern Africa and Asia, but will grow on European shores along the Mediter- ranean. Sometimes the tree grows to a height of eighty feet, with a graceful stem, covered with glossy and elegant leaves. All parts of the tree are useful to man : from its trunk comes splendid timber, hard and durable ; and its leaves are used for thatch. There is a small kind of date-palm vfliich grows in Southern India from which meal is procured. Deer.—One of the undomesticated animals which still forms a part of our diet. They formerly were very plentiful all over the world, living on a scant herbage, and travelling rapidly over broken ground in order to gain a sufficient supply of food; but as this country has become better cultivated, their num- ber here has decreased. They are now bred in Her Majesty’s demesnes and in private parks, to which these graceful little quadrupeds form a handsome addition. There are several kinds of deer, such as the red-deer, fallow-deer, etc. ; the largest of which, excepting the eland (which see), is now found wild only in Scotland and the North of Europe. The fallow-deer, supposed to have been imported from Southern Europe or Asia, is the kind principally reared in England—it is smaller than the red-deer. Deer have been very strictly preserved in times past, and some of the harshest laws were passed to pro- tect them. An old chronicle relates how William the Conqueror “ laid laws that he who slew hart or hind that man should blind him, so sooth he loved the high deer as though he were their father. His90 DES] rich men moaned at it and poor men bewailed it ; but be was so stiff that be recked not of tbeir hatred.” Although the love for deer has not died out, these harsh and cruel laws have long since been repealed. Dessert.— Fruit and sweetmeats taken after dinner with wine. This course is of very ancient origin, the custom of thus prolonging a banquet being w^ell known to the ancient Greeks, who j^aid great attention to the cultivation of fruit for the purpose. The melon was one of their favourites, and they ate it with milk and honey, even planting the seeds among rose leaves in order to give a per- fume to the fruit. Gra2:)es, pomegranates and figs were also largely consumed, and the pulp of the latter was generally perfumed, and, contrary to our canons of taste, was sometimes eaten with salt, pepx^er and vinegar. The Eomans had dessert which they called hellaria, and fruits, sweetmeats and wines were then provided in profusion. To add to the beauty of the scene, the guests wore wreaths of roses, and each drinking-cuj^, the table, the couches and the floor were also decorated with roses. In later times the Saxons had sundry confections made of fruits and honey; and a drink called morat, made 01 honey flavoured with mulberries ; also another, called pigment, composed of wine, highly spiced and sweetened with honey. At the present day the fruit • for dessert may be either fresh or iweserved, and it sometimes forms part of the decoration of the table, but in recent years flowers have taken its place for decoration. Longer time is generally devoted to this course than to any other, as it is the most suitable accompaniment to conversation. At public dinners dessert remains on the table while thedev] [dil 91 speeches are being made. In private houses the ladies remain some time with the gentlemen, but then retire, giving the latter an opportunity for free con- versation and for taking more wine, if so inclined. Devilling.—Viands which are broiled, with the addition of very hot condiments, are called devilled. Almost any meat or poultry and several shell-fish can be so prepared. The most general favourites are kidneys, fowl, limbs of turkey, rib-hones of beef, lobsters and oysters. As a supper dish in very cold weather, eaten with sauces and fried potatoes, they are delicious, hut not very digestible. Digby Chicks.—This fish appears in our Eng- lish markets cured and dried. It is a kind of small herring or pilchard, called by the fishermen who catch them “ Nova Scotia sprats.” They are named after Dighy, a seaport in Nova Scotia, which little town has distinguished itself by curing and export- ing them. Being young and tender, fhey are comparatively but chicks : hen,ce the compound name. Digester.—A strong iron pot, the lid of vviiich fits so tightly that the steam can only escape through a valve at the top. It is used to boil bones and to stew tendons or other hard substances. Dill.—This plant is a native of Spain and Portu- gal, and is also cultivated in this country, where, however, it is not very frequently used for culinary purposes. What is commolily called dill-seed is in reality the whole fruit dried. This contains a vola- tile oil, which, when separated by distillation, is found to have a yellow colour, a pungent odour, and a sweetish acrid taste. Dill-seed is oval, flat, and less than a quarter of an inch in length. Besides being employed medicinally, it is used as a spice indin] 92 [dri the preparation of some kinds of j)ickles, and in Germany, in the curing of cucumbers. Dinner.—The principal meal of the day. In olden times, when people rose at daybreak, it was taken about nine in the morning; since then the hour has got gradually later, until in fashionable society it is now taken even as late as nine at night. There seems to have always been three different hours for dinner : the working-classes dined earliest, tile middle-class dined next, and the aristocracy latest. The number of courses eaten at dinner has increased with time, but the number of the dishes at each course has been gradually reduced. A pro- perly arranged dinner now includes only a judicious selection from what is in season.—{See Menu.) Double Cream.—{See Cream.) Dredging.—Sifting various powdered substances by means of a round box with holes in the top, called a dredger, over sweets, or over meat that is to be roasted or baked. When dredgings are used with meat they are intended to absorb some of the fat and gravy, and thus form a sort of crust, con- sisting of flour or bread-crumbs, and sometimes herbs or other flavourings. When used for tarts, puddings, or other sweet dishes, the dredging consists generally of powdered sugar, sometimes mixed with sweet spices, both to sweeten the dish and to give it an agreeable appearance. Dried Currants.—The currants sold by our grocers are a fruit of a totally different kind to the black, red, and white currants grown in the kitchen gardens and fruit orchards of our own country. They are a kind of grape without seeds, and the vines liroducing them grow in Greece and the neighbouring islands. They are called currants from the fact thatDEI] 93 [edm they weiG first imported, from Corinth. These cur- rants are much used in Englisli* cookery to make mincemeat, puddings, and cakes. The common plum-cake, so called, seldom contains any fruit be- sides currants. The extent to which they are used in this country may he judged from the fact that in 1872 we imported 569,400 tons. The small grapes from which they are made are originally red or blue, and these are simply dried on the ground in the sun. They form the principal article of export from Greece, where a very sweet, oily kind of wine is also made from them. Dripping.—The fat of meat which exudes while it is being roasted or baked. Dripping becomes hard when it is cold, and can be used in cookery for frying, making pastry, or, in some instances, as a substitute ior butter. Duck.—There is a great variety of these birds, according to natural history about a hundred dif- ferent sorts. Some of these are eatable, even delicate in flavour, while others have a gross and rank taste. The domestic duck originates from the mallard, or wild duck (which see); it is mostly larger, and with- out the gamey flavour disliked by some consumers. A great many ducks are sent to us from Ireland, France, and Germany, those of a light colour being jmeferable. It is supposed that the lighter they are the more tender is their flesh; but, however that may be, our Aylesbury, snowy-white plumaged duck, commands the highest price in the market, which cannot be ascribed to its size, for the Eouen duck is even larger, hut of a dark colour, and its flesh cannot be compared with that of the Aylesbury. Dumplings.—Probably derive their name from being made in a dumpy form, generally from an94 dunJ [edi ordinary paste of suet and flour, and boiled with the meat. Norfolk dumplings are made with flour, water, and yeast, or other preparation for raising dough ; they are a staple article of food amongst the agricultural classes in that county. Besides these, there are also dumplings made with fruit, and boiled or baked. Dunbird.—(Nee Canvas-Back Duck.) Dutch Oven.—An utensil used for cooking. It consists of a tin box, with one side open towards the grate, to the bars of which it is attached by hooks. The lid can be raised to allow of the meat to be cooked being hung on hooks in the interior, and at the bottom there is a tray to catch the dripping. Cooking in a Dutch oven unites many of the features of both baking and roasting, and the utensil is a most handy one when it is necessary to prepare a small quantity of meat in as short a time as possible. Edible Bird’s Nests.—These nests are con- structed by a species of small Indian swallow, which at certain seasons of the year are found in great multitudes, principally on the coast of China. They build their nests on the rocks, out of a glutin- ous substance which they find on the shore. Some naturalists say that this substance consists of sea- w'orms, others suppose it to be fish-spawn ; according to Linnaeus, however, it is a sort of jelly-fish, known to fishermen as jelly or blubber. There are two kinds of nests, black and white; the difference in colour is supposed to be owing to a mixture of feathers with the matter of which these nests are formed. The nests are cup-shaped, about the size of those of reed sparrows, and in appearance have some resemblance to isinglass. The Chinese mix these nests wfith soups, and esteem them great deli-[EDI 95 EDl] cacies. As the white are found in the proportion of only one to twenty-five, they are thought much more of than the black, which are generally sent to Ba- tavia, where they are converted into glue. Edible Frogs.—These frogs are eaten in France and the South of Germany. The hind legs are con- sidered a great delicacy, a taste which has found its votaries even in England. They are described by Frank Buckland as being “ Most excellent eat- ing, tasting more like the delicate flesh of the rabbit than anything else I could think of.” The edible frog is found in England, Southern Europe, and other parts of the temperate zones. The male has a bladder-like pouch to his cheek, which it distends in the act of croaking, making a much louder noise than common frogs, and for this reason it has been called on the Continent the “ Dutch Nightin- gale,” and in our own country the “ Cambridgeshire Nightingale.” It is eaten by birds, reptiles and some mammals. This species does not exist in America, where its place is taken by the bull-frog, which closely resembles it. Edible Snails. —The edible snail of the Con- tinent differs from our usual garden snail in colour and size, for it has a shell measuring two inches everyway. Though not eaten much in this country, snails are looked upon as delicacies in China and France. The luxurious Romans thought very highly of them, and had enclosures made for them in which they could be fattened on a certain kind of meal, and wine that had been boiled. It is said that as far back as the seventeenth century the edible snail of the South of Europe was brought to this country, and that its descendants are still found here in districts where chalk abounds. An1 ^ 9G [egg annual feast of snails is also said to be held in the neighbourhood of Newcastle, but both stories are probably aj:)ociyphal. —This is a very nutritious fish, whose flesh has a particularly good flavour. It is eaten boiled, stewed, fried, and prepared in many other ways; in the Channel Islands a soup is made from the large variety known as the conger. There are several kinds of eel, both fresh water and salt, and some of the latter attain to a great size; the silver eel is considered the best. All eels have the appearance of serpents, having but few fins, and they generally live in the mud or sand. Their diet consists of small molluscs and refuse, and when in want of food the common eel will leave its native element and wander about the fields by night in search of snails, or other prey, and will often betake itself to isolated ponds for the sake of a change of residence. The eel is very productive, and its spawn is generally deposited at the mouths of rivers, or in harbours where the water is brackish. The milt and roe are situated in the same part as in other fisli, but they present a rather unusual appearance. Eels were at one time supposed to be vivij>arous animals, in consequence of living creatures having been often found inside them, which were thought to be their young, but these are now proved to be parasites with which eels are frequently infested. Egg-Apple.—(Nee Aubergine.) Eggs .—An important article of consumption, in- cluding, besides those of the domestic fowl, the eggs of the duck, plover, several small birds, ostrich and turtle ; the latter having no shell. Eggs vary greatly in size, from that of a pea, as in the humming-bird, to that of the ostrich, the shell of which is fre-97 [egg egg] quently used by the natives of South Africa as a drinking vessel. An average hen’s egg weighs about two ounces avoirdupois. Fresh eggs when looked through are more transparent at the centre, stale ones at the top. In a solution of one part of salt to ten of water, good eggs sink, while stale ones float. Considering the vast number of eggs and poultry we import from other countries, the ijrices they command, and the facilities afforded by our farm-yards and open places for keeping poultry, it may safely be concluded that larger stocks of them might be kept with advantage. In order to give hens the material for laying a fair number of eggs, they must have carbonate of lime with their food in some form or other. Sometimes they can get sufficient out of the dried mortar they iDeck from the ■ walls, sometimes chalk is given to them, and some- times empty egg-shells are thrown out to them, which is a very bad practice, as it teaches the hens to break the shells of their own eggs. Egg Plum.—Of this lovely and useful fruit there are two kinds, one red, the other white and yellow, both known by the name of ‘‘Magnum bonum.” Each variety is divided into several kinds bear- ing different names. Egg plums are a very large kind of plum, oval in shape and narrowing a little towards the stalk; they have a distinct seam down each side. Where they have been exposed to a very hot sun the skin is deep red, but where they have grown in the shade it is much ; they are covered with a most delicate and beautiful bloom. The flesh of the fruit is firm, not very juicy, but of a splendid flavour, and when ripe comes away quite clean from the stone. It forms a useful preserve, and in the season it is largely used for98 ela] [eld pies and puddings, although there is an idea (which is quite erroneous) that it causes cholera; if eaten when properly ripe, there is no fear of this. The tree on which it grows is very hardy and bears a great quantity of fruit; it has been cultivated in England for many years. Eland.—This animal exceeds in size the largest specimen of deer found in South Africa ; indeed, it is said to he as large as the largest ox. The Earl of Derby was the first to acclimatize the eland in this countiy, and a fine specimen flourished upon his estate at Knowsley between 1836 and 1851. When he died, by the terms of his wfill this eland became the property of the Zoological Gardens. Some say that it costs no more to sustain the eland and his progeny than to keep other cattle of the best descrip- tion, but a well-known writer says, ‘‘ no one would think of possessing himself for a moment of one of these animals unless he wished, as the -saying goes, to he eaten out of house and home,” its capacity for feeding being so enormous. On the other hand, the eland manages to live for months at a time without quenching its thirst, even though the drought and heat be ever so great. Its flesh is exceedingly good, and so tender that it does not re- quire hanging like venison and game. All travellers who have seen the eland in its native land unite in extolling it for its beauty of form, its fleetness, and its grace while alive, and speak loudly in praise of its flesh as most delicious meat. Elderberry.—These small black berries are used for making a wine; it is said that they are also used for the adulteration of port, and for the manu- facture of an imitation of it.' The home-made elderberry wane is a great favourite in many countryEND] 99 [eNT families. It is generally taken hot, when a large cupful of it is drunk at night, after being out in cold or wet weather, as a preventative of catching cold. The elder tree is a native of Europe, Northern Africa and Asia, and has been cultivated in planta- tions in Kent. The young buds are sometimes pickled, and the flowers have been used for making a wine that has been compared to Frontignac. In some parts of Germany, the poorer people use elder- berries as an ingredient in soups. A medicated ointment is also made both from the leaves and from the flowers of the elder. Endive.—The leaves of this plant are much used as a salad; sometimes also in stews and soups, and they may be boiled and eaten with meat like other green vegetables. It is a very wholesome article of food, and especially valuable because it may be grown for winter use when lettuce and other salad vegetables are not to be had. Endive is said to be a native of China and Japan, and was brought to Europe early in the sixteenth century ; it has long been natural- ised in this countrv, but is cultivated much more extensivel}^ on the Continent. There are many varieties of this plant; the cut-leaved, or curled variety is usually prepared for salads in this country, but the dwarf white Batavian is more delicate and agreeable in flavour. English Bamboo.—The name given to a pickle, made from the young shoots of the elder tree, salted and dried, with a pickle vinegar poured over. Entr^e.-=—This is the name given to a dish com- posed of more than one ingredient, as distinguished from meat served only with a garnishing. Entrees afford peculiar scope for the talents of a chef, and dishes can be prepared in this way from materials Hent] [fen 100 which would otherwise be unattractive. The name, which is the French word for entrance, was probably originally given to these dishes in consequence of their being brought into the dining-room instead of being placed on the table at the commencement of the meal. Entrees formerly appeared with the joint as side dishes, hut they now form a course of them- selves. Entremets.—Light side dishes which are served between the principal courses. Eschalot.—{See Shalot.) Essence.—The virtue extracted from any sub- stance. Essences possess the great advantage of occupying a very small space in proportion to their strength, hence they are of the greatest use to travellers in consequence of their portability ; they are also much used for flavouring. The essence of beef or chicken is principally used for making broth; essence of anchovies is largely employed in sauces, and essence of lemon to flavour confections. Essences are prepared by boiling the raw material until an extract of the required strength is obtained, hut they can generally he purchased ready made. Faggots.—A cheap and substantial article of food, sold ready cooked by many of the pork butchers in London and other large towns, highly appreciated among the lower ranks of our town population. They are made with tlie liver of the calf or pig mixed up with fresh fat pork, bread-crumbs, onions and various flavouring herbs; a little egg should he added to make the mince adhere together. They are usually made in small squares, and must he very slowly baked. Fennel.—An aromatic plant, with yellow, um- belliferous flowers, and pretty, finely-divided leaves.101 fen] |_FIG TliesG gracGfnl iGavGS arG oftGii usgcI as a garnish to ornamGnt various disliGS, and tliGy arc somGtimGS GmployGd as a flavouring in soups. English cooks, howGVGr, principally^ usg it in the preparation of a saucG specially eaten with mackerel, for which pur- pose its leaves, when chopped up fine, are simmered a few minutes in melted butter. The fennel is some- times found growing wild in our country, but is more often seen cultivated in the kitchen garden. The seeds . are used in confectionery to form a sweetmeat, similar to the more familiar caraway comfits ; and in medi- cine, these seeds are employed to furnish a carmina- tive remedy for flatulent colic. Fenugreek.—The seeds of this plant have been largely used as a condiment, and though not now so much employed in this country, they form one ingredient in curry-powder. They were highly valued by the ancient Eomans as an article of diet, and are still largely consumed in the East. The odour and.flavour of fenugreek seeds are strong and somewhat unpleasant when exhibited alone, but they combine well with other spices. Formerly, they were used in medicine, but now their medicinal use is restricted to veterinary practice ; they are largely used in the production of highly-spiced “ Cattle Foods.” The plant is indigenous to the countries surrounding the Mediterranean, whence it spread to India and Central Europe, and in the sixteenth century it was grown in English gardens. Fig.—The fruit of the ficus carica, wdiich con- sists of hollow, fleshy receptacles, containing nu- merous seed-like bodies. In the unripe state, figs contain a bitter juice, which is replaced with sac- charine matter when they are ripe. In the Old Testament w^e are informed that ITezekiah, who livedfil] 102 [fil six Imndred years before Christ, used figs as an application to a boil; this, no doubt, was the fresh fruit. After the figs are ripe, they are dried in the sun, or in ovens, when they assume a brownish colour, and are packed in drums and baskets for expor- tation. They grow principally in Asia and Southern Europe, whence our chief supply is derived, those from Smyrna being considered the finest. Figs are also cultivated in this country on a particularly fertile belt of laud known as the “ Fig Valleys,” situated not far from the Sussex coast, near Worth- ing. These orchards are said to have been planted by the order of Thomas a Becket, who first brought the fig to this country, and in favourable seasons the trees still yield enormous quantities of fruit. Filbert.—This nut is the cultivated variety of the hazel. It is a great favourite at dessert when in season, and is largely cultivated in Kent for that purpose. The name is a corruption of full beard, which refers to the jagged envelope of the nut. Fillet of Beef.—This favourite dish is cut from the inner part of the sirloin. The word literally means a band, and signifies a piece of meat the length of which greatly exceeds the width and thick- ness. Fillet of beef is generally cooked in combina- tion with other articles, such as olives, mushrooms or onions, and is frequently larded with bacon. There are various modes of preparing roast fillet of beef differing from those for preparing roast fillet of veal.—{See Fillet of Veal.) Fillet of Veal.—This joint is cut from the upper part of the hind leg. The bone is taken out, and the meat rolled up and tied round—hence its name. Fillet signifies a band tied round the head, and filleted meat is that which has been tied round103 fil] [fla with a band before it is cooked. Fillet of veal is generally well stuffed with forcemeat and roasted ; but small fillets are sometimes stewed. Filtering.—This is straining liquids by causing them to pass through various substances. All water for drinking requires filtering, which is performed by allowing it to percolate through layers of sand, charcoal or similar substances. There are various kinds of filters, from the sheets of paper used in chemical laboratories to the gigantic filter beds of the water companies ; but the system is practically the same in all. Filters for the household are provided in various forms : some are fixed inside the cistern ; others, which hold a few gallons, re- quire filling at the top; and smaller kinds are combined with a water bottle for standing on the table. For household purposes it is necessary to use filters which can be easily taken to pieces and cleaned, as, if the water is impure, the filtering substances soon get foul and fail to act. Financiere (A la).—A method of preparing certain dishes with a rich brown sauce or gravy, consisting j)rincipally of fish stock, vegetables, truffles and mushrooms. A name also given to a combination of very superior delicacies. Firmety.—Also called Frumenty, a name derived from the Latin word frumentum, meaning grain. It consists of wheat boiled in milk, to which is added the yolks of eggs, currants and flavourings. It can be eaten hot or cold, and is an excellent breakfast or supper dish, especially for children. Flank of Veal.—The flank is cut from that part of the calf situated between the breast and the leg. It is generally used for stewing, and, when cut up and well seasoned, furnishes the materials for many[flo 104 fla1 J tasty dishes. As the flank is not one of the best 13arts of the animal, it is inexpensive ; and as there is hut little waste in cooking, it is economical. Flavouring.—Ingredients used in cookery to impart a taste to the viands. The proper use of flavourings is an important branch of the culinary art, as by their aid many articles of food are rendered palatable which would otherwise be insipid. Fla- vourings consist princii^ally of spices, herbs and essences. Great care should be taken to select flavourings which are appropriate for the viands to which they are added, and tliis offers a wide field for the exercise of a cook’s judgment and taste. Flip .—A favourite drink in cold weather. It consists of eggs beaten up with moist sugar and hot beer or wine, and when made with the former, a little spirit is often added to it. It is then quickly poured from the saucepan to the jug, and hack again two or three times, to make a froth on the top, over which a little nutmeg is grated. Flounder.—This fish is also known as the Butt. It is a member of the flat-fish tribe, and though as common as i^laice, it is very delicate in flavour. In colour it is generally brown, varying, however, from light to dark, according to the bed of the water from which it is taken, being almost yellow where there is sand, and nearly black where it is muddy. This fish makes itself at home eveiywhere, whether found in salt, brackish, or fresh waters, and indeed actually thrives in ponds. In former days it has been known to ascend the Thames as high as Hampton Court, where it has been observed chasing minnows, driving them into shallow water. The flounder is commonly found along the coast of Northern Europe from the British Channel to snow-covered Iceland. In the[flo 105 FLOJ Elbe, Weser and Ehine, it is often met ^Yitll, and in the last-named river it lias been cauglit as far from its mouth as Cologne. There are various ways of preparing these fish for the table, but one scaicely hnown in this country is to slightly salt and smoke- dry them in such a manner as to be palatable without any further cooking, a way in which they are largely consumed in Germany. Flour.—This well-known article of food consists of crushed or decorticated grain reduced to powder. Thus, wheaten flour is made from wheat, corn flour from maize or Indian corn, rice flour from rice. When we speak of flour in this country without any other distinguishing name, we always refer to wheaten flour, as we use this for making ordinary bread, pastry and cakes. There is now a prevailing demand for very fine white flour, but this is obtained at the cost of losing some of the more valuable jiarts of the corn, for the darker parts of the wheat contain a large proportion of the phosphates so necessary for building up the human frame. By using whole meal, which means the flour containing the bran, this would be avoided, and though the great value of it must be acknowledged, yet there have been cases in which the alimentary canal has been irritated by its use. Wheat is grown in most parts of the world, and is now exported in enormous quantities from America; nearly sixty million bushels of wheat and ten million barrels of flour being annually despatched from thence. The strongest flours, as they are called, which contain the largest proportion of gluten, are grown in Manitoba, Minnesota, Hungary and Bussia. Barley, oats and maize yield a weak flour, very deficient in gluten, which, therefore, cannot be made into uprightflu] [fon 106 loaves, but require to be baked into flat cakes. Originally grain was soaked in water, subjected to pressure, and then dried by heat to form food. After that, it became customary to bray the grains of corn in a kind of mortar ; in a later age the corn was crushed between two heavy flat stones, the upper one being worked round by hand. In more recent times the corn has been ground in mills turned by water or by wind, but now these corn mills are chiefly worked by steam. Flummery. — This name is derived from the Welsh word llymrig, meaning raw. The dish in its original form consisted of oatmeal boiled to the con- sistence of thick gruel, to which was added sugar and orange-flower water. It was eaten with wine, milk, cream, or cider. There are various ways of 23reparing it. Dutch flummery is made iwincii^ally of wine, with the addition of eggs, isinglass, lemon- juice and sugar. French flummery consists of isinglass dissolved in milk, and added to a large pro- portion of cream ; it is flavoured with orange-flower water, boiled until thick, and is eaten with stewed pears. liice flummery is made of boiled milk, thickened with rice and flavoured with almonds. Ehubarb flummery is boiled rhubarb and milk, thickened with gelatine and sugar. Fondant.—Sweetmeats made of boiled sugar with a permanently soft consistence, which is im- parted to it by the addition of a little gelatinised starch and glycerine, the exterior being rendered harder by a solution of crystallisable sugar. Fond- ants are made in great variety, and they are flavoured with fruit essences of all kinds. They can be used for dessert, and as ornaments for cakes, and entremets.107 [fee fon] Fondue.—A very savoury and tasty dish, origi- nally introduced by the Swiss. It is made by beat- ing up the required number of eggs, and cooking them in a saucepan with butter and cheese (Par- mesan, Gruyere, or Cheshire), and seasoned with pepper and salt. Forbidden Fruit.—{See Shaddock.) Forcemeat.—This consists of fowl, veal, or other meats, or sometimes fish, cho^Dped fine and mixed with bread-crumbs, suet, condiments or panada. {See article under that title.) It is used as balls or stuffing. Fore Quarter of Lamb.—Lamb is differently cut up according to its age. When young it is simply cut into quarters, but when large it is divided into the same joints as mutton. The fore quarter of young lamb is generally considered the best joint, and consists of the shoulder, breast and neck. It is most frequently roasted, and served with mint sauce, peas and new potatoes. Frangipane, or Franchipane.—An excellent substitute for custards. It is made with eggs, well beaten up, to which is added a considerable propor- tion of milk containing a small quantity of flour, sweetened with sugar, and flavoured with grated lemon-peel, rum or brandy, with the addition of vanilla, orange-flower water, or coffee. It is cooked in a saucepan till slightly browned, and turns to a creamy consistence. The French often use it for covering fruit tarts. Freezing.—Ice is of great service in making frozen sweetmeats, in preserving cold dishes and uncooked food at a proper temperature, and in freezing meat and fish, so that it can be transported long distances without becoming tainted. Scientifi-108 [fre cally-speaking, ice is water congealed by intense cold. In the process of freezing, as it usually occurs in nature, the act of solidification goes on, not continu- ously, but in successive layers, that is to say, it freezes from the top downwards. Ice, and all very cold water, is lighter than water at an ordinary temperature, and in passing from the liquid to the solid state, water ex^^ands about one-fourteenth, by which the production of ice acquires an enormous mechanical force, thus accounting for the frequent bursting of our water-pipes during a severe frost. Major Williams, at Quebec, filled a twelve-inch shell with water and closed it by a wooden stopper driven in with a mallet; he then exposed the shell to a temperature of 13° Fahr., and on the water freezing, the stopper was projected a distance of more than one hundred feet, while a cylinder of ice about eight inches long was protruded from the hole. It is the expansion and consequent lightness of ice which enables it to float u^^on the surface of water. The demand for ice in hot countries having become very great during recent years, many methods of producing it artificially have been discovered, but the princij)al of these is to mix hydrochloric acid with crystallized sulphate of soda. Various machines have been made for producing ice arti- ficially, and the first successful invention of this kind was patented in 1850 by Twining, an American. The pictet machine, introduced in 1876, which acts by the evaporation of sulphurous acid, pi’oduces artificial ice at the cost of one cent per pound. Some American methods produce six tons of artificial ice from each machine per day. Enormous quantities of frozen meat are now brought over to this country from America, New Zealand,109 [fre fre] and Australia. A chamber on board shij) is specially cooled, and kept cool throughout the voyage, by means of a refrigerator containing ice. The carcases of mutton and beef are deposited in this chamber when freshly killed, and are kept shut up in it until their arrival in this country. French Beans. — Half-hardy annual plants, brought originally from India. What we call in this country French beans are the pods of the kidney bean, and those of the scarlet runner, when young and tender. They are, when very small, added to pickles, and when a little larger, cut into slices and boiled or stewed. When they have come to maturity, the pods are rejected, and the beans, being dried, then pass under the name of haricot beans. These require soaking for some hours before being used, but when cooked form a highly nutritious article of diet. French Rolls.—This bread when properly made is very superior in quality to the ordinary household kind, as the dough contains milk, butter and eggs. The rolls are baked in tins, and when finished the crust is rasped quite thin. French Wines.—The wines of France have been famed throughout historical times as cooling beverages. They may be roughly divided into three classes, the “dry,” the “fruity,” and the “sparkling.” The two former are celebrated for their astringent qualities, and are drunk either alone or with mineral or plain water. Burgundy is perhaps the most famed, and references to it may be found from a very early period. Champagne is the principal sparkling wine, and is a well-known nerve tonic. Its flavour has attained for it a popularity which nothing else seems likely to surpass. The demand for French wines exceeds the supply which can beno [fri FKl] obtained from the most famous districts. This is especially the case with the Champagne district, which grows the best grapes in France, and produces both sparkling and still wines, as well as the sweet variety of the Veuve Cliquot. This district is, however, far too small to supply all the wine that bears its name, and consumers should be careful to notice the brand. * Friar s Omelet.—A so-called omelet made of apples stewed to a pulp mixed with butter and sugar, and when cold beaten up with eggs. . These ingredients are placed in a baking dish, with bread- crumbs to line the dish, and also to sprinkle over the other ingredients. The whole is then baked and served with powdered sugar over it. Fricandeau.'—This can be made of veal, beef or poultry. The meat is larded with bacon, then stewed with vegetables and herbs, and glazed before serving. The dish was invented as long ago as the sixteenth century by Jean de Careme, cook to Pope Leo the tenth, who held him in great esteem. The talent of this inventor descended to his posterity, one of whom was cook to George the fourth, and subsequently to Baron Eothschild. Fricassee.—This term comes to us through the French fricasse, which means to squander away or to waste. In its English acceptation it is the name given to a dish composed of chicken or rabbit cut into pieces, and generally dressed with savoury sauce. The name is justified by the expensive ingredients which are frequently used. On menu cards it is called a fricassee de , the name of the meat of which it is composed being invariably added. Fritters.—Fritters can be made of any batterFHO] ^11 used for pancakes, either by dropping a small quan- tity into a pan with boiling butter oi fat, oi by dipping thin slices of ripe fruit into the batter and frying them. Spanish fritters are made from the crumb of the French roll, cut into a shape, soaked in cream, with the addition of egg, nutmeg, sugar and powdered cinnamon. There are also x^otato fritters, where scraped potatoes take the xrlace of the flour in the batter. The most popular of fritters in this country are probably those made with apples and cooked as above. Frosting.—The name given to a covering for various dishes, which looks like frost. It consists of the white of eggs, beaten up and poured over the dish. When this has been baked, x>owdered sugar sifted over it gives it a very realistic appearance. Frying.—Great as the objections to this mode of cooking may be, there is much to be said in favour of the frying-pan. It is true that it must be con- stantly watched when on the fire, now and then raised on one side or the other, or removed for a time, as the case may require. It is, how’ever, often Xflaced with the meat in it on the fire, and left there until the contents have become charred, or, which is just as bad, these are taken out whilst still raw; with proper attention this would hardly ever occur. Cutlets fried with egg and bread-crumbs offer a dish agreeable to the palate with an inviting appearance, while omelettes or pancakes can hardly be produced without that often-maligned utensil, the frying- pan. Galantine.—Meat, game, fowl, or fish, seasoned with truffles, mushrooms, or other condiments, and encased in transx>arent jelly. Game.—Under this name are included hares,garJ 112 . [gar pheasants, partridges, grouse, heath-fowl, blackcock, moor-fowl and bustards. They are considered dainty meat, light and easy of digestion; and they form a suitable diet for invalids and those who lead a seden- tary life. It is usual to keep game some time after killing before cooking, and it is most prized when it has become a little “ high.” Game in this country is protected by law, and no one is allowed to kill it without a Government licence. It must not be killed during the breeding season, nor on Sundays or Christmas-day; the eggs are also protected by the game laws. The offence of killing without a licence is called poaching. Snipe, quails, landrails and rabbits, though they are not called game, are pro- tected. Our game laws are a remnant of the old forest laws, enforced when all the deer in British forests belonged to the Crown, and under which the killing of deer was punishable with death. Game laws are now maintained to preserve sport for the wealthy. These sports are ardently pursued during the season, and the rearing of game is now a source of large revenue to those landowners who let their shootings. Many alterations have been made in the methods of killing game during the last few centu- ries. Hawking has entirely died out, and ladies who used to practise this sport now join in hunting and coursing. Driving and beating game up to the place where the marksmen stand is now habitually practised, and shooting is, in consequence, losing some of its attractions to real lovers of sport. Gar-fish.—Sometimes called by sailors Guard- fish, or Mackerel-guard, because it is often seen swimming in the shoals of mackerel. It resembles the mackerel in flavour, but is drier. It is prepared for table by cooking in the various ways employed[gar 113 gar] for disliing-up mackerel. Before being cooked it emits an unpleasant odour, and its bones are green- ish in colour. It is found throughout the European seas, and is specially abundant at the mouth of the Mersey. Garlic.—A plant belonging to the Allium family, of which it is the most strongly flavoured, so strongly, indeed, that it is sufficient to rub a dish with a slice of it in order to flavour the meat. It grows naturally in Sicily, and is cultivated along the shores of the Mediterranean. The French, Italians and Spaniards use garlic very largely. It was introduced into England in 1548; but the powerful odour which it imparts to the breath has prevented its becoming popular. Nevertheless, it is pickled in this country, like onions. Garnishing.—This is the decoration of a dish with edible materials, which are of ornamental and appropriate appearance. Vegetables, sliced or cut in shreds, are most often used with hot meat; small vegetables whole, forcemeat, quenelles, mushrooms, truffles or other roots, crayfish, cocks’-combs, lambs’ sweetbreads, fried smelts, prawns, or even small birds, can also be employed. Some sauces are used as garnishes, such as lobster and shrimp. Cold meats are garnished with parsley and other herbs. Garnishing should generally be left to the taste of a cook, as very few rules can be given. Garum.—A sauce made of pickled fish. It w^as much prized by the Eomans, who are said to have made it from the gills of various fish. The original recipe is now unknown, but sauces of the same kind are still made; indeed, they are now of a superior kind to that used by the Eomans, as the anchovy sauce of modern times must undoubtedly possess aGEL] 114 [_GIN better flavour than that extracted from the gills of large and coarse fish. Gelatine.—This is used for making jellies of vaiioLis kinds. It has the same properties as isinglass, hut is not so white ; and while isinglass is made from the air-bladder of the sturgeon and certain other fish, gelatine is prepared from the skin, hoofs and other tissues of various quadrupeds. Gela- tine is much like glue in its composition, but is made fiom better materials, with a greater regard to cleanliness in the process of manufacture. In making jellies different flavours are added to it, according to taste. German Y7meB.—{See Hock.) Gherkins.—Gherkins are a hardy variety of the prickly cucumber. They are eaten as a pickle, sometimes alone and sometimes as an ingredient of various mixed sorts. In France they are pre- served in spiced vinegar, flavoured generally with tarragon ; while in Germany they are salted, allowed to undergo a vinous fermentation, and eaten as a pickle in that state. They are in season for pickling from about the middle of July to the end of August. Giblets.—These are the inside and trimmings of poultry, principally of geese, turkeys, and ducks. They consist of the heart, liver, gizzard, legs, neck and head. They are generally made into a pie, with steak, but can also be stewed or made into soup. Giblets are not much thought of here, but in Germany cooks pay greater attention to this dish, which they prepare by stewing the giblets with pork chops and pears, flavoured with sugar and cloves, and served on toast. Gin.—Properly speaking ought to be called a liqueur, for it is a spirit flavoured by certain[gin 115 ginJ aromatic substances, generally ssveetenecl, but also sold unsweetened. It appears that the name is a corruption of Glenievre (Junipei), which should be the predominant flavour; but as tastes diftered so distillers varied the article, and added to the ju22ipGr berry, coriander, caidamoms, cassia, and calamus. According to the proportion and choice of ingredients the flavour varies : thus we have London, Bristol, Plymouth, and other gins. “Hollands,” “Geneva,” and “ Schiedam' are foreign produc- tions. Ginger.—As used for culinary purposes is the root of the ginger plant, a native of the East and West Indies. This plant grows to the height of about three feet, and when its stalks are withered, the roots are gathered, separated, scraped, washed, and dried, ready for use or exportation. Occasionally green ginger is brought to this country, and may be preserved; but the attention it requires, and the loss of flavour by the frequent change of water pre- • paratory to boiling it in syrup, w^ould hardly compensate for the difference in price between the home-made and the best Jamaica. Gingerbread.— Is a bread or cake made of flour and treacle, or golden syrup, flavoured with ginger. It is mentioned in Monteil’s “ History of France ” as having been made and sold in Paris as early as the fourteenth century. It was then made of rye-dough kneaded with honey, ginger, and other spices. It was probably introduced into England in the reign of Henry the Fourth, and in this country treacle soon came to be used in making it instead of honey. Gingerbread made with treacle being darker than that made with honey, it was covered with yellow syrup or gold-leaf to disguise its colour; Igla] 116 [gol hence arose our familiar j)roYerb about taking “ the gilt off the gingerbread.” Soon after its introduc- tion to this country, gingerbread played an impor- tant part in all our country fairs and festivals, and flat flgures of this gilt gingerbread still go by the name of “ Plusbands” in country villages. It was an article of food in which the children took great delight, and though we generally see it now in the form either of large, flat, square cakes, or else of small, round biscuits, it was then habitually pre- sented made up into all sorts of fantastic shapes. The old English antiquary, Grose, in describing the Horn fair held at Charlton, Kent, says, “Even the gingerbread figures have horns.” Poor Eobin’s Almanack for 1695, referring to St. Bartholomew’s Fair, held in London in the month of August, re- commends farmers not to choose a wife “ Trickt up with Eibbons and Knots like a Bartholomew Baby,” and then adds : “ And he who with such hind of wife is sjDcd, Better to have one made of gingerbread.” “Gingerbread nuts” may be described as the biscuit variety of gingerbread. “Parkins” are another kind made in Yorkshire, chiefly at Candle- mas, with oatmeal instead of flour. Glaze.— The appearance of various joints and pastry is improved by having a glossy appearance. Hams, tongues, and similar dishes are glazed by pouring over them very strong stock reduced by boiling to the consistence of a jelly. Pastry is glazed with white of egg. Golden Syrup.—This is used in the same way and for the same purposes as treacle, but is purer, sweeter in flavour, thinner in consistency,goo] 117 and lighter in colour. Golden syrup is drained off during the refining of crystallised “ Demerara” and loaf sugar, while treacle is formed in the manufac- ture of moist sugar.—(See Treacle.) Goose.—An aquatic bird which has long been domesticated in all parts of the world. It is a very favourite dish in the autumn and winter, and is generally roasted or cooked in made dishes; in Pomerania the legs and breasts are salted and smoked like ham. From the liver is made the celebrated “ Foie Gras.” Its feathers form our grateful couches, and the quills are made into pens, those weapons which have been described as mightier than the sword. Geese require access to water, and are reared in great numbers at farmhouses, particu- larly in low-lying lands, such as Lincolnshire, Suffolk, and Norfolk, the latter county being espe- cially celebrated for them. The bird was known in the earliest ages, and has had quite an eventful history. It was regarded as sacred by the Egyp- tians, who drew their auguries from it. The Eomans also held it in great esteem, as the cackling of geese is said to have once saved their capital. The origin of eating goose at Michaelmas is said to have arisen from the circumstance that when the news of the defeat of the Spanish Armada was brought to Queen Elizabeth, she was dining on goose, So she laid her commands upon her servitors that a goose should always be served to her upon Michael- mas Day;” at least thus the story goes. The goose has always been associated with stupidity, but in one story, at least, man is represented as being the more foolish of the two. A goose is said to have laid a golden egg every day, and its owner cut it open to get all the eggs out at once, when he was118 Lf^.00 suipiisGd to find tliat it died and laid no inoro eggs. During the spring the goose, when young, is called a green goose. It should then he plump in the breast, the skin white, the feet easy to bend and yellow in hue. It is to he dressed like its elder lelations, hut it should not he stuffed; as compen- sation, however, butter, pepper and salt are ^daced inside the bird. As for the accompaniments, there is a large choice, as it would he quite in keeping with the stern laws de cuisine to use tomato, sorrel, gooseberry or any other sauce, hut always re- member that “ sauce for the goose is sauce for the gander.” GooS6b6rry. This fruit, which was originally called the gorseberry, is generally supposed to he indigenous to the British Islands, and is sometimes found growing wild. It is largely used for tarts, puddings, and preserves, and a home-made wdne is produced from it which hears a slight resemblance to champagne. There are three principal varieties of the gooseberry—the red, the yellow, and the wBite. The latter, wdiich are really pale green, are the sweetest, but the former are considered more wholesome, as the sugar they require to sw^eeten them neutralises their acidity. One variety, called the “ Golden Gooseberry,” is of large size and forms a welcome addition to the list of fruits for dessert. English gooseberries are admittedly the finest, the climate being peculiarly suited to them, and great care is bestowed upon their cultivation. Gooseberry Fool.—This consists of goose- berries boiled wdth sugar and strained through a sieve; when cold they are mixed with milk in which eggs have been beaten up. Gooseberry Fool is a dish of considerable antiquity, and owes a goodgra] 119 [gRA deal of its popularity to the ease with which it can he made. Grapes.—This beautiful fruit grows in bunches on a vine, of which there are more than a thousand varieties, although only six pay to cultivate. Grapes, besides being very wholesome and pleasant for dessert, are specially acceptable because they are available for the winter months, when there is so little fresh fruit to be had. They can be packed in sawdust, conveyed great distances, and kej)t for a long time without sustaining much damage. The grape vine is a native of Greece, Asiatic Turkey, and Persia. So long ago as the time when Joshua and his companions marched from Egypt to Pales- tine, the grapes of Eschol were renowned for their size, so that when the men who went out to spy the land returned, they brought a bunch so large that it required two to carry it. At Damascus, bunches of grapes are often found weighing from twenty to thirty pounds. In 1781, a bunch was grown in this country, at We]beck Abbey, weighing nineteen and a half pounds. A vine, idanted in 1758, at Valentine House, Essex, produced annually for several years upwards of three hundredweight of grapes, and one year it bore upwards of four hundredweight. In England the vine grows trained to a wall in the open air, or inside a conservatory trained to its walls and roof. At Eastnor Castle a black Hamburg vine is cultivated to grow down the roof of a house, instead of up. It is planted at one end of the house, seventy feet long, the wall of which it fills; the main stem is carried along the ridge of the roof, which has rods branch- ing downwards from it. From this vine the owner has cut bunches w^eighing as much as six pounds.120 gra] [gra In warmer climates large numbers of grapes grow together in vineyards, like trees in an orchard. On the banks of the Rhine, in France, and in Spain, the vine is extensively cultivated for the production of wine. In recent years grapes have been largely cultivated on the western shores of Central America, in Chili, and in some parts of Australia, for the making of wine, which possesses the advantage of not being fortified. Gratin.—Grated bread strewed over meat, fish, macaroni, cheese, or similar dishes, and browned. Gravy.—This word properly means the juice of meat whicli comes from it while it is being cooked. It is generally made into a kind of sauce by the addition of water, thickening (see the article under that name), burnt sugar, or other colouring matter, and seasoning. As some meats do not afford much juice of their own, gravies are often made from shin of beef and similar materials, when the gravy partakes of the character of stock. Grayling.—Belongs to the same family as the salmon and the trout. It is a silver-scaled fish, pretty and palatable, found in rivers in the North of England, and often weighs as much as five pounds, though more usually from two to three. It is more elongated and more slender than the trout, which it resembles, and has a small head, is silvery grey at the sides with dark stripes; some- times it is black about the head and down the back. Its flesh is firm and tasty. The best season for angling it is Sej^tember, October, and November. It frequents the rivers of Yorkshire, Derbyshire, Hampshire, and Wiltshire, beside several other En- glish and Welsh rivers. It is found neither in Ireland nor Scotland, but is plentiful in Sweden, Norway,gre] [gre 121 and Lapland. The grayling thrives best in rivers with rocky or gravelly bottoms, and seems to re- quire an alternation of stream and pooh The term Thymallus is said to have been bestowed upon this fish, on account of the peculiar odour it emits when fresh from the water, which is said to resemble that of thyme. From its agreeable colour and, smell, St. Ambrose is recorded to have called the grayling the flower of fishes. To be eaten in perfection it cannot be dressed too soon after being caught. The name grayling is supposed to be a modification of the words gray-lines, in reference to the dusty longitudinal bars along the body. Greek Wines.—The ancient Greeks were iiro- bably the first of European nations to cultivate the vine, and use the juice of the grape as a beverage. Doubtless the vine was introduced into that country from the East. Dionysius, or Bacchus, is reputed to have discovered the art of making wine, and was in consequence elevated to the rank of a deity. The ancient Greeks had several kinds of wine, the most celebrated being the Samian, to which Byron refers in his ‘‘ Tales of Greece.” Wine-growing has lately been revived in Greece, and Greek wines are steadily growing in public estimation. The soil and climate are very suitable for the production of the lighter kinds, and when the process of manufacture is im- proved by practice, Greek wines may yet obtain a high place in the estimation of the public. Greengage.—A kind of plum, round, medium size, with a green skin, even when fully ripe, the inner pulp of the fruit being also of a greenish colour. It is considered superior to all other kinds of XDlum in delicacy and richness of flavour, both for dessert and cooking. The greengage is grown eithergre] [gri 122 RiS ti standard tree or traiiiod to a wall j it is believed to be a native of Greece, whence it was carried to Italy, where it was called Perdochia. It was introduced into France about 400 years ago, and received there the name of Claude Pieine, in honour of Queen Claude, the consort of the French king, Francis I. We find it mentioned under the name of Verdoch, in an English book by Parkinson, Xmblished in 1629, and it is similarly named in other English books of that j)Gi’iod, one of which describes it as growing in a nursery near Spitalfields. The name of greengage is derived from the fact that at the beginning of the last century. Sir Thomas Gage, of Hengrave Hall, near Bury St. Edmunds, obtained a fresh supply of the tree from his brother, the Eev. J. Gage, who was then a Boman Catholic priest, resident in Paris. Green Goose—{See Goose.) Gridiron, or Grill.—A utensil for cooking over or before the fire. There are two or three kinds, those for cooking over the fire consist of a row of thin bars of iron in a frame, attached to a handle. In some of these the bars are hollowed out to catch the drippings which run in a groove to a cup in the handle. Those for cooking in front of the fire have two vertical frames which divide by a hinge so that the meat can be placed between them, and there is a tray to catch the drippings. These gridirons hang on to the bars of the grate by hooks, and require to be turned by hand to enable both sides of the meat to be cooked. Grill.—{See Gridiron.) Grilling.—{See Broiling.) Griskin of Pork.—Pigs vary in size more than any other of the domestic animals, hence large123 [gro GRO] ones are cut into more joints than small ones. The grisldn is cut from a large pig, and in a small one would be included in the spare-rib ; it consists of the top of the spare-rib containing the hones of the spine. It is generally roasted like the spare-rib, hut it suffers from the disadvantage of being rather fat. Grog. Is, strictly speaking, the mixture of rum and water served out cold to sailors. The word it- self is said to be derived from Admiral Vernon, who lived in 1745, and was accustomed to walk the deck in bad weather clad in a cloak made of a stuff consisting of silk and mohair, called grogram. The sailors thereupon gave him the nickname of “ Old Grog,” which title was eventually given to the mixture of rum and water that he had seived out to them. The word is now often applied in general terms to any mixture of spirits and w^ater. Grouse.—A wild bird whose flesh is much esteemed by lovers of game. It can be cooked according to most of the recipes given for game birds, but it requires to be drawn as soon as it is killed, or it would soon taint, and should be hung as long as possible to make it tender. There are several varieties of this bird, which vary in size from that of a small domestic fowl to that of a turkey. They are known as the red grouse, the black, the ruffled, the white (or ptarmigan), and the w^ood grouse or caper- cailzie, which is the largest variety. All grouse have short bills, but they are principally distinguished by having feathers growing on their legs and toes, and a broad naked red skin over each eye. Grouse are strictly preserved in the United Kingdom, and are reared principally in Scotland, wdiere the shooting, which is one of the principal sports, begins on the 12th of August.—{See the different varieties.)[gui 124 GRU] Grusl, This is a thin paste made generally of ground oatmeal, but also of barley and other fari- naceous food. When boiled in water, butter, cream, milk, sugar or wine is often added. It is very nourishing and easily digested, hence it is a fa- vourite food for invalids. Without the wine it forms part of the diet for young children. Guava. Is a fine-flavoured fruit, highly valued in the countries where it grows, and a specially excellent preserve is made from it for exportation to this country. The guava preserve is greatly esteemed in England, and, * unlike other fruit preserves, it is astringent rather than laxative. The fi uit is about the size of a hen^s egg * yellow, or claret in colour, with a thin and brittle rind. The pulp is firm, flesh-coloured, aromatic, sweet, and full of bony seeds. The rind is sometimes stewed in milk, and is also used for making marmalade. It is occasionally grown as a shrub in British conserva- tories, hut it is a native of the East and West Indies, and grows in South America and China; Sir James E. Tennent, so celebrated for the detailed account he has given of Ceylon and its products, states that the guava is to be seen growin garound every cottage in the island. Gudgeon.—A little fresh-water fish found in placid streams and lakes, belonging to the carp genus, much admired and sought for by some eificures. By the EiOmans it was served fried at the beginning of supper. The Greeks also held it in some consider- able regard. Its flesh is firm, well-flavoured, and easy to digest. It abounds in some of the rivers of France, Germany, and England. Guinea Fowl.—The guinea-fowl is a bird of the turkey species, and is a little larger than the[had 125 gur] conHHOU fowl. The (]^Ucility of its flesh is between that of the fowl and the pheasant; it is very easy of digestion, and has the advantage of being in season when game is not. The guinea-fowl has a dark, bluish grey plumage, sprinkled with round, white spots ; it has a very harsh and unpleasant voice. It is kept in English runs wdth turkeys and the common domestic fowl, but never loses the ten- dency to relapse into its wflld habits, by hiding and laying its eggs in retired spots. Gurnet or Gurnard.—This fish is commonly found on the British Coasts and has long been known in this country, as is proved by the reference to it in one of Shakespeare’s plays, Falstaff alluuing in somewhat disparaging terms to “ soused gurnet it is, however, an excellent fish. There are many varieties of the gurnard: the red, the piper, the streaked, the grey, “ Bloches,” the ‘‘Langthorne,” and the little gurnard. The head of the gurnard is armed with bows, so compactly framed as to re- mind one of a knight in armour. It has also three rays at the base of the pectoral fin, which help it to find food. The red gurnard is caught in trawls on the west coast of England at all seasons of the year. It is usually about a foot long, and feeds principally on small shell-fish. Haddock.—A rather small-sized fish, seldom weighing more than two or three pounds, and measuring ten to twelve inches in length. A peculi- arity about its appearance is that it has, on either side of the body, just beyond the gills, a dark spot. There is a superstition connected with these spots suggesting that they are marks left by the thumb and forefinger of St. Peter, when taking tribute money out of the mouth of a fish of this species. Thej 126 HAG I [hag haddock is found mostly along the north-east coast ; and, about the middle of winter, migrating in large numbers from these latitudes, it arrives on the coast of Yorkshire. Its principal food consists of small fish, herrings, ova and crabs. In stormy weather the haddock refuses to take bait, seeking re- fuge in deep waters until calm is restored. The Finnan haddocks (sometimes familiarly called ‘‘ Haddies,”) take their name from Findhorn, near Aberdeen, at which place they are prepared; these are simply the common haddocks, cured and dried in some peculiar way. Haggis .—This is a Scotch dish much enjoyed by inhabitants bejmnd the Tweed. English chefs prepare it in a variety of ways, but the primitive “ Scotch Haggis ” is a sheep’s head cooked with the wool on ! The more modern “ haggis ” has for its principal components the liver, lights and heart of a sheep, chopped u^) and mixed with oatmeal, beef suet, and flavouring substances, and inserted in a sheep’s paunch. It is boiled for several hours, and when placed on the table requires no other stimulant than a keen ap^^etite. Eobert Burns greatly esteemed the haggis, and wrote thus in its q)i’aise :— “ Fair fa’ your honest sonsie face, Great chieftain o’ the puddin-race Aboon them a’ ye tah your place.” We also read in Jeaffreson that haggis was a favourite preparation with the Eomans ; but instead of minc- ing the flesh used for this dish, they brayed it in a mortar with seasonings till it became a soft pulp. The usual farinaceous ingredient of the Eoman haggis was frument}^, yet often no grain was employed. The Apician pork haggis, esteemed above all other com-[ham 127 hal] positions of the same kind, was a boiled pig’s stomach filled with fry, brain, raw eggs, and pine-apple^ beaten into a pulp, and treated with the never-absent sauces and seasonings. To our present mode of living this would not be a very inviting dish, hut the Romans ate of everything—from the grasshopper to the ostrich, from the dormouse to the wild hoar. Halibut.—Sometimes called Holihut, is one of the largest of the flat-fish tribe, specimens five feet long, and weighing from eighty to one hundred pounds, being frequently seen in our markets. In shape it is longer and broader than the turbot, and, though in flavour inferior to that fish, it can be cooked in a similar manner. There are several varieties, some of which are caught off the British coast, but they generally keep at a distance from the shore. They frequent the higher latitudes of the temperate zone, and as far north as Iceland and Greenland ; in the latter country they are much esteemed by the natives, who cut the flesh into long strips, dry it by hanging it in the air, and save it for food in the winter. Ham.—This name is given to the hind leg of an animal when it is salted and cured. The most generally eaten is the ham of the pig, which is prepared by salting for three or four weeks and then drying and smoking it, a process which varies in different countries. The salting is effected by common salt, saltpetre, and bay salt, with some- times the addition of sugar, soda, or even beer, wine, and flavouring substances; the proportions of these vary in different localities, as also the methods of drying, which give a different flavour to the meat. The most noted hams are the York, well known for its delicacy, and the Westphalia, which is so128 han] [har thoroughly cured that it does not require cooking. Excellent hams are also produced in the well-known bacon districts of Wiltshire, Hampshire, Suffolk, Sussex, and Cumberland, in which latter county they are dried without smoke. Hand of Pork. This joint is the fore leg, and is generally sold with the foot attached. It is almost always salted, boiled, and eaten with peas- pudding to absorb the excess of salt flavour. It is also cured like bacon, and the part nearest the side of the pig is cut into slices, like rashers of ham. Hare.—This animal, which may be found in most of the Northern regions, is generally esteemed for the flavour of its flesh, although some nations regard it unclean. It has perhaps more enemies than any other animal; bats and weasels are its foes, birds of prey are continually trying to catch it, the sportsman is more dangerous than all, and the poor hare is snared, trapped, hunted, coursed, and shot. Unlike the rabbit, which burrows, it makes its home on the surface of the ground, assuming in some measure the same colour as this to avoid detection. Thus we find that in the Polar regions it becomes nearly white in winter, while in summer it turns to a brownish grey. The hare is frequently mentioned by writers of antiquity. Demosthenes uses the expression ‘‘to lead a hare’s life;” there is also a Greek proverb, “a hare’s sleep,” meaning a feigned sleep; as well as an adjective “ hare-eyed,” meaning unable to close the eyes. The phrase “ hare-lip,” is well known. Timid as the animal is, we find a familiar instance of the possibility of overcoming its aversion to human society, on referring to the gentle poet William Cowper and the history of his hares—Puss, Tiny, and Bess.129 [lIAZ har] Haricot Beans—(/S'ee French Beans.) Hartshorn.—Shavings of the horn of the hart, or male deer, were at one time used for making jelly, but they are now almost entirely replaced by calves’ bones, isinglass and gelatine. Salts of hartshorn, or volatile salts, are used medicinally for their very pungent smell. Hash.—A well-known dish, consisting of cold meat cut in pieces and warmed with gravy, with sometimes an addition of vegetables. It is generally .served with triangular pieces of toast, called “ sippets,” placed round the dish; some distinctive peculiarity is frequently given to it in different localities. This dish has probably given rise to the proverbial expression “ making a hash of it,” meaning mixing up an affair so as to mystify its origin by the reappearance of old materials in a different form. Hazel Nut, Wild. — The peculiarly - fringed envelopment of this nut gave rise to the Anglo- Saxon name of “ Haesal,” from the supposed resemblance to a head-dress. The tree which bears it grows wild in Great Britain, in woods and coppices, and is a most useful tree ; evidently considered to be so by the Saxons, as the names of places such as Kaselmere, in which its, name forms a part, testify. Its origin has been attributed to the East, from which it is known to have been introduced to Italy by the Komans, where it was cultivated near Naples on a large scale for profit. The nut is of excellent flavour, though not equal to that of the cultivated varieties. At all seasons the tree has charms for us —showing catkins throughout the winter when it is denuded of leaves, leafing early in spring, so soon as the fruit buds are set, full foliaged in the[her hee] 130 summer, and in the autumn hearing its bearded fruit, when the woods are alive with troops of laughing, happy young people who have gone “ a- nutting.” This ancient custom still prevails in many parts of England, and is made the occasion for village picnics and merry-makings, offering to bashful suitors an important occasion for screwing uj) their courage to the sticking-point. The hazel is not unconnected with witchcraft, and it is said that if any one, trying to discover whether there be water or buried treasure beneath the soil, holds a forked branch of hazel with one twig in each hand so that the toj) of the branch hangs downwards, it will then point wherever the water or hid treasure lies concealed. Herbs.—These are in general small plants, whose leaves possess a strqng and pleasant flavour. They can be used either fresh or dry, and, as they will keep when dried for a length of time, they are in- valuable for winter use. The number of herbs which can be used for flavourings is very large, though they are not now employed so much as formerly, sauces and essences being now more often used instead. Hermitage.—This is a very rich, purple-coloured wine, with a special bouquet, generally considered the best j>roduced in the South of France. It is often used for mixing with other wines, but the best qualities imported under this name are esteemed very choice. The vineyards in the district where Hermitage is produced, on the banks of the river Ehone, vary according to the soil on which they are planted; but the wine is invariably made by mixing together the produce from each kind of vine- yard. A courtier of Queen Blanche of Castile, namedher] 131 [her Gaspard de Sterunberg, in the year 1225, built him- self a retreat, or hermitage, in this district; hence the name, which is sometimes spelt ermitage. The wine known as “White Hermitage” is made from the same grape, care being taken to use no over-ripe fruit, and not to press the “marc” or grape-skins. There is also a sparkling variety of both the “red” and “white” hermitage. Heron.—The three principal species of this pii-cl—the Common, the Egret, and Night Heron— vary in size and somewhat in habits ; but all build their nests on high cliffs or lofty trees, the three sorts often nesting on the same tree, commonly an oak or fir, the heron at the top, the egret below, and the night heron in the lowest branches. They feed on fish and grubs, or even rats and frogs; seek their food in solitude, and bring home supplies for their young, who are incapable of leaving the nest for a longer period than usual with birds of their habit of life. The bird is a patient fisher, and will stand seemingly lifeless for several minutes and then sud- denly strike at a fish. Its attitude in flight is very peculiar, the legs extended straight out behind and the neck drawn in. The heron is not much eaten now, but heron-hawking was once a favourite Royal pastime in England, and furnished a dish ranking with pheasants and peacocks in favour. The heron may be called an inhabitant of England; further north it becomes migratory, but it is known in all quarters of the globe. Herring.— This fish, mostly found in high northern latitudes, w^ould, if it were not so plen- tiful, command a high price on account of its deli- cate flavour, only appreciated by those who have tasted them fresh out of the water. It has been Kbin] 132 [hoc stated that on any favourable night, during the months of September, October, and November, be- tween five and six thousand miles of netting are employed fishing for herrings in the North Sea. They are caught off almost every part of the coast of Scot- land. The fish technically known as “ Matties ” are simply immature herrings, the milt and roe being undeveloped. These find their principal and most profitable market in Eussia and Germany, where they are regarded as a great delicacy. Many good Eussian families are careful to secure for their own use an early barrel of Scotch, or rather Dutch, “Matties.” The average weight of the ordinary herring is a little over five ounces. Being so small, and moreover gregarious, they generally arrive in large shoals, swarming into the nets which are em- ployed to catch them in such numbers that the latter often sink to the bottom with their immense weight. The process of salting herrings, as practised by the Dutch, is said to have been invented about 1486, by one Beuckel, and from a corruption of his name we have derived the word “pickled” since aiiplied to them.—{See Eed Herrings, Bloaters, &c.) Hind-Quarter of Lamb.—The hind quarter of lamb consists of the leg and loin, usually con- sidered not so sweet in flavour as the fore-quarter, but much more economical as a joint. It is gene- rally roasted, and rarely boiled or stew’ed. It can be served with any early vegetables, and mint is the favourite sauce; if any other is used it should be piquant. Hock.—The name generally given in this country to German wines, though they are classed as either Hock or Moselle, the former being the produce of vineyards on the banks of the Ehine and Main, the[hog hod] 133 latter of vineyards on the ])anks of the Moselle* JBeing the product of grapes growing at the utmost northern limit of successful vine culture in Europe, -their quality is very much affected hy variations of olimate. In a successful season, when the grapes have thoroughly matured, they equal other v/ines in “bouquet” and flavour, but they are especially liable to be damaged either by a cold or a wet season. The annual produce amounts to about eighty million gallons. The best Khenish and Moselle wines are more acid, more cooling, and more suited to persons of a corpulent tendency, than the heavier, stronger, and more astringent wines from Spain. Hocheim, on the river Main, a tributary of the Rhine, has long been noted for the excellence of the wine produced in its neighbourhood, and it is from this town that hock received its name. The kind of hock produced at Johannisberg is considered “the king of German wines.” A vineyard w^as planted here about 1009, under the direction of an Arch- bishop of Mayence. This vineyard was destroyed during the Thirty Years’ War, in the first half of the seventeenth century, but w^as replanted by the Abbot of Fulda, in 1722. Moselle is a very light wine, with a delicate, aromatic flavour. Latterly Moselle wines have been artificially flavoured with musk, or with elder flowers, to imitate the flavour of the muscat grape, and this is now too often carried to such an excess as to spoil the natural taste of the wine. Hodge-Podge.—{See Hotch-Potch.) Hog .—To judge from the number and position of the teeth, the hog is at least as much a grinder as a biter ; that is, it can eat both vegetable and animal food, although its natural food is vegetables.134 hom] [hon: such as acorns, nuts, roots and leaves. Generally speaking, the hoof of the hog is cloven, but excep- tions to this rule are found in Sardinia, Ill3U’ia and Norway. Formerly there was in Berkshire a variety of the British domestic pig which had an uncleft foot, like the wild boar. This latter is, in some countries, the subject of a national sport. In Germany he is a very formidable animal, and is hunted with a small mastiff. He lives almost ex- clusively on acorns and nuts, consequently his flesh is firmer, and free from any contamination through objectionable food. In Westphalia its value is still further enhanced by the process adopted for curing the hams. Hominy.—Hominy is a food made of maize (Indian corn) boiled, the maize being either coarsely ground or broken into granules. The name is of Indian derivation, and the food is coming into use through the great association of the English people with those of Indian or quasi-Indian birth. It is very nourishing, and forms an agreeable addition to our farinaceous foods; it yields, in common with other cereals, gluten, starch and glucose. Honey.—This is an extremely sweet deposit ob- tained by bees from various kinds of flowers. They store it for their winter food in small cells of wax, called honey-combs, which they make in hollow trees or sheltered places, and for which purpose bee- hives are erected. Taken in moderate quantities, honey is nutritious, and is now eaten principally on bread-and-butter, like jam. In ancient times it was much more extensively used, and in the Middle Ages drinks were made from it. {See Mead.) The Spaniards make a beverage of honey and water, flavoured with lemon-juice, which they call Aloxa.[hop 135 Honey was greatly esteemed at a very early period, 60 that the high encomium was pronounced upon Palestine :—“ A land flowing with milk and honey.” The ancient Greeks used to distinguish between the honey coming from different localities, that from Mount Hymettus and Mount Hyhla being especially famous. Shakespeare says, in “ Julius Caesar : ” “ But for your words they rob the Hybla-bees Aud leave them honey-less.” The French honey from Narbonne, and the Swiss from Chamouni, have a well-deserved celebrity. England produces an excellent table honey, but not in sufficient quantity to supply the home market, which annually imports about fifty tons. Honey varies much in quality according to the locality in which it is produced, and the flowers from which the bees obtain their food. That from Trebizond causes a kind of drunkenness or stupefaction, in consequence of the bees feeding on the large and brilliant flowers of the Azalia Pontica, a plant which contains a narcotic poison. This was noticed as early as the days of Xenophon, and was confirmed by Mr. Abbot, who visited the locality in 1833 on behalf of the Zoological Society. Very different from this variety is the celebrated Kowno honey, produced in the large forests of lime, (or linden) trees, near Kowno, in Lithuania, and highly esteemed for medicinal purposes, and for making liqueurs. Hops.—The full-grown catkin of a climbing plant, universally employed in the manufacture of beer, to impart an aromatic flavour, and to preserve that beverage in good condition. Though known in its wild state, it was first introduced into England for cultivation about 1520; but, in common with ahor] 136 [hor great many useful herbs and vegetables, it had many adversaries ; so much so that a petition was pre- sented to Parliament against the use of hops, de- scribing it as “a wicked weed, which will spoil the taste of the drink and endanger the people.” Never- theless, it is now cultivated in almost all European countries, as well as in North America, Australia and New Zealand, yet the hops of Kent and Sussex are still pronounced the best in the world. The • hop plant is first mentioned by Pliny as cultivated in the gardens of the ancient Eomans, who boiled and ate the young shoots as a vegetable, and even to the present day the young shoots of the wild hop are sometimes eaten in the same manner by the country folk of England. The plant is peculiarly liable to injury from blight, unfavourable weather, and insects of various kinds, so that while in a good season an acre of land will produce twenty hundred- weight, in a bad season it sometimes produces only two or three hundredweight. Hops are used in medicine as a tonic, and a pillow filled with fresh hops is very useful for procuring sleep, in cases where the sleeplessness is not caused by acute pain or specific disease. Hors d’QEuvres.—These are dishes which come before others, and are generally eaten at the com- mencement of dinner, either as appetisers or te prepare the palate for what is to follow. The phrase is used by French military engineers to denote an outwork, and probably was taken by chefs de cuisine from this source. Horseradish.—Is cultivated for the sake of its root, which has a very pungent taste, and when finely scraped it is a most excellent addition to cold roast beef. The root is in its prime wdien dug uphot] 137 [hot in November or December; but it may be kept packed up in sand in a cool, dry place.^ It is often used in winter salads and sauces, and is sometimes dried by a gentle heat and pow’dered ; the powder must be kept well corked up, and then it will prove a very serviceable condiment. Sometimes it is pickled, and sometimes boiling vinegar is poured over it when grated, making an excellent lelish for cold meat. Horseradish stimulates the appetite and promotes digestion. It was a very favourite medicine with the celebrated Dr. Cullen, but is not now much used medicinally. When masti- cated by itself it often .affords relief in many cases of sore-throat, hoarseness and toothache. Horse- radish bears a great resemblance to the root of the monk’s-hood (also called aconite, wolf’s-bane, or Aaron’s beard), which sometimes leads to dangerous errors, as the latter root is extremely poisonous. When the parts of the plant which grow above the ground have entirely died aw^ay, the roots are so similar in appearance that they may easily be mis- taken for each other, but the monk’s-hood root may be known by its bitterness, and by the peculiar sensa- tion of numbness and tingling at the back of the tongue which will speedily follow the mastication of only a very small portion of this virulently poi- sonous root. Hotch-potch.—A soup very popular in Scotland, which, as its name implies, can be made from any materials boiled together. It is generally made from neck of mutton, and contains a large quantity of barley or peas, with vegetables and meat cut up into dice. The ingredients may be varied accord- ing to the season, and in large families it provides an excellent medium for using up vegetables whichliave remiiined over from the cooking of other dishes. Hot-water Dish.—Some meats require to he eaten when very hot, and some soon chill and be- come unpalatable. To meet these difficulties, dishes and plates are used which have a second dish or plate of metal underneath, both being securely fast- ened together at the edge. The metal dish is of appropriate depth, into which hot water is j)oured, and this maintains the food at the required temj>era- ture. Hot-water dishes are also useful when viands require to be kept warm before being sent to table, and then they are similar to a Bain Marie (which see). Hung Beef.—The beef is boned, and hung up for a few days, till it becomes tender. It is then salted, rolled tightly in a cloth, and hung up for two or three weeks, till it becomes dry. It can be smoke- dried, if desired, when it will keep for a long time. It is generally eaten cold, and when very hard it can be grated and sprinkled over bread-and-butter. Ice.—{See Freezing.) Iceland Moss.—Also called Liverwort. It grows on stones, and on the earth, in Iceland, Lapland, Sweden, some parts of Germany, and the Scottisli Highlands. When freshly gathered it may be boiled and eaten with meat as a vegetable, in which form it possesses valuable anti-scorbutic, tonic, and nutri- tive properties, but has not a very j^rej^ossessing appearance, on account of its varied shades of yellow. When dried and exported to this country it has lost its marine-smell, and assumed a greenish- white or grey colour, with a bitter taste. It was believed to possess properties similar to those of gelatine and isinglass, but in reality it contains a kind139 [ici ice] of starch (“ Algine ”). When made into a jelly it forms a light, nourishing, and palatable food for invalids. As such it is held in high repute on the Continent as a remedy in the first stage of pulmonary complaints. Iceland-moss cocoa, or chocolate, forms a very nutritious beverage, but is not so much used now as formerly. Ices.—Ices derive their present great popularity from America, where they are consumed during the summer in enormous quantities, but they are said to have been originally introduced by Catherine de Medicis in the sixteenth century. They consist either of cream and fruit syrups, or water, mix- tures of cream and eggs, or a thin starch batter flavoured with the juice of fruits, frozen by various means to the consistence of snow. Ices are generally served in glasses, but the water ices known as the Neapolitan are made in blocks about four or five inches long, and one or two inches thick, each containing several different kinds of ice. Ices are also made in moulds of various shapes, generally representing the fruit with which they are flavoured. The materials for these are either thickened into a paste or half frozen before they are placed in the mould, when they are still further frozen until the requisite degree of hardness is obtained. These ices are served on embossed papers and laid in plates. Icing.—A white covering for cakes, made of powdered sugar, mixed with white of eggs, which, being spread over the top of the cake after it is baked, is then put into the oven to dry. Sweet- meats and ornaments may be placed on the icing before it becomes hard. It is frequently placed over a layer of almond icing. {See Almoxd Icing.)IRl] 140 [isi Irish Moss .—Also called Carragheen. The jelly- made from it is tonic, demulcent, and expectorant, without producing nausea. It forms a most ex- cellent diet for aged, asthmatic, nervous, and bilious invalids, very soothing in all irritable conditions of the throat and alimentary canal. Irish moss grows in great abundance on the coasts of Ire- land, especially on the northern shore of Donegal Bay; it is also found on the Atlantic coasts of , France, Spain, and Portugal, and on the shores of several of the Western Islands of Scotland. It might afford a valuable industry on the western coasts of Ireland if the peasantry of those districts would hut give more attention to its collection, drying, and preparation for commerce. Isinglass.—This is a kind of gelatine made from the sound or swimming-bladder of the sturgeon and certain other fishes. This air-bladder is attached to the back-bone and continued between the ribs, so that being filled with air it increases the buoyancy of the fish when swimming. When prepared for use it is split up into long, thin, narrow lengths. Origin- ally isinglass was made solely from the sound of the sturgeon, and all our supplies were imported from Bussia and Brazil, but now it is prepared from the sound of various fishes, and we import it from many- other countries. A very interesting account of the origin of its manufacture from the air-bladder of the cod-fish will be found in the “ Philosophical Trans- actions ” for 1773. Isinglass is transparent, dry, tasteless, inodorous, and whitish in colour. It forms a clearer, purer, more palatable and more elegant jelly than ordinary gelatine. The jelly made from isinglass is a very light, digestible, nutrient, and demulcent article of diet, specially suited for invalids141 [irA ita] and children. Isinglass is largely used for fining beer and for clarifying other fluids. ^ Court plaister and various cements owe their adhesive properties to the isinglass used in their manufacture. Italian Wines.—The quantity of wine produced in Italy is greater than that produced in France, amounting to about seven hundred million gallons annually, but the quality is defective. ^ The reason is obvious : in France and Spain the vineyards are devoted exclusively to the'growth of the vines, but in Italy they are trained on wires some distance above the ground, or allowed to run from tree to tree, while corn or olives are grown beneath. Be- sides this, a faulty management of the grapes produces a very inferior article. Considerable im- provement, however, has taken place in Italicm wines during the last few years, in consequence of better methods of manufacture being employed, and increased attention bestowed upon the cultivation of the vines. The wines produced in Tuscany are superior to most of the others. They are favoured by the great suitability of the climate, and by the encouragement given to viticulture by the old Dukes of Tuscany and their nobles, who even sold theii wines retail, from their palace cellars in flasks, con- taining about three quarts each. These bottles, which were shaped like oil flasks, were not corked, but the contents were covered with a small quantity of oil, which was either flung over or soaked out with tow before the wine was used. Verden was a green wine made near Florence, and an especial favourite with Frederick the Great of Prussia. It must also have had a high reputation in this country, for in an English play written in the reign of James I., the drinking of Verden is made thejag] 142 [JEL boast of a travelled gentleman. Trebbiano is another celebrated Tuscan wine, of a golden colour. The wines from Montferrat, Asti, and Chaumont, in Piedmont, have established a good character in this country. The famous Lachrym® Ohristi is a strong, luscious, red wine, with a splendid bouquet; it is made from vines growing at the base ol Mount Vesuvius. The very best qualities are produced only in small quantities, and are much sought after for royal tables. Marsala is made in Sicily, and Malmsey in Sardinia, both of which are described in separate articles. Chianti is an Italian wine of Burgundy character, which is rapidly be- coming a favourite in England. —This is also called a jagging-iron. It consists of a brass wheel fastened to a handle, and is used for cutting pastry into various shapes. Jam.—Is a confection made by boiling fruit with sugar, forming in that state a very accept- able substitute at those seasons of the j^ear when fresh fruits are not to be had. Some of the linest flavoured and most highly prized jams are made of apricots, pineapples, strawberries, rasp- berries, greengages, and other fruits. A cheaper sort of jam is made up with dates, blackberries, rhubarb, turnij)s, and treacle, flavoured with raspberry or some other fruit essence. Black currant jam is very beneficial in relieving some simple cases of sore-throat. Ja,une Mange.—A jelly made of gelatine and eggs, flavoured with lemons and wine. The name is given to it in consequence of the yellow colour of the lemon, and saffron may be added if it be required of a deeper tint. Jelly .—The essence of any kind of food, obtained[jOH 143 jer] by boiling it to a glutinous consistence. As jellies are flavoured witli otber substances tliey aie geneially made of materials more remarkable for their strength than their taste, such as gelatine, isinglass, or calf’s-foot stock, the latter being the most nutri- tious. Jellies are, however, made from arrowroot, Irish and Iceland moss, and from fruits; wine, brandy, rum, and even ale and porter are added to some kinds to give an additional flavour and stimu- lant, while cochineal and saffron are used for colouring. Jellies are usually made in moulds from which they are easily turned out, but occasionally they are sent to table deftly placed in prepared orange or lemon skins. They are often eaten with other dishes, red currant jelly being the customary accompaniment of venison, mutton, or nare. A veiy nutritious jelly, recommended to persons suffeiing from consumption, is made from ivory-dust. Jerusalem Artichoke.—This plant is a native of Brazil, and of the same natural order as the common sunflower. It grows from six to eight feet in height, has large, rough leaves, and yellow flowers. The roots are creeping, and produce in autumn several round, yellowish or reddish tubers, which are used as food; the leaves are given to cattle. The name Jerusalem is a corruption of the Italian, Girasole (sunflower), and artichoke implies a resemblance in flavour to the common artichoke. The concoctor of a favourite soup, of which this plant furnishes the base, adopting its perverted designation, called his soup “ Palestine.” John Dory.—This fish is found in British seas. Its name is supposed by some to be derived from the French words “jaune doree ” (golden yellow), as its body is beautifully marked with a gilded yellow.jug] 144 [jUN That the ancients prized it veiy much may he gathered from the fact that they called it Zeus, king of eatable fish. Faber, or blacksmith, was another name which they gave it. The cloudy tints on its back probably earned for it this appellation. It is very voracious, eating all the cuttle-fish it can catch, notwithstanding the strength and power of resistance of the latter; it will also follow pilchards. The fish has good flesh, which, strange to say, im- proves much when about twenty-four hours have elapsed from the time it was caught. It is of a most peculiar shape, and can protrude its mouth to a very great extent. —This form of cooking consists of placing the meat in a jar with just enough water to cover it, then putting the jar into another vessel of water and boiling it. As the water in the jug can never become hotter than that in the saucepan, this method is employed to cook meat, such as hare, which requires a very equal temperature. Julienne.—A soup which owes its distinctive character to its containing vegetables cut into thin strips about an inch long. The stock must neither be too thick, nor too strong; the vegetables may be varied with the season, and ju'eserved kinds can be used in winter. A choice collection of these latter have been sun-dried in France, and can be obtained in England. Junket.—This favourite Devonshire dish consists of milk turned with rennet, to which is added on the top scalded cream, sugar and cinnamon. It can be eaten on cakes with fruit or jam as a dessert dish. The name was originally written Juncate, derived from the Latin Juncus, and the word, as used by Swift, and other English authors of that period.145 LKID ked] signified to feast in secret. Junkets were thought so highly of in Shakespeare’s day that he even makes the fairy Queen Mab delight in them : “ With stories told of many a feast How fairy Mab the junkets eat!” Kedgerree.—A dish which can he easily pre- pared, and an excellent way of utilising cold fish, which when picked from the hones, is mixed with boiled rice, soft boiled eggs, a little butter, salt, pepper and mustard, and is then served very hot. Ketchup.—A highly-esteemed sauce much used with meat, fish, gravies, and all kinds of savoury dishes. The name is sometimes spelt catchup, or catsup, and it is supposed to have been derived from the Japanese word, kitchap. The most familiar kind of ketchup is made from mushrooms, which are broken into small pieces, when freshly gathered, and mixed with salt. After two or three days the action of the salt upon the mushrooms reduces nearly the whole mass to a liquid state. Mixed spice containing cloves, allsj)ice, and black pepper is added to this liquor, which is then boiled down to half its original bulk. Tomato ketchup is made in a similar way from tomatoes. Walnut ketchup is made from unripe walnuts, while the outer shell is still soft, and will keep in prime condition for years. Other kinds of ketchup are made, such as those prepared from oysters, mussels, and other shell-fish, but the distinctive feature of all varieties of this sauce is, that they are made from the juice of the article after which they are named, flavoured with salt, mixed spice, and also vinegar when the juice em- ifioyed is not itself acidulous. Kid.—This animal is the young of the goat, and146 [kip in olden times its flesli was esteemed as much as lamb is now. In those days flocks of goats were as common as flocks of sheep, and though we do not read of the flesh of the full-grown goat being used for food, they were kept, much as cows are now, for the sake of their milk. Eehecca deceived her husband Isaac by sending Jacob with “ savoury meat,” prepared from “ two kids of the goats,” which was represented as being venison Esau had taken by hunting. The flesh of the kid is very sweet and tender, though not so good as lamb. It is generally cooked whole like the sucking-pig, and, being a dry meat, is either larded before being roasted, soaked for a few hours in some kind of marinade, or roasted with strips of fat bacon bound round it. Kidney.—The kidneys of most animals and birds used as food are dressed for the table, sometimes as a separate dish, and sometimes in conjunction with other parts of the same animal. They have a peculiar and slightly bitter flavour which is an appetising antithesis to dainty dishes. Hence, kidneys grilled and devilled have always been a favourite breakfast or luncheon dish with bon- vivants. Kidneys take a long time to digest, and are, therefore, very suitable for those who take their meals at long intervals. Kipper.— A term applied to salmon, mackerel, or herrings split open from the back, salted, smoked, and dried. It is derived from the Dutch verb kipper, siguif3ung to hatch, to spawn, and was originally applied to salmon caught just after spawning, when, being unfit for eating fresh, they were in consequence salted and dried. The restrictions imposed by recent Fishery Acts forbid the taking of salmon during the close season. But[kou 147 kit] the word is still used for fish cured in the above manner, and when no further appellation is given it has reference to the herring only. Kitchen Pepper.—This is a mixture of finely powdered ginger, cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, Jamaica pepper, cloves, and salt. It should be kept in small bottles, closely stoppered. It forms an agreeable addition to stews or soups, and goes much further than the same spices unground. Knuckle of Veal.—There are, of course, fore knuckles and hind knuckles, and the knuckle, as sold by butchers, is the part below the knee joint. It is generally boiled or stewed, except when the animal is very young, when it can be roasted. This, however, is rarely done, but sometimes it is reserved for making stock. Knuckle of veal is low in price, and very little of it is lost in cooking, so that it is, all things considered, economical, although it has so much bone. Kohl-Rabi.—A species of cabbage the stem of which swells out close to the ground, presenting the appearance of a large turnip. On this the leaves grow in clusters. When young it is very palatable, and extremely wholesome and nutritious. There are three varieties, white, green, and purple. It is also called turnip cabbage, its name being derived from two German words which signify cabbage turnip. Koumiss.—A beverage originally made by the Tartars from mare’s or camel’s milk, fermented. It still continues to be an important article of diet with them. Koumiss has of late years come into prominent notice in our own country as a nutritious article of diet, easily assimilated by delicate stomachs, and specially recommended for con- sumptive invalids. It is made in England by L[lam lamJ 148 adding yeast to new cow’s milk, which, when partially fermented, is kept bottled like aerated waters. It possesses the refrigerant properties of a gentle effervescent, with the stimulating character- istics derived from the presence of a small quantity of alcohol, while the nutriment of the casein remains unimpaired. The name is sometimes also spelt Kumiss or Kumish. Lamb.—The lamb is the young of the sheep, and unlike most animals used for food in England it is called by the same name when dressed for table as when alive. The recognised season for lamb is spring, hut it can be obtained at all times of the year. Lambs horn in cold weather being reared indoors are called house lambs ; their flesh is a little more tender than that of those born in the open air, but not quite so well flavoured. There is a race of sheep, found only in the counties of Dorset and Somerset, having horns and wdiite faces with small white legs, which will bear lambs in almost every month of the year. A high value is placed upon these sheep, as they keep the London and other markets supplied with lamb at all seasons. Lambs are w^eaned wdien from three to four months old, after wdiich they are called grass- fed lambs, but the best meat is yielded by those which have been reared entirely by the parent ewe. Like the sheep of the Southdowns, the lambs from that pasturage have a high reputation, and may be known by their black feet. The flesh of the lamb is peculiarly delicate and palatable, wdiether roasted or stewed. It is generally eaten with earl}^ spring vegetables, and is welcomed as one of the signs of the returning summer, after several months of winter fare. Lamb is very generally eaten at[lam 149 lam] Easter, and the fashion is probably derived from the Paschal lamb of the Jews, with whom it forms one of the principal adjuncts to the celebration of the Passover. The custom of sacrificing lambs was, however, even more ancient than the Jews. In Genesis we read that Abel was a shepherd, and offered as sacrifice the firstlings of his flock. With the Piomans the slaughter of a lamb partook of a social, rather than of a religious, festivity. Horace, in his invitation to Phyllis, the last of his loves, to visit him, after telling her that he has a cask of old wine, parsley in the garden, for the weaving of chaplets, and ivy to bind her hair, says :—“ The house shines with plate, the altar, bound with chaste vervain, longs to be sprinkled with the blood of a sacrificed lamb.” Lambstones.—A dish not very often eaten, though the ingenuity of cooks has found many ways of preparing them for table. They are certain parts taken from young rams to convert them into wethers, and as a delicacy are boiled and sliced with sweet- breads, the yolks of eggs, large oysters, a few pistachios, and other condiments fried brown, and then stewed in gravy. Lamb Stove.—This is sometimes more simply called lamb’s stew. It consists of a lamb’s head, into the jaws of which are stuffed the lights, some spinach, onions and a little parsley. It is boiled slowly in good beef stock, and served in a tureen. Lambs’ Sweetbreads.—These are smaller than calf’s sweetbread, and may be dressed in a similar way. Lamprey.—A species of the familiar eel, also called the Nine Eye on account of having, besides its eyes, seven little holes at the side of its head.150 [LAN There are four varieties : the fringe-lipped lampern ; the pride, sandpride, or mud lamprey, which, like the former, inhabits rivers, and seldom exceeds six or eight inches in length; the lampern, or river lamprey; and the spotted, or sea lamprey, more than three feet long, and leaving the sea during the summer months, when it ascends the rivers to spawn. The Romans held it in great regard, and the Britons also have at different times valued it as highly. There is a great difference of opinion about this fish, some regarding it as being positively unwholesome, others again looking upon it as a delicacy. It is more plentiful in some rivers than in others ; thus in Germany it is so plentiful that it is pickled and sent in little barrels to market. In Worcester the lamprey is prepared in a jelly with wine and spices, and is patronised by epicures. It is said that Henry I. ate so heartily of it that a fatal attack of indigestion carried him off. Landrail, or Corncrake,—This is a bird very common in England; as a luxury for the table it is seldom dished, still it is considered to be of a fine flavour, and is by some preferred to the partridge. It reaches us at the beginning of April, and after hatching its eggs, leaves us at the end of October. The nest of the landrail is by no means uncommon ; it is formed of hay, collected and worked into some depression in the ground, and contains from eight to twelve eggs of a greyish-yellow, covered with dark-brown spots. The young when discovered feign death with admirable accuracy, nor do they move until they imagine the intruder is safely out of the way. The bird conceals itself from view, but its harsh cry may be heard in almost every field in the early summer months, and it threads its way amongst151 the long grass with wonderful rapidity. Its cry can be so exactly imitated by drawing a quill or knife sharply across the teeth of a comb or a screw, that the bird may be decoyed until quite close to the operator. So averse is this bird to rising on the wing that a dog is frequently employed to hunt it. Lard.—This is the inner fat of the pig melted down in a jar placed in boiling water; when melted it is poured into bladders for future use. Lard is much used for many culinary purposes, and may be pre- served in salt, which will not penetrate it, and when the salt is washed off can be used as well as if it were freshly made. Larding,—Lean meat is often improved by the introduction of a little fat, and for this purpose bacon is most generally used. The bacon should be cut into j)ieces about two inches long, not quite one quarter of an inch wide, and of the same thickness. These pieces are inserted into the fowl or other meat to be larded, by means of a larding needle, which varies in size from five to twelve inches long, and is split into four at one end. Into the cleft thus formed a piece of bacon is inserted, the needle is then pushed through the meat to be larded, and as it is withdrawn, leaves the bacon behind. To facili- tate the art of larding, as it it called by some chefs, boiling water should be poured over the flesh of the poultry or game, or it may be placed for the space of a minute before the fire. This will make the flesh firm to admit the larding needle more easily. Care should be taken in the choice of bacon, because if cured with saltpetre, it will discolour the flesh wherever it is inserted. Lardoons.— Strips of bacon to be inserted into the larding needle for the purpose of larding; theylar] [lav 152 should be thicker for beef and veal than for poultry or game, and in order that they may not leave a red mark they ought to consist of bacon which is not cured with saltpetre.—{See Larding.) Larks.—These birds being considered a delicac}^ multitudes which separate on the a^iproach of spring are captured by means of nets, and sent to the London market. They belong to the family of finches, which compose a very numerous assemblage of conirostral birds. That delightful songster, the skylark, is spread generally over Europe, several parts of Asia and the north of Africa. Its favourite localities are extensive arable lands and open meadows ; but in Ireland the wild mountain pasture is equally its abode. The lark breeds in April or early in May; two broods are reared annually, the latter in July or August. On the approach of winter, larks begin to collect in immense flocks, increased as the severity of the weather sets in by foreign arrivals. They frequent stubble fields, turnip fields and similar situations. Their food consists of insects, worms, grain, with other seeds, and the leaves of the clover. Laver. (Seaweed.)—The lavers are of great benefit as articles of food for invalids who are able to take them; purple laver (porphyra vulgaris) is the one mostly liked, and is esteemed the best. On account of its gelatinous nature it is highly nutritious, and very palatable if served with lemon-juice. The green laver (ulva latissima), and the sea lettuce (ulva lactuca), are prejiared and eaten in the same way, and are most efficacious in the treatment of scrofulous disease. For the most part the lavers are of a pale- green colour, but the porphyra and bangia are exceptions, both these being of a deep purple. Purple laver is found at all seasons, in all kinds of localities ;153 [leg lea] its purple colour differs in shade at different periods of growth, being of a purplish-green when not in fruit, hut when the fronds are covered with spores it turns more of a mauve shade. In winter the fronds are narrow, hut in summer and autumn, broader. They grow between tide marks, also in deep water, and are usually found clinging to rocks and small shells, from which they ought to he carefully sepa- rated. If laver and its nutritious qualities were more generally known, it would become an important article of common use. Leach.—An ancient sweet dish made with milk, almonds and isinglass, flavoured with cinnamon, mace, nutmeg, sugar, musk and ambergris. This jelly was usually sent to table cut in ribbon-shaped strips of various tints, some coloured with saffron, and others with cochineal or spinach. Leek.—One of the rather numerous allium family, known to botanists by the name of Allium Porrum. The date of its introduction into England is disputed, as also its origin. Some waiters assert that it was brought from Switzerland ; but it is most probably of Eastern origin, as it was first cultivated in Egypt, in the time of the Pharaohs, and is still cultivated extensively in the East. The Piomans used it largely in flavouring their dishes. It is grown in large quantities throughout Great Britain, and in Scotland it forms in connection with a boiled fowl the favourite dish “ Cock-a-leekie.” It is the national symbol, or badge, of the Welsh, and on St. David’s Day they wear it in their hats in honour of the saint who is supposed to have introduced it into Wales. Leg of Beef.—This is the hind leg of the ox, and contains a large amount of nutriment. It is[leg 154 leg] generally boiled down into stock. In France, leg of beef is converted into the very popular bouillon, which can be obtained at most refreshment rooms for travellers. A most nutritious and palatable soup can be prej^ared from leg of beef with the addition of a few vegetables and a little sauce. Leg of Lamb. The leg of lamb somewhat re- sembles the leg of mutton, but is much more tender. Even when the leg is cut from a tolerably large lamb, it should be served 'with piquant, rather than with lich, or hot, sauces, as these latter would destroy the delicate flavour of the meat. Leg of Mutton. The leg is considered one of the best parts of the shee^^; it is generally roasted or boiled, as a joint, but occasionally what are called mutton steaks are cut from it. It is sometimes salted and smoked, and, under the name of mutton hams, is largely consumed on the Continent and in the north of England. Leg of mutton, when roasted, is sometimes stuffed under the skin of the knuckle with various sj)ices, whose flavours j)ervade the joint Avhen it is cooked. The knuckle is esteemed a delicacy, but it is hard and somewhat indigestible; in former times it was stewed as a sej)arate dish, but that is not often done now. Boiled mutton is rather tasteless, and hence is almost always eaten with sauces, notably caper sauce, with which its name has long been associated. Log of Pork. The leg of pork is one of the best parts for roasting, as it is not too fat. The skin should always be rubbed over with salad oil, which makes it crisp when cooked. This joint is eaten with seasoning of sage and onions, which is some- times stuffed under the skin of the knuckle, but there is hardly room for the quantity required.[lem lemJ 155 Apple sauce is also eaten with roast pork, and it imparts to it a very pleasant, pi(]^uant flavour. It is the leg of pork which is converted into ham. {See Ham.) Lemon.—The fruit of Citrus Limonmn. The wild stock of the lemon tree is a native of the valleys of Kumaon and Sikkim, in the North-West Provinces of India. The lemon seems to have been unknown to the ancient Greeks and Pomans. It was intro- duced by the Arabs into Spain between the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, whence it was brought to England. As a cultivated plant, the lemon is now met with throughout the Mediterranean regions, and in almost all tropical and sub-tropical countries. In the south of Europe lemons are collected more or less every month of the year. The fruit is gathered while green, and after collection the finest specimens are picked out, and packed in cases as an article of commerce. An essence for culinary purposes is sometimes prepared by digesting six ounces of ripe lemon-peel in one pint of pure alcohol. The juice of the lemon, besides being of an excellent flavour, is an anti-scorbutic and refrigerant. Lemonade.—A most refreshing drink, par- ticularly in hot weather, made from the juice of lemons, and the essence of the jDeel, with sugar, and sometimes white of egg and sherry. The flavour of the various ingredients is thoroughly ex- tracted by adding boiling water, and by the time the lemonade is cold it is fit for use. A portable lemonade can be made from citric acid, sugar, and essence of lemon, but it is not so wholesome or palatable as that made from the fresh fruit. Bottled lemonade should be made from the fresh lemons, with the addition of some ingredient to15G [let lenJ cause effervescence. The effervescing lemonade com- monly sold in bottles is an aerated water, flavoured with syrup and essence of lemon.—{See Aerated Waters.) Lentil. The lentils used as food are the seed of a plant of the same name. They have a somewhat peculiar flavour, which is not liked by some, hence they are not so much eaten in Europe as their highly nutritious qualities would warrant. In the East, especially in Egypt, they are a staple article of con- sumption. Lentils were well known in the ancient world, and are mentioned in the Scriptures as early as the days of Jacob. The Komans did not form a high opinion of them, and their name, derived from lentus, slow, was given them because they were supposed to make men indolent. For all that they are a favourite dish in Germany, and lately have become more popular in this country. Lettuce.—A most excellent salad, easy of diges- tion and exceedingly wholesome. It is usually eaten with other salad vegetables, mingled with vinegar and oil; but sometimes it is eaten with vinegar and sugar, or plain with salt. In either way it is a very cooling, antiscorbutic, and slightly laxative article of diet. Taken at supper-time, it is useful in promoting sleep, and a medicinal extract is made from its leaves, which is sometimes given to produce sleep in patients whose constitution will not bear the administration of oiuum. The lettuce is not known to grow wild anywhere, but it is now culti- vated in all countries where the climate will admit; in our country it has been cultivated from a very remote age. There are two kinds grown in gardens ; the cabbage lettuce, with short, open, outside leaves, and inner leaves rolling up together to form a heart;157 lev] [lim and the cos lettuce, with longer leaves, which are tied together to blanch ; the deep green leaves of fully matured lettuces are sometimes boiled as a table vegetable, after the manner of spinach, which they to some extent resemble in flavour. Leveret.—The young hare, so called during its first year. The name is derived from the old French for the adult animal, ‘‘levre,” giving the diminutive ‘‘ levrette.” It is generally preferred roasted, and served with currant jelly, but it may be cooked in any way described for hares. The leveret begins feeding on its owm account three w^eeks after birth, finding its sustenance in herbage, cultivated vegetables, the young grain, plants of the fields, or the budding shoots and bark of nursing plantations. Keeping under cover during the day, it leaves its couch, as it is called, at night to search for food. Lime Fruit.—This closely resembles the lemon, but is smaller. It is even more tart than either the citron or the lemon, but its flavour is generally con- sidered more agreeable. Lime-juice is very largely imported into this country for the manufacture of citric acid, and for a cooling, antiscorbutic beverage. It forms an ingredient in the well-known ‘‘ Glasgow punch.” Lime-juice is generally considered superior to lemon-juice for all purposes. Lime-juice cordial, largely sold in bottles in this country during the summer months, is a very pleasant, wholesome, cooling beverage, made with purified lime-juice, sw^eetened. The tree on which the lime fruit grows is a native of Asia, but it has long been cultivated in the West Indies. It is quite different from the lime, or linden, tree which grow^s in this country and on the continent *of Europe, and which produces no edible fruit.lim] 158 fLIQ Limpet.—These shell-fish are occasionally used for food, and can be prepared for table like cockles and other bivalves. The limpet has only one shell, which is convex without and concave within. In some species the top of the shell is entire, in others it is perforated. Limpets are found on the sea- shore, adhering to the rocks, which they do so tightly that they can only be detached by inserting a knife under the shell. Ling. Ling is a fish of the same sj^ecies as hake, and like that fish is both cheap and nourish- ing. It is a native of the northern seas, the Orkneys, the Yorkshire and Cornish coasts, as well as oft’ the. Scilly Islands. In form it is not unlike the cod, but it is more slender and grows to the length of six or seven feet. Its colour is grey, inclining to olive, and it feeds principally on smaller fish. Though little used in England, yet when less than twenty-six inches long they are called drizzles, and these are eaten and relished by the inhabitants of the Yorkshire coast. When large, ling are coarse, and are salted, dried, and exported to Spain, and other Southern parts of Europe, where the fresh fish are not met with. The sounds and roes are salted separately; the liver yields an oil similar to cod-liver oil, which is used by the poor for the cottage lamps, and as a medicine by those who have been able to overcome the repugnance arising from its nauseous smell and taste. Liqueur,—The name given to foreign alcoholic preparations, sweetened and irupregnated with some predominant flavour, by which they are distinguished. The composition in some instances is kept a secret, in which case the liqueur is named either after the inventor, or after the place where it is manufactured ;159 lob] [lob thus we have green, yellow and white “ Chartreuse, named after the Carthusian monastery near Grenoble ; a rival monastery has produced “ Bene- dictine ; ” a celebrated cherry brandy is called “ Herring’s of Copenhagen.” We have also “ Danzig Gold and Silver Wasser,” Danzig being the place where it was first produced, and its peculiarity consisting in small particles of gold or silver leaf swimming in it, which do not, however, impart any particular flavour to the liqueur ; while << j^jj'gcpwasser,” notoriously distilled in the Black Forest from a small black cherry and the kernel of its stones, has thence received its name. {See different Liqueuks.) Liqueurs are taken either by themselves or are used for flavouring pie&, puddings, jellies or ices. Lobscouse.—A stew of beef or mutton with vegetables. The bones are boiled with potatoes and onions, and when the potatoes are sufficiently done, the meat should be minced and added with season- ing. It is ready for serving as soon as the meat is thoroughly cooked. Lobster.—One of the crab tribe, belonging to the second great division of Crustaceae. It is held in rather high esteem as an article of food, being very palatable and supposed to possess great nutritive qualities, yet many people consider it somewhat indigestible. Nearly all the rocky coasts of Great Britain supply a tolerable quantity of lobsters, yet the London market gets a greater share from the coast of Norway, where the fish is very abundant. It is caught in pots or creels which are attached to a cord and sunk in the sea. A peculiarity of this shell-fish is that it seldom strays from the spot where it is hatched, and it is probably in160 [loi LOl] consequence of this fact that a distinctiveness and individuality becomes observable in the lobsters of different districts. Another peculiarity is that it has the power of reproducing a lost or injured limb. It has also been known to throw off its claws when alarmed. Loin Chops.—{See Mutton Chops.) Loin of Lamb.—Loin of lamb is a very tender, succulent joint. It can be cooked in most of the ways employed for the same joint of mutton, care being taken that all the materials are of the most delicate kind that can be jn’ocured, so as not to destroy the flavour of the lamb. Loin of Mutton.—This is one half of the saddle of mutton. It is generally roasted with the bones in it, but these are sometimes taken out and the meat rolled up with a forcemeat stuffing. It is served with brown gravy and red-currant jelly. The loin is sometimes cut into chops.—{See Mutton Chops.) Loin of Pork.—The loins of pork consist of the back cut through the spine. They are again divided into the fore-loin and bind-loin. The loin is generally roasted, and like that of other animals it is one of the most tender and best flavoured joints. Loin of Veal.—There are two parts of the calf known by this name, distinguished as the loin and the chump end of the loin. The former is cut from the small of the calf’s back, which is divided down the spine, thus making two joints, each including some of the ribs. The chump end of the loin is the tail end of the animal, hut it is included in the loin in culinary recipes. The loin is generally considered the prime part of the animal, and, in consequenceLONJ ICl [lun of the quantity of bone and waste in cooking, is certainly the most expensive. Loin of veal is most frequently roasted and is then a delicate white meat, but somewhat dry and wanting in fat. It is stuffed with various herbs, lemon-thyme being very frequently the predominant flavour, and it is almost always eaten with some richer meat, such as boiled bacon. Long Pepper.—A spice very similar in taste and smell to the ordinary pepper in common use, . not so strong, but more acrid in its effect. It is sometimes used in making curry-powder, in pickles of various kinds, and in making several medical confections, but it is not now so much used for this latter purpose as formerly. The tree on which it grows is a native of the East Indies. The spike resembles that of the birch tree, and this spike, with the half ripe berries attached, forms, when dried, the long pepper of commerce. Lunch.—This word is derived from the Welsh llwne, and is a variation of lump. In like manner luncheon comes from lunching, or lumping. In his poem of “ Holy Friar,” Burns says : “ An cheese, an bread, frae women’s laps. Was dealt about in lunches.” And in his poem called the ‘‘ Shepherd’s Week,” Gay has a line which says : “ I sliced the luncheon from the barley-loaf.” Lunch, or luncheon, was at first simply a lump of bread and cheese taken between meals, then it came to be a slight meal between breakfast and dinner, but now that dinner is postponed to a late hour, even among many whose business engagements necessitate their taking an early breakfast, the \162 [mac ■lun] fashionable luncheon has become a meal almost as substantial as the dinner of olden times. Luncheon.—When properly used, this word is the name given to any light rej^ast taken between regular meals. The word luncheon is now, however, used indifferently for lunch.—[See the article under that title.) Macaroni.—This is of Italian origin, and con- sists of a thick j)aste of flour and water, dried or baked. There are different sorts, under a variety of names, as Naples, Spaghetti, Italian paste, and others. In shape they are mostly long, thin rods, either solid or hollow. Macaroni is made into a variety of excellent dishes, both sweet and savoury. It requires boiling until tender, and can then be eaten with cream, gravy or with grated cheese, which is one of its most popular forms. Italian paste is pressed into pretty little shapes, some in the form of alphabets, and are largely used in soups. Macaroons.—These are biscuits made entirely of pounded sweet almonds and sifted loaf sugar instead of flour, with white of egg instead of water. When these ingredients are mixed together into a paste, portions of the size of the biscuits to be made are dropped upon wafer paper, and baked in a slow oven. Mace.—This spice grows as a kind of leafy net-work enveloping the nutmeg. When freshly gathered it has a fine, bright, red colour, and fleshy texture, but when dried for export it acquires a duller, orange-yellow hue, and a wax-like stiffness. It possesses a more delicate flavour than the nutmeg, but is apt to be somewhat sickly in its effect if too freely used. It is also said that if taken to excess itmac] 1G3 1 MAC Ctiiises ti flow of blood to the head, and disturbs the action of the brain. The tree which yields nutmeg and mace is a native of the Molucca and Banda Islands, in the Indian Ocean, but its cultivation has been introduced in the Mauritius, Sumatra, and Trinidad. The Dutch endeavoured to extirpate the nutmeg-tree from all other islands, and to restrict its culture to the Banda Islands, which belonged to them, but their policy was thwarted by the wood- pigeons, who conveyed the fruit to adjacent isles. The Banda, or Nutmeg Islands, as they are also called, are twelve in number, the largest of them being only eight miles long and five miles broad, yet they now produce annually about two hundred thousand pounds of mace. It is a peculiarity of the nutmeg-tree that, even in the most suitable localities, more than half the trees are barren, the rest bearing on an average about ten pounds of spice each per annum. Macedoine (a la).—This properly means a medley, and is applied to mixtures of vegetables or fruit. Vegetables a la Macedoine are cut into small pieces of fancy shapes, boiled in stock, then fried, and placed with white sauce round the dishes to be garnished. For fruits a la Macedoine, the smaller kinds, such as cherries and straw'berries, are generally chosen. They are put into a mould with jelly, and can be turned out when cold. Mackerel.—This fish is highly esteemed as an article of food, being nutritious, easily assimilated, and delicate in flavour. Possessing a larger pro- portion of fatty matter than many kinds of flsh, they will not keep fresh so long as some. Mackerel are elegantly formed, beautifully coloured, and even death does not altogether destroy the splendour of Mmadj 1G4 [mad their hue. They are a migratory fish, appearing regularly in shoals at particular places during certain seasons. In the winter they retire to deep waters^ hut during the warmer months they are caught in large numbers near the coast, and the best are caught in the English Channel. They begin to spawn in June, and five hundred and forty thousand eggs have been counted in a single roe. Madeira Wine,—This is a dry wine, slightly acid and astringent, as strong as sherry, which it somewhat resembles, but having a more delicate flavour and aroma. The vine is supposed to have been first planted in Madeira, about the year 1450, by order of the celebrated Prince Henry of Portugal, but it was nearly two hundred years later before its trade in wine commenced. The excellence of the Madeira grapes is due to the volcanic nature of the soil, and to the vines being trained to grow over a low lattice-work of cane, instead of climbing up lofty trees. The best grapes are grown on the south side of the island, those on the north being only fit for brandy. When newly made the wine is subjected to artificial heat, and it improves greatly by age, which has been proved by samples from fifty to one hundred years old. At one period it was chiefly exported to the East and West Indies, where it has long been specially esteemed, and as it is greatly improved by a voyage to a warm climate, it was generally sent there before it was brought to England. In 1785 one hundred and twenty thousand gallons, and in 1820 five hundred and twenty thousand gallons were shipped to this country, but in 1852, through the ravages of the oidium Tuckeri, the trade decreased considerably; it is now, however, again gradually increasing.165 [mal MilJ Maitre d’Hotel. —It must not be supjDOsed that the title Maitre d’hotel refers to an hotel in the English sense of the word, as in French an hotel means also a large private house or palace. A maitre d’hotel is the man who has charge over the household in these establishments. The many different dishes called a la maitre d’hotel take their name from the sauce originally and spontaneously invented by one of these house stewards. The story goes that the eminent statesman, the Due de Eichelieu, once unexpectedly arrived at his Parisian mansion and required dinner. In the absence of the chef, there was no one but the maitre d’hotel to arrange the menu. Being ignorant in the art of cookery, this official directed one of the dishes to be prepared with parsley and butter, which accompani- ment, happening to please the duke, became a favourite sauce, called after its inventor, maitre d’hotel. Maize.—{See Polenta.) Malaga.—This wine has, when new, a dark, amber colour, and great sweetness, which diminishes with age. McCulloch’s “ Geographical and Statis- tical Dictionary ” states that a quantity of burnt wine, besides a considerable quantity of brandy, is added to it, and with age it develops an extra- ordinary and characteristic bouquet. It is a very strong wine, and will keep for a century without deterioration, whether in bottles or casks, even if only partly filled, and when old it often sells for thirty times the price it fetched when new. It receives its name from the town of Malaga, in Spain, near to which it is produced. Malmsey.—This is a moderately strong wine, of a luscious sweetness, and a peculiarly beautiful16C) mal] MAN bouquet. Grapes for making malmsey are grown on a rocky soil, where they are most completely exposed to the full light and heat of the sun; they are also allowed to hang upon the vines a month longer than grapes employed for the making of other wines, and until they are partly withered. Malmsey was largely consumed in the Middle Ages, and in 1478, the Duke of Clarence, brother of Edward IV., being condemned to death by the king, and allowed to choose the manner of his execution, was, in accordance with his own wish, drowned in a butt of this wine. In Shakespeare’s “Love’s Labour’s Lost” there is a line which couples together “ Metheglin, wort, and Malmsey.” The name was first applied to the rich wines brought from Southern Greece, principally from a place called Monemvasia. This name was corrupted by the Italians to Malvoisie, and by the English to Malmsey. Our chief sujDi^lies of Malmsey are now imported from Sardinia, Sicily, Madeira, the Canary Islands and the Azores. Malt.—{See Brewing aud Beer.) Mango.—The fruit of the mango tree, which grows in India to the height of thirty or forty feet, is about the size of a large pear. It is eaten just as gathered from the tree, or boiled; or, when sliced, with wine, sugar and nutmeg. Preserves are also made with mangoes, and a spirituous liquor is prepared from the juice. An excellent pickle is made with the unripe fruit. From its tenderness it is impossible to import it in a ripe state into this country. A very quaint Eastern writer, described in the most extravagant manner the sweetness of the fruit, the recollection of which he said made the ink stick to the paper and prevented his sajdng more. Let such be the case in writing this little article.man] 167 [mar Manna.—We are ignorant of the nature of the manna with which the Israelites were fed in the wilderness, but what is now known as manna is the juice of two species of ash tree, indigenous to Italy and Sicily. It exudes from the tree in the summer, and congeals into a thick substance of a pale yellowish colour. It is of a saccharine character, and is a mild laxative medicine, often given to children and persons in very delicate health. “Australian Manna” is not obtained from the ash tree, but from a species of Eucalyptus. There is also a sweetmeat called “Manna” manufactured in Germany. Manna Croup.—Sometimes spelt Manna Kroup, and sometimes called Manna Groats, is a Kussian preparation, similar to the semolina from Italj^ and is esteemed for making puddings. It is usually obtained from the hard wheats of Odessa and Taganrog. When these are being ground into Hour, small rounded fragments are picked out of the grooves of the grinding stones. It is also got in a similar form by husking the small grain of a particular kind of aquatic grass. Small quantities are imported, but it is not generally known in this country. Marchpane.—Is a delicious paste, more used on the Continent than in this country. Sweet and bitter almonds, in equal proportions, are blanched, then pounded together with sugar, and made into a thick paste by means of heat. This is either rolled out thin to make biscuits, or macle into a large round sandwich, with apricot, raspberry, or other fruit jam, baked between the two layers. In Germany Marchpane is called Marzipan, and is made into large tarts, chiefly at Christmas. Margarine.—The name given by Act of Parlia-1G8 [MAR mar] inent to imitation butters made from animal fat, formerly called butterine. The hard fat of animals, when melted down and salted, is sufficiently nutri- tious and palatable to be used for food. No one would prefer it to fresh or even salt butter, but as a cheap substitute it can be recommended for cook- ing, where economy is a matter of imj^ortance. Marinade.—Is a sort of pickle in which the drier kinds of fish and meat are soaked before being cooked. Small portions of food, such as slices of poultry, or fillets of fish, are dipped in a raw marinade, consisting of vinegar, with a little oil, pepper, herbs and condiments. Larger joints are soaked in a marinade prepared by boiling onions, bay-leaves, garlic, parsley and thyme in vinegar. A cheap claret or British wane is occasionally used instead of vinegar in the preparation of a marinade. Marjoram.—A herb used in cookery as a season- ing or flavouring, usually considered essential in the fabrication of mock-turtle soup. There are several varieties, but they all have an agreeable aromatic taste. The sweet or knotted marjoram is a native of Portugal; the winter variety is brought from Greece; and Sicily produces another kind, called the pot-marjoram. Marmalade—Is a confection made wdth certain kinds of fruit and sugar. It forms a pleasant addi- tion to bread and butter for the tea-table. Puddings and tarts may also be made with it instead of jam. Marmalade is distinguished from jam by being more of the consistency of a pulp, and by having a rather more acidulous and slightly bitter taste. Marmalade is generally made wdth oranges, lemons, ajijhes, or quinces. When made wdth oranges or lemons, a large proportion of the confec-mar] Fmar 1G9 tion consists of long, narrow pieces of the peel, cut iij) in shreds. Marrowbones.—The bones of most animals are hollow, and contain a fatty substance called man o\n . The flavour of this caused marrowbones, as they are called, to be considered a particular delicacy in olden times, but they are not now cooked so often as formerly. They are generally baked or boiled, the two ends being covered with a crust, and the marrow eaten hot on toast with salt and peppei. Several historical associations are attached to marrowbones. Butchers used to have a peculiai sort of music called marrowbones and cleavers, which were played at their weddings or other festive occasions. Each butcher carried a cleaver, oi chopper, which, when struck with a marrowbone, gave out one of the notes of the musical scale, and by this means tunes were x^layed which sounded like u, carillon of cracked bells. The knees are some- times called the marrowbones, and the expression Down on your marrowbones” is even used by Dryden for kneeling. Marsala.—This is a wine in some respects resembling Madeira, prepared from a mixture of various kinds of grapes carefully selected. Bad Marsala can scarcely be found in any market, for nil products not up to mark are rejected. The vats in which the must is fermented are never entirely •emptied, a certain quantity of the old wine being nllowed to remain, from ’which the new derives its specially distinctive aroma. The wine is named nfter the town of Marsala, in the island of Sicily, near to which the grapes are grown. The volcanic soil in that district produces excellent grapes, and the great care taken in the manufacture of the wineno [MAT lias caused it to increase rapidly in general repute. Messrs. Woodhouse, an English firm who settled at Marsala in 1789, commenced exporting the wine produced in the neighbourhood, but it did not acquire any general repute till 1802, when it was supplied to the Mediterranean fleet by order of Lord Nelson, which speedily established its reputation, and about lour million gallons are now exported annually. Marzipan.—{See Marchpane.) Mate.—Paraguay tea, the full name of which is Yerba de Mate; and, though generally called mate for brevity, yet properly the word mate is the name of the vessel out of which the tea is drunk. Mate consists of the leaves and green shoots of a kind of holly, roughly powdered, with which a beverage is made that has been used by the aboriginal Indians of South America from time immemorial. The Brazilians are as much addicted to its use as the French are to coffee, or the English to our com- mon tea from Asia. It contains theine, which is the active principle of the tea-leaf brought from China and India, and the beverage seems to operate as a refreshing exhilarant in the same way as om’ ordinary tea. The South Americans drink their mate at every hour and at every meal of the day. Boiling water is poured over the powder, a lump of burnt sugar is added, with sometimes a few drops of lemon-juice, and the infusion is sucked through a tube, called a bombilla, which is often made of silver. The creoles in South America are passion- ately fond of the beverage, and never eat food without first drinking mate. In 1855 it was computed that fifteen million j^oimds of mate were annually consumed in South America; and since[may 171 matJ that date its consumption is believed to have in- creased more than four-fold. The tree which yields it grows wild in the forests of Paraguay, and ov©i five million pounds are annually exported to other parts of South America, while the comsumption in Paraguay amounts to about thirteen pounds per head per annum. Small quantities of mate are imported into this country, but it has not gained here any wide-spread repute. Matelote.—This is the French word for sailor, and dishes a la matelote are based upon matelote, a sauce supposed to have derived its name from the relish French sailors used to add to the fish caught when out at sea. It is now made in an elaborate form, and varied according to the different dishes, but its use is generally confined to fish or calf’s head. May Drink.—A. refreshing beverage of German origin, where it is largely consumed by picnic parties during the spring. It is made of hock or other light wine, flavoured principally with w^oodruff, although sugar, lemon and black currant leaves may be added according to taste. After the flavour- ings have been steeped in the wine, water or ice is added. Mayonnaise.—Cold viands prepared in this favourite French fashion are peculiarly welcome during the hot days of summer. The meat or fish to be dressed is cut into moderate-sized pieces and laid on a dish, surrounded by pieces of lettuce, endive or other salad ; a dressing called mayonnaise sauce is then poured over it. This dressing may be made according to most recipes for those to be used for salads, but generally a larger proportion of the hard-boiled yolk of egg is used, and lemon juice sometimes takes the place of oil.[mea 172 mea] Mead—Is a thin, but luscious fermented liquor made from bonejq with the addition sometimes of a little spice. Among the ancient Celtic races this liquor held a very bigb place, but it is now much less patronised then formerly. It was in general use from very ancient times among the polished nations of southern Europe, as well as among the barbarous tribes of more northern regions. Pliny said it had all the bad qualities of wine without its good ones. When well made and properly kej)t, it is said to equal the celebrated Tokay in strength and flavour; but that panegyric is somewhat doubtful. Sack-mead contains hops, and metheglin or hydro- mel is a kind of mead containing hops, the fermen- tation of the honey and water having been produced by the addition of yeast. Hollinshed, in his ^‘Chronicle of Ancient Britain,” speaks disparagingly of the mead made in Essex as differing “ from the true metheglin as chalk from cheese,” while he states that the Welsh made as much of their metheglin as the ancient Greeks did of their am- brosia or nectar. In the court of the ancient British kings, the meadmaker claimed the eleventh grade in precedence, his land was freehold, and he was entitled to certain royal gifts. Sharon Turner imblishes an ancient “Mead Song” written in Welsh more than 1,300 years ago, by Taliesin. He speaks of mead “ Which the bees provide, but do not enjoy, Mead distilled I praise; its eulogy is everywhere.” And then he pleads fOr the liberation of a captive because he was “the man that gave me wine, ale and mead.” In later days we find Chaucer, in one of his “ Canterbury Tales,” describing spiced aleMEDJ 173 [MEL and hot wafers as ordinary lovo tokens, but lie represents one of bis characters offering mead to bis lady love because it was a beverage of superior attractions. The word ‘‘ honeymoon is derived from the old English custom of drinking mead (made from honey) as the special beverage for thirty days after the wedding feast, being the time one moon lasted from a new moon to the next moon. Medlar.—This is a fruit that grows to the size of very small apples. It is very harsh to the taste even when ripe, and for this reason it is not eaten till it has been kejit long enough for its tough pulp to become soft and vinous through the commence- ment of decay. Shakespeare refers to this in his play “ As you Like It.” Rosalind having recited some verses. Touchstone ridicules them. Rosalind replies, “I found them on a tree.” Then Touch- stone retorts, Truly, the tree yields had fruit,” to which Rosalind answers, “ ITl graff’ it with you, and then I shall graff it with a medlar, then it will he the earliest fruit i’ the country, for you’ll he rotten ere you be half ripe, and that’s the right virtue of the medlar.” The tree on which the medlar grows is a native of southern Europe and the temperate climates of Asia. It has long been cultivated in this countiy, but is not now so common as formerly. Melon.—A fruit of the same genus as the cucumber, forming a delicious addition to a dessert. It is a native of Tartary, but was first brought to this country from Jamaica ; it is extensively culti- vated in Egypt, Persia, and India, and, indeed, in all warm countries of both hemispheres it is a staple article of food. It grows on a creeping vine,[men men] 174 and is of large size, a tough outer rind enclosing a fleshy mass in which the seeds are enveloped. The dessert melon is known as the musk-melon, there being another gourd-like plant, bearing the water- melon, which serves to many for meat and drink, and is commonly grown in the East and in the south of Europe. It is carried in journeys across the desert plains, its succulent nature making it a most welcome refreshment. In the West Indies the Papaw tree supjflies a so-called melon which is used for pickling in a similar manner to, and as a sub- stitute for, mangoes. Menu.—This French word means minute details, but it is applied to a list of the courses of viands which are written or printed upon a card placed before the guests, which card is commonly called a bill of fare. Great care should be bestowed upon a menu, as the success of a dinner party or similar assemblage very largely depends upon it. The first consideration should be paid to the occasion and the magnitude of the repast to be given, as of course a state banquet requires a very different menu from that provided for a little dinner to welcome a few old friends. Attention should be paid to the choice of dishes, which ought to bear a proper relation to each other. The season of the year must also be a guide to a chef. Some viands are at their best at certain periods, and when these are introduced into the menu they require the other courses to harmonise with them. In the sj)ring, for instance, the young of several animals and poultry are in perfection. If introduced in the menu it would be bad taste to j)recede them with ox-tail or mock-turtle soups, but rather with something lighter and more delicate. Further, it is necessary to avoid dishes named afterMENJ [men 175 a person objectionable to any of the guests. Tlieie is not now much danger in that direction, as the fashion of naming dishes after people has nearly gone out of date, but there is a difficulty in pioviding dishes to suit the tastes of individual guests, and to avoid this it is an advantage to have some of a plain character included in an elaborate menu. Eight or wrong, it has become the fashion to make out the menu in French, though there are words enough in English to provide a name for every dish. The neglect of the English language has been shown to a still greater degree, for at the Etonian club’s annual ball, given at Oxford, the menu of the supper w'as printed in Latin. As it may be interesting to the curious, we give a copy of it verbatim : “ ‘Hoc est quod palles, cur quis non prandeat hoc est ? ’ Gus trium liherorum secundum Collegii tutorem Acetarium Salmonense Piscis nimium lubricus aspici Ostrem imberbes crustulis incoctao Gallium assm sive Henlayova Oluscula Matutina Linguae hodiernoe: Bos locutus est. Columbi aleatores in Adelphis (sive in agro) deprensi Capones tuberibus farti Surae Archiepiscopales, principe dignae Aucupia intempestiva leonibais aptiora Boves in usum remigum parati Yolumina linguarum mortuarum cum Altitibus Yitulina tuberibus condita Catinus non inscius herbae Fructus gelati more Macedonum Mora Idaea secundum Etonenses Mala pinea lacte incocta Defrutum ex usu Eomano Sarmatica condimenta Nugae Gallorummer] [MIL 17G Glacies Lac iniro quodam sapore imbutuai Nix ceresina deutes tentatura. ‘ Hasc ego procurare et idoneuB imperor et non Invitus : ne turpe toral, ue sordida rnappa OfFendat nares : ne non et cantharus et lanx Ostendat tibi te : ne fidos inter amicos Sit qui dicta foras eliminet.’ ” Meringue.—Used to cover certain cakes, and made 'with milk, white of egg and sugar. A similar mixture—often tinted pink, yellow or green, is made into very thin cakes or wafers, called meringues, and are often eaten with ices, etc. Merry Thought.—A forked bone in the breast of a fowl. Probably, the term merry is a corruption of the word marry, from a custom among young people in olden times, when two persons held one fork of the bone each, and then pulling it in half, supposing that, by some oracular influence, the one obtaining the larger half of the bone would be the first to marry. It is also called the wishing bone from a more modern custom. The two persons on taking hold of the bone in the same manner silently form a wish in their minds, the one retaining the larger half on pulling the bone asunder being supposed to get his wish realised. Milk.—This well-known article of food is secreted by mammalia for the nourishment of their young. Cow’s milk enters very largely into our dietary, but requires to be used when fresh, as lactic acid is formed from it after keeping a day or so, and this turns it sour. After standing a few hours the animal fat of milk rises to the top, and can be skimmed off {see Cream). The Alderney cows are said to produce the richest milk, but the small quantity they supply, in comparison with some other[min 177 MIL] breeds, has discouraged their use. Besides the cow’s milk, which is used in various ways for food, milk can be obtained from the goat, ewe, ass, mare and a few other animals.—{See articles on Butter Milk, Skimmed Milk, and Curds and Whey.) ^ Millet. A genus of tall grasses with succulent stems, its name being probably derived from the great number of seeds which each stem bears ^mille, a thousand^ It is indigenous to the^ East Indies and North Australia, but it was known in the time of Hippocrates as being then cultivated in southern Europe. There are several varieties, but the most important is the dry grain of the tropical countries of Africa and Asia, particularly of India, Sorghum Vulgari, called also Burra, Great Millet, Imhan Millet, Turkish Millet, or Guinea corn; the French call it Sorgo, and the Germans Mohren- hirsi or Kafferncohi. Its range is probably as ex- tensive as wheat. It is an annual plant, and occa- sionally reaches twelve feet in height, veiy piolilic, even rivalling maize. Its flour is very white, but does not easily make good bread; it is, however, largely used for making cakes and puddings, and for feeding cattle and poultry. Mincemeat.—A confection used for making pies or other cakes, to be eaten hot or cold. There are many recipes, as every district, and almost every cook, has a different one, but they all agree in that the ingredients must be finely minced, which the very name expresses. Mincemeat is generally made of raisins, currants, sugar, candied peel of various kinds, spices, brandy and suet, with or without meat. Mince Pies.—Are invariably eaten at Christmas time, and have been for generations associated with178 MINI i MIN plum pudding in the celebration of that festive season. They were originally called “ mutton pies,” and were popular as early as 159G. At first mutton, and afterwards neat’s tongue, was chopped up with the other ingredients now employed in making mincemeat. In old English cookery-books the crust of pies is called “the Coffin,” and Selden remarks that mince pies were baked in a coffin- shaped crust to represent the manger in which Jesus was laid at the time of his birth. Mineral Waters.—Strictly speaking, this term is only applicable to those natural springs which issue from the earth, impregnated with mineral substances foreign to the ordinary composition of water, and the j)lace whence these springs issue is called a Spa. Strangers not only resort to these Spas to drink of the springs, but in many cases also to bathe in the mineral water. In our own country such is the case at Bath, Buxton, Malvern, Holywell, and several other places. The use of these waters is not restricted to those who resort to the Spas, but they are also bottled and exported for use in distant parts. This has suggested the idea of making them artificially. Thus we have, besides the natural, the imitation of Seltzer and Vichy waters, which are drunk with meals, while others, such as Hunyadi, Pullna, and Friedrichshall are taken, not as a medicine, but in order to preserve the health in good condition. Mineral waters are described as cold or thermal, the latter being warm as they issue from the earth. They are also classed according to their composition, thus, the sulphurous contain sulphuretted hydrogen, like those of Harro- gate and Aix-la-Chapelle ; the bitter are aperient, containing sulphates of magnesia and soda in addi-MIN 17U I MUF tion to other salts, like the Hunyacli, Pullna, and Kissengen; the earthy contain lime in addition to other salts, like those at Bath, Pisa and Lucca; the alkaline contain little beside carbonates of soda and magnesia, with sometimes a little free caiHaonic acid, causing elfervescence, such as the Seidlitz, Seltzer, and Vichy; the muriated, containing chlo- ride of sodium with other salts, such as those at Cheltenham and Baden, while that from Kreuznach also contains lithia, iodine and bromine. Mint.—A small plant believed to be indigenous to Great Britain, where it has been known since Saxon times. The leaves have an aromatic flavour, and are much employed for culinary purposes, both fresh and dried. Mirabelle.—A kind of plum, oval shaped and yellow, highly esteemed in France. It is sometimes grown in this country, but is chiefly sold in England as preserved in tins imported from France. Morel.—Morel, or as the Germans call it, Mor- chel, is one of the fungi found in Germany and also in this country which maj^ be used as food with safety. It is very scarce, but may be found in woods and orchards, where it is gathered for the markets. It has a hollow stalk, an inch or two high, with a yellowish or greyish ribbed head, two or three inches deep, and is said to possess great stimulating properties. It is brought into England dried, and, after being soaked, is used for soups, fricassees, and gravies. Muffin.—Muffins are generall}^ eaten at tea. They consist of dough made with milk (or water), flour and yeast, slightly baked on an iron plate over the lire. To prepare them for the table they are toasted on both sides, and when this is done, the two sides Nmul] 180 Tmul are pulled apart, the interior buttered, and they are then placed before the fire and turned once to allow the butter to saturate them. Mulberries.—The fruit of a tree bearing the same name. It may be eaten as a dessert, made into tarts, or preserved; an excellent home-made wine is also prejiared from it. The fruit is of small size, and somewhat acid flavour; it is a great favourite with some people, but is not very exten- sively grown in this country. The leaves of the mulberry are the principal food of the silkworm, and for this purpose the tree is largely cultivated in warm climates. It was introduced into England in 1548, when several specimens were planted at Sion House, the residence of the Duke of Northumberland, on the banks of the Thames, near London. The trees growing there at present are said to be the same then planted, which is probable enough when we consider the great age to which the mulberry tree will grow. There is also a celebrated mulberry tree in the grounds attached to Trinity College, Cambridge, which was planted by the illustrious Sir Isaac Newton, and this tree still continues to bear fruit. Mullet (Grey) .— This fish abounds on the sandy coasts of Great Britain, and is particularly plentiful on our southern shores; it still enjoys considerable favour as an article of food, biit is not so much sought for as the striped red. It is a good plan to keep it in ponds as much as possible, for this always improves its flavour, more so, indeed, than in any other salt-water fish. Grey mullet has a very curious mode of feeding ; it lives chiefly on soft organic substances, which are found mixed with weeds and sand ; in attempting to swallow these itmul] [mul 181 inevitably takes a quantity of sand into its mouth, but it is furnished with a kind of self-filtering appar- atus which enables it to sift the food so taken. It is described by naturalists as one of the most daring and ingenious of fish. Its most strongly-marked trait, however, is the intense love of freedom it dis- plaj^s. So powerfully developed is this instinct in the grey mullet that, when caught in the net, it makes violent and persistent efforts to escape, either attempting to leap over the top, to glide through the interstices, or even to beat against the sides, as if to break its prison bars. Mullet (Hed).—Like its brother, the grey mullet, it has a powerful love of liberty, and strong gregari- ous tendencies. It has not been furnished with any offensive weapons, its teeth being very small, so that it is more or less at the mercy of larger fisli, endowed by nature with more voracity and power of attack. The striped red was much esteemed by the ancients, especially the Romans, who gave startling prices for it; they gave about .£15 for those weighing two pounds, and for those of four pounds they gave ^£60, whilst in the reign of Tiberius, three of them were sold for L'209. It is said that the reason why those amazing sums were paid for the fish was because, when dying, the lovely colours of the fish underwent various changes, and its death agonies thus afforded an exquisite artistic treat to refined Roman senses. Our Cornish and Sussex coasts are much frequented by the red mullet. It may be mentioned that the fish is still in great request; its flesh being firm, white and well-flavoured. Mulling.—The warming of wine or beer, v/ith spices and sugar. To mull wine such sj^ices as cloves, cinnamon, or mace should be boiled in aMUSj 1H*2 [mUB small quantity of water, to extract the flavour, and this, with sugar, is added to the wine, and all are then warmed together. In mulling ale no water should he used, hut a little brandy may be added if desired. Vessels called mullers are made for this purpose, in shape like a cone inverted, and they possess the advantage of heating the liquid quickly so that there is but little evaporation. Mushroom.—The edible varieties of these fungi are used in England principally as a flavouring for made dishes, or in sauces. They are also occa- sionally grilled and used as a garnish ; they can l)e pickled, or dried and powdered for future use. In Russia, Poland, and some parts of Germany, where many species grow wild, they are used more exten- sively as an article of food. There are twenty-nine varieties of the edible mushroom, and one of the most beautiful of the British varieties is the red- fleshed mushroom, generally abundant in all woody places, and known by its brown, warty top, white gills, and perfect ring encircling the bulbous stem ; it frequently attains a large size. The most popular species is the meadow mushroom, found all over the world. There is also in France what is called the cepe, a species of mushroom known as boletus {see Cepe and Morel). Besides the edible mushrooms, there are unfortunately several varieties which are poisonous; these are called toadstools in this country, and are known principally by their foetid odour, and the excessively acrid taste of their milk, which generally changes colour when the stem is broken. One of these, the clathrus cancellasiis, is said to 231’oduce cancer, and should not be handled. Mush.—{See Polenta.) Mussels.—One variety of the so-called shell-fish[MUS 183 MUS] which, like oysters, cockles and whelks, are in reality molluscs, and not fish at all. They inhabit two shells, and should be boiled in them as soon as pos- sible after being caught. When deprived of their beard, as it is called, they may be fried, escalloped, or stewed. Mussels are also pickled, and a sauce is made with them, in the same way as with cockles. Mussel ketchup is made by boiling them with spices in wine or cider. The prejudice against them is caused by many persons having been poisoned through eating them ; but probably this has been caused either by decay having commenced before they were boiled, by the mussels having fed on sewage or other contaminating matter, or by the beard not having been removed before they were eaten. They are very common on all the English coasts, and are especially plentiful at the mouth of the Mersey. They are farmed, in what are called mussel gardens, in some parts of the English coasts, as well as on the coast of France. Pearls of a common kind have been found in some varieties. Mussels are much used as bait for catching such fish as cod, haddock, ling, plaice, skate and w^hiting. Mustard.—Two species are in common use for domestic purposes, Siuajyis nigra and S. alba. The seeds of the former are of a dark reddish brown, wherefore it is called black mustard; it is grown in France to a greater extent than in England, and the young herbs are used in salads. The seeds of S. alba are yellowish, and known as white mustard. The flour of mustard in common use is prepared b}^ removing the husks and pulverising the seeds. It is differently prepared for the table according to the country in wdiich it is produced, the principal methods being the English, the French and the German.[nas 184 mut] Mustard is used for a variety of pui’i^oses, the chief being as a relish ; it is also used as a diuretic and as an emetic. Externally it is used in poultices and embrocations, as a counter-irritant. Mutton.—Mutton is the flesh of the sheep, and varies considerably in quality and flavour according to the district in which the sheep are reared and the breed to which they belong. It can be prepared for table in many ways, but is rarely salted, although mutton hams are cured in some countries. The name mutton is derived from the French, and dates back to the Conquest, when the Normans gave their names to the meat as it appeared at table, while the Saxon farmers continued to call the living animal by its accustomed appellation.—{See the different joints.) Mutton Chops.— There are three kinds of mutton chops—the loin, the chump (which are cut from near the tail of the animal), and the neck. The latter are generall}^ stewed or made into cutlets, while the two former are more often broiled and eaten with tomatoes, fried or boiled potatoes, and sauces, which thus form a very favourite dish for break- fasts, luncheons, or hastily-prepared repasts. An invitation to take a chop with anyone is generally understood to mean a simple meal. Nasturtium.—The nasturtium plant, sometimes called Indian cress, is a native of Peru, but has been acclimatised in Great Britain. The seeds have a pungent taste, and are often pickled. The unripe nasturtium seeds, when cut in halves and pickled, are sometimes called “ imitation capers,” and are used for making caper sauce. Nasturtium leaves and flowers are a pleasant addition to a salad, to the appearance of which they arc a great improvement.185 [NEC nea] Neat’s Foot.—{See Calf’s Foot.) Neat’s Tongue.—(.S'ce Ox Tongue.) Neck of Lamb.—The neck of lamb is sometimes stewed, but more often made into cutlets. Lamb cutlets can be made into a variety of delicious dishes, and cooks have expended a great deal of ingenuity and time in inventing recipes for their preparation. They are generally arranged in a dish round the principal vegetable to be eaten with them, such as spinach, peas, asparagus, or even mush- rooms. Neck of Mutton.—The neck of mutton is divided into the best end and the part nearest the head, which is called the scrag. It is extremely tender and well-flavoured, but as it contains a large quantity of bone, it cannot be much used as a sepa- rate joint. It is generally divided into cutlets, which form a favourite adjunct to breakfast; some- times these are stewed and made into haricot mutton. They are the sweetest part of the animal, and the best for making broth. Neck of Veal .—It may surprise many persons to know that what is called the neck of veal is situated behind the shoulder, and represents that part of the back which in human beings lies between the blade bones. For what extraordinary reason this part of the beast was called the neck, the comparative anatomists of the slaughter-house only know. The neck may be cooked in any of the ways prescribed for veal; it is frequently roasted or boiled, and is generally a good deal disguised with sauces and garnishing. Nectarine.—This rich, and delicately flavoured, dessert fruit is a kind of peach, and the only dis- tinction between them is that peaches have a downyNEG 18G [noy skin, while that of the nectarine is smooth. Even this distinction is more nominal than real, for Ehind, in his “History of the Vegetable Kingdom,” de- scribes the peach and the nectarine together, and says, “ There are various instances of both fruits growing on the same tree;” while Nicholson, in his “ Dictionary of Gardening,” after describing peaches and nectarines as two varieties of the same kind of fruit, says, “ The same tree has, at times, produced fruit of both kinds on the same branch.” The skin of nectarines is thinner than the peel of an apple, bright red on the side next the sun, and yellowish green next the wall. The jmlp of the fruit is firmer than that of an orange, but not so hard as an apple or pear. Nectarines may be preserved in syrui>, pickled in vinegar, or candied. The kernels are used for flavouring noyeau. Negus.—So called after Colonel Negus, who invented it in the reign of Queen Anne. It con- sists of wine and water, with sugar, nutmeg, and sometimes lemon-juice; port is considered the best wine for this purpose. Negus is generally made hot. Nightcap.—The popular name given to grog, mulled wine or beer, negus, or other hot drink, taken just before going to bed. Biscuits, pulled bread, or cold toast and butter, are often eaten with it, by those who dine late and do ‘ not take supper. It differs so much from the original nightcap that, instead of going outside the head, it sometimes gets into it. Nougat.—A sweetmeat made with sugar, al- monds, pistachios, and other nuts. Noyeau,—A liquor originally j^repared by distil- ling the kernels of peaches and nectarines with pure sjfirit, and mixing the essence so obtained with a[oat 187 nud] carefully boiled syrup. It is now generally made with, almonds, peach kernels, or bay leaves steeped in fine brandy for several months. Various flavour- ings, and a clear white syrup, are then added in due proportion, and the mixture filtered and bottled for future use. Pink noyeau is tinted with rose petals or safflower. Nudeln.—A German preparation, sometimes called German macaroni, which can be used to garnish roast joints, or eaten with fruit as a sweet. It consists of a dough made of flour, milk and eggs, which, after being rolled out, is hung up to dry, and then cut into thin strips. These can be either boiled or fried when they are required as a garnish. There is also Dampfnudeln (which see). Nutmeg.—Is used extensively as a flavouring and also in medicine. The nutmeg known in com- merce is the seed of the Myristica Moschata, a native of the Molucca Islands, but cultivated in Java, Su- matra, Cayenne, and some of the West Indian Islands. The fruit, when separated, exposes the kernel (nutmeg), surrounded by an avillus (mace). Two or three gatherings are made in the year, in August, December and in April; the third yields the best nutmegs. After collection, they are dried till the shells split, then sorted, and dipped in cream of lime to preserve them from insects; the best quality are heavy (ninety grains) with a strongly aromatic odour, and a warm pungent taste. Oatcake.—{See Oatmeal.) Oatmeal.—This meal is the grain of the oat, dried in a kiln, ground and sifted into flour. There are three kinds, the coarse, medium and fine. Oat- meal is very nutritious, and is generally eaten in the form of porridge, or gruel, the first named being a>188 on [oil staple article of food amongst the Scotch peasantry, who also make large, flat cakes of oatmeal. In con- sequence of the tenacity of the starch cells it is difficult to make it into bread, except when baked at a \ ery high temperature. So much has always been thought of it in Scotland, that in the old Bolder warfare the Scotch marauders carried a bag of oatmeal at their saddle-bow as their only reliable food. Quite recently a special preparation has been biought out, called “ Boiled oats.” In making this the giain is subjected to enormous pressure under steel rollers, whereby the cells are so crushed as to set free the starch granules. “Boiled oats,” there- foie, can be perfectly cooked in less than a quarter of the time required for oatmeal, however finely it may have been ground. Oil. The oil used for culinary purposes is ob- tained from the olive tree. For this purpose the olives are gathered before they are quite rijie, and then crushed in a mill; that obtained by the first gentle pressure is called virgin oil. Most of the oil used in this country comes from Italy, France and Spain, in which countries it is much more largely consumed than in England. It is principally used here as a salad dressing; but it is far superior to ^ lard or any other kind of fat for frying fish, omelettes, &c., but is not so well adapted for chops, steaks and meat in general. The Ville de Provence oil has the highest reputation, but that from Lucca is not inferior to it. Cotton-seed oil is now much used, both by itself and as an adulterant, in place of the more delicate produce of the olive, to which, however, it is not very greatly inferior if carefully expressed. In India and Fiji, earth-nut, and other oils, are largely employed for culinary puiqioses.[OME 189 OLIJ OliVGS.—A small fruit pickled in salt, and used as an auxiliary to made dishes. It is also served with dessert, to destroy the taste of what has been previously eaten, and to give a relish to the wine. The common olive is probably a native of the Holy Land, where it grows in great abundance. The Greeks esteemed it so highly that the Athenians called it the gift of Pallas Athene, the Goddess of Wisdom. The Eomans’ appreciation, both of the fruit and the oil, was equally high. Green olives are bottled, and imported into England in an immature condition ; the ripe fruit is of a dark colour, and contains a larger percentage of oil. There are three kinds known in commerce, derived respectively from Italy, Spain and France, of which the Spanish is the largest and most esteemed. Olives (Meat).—This dish is made by brushing over slices of meat with egg, and sprinkling them with herbs. They are then rolled up very tightly and skewered, placed in a saucepan which will exactly hold them, covered with slices of bacon, over which a sheet of paper is tied, and gently stewed. When cooked, the skewers are removed, and the “ olives ” served, with thick brown gravy, flavoured with hot sauce. Omelette.—This famous French dish is made of cream or milk, and eggs, only half the quantity of the whites being used. Omelettes are easily made, and require hut little time to do, hence they have in France the sobriquet of “ excusez-moi,” meaning that a guest should excuse a dish which is so hastily made being placed before them. To make an omelette the eggs are beaten up with butter, seasoned with pepper and salt, and fried. When about half done, the omelette should he folded together, and thetop browned with a salamander. An almost infinite variety of them can be made, either plain, sweet, or savoury. The celebrated French “ omelette aii thon,” according to Brillat-Savarin, is made with tunny fish and the roes of carp. Onion.—{See Spring Onion, and Spanish Onion.) Orange.—This is a well-known fruit, available for winter use, when other fruits are scarce. It is nearly always eaten raw, after peeling off the outer rind, but it is used at times as a confection. Our chief supplies are imported from Malta, Sicily, Spain, Portugal and the Azores. Where the trees grow in suitable soil and climate, they produce fruit so abundantly that an average tree twenty feet in height will yield from three to four thousand oranges in the course of the j^’ear. More than a million are annually imported into this country, and, taking into consideration how few are damaged in transit, we may safely say that the orange suffers less from being packed than any other soft fruit. Besides the well-known species in general use, there are the Maltese, or blood oranges, distinguished by the blood red colour of its pulp ; the Tangerine, which is a small flat fruit, with a fine flavour ; the Majorca, which has no seeds ; and the Seville, or bitter orange, employed in making marmalade and orange wine. The rind of the Seville orange, when cut in strips, and dried, is used in medicine, and also prepared as one of the varieties of candied peel. Orange Bitters.—Liqueurs.) Orange Brandy.—(»S'cc Liqueurs.) Orange Gin.—{See Liqueurs.) Orgeat.—A favourite summer drink, especially in France. It is made by boiling new milk with191 [ox OKT ' su^ar, cinnamon and almonds (both sweet and bitter); when cold a little brandy is added. Ortolan {Emhoriza hortulana).—The ortolan is a bird about six inches in length; the feathers on its throat and back are yellow, on its other upper parts brown, and on its under parts a reddish bay colour. It is a native of the south of Europe, where a dish of them is esteemed a great luxury. In Italy and the south of France they are fed on millet seed and other grain, in rooms from which daylight is excluded, and which are lighted up with lamps, always kept burning. Treated in this way they become very fat, and when packed in casks, pre- served with spices and vinegar, they are annually exported to all parts of Europe. Ox Cheek.—The head of the ox is very nutri- tious, but the quality of the flesh is a little unequal, some parts being rather coarse, and others, such as the palate, deserving to be regarded as delicious. Ox cheek is generally made into soup, for which it provides some of the strongest stock. A very ex- cellent stew can be made of it, after most of the recipes given for stewing steak. It may interest the curious to know that some years ago, when there was a great demand for turkeys’ combs for some made dishes, ox palates, cut in slices, were often used in their place. Ox 'Peel—{See Cow Heel.) Ox Tail .—The tail of the ox is one of the most nutritive parts of the animal, and ox-tail soup has a world-wide reputation as the principal thick soup eaten at substantial repasts. To cook the tail it should be jointed, and stewed with pieces of vege- table, principally carrot, to taste ; the soup is either made thick or clear, and some of theox] 192 [OYS tail should be served up iu it. Ox-tails also form a dish when stewed, generally with a flavouring of mushrooms, and they are sometimes made into a pie, hut for this they are not suitable, as they con- tain too much bone, and make too much gravy. Ox Tongue.—The tongue of many animals is regarded as a delicacy, hut that of the ox is the most preferred. It is pickled, smoked, boiled, and as a rule eaten cold. There is a great difference in appearance, quality and taste between the fore i^art of the tongue and the root. The former is the delicacy, hut some of the latter should he eaten with it, as the latter contains the fat which is delicious. Cold tongue is generally eaten with other meats, and as it is peculiarly moist and tender, it is usually served up with cold fowl, turkey or other dishes of a somewhat dry character. Oyster.—A bivalve shell-fish, found on the sea shore in all climes, but especially plentiful on the French and British coasts. It is most highly esteemed for its delicious flavour, as well as for its nutritive qualities, which recommend it strongly to invalids. Oysters are not, however, considered thoroughly palatable until about a year and a half old. The English variety is generally considered to be the best in Europe, but the French, moved possibly by that Anglophobian spirit which too often leads them to decry everything of which we are proud, assert that we got our oyster originally from Cancalle Bay, St. Malo, although they do not adduce any jDroof of this. These shell-fish have a formidable enemy to contend with in a kind of sponge which burrows its way into the shell, often so persistently as to entirely destroy it. It is to this cause that the many small holes, generally found in the shell, are193 ! PAN OYSj to be attributed. The importance of the English oyster fishery may be judged from the fact that it is systematically regulated by the Court of Admiralty. Oyster Plant.—Salsify.) Panada. — Panada consists of bread-crumbs which have absorbed the essence of various sub- stances, and is used as the flavouring ingredient of forcemeat and quenelles. It is made by soaking bread-crumbs in milk, which are then squeezed, stewed in stock, and finally, a liquor made by stewing ’ in stock some chopped up ham, herbs, mushrooms, and spices is poured over them. This mixture is placed over the fire until it dries ujd, when some butter is added, and it is again allowed to dry; yolk of egg should then be added, and when cold the panada is ready for use. Pancake.—A thin cake of batter baked or fried in a pan. This dainty would be well known were it merely for its association with Shrove Tuesday. The custom of frying pancakes on that day was formerly very popular ; thus we find it stated in a work on the antiquities of Claybrook, Leicestershire, published in 1791, that “On Shrove Tuesday a bell rings at noon, which is meant as a signal for the people to begin fr^ung their pancakes.” A curious custom is still observed on Shrove Tuesday at Westminster school. At eleven a.m. a verger of the Abbey in his gown, and bearing a silver baton, emerges from the college kitchen, followed by the cook of the school, carrying a pancake. Advancing to the bar which separates the upper school from the lower, the cook twirls the pancake in the j^an, and then tosses it over the bar among the crowd of boys, who scramble for it. The boy who gets it unbroken, and carries it to the Deanery, demandspan! 194 [par the honorarium of a guinea from the Abbey funds, and the cook receives two guineas for his per- formance. The fashion to fry pancakes in private families on Shrove Tuesday has not much diminished, and, as a humorous observer once said. Shrove Tuesday is the greatest “Fry-day” in the year. Paner.—To cover with bread-crumbs the meat or other food to be baked, broiled or fried. Papaw.—A fruit not much known in this country, but very common in South America. It is green in colour, and very similar to a small melon in appearance and flavour, eaten either raw or boiled. The tree on which it grows attains a height of from fifteen to thirty feet, and, like the palms, it is devoid of branches, bearing leaves aod fruit only at the top of the stem. The sap of the tree and the juice of the fruit both possess the unique property of speedily rendering the toughest meat tender ; for this purpose joints of meat and fowls are often hung among the branches of the tree to imbibe its exhalations. Parsley.—The leaves of parsley are used for garnishing a variety of cold dishes, and, when chopped, to flavour melted butter, soups and forcemeat. Parsley is said to be a native of Sardinia, whence it was brought into this country more than three hundred years ago ; this was the common, plain-leaved parsley. Fool’s parsley, or the lesser hemlock, so common in our fields and hedges, has often been mistaken for the common parsley with serious consequences, because the fooTs- parsley is a deadly poison. It belongs to a totally different order of plants ; its leaves are darker, and when bruised, emit an unpleasant odour. The curly-leaved parsley is now most generally used ; it195 par! [par cannot be mistaken for hemlock, and its superior flavour and more elegant appearance cause it to be preferred to the single-leaved variety. Sheep, hares and rabbits are excessively fond of parsley ; the two latter will travel long distances to obtain it, and the flesh of animals that have been fed upon it possesses a specially fine flavour. It has been considered an effectual cure for rot in sheep, if given in sufficiently large quantities, while on the contrary the seed is said to be a deadly poison to parrots. Hamburg parsley is cultivated for its roots, which grow as large as small parsnips. When boiled they form a very tender, palatable, and wholesome vegetable, either for eating with meat, or as an ingredient in broth or soup. Parsnip.—This useful vegetable belongs to the natural order Umhdliferce. In a wild state the flavour of its roots is harsh and unpalatable, but when carefully cultivated they ffirm a highly nutritious and agreeable vegetable, being fleshy, sweet and mucilaginous. In times of scarcity, when wheat has been dear and difficult to procure, a very excellent bread has been made from the roots of parsnips, ground to powder. The parsnip is a very fattening vegetable, water, starch, fibre, sugar, and albumen being its component parts. It pays for care bestowed upon its cultivation, and is very hardy, both in its wild and cultivated state. Do- mestic animals will readily feed and fatten upon it. Parsnip wine, if made properly, is very exhilarating and refreshing, having somewhat the flavour of Madeira. There is a plant called Silver Weed, the flavour of which is similar to that of the parsnip ; it grows in many parts of Scotland, and is often eaten there. 0[pat 19G PARJ Parson’s Nose.—A name by which the extreme end of the tail of poultry is sometimes known, originating in the days when wealthy pluralists grew fat, thus giving an appearance to their noses similar to this part of the fowl; and undoubtedly the name was originally given in derision. Partridge.—Some kind or other of this bird is found nearly all over the world. The English is the best for eating, and is much finer than the French, which latter is known by the redness of its legs. It is a sportsman’s bird, and welcome to the table. The birds pair, after contests of great severity among the males in the presence of the hens, who take the conquerors as their mates. Both birds are devoted parents, the male assisting in ob- taining the ants’ eggs and other articles of food with which the young at first are fed; later on, like the adults, they feed on grubs and slugs till the autumn, when the gleanings in the corn stubble supply their wants. The young remain with the old birds, and these coveys attach themselves to par- ticular fields or places, returning to them even after having been frightened away. Growing corn is a favourite resort for these birds, affording cover for the young; in the open grass and in the stubble it is very difficult to detect them, so closely do they sit, and so well does the colour of their plumage blend with their surroundings. The rising flight, however, of the partridge is accompanied by its characteristic “ whur.” In the winter they resort to upland pastures, water meadows, and coppices. The partridge shares with its relation, the ir v.’ing, the art of simulating injury to deceive intnu.ors as to the location of the brood. Pate de Foie Gras.—This world-renowned deli- 4f PAT 197 i'A'J’ cacy is made from the fat livers of geese. Alsace had long been celebrated for its fat goose livers, covered with clarified butter, enclosed in earthen pipkins, and called ‘‘ terrines,” when, in the latter half of the last century. Marshal de Contades was appointed military governor there. He arrived at Strasburg with a Norman cook named Close, as one of his household, and he was the first wdio trans- formed the “terrines” into pies, by substituting pie crust for the earthen jars. The geese wdiose livers are destined to form pate de foie gras are fed three times a day on maize, a spoonful of poppy oil being added after the twenty-first day. Water, always containing a certain proportion of sweet wort from the breweries, is freely given to them. After forty- two days of this treatment the goose weighs about sixteen pounds. It is then considered fat enough to be killed, and the liver is generally found to weigh thirty-two ounces. These livers are re- peatedly washed in different waters, then parboiled, trimmed, and cut in half. Six livers are generally included in each pie, of which one and a half are beaten in a mortar with bacon, shalots, mushrooms and parsley, and pressed through a sieve ; this mixture is then boiled into a forcemeat. The other half livers are interlarded with Perigord truffles, cut in dice at the bottom of the pie, a layer of truffles comes next, and then a layer of forcemeat. Thus the pie is filled up, covered with crust and baked. After baking, the crust is raised, and a large glass of Madeira poured into it ; it is then hermeticallj'' closed and packed for export. Pate de foie gras is made at a few towns in the south of Prance as well as Strasburg, but Alsace still maintains its pre- minence. The stories of the cruel treatment of11)8 patJ [pea the geese during the time of fattening have long since been proved to be apocryphal. Nothing of a special character is done to them beyond high feeding, which they apparently do not mind. Patience.—A vegetable cooked and eaten with meat like spinach. It has a specially mild flavour, with a slight acidity like sorrel leaves. It is easily cultivated and very productive, but not so much used now as formerlv. Pea—.One of the most common, but one of the most favourite vegetables, not only in the United Kingdom, but also in nearly every country of the world. It is, perhaps, the oldest known vegetable, and existed in pre-historic times, peas having been found in the Swiss lake dwellings of the bronze period. They were certainly known before the Christian era, as Theophrastus spoke of pisum sativum, the garden pea; and as the word “pisum,” or its equivalent, occurs in the Albanian tongue, as well as in Latin, it is supposed that the Aryans knew it well, and that it was brought by them into Greece and Italy, in which countries it is largely cultivated up to the present day. There is a Kussian variety, which is sent dried into this country, similar to that grown in France, and preserved in tins for export. The three principal kinds of pea are the common pea, the garden pea, and the sugar pea.—{See Sugar Pea.) Peach.—A fruit highly esteemed for dessert, greatly resembling the nectarine (which see). Peaches are usually classed as of two kinds, the cling-stone, or firm-fleshed peaches, and the melters, which are as soft and juicy as the mellowest apricot. In this country the peach tree is trained to grow up walls with a southern aspect, and some-pea] 199 [pea times it is grown under glass, the fruit requiring much light and heat to bring it to perfection. Peaches grow in great abundance in the Channel Islands, and are often so plentiful there that great numbers of them are thrown aside for the domestic quadrupeds to feed upon. A large number of peaches are sent up to London from Jersey and Guernsey, but the best in our markets are those “forced” by Kentish nurserymen, which is proved by the fact that at Covent Garden the ordinary prices ranged from four shillings to twelve shillings, while specially fine peaches from Bexley Heath, Kent, realised twenty-four shillings per dozen, at the same market, and in the same w^eek. Pliny tells us that in the first century of the Christian era, peaches were sold in Kome at a price corresponding to eleven pounds thirteen shillings and fourpence of our money per dozen. The peach tree has been found growing wild in various parts of Asiatic Turkey, but the Komans originally introduced it into Italy from Persia, and hence they called the tree Persica. Among the French it was originally called Persier, and afterwards Pecher, and Peche. These names were all derived from the name of the country whence it originally came, and our word peach is derived from them. Peacock.—A fowl of the pheasant kind, which is well known for the remarkable beauty of its tail feathers. These are of great length, and the bird can expand them into a fan when it wishes to display their beauty. The peacock has a curious dislike to the young of its own kind until the feathers of the crown come out, and kills them by a blow with its bill on the top of their heads. To prevent this the hen keeps them out of its way tillthey are old enough to take care of themselves. In olden times the peacock came next in importance to the boar’s head in English Christmas fare. Some- times the peacock’s skin, with its plumage adhering to it, was sewn on to the peacock after it was cooked, and so sent up to table. Sometimes the whole body of the peacock was covered with leaf gold, and a piece of cotton, saturated with spirits, placed in its beak, and lighted before carving. The peacock, which an old author called “food for lovers and meat for lords,” was stuffed with sj)ices and sweet herbs, basted with yolk of egg, and served up with plenty of gravy. The honour of bringing the peacock to table was reserved for the lady guests most distinguished for birth or beauty. The latest instance of peacock eating on record was at a dinner given by the Governor of Grenada to the Duke of Clarence, afterwards our King William IV. Pear.— This fruit has a rind and core like the apple, and is divided into three classes, according to the use for which they are most suited, namely, for dessert, for making perry, and for stewing. The large, juicj^ kinds, such as the “Jargonelle” and the “ King William,” are the kinds most highly prized for dessert; but there is a small, yet juicy variety, which is eaten raw like other common fruit. Many kinds are used for making perry which would be unsuitable for dessert or stewing; for the latter process, hard pears only are used, to which a few cloves are added for flavouring. The pear tree originally grew wild in Europe and w^estern Asia, and has occasionally been met with in the south of England. It was cultivated among the Greeks and Eomans, and is often mentioned by the old authors[pep 201 PEM] of those countries. Up to the present century, most of the cultivated pears had been brought into England from France; hut after the peace of 1815, new and superior varieties were introduced from Belgium, where special attention had long been given to their cultivation. These were first planted hi the grounds of Downton Castle, Herefordshire, and thence have been dispersed all over the country. The fruit of the pear is more elongated than the apple, at the end growing next to the tree, and varies greatly in size and quality. Some kinds of pear are no larger than a fresh gathered fig, others are almost as large as a cocoanut; some are mealy, like the kind of banana usually imported into this country ; others are soft and juicy ; while others again are as hard as the hardest apple. Pears will not keep so well as apples, the small, juicy kinds especially begin to decay very speedily after they have fully ripened. Pemmican.—An article of food largely employed by all engaged in hunting animals for their skins in the Hudson’s Bay Territory and other parts of North America. It is considered an indispensable item in the supplies provided for the sustenance of Arctic voyagers. Pemmican is made of lean meat thoroughly dried till all moisture is expelled ; it is then powdered, and mixed up with melted fat or suet; sometimes it is flavoured with currants and SUgSiT. Pepper,—Pepper is a pungent, aromatic condi- ment, largely consumed with many kinds of meat and vegetable. There are several kinds of pepper in use, the principal being the white and the black. Both are procured from the seed of a small shrub which grows at Malabar and various parts of India.pep] 202 [per The sole difference between the two is that in white pepper the outer husk of the seed is removed; and as that can be done only with the best kinds, it forms an additional security that the pepper is good. Pepper was known to the ancient Greeks, and so highly was it thought of in the early centuries of the Christian Era that w^hen Alaric besieged Eome in 408 A.D., he included in the ransom three thousand pounds of pepper.—{See Cayenne and Long Pepper.) Pepper Pot.—A dish of West Indian origin. It consists of pieces of pickled pork or bacon, stewed in beef or mutton stock, with an addition of lobsters or crabs, vegetables, rice, herbs, and sometimes dumplings. West Indian pickles, chili vinegar, cayenne, and other peppers are added to make it hot, and to this quality it owes its name. Various things may be included in this dish, as it is intended to be a mixture of fish, flesh, and fowl, with pulse and other vegetables. Perch.—This fish does not appear on the dinner- table so often as it deserves. The flesh is as firm as that of the sole, though not quite so rich. It is found in nearly all the British rivers and lakes, as well as throughout the countries of Europe situated in the temperate zone. It is very voracious, and, unlike most fresh-water fish of prey, it is gregarious. From the beginning of May to the middle of July is considered the best season to angle for it. Periwinkle.—This species of the family T^lr- hidince, called pin-j^atches on the Suffolk coast, abounds in rocky j^laces in the British seas, and is used as food, finding its w^ay occasionally to the tea- table, or may be the pickle-jar ; but it is not con- sidered very digestible. The Swedish peasantsPERj [PHE belieYe that, when periwinkles creejj high up the rocks, a storm from the south is indicated. The Norwegians, on the contrary, augur that when they ascend the strand, a land wind is approaching. Perry.—A beverage made from pears in the same way as cider is made from apples, but generally considered inferior to it. Perry only contains about seven per cent, of alcohol, but will kee^D for three or four years in well-made casks, or longer if stored in bottles. It is, however, quickly spoiled by carriage from place to place. Pliny speaks of its having been made in Italy by the ancient Eomans, but at the present day its manufacture is chiefly carried on in Herefordshire and the surrounding counties, small quantities being also made in Devonshire. The pears best suited for making perry are those wEich would be too hard, sour and harsh for eating. Pheasant.—This beautiful bird is as delicate in flavour as it is handsome in apj)earance. Its flesh is rightly esteemed a dainty; and old physicians, when discoursing upon the wholesome qualities of different viands, always extol this bird. Pioast pheasant is, indeed, a dish fit “ to set before a king.” The bird derives its name from the river Phasis, in Asia Minor, whence it was introduced into Europe. In England it has long been acclima- tised, and is reared by gamekeepers as much for their masters’ sport as for their tables. It is very common in France, and is so jorolific that it is an annoyance to the farmers. It makes its nest on the ground, yet loves to perch at night on trees, especially on the spreading branches of the larch. Poachers are well aware of this habit, and visit the larches first when on their marauding excursions. It is estimated that three hundred and fifty thousand[pic 204 Picl pheasants are annually killed in Great Britain; and although they usually command high prices, never- theless, from tens of thousands being shot at the commencement of the season and sent to market in the course of a few days, they must then be sold for what they will fetch, and the buyer for a large London restaurant has been known to purchase two hundred pheasants for a shilling each. Pickles.—Pickles are made from various kinds of vegetables, either raw or boiled previous to pickling. These are either steeped in cold vinegar or else have hot vinegar poured over them. Pickles promote digestion, are very cooling in hot weather, and are beneficial, excepting to those with whom the acidity of vinegar does not agree. The strongest white wine vinegar should always be used for pickling, and, if heated, it must not be allowed to boil, or its strength will evaporate. In the process of manufacture pickles should be kept below the sur- face of the vinegar, or they will not keep well; and the same precaution should be observed after a bottle or jar is opened. There are various kinds of pickle, principally divided into clear and thick. The former are made with vinegar only; the latter are thickened with mustard, turmeric and other ingredients. Indian pickles contain tropical fruits, and are generally of a somewhat sweet flavour. West Indian pickles are noted for their extreme pungency, and it is difficult for any beside those accustomed to their use to distinguish their various flavours. Pickling.—Pickle is derived from the Dutch word 'pekcl-‘lyt'inc, and pickling means the preserving of any food by steeping it in brine or dissolved salt. With most meats this is accomplished by placing205 'pig riE] them in a pickle-tub, ami covering them with salt, which their own moisture is sufficient to dissolve. Another way is to rub a mixture of various salts, and occasionally sugar, into the meat at intervals until the pickling is completed. The process of pickling varies, not only in different countries but also in different parts of the same country. Pie.—An admixture of meat and potatoes or fruit, covered with a paste and baked. The most familiar are steak and kidney, veal and ham, game, pigeon, and fruit. Of the varieties of pies there is no end, and the celebrated cook, Soyer, could not enumerate them. The most ancient form of pie is the pasty, which is made without a dish, and is still popular in Cornwall. Pig. —The pig is almost indifferent as to the kind or quality of the food it eats. Though it is nothing like an epicure, it will give the preference to a carrot, or other succulent plant, and when this is consumed, it will turn, with equal gusto, to some vile refuse disdained by other animals. This glut- tony, and its slovenly habits, make it particularly liable to disease, hence it has earned the pseudonym of ‘‘ unclean animal,” and hence also probably was the reason that in the Mosaic law the use of pig’s flesh was forbidden. Putting aside these unpleasant characteristics, it proves itself in domestic economy one of the most useful and profitable animals ; every part of its flesh is employed for food, fresh, salted or dried. Even the viscera are useful; the skin, the hair, and the fat also are all made to serve some useful purpose. Though its intellectual quali- ties are disj)uted, we have heard of, and actually seen, performing pigs ; moreover, in France, they become a useful companion to the truffle hunter.pig] 20G [pig The pig scents the truffles through the ground, there being no other indication of its presence than the smell, begins to dig for it with its snout, and if it is not quickly disposed of, it shows at least enough in- telligence to eat it itself. The best breeds of the domestic pig are the Berkshire, Essex, York and Cumberland. The black pig is considered by breeders a most eligible specimen, because of the firmness of its skin and its freedom from cutaneous diseases. {See Pork.) Pigeon.—The many varieties of this bird are highly esteemed as an article of food. It is pre- pared for the table in a great number of ways, the most common being roast, boiled, or in a pie. All the varieties of pigeons come from one species, the wild pigeon, or stock dove, and like them, the male and female once mated, continue faithful to each other year after year ; a fact which was noted by Pliny and other ancient writers. Pigeons are very prolific, beginning to breed at the age of nine months, and continuing to do so every month, except in veiy cold weather. Domesticated pigeons now present many varieties; amongst these are the pouter, known by the enormous size of its crop ; the trumpeter, whose note imitates that of the trumpet; the tumbler, famous for its power on the wing, and its curious propensity of turning summersaults while flying; the runt, which is the largest variety; the nun, which is remarkable for the markings on its feathers, resembling a nun’s habit; the king- tail, found in the West Indies, and famed for the delicacy of its flesh ; the carrier, whose marvellous exploits in finding its way home from long distances have been utilised for carrying messages, from the days when it bore home the names of the winners of207 pig] [PIK the Olympian games to the present time, when it carries back those of the winners at many of our regattas, and it proved itself of still greater im- portance during the siege of Paris. Pig’s Cheek.—This is the name given to half the head. Pig’s cheek is almost always salted, but is sometimes roasted fresh. It is often made into brawn or collared, and can then be flavoured with truffles or herbs. It is an excellent dish for break- fast or luncheon. Pig’s Fry,—This is the name given collectively to the heart, liver, lights and other interior parts of the pig. It ought to be used soon after the pig is killed. In consequence of pigs not being reared in London, and of the fry being too rich a dish, it is becoming in the Metropolis almost obsolete. In the country, where there is a greater facility for having it fresh, and where farmers, as a rule, are blessed with healthier digestive organs, it remains a favourite food, when fried with the addition of onions. Pig’s Pettitoes,—These are the feet of the pig, prepared for cooking. They are not often used now as a separate dish, as the fore feet are usually included in the joint called the hand of pork. Petti- toes are generally stewei split, in a thick gravy, with the minced heart and liver, a little bacon, onions and a few herbs. They are extremely nutritious, and, if well stewed, easily digested. Pigs’ feet are vulgarly called “ trotters,” and were at one time boiled, and when cold, sold in the streets, principally by old women, who hawked them in baskets. This custom is now however dying out. Pike.—Sometimes called the fresh-water shark by reason of its voracity. It is pretty general in nearly all the European lakes and rivers, more es-[pin pil] ‘JOB pecially those of the north. The size to which it sometimes attains is little less than astounding; in Lapland and Kussia, for instance, pike have been caught eight feet in length. Their voracity is so great that instances have been known where small animals went to the water to drink, and were dragged by the fish under the surface and drowned; and when the animal w^as the stronger, the fish clinging to its hold has been thrown to the land and so captured. Pilau.—This is the national dish of Turkey, and is largely eaten throughout the East. It consists of a jointed chicken, or mutton cutlets, fried, with an addition of chopped onions, sliced mangoes, and seasoning, stewed in butter. All this is placed on a dish of boiled rice, and covered mth the same, or with a sauce, and garnished with hard-boiled eggs cut in half. Pilchard.—A fish belonging to the same class as the herring, which it very much resembles in size and appearance, only the pilchard is somewhat thicker than the herring. On the coasts of Devon and Cornwall, the pilchard is caught in such great numbers that large quantities of them are thrown upon the land for manujre. When cooked soon after they are taken out of the sea, the flavour is much like that of the herring, but this fish is not so highly esteemed as it deserves to be. It would be more extensively used as a light and nutritious article of diet if the trade in it were properly developed. Pilchards have been preserved in oil, and packed in tins like sardines, as a very palatable relish. Pine Apple.—This fruit presents a very noble appearance, and possesses a most delicate and de- licious flavour. It is expensive, and highly esteemed for dessert in the upper circles of society. It grows209 pinJ [pip wild in South America, in many of the West Indian islands, and in some of the hot regions of Asia and Africa. In its wild state it generally grows near the sea-shore, thriving best in a light, sandy soil, under an equable heat- During the Burmese War the British troops found the woods around Eangoon abounding with pine-apples. In the Malay islands they grow to an enormous size. The pine- apple was first brought to Europe from South America about the middle of the seventeenth century, and there is a celebrated painting, formerly in Horace Walpole’s collection, which represents Charles II. receiving from Rose, his gardener, the first which arrived here. We may conclude that the fruit long continued rare in England, even at the tables of the nobility, for w^e find it recorded in a letter, wHtten by Lady Mary Wortley Montagu, in 1716, that she had met with pine-aiDples at the table of the Elector of Hanover, and she then adds that she had never seen this fruit before. It is now extensively cultivated in this country, and is grown in large glass conservatories, commonly to a weight of eight pounds ; but some have been known to weigh from thirteen to fourteen pounds each. It is soDietimes made into marmalade and jam, or pre- served in syrup hermetically sealed in tins or bottles. Pintail (also called Sea Pheasant).—A hand- some migratory bird, belonging to the same family as the duck, deriving its name from its pointed tail. It is about equal in size to the wild duck, and, though not so popular, yet, wherever knowm, it is very highly esteemed for the table. It is commonly found on the coasts of Germany, Holland, Norfolk, and Lincolnshire. Pippin.—Is a kind of apple, the name beingPisj 210 [PLA derived from the “pip,” or seed “in” the apple. The Golden pippin and Eibstone pippin are both famous varieties of apple. It was long supposed that the Kibstone pippin was an English variety of apple originally produced at Ribstone Hall, in York- shire ; but it has now been j)roved that it was brought from Normandy to that locality at the beginning of the last century. Normandy pippins are dried apples, preserved for winter use. When stewed, or baked in a dish, with an abundance of thin syrup, they make a fine-flavoured fruit, very acceptable, when fresh fruit is scarce, for general table purposes, for dessert, pies, or for an accompani- ment to blancmanges and other sweet dishes. Pistachio Nuts.—These grow on a tree which is a native of Western Asia, and now also cultivated in Sicily, Spain and the south of France. Pliny tells us that “ pistachia” nuts were first brought to Rome by Vitellus, the governor of Syria, in the reign of the Emperor Tiberius, and those brought from Asia Minor are still superior to those grown in Europe. Pistachio nuts are similar to the filbert in size and shape, but the kernel is of a pale green colour, covered with a yellow or reddish skin. They require to be blanched and peeled, like almonds, before being used. They have a delicate, grateful flavour, sweeter and more oily than the sweet almond. They are used for a variety of culinary purposes, especially in ragouts, and other made dishes. Plaice. — A flat fish belonging to the same natural order as the sole, flounder and turbot. It varies greatly in quality and size, and although gene- rally considered inferior in flavour to the sole, yet the best qualities when well cooked might easily be mistaken for sole. The fish sold cooked in small211 PL a] IPJ^O pieces at the fried-fish shops of our Metropolis and other large towns is generally either plaice or haddock. The plaice is not so long in proportion to its breadth as the sole, and often weighs nearly fifteen pounds. Plaice are the cheapest and most abundant of all the flat-fish brought to our markets, but keep better than fish of a richer quality. They are very abundant on all the English coasts, and in both the Mediterranean and Baltic seas, hut the best brought into our markets are the Downs, or Dover plaice, which are caught on the Downs, or flats, between Hast- ings and Dover. Plantain.—This fruit, which is called Adam’s apple, shtires with the shaddock the claim of having been the forbidden fruit. It very closely resembles the banana in appearance and use, but when fully ripe it is more luscious, yet less agreeable in flavour. Dampier calls it, ‘‘ The king of all fruit,” as in the whole vegetable world there are but few plants ajDjflied to so great a variety of uses. A portion of ground in the tropics, covered with j)lantains, will produce food sufficient to feed twenty-five times the number of persons that could be fed upon the wheat grown in this country on a plot of equal size. The plantain is a native of the East Indies, but it is now cultivated in all tropical and sub-tropical parts of the globe. When boiled, and beaten in a mortar, it forms a common food among the negroes of the West Indies. Plantains baked in their skins, or sliced and fried in butter, with powdered sugar over them, are favourite dishes in some tropical countries. This fruit is also more or less appreciated in England for dessert. Plover, This bird is supposed to have derived p21‘2 rLu] [PLU its name from the Latin \vord j)luvla, meaning rain, in consequence of its fondness for being on the wing in rainy weather. It is a good-eating bird, some- what like wmodcock, generally cooked before the fire, and served up on toast. The eggs are collected in spring, and are considered a delicacy of great nutritive value for invalids, being very easy of diges- tion. Several species are known, having similar nesting habits, gregarious life, special features of eye and bill, with the peculiar dwarfing, and in ' some cases absence, of the hind toe. The bird commonly known as the plover is the lapwing or peewit, whose whistle or cry, and aerial evolutions in the gloaming are sure to draw attention in the summer. Bred on the mountains, it seeks the meadows and* sea-shore in large flocks, when able to take wing, feeding in the late summer in the newly cleared grain fields, and remaining on^ the coast during the wdnter. Scarcely‘any nest is made by the hens, the four eggs being laid in furrows or other depression of the ground, on commons, heaths or moors. The artifices 'of this bird to prevent discovery of her nest are very curious. It will pretend to be injured and unable to escape, thus leading anyone likely to discover its nest to pursue it, and when it has led the pursuer away, it will rise on the wdng and return home. Pluck.—This is the heart, liver and lights of an animal. Plum Pudding.—Is an almost invariable accom- paniment of an English Christmas dinner, and has become so highly esteemed in this country that the phrase, “ Boast beef and plum pudding of old Eng- land,” has passed into a familiar proverb. In olden times plum pottage was always served with the firstpoa] 213 [POL course of an English Christmas dinner. Beef or mutton were boiled in broth thickened with brown bread, and when this was half-boiled, raisins, cur- rants, prunes, cloves, mace and ginger were added; and when all these were thoroughly boiled together it was sent to table to be served with the best meats. Plum broth figures as an item of Christmas fare in “Poor Eobin’s Almanack ” for 1750; and luscious plum porridge is named as having been served at the table of the King’s chaplain in 1801, which is the last record we find of this use of plum porridge. Addison, in his “ Tatler,” calls it “ plum pudding or plum porridge.” The use of plum iDudding is not confined to Christmas time, but forms a favourite second course in English households when garden fruits are scarce. Poaching,—A special method of cooking eggs, in which the shell is first broken, and then the egg is slipped into a frying pan of boiling water or fat, care being taken not to break the yolk. This being rather difficult, it is best to use a utensil called a poacher, which consists of a stand inserted in a saucepan, with cups placed round it to hold the eggs. Poached eggs are generally served on toast, but they can be eaten with bacon, minced beef and several made dishes. Poele.—Is a kind of rich gravy which is used instead of water for boiling various meats. It is usually flavoured with onions, spices and herbs ; being designed to make everything boiled in it look white, and to impart a relishing taste, it is speci- ally used for fowls, turkeys and sweetbreads. Polenta.—A preparation of Indian corn was introduced into England under this name not many years ago. The flour of Indian corn is not quite so[pom 214 pomJ nutritious as wheat, but it is lighter and better suited for making custards, blanc manges, puddings and other sweets. Among the many varieties of this corn, maize is one of the most plentiful; and it is from this that “mush,” one of the principal American dishes, is prepared. Maize flour is also made into biscuits, and in some settlements into bread. Maize grows extensively in Asia and Africa, as well as in America; large fields of it may also he seen in the south of Germany. Pomegranate.—This fruit is greatly prized in the countries where it is grown. The juicy iDulp is very refreshing, and possesses great thirst-quenching properties in an exceedingly pleasant form. The fresh fruit is larger than an orange, red in colour, and the pulp encloses numerous small seeds. Burnes, the traveller, describes a kind of pome- granate, cultivated in gardens under the hills near the Cabul river, the fruit of which contains no seeds. When brought over to this country, the pulp has much diminished in quantity and deteriorated in quality, by the shrinking of the outer rind. The pomegranate is a native of North Africa, and of the mountainous regions from the Caucasus to the Himalayas. Its leaves are of a shining, dark green colour ; and its large flowers are a beautiful crimson. It was brought to Eome from Carthage, and, there- fore, was called by the Komans jmnica (Carthage), or punicmn malum (Carthaginian apple), and hence we have derived its botanical name of imnica. The outer rind of the fruit is used in medicine as an astringent, and the bark of the root is used as an anthelmintic. Pompelmoose.—{See Shaddock.) Pope or Ruffe.—A fish which very much re-PQP] 215 [poR sembles the perch in size, appearance and flavour. It is very common in the rivers, lakes and canals of England, aud when cooked is of a good flavour: the flesh is firm and delicate. Pope’s Eye.—The name given to a gland sur- rounded with fat, which is found in the centre of a leg of mutton or pork. In appearance it resembles a small circle of fat. Poppy Seed.—Although the capsule containing the poppy seeds is the source whence opium is derived, yet there is but little opium in the seeds themselves. These seeds have a sweet taste, and are used by confectioners in making some kinds of sweetmeats. In Germany they are boiled with milk and bitter almonds to make a soup, and are also sprinkled over some of their loaves. An oil obtained by pressure from poppy seeds is used for lubri- cating purposes, and does not turn rancid so quickly as olive oil. Half the oil used in France for culinary and dietetic purposes is obtained from the poppy seed. The oil of poppy seed is imported into this country from India in considerable quanti- ties. Pork.—This is the flesh of the pig, and is one of the fattest and most succulent of meats. It is generally roasted, when the skin, called “ crack- ling,” is a favourite part. Pork, when fresh, is too fat to be eaten boiled, but, when salted, it is often thus cooked and eaten by itself or with drier meats. Boiled pork and beans is the national dish of the United States. When pork is salted and cured, it is called bacon. The prejudice against pork as an article of food is probably due to the fact that the pig is more liable to disease than oxen or sheep, in consequence of its fondness for unwhole-PORj 210 [POR some food ; but this may be guarded against l)y care in feeding them.—{See Pig and the different joints.) Pork Chops.—These are cut from the loin and neck, and are sometimes prepared as cutlets. They form a delicious dish for those with whom they do not disagree; but doleful stories are told of their effects if eaten late at night. A very amusing drawing by Tom Hood depicts the nightmare of a lover of roast pork, who is represented lying flat on his- back, with a monster pig seated on his chest, and underneath is written the legend, “ I supped on pork chops.” Porridge.—Is made by boiling the coarse, or medium, oatmeal in water, till it acquires a consist- ence somewhat thicker than that of ordinary gruel. Where milk is very plentiful the oatmeal is some- times boiled in milk instead of water, and sometimes sour milk is used for the purpose. When made with water, milk is usually added to the porridge, which is also frequently sweetened with either sugar or treacle. Porridge is occasionally taken with the addition of a little beer, and in some instances,.we have known beer, milk and treacle to be all mixed together in the same dish of porridge. When thoroughly cooked, and not too thick, porridge is easily digested, and forms a very substantial and nourishing food, containing a large proportion of the phosphates so useful in making bone. It was formerly the chief food of the Scottish peasantry, but in latter years their diet has become more varied; yet they still give it as the first dish for the breakfast of gioving children, and in consequence we seldom see the young folks in Scotland with either bandy legs or broken teeth. Porridge is now made much more[pot PORJ 217 ■quickly from ‘‘toIIgcI outs,” instead of oatmeal. {See Oatmeal.) VoY!t.—{See Spanish Wines.) Porter.—{See Stout.) Potato.—This vegetable is now universally eaten throughout the civilised world; indeed, it ranks second to bread only as a staple article of food. Besides being cooked as a vegetable, a flour,” or •‘‘farina,” is prepared from potatoes, which may he used in making puddings or gruel. Potato-starch is often used to adulterate arrowroot; when slightly moistened and heated, it is converted into “dextrin,” or “British gum.” In Saxony, a kind of cheese is made of cold boiled potatoes beaten up wdth sour milk. Potatoes can be preserved in various ways: by being packed in a trench lined and covered with straw, by being placed in an ice-house, or by being buried in the earth after their eyes have been extracted. There are many varieties of the potato, popularly known under the names of “ Eegents,” •“Elphinstones,” “Flowerballs,” “Giant Seedlings,” “ Champions,” “ Kidneys,” &c. ; some of them are mealy, some waxy, some watery, and some close in texture ; some are white, others yellow or red, the latter colour in some cases extends not only to the skin, but also to the interior of the potato ; they all possess more or less nutritive qualities. The potato is the tuber of a small plant of the Solanum genus, and out of more than six hundred species, only a few have this appendage, which is a thickening of the underground shoots, and thus differs in char- acter from a true root. Its size is greatly increased by earthing over the growing plant; when this is not done the tuber often remains comparatively small. Potatoes were discovered by the SpaniardsPOT j *218 [ por in the early part of the sixteenth century, at Quito, a town in South America, near the equator. They were brought to Spain by a monk named Hierony- mus Cardan, and in 1563 were brought to England by the celebrated navigator, John Hawkins. Ac- cording to Banks, however, this was the sweet potato (which see), an entirely different plant. In 1586, Sir Walter Ealeigh planted potatoes on his estate at Youghal, near Cork, and they have been extensively cultivated in Ireland ever since. It took some time to persuade Europeans to look upon the potato as an article of food; and prejudice was formerly heightened by the fruit above the ground being mistaken for the root, or rather tuber. This occurred in Germany, where it nearly caused a rebellion, even so late as the close of the last cen- tury. When Count Eumford distributed soup to the poor of Munich, he had to conceal from them that it was thickened with potatoes, so strong was their prejudice against this useful vegetable. Pot-au-Feu.—This is one of the most popular household institutions in France, especially amongst the peasantry, and deserves to be better known in other countries. It is a soup made from scraps of all kinds which have been left from the preparation of other dishes. These scraps are put into an earthenware pot placed near the fire, and to them is added gravy, or the water in which meat or veget- ables have been boiled, with seasonings of various kinds. These ingredients provide an excellent soup which can always be ready at a few minutes’ notice. This is the original w*ay of making pot-au-feu, but it may be made with fresh meat, vegetables and herbs, and then it comes to table as a broth, containing an unusually large proportion of meat.POT 219 [PRE Potting.—Almost any kind of meat, fish, or fowl may be potted, and can be kept in this form for a considerable time if the air be effectually excluded. Viands to be potted are previously cooked and then cut into small pieces ; sometimes they are pounded in a mortar with sufficient of their own gravy to keep them moist; they should always be carefully seasoned, and not minced or pounded till perfectly cold. When birds of any kind are potted, the meat should be mixed with bacon or ham ready dressed, with a seasoning of nutmeg, cayenne, and powdered bayleaf; the meat is packed closely in a potting dish, a layer of melted butter or fat being poured over the whole to exclude the air ; lastly, the filled jars are gently heated for a short time, and then set aside to cool. Poultry.—This is the name given collectively to all domesticated birds used for food, including the chicken, duck, goose, turkey, guinea fowl, etc. The North of France and Pomerania excel most countries in poultry-keeping, which there is not unfrequently the leading object of husbandry, and the traffic in the products of the poultry-yard is very consider- able. Prawn.—The prawn is a crustaceous animal, similar to, but larger than, the shrimp. It is found on all the coasts of Britain, especially in rocky parts, and near sandy shores. The common prawn is from three to four inches in length, has large round eyes, and its antennae are half as long again as its body. When living, its colour is a bright grey, spotted and lined with dark purplish grey; after boiling, however, it has a pale red colour. Preserves.—These form a large portion of the “ stock-in-trade ’’of a good and economical house-pm] 220 [pRi keeper, and are, when fresh fruits cannot he had, a most efficient substitute. In preserving, the fruit should be thoroughly boiled for a long time in a saucepan or stewpan, wdthout a lid, and at least three-quarters of a pound of sugar should be allowed to every pound of fruit (very acid fruits requiring more), and whilst boiling, the preserve must be carefully skimmed. All kinds of fruit are useful for preserving, and the great art consists in select- ing the fruit just at the right time, that is, when fully matured, hut not over-ripe ; otherwise, the preserve will not keep well. Enamelled vessels only should he used, as, if made in copper, tin or iron saucepans, there is danger of getting verdigris or the metallic oxides into the preserves. When finished, preserves should stand all night in the jars or bottles before being covered down ; then, a piece of wdiite tissue paper, cut to size, and dipped in brandy, should be first placed over them, and finally a piece of double paper or parchment is tied firmly over the top of the jar. Great care must be taken to exclude the air, as on this depends the keeping of the preserves. Prickly Pear.—Also called Indian fig. It is a pleasant, wholesome, juicy fruit, imparting a peculiar cool sensation to the palate, and is largely used for food in the countries where it grows. It is pear-shaped, having in general clusters of prickles all round it, but there is one variety which has a smooth skin. It grows on a kind of cactus, having the branching stems peculiar to that species of plant, with flat, round, or convex growths, joined together, end on end, upon the stems. It is a native of the hot, drv districts of India and South America, and ’ «/ has been introduced into Southern Euroj)e, North221 PUD PliUj Africa, and the Canary Islands. It grows well on rocks, and spreads over expanses of volcanic sand and ashes, too arid for almost any other plant. The X^rickly pear will live in the open air in the south of England, but the fruit seldom ripens in this country. Primes.—This name, derived from the Erench, is given to preserved plums. They are not much used in cooking, although sometimes stewed, or made into tarts. Prunes are prepared by simply drying the fresh fruit, either in the sun or by artificial heat, and they will remain good for a long time. An infusion of them is used to flavour liqueurs, especially imitations of French brandy.—{See Plums.) Ptarmigan.—White grouse, or ptarmigan, are fond of high places, and are found in the most northerly X)arts of Europe, even as far north as Greenland. In our country they are found on some of the highest hills in the Hebrides and Orkneys, sometimes on those of Wales and Cumberland. They feed on the wild herbage of the hills, and this in a measure ac- counts for the slightly bitter, though not unpleasant, taste of the flesh. Its colour is ash or pale brown, and, like all grouse, differs from other kinds of game by having a bright scarlet skin above the eyes, with an appearance similar to eyebrows. It is rather smaller than the red grouse, generally weighing about half a pound. Those seen in our markets come mostly from Norway and Scotland. It frequents stony places, and broken ground covered with lichens, where it often can hardly be distinguished from the ground. One may even walk through a flock without discern- ing a single bird, their speckled coats so much re- sembling the colour of their surroundings. Ptarmigan for the table ought to be hung as long as possible. Padding.—Under this name is classed an ex-[PUM PUFj ‘22‘2 tensive variety of food, diversified in composition and general characteristics. Some are sweet and some are savoury; some are baked and some are boiled. Of all puddings the Christmas plum pud- ding stands in the most popular esteem throughout the country, but its appearance is not restricted to that season of the year, being often seen at the dinner-table in celebration of a birthday, and on many other occasions. The humble plain pudding is always boiled, and Yorkshire pudding is baked under meat. The light puddings of Suffolk, and the Sussex puddings find their votaries chiefly in their own counties. Puddings containing fruit are always boiled, but rice, tapioca and sago puddings are baked. The intestine of a pig, when stuffed with blood, fat, groats and spices, is called a black pudding; and when filled with milk, suet, onions, and herbs, it is called a white pudding. Peas pudding, made with split peas boiled till they can be mashed up into a paste, is often eaten with boiled salt pork. Puff Paste.—This is the paste used for pies, tarts, and tartlets. It is made of several degrees of richness, according to the purpose for which it is intended, but should be prepared with as little water as possible. The dough is rolled out, covered with portions of butter, lard, or dripping, then folded and rolled out again, this operation being repeated several times. When baked it is the lightest flaky material for holding meat, fruit, jam, or compotes. Pumpkin.—Also called Pompion, is the fruit of an annual plant of the same name which belongs to the gourd family. Pumpkins may be eaten raw, boiled as a vegetable, in soup, or made into pies, and the young shoots may be dressed like spinach, which they resemble. This fruit is largely con-[pun 223 PUX j Slimed by the Italian peasantry, but is not so much eaten here as the vegetable marrow and the melon. The pumpkin is of an oval shape and large size, specimens of the variety called the potiron, which grows in this country, having been known to weigh as much as 220 pounds, and those grown in the tropics are even larger. When ripe it has a thick, yellow skin, and the edible portion is of a yellowish- white colour, having a very firm consistence, and enclosing a large number of seeds. The iilant is supposed to be a native of the Levant, but its origin is not known with certainty. It grows in all warm climates, and in England it is cultivated in cucum- ber frames. Punch.—This renowned beverage owes its ori- gin to India, the name being derived from a Hindoo word meaning five, which refers to the number of in- gredients of which it was originally composed. Punch is made with various kinds of spirits, wine, and liqueurs, mixed together with the juice of fruit, spices, sugar, and water, and may be drunk either hot or cold. The methods of making punch are as nume- rous as the ingredients, and can be varied according to taste. Milk is sometimes used, and rum is fre- quently the principal spirit. The ingredients for rum punch are so opposite, that a French critic once called it a drink made of contradictions. The rum was used, he said, to make it strong, the water to make it weak, the lemon to make it sour, and the sugar to make it sweet. Punch is generally made in a china bowl, and ladled into the glasses when wanted. It was the favourite drink during the last and early part of the present century. It has been drunk on all sorts of festive occasions, and its praises have been the theme of countless songs and stories;[qua pur] 224 even now certain punches retain their celebrity, as “ Scotch,” “Norfolk,” and “ Milk Punch.” Puree.—Meat or vegetable made into a pulp, and reduced to the consistence of soup. Pulled Bread.—Is esteemed a choice morsel for eating with cheese, or with wine instead of biscuits. The crumb of an under-baked loaf is pulled out with the lingers in small jjieces while the bread is hot, these are then put into the oven again to bake till they become crisp, and of a delicate brown tint. The more irregular the pieces pulled ’ out of the loaf the better will be the pulled-bread after the second baking. Quail.—Is a small brown bird of the partridge tribe, unsocial in its habits, visiting England in the summer. Enormous numbers of these birds arrive on the shores of the Mediterranean, from Africa, to the extent of 100,000 in a single day, and are trapped and distributed thence throughout Europe, the flesh being delicate and much in de- mand for epicures. It was this bird that supplied • the Israelites with food in the desert, and in later Eoman times w^e hear of it, not only as used for food, but also from the sport obtained owing to the -pugnacity displayed by the males, who were backed one against the other. This practice is still main- tained by the Italians and Chinese, and the latter have a small species which they keep in cages, for the novel purpose of warming the hands of their t owners in winter. Quails feed at night on insects ' and seeds, but during the day they conceal them- selves and go to roost in the long grass. In autumn ' the birds return with their young (then about six ' weeks old) to southern climes, even as far as South . Africa.09 n Fqui qua] JjO Quarter of Lamb.—When lambs have grown to a large size they are divided in the same manner as sheep, but early in the season small lambs are cut up into “ quarters.” The forequarters contain a leg with one side of the neck and breast, while each hind quarter contains a leg and loin. As the season advances the quarter is divided into two parts, each of which is sold as a half-quarter of lamb. Quassia Cup.—This is a bitter tonic beverage, prepared, as its name implies, from an infusion of quassia chips, flavoured with orange peel, borage, and spices, duly sweetened and fortified with alcohol in some form. Quenelle.—xV kind of forcemeat originating with the French, consisting of meat of various kinds, combined with panada and udder (which see). Quince.—A yellowish-green fruit which much resembles the apple, some varieties being called “apple quinces,” while others are called “pear quinces,” because of their greater resemblance to the pear. Although their flavour is too harsh for eating raw, yet tarts, preserves, and marmalade may be made with them, and a little quince added to an apple pie will greatly improve its flavour. A single quince kept by itself sheds a pleasant aroma for some distance round, but if many are together in a close 'room they emit a sickly, disagreeable smell. The ancient Greeks made a preserve by boiling this fruit, with its branches and leaves, in honey or sweet wine. Botanists call the tree Pyrus Cyclonia, from Cydon in Crete, where the tree was found growing wild. It was also a native of Persia, and subsequently the city of Corinth became famous for the superior quinces grown in its neighbourhood. The tree bears large pink and white blossoms, and22G [RAD rab] is often used as a stock on whicli to graft superior kinds of pear. Formerly the quince was far more common than it is now, and Shakespeare mentions it in the line :— “ They call for dates, and quinces in the pasty Rabbit .—The rabbit is one of the most prolific animals, as well as one of the most destructive to erops. Its flesh is generally considered inferior to that of the hare, yet is preferred by some as having a more delicate flavour. It burrows in the ground, and if it once obtains possession of a district it is most difficult to drive it out. Some parts of Australia are infested with rabbits, which cause an immense loss to the colonists from the damage they do to the crops. In the Old World the rabbit is frequently domesticated, and tame rabbits are j^rized principally for their drooping ears, with other eccentricities of nature that are lu’ohably the result of domestication. This beauty is, however, a mere fancy, and adds nothing to their value as an article of food, although it may in some instances add to the value of their skins. Radish.— Several varieties are cultivated for salads, and as such they are highly esteemed. Some of the roots are long and tapering, others globular, the latter being commonly known as turnip radishes. The colour of the ordinary radish is white or red; there is, however, a black radish, which is long, and grows to a larger size than the others ; this is but little cultivated in England, as its flavour is too pungent for ordinary use; on the Continent, however, it is largely consumed by the poorer classes. The black radish is said to he a good remedy for whooping cough, and in Germany1 [rai rag] 227 it is used in the following manner;—after the top has been cut off, a hole is made in the radish, which is then filled with either treacle or honey ; after being allowed to stand a day or two, a tea- spoonful of the mixture is given two or three times a day. Ragout.—The French for stew or hash. Raised Crust. — This material is used for making meat and other pies which do not require a dish. It consists of flour mixed into a stiff paste with boiling water, lard, and equal quantities of dripping and butter ; when nearly cold it can be rolled out, and formed into the shape required. Raised crust when baked is a very close, but not tough, paste, which will retain its shape, and pre- vent moisture from running out of the interior. The celebrated “ Melton Mowbray ” pies are always made with raised crust. Raisins.—Are extensively used in this country, especially as a winter fruit for puddings, mince pies, and dessert. They are sometimes called plums, but have nothing in common with the jolums grown in our orchards, as they are in reality a kind of grape dried, the word raisin being, in fact, the same as the French word for grape. The plum pudding so prominent at the Christmas dinner-table of every Englishman is made with these plums, or raisins. The best raisins come from Spain and Asiatic Turkey, and more than ten years ago we imported upwards of thirty-two thousand tons in one year. The bunches of grapes when gathered are hung on lines to dry, subsequently dipped in a liquid containing alkali dissolved in water with olive oil and salt, then laid on wicker-work hurdles to drain, and remain exposed to the sun about a fortnight longer to dry :[rat ram] 228 they are then plucked from their stalks and packed in boxes for export. Sultana raisins are a grape without seed, not in general so sweet as other kinds, hut preferred by some because they do not require stoning. Muscatels, or “ Eaisihs of the Sun,” as the natives call them, are dried by partially cutting through the stalk by which the bunches are attached to the vine, and allowing the fruit to remain upon the vine to shrivel up before being gathered ; they are chiefly used as a fruit for dessert in the winter months. Eaisin wine is a common kind of home- made wine prepared from raisins. Ramekins.—These are made of scraped cheese with an equal quantity of butter, yolk of egg, and the crumb of French bread soaked in cream, baked in a Dutch oven. Raspberry.—There are two kinds of rasiDberries, the white and the red; both are used for dessert, but the latter is preferred for jams, tarts, puddings, or syrup. The raspberry has an aromatic flavour, and when prepared with sugar, a very refreshing taste. In Scotland and Germany it grows wild, so abundantly in the latter country that, being much cheaper than the cultivated fruit, it becomes a marketable article. Raspberry Vinegar.—{See Vinegar.) Ratafia.—The essence of bitter almonds, so ex- tensively used for flavouring, is called by this name, and there is a fine spirituous liqueur, flavoured with the kernels of plums, apricots, and peaches, to which the name is also given. A special kind of biscuits, called ‘‘ratafias,” are made of sweet and bitter almonds pounded together with sifted sugar, a very little flour or starch, and white of egg. They are baked on wafer paper, and are usually made about the size of a large button.229 [red red] Red Cabbage.—A species of the common cabbage with reddish leaves, chiefly used for pickling. When cut into narrow shreds, and allowed to lie two or three days with salt sprinkled over it before adding the vinegar, it will acquire a beautiful purple colour, and with the addition of spices and vinegar it makes a cheap and pleasant pickle. In Germany, and some- times in this country, it is eaten as a vegetable when stewed in gravy or butter, with vinegar and spice. Red cabbage should not be cut until it has been slightly frost-bitten. Red Grouse.—This bird, sometimes called the red ptarmigan, or moor-fowl, is considered to have an exquisite flavour; it is generally roasted, but is cooked in several other ways. Its colour is a rich chestnut-brown, striped with black; it is peculiar to the British Islands, and more especially to Scotland and Wales ; it inhabits the heathery hills and moors, where it feeds on berries and the tender shoots of heather. In winter red grouse is usually found in flocks of forty or fifty, called by sportsmen ‘‘packs,” which become remarkably shy and wild. They make their nest of grass and ling stems, interspersed with twigs and feathers. The shooting season commences on the twelfth of August, when the young birds are strong enough on the wing to afford good sport. —{See Grouse.) Red Herring.—Sometimes eaten on toast as an appetizer, but consumed principally by the poorer classes. The herrings are prepared by laying twenty-four hours in brine, then, being taken out, they are hung up in a house specially constructed for the purpose, where they are smoked and dried over a brushwood fire, and are subsequently packed in barrels. After having been smoke-driedref] [rei ‘2B0 they improve in flavour by keeping, slightly resem- bling the flavour of a dried ham. Refrigerator.—A kind of store chest or chamber containing ice, employed to maintain provisions at an equable or low temperature. It consists of a large metal box, placed inside another of w^ood; between the two there is a considerable space filled with sawdust or cotton, and lined with felt or other material as a non-conductor of heat. The inner box has a compartment filled with ice, and fitted with a drainer and pipe to carry off all water as the ice melts. The box also contains hooks and movable shelves, on which the provisions can be stored. When the lid of the refrigerator is closed, the temperature of the enclosed air is kept about freezing point, the non-conducting material which surrounds the box preventing the ice from melting quickly. The re- frigerators employed on steamers for bringing fresh meat from abroad to this country are constructed on the same principle, hut on a much larger scale. Reindeer.—The reindeer is an inhabitant of the Arctic regions, • and its venison is highly appre- ciated for its fine flavour; pounded, mixed with fat, and made into pemmican, it will keep for a long time. Reindeer tongues are considered a great delicacy, and as such are imported into this country. The whole structure of the reindeer varies from that of the rest of the deer tribe to suit the special conditions of its life; the cloven foot permits great division be- tween the toes, thus increasing the bearing surface when the weight of the body has to be supported on the snow ; this its broad antlers enable it to lemove, where the mosses on which it feeds are entirely covered thereby, and probably it is for this purpose that the female carries antlers as well as the male.BENj 231 [RIB These deer are to the Laplanders of great value, supplying them with food, clothing, and transport. Rennet. — Consists of the specially-prepared stomach of a calf, used to coagulate milk for making cheese. If a piece of rennet be placed in hot water, and allowed to soak for some hours, the liquor will then readily curdle milk. A similar result can be obtained from the membrane lining the gizzards of fowls and turkeys, which is called gallino. In India the fruit of a particular plant is called “vegetable rennet,” because of its possessing like properties. Rhubarb.—The rhubarb of our gardens is derived from different species of rheum, the parts used being the hind-ribs of the leaves and the leaf-stalks, which are used for puddings and tarts, and for stewing. Ehubarb requires an open situation and a rich deep soil. A plantation of rhubarb is formed thus :— the old roots are so divided that each contains a crown; these are planted about two inches below the surface, and three or four feet apart each way, when they will afford a supply the following spring. In gathering, the stalks are bent downwards and pulled off sideways, but not cut. The flower-stems are cut off as soon as they appear, in order to strengthen the root. Ehubarb can be grown from seeds, but it will yield nothing suited for use until two years after the sowing of the seed. Ehubarb is also forced in hot-beds. Ribs of Beef.—The joints called ribs of beef are cut from the back of the animal, between the neck and the sirloin; they are divided into the fore rib, by which is meant the neck, containing five ribs ; the middle rib, containing four; and the chuck rib, which contains three, and lies next to the sirloin. To282 r.ic] [ris prepare them for table the bones are generally taken out, and the meat rolled up and tied round. Sometimes, however, the ribs are roasted with the hones in them, and are then almost equal to the sirloin, except that they have no undercut, and, at best, they make a rather clumsy joint for carving. Rice.—A farinaceous grain somewhat like barley when in the ear, and called “ paddy ” so long as the husk remains around the kernel. It is largely used in this country and throughout Europe for pud- dings and soups. It was highly esteemed by the ancients, and is still in both India and China the principal article of food. It is supposed to be of Asiatic origin, but is now cultivated in the tropical regions of both hemispheres. There are many varieties of the plant, the chief being marsh rice, early rice, and mountain rice ; some of these will grow on either wet or dry land, but as a rule extensive irrigation is necessary in rice plantations. The cultivation of rice was introduced into America in the seventeenth century, and that from South Carolina is now considered by far the best for puddings, but Patna rice is preferable in curries. Rissoles.—One of the many ways in which remnants of joints, game, or fish may be utilised. The first thing requisite is a very nice, light, puff paste, which should be cut into such pretty shapes as the cook’s ingenuity may suggest. These being filled with meat, fish, or fowl, minced to a nicety and appropriately seasoned, must then be fried in very hot fat, to render them crisp and brown. Some prefer them served hot with gravy, but they are generally sent to table on a hot napkin. They must be drained very carefully in a sieve or on blotting paper, which will absorb the grease. Unless233 [roa boa] care is taken in the preparation of these rissoles they are likely to prove very indigestible articles of food. Another, and perhaps even more popular variety, is prepared by shaving or mincing cold roast beef, mutton or other cooked meat, with bread-crumbs, herbs, spices and other suitable flavourings, forming a sort of dough or paste of the mixture with the aid of a little well-beaten white of egg. This is moulded into balls or rounded cakes, about two and a half or three inches in diameter, which are carefully fried in butter or clarified beef dripping until well browned. The rissoles are placed for a minute or two upon a hot drainer, and served up with little sprigs of parsley upon and around them as a garnish. Roach.—A light fish generally caught by the angler when small, though its weight sometimes exceeds a pound and a half. It is found throughout Europe and Western Asia, and has become greatly endeared to the more scientific disciples of Izaak Walton, because of the skill required in catching it, the fish being so very capricious, and so exceedingly sensitive to the slightest change in the weather; the winter months are considered the most favourable season for catching roach. The upper part of the head and body of this fish is of a greyish-green colour, glossed with blue, passing gradually to a silvery white at the sides. The pectoral and ventral fins are bright red, as are also the dorsal and caudal fins, the latter being, however, tinged with brown. In regard to its flesh, we must make use of the old saying, “ Little fish are sweet, but bony.” Roasting.—This ancient method of cooking meat consists in suspending it from a revolving'roa 234 no a] “jack,” or spit, placed before the fire, it being thus possible so to cook joints that every side is finished at the same time, a result which could not be achieved by broiling. Boasting was originally performed by putting the joint on a spit placed horizontally before the fire and turned by hand, the humble functionary who performed this office being a boy called a turn- spit. At one time this task was performed by dogs of a breed similar to the dachshound, also called turnspits, who worked in revolving cages, similar to those in which squirrels are often kept, but this was abolished by an act of Parliament which forbade dogs being employed for any work whatever, except by shepherds and sportsmen. Since then the clock- work jack has been invented, which enables the operation to be performed in a much more regular manner. Boasting is not so economical a method of cooking as boiling, because there is on an average from five to ten per cent, more loss in the weight of meat prepared by this j^rocess ; but the fat which drips from a joint in roasting can be used for many purposes in cookery, and roast meat is more substantial than boiled. A fire for roasting should not be too fierce, as that would scorch the meat, which requires to be frequently basted with the dripping or fat exuding during the process. Roasting-Jack.—An implement made of metal in the shape of a bottle, hence it is sometimes called a bottle-jack. It contains a spring which, when wound up by clockwork, revolves a small fly- wheel to which are attached one or more hooks. On these are hung the meat or poultry to be roasted. The revolving spindle prevents one part being cooked more than another. A similar contrivance has been invented which is placed in the chimneyROA] ‘^35 [ROU and is turned round by the draught instead of by a spring. Roast Pig.—This dish consists of a young pig- roasted whole. It is distinguished from sucking pig by restricting the name to one that has been weaned. Rognons-de-Cock,—Certain fleshy parts of a fowl before it is made into a capon, employed in France in fricassees, and some other dishes; they are also used as a garnish. Rolled Beef.—This is made from rump-steak, which should be laid out flat and seasoned. A forcemeat made of bacon, suet, eggs, bread-crumbs, lemon, and herbs, is spread over half of it; it is then rolled up, skewered firmly, roasted, and served with brown gravy. Rolled Tongue.—(aS'cc Ox Tongue and Pig’s Tongue.) Rook.—The appearance of this familiar bird is too well known to need much description here, but the sound of its loud “caw, caw,” is better known than the taste of its flesh. Black as soot, and almost as large as pigeons, they live together in congregations, building their nests in the topmost branches of lofty trees, seldom far removed from the habitations of men. When cooked for food they are either stewed or baked in a pie. Their flesh yields a dry, and somewhat coarse-flavoured kind of meat. Some persons consider the flavour of rook to resemble that of pigeon, but most would i)refer the latter. Round of Beef.—This is cut from the back of the leg, and is almost always salted ; indeed, it is the principal joint for salt beef. The best portion is the “ silverside,” cut from the top of the round,236 rum] where there is a membrane with a silvery lustre. Salt round of beef is boiled, and eaten with carrots, turnips, and other vegetables; sometimes, also, with a flour pudding in which the hone and marrow are boiled. Cold round of beef is an excellent dish in hot weather with salad, and it is also much used for sandwiches. Rum.—A spirituous liquor distilled from mo- lasses, saccharine by-products, or the fluid residuum of the cane sugar manufacture. It varies much in flavour, on account of the variety of substances from which it is distilled, Jamaica rum being con- sidered the best, but even that is not always to be relied upon, as from the same distillery various- flavoured rums are produced. Rump Steak.—A slice cut from the rump of the ox, one of the i^rime parts of the animal. Steaks cut from other parts are called buttock steaks, or beef steaks, and are considered inferior. The favourite way of cooking steak is to grill it, when it can be eaten with any vegetables, potatoes fried or boiled, fried onions being very generally added. Steak is sometimes fried, but often stewed with dumplings, and served up with a garnish of vegetables; it is often also cooked in pies and puddings. Various associations are attached to steak; it has long been a fashion to grill it on a silvor gridiron, and there are many historical grid- irons in existence, some of very ancient date. In the last century there existed a club of eminent literary men called “ The Beef-Steak Club,” which has been revived in recent years. Rusks,—These cakes are made either plain or sweet, and may be eaten with butter like toast; the plain are often used as a food for babies. They are[sac rye1 237 made of a thick batter consisting of flour, butter, eggs, milk, and yeast, with or without sugar. They are baked in a tin, and when cold, cut into slices, and dried in a quick oven. Rye.—Indigenous to the regions between the Black and Caspian Seas, but now grown to a great extent in the northern parts of Europe, especially in Germany, Eussia, and Scandinavia. Its nutritive value, measured by the amount of gluten it contains, stands next to wheat. In appearance this grain is similar to barley. A favourite drink is made from it in Eussia called '‘rye-heer,” or “ quass,” and the Americans distil a powerful spirit from it. Like other corn, rye is subject to a disease called ergot, caused by certain minute fungi, when the grain becomes larger than usual, curved, and acquires a brownish-violet tint. These ■ diseased grains, commonly known as “spurred” rye, are used in medicine, over-doses being poisonous. Rye Bread. — In general use throughout Northern Europe, where rye flour is also made into a sort of cake or biscuit, similar to the Scotch oat- meal cake. It is very nutritious, and will keep fresh for a much longer period than wheaten bread. Sack.—This was the popular name of a kind of wine used in England during the Middle Ages. Much diversity of opinion has arisen respecting the origin of the word, and the exact nature of the wine to which it was applied. According to Henderson’s “ History of Wines,” it was derived from the words “Vino Seco,” signifying in Spanish, “Dry Wine.” It was originally applied to dry wines from Spain, and though the word was sometimes applied to sweet wines, it was only given to those of a mode- rately sweet taste, and such as were clearly dis-sad] 238 lSag tinguislied from the thick, luscious -svines, commonly drank after dinner in those days. Eomanie was the -earliest kind of sack known in this country, but the name did not come into general use till the reign of Henry VIII. The dramatists, and other authors of the Elizabethan era, are full of allusions to sack. Shakespeare put into the mouth of Falstaff a hearty panegyric of “ Sherris Sack.” In the second year of his reign, James I. published a regulation limiting the amount of sack for Court use to twelve gallons a day, in consequence of the abuses that had followed its excessive consumption. Saddle of Mutton.—This is considered the prime part of the animal, consisting of two loins undivided. When roasted it is served up with rich brown gravy and red currant jelly. Saffron.—This is much used as a colouring and flavouring for many kinds of food, and is em- ployed far more extensively on the Continent than in this country. In Poland saffron is mixed with dough and many viands; in Spain it is used to colour soups, olives, and other dishes. The cele- brated Parmesan cheese owes much of its peculiar flavour and colour to the saffron used in its manu- facture. The name saffron is applied to the anthers of a species of crocus which is a native of Greece and Asia Minor, but is now extensively cultivated in Austria, Italy, France, and Spain. It was at one time grown in England, whence a town in Essex was called Saffron Walden, from its having been cultivated there. So small a portion of the flower is available, that to yield one ounce of saffron 4,320 flowers are required. Sage.— A well-known evergreen commonly grown in our kitchen gardens, and indigenous to[sal SAGj 239 the countries which border the Mediterranean. The leaves and tender tops are used with other ingre- dients to form various kinds of stuffing and sauce, one of the most familiar being the sage-and-onion stuffing, so commonly used for roast goose. An infusion of dried sage leaves was much used in this country as a common beverage before the introduc- tion of tea from China. In the life of George Whitfield we read that during his residence in Oxford, less than 160 years ago, he took nothing but sage tea with sugar and coarse bread. Sage tea is still taken by country folk as a tonic, and is also used as a gargle in some kinds of sore throat. Sago.—The farina from the stem of the sago- palm. In the language of Papua this word signifies bread, and sago forms the chief article of food among the inhabitants of the Eastern Archipelago and many other tropical countries. To obtain it the trunk of the tree is slit open for a few feet, and the pith extracted, an ordinary tree yielding five or six cwt., and so long as vegetation exists, the stems grow after cutting till fit for the axe again. It is imported into Europe in the granulated form, pro- duced by forcing the moist, starchy pith through sieves, and heating the granules in shallow pans until they become hard, dry, and translucent. There are two varieties : the brown (a large grain), and the pearl (a fine, horny grain, about the size of mustard seed); both are inodorous and insiiDid. Sago swells in cold water, and becomes gelatinous when boiled, forming a thick magma, which may be prepared as an article of diet in an endless variety of ways. Salad.—Lexicographers define this word as a food of raw herbs usually dressed with salt, vinegar,SALJ [sal 240 and oil, eaten as a relish to other dishes. Salads are prepared in such a variety of ways that we may call them, in extravagant language, homogeneous conglomerations of heterogeneous comestibles, as nearly all succulent vegetables may be brought into requisition in compounding them. There are cooked salads and raw salads ; winter salads and summer salads ; French salads, German salads, and Indian salads, with others named according to their pre- dominant ingredients, the choice being left to the means and taste of the consumer. The jDredominant taste in England is, however, for lettuce; in fact, a mixture without it would hardly be acknowledged as a salad. In Germany they make herring, potato, celery, and a variety of other salads. In Eussia they make a salad of endive, lettuce-hearts, Spanish onions, pickled lemons, the oil of sunflower seeds, anchovy sauce, vinegar, salt, and pepper, with hard- boiled eggs for a garnish. A French salad is different again: it consists of the hearts of lettuce and celery, radishes, sprigs of chervil, endive, and garden cress, the mixture to be decorated with cucumbers and hard-boiled eggs, with a sauce poured over it. Besides these salads there are also various others made with cooked vegetables, meat, poultry, and game, or, the simplest of all, the old- fashioned mustard and cress. Eadishes and lettuces are also often used as simple salads eaten with salt, without any other admixture. Salad Dressing This is a combination of yolk of egg, mustard, pepper, salt, cream and vinegar ; oil and other ingredients being also sometimes used. The celebrated Sydney Smith, an epicure in his time, recommended the addition of potatoes reduced to a pulp, hard-boiled eggs, onions and anchovy241 [sal SAL I ScincG, Salad dressing can be procured ready made, but in conse(|^uence of tlie inateiials deteiioiating when kejDt for any length of time, it is bettei to make it fresh as it is wanted. Salamander.—A culinary utensil of iron which is made red hot and held over dishes to render them brown on the top. The name has been given to it after a kind of lizard which, in the days of Aristotle, was supposed to be capable of living in fire. Sally Lmin.—A teacake made of flour and milk, slightly sweetened, and raised with brewer’s yeast. The dough is baked in round tins, in a quick oven. When sent to table they are toasted, cut into slices, and the interior buttered. Eaten hot they are a favourite addition to the tea-table, although not now so much in fashion as formerly. Salmagundi.—This is a very old English dish, which is an excellent addition to lunch or supper. Various kinds of red and white meats, such as ham, tongue, veal and chicken are cut in pieces, with anchovies and hard-boiled eggs. These are piled in a dish in rows of the same colour, alternately with rows of beetroot and pickled cabbage. Salmi.—A stew made of previously-roasted game and other ingredients. Salmon.—This fish, which leaves the sea and ascends the rivers to spawn, is one of the most delicious and nutritive of the finny tribe. It has two dorsal fins, the hindmost of which is fleshy and without ray, being thus distinguished from other fishes. The salmon has teeth both on the tongue and jaws, and it grows quickly, although this is doubted by some writers. “ TTie salmlet,” says AValton, surely a good authority on the subject, “ becomes a salmon in as short a time as a gosling^SAL 242 sal] becomes a goose.” About the latter end of the year salmon commence passing up the rivers to deposit their ova, leaping over many obstacles on their way, sometimes even over weirs of a great height. The spawn lie buried in sand or gravel under about eighteen inches of water, till the spring, being hatched about the latter end of March ; to- wards May the rivers positively teem with the brood, which eventually goes, like the old fish, to the sea. It was at one time so plentiful that a law was passed in this country, as well as in Scotland, forbidding apprentices to be fed on it more than twice a week. We find the salmon distributed over the north of Europe and Asia, but not in warm latitudes, never having been caught so far south as the Mediter- ranean. It is said that the salmon abhors anything red, therefore, when fishermen are engaged in catching it, they avoid wearing caps or coats of that colour. It offers the angler, particularly the fly-fisher, exciting and healthy sport. Salsify.—A plant belonging to the same class as the chicory. Its long, white, tapering, fleshy roots are used in the same way as carrots and parsnips in many parts of England, but more ex- tensively in France and Germany. In America, it is known by the name of the oyster-plant, as the taste of the roots, when cooked, is thought to re- semble that of the oyster. The cultivation of salsify is similar to that of the carrot, and the flavour of the root is somewhat like asparagus when dressed in the same way. There are many ways of prepaiing it for table, and it may be stewed, fried in butter, boiled and served with sauce, scalloped, or made into the most dainty croquettes. Salsify acts^ as a meteorological and horological flower, much in theSAL] [sal 243 same way as the liawkweed and others ; in different states of the weather, and at certain periods of the day, the disc of the flowers opens and shuts. Salt.—The uses of salt are so familiar as to need no description here. So long ago as the days of Job the question was asked: “ Can that which is un- savoury be eaten without salt ? ” and Moses gave the ancient Jews this direction concerning their sacrifices : “ With all thy offerings thou shalt offer salt.” To this day the Arabs consider salt as an inviolable pledge of friendship, and will not harm any with whom they have eaten it; hence the saying in Arabia, “ There is salt between us; ” the Persian also to express ingratitude will say “untrue to salt;” in Kussia it occupies a prominent place in cer- tain ceremonies. Salt is an absolute necessity for the animal creation; when taken in moderation it greatly assists digestion, but if eaten in excessive quantities the digestive powers are weakened, and the whole system loses tone thereby. Cattle require salt; hence it is usual to place it near the spots where they feed. Most of the salt in use was at one time procured by the evaporation of sea-water, and some is still produced in that way, but the chief sources at the present day are the mines of rock salt, and the salt springs which issue from the earth in various localities. The ancient Eomans procured salt from mines in Transylvania, which are worked even now. The Carpathian mountains supply salt so pure that it is ready for use when simply powdered, without requiring any further preparation. This one bed of salt extends for about 600 miles along both sides of the mountain range. The most celebrated salt mine in the world is at Wieliczka, nine miles from Cracow, which has been continuously worked since RSALj [sal. 244 1253, and gives employment to over 1,000 persons^ many living permanently underground. At the- bottom of the mine there are regular houses and streets, constituting complete villages. Many of the houses are cut out of the solid salt, and when illuminated present a gorgeous appearance of fairy palaces. Beautiful little toys of all kinds are made out of this rock salt, which command a ready and extensive sale throughout Galicia. At Car- dona, forty-five miles from Barcelona, a large moun- tain is composed almost entirely of salt. The largest mines of rock salt in this country are in Cheshire- and Derbyshire, first discovered at Northwich, in 1670. In 1832, and several successive years, the river Weaver, a tributary of the Mersey, carried 434,529 tons of salt from Cheshire to LiverpooL The salt springs of Cheshire are now more produc- tive than the mines of rock salt; the most im- portant salt springs in England are at Droitwich, in Worcestershire, where, as well as at Northwich, the pumping up of immense quantities of brine has so undermined the surface of the earth as to cause serious subsidences of the ground in the streets, rendering the position of numerous houses exceed- ingly dangerous. A syndicate was recently formed among English manufacturers of salt for controlling the market, and for other purposes, but the public voice raised so loud an outcry that they were de- terred from raising the price so much as it was feared they would have done. The salt springs of Cheshire and Worcestershire yield more than a third of the entire quantity consumed in Europe. In 1798 a duty of 10s. per bushel was imposed on all salt produced in this country ; in 1805 this was increased to 15s. per bushel, but in 1825 the tax[SAE sal] 245 was abolished. All salt imported into India is still liable to duty. Salt Fish.—Cod, ling, and other large fish, are frequently salted when newly caught, and either kept in pickle or dried. The dried requires soaking in cold water from twenty-four to thirty-six hours before being cooked, while that taken out of the pickle- tub should be soaked several hours before cooking- During Lent salt fish is very much in request, and when boiled it is generally eaten with parsnips and egg sauce. Samphire.—A herb used for salads and pickles, which grows by the sea-shore, generally on the cliffs. The samphire is gently simmered in vinegar for some time without quite boiling, and when cool is fastened down for keeping, with the addition of ginger and pimento. Sanders.—This is a made dish, consisting of minced beef or mutton, mixed with onion chopped u^r, salt and pepper, wdth a little gravy. It is put into saucers, or, as in the original recipe, into scallop shells, covered over with potatoes mashed in cream, with a little butter on the top, and then browned in the oven or before the fire. Although rather old- fashioned, Sanders are a very tasty dish, and an ac- quisition to a bill of fare, especially when the party is a small one. Sardine.—This little fish, preserved in oil or butter, packed in hermetically-sealed tins, or bottles, is now' very popular as a hors-d’oeuvre, or addition to any light refreshment. It probably derives its name from having been first prepared in Sardinia. Several eminent authorities assert that it is the young of the pilchard. Belonius expressed that opinion as far back as 1553, and in the early part of the present24 6 SAU] [SAU century Couch observed that the larger proportion of the shoals of pilchards consisted of such small fish that they passed through the meshes of the seines or nets. Mr. Wilcocks also met with similar sardine- sized pilchards in Guernsey. France has the repu- tation of producing the best, but some of the cheaper kinds are merely sj)rats, which are purchased even in this country, taken to France for preserving, and returned to England as “ French sardines.” In Spain sardines are cured by salting them like the Cornish pilchards. Mr. Dunn, of Mevagissey, in Cornwall, was the first to propose the preparation of sardines in this country, but for a long time they were not very popular here. Only fifty years ago a grocer in Brighton had a small quantity on hand for three years without being able to find a pur- chaser. Sauce.—A fluid made of various materials, to which flavourings are added. Sauces may be roughly divided into two kinds, those which are made fresh for the dishes they have to accompany, and those bottled for future use. The latter are generally very strong in flavour and pungency; they can be used alone or with those of the other kind, added to gravies and soups. Sauces were hardly known in England before the beginning of the present century, if we are to believe the remark of a celebrated French epigrammatist, who said that we had many religions but only one sauce. Sauer-Kraut.—Cabbage cut in fine shreds, pressed into barrels with salt, and allowed to undergo fermentation. Sausages.—A preparation of minced meat with spices or herbs, with which skins are filled. They are served with poultry or meats, or eaten as an247 SAU] [SAV occasional dish. In this country pork and beef sausages, unaccompanied by other meat, are more frequently used for breakfast than to constitute a meal. Some sausages, notably those made in Italy and Germany, are highly salted, and will keep for a great length of time ; those of the latter country are smoke-dried, but some of them are little more than minced meat, generally pork, very slightly smoked. Of foreign sausages we have the Bologna, Arles, Salami, Brunswick, Gotha, and Frankfort. There is also an article called the pea-sausage, served out as portable rations to the German army, which, by curtailing the time required for cooking, facilitated the rapid movements of the army during the late Franco-German war. Saveloys, “Ham and Chicken,” “Pork,” and “Beef” are the only kinds we pro- duce, notwithstanding that a large variety ol tasty sausages are made by the French and German dealers in comestibles. Saute.—Food boiled with butter, fat, or oil in a saucepan similar to a frying-pan but deeper. The fish, or whatever food may be thus prepared pos- sesses a distinct flavour of its own, very agreeable, and perfectly different from that which may be prepared by any other method of cooking. Saveloys.—These are sausages made of salt pork, seasoned with a small proportion of bread- crumbs. They are boiled or baked in a slow oven, and when cold are ready for use, but may be warmed again and eaten with gravy if required. The name is derived from cervelle, the French word for brains, of which saveloys were originally made. Savory.—An aromatic herb of the same class as mint. It was mentioned by the old Koman writer, Columella, who described it as entering into248 3AVJ [SCA the seasoning of nearly all flavoured dishes. Two kinds of this herb are cultivated in England ; one of which comes fit for use in winter, and the other in summer; they are, therefore, called respectively winter and summer savory. Besides being used when fresh, they are dried and powdered to form a component part of the mixed herbs bottled ready for general use. Savoy.—This very nutritious vegetable is a near ally of the cabbage. It is very hardy, and unless frost be very severe, is improved rather than other- wise by being exposed to its influence. Its close heart and wrinkled leaves are very palatable, but it is specially valued because it comes into use in autumn, and continues in season till the spring, during the time wlien other green vegetables are scarce. Scallop, properly Escalop. — This mollusc is like the oyster, but larger, and is prepared in many w^ays for the table. It is white, and, when contain- ing roe, the ova are of a bright orange colour. It inhabits two shells, which it opens or shuts by means of a powerful valve, and it is also by means of this valve that it propels itself through the w^ater from one place to another. There is a dish consist- ing of cooked oysters served in scallop shells, called scalloped oysters. In ancient times the scallop shell was in great request as a sign that its pos- sessor had made a pilgrimage to the shrine of St. James, a legend having' asserted that the relics of St. James were miraculously conveyed from Jerusa- lem to Spain in a ship built of marble.. The horse of a Portuguese knight, alarmed at so extraordinary a vessel, plunged into the sea, and when the knight was rescued and brought into the ship, his clothessca] 249 rscR were found to be covered with scallop shells. The custom of children collecting oyster shells in the London streets about the time of St. James’ day, piling them in a heap, and, shell in hand, soliciting a copper from each passer-by, has grown out of the same absurd superstition. Even at the present day a scallop shell is carried by pilgrims in Japan, but there the custom must have had some different origin. Scarlet Runner.—A climbing plant resembling French beans, the pods of which are eaten in the same way; they come, however, a little later in the season, and are a little coarser in flavour. Scarlet runners not being annual plants like the French beans, if the roots are dug up at the end of the season, preserved from frost, buried in sand, and replanted the following year, they will then produce beans rather earlier than those grown from seed. Scones.—These are cakes made with flour, water, and a little egg or baking-powder, cooked on a girdlrO or hot plate. They are a light and pleasant addition to the tea-table, either plain, toasted, buttered, baked with currants in them, or made with buttermilk ; originally they were made with barley- flour. The scones so largely used by the Scotch are thinner and closer in texture than those com- monly sold in our bakers’ shops. Scotch Eggs.—The name given to a dish of hard-boiled eggs (pullets’ eggs being preferred). The shells having been removed, the eggs are fried, after being covered with forcemeat containing scraped ham or anchovies. Scrag End of the Neck of Mutton.—{See Neck of Mutton.)250 [sea SCRj Scrag End of the Neck of Veal. — (See Shoulder of Veal.) Sea Bream.—Sometimes called Gilt head, from the occasionally golden hue of its head, more ad- mired for its handsome appearance than as an article of food. The body is reddish, tinged with grey, becoming lighter at the sides, and white below. It is plentiful on the shores of Cornwall, and on the southern coast, where the market, especially in Hastings, is well supplied with it during the sum- mer months. When young, this fish is known as the Chad, and in the hot season gives the angler- good sport by struggling violently on the hook. The sportsman is not the only enemy the chad has to con- tend with, as larger fish show a decided appetite for its flesh when it is merely an inch or two in length. Sea Holly.—This plant grows wild in Britain ; it is pricldy, somewhat like a thistle, with dry, horny, bluish leaves. Linnaeus speaks of the tops of this plant being eaten in Sweden like asparagus. The roots (called eringo, or eryngo, roots), were formerly candied, and sold as a sweetmeat for per- fuming the breath, under the name of “ kissing comfits.” These roots were first candied about the year 1600 by an apothecary at Colchester, named Buxton. In his “Merry Wives of Windsor,” Shakes- peare represents Falstaff as saying: “ Let the sky . . . hail kissing-comfits and snow eringoes.” Sea Kale.—This is considered a delicacy as a vegetable, because it partakes of the flavour of the cauliflower, as well as of the asparagus, to which family it belongs. Although it was of no great re- pute until the }^ear 1794, it is now much cultivated in this country; it will grow in any kind of soil if there be plenty of manure in it. The plant grows wild on[SHA 251 sea] the sea shore, and is apt to be drifted over with a thick layer of sand, through which, unless buried very deep, it will force its way fco the surface. Grow- ing as it does in the dark, the shoots are, of course, bleached and blanched till they are exposed to the light, these white shoots being very tender and deli- cate. The plant must be grown, practically, in a dark place, since, if exposed to the light, the kale will be uneatable, or nearly so. Seasoning.—Strictly speaking, the condiments added to viands to give them flavour. It generally implies the addition of pungent spices, and highly seasoned means hot to the taste. The word, as commonly used, however, includes forcemeat and stufling.—{See Forcemeat and Stuffing.) Semolina.—Also called Semoule, or Soujee. It originally consisted of the small, rounded frag- ments produced in grinding corn, left behind in the bolting machine after the fine flour has passed through its meshes, but it is now for the most part specially manufactured by submitting decorticated wheat to the influence of grinding, pressure, and heat. In this country it is chiefly used for making puddings and for thickening soups, but in France it is much esteemed for making the fine, white Parisian bread called Gruan. Semolina is usually produced from the hard, close-grained, large-kernelled wheats- of Spain, Naples, and Odessa, and the demand for it is so great that skilful millers in Italy endeavour to obtain as much as possible of this product when grinding their corn. Serviette.—The French for table-napkin. Shad .—A salt-water fish which is not held in great esteem for the table, though cooks have tried a good many ways to make it palatable. Among these one[SHA 252 SHAj way is to smoke-dry it, when it assumes a slight resemblance to salmon. The upper part of its head and back is of a dark blue colour, varied by reflec- tions of brown and green; the rest of the body is white. Its habitat may be said to be rather local than general, as, while in some fplaces it abounds, in others it is altogether absent. 'It is fond of ascending rivers, especially'if the water be clear. In England, large quantities are taken opposite the Isle of Dogs, and numbers have also been caught in good condition near Hampton Coui’t before the im- mense traffic had driven the fish from the river. Shaddock.—This fruit is indigenous to the land of Cathay, and is known-there by the name of sweet-ball. The tree is both lofty- and spreading, wery generally cultivated in all tropical countries. Its leaves resemble those of the orange ; the flowers are white, and of considerable size; the fruit is l)ear-shaped, paler in colour than the ‘orange, and with a less decided flavour, measuring about eight or nine inches in length,?and weighing from seven to fourteen pounds. Oiie variety has pale, and the other red, pulp, both -being equally pleasant to the taste. The shaddockvhas a 'very thick rind, hence it keeps good a long while,* it has an acid, sweet taste, and is most grateful in"hot countries as a thirst quencher. ' An excellent ;^eserve is made with both the rind and pulp, while an essential oil is extracted from the rind. It is' stated'That this fruit v/as introduced into thei West'Indies'by a Captain Shaddock, hence its name. In the' London markets we occasionally meet with fruitsi called pompel- moose, and the forbidden fruit; these are both varieties of the shaddock—pompelmoose being a name given to the largest, while forbidden fruit is2e53 SHAJ [she n name for the smaller shaddocks. The latter re- ceived its name from a conjecture that it may have been the fruit which Eve took in the garden of Eden. Shalot, or Eschalot.—A plant belonging to the same genus as the onion, which it very much resembles. It is used in sauces and pickles, but often eaten raw in the south of Europe, where it is esteemed for its extremely pungent flavour. The shalot matures and is generally gathered and dried in the autumn, remaining good throughout the winter. Shalots were originally brought to Europe by the Crusaders, who found them in the Holy Land growing wild in the neighbourhood of Ascalon. Shandy Gaff. —A beverage made by mixing ale and ginger beer, to which a little liqueur is often added; in summer, when it is most frequently taken, ice is also usually put in with it. Sheep.—Sheep are to be found in every civilized country, and there are not many uncultivated districts where they would not thrive if once introduced. Like most other animals, they are much affected by climate, food, and the general character of the country they inhabit, hence there are many varieties. On--low-lying lands, such as Leicestershire and Lincolnshire, they grow large and rather fat; on the mountains in Wales they are small, the flesh is lean, and requires hanging for a time after they are killed. The sheep from the Southdowns owe their superiority to the sea breezes and the herbage of the - downs, while the constant climbing of the hills prevents their growing too fat. Those at Dartmoor enjoy similar advantages, but they are of a small breed, like the Welsh. Sheep form one of the principal articles of food among theshe] 254 [she entire human race, and have done so from time im- memorial, as the very oldest records contain refer- ences to them. Sheep’s Head.—This serves for an excellent made dish, although some people who eat mutton object to the peculiar flavour of the head; the best way of dressing it is still a disputed point. Admirers of primitive cookery are enthusiastic about the flavour obtained by singeing the wool with a red- hot iron, but the burnt taste thus obtained which is so much liked by some is equally disliked by others. Sheep’s heads are generally boiled with vegetables, but are sometimes baked or made into soup. They are a favourite dish in Scotland, where they are invariably eaten singed; the village of Dudington, near Edinburgh, was formerly celebrated for them. Sheep’s Kidneys.—These are more frequently used as a separate dish than the kidneys of other animals, although they are sometimes left in the loin and cooked with it. A favourite way of cooking- sheep’s kidneys is to cut them open and broil them, serving them up on broiled ham, or toast. They are also devilled, that is, seasoned with cayenne pepper. West Indian pickles, or any other pungent flavour- ing, before broiling ; kidneys are sometimes stewed with mushrooms. Sheep’s kidneys were very popu- lar a generation ago, when, in the palmy days of the cider cellars, a supper was hardly complete without them. Shell-Fish .—A number of edible creatures are classed together under this name, but the appellation is a complete misnomer, for none of them are true fishes. Crabs, crawfish and lobsters are crustaceae, while oysters, scallops, mussels, cockles, whelks, periwinkles, limpets and clams are molluscs. Crabs,( SHI she] 255 lobsters and crawfish inhabit a jointed shell, called a carapace, because it resembles a suit of armour rather than a shell; these have long feet, with two powerful claws, and their flesh is firmer than that of the molluscs. Oysters, scallops, mussels and cockles inhabit two shells, and are, therefore, called bivalves, while periwinkles and whelks occupy one shell only. Oysters, scallops and cockles are the most nutritious, and the most easily digested, of all the shell-fish. Oysters, scallops, and occasionally mussels and cockles, are eaten uncooked as well as cooked; other shell-fish are always boiled before being eaten. Oysters are more digestible uncooked, with the addition of a little lemon-juice, which is preferable to the vinegar usually taken with them, but mussels are specially indigestible when eaten raw. Whelks, periwinkles, cockles and mussels are usually boiled before passing into the hands of the retailers, and are then eaten cold; but if bought alive, then boiled and eaten hot, they are more easily digested. The ancient inhabitants of Greece and Italy highly esteemed shell-fish, and served them up at the beginning of the meal, either uncooked, fried, or cooked under ashes, and usually seasoned with cumin and pepper. The razor-fish is a bivalve shaped like the blade of a razor, for- merly considered especially delicious when broiled ; it is still eaten in some parts of England. Sherry.—Spanish Wines.j Sherry Cobbler.—A summer beverage made with soda water, sherry and sugar, to which a dash of liqueur and a little ice are usually added. It is generally imbibed by suction through a straw\ Shin of Beef. —This is the fore leg of the ox, and is considered the choicest portion from which stock256 r sHo sno] for the best soups can be obtained. Its nutritious qualities are very great, and having but little flavour of its own, there is no difficulty in imparting to it that of other meats, vegetables, or herbs. Shortbread (Scotch).—This, as the name in parentheses implies, is an article of diet that had its origin among the people “ over the border.” With them it is a compound of the finest oatmeal, butter and sugar, made of a similar consistence to the well- known pancake paste, and like it, too, cooked by frying, or in shallow pans in a quick oven; slices of candied peel, and small sweetmeats are put on the top. Wheat flour is sometimes substituted for the oatmeal, but when so made it is not equal in quality to the oatmeal shortbread; in fact, when wdieat flour is the ingredient used it partakes more of the nature of cake, and is in some parts actually known as shortcake. The origin of the name is variously . stated, some attributing it to the brittleness of the bread, others to its lightness, whilst the wits have it that when properly, that is, expensively, prepared, it is so good that it is “bread” which ^oon runs “ short.” Shoulder of Lamb—The shoulder of lamb is considered by many one of the best portions of the animal. It may be eaten roasted with any of the adjuncts used for other joints of lamb, having also this advantage, that, unlike the shoulder of mutton, it is considered to be of a delicate flavour when cold, and with mint sauce it is preferred to other cold meats in the hot days of summer. Shoulder of Mutton.—The shoulder of mutton, when hot, is much liked by most people, but it has ever been rather a despised joint when cold; the undercut is always tender, and of a very delicate257 SHO] i" srm flavour. Shoulder of mutton is generally roasted <or baked, but professors of the 'art of cooking have found various other ways of making this joint more palatable, though not more economical. A-favourite way is to bone it, stuff it with oysters and a-dittle onion, roll it, and then stew it; it should be seiwed up with gravy containing stewed oysters. Shoulder of Veal.—This joint includes all the back immediately behind the head ; it is the most presentable joint that a calf affords. At one time it was called the scrag end of the neck, probably because it lies between the head and what is now called the neck. Shoulder of veal can be roasted or stewed ; when roasted it makes a handsome joint, but is not generally considered the best part,, of' the animal. Shrimp.—This familiar inhabitant of our soas 'is commonly called a fish, but in reality it is one of the crustacete, not having the internal bony frame- work all true fishes are endowed with, in place of which it is enclosed in a horny skin, or “crust,” that is, however, very much thinner and softer than the shell of the lobster. Shrimps are caught in myriads in bag nets attached to a pole, which are drawn through the sand at a depth of one or two feet, where the shrimps burrow in large multitudes. When alive their colour corresponds with that ofithe sand, but when boiled their colour darkens. There are very extensive shrimp fisheries at Boston, Yarmouth, Lowestoft, Southend, and the Isle of Wight; those caught at Boston and Lowestoft are of a reddish-brown colour, much darker than most of those caught elsewhere. Shrimps do not keep fresh for long, but when newly boiled soon after bteing caught they are an excellent relish, very sweet and258 [ska SHIl] tender. They are often potted, and prepared in sauce either for immediate use or for store. Shrub.—A liquor originally made in the West Indies from lime, or lemon, juice, and syrup, flavoured with rum. It has long been adopted in this country as a cheap and familiar beverage, being- now compounded in many different ways, but its essential characteristics seem to be the admixture of some fruit acid, with sugar, alcohol and spice. English total abstainers have been known to evade their pledge by regularly drinking shrub, professing to believe that it did not come under the title of strong drink; ” hut as there is generally sufficient nlcohol in shrub to produce intoxication, it has no right to he called a teetotaller’s drink. Silber Wasser: Silver Water. — (See Liqueurs.) Silver Side of Beef.—This is cut from the top of the round of beef.—{See Round of Beef.) Singeing.—Burning with lighted straw, paper, or a spirit lamp, the down which may remain on fowls or game after they have been plucked. Sippets.—Triangular pieces of bread, toasted or fried, used to garnish made dishes. Sirloin of Beef.—The upper part of the loin of beef, which, when roasted, has been for many centuries the national English dish. So highly was it thought of in the olden time, that Charles the Second is said to have knighted the loin at Friday Hall, Chingford, after he had returned from a long day’s hunting, and it has ever since been known as the “ Sir Loin.” But this m.ay be apocryphal, as lexicographers derive the word from the French. Skate.—One of the Ray tribe, very plentiful and cheap in the fishing towns of England. Indeed, the259 ski] [SNI fact of its being so abundant probably accounts for its not being held in so much esteem as its nutritive qualities, and the ease with which it can be digested, entitle it to be. Its flesh is white and thick, and in London it is usually sold after being crimped, an operation which very much improves it. During the spring and summer months it is taken in great quantities, but its flesh is best in November. The skate must not be confounded with the thorn- back, so called from the large spines along its back. Skim-Milk.—That part of milk left after the cream has been separated It is often sold as pure milk by unprincipled dealers. Smelt.—Sometimes called Sparling, a delicate and elegant little fish, held in considerable regard as an article of diet, especially by Londoners. Con- siderable quantities are caught at Boston, Lynn and Brighton, at which latter shore smelts do not stay long. There are also smelt fisheries in the estuaries of many of the rivers running into the Solway, especially at Wigton Bay, and the mouth of the Nith. In March and April, these fish come up the rivers to spawn, which they do at the head of the tideway, never ascending farther than the brackish water. They are very small in June and July, become larger from the end of the latter month until the end of August, and are at their prime in September, continuing plentiful throughout Novem- ber, December and January. There is an inferior variety of the smelt, called the Atharine, or sand smelt, having a drier flesh than the other. These are plentiful on the south coast of England, and are sometimes sold for true smelt. Snipe.—The flesh of this bird is of a delicate flavour, and if nicely cooked, is esteemed very dainty sSNO] 2G0 food. Though snipe are like woodcock in outward appearance, their habits are quite different. Found amongst the osiers on the banks of rivers, and in the marshy parts of meadows, they are not natives of England, but visit us from time to time ; on rare occasions they may build here, but not to any great extent. Snipe mostly come over in the beginning of winter, and take their flight again in the spring, then passing onward to Lapland, Poland, Russia, Iceland and Sweden. As a winter visitor, the snipe is known all over the south of Europe, and along the northern parts of Africa, from Morocco to Egypt; they have been found in China and Japan, and as far south as the Philippine Islands and Malaysia. In cold climates they grow very fat, but in warm countries they become positively slender and thin. Like the crane, snipe have no stated times for repose and feeding. They are never still by day, and during the night, the meadows and marshes frequented by them are resonant with their different calls. Snow.—The name given to a troth or cream made of milk beaten up with white of egg and sugar, flavoured with any substance which does not alter its white colour. Snow is added to many sweet dishes as an ornament. Sole.—This is considered, if not the very best, yet one of the most excellent of our flat-fish. It abounds on the British coasts, Torbay yielding the finest specimens, often weighing eight or ten pounds per pair. The flesh is firm, white, and delicate, highly esteemed for its light, nutritive qualities ; it was also held in considerable regard by the ancient Greeks. Its colour, as well as flavour, depends in great measure upon its food, and theSOE 1 261 [SOTi characteristics of the ocean bed where it is foimcl. If its colour be white, we call it the white sole ; if muddy, the black sole; the latter being considered the finest quality, those being joreferred which are rather small in size, and which have been caught in shallow waters on the coasts. Soles are usually caught by means of trawl-nets, and great skill is required, for, if the fishermen drag their nets too quickly, a large number of the fish will be violently thrown into a heap at the bottom of the nets, and will thus become damaged, while it is desirable to bring them alive to the shore. Small crabs and shell-fish constitute their principal food. Sorrel.—A plant belonging to the genus Oxalis, several species of which grow wild in England. The leaves are all more or less acidulous from the pre- sence of oxalic acid ; they are sometimes used in the place of rennet. Sorrel is employed a good deal in France and Germany for culinary purposes, its leaves making a pleasant salad. The roots resemble rhubarb, and possess properties useful for medicine and dyeing; they are considered anti-scorbutic, and when dried and boiled, yield a brilliant colour; when powdered, used as an excel- lent dentifrice. Where it has once grown, sorrel is very difficult to eradicate, and after a year’s growth its roots can hardly be entirely destroyed; but unless this be done thoroughly, every portion will retain its power of putting forth fresh buds and shoots. Souffle.—This name is given to a very lignt substance of which eggs are the principal ingredient, the whites being beaten to a froth with rice flour, arrowroot, or very fine wheat flour, mixed with milk or cream, sugar (if for sweets), and flavourings.sou] 2G2 [sou Souse.—A liquid in which meat or fish is placed to soak. The word is generally used in connection with mackerel or herrings, which are soused in vinegar containing spices, and slowly cooked in the oven ; these are eaten cold. Pig’s feet and ears are soused in water wherein wheat bran has been boiled. Soup.—Is a highly nutritious liquor, usually made by boiling together meat and vegetables of various kinds until the essence of the solid ingredi- ents is almost entirely extracted by the fluid in which they are boiled. Soup forms the first course of all fashionable English dinners; while the soup kitchens, established in many neighbourhoods, sup- ply the poorer classes with cheap and wholesome nutriment. Much goodness may be extracted from hones for making soup, and odd pieces of meat, cut off to make a joint presentable, are all available for the same purpose. Some soups are made with only meat, spice and soluble vegetable flavourings; others contain solid vegetables cut up into small pieces ; some are browned with burnt sugar or roasted onions; some are thickened with oatmeal, semolina, macaroni, pea-flour, lentils or split peas. Vegetarians also make soup without any meat what- soever, containing split peas, lentils or haricot beans, with green vegetables, mushrooms and edible roots. The most costly of all soups is the genuine turtle soup {Sc6 Tuktle), but an imitation called mock turtle soup is much patronized. There are some poj)ular composite soups with fancy names, as “ Julienne ” and “ Mulligatawny,” but most others are named after their principal ingredient, such as kidney soup, giblet soup, &c. It is a curious fact that abroad, the first course at dinner sometimes[spa 2G3 soyJ consists of beer, with spice and rusks, and some- times, particularly in summer, of strawberries and milk, to both of which the name of soup is likewise given. Soy •—A sauce originally made in Japan, from the bean-like seeds of the Dolichos Soja, whence it derived its name. Afterwards it came to be extensively made and generally used in China and India. For many years, soy and chutnee were the only sauces known in this country, and their price made them luxuries for the tables of the rich alone. Since that period, innumerable relishes have been introduced, many of which have soy as their fundamental ingredient. Both soy and chutnee have now come into general and constant use in England. Soy is very often greatly adulterated; but the genuine article is of a thick consistence, with an agreeable flavour and a rich brown colour. Spaghetti.—("iSee Macaroni.) Spanish Nuts.—A cultivated variety of the hazel-nut, used as a dessert, although rather indi- gestible, and, in fact, more so than any other kinds of nut. At card parties, they are frequently used instead of counters. If kiln-dried, these nuts are called Barcelonas. Spanish Onion.—This vegetable belongs to the Allium family, and is sometimes used as a garnish for made dishes ; also fried with steak, boiled with various stews, and included in salads. Spanish onions possess demulcent properties, and when boiled in milk, form an old-fashioned remedy for colds, called onion porridge, but it is doubtful whether the indigenous onion is not more suited for this purpose. Spanish onions grow to a large size, and have been known to weigh as much as two andspaJ '^SPA 2G4 a half pounds. Large quantities are grown in Portugal, but atteinj^ts to acclimatize them in Eng- gland have proved a failure, as they soon degenerate when grown in this country. Spanish Wines.—The two principal wines of the Iberian Peninsula are Port and Sherry. The former owes its distinctive quality to its richness and sweetness, and received its name from Oporto,, the town whence it was originally exported. It is one of the most nourishing wines, frequently pre- scribed for persons in delicate health. These good qualities are unfortunately abused by gourmets, and, in the last century, it was quite fashionable to suffer from gout caused by an immoderate use of old port. Sherry is lighter, and its consumption in England larger, than that of any other wine. Its name is a corruption of Xerez, the place where it is produced. The vine, bearing small grapes, from which this wine is obtained, is itself not so large as that from which white wines are generally made, but the grapes are allowed to mature, and the sugar to develop, before gathering; therefore, when fermented, a larger quantity of alcohol is produced than is contained in other wines. Sherry possesses about 25 per cent, of natural spirit; but this is increased for the British market by bringing it up to from 32 to 40 per cent, by the addition of brandy. The wine, when new, is of a pale amber colour, harsh and fiery ; after vatting for some years, it mellows, deepens in colour, and improves both in flavour and quality, the improvement increasing every year until it is a quarter of a centuiy old, when it attains maturity. Sherry was at one time supposed to be improved by a voyage to the East Indies, and choice ,East Indian fetched a fabulous265 |_SPI spa] price. The wines of Tarragona, Valencia, and Malaga are lighter than sherry, but not so popular as many other light wines in the market. Spare Rib of Pork.—The hack of a pig’s neck is peculiarly well covered with flesh, especially that of the artificially-fattened domestic kind known as prize pigs. This portion, inclusive of the ribs at- tached, is large enough to form a separate joint and is called the spare rib. It is generally roasted, and is very tender and well flavoured, when not too fat. Spatch Cock.—The name of a dish consisting of a fowl, cut in half, or in joints, and boiled. In England it is served upon a layer of puff-paste which has been cut into an ornamental shaj^e. In India, where it is a popular dish, it is more often laid upon a round of buttered toast. Spinach.—An annual plant cultivated for the sake of its succulent leaves, which are softer and more digestible than those of cabbage. Since 1568 spinach has been grown in England, but it was pro- bably introduced earlier, and is supposed to have been originally imported from Western Asia. The leaves are large and the stem hollow, branching out and producing flowers from two to three feet high. There are three varieties—the Flanders, the prickly- seeded and the round-leaved, the latter being the best for summer use. Spinach should be prepared for table in the same way as other green vegetables, except that the wet leaves are put into the saucepan without any water besides that which adheres to them, and they should always be well washed in salt water and carefully picked over, as insects are very apt to be concealed amongst them. A very wholesome vegetable in itself, the spinach-water, or juice produced in cooking, is highly recommendedas a drink which improves the complexion. The leaves, when boiled, are served with gravy or melted butter; boiled in soup they render it very tasty. While growing, spinach needs a constant and plentiful supply of water. Sprat.—A cheap and useful little fish, though not a very aristocratic dish. Nevertheless it is enjoyed by many after it has been broiled, fried, pickled, potted, or smoke-dried. On the 9th of November a dish of sprats, supposed to be the first of the season, is always placed on the Lord Mayor’s table at the Mansion House. They are seldom more than four to five inches long, and the bones are so fine, that, however cooked, the fish is usually eaten entire, excepting the head and tail. Sprats are of a migratory nature, and are caught in great abundance on the coasts of Essex, Suffolk and Kent, being often so plentiful as to be sold for farming purposes at about sixpence a bushel. During the spawning season sprats swim together in vast shoals ; the mode of catching them is the same as that employed for herrings. Spring of Pork.—This is the under part of the animal, and includes the breast and belly. Cut down the centre it makes two joints, each containing a portion of the ribs. This part is generally salted and boiled, or made into bacon, and from it the rolled bacon is prepared which is so largely con- sumed in agricultural districts. Spring Onions.—These are sown in November, and are ready for pulling by the following April. Whilst young, the flavour being milder than that of any other kind, “ sj^ring onions ” are in high favour as a salad vegetable in all civilized countries.—{See Onion.)spr] ‘2G7 [STI Spruce Beer.—Beer to which is added, during fermentation, an extract of the tops of the spruce fir, which imparts to it all those invigorating quali- ties which have long made it a very favourite drink in the northern countries of Europe. Spruce beer is brewed to a small extent in England, but the demand for it is not very great. Steaming.—This method of cooking is not gene- rally employed. It has, however, a right to be recognised as a separate way of preparing food, for, although substances steamed have the aj)pearance of being boiled, they avoid the long soaking in water which boiling necessitates. Steaming is generally used to cook vegetables, for which purpose a cir- cular vessel, having holes in admit the steam, is placed over a saucepan of boiling liquid, in which other food may be cooked at the same time. The vegetables are placed in the upper vessel, and, when meat is boiled in the saucepan beneath, the vege- tables above absorb its flavour through being cooked in the steam. Stewing.—This is the cooking of food in water, or other fluid, raised to a high temperature, but kept below that of boiling point. Food thus cooked remains on the fire for a much longer time than when boiled, and imparts a large j)roportion of its goodness to the liquor that comes from it. Only suflicient fluid is used to cover the meat or fruit and to prevent evaporation; the stewpan is only about half the height of a saucepan of the same diameter. Stirabout.—This is an Irish dish, and, as its name suggests, should be constantly stirred about while it is being made, differing chiefly from Scotch porridge in being of a thinner consistence. Three pints of water should be boiled in a clean saucejDanSTOJ 2G8 [STR ■with a teaspoonful of salt and a pound of fine oatmeal, added gradually by constantly stirring it with a round stick about eighteen inches long called a “ spurtle.” Milk is sometimes used instead of water, but the mixture is then considered rather heavy for delicate stomachs ; stirabout is one of the most nutritious articles of diet that can be given to young children. Stock.—Stock is strong broth from which soup is made by the addition of flavouring ingredients. There are various kinds, suited to the different materials with which it is intended to combine. It is generally made from shin of beef, knuckle of veal, or bones, with the addition of bacon, carrots, turnips, celery, herbs, together with just enough onions or leeks to flavour it. There is also stock for fish soups, made from skate, flounders, and eels, spiced with pepper, salt, onions, celery and sweet herbs ; this will not keep long. Stout.—A kind of beer, flavoured, and rendered deep brown in colour by the use of dark malt, and sometimes a little Spanish liquorice. It is called stout vdien made strong, but if weaker it is called porter. The latter when mixed with ale produces “half-and-half,” and when combined with stout, a drink now well known under the name of “ cooper.” Strawberry.—The fruit of a small creeping plant which grows recumbent on the ground. It is one of the most delicious and wdiolesome of our fruits, acting also as a gentle laxative, besides being highly recommended as a prophylactic against gouty and rheumatic affections. Strawberries are eaten in many ways, by themselves or with other fruits ; simply preserved in wine they are very luscious, but2G9 [STU STU] perhaps the most effective way of developing their flavour is to crush them with fresh cold water and sifted sugar. In hot weather strawberries and cream, or strawberry ices, are both pleasant to the palate and cooling to the system. The strawberry has been cultivated in England from a very early period, and our finest fruit is only developed and improved from the common wild strawberry which is found in abundance in the woods, coppices, and sheltered banks of our land. It is also found in Asia, Africa, Canada and the more northern parts of the United States. Its name is supposed to be derived from the fact that its long suckers have a tendency to stray on the ground. Among the finest kinds maybe noted the “ British Queen,” “ Helena,” “Elton Pine,” “Paxton’s Seedlings,” “Emperor,” and “ Louise.” Most strawberries, when fully ripe, are of a bright red colour, but one variety—the “ Hautboy”—is perfectly white, and of an especially delicate flavour. Stuffing.—The name given in cookery to any substance inserted in an article of food, to be eaten with it as a flavouring. Stuffing is very often in- serted inside poultry, fish, or under the skin of joints. The materials of which it can be made are almost a matter of taste, but some stuffings have a time-honoured connection with certain dishes, such as sage and onions with roast goose; a season- ing consisting of bread-crumbs, suet, lemon-peel, thyme, and other herbs, with roast veal; and boiled chestnuts with roast turkey. Many kinds of force- meat and panada can be used as stuffing.—{See Forcemeat and Panada.) Sturgeon.—The flesh of this fish is considered to be of a very fine flavour, and at one period ofsue] 270 [sue Eoman history it was customary for the sturgeon to he brought to table by servants crowned with coro- nets and preceded by musicians. It is found in the Caspian, Black, Mediterranean, and Baltic Seas ; the Danube, Volga, Don, some of the large rivers of ' North America, and occasionally in the Thames, Esk, and Eden. The several sjDecies of sturgeon, -excepting the sterlet, are mostly large, some measur- ing three or four feet in length. It was formerly considered exclusively royal property. The roe is made into caviar (which see). Sucking Pig.—The young of the pig is a very favourite dish, except with bilious people. It is at its prime when about three or four weeks old. It should be put in cold water for a short time as soon iis it is killed, being afterwards immersed in boiling water for two minutes ; this “ scalding ” enables the hair to be readily removed. The intestines having been first taken out,'Jthe sucking pig is generally roasted whole, and should be basted with a little salad oil in order to make the crackling crisp; it is generally stuffed with sage and onions, and eaten wdth apple sauce or currant jelly. Boast sucking pig possesses a historical reputation as a delicac}^, being often alluded to in the novels of the last cen- tury as a favourite dish with the clergy. Charles Lamb wrote one of his most popular essays on its supposed origin. Suet.—Properly speaking, the fat which envelopes the kidneys of oxen, calves, and sheep, but the name is often improperly applied to any hard animal fat. When chopped up very fine it is used as an ingredient in various puddings (plain, sweet, and savoury), dumplings, and mince pies. So great is the demand for it in this country at Christmas time[sug sug] 271 that the price is then increased to half as much again, or even double its ordinary value. Sugar.—This is an article of general consump- tion, its uses being im^Dortant and multifarious. It was at one time obtained solely from the sweet sap of the sugar cane, but is now prepared from a num- ber of plants, and is also manufactured by the chemical conversion of starch and woody fibre. It was originally brought from the East by Near^hus, a Greek, who accompanied Alexander the Great in his voyage down the Indus. When first introduced into Western Europe in the twelfth century it was only used as a drug ; the sugar cane itself being little known until after the discovery of America, to which continent it was introduced by the Portuguese. It is now grown princijDally in the West Indies, where sugar is produced in great abundance at a very moderate price. In 1740 it was discovered that sugar could be obtained from the beetroot, and in the beginning of the present century, when the long naval war between France and this country had raised the price of West Indian sugar, the French commenced to manufacture it from the beet, and this industry is now extensively carried on in Ger- many also. Sugar is extracted from a species of maple in America, and this is considered by some a great delicacy. Sugar is also made from a kind of millet, from various palms, and from a flower called “mahuse.” “ Saccharin” is a sweet chemi- cal principle, extracted from coal-tar, which contains no sugar whatever, but is merely a substi- tute for it, possessing three-hundred times the sweetening power of sugar, half a grain being sufficient to sweeten a cup of tea or coffee. Ex- tensive researches and experiments made as to the[sup 272 SUG] effect of this material upon the digestive organs have proved that, while it contains much greater sweetening power than sugar, it is not a food, as it passes through the animal economy unchanged. Hence it may be given to persons suffering from diabetes with impunity, and can also be taken by X^atients to whom sugar is absolutely forbidden, such as those suffering from Bright’s disease, gouty dia- thesis, chronic dyspepsia, and general obesity. “ Saccharin ” may be used as a flavouring merely, in the manufacture of sweetmeats and confectionery ; in consequence of its great portability and moder- ate price, it is very useful to travellers. Sugar Candy.—A light, straw-coloured sweet- meat, very hard and brittle. In Germany it is used in powder, combined with yolk of egg, as an emulsion. It is also used for sweetening coffee, and in the x^i’^paration of punch, liqueurs, &c. It is made by suspending a number of strings in a very strong solution of sugar, which is left standing in a cool place until the sugar candy is deposited on the strings and sides of the vessel containing the solution. Sugar Pea.—These peas are the product of a plant closely resembling the ordinary green pea of our kitchen gardens, exce}3t that the x^otls are des- titute of the tough inner lining found in the pods of all other green peas. Unlike other varieties, the sugar pea is not shelled for table, hut is cooked in the pod in the same way as kidney beans. Although a very agreeable vegetable, they are hut seldom seen in this country. Supper.—The last meal of the day. It was eaten as early as five o’clock in the afternoon during the Middle Ages; but the hour gradually becameSWE] [SW'E 273 later, until now supper is rarely eaten at all in houses where dinner is taken late. 'When served it is generally the accompaniment of some amusement, which is continued to a late hour, such as supper after the theatres, and ball suppers. "When eaten as an every-day meal, supper may consist of dishes hot or cold, with or without vegetables and sweets, bread and cheese, with salad, if in season; such cakes as are generally served at tea should be provided for those wdio only care to make a light repast. Sweetbread.—This is the general name for the pancreas of a calf, or any other animal used for food. It is thought a very great delicacy, but care should be taken alw'ays to obtain them fresh, be- cause they very soon spoil. They may be dressed in a variety of ways, but must first be soaked for two or three hours in lukewarm water; the}" are then simmered gently from five to ten minutes, ac- cording to size. Sweetbreads are most useful to the cook in the jireparation of made dishes. Served alone they have not much flavour, but require some amount of seasoning. They are in season all through May to August, but may be had at most times of the year, the price varying according to the season and the size of the sw-eetbreads. It is well to be sure that the calf’s sweetbread is secured, as sometimes the butcher will substitute that of an ox, which is much coarser and requires much more cooking. Sweet Potato.—This vegetable is a native of the 'West Indies and other tropical countries, eaten occasionally, but not often, in this country. It is certainly the first vegetable named “potato ” intro- duced into this country, and was alluded to by Shakespeare in the ‘‘ Merry Wives of Windsor.” The s^Yeet potato is a climbing perennial—in fact, a274 [tab syl] species of convolvulus—having a flower resembling that of the common birdweed of the English hedges. In reality it is not a potato at all, that term being applied to it as a corruption of its Portuguese name, “ batutus.” The edible portion is the root, which spreads into club-shaped masses, and is cooked in various ways, eaten in tropical countries as a table vegetable, as a confection, and in the form of a kind of bread. In former times a sweetmeat j)i'ep^i'ed from it was sold in London. Syllabub .—A sort of milk punch, and probably one of the older forms of that drink. It is made by sweetening wine, cider and brandy, or various mixtures of wine and spirits, with sugar, then pour- ing on this an equal quantity of frothed milk, adding cream, lemon-juice, nutmeg and spices to taste. It is considered best to milk the cow into the bowl containing the wine, a practice still carried out at farmhouses. Syrup.—The general name given to liquids in which sufficient sugar has been boiled to give them a certain consistence. Syrups are frequently fla- voured with a quantity of fyuit essence, and, when diluted with water, used as a beverage ; these are very largely consumed in France, where they are principally made.—{See also Golden Syrup.) Table Beer.—A weak ale, in the preparation of which special attention has been paid to purity, colour and flavour, rather than to strength. It should be of a pale amber colour, and an agreeable bitter taste. When bottled it forms an excellent sparkling and refreshing beverage. Table Water.—It is of great importance that the water supplied for drinking at table should be as pure as possible. Although the water supplied by[TAM 275 the water companies of London and other large towns is pure enough for general purposes, yet for drinking it should be first boiled or filtered, on account of the contaminations it is liable to during its storage in cisterns. The water drawn from country wells is still more likely to contain noxious impurities, and cannot be drunk with impunity un- less previously boiled or filtered; for the latter pur- pose charcoal and other filters have been invented. Caterers for the table sometimes vend a table water” specially prepared for drinking purposes. A letter from an English tourist states that, on account of the ordinary water of Ostend being unfit for the table, a special water for drinking was sold there in syphons, each containing only just suffi- cient to fill two glasses. These syj)hons were sold in shops at the rate of threepence halfpenny each; at the hotels they were generally supplied at the rate of seven and a half pence; but at the hotel where he stayed he was charged a franc and a half (fifteen pence) each; and on remonstrating he was coolly told they did not want visitors who did not drink wine to stay at their hotel, and, if they did, they must expect to be charged double for their syphons of water. Tamarind.—A fruit which is occasionally eaten, but is principally used for sauces. Tamarinds are the pods of a leguminous tree—hard externally, but within, filled with an acid, juicy pulp, which contains sugar, with a little citric and tartaric acids, partly free and partly in combination with potash. The- pods are largely imported from the East and "West Indies, and the pulp is used as a laxative and re- frigerant. Though the tree is distributed throughout tropical countries, it is generally considered to be a Ttam] 276 [tap native of that i3art of Africa extending from Abyssinia southwards to the Zambesi. The name means, in Arabic, “Indian date,” which shows that it was originally imi^orted from India, where it is valued not only for its pulp but also for its seeds, which are astringent. The leaves also fur- nish a yellow or red dye. The tree attains a height of seventy or eighty feet, and bears elegant, feathery foliage, with purplish or orange-veined flowers, arranged in terminal clusters. Owing to the pecu- liar stamens, ovaries and petals, it is assumed that insects are necessary to the fertilisation of the flower. Tammy.—A cloth sieve for straining broth and sauces. Tapioca.—Highly recommended for the diet of invalids and children; generally considered more easy of digestion than any other kind of farinaceous food, and less liable to produce acidity. Whether boiled in water or milk, or steeped in boiling water and then baked, it forms, when sweetened and flavoured to taste, a very palatable, light and nu- tritious article of food ; it is also sometimes used for thickening soups and stews. It is prepared from the root of the cassava, or manioc plant, which grows in the tropical parts of America, Asia and Africa. When the root is freshly cut, a milky juice exudes, which is highly poisonous ; but when this juice is removed, the remainder of the root yields this starchy product, which retains no deleterious property whatsoever. It presents the appearance of small, irregular-shaped, agglomerate masses, dis- tinguishing it from the regular-shaped grains of sago, which, in its other properties, it closely re- sembles. Our chief supplies of tapioca are imported from Brazil.TAE] [tea 277 Tarragon.—A small plant belonging to tiie genus Artemisia, the leaves of which are much used in France with salads. Vinegar flavoured with it is also used in the manufacture of French mustard. Tarragon is grown in France, hut does not fructify in that country, and therefore the , seed is brought from Tartary, of which country the plant is a native. Tarts.—The name given to dishes of fruit, fresh or preserved, baked in pastry. They can be made, either open, or with a pastry cover, of short crust or puff paste. It is curious that the name is similar in most European languages, and it is probably de- rived from the Latin Torta, feminine of Tortus (twisted), as we often find this pastry in some parts of England with twisted pieces of crust overlaying the pastry. Formerly this sort of pastry was made with blackberries or apples as soon as the fruit was formed, before they were ripe, and when, conse- quently, they were sour. Tartlets are small pastry of the same description. Tea (A Meal) .—A repast taken in the afternoon to accompany the drinking of the be\^erage of that name. It consists generally of bread and butter, cakes, biscuits, preserves and similar light articles. Tea was an important meal among ladies in the last centuiy, and a “dish of tea” as the excuse for a gossip, not innocent of scandal, is often alluded to by the novelists and dramatists of that day. Tea is sometimes made a set meal, and is occasionally ac- companied by more substantial fare ; in its modern form of “ five o’clock tea ” it is handed round, accom- panied only by the light refreshments named. Tea (Beverage).—Almost everyone drinks tea, but few make a cup of tea to perfection. The tea-278 [tea pot should be perfectly dry and warmed before the tea leaf is put in, and then the boiling water should be immediately poured over it. The infusion must stand five minutes in front of the fire before it is ready for use. A pint of boiling water will not exhaust the strength from more than about four tea- spoonfuls of tea ; if a larger proportion of tea bo used, it is wasted. When the water first used pro- X^erl}^ exhausts the leaf, a second addition will merely take up the tannin and extractive matter. The dif- ference between black and green tea is caused by a difference in the method of drying the leaf. Green tea is produced by roasting almost immediately after the leaf is gathered, while black tea is spread out in the air some time before being roasted, and is then finished more slowly. Tea is now extensively cultivated in Ceylon, India and Assam, as well as in China. The young leaves make the best tea, and various odor- iferous plants are used for scenting many samples. The quality of tea is greatly affected by the soil and climate of the spot where it is grown, some of the finest flavoured that we import comes to us from the Kangra Valley. It is estimated that about one-third of the whole human race are tea-drinkers. The Chinaman puts his tea-leaf into his cup and pours the boiling water directly upon it, but adds neither milk nor sugar; some of the rustics in China add ginger and salt. In Kussia a squeeze of lemon is often added to it; in Germany it is frequently flavoured with cinnamon or vanilla; and in Spain a leaf of the lemon verbena is placed in the cup and the hot tea poured over it. Tea was introduced into England about the year 1661, when Pepys writes of drinking it for the first time. In 1663 the East India Company presented the King withtea] 279 [TEN two pounds of tea, and in 1666 it was sold in London for sixty shillings a pound, while now two or three shillings will purchase the same quantity. Teal.—Of all our water fowl this is the most delicate for the table. Accordingly we find it re- corded among the abundance of good things com^ posing the lordly banquets of the olden times. This beautiful little duck is widely spread over Europe and Asia ; it is found in India, China and Japan ; it visits North Africa, and is common in Italy, Germany, Holland and France ; it breeds in Norway, Sweden, Lapland and Iceland. The British Isles also must be included, for flocks of these birds arrive in our marshes from the North about the end of September, returning thither in spring, and we also have our own indigenous birds, which continue i3er- manently with us, breeding and rearing their broods. Cumberland, Northumberland, Norfolk, and the bor- ders of some of the Welsh lakes, are known to afford suitable localities which they regularly frequent; a few breed in Eomney Marshes, and some are also found in Ireland throughout the year. Night is the feeding time of this species ; aquatic plants and ■seeds, grain, fresh-water molluscs, insects and their larvae, constituting its diet. Tench.—This fish is most esteemed for table purposes when taken from rivers, and is generally considered wholesome and delicate in flavour. They are, however, found in pools and ponds, where they frequent foul stagnant waters, abounding with rushes and weeds ; when caught in water such as this it is apt to retain an obnoxious flavour. This fish seldom exceeds four or five pounds in weight. Izaak Walton ■calls the tench ‘‘ the physician of fish.” He says, the pike being either sick or hurt is cured by the280 ten] [thi touch of the tench. The tyrant pike will not be a wolf to his physician, but forbears to devour him, though he be ever so hungry.” Its healing qualities are said even to extend to human kind. In the head of every tench there are two little stones which foreign physicians have made great use of, but the modern Pharmacopada offers so many remedies that the use of these little stones has become almost obsolete. Tent.—Is a highly-coloured red wine, sometimes the produce of vineyards in Galicia, but chiefly produced in the Eota district of southern Spain. These wines are sweet, and best while quite new, as they deteriorate if kept for many years. In the preparation of tent the grape juice is always sim- mered, or gently boiled, which is necessary to pro- duce the desired effects. In the present day tent is chiefly reserved for sacramental j^urposes, but in former times it was more generally used. In Percy’s “ Eeliques of Ancient English Poetry,” it is referred to in the following lines :— “ When the tinker did dine, he had plenty of wine, Rich canary, with sherry, and tent superfine.” I In Spanish the coloured wines are called “ Tintos,’.’ hence their English name tent. Thickening.—This term is applied in ,cookery to the rendering of gravies, soups, or other liquids thicker by boiling in them farinaceous or other sub- stances. For this purpose there is a large number of suitable articles to select from, such as flour, rice, sago, barley, maize, oatmeal, arrowroot, breadcrumbs, macaroni and eggs. The thickening substance—except in the case of eggs—must be added,while the liquid is boiling, in order that its particles may be properly dissolved and cooked.thy] [toa 281 Besides the difference in appearance which the thickening of gravy produces, its nutritious qualities are thus increased, and a better medium provided for the combination with it of sauces or other flavourings. Thyme.—A small herb, the leaves of which are much used for flavourings. It is grown chiefly on the shores of the Mediterranean and in Central Asia, whence it was originally brought to Europe. There is but one species growing wild in northern countries, and our garden thyme has been intro- duced from Southern Europe. Lemon thyme is a species which has a delicate flavour of the lemon, and is used for culinary purposes where this flavour is desired. TifFen—The name given by Anglo-Indians to a light repast eaten about ten or eleven o’clock in the morning. As breakfast is taken at a very early hour in India, and everyone w^ho can do so goes to sleep during the heat of the noon-day sun, tififen takes the place of luncheon. The repast consists of light dishes, generally prepared with rice and accompanied by wine and beer. Toad-in-the-Hole.—Consists of small pieces of meat, oysters, or mushrooms, baked in a light batter made with flour, milk and eggs. Toast.^—One of the most tasty ways in which bread can be eaten. There are two distinct kinds of toast: the dry and the buttered. To make the former the bread should be cut from a household loaf in slices about a quarter of an inch thick, held at first some distance from the fire; the distance should be gradually decreased until the bread is sufficiently browned, then the other side of the slice should be toasted in the same way. When properly[toa 282 toaJ made, dry toast should be, as its name denotes, dry and crisp. Buttered toast need not be so dry unless such be preferred, and if cut again after being buttered, each slice should be cut separately. A variety of toast was made in the last century similar to that which may be occasionally seen in old-fashioned houses. It is called French toast, and obviates the difficulty of handling hot buttered bread. The slices of bread are half the ordinary thickness, and toasted on one side only, the butter being spread on the untoasted side, and two slices are placed together sandwich fashion. In the six- teenth century toasted bread was a favourite addition to such English drinks as sack, and as the practice of drinking healths, particularly the health of the host, had become customary, these healths being drunk in liquor containing toasted bread, they were called “toasts.” It also became the custom to allude to a woman whose health was drunk as “ a toast.” This last use of the word is said to have originated from an incident which occurred at Bath, as recorded in the twenty-fourth number of the “ Bambler ” :—“ One * public day a celebrated beauty of these times (it was then customary for ladies to bathe publicly in elegant dresses) was in the Cross Bath, and one of the crowd of her admirers took a glass of the water in which the fair one stood, and drank her health to the company. There was in the place a gay fellow, half-fuddled, who offered to jump in, and swore that though he liked not the liquor he would have the ‘ toast.’ He was opposed in his resolution, yet this whim gave foundation to the present honour done to the lady we mention with our liquor who has ever since been called a ‘ toast.’ ”283 toaJ [tok Toasting.—The drying or browning of bread or cakes before the fire, or the cooking of meat, fish or cheese in a similar manner. Toffee.—A favourite sweetmeat originally made in Lancashire ; there are many varieties, but the basis is much the same in all, though the flavour may differ according to taste. The principal ingre- dients are sugar, butter and a small quantity of water. If carefully boiled the mixture will soon thicken, and may then be flavoured with essence of almonds, lemon or vanilla, as may be preferred. As soon as it becomes frothy, it must be poured quickly into a flat dish, and, while hot, cut into squares or . any shape desired. A less expensive sweetmeat may be made by boiling over a slow fire equal quantities of brown sugar and good butter; a very little vinegar may be added to give it a nice acid flavour. To know exactly when the toffee is done, drop a little into cold water, and if sufficiently boiled, it will immediately set, while, if it do not, the boiling must be continued. So great has been the consump- tion of this sweetmeat that some people have raised large establishments for its manufacture and sale, and have even attained renown for their goods; the Everton toffee, for instance, being very w^ell known. Tokay.—A very famous wine made in Hungary, and generally esteemed the best, the strongest and the sweetest in the world. It is made from grapes called “ Hungarian Blue,” which are allowed to shrivel in the sun before being gathered. It receives its name from Tokay, which, wdth twenty-five ad- jacent villages, produces over two million gallons of this wine annually. Tokay, when fully matured by keeping, will remain unchanged for a hundred years. It has a very peculiar, soft taste, and appears oily284 [ton- tom] as held up to view in a glass. Very little finds its way into this country, as it is almost wholly bought up by the Eoyal and noble families of the Continent. Tomato, also called the Love Apple.—It is a native of the tropical parts of South America, but may now be considered as naturalized in more tem- perate regions, thriving well in the warm countries of Europe, and if raised in a hot-bed in the early part of the season, it will produce fruit when planted out in a warm border. Its culture, however, re- quires great care, and owing to this, it is not grown to any great extent in England. It is a favourite article of food in Italy, where whole fields are covered with it. When ripe the fruit attains the . size of an apple. It is compressed at its crown and base, and furrowed along the sides, the whole being uniform in colour, smooth and shining. The shape and colour of the fruit differ somewhat in different varieties, but its prevailing tints are bright red and orange. At every stage of its growth the tomato is eatable; when green it is pickled, when ripe, used for sauces, soups and omelettes. It is one of the most wholesome fruits that can be eaten, and deserves to be far more generally known and appre- ciated. Tongue.—The tongue of most animals is re- garded as a delicacy. It is extremely tender and juicy, rather too much so, perhaps, for eating when fresh, and, therefore, tongues are generally cured. The ox tongue is the most largely consumed {See article under that name),but reindeer’s, pigs’ and even sheep’s tongues are also eaten. Eeindeer’s tongues are dried, and require soaking before being cooked; they are not so large as that of the ox, but are considered by some i^ersons of a more gamey flavour.Pigs’ tongues are generally rolled three or four to- gether, and make an appetising breakfast dish. Treacle.—This is a thick, dark-coloured syrup, also called molasses, formed during the manufac- ture of moist sugar, chiefly consumed by the poorer classes, who often use it in place of butter on bread. It is occasionally used for making puddings, when it forms a substitute for fruit or jam. The use of it instead of gravy with the plain light dumplings of Norfolk is very common throughout that county. Treacle is nourishing as an article of food, and possesses an agreeable flavour, but if ,too much be used, it is apt to become very heating to the system. Treacle posset is made by boiling a little treacle in milk, and is taken as a household remedy for a cold, which it often cures, by promoting per- spiration. Trifle.—A sweet dish, the name of which by no means corresponds with the trouble and expense of making it, but in order not to trifle with the defini- tion, a short recipe for making one, is given here. “ Sponge and almond cakes, soaked in wine and brandy, are placed in a dish with layers of jam, almonds, or similar ingredients. Over these is poured a custard of eggs and milk and, on the top, whipped cream and eggs.” A great variety of trifles may be made, though the principle will be the same in all. Tripe.—By trij)e was originally meant the intes- tines ; it is now understood to be the large stomach of some ruminating animal, principally the bullock. When cooked it is very easily digested, and is said to have great nourishing and invigorating pro- perties. Various dishes are made of it, and being moderate in price, it is a great favourite with many.28G TRO] Trout.—A veiy beautifully-coloured fish, much esteemed for its delicacy. It feeds upon a great variety of things, among which are small shell- fish. During the hot weather this fish retires into deep water, and leaves it towards the end of Sep- tember for a gravelly bottom by the side, or near the end, of a stream, for the purpose of spawning. At this time it presents a peculiar appearance, being black about the head and body, and is then unfit for food. It abounded in the lakes of the Roman Empire, yet the only tribute paid it by writers of the time has reference merely to the charming colours which characterise it. Truffle.—A very curious fungus which grows down in the earth, in clusters of an irregular, globu- lar form, never appearing on the surface. It ap- proaches nearly to the nature of animal food in consequence of the large proportion of nitrogen it contains. There are three varieties : the black, the red and the white. The former is consumed in enormous quantities, but the red, also called the musk-scented truffle, is rare ; the white, which is not so scarce, is but little esteemed. The truffle is obtained by a “ truffle hunter,” who follows a trained pig, which detects by its scent where the truffle is buried. A similar instinct is found in a particular species of dog, which is used for the same purpose. The English truffles are white, while the French are mostly black, but occasionally red. In France they are made into a variety of dishes, by themselves, or in conjunction with other articles -of food. It was once thought that truffles could not be subjected to cultivation, and many fruit- less attempts were made to cultivate them, much money and time having been spent without sue-287 [tun TRU] cess. Oak plantations, however, are laid out in the south of France upon a considerable scale, expressly for the cultivation of truffles. Many of these woods occupy from four hundred to seven hundred acres each, and so great has been the success that in the market of Carpentras alone upwards of three^and-a^half million liancs woitli of truffles are sold annually. This large increase of production has not decreased the price of the fungus, as the taste for it has found a much greater number of votaries. A well-known gourmet has said, “meat with truffles are the most distinguished dishes that opulence can offer to the epicure.” Trussing.—The operation of dressing poultry before cooking. The bird should be plucked, but not washed, drawn and singed; for this latter process white paper or straw must be used. The fowl should be well wiped with a clean cloth, then its head and neck cut off, and the skin folded over the back; the claws ought to be cut off, the feet and legs with the pinions tightly skewered together, after having been scraped and scalded; the liver should be placed under one wing, and the gizzard under the other. For boiling, the legs should be passed through a slit of skin made in the sides, and the top of the wing twisted over the back through the body. Some people in trussing poultry use a trussing needle and thread ; this looks neater than skewering, but it rec[uires to be done with very great care and accuracy, and is more difficult. Tunny Fish.—Largely consumed in the South of Europe, particularly in France, and known in this country principally in its preserved form. It belongs to the family Scovihoida, and is known by the appellation of Spanish mackerel, attaining a288 [TUR TUR size so great that some specimens have weighed a thousand pounds. The Scoinhoidce contain a number of fish with small scales and a smooth body, having the tail and caudal fins very vigorous. They are highly prized for their size and agreeable flavour, which, combined with the great number that crowd together in shoals, make the extensive fisheries con- ducted for their capture to be exceedingly profitable. The tunny-fish, like common mackerel, is resi3len- dent in green and silver, barred with a dusky tint. Besides the fisherpien, it has a great enemy in the sword-fish, which pursues it with great persistency. Turban of Veal.—A very appetising dish, which is not eaten so often as it deserves, probably because it takes a little trouble to make. It consists of fowl, forcemeat and truffles, heaped on toast, on which are laid neatly-shaped slices of cold veal to look like a turban, or cap. Each slice of veal should be dis- tinguished from the others by being larded with either scarlet tongue, bacon or truffles. Turbot.—The flesh of this flat fish is firm, white, wholesome and delicate in flavour. It is one of the few that improve by keeping for a day or two. The turbot of the Adriatic Sea was held in great esteem by the Eomans, and it is said that in the time of Domitian a turbot was caught of such great dimensions that it was necessary to make a new dish, and erect a new stove, so that it might be cooked and served whole. It is suspected, however, that this so-called turbot was in reality a halibut, which is frequently sold as turbot to those not knowing the difference. At present we receive turbot principally from the English coasts, and from a few places off the south of Holland. They have been at times so plentiful that it has been necessary289 tur] to throw a cargo overboard, the market being glutted with them. Turkey.—The largest of our domestic fowls, and one of the most popular as a substantial viand. It may be either boiled or roasted; when surrounded with sausages it is called “an alderman hung in chains;” it may be boned, larded, stuffed and garnished with chestnuts, devilled, or formed into a great variety of other dishes. Truffled turkeys are consumed to a very large extent in Paris, where as many as three hundred are sold in one day. Though called turkey, after the country of that name, it is really a native of North America. It was introduced into England in the reign of Henry the Eighth, and soon grew in favour, having been a very popular dish in this eountry ever since, especially at Christmas time. Wild turkey are still found in America; their flesh has a deeper colour and a finer flavour than the domesticated bird. The flavour of a moderate-sized turkey is generally preferred to that of a large one, and age also makes a great difference in the quality. The older birds may be known by the roughness and redness of their legs, which in the younger are black and smooth. If fresh the eyes are clear and full, and the feet moist, which will not be the case if the bird has been killed some time. Turkish Delight, or Rabat Lakoum.—This delicious sweetmeat, so much liked by all sweet- toothed individuals, whether children or adults, is of Turkish origin, but is rapidly gaining ground as a favourite article of confectionery in other countries. So fascinating is its taste that it also goes by the name of “Lumps of Delight.” It is made of starch and syrup, sometimes coloured. It comes to us in the form of small cakes, an inch or two square.TUR] 290 [tur rather more than an inch in thiclmess; and, to pre- vent these cakes from sticking together, they are sprinkled with very finely-powdered white sugar, and then packed in boxes, or done up in silver paper. It is the favourite sweetmeat in Eastern countries, where an immense quantity is said to be consumed by the ladies of the harem. Turmeric.—Powdered turmeric root is the in- gredient to which curry-powder owes its colour, and of which it forms the largest proportion in regard to hulk, though not in flavour. Turmeric is a native of Southern Asia and Madagascar, the best coming •from China. It belongs to the same family of plants as ginger, and its roots greatly resemble ginger in form and size. Turmeric is very largely used as a yellow dye; formerly it was much used in medicine, but its medicinal use is now obsolete. Turnip.—A vegetable having a large, white, bulbous root, with green shoots above the ground. Both parts are eaten, but the root is the portion to which the name refers. It is boiled as a vegetable, or sliced for adding to soups, stews or garnishes. The flavour is rather strong, not assimilating well with every kind of meat. Turnips are supposed to have been introduced into England from Hanover, as late as the reign of George the First, but they are now extensively grown in England. There is a variety called the Navet, which is grown in France ; it is long in shape, resembling the carrot, yellowish- white in colour, and its taste is so strong that one will produce a flavour equal to three or four of the common kind. This was formerly grown in England, and is still occasionally imported into this country, but on the Continent it is largely used for soups and other made dishes. Another variety of turnip grown[tur tur] 291 in England is the Swede; but this, though the largest of all turnips, is not so well liked, being rather coarse in flavour; it yields, however, most excellent turnip-tops (which see). Turnip-Tops.—The young leaves of the turnip, used as greens; they are rather pungent and bitter when boiled, but cleanse the blood, and throw out its impurities. The Scotch turnip produces very good leaves, though they are little eaten in that country, but the best are those taken from the Swede. Turnip-tops are in season during the months of March, April and May. Turtle.—Also called the Sea Tortoise. The green turtle is the kind usually employed for food. It is generally sent alive from the West Indies, and varies in weight from thirty to five hundred pounds. The art of dressing turtle for table is quite a study by itself. At a turtle feast the table is usually spread in the following manner: The calipee (or under- shell) with adhering meat, baked, is placed at the head of the table ; the calipash (or back-shell) with adhering meat, is placed at the other end of the table; in the centre stands the turtle soup, flanked on one side by the fins, stewed partly in the soup and afterwards in veal gravy, with Madeira wine and spices, flanked on the other side with the lights and heart stewed in the same w^ay. Hundreds of quarts of turtle soup are served up every year at the dinner given to celebrate the installation of each Lord Mayor of London. The turtle, if not despatched alive to its destination, is either dried or put up in hermetically sealed tins or bottles. Turtle of vari- ous kinds are found in all tropical oceans, and they are caught in many different ways. Darwin de- scribes a peculiar mode of catching turtle, which he uUDDJ [yea O () o ^Yitnessed at Keeling Island, in the Pacific Ocean. A boat pursued a turtle, and a man standing ready- in the hows of the boat seized an opportune moment to dash through the w-ater on to the turtle’s hack, where he quietly settled down, clinging with both hands to the shell of the neck, until the animal got quite exhausted with its burden, when it was easily- captured. Udder.—This w’ord is used in cookery to denote the gland of a calf, which, wdien developed, secretes the milk. It is sometimes roasted with a tongue ; also stew^ed and pounded in a mortar, as an adjunct to French forcemeat, though butter is often substi- tuted for it. Vanilla.— So named from the fruit resembling a Spanish knife, called vayna, or vaynilla. It has a balsamic odour and agreeable flavour ; it contains a peculiar volatile oil, with a quantity of benzoic acid. Vanilla is used to flavour sweetmeats (especially chocolate), cakes, liqueurs, lemonade and ice creams. Medicinally it acts as a slight stimulant, but is sel- dom used for that purpose. It grows principally in Brazil, Guiana, Mexico and the V'est Indies, but has been met with in Penang, Singai^ore and Java. With the Mexicans it is an important export, valued at thirty thousand or forty thousand dollars annually. Veal.—The flesh of the calf, and one of the most delicately-flavoured of animal foods. Veal has alwa}"S been much esteemed for its whiteness, which is due to the animal being killed when very young. At one time this whiteness was increased by a cruel method of killing, but this has now been given up, and it cannot be said that epicures have lost any- thing thereby. The best season for veal is from March to the end of July, but it is obtainable[VEG 293 vea] throughout the year. The variety of dishes which can he made from it is very large, but, being some- what dry, it is generally accompanied by bacon or other fatty meats. Several parts can be made into cutlets; others are best stewed ; boiled calf’s head is a favourite dish, and the feet are used for jelly; the sweetbread and other parts are very serviceable for food. It is curious that while in this country veal is considered somewhat indigestible, in Germany it is recommended to patients recovering from illness. Veal Tendons.—A name given in cookery to the gristles taken from a breast of veal. These must be cooked in stock until a fork can be easily inserted in them. They are then served up with a sauce and appropriate vegetables. Vegetable Marrow.—A late summer or early autumn vegetable, the use of which has very largely increased of late in this country. When very young it is eaten fried in butter, and may also be pickled or preser\-ed ; when half-grown, it may be cooked in a variety of ways ; and, when fully matured, it can be made into pies like the pumpkin. It is most frequently used in its half-matured state, when it is either cutpnto slices, the inner pith and seeds re- moved, and the slices gently boiled ; or, it is boiled whole, cut up afterwards, and eaten with meat like other vegetables. It grows best in warm or troq>ical regions, and is largely cultivated in Persia, whence it was introduced into England. In this countiy it thrives well in the open air, but requires a warm, rich and free soil. The true vegetable marrow bears fruit of an elliptical shape, about nine inches long, pale greenish when young, and pale yellow when matured. There is a variety called the custard marrow, which is justly celebrated as surpassing all[VER yen'] 294 other kinds in delicacy of flavour; it is round in shape, not unlike a very large apple, flattened, and when cooked, it resembles a custard in consistence (hence its name). Venison.—This is the flesh of the deer, and, from the earliest ages it has been a favourite meat, especially with lovers of the chase. The wise Solomon delighted in it, for at his table the roebuck and the stag were served every day. Xenophon, in his history, says that Cyrus, King of Persia, ordered that venison should never be wanting at his repasts, and it was the special delight of the effeminate Greeks. The Piomans were devoted ad- mirers of venison, and our kings and princes, from Alfred the Great to the late Prince Consort, have hunted the swift buck, although under vastly differ- ent circumstances, and have relished its haunch when cooked all the more keenly for having taken part in the chase. During the Middle Ages, when wild animals were more plentiful, venison was more popular than it is now. The haunch is the principal joint, but other parts are equally relished in made dishes, as for instance, venison pasty, the fame of which has been handed down from age to age in song and story; especially that of Piobin Hood and his merry men, which, however, owed its attraction chiefly to the currants placed between the layers of meat. Goldsmith wrote some very pretty verses in acknowledgment of a haunch of venison sent him by a friend. Many other illustrations might be given to show the high esteem in which venison has been held. Vermicelli The Italian name for a kind of macaroni, prepared in a similar way, with the ad- dition of yolk of egg, saffron and a small quantity of295 vin] [vin sugar. The name is derived from its thread or worm-like appearance. It is chiefly used for soups and puddings. Vinegar.—This is an extremely acid liquor, possessing antisejitic qualities, principally used as a flavouring, or to preserve provisions of various kinds. It is generally obtained by the acetous fermentation of wine, malt, or the juice of fruits and vegetables. It has been known from a very ancient period, and was at one time classed among intoxicating drinks. The Nazarites of the Scrijitures were forbidden to drink “vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink.” The Eoman soldiers had a drink called acetum, which was distinct from the more generous vinum drunk by the civil population. Vinegar is now dif- ferently manufactured in different countries; in England, it is generally prepared from an infusion of malt; in France, it is made from wine ; and in the United States, mainly from cider. Vinegar is sometimes flavoured with horseradish, raspberry, tarragon or chillies. The process is very simple, consisting merely of steeping the flavourings in the liquid. A cheap substitute is made out of acetic, or even sulphuric, acid, and is often passed off as the real article. Vinegar Plant.—A fungus which resembles that formed when articles of food are said to turn mouldy. It forms a floculent mass, or web, tough and leathery, consisting of branched threads some- what tangled, and is found on some decaying bodies, or in fluids undergoing the acetous fermentation. A small piece of the vinegar plant added to any liquid containing sugar induces rapid fermentation, and speedily transforms that liquid into vinegar. The vinegar plant is now but little used, and the vinegarvol] 290 [WAL made with it is generally more insipid than that produced by the fermentation of wine, or hy diluting the strong acetic acid distilled from wood. Vol-au-Vent. —This consists of a case of puff paste in the shape of a raised pie, enclosing a mince of meat, fowl, or fish, with flavouring sauces if to he savoury, hut if to he sweet, fruit, sugar, compote and cream. To prepare this dish properly the puff' paste is made of flour and hutter, with a little salt, yolk of egg and water. It is stamped into the required shape and haked in a very quick oven; when done the lid is taken off, and the superfluous pastry taken from the interior and replaced hy the meat, fish or fruit, which has been sex^arately cooked. Yol-au-Yent is intended to provide the various dishes of pastry in the lightest possible form. Wafer Paper.—A paper-like substance made of flour, water and white of egg, rolled out as thin as possible, and dried hy heat. It is used as a foundation upon which are j)laced various small cakes and sweetmeats liable to break, the j)aste of which it is made holding them together. Waffles.—Called by the French Gauffres, are made of batter, and baked between two honey- comb-shaped irons, which close together like a pair of tongs. Walnut.—The walnut tree, now commonly grown in this country, was originally imported from Persia. It is cultivated for its timber and for its fruit, the latter being a favourite nut for dessert. The unripe fruit (while the shell is still soft) is pickled, or made into ketchup (which see). The tree grows to a great height in a handsome form, the timber is hard, takes a fine x^olish, and is in great demand for cabinetWEL 297 watJ work; it is also used for gun-stocks and other articles where lightness, combined with strength, is required. An oil expressed from the nut was at one time much used by artists for painting. A number of fine specimens of the tree may be seen in Greenwich Park. Watercress.—This, as the name implies, is an aquatic plant, and belongs to the great order Crnci- fcne, so rich in plants celebrated for anti-scorbutic properties. It is useful in rheumatic complaints on account of the potash salts, and the trace of iodine which it contains. It is a popular ingredient in salads, and may be eaten alone with bread and butter. Originally it was found growing wild in our own country, but it has been cultivated for the market since 1808, much care being required be- cause it must be grown in clear running water, and the intrusion of weeds, like it in appearance but of a poisonous nature, must be prevented. Watercress requires a depth of water about three inches, the plant being disposed in rows, to permit of the free ‘ circulation of the water. Twice a year the beds ought to be entirely cleared, the weeds destroyed, the older growth of the plant removed, and the bed replanted with young shoots and roots which are simply laid on the bottom, with a stone placed on them to keep them in position; three months’ growth is required to bring these beds into cutting- condition. There are three varieties of watercress, the green leaved, small brown leaved, and the large brown leaved; each have good qualities, but the last named is most in favour. Welsh Rarebit.-— Popularly corrupted into Welsh rabbit, is a slice of toast covered with toasted cheese, seasoned with mustard and pepper.[whe whe] 298 The best cheese for this purpose is Gloucester, a&, when toasted, it softens into the consistence of thick cream. Sometimes the cheese is melted in a saucepan with a little milk or beer, and poured over the toast. Wheatear, or Clodhopper.—This little bird, also called the Fallowchat, is highly esteemed for the table, especially in London, the Sussex watering places, and on the Continent. Its winter retreat is in the countries bordering on the Mediterranean, chiefly in Africa, and its summer migrations extend to the northernmost parts of Europe, Iceland and Greenland. It is also found migrating from Asia Minor and Persia, to Siberia and Alaska. It arrives in this country about the beginning of March, and takes its leave of us about the end of September. In the southern parts of our island it makes its nest in April, seeking some underground lodging, such as a crevice in a heap of stones or old wall, a rabbit burrow, or underneath a clod of earth. It never excavates a shelter for itself, but merely furnishes such retreats as it can find. It is recorded that one built its nest for several years in an old cannon, where it was not disturbed. The South Down shepherds catch them by means of nooses placed in little excavations made in the ground, and one shepherd and his boy often have from five hundred to seven hundred of these traps to attend to. Pennant records that more than a centurj^ ago eighteen hundred dozen of wheatear were annually snared near Eastbourne, and usually sold at six- pence per dozen. Markwick, the naturalist, was told of a shepherd who once caught eighty-four dozen in one day, but where hundreds of dozens were formerly snared, a few only are taken now.299 whe] [WHI Whelk. —One of the toughest, and most indi- gestible, of the so-called shell-fish. It has been called “ A poor man’s delicacy,” but its use was not formerly confined to the poor. We read that at a feast given on the occasion of enthroning William Warham as Archbishop of Canterbury, in the year 1504, eight thousand whelks were supplied at a cost of five shillings per thousand. Whelks require to be boiled for some considerable time in their shell before they are eatable, and after having been thus boiled, they may be still further cooked by being taken out of their shells, covered with flour or bread-crumbs, and fried in hot fat. Whelks are common on the English coasts, and feed on gar- bage and refuse, so that they have been called “sea scavengers.” They are frequently used by fishermen as bait for codfish. Whey.^—That part of milk which is left after the curd, or portion coagulated for the purpose of making cheese, is taken away. It is used as a cooling and refreshing drink. Whipped Cream.—See Cream. Whisky or Whiskey.—A spirit distilled for drinking, which originated, at least so far as regards the name, with the Celtic inhabitants of Ireland and Scotland, its name and use still continuing to be closely associated with these two countries. Whisky made in the United Kingdom may be classified under three descriptions; malt whisky, grain whisky, and plain spirit. Originally it was made from malted barley, but in the United States it is now chiefly distilled from corn and rye; wheat and barley are also used, but only to a limited extent. Whisky improves by age; it is not mellow, nor its flavour agreeable, until several■nvhi] 300 Twhi years old. In its original state it is almost colour- less, but becomes darker by age, or more frequently by being kept in sherry casks. Whitebait.—Many opinions have been expressed ^vith regard to this delicate little fish. It was supposed to be the fry of the shad, but it has ])een shown that the tongue and roof of the mouth are furnished with three or more rows of very minute teeth, a fact that distinguishes it from the shad, which is destitute of teeth. At first, the Thames Conservancy forbade its being caught. Eichard Thomas Cannon, how- ever, attended before the Lord Mayor and proved whitebait to be a distinct species, an opinion shared by Dr. Eichard Parnell, who maintained that the whitebait will be found to exist in considerable quantities in the Firth of Forth throughout the whole year. This induced the Thames Conservancy Board to permit its capture, and now fishermen are actively engaged in taking it in the Thames from April to the close of the summer. There can be no doubt, however, that what is commonly sold under the name of whitebait is principall}’’ the young fry of a variety of fishes caught simultaneous^ with the true whitebait. At first it was appreciated only by the lower order of epicures, but it has now become of great renown, and a valuable article of commerce. No less than s640 per week come into Queenborough alone, as wages for the fishermen engaged in pursuit of whitebait. The Greenwich whitebait dinner is almost proverbial. Whiting. —This fish is very delicate, tender, and easily digested. It seldom exceeds a pound and a half in weight, or ten to twelve inches in length. In the spring it swarms in large shoals within three301 AVHO] LWID miles of tlie shore for the purpose of depositing its spawn. The usual mode of catching it is by line. In the winter time this fish is sometimes sold under the peculiar name of ‘‘huckhorn,” which is simply the ordinary whiting caught in Cornwall, salted and dried. Whole Meal Bread. —This bread is made of flour from wdiich none of the exterior husk of the corn has been removed. It is of a brownish grey colour, and is generally made rather moist in order to prevent it becoming hard. It is extremely nu- tritious, as it contains all the natural constituents of the wdieat, and nothing is added to it or taken from it, in order to give the bread an artificially white colour. The use of whole meal bread has largely increased during recent years, but it is not likely to supersede that made from ordinary flour, as it is somewhat heavy, and does not agree with all persons. Widgeon.—This well-known bird belongs to the same family as the wild duck. Its flesh is so much esteemed by many that large quantities are caught in decoys and sent to market. This bird is a native of the northern regions of Europe and Asia, breed- ing in Lapland, Sweden and Norway, wdience, on the approach of winter, vast flocks wing their way southwards, visiting Holland, Germany, France, Spain and Italy. In the British Islands it arrives about the beginning of October, visiting our inland marshes, bays and mouths of rivers. The flocks, while on the wing, utter during their flight a peculiar whistling call-note, by which the fowler easily dis- tinguishes them during the night. Early in March they begin their polar migration, and by the month of April our morasses and shores are deserted.wil] 302 [wiL. Wild Boar.—The flesh of the wild boar is finer than that of the pig, and is generally eaten flavoured with truffles and pistachio nuts. The wild boar belongs to the family of hard-skinned, non-ruminat- ing mammals. In size it is equal to the largest of the domestic kind, but it surpasses them in its great strength and ferocity. It is greyish black in colour, having woolly hair interspersed with very stiff bristles, forming a kind of mane along its spine ; its canine teeth are so developed as to prove most formidable tusks. The wild hoar is found in the forests and marsh lands of the temperate regions of Europe and Asia. Professor Vambery also met with it in Turkestan. Sometimes it is found alone, sometimes herding together for defence against the wolves. The wild hoar seeks its food at night, feeding on roots, which it digs up with its snout; also on grain, eggs and even the young of other mammals. Where truffles abound its flesh obtains a peculiarly delicate flavour. Hunting the boar has always been a favourite diversion, and in India, where it is classed with “big game,” it is hunted on horseback with spears. So highly were wild hoars prized in the Middle Ages, that in the reign of William the Conqueror anyone found killing one was liable to have his eyes put out. Wild Duck.—This bird is also called the Mallard, and is highly esteemed for the table. It has a different flavour from the tame duck, with occa- sionally a fishy taste. It is distinguished from the tame duck by the colour of its feet being red, while those of the tame ducks arej^ellow’. The mallard makes its appearance in this country in large flocks about October, when, immediately after its arrival, it is subjected to persecution in every possible way.303 [win wil] SportsmGii go out to slioot it 5 H6ts of Vciiious kinds are set, decoys are employed, and dogs are trained to assist in entrapping them in long tunnels made to taper down to a narrow funnel-like extremity, whence there is no escape. The wild duck is not now so common as formerly in this country, hut large quantities are still caught in the fen counties of England and sent up to the London market. Wild Goose.—The flesh of the wild goose has a more gamey flavour than that of the domesticated bird. Wild geese are supposed to breed in the north- ern parts of Europe, and to migrate into more tem- perate regions when the winter sets in. They fly at a very great height, in flocks of from fifty to a hundred ranged in a single diagonal line, or in two lines forming an angle. They seldom rest by day, but at night they retire to the water, or to some ridge or bar of sand on the sea coast. In Britain the wild goose^ is well known as a regular winter visitant, arriving in large numbers during September or the beginning of October from their northern summer haunts, and seldom taking their departure before the end of April or the beginning of May. They feed upon clover and other grasses, also on the tender wheat, thus injuring the crops to a great extent. On this account the French name for the bird is “ Oie de moissons,” or harvest goose, as it loves and seeks out the fields of corn. Windsor Beans.—Also called Broad Beans. Bacon with beans is a favourite dish in the country, but persons of an enervated constitution or sedentary occupation often find Windsor beans somewhat diffi- cult to digest. While the whole pod of the French bean is cooked when young, the Windsor bean is allowed to grow nearer to maturity, the pod is re-WINJ [WIX 804 jected, and only'the bean itself is boiled. The seeds of French beans and scarlet runners are kidney- shaped; Windsor beans are flat and broad. The Windsor beans are not so much eaten now as for- merly, haricot beans having very much taken their place. If Windsor beans are boiled till the outer skin peals off, and then the remaining part of the bean mashed with a little butter and pepper, they will be far more digestible than when plainly boiled. Wine.—The fermented juice of the grape, highly stimulating, restorative and nourishing, daily used by many people as an article of diet.; It varies greatly according to the district in which the grapes are grown, the process of manufacture, and the quantity of alcohol it contains. Wine has been in use from the very earliest ages, and both the sacred and the profane literature of the ^ncient world teems with references to it. That in its earliest form its especial characteristics differed but slightly from its present distinctive features, may be gathered from the fact that so early as the days of Noah it was intoxicating, and the story of that patriarch’s excess is perhaps the oldest record of its misuse. Although wine has been generally associated with occasions of revelry it has curiously enough always found a place in the sacred mysteries. The Greeks and Piomans poured out a libation to the gods; the Jews solemnised their marriages by the bride and bridegroom drinking wine together, and then breaking the glass in pieces ; and wine has always been used in celebrating the rites of the Christian religion. The literature of wine is an extensive one; laws have been made to regulate its manufacture and its use, poets have sung its praises, and fanatics have[woo 305 woo] denounced it. Wines are too numerous for enume- ration in a single article, but the principal will be found described under their respective names. Woodcock.—This bird is highly celebrated for the exquisite flavour of its flesh; like the rest of its family, it is cooked without being drawn, the trail being considered by epicures a great delicacy. When, however, the spring change of plumage commences, the bird loses its delicacy, and becomes rank and worthless. Though the woodcock is a native of the northern latitudes of Europe and Asia, its migratory range extends to Italy, Madeira, Barbary, Greece, Aleppo and Egypt ; it has also been noticed in Cashmere and Japan. It breeds in Russia, Finland, Norway, Sweden and Siberia, as well as in Switzerland and Great Britain. Woodcocks have been known, when apprehensive of immediate danger, to carry off in their claws both their eggs and their young. The first flight of these birds from the north to our island generally occurs towards the end of Septem- ber or the beginning of October. Their favourite haunts are woods, moist thickets, glens, and similar places, where they remain concealed during the day, until hunted up by dogs. Wood Pigeon.—For culinary purposes the wood pigeon is generally roasted, but may be prepared for the table in any of the ways prescribed for other pigeons ; the rule of cooking pigeons immediately after they are killed need not be followed with this bird, which is somewhat improved by being hung for a few days. The wood pigeon is abundant throughout the British Islands, and, in addition to those bred in this country, large flocks make their appearance in autumn and winter, crossing the North Sea from the Continent, to such an extent thatyam] 30G [yp:a where forests of beech wood cover large tracts of ground, these birds haunt them in myriads, and when they go out to feed frequently cover more than a mile of ground. They are wonderful gormandisers, 1,020 grains of corn having been found in the crop of one killed in Forfarshire. The bird is known to feed three times daily, and the loss to agriculturists which their visits cause must he very great. It, however, devours the seeds of an immense number of weeds, which serves in some degree to atone for its misdeeds. Yams.—These tropical vegetables are not much eaten in England, where they are too often con- founded with sweet potatoes. They are natives of the warmer regions of both the Northern and South- ern hemispheres, and many of them are of value, as their tubers contain a large amount of starch, though not so much as potatoes. The Chinese yam will grow in Great Britain, but, as its enormous tubers descend to a great depth, its cultivation is unprofitable. Yeast.—Also called Balm. The scum which rises when farinaceous and vegetable substances are in a state of fermentation with water. Yeast is added to substances intended to ferment, in order to quicken the process. Dough made with a certain proportion of yeast, and allowed to stand, becomes what is technically called sponge, and in baking, develops carbonic acid gas, which makes the bread lighter, but takes away some of its saccharine matter. The consumption of yeast is so great in this country that, be^des the quantity supplied by English brewers, la^^^Jkjes are imported from Holland and Ger™Sy. ( LIBRARY 1k ' ' V. I'*' 7* »""i • A -I’; i " ■ M; i < *i>4' “ •» L l£' • ij* ■.»•■■ .*■ iK’ »!j- 'ijfa '. :. .V I'-’ > / _ \h. ‘ -if '/* ‘. ‘■t- ’> #' ♦i^n ;•*■ '( 'A t * .*• t • > \ •1