7./ A LIST OF CHEAP BOOKS, W *" SOLD BY ALL BOOKSELLERS: PUBLISHED BY MILNER AND SOWERBY, ' CHEA.P8IDE, HALIFAX, V" \ t ' • ■«>»»*— ' < THE COTTAGE LIBRAEY.—(Halifax.) Botal32ko. Cloth. LsTiasBi). UjriKOBMLx Boditd. A book that will Suit You jBsop’s Fables Anna Lee: or, The Maiden, The Wife, and The Mother u:^ . Cook’s Vojsges Cooper’s Last of the Mohicans Cooper’s Pilot Cooper’s Sea Lions ™ Rnv _ . LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBR^ Classmark:I J 3 4 milkbe asd sowbebt’s chbap list. Lamplighter (The) Langnsge 4 Poetry of Flower* Law of KindneBS, 4c. ’LenaBivers. ByM.J.Holmes Life of Christ, by Bromley Life of Joseph, 41)eath ofA.be! Life of Weuingtoii Life of Cromwell Life of Baron Trenok Life of Napoleon Bonaparte Life of the Eev. J. Fletcher Life of Mrs. Fletcher Life of the Ker. John Wesley Life of Dr. Adam Clarke Longfellow’s Poetical Works Memoirs of Mrs. Huntington Milton’s Poetical Works More's Practical Piety Entertaining Anecdotes N ewsfromthe Inrisible World Nick of the Woods Paley’s Hore Panlinss Pleasing Instructor Poe’s Tales of Mystery, 4o. Pope’s Poetical Works Pope’s Homer’s llliad Pope’s Homer’s Odyssey Pamela, or Virtue Bewarded Quarle’s Divine Emblems Queechy, by Eliz. ^yetherell Hceiter for the Million Records of Good Men Religions Conrtship Ib)bin8on Crnsoe Bomance of the Forest Bose Clark, 4 other Sketches Babbath Musiiiv8,ftc. byiJonU Sacred Garland—1st Series Sacred Garland—2nd Series Bandford and Merton Scarlet Letter Scottish Chiefs Scott’s Lady of the Lake Scott’s Lord of the Isles uiriFOBi) Comic .A.lbum&ComicMiusttol Cro'chct Don Juan Every Man his Own Farrier 2 Shady Side, by aPaster’s Wife Shipwrecks and Disasters at Sea Simpson’s Plea for Religion Simpson’sKoy to the Prophe> cifes Smith’s Bread from Heaven Smith’s Early and Latter Bain Smith’s Good Seed for the Lord’s Field Smith's Light for Dark Days Stephen’s Travels in Egypt,4o St. Clair of the Isles Sunny Memories of Foreign Lands. By Mrs. Stowo Tales and Stories of Ireland Tales of Fairy Land Thomsons Poetical Works Todd’s Btndent’s Manual Todd’s Sunday School Teacher Tregortha’i Bank of Faith Two Years before the Mast Twice-Told Tales, by Haw- thorne Uncle Tom’s Cabin Wallsend Miner, by J.Everett Watts’ on the Mind Watts’ World to Como Watts’ Scripture History Wesley’s Choice Sermons White Slave Wide, Wide World Wilson’s Wonderful Charac- ters Wit of the World Wonders of Nature and Art Wordsworth’s Excursion, &c. Wordsworth’s Select Poems Young^ Poetical Works Young Man’s Own Book Young Man’s Book of Amuse- ment Yonng Man’s Bast Companion Young Woman’s Companion UWIFOBM Wixa TUB ABOVB. Lives of Pi rates& Sea Robbers Lives of Highwaymen Popular Song BookDOMESTIC COOKERY.The University Library ' Leeds ☆ ☆☆ The John F. Preston Collection of Cookery Books The Gift of Mr. Preston 1962'AA NEW SYSTEM OF DOMESTIC COOKERY; Ft>RR!KO l^rtiinplcg oC (ffronomg, AND ADAI»TRD TO THE USE OF PRIVATE FAMILIES. BY A LADY, (Mrs. RUNDELL.) WITH THE ADDITION OF MANY NEW RECEIPTS, AND embellished with engravings. HALIFAX: MILNER AND 80WEBBT. 1860.uKivEsan U£i)« 'fU'toADVERTISEMENT. As the following directions were intended for the conduct of the families of the authoress’ own daughters, and for the arrangement of their table, so as to unite a good figure with proper economy, she has avoided all excessive luxury, such as essence of ham, and that wasteful expenditure of large quantities of meat for gravy, which so greatly contributes to keep up the price, and is no less injurious to those who eat, than to those whose penury obliges them to abstain. Many receipts are given for things, which being in daily use, the mode of preparing them may be supposed too well known to require a place in a cookery-book ; yet how rarely do we meet with fine melted butter, good toast- and-water, or well made coffee! She makes no apology for minuteness in some articles, or for leaving others unnoticed, because she does not write for professed cooks. This little work would have been a trefisure to herself when she first set out in life, and she therefore hopes it may prove useful to others. In that expectation it is given to the Public ; and as she will receive from it no emolument, so she trusts it will escape without censure.CONTENTS INTRODUCTION. PAOB M13CRLLANKOUS OBSEB- vATioHB for the iise of the mistress of a family xxili The art of carving . ....xliii PART I. FISH, To choose fish 1 to 4 Ohservatious on dressing fish Turbot 6 To keep turbot To boil turbot Salmon To boil salmon To broil salmon To pot salmon 7, To dry salmon — Red mullet PAOB To roast sturgeon, 11; Another way 11 An excellent imitation of pickled sturgeon — Thomback and skate .. 12 Crimp skate — Maids — Boiled carp — Stewed carp — Bakdd carp — Perch and tench 13 To fry trout and grayling, (and perch and tench the same way) — Trout A-la-Genevoise.... — Different ways of dressing mackerel 14 Pickled mackerel, called careach. An excellent dish of dried salmon To pickle salmon, 8. Ano- ther way 8 Salmon collared Cod Observations on cod ... • Cod's head and shoulders Crimp cod Cod sounds boiled, 9; to look like smaU chickens, 9; broiled, 10; Ragout Currie of cod To dress salt cod Sturgeon To dress fresh sturgeon To dress pipers — To bake pike IS Different ways of dressing haddocks — To dry haddocksfand whi- tings the same way).... — — Stuflmg for pike, had- 10 11 dock, and small cod.. — Soles “ To boil or fry soles .... 1 <• Stewed soles and carp .. - Soles anotiier way Soles in the Portuguese way — Portuguese stuffing for _ soles baked 17CONTliNTS. VJ PAGE Au excellent way of dres- singalargeplaice, espe- cially if there be a roe 17 To fry smelts — Eels — Bpitchcock eels — -- — Fried eels J8 Iloiled oysters Boiled ceU —'To scallop oysters ...... Eel-broth, very nourish- Fried oysters, to garnish ixig for the sick, how to boiled fish I-AG3 oo Crabs Hot crabs — Dressed crab, cold 23 Oysters — To feed oysters — To stew oysters — Oyster sauce, see Sauces. Oyster-loaves 24 Oyster-patties, see Pat- ties. To pickle oysters, 24. Another way — part II. SI EATS. make CoUai’ed eel To stew lamprey as at Worcester, 18; (and eels, soles, and cai-p, in the same way) 19 Flounders ... • To fry flounders AVater-souchey Herrings and sprats .... —To choose meats ....25to27 To smoke herrings —Observations on purchas- Fried herrings —I ing, keeping, and drw- Broiled herrings 201 sing meat 27 to.)» 1-otted herrings — |To keep meat hot — To dress red herrings 1 lalced herrings or sprats —I Feniton. To broil sprats —|To keep venison Bobiters, prawns, and shrimps To pot lobsters, 20. Ano- ther way as at AA'ood's hotel, (and mackerel, herrings, and trout, in the same manner) .... Slewed lobster, a very high relish Buttered lobsters To roast lobsters Currie of lobsters or prawns Prawns and cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful dish To butter prawns or shrimps To pot shrimps 21 22 To dress venison 32 Haunch, neck, and shoul- der of venison 32 To stew a shoulder of ve- nison Breast of venison -j- Hashed venison 33 I Beef. To keep beef — To salt beef or pork for eating immediately.... —■ To salt beef red 34 The Dutch way to salt beef — Beef K-la-mode 35 A fricandeau of beef. .. — Beef en Mirolon 36 To stew a rump of beef —CONTENTS. vil '■AGS f=tewed rump, another way 37 To stew brisket of boef.. — To press beef 38 To mjike himter’s beef.. — An excellent mode of dressing beef — To collar beef 3b Ileei-Bteaka — Heef-steaks and oyster- sauce — Staffordshire beef-steaks — ] liilian beef-steaks 40 Jiuef-coUop — IJeef-palates — Ueef-cakesfor aside-dish of dressed meat 41 To pot beef, 4J. Another way • To dress the inside of a cold sirloin of beef.... Fricassee of cold roast beef To dress cold beef that has not been done enough, called Beef-olives, 42. The same called San- ders, 42. The same called Cecils 42 To mince beef — To hash beef 43 Beef k-la-vingrette Itound of berf Kolled beef that equals hare — To roast tongue and udder 44 To pickle tongues for boil- ing, 44. Another way 45 To stew tongue An excellent way of doing tongues to eat cold .. Beef-heart Stewed ox-cheek, plain . 40 To dress an ox-cheek ano ther way Marrow-bones Tripe 47 fcoused tripe PAGK Ox-fcct, or cow-hcels.. 47 Bubble and Squeak.... — Veal. To keep veal — Leg of veal 49 Knuckle of veal — Shoulder of veal JD Neck of veal - ■. — Neck of veal a-la-braise — Breast of veal — To roll a breast of veal, 50. Another way .. 60 Chump of veal k-la-daube — Veal rolls of either cold nnait or fresh 51 UaiTico of veal — A dunelm of cold veal or fowl — Minced veal ai To pot veal — To pot veal or cliicUen with ham — Cutlets Maintenon — Cutlets another way, 62 Other ways Veal coUops — To dress collops quick, 53. Another way — SciUlops of cold veal or chicken ®4 Friciindeau of veal, 64. A cheaper, but equally good one, 64, Another way 34 Veal-olives Veal-cake — Veal-sausages — Scotch coUops — To boil calf s head MJ To bash calf's head, 6C. Another way — Calf’s head fricasseed .. 57CONTENTS. viii PAGK| PACK To collar calf’s head.... 57|To .orce hog’s ears .... 07 Mock turtle, 68. A P.fferentways of dressing cheaper way, 68. Ano- P'8's f®®* and ears ... C8 ther -"J Pig’s feet and ears fricas- Another mock turtle. Calf’s liver, 69. Uoastei*. — To dress the liver a'^d lights 60 Calf's brains k la Maitre d’Hotel — Sweetbreads, CO. Roasted — Sweetbreads ragout .... — Veal kidney 61 Pork, ^c. Observations on cutting up and dressing pork . To roast a leg of pork .. To boil a leg of pork.... 62 Loiu and neck of pork.. Slioulders and breasts of pork Rolled neck of pork .... Spring or forehand of pork Spare-rib Rork-griskiu 63 Hlade-bono of pork .... — To dress pork as lamb.. — Pork-steaks... To pickle pork —' S.iusages 64 An excellent sausage to seed Jelly of pig’s feet and ears — Pig’s harslet 69 Mock-bniwn — Souse for brawn, and for pig’s feet and ears.... — To make bhmk puddings, 69. Two other ways . 70 White hog’s puddings .. 71 Hog’s lard — To cure hams, 71. Two other ways, 72. Ano- ther way that gives a liigh flavour, 72. A me- thod of giving a still higher flavour 72 To make a pickle that will keep for years, for hams, tongues, or beef, if boiled and skimmed between each parcel of them 73 To dress hams — Excellent bacon 74 The manner of curing Wiltshire bacon...... — Mutton. cat cold — Observations on keeping Spadbury’s Oxford sau- and dressing mutton.. — sages — Leg of mutton 75 To scald a sucking pig.. —Neck of mutton — To roast a sucking pig.. 65 Shoulder of mutton roasted 76 To dress haunch of mutton — To rosist a saddle of mutton — FiUet of mutton braised — llarrico 77 To hash mutton — To boil shoulder of mut- ton with oysters — Ureast of mutton 78 Pettitoes 66 To make excellent meat of a hog’s head To roast porker’s head.. To prepare pig’s cheek for boiling To collar pig’s head .... 67 To dry hog's checksix CONTKNTS. PAGE liOln of mutton 7H To roll loin of mutton.. — Mutton bam Mutton collops 70 Mutton cutlets in the Potiltry. PAGE Pulled turkies 88 To boll fowl, 88: with rice 89 Fowls rousted. Portuguese way — Fowls broiled, 89. Ano- Mutton stealts Steaks of mutton, or lamb, and cucumbers Mutton steaks Maintenon 80 Mutton sausages To dress mutton rumps and kidney An e.xcellent botch-potcb, 81. Another 81 Mutton kebobbed China chilo Lamb. Leg of lamb 82 Fore-quarter of Lamb .. — t Breast of lamb and cu- cumbers — t Shoulder of lamb forced, with sorrel sauce — I Lamb steaks — I llouse-lamb steaks,wbite, a). Broevn 83 I Lamb cutlets with spinach — I Lamb’s head and hinge.. — Lamb's fry — I Lamb’s sweetbreads .... — ! P'licasseed lambstones .. 84; P'ricassee of lambstones and sweetbreads, ano- ther way A very nice dish of lamb 85 PART III. POULTUY, GAME, &C. To choose poultry.... 85 to 87 Directions for dressing poultry and game .... T0 boil turkies 88 To roast turkies ther way Davenport fowls — A nice way to dress a fowl for a small dish.. 90 To force a fowl, &c — To braise a fowl, Ac. .. — Fricassee of chickens.... 91 To pull chickens, 91. Another way Chicken currie, 92. Ano- ther, more easily made 92 To braise chickens — Ducks roasted ya To boil ducks To stew ducks To hash ducks To roast a goose — To stew ^blets 94 Observations on dressing pigeons To stew pigeons, 94. Ano- ther way 05 To broil pigeons — To roast pigeons — To pickle pigeons — Pigeons in jelly, .06. The same, a beautiful dish 96 To pot pigeons — Lar^ and other small birds 97 Oame, ^e. To keep game, Ac To dress pheasants and partridges 98 To pot partridges A very cheap way of pot- ting birds — To clarify butter for pot- ted things —X contexts. PAOB To pot moor game 98 To dress grouse 99 To roast wild fowls .... To dress wild ducks, teal, widgeon, dun- birda, &c "Woodcocks, snipes, and quails................ 1*^ Kuifs and reeves 'i o dress plovers I’lovers’ eggs To roast ortolans G uiuea a. id pea-fowl.... Observations on dressing hares To roast hare 181 To jug an old bare .... Itroiied and hashed hare lb:f To pot hare Different ways of dressing rabbits To make a rabbit taste much like hare 183 To pot rabbits To blanch rabbit, low l, itc. PART IV. SOUPS AND OBAV1K8. GencnU directions re- specting soups andgm- PAOfi Miicaronl soup 108 A pepper-pot, to be served in a tureen — Turnip soup — Old-peas soup 109 Green-peas soup — Gravy-soup UC Vegetable soup, 110. Another way, Ill Carrot soup — Onion soup — Spinach soup — Scotch-leek soup 112 Ilare soup — Ox-rump soup — Hessian soup and ragout 113 Soup i-la-sap — Portable soup 114 Soup maigre, 114. Ano- ther 115 Stock for brown or white fish soups — Eel soup — Skate soup — Excellent lobster soup.. 11(1 Craw-fish or prawn soup — Oyster soup — Oyster-mouth soup .... 117 Soups, <5'c. Scotch mutton-broth .. 18-1 Ve;d-broth 183 Colouring for soups and gravies Julienne soup A clear brown stock for gravy-soup or gravy .. All excellent soup loG All excellent white soup, 108. A plainer one .. 107 Gravies. General directions re- specting gravies — To diaw gravy that wiU keep a week — Clear gravy 118 Cullis, or brown gravy.. — Itaciiamel, or while sauce — k gravy without meat .. — A rich gravy 119 Gravy for a fowl when there is no meat to make it of — Veal gravy (iiblet soup —.Gravy to make mutton Partridge sonp —' oat like venison,, ...xi CONTENTS. PAOE Strong fish gravy 12ii Savoury jelly, to put over cold pies — Jelly, to cover cold fish.. — PART V. SAUCKS, Ac. A very good sauce, espe- cially to hide the bad colour of fowls 121 White sauce for fricassee of fowls, rabbits, white meat, fish, or vegetables — Sauce for wild fowl .... 122 Another for the same, or for ducks ~ An excellent sauce for carp, or boiled turkey — Siiuce for fowl of any sort — Sauce for cold fowl, or partridge — Sauce a la Mai Ire d’Hotel — Very fine mushroom sauce for fowls, or rabbits .. 123 Lemon white sauce, for boiled fowls — Liver sauce — Hgg sauce — (luion sauce — L'lear shalot sauce 124 To make parsley sauce wheu DO parsley leaves are to be hjid — Green sauce, for green geese, or ducklings.... — Hread sauce — L>utch sauce, fur meat or fish — Sauce Kobart, for rumps or steaks — lienton sauce, for hot or cold roast beef 125 Sauce for fish pies, where cream is not ordered, l2->- 4uotiiei PAOR Tomato sauce, for hot or cold meats 123 iVpple sauce, for goose and roast pork — The old currant sauce for venison 12(i Lemon sauce — Carrier sauce for mutton — U.am sauce — A very fine fish sauce .. — Kish sauce without butter 127 Kish sauce a-la-Craster — An excellent substitute for caper sauce 12!) Oyster sauce — Lobster sauce — Shrimp sauce 12!) Anchovy sauce — To melt butter, wliich is rarely well done, though an essential article .... — Vingaret, for cold fowl, or meat — Shalot vinegar — Camp vinegar — Sugar vinegar 130 Gooseberry vinegar .... — Cucumber vinegar — Wine vinegar — Nasturtium for capers.. 131 To make mustard — Another way to make mustard, for immediate use — Kitchen pepper — To dry mushrooms .... 132 Mushroom powder .... — To chose anchovies .... -• Hssence of anchovies .. 133 To keep anchovies when the liquor dries — To make sprats taste like anchovies — Forcemeat — Korceuieiit ingredients .. 134T CONTENTS. PAGE Forcemeat, to force fowls or meat, 134 ; for cold savoury pies 134 Very fine forcemeat balls, for fish-soups, or fish stewed, on uiaigre-days 135 Forcemeat, for turtle, asat the Uush, Bristol.. Little eggs for turtle.... Browning to colour aud flavour made-dishes .. Casserol, or rice edging for a currie or fricassee 136 FART VI. PIES, PltDDINOS, AND PASTRY. Siivoury Pies. Observations on savoury pies Bel pie 137 Cod pie pAora A French pie Is5 Vegetable pie — Parsley pie — Turnip pie — Potatoe pic 146 A herb pie — Raised crust for meat pies, or fowls, &c..... — Puddings, ij’c. Observations on making puddings and pancakes 147 Ahuond puddings, 148 B.oked, 148. Small ones 148 Sago pudding — Bread and butter pudding — Orange pudding, tliree sorts 149 An excellent lemon pud- ding — A very fineamberpudding — Baked apple pudding .. 1.50 Sole pie 138 Oatmeal pudding 139 140 141 Shrimp pie, e.vcellent.... Lobster pie A remarkably fine fish pie Pdchard aud leek pie Beef-steak pie Veal pie, 139. A rich one Veal (or chicken) and paisley pie Veal-olive pie C.olfs-head pie Pork-pies, to eat cold •Mutton pie Squab pie 142 Lamb pie — Chicken pie (and rabbits the same way) — Green-goose pie 143 Buck pie — Giblet pie 144 Pigeon pie I'artridgc pie in a dish. Hare pic, to eat cold.... 145 Dutch pudding, or souster — A Dutch rice pudding .. 151 Light or German puddings or puffs — Little bread puddings .. — Puddings in haste — New college puddings .. 152 Boiled bread puddings, 152. Another and richer — Brown bread pudding .. 153 Nelson puddings — Eve’s pudding — Qualung pudding — Duke of Cumberland's pudding — Transparent pudding .. 154 Butter pudding, 154. With meat — Rice small puddings.... — Plain rice pudding .... 1.55 A rich rice pudding .... — Rice pudding with fruit —xiii CO^TKNTS. PAOE| PACK Baked rice pudding, 155. Irish pancakes ics Another, for the family 156 A George padding An excellent plain pota- toe pudding Potatoe pudding with meat — Steak or kidney pudding 157 Beef-steak padding, 157. Baked Mutton pudding, 157. Another Suet pudding 1.58 Veal-suet pudding Hunter’s pudding Common plum-pudding — Custard pudding 158 Macaroni pudding Millet puddly Carrot pudding An excellent apHcot pud ding 160 Baked gooseberry pudding — A green-bean pudding •. Sheiford pudding Brandy pudding 161 Buttermilk pudding ... Curd puddings or puffs Boiled curd pudding... Pippin pudding 162 Yorkshire pudding A quick-made pudding.. — Uussian-seed, or ground- rice, pudding A Welsh pudding 163 Oxford dumplings...... Suet dumplings Apple, currant, or damson dumplings or puddings Yeast or Suffolk dump- lings A Charlotte 164 Common pancakes .... Pine pancakes, fried with- out butter or lard N ew-England pancaltes.. — Fritters — Spanish fritters — Potatoe fritters, Ki6. Ano- ther way Ki6 Bookings — Pancakes of rice —jCodlin tart Pastry. Rich puff paste — A less rich paste igy Crust for venison pasty — Rice paste for sweets .. — Rice paste for relishing things Potatoe paste — Raised crusts for custards or fruit igg Excellent short crusts, three ways of making them A very fine crust for orange-cheese-cakes, or sweetmeats,when want- ed to be fiarticularly nice — Observations on pastry.. 169 Remarks on usi ng preserv- ed fruit in pastry — Apple pie, 169. Hot ap- ple pie 170 Cherry pie — Currant pie — Mince pie, I70. Without meat — Lemon mince pies 171 Egg mince pies — Currant and raspberry pie or tart — Light paste for tarts and cheesecakes — Icing for tarts 172 Pippin tarts — Prune tart — Orange tart —XIV CONTENTS. JTAGK Mhubarb tart •. 173 Uaapberry tart with cream — Orange tart — Fried patties — ttyster patties I74I Lobster ij.'itties Fodovies, or beef pat- ties Veal patties Turkey patties 175 Sweet Fatties I'attics resembling mince- pies Apple puffs Lemon puffs Olieese puffs 17(> Excellent light puffs .... To prepare venison for pasty Venison pasty 177 A pasty of beef or mut* ton to eat as well as venison Folatoe pasty 17« Cheap and excellent cus- tards I! idler custards Faked custards ’ 17P Lemon custards Almond custard Cheesecakes, 17y. A jilniner sort, 180. Ano- ther way H’O lAmon cheesecjikes, 180. Another way Orange cheesecakes .... I8I Fotatoe cheesecakes .... Adnond cheesecakes, 181. PART VII. VauaTADLUS. I’AfiH Observations on dressing vegetables 184 To boil vegetables green — U05V to boii vegetables green In hard water .. — Vegetable marrow, to boil or stew — To keep green peas .... — To keep green peas, as practised in the empe- ror of Russia’s kitclien 183 Boiled poas To stew green peas .... — To stew old peas — To dress artichokes .... Ilk} Artichoke-bottoms — Jerusalem artichokes.... — To stew cucumbers, 18(i. Another way ........ To stew onions Roast onions 187 To stew oelery To boll cauliilowers .... Cauliflower iii white sauce To dress cauliflower and Parmesan To dress broccoli IU8 Spinach To dress beaus Fricasseed WmdsorlKains French beaus To Stew red cabbage, three ways 189 Mushrooms To stew mushrooms .... lyo —;Tostewsortel for frican- deau and roast meat.. Another way, 181. Auo- |French salad therway 183 Lobster salad Dough nuts A tipsy cake R oval paste, called To boil potatoes . To broil potatoes To roast potatoes 191 Clioux" - To fry potatoesXV CO.NTL.NTS, PAGE To mash potatoes 191 Carrots To stew carrots To mash parsnips 19;) Fricassee of parsnips .. To drees cardoons .... IJeet-roots Frying herbs, as dressed in Staffordsliire I93'a tansy .... Hea cale.. — I^uits d’amour PART VUI. SWEET DISHES, PRESEnVES, SWEETMEATS, &.C. Street JJuhes. PAOE Buttered rice 20-2 Soufle of rice and apple — Snowballs 203 Lent potatoes — 1-aver To preserve several vege- tables to eat in winter— French beaus, carrots, parsnips, beet-roots, store-onions, parsley, articlioke-bottoms, truf- fles, morels, lemon-peel, tic., cabbages 194 Picltles. R ules to be observed with picliles Lemon pickle 195 Indian pickle linglish bamboo 196 Melon mangoes 197 Pickled lemons Olives 198 Pickled onions To pickle cucumbers and onions sliced To piekieyoung cucumbers 199 To pickle walnuts, 199. Another way An excellent way t o pickle mushrooms, to preserve the flavour 200 To pickle red cabbage .. — Mushroom ketchup, 200. Another way 201 Walnut ketchup of the finest sort — Cockle ketchup — To keep capers 2U2 b A Very nice dish of maca- roni dressed sweet.... — Floating island, 204. Another way 204 Flummery, 204. Butch, 204. Rice 20.') Somersetshire furmcnty — Curds and cream, 203. Another way 206 A curd star — Blanc-mange, or bla- mange — Jaunemange — An e.vcellent trifle 207 Gooseberry or apple trifle — Chantilly cake, or cake trifle — Gooseberry fool 2t8 Apple fool — Orange fool — A cream, 208. An excel- lent one — Burnt cream, two ways.. 209 S.TCk cream — Brandy cream — Ratafia cream, two ways Lemon cream, 210. Yel- low, without cream, 210. White — Imperial cream 211 Almond cream — Snow cream — Coffee cream, much ad- mired — Chocolate cream —I XVI CO.MTLXli paoeI Codlin cream 212 Jixcellent orange cream.. — llaspberry cream, two ways — Everlasting, or solid, syl- labubs 2‘Jl - . . . .liemon honeycomb .... — Spinach cream 213 Hice and sago milks.... 222 l*istachio cream Clouted cream A froth to set on cream, custard, or trifle, which looks and eats well .. A Carmel cover for sweet- meats 214 Calf’s feet jelly, 214. Ano ther sore 215 Orange jeily llartsl.oru jelly 216 Cranberry jelly Cranberry and rice jelly — Appple jelly to serve at table, two ways — To scald codlins 21/ Stewed golden pippins.. — Elack-cups, two ways of making Stewed pears 21 ij Eaked pears — Orange butter — Wine roll — To prepare fruit for chil- dren; a far more whole- some way than in pies or puddings 21!) To prepare ice for ioing — Ice waters Curamt or raspberry wa- ter ice 220 Toe creams — Rrown-bvadico — llataiia cream — Colourings to stain jellies, ice, i nd creams — London <yllabub Staffordshire syllabub ... 221 A very fine Staffordshire syllabub — Devonshire junket — A pretty supper dish Savoury rice — Carrole of rice — Casserol, or rice edging — Sahnagundy — Jlacjironi, as usually ser- ved, 223. Two other ways 223 Oraekt 224 Butter, to serve as a little dish — Kamaluiis — Eoudii ■2-2'i Potted cheese Roast cheese, to come up after dinner — Welch rabbit —. Cheese toast 226 Ancliovy toast, two ways — To poach eggs —■ Buttered eggs — Scotch eggs 227 A pepper-pot Tlie Siaffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver To preserve suet a twelve- month Sweetmeats. To green fruits for pre. serving or pickling 2'’8 To clarify sugar for sweet- meats To candy any sort of fruit To prepare barberries for tartlets 2’9 Barberries iu bunches"..’. — A beautiful preserve of apricots To nreservo apricois iu 23J VCONTKMS. xvn ■10 preserve green ap.i- Gooseberry jam for tarts" Ma 230 A\ lute gooieberry jam .. Gooseberry hops Apricots or pcaclies in brandy To dry apricots in half* 231 Apricot cheese — Orange marmalade...... — Lemon marmalade Transparent marmalade To butter oranges hot.. 23; To fill preserved oranges; a comer dish ■\Vhole oranges carved .. 233 Uutterod orange juice, a cold dish Orange chips Orange biscuits, or little cakes Orange flower cakes .... To preserve oranges or lemons in jelly To keep oranges or le- mons for puddings, ice. 233 To preserve strawberries whole To preserve strawberries in wine To dry cherries with sugar 23( To dry cherries without sugar To dry cherries the best Cherries in brandy Cherry jam 237 Currant jam, black, red, or white Currant jelly, red or black Apple marmalade ...... Applejelly for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats Red apples in jelly .... 238 Oried apples To preserve jarganel pears most be.autifuily Rasberry jam [.. 040 Another way ” To preserve greengages'", Damson cheese 241 -Muscle-plum cheese _ Uiscuits of fruit 242 Quince marmalade Kxcellent sweetmeats for tarts when fruit is plen- Magnum bonum’plums j ~ excellent as a sweet- meat or in tarts, though very bad to eat raw .. 243 Lemon drops _ Uarberry drops _ Ginger drops; a good s to- machic .344 Peppermint drops i Ratafla drops _ Raspberry cakes 243 To preserve Fruits for n'inter Use. Observations on sweet- meats To keep currants 240 Cherries and damsons the same way To Keep codlins for seve- ral montlis 247 To keep gooseberries two ways iVnother way 248 To keep damsons for win- ter pies; two ways, 248. Another w.ay 249 To preserve fruit for tarts or family desserts .... J. To keep lemon-juice.,.. -L Cliin.a-orange juice, avery useful thing to mix withCONTEXTS, XVlll, PAGB water, in fevera, when the fresh juice cannot he procured 250 Different ways of dressing cranberries — Orgeat, two ways — Lemonade, to be made a day or two before wanted 251 Another way Lemonade, that has the ' ajipearance and flavour ' of jelly Raspberry vineg.ir PART IX. CAKES, bread, &C. Observations on making and baking cakes .... 2.52 Icing for cakes 253 To ice a very large cake 254 A common cake, 254. A very good one.- 254 An excellent cake — A very fine cake 255 Rout dix)p cakes — I'T.it cakes that will keep long in the house good 256 Little white cakes — Little short cakes — Plum cake, 25(i. Another way, 257. Very good common ones, 257. Lit- tle ones to keep long.. 257 A good pound-cake .... 258 A cheap seed-cake, 258. Another Common bread-cake .... „ . VXGV Sponge cake, 260. Ano- ther, without butter... 260 Tea-cakes 261 Benton tea-cakes, 26i Another sort, as bis- cuits, 261. Another... A biscuit cake Macroons AVafers Crack-nuts 262 Cracknels A good plain bun that may be eaten with or without toasting and butter _ Richer buns Gingerbread, 263. Ano- ther sort, 263. A good plain sort, 263. A good sort without butter.... 263 Rusks 264 To make yeast, two ways — To make bread Ameriein flour 265 The Rev. Mr. llagget’s economical bread .... Rice-aud-wheat bread .. 266 French bread How to discover whether bread has been adulte- rated with whiting or chalk 267 To detect bones, jalap, ashes, &c. in bread .. E.xcellent rolls French rolls ..!!!! Brentford rolls ”" 268 Potatoe rolls , [ ~ Mullins Q,ueen-cakes, two ways.. 259 Shrewsbury cakes — Tunbridge cakes — Rice-cake, two sorts.... 260 AVatei Cakes — yorkshire cake ,... 1i Hard biscuits ” Plain and very crisp bis- cuits 269XIX CON TK.NTS, I>ART X. KOMK-BRBWBRY, WIKES, &C 1‘AOl! To brew very fine Welch ale 20r Strong beer, or ale a7ti Excellent table-beer .... 2/1 To refine bear, ale, wine, or cyder Extract of malt for coughs 272 To preserve yeast Renmrks on English wines — A rich and pleasant wine 273 Raspberry wine 1 PACK Observations respecting choese 284 Two ways to prepare ren- net to turn the milk.. 285 To make cheese To preserve cheese sound 286 To make sage cheese.... 287 Cream cheese, two ways of making — Rush cream cheese, two ways 238 Observations respecting Raspberry or currant wine, 273. Another way 274 Black-currant wine, very fine To make butter 289 To preserve butter, 289. The best way of pre- serving butter for win- Excellent ginger-wine, 274. Another way.... 27.') Orange wine Excellent cowslip wine.. — Elder wine, 27ii. White, very much like Fronti- niac 270 To manage cream for whey-butter To scald cream as in the West of England .... — Butter-milk 291 To keep milk and cream — Clary wine Excellent raisin wine ... 277 Raisin wine with cyder, 277. Without cyder.. 2/8 Suck mead Gallino curds and whey, as in Italy 292 To choose butter at mar- ket Cowslip mead Imperial 279 Ratafia — Poultry-yard. Management of fowls ., — Raspberry brandy An excellent way of ma- king punch Vendor, or milk punch.. 281 Norfolk punch, two ways White-currant shrub.... part XI. DAIBV AND POULTRY. Dairy. On the management of •■'<ws Ac 28? To fatten fowls or chickens in four or five days .. -— To choose eggs at market, and preserve them.... — Feathers 296 Ducks Geese 297 Turkies Pea-fowl 298 Guinea-hens Pigeons Rabifits 299XX CONTKNTS. paut XII. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE POOR. Sick-Poor. PAGE General remarks • A clear broth that will keep long — A quick-made broth .... — A very supporting broth against any kind of weakness 3*1' A very nourishing veal- broth — Urolli of beef, mutton, and veal — Halves’ feet broth, .101. Another way 302 Chicken broth Kol broth 30.1 Tench broth Jleef-tea Ur. Uatclift's restorative pork jelly Shank-jelly _ Arrow-root jelly Tapioca jelly — Gloucester jelly 304 Panada, made in five mi- nutes, 304. Another, 304. Another — Chicken panada — Sippets, wheuthestomacli will not receive meat.. — Different ways of prepar- ing eggs Three great restor.itives, 305. Another, a most pleasant draught C.audle 3 ways of making 306 Cold caudle A Hour caudle Dice caudle, two ways .. To mull wine, 303. Auo thor way 307 To miilte colVeo .. 305 PA OR Coffee milk 307 Chocolate 303 Patent cocoa — Saloop — Milk porridge — French milk porridge .. — Ground-rice milk 30.0 Sago, 309. Sago milk .. — Asses’ milk — Artificial asses’ milk — Another, 309. Another, 310 Water-gruel, two ways of making — Barley-gruel -•••• — A very agreeable drink.. — A refreshing drink in a fever, 310. Another drink, 310. Another 311 A most pleasant drink.. — Soft and fine draught for those wlio are weak and have a cough — Toast and water — Barley water, two ways of making — Lemon water, a delightful didnk 312 Apple water — Kaspberry vinegar water — Whey — Wliite wine whey — Vinegar and lemon wheys — Buttermilk, with bread or without 313 Dr. Botvhaave's sweet buttermilk — Orgeat — Orangeade, or lemonade — ligg wine 314 Cookery for the Poor. General remarks and hints — A baked soup 315 An e.vcellent soup for tho weakly 317XXI CONTENTS. PACKi Ea^o 317 Ciiudlo for tlie sick and tlie Ijing-iu — PART XIII. VAIltOOB RKCBIPTS ANDDIRKC- 7IONS TO SKRVANTS. Various Jtrcripts. To make soft pomatum, two ways 31(1 Hard pomatum — Pomade divine — Pot-pouri 31!) A quicker sort of sweet pot 3:1<) To make wash-luUls .... — I’asto for chapped hands, and wliich wdl preserve tliem sniootli by con- stant use — For chapped lips — Hungary water 321 Honey water — Lavender water — Au excellent water to prevent hair from fall- ing off, and to thicken it — Hlack paper for drawing palieiTis — Black ink, two wiiys, of making 322 To cement broken china — An e.vcelleut stucco, which will adhere to wood-work — JHasou’s washes for stucco, blue and yellow 32.’I Roman cement or mortar for outside plaiatering, or brick-work — To take stains, iron- moulds, and mildew, out of linen 324 To make lUmnels keep their colour, and not s.iriuk 3-0 PAOK To preserve furs and woollen from moths .. 325 To dye tlie linings of fur- niture, Ac. buff, salmon colour, or pink, accord- ing to the depth of the hue, 325. Blue 32G To dye gloves to look like York tan or Limerick, according to the deep- ness of the dye — To dye white gloves a beautiful purple — Aliquorto wash old deeds, Ac. on paper or parch- ment, when the writing is obliterated, or, when sunk, to make it legible — To prevent the rot ill sheep — To jirevent green hay from firing .327 To preserve a granary from insects and wea- sels — To destroy crickets — Directions to Servants. To clean calico furiiiUirc when taken down for the summer — To clean plate — 'To clean looking-glasses 323 To preserve gilding, and clean it — To clean paint — To clean pajier-hangiiigs 32!) To give a gloss to fine oak wainscot — To give a line colour to mahogany — To take ink out of maho- gany 33K Floor-cloths, 330. To clean them — To dust carpets and floors 331xxti CONTENTS, >J>-3 PAOB 0 clean carpets 3til ogive to boards a beau- tiful appearance — To extract oil from boards or stone — To clean stone stairs and halls 332 To blacken the fronts of stone chimney-pieces.. To take stains out of mar- ble, 332. Iron stains . — Two ways of preseiwing irons from rust 333 To take rust out of steel To clean the back of the grate; the inner hearth; and of cast-iron stoves, the fronts, 333. Ano- ther way to clean cast- iron and black-hearths PAflK To take the black off the bright bars of polished stoves in a few mi- nutes 3J3 To clean tin covers, and patent pewter porter pots 334 To prevent the creaking of a door — A strong paste for paper — Pine blacking for shoes — liilU of Fare, Family Dinners, i5’c. rjiil; of fare — Family Dinners ........ 337 (leneral remarks on din- ners 347 Suppers 3 lit I.NDBX SfS*MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS, FOU THK USB OF THK MISTRESS OF A FAMILY. In every rank those deserve the greatest praise, who best acquit themselves of the duties which their station requires. Indeed, this line of con- duct is not a matter of choice but of necessity, if we would maintain the dignity of our character as rational beings. In the variety of female acquirements, though domestic occupations stand not so high in esteem as they formerly did, yet, when neglected, they produce much human misery. There was a time when ladies knew nothing beyond their own family concerns ; but, in the present day, there are many who know nothing about them. Each of these e.\- tremes should be avoided ; but is there no way to unite, in the female character, cultivation of ta- lents and habits of usefulness ? Happily there are still great numbers in every, situation, whose e.\- aniplo proves that this is possible. Instances may be lound of ladies in the higher walks of life, who condescend to examine the accounts of their house- steward ; and, by overlooking and wisely direct- ing the expenditure of that part of their husband’s income which falls under their own inspection,XXIV MISCr.LLANLOUS OBSERVATION'S. avoid llie inconveniences of embarrassed circum- stances. How much moi-e necessary, then, is do- mestic knowledge in those whose limited fortunes press on their attention considerations of the strict- est economy ! There ought to be a material differ- ence in the degree of care which the person of a large and independent estate bestows upon money concerns, and that of a person in confined cirenm- stances : yet both may very commendably employ some portion of their time and thoughts on this subject. The custom of the times tends in some measure to abolish the distinctions of rank ; and the education given to young people is nearly the same in all ; but though the leisure of the higher may be well devoted to elegant accomplishments, the pursuit of those in a middle line, if less orna- mental, would better secure their own happiness and that of others connected with them. We some- times bring up children in a manner calculated rather to fit them for the station we wish, than that ivhich it is likely they will actually possess ; and it is in all cases worth the while of parents to consider whetlier the expectation or hope of rais- ing their oft’spriug above their own situation be well-founded. The cultivation of the understanding and dispo- sition, however, is not here alluded to ; for a ju- dicious improvement of both, united to fii*m and c-arly-taugiit religious principles, would enable the happy possessor of these advantages to act well on all occasions : nor would young ladies find domes- tic knowledge a burthen, or inconsistent with high- er attainments, if the rudiments of it were incul- cated at a tender age, when activity is so pleasing. If employment be tiresome to a healthy child, the fault must be traced to habits which, from manyMISCUILANEOUS OHSEUVATIONS. XXV causes, are not at present favourable to the future conduct of women. It frequently happens, that before impressions of duty are made on the mind- ornamental education commences ; and it ever after takes the lead : thus, what should be only the embellishment, becomes the main business of life. There is no opportunity of attaining a know- ledge of family management at school; and, dur- ing vacation, all subjects that might interfere with amusement are avoided. When a girl, whose family moves in the higher ranks of life, returns to reside at her father’s house after completing her education, her introduction to the gay world, and a continued course of plea- sures, persuade her at once that she was born to be the ornament of fashionable circles rather than to ttoop (as she would conceive it) to undertake tlie arrangement of a family, though by that means she might in various ways augment the satisfaction and comfort of her parents. On the other hand, persons of an inferior sphere, and especially in the lower order of middling life, are almost always- anxious to give their children such advantages ot education as themselves did not possess. Whe- ther their indulgence be productive of the hapj)i- ness so kindly aimed at, must be judged by tho effects, whicli are not very favourable, if what has been taught has not produced humility in herself, and increased gratitude and respect to the authors of her being. Were a young woman brought to relish home society, and the calm delights of agree- able occupation, before she entered into the delu- sive scenes of pleasure, presented by the theatre and other dissipations, it is probable.she would soon make a comparison much in favour of the foi’mcr, especially if restraint did not give to the latter ad- diiiojial relish.XXVI MISCELLANEOUS OBSLIiVATIONS. If we Ciin-y on our observations to married life, we shall find a love of employment to be the source of unnumbered pleasures. To attend to the nurs- ing, and at least early instructions of children, and rear a healthy progeny in the ways of piety and usefulness ; to preside over the family and regu- late the income alloted to its maintenance ; to make home the sweet refuge of a husband fatigued with a jarring world; to be his enlightened com- panion and the chosen friend of his heart: these, these, are woman’s duties ! and delightful ones they are, if haply she be married to a man whoso soul can duly estimate her worth, and who will bring his share to the common stock of felicity. Of such a woman one may truly say, “ Happy the man who can call her his wife. 131essed are the children who call her mother.” When we thus observe her, exercising her ac- tivity and best abilities in appropriate cares and increasing excellence, are we not ready to say, she is the agent for good of that benevolent Being who placed her on earth to fulfil such sacred obliga- tions, not to waste the talents committed to her charge. When it is thus evident that the high intellect- ual attainments may find exercise in the multifa- rious occupations of the daughter, the wife, the mother, and the mistress of the house, can any one urge that the female mind is contracted by do- mestic employ ? It is, however, a great comfort that the duties of life are within the reach of humbler abilities, and that she wiiose chief aim is to fulfil them, will rarely ever fail to acquit her- self well. United with, and perhaps crowning all the virtues of the female character, is that well- directed ductilityof mind, whichoccasionally bendsSnSCELLANEOUS OBSEKVATIOXS. XXvii its attention to the smaller objects of life, knowing them to be often scarcely less essential than the greater. Hence the direction of a table is no inconsider- able branch of a lady’s concern, as it involves judgment in expenditure ; respectability of ap- pearance ; and the comfort of her husband and those who partake their hospitality. The mode of covering the table differs in taste. It is not the multiplicity of things, but the choice, the dressing, and the neat pleasing look of the whole, which gives respectability to her who pre- sides. Too much, or too little dinners are extremes not uncommon : the latter is in appearance and reality the effort of poverty or peiiuriousness to be genteel; and the former, if constantly given, may endanger the circumstances of those who are not affluent. Generally speaking, dinners are far less sump- tuous than formerly, when half a dozen dishes were supplied for what one now costs; consequent- ly, those whose fortunes are not great, and who wish to make a genteel appearance, without ex- travagance, regulate their table accordingly. Perhaps there are few incidents in which the respectability of a man is more immediately felt, than the style of dinner to which he accidentally may bring home a visitor. Every one is to live as he can afford, and the meal of the tradesman ought not to emulate the entertainments of the higher classes, but if two or three dishes are well served, with the usual sauces, the table-linen clean, the small side-board neatly laid, and all that is neces- sary be at hand, the expectation of the husband and friend will be gratified, because no irregular-xxviii ^;ISCKL^ANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. ity of domestic arrangement w;ll disturb the so- cial intercourse. The same observation holds good on a larger scale. Ill all situations of life, the entertainment should be no less suited to the station, than to the fortune of the entertainer, and to the number and rank of those invited. The manner of carving is not only a very neces- sary branch of information, to enable a lady to do the honoui-s of her table, but makes a considerable difference in the consumption of a family : and though in large parties she is so much assisted as to render this knowledge apparently of less con- sequence, yet she must at times feel the deficien- cy ; and should not fail to acquaint herself with an attainment, the advantage of which is evident every day. Indeed, as fashions are so fleeting, it is more than probable, that before the end of this century, great attention to guests will be again the mode, as it was in the commencement of the last. Some people haggle meat so much, as not to be-able to help half a dozen persons decently from a largo tongue, or a sirloin of beef; and the dish goes away with the appearance of having been gnawed by dogs. If the daughters of the family were to take the head of the table, under the direction of their mother, they would fulfil its duties with grace, in the same easy manner as an early practice in other domestic affairs gradually fits them for their own future houses. Habit alone can make good carv- ers ; but some principal directions are hereafter', given, with a reference to the annexed plates. The mistress of a family should always remem- ber that the welfare and good management of theXNIS MISCELLANKOUS OBSERVATIONS. house depends on the eye of the superior ; and,con- sequently, thatnothiiig is too trifling for her notice, whereby waste maybe avoided ; and this attention is of more iinportsince now that the price of every necessary of life is increased to an enormous degree. If a lady has never been accustomed, while sin- gle, to think of family management, let her not upon that account fear that she cannot attain it; she may consult others who are more e.xperienped, and acquaint herself with the necessary quantities of the several articles of family expenditure, in proportion to the number it consists of, the proper prices to pay, &c. &c. A minute account of the annual income, and the times of payment, should be taken in writing ; likewise an estimate of the supposed amount of each article of expense ; and those who are early accustomed to calculations on domestic articles, will acquire so accurate a knowledge of what their establishment requires, as will give them the happy medium between prodigality and parsimony, with- out acquii’ing the character of meanness. Perhaps few branches of female education are so useful as great readiness at figures. Accounts should be regularly kept, and not the smallest ar- ticle omitted to be entered ; and if balanced every week and month, &c. the income and outgoings will bo ascertained with facility, and their propor- tions to each other be duly observed. Some peo- ple fix on stated sums to be appropriated to eacli different article, and keep the money in separate purses; as house, clothes, pocket, education of children, &e. Whichever way accounts be enter- ed, a certain mode should be adopted and strictlyMISCKLLAKEOUS OBSERVATIONS. XXX adliered to. Many vomen are unfortunately j{,'- norant of the state of their husband’s income ; and others are only made acquainted with it when some speculative project, or profitable transaction, leads them to make a false estimate of what can be af- forded ; and it too often happens that both par- ties, far from consulting each other, squander mo- ney in ways that they would even wish to forget; whereas maiviage should be a state of mutual and perfect confidence, audsimilaidtyofpursuits, which would secure that happiness it was intended to be- stow. There are so many valuable women who excel as wives, that it is a fair inference there would be few exti’avagant ones, were they consulted by their husbands on subjects that concern the mutual in- terest of both parties. Within the knowledge of the writer of these jiages, many families have been reduced to poverty by the want of openness in the man on the subject of his affairs ; and though on these occasions the worn en were blamed,it has after- wards appeai’ed, that they never were allowed a voice of inquiry, or suffered to reason upon what sometimes appeared to them imprudent. Many families have owed their prosperity full as much to the propriety of female management, as to the knowledge and activity of the father. The lady of a general officer observed to her man-cook, that her last weekly bill was higher than usual. Some excuse was ofiered ;—to which she replied:—“ Such is the sum 1 have allotted to house- keeping ; should it be exceeded one w'eek,the next must rejxiy it. The general will have no public day this week.” G'he fault was never repeated. March’s “ Family Book-keeper” is a very use-MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. XXXI fill work, nnd saves much trouble ; the variousar- ticles of expense being printed, with a column for every day iu the year, so tliat at one view the amount of expenditure on each, and the total sum, may be known. Re.idy-money should be paid for all such things as come not into weekly bills, and even for them a check is necessary. Tlie best places for pur- chasing should be attended to. In some articles a discount of five per cent, is allowed for ready money in London and other large cities, and those who thus pay are usually best served. Under the idea of buying cheap, many go to new shops, but it is safest to deal with people of established credit, who do not dispose of goods by underselling. To make tradesmen wait for their tnoney in- jures them greatly ; besides that, a higher price must be paid, and, in long bills, articles never bought are often charged. Perhaps the irregular- ity and failure of payment may have much evil influence on the price of various articles, and may contribute to the destruction of many families, from the highest to the lowest. Thus I’egularly conducted, the exact state of money affairs will bo known with ease ; for it is delay of payment that occasions confusion. A common-place book should be always at hand, in which to enter such hints of useful knowledge, and other observations as are given by sensible experi- enced people. Want of attention to what is ad- vised, or supposing things too minute to be worth hearing, are the causes why so much ignorance prevails on necessary subjects, among those wlio are not backward in frivolous ones. It is very necessory for a woman to be informed cXXxii MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. of the prices and goodness of all articles in com- mon use, and of the best time, as well as places, for purchasing them. She should also be acquainted with the comparative prices of provisions, in order that she may be able to substitute those that are most reasonable, when they will answer as well for others of the same kind, but which are more costly. A false notion of economy leads many to purchase, as bargains, what is not wanted, and sometimes never is used. Were this error avoid- ed, more money would remain for other purposes. It is not unusual among lower dealers to put off larger quantities of goods by assurances that they ai-e advancing in price ; and many who supply fancy articles are so successful in persuasion, that purchasers not unfrequently go far beyond their original intention, even to their own future dis- quiet. Some things are better for keeping, and, being in constant consumption, should be laid in accordingly ; such as paper, soap, and candles. Of these, more hereafter. To give unvarying rules cannot bo attempted ; for people ought to form their conduct on their cir- cumstances; but, it is presumed that a judicious urrangementaccording to them, will be found equal- ly advantageous to all. The minutiae of manage- ment must be regulated by every one’s fortune and rank ; some ladies not deficient in either charge themselves with giving out, once a month, to a superintending servant, such quantities of household articles as by observation and calcula- tion they know to be sufficient, preserving for their own key the large stock of things usually laid in for very large families in the country. Should there be several more visitors than usual, they canmiscellaneous observations, x.xxiii easily account for increase of consumption, and Tice versa. Such a degree of judgment will be re- spectable even in the eyes of domestics, if they are not interested in the ignorance of their employei-s; and if they are, their services will not compensate for want of honesty. When young ladies marry, they frequently con- tinue their own maids in the capacity of house- keepers; who, as they may be more attached to their interest than strangers, become very valuable servants. To such, the economical observations in this work will be as useful as the cookery ; and It IS recommendable in them to be strictly observ- ant of both, which, in the course of a year or two Will make them familiar in the practice.—It is much to be feared, that for the waste of many of the good things that God has given for our use, not abuse, the mistress and servants of great houses will hereafter be called to a strict account. Some part of every person’s fortune should be devoted to charity : by which “ a pious woman win build up her house before God, wi)i]e she that is foolish (i. e, lends nothing to the Lord,) pulls it down with her hands.” No one can complain of tlie want of gifts to the poor in this land ; but there is a mode of relief which would add greatly to their comfort, and which being prepared from superfluity, and such materials as are often thrown away, the expense would not be felt. In the latter pait of this work some hints for preparing the above are given. good hours, especially early breakfast, a family is more^ regular, and much time is saved. If orders be given soon in the morning, there will be more time to execute them : and servants, byXXxiv MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. doing Uieir woi’k with ease, will be more equal to it, and fewer will be necessary.—it is worthy of notice that the general expense will be reduced and much time saved, if every thing be kept in its proper place, applied to its proper use, and mend- ed, when the nature of the accident will allow, as soon as broken.—If the economy of time was duly considered, the nseful affairs transacted before amusements were allowed, and a regular plan of employment was daily laid down, agreat deal might be done without hurry or fatigue ; aud it would be a most pleasant retrospect at the end of the year, were it possible to enumerate all the valu- able acquirements made, and the good actions per- formed by an active woman. If the subject of servants bethought ill-timed in a book upon family arrangement, it must be by those who do not recollect that the regularity and good managemeut of the heads will be insufticient, if not seconded by those who are to execute orders. It behoves every person to be extremely careful whom he takes into his service; to be very minute in investigating the character he receives, and equally cautious and scrupulously j ust in giving one to oth ers. Were this attended to, many bad people would be incapacitated for doing mischief, by abusing the trust reposed in them. It may be fairly asserted that the robbery or waste, which is but a milder epithet for the unfaithfulness of a servant, will be laid to the charge of that master or mistress, who knowing, or having well-founded suspicions of such faults, is prevailed upon by false pity, or entreaty, to slide them into another place. There are, how- 'ever, some who are unfortunately capricious, and ofien refuse to give a character because they areMISCKLLANEOUS ODSERVATIONS. XXXV dis[ileaseil that a servant leaves their service ; but this is unpardonable, and an absolute robbery, ser- vants having no inheritance, and depending on their name for employment. To refuse countenance to the evil, and to encourage the good servant, aro actions due to society at large ; and such as aro honest, frugal, and attentive to their duties, should be liberally rewarded, which would encourage merit, and inspire servants with zeal to acquit themselves. —It may be proper to observe, that a retributive justice usually marks persons in that station, sooner or later, even in this world. The extravagant and idle in servitude are ill prepared for the industry and sobriety on which their own future welfare so essentially depends. Their faults, and the atten- dant punishment, come home when they have chil- dren of their own ; and sometimes much sooner. They will see their own folly and wickedness per- petuated in their offspring, whom they must not expect to be better than the example and instruc- tion given by themselves. It was the observation of a sensible and expe- rienced woman, that she could always read the fate of her servants who married; those who had been faithful and industrious in her service, continued their good habits in their own families, and became respectable members of the community; those who were the contrary, never were successful, and not unfrequently were reduced to the parish. A proper quantity of household articles should be always ready, and more bought in before the others be consumed, to prevent inconvenience, es- pecially in the country. A bill of parcels and recepit should be required, even if the money be paid at the time of purchase}XXXvi MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. ttiid, to avoid mistakes, let the goods be compared with these when brouglit home. Though it is very disagreeable to suspect any one’s honesty, and perhaps mistakes have been un- intentional ; yet it is prudent to weigh meat, sugai’s, &c. when brought in, and compare with the charge. The butcher should be ordered to send the weight with the meat, and the cook to file these checks, to be examined when the weekly bill shall be delivered. Much trouble and irregularity are saved when there is company, if servants are required to pre- pare the table and sideboard in similar order daily. All things likely to be wanted should be in readi- ness ; sugars of different qualities kept broken, currants washed, picked, and perfectly dry; spices pounded, and kept in very small bottles closely corked ; not more than will be used in four or five weeks should be pounded at a time. Much less is necessary than when boiled whole in gravies, &c. Where noonings or suppers are served, (and in every house some preparation is necessary for ac- cidental visitors,) care should be taken to have such things in readiness as are proper for either; a list of several will be subjoined, a change of which may be agreeable, and, if duly managed, will be attended with little expense and much convenience. A ticket should be exchanged by the cook for every loaf of bread, which, when returned, will shew the number to be paid for; as tallies may be altered,, unless one is kept by each party. Those who are served with brewer’s beer, or any other articles not paid for weekly or on delivery, should keep a book for entering the dates; which will not only serve to prevent overcharges, but will. shew the whole year’s consumption at one view.MISCKI.LANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. XXXVli An inventory of furniture, linen, and china, sliould be kept, and the things examined by it twice a-year, or oftener, if there be a change of servants ; into each of whose care the articles used by him or her should be entrusted, with a list, as is done with plate. Tickets of parchment with the family name, numbered, and specifying what bed it belongs to, should be sewed on each feather-bed, bolster, pillow, and blanket. Knives, forks, and house-cloths, are often deficient: these accidents might be obviated, if an article at the head of every list required the former should be produced whole or broken, aud the marked part of the linen, though all the others should be worn out. The inducement to care of glass is in some measure removed, by the increased price given for old flint-glass.—Those who wish for trifle-dishes, butter-stands, &c. at a lower charge than cut-glass, may buy them made in moulds, of which there is great vai’iety, that look extremely well, if not placed near the more beau- tiful articles.—The price of starch depends upon that of flour ; the best will keep good in a dry wann room for some years ; therefore when bread is cheap it may be bought to advantage, and covered close. Sugars being an article of considerable expense in all families, the purchase demands particular attention. The cheapest does not go so far as that more refined; and there is difference even in the degree of sweetness. The white should be chosen that is close, heavy, and shining. The best sort of brown has a white gravelly look, and it is often to be bought pure as imported. East India sugars are finer for the price, but not so strong, conse- quently unfit for v/ines and sw'eetmeats, but do wellXXXviii MISCEELANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. for common purposes, if good of their kind. To prepare white sugar, pounded, rolling it with a bottle, and sifting, wastes less than a mortar. Candles made in cool weather are best; and when their price, and that of soap, which rise and fall together, is likely to be higher, it will be pru- dent to lay in a stock of both. This information the chandler can always give ; they are better for keeping eight or ten months, and will not injure for two years, if properly placed in a cool situation ; and there are few articles that better deservo care in buying, and allowing a due quantity of, according to the size of the family. Paper, by keeping, improves in quality; and if bought by half or whole reams from large dealers, will be much cheaper than purchased by the quire. The surprising increase of the price of this article may be accounted for by the additional duty, and a larger consumption, besides the monopoly of rags } of the latter it is said there is some scarcity, which might be obviated if an order were given to a ser- vant in every family to keep a bag to receive all the waste bits from cuttings-out, &c. Many well-meaning servants are ignorant of the best means of managing, and thereby waste as much ns would maintain a small family, besides causing the mistress of the house much chagrin by their irregularity ; and many families, from a want of method, have the appearance of chance rather than of regular system. To avoid this, the following hints may be useful as well as economical:— Every article should be kept in that place best suited to it, as much waste may thereby be avoid- ed, viz. Vegetables will keep best on a stone floor, if theMISCRLI.ANliOUS ODSEIIVATIOXS. X\XI\ air be excluded.—Meat in a cold dry place.—Su- gar and sweetmeats require a dry place ; so does salt.— Candles cold, but not damp.—Dried meats, bams, &c. the same.—All sorts of seeds for pud- dings, saloop, rice, &c. should be close covered to presei’ve from insects ; but that will not prevent it, if long kept. Bread is now so heavy an article of expense that all waste should be guarded against; and having it cut in the room will tend much to prevent. Since the scarcity in 1795 and 1800, that custom has bee.i much adopted. It should not be cut until a day old. Earthen pans and covers keep it best. Straw to lay apples on should be quite dry to prevent a musty taste. Large pears should be tied up by the stalk. Basil, savoury, or knotted mar- joram, or London thyme, to be used when hei’bs are ordered ; but with discretion, as they are very jmngent.—The best means to preserve blankets from moths is to fold aud lay them under the fea- ther-beds that are in use ; aud they should be sha- ken occasionally: when soiled, they should be washed, not scoured. Soda, by softening the water, saves a great deal of soap. It should be melted in n large jug of water, some of which pour into tho tubs and boiler ; and, when the lather becomesweak, add more. The new improvement on soft soap is, if properly used, a saving of near half in quantity ; and, though something dearer than the hard, redu- ces the price of washing considerably. Many good laundresses advise soaping linen in warm water tho night previous to washing, as facilitating the oper- ation with less friction. Soap should be cut with wire or twine, in pieces that will make a long square when first brought in, and kept out of the air twoxl MISCELLANEOUS OBSERVATIONS. or three weeksj for if it dry quick, it will crack, and, when wet, break. Put it on a shelf, leaving a Bpacebetween, and let itgrow hard gradually. Thus, it will save a full third in the consumption.—Some of the lemons and oranges used for juice should be pared first to preserve the peel dry ; some should L halved, and when squeezed, the pulp cut out, and the outsides dried for grating. If for boiling in any liquid, the first way is best. When these fruits are ; cheap, a proper quantity should be bought and pre- pared as above directed, especially by those who • live in the country, where they cannot always be ■ had ; and they are perpetually wanted in cookery,. When whites of eggs are used for jelly, or other pur- ■ poses, conti-ive to have pudding, custard, &c. to ■ employ the j’olks also. Should you not want them i for several hours, beat them up with a little water,. and put them in a cool place, or they will be hard- - ened and useless. It was a mistake of old, to think t that the whites made cakes and puddings heavy; on the contrary, if beaten long and separately, they, contribute greatly to give lightness, are an advan- tage to paste, and make a pretty dish beaten with fruit, to set in cream, &c. If copper utensils be used in the kitchen, the. cook should be charged to be very careful not to let the tin be rubbed off ; and to have them fresh done w’hen the least defect appears, and never to put by any soup, gravy, &c. in them, or any metal utensil; stone and earthen vessels should be provi- ded for those purposes, as likewise plenty of commoni dishes, that the table set may be used to put on cold meat,—Tin vessels, if kept damp, soon rust, which causes holes.—Fenders, and tin linings oi llower-pots, &c. should he painted every year orJIISLEI.LANEOUS OBSF.UVATION3. xli two.—Vegetables soon sour, and corrode metals and glazed red ware, by which a strong poison is pro- duced. Some years ago, the death of several gen- tlemen was occasinned at Salt-hill, by the cook sending a ragout to table, which she had kept from the preceding day in a copper vessel badly tinned. Vinegar by its acidity, does the same, the glazing being of lead or arsenic.—To cool liquora in hot weather, dip a cloth in cold water, and wrap it round the bottle two or three times, then place it in the sun ; renew the process once or twice.—The best way of scalding fruits, or boiling vinegar, is in a hot iron hearth ; or by putting the vessel into a sauce- pan of water, called a water-bath.—If chocolate, coffee, jelly, gruel, bark, &c. be suffered to boil over, the strength is lost.—The cook should be encoura- ged to be careful of coals and cinders ; for the lat- ter there is a new contrivanee to sift without disper- sing the dust of the ashes, by means of a covered till bucket.—Small coal, wetted, makes the strong- est fii’e for the back, but must remain untouched until it cake. Cinders lightly wet, give a great de- gree of heat, and are better than coal for furnaces, ironing-stoves, and ovens.—The cook should be charged to take care of jelly bags, tapes for the col- lared things, &c. which if not perfectly scalded, and kept dry, give an unpleasant flavour, when next used.—Cold water thrown on cast-iron, when hot, will cause it to crack. In the following, and indeed all other receipts, though the quantities may be as accurately direc- ted as possible, yet much must be left to the discre- tion of the person who uses them. The different tastes of people require more or less of the flavour of spices, salt, garlick, butter, &c. which can neverxlii MISCELLANEOUS OUSERVATIONS. be ordered by general rules ; and if the cook hasi not a good taste, and attention to that of her einjiloy- • ers, not all the ingredients which nature and artt can furnish, will give exquisite flavour to her dishes.. The proper articles should be at hand, and shos must proportion them until the true zest be obtain - • ed, and a variety of flavour be given to the differ-- ent dishes served the same time. Those who require maigre dishes will find abun- • dance in this little work ; and where they are nott stricly so, by suet or bacon being directed in Btuffings,, the cook must use butter instead ; and where meatt gravies (or stock as they are called) are ordered,, those made of fish must be adopted*DIRECTIONS FOR CARVING. o Thr carving-knife for a lady should be light, and of a middling size and fine edge. Strength is less required than address in the maimer of using it; and, to facili- tate this, the cook'lioiildgiveorders to the butcher to divide the joints of the bones of all carcase-joints of mutton, lamb, and veal, (such as neck, breast, and loin ;) which may then be easily cut into thin slices attached to the adjoining bones. If the whole of the meat belonging to each bone should be too thick, a small slice may be taken off betwesn every two bones. The more fleshy joints (as fillet of veal, leg or saddle of mutton, and beef,) are to be heljied in thin slices, neatly cut and smooth ; observing to let the knife pass down to the bone in the mutton and beef joints. The dish should not be too far off the carver, as it eives an awkward appearance, and makes the task more difficult. Attention is to be paid to help every one to a part of such articles as are considered the best. In helping fish, take care not to break the flakes, which in cod and very fresh salmon are large, and contribute much to the beauty of its appearance. A fish-knife, not being sharp, divdes it best on this ac- count. Help a part of the roe, milt, or liver, to each person. The heads of carp, parts of those of cod and salmon, sounds of cod and fins of turl)ot, are like- wise esteemed niceties, and are to be attended to I accordingly. In cutting up any wild-fowl, duck, goose, or turkey, fora large party, if you cut tlie slices down from pinion to pinion, without making wings, there will be more prime pieces. Sirloin of Beef xnvf be begun either at the end, or by cutting into the middle. It is usual to iinpiiieXliv DITIECTIONS FOR CARVI.NG. whether the outside or the inside is preferred. For tlie outside, the slice should be cut dpwn to the bones ;; and the same with every following helping. Slice the ■ inside, likewise, and give with each piece some of the i soft fat. The inside, done as follows, eats excellently :—Have ready some shalot-vinegar boiling hot; mince the meat large, and a good deal of the fat; sprinkle it with salt, and pour the shalot-vinegar and the gravy on it. Help ' with a spoon, as quickly as possible, on hot plates. Round or Buttock of Beef cut in the same way as fillet of veal, in the next article. It should be kept even all over. When helping the fat, observe not to liack it, but cut it smooth. A deep slice should be cut off the beef before you begin to help, as will be directed for the edge-bone. Fillet of Veal.—In an ox this part is round of beef. Ask whether the brown outside be liked, otherwise help the next slice. The bone is taken out and the meat tied close, before dressing, which makes the fillet very solid. It should be cut thin and very smooth. A stuffing is put into the flap which completely covers it ; you must cut deep into this, and help a thin slice, as likewise of fat. From carelessness in not covering the latter with paper, it is sometimes dried up, to the great disappointment of the carver. Breast of Veal.—One part (which is called the brisket) is thickset, and has gristles : put your knife about four inches from the edge of this, and cut through it, which will separate the ribs from the brisket. Ask which is chosen, and help accordingly. A Cod’s Head.—Fish in general requires very little carving, the fleshy parts being those principally esteemed. A cod’s head and shoulders, when in season, and properly boiled, is a very genteel and handsome dish. When cut, it should be done with a fish-trowel, and the parts about the back-bone on the shoulders are the most firm and the best. Take off a piece quite down to the bone, in the direction a, b, c, d, puttixig in thespoonat a, c, and with each slice of fish give a piecedirections for carving. xIv of the sound, which lies underneath the back-bone and lines it, the meat of which is thin, and a little darker- coloured than the body of the fish itself: this may be got by passing a knife or spoon underneath in the direction d, J. About the head are many delicate parts, and a great deal of the jelly kind. The jelly part lies about the jaw-bones, and the firm parts with- in the head. Some are fond of the palate, and others the tongue, which likewise may be got by patting a spoon into the mouth. Edge-bone of Beef.—Cut off a slice an inch thick all the length from a to b, {See Plate No. 1.) and then help. Ihe soft fat, which resembles marrow, lies at ttie back of the bone, below c; the firm fat must be cut in horizontal slices at the edge of the meat d. It is proper to ask which is preferred, as tastes differ. The skewer that keeps the meat properly together, when boiling, is here shown at a. This should he drawn out before it is served up ; or, if it is necessary to leave the skewer in, put a silver one. Calf ’s-Head has a great deal of meat upon it, if Iironerly managed. Cut slices from a to b, {See Plate No. 1.) letting the knife go close to the bone. In the fleshy part, at the neck end c, there lies the throat sweetbread, whicti you should help a slice of from c to d with the other part. Many like the eye ; which you must cut out with the point of your knife, and divide in two. If the jaw-bone be taken off, there will be found .some fine lean. Under the head is the palate, which is reckoned a nicety ; the lady of the house should be acquainted with all things that are thought so, that she may distribute them among her guests. Shoulder of Mutton,—This is a very good joint, and by many preferred to the leg, it being very full of gravy, if properly roasted, and produces many nice bits. The figure represents it as laid with its back uppermost. When it is first cut, it should be in the hollow part of it, in the direction of a, b, and the knife should be passed deep to the bone. The primeXlvi DIUECTIONS Foil CAIIVIXG. part of the fat lies on the outer edge, and it is to be cut out in thin slices in the direction e. If many are at table, and the hollow part cut in the line a, b, is eaten, some very good and delicate slices may be cut out on each side of the ridge of the blade-bone, in the direction c, d. The line between these two dotted lines, is tliat in the direction of wdiich the edge or ridge of the blade-bone lies, and cannot be cut across. Leg of Mutton.—A leg of wether mutton (which is the best flavoured) may be known by a round lump of fat at the edge of the broadest part, as at a. The best part is in the midway, at b, between the knuckle and further end. Begin to help there, by cutting thin deep slices to c. If the outside is not fat enough, help some from the side of the broad end in slices from e to f. Tiiis part is most juicy ; but many prefer the knuckle, which in tine mutton will be very tender though dry. There are very fine slices on the back of the leg ; turn it up, and cut the broad end, not in the direction you did the otlier side, but longways. To cut out the cramp-bone, take hold of the shank with your left hand, and cut down to the thigh-bone at d ; then pass the knife under the cramp- bone, in the direction d, g. Saddle of Mutton.—Cut long thin slices from the tail to the end, beginning close to the backbone. If a large joint, the slice may be divided. Cut some fat from the sides. A Fore-quarter of Lamb.—Separate the shoulder ^ from the scoveii, (which is the breast and ribs), by passing the knife under in the direction a, b, c, cl, {See Plate No. 2.) keeping it towards you horizon- tally, to prevent cutting the meat too much off the bones. If grass-lamb, the shoulder being large, put it into another dish. Squeeze the juice of half a Se- ville orange (or lemon) on the other part, and sprin- kle a little salt and pepper. Then separate the gristly part from the ribs in the line e, c ; and help either from tliat, or from the ribs, as may be chosen.DTRECTTO.N'S POtl CARVi.Vo. xlvi ‘'>8 ’’8"® in tho ft.on f’ ’ I \ ^ '^‘ ^ *'° i®^ nn’' *'i*8 Pfftt'y ; tl.en turn the broad end of the haunch toward you, rut m the knife at b, and cut as deep as you can to the end of the haunch rf; then help in thin slices, observing to ^lye some fat to each person. There is more fat (which is a favourite part) on the left side of c and rf than on the other ; and those who help must take care to proportion it, as likewise the cravy according to the number of the company. Haunch of Mutton is tlie leg and part of the loin, cut so as to resemble haunch of venison, and is to be ii6ipecl at taDlo in tho sam6 inaniier. _ TLvn may be cut three ways: the common method is, to begin in the middle, by long slices from a to h. from the centre through the thick fat. This brings to the prime at first ; which is likewise accomplished Jiy cutting a small round hole on the top of the ham as at c, and with a sharp knife enlarging that by cutting successive thin circles; this preserves the gravy, and keeps the meat moist. The last and most saving way is, to begin at the hock end (which many are most fond of), and pro- ceed onwards. Ham that is used for pies, &c. should be cut from the under side, first taking off a thick slice. Sucning Pig.—The cook usually divides the body Iiefore it is sent to the table, and garnishes the dDi With the javvs and ears. The first thing is, to separate a s.ioulder from the carcase on one side, and then the leg, according to the direction given by the dotted line (?, b, c. The ribs are then to be divided into I bout two helpings ; and an ear or jaw presented with plenty of sauce. The joints may either be civided into two each, or pieces may be cut from 1 hem. riie ribs are reckoned the finest part; but soma people prefer the neck end, between the shoulders. Hare,—The best way of cutting it up is, to put the point of the knife under the shoulder at a, (^See Plate dxl viii DlfliiCTiOXS I'OR CARVim jVb. 4. ) ftnd so cut b11 tlie way down to trie rump, oil one side of the back-hone, in the line a, h. Do the same on the other side, so that the whole hare will be divided into three parts. Cut the back into four, which, with the legs, is the part most esteemed. The shoulder must be cut off in a circular line, as c, d, a ; lay the pieces neatly on the dish as you cut ttiem ; and then help the company, giving some pud- ding and gravy to every person. This way can only be practised when the hare is young ; if old, do not divide it down, which will require a strong arm, but put the knife between the leg and back, and give it a little turn inwards at tlie joint; which you must endeavour to hit, and not to break by force. When both legs are taken off, there is a fine collop on each side the back ; then divide the back into as many pieces as you please, and take off the shoulders, which are by many preferred, and are called the sportsman’s pieces. When every one is helped, cut off the head, put your knife between the upper and lower jaw, and divide them, which will enable you to lay the upper fiat on your plate ; then put the point of the knife into the centre, and cut the head into two. Tlie ears and brains may be helped then to tliose who like them. Carve Rabbits as directed the latter way for hare ; cutting the back into two pieces, which, with the legs, are the prime. xl Pheasant.—Tlte bird in the anne.xed engraving is as trussed for the spit, with its head under one of its wings. 'When the skewers are taken out, and the bird served, the following is the way to carve it:— Fix your fork in the centre of the breast ; slice it down in the lines a, b ; take off the leg on one side in the dotted line b, d ; then cut off the wing on the Bame side, in the line c, d. Separate the leg and wing on the other side, and then cut off the slices of breast you divided before. Be careful how you take off the wings, for if you should cut too near the neck, as at g, yon will hit on the neck-bone, from which the wing must be separated. Cut off tJie merrythought in theJJIKECIIO.NS POU CAXIVIA'G. xlix p g, by passing the knife under it towards the neck. Cut the other parts as in a fowl. The breast, wings, and merrythought, are the most esteemed, but the leg lias a highi-r flavour. Goose —Cut olf the apron in the circular line a, b, c, {i>ee Plate No. 5. ) and pour into the body a glass ot port wme ; and a large tea-spoonful of mustard, nrst mixed at the sideboard. Turn the neck end of the goose towards you, and cut the whole breast in long slices from one wing to another ; but only re- move them as you help each person, unless the com- pany IS so large as to require the legs likewise. This way gives more prime bits than by making wings, lake off the leg, by putting the fork into the small end of the none, pressing it to the body, and bavin-' passed the knife at d, turn the leg back, and, if a young bird, it will easily separate. To take off the wing, put your fork into the small end of the pinion, and jness it close to the body ; then put in the knife’ at d, and divide the joint, taking it down in the direc- tlou a, €. Nothin;^ but practise will enable people to hit the joint exactly at the first trial. When the leg and wing of one side are done, go on to the other ; but it is not often necessary to cut up the whole goo.-e, unless the company be very large. There are twj side-bones by the wing, which may be cut off, as like- wise the back and lower side-bones ; but the best pieces are the breast, and the thighs after being di- vided from the drum-sticks. A Fowl.—A boiled fowl’s legs are bent inwards, and tucked into the belly ; but, before it is served, the skewers are to be removed. Lay the fowl on your plate, and place the joints, as cut off, on the dish. Take the wing off in the direction of a to b, in the annexed engraving, only dividing the joint with your knife: and then with your fork lift up the pinion, and draw the wing towards the legs, and the muscles will separate in a more complete form than if cut. .Slip the knife between the leg and body, and cut lo llie bone; then with the fork turn the leg buck, a.idDI11ECT10N3 FOU CAKViNO. I the joint will give way if the bird is not old. 'When the four quarters are thus removed, take oCF the merrythought from a, and the neck-bones ; these last by putting in the knife at c, and pressing it under the long broad part of the bone in the line c, b ; then lift it up, and break it off from the part that sticks to the breast. The next thing is, to divide the breast from the carcase, by cutting through the tender ribs, close to the breast, right down to the tail. Then lay the back upwards, put your knife into the bone half- way from the neck to the rump, and, on raising the low'er end, it will separate readily. Turn the rump from you, and very neatly take off the two sidesmen, and die whole will be done. As each part is taken off, it should be turned neatly on the dish, and care s’nould be taken that what is left goes properly from table. The breast and wings are looked upon as the best parts, but the legs are most juicy in young fowls. After all, more advantage will be gained by observing those who carve well, and a little practise, than by any written directions whatever. Partridge.—The partridge is here represented as ju-t taken from the spit ; but, before it is served up, the skewers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the lines a, b, and the merrythought in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast, and merrythought, but the bird lieing small, the two latter are not often divided. The wing is considered the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of the whole. Pigeons.—Cut them in half, either from top to bottom or across. The lower part is generally thought the best; but the fairest way is to cut from the neck to a, (.See Plate No. 6.) rather than from c to b, by a, which is the most fashionable. The figure re- presents the back of the pigeon ; snd the direction of ihe knife is in the line c, b, by a, if done the last way.JOINTS OF THE RESPECTIVE ANIMALS. VENISON. I 3. Shoulder. I 4. Breast. BEEF. 1. Haunch. 2. Neck. Hind-Quarter. 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Edge-Bone. 4. Buttock. £. Mouse-Buttock. C. Veiny Piece. 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 0. Leg. 10. Fore Rib i £ Ribs. Fore- Quarter, 11. Middle Rib; 4 Ribs, 12. Chuck ; 3 Ribs. 13. Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 1(). Neck, or Sticking* Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Chedt.•eik'JOINTS OF THE RESPECTIVE ANIMALS, 3. Belly or Spring, 6. Leg. VEAL. I. Loin, best End. 6'. Neck, best End. ~' 2. Loin, Chump End. ;j. Fillet. 4. Hind Knuckle. 5. Fore Knuckle. 7 7. Neck, Scrag End. 8. Blade Bone. 9. Breast, best End. 10. Breast, Brisket End. MUTTON. 1. Leg. 2. Loin, best End. 3. Loin, Chump End. 4. Neck, best End. 5. Neck, Scrag End. C. Shoulder. 7. Breast. A Chine is two Necks. A Saddle is two Loins. 1. The Sparerib. 2. Hand. POEK, 4. Fore Loin. 5. Hind Loin.DOMESTIC COOKERY. PART I. FISH. To chooie fish. Turbot, if good, should be thick, and the belly of a yellowish white ; if of a bluish cast, or thin, they are bad. They are in season the greatest part of the summer. Salmon.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills particularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes, which gives great firmness ; by keeping, this melts down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price ; that caught in the Severn is next in goodness, and is even prefer- red by some. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are best. Cod.—The gills should be very red: the fish should be very thick^it the neck, the flesh white and firm, and the eyes fresh. When flabby they are not good. They are in season from the beginning of December till the end of April. Skate.—If good, they are very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above two days. 70 BDOMESTIC COOKERY. 2 Herrings.—If good, their gills are of a fine red sn;j the eyes bright; as is likewise the whole fish, which inust he stiff and firm. Soles.—If good they are thick, and the belly is of a cream colour; if this is,of a bluish cast and flabby they are not fresh. They are in the market almost the whole year, but are in the highest perfection about Midsummer. Whitings.—Tlie firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings ; their high season is dur- ing the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. Mackerel.—Choose as whitings. Their season is May, June, and July. They are S'j tender a fish that they carry and keep worse than any other. Pike.—For freshness observe the above marks. The best are taken in rivers : they are a very dry fish, and are much indebted to stufifing and sauce. Carp live some time out of water, and may there- fore get wasted ; it is best to kill them as soon as caught, to prevent this. The same signs of freshness attend them as other fish. Tench.—They are a fine-flavoured fresh-water fish, and should be killed and dressed as soon as caught.— When they are to be bought, examine whctlier the gills are red and hard to open, the eyes bright, and the body stiff. The tench has a slimy matter about it, the clearness and brightness of which shew fresh- ness. The season is July, August, and September. Perch.—Take the general rules given to distinguish the fresliness of other fish. They are not so delicate as carp and tench. Smelts, if good, have a fine silvery hue, are very firm, and have a refreshing smell like cucumbers newly cut.—^They are c;inght in the Thames and some other large rivers. Mullets.—The sea are preferred to the river mui- lets, and the red to the grey. Tlrey should be very firm.—Tlieir season is August.3 Fisn. Gudgeon.i.—Thcy are cliosen by the same rules as other fish, niey uro taken in running streams ; come in about Midsummer, and are to be liad for five or six months. £els.—There is a greater difference in the goodness of eels than of any other fish. The true silver-eel (sa called from the bright colour of the belly) is caught in the Thames. The Dutch eels sold at Billingsgate are very bad ; those ta'ken in great floods are gener- ally good, but in ponds they have usually a strong rank flavour. Except the middle of summer they are always in season. Lobslerx.— If they have not been long taken, the claws will have a strong motion when you put your finger on the eyes and press them. The heaviest are the best, and it is preferable to boil them at home. VV’hen you buy them ready-boiled, try whether their tails are stiff, and pull up with a spring ; otherwise that part will be flabby. The cock lobster is known by the narrow back part of his tail, and the two up- permost fins within it are stiff and hard ; but those of the hen are soft and the tail broader. The male, though generally smaller, has the highest flavour, the flesh is firmer, and the colour when boiled is a deeper red. Crabf.—The heaviest are best, and those of a mid- dling size are sweetest. If light they are watery: when in perfection the joints of the legs are stiff, and the body lias a very agreeable smell. The eyes look dead and loose when stale. Praums and Shrimps.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. Oysters.—There are several kinds ; the Pyfleet, Colchester, and Milford, are much the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat; but oys- ters may be made to possess both these qualities in some degree by proper feeding. When alive andDOMESTIC COOKERY. i strong the shell closes on the knife. They should he eaten as soon as opened, the flavour becoming poor otherwise. The rock oyster is largest, but usually has a course flavour if eaten raw. FLomiders.—They should be thick, firm, and have their eyes bright 'they very soon become flabby and bad. They are both sea and river-fish. The Thames produces the best They are in season from January to March, and from July to September. Sprats.—Choose by same rules as herrings. Observations on Dressing Fish. If the fishmonger does not clean it, fish is seldom very nicely done ; but those in great towns wash it beyond what is necessary for cleaning, and by per- petual watering diminish the flavour. When quite clean, if to be boiled, some salt and a little vinegar should be put into the water to give firmness: but Cod, Whiting, and Haddock, are far better if a little salted, and kept a day ; and if not very hut weather, they will be good two days. 'lliose who know how to purchase fish may, by taking more at a time than they want for one day, often get it cheap; and such kinds as will pot or pickle, or keep by being sprinkled with salt and hung up, or by being fried W’ill serve for stewing the next day, may then be bought with advantage. Freslv-water fish has often a muddy smell and taste: to take off which, soak it in strong salt and water after it is nicely cleaned; or if of a size to bear it, scald it in the same ; then dry and dress it. The fish must be put into the w'ater while cold, and set to do very gently, or the outside will break before the inner part is done. Crimp fish should he put into boiling water ; and when it boils up, pour a little cold water in, to check extreme heat, and simmer it a few minutes. 'Hie fish-plate on which it is done may be drawn np to see if it be ready : it will leave the bone whenFISH. it id. It ^onld then be immediately taken out of the v-ater, or it will be woolly. The fish-plate should }>e set crossways over the kettle, to keep hot for serving • and a clean cloth cover the fish to prevent it losimr Its colour. Small fish nicely fried, covered with egg and crumbs, make a dish far more elegant than if served plain.— Great attention should be paid to tlie garnisinng fish: use plenty ot horse-radish, parsley, and lemon. When well done, and with very good sauce, fish is more attended to than almost any other dish. Tlie liver and roe should he placed on the dish, so that the lady may see them and help a part to every one. If fish is to be fried or broiled, it must be wrapt in a nice soft cloth after it is well cleansed and washed. —When perfectly dry, wet with an egg, if for frying' and sprinkle the finest crumbs of bread over it; if done a second time with the egg and bread, the fish wall look much better ; then having a thick-bottomed frying-pan on the fire, with a large quantity of lard or dripping boiling hot, plunge the fish into it, and let It fry middling q^uick, till the colour is a fine brown yellow, and it is judged ready. If it is done enough before it has obtained a proper degree of colour, the cook should draw the pan to the side of the fire ; carefully take it up, and place it either on a large sieve turned upwards, and to be kept for that purpose only, or on the under side of a dish to drain, and if wanted very nice, a sheet of cap paper must be put to receive the fish, which should look a beautiful colour, and all tlie crumbs appear distinct ; the fish being free from all grease, llie same dripping, with a little fresh, will serve a second time, liutter gives a bad colour: oil tries of the finest colour for those who will allow the expense. Garnish with a fringe of curled raw parsley, or parsley fried, which must be thus done: When wfished and picked, throw it again into clean water ; when the lard or dripping boils, throw tlie parsley6 DOilESTIC COOKERT. into it imuiodiately from the ^ater and insUmtly it will be green and crisp, and must be taken up witn a slice • this may be done after the hsh is If fish is to be broiled it must be and put on a gridiron that is very clean ; which, when K,^should be rubbed with a bit of suet to prevent the fish from sticking. It must be broiled on a vc^ clear tire, tliat it may not taste smoky ; and not too near, that it may not be scorched. TURROT. To keep Turbot. If necessary, turbot wiU keep for two or three days, and be in as high perfection as at first, if ligliilj rubbed over with salt, and carefully hung in a cold ^ To boil Turbot. The turbot-kettle must be of a proper size, and in the nicest order. Set the fish in cold water sutti- cient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: be very careful that there fall no blacks: but skim it well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest lobster, and anchovy, butter, and plmn butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. SALMON. To boil Salmon. Clean it carefully, boil it gently, and take it out of the water as soon as done, l^et the w'ater be warm if the fish be split, if underdone it is very unwhole- some. Shrimp or anchovy sauce. To broil Salmon. Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepp^:r7 FISH. and salt ; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire six or eight minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy oance. To pot Sabnon. Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it ; salt very well, let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season with beaten ntace, cloves, and whole pepper; lay in a few .bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it over with butter, and bako it ; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clarified butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. To dry Salmon. Cut the fish down, take out the inside and roe. Eub the whole with common salt after scaling it ; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound three or four ounces of salt-petre, according to the size of the fish, two ounces of bay-salt, and two ounces of coarse su- gar ; rub these, when mixed well, into the salmon, and lay it on a large dish or tray two days, then rub it well with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney or in a dry place ; keep- ing it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only jnst warmed through ; egg-sauce and ma^ed pota- toes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. An excellent dish of dried Salmon. Pull some into fiakes ; have ready some eggs boiled bard, and chopped large ; put both into half a pint of thin cream, and two or three ounces of butter rub- bed with a tea-spoonful of fiour ; skim it and stir till boiling hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round tliG inner edge of a dish, and poar the above into it.DO.MESTIC COOKERY. 8 To pickle Salmon. Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boii the liquor with bay-leaves, pepper-corns and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. Another way. After scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide into such pieces as you choose ; lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to three, quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, twelve bay-leaves, six blades of mace, and a quarter of an ounce of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean cloth, then put more salmon into the kettle, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it quick three quarters of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from the fish, and occasionally boiled and skimmed. Salmon collared. Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, wliite pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it in- side and out W'ell. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one-third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pepper. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor, and put on when cold. Serve with fennel. It is an elegant dish, and ex- tremely good. COD. Some people boil the cod whole ; but a large head and shoulders contain all the fish that is proper to lielp, tlie thinner parts being overdone and tasteless,9 FISH. before the thick pe ready. But the whole fish may be purchased at times more reasonably; and the low- er half, if sprinkled and hung up, will be in high per- fection in one or two days. Or itmay bemade salter, and served with egg-sauce, potatoes, and parsnips. Cod when small is usually very cheap. If boiled quite fresh it is watery ; but eats excellent if salted and hung up for a day to give it firmness, then stuf- fed, and broiled, or boiled. Cod's Head and Shoulders Will eat much finer by having a little salt rubbed down the bone, and along the thick part, even if to be eaten the same day. Tie it up, and put on the fire in cold water which will completely cover it: throw a handful of salt into It. Great care must be taken to serve it without the smallest speck of black or scum. Garnish with a large quantity of double parsley, lemon, horse-radish, and the milt, roe, and liver, and fried smelts if ap- proved. If with smelts, be careful that no water Imngs aboM the fish ; or the beauty of the smelts will be taken off, as well as their flavour. Serve with plenty of oyster or shrimp-sauce, and anchovy and butter. . “ “ Crimp Cod. Boil, broil, or fry. Cod Sounds boiled. , Soak them in w-arm water half an hour, then scrape and clean ; and if to be dressed white, boil them in milk and water ; when tender, serve them in a nap- kin, with egg-sauce. The salt must not be much soaked out, unless for fricassee. Cod Sounds to look like small Chickens. A good maigre-day dish. Wash three large sounds nicely, and boil in milk and water, but not too ten- der ; when cold, put a forcemeat of chopped oysters,10 DOilliSXIC COOKERY. crumbs of bread, a bit of butter, fAlt, and the yokes of two eggs: spread it over the sounds, and roll up each in the form of a chicken, skewering it ; then lard them as you would cnickens, dust a little flour over, and roast them in a tin wen slowly When done enough pour over them a flue oyster-sauce. Serve for side or corner dish. To brod Cod Sounds. Scald in hot water, rub well with salt, pull o® dirty skin, and put them to simmer till tender ; take them out, flour, and broil. While this is being done, season a little brown gravy with pepper, salt, a tea- spoonful of soy, and a little mustard ; give it a boil with a bit of flour and butter, and pour it over the sounds. Cod Sou7ids Ragout. Prepare as above ; then stew them in white gravy seasoned, cream, butter and a little bit of floiw added before you serve, gently boiling up. A bit of lemon- peel, nutmeg, and the least pounded mace, should give the flavour. Currie of Cod Should be made of sliced cod, that ^s either been crimped or sprinkled a day to make it Arm. h ry it of a line brown with onion ; and stew it with a good white gravy, a little currie-powdur, a bit of butler and flour, three or four spoonfuls of rich cream, salt, f Ayenue, if tb© powder be not bot enough. 'To drei>s salt Cod. ooak and clean the piece you mean to dress, l^ten ay it all night in water, with a glass of vineg^. Bod it enough, then break it into flakes on the dish ; poti* over it parsnips boiled, beaten in a mortar, and then boiled up with cream and a large piece of butter rubbed with a little flour. It may be served ai ai)Ove with egg sauce instead of the parsnip, and theFISH. IJ mot sent up whole ; or the fish may be boiled and sent up without fluking, and sauces as above. STURGEON. To dress fresh Sturgeon, Cut slices, rub egg over them, tlien sprinkle with crumbs of bre.-id, parsley, pepper, salt: fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. To roast Sturgeoru Put it on a lark-spit, then tie it on a large spit ; baste it cousUntly with butter ; and serve witli a good gravy, an anchovy, a squeeze of Seville orange or lemon, and a glass of sherry. Another. Put a piece of butter, rolled in flour, into a stew- pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Set it over the fire till hot ; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish iu it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and anchovy-sauce. An excellent Imitation of pickled Sturgeon. Take a fine large turkey, but not old : pick it very nicely, singe, and make it extremely clean : bone and wiish it, and tie it across and across with a bit of mat- string washed clean. Put into a very nice tin sauce- pan a quart of water, a quart of vinegar, a quart of white (but not sweet) wine, and a very large hand- ful of salt; boil and skim it well, then boil the tur- key. When done enough tighten the strings, and lay upon it a dish with a weight of two pounds over it. Boil the liquor half an hour ; and when both are cold, put the turkey into it. This will keep soma Bionths, and eats more delicately tiun storgeou ;DOMESTIC COOlvEHY. 12 vinegar, oil, and sugar, are usually eaten with it. If more vinegar or salt should be wanted, add when cold. {Send fennel over it to table. Thomback and Skate Should be hung one day at least before they are dressed ; and may be served either boiled, or fried in crumbs, being first dipped in egg. Crimp Skate. Boil and send up in a napkin ; or fry as above. Maids Should likewise be hung one day at least. They may be boiled or fried ; or, if a tolerable size, the middle may be boiled and the fins fried. They should be dipped in egg, and covered with crumbs. Boiled Carp. Serve in a napkin, and with the sauce which you will find directed for it under the article Stewed Carp. Steiced Carp. Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay the fish in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dessert spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy of port (cyder may do) ; simmer close covered; when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert spoonful of made mustard, and some tine wall- nut ketchup, a bit of butler rolled in flour, shake it, and let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse-radish and lemon. Baked Carp. Clean a large carp, put a stuffing as for soles, dressed in the Portuguese way. Sew it up ; brush it all over with yolk of egg, and put plenty of crumbs ; Oien drop oiled butter to baste them ; place the carp13 FISH. in a d^p earthen dish, a pint of stock (or, if fast- nuy, fish-stock), a few sliced onions, some bay-leaves, a faggot of herbs (such as basil, thyme, parsley, and both s<^s of marjoram), half a pint of port wine, and SIX anchovies, cover over the pan, and bake it an hour. Let It be done before it is wanted. Pour the liquor from it, and keep the fish hot while you heat up the liquor with a good piece of butter rolled in flour, a teaspoonful of mustard, a little Cayenne, and a spoonful of soy. Serve the fish on the dish, garnished with lemon, parsley, and horse-radish, and put the gravy Into the sauce tureen. Perch and Tench. Put them iSto cold water, boil them carefully, and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch is a most delicate fish. Tliey may be either fried or stewed, but in stewing they do not preserve so good a flavour. To fry Trout and Grayling. Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dust- ing some flour oyer them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping ; Serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. Trout a-la-Genevoise. Clean the fish very well; put it upon your stew-pan, adding half Champaign and half Moselle, or Rhenish, or Sherry wine. Season it with pepper, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme ; put in it a crust of French bread ; set it on a quick fire. VV hen the fish is done take the bread out, bruise it, and then thicken the sauce ; add flour and a little butter, and let it boil up. See that your sauce is of a proper thickness. Lay your fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried bread.DOMESTIC COOKEUY. 14 MACKEREL. Boil, and serve with butter and fennel. To broil them, split, and sprinkle with herbs, pep- per, and salt; or stuff with the same, crumbs, and chopped fennel. Collared, as Eel, page 18. Potted: clean, season, and hake them in a pan with spice, bay-leaves, and some butter ; when cold, lay them in a potting-pot, and cover with butter. Pickled : boil them, then boil some of the liquor, a few peppers, bay-leaves, and some vinegar ; when cold, pour it over them. Pickled Mackerel, called Cc^eaeh. Clean and divide them; then cut each side into three, or leaving them undivided, cut each fish into five or six pieces. To six large mackerel, take near an ounce of pepper, two nutmegs, a little mace, four cloves, and a handful of salt, all in the finest powder; mix, and making holes in each bit of fish, thrust the seasoning into them, rub each piece with some of it; then fry them brown in oil: let them stand till cold, then put them into a stone-jar, and cover with vin-. egar ; if to keep long, pour oil on the top. Thus done, they may be preserved for months. Red Mullet. It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil; and serve in a boat, and the iji', in the pa- per cases. To dress Pipers. Boil, or bake them with a pudding well seasoned. -—If baked, put a large cup of rich broth into the dish; and when done, take some essence of anchovy, .and a squeeze of lemon, and boil them up together for sauce.KiSH. 16 To bake Pike. Scale it, and open as near the throat as yon can, then stuff it with the following: grated bre^, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mix all over the tire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up; butter should be put over it in little bits ; bake it._ Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. Note: if in helping a pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will bo fewer bones given. HADDOCK. Boil or broil with stuffing as under, having salted them a day. To dry Haddock. Choose them of two or three pounds weight: take out the gills, eyes, and entrails, and remove the blood from the backbone. Wipe them dry, and put some salt into the bodies and eyes. Lay them on a board for a night ; then hang tliem up in a dry place, and after three or four days, they will be'fit to eat ; skin and rub them with egg, and strew crumbs over them. Lay them before the fire, and baste with butter until brown enough. Serve with egg-sauce. Whitings, if large, are excellent this w,ay ; and it will prove an accommodation in the country where there is no regular supply of fish. Stuffing for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod. Take equal parts of fat bacon, beef-suet, and fresh iiutter, some parsley, thyme, and savoury ; a little onion, and a few leaves of scented marjoram shred fine; an anchovy or two; a little .salt and nutmeg, and some pepper. Oysters will be an improvement with or with- out anchovies; add crumbs, and an egg to bind. SOLES. .f boiled, they mu.st be served with great caro to16 DOMESTIC COOKEaY. look perfectly white, and should be well covered with Wed, dip in egg, and cover them_ with fine crumbs of bread ; set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a large quantity of fresh lard or drip- ping, boil it, and immediately slip the fish into it ; do them of a fine brown. See to fry, page 13. _ Soles that have been fried eat good cold with oil, vinegar, salt and mustard. Stewed Soles. Do as Carp, page 12. Soles another icay. Take two or three soles, divide tiiem from the back- bone, and take off the head, fins, and tail. Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end upwards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll: small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs ; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or for fast-day in clarified butter. Soles in the Portuguese way. Take one large, or two small: if large, cut the fish in two ; if small, they need only be split. The bones being taken out, put the fish into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon juice, give a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll it round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over ; and put the remainder of the egg, with a little meat gravy, a spoonful of caper-liquor, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley chopped into the bottom of the pan ; cover it close, and bake it till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy bilked is skimmed; if not enough, a little fresh, fla- voured as above, must be prepared and added to it.Fisa. IV Portuguese stuffing for Soles baked. Pound cold beef, mutton, or veal, a little • then 8mairTni‘‘‘ bacon that h,a.s been li^ditly fried, cut n3dal pepper, salt, and nutmeg; Zlt Ite-Torkfo/eS. “ " *‘' So|.:£rrhl thl''*'** Garnish with fried or dried parsley. An excellent way of dressing a large Plaice, espe- pecially ij there be a roe. Sprinkle with salt, and keep twenty-four hours ; then wash and wipe it dry, wet over with egg, cover wth crumbs of bread ; make some lard or fine drip- large spoonsful of vinegar, boiling hot; ay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour, drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and an- '"‘‘y dip the fish in vinegar, and uot put It into the pan. To fry Smelts. They sh^ould not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread-crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard ; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make th^ a bright yellow-brown. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty wul be lost. EEL-S. Spitchcock Eels. Take one or two large eels, leave the skin on, cut them into pieces o^ three inches long, open them oni8 domestic cookery the belly side, and clean them nicely: wipe them dn', and then wet them with beaten egg, and strew over on both sides chopped parsley, pepper, salt, a very little sage, and a bit of mace pounded tine and inixert with the seasoning. Rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil the fish of a fine colour. Serve with anchovy and butter for sauce. Fried Eels. If small, they should be curled round and fried, being first dipped into egg and crumbs of bread. Foiled Eels. The small ones are best; do them in a small quan- tity of water, with a good deal of parsley, which should be served up with them and the liquor. Serve chopped parsley and butter for sauce. Eel broth, very nourishing for the sick. Do as above ; but stew two hours, and add an onion and pepper-corns: salt to taste. Collared Eel. Bone a large eel, but don’t skin it: mix pepper, salt, mace, allspice, and a clove or two, in the fine^t powder, and rub over the whole inside ; roll it tight, and bind it with a coarse tape. Boil in salt and water till enough, then add vinegar, and when cold keep the collar in pickle. Serve it either whole or in slices. Chopped sage, parsley, and a little thyme ; knotted marjoram, and savoury, mixed with the spices, greatly improve the taste. To steto Lamprey as at Worcester. After cleaning the fish carefully, remove the carti- lage which runs down the back, and season with a small quantity of cloves, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice ; put it into a small stewpot, with very strong beef-gravy, port, and an equal quantity of Madeira, or slierry.PISH. 10 covered close: stew till tender, then take out the lamprejr and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with two or three anchovies chopped, and wme flour and butter ; strain the gravy through a aeve, and add lemon juice, and some made mustard. Se^e with sippets of bread and horse-radish. done in the same way, are a good deal like the lamprey. When there is spawn it must be fried and put round. wi^^^^’ common instead of white FLOUNDERS. Let them be rubbed with salt inside and out, and lie two hours to give them some firmness. Dip them into egg ; cover with crumbs, and fry them. Water Souchey. Stew two or three flounders, some parsley leaves f-D » quart of water, till the fi^i are boiled to pieces : pulp them througli fi®‘fr*-i fire the pulped fish, the liquor that boiled them, some perch, tench, or flounders, and some fresh leaves and roots of parsley ; simmer all till (lone enough, then serve in a deep dish. Slices of brijad and butter are to be sent to table, to eat with the souchey. herrings and sprats. I'o smoke Herrings. Clep, ancl lay them in salt and a little salt-petre one night ; then hang them on a stick, through the eyes, in a row. Have ready an old cask, on which so™e sawdust, and in the midst of it a heater red-hot; fix the stick over the smoke, and let them remain 24 hours. Fried Herrings. Serve them of a light brown with onions sliced and fried.DOMESTIC COOKEEY. 20 Broiled Herrings. Flour them first, and do of a good colour ; plain butter for sauce. Potted Herrings Are very good done like Mackerel, see page 14. To dress Bed Herrings. Choose those that are large and moist, cut them open, and pour some boiling small beer over them to soak half an hour ; drain them dry, and make just hot through before the fire, then rub some cold butter over them and serve. Egg-sauce, or buttered eggs and mashed potatoes, should be sent up with them. Baited Herrings or Sprats. Wash and drain without wiping them ; season with allspice in fine powder, salt, and a few whole cloves ; lay them in a pan with plenty of black pepper, an onion, and a few bay-leaves. Add half vinegar and half small beer, enough to cover them. Put paper over the pan, and bake in a slow oven. If you like, throw salt-petre over them the night before, to make them look red. Gut, but do not open them. Sprats, When cleaned, should be fastened in rows by a skewei run through the head, and then broiled and served hot and hot. LOBSTERS and SHRIMPS. To pot Lobsters. Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small oits, season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt, press close into a pot, and cover with butter, bake half an hour ; put the spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat the other butter in a mor- tar with some of the spawn ; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the21 Pisa. pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if ap- proved. Another way to pot Lobsters, as at Wood's Hotel. Take out the meat as whole as yon can ; split the tail and remove the gut ; il the inside be not watery, add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lob- ster smooth over it, with bay-leaves between ; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, pour the whole on the bottom of a sieve ; and with a fork lay the pieces into potting-pots, some of each sort, vvith the seasoning about it. When cold, pour cla- rified butter over, but not hot. It will be good next day ; or highly seasoned, and thick covered with but- ter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream-sauce: it then looks very nicely, and eats excellently, especially if there is spawn. Mackerel, Herrings, and I'rout, are good potted as above. Sleeved Lobster, a very high relish. Pick the lobster, put the berries into a dish that has a lamp, and rub them down with a bit of butter, two spoonfuls of any sort of gravy, one of soy, or walnut ketchup, a little salt and Cayenne, and a spoonful of port; stew the lobster cut into bits with the gravy as above. Buttered Lobsters. Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter, with a little hour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. To roast Lobsters. When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the water, and while hot, rub it vvith butter, andDOMESTIC COOKliUT. 22 lay it before the fire. Continue busting it with bn‘»- ter till it has a fine froth. Currie of Lobsters, or Pratons. Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream ; rub smooth one or two tea- spoonsful of currie-powder, a teaspoonful of flour, and an ounce of butter: simmer an hour ; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. Prawns and Cray-fish in jelly, a beautiful^ dish. Make a savoury fish jelly, and put some into the bottom of a deep small dish ; when cold, lay the cray- fish with their backs downwards, and pour more jelly over them. Turn out when cold. To butter Prawns or Shrimps. Take them out of the shells ; and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and fiour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper ; simmer a minute or two and serve with sippets: or with a cream-sauce instead of brown. To pot Shrimps. When boiled, take them out of the skins, and Ma- son them with salt, white pepper, and a very little niiice and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold put butter. CRABS. Hot Crab. Pick the meat out of a crab, clear the shell from the head, then put the meat with a little nutmeg salt, pepper, a bit of butter, crumbs of bread, and three spoonfuls of vinegar, into the shell again, and set it before the fire. You may brown it with a salar mander. Dry toast should be served to eat upon.23 Fisa. Dressed Crab cold. Empty the shells, and mix the flesh with oil, vine pir, salt, and a little white pepper and Cayenne : then put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. Very little oil is necessary. OYSTERS. To feed Oysters. Put them into water, and wash them with a birch- besom till qnite clean ; then lay them bottom down- wards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. To stem Oysters. Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit ; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemonpeel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and put oome cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. Boiled Oysters Eat v/ell. Let the shells be nicely cleaned first, and cerve in them, to eat with cold butter. To Scallop Oysters. Put them with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nut- meg, and a bit of butter, into scallop-shells or saucers, and bake before the Are in a Dutch oven. Fried Oysters, to garnish boiled Fish. Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow-brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the seasoning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. Oyster Sauce. See Sauces.2-1 DOMESTIC COOKEHT. Oyster Loaves. Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them in it ; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice ; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. Oyster Patties. See Patties. To picJde Oysters. Wash four dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it, a dessert-spoonful of pepper, two blades of mace, a table-spoonful of salt, if the liquor be not very salt, three of white wine, and four of vinegar.—Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters ; cover close. Another way to pickle Oysteos. Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor for ten minntes, simmer them very gently ; then put them into a jar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thusmade^ Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, and to every hundred put two spoon- fulRofthe best undistilled vinegar. Tliey should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, for the air will spoil them. Note.—Directions for making Fish Pies will be found under the head Pies.MEiT. PART II. JIEATS. To choose Meats. FfWMOJi.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the cleft part smooth and close, it is young ; but If the cleft IS wide and tough, it is old. To judge of Its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the Moulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent, h ew people hke it, when it has much of the haiit gout. If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine smooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat should look white rather than yel- low ; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good : beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef ; but the lean 13 not of so bright a red. The grain of bull-beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small fami- lies, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older ; and the flesh is not finely flavonred. Veal.— Ihe flesh of a bull-calf is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest is not the most juicy, /laving been made so by frequent bleeding, and having had whiting to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour shews it stale. The other parts should be dry and white ; ifdomestic COOli-ERY. 2G cUmmy or spotted, the meat is stale and kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not Afjt«o«!^Choosc this by the fineness of its pain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good brpd and well fed^ is better for age ; but this only holds Ypvtn^e mutton: the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the textpe finer. Eam-inutton is very strong-flavoured ; tne flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. Observe the neck of a fore-quarter ; if the vein is bluish, it is fresh ; if it has a green or yellov? east, it is stale. In the hind quarter, if there is a faint smell under the kidney, and the knuckle is limp, the meat is stale. If the eyes are sunk, the he^ is not fresh. Grass-Iamb comes into season in April or my, and continues till August. House-lamb may be had in great towns almost all the year, but is lu highest perfection in December and January. Po7-;i._Pinch the lean, and if young, it wll break. I f the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be im- pressed by the finger, it is old. A thin rind is a merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool ; if clammy, it is tainted. What w called measley pork is very unwholesome ; and may be known by the fat being full of kernels, which in good pork is never the case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. Hacon.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, of a good colour, and ad- hering to the bone, you may conclude it good and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going if not already rusty. jf/aTiw.—Stick a sharp knife under the bone ; int comes out with a pleasant smell the ham is good ; but if the knife is daubed and has a bad scent, do not buy it, Ham.s short in the hock are best, and long- legged pigs are not to be clicseu for any preparation ol pork.27 MEAT. hraitm.—The liomy part of young brawn will feel Biuderately tender, and the tlavour will be better ; the rind of old will be hard. Observations on purchasing^ keeping, and dressing Meat. In every sort of provisions, the best of the kind goes farthest; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillk of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints that bear a higher price ; but as they have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. It is worth notice, however, that those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably; and being cheaper, they ought to be bought in tarn ; for, when they are weighed with the prime pieces, it makes the price of these come lower. In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as it is apt to taint ; as also the kernels of beef. Rumps and edgebones of beef are often bruised by the blows the drovers give the beasts, and the part that has been struck always taints ; therefore do not purchase these joints if bruised. Tlie shank-bones of mutton should be saved ; and after soaking and brushing, may be added to give rich- ness to gravies or soups. They are also particularly nourishing for sick persons. \V hen sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. r o . Dripping will baste every thing as well as butter, except fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat ofiF a neck or loin of mutton makes a far lighter pudding than suet. iMeat and vegetables that the frost has touched, should be soaked in cold water two or three hours before used, or more if they are much iced. Putting them into hot water, or to the fire, till thawed, makes it impossible for any heat to dress them properly aftci'wai'ds.DOMESTIC COOKERY. In warm weather, meat should be examined well when it comes in ; and if flies have touched it, the part must be cut off, and then well washed. In the height of summer, it is a very safe way to let meat that is to be salted lie an hour in very cold water, rubbing well any part likely to have been fly-blown ; then wipe it quite dry, and have salt ready, and rub it thoroughly in every part, throwing a handful over it besides. Turn it every day, and rub the pickle in, which will make it ready for the table in three or four days. If to be very much corned, wrap it in a well- floured cloth, after rubbing it with salt. This last method will corn fresh beef fit for tbe table the day it comes in, but it must be put into the pot when the water boils. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. The water in which meat has been boiled makes an excellent soup for the poor, by adding to it vegetables, oatmeal, or peas. lloast-beef bones, or shank-bones of ham, make fine peas-soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. In some families great loss is sustained by the spoiling of meat. The best way to keep what is to be eaten unsalted, is, as before directed, to examine it well, wipe it every day, and put some pieces of char- coal over it. If meat is brought from a distance in warm weather, the butcher should be ordered to cover it close, and bring it early in the morning ; but even then, if it is to be kept on the road while he serves his customers, who lives nearest to him, it will very likely be fly-blown. This happens often in the country. Wash all meat before you dress it: if for boiling, the colour will be better for soaking ; but if for roast- ing, dry it. Boiling in a well-floured cloth will make meat white. Particular care must be taken that the pot is well skimmed the moment it boils, otherwise the foulnessN3AT. 29 will be dispersed over the meat. The more soaps or broth are skimmed, the better and cleaner they will be. The boiler and utensils should be kept delicately clean. Put the meat into cold water, and flour it well first. Meat boiled quick will be hard ; but care must be taken that in boiling slow it does not stop, or the meat will be underdone. If the steam is kept in, the water will not lessen much ; therefore when you wish it to boil away, Uke ofl' the cover of tlie soup-pot. Vegetables should not be dressed with the meat, except carrots or parsnips with boiled beef. As to the length of time required for roasting and boiling, the size of the joint must direct ; as also the strength of the fire, the nearness of the meat to it, and in boiling, the regular though slow progress it makes ; for if the cook, when told to hinder the cop- per from boiling quick, let it stop from boiling up at all, the usual time will not be suificient, and the meat will be underdone. Weigh the meat, and allow for all solid joints a quarter of an hour for every pound, and some minutes (from ten to twenty) over, according as the family like it done. A ham of twenty pounds will take four hours and a half, and others in proportion. A tongue, if dry, takes four hours slow boiling after soaking ; a tongue out of pickle, from two and a half to three hours, or more if very large ; it must be judgec^ by feeling whether it is very tender. A leg of pork or of lamb, takes the full allowance of twenty minutes, above a quarter of an hour to a pound. In roasting, beef of ten pounds will take above two hours and a half ; twenty pounds will take three hours and three quarters. A neck of mutton will take an hour and a half, if kept at a proper distance. A chine of pork two hours.domusttc cookery. Tlie meat sliould be put at a good distance from tbs fire, and brought gradually nearer when the inner part becomes hot, which will prevent its being scorched T/hile yet raw* JVleat should be much basted ^ and when nearly done, floured to make it look frothed. Veal and mutton sliould have a little paper put over the fat to preserve it. If not fat enough to allow for basting, a little good dripping answers as well as butter. The cook should be careful not to run the spit through the best parts; and should observe that it be well cleaned before and at tbe time of serving, or a black stain appears on the meat. In many joints the spit will pass into the bones, and run along them for some distance, so as not to injure the prime of the meat; and the cook should have leaden skewers to balance it with ; for want of which, ignorant servants are often troubled at the time of serving. In roasting meat it is a very good way to put a litt le salt and water into the dripping pan, and baste for a little while with this, before using its own fat or drijiping. When dry, dust it with flour, and baste as usual. Salting meat before it is put to roast draws out the gravy ; it should only be sprinkled when almost done. Time, distance, basting often, and a clear fire of a proper size for what is required, are the first articles of a good cook’s attention in roasting. Old meats do not require so much dressing as young: not that they are sooner done, but they can bo eaten with the gravy more in. A piece of writing paper should be twisted round the bone at the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of lamb, mutton, or venison, when roasted, before they are served. Whenyovt wish fried things to look as well as possible, do them twice over with egg and crumbs. Bread that is not stale enough to grate quite fine, will not look well. The fat you fry in must al'vays be31 KEAT. boiling hot the moment the fish, meat, &c. are pat in, well fanished ; a small quantity never fries To keep 7,uat hot—It is best to take it up when done, though the company may not be come ; set the dish over a pan of boiling water, put a deep cover over It so as not to touch the meat, and th^n throw a cloth over that. This way will not dry up the gravy. VENISON. To keep Venison. Preserve the venison drv, wash it with milk and water very clean, and dry it with clean clotlis till not the least damp remains; then dust pounded ginger over every part, which is a good preventative against the ny. By thus managing and watching, it will hang a fortnight. When to be used, wash it with a little lukewarm water, and dry it. Pepper is likewise good to keep it. To dress Venison. A haunch of buck will take tlireo hours and a half or three quarters roasting : doe, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather over than under- done. _ Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put It over the fat, first sprinkling it with a little salt; then lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch ; tie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance ^ from the fire, which must be a good one. Baste it often ; ten minutes before serving take off the paste, draw the meat nearer the fire, and baste it with butter and a good deal of flour to make it froth up welL Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish (unless there is none in the venison), and made thus : Cut off the fat from two or three pounds of a loin of old mutton, and set it in steaks, on a grid- iron for 8 few minutes just to brown one side ; putDOMIiSTlC COOliERY. 82 them into a saucepan with a quart of pint. Season with only salt. _ ^ Piirrant-iellv must be served in a Doat. Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with v«»son ; which efiii lilfp it it may be necessary to direct, r ^ t^white bread and boil it with port wine, water, S atr?e slLk of cinnamon; and when quite smooth, Uke out the cinnamon, and add suga . ^'XLTeK^ee\ Beat some currant-jelly wine, and a few lumps of suirar to the jelly, au melt as above. Serve with trench beans. Haunch, Neck, and Shoulder of Venison. Boast with paste, as directed above, and the same sauce. To stew a Shoulder of Venison. Let the meat hang till you think it fit to <iress, then tape out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pm, ie iii of that I..V.I™ • hours in a little port wine, among ir, ® pepper and allspice over in fine powder, roll it up ti^bt, STe it. Set it in a stew-pan that will only just hold it, with some mutton or beef half a pint of port wine ; some pepper Simmer it close-covered, as slow *is you can for tkr^ or four hours. When quite tender, take off the ‘^Pe, and set the meat in a dish ; strain the gravy over it , Lrve with currant-jelly sauce.—This is the best way to dress this joint, unless it is very fat, and then it should be roasted, the bone should be stewed with U Breast of Venison. Do it as the dioulder, or make it into a small p.asty,33 MEAT. Hashed Venison Should be wanned with its own gravy, or some with- out seasoning, as before ; and only warmed through, not boiled. If there is no fat left, cut some slices of mutton-fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the ash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison.—For Veni~ son Pasty look umler the head Pastry ; as like- wise an excellent imitation. BEEP. To keep Beef. The butcher should take out the kernels in the neck- pieces where the shoulder-clod is taken off, two from each round of beef ; one in the middle which is called the pope’s-eye ; the other from the flap : there is also one in the thick flank, in the middle of the fat. If these are not taken out, especially in the summer, salt will be of no use for keeping the meat sweet. There is another kernel between the rump and tho edgebone. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, tho cook should take out the kernels ; and then rub the salt well into such beef as is for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roasting. The flesh of cattle that are killed when not perfectly cleared of food, soon spoils. They should fast twen- ty-four hours in winter, and double that time in sum- mer, before being killed. To salt Beef or Pork for eating immediately. The piece should not weigh more than five or si.x pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put It into the pot; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it up close. Put it into a pot of boiling, water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. 70 D34 domestic cookeky. close. Those who use a it answ er well to boil u cold, pour it over meal drained. 2'o salt Beef red; which, is extremely good to eat fresh from the Pickle, or to hatig to dry. Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper), sprinkle it, and let it drain a day • then rub it w'ith common salt, salt-petre, and bay-sait, but only a small proportion of the salt-petre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from the jnckle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker’s. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit boil it till extremely tender, and while hot put it under a press. When cold fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months, ready for serving on bread and butter. Take a lean piece of beef ; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and salt, petre beaten tine ; rub these well in, and turn it every The Dutch way to salt Beef.MKAT. 3'> day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and presa it under a large weight; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. Boil it in pump water and press it; it will grate or out into shivers, like Dutch beef. Beef a-la-mode. Choose a piece of thick flank of a flne heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yellow ; let each bit be near an inch thick : dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and a clove, all in fine powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, sa- voury, and knotted marjoram, shred as small as pos- sible, and well mixed. With a shagp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding ; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire, or ra- ther, stove ; three or four onions must be fried browr. and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or till extremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, then put them together, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape, and serve with the vegetables ; or you may strain them off, and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted and then stewed with t)ie gravy are a great improve- ment. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. A Fricandeauof Beef. Take a nice bit of lean beef ; lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garliok, a slialot or two, four cloves, pepper and Siilt. When the meat is become tender,36 DOMEnTIC COOKERY cover it close ; skim the sauce well, and strain it ; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve the meat on sorrel-sauce. Beef en Miroton. Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying-pan with a ^Ib. of butter, and six onions, turn the pan frequently, then mix a little broth and some salt, pepper, and after a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excellent and economical. To stew a Rump of Wash it well ; and season it high with pepper, Cayenne, salt, allspice, three cloves, and a blade of mace, all in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it into a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Simmer it as gently as possible for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat, and add to the gravy lialf a pint of port wine, a glaas of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup ; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table-beer may be added. The herbs to be used sliould be burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, pennyroyal, knotted marjoram, and some chives if you can get them, but observe to proportion the quantities to the pungency of the several sorts ; let there be a good handful altogether. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of different colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better ; and to increase the richness, add a few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stew- ing.—A spoonful or two of made mustard is a great87 MEAT. is excel- u^® country it is generally sold whole with the edgebone, or cut across instead of length- °“® Pi®®s is for boiling oft ^“'■stewing or roasting. This must be attended to, the whole being too large to dress together. Stewed Bump another way. ^ Half-roast it ; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one of port wdne, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ke^hup, a bunch of sweet herbs of various kinds (such as burnet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, marjoram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage), some onions, cloves, and Cayenne • cover It close, and simmer till quite tender : two or three hours will do it. Wlien done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy : put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles morels, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without • thicken the gravy with flour and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Forcemeat- balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suet, herbs, spices, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement. To Stew a Brisket of Beef. Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew-pot, wth a small quantity of water : let it boil up, and skim it thoroughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremly tender ; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen ; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vegetables. The following sauce is much admired, served with the beefTake half a pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful of ket- chup, a glass of port wine, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt ; boil aU together a few minutes, then pour it round the8J] domestic cookery. meat. Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickied cucnmbers, and chives or parsley, small, and put ui separate heaps over it. To press Beef. Salt a hit of brisket, thin part of the flank, or the tops of the ribs, with salt and saltpetre five days, then boil it gently till extremely tender; put it under a great weight, or in a cheese-press, till perfectly cold. It eats excellently cold , and for sandwiches. To make Hunters' heef. To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, <‘in ounce of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. The beef should hang two or three days ; then rub the above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. The bone must be taken out at first. When tc be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put into a pan with a tea-cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, take off the paste and tape. The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy szio. the r.eef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to prevent waste. An excellent mode of dressing Beef. Hang three ribs three or four days ; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c. and baked as hunters’ beef, is excellent.S9 MEAT. To collar Beef. Olioose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat: lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week, and keep it cool. Then take out every bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following seasoning cut small: a large hand- ful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beet, looks and eats very welL Beef-steaJiS Should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear or charcoal lire : put into the dish a little minced sbalot, and a table-spoonful of ketchup ; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh-done, that it is not in perfection if served with any thing else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking it oil" the fire. Beefsteaks and Oystersauee, Stnin off tlie liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit, while you simmer the liquor with a bit of mace and lemon-peel ; then put the oysters in, stew them a few minutes, add a little cream if you have it, and some butter rubbed in a bit of flour : let them boil up once ; and have rump- steaks, well seasoned and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, the moment you are to serve. Staffordshire Beefsteaks. Es.-it them a little with a rolling-pin, flour and sear40 DOMESTIC COOKERY. eon, then fry with sliced onions of a fine light brown ; lay the steaks into a stew-pan, and pour as much boil- ing water over them as will serve for sauce ; stew tliem very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor, before you serve. Italian Beefsteaks, Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part: beat it, and season with pepper, salt, and onion ; lay it in an iron stew-pan tliat has a cover to fit quite close, and set it by the side of the fire without water. Take care it does not burn, but it must have a strong heat: in two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve v/ith its own gravy. Beef-collop. Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces tliree inches long ; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes ; then lay them into a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter rubbed in flour, pepper, Mit, the least bit of shalot shred as fiuo as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucum- bers, and a tea-spoonful of capers cut small. Take cure that it does not boil j and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. Beef-palates. Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose ; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. if to be served white, boil them in milk, and stew them in a fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace.41 MEAT. Beef Cuhct for a side dish of dressed Meat. Pound some beef that is underdone with a little fat l-acon, or ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlick: mix them well ; and make into small cakes three inches long ; and half as wide and liiick ; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. To pot Beef. Take two pounds of lean beef, rab it with salt-petre, and let it lie one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth and season vvith black-pepper ; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put Jio liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat ; beat the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine but- ter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as t^l make it into a paste ; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another loay.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted ; beat it in a mortar with some ^pper, salt, a few cloves, grated nutmeg, and a little fine butter, just warm. This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. To dress the inside of a cold Sirloin of Beef. Cut out all the meat and little fat in pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long : dredge it with flour: and fry in butter, of a nice brown ; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy and shalot. Do i;ot let it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. Fricassee of cold roast Beef. Cat the beef into very thin slices, shred a handfnlnO.MESTIC COOKEUT. 42 of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and some strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour ; then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, and turn the fricassee into it. To dress cold heef that has not been done enough, called Beef-olives. Cut slices half-an-inch thick, and four inches square; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with a small skewer ; put them into a stew- pan with some gravy made of the beef-bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. 2'o dress the same, called Sanders. Mince heef, or mutton, small, with onion, pepper, and salt ; add a little gravy: pul it into scallop-shells, or saucers, making them three-parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven, or before the fire, or with a salamander. To dress the same, called Cecils. Mince any kind of meat, crumbs of bread, a good deal of onion, soihe anchovies, lemon-peel, salt, nut- meg, chopped parsley, and a hit of butter warm, and mix these over a fire for a few minutes ; when cool enough, make them up into balls of the size and shape of a turkey’s egg, with an egg : sprinkle them with fine crumbs, and then fry them of a yellow brown, and serve with gravy as before directed for beef-olives. To mince Beef. Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stewpan, with some onion or sba- lot, (a very little will do), a little water, pepper, salt:MEAT. 43 boil It till the onion is quite ooft, then put some of the pavy of the meat to it, and the mince. Don't let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, and pour the mince into it, but first mix a larce spoonful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vinegar is used there will be no need of the onion, nor the raw shalot| To hash Beef. Do it the Mme as in the last receipt ; only the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut-liquor or ketchup. Ob^rve, that it is owing to boiling ashes or minces that they get ^rd. All sorts of stews, or meat dres- sed a second time, should be only simmered : and this last only hot through. Be^f a-lorvingrette. Cut a slice of underdone boiled beef three inches thick, and a little fat; stew it in half a pint of water, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, and a bay-leaf; season it with three cloves pounded, and pepper, till the liquor is nearly wasted away, turning it once. When cold, serve it. Strain oil the gravy and mix it with a little vinegar for sauce. Itouna of Beef Should be carefully .salted and wet with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved ; in which case the holes to admit the parsley must ba made with a sharp pointed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut andstufled in tight. As soon as it boils', it should be skimmed, and afterwards kept boiling very gently. Rolled Beef that equals Hare. Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty- eiglit hours; bavereadya very fine stulFing, and binddomestic cookery. 44 it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vine- gar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. _ Larding it improves the look and flavour ; serve with a rich gravy in the dish ; currant-jelly and melted batter, in tureens. To roast Tongue and Udder. After cleaning the tongue well, salt it with common salt and salt-petre three days ; then boil it, and like- wise a fine young udder with some fat to it, till toler- ably tender ; then tie the thick part of one to the thin part of the other, and roast the tongue and udder together. Serve them with good grav7, and currant-jelly sauce. A few cloves should be stuck in the udder. This is an excellent dish. _ Some people like neats’ tongues cured with the root, in which case they look much larger ; but other- wise the root must be cut off close to the gullet, next to the tongue, but without taking away the fat under the tongue. Tlie root must be soaked in salt and water, and extremely well cleaned before it is dressed; and the tongue should be laid in salt for a day and a night before pickled. To pickle Tongues for boiling. Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day: then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about half-as-much of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight ; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep four or five weeks without being too salt. When you dry tongues write the date on a parch- ment and tie it on. Smoke them, or dry them plain, if YOU like best.45 'WTiGn it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender ; allow five hours ; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. _ The longer kept after drj’ing the higher it will be : if hard, it may require soaking three or four hours. A nother way.—Clean as above : for two tongues allow an ounce of saltpetre, and an ounce of sal-pru- nella j rub them well. In two days, after well rub- bing, cover them with common salt, turn them every day for three weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In ten days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. To steio Tongue. Salt a ton^e with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel ; when done, stew it in a moderately-strong gravy ; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, Cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with trufiles, morels, and mushrooms. In both this receipt and the next, the roots must be taken off the tongues before salting, but some fat left. An excellent %oay of doing Tongues to eat cold. Season with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and all- spice, in fine powder for a fortnight ; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so tender that a straw would go through it. The tliin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, grates like hung beef, and also makes a fine addi- tion to the fiavour of omiets. Beef-heart. Wash it carefully : stuff as hare ; and serve with rich gravy, aud currant-jelly sauce. Ha^ with the same, and port wine.DOMESTIC COOKEUY. 46 Slewed Ox-cheeh, plain. Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before it is to be eaten ; put it into a stew-pot that mil cover close, with three quarts of water : simmer it after it has boiled up and been well-skimmed. In two hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, two or three turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and four ounces of allspice. Skim it often ; when the meat is tender take it out ; let the soup get cold, take off the cake of fat, and serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown, which may be done by burnt sugar ; or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. Tliis last way improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled in and strained ofl. To dress an Ox-cheek another way. Soak half a head three hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top ; pour on two or three quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown j)aper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand eight or ten hours in a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. Ma?row-bones. Cover the top with floured cloth ; boil them and serve with dry toast.i>u:at. 47 Tripe May be served in a tureen, stewed with milk and onion till tender. Melted batter for sauce. Or fry it in small bits dipped in batter. Or stew the thin part, cut into bits, in gravy ; thicken with flour and butter, and add a little ketchup. Or fricassee it with white sauce. Souted Tripe. Boil the tripe, but not quite tender ; then put it into salt and water, which must be changed every day till it is all used. W hen you dress the tripe, dip it into a bat- ter of flour and eggs, and fry it of a good brown. Ox-feet or Coxo-heeis May be dressed in various ways, and are very nutritious in alL Boil them ; and serve in a napkin, with melted but- ter, mustard, and a large spoonful of vinegar. Or boil them very tender, and serve them as a brown fricassee: the liquor will do to make ielly sweet or relishing, and likewise to give richness to soups or r gravies. Or cut them into four parts, dip them into an egg, and then flour and fry them ; and fry onions (if you like them), to serve round. Sauce a.s above. Or bake them as for mock-turtle. Bubble and Squeak. Boil, chop, and fry it, with a little butter, pepper and salt, some cabbage, and lay on it slices of under- done beef, lightly fried. VEAL. To keep Veal. Tlie first part that turns bad of a leg of veal, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, by which means it will keej) good three orDOMESTIC COOKERT. 48 four days in hot weather. Take care to cut out the pipe thit runs along the chine of a lorn do of beef, to hinder it from tainting, ^e skirt of the breast of veal is likewise to be taken off, inside of the breast wiped and scraped, and sprinkled with a little salt. Leg of Veal, Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the number of your company. Take out the bone, nil the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round ; and send the large side uppermost. tV hen nalf-roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat; and Uke care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a Eood distance from the fire, as the meat is very solid. Beive with melted butter poured over it.—You may pot some of it. Knuckle of Veal. As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small, and take off some cutlets or collops before it be dressed ; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut on the slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make it take less room: wash it well; and put it into a sauce- pan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns ; cover it Muth water, and simmer till quite ready. In the meantime some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice- flour, to give it a small degree of thickness ; but don t put too much. Before it is served, add half-a-pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with or without the meat. Or fry the knuckle with sliced onions and butter to a good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuces, onion, and a cucumber or two, stewed in a small quantity of water an hour; then add these to the veal; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but not over- done. Throw in pepper, salt, and a bit of shred mint, and serve all together.40 M£AT. Shoulder of Veal. Cat off the knuckle for a stew or gravy. Roast the other part with stuffing: you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well with mushroom or oystei^sauce, or mushroom-ketchup in butter. Neck of Veal. Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- sjtuce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Pars- ley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion- sauce. Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper-corns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. Neck of Veal a-la-lraUe. Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or tdl it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor ; mix a little fiour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured: then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil it up, skim it nicely, and squeeze orange or lemon-juice into it. Breait of Veal. Before roasted, if large, the two ends may be taken off and fried to stew, or the whole may be roasted. Butter should be poured over it. If any be left, cut the pieces into handsome sizes, put them into a stew-pan, and pour some broth ovei It; or if you have no broth, a little water will do ; ad- 70 EDOMESTIC COOKERY. a bunch of herbs, a blade or two of mace, some pepper, and an anchovy ; stew till the meat is tender, thicken with butter and flour, and add a little ketchup ; or the whole breast may be stewed, after cutting off the two ends. Serve the sweetbread whole upon it: which may either be stewed, or parboiled, and then covered with crumbs, herbs, pepper, and salt, and browned in a Dutch-oven. If you have a few mushrooms, truffles, and morels, stew them with it, and serve. Boiled breast of veal, smothered with onion-sauce, is an excellent dish, if not old nor too fat. To roll a Breast of Veal. Bone it, take off the thick skin and gristle, and beat the meat with a rolling-pin. Season it with herbs chopped very fine, mixed with salt, pepper and mace. Lay some thick slices of fine ham ; or roll into it two or three calves’ tongues of fine red, hoi Ied< first an hour or two and skinned. Bind it up tight in a cloth, and tape it. Set it over the fire to simmer in a small quantity of water till it is quite tender: this will take some hours. Lay it on the dresser, with a board and weight on it till quite cold. Pigs’ or calves’ feet, boiled and taken from the bones, may be put in or round it. The different colours laid in layers look well when cut; and you may put in yolks of eggs boiled, beet-root, grated ham, and chop- ped parsley, in different parts. Another way. When it is cold, take off the tape, and pour over it the liquor ; which must be boiled up twice a week, or it will not keep. Chump of Veal a-la-daube. Cut off the chump end of the loin ; take out the edge- bone ; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up light, and lay it in a stew-p.an with the bone you tool;51 MEAT. out, a little fajfeot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it two hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the ve^.—Serve it on mushrooms or with sorrel- sauce, or what else jou please. Veal rolls of either cold meat m-fresh. Cut thin slices, and spread on them a fine seasoning of a very few crumbs, a little chopped bacon or scraped ham, and a httle suet, parsley, and shalot, (or instead of the parsley and shalot, some fresh mnslirooms stewed mac™*"'^*'^’^ P®PP®*’>8aIt, and a small piece of pounded piis stuffing my either fill up the roll like a sausage, or be rolled with the meat. In either case tie it up verv slierry^"** slowly in a gravy and a glass of Serve it when tender, after skimming it nicely. Harrico of Veal. Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones ^ort, but We it whole: then put it into a stew-pan just covered with brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done have ready a pint of boiled peas, six cucumbers pared and sliced, yd two cabbage-lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed m a little good broth: put them to the ve^, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the di^, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the lettuce with force-meat balLj round A Dnnelm of cold Veal or FoxoU Stew a few small mushrooms in their own liquor • and a bit of butter, a quarter of an hour : mince them \ ver/ sniall, and add them (with their liquor) to minced iveal, with also a little pepper and salt, some cream, jand a bit of butter rubbed in less than half a tea-spoon- ful of flour. Simmer three or four minutes, and serve oil thin sippets of bread.62 DOMESTIC COOKEHT. Minced Veal. Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not dwp —Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonsful of either a Uttle weak broth, milk, or water; simmer these gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three-cornered shape, round the dish. To pot Veal. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as follows: Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mace, pepper-corns, and two or three J lay it close into a potting-pan that will but just hold it, fill it up with water, and bake it three hours ; then pound it quite small in a mortar, and_ add salt to taste ; put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon ; otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. To pot Veal or Chicken with Ham. Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, seMoned as directed in the last article, and put layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred j press each down and cover with butter. Cutlets Maintenon. Cut slicea about three quarters of an inch, thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, and wet them on both ddes with egg: dip them into a seasoning of bread- cnimbe, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, s^t, and a little nutmeg grated ; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them ;and'servein aboat melted-butter, with a little mushroom-ketchup. Cutlets another way. Prepare as above, and fry them ; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour, andHEAT. 53 put a bit of butter into the pan ; brown it, then pour some boiling water into it, and boil quick: sea> son with pepper, salt, and ketchup, ana pour over them. Other way$.—Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a Dutch-oven ; pour over them melted but- ter and mushrooms. Or pepper, salt, and broil them ; especially neck- steaks. They are excellent without herbs. Veal Collops. Cut long thin collops ; beat them well ; and lay on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, seasoned high, and also a little gar- lick and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, about the size of two lingers, but not more than two or three inches long ; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly ; rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. To dre'si Collops quick. Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of the veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt ; set them on the fire wliile you beat the col- lops ; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter iuto a frying- pan, and give the collops a very quick fry ; for as they are so thin, two minutes will do them on both sides: put them into a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the fr)- ing-pan, and pour it over the collops. A httle ketchup is an improvement. A nother way.—Fry them in butter, only seasoned with salt and pepper ; then simmer them in gravy, either white or brown, with bits of bacon served with them. If white, add lemon-peel and mace, and some cream.bi DOMESTIC COOKBUY. Scallops oj cold Veal or Chicken. Mince the meat extremely small ; and set it over the fire with a scrape of nutmeg, a little pepper and salt, and a little cream for a few minutes: then put it into the scallop-shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Either veal or chicken looks and eats well, prepared in this way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread fried ; or these may be put on in little heaps. Fricandeau of Veal. Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad ; beat it with the rolling-pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Liiy it into the stew-pan with any pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours ; then take up the lueat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. A cheaper, but equally good, Fricandeau of Veal. With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length of your liand, and prepare it the same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy ; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. Fricandeau another toap.—Take two large round sweetbreads, and prepare them as you would veal; make a rich gravy with truffles, morels, mushrooms, and artichoke-bottoms, and serve it round.65 MEAT. Veal Olivet. Cnt long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcf)- meat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and Ca> yenne. Roll them tight, about the size of two fin- gers, but not more than two or three inches long ; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mushrooms, pickled or fresli. Garnish with balls fried. Veal Cake. Boil six or eight eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the poi: shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, add then eggs again ; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an ounce of butter ; tie it over with .*i double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould ; and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. Veal Sausaget. Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few an- chovies. Beat all in a mortar ; and when used roll and fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white collops. Scotch CollojJS. Cut veal into thin bits about three inches over, and ratlier round ; bent with a rolling-pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them ; dip into the yolk of an egg ; and fry them in a little Wter of a fine brown: pour the butter off: and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of etuu two large spoonfuls56 DOMESTIC COOKEEY. of cream, and a bit of salt. Don’t boil the sauce, bat stir it till of a fine thickness to serve w'ith the coUops. To boil Calf's head. Clean it very nicely, and soak it in water, that it may look very white ; take out the tongue to salt, and the brains to make a little dish. Boil the head ex- tremely tender ; then strew it over with crumbs and chopped parsley, and brown them ; or, if liked better, leave one side plain. Serve bacon and greens to eat with it. The brains must be boiled ; and then mixed with melted butter, scalded sage chopped, pepper and salt. If any of the head is left, it may be hashed next day, and a few slices of bacon just warmed and put round. Cold calf’s head eats well if grilled. To hash Calfs head. When half boiled, cut off the meat in slices, half an inch thick, and two or three inches long : brown some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices, with some good gravy, truffles, and morels ; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it in a moderate heat to simmer till very tender. Season wdth pepper, salt, and Cayenne, at first: and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut as fine as possible ; just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon. Forcemeat-balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. Another way.—Boil the head almost enough, and take the meat of the best side neatly off the bone with a sharp knife ; lay this into a small dish, wash it Wash with the yolks of two eggs, and cover it with crumbs, a few herbs nicely shred, a little pepper and salt, and a grate of nutmeg, all mixed together first. Set the dish before the fire ; and keep turning it now and then, that all parts of the head may be equally57 M2AT. .>ro\vn. Jn the meantime slice the remainder of the head and the tongue, but first peel t^tonme -vat bunch ofpbsfSsUng^ofpS^ S k.SaV'l.?f .“‘i Tl'*' "•* »P0"nfal. 01 Ketctiup , then beat up half the brains, and out this with a bit of butter and flour/ slSe neS"^! ifnlf lenion- ^el, a little nutmeg and mace, some parsley shred ^ ^®v *“ lj“le cakes of a bLutiful yellow-brovra. Dip some oysters into the yolk of an ®°“® relislflng force- meat-balls made as for mock-turtle. Garnish with the CalJ's Head fricasseed. Clean and half-boil half a head ; cut the meat into 3e S fh« ** gravy made of the bones, some of the waterit was boiled iii If you have any young cockerels in the house, use tlie cockscombs; but first boil them tender and blLch them^; or a sweetbread will do as well. Season the grav> with a httle pepper, nutmeg, and salt rub theT^ « boil togc- onion, and add a a little cup of cream, but don’t boil it in. bjerre with smaU bits of bacon rolled round, and 2b collar Calf's Head. Scald tlie skin of a fine head, clean it nicely, and .ake out the brains. Boil it tender enough to remo*/e68 DOMESTIC COOIiEKY. the bones ; then have ready a good quantity of chop- ped parsley, mace, nutmeg, salt, and white pepper, mixed well; season it high w'ith these ; lay the par^^- ley in a thick layer, then a quantity of thick shoes of fine ham, or a beautiful coloured tongue skinned, and then the yolks of six nice yellow eggs stuck here and there about. Roll the head quite close, and tie it up as tight as you can. Boil it, and then lay a weight on it. A cloth must be put under the tape, as for other collars. Mock Turtle. Bespeak a calf’s head with the skin on, cnt it in half, and clean it well; then half boil it, take all the meat off in square bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some veal and beef broth to add to the richness. Fry some shejot in butter, and dredge in flour enough to thicken the gravy ; stir this into the browning, and give it one or two boils ; skim it carefully, and then put in the head ; put in also a a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is quite tender. About ten minutes before you serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, Cayenne, pepper, and salt to your taste ; also two spoonfuls of mushroom-ketchup, and one of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat-balls, and small eggs. A cheaper way.—Prepare half a calf’s head, xdth- out the skin, as above: when the meat is cut off, break the bones, and put them into a saucepan with some gravy made of beef and veal bones, and seasoned with fried onions, herbs, mace, and pepper. Have ready two or three ox-palates boiled so tender as to blanch, and cut into small pieces ; to which a cow- heel, likewise cut into pieces, is a great improvement. Brown some butter, flour, and onion, and pour the gravy to it: then add the meats as above, and stew. Half a pint of sherry, an anchovy, two spoonfuls of walnut-ketchup, tiie same of mushroom-ketchup, and some chopped herbs as before. Balls, &c.59 MEAT. Another.—Pat into a pan a knuckle of veal, two fine cow-heels, two onions, a few cloves, peppers, ber- ries of allspice, mace, and sweet herbs: cover them with water, then tie a thick paper over the pan, and set it in an oven for three hours. When cold, take off the fat very nicely, cut the meat and feet into bits an inch and a half square, remove the bones and coarse parts ; and then put the rest on to warm, with a large spoonful of walnut and one of mushroom-ket- chup, httlf a pint of slierry or Madeira wine, a little mushroom-powder, and the jelly of the meat. When hot, if it wants any more seasoning, add some ; and serve witli hard eggs, forcemeat-balls, a squeeze of lemon, and a spoonful of soy. This is a very easy way, and the dish is exellent. Another.—Stew a pound and a half of scrag of mutton, with from tlu-ee pints of water to a qmirt; then set the broth on, with a calf’s-foot and a cow- heel, cover the stew-pan tight, and simmer till you can cut off the meat from the bones in proper bits. Set it on again with the broth, a quarter of a pint of Madeira wine, or sherry, a large onion, half a tea- spoonful of Cayenne pepper, a mt of lemon-peel, two anchovies, some sweet herbs, eighteen oysters cut into pieces, and then chopped tine, a tea-spoonful of salt, a little nutmeg, and the liquor of the oysters ; cover it tight, and simmer three quarters of an hour. Serve with forcemeat-bails, and hard eggs in the tureen. An e.\coUent and very ciieap mock turtle may be made of two or three cow-heels baked with two pounds atid a half of gravy-beef, herbs, &c. as above with cow-heels and veal. Calf’s Liver. Slice it, season with pepper and salt,and broil nicely: rub a bit of cold batter on it, and servo hot and hot. Calf's Liver roasted. Wash and wipe it; then cut a long hole in it, and atuff it with crumbs of bread, chopped anchovy, herb.i,rOMESTIC COOKEliT. oQ a good deal of fat bacon, onion, salt, pepper, a bit of butter, and an egg : sew the liver up ; then lard it, or wrap it in a veal-caul, and roast it. Serve with a good brown gravy, and currant-jelly^ To dress the Liver and Lights. Half boil an equal quantity of each, then cut them in middling-sized mince, put to it a spoonful or two of the water that boiled it, a bit of butter, flour, salt, and pepper, simmer ten minutes, and serve hot. Calf's Brains a la Maitre d'Hotel. Take off all the fibres and skins which hang about the brains, and soak them in several waters, then boil them in salt and water, with a piece of butter, and a table-spoonful of vinegar ; cut some ttiin slices of bread in the shape of scallop shells, and fry them in butter, lay these in a dish, the brains divided in two, on them, and pour over a Maitre d’ Hotel sauce, (which see). A nice supper-dish. Sioeetbreads. Half boil them, and stew them in a white gravy: add cream, flour, butter, nutmeg, salt, and white pep- i;er. Or do them in brown sauce seasoned. Or parboil them, and then cover them with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning, and brown them in a Dutch-oven. Serve with butter, and mushroom-ketchup or gravy. Sioeetbreads roasted.—Parboil two large ones when cold, lard them with bacon, and roast them in a Dutch- oven. For sauce, plain butter, and mushroom-ketchup. Sweetbread Itagaid.—Cut them about the size of a walnut, wash and dry them, and fry them of a fine brown ; pour to them a good gravy seasoned with s;ilt, pepper, allspice, and either mushrooms or mushroom- ketchup : strain, and thicken with butter and a little flour. You may add truflSes, morels, and musliroomr.MEAT. 6l '' Kidnej. Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat; likewise a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf’s heart, stuff and roast as a beefs heart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. PORK, &c. Bacon-hogs, and porkers, are differently cut up. Hogs are kept to a large size ; the chine (or back- bone) w cut down on each side, the whole length, and is a prime part either boiled or roasted. _ The sides of the hog are made into bacon, and the in- side is cut out with very little meat to the bone. On each side there is a large spar&-rib ; which is usually divided into two, one sweet-bone and a blade-bone. I’he bacon is the whole ontside : and contains a fore- leg, and a ham; which last is the hind-leg, but if left with the bacon is called a gammon. There are also gpriskins. Hog’s lard is the inner fat of the bacon-hog. Pickled pork is made of the flesh of the hog, as well as bacon. Porkers are not so old as hogs ; their flesh is whiter and less rich, but it is not so tender. It is divided into four quarters. The fore-quarter has the spring or fore-leg, the fore-loin or neck, the sparerib and griskin. The hind lias the leg and the loin. The feet of pork make various good dishes, and should be cut off before the legs are cured. Observe the same of the ears. The bacon-hog is sometimes scalded to take off the liair, and sometimes singed. The porker is always scalded. To roast a Leg of Park. Choose a small leg of fine young pork : cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife ; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and(j'2 DOMESTIC COOKEUY. salt. When half-done, score the skin in slices, but don’t cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple-sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. To boil a Le.g of Pork. Salt it eight or ten days : when it is to be dressed, weigh it ; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up: skim it as soon as it boils, and frequently after. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas-soup. Some boil it in a very nice cloth, floured ; which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. Serve peas-pudding and turnips with it. Loin and Neck of Pork. Koast them. Cut the skin of the loin across, at distances of half an incli, with a sharp penknife. Shoulders and Breasts of Pork. Put them into pickle, or salt the shoulders as the leg ; when very nice, they may be roasted. Rolled Neck of Pork. Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice, over the inside ; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. Spring or Forehand of Pork. Cut out the bone ; sprinkle salt, pepper, and saga ' dried, over the inside ; but first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it ; roll the pork tight, and tie it; then roast by a hanging-jack. About two hours will do it. Spare-rib Should be basted with a very little butter and a littlfBlEAT. 03 flour, and then sprinkled with dried sage crumbled. Apple-sauce, and potatoes, for roasted p>ork. Pork Griskin Is usually very hard ; the best way to prevent this is, to put it into as much cold water as will cover it, and let it boil up ; then instantly take it off, and put it into a Dutch-oven ; a very few minutes will do it. Re- member to rub butter over it, and then flour it, before you put it to the fire. Blade-hone of Pork Is taken from the bacon-hog; the less meat left on it in moderation, the better. It is to be broiled ; and when just done, pepper and salt it. Put to it a piece of butter, and a tea-spoonful of mustard: and servo it covered, quickly. This is a Somersetshire dish. To dress Pork as Lamb. Kill a young pig of four or five months old ; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled pork ; or steaks, pies, &c. Pork Steaks. Cut them from a loin or neck, and of middling thickness ; pepper and broil them, turning them often ; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time". To Pickle pork. The quantities proportioned to the middlings of a pretty large hog, the hams and shoulders being cut off. Mix, and pound fine, four ounces of salt-petre, a pound of coarse sugar, an ounce of sal-prune 1, and a little common salt: sprinkle the pork with salt, and drain it twenty-four hours: then rub with the above ; pack tlie pieces tight in a small deep tub, filling un the spaces with common salt. Place large pebbles64 DOMESTIC COOKERY. on the pork to prevent it from swimming in t.ia pickle which the salt will produce. If kept from air, it will continue very line for two years. Sausages. Chop fat and lean of pork together ; season it with sage, pepper, and salt, and you may add two or three berries of allspice: half fill hogs’ guts that have been soaked and made extremely clean ; or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered ; and ao rolled and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Serve on stewed red cabbage ; or mash pota- toes put in a form, brown with salamander, and garnish with the above ; they must be pricked with a fork before they are dressed, or they will burst. excellent Sausage to eat cold. Season fat and lean pork with some salt, salt-petre, black pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat: the sixth day cut it small; and mix with it some shred shalot or garlick, as fine as possible. Have ready an ox-gut that has been scoured, salted, and soaked well, and till it with the above stuffing ; tie up the ends, and hang it to smoke as you would hams, but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be higluiried. Some eat it without boiling, but others like it boiled first. Tlie skin should be tied in different places, so as to make each link about eight or nine inches long. Spadbury's Oxford Sausages. Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; and three quarters of a pound of beef-suet; mince and mix them ; steep the crumb of a penny-loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, with also a little dried sage, pepper, and salt. To scald a Sucking Pig. The moment the pig is killed, put it into cold wa- ter for a few minutes; then rub it over with a little65 meat. resin beaten extremely small, and put it into a pail of scalding water half a minute ; take it out, lay it on a table, and pull off the hair as quickly as possible ; if any part does not come off put it in again. When ^uite clean, wash it well with warm water, and then in two or three cold waters, that no flavour of the resin may remain. Take off all the feet at the first joint ; make a slit down the belly, and take out the entrails ; put the liver, heart, and lights, to the feet. '' 1 j • water, dry it thoroughly, and fold it in a wet cloth to keep it from the air. To roast a Sucking Pig. If you can get it when just killed, this is of great ad- vantage. Let it be scalded, which the dealers usuallv do : then put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and Ijepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk lire till thorougiily dry ; then have really some butter in a dry cloth, and rub the pig with it in every part. Dredge as much flour over as will possibly lie, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; then scrape off the flour very carefully with a blunt knife, rub it well with the buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire ; take out the brains, and mix them with the gravy that comes from the pig. Then take it up, and, without withdrawing the spit, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop the sage and bread quickly as fine as you can, and mix them with a large quantity of fine melted butter that has very little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws ; take off the upper part of tiie head down to the snout. In Devonshire it is served whole, if very small; the head only being cut off, to garnish as abovs. 70 FGO DOMESTIC COOKERY. Pettitoes. Boil them, the liver, and the heart, in a small quan- tity of water, very gently ; then cut the meat fine, and simmer it with a little of the water and the feet split, till the feet are quite tender: thicken with a bit of butter, a little flour, a spoonful of creani, and a little salt and pepper ; give it a boil up, pour it over a few sippets of bread, and put the feet on the mince. To make excellent meat of a Hog's Head. Split the head, take out the brains, cut off the ears, and sprinkle it with common salt for a day ; then drain it: salt it well with common salt and saltpetre three days, then lay the salt and head into a small quantity of water for two days. Wash it, and boil till all tl»B bones will come out; remove them, and chop the head as quick as possible ; but first skin the tongue, and take the slcin carefully off the head, to put under and over. Season with pepper, salt, and a little mace or allspice-berries. Put the skin into a small pan, press the cut head in, and put the other skin over ; press it down. When cold, it will turn out, and make a kind of brawn. If too fat, you may put a few bits of lean pork to be prepared the same way. Add salt and vinegar, and boil these with some of the liquor for a pickle to keep it. To roast Porker's Head. Choose a fine young head, clean it well, and put bread and sjige as for pig ; sew it up tight, and on a string or hanging jack roast it as a pig, and serve with the same sauce. To prepare Pig's Cheek for boiling. Cut off the snout, and clean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and the brains ; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain twenty-four hours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre: let it lie eight or tea days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas ; and it must be wa.>li(-! firti, and then smuuered till all is tender.MEAT. 67 To collar Pig's Head. Scour the head and ears nicely ; take off the hair ind snout, and take out the eyes and the brain ; lay it into water one niffht; then drain, salt it extremely well with common salt and saltpetre, and let it lie live days. Boil it enough to take out the bones ; then lay it on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it well with salt and white pepper, and roll it with the ears; aud if you approve, put the pig’s feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow-heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender: then put a good weight upon it, and don’t take off the cover- ing till cold. If you choose it to be more like brawn, salt it longer, and let the proportion of saltpetre be greater ; and put in also some pieces of lean pork; and then cover it with cow-heel, to look like the horn. This may be kept either in or out of pickle of salt aud water boiled with vinegar; and is a very con- venient thing to have in the house. If likely to spoil, slice and fry it either with or without batter. To dry Hog's Cheeks. Cut out the snout, remove the brains, and split the bead, taking off the upper bone, to make the jowl a good shape; rub it well with salt ; next day take away the brine, and salt it again the following day : cover the head with half an ounce of saltpetre, two ounces of bay-salt, a little common salt, and four ounces of coarse sugar. Let the head be often turned ; after ten days smoke it for a week like bacon. To force Hog's Ears. Parboil two pair of ears, or take some that have been soused ; make a forcemeat of an anchovy, some sage, parsley, a quarter of a pound of suet choppeii,58 DOMESTIC COOKEKY. bread crumbs, pepper, and only a little salt. Mix all these with the yolks of two eggs ; raise the skin of tlie upper side of the ears, and stuff them with the above Fry the ears in fresh butter, of a fine colour ; then pour away the fat, and drain them: make ready halt a pint of rich gravy, with a glass of fine sherry, three tea-spoonsful of made mustard, a little flour and butter, a small onion whole, and a little pepper or Cayenne. Put this with the ears into a stew-pan, and cover it close ; stew it gently for half an hour, shaking the pan often. Wheti done enough, take out the onion, place the ears carefully in a dish, and pour the sauce over them. If a larger dish is wanted, the meat from two feet may be added to the above. Dijferent tcays of dressing Pig's Feet and Ears. Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and boil them tender; then take them out ; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over them. When they are to be dres.sed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears ; fry, and serve with butter, mustard, and vinegar. They may be either done in batter, or only floured. Pig's Feet and Ears fricasseed. Put no vinegar into the pickle, if to be dressed with cream. Cut the feet and ears into neat bits, and boil them in a little milk ; then pour that from them, and simmer in a little veal broth, with a bit of onion, mace, and lemon-peel. Before you serve, add a little cream, tluur, butter, and salt. Jelly of Pig’s Feet and Ears. Clean and prepare as in the last article, then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out ; throw in half a handful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of pepper, salt, and mace, in tine pow'der ; simmer till the herlis are scalded, then pour the whole into a melon-form.meat. 63 Harslet. Or serve in slices with parsley for a fry .VEpiCut ss”’ Mock Brawn. a most euouj;li; take out any bones, and roll the feet and the pork toother. Then roll it very tight with a - throng cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender then hang u up in the cloth till cold ; af7r which’ ittcle ^ as is directed in the next So^efor Brawn, and for Pifs Feet and Ears. Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat-bran, a sprig of baj, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water u,‘^n??e\ irg^cddr'^ To make Black Puddings. nnirf ‘it must be stirred with salt till cold. Put a quart of it, or rather more, to a quart of whole grits hnf Tn ® milk made Bot. In the meantime prepare the guts by washin" ing t’h^wa'f scraping with salt and water, and chang- -afniirv times. Chop fine a little winter- .^youry and thyme, a good quantity of penny-royal, pepper, and salt, a few cloves, some allspice, ginger and nuHneg; mi.x these with three pounds of beef- snet, and six eggs well beaten and .strained ; and then70 DOMESTIC COOKERY. heat the bread, grits, &c. all up with the seasoning; when well mixed, have ready some hog’s fat cut into large bits ; and as you fill the skins, put it in at proper distances. Tie in links, only half filled ; and boil m a large kettle, pricking them as they swell, or they will burst. When boiled, lay them between clean cloths till cold, and hang them up in the kitchen. When to be used, scald them a few minutes in water, wipe and put them into a Dutch-oven. If there are not skins enough, put the stuflSng into basons, and boil it coverd with floured cloths ; and slice and dry it when used. Another way.—Soak all night a quart of bruised grits in as much boiling-hot milk as will sw'ell them and leave half a pint of liquid. Chop a good quantity of penny-royal, some savoury and th\ me ; salt, pepper, and allspice, finely powdered. Mix the above with a quart of the blood, prepared as before directed ; then half fill the skins, after they have been cleaned tho- roughly, and put as much of the leaf (that is, the inward fat) of the pig as will make it pretty rich. Boil as before directed. A small quantity of leeks finely shred and well mixed, is a great improvement. Another way.—Boil a quart of half-grits in as much milk as will swell them to the utmost ; then draiir them and add a quart of blood, a pint of rich cream, a pound of suet, some mace, nutmeg, allspice, and four cloves, all in fine powder ; two pounds of the hog’s leaf cut into dice, two leeks, a handful of parsley, ten leaves of sage, a large handful of penny-royal, and a sprig of thyme and knotted marjoram, all minced fine ; eight eggs well beaten, half a pound of bread crumbs that have been scalded with a pint of milk, pepper, and salt. Half fill the skins; which must first be cleaned with the greatest care, turned several times, and soaked in several waters, and last in rose-water. Tie the skins in links, boil and prick them with a clean fork to pre- vent their bursting. Cover them with a clean cloth till cold.meat. 71 White Hog’s Pudding. ^en the skins have been soaked and cleaned as l^fore directed, rinse and soak them all night in rose- water, and put into them the following filFing Mix • u blanched almonds cut into seven or eight bits, with a pound of grated bread, two pounds of marrow or suet, a pound of currants, some beaten cinnamon, cloves, mace, and nutmeg, a quart of cream, Uie yolks of six and whites of two eggs, a little orange- flower water, a little fine Lisbon sugar, and some j^mon-peel and citron sliced, and half fill the skins, lo know whether sweet enough, warm a little in a panikin. In boiling, much care must be taken to pre- vent the puddings from bursting. Prick them with a small fork as they rise, and boU them in milk and water L.ay them in a table-cloth till cold. Hog’s Lard Should be carefully melted in a jar put into a kettle ot water, and boiled, run it into bladders that have l»en extremely well cleaned. The smaller they ar.- the better the lard keeps ; as after the air reaches it. It becomes rank. Put in a sprig of rosemary when melting. •' This being a most useful article for frying fish, it should be prepared with care. Mixed with butter, it makes fine crust. To cure Hams. Hang them a day or two ; then sprikle them with a litue salt, and drain them another day ; poundan ounce and a half of saltpetre, the same quantity of bay-salt, half an ounce of sal-prunel, and a pound of the coarsest sugar. Mix these well j and rub them into each ham every day for four days, and turn it. If a small one, turn it every day for three weeks ; if a large one, a week longer ; but don’t rub after four days. Before you dry it, drain and cover with bran. Smoke it ten days.DOMKSriC COOKEKT. 72 Another jm?/-—Clioose the leg of a hog that is fat and well-fed ; hang it as above: if large, put to it a pound of bay-salt, four of saltpetre, a pound of the coarsest sugar, and a handful oommon sal^^ ill Rne powder, and rub it thoroughly. Lay the rmd downwLds, and cover the Reshly part with the ^It^ Baste it as often as you can with the pickle , the moie the better. Keep it four weeks, turning it every day. Drain it, and throw bran over it ; then hang it in a chimney where wood is burnt, and turn it sometimes for ten days. , . , , ..i. Another way.—Hang the ham, and sprinkle it with salt as above ; then rub it every day with the following, in fine powder : half a pound of common salt, the same (luantity of bay-salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and two ounces of black pepper, mixed with a pound and a haU’ of treacle. Turn it twice a day in the pickle, tor three weeks. Lay it into a pail of water lor one night, wipe it quite dry, and smoke it two or three weeks. Another way, that gives a high flavour.—'^ hen the weather will permit, hang the ham three days ; mix an ounce of saltpetre, with a quarter ot a pound of bay-salt, the same q^uantity of common salt, and also of coarse sugar, and a quart of strong beer ; boil them together, and pour them immediately upon the liam ; turn it twice a day in the pickle for three weeks. .\n ounce of black pepper, and the same quantity of allspice, in fine powder, added to the above, will give still more flavour. Cover it with bran when wiped ; and smoke it from three to four weeks, as you approve ; the latter will make it harder and give it more of the flavour of Westphalia. Sew hams in hessings (that is, course wrappers), if to be smoked where there is ;i strong fire. A method of giving a still higher flavour.— Sprinkle the ham with salt, after it has hung two or tlii-ee days ; let it drain ; make a pickle of a quart of strong beer, half a pound of treacle, an ounce of cori- ander-seeds, two ounces of juniper-berries, an ounce ofMliAX. pepper, the same qnant:ty of all.spice, an onnce of salt- petre, lialf an ounce of sal-prunel, a handful of com- fu ^ shalor, all pounded or cut tine, lloil these all together a few minutes, and pour them over tlie ham: this quantity is for one of ten pounds. Uub and turn it every day, for a fortnight; then sew It up m a thin linen bag, and smoke it three weeks, lake wire to drain it from the pickle, and rub it in bran, beiore drying. Tonidke a pickle that will keep for years, for Hams, longues, or Beef, if boiled and skinmu between each parcel of them. To two gallons of spring-water put two pounds ol s^«tir, two pounds of bay, and two pounds and a half of common salt, and half a pound of saltpetre m a deep earthen glazed pan tliat will hold four gallons and with a cover tliat will fit close. Keep the beef or hams as lo»g as they will bear, before you put them into the pickle ; and sprinkle them with coarse suu'ar in a pan, from which they must drain. Rub tlie hains, &c. well with the pickle, and pack them in close ; put- ting as much as the pan will hold, so that the pickle may coyer them. 'Ihe pickle is not to be boiled at first. A small ham may lie fourteen days, a large one three weeks ; a tongue twelve days, and beef in propor- tion to Its size. They will eat well out of the pickle without drying. W hen they are to be dried, let each piece be drained over the pan ; and when it will drop no longer, take a clean sponge and dry it thoroughly, bix or eight hours will smoke them, and there should be only a little sawdust and wet straw burnt to do this ; but if put into a baker’s chimney, sew them in coarse cloth, and hang them a week. To dress Hams. If long hung, put the ham into water a night; and let it lie either in a hole dug in the earth, or on damp stones sprinkled with water, two or tliree days, to niel-DOJIUSTIC cookery. 74 r’Wa?h weTund pS^i bon^Silh piSt J ing to the size. hen ^ j{,’douhk and keep of serving, cover It wth a the dish hot over ^ Garnish with car- M “F,IST. .Sn £ aboU « p«»bl?. >? t«P £ ton wten cold, cldcb will prevent its drj.ng. Excellent Bacon. better first pickle ; trS hog, hut first cut off the hams, lianging in the kitchen, not near the fire. The manner of curing Wiltshire Snrinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood dram nff for twenty-four hours : then mi.x a pound and a half tog afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantuy of salts is suflicieiit for the whole hog. jurrroN. Observations on keeping and dressing Mutton. Take away the pipe that runs along the bone of the inside of a chine of mutton ; and if to kept a great time, rub the part close round the tail with salt, after f^r^t c\i*tin2 oiiti tli6 Iccrnd* r 1.1 i The kernel in the fat on the thick part of the kgMEAT. 76 »hould be taken out bj the butcher, for it taints first there. The chine and rib-bones should be wiped every day ; and the bloody part of the neck be cut off, to preserve it. The brisket changes first in the breast ; and if it is to be kept, it is best to rub it with a little salt, should theweatlier be hot. Kvery kernel should be taken out of all sorts of meat as soon as brought in ; then wipe dry. For roasting, it should hang as long as it will keep, the hind-quarter especially, but notsolong as to taint; for whatever fashion may authorise, putrid juices ought not to be taken into the stomach. Mutton for boiling will not look of a good colour if it has hung long. Great care should be taken to preserve by paper tlie fat of what is roasted. Leg of Mutton. If roasted, serve with onion or currant-jelly sauce ; if boiled, with caper-sauce and vegetables. Neck of Mutton Is particularly useful, as so many dishes may be made of it ; but it is not advantageous for the family. The bones should be cut short, which the butchers will not do unless particularly desired. The best end of the neck may be boiled, and served v.dth turnips ; or roasted, or dressed in steaks, in pies, or harrico. The scrags may be stewed in broth ; or with a small quantity of water, some small onions, a few pepper- corns, and a little rice, and served together. When a neck is to be boiled to look particularly nice, saw down the chhie-bone, strip the ril)s half-way down, and chop off the ends of the bones about four inches. '1 lie skin should not be taken off’ till boiled, and then tJie fat will look the whiter. When there is more fat to a neck or loin of mutton, than it is agreeable to eat with the lean, it makes an MTicorninonly good suet^pudding, or crust for a meat pie, if cut very line.DOJIKSTIC COOKKKV. 70 SJioufdcr of Mutton roasted. Serve with onion-sauce. The blade-bone may be broiled. To dress a Haunch of Mutton. Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet by the different modes: let it be washed with warm milh and water, or vinegar, if necessary : but when to be dressed, observe to wash it well, lest the outside should Irave a bad iiavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse Hour on strong paper, and fold the hauncli in : set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow proportionable time for the paste; don’t take it off till about thirty- live or forty minutes before serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire before you take off the paste, and froth it up as you would venison. A gravy must be made of a pound and a half of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt: brown it with a little burnt sugar, and send it up in the dish; but there should be a good deal of gravy in the meat; for though long at the fire, tiie distance and covering will prevent its roastiug out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. To roast a saddle of Mutton. Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, aud then skewer it on again; take it off a quarter of an hour before serving, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with Hour. The rump should bo split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the company: it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it requires a liigh and strong fire. Fillet of Mutton braised. Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a jiaste as for venison, roast it two hours. Don’t let it be the least browiu77 MHAT. Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve ; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat-np m gravy, and lay them on the dish with tlie meat over them. Harrico. middle or best end of the neck into rather thin steaks ; flour and drv them in their own fat of a fine light brown, but not enough for eating. Ihen put them into a dish while you fry the carrots, turnips, and onions; the carrots und turnips m dice, the onions sliced; but they must ?u ^ 'Jrowned, or you need not fry them. Then lay the steaks at the bottom of a stew-paif the vegetables over them, and pour as much boiling water as will just cover them ; give one boil, skim well, and then set the pan on the side of the fire to simmer gently till tender. In three or four hours ket^up ™ P®PP®>‘> salt, and a spoonful of To hash Mutton, Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean • 1 our them ; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water ; add to it a little gravy an.l the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove .a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a gla.ss of port wine will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be hne. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. To boil Shoulder of Mutton loith Oysto-s. Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days ; bone It, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace {lounded : lay sonie oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a small quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, till quite (binder. ^DOMESTIC COOKEilY. /» Have ready a little good gravy, and some oysters stewed in it ; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stew-pan should be kept close covered. Breast of Mutton. Cut off the superfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers ; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the fire ; in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper-sauce. Or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning ; then roll and boil ; and serve with chopped walnuts, or capers and butter. Loin of Mutton Koasted ; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. To roll Loin of Mutton. Hang the mutton till tender ; bone it; and lay a seasoninsr of pepper, allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day prepare a stuffing as for hare ; beat the meat, and cover it with the stuffing ; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half-bake it in a slow oven ; let it grow cold; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stew-pan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise ; stew it till almost ready ; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, an anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving ; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improvement; but if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon-pickle. Mutton Ham. Choose a fine-grained leg of wether-mutton, of twelve or fourteen pounds weight ; let it be cut ham-shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stew-pan ludf a pound of bay-salt, the same of common salt, two ounces of saltpetre, and half a pound of coarse sugar, all iuMKAT. 70 powder ; mix and make it quite hot ; then rub it well into the liam. Let it be turned in the liquor every day ; at tlie end of four days put two ounces more of common salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and nang it up in wood-smoke a week. It is to be used in slices with stewed cabbage, mashed potatoes, or eggs. Mutton Collojjs. Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung ; and cut from the part next the leg, some collops very thin, 'lake out the sinew. Season the collops with salt, pepper, and mace ; and strew over them shrer’ parsley, thyme, and two or three shalots: fry them in butter till half-done ; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece of butter rubbed in flour ; and simmer the whole very gently five minutes. They should be served immediately, or they will be hard. Mutton Cutlets in the Portuguese xoay. Cut the chops ; and half fry them with sliced shalot or onion, chopped parsley, and two bay-leaves ; season with pepper and salt ; then lay a force-meat on a piece of white paper, put the chop on it, and twist the paper up, leavinga hole for the end of the bones to go through. Broil on a gentle fire. Serve with sauce Hobart ; or, as the seasoning makes the cutlets high, a little gravy Mutton Steaks Should be cut from a loin or neck that has hung ; if a neck the bones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear tire, seasoned when half-done, and often turned; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot and hot the moment they are done. Steaks oj Mutton, or Lamb, and Cucumbers. Quarter cucumbers, and lay them into a deep dish, sprinkle them with salt, and pour vinegar over them. Fry the chops of a tine brown, and put them into a stew- p»n ; drain the cucumbers, and put over the steaks ;DOMESTIC COOKERY. HO aikl some sliced onions, pepper, and salt; pour hoi v.ater or weak broth on them ; stew and skim well. Mutton Steaks Maintenon. Half-fry, stew them, while hot, with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning ; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch ; rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that. Mutton Sausages. Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop it ex- tremely small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg: add to it six ounces of beef-suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, some of the anchovy-liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls, or sausage-shape, and frying. If approved, a little shalot may be added, or garhek, which is a great im- j)rovement. I'o dress Mutton Rumps and Kidney. Stew six rumps in some good mutton-gravy half an hour ; then lake them up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat ; and put into it four ounces of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, and a blade of mace ; boil them till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of egg well beaten ; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and thyme, and grated lemon-peel, l-'ry in butter of a fine brown. While the rumps are stewing, lard the kidneys, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish ; the rumps put ro\ind on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard egg?81 MKAT. cut in half, the white beini,' left on ; or with different coloured pickles. An excellent Hotch-Potch. Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown: three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegetables over them ; stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. Another. Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetaliles as above ; to both add a bit of butter rolled in fiour. Mutton kebobbed. Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, and that on Uie outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. Joint it at every one ; mix a small nutmeg grated with a lit- tle salt and pepper, crumbs, and herbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of three eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks toge- tlier as they were before they were cut asunder, tie tlieni and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a. qmck fire } set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter, and the liquor tliat comes from ^e meat ; but throw some more of the above season- ing over. When done enough, take it up, and lay it in a dish ; have half a pint of good gravy ready besides that ill the dish j and put into it two spoonfuls of ket- chup, and rub down a tea-spoonful of iioifr with it ; ;,'ive thi.s a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first .skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. China Chilo. Mince a pint-basin of undressed neck of mutton, or leg, and some of the fat ; put two onions, a lettuce, a pint of green peas, a tea-spoonful of salt, a tea-spoon- ful of pepper, four spoon'uls of water, and two or three oonces of clarified butter, into a stew-pan closcl 71) G;J2 DOMESTIC COOKEQY. covered; simmer two hours, and serve in the midole of a dish of boiled dry rice. If Cayenne is approved, add a little. LAMB. Leg of Lamb Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possi- ble. The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with dried or fried parsley ; spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or roasted. Fore-quarter of Lamb. ■Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together is called a scoven. Breast of Lamb and Cucumbers. Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones would draw out, put it on the gridiron to grill ; and then lay it in a dish on cucumbers nicely stewed. Shoulder of Lamb, forced, with Sorrel-sauce. Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with force- meat ; braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. The method for both, see page 00. Serve with sor- rel-sauce under the lamb. Lamb Steaks. Fry them of a beautiful brown ; when served, threw over them a good quantity of crumbs of bread fried, and crimped parsley ; the receipt for doing which of a tine colour will be given under the head of veob- TABLES. Mutton or lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in but- tered capers,either wi th crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. Sauce for them, called Sauce Robart, will be found to the list of SAUCES.MKAT. 83 Home-Lamb Steaks white. Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with 8 bit of lemon-peel, a little salt, some pepper, and mace. Have ready some veal uravy, and put the ste^s into it t mix some mushroom-powder, a cup of cream, and tlie least bit of flour ; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir it, and let it get quite hot. Just before you take it up, put in a few white mushrooms. This is a good substitute when poultry is very dear. House-Lamb Steaks broxoTU Season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated le- mon-peel, and chopped parsley ; but dip them first into egg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a hit of flour and butter ; and add to it a spoon- ful of port wine, and some oysters: boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm ; let them heat uo, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. Lamb Cutlets with spinach.. Cut the steaks from the loin, and fry them ; the spinach is to be stewed and put into the dish first and then the cutlets round it. Lamb's Head and Hinge. This part is best from a house-lamb ; but any, if soak- ed in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separ- ately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights three parts boiled and cut small ; stew them in a httle of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. Lamb's Fry, Serve it fried of a beautiful colour, and with a goo deal of dried or fried parsley over it. Lamb's Sweetbreads. Blanch^ them, and put them a little while into cold water. Then put them into a stew-pan with a ladle- iui of broth, some pepper and salt, a small buncli of84 domestic cookery. small onions, and a blade of mace; stir in a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have rea y two or three eggs well beaten in cream, with a little minced parsley and a few grates of nutmeg. 1 ut in some boiled asparagus-tops to the other things. Hon t let it boil after the cream is in : but make it hot, ana stir it well all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be addeil, first boiled of a beautiful colour. Fricasseed Lanibstones. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them ; fry of a beautiful brown, in hog’s-lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you have made the following sauce: Thicken almost half a pint of veal-gravy with a little flour and butter, aud then add to it a slice of lemon, a large spoonful of mushroom-ketchup, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an eitg beaten well in two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir it well till it is hot, and looks white ; but doiiT let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a very hot dish aud cover. Fricassee of Lanibstones and Sweetbreads, another way. Have ready some lambstones blanched, parboiled, and sliced. Flour two or three sweetbreads ; if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together, with a few large oysters, of a fine yellow brown. Pour the butter off ; and add a pint of good gravy, some asparagus- tops about an inch long, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Uarnish with lemon.85 POULTKY. A very nice dish. Talf e the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, end chop each bone so sliort as to make the steaks almost round. Kgg, and strew with crumbs, herbs, and seasoning ; fry them of the finest brown ; mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. Pies of the different meats are directed under the general head of savoury pies. PAllT III. POULTRY, GAME, &c. To choose Poultry, Game, ^c. A Turkey-cock.—If young, it has a smooth black leg, with a short spur. The eyes full and bright, if fresh, and the feet supple and moist. If stale, the eyes will be sunk, and the feet dry. Hen-turkey is known by the same rules ; but if old, her legs will be red and tough. Foiols.—If a cock is young, his spurs will be short ; but take care to see they have not been cut or pared, which is a trick often practised. If fresh, the vent will be close and dark. Pullets are best ju.st before they begin to lay, and yet are full of egg ; if old hens, their combs and legs will be rough ; if young, they will be smooth. A good capon has a thick belly and large rump ; there b a particular fat at his breast, and the comb b very pale. Black-legged fowls are most moist, if for roasting. Geese.—The bill and feet of a young one will be yel-domestic cookery. 86 low and there will be but few hairs kIv will be red ; if fresh, the feet will be pl'a^e ; if stale dry and stiff. Geese are called green till three or four months old. Green geese should be scalded . a stubble-eoose should be picked dry. iic&T-Choose them by the same rules, of having supple feet, and by their being hard and thick on tlie breast and belly. The feet of a tame duck are thick and inclining to duskey yellow i » wild ^ JJj® feet reddish, and smaller than the tame, they sbouia be picked dry. Ducklings must be scalded. Fiaeom should be very fresh when they look flabby about the vent, and this part is discoloured,they are sUle The feet should be supple ; if old, the feet are harsh. The tame ones are larger than the wild, Ld are thought best by some persons: they should be fat and tender ; but many are deceived in their size, because a full crop is as large as the whole body Th^ood-pigeon is large, and the flesh dark coloured: if properly kept, and not over-roasted, the flavour is eaual to teal. Serve with a good gravy. Plovers.—Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat. In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowl. W hen stale, the feet are dry. They wi l keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts: the grey, green, and bastard i)lover, or lapwing. ,, . j ^ Hare or the claws are blunt and rug- eed, the ears dry and tough, and the hunch thick, it is old • but if the claws are smooth and sharp, the ears easily tear, and the cleft in the lip is not much spread it is young. If fresh and newly killed, the body will be stiff, and in hares the flesh pale. But they keep a good while by proper care ; and are best when rather beginning to turn, if the inside is preserved from being musty. To know a real leveret, you should look f<>r a knob or small bone near tlie foot on its fore-leg ; u there is none it is a hare.87 PO:;i.TiiY. J arfridges.— They are in season in ar.tnmn. li young, the bill is of a dark colour, and the legs yel- lowish ; if fresh, the vent will be firm ; but this part will look greenish if stale. ^ Pheasants. The cock-bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young, he has short blunt or round spurs ; but if old, they are long and sharp. Birectionsfor dressing Poultry and Gatne. All poultry should be very carefully picked, every plug removed, and the hair nicely singed with white paper. ° ihe cook must be careful in drawing poultry of all sorts, not to break the gall-bag, for no washing will take off the bitter where it has touched. In dressing wild fowl, be careful to keep a clear brisk fire. Let them be done of a fine yellow brown, but leave the gravy in : tJie fine flavour is lost if done too much. Tame fowls require more roasting, and are longer in heating through than others. All sorts should be continually basted ; that they may be served with a froth, and appear of a fine colour. A large fowl will take three quarters of an hour ; a middling one half un hour ; and a very small one, or a chicken, twenty minutes. The fire must be very quick and clear before any fowls are put down. A capon will take from half an hour to thirty-five minntes ; a goose an hour ; \vild ducks a quarter of an hour ; pheasants twenty minntes ; a small turkey stuffed, an hour and a quarter ; turkey-poults, twenty minutes; grouse, a quarter of an hour; quails, ten minutes ; and part- ridges, from twenty to twenty-five minutes. A hare will take near an hour, and the hind part requires most heat. Pigs and geese require a brisk fire, and quick tum- ing. Hares and rabbits must be well attended to: and the extremities brought to the quick part of the fire, to be done equally with the backs.DOMESTIC COOKEUT. 83 POULTRY. To boil turliey. Make a stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nut- meg, lemon-peel, a few oysters or an anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg : put this into the crop, fasten up the skin, and boU the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with butter, a httle cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved ; and pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon-sauce. Hen-birds are best for boiling, and should be young. To roast Turkey. The sinews of the legs should be drawn, which-ever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing ; and in drawing it, take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a staffing of sausage-meat; or if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part ; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the boue, to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage- meat. Pulled Turkey. Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting ; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter ; don’t boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored, and broiled, and put into the dish v/ith the above round it. Cold chicken does as well. To boil Fold. For boiling, choose those that are not black-legged. Pick them nicely, singe, wash, and truss them. FloutPOULT it Y. 89 them, and put them into boiling water.—See time of dressing, page 87. Serve with parsley and butter ; oyster, lemon, liver, or celery-sauce. If for dinner, ham, tongue, or bacon, is usually served to eat with them ; as likewise greens. To boil Fold with Rice. Stew the fowl very slowly in some clear mutton- broth well skimmed ; and seasoned with onion, mace, pepper, and salt. About half an hour before it is ready, put in a quarter of a pint of rice well washed and soaked. Simmer till tender ; then strain it from the broth, and put the rice on a sieve before the fire. Keep the fowl hot, lay it in the middle of the di.sh, and the rice round it without the broth. The broth will be very nice to eat as such, but the less liq^uor the fowl is done with the better. Gravy, or parsley and butter, for sauce. Fowls roasted. Serve with egg-sauce, bread-sauce, or garnished with sausages and scalded parsley. A large barn-door fowl well hung, should be stuffed in the crop with sausage-meat, and served with gravy in the dish, and with bread-sauce. The head should be turned under the wing, as a turkey. Folds broiled. Split them down the back ; pepper, salt, and broil. Serve with mushroom-sauce. Another way.—Guta large fowl into four quarters, put them on a bird-spit, and tie that on another spit; and lialf-roast; or half-roast the whole fowl, and fin- ish either on the gridiron, which will make it less dry than if wholly broiled. The fowl that is not cut be- fore roasted, must be split down the back after. Davenport folds. Hang young fowls a night; take the livers, hearts, nnd tenderest parts of tiie gizzards, slired very small,domestic cooeeky. 90 „i.h hBlf a V“"»> »' fowl, an «»■«". ^L. Stuff tha fowls wita tms, «inu »cw ^ them in salt ketchup, of either sorts, in the dish. UllUp) UX » TT J' I. A nice way to dress a foiol for a small dish. ^ Bone, singe, and wash, a young fowl; make a meat of four ounces of veal, two ounces of scrap ■ of him, two ounces of fat bacon, two hard yolks of e gs, a few Uet herbs cl*°PP®d, two ounces of beef sue^ a tea-SDOOnful of lemon-peel minced quite tine, an the volks and whites of three eggs. Stull the insiae of the fowl, and draw the legs and wings inwards ; tie thfneTand rump close. Stew the fowl in a white gravy: when it is done through and tender, add »'^rg Sul of cream, and a bit of butter and flour ; give it one boil, and serve ; the last thing, add the squeeze of a lemon. To force Fowl, §-c. Is to stuff any part witli a forcemeat, and it is put usually between the skin and flesh, 2'o braise. Is to put meat into a stew-pan, covered with fat bacon: then add si.v or eight onions, a faggot of herbs, carrots if to he brown, celery, any hones, or trimmings of meat or fowls, and some stock (which yon will find 1 among sODVS and gravies). The bacon must be covered with a paper, and the hd of the pan must he • put down close. Set it on a slow stove ; and, accord- ing to what it is, it will require two or three hours. The meat is then to be taken out ; and the gravy veryrOUl-TUT. 91 nicely skimnied, and set on to boil very quick till it 13 thick. The meat is to be kept hot; and if larded put into the oven fbr a few minutes: and then put the ielly over it, which is called glazing, and is used for Ham, tongue, and many made dishes. White wine is added to some glazing. The glaze .should be of a beau- tiful clear yedow brown, and it is best to put it on wuh a nice brush. Fricassee of Chicketis. Boil rather more than half, in a small quantitv of water; let them cool; then cut up ; and put to s'im- raer in a little gravy made of the liquor they were boiled in, and a bit of veal or mutton, onion, mace and lemon-peel, some white pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbii. W hen quite tender, keep them hot while 70U thicken the sauce in the foUowing manner : strain It off, and put it back into the sauce-pan with a little salt, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of dour and butter: give it one boil ; and when you are going to serve beat up the yolk of an egg, add half a pint of cream, and stir them over the fire, but don’t let it boil. It will be quite as good without the egg. Ihe gravy may be made (without any other meat) of the necks, feet, small wing-bone.<, gizzards, and livers j which are called the trimmings of the fowls. To pull Chickens. Take off the skin: and pull the flesh off the bone of a cold fowl, in as large pieces as you can : dredge it with flour, and fry it of a nice brown in butter. Drain the butter from it ; and then simmer the flesh in a good gravy well-seasoned, and thickened with a little flour and butter. Add the juice of half a lemon. Another tony.—Cut off the legs, and the whole back, of a dressed chicken ; if under-done the better. Bull all the white part into little flakes free from skin ; toss it up with a little cream thickened with a piece of butter mixed with flour, half a blade of mace in pow-domestic cookery. 92 aJd Jdesmen in one piece, and the two legs seasoned Put the hash in the middle, with the back on it , an the two legs at the end. Chicken Currie. Out np the chickens raw, slice onions, and frj hot in^tter with great care, of a fane light brown , or if YOU use chickens that liave been dressed, fij only the Cons! Lay the joints, cut into two or three pieces each into a stew-pan ; w’ith a veal or mutton and a clove or two of garlick. Simmer till the chicken IS Cite tender. Half an hour before you serve it, rub snmoth a spoonful or whh of flour, and an ounce of butter; and add with four large spoonfuls of cream, to the stew, f vour taste. \\'ken serving, squeeze in a little lemon. ^ Slices of underdone veal, or rabbit, turkey, &c. iu&k6 exCBllcut curriG. , A dish of rice boiled dry must be served. For directions to do this, see the article ^ice m the INDEX. Another, more easily made.—Cat up a chicken or young rabbit; if chicken, take off the skin. Roll each piece in a mi.vture of a large spoonful of flou^ and half an ounce of currie-powder. i^ctwoorthr^ onions, and fry them in butter, of alight brown: then add the meat, and fry altogether till the meat begins i to brown. Put it all into a stew-pan, and pour boiling; water enough just to cover it. Simmer very gently two or three hours. If too thick, put more water r half an hour before serving. If the meat has been dressed before, a little brotur will be better than water: but the currie is richeri when made of fresh meat. To braise Chickens. Bone them, and fill them with forcemeat. Lay the. bones, and any other poultry trimmings, into a stew-'POULIBY. 93 pan, and the chickens on them. Pat to them a few onions, a faggot of herbs, three blades of mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or two of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and then white paper : cover the whole close, and put them on a slow stove tor two hours. Then take them up, strain the braise, and skim off the fat carefully ; set it on to boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chickens over with it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. Be- fore glazing, put the chickens into an oven for a few minutes, to give a little colour. Ducks roasted. ^rve with a fine gravy; and stuff one with sage and onion, a dessert-spoonful of crumbs, a bit of but- ter, and pepper and salt; let the other be unseasoned. To boil Ducks. _ Choose a fine fat duck ; salt it two days, then boil it slowly in a cloth. Serve it with onion-sauce, but melt the butter with milk instead of water. To stew Ducks. Half-roast a duck ; put it into a stew-pan with a pint of beef-gravy, a few leaves of sage and mint cut small, pepper and salt, and a small bit of onion shred as fine as possible. Simmer a quarter of an hour, and skim clean: then add near a quart of green peas. Cover close, and simmer near half an hour longer. Put in a piece of butter and a little fiour, and give it one boil; then serve in one dish. To hash Ducks. Cut a cold duck into joints ; and warm it, without boiling, in gravy, and a glass of port wine. To roast Goose. After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and94 domestic cookery. pepper and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rnmp, Ld then roast. Put it first at a distance from .he fire and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on tlie breast-bone. it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper ; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoffed by coming flatted to table. Let a good gravy be sent in the dish.—Gravy and apple-sauce : goose-berry sauce for a green goose. Tn stt.pAn Giblets. Do them as they will be directed for giblet-pie (under the head pies) ; season them witli salt and pepper, and a very small piece of mace. Before serving, ^*Ye them one boil with a cup of cream, and a piece of but- ter rubbed in a tea-spoonful of flour. Pigeons May be dressed in so many ways, that they are Yeiy useful. The good flavour of them depends very much on their been cropped and drawn as soon as killed. No other bird requires so much washing. Pigeons left from dinner the day before may be stewed or made into a pie ; in either case care must be taken not to overdo them, which will make them stringy. They need only be heated up in gravy made ready, and forcemeat-balls may be fried and added, instead of putting a stuffing into them. If for a pie, let beef- steaks be stewed in a little water, and put cold under them, and cover each pigeon with a piece of fat bacon, to keep them moist, feeasoii as usual, and put eggs. To %tew Pigeons. Take care that they are quite fresh, and carefully cropped, drawn, and washed; then soak them half an hour. In the mean time cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water ; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water ; drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stew-pan. Put the pigeonsuponitjbut first season them well with pepperPOULTRY. A5 spice and muslirooms fresh, and a little ketdiup.'^^^ ■io broil jPigeons. After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and salt them, and broil them very nicely; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butte” and serve as hot as possible. uuiter, Itoast Pigeons Should be stuffed with parsley, either cut or whole- and seasoned withiiu Serve with parsley and butter’ Peas or asparagus should be dressed to eat with them.' To pickle Pigeons. Bone them ; turn the inside out, and lard it Sea. son with a lutle allspice and salt, in fine powder • then turn them again, ami tie the neck and rump’S thread. Put them into boiling water: let them boil a mmate or two to plump: take theni out, a “d drj thi,m well ; then put them boiling hot into the pickle which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white-wine vinegar, with white pepper and ali- and two or three bav- thel n ® “P’ pigeons in. if buTtb^v T-u\ t hour wUl do them ; but they will take twenty minutes if large, llien take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When . le pickle IS cold, take the fat off from it, and put ‘ied down .nth a bladder to keep out the air, ^Instead of larding, put into some a stuffing made f'. itord yolks of eggs and marrow in equal quantiti»8, witii sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and mace.06 DOMESTIC COOKERY Pigeoni in jelly. Save some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled : or boil a calf’s or neat's foot ; pat the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, a bunch of sweet herbs, some white pepper, lemon-peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season them as you like, before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour, and clear the jelly by boiling it with the whites of two eugs ; then strain it through a thick cloth dipped in boiling water, and put into a sieve. The fat must be perfectly re- moved, before it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. The same, a beautiful dish.—Pick two very nice pigeons : and make them look as well as possible by singeing, washing, and cleaning the heads well. Leave the heads and the feet on, but the nails must be clip- ped close to the claws. Roast them of a very nice brown ; and when done, put a little sprig of myrtle into the bill of each. Have ready a savoury jelly, as before, and with it half-fill a bowl of such a size as shall be proper to turn down on the dish you mean it to be served in. When the jelly and the birds are cold, see that no gravy hang to the liirds, and then lay them upside down in the jeily. Before the rest of it begin to set, pour it over the birds, so as to be three inches above the feet. This should be done full twenty-four hours before serving. This dish has a very handsome appearance in the middle range of a second course ; or when served with the jelly roughed large, it makes a side or corner thing, its size being then less. The head sliould be kept up aa if alive, by tying the neck with some thread, and the legs bent as if the pigeon sat upon them. To pot Pigeons. Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper: lay them close iivroULTUY. 97 R small deep pan ; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be wanted. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper tied down, .and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each ; and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c. and then they will eat excellently. If a high flavour is ap- proved of, add mace, allspice, and a little Cayenne, before baking. Larks, and other small birds. Draw, and spit tliem on a bird-epit ; tie this on ano ther spit, and roast them. Baste gently with butter, and strew bread-crumbs upon them till lialf-done ; brown and serve with fried crumbs round. GAME, ETC. To keep Game, ^c. Game ought not to be tin-own away even when it has been kept a very long time; for when it seems to be spoiled it may often be made fit for eating, by nicely cleaning it, and washing with vinegar and water. If there is danger of birds not keeping, draw, crop, and pick them ; then wash in two or three waters, and rub them witli salt. Have ready a large sauce-pan of boiling water, and plunge them into it one by one ; drawing them up and down by the legs, that the water may pass through them. Let them stay five or six minutes in ; then hang them up in a cold place. When drained, pepper and salt the insidesf well. Be- fore roasting, wash them well. The most delicate birds, feven grouse), may be pre- served thus. Those that live by suction cannot be done this way, as they are never drawn ; and perhaps 70 1198 DOMESTIC COOKERY. the heat might make them worse, as the water could not pass through them ; but they bear being high. Lumps of charcoal put about birds and meat will preserve them from taint, and restore wlrat is spoiling. Pheasants and Partridcjes. Koast them as turkey: and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a very small bit of garlick), and bread- sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. For the manner of trussing a pheasant or partridge, see plates 4. & To pot Partridge, Clean them nicely ; and season with rnace, allspice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well ; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them j then cover the pan with a coarse flour-paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover them with butter. A very cheap way of potting Birds. Prepare them as directed in the last receipt; and when baked and grown cold, cut them into proper pieces for helping, pack them close into a large pot- ting-pot, and (if possible) leave no space to receive the butter. Cover them with butter, and one-third part less mil be wanted than when the birds are done whole.—The butter that has covered potted things will serve for basting, or for paste for meat pies. To clarify Butter for potted Things. Put it into a sauce-boat, and set that over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things: they will sink to the bottom. To pot Moor Game. Pick, singe, and wash the birds nicely: tltendry99 GAME. them ; and seascm, inside and out, pretty high, with pepper, mace, nutmog, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a very slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot, which should just tit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oiL The best way to melt it is by warming it in a basin set in a bowl of hot water. Grouse. Roast them like fowls, but the head is to be twisted under the wing. They must not be over-done. Serve with a rich gravy in the dish, and bread-sauce. The sauce for wild fowl, as will be described hereafter under the head of sauces, may be used instead of common gravy. To roast Wild Fowl. The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter, into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame; they should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the di-sh ; and when the breast is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, with pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the ^vour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the drip- ping-pan, and baste them for the first ten minutes with this ; then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter. Wild Ducks, Teal, Widgeon, Dun-birds, ^e. Should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up; put a good gravy under them, and serve witii shalot-sauce in a boat.100 domestic cookery. Woodcocks, Snipes, and Quails, Keep eood several days. Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most, h or the manner oi trussing a woodcock or snipe, see plate 6. Rujjfi and Reeves Are skewered as quails ; put bars of bacon over them, and roast them about ten minutes. Serve with a good gravy in the dish. To dress Plovers. Roast the green ones in the same way as woodcocks and Quails (see above), without drawing ; and serve on a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with gravy, herbs, and spice. Plovers' £ggs are a nice and fashionable disii. Boil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. To roast Ortolans. Pick and singe, but do not draw them. Tie on a bird-spit, and roast them. Some persons like bacon in slices tied between them, but the taste of it spoils the flavour of the ortolan. Cover them with crumbs of bread. Guinea and Pea-Fowl Eat much like pheasants. Dress them in the same way, see page Hares, If properly taken care of, will keep a^reat time: and even when the cook fancies them past eating, may be in the highest perfection ; which if eaten when fresh killed they are not. As they are usually paunched in the field, the cook cannot prevent this ; but the hare keeps longer, and eats much better, if not opened for four or five days, or according to the weather. If paunched, as soon as a hare comes in it shouldGAME, &C. 101 be wiped quite dry, tlie heart and liver taken out, and the liver scalded to keep for the stufRng. Eepeat this wiping every day ; mix pepper and ginger, and rub on the inside ; and put a large piece of charcoal into it. Apply the spice early to prevent that musty taste which long keeping in the damp occasions, and which also affects the stuffing. An old hare should be kept as long as possible ; if to be roasted. It must also be well soaked. I'o roast Hare. After it is skinned, let it be extremely-well washed, and then soaked an hour or two in water ; and if old, lard it; which will make it tender, as also will letting it lie in vinegar. If, however, it is put into vinegar it should be exceedingly well washed in water aflen wards. Put a large relishing stuffing into the belly, and then sew it up. Baste it well with milk till half done, and afterwards with butter. If the blood has settled in the neck, soaking the part in warm water, and patting it to the fire warm, will remove it ; espe- cially if you also nick the skin here and there with .a small knife, to let it out. The hare should be kept at a distance from the fire at first. Serve with a fine froth, rich gravy, melted butter, and currant-jelly sauce ; the gravy in the dish. For stuffing, use the liver, an anchovy, some fat bacon, a little suet, herbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, a little onion, crumbs of bread, and an egg to bind it all. The ears must be nicely cleaned and singed. They are reckoned a dainty For the manner of tru.ssing a hare, see plate 4. To jug an old Hare. After cleaning and skinning, cut it up ; and season it with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace, and a little nutmeg, rut it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, and the carcase-bones over all. Tie the jar down with a bladder, and leather, or strong paper : and put it intoDOMESTIC COOKERY. i02 B sauce-pan of water up to the neck, but no hijther. Keep the water boiling five hours. When it is to be seired, boil the gravy up with a piece of butter and flour ; and if the meat gets cold, warm it in this, but not to boiL Broiled and hashed Hare. The flavour of broiled hare is particularly fine, the legs or wings must be seasoned first; rub with cold butter, and serve very hot.—^The other parts warmed with g^ravy and a little stuffing, may be served sepa- rately. To pot Hare, For which an old one does well, as likewise for soup and pie.—After seasoning it, bake it with butter. W'hen cold, take the meat from the bones, and beat it in a mortar. If not high enough add salty mace, pep- per, and a piece of the finest fresh butter melted in a spoonful or two of the gravy that came from the hare. When well mixed put it into small pots, and cover with butter. The legs and back should be baked at the bottom of the jar, to keep them moisi, and the bones be put over them. Rabbits Mot be eaten various ways, as follows : .Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare: or with- out stuffing ; with sauce of the liver and parsley chop- ped in melted butter, pepper, and salt; or larded. For the manner of trussing a rabbit for either roasting or boiling, see plate 4. Boiled, and smothered with onion sauce ; the but- ter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver-sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed (in page 91) for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In tliia wav they are excellent when young. Totted.103 GENERAL DIRECTIONS. To make a Rabbit taste much like Hare. Choose one that is young, but full-grown ; hang it in the skin tliree or four days ; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quantity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for 40 hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, and with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it was snaked in. To pot Rabbits. Cut up two or three young^but full-grown onee, and take the leg-bones off at t^e thigh ; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, Cayenne, salt and allspice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the meat about tlie neck. Put a good deal of butter, and b;ike the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, tlien sliift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also sliould be added, as they eat well. To blanch Rabbit, Fowl, !^c. Is to set it on the fire in a small quantity of cold water, and let it boil; as soon as it boils it is to be taken out, and put into cold water for a few minutes. PART IV. SOUPS AND GRAVIES. General Directions respecting Soups and Gravies. When there is any fear of gravy-meat being spoilt before it be wanted, season well and fry it lightly, which will preserve it two days longer ; but the gravy is best when the juices are f esli.1C4 DOMESTIC CUOKEUY. When soups or gravies are to be put by, let them ba changed every day into fresh scalded pans. What- ever has vegetables boiled in it is apt to turn sour sooner than the juices of meat. Never keep any gravy, &c. in metal. When fat remains on any soup, a tea cupful of 6out and water mixed quite smooth, and boiled in, will take it off. If richness or greater consistency be wanted, a good lump of butter mixed with hour, and boiled in the soup, will give eitiier of these qualities. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients, therefore time should be allowed for soups and gravies ; and they are best if made tlie day before they are wanted. Soups and gravies are far better when the meat is put at the bottom of the pan and stewed, and the herbs, roots, &c. with butter, than when water is put to the meat at first ; and the gravy that is drawn from the meat should be almost dried up before the water is put to it. Do not use the sediment of gravies, &c. that have stood to be cold. When onions are strong boil a turnip with them, if for sauce ; this will make them mild. If soups or gravies are too weak, do not cover them in boiling, that the watery particles may evaporate. A clear jelly of Coio-heels is very useful to keep in the house, being a great improvement to soups and gravies. Triifflea and morels thicken soups and sauces, and give them a fine flavour. Wash half an ounce of each carefully, then simmer them a few minutes in w’ater, and add them with the liquor, to boil in the sauce, till tender. SOL PS, &c. Scotch Mutton Broth, Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with two quarts105 SOUPS. of water. As soon as it boils skim it well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (two bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as manj as you think proper : skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every quarter of an hour afterwards. Have ready four or five carrots, the same number of turnips, and three onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender ; add four large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew three hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. Twenty minutes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an excellent wiuter-dislu Veal Broth. Stew a small knuckle in about three quarts of water, two ounces of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. Colouring for Soups and Gravies. Put four ounces of lump sugar, a gill of water, and half an ounce of the finest butter into a small tosser, and set it over a gentle fire. Stir it with a wooden spoon, till of a bright brown. Then add half a pint of water ; boil, skim, and when cold, bottle and cork it close. Add to soup or gravy as much of this as will give a proper colour. Julienne Soup. Take some carrots and turnips, and turn them riband- like ; a few heads of celery, some leeks and onions, and cut them in lozenges, boil them till they are cooked, then put them into clear gravy soup. Brown thick- ening.—iV. B. You may, m summer time, add green peas, asparagus tops, h'rench beans, some lettuce or sorreL A clear brown Stock Jor Gravy-soup or Gravy, Put a knuckle of veal, a pound of lean beef, and a pound of the lean of a gammon of bacon, all sliced.DOMESTIC COOKERY. JOG into a stew-pan with two or three scraped carrots, two onions, two turnips, two heads of celery sliced, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat quite tender, but do not let it brown. When thus prepared it will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy ; if for brown gravy put some of the above colouring, and boil a few minutes. An excellent Soup. Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water ; simmer till very strong, and lower it with a good beef-broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, and almonds, as will be directed in the next receipt, and a rolL An excellent white Soup. Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after cutting off as much meat as will make collops, two or three shank-bones of mutton nicely cleaned, and a quarter of a pound of very fine undrest lean gammon of bacon, with a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of fresh lemon-peel, two or three onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper ; boil all in three quarts of water, till the meat falls quite to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a sauce-pan of the nicest tin. If macaroni is used, it should be added soon enough to get perfectly tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermicelli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the thickening, which is to be made as follows:—Blanch a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste in a marble mortar, with a spoonful of water to prevent their oiling ; mince a large slice of drest veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread ; add all this to a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder.107 SOUP. it a few minutes ; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : this thick* ening IS then fit for putting to the rest, which should boil for half an hour afterwards. A plainer white Soup. Two or three pints of soup may be made of a small Knuckle of veal, with seasoning as directed in the last article ; and both served together, with the addition or a quarter of a pint of good milk. Two spoonfuls of cream, and a little ground rice, will give it a proper thickness. ^ Giblet Soup. Scald and clean three or four sets of goose or duck giblets ; set them to stew, with a pound or two of gravy-beef, scrag of mutton, or the bone of a knuckle of veal; an ox-tail, or some shanks of mutton ; with three onions, a large bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoon- ful of white pepper, and a large spoonful of salt. Put nve pints of ivater, and simmer till the gizzards (which must be each in four pieces) are quite tender: skim nicely and add a quarter of a pint of cream, two tea* spoonsful of mushroom powder, and an ounce of but- ter mixed with a dessert-spoonful of flour. Let it boil a few minutes, and serve with the giblets. It may be seasoned, instead of cream, with two glasses of sherry or Madeira, a large spoonful of ketchup, and some Cayenne. When in the tureen, add salt. Partridge Soup. Take two old partridges ; skin them ; and cut them into pieces, with three or four slices of ham, a stick of celery, and three large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in butter till brown, but take care not to burn them. ^ Then put them into a stew-pan, with five pints of boiling water, a few pepper-corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Stew it gently two hours ; then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a108 domestic cookeRt. Btew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread ) when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. Macaroni Soup. Boil a pound of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till quite tender ; then take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add some more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the maca- roni through a fine sieve. Tlien add together that, the two liquors, a pint or more of cream boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; make it hot, but do not let it boil. Serve it with the crust of a French roll cut into the size of a shilling. A Pepper-pot, to he served in a Tureen. To tliree quarts of water put vegetables according to the season; in summer, peas, lettuce, and spinach ; in winter, carrots, turnips, celery, and onions in both. Cut small, and stew with two pounds of neck of mut- ton, or a fowl, and a pound of pickled pork, in three quarts of water, till quite tender. On first boiling, skim. Half an hour before serving, add a lobster or crab, cleared from the shell. Season with salt and Cayenne. A small quantity of rice should be put in with the meat. Some people choose very small suet dumplings boiled with it. Should any fat rise, skim nicely, and put half a cup of water with a little flour. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a due proportion of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. Turnip Soup. Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, See. and set the remainder on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water ; cover it close; and let it do on a slow fire, four or five hours at least. Strain it,sonp. 103 itndset it by till next day ; then take the fat and eedi- meiit from it, and simmer it witli turnips cut into small dice till tender, seasoning it with salt and pepper. Be- fore serving, rub down half a spoonful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of butter. Let a small roll simmer in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick us middling cream. Old-peas Soup, Save the water of boiled pork or beef; and if too salt, put as much fresh water to it; or use fresh water entirely, with roast beef bones, a ham or gammon-bone, or an anchovy or two. Simmer these with some good whole or split peas j the smaller the quantity of water at first, the better. Simmer till the peas will pulp through a cullender ; then set the pulp, and more of tlie liquor that boiled the peas, with two carrots, a tur- nip, a l^k, and a stick of celery cut into bits, to stew till all is quite tender. The last requires less time ; an hour wul do for it. When ready put fried bread cut into dice, dried mint rubbed fine, pepper, and (if wanted) salt into the tureen, and pour the soup in. Oreen~peas Soup. In shelling the peas, divide the old from the young ; put the old ones, with an ounce of butter, a pint of water, the outside leaves of a lettuce or two, two onions, pepper, and salt, to stew till you can pulp the peas ; and when you have done so, put to the liquor that stewed them some more water, the hearts and tender stalks of the lettuces, the young peas, a handful of spinach cut small, and salt and pepper to relish pro- perly, and stew till quite soft. If the soup is too thin, or not rich enough, either of these faults nay be re- moved by adding an ounce or two of butter, mixed with a spoonful of rice or wheat-flour, and boiled with it half an hour. Before serving, boil some green mint shred fine in the soup.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 110 When there is plenty of vegetables, no meal is necessary ; but if meat be preferred, a pig’s foot, or ham-bone, &c. may be boiled with the old peas, which is called the stock. More butter than is mentioned above may be used with advantage, if the soup is re- quired to be very rich. When peas first come in, or are very young, the stock may be made of the shells washed, and boiled till they will pulp with the above: more thickening will then be wanted. Grm’y Soup. Wash and soak a leg of beef ; break the bone, and set it on the fire with a gallon of water, a large bunch of sweet heri)s, two large onions sliced and fried &Jitie brown (but not burnt), two blades of mace, three cloves, twenty berries of allspice, and forty black peppers. Stew till tlie soup is as rich as you choose ; then take out the meat, which will be fit for the servants’ table with a little of tlie gravy. Next day take oflf the cake of fat; whicli will serve for basting, or for common pie-crust. Have ready such vegetables as you choose to serve. Cut carrots, turnips, and celery, small, and simmer till tender : some people do not like them to be sent to table, only the flavour of them. Boil vermi- celli a quarter of an hour ; and add to it a large spoon- ful of soy, and one of muiiroom-ketchup. A French roll should be made hot, put into a soup till moist through, and served in the tureen. Vegetable Soup. Pare and slice five or six cucumbers ; and add to these the inside of as many cos-lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with half a pound of fresh butter, into a sauce-pan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour ; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew mem two hours ;Ill SOUP. I fob down a little flour into a tea-cupful of water, boi I : it with the rest fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve it. 4 Aiwthertuay.—Peel and slice six large onions, six potatoes, six carrots, and four turnips ; fry them in half a pound of butter, and pour on them four (Quarts of boiling water. Toast a crust of bread as brown and hard as possible, but do not burn it; put that, soma celery, swee t herbs, white pepper, and salt to the above ; stew it all gently four hours, then strain it through a coarse cloth : have ready sliced carrot, celery, and a little ttunip, and add to your liking, and stew them tender in the soup. If approved you may add an an- chovy, and a spoonful of ketchup. Carrot Soup. Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper, and salt into a saucepan, ana stew for three hours. Have ready six large car- rots, scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair-sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup tne day before it is to be used. Add Cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. Onion Soup. Into the water that lias boiled a leg or neck of mut- ton put carrots, turnips, and (if you have one) a shank- bone, and simmer two hours. Strain it on six onions, first sliced and fried of a light brown, simmer three hours, skim it carefully, and serve. Put into it a little roll, or fried bread. Spinach Soup. Shred two handfuls of spinach, a turnip, two onions, ahead of celery, two carrots, and a little thyme and parsley. Put all into a stew-pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water112 DOMESTIC COOKERY. in which meat luis been boiled ; stew till tile vegelahlea are quite tender, work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor put a quart of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some suet- dumplings, the size of a walnut ; and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them into it. The suet must not be shred too fine ; and take care tliat it is quite fresb. Scotch-leeh Soup, Put the-water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pe)>- per and salt; simmer them an hour ; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently ; but take care that it doss not burn to the bottom. Hare Soup. Take an old hare that is good for nothing else, cut it into pieces, and put to it a pound and a half of lean beef, two or three shank-bones of mutton well cleaned, a slice of lean bacon or ham, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs ; pour on it two quarts of boiling water ; cover the jar into which you put these, witlx bladder and paper, and set it in a kettle of water. Simmer till the hare is stewed to pieces ; strain oS' the liquor and give it one boil, with an anchovy cut into pieces ; and add a spoonful of soy, a little' Cayenne, and salt. A few fine forcenieat-balls, fried of a good brown, should be served in the tnreen. Ox-rump Soup. Two or three rumps of beef will make it stronger than a much larger quantity of meat without these • and form a very nourishing soup. Make it like gravy soup, and give it what flavonr or thickening you like.SOUP. na Hessian Soup and Ragout. tongue very nicely, and half an ox a head, with salt and water, and soak them afterwards in water only. Then stew them in five or SIX quarts of water, till tolerably tender. Let the soup to be cold ; take off the fat, which will make pod paste for hot meat pies, or will do to baste. Put nnl, ^ 1'^*‘t of whole ones, twelve carrots, six turnips, si.\ potatoes, six large onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, and two heads of celery. Spmer them without the meat till the vegetables are fnd through a sieve, and the soup will then be about the thickness of cream, beason it with pepper, salt, mace, allspice, a clove or two, and a little Caynne, all in fine powder. If the peas are bad the soup may not be thick enough, then boil in It a slice of roll, and put it through the cullen- der, or add a little rice-flour, mixing it by degrees. i-or the Ragout cut the nicest part of the head, the kernels, and part of the fat of the root of the tongue into small thick pieces. Rub these with some of the above seasoning as you put them into a quart of the hquor, kept out for that purpose before the vegetables t and simmer them till nicely tpder. Then put a little mushroom and walnut-ket- chup, a little soy, a glass of port wine, and a tea-spoon- ful of made mustard, and boil all up together before Ss^^^' company, small eggs and forcemeat- This way furnishes an excellent soup and ragout at a -small expense, and they are not common. ThI other part will warm for the family. Soup a-la-sap. Boil half a pound of grated potatoes, a pound of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and three ounces of rice in ^lx pints of water to five, strain it though a cullender, then pulp the peas to it, and turn It into a sauce-pan again with two heads of celerydomestic coouery. ]J4 domestic cookery. diced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and when you serve,add also fried bread. Portable Soup. Boll one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shim of beef, and three pounds of beef in as much water only as wUl cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort of spice you like, and three *ar^ onions. When the meat is done to rags strain it oil, and put it into a very cold place. W hen cold, take off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants pies), put the soup into a double-bottomed tin sauc^ pan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it burn. It must boil fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly for eight hours. Put it into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day, then pour it into a round soup cliina-dish, and set the dish into a stew-pan of boihng water on a stove, and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy, then it is enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basons turned ujiside-down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used melt them in boiling water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or anything else, boil it first, strain off tho water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the country or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by this means a bason of soup may be made in five minutes. Soup Maiyre. Melt half a pound of butter in a stew-pan, shake it round, and throw in six middling onions sliced. Shake the pan well for two or three minutes, then put to it five heads of celery, two handfuls of spinach, two cabbage-lettuces cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for ten minutes, then put in two quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, three or four blades of mace, and if you havesoupc. 1J3 any white beet-leaves add alar^fe spoonful of them cut BcnalL Boil gently an hour. Just before serving beat in two yolks of eggs and a large spoonful of vinegar. Anoth^.—i^OMi and fry a quart of green peas, four onions sliced, the coarse stalks of celery, a carrot, a turnip, and a parsnip, then pour on them three quarts of water. Let it simmer till the whole will pulp through a sieve, then boil in it the best of the celery cut thin. Stock for brown or white Fish Soups. Take a pound of skate, four or five flounders, and two pounds of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces : cover them with water; and season them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley-roots sliced, and a bunch of swoet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do iis above. It will not keep more than two or three days. JEel Soup. Take three pounds of small eels ; put to them two qnartsof water, a crust of bread, three blades of mace, some whole pepper, an onion, and a bunch of sweet herbs; cover them close, and stew till the fish is quite broken ; then strain it off. Toast some bread, cut it into dice, and pour the soup on it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put in at first. This soup will be as rich as if made of meat. A quarter of a pint of rich cream, with a tea-spoonful of flour rubbed smooth in it, i.-> a great improvement. Skate Soup. Make it of the stock for fish-soup (as directed in the last page), with an ounce of vermicelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add half a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two esgs. Stir it near, but not on, the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch-oven, and then soaked in the soup nn hour.DOMKSTiC COOKERY. 136 Excellent Lobster Soup. Take the meat from the claws, bodies, and tails, of six small lobsters: take away the brown fur, and the bag in the head ; beat the fins, chine, and small claws, in a mortar. Boil it very gently iji two quarts of water, with the crumb of a French roll, some white pepper, salt, two anchovies, a large onion, sweet herbs, and a bit of lemon-peel, till you have extracted the goodness of them all. Strain it off. Beat the spawn in a mortar, with a bit of butter, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a tea- spoonful of flour ; mix it with a quart of cream. Cut the tails into pieces, and give them a boil up with the cream and soup. Serve with forcemeat-balls made of the remainder of the lobster, mace, pepper, salt, a few crumbs, and an egg or two. Let the balls be made up with a little flour, and heated in the soup. Crauyjish or Prawn Soup. Boil six whitings, and a large eel, (or the eel and half a thornback, well cleaned), with as much water as will cover them ; skim them clean, and put in whole pep>- per, mace, ginger, parsley, an onion, a little thyme, and three cloves. Boil to a mash. Pick fifty craw-fish, or a hundred prawns ; pound the shells, and a little roll; but first boil them with a little water, vinegar, salt, and herbs; put this liquor over the shells in a sieve ; then pour the other soup, clear from the sedi- ment. Chop a lobster, and add this to it, with a quart of good beef gravy: add also the tails of the craw-fish or the prawns, and some flour and butter ; and season as may be liked, if iiot high enougli. Oyster Soup. Take two quarts of fish stock, as directed in page 115 ; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of oy.sters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour ; then strain it off, and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five min-117 ORAVIBS. MtC3: have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soap. Stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, bat don’t Vet it boil. Serve all together. Oyster-Mouth Soup. Make a rich mutton broth, with two large onions, three blades ol'mace, and black pepper. When strained pour it on a hundred and fifty oysters, without the beards, and a bit of butter rolled in flour. Simmer gently a quarter of an hour, and serve. GRAVIES. General Directions respecting Gravies. Gravy may be made quite as good of the skirts of beef, and the kidney, as of any other meat, prepared in the same way. An ox-kidney, or milt, makes good gravy, cut all to pieces, and prepared as other meat ; and so will the shank end of mutton that has been dressed, if much be not wanted. t The shank-bones of mutton are a great improvement to the richness of gravy ; but first soak them well, and scour them clean. Parragon gives the flavour of French cookery, and in high gravies is a great improvement ; but it should be added only a short time before serving. To draw Gravy that will keep a week. Cut lean beef thin, put it into a frying-pan without any butter, and set it on a fire covered, but take care it does not bum: let it stay till all the gravy tliat comes out of the meat is dried up into it again ; put as much water as will cover the meat, and let that stew away. Then put to the meat a small quantity of water, herbs, onions, spice, and a bit of lean ham ; simmer till it is rich, and keep it in a cool place. Don’t take cff the fat till going to be used.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 118 Clear Oravy. Slice beef thin ; broil a part of it over a very clear quick fire, just enough to give colour to the gravy, but not to dress it: put that and the raw into a very nicely tinned stew-pan, with two onions, a clove or two, whole black peppers, berries of allspice, and a bunch of sweet herbs: cover it with hot water, give it one boil, and skim it well two or three times ; then cover it, and simmer till quite strong. Cullis, or brown Oravy. Lay over the bottom of a stew-pan as much lean veal as will cover it an inch thick; then cover the vetiJ with thin slices of undressed gammon, two or three onions, two or three bay-leaves, some sweet herbs, two blades of mace, and three cloves. Cover the stew-pan, and set it over a slow fire ; but when the juices come out, let the fire be a little quicker. When the meat is of a fine brown, fill the pan with good beef broth, boil and skim it, then simmer an hour ; add a little water, mixed with as much fiour as will make it properly thick: boil it lialf an hour, and strain it. This will keep a week. Bechamel, or ichite Sauce. Cut lean veal into small shces, and the same quantity of lean bacon or ham ; put them into a stew-pan with a good piece of butter, an onion, a blade of mace, a few mushroom-buttons, a bit of thyme, and a bay-leaf ; fry the whole over a very slow fire, but not to brown it ; thicken it with flour ; then put an equal quantity of good broth, and rich cream ; let it boil half an hour, and stir it all the time ; strain it through a soup- strainer. A Gravy, without Meat. Put a glass of small beer, a glass of water, some pep- per, salt, lemon-peel grated, a bruised clove or two, and a spoonful of walnut-pickle, or mushroom-ket- chup, into a basin. liUce an onion, flour and fry itOa.VVlE8. lid I in a piece of butter till it is brown. Tlien tarn all the j above into a small tosser with the onion, and simmer «it covered twenty minutes. Strain it off for use, and when cold take off the fat. A rich Gravy. Cut beef into thin slices, according to the quantity I wanted ; slice onions thin, and Hour both ; ^y them ' of a light pale brown, but don’t, on any account, sufi'er I them to get black: put them into a stew-pan, pour boiling water on the browning in the frying-pan, boil I it up, and pour on the meat. Put to it a bunch of ( parsley, thyme, and savoury, a small bit of knotted marjoram, the same of tarragon, some mace, berries of allspice, whole black peppers, a clove or two, and a bit of ham, or gammon of bacon. Simmer till you have extracted all the juices of the meat ; and be sure to skim the moment it boils, and often after. If for a hare, or stewed fish, anchovy should be added. Gravy for a Foiol token there it no meat to make ' it of. Wash the feet nicely, and cut them and the neck small ; simmer them with a little bread browned, a slice of onion, a bit of parsley and thyme, some pepper and salt, and the liver and gizzards, in a qurater of a pint of water, till half wasted. Take out the liver, bruise it, and strain the liquor to it. Tlien thicken it with flour and butter, and add a tea-spoonful of mush- room ketchup, and it will be very good. Veal Gravy. Make it as directed for Cullis, page 118 ; but leave out the spice, herbs and flour. It should be drawn very slowly ; and if for white dishes, don’t let the meat brown. Gravy to malte Mutton eat like Venison. Pick a very stale woodcock, or snipe, cut it to pieces (but first take out the bag from the entraiks), and sim-DOMESTIC COOKEUT. 120 mer with as much unseasoned meat gravy as you will (vant. Strain it, and serve in the dish. Stro7ig Gravy. Skin two or three eels, or some flounders ; gut and wash them very clean ; cut them into small pieces, and put into a sauce-pan. Cover them with water, and add a little crust of bread toasted brown, two blades of mace, some whole pepper, sweet herbs, a piece of lemon-peel, an anchovy or two, and a tea- spoonful or two of horse-radish. Cover close, and sim- mer ; add a bit of butter and flour, and boil with the above. Savoury Jelly, to put over cold Pies. Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton ; or, if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks, and \eads, added to any piece of meat, will be suSicient, »bserving to give consistency by cow-heel or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice"of lean ham or bacon, a faggot of different herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon-peel, and a tea- spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then, to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting-paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two (blit don t add the sediment), and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. Jelly, to cover cold Fish. Clean a maid, and put it into three quarts of water, with a calf s foot or cow’-heel, a stick of horse-radish, an onion, three blades of mace, some white pepper, a piece of lemon-peel, and a good slice of lean gammon.121 SAUCES. ». tew until it will jelly ; strain it off ; when cold, re- moi’e every bit of fat; take it np from the sediment, and boil it with a glass of sherry, the whites of four or five eggs, and a piece of lemon. Boil without stirring; and after a few minutes set it by to stand half an hour, and strain it through a bag or sieve, with a cloth in it. Cover the fish with it when cold. PART V. SAUCES, &c. A very good Sauce, especially to hide the bad colour of Folds. Cut the livers, slices of lemon in dice, scalded pars- ley and hard eggs : add salt, and mix them with but- ter, boil them np, and pour over the fowls. Tliis will do for roast rabbit. White Sauce, for Fricassee of Fcnols, Rabbits, White Meat, Fish, or Vegetables. It is seldom necessary to buy meat for this favourite sauce, as the proportion of that flavour is but small. The water that has boiled fowls, veal, or rabbit; or a little broth, that may be in the house ; or the feet and necks of chickens, or raw or dressed veal, will suf- fice. Stew with a little water any of these, with a bit of lemon-peel, some sliced onion, some white pep- per-corns, a little pounded mace, or nutmeg, and a bunch of sweet herbs, until the flavour be good, then strain it and add a little good cream, a piece of butter, and a flour: salt to your taste. A squeeze of lemon may be added after the sauce is taken off the fire, shaking it welL Yolk of egg is often used in fricassee, but if you have any cream it is better ; as the former is apt to curdle.122 domestic cookery. Sauce for Wild Fowl. Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same qnan- titv of Rood meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepi^r, salt, a grate of nutmeg, and a hit of mace, for t®" minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so it Another for the name, or for Fticks. Serve a rich gravy in the dish : cut the breast into slices, but don’t take them off ; cut a lemon, and put pepper and salt on it ; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. An excellent Sauce for Carp, or boiled Turkey. Rub half a pound of butter with a tea-spoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed: set it over the fire ; ana as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, put a little more. Turn it into the sauce-tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon: stir well to hinder it from curdling. Sauce for Foiol of any sort. Boil some veal uravy, pepper, salt, the juice of a Seville orange and'a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine, as of gravy: pour it into the dish or a boat. Sauce for cold Fowl or Partridge. Rub down in a mortar the yolks of two eggs boiled hard, an anchovy, two dessert-spoonsful of oil, three of vinegar, a shalot, Cayenne if approved, and a tea- spoonful of mustard. All should be pounded before the oil is added. Then strain it. Shalot-vinegar in- stead of shalot, eats well. , Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel. Put a piece of butter into a sauce-pan with some hashed parsley,soine tarragon leaves, one or two leavesi23 SAUCES. ol balm, with salt, lemon, or a glass of verjuice ; mix tlse whole with a wooden spoon, until they are well incorporated. A verrjfine Mtishroom Sauce, far Fowls or Babbits. \\ ash and pick a pint of young mushrooms, and rub them with salt, to take oif the tender skin. Put them into a sauce-pan w*ith a little salt, some nutmeg, a blade of mace, a pint of cream, and a good piece of butter rubbed in flour. Boil them up, and stir them till done ; then pour it round the chickens, &c. Garn- ish with lemon.—If you cannot get fresh mushrooms, use pickled ones done white, with a little mushroom powder with the cream, &c. Lemon xchite Sauce for boiled Foiols. Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, witha sprig of lemon-thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gently, till it taste well of the lemon : then strain it ; and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert- spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up ; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them toge- ther, and salt to your taste. Liver Sauce. Chop boiled liver of rabbits or fowls, and do it as directed for lemon sauce, page 126, with a very little pepper and salt, and some parsley. Bgg-Sauce. Boil the eggs hard and cut them into small pieces ; then put them to melted butter. Onion-Sauce. Peel the onions, and boil them tender: squeeze the water from them, then chop them, and add them to bntter that has been melted rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk in-124 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Stead of water ; boil it up once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, partridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turnip boiled with the o-nions makes them milder. Clear Skalot Sauce- Put a few chopped shalots into a little gravy boileil clear, and near half as much vinegar ; season with pepper and salt: boil half an hour. To make Parsley-Sauce when no Parsley-leaves are to be had. Tie up a little parsley-seed in a bit of clean muslin, and boil it ten minutes in some water. Use this wa- ter to melt the butter ; and throw into it a little boiled spinach minced, to look like parsley. Green Sauce, for green Geese, or Ducklings. Mix a quarter of a pint of sorrel-juice, a glass of white wine, and some scalded gooseberries. Add sugar, and a bit of butter. Boil them up. Bread Sauce. Boil a large onion, cut into four, with some black peppers and milk, till the onion is quite a pap. Pour the milk strained on grated white stale bread, and cover it. In an hour put it into a sauce-pan, with a good piece of butter mixed with a Uttle Hour ; boil the whole up together, and serve. Dutch Sauce, for Meat or p'ish. Put six spoonfuls of water, and four of vinegar, into a saucepan warm, and thicken it with the yolks of two eggs. Make it quite hot, but do not boil it: squeeze in the juice of half a lemon, and strain it through a sieve. Sauce Robart, for Rumps or Stealis. Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a saucepan, set it over the fire, and when browning throw in a handful of sliced onions, cut small ; fry themSAUCRS. rifi brown, but don’t let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry : then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pep- per and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes ; skim off tbe fat; add a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and juice of half a lemon ; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a tine yellow brown, aud garnished with fried pars- ley and lemon. Benton Sauce, for hot or cold roast Beef. Grate, or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a lit- tle made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. Sauce for Fish Pies, where Cream is not ordered. Take equal quantities of white wine, not sweet vin- egar, oyster-liquor, and mushroom ketchup ; boil them up with an anchovy ; strain: and pour it through a funnel into the pie after it is baked. Another.—Chop an anchovy small, and boil it with three spoonfnlsof gravy, a quarter of a pint of cream, and a bit of '^butter and flour. To7nato Sauce, for hot or cold Meats. Put tomatos, when perfectly ripe, into an earthen jar ; and set it in an oven, when the bread is drawn, till they are quite soft; then separate the skins from the pulp ; and mix this with capsicum-vinegar, and a few cloves of garlick pounded, which must both be jiroportioned to the quantity of fruit. Add powdered ginger and salt to your taste. Some wliite-wine vine- gar and Cayenne may be used instead of capsicum- vinegar. Keep the mixture in small wide-mouthed bottles, well corked, and in a dry cool place. Apple Sauce, for Goose and roast Pork. Pare, core, and slice, some apples ; and put them . in a stone jar, into a saucepan of water, or on a hot Ixearth. If on a hearth, let a spoonful or two of wa-DOMESTIC COOKERY. ter be put in to hinder tliem from burning. Whei they are done, bruise them to a n>ash, and put to them a bit of butter the size of a nutmeg, and a little brown sugar. Serve it in a sauce-tureen. The old Currant Sauce for Venison, Boil an ounce of dried currants in half a pint of water, a few minutes ; then add a small tea-cupful of bread-crumbs, six cloves, a glass of port wine, and a bit of butter. Stir it till the whole is smooth. Lemon Sauce. Cut thin slices of lemon into a very small dice, and put them into melted butter ; give it one boil, and pour it over boiled fowls. Carrier-sauce for Mutton. Chop six shalots fine ; and boil them up with a gill of gravy, a spoonful of vinegar, some pepper and Salt. Serve in a boat. Ham Sauce. When a ham is almost done with, pick all the meat lean from the bone, leaving out any rusty part ; beat the meat and the bone to a mash with a rolling- pin ; put it into a saucepan, with three spoonfuls of gravy ; set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time, or it will stick to the bottom. When it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of beef-gravy ; cover it up, and let it stew over a gentle fire. When it has a good flavour of the herbs, strain off the gravy. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. A very fine Fish Sauce. Put into a very nice tin sauce-pan a pint of fine port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine wal- nut ketchup, twelve anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some Ca-SAUCES. I‘i7 j-eime to Uste, three ounces of scraped horse-radish three blades of mace, and two tea-spoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it all eently till the rawness goes off ■ then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them’ very close, and seal the top. Anulher.—Cho^ twenty-four anchovies not washed, and ten shalots, and scrape three spoonsful of horse- radish ; "which, wdth ten blades of mace, twelve cloves two sliced lemons, half a pint of anchovy-liquor a quart of hock, or Rhenish wine, and a pint of water l»il to a quart ; then strain off, and when cold, add three large spoonfuls of walnut ketchup, and put into small bottles well corked. Fish Sauce without Butter. Simmer very gently a quarter of a pint of vinegar and half a pint of water, (which must not be hard) with an onion, half a handful of horse-radish, and the following spices lightly bruised ; four cloves, two blades of mace, and half a tea-spoonful of black pep- per. When the onion is quite tender, chop it small with two anchovies, and set the whole on the fire to boil for a few minutes, with a spoonftil of ketchup In the meantime have ready, and well-beaten, the yolks of three fresh eggs ; strain them, mix the liquor by degrees with them, and when well-mixed, set the saucepan over a gentle fire, keeping a bason in one hand, into which toss the sauce to and fro, and shake the sauce-pan over the fire, that the eggs may not curdle. Don’t boil them, only let the sauce be hot enough to give it the thickness of melted butter. Fish Sauce a~la-Craster. 'Diicken a quarter of a pound of butter with flour, and brown it ; then put to it a pound of the best an - chovies cut small, six blades of pounded mace, ten cloves, forty berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs (namely, savourv, thyme, basil, and knotted marjoram,) and a littld128 DOMESTIC COOKERY. parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and a pint and a half ot stronji gravy. Simmer all gently for twenty minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use ; the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the butter while melting. An excellent substitute for Caper Sauce. Boil slowly some parsley to let it become a bad c<^ lour, cut, but don't chop it fine; put it to melted butter, with a tea-spoonful of salt, and a dessei't-spoon- ful of vinegar. Boil up and serve. Oyster Sauce. Save the liquor in opening the oysters ; and boil if with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon peel. In the meantime throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with a little milk, as will make sauce enough ; but first rub a little flour with it. _ Set them over the fire, and stir all the time ; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the saucepan near the fire, but not on it: for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. If for company, a little cream is a great improve- ment. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. Lobster Sauce. Pound the spawn, and two anchovies ; pour on them two spoonfuls of gravy ; strain all into some butter melted, as will be hererafter directed: then put in the meat of the lobster, give it all one boil, and add a squeeze of lemon. Another teat/.—Leave out the anchovies and gravy ; and do it as above, either with or without a little salt and ketchup, as you like. Many prefer the flavour of the lobster and salt only.I2S SAUCES. Shrimp Sauce, If the shrimps are not picked at home, pour a lit- tle water over them to wash them : put them to but- ter melted thick and smooth, give them one boil, and add the juice of a lemon. Anchovy Sauce. Chop one or two anchovies without washing, put them to some flour and butter, and a little drop of water ; stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. When the anchovies are good they will be dissolved ; and the colour will be better than by the usual way. To melt Butter, tchich is rarely xcell done, though a venj essential article. Mix in the proportion of a tea-spoonful of flour to four ounces of the best butter, on a trencher. Put it into a small saucepan, and two or three table-spoon- fuls of hot water, boil quick a minute, shaking it all the time. Milk used instead of water requires rather le.ss butter, and looks whiter. Vingaret, for cold Foxcl, or Meat. Chop mint, parsley, and shalot, mix with salt, oil, and vinegar. Serve in a boat. Shalot Vinegar. Split six or eight shalots ; put them into a quart bottle, and fill it up with vinegar, stop it, and in a month it will be fit for use. Camp Vinegar. Slice a large head of garlick ; and put it into a wide- mouthed bottle, with half an ounce of Cayenne, two tea-spoonsful of real soy, two of walnut ketchup, four anchovies chopped, a pint of vinegar, and enough cochineal to give it the colour of lavender-drops. Let it stand six weeks ; then strain off quite cloar, and keep in small bottles sealed up. 70 KIfiO DOMESTIC OOOKEliY, Sugar Vinegar. To every gallon of water put two pounds of the vei’j- coarsest sugar, boil and skim thoroughly, then put ono quart of cold water for every gallon of hot. When cool, put into it a toast spread with yeast. Stir it nine days ; then barrel, and set it in a place were the sun will lie on it, with a bit of slate on the bung-hole. Make it in March ; it will be ready in six mouths. When sufficiently sour, it may be bottled, or may be used from the cask with a woocien spigot and faucet. Gooseberry Vinegar. Boil spring water ; and when cold, put to every three quarts, a quart of bruised gooseberries in a large tub. Let them remain sixty hours, stirring often, then strain through a hair bag, and to each gallon of liquor add a pound of the coarsest sugar. Put it into a barrel, and a toast and yeast: cover the bung-hole with a bit of slate, &c. as above. The greater quantity of sugar and fruit the stronger the vinegar. Cucumber Vimgar. Pare and slice hfteen large cucumbers and put them in a stone jar, with three pints of vinegar, four large unions sliced, two or tluree shalots, a little garhck, two large spoonfuls of salt, three tea-spoonfuls of pepper, and half a tea-spoonful of Cayenne. After standing four days give the whole a boil; when cold, strain, and filter the liquor through paper. Keep in small buttles to add to salad, or eat with meat. Wine Vinegar. After making raisin wine, when the fruit has been strained, lay it on a heap to heat, then to every hun- dred weight put fifteen gallons of water—set the cask, and put yeast, &c. as before. As vinegar is so necessary an article in a family, and one on which so great a profit is made, a barrel or two might always be kept preparing, according to what suited. If the raisins of wine were ready, 'that kind131 SAUCBS. be made ; if a great plenty of gooseberries made tlmm cheap, that sort ; or if neither, then the sugar vinegar—so that the cask may not be left empty, and grow musty. Nasturtinm, for Capen. Keep them a few days after they are gathered, then pour boiling vinegar over them, and when cold, cover. They will not be tit to eat for some months, but are then finely flavoured, and by many preferred to capers. To make Muttard. Mix the best Durliam tiour of mustard by degrees with boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth ; add a little salt, and keep it in a small jar close covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which sliould be wiped daily round the edges. Another way, for immediate me. Mix the mustard with new milk by degrees, to be quite smooth, and add a little raw cream. It is much Softer this way, is not bitter, and will keep well. The patent mustard is by many preferred, and it is perhaps as cheap, being always ready ; and if the pots are returned, threepence is allowed for each. A tea-spoonful of sugar to half a pint of mustard is a great improvement, and softens it. Kitchen Pepper. Mix in the finest powder one ounce of ginger ; of cinnamon, black pepper, nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, ludf an ounce each ; ten cloves, and six ounces of salt. Keep it in a bottle ; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. Spice in powder, kept in small bottles close stopped, goes much further than when used whole. It must be dried before pounded, and should be done in quantities that may be wanted intliree or four months.132 DOMESTIC COOKEnV. Nutmeg need not be done, but tlie others should be kept in separate bottles with a little label on eaclu To dry Mushrooms. Wipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel olf the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oren, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. When used simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size ; to sim- mer them in their own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder, and keep it in a dry place, or in paper. Mushroom Powder. Wash half a peck of large mushrooms while quite fresh, and free from grit and dirt, with flannel, scrape out the black part clean, and do not use any that are worm-eaten, put them into a stew-pan over the fire without water, with two large onions, some cloves, a quarter of an ounce of mace, and two spoonfuls of white pepper, all in powder: simmer and shake them till all the liquor be dried up ; be careful they do not burn. Lay them on tins or sieves in a slow oven till they are dry enough to beat to powder, then put the powder m small bottles, corked, and tied closely, and keep in a dry place.—A tea-spoonful will give a very fine flavour to any soup or gravy, or any sauce ; and it is to be added just before serving, and one boil given to it after it is put in. 2'o choose Anchovies. They are preserved in barrels, with bay salt: no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smeiU5AUCK3. 133 Essence of Anchovies. Take two dozen of anchories, chop them, and with- out the bone, but with some of their own liquor strained, add them to sixteen large spoonfuls of water ; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes —when cold, strain and bottle it. To keep Anchoxnes when the liquor dries. Pour on them beef brine. To make Sprats taste like Anchovies. Salt them well, and let the salt drain from them. In twenty-four hours wipe them dry, but do not wash them. Mix four ounces of common salt, an ounce of bay salt, an ounce of saltpetre, a quarter of an ounce ot sal prunel, and half a tea-spoonful of cochineal, all in the finest powder. Sprinkle it among three quarts of the fish, and pack tliem in two stone jars. Keep in a cold place, fastened down with a bladder. These are pleasant on bread and butter, but use the best for sauce. Forcemeat, Whether in the form of stuffing-balls, or for patties, makes a considerable part of good cooking, by the flavour it imparts to whatsoever dish it is added if properly made. ’ Exact rules for the quantity cannot easily be given ; but the following observations may be useful, and ha- bit will soon give knowledge in mixing it to the taste. _ At many tables, where every thing else is well done, it IS common to find very bad stuffing. According to what it is wanted for, should be the selection from the following list, observing that of the most pungent articles, least may be used. No one flavour should predominate greatly ; yet. if several dishes be served the same day, there should be a marked variety in the taste of the forcemeat as well as of the gravies. It should be consistent enough to cut with a knife, but not dry and heavy.134 DOMESTIC COOKERT. Cold fowl or veaL Scraped ham. Fat bacon. Beef suet. Crumbs of bread. Parsley. White pepper, Salt. N utmeg. Forceraeul Ingredientl. r veah Oysters. Ancliovy. Tarragon. Savourr. PennyroyaL Knotted marjoram. Thyme. Basil. Yoiks of hard eggs. Yolk and white of eggs Cayenne, well beaten, to bind lUe GarUck. mixture. Slialot. Chives. J arnica pepper, in fir.e . powder, or two or three cloves. The first column contains the articles of which tlie forcemeat may be made, withoutany striking flavour ; and to those may be added some of the different in- gredients of the second column, to vary the taste. Forcemeat, to force Fowls or Aleut. Shred a little ham, or gammon, some cold veal, or fov;l, some beef-suet ; a small quantity of onion, some parsley, very little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and either white pepper or Cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. For forcemeat patties, the mixture as above. The game ; only substituting fat, or bacon, for suet. The livers, (if the pie be of rabbit or fowls) mixed with fat and lean of pork, instead of bacon, and sear soned as above, is excellent. For Hare, see to roast, page 101. Ditto, for bake Pike, page lo. For cold savoury Pies.135 SAUCES. Ditto, for Pike, Haddock, and small Cod, page 15. Ditto, for Soles, page 17. Ditto, for Mackerel, page 14. Ditto, for Fish Pie, page 138. Very fine Forcemeat-halls, for Fish Soups, or Fish Stewed, on maigre days. Beat the flesh and soft parts of a middling lobster, half an anchovy, a large piece of boiled celery, the yolk of a hard 6gg, a little Cayenne, mace, salt, and white pepper, with two table spoonfuls of bread crumbs, one ditto of oyster liquor, two ounces of butter warmed, and two eggs long beaten ; make into balls, and fry of a line brown in butter. Forcemeat for Turtle, as at the Push, Bristol. A pound of line fresh suet, one ounce of ready- dressed veal or chicken, chopped fine, crumbs of bread, a little shalot or onion, salt, white pepper, nutmeg, mace, pennyroyal, parsley, and lemon, thyme finely shred ; beat as many fresh eggs, yolks and whites se- parately, as will make the above ingredients into a moist paste ; roll into small balls, and boil them in fresh lard, putting them in just as it boils up. When cif a light brown, take them out, and drain them be- fore the fire. If the suet be moist or stale, a great many more eggs will be necessary. Balls made tliis way are remarkably light; but being greasy, some people prefer them with less suet and eggs. Little Eggs for Turtle. Beat three hard yolLs of eggs in a mortar, and make into a paste with the yolk of a raw one, roll it into small balls, and throw them into boiling water for two minutes to harden. Broioning, to colour and flavour made-dishes. Be.it to powder four ounces of double-refined sugar, pnt it into a very nice iron frying-pan, with one ounceDOMESTIC COOKERY. .o(i of fine fresh butter, mi.v it well over a clear fire, and, when it begins to froth, hold it up higher ; when of a very fine dark brown, pour in a small quantity of a pint of port, and the whole by very slow degree.s, Btirniig all the time. Put to the above half an ounce of Jamaica, and the same of black pepper, six cloves of shalots peeled, three blades of mace bruised, three spoonfuls of mushroom, and the same of wahiut ket- chup, some salt, and the finely-pared rind of a lemon • boil gently fifteen minutes, pour it into a bason till cold, take olf the scum, and bottle for use. Casserol, or Rice Edging, for a Currie, or Fricassee. After soaking and picking fine Carolina rice, boil it in water, and a little salt, until tender, but not to a mash j drain, and put it round the inner edge of the dish, to the height of two inches ; smooth it with the back of a spoon, and wash it over with yolk of egg, and put it into the oven for three or four minutes, then serve tiie meat in the middle. PART .TI, PIES, PUDDINGS, AND P.ISTRY. SAVOURY PIES. Fruit Pies roill be placed under the head pastry. Observations on Savoury Pies. There are few articles of cookery more generally liked than relishing pies, if properly made ; and they may be made so of a great variety of things. Some are best eaten when cold, and, in that case, there should be no suet put iito the forcemeat that is u.sed wit a137 SAVOURV PIES. them. If the pie is either made of meat that will take more ure^ng, to make it extremely tender, than the baking of the crust wUl allow ; or if it is to be served ratton'^^*^^^^ 1 observe the following prepa- Take three pounds of the veiny piece of beef ffor instance) that htia fat and lean ; wasli it ; and season It with salt, pepper, macc, and allspice, in fine powder, rubbing them well in. Set it by the side of a slow fire in a stew-pot that will just hold it; put to it a piece of butter, of about the weight of two ounces, and it just simmer in its own steam tui It begins to shrink. When it is cold, add more seasoning, forcemeat, and eggs : and if it is in a disli, put some gravy to it before baking ; but if it is only in crust, don’t put the gravy till after it is cold and iii jelly, as has been described in page 120. Forcemeat may be put both underand over the meat, if preferred to bulls. .Eef Pie. Cut the eels in lengths of two or three inches, sea- son with pepper and salt, and place in the disli, with some bits of butter, and a little water ; and cover it with paste. Coa Pie. ■ a piece of the middle of a small cod, and salt It well one night: next day wash it; .season with pep- per, salt, and a very little nutmeg, mixed ; place in a dish, and put .some butter on it, and a little good broth of any kind into the dish. Cover it with a crust; and when done, add a sauce i of broth, a quarter of a pint of cream, a httle flour and butter, a grate of lemon and nutmeg, and give it one boil. Oysters may be added. Mackerel Villi do well, but do not salt them till used. 1 arsley picked and put in, may be used instead of oysters.13» EOMKSTIC COOKJ3K1’. Sole Pie. Split some solos from the bone, and cut the fins close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a httle nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middhi g sized ones will do, and half a hundred Jf oysters. 1 ut in the dish the oyster-liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes home, pour in a cupful of thick croutn. Shrimp Pie, excellent. Pick a quart of shrimps ; if tliey are very salt, sea- son them with only mace and a clove or two. Miiu e two or three anchovies ; mix these wiin the spice, and then season the slirimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and over the shrim[>s, with a gla^ of sharp white wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take loug baking. Lobster Pie. Boil two lobsters, or three small, talte out the tails, cut them in two, take out the gut, cut each m four iiieces, and lay in a small dish, put in then the nieatof the claws, and that you have picked out of the body ; pickofiT the furry parts from the latter, and take out the lady ; the spawn, beat in a mortar ; likewise all the shells : set them on to stow with some water, two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, pepper, salt, and some pounded niace ; a large piece of butter, rolled in flour, must be added when the goodness of the shells is ob- lained: give a boil or two, and pour into the dish strained ; strew some crumbs, and put a paste over all ; bake slowly, but only till the paste be done. . A remarkably fine Fish Pie. Boil two pounds of small eels ; having cut the fins quite close, pick the flesh off, and throw the bones into ihe liquor, with a little mace, pepper, salt, and a slice of onion ; boil it till quite rich, and strain it. Make forcemeat of the flesh, an anchovy, parsley, lemon-peel,SAVOUKY PIES. 13& Wilt, pepper, and crumbs, and four ounces of butter vanned, and lay it at the bottom of the dish. Take the fleali of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay tliem on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper : pour the gravy over and bake. Observe to take off the skin and fins, if cod or soles. Pilchard and Leek Pie. Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; 8<!ald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted jhlchards which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liijuor ; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. Jieef-steak Pie. Prepare the steaks as in page 39, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish witli puff paste round the edges ; put a little water iu rtie dial), and cover it with a good crust. Veal Pie. Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck ; season it ; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, Cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pep- per ; and also forcemeat and eggs ; and if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweetbreads cut into small bits, and cocks’-combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready, to pour in after baking,—It will be very good without any of the latter additions. A rich Veal Pie. Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a very little clove in powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff” paste on the ledge of the disli ; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs,140 DOMESTIC COOKEKY, the sweetbreads, and some oysters up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of bam, and fill up the dish with water ; cover ; and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls’of good veal graiy, and some cream to fill up ; but nrat boil it up with a tea-spoon- ful of flour. Truffles, &c. if approved. Veal (or Chicken) and Parsley Pie. Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt ; scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry ; cut it a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it ; and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. Veal-olive Pie. Make the olives as directed in page 55; put them round and round the di.sh, making the middle highest. Fill it up almost with water, and cover it. Add gravv, cream, and flour. Calf’s-head Pie. Stew a knuckle of veal till fit for eating, with two onions, a few isinglass-shavings, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and a few pepper-corns, in three pints of water. Keep the broth for the pie. Take off a bit of the meat for the bafls, and let the other be eaten, but simmer the bones in the broth till it is very good. Half boil the head, and cut it in square bits ; put a layer of ham at the bottom ; then some head, first fat, then lean, with balls and hard eggs cut in half, and so on till the dish be full: but be particularly careful not to place the pieces close, or the pie will be too solid, and there will be no space for the jelly. The meat141 a.vvouRY I'lra. raust be first pretty well seasoned with pepper and salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Put a little water and a little gravy into the dish, and cover it with a tolerably thick crust ; bake it in a slow oven, and, when done, pour into it as much gravy as it can possi- bly hold, and do not cut it till perfectly cold ; in doing which, observe to use a very sharp knife, and first cut out a large bit, going down to the bottom of the dish ; and w'hen done thus, thinner slices can be cut ; the different colours, and the clear jelly, have a beautiful marble appearance. A small pie may be made to eat hot, which with high seasoning, oysters, mushrooms, truffles, morels. Sic. has a very good appearance. The cold pie will keep many days. Slices make a pretty side dish. Instead of isinglass, use a calf’s-foot, or a cow-heel, if the jelly is not likely to be stiff enough. Tlie pickled tongues of former calves’-heads may be cut in, to vary the colour, instead of, or besides liam. Excellent Pork Pies, to eat cold. Raise common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, as you choose; have ready the trimming and small bits of pork cut off when a hog is killed ; land if these are not enough, take the meat of a sweet bone. Beat it well with a rolling-pin; season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate. I Put it in layers, quite close up to the top: lay on the lid : cut the edge smooth round, and pinch it; bake in aslowsoaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Direc- tions for raising the crust will be given hereafter. The pork may be put into a common dish, with a very plain crust ; and be quite as good. Observe to put no bone or water into the pork pie ; the outside of the pieces will be hard, unless they are cut small and pressed close. Mutton Pie. Cut steaks from a loin or neck of mutton that has hang ; beat tliem, and remove some of the fat. ISeasonDOMESTIC COOKERY. 142 with salt, pepper, and a little onion ; pat a little water ut the bottom of tlie disii, and a little paste at the edge ;, then cover with a moderately-thick paste. Or raise small pies, and breaking each bone in to shorten it,, season, and cover it over, pinching the edge. When they come out, pour into each a spoonful of gravy made of a bit of mutton. Squab Pie. Cut apples as for other pies, and lay them in rows ■ v;itli mutton-chops: shred onion, and sprinkle it among ; them, and also some sugar. Lamb Pie. Malie it of the loin, neck, or breast: the breast of : house-lamb is one of the most delicate things that can l>e eaten. It should be very lightly seasoned with pej>- per and salt; the bone taken out, but not the gristles ; and a small quantity of jelly-gravy be put in hot; but the pie should not be cut till cold. Put two spoon- fuls of water before baking. Grass lamb makes an excellent pie, and may either he boned or not, but not to bone it is perhaps the best. Se/ison with only pepper and salt ; put two spoonfuls of water before baking, and as much gravy when it comes from the oven. Note.—Meat pies being fat, it is best to let out the gravy on one side, and put it in again by a funnel, at the centre, and a little may be added. Chicken Pie. Cut up two young fowls ; season with white pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all in the finest pow- der ; likewise a little Cayenne. Put the Chicken, slices of ham, or fresh gammon of bacon, force-meat- balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers. If it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water; but none if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, liave ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scr.'ig with some shank bones of mutton, sea-SaVOUUV I'lES. 143 soned with hurbs, onion, mace, and white pepper. If it is to be eaten hot, you may add truffles, morels, mushroms, &c., but not if to be eaten cold. If it is made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but in raised crust the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in cold as jelly. To make the jelly clear, you may give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and then run it through a fine lawn sieve. Itab'hits, if young and in flesh, do as well: their legs should be cut short, and the breast hones must not go in, but will help to make the gravy. Often-Goose Pie. Bone two young green geese, of a good size, but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean ; and season them hiirh with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as close as yon can, drawing the lego inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust ; if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. Duck Pie. Bone a full-grown young duck and fowl ; wash them, and season with pepper and salt, and a small proportion of mace and allspice, in the finest powder. Put the fowl within the duck, and in the former a calfs tongue pickled red, boiled very tender and peeled. Press the whole close ; the skins of the legs should be drawn inwards that the body of the fowls may be quite smooth. If approved, the space between the sides of the crust may be filled with a fine forcemeat, made according to the receipt given for making forcemeat in page 134. Bake it in a slow oven, either in raised crust or pie-dish, with a thick crust, ornamented. The large pies in Staffordshire are made as above,U4 UOMIiSTIC COOKKUY. but with a goose outwards, then a turkey, a duc\ next, then a fowl, and either tongue, small birds, or forcemeat, in the middle. Giblet Pie. After very nicely cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew them with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them grow cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or two or three mutton steaks at the bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above ; and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. Sliced potatoes added to it, eat extremely well. Pigeon Pie. Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; in the former put a bit of butter, and if approved, some parsley choppod with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it ; between every two a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon : it is a great improvement to the flavour. Observe when ham is cut for gravy or pies, to take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards, and the two joints of the wings, and put them in the centre of the pie ; and over them in a hole made in the^ crust, three feet nicely cleaned to show what pie it is. Partridge Pie in a dish. Pick and singe four partridges ; cut off the legs at the knee ; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mushrooms. Lay a veal steak, and a slice of ham. at the bottom of the dish; put the partridges in,and half a pint of good broth. Put pulf paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the s.iine ; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour.8A.V0URY PIES. 14.5 Ilare pie to eat cold. Seaflon the hare after it is cut up ; and bake_ it, witlt eggs and forcemeat, in a raised crust or dish. When it is to be served, cut oS the lid, and cover it with jelly-gravy, as in page 120. A French Pie. Lay a puff paste round on the ledge of the dish ; and put in either veal in slices, rabbits or chickens jointed: with forcemeat balls, sweetbreads cut in pieces, artichoke-bottoms, and a few truffles. Vegetable Pie. Scald and blanch some broad beans: cut young car- rots, turnips, artichoke-bottoms, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, or any of them you have ; make the whole into a nice stew with some good veal gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep it from sinking. When baked, open the lid and pour in the stew. Parsley Pie. Lay a fowl or a few bones of the scrag of veal, seasoned, into a dish ; scald a colander-full of picked parsley,in milk ; season ; and add to it the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour it into a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of butter, and a little flour. Shake it round to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. Turnip Pie. Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, re> serving the ends of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. 7U I.140 DOJIESTIC COOKKR7. Pat two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. Y/JU tiiay add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. Potatoe Pie. Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices: season them : and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal. Put layers of them and of the meat. An Herb Pie. Pick two handfuls of parsley from the stems, half the quantity of spinach, two lettuces, some mustard and cresses, a few leaves of borage, and white beet leaves ; wash and boil them a little ; then drain and press out the water; cut them small ; mix and lay them in a dish, sprinkled with some salt. Mix a h.atter of flour, two egirs well beaten, a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, and pour it on the herbs ; cover with a good crust, and bake. Raised crust for meat Pies or Patels, ^-c. Boil water with a little tine lard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. Wliile hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make by good kneading and beating it with the rolling pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till near cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus : Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together ; put egg between the edges of the paste, to make it adherent the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the latter147 Punni.vGS. rase, tlie tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough ; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is proper, the paste should be put into the oven again for a t|narter of an hour. With a feather put egg over at hrst. PUDDINGS, &C. Observations on making Puddings and Pancakes. The outside of a boiled pudding often tastes dis- agreeably ; which arises from the cloth not being nicely washed, and kept in a dry place. It should be dipped in boiling water, squeezed dry,and floured when to be used. If bread, it should be tied lootelyif batter,lightly over. The water should boil quick when the pudding is put in ; and it should be moved about for a minute, lest the ingredients should not mix. Batter-pudding should be strained through a coarse sieve, when all is mixed. In others the eggs separately. The pans and basins must always be buttered. A pan of cold water should be ready, and the pudding dipt in as soon as it comes out of the pot, and then it will not adhere to the cloth. Very good paddings may be made without eggs ; but they must have as little milk as will mix, and must boil three or four hours. A few spoonfuls of fresh small beer, or one of yeast, will answer instead of eggs. Unoto is an excellent substitute for eggs either in paddings or pancakes. Two large spoonfuls will supply the place of one egg, and the article it is used in will be equally good. This is a useful piece of information, especially as snow often falls at the se>ison when eggs are the dearest. Fresh small beer, or bottled malt liquors, likewise serve instead of eggs. The snow may be taken up from any clean148 DOMESTIC COOKEKT. Bp'it before it is wanted, and will not lose its virtue, though the sooner it is used the better. Note.—The yolks and whites beaten long and separately, make the article they are put into much lighter. Almond Ptiddingi. Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half-fill, and bake the puddings. Serve with butter, wine, and sugar. Baked Almond Padding. Beat fine four ounces of almond^ four or five bitter ditto, with a little wine,yolks of six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, near a quart of cream, and juice of one lemon. When well mixed, bake it half an hour, with paste round tlie dish. Small Almond Puddings. Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water ; mixed with four ounces of butter warmed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. Sago Pudding. Boil a.pint and a half of new' milk, with four spoonfuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon- peel, cinnamon, and nutmeg : sweeten to taste ; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly. Bread and Butter Pudding. Slice bread spread with butter, and lay it in a disli with currants bet'veeu each layer ; ad l slicedPUDDISGS. 149 citron, orange, or lemon, if to be very nice. Pour over it an unboiled custard of milk, two or three eggs, a few pimentos, and a very little ratafia, two hours at least before it is to be baked ; and lade it over to soak the bread. A paste round the edge makes all puddings look better, but is not necessary. Oranije Pudding, Grate the rind of a Seville orange; put to it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded : beat them all in a marble mortal-, and add as you do it the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest ; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. Another.—Mix of orange paste two full spoons, with six eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. Another.—Rather more than two table-spoonfuls . of orange paste, mixed with six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter melted, will make a good size- pudding, with a paste at the Attorn of the dish. Bake twenty minutes. An excellent Lemon Pudding. Beat the yolks of four eggs ; add four ounces of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubbed with some lumps of it to take the essence ; then peel and beat it in a mortar with the juice of a large lemon, and mix all with four or five ounces of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served, turn the pud- ding out of the dish. A veryjine Amber Pudding. Pnt a pound of butter into a saucepan, with three quarters of a pound of loaf-sngar finely powdered ;J5Q domestic cookery. melt the butter, and mix well with it ; then add the yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and Savour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when tilled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. Baked Apple Pudding. Pare and quarter four large apples ; boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when done, none may remain ; beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste ; beat all together, and lay it in a dish with paste to turn out. Oatmeal Pudding. Pour a quart of boiling milk over a pint of the best fine oatmeal ; let it soak all night; next day beat two eggs, and mix a little salt ; butter a basin that will just hold it; cover it tight with a floured cloth, and boil it an hour and a half. Eat it with cold butter and salt. When cold, slice and toast it, and eat it as oat cake buttered. Dutch Pudding, or Souster. Melt one pound of butter in half a pint of milk ; mix it into two pounds of flour, eight eggs, four spooirfuls- of yeast; add one pound of currants, and a quarter of a pound of sugar beaten and sifted. This is a very good pudding hot; and equally so as a cake when cold. If for the hitter, caraways may be used instead of currants. An hour will bake it in a quick oven.eUDDINGS. ).6J A Dutch Rice Pudding. Soak four oances of rice in warm water half an hoar ; drain the latter from it, and throw it into a stew-pan, with half a pint of milk, half a stick of cinnamon, and simmer till tender. When cold, add four whole eggs well beaten, two ounces of butter melted in a tea-cupful of cream ; and put three ounce.s of sugar, a quarter of a nutmeg, and a good piece of lemon-peel. Put a light pnff paste, into a mould or dish, or graced tops and bottoms, and bake in a quick oven. Light or German Puddings or Puffs. Melt three ounces of butter in a pint of cream ; let it stand till nearly cold ; then mix two ounces of fine flour, and two ounces of sugar, four yolks and two whites of eggs, and a little rose or orange-flower water. Bake in little cups buttered, half an hour. They should be served the moment they are done, and only when going to be eaten, or they will not be Turn out of the cups, and serve with white wine and sugar. Little Bread Puddings. Steep the cnuub of a penny-loaf grated, in about a pint of warm milk ; when soaked, beat six eggs, whites and yolks, and mix with the bread, and two ounces of butter warmed, sugar, orange-flower water, a spoonful of brandy, a little nutmeg, and a tea-spoonful of cream. Beat all well, and bake in tea-cups buttered. If currants are chosen, a quar- ter of a pound is sufficient; if not, they are good without; or you may put orange or lemon candy, Berve with pudding sauce. Paddings in Iluste. Shred suet, and put with grated bread, & few currants, the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two, some grated lemon-peel, and ginger. Mix ; ,andDOMESTIC COOKERY. 162 make into little balls about the size and shape of an e(Xtr, with a little flour. Have ready a skillet of boiling water, and throw them in. Twenty minutes will boil them; but they will rise to the top when done. Pudding-sauce. Neio College Puddings. Grate the crumb of a two-penny loaf, shred suet eight ounces, and mix with eight ounces of currants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, a handful of sugar, half a nutmeg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately.'.Mix and make into the size and shape of a goose-egg. Put half a pound of butter into a frying-pan ; and, when melted and quite hot, stew them gently in it over a stove ; turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding sauce. Boiled Bread Pudding. Grate white bread ; pour boiling milk over it, and cover close. When soaked an hour or two, beat it fine, and mix with it two or three eggs well beaten. Put it into a basin that will just hold it; tie a floured cloth over it, and put it into boiling water. Send it up with melted butter poured over. It may be eaten with salt or sugar. Prunes, or French plums, make a fine pudding instead of raisins, either with suet or bread pudding. Another, and richer.—On half a pint of crumbs of bread pour half a pint of scalding milk; cover for an hour. Beat up four eggs, and when strained, add to the bread with a tea-spoonful of flour, an ounce of butter, two ounces of sugar, half a pound of currants, an ounce of almonds beaten, with orange- flower water, half an ounce of orange, ditto lemon, ditto citron. Butter a basin that will exactly hold it, flour the cloth, and tie tight oyer, and boil ono hour.153 ruDDiNoa. Brown Bread Pudding. flalf a pound of stale brown bread gi-ated, ditto of ourrants, ditto of shred suet, sugar and nutmeg ; mix with four eggs a spoonful of brandy, and two spoonfuls of cream ; boil in a cloth or basin that exactly holds it, three or four hours. Nelion Puddings. Put into a Dutch-oven six small cakes called Nelson-balls, or rice-cakes made in small tea-cups. When quite hot, pour over them boiling melted butter, white wine, and sugar; and serve. Eve’s Pudding. Grate three quarters of a pound of bread, mix it with the same quantity of shred suet, the same of apples, and also of currants ; mix with these the whole of four eggs, and the rind of half a lemon shred fine. Put it into a shape ; boil three hours, and serve with pudding-sauce, the juice of hiilf a lemon, and a little nutmeg. Quaking Pudding. Scald a quart of cream; when almost cold put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of Hour, some nutmegs and sugfir ; tie it close in a buttered cloth j boil it an hour; and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine and sugar. Duke of Cumberland’s Pudding. Mix six ounces of grated bread, the same quantity of currants well cleaned and picked, the same of beef suet finely shred, the same of chopped apples and also of lump-sugar, six eggs, half a nutmeg, a piiicli of salt, the rind of a lemon minced as fine as possible; and citron, orange, and lemon, a large spoonful of each cut thin. Mix thoroughly, and put into a basin ; cover very close with fioured cloths, and boil three hours. Serve it wiui pudding-sauce, and the juice of half a lemon, boiled together.domestic cookery. m Transparent Pudding. Beat eight eggs very well; put them into a stew- pan, with half a pound of sugar pounded fine, the same quantity of butter, and some nutmeg grated. Set it on the fire, and keep stirring it till it thickens. Then set it into a basin to cool ; put a rich puff paste round the edge of the dish ; pour in your pudding, and bake it in a moderate oven. It will cut light and clear. You may add candied orange and citron if you like. Bailer Pudding. Rub three spoonfuls of fine dour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk ; simmer till it thickens ; stir in two ounces of butter: set it to cool ; then add the yolks of three eggs; flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a basin, and put the batter into it ; tie it tight, and plunge it into boiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a bttle ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. Batter Pudding icith Meat. Make a batter with flour, milk, and eggs ; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding-dish ; then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred onion ; pour the remainder of the baiter over, and bake in a slow oven. _ . Some like a loin of mutton baked in batter, being first cleared of most of the fat. Rice small Piuldings. Wash two large spoonsful of rice, and simmer it with half a pint'of milk tiU thick, then put the si^e of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold mix four yolks Hud two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste ; and add grated lemon and a little ciuuamoiu Butter little cups, and fill throe parts full, puttingPUDDINGS. m at tue bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve t!ie moment before to be eaten, with sweet sauce in the dish, or a boat Plain Rice Pudding. Wash and pick some rice ; throw among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much ; tie the rice in a cloth and leave plenty of room for it to swelL Bou It in a quantity of water for an hour or two. \v hen done, eat it with butter and sugar or milk. Put lemon-peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and batter. ji rich Rice Pudding. Boil half a pound of rice in water, with a little bit of salt, till quite tender ; drain it dry ; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pirt of cream, with two ounces of fresh butter melted in the latter, four ounces of beef suet or marrow, or veal suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, three quarters of a pound of currants, two spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and grated lemon-peel. When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon, and citron, if approved. Bake in a moderate oven. Rice Pudding with Fruit. Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, goose- berries, scalded, pared and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants) ; with one egg into the rice to bind it; boil it well, and serve with sugar. Baked Rice Pudding. Swell rice as above ; then add some more milk, an etrg. sugar, allspice, and lemou-peel. Bake in a deep dioh.lo6 domestic; cookery. Another for the Family.—'Pxxt into a very deep pan lialf a pound of rice washed and picked ; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few allspice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake in a slow oven. A George Pudding. Boil very tender a handful of whole rice in a small quantity of milk, with a large piece of lemon-peel. Let it drain ; then mix with it a dozen of good-sized apples, boiled to pulp as dry as possible ; add a glass of white wine, the yolks of five eggs, two ounces of orange and citron cut thin ; make it pretty sweet. Line a mould or basin with a very good paste ; beat the five whites of eggs to a very strong froth, and mix with the other ingredients ; fill the mould and b.'ike it of a fine brown colour. Serve it with the bottom upwards, and with the following sauce: two glasses of wine, a spoonful of sugar, the yolk of two eggs, and a bit of butter as large as a walnut ; sim- mer without boiling, and pour to and from the sauce- pan, till of a proper thickness ; and put in the dish. An excellent plain Potatoe Pudding. Take eight ounces of boiled potatoes, two ounces of butter, tlie yolks and wlutes of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, put three ounces more butter, sweetmeats and almonds, and another egg. Potatoe Pudding with Meat. Boil them till fit to mash ; rub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with miik and two eggs. Lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter ; and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. Bake a fine brown.157 PUDDlNOe. Steak or Kidney Padding. If kidney, split and soak it, and Season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, floor, and milk ; roll it, and line a basin with some ; put the kidney or Hteako in, cover with paste, and pinch round the edge. Cover with a cloth and boil a considerable time. Beefsteak Padding. Prepare some fine steaks as in page 39 ; roll them with fat between ; and if you approve shred onion, add a very little. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the rollers of steaks ; cover the ba^n with a paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close, and let the pudding boil slowly, but for a length of time. Baked Beef steak Pudding. Make a batter of milk, two esfgs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander ; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks prepared as above, and very well seasoned ; pour the remainder of the batter over them, and bake it. Mutton Pudding. Season with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion ; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish; and pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then putting the rest of the steaks, and batter, bake it. ;patter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. Another.—Cut slices of a leg that has been under- done, and put them into a basin lined with a fine suet crust. Season with pepper, salt, and finely shred onion or shtdot.DOMIiSTIC COOliEIi-Y. 158 Suet Pudding. Shred a pound of suet ; mix with a pound and a quarter of flour, two eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Boil four hours. It eats well next day, cut in slices and broiled. The outw.ard fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred, makes a more delicate pudding than suet. Veal-Buet Padding. Cut the crumb of a threepenny-loaf into slices ; boil and sweeten two quarts of new milk, and pour over it. When soaked pour out a little of the milk ; and mix with six eggs well beaten, and half a nutmeg. Lay the slices of bread into a dish ; with layers < f currants and veal suet shred, a pound of each. Butt( r the dish well, and bake ; oryou may boil it in a basin if you prefer it. Hunter's Pudding. Mix a pound of suet, ditto fiour, ditto currants, ditto raisins stoned and little cut, the rind of half a lemon shred as fine as possible, six Jamaica peppers in fine powder, four eggs, a glass of brandy, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it of a proper consistence; boil it in a floured cloth, ora lemon- mould, eight or nine hours. Serve with sweet sauce. Add sometimes a spoonful of peach-water for change of flavour. This pudding will keep after it is boiled six months, if kept tied up in the same cloth, and hung up, folded in a sheet of cap-paper to preserve it from dust, being first cold. When to be used, it must boil a full hour. Common Plum Pudding. Tlie same proportions of flour, and suet, and half the quantity of fruit, with spice, lemon, a glass of wine or not, and one egg and milk, will make an excellent pudding, if long boiled.PUDDINGS. 159 Custard Pudding. of good milk with a large ®«Ss, some orang^ Dower water, and a little ponnded cinnamon. Butter a basm that wUl e.xactly hold it, pour the batter in, and tie a floured cloth over. Put in boiling water over the fire, and turn it about a few minutes to Tm biil it^ ®gS going to one side. Half an hour Put currant-jelly on it, and serve with sweet sauce. Macaroni Puxlding. Simmer an ounce or two of the pipe sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinnamon, till tender • put It into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs! but only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a glass of raisin-wine. Bake with a paste round the edges. _ A layer of orange-marmalade, or raspberrry-jam, in a macaroiu pudding, for change, is a great im- provement ; in which case omit the almond-water or ratafia, which yon would otherwise flavour it with. Millet Pudding. \\ ash three spoonfuls of the seed ; put it into the dish, with a cirot round the edges ; pour over it as much new milk as will n^rly fill the dish, two ounces of butter, warmed with it, sugar, shred lemon, and a bttle scrape of ginger and nutmeg. As you put it in the oven, stir in two eggs beaten, and a spoonful of shred suet. ^ Carrot Pudding. Boil a large carrot tender; then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoonful of biscuit- powder, or three or four little sweet biscuits without seeds, four yolks ftiid two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little ratafia, a large ■pouuful of orange or rose-water, a quarter of a1(30 DOMESTIC COOKEHV. nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a cliallow dish lined with paste ; and turn it out to serve with a little sugar dusted over. An excellent Apricot Pudding, Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft; meantime pour on the grated crumbs of a penny loaf, a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, four ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten (‘ggBf and a glass of white r^dne. Pound the apricots in a mortar tvith some or all of the kernels \ mix then the fruit and other ingredients together; put a paste round a dish, and bake the pudding half an hour. Baited Gooseberry Pudding. Stew gooseberries in a jar over a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water till they will pulp. Take a pint of the juice pressed through a coarse sieve, and beat it with three yolks and whites of eggs beaten and strained, one ounce and a half of butter ; sweeten it well, and put a crust round the dish. A few cnimbs of roll should be mixed with the above to give a little consistence, or four ounces of Naples biscuits. A Green Bean Pudding, Boil and blanch old beans, beat them in a mortar, with very little pepper and salt, some cream, and the yolk of an egg. A little spinach juice will give a finer colour, but it is as good without. Boil it in a basin that will just hold it, an hour ; and pour parsley and butter over. Serve bacon to eat with it. Shelford Pudding. Mix three quarters of a pound of currants or raisins, one pound of suet, one pound of flour, six eggs, e little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon shape six hours.PUDDINGS. lux Brandy Pudding. Line a moald with jar-raisins stoned, or dried cherries, then with thin slices of French roll, next to which put ratafias, or macaroons ; then the fruit, rolls and cakes in succession, until the mould be full ; sprinkling in at times two glasses of brandy. Beat four eggs, yolks and whites ; put to a pint of milk or cream, lightly sweetened, h^f a nutmeg, and the rind of half a lemon finely grated. Let the liquid sink into the solid part ; then flour a cloth, tie it tight over, and boil one hour ; keep the mould the right side up. Serve with pudding sauce. Buttermilk Pudding. Warm three quarts of new milk ; turn it with a quart of buttermilk ; drain the curd through a sieve; when dry pound it in a marble mortar, with near half a pound of sugar, a lemon boiled tender, the crumb of a roll grated, a nutmeg grated, six bitter almonds, four ounces of warm butter, a tea-cupful of good cream, the yolks of five and whites of three eggs, a glass of sweet wine, and ditto of brandy. When well incorporated, bake in small cups or bowls well buttered ; if the bottom be not brown, use a salamander ; but serve as quick as p‘«sible, and with pudding sauce. Curd Puddings or Puffs. Turn two quarts of milk to curd, press the whey from it, rub through a sieve, and mix four ounces of butter, the crumb of a penny loaf, two spoonfuls of cream, and half a nutmeg, a small quantity of sugar, and two spoonfuls of white wine. Butter little cups or small pattypans, and fill them three parts. Oraiigo flower water is an improvement. Bake them with care. Serve with sweet sauce in a boat. Boiled Curd Pudding. Rnb the curd of two gallons of milk when drair.etl 70 M1G2 DOMl^STIC COOKEKY. through a sieve. Mix it with six eggs, a little creatu, two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, half a nutmeg, flour and crumbs of bread each tliree spoonful-', currants and raisins half a pound of each. Boil an hour in a thick well floured cloth. Pippin Pudding. Coddle six ]>ippin3 in vine leaves covered with water, very gently, that the inside he done without breaking the skins. Ayhen soft, skin, and with a tea-spoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander ; add two spoonfuls of orange- flower water, three eggs beaten, a glas. of rasin wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nutmeg to taste. Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish : shred very thin lemon-peel as fine as possible, and put it into the disli ; likewise lemon, orange, an(i citron, in small shoes, but not so thin as to dissolve in the baking. Yorkshire Pudding. Mix fivv spoonfuls of flour, with a quart of milk, and thre.'eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish at first, and stir it some minutes. A quick-made Pudding. Flour and suet half a pound each, four eggs, a quarter of a pint of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of raisins, ditto of currants; mix well and boil tliree quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or it will require longer. Itussian seed or ground Rice Pudding. Boil a large spoonful heaped, of either in a pint of new milk, with lemon-peel and cinnamon. WhenPUDDIAUS. 163 «)ld, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. caj£e with a crust round the dish. A WelsA Pudding. Let half a pound of fine butter melt gently, beat with It the yolks of eight and whites of four eggs, mix in SIX ounCM of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and nicely bake it. Oxford Dumplings. Of grated bread two ounces, cur-ints and shred suet four ounces each, two lar ..oonfuls of flour a great deal of grated lemon-, 1, a bit of sugar and a little pimento m fine powder. Mix with two eggs and a little milk into five dumplings, and fry of fane yellow brown._ Made with flour instead of bread, but half the quantity, they are excellent. Serve with sweet sauce. Suet Dumplings, Make as pudding (page ISS.';) and drop into boiling water, or into the boiling of beef; or you may boil them in a cloth. ■' Apple, Currmit, or Damson, Dumplings, or Pudding. f » basin with the paste tolerably thin ; fill with the fruit and cover it ; tie a cloth over tight, and boil till the fruit shall be done enougn. I east or Suffolk Dumplings. Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread, but with milk instead of water, and put salt. Let It rise an hour before the fire, 1 wenty minutes before yon are to serve, have ready a large stew-pan of boiling water; make the dough into balls, the size of a middlingapple ; throw them in and boil twenty minutes. Ifyou doubt wlietlier doneDOMESTIC COOKERY. 1G4 enougli, stick a clean fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is done. The way to eat them is to tear them apart on the top with two forks, for they become heavy by their own steam. Eat immediately with meat, or sugar and butter, or salt. A Charlotte. Cut as many very thin slices of white bread as will cover the bottom and line the sides of a baking- dish, but first rub it thick with butter. Put apples, in thin slices into the dish, in layers, till full, strewing sugar between and bits of butter. In the meantime soak as many thin slices of bread as will cover the whole, in warm milk, over which lay a plate, and a v/eight to keep the bread close on the apples. Bake slowly three hours. To a middling-sized dish use half a pound of butter in the whole. Common Pancahes. Make a light batter of eggs, flour, and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot dripping or lard. Salt, or nutmeg, and ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. Or when eggs are scarce, make the batter with flour and small beer, ginger, &c.; or clean snow with flour and a very little milk, will serve as well as egg. Fine Pancakes, fried without butter or lard. Beat six fresh eggs extremely well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, four ounces of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pan- cake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan tolerably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth ; then pour in the batter, to make thin pancakes. Pancakes of Rice. Boil half a pound of rice to a jelly in a small quantity of water ; when cold mix it with a pint of1&5 PUDDINGS. Bream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg : stir in eight ounces of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the batter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. Irish Pancakes. Beat eight yolks and four whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste ; set three ounces of fresh butter on the fire, stir it, and as it warms pour it to the crmm, which should be warm when the eggs are pu t to it ; then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour^ Fry the Pancakes very thin ; the first with a bit of" butter, but not the others. Serve several on one another. Neio-England Pancakes. Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt ; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. Send up six or eight at once. Friilers. Make them -of any of the batters directed for pancakes, by dropping a small quantity into the pan ; or make the plainer sort, and put pared apple sliced and cored into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice. Currants, or sliced lemon as thin as paper, make an agreeable change. Fritters for company should be served on n folded napkin in the dish. Any sort of sweetmeat, or ripe fruit, may be made into fritters. Spanish Fritters. Cut the crumb of a French roll into lengths, as ^ick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar, pounded cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry of a nice brown; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce.D05IESTIC COOKKEY. iG6 Potatoe FHtters. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew-pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them ; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert spoonful of peach-leaf or almond-water, and some white sugar warmed together: not to be served in the dish. Another way.—Slice Potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar sifted over them. Lemon-peel and a spoonful of orange- flower water, should be added to the batter. Jiockings. Mix three ounces of buck-wheat flour, with a tea-cupful of warm milk, and a spoonful of yeast; let it rise before the fire about an hour ; then mix four eggs well beaten, and as much milk as will make the batter the usual thickness for pancakes, and fry them the same. PASTRY. Pick Puff Paste. ' Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you judge necessary ; mi.x a little of tho former with the latter, and wet it with as little water 06 will make into a stiff paste. Roll it out, and put all the butter over it in slices, turn in the ends and roll it thin ; do this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided, 'fhe butter may be added at twice j and to those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. A quicker oven than for short crust.PASTRY. 107 A less rich Paste. Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten—of the former as little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Roll, and fold it three or four times. Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour, six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar ; work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hoi water as possible. Crust for Venison Pasty. To a quarter of a peck of fine flour use two pounds and a half of butter, and four eggs ; mix into paste with warm water, and work it smooth and to a good consistence. Put a paste round the inside, but not to the bottom of the dish, and let the cover be pretty thick, to bear the long continuance in the oven. Rice Paste for Stceets. Boil a quarter of a pound of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water ; strain from it all tho moisture as well as you can ; beat it in a mortar wit h half an ounce of butter, and one egg well beate*, and it will make an excellent paste for tarts, &c. Rice paste for relishing things. Clean and put some rice, with an onion and a little water and milk, or milk only, into a saucepan, and simmer till it swell. Put seasoned chops into a dish, and cover it with rice ; by the addition of an egg the rice will adhere better. Rabbits fricasseed, and covered thus are very good. Potatoe Paste. Pound boiled potatoes very fine, and add, while warm, a sufficiency of butter to make the mash hold together, or you may mix with it an egg ; then before it gets cold, flour the board pretty well to prevent it from sticking, and roll it to the thickness wanted.IG3 DOMESTIC COOKERY. if it is become quite cold before it be put on the dish, it will be apt to crack. Raised Criuts for Custards onr Fruit. Put four ounces of butter into a sauce-pan with water, and when it boils, pour it into as much flour as you choose ; knead and beat it till smooth ; cover it as in pa<;e 147. Baise it; and if for custard, put it paper within to keep out the sides till half done, then fill with a cold mixture of milk, egg, sugar, and a little peach-water, lemon-peel, or nutmeg, lly cold is meant tliatthe egg is not to be warmed, but the milk should be warmed by itself—not to spoil the crust. The above batter will make a great deal of raised crust, which must not be rich, or it will be difflcult to prevent the sides from falling. Excellent short crusts. Make two ounces of white sugar, pounded and sifted, quite dry ; then mix it with a pound of flour well dried ; rub into it three ounces of butter, so fine as not to be seen—into some cream put the yolks of two eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste ; roll it thin, and bake it in a moderate oven. Another.—Mix with a pound of fine flour dried, an ounce of sugar pounded and sifted ; then crumble three ounces of butter in it, till it looks all like flour, and with a gilj of boiling cream, work it up to a fine paste. Another, not sweet, but rich.—Rub six ounces of butter in eight ounces of fine flour : mix into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible ; beat it well, and roll it thin. This, as well as the former, is proper for tarts of fresh or preserved fruits. Bake in a moderate oven. A very fine Crust for Orange-cheesecakes, or Sweet meats when tobe particularly nice. Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it threePASTRV. 169 ounces of refined sugar ; then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it come to froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strained, the yolks of three and whites of two If too limber, put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your pattypans, and fill. \ little above fifteen minutes will bake them. Against they come out, have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. Salt butter will make a very fine flaky crust; but if for mince-pies, or any sweet things, should be wa-shed. Ob.^ervations on Pastry. An adept in pastry never leaves any part of it adhering to the board, or dish used in making. It is best when rolled on marble, or a very large slate. In very hot weather, the butter should be put into cold water to keep it as firm as possible ; and if made early in the morning and preserved from the air until it is to be baked, the cook will find it much better. A good hand at pastry will use much less butter, and produce lighter crust than others. Salt butter, if very good, and well washed, makes a fine flaky crust. Piemarks on usinypreserved Fruit in Pastry. Preserved fruits should not be baked long ; those that liave been done with their full proportion of sugar, need no baking ^ the crust should be baked in a tin shape, and the fruit be afterwards added ; or it may be put into a small dish, or tart-pans, and the covers be baked on a tin, cut out according to your taste. Apple Pie. Pare and core the fruit, having wified th outside ; which, with the cores, boil with a little water till it170 DOMESTIC COOKERY. tastes well ; strain, and put a little sugar, and a bit of braised cinnamon, and simmer again. In the mean- time place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge; when one layer is in, sprinkle half the sugar and shred lemon-peel, and squeeze some juice, ora glass of cider if the apples have lost their spirit; put in the rest of the apples, sugar, and the liquor that you liave boiled. Cover with paste. You may add some butter when cut, if eaten hot ; or put quince-marmalade, orange-paste, or cloves, to flavour. Hot Apple Pie.—Make with the fruit, sugar, and a clove, and put a bit of butter in when cut open. Cherry Pie Should have a mixture of other fruit; currants or raspberries, or both. Currant Pie. With or without raspberries. Mince Pie. Of scraped beef free from skin and strings, weigh two pounds, four pounds of suet picked and chopped, then add six pounds of currants nicely cleaned and perfectly dry, three pounds of chopped apples, the ))eel and juice of two lemons, a pint of sweet wine, a nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of cloves, ditto mace, ditto pimento, in finest powder ; press the whole into a deep pan when well mixed, and keep it covered in a dry cool place. Half the quantity is enough, unless for a very large family. Have citron, orange, and lemon-peel ready, and put some of each in the pies when made. Mince Pies without Meat. Of the best apples six pounds, pared, cored, and minced ; of fresh suet, and raisins stoned, each three pounds, likewise minced ; to these add of mace and cinnamon a quarter of an ounce each, and eightPASTKY. 171 cloves in finest powder, three pounds of the finest powder sugar, three quarters of an ounce of salt, the rinds of four, and juice of two lemons, half a pint of port, the same of brandy. Mix well, and put into a deep pan. Have ready washed and dried four pounds of cur- rants, and add as you make the pies, with candied fruit. Lemon Mince Pies. Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it three large apples chopped, and four ounces of suet, half a pound of currants, four ounces of sugar ; put the juice of the lemon, and candied fruit as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the pattypans as usual. jEyg Minee Pies. Boil six eggs hard, shred them small ; shred double the quantity of suet: then put currants washed and picked one pound, or more, if the eggs were large j the peel of one lemon shred very fine, and the juice, six spoonfids of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very lit Me salt: orange, lemon and citron, candied. Make a light paste for them. Currant and Raspberry. For a tart, line the dish, put sugar and fruit, lay bars across and bake. Light Paste for Tarts and Cheesecakes. Beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; then mix it with as much water as will make three quar- ters of a pound of fine flour into a very stiff paste ; roll it very thin, then lay the third part of half a pound of butter upon it in little bits ; dredge it with some flour left out at first, and roll it up tight. Roil It out again, and put the same proportion of butter ■, and so proceed till all be worked up.DOMHSriC COOKERY. 172 Icing for Tarts. Beat the yolk of an efig and some melted butter ■well together, wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over as you put them in the oven. Or beat white of egg, wash the paste, and sift white sugar. Pippin Tarts. Pare thin two Seville or China oranges ; boil, the peel tender, and shred it fine ; pare and core twenty apples, put them in a stew-pan, and as little water as possible; when half done, add half a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put in a shallow dish, or patty- pans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. Prime Tart. Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them ; put the kernels into a little cranberry juice, with the prunes and sugar; simmer ; and when cold, make a tart of the sweetmeat. Orange Tart. Squeeze, pulp, and boil, two Seville oranges tender; weigh them, and double of sugar ; beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and >)eat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it. You may ice it. Codlin Tart. Scald the fruit as will be directed under that article; when ready take off the thin skin, and lay them whole in a dish, put a little of the water that the apples were boiled in at bottom, strew them over with lump sugar or fine Lisbon ; when cold, put a paste round the edges and over. You may wet it with white of egg, and strew sugar over, v^hich looks well: or cut the lid in quarters,173 PASTRr. vrithont touching the paste on the edge of the dish ; and either put the broad end downwards, and make the point stand up, or remove the lid altogether. Pour a good custard over it when cold ; sift sugar over. Or, line the bottom of a shallow dish with paste, lay the apples in it, sweeten, and lay little twists of paste over in bars. Ithubard Tart. Cut the stalks in lengths of four or five inches, and take off the thin skin. If you have a hot hearth, lay them in a dish, and put over a thin syrup of sugar and water, cover with another dish, and let it simmer very slowly an hour, or do them in a block-tin sauce- pan. When cold make into a tart, as codlin. When tender, the baking the crust will be sufficient. Raspberry Tart with Cream. Roil ciut some thin puff paste, and lay it in a patty- jmn of what size you choose ; put in raspberries ; strew over them fine sugar ; cover with a thin lid, and then bake. Cut it open, and have ready the following mixture warm : half a pint of cream, the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, and a little sugar ; and when this is added to the tart, return it to the oven for five or six minutes. Orange Tart. Line a tart pan with thin puff pa.ste ; put into it orange marmalade that is made with apple jelly ; lay bars of paste, or a croquant cover over, and bake in a moderate oven. Fried Patties. Mince a bit of cold veal, and six oysters, mix with a few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a very small bit of lemon-peel, add the liquor of the oysters ; warm all in a tosser, but don't boil, let it go174 DOMESTIC COOKERY. cold ; liave ready a good puff paste, roll thin, and cut it in round or square bits ; put some of the above between two of them, twist the edges to keep in the gravy, and fry them of a fine brown. Tliis is a very good thing ; and baked, is a fashion- able dish. Wash all patties over with egg before baking. Oyster Patties. Put a fine puff paste into small patty-pans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each ; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few mu lutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties, to keep them hollow while baking. Lobster Patties. Make with the same seasoning, a little cream, and the smallest bit of butter. Podovies, or Beef Patties. Shred underdone dressed beef with a little fat, season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot or onion. Make a plain paste, roll it thin, and cut it in shape like an apple puff, fill it with the mince, pinch the edges, and fry them of a nice brown. The paste should be made with a small quantity of butter, egg, and milk. Veal Patties. Mince some veal that is not quite done, with a little parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat; and if you have any ham, scrape17f» PASTRY. A little and add to it. Don’t warm it till the patties are baked. Turkey Patties. Mince some of the white part, and with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a very little bit of butter warmed, till the patties. Sweet Patties. Chop the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, of which you use the liquor for jelly, two apples, one ounce of orange, and lemon-peel candied, and some fresh peel and juice, mix with them half a nutmeg grated, the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of brandy, and four ounces of currants washed and dried. Bake in small patty-pans. Patties resembling Mince Pies. Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. Apple Puffs. Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel shred fine, taking as little of the apple-juice as yon can. Bake tliem in thin paste in a quick oven ; a quarter of an hour will do them if small. Orange or quince marmalade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded, or orange-flower water in change. Lemon Pujffs. Beat and sift a pound and a quarter of double-re- fined sugar ; grate the rind of two large lemons, and mix it well with the sugar ; then beat the whites of three new-laid eggs a great while, add them to the sugar and peel, and beat it for an hour ; make it u p in any sliape you please, and bake it on paper put oq176 DOMESTIC COOKERY. tin plates, in a moderate oven. Don’t remove the paper till cold. Oiling the paper will make it corns off with ease. Cheese Puffs. Strain cheese curd from the whey, and beat half a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, with a spoonful and a half of flour, three eggs, but only one white, a spoonful of orange-flower water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and sugar to make it pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes, on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a quarter of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding sauce. Excellent Light Puffs. Mi.v two spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon peel, some nutmeg, half a spoonful of brandy, a little loaf-sugar, and one egg ; then fry it enough, but not brown ; beat it in a mortar with five eggs, whites and yolks ; put a quantity of lard in a frying-pan, and when quite hot, drop a dessert spoonful of batter at a time ; turn as they brown. Serve them imme- diately, with sweet sauce. To pTcpare Venison for Pasty. Take the bones out, then season and beat the meat, lay it into a stone jar in large pieces, pour upon it some plain drawn-beef gravy, but not a strong one, lay the bones on the top, then set the jar in a water- bath, that is a sauce-pan of water over the fire, sim- mer three or four hours—then leave it in a cold place till next day. Remove the cake of fat, lay the meat in handsome pieces on the dish ; if not suCficiently seasoned, add more pepper, salt, or pimento as necessary. Put some of the gravy, and keep the remainder for the time of serving. If the venison be thus prepared, it will not require so much time to b.ake, or such a very thick crust as is usual, and by which the under part is seldom done through.rAS"i'kv. 177 Venison Pasty. A shoulder boned makes a f^ood pasty, but it mnst be beaten and seasoned, and the want of fat supplied by that of a fine well-lmng loin of mutton, steeped twenty-four hours in equal parts of rape, vinegar, and port. The shoulder being sinewy, it will be of advantage to rub it well with sugar for two or three days, and when to be used wipe it perfectly clean from it, and tlie wine, A mistake u.sed to prevail, that venison could not be baked too much ; but, as above directed, three or four hours in a slow oven will be sufficient to make it tender, and the flavour will be preserved. Either in a shoulder or side, the meat must be cut in pieces, and laid with fat between, that it may be propor- tioned to each person, without breaking up the pasty to find it. Lay some pepper and s.alr. at the bottom of the dish, and some butter j then the meat nicely packed, that it may be sufficiently done, but not lie hollow to harden at the edges. The venison bones should be boiled with some fine old mutton—of this gravy put half a pint cold into the dish ; then lay butter on the venison, and cover ns well as line the sides with a thick crust, but don’t j)ut one under the meat. Keep the remainder of the gravy till the pasty comes from the oven ; put it into the middle by a funnel, quite hot, and shake the dish to mix well. It should be seasoned with pepper and 6nlt. To 7iuilu‘ a pasty of Beef or Mutton, to eat as icell as Venison. Bone a small rump or a piece of sirloin of beef, or a fat loin of mutton, after hanging several days. Beat it very well with a rolling-pin ; then mb ten pounds of meat with four ounces of sugar, and pour over it >i glass of port, and the same of vinegar. Let it lie five days and nights ; wash and wipe the meat very 70 NDOMESTIC COOKUnr. 178 dry, and season it very high with pepper, Jamaica pepper, nutmeg, and salt. Lay it in your dish, and to ten pounds put one pound or near of butter, spreading it over the meat. Put a crust round the edges, and cover with a thick one, or it will be over done before the meat be soaked—it must be done in a slow oven. Set the bones in a pan in the oven, with no more water than will cover them, and one glass of port, a little pepper and salt, that you may have a little rich gravy to add to the paste when drawn. Note.—Sugar gives a greater shortness, and better flavour to meats than salt, too great a quantity of which hardens—and it is quite as great a preservaiive. Potatoe Pasty. Boil, peel, and mash po tatoes as fine as possible ; mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of but- ter. Make a paste ; roll it out thin like a large pufi , and put in the potatoe ; fold over one half, piuchiug the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. Cheap and excellent Custards. Boil three pints of new milk, with a bit of lemon- peel, a bit of cinnamon, two or three bay-leaves, and sweeten it. Meanwhile rub dowm smooth a largo spoonful of nce-flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix with it two yolks of eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boiling milk, and mix with cold, and then pour that to the boiling ; stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up ; then pour it into a pan, stir it some time, add a large spoonful of peach-water, two tea-spoon- fulsot brandy, or a little ratafia. Marbles boiled ie. custard, or any thing likely to burn, will, by shaking them in the sauce-pan, prevent it from catching. Richer Custard. Boil a pint of milk with lemou-peel and cinnamon ; Bii.v a pint of cream, and the yolks of five eggs wellPASTRY. 173 hi aten ; when the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a sim- mer till of a proper thickness. Dont’ let it boil ; stir the whole time one way ; season as above. If to be extremely rich, put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. JBiiked Custard. Boil one pint of cream, half a pint of milk ; with mace, cinnamon, and lemon-peel, a little of each. When cold, mix the volks of three eggs ; sweeten and make your cup- or paste nearly fulL Bake them ten hiinutes. Lemon Custards. Beat the yolks of eight eggs till they are as white its milk ; then put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of two lemons grated, and the juice sweet- ened to your taste. Stir it on the fire till thick enough ; then add a large glass of rich wine, and lialf a glass of brandy ; give the whole one scald, and put it in cups to be eaten cold. Almond Custard. Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with n spoonful of water ; beat a pint of cream with two spoonfuls of rose-water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet ; then add the almonds ; stir it all over a slow fire till it is of a proper thickness ; but don't buih Pour it into cups. Cheesecakes. Strain the whey from the curd of two quarts of milk ; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with six ounces of fresh butter, one ounce of pounded blanched almonds, a little orange- flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, four ounces of currants, some nutmeg andDOMESTIC COOKERY. IRO cinnamon, in fine powder, and beat all tlie above with three eprgs, and lialf a pint of cream, till quite light; then fill the pattypans three parts full. A plainer sort. Turn three quarts of milk to curd, break it, and drain the whey : when dry, break it in a pan, with two ounces of butter, till perfectly smooth ; put to it a pint and a half of thin cream, or good milk, and add sugar, cinnamon, nutmeg, and three ounces of currants. Cheesecakes, another icay. Mix the curd of three quarts of milk, a pound of currants, twelve ounces of Lisbon sugar, a quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, ditto of nutmeg, the peel of one lemon chopped so fine that it becomes a paste, the yolks of eight and whites of six eggs, a pint of ^calded cream, and a glass of brandy. Put alight thin puff paste in the pattypans, and three parts fill them. Lemon Cheesecakes. Mix four ounces of sifted lump-sugar, and four ounces of butter, and gently melt it; then add the yolks of two and the white of one egg, the rind of three lemons shred fine, and the juice of one and a half, one Savoy biscuit, some blanched almonds pounded, three Spoonfuls of brandy ; mix well, and put in paste made as follows; eight ounces of flour, six ounces of butter, two-thirds of which mix with the flour first, then wet it with si.x spoonfuls of water and roll the remainder in. Another way.—hioU. two large lemons, or three small ones, and after squeezing, pound them well together in a mortar, with four ounces of loaf-sugar, the yolks of six eggs, and eight ounces of fresh but- ter. Fill the pattypans half full. Orange cheesecakes are done the same tray, only you must boil the peel in two or three waters to takePASTRY. 181 nnt the bitterness, or make them of orange marmalade well beaten in a mortar. Orange Cheesecakes. When you have blanched half a pound of almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and Iwilf a pound of fine sugar beaten and sifted, a pound of butter that has been melted carefully without oiling, and which must be nearly cold before you use it; thou beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs ; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitter- ness boiled out, in a mortar till as tender as marmalade, without any lumps ; and beat the whole together, and put into pattypans. Potatoe Cheesecakes. Boil six ounces of potatoes, and four ounces of lemon-peel; beat the latter in a marble mortar witli four ounces of sugar, then add the potatoes, beaten, and four ounces of butter melted in a little cream. When well mixed, let it stand to grow cold. Put crust in pattypans, and rather more than half fill them. Bake in a quick oven half an hour, sifting some double- refined sugar on them when going to the oven. This quantity will make a dozen. Almond Cheesecakes. Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, writh a spoonful of water ; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quick as possible ; put into very small pattypans, and bake in a pretty warm oven under twenty minutes. Another way.—Blanch and pound four ounces of almonds, with a little orange-flower, or rose-water ; then stir in the yolks of six and whites of three eggs ■well beaten, five ounce of butter warmed, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice ; sweeten with fine Lisbon sugar. When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pans.T)OiI :-;ST1C COOK KilY. IS-’ Another way.—Vress the whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small ones ; then put it on the back of a sieve, and with half an ounce of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon ; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds, pounded with as much sugar as will make the curd properly sweet: mix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a glassof brandy. Put a puff paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. Dough Nuts. Rub a quarter of a pound of butter into a pound of flour, then add five ounces of sugar, two eggs, about a dessert-spoonful of yeast, and sufficient milk to make it into a stiff paste. Let it stand to rise, then roll it out, and cut it into shapes, with a paste-cutter, and boil them in lard, till they are of a nice brown colour. A Tipsy Cake. Put a sponge-cake into a deep China or glass dish, pour round it some white wine (raisin is very suit- able), and a wine-glass of brandy. Let the cakes soak up the wine, and then strew sifted sugar over it, and pour in the dish a rich thick custard. Omar ment the top of the cake by sticking a light flower in the centre, or bits of clear currant-jelly, or blanch and split some sweet almonds, and stick them thickly over the cake. Royal Paste,called “Au Choux.” This paste is the basis of many sorts of pastry ; it is used to mix an infinite number of second-course dishes of various forms, and of ditterent denomina- tions. Take a stew-pan large enough to contain four quarts of water, pour half a pint of water into it, with a quarter of a pound or a little more of fresh butter, two ounces of sugar, a little salt, and the peel of a lemon ; let the whole boil till the butter is entirely melted. Then take some very fine dry flourI’AST R7. 13S nnd shake it through a sieve. Take the lemon-peel ont with a ladle, and throw a handful of flour into the preparation while boiling; take care, however, not to put more flour than the liquor can soak up. Stir with a Avooden spoon till the paste can easily be detached from the stew-pan, and then take it off the lire. Ne.Kt break an egg into this paste, and mix it well ; then break a second, which also mix ; do not put more eggs than tlie paste can absorb, but you must be careful not to make this preparation too liquid. It is almost certain, that about five or six eggs will be wanted for tlie above quantity ; then form them en choux, by which is meant, in the shape of a ball an inch in circumference. As this paste swells very much, you must dress it accordingly, putting the choux on a baking sheet, at an inch distant from each other, in order that they may undergo a greater effect in the oven. Brush them over as usual with the dorure or egg wash, to wliich has been added a little milk. Put them into an oven moderately hot, but do not open the oven till they are quite baked, otherwise they would flatten, and all attempts to make them rise again would be useless: next dry them. Somtimes you may glaze them ; at other times you may send them up without being glazed. To detach them from the baking sheet, apply the sharp edge of your knife, and take them off gently. Then make a small opening on the side, into which put, with a tea-spoon such sweetmeats as you think proper, and send them up dished en buisson. N. B.—Be cautious to smell every egg, before you use it, for a bad one would spoil the whole. *„* This elegant receipt is extracted from “The French Cook,” by Mr. Ud»-184 nOMiiSTU; COOKKP./. PART VII. VEGETABLES. Observatioru on Dressing Vegetables. VEGETABLiiS should be carefully cleaned from in- sects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of v/ater, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat ; which is wrong, except carrots with boiling beef. To boil Vegetables green. Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don’t cover, but watch them ; and if the water has not slackened, you may he sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediately or the color will change. Hard water, especially if cMybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be green. To boil them green in hard water, put a tea- spoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are put in. Vegetable Marroio.—To boil or stew. This excellent vegetable may be boiled as asparagus. When boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it up on a toast accompanied by melted butter ; or when nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. To keep Green Peas. Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give them two or three warms only, and pourvr.fjETAnLi-;3. la'j tliem into a colander. When the water drains off, tarn them out on a dresser covered with cloth, and pour them on another cloth to dry perfectly. Then Lottie them in wide-monthed bottles ; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton-snet upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down ; and keep it in the cellar or in the earth, as will be directed for gooseberries, under the head of keejnng for Winter. —When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. Another way, as practised in the emperor of Jiussia's kitchen.— ^\'hen they are to be used, let them lie an hour in water ; then set them on with cold water and a bit of butter, and boil them till ready. Put a sprig of dried mint to boil with them. Boiled Peas Should not be overdone, nor in much water. Chop some scalded mint to garnish them, and stir a piece of butter in with them. To stew Oreen Peas. Put a quart of peas, a lettuce and an onion both sliced,a liit of butter, pepper, salt, and no more water than hangs round the lettuce from washing. Stew them two hours very gently. When to be served, beat up an egg, and stir it into them : or a little flour and butter. Some think a tea-spoonful of white powdered sugar is an improvement. Gravy may be added, but then there will le'S of the flavour of the peas. Chop a bit of mint, and stew them. To stew old Peas. Stew them in water all night, if not fine boilers ■, otherwise only half an hour: put them into rvater enough just to cover them, with a good bit of butter, or a piece of beef or pork. Stew them very gently till the peas are soft, and the meat is tender ; if it is not186 DOMESTIC C00I:EUY. Balt meat, add salt and a little pepper. Serve them round the meat. To Dress Artichokes- Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If joung, half an hour will boil them. They are better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve them with melted butter, in as many small cups as there are artichokes, to help with each. Artichoke Bottoms. If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream sauce ; or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. Jerusalem Artichokes Must be taken np the moment they are done, or they will be too soft. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricassee sauce. To Slew Cucumbers. Slice them thick ; or halve and divide them into two lengths ; strew some salt and pepper, and sliced onions: add a little broth or a bit of butter. Simmer very slowly ; and before serving, if no butter was in before, put some and a little Hour ; or if tnere was butter in, only a little flour, unless it wants richness. Another joay.—Slice the onions, and cut the cu- cumbers large ; flour them, and fry them in some butter ; then pour some good broth or gravy, and etew them till done enough. Skim off the fat. To Stew Onions. Feel six large onions, fry gently of a fine brown, but do not blacken them ; then put them into a small ■stew-pan with a little weak gravy, pepper and salt ; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured at first.187 VECETABr.ES. Hoasf. Onions Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter ; or with roast potatoes or with beet-roots. So Stew Celery, Wash six heads and strip of their outer leaves, either halve or leave them whole, according to their size ; cut into lengths of four inches. Put them into a stew pan with a cup of broth or weak white gravy ; stew till tender, then add two spoonfuls of cream, and a little flour and butter, seasoned v/ith pepper, salt, and nutmeg, and simmer all together. To boil Cauli/lowers. Choose those that are close and white, cut off the green leaves, and look carefully that there are no caterpillars about the stalk. Soak an hour in cold v/ater, then boil them in milk and water, and take care to skim the sauce-pan, that not the least foul- ness may fall on the flower. It must be served very white, and rather crimp. Cauliflower in white Sauce. Half boil it, then cut it into handsome pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan, with a little broth, a bit of mace, a little salt, and a dust of white pepper ; simmer half an hour, then put a little cream, butter, and flour ; shake and simmer a few minute.s, and serve. To dress Cauliflower and Parmesan. Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the stalks so that the flower will stand upright about two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes ; then dish it with the sauce round, and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it jwith a salamander.:88 DOMESTIC COOKERY. To dress Broccoli. Cut the heads with short stalks, and pare the tough skin ofT them. Tie the small shoots into hunches, and boil them a shorter time than the heads. Some salt must be put into the water. Serve with or without toast. Spinach Requires great care in washing and picking it. _ When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close, 'i'he pan must he set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small hit of butter: it must come to table pretty dry, and looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin-shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. To dress Beans. Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, which must be chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must he served to eat with, but not boiled with them. Fricasseed Windsor Beans. When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay them in a white sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use them for this dish. French Beans. String, and cut them into four or eight; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve them immediately, to prt^ serve the green colour.—Or when half-done, drain the water off, and put them into two spoonfuls of broth strained ; and add a little cream, butter aud flour, to finish doing them.VEG ETAFI.KS. To stcxo red Cabbage. Slice a small, or half a large red cabbage, wash and put it into a sauce-pan with pepper, salt, no water but what hangs about it, with a piece of butter. Stew till quite temler ; and when going to serve, add two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and give one boil over the tire. Serve it for cold meat, or with sausages on it. Aiwther \cag.—Shred the cabbage, wash it, and pnt it over a slow fire, with slices of onion, pepper and salt, and a little plain gravy. When quite tender, and a few minutes before serving, add a bit of butter rubbed with flour, and two or three spoonfuls of vinegar, and boil up. Another.—Cut the cabbage very thin, and put it into the stew-pan with a small slice of ham, and half an ounce of batter at the bottom, half a pint of broth, and a gill of vinegar. Let it stew eovered three hours. When it is very tender add a little more broth, salt, pepper, and a table-spoonful of pounded sugar. Mix these well, and boil them all till the liquor is wasted ; then put it into the dish, and lay fried sausages on it. Mmhrooms. The cook should be perfectly acquainted with the clifferent sorts of things called by this name by igno- rant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly using the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. Tliey grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases the under part gradually opens, and s-hews a fringy fur of a very tine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mushroom has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges aird middle. Those that have white oryellew fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort.DOMESTIC COOKEHT. too To stew Mushrooms. Tlie large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannel, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stew-pan with some pepper corns ; simmer slowly till done, then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream ; give them one boil, and serve with sippets of bread. To Stew Sorrel for Fricandeaii and Roast Meat. Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. | French Salad. Chop three anchovies, a shaiot, and some parsley, j small ; put them into a howl with tw'O table-spoon- | falsof vinegar, one of oil, a little mustard, and salt. When well mixed, add by degrees some cold roast or ] boiled meat in very thin slices ; put in a few at a ' time, not exceeding two or three inches long. Shake i them in the seasoning, and then put more ; cover the bowl close, and let the salad be prepared three hours before it is to be eaten. Garnish witii parsley, ami a few slices of the fat.. Lobster Salad. i Miike a salad, and put some of the red part of the lobster to it, cut. This forms a pretty contrast to the white and green of the vegetables. Do not put much oil, as shell-fish absorb the sharpness of the vinegar. Serve in a dish, not a bowl. To boil Potatoes. Set them on a fire, without paring them, in cold water ; let them half boil, then throw some salt ir<, and a pint of cold water, and let them boil again till almost done. Pour off the water, and put a clear.lai vegetables. cloth over them, and then tlie sance-pan cover, and set them by the fire to steam till ready. Many persons prefer steamers. Potatoes look best when the skin IS peeled, not cut. Do new potatoes the same, but be careful they are taken off in time, or they will be watery. Before dre.'sing, rub off the skin with a cloth and salt, and then wash. To broil Potatoes. Parboil, then slice and broil them. Or parboil, and then set them whole on the gridiron over a very alow fire, and when thorouuhly done send them up with their skins on. This last way is practised in many Irish families. 2'o roast Potatoes. Half boil, take off the thin peel, and roa.st them of a beautiful brown. To fry Potatoes. Take the skin off raw potatoes, slice and fry then:, either in butter or thin batter. To mash Potatoes. Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to pa.'te ; then to two pounds of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and two ounces of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them in this manner, or phice them on the dish in a form, and then brown the top with a salamander, or in scallops. Carrots Require a good deal of boiling. When young, wipe eff the skin after they are boiled ; when old, bod them with the salt meat, and scrape them first. 2'o slew Carrots. Half boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a atew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weaki92 DOMESTIC COOKERY. broth, some pepper and salt, and half a capful of cream ; simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving, rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If a;>- I'roved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before served. To mash Parsnips. Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them into a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butler, and pepper and salt. Fricassee of Parsnips. Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them length- ways into bits two or three inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of two spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, pepper, and salt. To dress Curdoons. Cut them into pieces of six inches long, and put on a string ; boil till tender, and have ready a piece of j butter in a pan ; flour, fry them brown, and serve. Or tie them into bundles, and serve as asparagus boiled, on toast, and pour butter over. Or boil, and then heat them up in fricassee-sauce. Or boil in salt and water, dry, then dip them into butter, and fry them. Serve with melted butter. . Or stew them ; boil as directed in the last page ; toss them up with a white or brown pavy, add Cay- enne, ketchup, and salt. Thicken with a bit of butter and flour. Beet-Roots Make a very pleasant addition to winter-salad, of which they may agreeably form a full half, instead of being only used to ornament it. This root is cooling, and very wholesome. It is extremely good boiled, and sliced with a smail quantity of onion ; or stewed with whole onions, large or small, as follows :—VnUETABLES. 193 Boil the beet tender with the skin on, slice it into a stew-pan with a little broth, and a spoonful of vinegar ; simmer till the gravy is tingedwith the colour, then put it iirto a small dish, and make a round of the button-onions, first boiled till tender, take off the skin just before serving, and mind they are quite hot and clear. Or roast three large onions, and peel off the outer skins till they look clear, and serve the beet-root stew- ed round them. If beet-root is in the least broken before dressed, it parts with its colour, and looks ill. Frying Herbs, as dressed in Staffordshire. Clean and drain a good quantity of spinach-leaves, two large handfuls of parsley, and a handful of green onions. Chop the parsley and onions, and sprinkle them among the spinach. Set them all on to stew with some s^t, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut, shake the pan when it begins to grow warm, and let it be closely covered over a slow stove till done enough. It is served with slices of broiled calves’-liver, small rashers of bacon, and eggs fried ; tlie latter on the herbs, the other in a separate dish. Sea-Cule Must be boiled very white, and served on toast like a.sparagu3. Laver. This is a plant that gro’.vs on the rocks near the sea in the west of England, and is sent in pots prepared for eating. Set some of it on a dish over a lamp, with a bit of butter, and the squeeze of of a Seville orange. Stir it till hot. It is eaten with roast meat, and is a great sweetener of the blood. It is seldom liked at first, but people become extremely fond of it by habit. 70 ODOMESTIC COOKERY. Topresene several Vegetables io eat in ^Vinter. For French beans, pick them young, and throw into a little wooden keg a layer of them tliree incliea deep ; then sprinkle them with salt, put another layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, > alternately with salt, but not loo much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beaus and salt. If they are too .salt, the ^ soaking and boiling will not be suBicienttomake them pleasant to the buste. Wlien they are to be eaten, cut, soak, and boil them as if fresln Cai~rots, Parsnips, and JBeet-roots, should be kept in layers of dry sand for winter use ; and neither they nor potatoes should be cleared from the earth. I’ota- toes should be carefully kept from frost. Stos'e-onions keep best hung up in a dry cold room. Parsley siiouid be cut close to the stalks ; and dried in a warm room, or on tins in a very cool oven : it presen’es its flavour and colour, and is very useful in winter. Artichoke bottoms, slowly dried, should be kept in paper bags; I'riiffies, Morels, Lemun-peel, Sac. in a dry place, ticketed. Small close Cabbages, laid on a stone floor before the frost sets in, will blanch and be very tine, after many weeks’ keeping. PICKLES. Rules to be observed with Pickles. Keep them closely covered ; and have a wooden spoon, with holes, lied to each jar ; all mettle being improper. They should be well kept from the air ; the large jars be seldom opetied ; and small ones, for the difl'erent pickles in use, should be kept for common I supply, into which what is not eaten may be returned, I and the top closely covered. i Adds dissolve the lead that is in the tinuing ofTICKLES. 195 Oamiepans. '\\'hen necessary to boil vinegar, do it in a stone jar on the hot hearth. Pickles should never be put into glazed jars, as salt and vinegar |ienetrate the glaze, which is poisonous. Lemon Pickle. Wipe six lemons, cut each into eight pieces ; put on them a pound of salt, six large cloves of garlick, two ounces of horse-radish sliced thin, likewise of cloves, mace, nutmeg and Cayenne, a quarter of an ounce each, and two ounces of dour of mustard ; to these put two quarts of Wiiegar. Boil a quarter of an hour in a well-tinned saucepan ; or which is better, do it in a strong jar, in a kettle of boiling water ; or set the jar on the hot hearth till done. Set the jar by, and stir it daily for six weeks ; keep the jar close covered. Put it into small bottles. Indian Pickle. Lay a pound of white ginger in water one night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt in a pan till the other ingredients shall be ready. Peel, slice, and salt a pound of garlick three days, then put it in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper in the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus : Quarter small white cabbages, salt three days, st^ueeze and set them in the sun to dry. Caulidowers cut in their branches; take off the green from the radishes ; cut celery in three-inch lengths ; ditto young French beans whole, likewise the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, choose of the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters, if not too large. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter ; over which you must pour boiling vinegar, and in twelve hours drain them, but no salt must be nstd. Put the spice, garlick, a quarter of a pound ofDOMESTIC COOKERY. 1,06 umstard-seed, and as .much vinegar as you think enough for the quantity you are to pickle, into a large Bione jar, and one ounce of turmeric, to be ready against the vegetables shall be dried. When they are ready, observe the following directions;—Put some of them into a two-quart stone jar, and pour over them one quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables ; and when drained, pni them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over some more of the vegetables ; let them lie a night, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from the dust which must inevitably fall on them by being so long in doing ; then to every gallon of vinegar put two ounces of hour Of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should have been previously scalded, hut left to be cold before it was put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year ; but you m.ay make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower one scald in water, after salting and drying as above, but without the pre- parative vinegar ; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlick, boiling liot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled pro- perly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. JEncjluh Bamboo. Cut the large shoots of elder, which put out in the middle of May, (the middle stalks are mo.st tender :) take off the outward peel, or skin, and lay them in salt and water very strong, one night. Dry them piece by piece in a cloth. Have in readiness a pickle thus made and boiled ; to a quart of vinegar put an ounce of white pepper, an ounce of sliced ginger, a little mace and pimento, and pour boiling on the elder shoots, in a stone jar ; stop close, and set by the fire two hours, turning the jar often, to keep it scalding197 PICKLK3. hot. If net green when cold, strain off the liquor, Biid pour boiling hot again ; keep it hot as before. Or if you intend to make Indian pickle, the above shoots are a great improvement to it ; in which case you need only pour boiling vinegar and mustard- seed on them ; and keep them tilt your jar of pickles shall be ready to receive them. The cluster of elder flowers, before it opens, makes a delicious pickle t o eat with boiled mutton. It is only done by pouring boiling vinegar over. Melon Mangoes. Tliere is a particular sort for this purpose, which the gardeners know. Cut a square small piece ont of one side, and through that takeout the seeds, ami mix with them mustard-seeds and shred garlick ; stuff the melon as full as the space will allow, and replace the square piece. Bind it up with a small new pack thread. Boil a good quantity of vinegar to allow for wasting, with pepper, salt, ginger, and pour boiling hot over the mangoes four successive (lavs; the last, put flour of mustard, and scraped horse-radish into the vinegar just as it boils up. Stop close. Ob- serve that there is plenty of vinegar. All pickles are spoiled if not well covered. Mangoes should be done soon after they are gathered. Large cucumbers, called green turley, prepared as mangoes, are excel- lent, and come sooner into eating. ' Mark, the greater number of times boiling vinegar is poured over either sort, the sooner it wdll be ready. PicJded Leinmis. They should be small, and with thick rind ; mb them with a piece of flannel ; then slit them half down in four quarters, but not through to the pulp : fill the slits with salt hard pressed in, set them up- right in a pan for four or five days, until the salt melts ; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid,1 igr, domestic COOKETIT. until tender ; make enough pickle to cover them, of rape vinegar, the brine of the lemons, Jamaica pepper and ginger ; boil and skim it ; when cold, put it to the lemons, with two ounces of mustard-seed, and two cloves of garlick to six lemons. When the lemons are used, the pickle will be useful in fish or other sauces. Olives Are of three kinds, Italian, Spanish, and French, of different sizes and flavour ; each sort should be firm, though some are mo fleshy I’reserve them from the air. Pickled Onions. In the month of September, choose the small white round onions, take off the brown skin, have ready a very nice tin stew-pan of boiling water, throw in as many onions as will cover the top ; os soon as they look clear on the outside, take them up as qu ick as possible with a slice, and lay them on a clean cloth, cover them close with another, and scald some more, and so on. Let them lie to be cold, then put them in a jar, or glass, or wide-mouthed bottles, and pour over them the best white wine vinegar, just hot but not boiling. When cold, cover them. Should the outer skin shrivel, peel it off. They must look quite clear. To pickle Cncunihers and Onions sliced. Cut them in slices, and sprinkle salt over them • next day drain them for five or si.x hours ; then put them into a stone jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, and keep them in a w.arm place. The slices should be thick. Repeat the boiling vinegar, and stop them up again instantly ; and so on till green ; the last time put pepper and ginger. Keep in small stone jars.nCKl.RS. iS9 0 To Pickle young Cucumherx, Chrvose nice yomig gherkins, spread them on dishes, salt them, and let them lie a week—drain them, and putting them in a jar, pour boiling vinegar over them, tSet them near the fire, covered with plenty of vine- leaves ; if they do not become a tolerable good green pour the tanegar into another jar, set it over the hot hearth, and when it boils pour it over them again, covering with fresh leaves ; and thus do till they are of as good a colour as yon wish ;—but as it is now known that the very fine green pickles are made so by using brass or bell-metal vessels, wTiich, when vinegar is pul into them, become highly poisonous, few peopla like to eat them. ‘ > k To pickle WnJmits. When they will bear a pin to go into them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an eg^ on them, being quite cold first. It mnst be well skimmed while boiling. Let them soak six days ; then change the brine, let them stand six more; then drain them, and poor over them in the jar a pickle of the best white-wine vinegar, with a good quantity of pepper, pimento, ging'^r, mace, cloves, inu.stftr(l-seeJ, &nd horsft-r.vii.sh 5 all boiif^cl together, but cold. To every hundred of walnnta put six’ spoonfuls of mustard-seed, and two or three heads of garlick or shalot, but the latter is lea.st strong. Thus done, they will be good for several vears, if close covered. The air will soften them. They will not be fit to eat under six months. The pickle will serve as good ketchup, when the walnuts are used. Another icay.—Put them into a jar, cover them with the best vineg.ar cold, let them stand fonr months ; then pour off the pickle and boil as much fresh vinegar as will cover the walnnta, adding to every three qivirts of vinegar one qnarter-ponnd of best Diirluini miistara, a stick of horso-radish sliced,200 I50ME3TIC COOKBa?. one half- otirce of black pepper, one half ounce of cloves, one ounce of ginger, one half-ounce of all- spice, and a good handful of salt—pour the whole, boiling hot, upon the w'alnuts, and cover them close ; they will be fit for use in three or four months. You may add two ounces of garlick, or shalots, but not boiled in the vinegar. Of the pickle in which the walnuts stood for the first four months, yon may make excellent ketchup. An excellent way to pi chi e Mushrooms, to preserve the flavour. Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt ; and from the larger, take out the red inside, for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Tlirow a little salt over, and put them into a stew-pan with some mace and pepper ; as the liqnor comes out shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all of it be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and arc delicious. To pickle lied Cabbage. Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt ; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, and pour boiling vinegar enough to cover, and put a few slices of red beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red cabbage. Those who like the flavour of spice will boil it with the vinegar. Cauliflower cut in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will look of a beautiful red. Mushroom Ketchup. Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and stir tliem now and then for three days. Then let them stand for twelve, till there is a thick scum over ; strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black peppers, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard-seed.PICKLES. 201 When cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork ; in three months boil it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. Mushroom Ketchup, another way. Take a stew-pan full of the large-flap mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those yon have pickled, throw a handful of .salt among them, and set them by a slow fire ; they will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain ; and put to it four onnces of shalots, two cloves of garlick, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, cloves, and a few bay-leaves, boil and skim very well. When cold, cork close. In two months boil it up again with a little fresh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep the year ; which mushroom ketchup rarely does, if not boiled a second time. ^yalnut Ketchup of the finest sort. Boil or simmer a gallon of the expressed juice of walnuts when they are tender, and skim it well ; then put in two pounds of anchovies, bones and liquor, ditto of shalots, one ounce of cloves, ditto of mace, ditto of pepper, and one clove of garlick. Let all simmer till the shalots sink ; then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep twenty years, and is not good the first. Be very careful to express the juice at home ; for it is rarely unadulterated, if bought. Some people make liquor of the outside shell when the nut is ripe ; but neither the flavour nor the colour is then so tine. Cockle Ketchup. Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor ; add a little water when the liquor settles, if you have not enough ; strain through a cloth, then season with every savoury spice ; and if for brown sauce, add pert, anchovies, and garlick—if for white, omit these, and put aglass of sherry, lemon-juice and peel, maco,DOMESTIC COOKBUT. nutmeg, and white pepper. If for brown, bum a bit of sugar for colouring. It is better to have cockles enough than to add water ; and they are cheap. To heep Capers. Add fresh vinegar that has been scalded, and 1^ come cold—and tie them close, to keep out the air, v.'hich makes them soft. PART VIII. StVEET DISHES, PRESERVES, SWEET- MEATS, &c. SWEET DISHES. Buttered Rice. Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, enough just to swell it, over the fire ; when tender, pour off the milk, and add a hit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, that it do not burn, and servo. Srmjie of Rice and Apple. Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry, then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish ; having egged the dish, where it is put, to make it stick. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up witli a marmalade of apples; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade ; then sift fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a beautiful colour.SWRET mSHSS. 253 Snoic Bulls. Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared and cored apples, pul the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. Lent Potatoes. Beat three or four ounces of almonds, and three or four bitter, ’.vhen blanched, putting a little orange- flower water to prevent oiling; add eicht ounces of butter, four eggs well beaten and strained, half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar to your taste. Beat all well till quite smooth, and grate in three Savoy biscuits. Make balls of the above with a little flour, the size of a chesnut ; throw them into a stew-pan of boiling lard, and boil them of a beautiful yellow brown. Drain them on a sieve. Serve sweet sause in a boat, to eat with them. A Tansy. Beat seven eggs, yolks and whites separately ; add a pint of cream, near the same of spinach-juice, and a little tansy-juice gained by pounding in a stone mortar, a quarter of a pound of Naples biscuit, sngar to taste, a glass of white wine, and some nutmeg. Set all in a sauce-pan, just to thicken, over the fire ; then put it into a dish, lined with paste, to turn out, and bake it. Puits d'Amour. Cut a fine rich puff paste rolled thin, with tin shapes made on purpose, one size less than another, in a pyramidical form, and lay them so ; then bake in a moderate oven, that the paste may ho done suffi- ciently, but very pale. Lay different-coloured sweet- meats on the edges. A very nice Dish of Macaroni dressed sweet. Boil two ounces in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon-peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till theC04 DO.MESTIC COOKKHV. pipes are swelled to their utmost size without break- ini'. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard over tliem hot. Serve cold. Floating Island, Mix three half-pints of thin cream with a quarter of a pint of raisin wine, a little lemon-juice, orange- flower water, and sugar ; put into a dinh for the mid- dle of the table, and put ou the cream a froth, as will be directed in page 213, which may be made of raspberry or currant-jelly. Another wag.—Scald a codlin before it be ripe, or any sharp apple ; pulp it through a sieve. Beat the whites of two eggs with sugar, and a spoonful of orange-flower water; mix in by degrees the pulp, and beat all together until you have a large quantity of froth ; serve it on raspberry-cream ; or you may colour the froth with beet-root, raspberry, currant- jelly, and set it on a white cream, having given it the flavour of a lemon, sugar and wine, as above ; or, put the froth on a custard. Fluininerg. Put three large handfuls of very small white oat- meal to steep a uay and night in cold water ; then pour it off clear, and add as much more water, and let it stand the same time. Strain it through a fine hair-sieve, and boil it till it be as thick as liasty-pud- ding; stirring it well all the time. When first strained, put to it one large spoonful of white sugar, and two of orange-fiower water. Pour it into shallow dishes ; and serve to eat with wine, cyder, milk, or cream and sugar. It is very goo(L Dutch Flummei'y. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water very gently half an hour ; add a pint of while wine, the juice of three, and the thin rind of one lemon, and rub a few lumps of sugar on another lemon to obtain the essence, and witu them add us8WKET DISHKS. 2<M mnch more sugar as will make it sweet enough ; and having beaten the yolks of seven eggs, give them and the above, when mixed, one scald ; stir all the time, and pour it into a basin ; stir it till half cold; then let it settle, and put it into a melon shape. Jiice Flummery. Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon-peel, and cinnamon ; mix with a little cold milk as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consist- ence, sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach-water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, observingiidoesn’i burn ; pour it into a shape or pint-basin, taking out the spice. M’hen cold, turn the flummery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round ; or put a tea-cupful of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon sqeezed, and sugar. Somersetshire Fiirmenty. To a quart of ready-boiled wheat, put by degrees two quarts of new milk, breaking the jelly, and then four ounces of currants picked clean, and washed ; stir them, and boil till they are done. Beat the yolks of three eggs, and a little nutmeg, with two or three spoonfuls of milk ; add this to the wheat; stir them together while over the fire ; then sweeten, and serve cold in a deep dish. Some persons like it best warm. Curds and Cream. Put three or four pints of milk into a pan rather warm, and then add rennet or galiino. When me curd is come, lade it with a saucer into an earthen shape perforated, of any form you please. Fill it up ns the whey drains otf, without breaking or pressing the curd. If turned only two hours before wantea, it is very light; but those who like it harder, may liave it so, by making it earlier, and squeezing it. Cream, milk, or a whip of cream, sugar, wine, and206 DOMESTIC COOKERY. lemon, to be ])ut in the dish, or into a glass Iwwl, to serve with the curd. Another way.—To four quarts of new milk warmed, put from a pint to a quart of buttermilk strained, according to its sourness ; keep the pan covered until the curd be of firmness to cut tliree or four times across with a saucer, as the whey leaves it ; put it into a shape, and fill up nntil it be solid enough to take the form. Serve with cream plain, or mixed with sugar, wine, and lemon. A Curd Star. Set a quart of new milk upon the fire with two or three blades of mace ; and when ready to boil, put to it the yolks and whites of nine eggs well beaten, and as much salt as wrill lie upon a small knife’s point. Let it boil till the whey is clear ; then drain it in a thin cloth, or hair-sieve ; season it with sugar or a lit- tle cinnamon, rose-water, orange-flower water, or white wine, to your taste ; and put it into a star form, or any other. Let it stand some hours before you turn it into a dish ; then pat round it thick cream or custard. Blanc-inange, or Blamange. Boil two ounces of isinglass in three half-pints of water half an hour ; strain it to a pint and a half of creani; sweeten it, and add some peach-water, or a few bitter-almonds ; let it boil once up, and put it into what forms you please. If not to be very stiff, a little less isinglass will do. Observe to let the blamanue settle before you turn it into the forms, or the blacks will remain at the bottom of them, and be on the top of the blamange when taken out of the mouldi Jaunemange. Pour a pint of boiling water over two ounces of isinglass, and when it is dissolved add three quarters of a pint of white wine, the juice of two oranges, and one lemon, the peel of a lemon slired fine, sweetensv.t-i:t dishes. a77 this to your taste, and add the yolks of einht egps. let it simmer gently, strain and pour it into moulds. Turn out next day. An excellent Trifle. Lay macaroons and ratafia-drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up ; which, when they have done, pour on them cold rich custard made with more eggt than directed in the foregoing pages, and some rich flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of raspberry-jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well-beaten eggs, sugar, lemon-peel, and rasin wine, well beat with a whisk, kept only to tvhip syllabubs and creams. If made the day before used, it has quite a different taste, and is solid and far better. , Gooseberry, or Aj/ple Trifle. Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish ; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated tine ; and to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the lire, and stir it all the time ; don’t let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other trifle. Chantilly Cahe, or Cake Trifle. Bake a rice cake in a mould. M’hen cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom. Put in a thick custard, and some tea-spoonsful of raspberry- jam, and then put on u whip.DOMESTIC COOKERY. B0(? Gooseberry Fool. Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good Lisbon sugar; set the jar on a stove, or in a sauce-pan of water over the lire ; if the former, a large spoonful of water should be added to the fruit. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a colander ; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cup of raw cream, boiled together ; or an egg instead of the latter, and left to be cold ; then sweeten it pretty well with fine Lisbon sugar, and mix the pulp by de- grees with it. A'pple Fool. Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, bic. and mix as before. Oravye Fool. Mix the juice of three Seville oranges, three eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a little nutmeg and cin- namon, and sweeten to your taste. Set the whole over a slow fire, and stir it till it becomes as thick as good melted butter, but it must not be boiled j then pour it into a dish for eating cold. A Cream. Boil half a pint of cream, and half a pint of milk, with two bay-leaves, a bit of lemon-peel, a few almonds beaten to paste, with a drop of water, a little sugar, orange-flower water, and a tea-spoonful of flour, having been rubbed down with a little cold milk, and mixed with the above. When cold, put a little lemon- juice to the cream, and serve it in cups or lemonade- glasses. An excellent Cream. Whip up three quarters of a pint of very rich cream to a strong froth, with some finely scraped lemon-peel, a squeeze of the juice, half a glass of sweet wine, and sugar, to make it pleasant, but not too sweet ; lay it205 SWUIST DISHES. on a sieve or in a form, and ne.xt day pat it on a dish, und ornament it with very liglit puff-paste biscuits, made in tin sliapes tlie length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a light glaze with isinglass. Or you may use macaroons, to line the edge of the dish. Burnt Cream. Boil a pint of cream with a stick of cinnamon, and some lemon-peel ; take it off the fire, and pour it very slowly into the yolks of four eggs, stirring till half cold ; sweeten, and take out the spice, &c. ; pour it into the dish ; when cold, strew white pounded sugar over, and brown it with a salaroander. Allot her tcay.—Make a rich custard without sugar, boiling lemon-peel in it. When cold, sift a good deal of sugar over the whole, and brown the top witli a salamander. Sach Cream. Boil a pint of raw cream,, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gentle fire, till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with long piece.s of dry toast. Brandy Cream. Boil two dozen of almonds blanched, and pounded bitter almonds, in a little milk. \i'hen cold, add to it tlie yolks of five eggs beaten well in a little cream, sweeten, and put to it two glasses of the best brandy ; and when well mixed, pour to it a quart of tliin cream : set it over the fire, but don’t let it boil ; stir one way till it thickens, then pour into cups, or low glasses. When cold it will be ready. A ratafia-drop may be put in each, if you choose it. If you wish it to keep, scald the cream previously. Itatajia Cream. Boil three or four laurel, peax-h, or nectarine-loaves, 70 V210 lX)iIKSTlC COOlCEI.f. in a full pint of creajn ; strain it ; and when cold, ad 1 the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. Aiiother way.—jMi.'c ludf a quarter of a pint of ratafia, the same quantity of mountain wine, the juice of two or three lemons, a pint of rich cream, and as much sugar as will make it pleasantly-flavoured. Beat it with a w-hisk, and put it iuto glasses. This cream will keep eight or ten days, Lenian Cream. Take a pint of thick cream, and put to U the yolks of two eggs well beaten, four ounces of tins sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon ; boil it up ; then stir it till almost cold ; put the juice of a lemon in a disii or bowl, and pour the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. Ydloio Lemon Cream, without Cream. Pare four lemons very thin into twelve kirge spoon- fuls of water, and squeeze the juice on seven ounces of Bnely-pounded st^ar ; beat the yolks of nine eggs well; add the peels and juice beaten together for some time ; then strain it through a flannel into a silver or very nice block-tin ,sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle tire, and stir it one way till pretty thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it will curdle. Pour it into Jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before tliey are pared, or after, t*i the peel will be so thin as not to Uke all the e.=senoe, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. White Lemon Cream Is made the same as the above ; only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it extremeh well to froth.211 swki;t Disiirs. Im)>enni Creiim. Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon, taen stir it till nearlj cold ; have ready in a dish or bowl tlmt y<m are to serve in, the juice of three lemons trtrained with as much sugar as w ill sweeten the cream ; which pour into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about, to mix with the juice. It should be made at least six hours before it be served, and will be still better if a day. AlDiond Cream. Beat four ounces of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, in a mortar, with a tea-spoonful of water to prevent oiling, both having been blanched. Put the paste to II quart of cn am, and add the juice of three lemons ■-iveetened ; beat it up w ith a whislt to a froth, whicli uke off on the hhailovv part of a sieve ; till glasses with some of the liquor and the froth. S>wu) Cream. Put to a quart of cream the whites of three eggs well beaten, four spoonfuls of sweet wini’, sugar to yoor taste, and a bit of lemon-peel; whip it to a frotli, remove the peel, and serve in a dish. Coffee Cream, much admired. BoU a calf s foot in water till it wastes to a pint of Jelly, clear of sediment and fat. Make a tea-cup of I'fvy strong coffee ; clear it with a bit of isinglass to be perfectly briuht; pour to it the jelly, and add a pint of very good cream, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as is pleasant; give one boil np, and pour into the dish. ' ^ ^ It shonld jelly, but not be stiff. Observe that your coffee be fresli. . •' Chocolate Cream. Scrape into one quart of thick cream, one ounce of the best chocolate, nnda quarter of a pound of sugar • boil and mill it; wlien quite smooth, taka it off, andDOMESTIC COOKERY. 212 leave it to be cold ; then add tlie whites of nineegffs. Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, as others are done ; and serve the froth in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. Codlin Crearn. Pare and core twenty good codlins ; beat them in a mortar, with a pint of cream ; stmin it into a dish ; and put sugar, bread-crumbs, mid a glass of wine, to it. Stir it welL Excellent Orange Cream. Boil the rind of a Seville orange very tender; beat it fine in a mortar ; put to it a spoonful of tlie best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, four ounces of loaf-sugar, and the yolks of foim eggs ; beat all to- gether for ten minutes ; then, by gentle degrees, pour in a pint of boiling cream; beat till cold; put into custard-cups set into a deep dish of boiling water, and let them stand till cold again. Put at the top small strips of orange-paring cut thin, or preserved chips. Raspherry Cream. Mash the fruit gently, and let them drain ; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten it; after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle ; which it would, if put to the milk before the cream ; but it is best made of rasp- berry-jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. Another way.—Boil one ounce of isinglass-shavings in three pints of crdam and new milk mixed, for fifteen minutes, or until the former be melted: strain it through a hair-sieve into a basin ; when cool, put about half a pint of raspberry-juice, or syrup, to the milk and cream: stir it till W'ell incorporated ; sweeten, and ndd a glass of brandy ; whisk it about till three parts cold; then put it into a mould till quiet cold. 1 n summer use the fresh juice ; in winter symp of rasp- berries.213 SWKUT DIS1IU3. Spinach Cream. Beat the yolks of eight eggs with a wooden spoon or a whisk ; sweeten tliem a good deal; and put to them a stick of cinnamon, a pint of rich cream, three quarters of a pint of new milk ; stir It well ; then add a quarter of a pint of spinach-juice ; set it over a gentle stove, and stir it one way constantly till it is as thick ashasty-pudding. Put into a custard-dish some Naples biscuits, or preserved orange, in long slices, and ponr the mixture over them. It is to bo eaten cold; and is a dish either for supper, or Tor a second course. Pistachio Cream. Blanch fonr ounces of pistachio nuts ; beat them Jiao witli a little rose-water, and add the paste to a pint of cream ; sweeten ; let it just boil, and put it into ghisses. Clouted Cream. String four blades of nmce on a thread; pnt them to a gill of new milk, and six spoonfui.s of rose-water ; simmer a few minutes ; then by degrees stir this liquor strained into the yolks of two new eggs well beaten. Stir the whole into a quart of very good cream, snd set it over the fire ; stir it till hot, but not boiling hot ; pour it into a deep dish, and let it stand twenty-four hours. Serve it in a cream dish, to eat with fruits. .Many people prefer it without any flavour but that of the cream; in which case use a quart of new milk and the cream, or do it as tlie Uevonshire scalded cream. When done enough, a round mark will appear on the surface of the cream, the size of the bottom of the pan it is done in, which in the country they call the ring ; and when tliat is seen, remove the pan from the fire. A Froth to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle, which looks and eats well. Sweeten half a pound of the pulp of damsons, or any other sort of scalded fruit, put to it the whites ofDU do:.;dstic cookkry. four (*ggs beaten, and beat the pnlp with them niilil it will stand as high as you choose ; and being put on the cream, &c. with a spoon, it will take any form ; it should be rough, to imitate a rock. A Carmel Cover for Sweetmeats. Dissolve eight ounces of double-refined sugar in three or four spoonfuls of water, and three or four drops of lemon-juice ; then put it into a copper un- tinned skillet; when it boils to be thick, _ dip the handle of a spoon in it, and put that into a pint-basjn of water, squeeze the sugar from the spoon into it, and so on till you have all the sugar. _ Take a bit out of the water, and if it snaps, and is brittle when cold, it is done enough: but only let it be three parts cold, when pour the water from the sugar, and having a copper form oiled well, run the sugar on it, in the manner of a maze, and when cold you may put it on the dish it is to cover ; but if on trial the sugar is not brittle, pour oflf the water, and return it into the skii- lc3t, and boil it ag.-dn. It should look thick like treacle, but of a bright light gold-colour. It is a most elegant cover. Calf's Feet Jelly. Boil two feet in two quarts and a pint of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and, when cold, lake off the fat, and remove t)i3 jelly from the sediment ; then put it into a sauce-pan with sugar, raisin-wine, lemon-juice to your taste, anil some lemon-peel. When the tiavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the sauce-pan on the fire, but don’t stir the jelly after it begins to warm. Let it boil twenty minutes after it rises to a head ; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water to prevent waste, and squeezing it quite dry. Run the jelly through and through till clear ; tlieu put it into glu.-..ses or forms.SWKEI msilia. 3] .5 The fi.lltnving niode will greatly facilitate the clear- ing of jelly: When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, tliroflr in a tea-cupful of cold water; let it hoil five minutes longer ; tlien take the sauce-pan off t he fire covered close, and keep it half an hour ; after which, it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Observe, feet tor all jellies are boiled so long by the people who sell them, that they are less nutritious ; they should be only scalded to take off the hair. The liquor will require greater care in removing the fat ; but the jelly will be far stronger, and of course allow more water. Note.—Jelly is equally good made of cow-heels nicely cleaned ; and as they bear a less price than those of calves, and make a stronger jelly, this observation may be useful. Another sort.—Boil four quarts of water with three calf’s feet, or two cow-heels, that have lieen only scjilded. till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment ; mix with it the juice of a Seville orange, and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, brown sugar to taste, near a pint of raisin wine, one ounce of coriander- seeds, a quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cin- namon, tiud six cloves, all bruised, after having pre- viously mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen muiutes without stirring ; then clear it through a flannel hag. While running, take a little jelly, and mix with a tea-cupful of water, in which a bit of beet- root has been boiled, and run it through the bag when all the rest is run out ; and this is to garnish the other jelly, being cooled on a plate; but this is matter of choice. 'Ihis jelly has a very fine high colour and tkivour. Orange Jelly. Grate the rind of two Seville and two China oranges, and two lemons ; squeeze the juice of three of each, ii.:>d strain, and tvdd the juice of a qmirter of a pound210 DOMESTIC COOKEKA'. of lamp sugar, and a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isinglass-jelly made with two ounces ; fmt to it the sjrup, and boil it once up ; strain off the jelly, and let H stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. Hartshorn Jelly. Simmer eight ounces of hartshorn-shavings with tAvo quarts of water to one ; strain it, and boil it witlx the rinds of four China oranges and two lemons pared tliin ; when cold, add the juice of both, lialf apound of sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth: let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly-bag. Cranberry Jelly. Make a very strong i.singlass-jelly. When cold, mix it with a double quantity of cranberry juice pressed as directed in page 2.10, sweeten and boil it up ; then strain it into a sliape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. Cranberry and Rice Jelly. Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by de^ees mix into as much ground rice as will, w’hen boiled, thicken to a jelly ; boil it gently, .stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a basin or form, andiiervetoeatastheat'oredirectedjelly, with milk or cream. Apple Jelly, to serve at table. Prepare twenty golden pippins ; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender ; then strain the liquor through a colander. To every pint put a pound of fine sugar ; add grated orange or lemon ; then boil to a jelly. AnoVier. -Prepare apples as before,bj boiling and atraining ; have ready half an ounce of isinglass217 SWiIKT UISIIKa. boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly ; put this to llie apple-water and apple, as strained through a coarse eieve ; add sugar, a little leiiioii-juice and peel ; boil all togellier, and put into a dish. Take out the ptiel. To scald Codlim. Wrap each in a vine-leaf, and pack them close in a nic!e sauce-pan ; and when full, pour as much water as will cover them. Set it over a gentle fire, and let them simmer slowly till done enough to take the thin skin off when cold. Place them in a dish, with or without milk, cream, or custard ; if the latter, there should be no ratafla. Dust fine sugar over the apples. Stewed Golden Pippins. Scoop out the core, pare them very fine, and as you do it, throw them in water. For every pound of fruit, make half a pound of single-refined sugar in syrup, witli a pint of water ; when skimmed, put the pippins in, and stew till clear ; then grate lemon over, and serve in the syrup. Be careful not to let them break. ‘ITiey are an elegant and good didi for a comer or dessert. Black Cups. Halve and core some fine large apple.s, put them in a .shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. Another way.—Take off a slice from the stalk end of some apples, and core without paring them. Make i-eady as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten tliem, and mix it with some grated lemon, and a few cloves in fine fiowder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with tliis, and turn the flat end down on u stew-pan ; set them on a very slow fire, with half of raisin wine, and the same of water ; cover them close, and now and then baste them with the liquor ; when done enough, black the tojxs withasalumanoer.DOMESTIC COOKBr.V. \ stewed Pears. Fare and halve, or quarter, large pears, according to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off before they are divided, to prevent the'r turning black. Pack them round a block-tin stew- pan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them pretty sweet, and add lemon-peel, a clove or two, and some allspice cracked ; just cover them with water, and put some of the red liquor, as directed in another article. Cover them close, and stew' three or four hours ; vvhen tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them. Puked Pears. These need not be of a fine sort ; but somp taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but don't pare, and lay them on tin-plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked three or four times, and very gently. Oramje Putter. Boil six eggs liard, bettt them in a mortar with two ounces of fine sugar, three ounces of butter, and two ounces of blanched almonds beaten to a paste. Moisten wiUi orangu-flow’er water, and when all is mixed, rub it through a colander on a dish, and serve sweet biscuits between. Trine Roll. Soak a penny French roll in raisin wine till it will bold no more ; put it in the dish, and pour round it a custard or cream, sugar, and lemon-juice. Just before it be served, sprinkle over it some nonpareil comfits ; or stick a few blanched slit almonds into it. Sponge biscuits may be used instead of the roih219 iWKET DISHES. To j/repare Frail far Children, afar mare icJtole- some way than in Pies and Fuddiiujii. Put apples sliced, or plums, currants, frooseberries, &c. into a stone jar, and sprinkle as much Lisbon sugar as necessary among them ; set tlie jar on a hot hearth, or in a sauce-pan of water, and let it remain till the fruit is perfectly done. Slices of bread, or rice, may bo either stewed with the fruit, or added, when oaten , Uie rice being plain boiled. To prepare Ice for Iting, Get a few pounds of ice, break it almost to powder, throw a hirge handful and a half of salt among it. You must prepare it in a part of the house where ns little of the warm air comes as you can possibly con- trive. The ice and salt being in a backet, put your cream into an ice-jiot, and cover it; immerse it in fjie ice, and draw that round the pot, so as to touch every po.ssible part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir it well, removing the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. If the ice-crean) >r water be in a form, shut the bottom close, and move tlie whole in the ice, as you cemuot use a spoon to that without danger of waste. There should be lioles in the bucket, to let off the ice as it thaws. Note.—When any fluid tends towards cold, tho moving it quickl.v accelerates the cold : and likewise, when any tluid is tending to heat, stirring it will facilitate Its boiling. Ice WaUrs. Rub some fine sugar on lemon 'or orange, to giro the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel ; add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put luto the ice-pot. If orange, the greater proportion aliould be of the China juice, and only a little of Se- ville, and a small hit of the peel grated by tlie sugar.220 nosiESTic cooicnuT. Curt ant or Raspberry Water Ice. 'Rie juice of these, or any other sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with wa- ter, will be ready for icing. Ice Creams. _Mix the juice of the fruits with much sugar aa will be wanted, before you add cream, wliich should be of a middling richness. Brmon Bread Ice. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream two ortliree horn’s, sweeten and ice it. Ratafia Cream. Blanch a quarter of an ounce of bitter almonds, and beat them with a tea-spoonful of water in a mar- ble mortar; then rub with the paste two ounces of lump-sugar, and simmer ten minutes with a Ua.- cupful of cream, which add to a quart more of cream, and having strained, ice it. Colourings to stain Jellies, Ices, or Creams. For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochin’eai in the finest powder, with a drachm and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly half an hour. Add in boiling a bit of alum, the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. • ^ For white, use almonds finely powdered, with a littJe drop of water ; or use cream. _ For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped m the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, ex- press the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful in a sauce- pan of water, to take off the rawness. London Syllabub. Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into aSWB8T DISUDS. 221 bowl, nntmeg grated, and a good de.il of ."mgar, tiien niilk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather .sharp, it will require more for this quantity of milk.—In Devonshire, clouted cream is put on the top, end pounded cinnamon and sugar. Staffordshire Si/!.labuf}. Put a pint of cyder, and a glass of brandy, sugar, and nutmeg, into a bowl, and mix into it ; or poor warm milk from a large tea-pot some height into it. A renjfine So7nersetshire Si/Uabtib. In a large China bowl put a pint of port, and a Dint of sherry, or other white wine ; sugar to taste. ^lilk the liowl full. In twenty minutes’ time cover it pretty high with clouted cream ; grate over it nut- meg ; put pounded cinnamon and nonpareil comfits. Devonshire Jioihet. Pat warm milk into a bowl ; turn ft with rennet ; then put some scalded cream, sugar and cinnamon, on the top, without breaking the curd. Everlasting, nr Solid SylUdmbs. Mi.x a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of re- fined sngur, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine hta deep pan ; put to it the grated peel and the juice of tliree lemons. Beat, or whi.sk it one way half an hour ; tlien put it on a sieve with a bit of thin mus- lin laid smooth in the shallow end till next dsv. Put it in glasses. It will keop good, in a cool pLice, ten days. Lemon Honeycomb. Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your ta.ste, and put it in the dish that you s«;rve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar; whisk it, and as the froth rises, put it on the lemon-juice. Do it the day before it is to be used.IHJMESTIC OOOICKRT. 222 Itice and Sago Milk* Are made by washincc the seeds nicely, and simrae'. ■ i ig with milk over a slow fire till snfficiently done. The former sort requires lemon, spice, and sugar ; the latter is good without any thing to flfuwur it. A jrretty Supper Dish. Boil a tea-cupful of rice, having first washed it in milk, till tender : strain off the milk, lay the rice in little heaps on a dish, strew over them some fine y- powdered sugar and cinnamon, and put warm wine and a little butter into the dish. Savoury Rice. M’^ash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with a:i onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled to a mash, dry it on the shal- low end of a sieve before the fire, and either servo it. dry, or put it in the middle of a dihii, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. Carr o'e of Rice. Take some well-picked rice, wash it well, and b.iil it five minutes in water, strain it, and put it into a atow-pan, with a bit of butter, a good slice of ha.n», and an onion. Slew it over a very gentle fire till ten- der ; have ready a mould lined with very thin slices of bacon; mix the yolts of two or three eggs with thj rice, and then line the bacon with it about half an inch thick ; put into it ragout of chicken, rabbit, veal, or of any thing else. Fill up the mould, and^ cover it close with rice. Bake it in a quick oven an" hour, turn it over, and send it to the table in a good gra\7 or curry sauce. Casserol, or Rice Edging, s(« page 136. Sabnayundy Is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if tlie colours of tlie ingredients are varied. For tfib pur-SWr.ET d;: I1 rose chop sepftr.itely tho white part of rol.l chicken or veal, yolks of e^irs boiled hard, the whites of eggs • pc.rsley, half a dozen anchovies, beet-root, red pickled cabb?i{;e, ham and grated tongue, or anything well- xla\oured, and of a good colour. Some people like a srnall proportion of onion, but it mav l)e better omitted. A .saucer, large tea-cnp, or any other base, must be put info a small dish ; then make rows round It wide at bottom, and growing smaller towards the top; choo.singsurh of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig ot curled parsh-y m.av be stuck in ; nr, without am tiling on the dish, the .salmagundy may be laid iii rows, or put into the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand upright by cutting off a bit at the roTuid end. In the latter c.a.se, each Iialf-egg has hut one ingredient. Butter and parsley may be put as garnish between. Alararonl. ax vxnally terred. Boil it in niiik, or a weak veal broih, pretty we'l fl-avonred with s.alf. When tender, put it into a dish without the liquor, and among it put some bits of butter and grated cbeese, and over tlie top grate more, and a little more butter. Set the dish into a Dutch-oven a quarter of an hour, and do not let the top become hard. Another wan,—B'ash it well, and simmer in half milk,and half broth of veal or mutton, tillit is temiev. To a spellful-of this liijuor, put the yolk of an egtr beaten in a spoonful of cream ; ju.st make it hot to thicken, but not boil: put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old eheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown with the salamandtr. Another : Wa.sh the macaroni, then simmer it in a little broth, wich a littl.s poundeil mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover tb.at with hrea.l irrateii fine. Warjn some butter without oiling, amt pour it from uDOMESTIC COOKERY. K?4 boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs, then put the dish in a Dutch-oven, to roast the cheese, and brown the bread of a fine colour. The bread diould be in separated crumbs, aud look light. Omelet. Make a batter of eggs and milk, and a very little flour; put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives, the latter is best, or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Make some butter boiled in a .small frying- pan, and pour the above batter into it when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at first, isa verv pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sizeJoiiielet; but many cooks W'ill use eight or ten. A small proportion of fionr should be used. if tlie taste be approved, a fiff/eturragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Ramakins and omelet,though usually served in the course, would be much better it tliey were sent up after, tliat they might be eaten as hot as possible. Butter to sei~re ag a little Disli. Roll butter in different forms ; either like a pine, and make the marks with a tea-spoon, or roll it in crimping rollers, work it through a eohinder, or scoop with a tea-spoon, and mix with grated lieef, tongne, or anchovies. Make a wreath of curled parsley to gfirnish. Ramakins. Scrape a quarter of a pound of Cheshire, and ditto of Gloucester cheese, ditto of good fresh butter ; then beat all in a mortar with the yolks of four eggs, and the inside of a small French roll boiled in cream till soft; mix the paste with the whites of the eggs pre- viously beaten, and put into small paper pans made rather longer than square, and hake in a Dutch-oven22.5 SWEET DISHES. ti 1 of a fine brown. They should be eaten quite hot. Some like the addition of a glass of white wine.—The batter for ramakins is equally good over macaroni when boiled tender ; or on stewed broccoli celery, or cauliflower, a little of the gravy they have been stewed in being put in the di>h with them, but not enough to make the vegetables swim. Fotuhi. Take equal quantities of grated Parmesan and good Cheshire cheese, and add about double the weight of this in beaten yolks of eggs and melted butter, beat well together, add pepper and salt, and then put to it the whites of the eggs, which have been beaten sepa- rately ; stir them lightly in^nd bake it in a deep dish, fill only half full, as it wull rise very much. Serve quite hot. Potted Cheese. Cut and pound four ounces of Chesliire cheese, one ounce and a half of fine butter, a tea-spoonful of white pounded sugar, a Hale bit of mace, and a glass of white ^ wine. Press it down in a deep pot. Roast Cheese to come up after Pinner. Grate three ounces of fat Cheshire cheese, mix it with the yolks of two eggs, four ounces of grated bread, and three ounces of butter ; beat the whole well in a mortar, with a dessert-spoonful of mustard, and a little salt and pepper. Toast some bread, cut it into proper pieces, lay the paste as above thick upon them, put them into a Dutch-oven covered with a dish, till not tlirough, remove the dish, and let the cheese brown a little. Serve as hot as possible. Welsh Rabbit. Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it ; toast a slice of Gloucester cheese on one side, and lay tliat next the bread, and toast the other with a sala- mander j rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. 70DOMESCIC COOKERY. Cheese Toast.—Mix some fine butter, made mu.j- tard, and salt, into a mass ; spread it on fresh-made thin toasts, and grate or scrape Gloucester cheese upon them. Anchovy Toast.—Bone and skin six or eight an- cliovies; pound them to a mass with an ounce of tine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toasts or rusks. Another way.—Cut thin slices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarilied butter. Wash three anchovies split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair-sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. To poach Eggs.—Set a stew-pan of water on the fire ; when boiling, slip an egg previously broken into a cup, into the water ; when the white looks done enough, slide an egg-slice under the egg, and lay it on toast and butter, or spinach. As soon a-s enough are done, serve hot. If not fresh laid, they will not poach w'ell, and without breaking. Trim the ragged parts v)f the whites, and make them look round. Buttered Eggs. Beat four or five eirgs, yolk and white together, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that in boihng water, stir it till melted, then pour that butter and the eggs into a sauce-pan ; keep a basin in your liand, just hold the sauce-pan in the t)ther over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to w’arm ; pour it into a basin, and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce-pan, and pouring it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread ; or in ft baein, to eat with salt-fish, or red herrings.SWEKT DISHK3. 227 Scotch Eggs. Boil hard five pallet's eggs, and without removing tho white, cover completely with a fine relishing force- meat, in which, let scraped ham or chopped anchovy bear a due proportion. Fry of a beautiful yellow brown, end serve with a good gravy in the dish. A Pepperpot. To three quarts of water, put such vegetables as you choose ; in summer, peas, lettuce, spinach, and two or three onions; in winter, carrot, turnip, onions, and celery. Cut them very small, and stew them with two pounds of neck of mutton, and a pound of pickled pork, till quite tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster or crab from the shell, and put it into the stew. Some people choose very small suet dump- lings boiled in the above. Season with salt and Cay- enne. Instead of mutton, you may put a fowl. Pepper-pot may be made of various things, and is understood to be a proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. A small quantity of rice should be boiled with the whole. I'he Staffordshire Dish of fTrying herbs and Liver. Prepare thefrying herbs as has been directed among the vegetables, page 193 } on which lay slices of liver fried a beautiful brown, and slices of bacon just warmed at the fire, and laid on each. On the outside part of the herbs lay eggs fried very nicely, and then trimmed round ; or they may be served on the herbs, and tlie liver garnished with the bacon separately. 2’o j/rescroe Suet a Tioclveinonth. As soon as it comes in, choose the firmest part, and pick free from skin and veins. In a very nice sauce- pan, set it at Some distance from the tire, that it may ^It without frying, or it will taste. When melted, pour it into a pan of cold water. When in a hard cake, wipe it very dry, fold it in tine228 DOMESTIC COOKERY. paper, and then in a linen bag, and keep in a dry but not hot place. When used, scrape it fine, and it will make a hue crust, either with or without butter. SWEETMEATS. To green Fruits for preset'ving or pickling. Take pippins, apricots, pears, plums, peaches, while green for the first, or radish-pods, French beans for the latter, and cucumbers for both processes ; and put 1 hem, with vine-leaves under and over, into a block-tin preserving-pan, with spring-water to cover them, and tiien the tin cover to exclude all air. Set it on the side of a fire, and when they begin to simmer, take them off, pour oft’ the water, and if not green, put fresh leaves when cold, and repeat the same. Take them out carefully with a slice ; they are to be peeled, and then done according to the receipts for the several modes. 2’o clarify Sugar for Sweetmeats. Break as much as required in large lumps, and put a pound to half a pint of water, in a bowl, and it will dissolve better than when broken small. Set it over the fire, with the well-whipt white of an egg ; let it boil up, and, when ready to run over, pour a little cold water in to give it a check ; but when it rises a second time, take it off the fire, and set it by in the pan for a quarter of an hour, during which the foulness will sink to the bbttom, and leave a black scum on the top, which take off gently with a skimmer, and pour the syrup into a vessel very quickly from tho sediment. To .ca?idy any Sort of Fruit. When finished in the syrup, put a layer into a new si ;ve, and dip it suddenly into hot water, to take off tlie syrup that liangs about it ; put it on a napkin before the fire to drain, and then do some more in the sieve. Have ready sifted double-refined sugar, which sift over the fruit on all sides till quite while. Set i?SWEETMBArS. 229 on tlie shallow end of sieves in a lightly-warm oven, and turn it two or three times. It must not be cold till dry. Watch it carefully, and it will be beautiful. To prepare Barberries for Tartlets. Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, adil to every pound weigh three quarters of a pound of lump sugar ; put the fruit into a stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a sauce-pan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft ; put them and .the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes. Use no metal but silver. Barben'ies in Bunches. Have ready bits of flat white wood, three inches long, and a quarter of an inch wide. Tie the stalks of the fruit on the stick from within an inch of one end to beyond the other, so as to make them look handsome. Simmer them in some syrup two successive days, cover- ing them each time with it when cold. When they look clear they are simmered enough. The tliird day do them like other candy fruit: see receipt for it in the preceding page. A beautiful Preserve of Apricots. When ripe, choose the finest apricots ; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards Have ready an equal weight of good loaf-sugar finely pound- ed, and strew it over them ; in the meantime break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has lain twelvehours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the kernels, into a preserving-pan. Let it simmer very gently till clear ; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so ; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper.230 DOllJiSTIC COOlvKUY. To •preserve Apricots in Jelly. Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an eij^ual quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The fol- lowing day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin-liquor, made by boilini' and straining, and a pound of fine sugar ; let it boil quickly till it will jelly ; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. To preserve Green Ajiricots. Lay vine or apricot-leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves; then fill with spring-water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water, and drain the fruit. AVhen both are cold, put the fruit into the pan, and the syrup to it ; put the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots green, but on no account boil or crack ; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup, for two or three days ; then pour oft' as much of it as will be necessary, and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all been draineil from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. Apricots or Peaches in Brandy. W'ipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Tut the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very close ; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the f ruit with brandy. Between the top and cover of the pot, put a j)iece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce- pan of water till the brandy be as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must nut boiLSWEETMEATS. 2;;] Fat the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bladder over, and tie it down tight. To dry Apricots in half. Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weigh- ing them after ; put them in a dish ; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently ; as each piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a china-bowL When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the spup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. In a day or two more turn them, and so continue daily till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in boxes with layers of paper. Apricot Cheese. Weight an equal quantity of pared fruit and sugar, wet the latter a very little, and let it boil quickly, or the colour will be spoiled ; blanch the kernels, and add to it. Twenty or thirty minutes will boil it. Put it in small pots or cups htilf tilled. Orange Marmalade. Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, aitd beat fine in a marble mortar, lioil three pounds of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is very tliick, but stir it carefully ; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been re- moved, andapint of apple-liquor ; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Lemon marmalade do in the same way ; they are very good and elegant sweetmeats. Transparent Marmalade. Cut the palest Seville oranges in quarters, take the pulp out, and put it in a basin, pick out the seeds au. skins. Let the outside soak in water with a Little salt232 BOilESTIC COOKEay. all night, then boil them in a good quantity of spring- \vater tul tender ; drain and cut them in very tliia slices, and put them to the pulp; add to every pound, a pound and a half of double-refined sugar beaten fine ; boil them together twenty minutes, but be care- ful not to break the slices. If not quite clear, simmer five or SIX minutes longer. It must be stirred all the time very gently. When cold, put it into glasses. 2’o butter Oranges hot. Grate off a little of the outside rind of four Seville oranges, and cut a round hole at the blunt end op- posite the stalk, large enough to take out the pulp and seeds and juice : then pick the seeds and skin from the pulp ; rub the oranges with a little salt, and lay them in water for a short time. You are to save the bits cut out. Set the fruit on to boil in fresh water till they are tender, shifting the water to take out the bit- terness. In the meantime, make a thin svrup with fine sugar, and put the oranges into it, and' boil them up ; turning them round, that each part might nartalte of the syrup, as there need uot be etiough to cover them, and let them remain in it hot till they are to be served. About half an hour before you want them put some sugar to the pulp, and set over the fire ; mi.x It vvell, and let it boil ; then add a spoonful of white wme for every orange, give it a boil, and then put in a bit of fresh butter, and stir over the fire to thicken • fill the oranges with it, and serve them with some of the syrup in the dish. Put the bits on the top. lo Jill preserved Oranges ^ a corner dish. For five take a pound of Nanles biscuits, some blanched almonds, the yolks of four eggs beaten, sugar to your taste, four ounces of butter w^armed, grate the hiscuitr,, and mix with the above and some oraiwe- fiower w'ater. Fill preserved oranges, and bake in a very slow oven. If you like them frosted, sift sugar over them as soon as filled ; otherwfi-« wipe them.SWUETllEATS. 2;J3 Cuf tnrd to All will do as well; if so, you need not bake the oranges, but put it in when become cold. Whole Oranges carved. Cut on the rinds any shape yon please with a pen- knife ; cut a bit off near and round the stalk, and with an apple-scoop take all the pulp carefully out ; put them into salt and water two days, changing it daily ; boil them an hour or more in fresh salt and water ; drain them quite dry ; let them stand a night more in plain water, and then another night in a thin syrup, in which boil them the next day a few minutes. Do this four days successively. Let them stand si.t or seven weeks, observing often whether they will keep well; otherwise boil the syrup again. Then make a rich syrup. Buttered Orange-juice, a cold dish. Mix the juice of seven Sevilla oranges with four spoonfuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten ; then strain the liquor to half a pound of sugar pounded, stir it over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken, put about the size of a small w'alnut of butter, keep it over the fire a few minutes longer ; then pour it into a flat dish, and serve it to eat cold. If you liave no silver sauce-pan, do it in a China basin in a sauce-pan of boiling water, tlie top of which will just receive the basin. Orange Chips. Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve ; soak the peel in water ; next day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put alto- gether into a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy ; then set them in a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three v/eoka.•234 DOMESTIC COOEEKy. Orange Biscuit$, or little Cakes. Boil whole Seville oranges in two or three waters, till most of the bitterness is gone ; cut them, and take out the pulp and juice ; then beat the outside very tine in a mortar, and put to it an equal weight of double- refined sugar beaten and sifted. When extremely well mixed to a paste, spread it thin on China dishes, and set them in the sun, or before the fire ; when half dry, cut it into what form you please, turn the other side up, aud dry that. Keep them in a box, with layers of paper. They are for desserts ; and are al.«o used as a sto- machic, to carry in the pocket on journeys, or for gentlemen when shooting, and for gouty stomachs. Orange-Jiower Cakes. . Put four ounces of the leaves of the fiowers into cold water for an hour ; drain, and put between na{>- kins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised ; then have ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer, until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. I'o jrreserve Oranges or Lemons in Jelly. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and with a blunt small knife scrape out the pulp quite clear without cutting the rind. Tie each separately in muslin, and lay them iu spring-water two days, changing twice a day ; in the last boil them tender on a slow tire. Observe that there is enough at first to allow for wasting, as they must be covered to the last. To every pound of fruit, weigh two pounds of double- refined sugar, and one pint of water ; boil the two lat- ter together with the jidce of the orange to a syruj), and clarify it, skim well, and let it stand to be cold ; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour ; if not, clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water225 SWBETMKATS. till it tastes strong of them ; don’t break them, only gently press them with the back of a spoon ; strain the water through a jelly-bag till quite clear ; then to every pint put a pound of double-refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each orange with the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple- jelly over it. The hits cut out must go through tlie siime process with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. To keep Oranges or Lemons for Puddings, ^c. When you squeeze the fruit, throw the outside in water, without the pulp ; let them remain in the same a fortnight, adding no more ; boil them therein till tender, strain it from them, and when they are toler- ably dry, throw them into any jar of candy you may have remaining from old sweetmeats ; or if you have none, boil a small quantity of syrup of common loaf- sugar and water and put over them ; in a week or ten days boil them gently in it till they look clear, and that they may be covered with it in a jar. You may cut each half of the fruit in two, and they will occupy a small space. To preserve Strawberries whole. Take equal weights of the fruit and double-refined sugar ; lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugarin fine powder over ; give a gentle shake to the dish, that the sugar may touch the under side of the fruit. Next day make a thin syrup with the remainder of the sugar, and, instead of water, allow one pint of red-currant-juice to every pound of straw- berries ; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others, when not dead ripe. In either of the above ways, they eat w'ell served in thin cream, in glassi-s. To preserve Strawberries in loine. Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a gooseberry-bottle, and strew in three large spoonful- of fine sugar ; fill up with Madeira wine, or fine sherry.DOMESTIC COOKEHY. 2U6 To dry Cherries with sugar. Stone six pounds of Kentish ; put them into a pre- serving-pan, with two pounds of loaf-sugar pounded and strewed among them ; simmer till they begin to shrivel j then strain them from the juice ; lay them on a hot hearth, or in an oven when eittier is cool enough to dry without baking them. The same syrup will do another six pounds of fruit. To dry Cherries icithout sugar. Stone, and set them over the fire in the preserving- pan ; let them simmer in their own liquor, and shake them in the pan. Put them by in common China dishes; next day give them another scald, and put t.iem, when cold, on sieves to dry, in an oven of at- temperated heat as above. Twice heating, an hour each time, will do them. 1 utthem ill a box, with a paper between each layer. To dry Cherries the best icay. To eiery five pounds of cherries stoned, weigh one of sugar double refined. Put the fruit into the pre- servmg-pan with very little water ; make both scald- ing-hot; take the fruit immediately out and dry them • put them into the pan again, strewing the sugar be- tween each layer of cherries ; let it stand to melt ; then set the pan on the fire, and make it scalding hot as before ; take it oft, and repeat this thrice with the sugar. Dram them from the syrup ; and lay them singly to dry on dishes, in the sun or on a stove. When dry, put them into a sieve, dip it into a pan of cold water, and drawit instantly out again, and pour them onaftne solt cloth; dry them, and set tliem once more in the hot sun, or on a stove. Keep them in a box, with layers of white paper, in a dry place. This way IS the best to give plumpness to the fruit, as well as Colour and flavour. ^ CheiTies in Brandy. Weigh the finest morellos, having cut off half theSWEETMtATS. 237 Bliilk, prick them with a new needle, and drop tliem into a jar or wide-mouthed bottle. Pound three quart- ers the weight of sugar or white candy : strew over ; till up with brandy, and tie a bladder over. Cherry Jam. To twelve pounds of Kentish or duke cherries, when ripe, weigh one pound of sugar ; break the stones of part, and blanch them ; tlien put them to the fruit and sugar, and boil all gently, till the jam comes clear from the pan. Pour it into China plates to come up dry to table. Keep in boxes with white paper bV tween. Cmrant Jam, black, red, or white. « Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; stir it well, and boil half an hour. Currant Jelly, red or black. Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar stew them in a sauce-pan of water, or by boiling it on the hot hearth ; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh a pound of loaf-sugar ; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stone or China-vessel, till nearly dissolved ; then pul it in a preserving-pan ; simmer and skim as necessary. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. Apple Marmalade. Scald apples till they will pulp from the core ; then take an equal weightof sugar in large lumps, just dip them in water, and boiling it till it can be well skim- med, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and sim- mer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon-peel before boiled, but if too much it will be bitter. Apple Jelly for preserving Apricots, or J'or any sort of Sweet meats. Let apples be pared, quartered, and cored ; put themDOMESTIC COOKEIiy. !2:53 mto a stew-pan with as much water as will cover tl;ein • boil as fast as possible ; when the fruit is all in a mash,’ add a quart of water ; boil half an hour more, and run through a jelly-bag. 1 f in summer, codlins are best; in September, golden rennets or winter-pippins. Red Apples in Jelly. 1 are and core some well-shaped apples ; pippins or golden rennets if you have them, but others will do • throw them into water as you do them ; put them in’ a preservmg-pan, and with as little water as will only half cover them ; let them coddle, and when the lower side IS done, turn tiiem. Observe that they do not lie too clo^ when first put in. Mi.v some pounded cochi- neal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When sumciently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water and make a rich jelly of it with loaf-sugar, boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a ielly let It grow cold, and put it on and among the apples ’ cut the peel of the lemon m narrow strips, and nut across the eye of the apple. ’ll® colour be fine from the first, or the fruit will not afiemards gain it ; and use as little of ihe cochmeal as will serve, lest the syrup taste bitter. Dried Apples. Put them in a cool oven six or seven times, and flat- ten them by degrees, and gently, when soft enough to bear it. It the oven be too hot they will waste ; and 6.1 first it should b© VGry cool. Ihe biffin, the minshul crab, or any tart apples, are the sorts fur drying. ce > To preserve JargonellePears most beautifully Pare them very thin, and simmer in a thin syrup ; le» them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, andi e.mmer again ; and repeat this till they are clear ; than dram, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven aSWSETMJJaXS. 2S3 v<’ry little time. Tliey may be kept in syrup and dried na wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. Gooseberry Jam for Tarts. Put twelve pounds of the red hairy gooseberries, wlien ripe and gathered in dry weather, into a preserv- ing-pan, with a pint of currant-juice, drawn as for jelly ; let them boil pretty quick, and beat tliem with the spoon ; when they Itegin to break, put to them six pounds of pure white Lisbon sugar, and simmer slowly to a jam. It requires long boiling, or will not keep ; i)ut is an excellent and reasonable thing for tarts or putfs. Look at it in two or three days, and if the syrup anil fruit separate, the whole must be boiled longer, lie careful it does not burn to the bottom. Another.—Gather your gooseberries (the clear white or green sort) when ripe ; top and tail, and weigh them ; a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water ; boil and skim the sugar and water ; then put the fruit, and boil gently till clear ; then break and put into small pots. White Gooseberry Jam. Gather the finest white gooseberries, or green if you choose, when just ripe ; top and tail them. To each pound put three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water. Boil and clarify the sugar in the water as directed in page 228 ; then add the fruit; simmer gently till clear, then break it, and in a few minutes put the jam into small pots. Gooseberry Hups. Of the largest green walnut kind, take and cut the bud end in four quarters, leaving the stalk end whole ; pick out the seeds, and with a strong needle and thread fasten five or six together, by running the thread through the bottoms, till they are of the size of a hop. Lay vine-leaves at the bottom of a tin preserv- uig-pan, cover them with the hops, then a layer of leaves, and so on ; lay a good many on the top, tlien9.40 D(. .ytaric cookery. fill the pan with water. Stop it so close down that no steam cati get out, set it by a slow fire till scalding hot, then take it off till cold, and so do till on opening while cold, the gooseberries are of a good green. Then drain them on sieves, and make a thin syrup of a pound of sugar to a pint of water, boil, and skiiu it well; when half cold, put in the fruit ; next day give it one boil ; do this thrice. If the hops are to be dried, w’hich way they eat best, and look well, they may be set to dry in a week ; but if to be kept wet, make a syrup in the above proportions, adding a slice of ginger in boiling ; when skimmed and clear, give the gooseberries one boil, and when cold, pour it over them. If the first 8>rup be found too sour, a little sugar may be added and boiled in it, before the hops that are for drying have their last boil. The e.\tra syrup will serve for pies, or go towards other such meats. Itaspberry Jam. Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar ; put the former into a preserving-pan, boil and break it, stir constantly, and let it boil very quickly. When most of the juice is wasted, add the sugar, and simmer half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in . it first. Another tcay.—Put the fruit in a jar in a kettle of water or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run from it, tlien take away a quarter of a pint from every pound of fruit ; boil and bruise it half an hour, then put in the weight of the fruit in sugar, and, add- ing the same quantity of currant-juice, boil it to a strong jelly. The raspberry-juice will serve to put into brandy, or may be boiled with its weight in sugar for making the jelly or raspberry-ice or cream. To preserve Greengatjes. Choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; spli:241 SWEETMEATS. tl;em without paring, and strew a part of the sugar whicli jou liave previously weighed an equal quantity of. lilancti the kernels with a small sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar, six or eight minutes, very gently ; skim, and add the plums and kernels. Simmer till clear, taking off any scum that rises ; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. If you would candy it, do not add the syrup, but ob- serve the directions that will be given for candying fruit; some may be done each way. Danuon Cheese. Bake or boil the fruit in a stone jar in a sauce-pan of water, or on a hot hearth. Pour off some of the juice, and to every two pounds of fruit weigh half a pound of sugar. Set the fruit over a fire in the pan, let it boil quickly till it begins to look dry ; take out the stoues, and add the sugar, stir it well in, and sim- mer two hours slowly, then boil it quickly half an hour, till the sides of the pan candy ; pour the jam then into potting-pans or dishes, about an inch thick, so that it may cut firm. If the skins be disliked, then the juice is not to be taken out ; but after the first process, the fruit is to be pulped through a very coarse sieve with the juice, and managed as above. The stones are to be cracked, or some of them, and the kernels boiled in the jam. All the juice may be left in, and boiled to evaporate, but don't add the sugar until it has done 60. The above looks well in shapes. Muscle-plum Cheese. Weigh six pounds of the fruit, bake it in a stone jar, remove the stones, and take out the kernels to put in. Pour half the juice on two pounds and a half of good Lisbon ; when melted and simmered a few minutes, skim it, and add the fruit. Keep it doing very gently till the juice is much evaporated, taking care to stir it constantly, lest it burn. Pour it into smtiU moulds, 70 it242 DOMlisTlC COOKERY. j)Rt.typans, or saucers. Tlie remaining juice may aer/a to colour cream, or be added to a pie. Biscuits cf Fruit. To the palp of any scalded fruit put an equal weight of sugar sifted, beat it two hours, then put it into lit- tle white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in two or three days box them. Quince Marmalade, Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to four pounds of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have ready against four pounds of quinces are tolerably tender by the following mode; lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of wa- ter at the bottom, and pack them wdth a little sugar strewed in between ; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove or cool oven, and let them soften till the colour become red, then pour the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a preserving-pan, and boil all toge- ther till the marmalade be completed, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, and then squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtain- ing the juice to add as above, and dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. Excellent Sweetmeats for 2'arts, whe?i Fruit is plentiful. Divide two pounds of apricots when just ripe ; and take out and break the stones ; put the kernels with- out their skin to the fruit ; add to it three pounds of greengage plums, and two pounds and a half of lump- sugar ; simmer until the fruit be a clear jam. Tlie sugar should be broken in large pieces, and just dipped in water, and added to the fruit over a slow fire. Ob- serve that it does not boil, and skim it well. If iha sugar be clarified it will make the jam better.o i*i S WLKT MEATS, _iO Put it into small pots, in which all sweetmeats keep best. Magnum Bannm Plums : excellvnt as a Sweet- meat or in Tarts, though very bad to eat raw. Prick them with a needle to prevent bursting, sim- mer them very gently in a thin sjTup, put them in a China bowl, and when cold pour it over. Let them lie three days ; then make a syrup of three pounds of suttar to five of fruit, with no more water than hangs to large lumps of the sugar dipped quickly, and in- stantly brought out. Boil the plums in this fresh syrup, after draining the first from them. Do them very gently till they are clear, and the syrup adheres to them. Put them one by one into small pots, and pour the liquor over. Those you may like to dry, keep a little of the syrup for, longer in the pan, and boil it quickly ; then give the fruit one warm more, drain, and put them to dry on plates in a cool oven. These plums are apt to ferment, if not boiled in two syrups ; the former will sweeten pies, but v/ill have too much acid to keep. You may reserve part of it, and add a little sugar, to do those that are to dry, for they will not require to be so sweet as if kept wet, and will eat very nicely if only boiled as much as those. Don’t break them. One parcel may be done after another, and save much sugar. Lemon Drops. Grate tliree large lemons, with a large piece of double-refined sugar ; then scrape the sugar into a plate, add half a tea-spoonful of Hour, mix well, and beat it into a light paste with the white of an egg. Drop it upon white paper, and put them into a moder- ate oven on a tin plate. Barberry Drops. The black tops must be cut off: then roast the fruit before the tire, till soft enough to pulp with a silver spoon through a sieve into a china basin ; then set the basin in a sauce-pan of water, the top of which will24-4 DOMESTIC COOKr.RY. just fit it, or on a hot hearth, and stir it till it grows thick. When cold, put to every pint a pound and a half of sugar, the finest double-refined, pounded and sifted through u lawn sieve, which must be covered wiih a fine linen, to prevent its wasting while sifting. Beat the sugar and juice together three hours and a half if a large quantity, but two and a lialf for less ; then drop it on sheets of white thick paper, the size of the drops sold in the shops. Some fruit is not so sour, and then less sugar is necessary. To know if there be enough, mix till well incorporated, and then drop ; if it run, there is not enough sugar, and if there is too much it will be rough. A dry room will suffice to dry them. No metal must touch tlie juice but the point of a knife, just to take the drop off the end of the wooden spoon, and then as little as possible. Ginger Drops: a good Stomachic. Beat two ounces of fresh candied orange in a mortar, with a little sugar, to a paste ; then mix one ounce of powder of white ginger with one pound of loaf-sugar. Wet the sugar witli a little water, and boil all together ‘o a candy, and drop it on paper the size of mint-drops. l\ppermi?it Drops. Pound and sift four ounces of double-refined sugar, beat it with the whites of two eggs till perfectly smooth ; then add sixty drops of oil of peppermint, beat it well and drop on white paper, and dry at a distance from the fire. Ratafia Drops. Blanch and beat in a mortar four ounces of bitter, and two ounces of sweet almonds, with a little of a pound of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar, and the whites of two eggs, making a paste ; of which put little balls, the size of a nutmeg, on wafer- paper, and bake gently on tin-plates.SWnETMEATSL 246 Itntpberry Cakes. Pick out any bud raspberries that are among the irmt, wei"h and boil what quantity you please, and tvhen ma^ed, and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weigU of the fruit you first put into the pan, mix It visuoff the fire until perfectly dissolved, then put It on china-plates, and dry it in the sun. As soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates, and, when dry, put them in boxes with layers of paper. TO PIlESEnVE FRUITS FOR WI.NTER USE. Observations on Sweetmeats. Sweetmeats should be kept carefully from the air, and m a very dry place. Unless they have a very smal 1 jn-oportion of sug.rr, a warm one does not hurt ; but when not properly boiled, that is, long enough, but not quick, heat makes them ferment ; and damp causes them to grow mouldy. They should be looked at two or three times in the first two months, that they may be gently boiled again, if not likely to keep. It is necessary to observe, that the boiling of sugar more or less, constitutes the chief art of the confec- tioner, and those who are not practised in this know- ledge, and only preserve in a plain way for family use, are not aware that, in two or three minutes, a syrup j 1 will pass from one gradation to another, called by the confectioners degrees of boiling, of which tiiere we six, and Uiose subdivided. But I am not versed in the minutite, and only make the observation to guard against underboiling, which prevents sweet- iiieats from keeping; and quick boiling and long, which brings them to a candy. Attention, without much practice, will enable a per- son to do any of the following sorts of sweetmeats, &c. and they are as much as is wanted in a private family ; the liigher articles of preserved fruits may be bought at less expense tlun made.246 DOMESTIC COOIIEIIY. J cllies of fruit made with equal quantity of suqar, that i8, a pound to a pint, require no very long boiling. A pan should be kept for the purpose of preserving ; of double block-tin, with a bow-hau<iie opposite the straight one, for safety, will do very well; and if put by nicely cleaned, in a dry place, when done with, will last for several years. Those of copper or brass are improper, as the tinning wears out by the scraping of the sweetmeat-ladle. There is a new sort of iron, with a strong tinning, which promises to wear long. Sieves and spoons should be kept likewise for sweet things. Sweetmeats keep best in drawers that are not con- nected with a wall. If there be the least damp, cover them only with a paper dipped in brandy, laid quite close ; putting a little fresh over in spring, to prevent insect-mould. When any sweetmeats are directed to be dried in the sun or in a stove, it will be best in private families, where there is not a regular stove for the purpose, to put them in the sun on flag-stones, which reflect the heat, and place a garden glass over them to keep insects off ; or if put in an oven, to take care not to let it be too warm, and watch that they do properly and slowly. To lieep Currants. The bottles being perfectly clean and dry, let the currants be cut from the large stalks with the smallest bit of stalk to each, that the fruit not being wounded, no moisture may be among them. It is necessary to gather them when the weather is quite dry, and if the servant can be depended upon, it is best to cut them under the trees, and let them drop gently into the bottles. Stop up the bottles with cork and rosin, and put them into the trench in the garden with the neck downwards ; stocks should be placed opposite to where each sort of fruit begins. Cherries and Damsons keep in the same way.SW E KT M E A rs. 247 Currants mny be scalded, as directed for goose-ber- ries, the first method. To keep Codlhis for several months. Gather codlins at Midsummer of a middling size, put them into an earthen pan, pour boiling water over them, and co\’er the pan with cabbage-leaves. Keep them by the fire till they would peel, but don’t peel them: then pour the water off till they are both quite cold. Place the codlins then in a stone jar witli a smallish mouth, and pour on them the water that scald- ed them. Cover the pot with bladder wetted, and tied very close, and then over it coarse paper tied again. It is best to keep them in small jars, such as will be used at once when opened. To keep G'jOseherries. Before they become too large, let them be gathered, and take care not to cut them in taking off the stalks and buds. Fill wide-mouthed bottles ; put the corks loosely in, and set the bottles up to the neck in water in a boiler. When the fruit looks scalded, take them out ; and when perfectly cold, cork close, and rosin the top. Dig a trench in a part of the garden least nsed, sufficiently deep for all the bottles to stand, and let the earth be thrown over, to cover them a foot and a liaif. When a frost comes on, a little fresh litter from the stable will prevent the ground from harden- ing so tliat the fruit cannot be dug up. Or scald as above ; when cold, fill the bottles with cold water, cork them, and keep them in a damp or dry place ; they will not be spoiled. Another way.—In the size and preparation as above ; when done, have boiling water ready, either in a boiler or large kettle ; and into it put as much roach-alum as will, when dissolved, harden the water, which you will taste by a little roughness ; if there bo too much it will spoil the fruit. Put as many goose- berries into a large sieve as will lie at the bottom with-2-18 DOUHSTIC COOKUUY. out covering one another. Hold the sieve in the water till the fruit begins to look scalded on the outside ; tlien turn them gently out of the sieve on a cloth ou the dresser, cover them with another cloth, and put some more to be scalded, and so on till all be finished. Observe not to put one quantity on another, or they will become too soft. Tlie next day pick out any bad or broken ones, bottle the rest, and fill up the bottles with the alum-water in which they were scalded, which must be kept in the bottles : for if left in the kettle, or in a glazed pan, it will spoil. Stop them close. The water must boil all the time the process is carry- ing on. Gooseberries done this way make as fine tarts as fresh off the trees. Another way.—In dry weather pick the gooseber- ries that are full grown, but not ripe; top and tail them,and put into open-mouthed bottles ; gently cork them with new velvet corks ; put them in the oven when the bread is drawn, and let them stand till shrunk a quarter part ; take them out of the oven, and ira - mediately beat the corks in tight, cut off the tops, and rosin down close ; set them in a dry place ; and if well secured from air they will keep the year round. If gathered in the damp, or the gooseberries’ skins are the least cut in taking off the stalks and buds, they will mould. The hairy sort only must be used for keep- ing, and do them before the seeds become large. Currants and damsons may be done the same way. To heep Damsons for Winter Pies. Put them in small stone jars, or wide mouthed bot- tles ; set them up to their necks in a boiler of cold water, and lighting a fire under, scald them. Next day, when perfectly cold, fill up with spring water ; cover them. Another tcay,—Boil one-third as much sugar as fruit with it, over a slow fire, till the juice adheres to the fruit, and forms a jam. Keep it in small jars in a dry place. If too sweet, mix with it some of the fruit tliat is done without sugar.3-19 SWF-ETMP.ATS. Another way.—Choose steen-pots if you can get them, tvhich are of equal size top and bottom ^they should hold eight or nine pounds) ; put the fruit in about a quarter up, then strew in a quarter of the sugar: then another quantity of fruit, and so till all of both are in. Tlie proportion of sugar is to be three pounds to nine pounds of fruit. Set the jars in the oven, and bake the fruit quite through. When cold, put a piece of clean scraped stick into the middle of the jar, and let the upper part stand above the top; then pour melted mutton-suet over the top, full half an inch thick, having previously covered the fruit witli white paper. Keep the jars in a cool dry place, and use the suet as a cover ; which you will draw up by tiie stick, minding to leave a little forked branch to it to prevent its slipping out. To jireserve Fruit for Tarts, or Family-desserts. Cherries, plums of all sorts, and American apples, gather when ripe, and lay them in small jars that will hold a pound ; strew over each jar six ounces of good loaf-sugar pounded ; cover with two bladders each, separately tied down ; then set the jars on a large stew-pan of water up to the neck, and let it boil three hours gently. Keep these and all other sorts of fruit free from damp. To keep Lemon Juice. Buy the fruit when cheap, keep it in a cool place two or three days, if too unripe to squeeze readily ; cut the peel oflF some, and roll them under your hand to make them part with the juice more readily ; others you may leave unpared for grating, when the pulp shall be taken out and dried. Squeeze the juice into a China basin ; then strain it through some muslin, which will not permit the least pulp to pass. Have ready half and quarter ounce phials perfectly dry ; fill tiiem with the juice so near the top as only to admit half a tea-spoonful of sweet oil into each ; or a little230 DOlIKSrlC COOK HUY. more, if for larger bottles. Cork the bottles, and set them upright in a cool place. ^Vhen you want lemon-juice, open such a sized bot- tle as you shall use in two or three days ; wind some clean cotton round a skewer, and dipping it in, the oil will be attracted ; and when all shall be removed, the iuice will be as fine as when first bottled. Hang the peels up till dry ; then keep them from the dust. China Orange Juice.—A very useful thing to mix with icater in Fevers, when the fresh Juice cannot he procured. Squeeze from the finest fruit a pint of juice strained through fine muslin, and gently simmer with three quarters of a pound of double refined sugar twenty minutes ; when cold put it in small bottles. Different ways of dressing Cranberries. For pies and puddings with a good deal of sugar. Stevy in a jar with the same : which way they eat well with bread, and are very wholesome. Thu.s done, pressed and strained, the juice makes a fine drink for people in fevers. Orgeat. , Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold ; then pour it by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter that have been blanched and beaten to a pasto, with a little water to prevent oiling ; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. A^iother way,—Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoon- ful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of fine sugar in a pint of water, boil and skim it well; mix it with the Other, as likewise two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, and a toa-cupful of the best brandy.251 SWEETMEATS. Lewonnde, to be made the day before wanted. Pare two dozen of tolerablj-sized lemons as thin as possible, put eifjht of the rinds into three quarts of hot, not boiling water, and cover it over for three or four hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a china-bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add one pound and a half of fine sugar, then put the water to the above, and three quarts of milk made boiling hot; mix, and pour through a jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Another way.—Pare a number of lemons according to the quantity you are likely to want ; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need use the peels of. While infusing, boil sugar ami water to a good syrup with the white of an egg wiiipt up ; when it boils, pour a little cold water into it ; set it on again, and when it boils up take the pan oif, and pntit to settle. If there is any scum, take it otf, and pour it clear from the sediment to the water the peels were infused in, and the lemon juice stir and taste it, and add as much more water as shall be neces- Siiry to make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which is un- coinmouly fine. laCtnonade that has the fiavouv and appearance of Jelly. Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons as thin as possible, and steep them four hours in a quart of hot water. Roil a pound and a quarter of loaf-sugar in three pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons ; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly-bag till clear. Then add a little orange-water, if you like the fiavour, and, if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. liaspberry Vinegar. Put a pound of fine fruit into a china-bowl, and pourDOMESTIC COOKEET. 252 upon it a quart of the best white wine vinegar ; next, day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh raspberries ; and the following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it. The last time pass it through a canvass previously wet with vinegar to prevent waste. Put it into a ston^ j.'ir, with a pound of sugar to every pint of juice, broken into large lumps ; stir it when melted, then put the jar into a sauce-pan of water or on a hot hearth, let it simmer, and skim it. VVlien cold, bottle it. This is one of the most useful preparations that can be kept in a house, not only as affording the most re- freshing beverage, but being of singular efficacy in complaints of the chest. A large spoonful or two in .'i tumbler of water. Be careful to use no glazed nor metal vessels for it. The fruit, with an equal quantity of sugar, m.akes excellent Itaspberry Cakes without boiling. PART IX. CAKES, BREAD, &c. Observations on making and baking Cakes. Currants should be very nicely washed, dried in n cloth, and then set before the fire, if damp they will make cakes or paddings heavy. Before they are added, n dust of dry flour should be thrown among them, and n shake given to tliem, which causes the tl^ig that they are put to, to be lighter. Eggs should be very long beaten, wMtes and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and .sifted through a very fine hair or lawn-sieve.CAUES. SS3 Lemon-peel should be pared very thin, and with a little sugar beaten in a marble mortar to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be thoroughly and long beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends much on their being well incorporated. Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk ami water, and yeast, it becomes more tough, and is less easily divided than if the butter be first put with those ingredients, and the dough afterwards set to rise by the tire. The heat of the oven is of great importance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catching by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge into the very centre, draw it instantly out, and if the lea.st stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and shut up the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to souk, 1 have, with great success, had fresh fuel quickly put, in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was tit to finish the soaking, and they turned out extremely well. But those who are employed, ought to be particularly care- ful that no mistake occurs from negligence when large cakes aie to be baked. Icing for Cakes, For a large one, beat and sift eight ounces of fine sugar put into a mortar with four spoonfu's of rose- water, with the whites of two eggs beaten and strained, v.'liisk it well, and when the cake is almost cold, di|) u feather in the icing, and cover the cake well; set2r,i DOMKSTIC COOKERY. it in the oven to harden, but don’t let it stay to dirt- colour. Put the cake into a dry place. To ice a very large Cake. Beat the whites of twenty fresh eggs : then by de- grees beat a pound of double-refined sugar sifted these Well in a deep earthen pan, add orang^flower w-ater, and a piece of fresh lemon-peel; of the former enough to flavour, and no more. Wh.sk it for three hours till the mixture is n ^ hroad bit of board spread H all over the top and sides, and set it in a cool oven, and an hour will harden it. A common Cuke. Mix three quarters of a pound of flour with half a pound of butter, four ounces of sugar, four eggs, half ft « Pl'r® and a glass of raisin-wine Beat It well, and bake in a quick oven. Use fine Lisbon ougcir* A very good common Cake. flour“^ hotter into two pounds of dried bitter to a nasre ^ I yeast that is not miter, to a paste. Let it rise an nour and a half • then mix in the yolks and w-hites of four eggs beaten apart one pound of sugar, some milk to nmlrfl a proper ifveei r*’ will be sufficient), a gkss^of ginger Add^lith"'^ ^ lemon, and a tea-spoonful of Lrtvays, and birweir““" An excellent Cake.CAKES. 255 npiee, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped as fine as possible, a glass of wine, ditto of brand v, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat exceedingly well, and butter the pan. A quick oven. A very fine Cake. Vs ash two pounds and a half of fresh butter in water first,and then in rose-water,beat the butter toa cream ; f>eat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour eacln Have ready two pounds and a half of the finest fiour, well dried, and kept hot, likewise a pound and a half of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice in finest powder, tliree pounds of currants nicely cleaned and dry, half a pound of almonds blanched, and three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Let all be kept by the fire, mix alhthe dry ingredients ; pour the eggs strained to the butter ; mix half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy, pour it to the butter and eggs, mix well, then have all the dry things put in by degrees ; beat them very thoroughly, you can hardly do it too much. Hav- ing half a pound of stoned jar-raisitis chopped as fine as possible, mix them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a tea-cupful of orange-flower water. Beat the ingredients together a full hour at least. Have a hoop well buttered, or, if you have none, a tin or copper cake-pan ; take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if th • cake batter fill it more than three parts ; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. Itnut Drop CaJtes. Mix two pounds of flour, one ditto hotter, one ditto sugar, one ditto currants, clean and dry ; then wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, a large spoonful of orange-flower water, ditto rose-water, ditto sweet wine, ditto brandy, drop on a tin-plate floured: a very short time btikes them. tDOMESTIC COOKERT. 256 JPlat Cakes, that unit keep long in the house good. Mix two pounds of flour, one pound of sugar, and one ounce of caraways, with four or five eggs, and a few spoonfuls of water, to make a stiff paste ; roll it thin, and cut it into any shape. Bake on this lightly floured. While baking, boil a pound of sugar in a pint of water to a thin syrup ; while both are hot, dip each cake into it, and put them on tins into the oven to dry for a short time ; and when the oven is cooler still, return them there again, and let them stay four or five hours. Little White Cakes. Dry half a pound of flour, rub into it a very little pounded sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few caraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste ; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin-plates. Lillie shorl Cukes. Rub into a pound of dried flour four ounces of but- ter, four ounces of white powder-sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut them as before, and bake on tins. Phini Cukes. Mix thoroughly a quarter of a peck of fine flour well dried, with a pound of dry and sifted loaf-sugar, three pounds of currants washed, and very dry, half a pound of raisins stoned and chopped, a quarter of an ounce of mace and cloves, twenty Jamaica peppers, a grated nutmeg, the peel of a lemon cut as fine as possible, and half a pound of almonds blanched and beaten with orange flower water. Melt two pounds of butter in a pint and a quarter of cream, but not hot, put to it a pint of sweet wine, a glass of brandy, the whites and yolks of twelve eggs beaten apart, and half a pint of good yeast. Strain this liquid by degrees into the dry ingredients, beating them together a full hour, then butter the hoop.257 CAKES. or i>an, and bake it. As you put the batter into the hoop, or pan,, throw in plenty of citron, lemon, and orange-candy. If you ice the cake, take half a pound of double- refined sugar sifted, and put a little with the white of an egir, beat it well, and by degrees pour in the re- mainder. It must be whisked near an hour, with the addition of a little orange-flower water, but mind not to put much. When the cake is done, pour the icing over, and return it to the oven for fifteen minutes ; but if the oven be warm, keep it near the mouth, and the door open, lest the colour be spoiled. Another.—Flour dried, and currants washed and picked, four pounds, sugar pounded and sifted one pound and a half, six oranges, lemon, and citron-peels, cut in slices : mix these. Beat ten eggs, yolks and whites separately ; then melt a pound and a half of butter in a pint of cream ; when lukewarm, put it to half a pint of ale-yeast, near half a pint of sweet wine, and the eggs ; then strain the liquid to the dry ingredients, beat them well, and add of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg, half an ounce each. Butter the pan, and put it into a quick oven. Three hours will bake it. ' Very good common Plum Cakes. Mix five ounces of butter in three pounds of dry flour, and five ounces of fine Lisbon sug.-ir ; add si.\ ounces of currants, washed and dried, and some pi- mento finely powdered. Pnt three spoonfuls of yeasto into a Winchester pint of new milk warmed, and mix' into a light dough with the above. Make it into tw^ve cakes, and bake on a floured tin half an hour. Little Plum Cakes, to keep long. Dry one pound of flour, and mix with frix ounces of finely-pounded sugar ; beat six ounces of butter to a cream, and add to three eggs, well beaten, h.alf a pound of currants washed, and nicely dried, and the flour and sugar ; beat all for some time, then dredge flour 7t> 8H'iB DOiMi;STIC LOOKERY. on tin-plates, and drop the batter on them the size of a walnut. If properly mixed, it will be a stiff paste. Bake ui a brisk oven. A good Pound Cake. Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with It the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, a pound of Hour, and tl e same of sifted sugar, mix them, and a few cloves, a httle nutmeg and cinnamon in fine powder together : degrees work the ingredients into the butter and eggs. AN hen well beaten, add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour. But- ter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. t>JK out four ounces of the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. A cheap Seed Cake. Mix a quarter of a peck of flour with half a pound Of sugar, a miarter of an ounce of allspice, and a little half a pound of butter, with of i nin/ " it aquarter cf ‘ “P a good dough. minutes before it gLs and a hll’fi’ currants, and bake an hour pound and a half of flour, and a lately oommoii lump-sugar, eight eggs beaten sepa- rately, an ounce of seeds, two sitooufuls of veast, and the same of milk and water. ’ Note. Milk aloue causes cake and bread soon to dry. Common Bread Cake. Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of Lisbon sugar, and eidit of currant,. ,U. butter in . teA-Ju"^ „rgoo1 By the addition of an ounce of butter, or sugar, orCAKES. 2T.9 an egg or two, yon may make the cake better. A tea- •cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to biike it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. Queen Cakes. Mix a pound of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed clean currants. Wash a pound of but- ter in rose-water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour ; butter little tins, tea-cups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little tine sugar over just as you put into the oven. Another way.—Beat eight ounces of butter, and mix with two well beaten eggs, strained ; mix eight ounces of dried flour, and the same of lump-sugar, and *■ the grated rind of a lemon, then add the whole toge- ther, and beat full lialf an hour with a silver-spoon. Butter small patty-pans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. Shrewsbury Cakes. Sift one pound of sugar, some pounded cinnamon, and a nutmeg grated, into three pounds of flour, the finest sort ; add a little rose-water to three eggs, well beaten, and mix these with the flour, &c. then pour into it as much melted butter os will make it a good^ tliickness to roll out. Mould it well, and roll thin, and cut it into su shapes as you like. Tunbridge Cakes. Rub six ounces of butter quite fine, into a pound of flour, then mix six ounces of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and make with the above into a paste. Roll it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass; prick them willi a fork, and cover with caraways, or wash with the white of an egg, and dust a little white sugar over.DOJIESTIC COOKERY. 360 nice Cake. jVTix ten ounces of ground rice, three ounces of flonr» eight ounces of pounded sugar ; then sift by degrees ii\to eight yolks and six whites of eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred so fine that it is quite mashed ; mix the whole well in a tin stew-pan over a very slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediately into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. Another.—Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the peels of two lemons grated. Mix one pound of flour of rice, eight ounces of flour, and one pound of sugar pounded and sifted ; then beat it well with the eggs by degrees, for an hour, with a wooden spoon. Butter a pan well, and put it in at the oven mouth. A gentle oven will bake it in an hour and a half. Water Cakes. Dry three pounds of fine flour, and rub into it one pound of sugar sifted, one pound of butter, and one ounce of caraway-seed. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into the size you choose ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin plates in a cool oven. Sponge Cake. Weigh ten eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, jind that of six in flour ; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well half an hour. Bake in a quick oven an hour. Another, without butter.—Dry one pound of flour, and one and a quarter of sugar ; beat seven eggs, yolks and whites apart ; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful of brandy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered pan, in a quick oveiu Sweetmeats may be added, if approved.261 CAKES, kc. Tea Cakes. Rub fine four ounces of butter into eight ounces of flour ; mix eight ounces of currants, and six of fine Lisbon sugar, two yolks and one white of eggs, and a spoonful of brandy. Roll the paste the thickness of an Oliver biscuit, and cut with a wine-glass. You may beat the other white, and wash over them ; and either dust sugar, or not, as yon like. Benton Tea Cakes. Mix a paste of flour, a little bit of butter and milk ; roll as thin as possible, and bake on a back-stone over the fire, or on a hot hearth. Another sort, as Biscuits.—Rub into a pound of flour six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, and make into a paste, with a sufficient quan- tity of new milk ; make into biscuits, and prick them with a clean fork. Another sort.—Melt six or seven ounces of butter with a sufficiency of new milk warmed to make seven Dounds of flour into a stiff paste ; roll thin, and make into biscuits. A Biscuit Cake. One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strain- ed, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose, or orange-flower water ; beat the whole thoroughly, and bake one hour. Macaroons. Blanch four ounces of almonds, and pound with four spoonfuls of orange-flower water ; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix ft, and a pound of sugar, sifted, with the almonds, to a paste ; and laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in difl’erent little cakes, the shape of macaroons. Wafers. Dry the flour well which you intend to use, mix a little pounded sugar and finely-pounded mace with it ; then make it into a thick batter with cream ; butterDOMESTIC COOKERY. 2(52 the wafer-irons, let them be hot: put a tea-spoonfnl of the batter into them, so bake them carefully, and roll them off the iron with a stick. Crack Nuts. Mix eight ounces of flour, and eight ounces of sugar ; melt four ounces of butter in two spoonfuls of raisin- wine ; then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste ; add caraways, roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. Cracknels. Mix with a quart of flour half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose- water, into a stilf paste, with cold water ; then roll in a pound of butter, and make them into a cracknel shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, then take out, and put them into cold water ; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. A good plain Bun, that may he eaten with or without toasting and butler. Rub four ounces of butter into two pounds of flour, four ouncee of sugar, a nutmeg, or not, as you like, a few Jamaica peppers, a dessert spoonful of caraways; put a spoonful or two of cream into a cup of yeast, and as much good milk as will make the above into a light paste. Set it to rise by a fire till the oven be r^y. They will quickly bake on tins. Iticher Buns. Mix one pound and a half of dried flour with half a pound of sugar ; melt a pound and two .ounces of butter in a little warm water ; add six spoonfuls of rose- water, and knead the above into a light dough, with half a pint of yeast ; then mix five ounces of carawsy- coinflis in, and put some on them.2fi3 CAKES, Sue. Oingerbread. Mbi with two pounds of flour half a pound of treacle, three quarters of an ounce of caraways, one ounce of ginger finely sifted, and eight ounces of butter. Roll the paste into what form you please, and bake on tins, after having worked it very much, and kept it to rise. If you like sweetmeats, add orange candied ; it may be added in small bits. Another sort.—To three quarters of a ponnd of treacle beat one egg strained ; mix four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of ginger sifted ; of cloves, mace, allspice, and nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce, beaten n.s fine as possible ; coriander and caraway-seeds, each a quarter of an ounce ; melt one pound of butter, and mix with the above ; and add as much flour as will knead into a pretty stiff paste ; then roll it out, and cut into cakes. Bake on tin-plates in a quick oven. A little time will bake them. Of Some, drops may be made. A good plain sort.—Mix three pounds of flour with h/ilt a pound of butter, four ounces of brown sugar, half an ounce of pounded ginger ; then make into a paste with one pound and a quarter of treacle warm. A good sort without Sutter.—Mix two pounds of treacle ; of orange, lemon, and citron, and candied ginger, each four ounces, all thinly sliced ; one ounce of coriander seeds, one ounce of caraways, and one ounce of beaten ginger, in as much flour as will make a soft paste ; lay it in cakes on tin-plates, and bake it in a quick oven. Keep it dry in a covered earthen vessel, and it will be good for some months. Note. If cakes or biscuits be kept in paper, or a drawer, the taste will be disagreeable. A pan and cover, or tureen, will preserve them long and moist.^ Or, if to be cri>p, laying them before the fire will malte them 30,DUJ!EhTIC COOK ER.Y. ’’04 liiishs. Beat seven eggs well, and mix with half a pint of new milk, in which hav'e been melted four ounces of butter ; add to it a quarter of a pint of yeast, and three ounces of sugar, and put them, by degrees, into as much flour as will make a very light paste, rather like a batter, and let it rise before the fire half an hour ; then add some more flour, to make it a little stiifer, but not stiff. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves, or cakes, about five or six inches wide, and flat- ten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Note. The cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea ; or, with caraways, to eat cold. To make Yeast. rhicken two quarts of water with fine flour, about three spoonfuls, noil half an hour, sweeten with near half a pound of brown sugar ; when near cold, put into It four spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, witliout being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off ; shake Uie remainaer and cork it up for use. Take always four spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. Another loay.—Boil one pound of potatoes to a mash ; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix It well. It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to what you do of beer-yeast. io take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it. To make Bread. Let flour bo kept four or five weeks before it is2C5 CAKES, ,YC. ■^U-nn to bake with. Put half a bushel of good flout into a trough, or kueading-tub ; mi.'c with it between four and live quarts of warm water, and a pint and i\ half of good yea.st ; put it into the flour, and stir it well witli your hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise about an hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast ; then, before it falls, add four more quarts of warm water, and half a pound of salt ; work it well, and cover it with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven ; and by the time it is warm enough, the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about five pounds each ; sweep out the oven very clean and quick, and put in the bread ; shut it up close, and two hours and a half w'iil bake it. in summer tlie water should be milk warm, in winter a little more, and infrostv wea- tiier as hot as you can well bear yoiir hand in, but not scalding,or the whole will despoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be very nice. 'I'he oven should be round, not long ; the roof from twenty to twenty-four inches high, the mouth small, ami the door of iron, to shut close. This construction will save tiring and time, and bake better than long and high-roofed ovens. Rolls, mutlins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days old, by dipping them uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. American Flour Kequires almost twice as much water to make it into bread as is used for English flour, and therefore it is more profitable ; for a stone of the American, which weighs fourteen pounds, will make twenty-one pounds and a half of bread, but the best sort of English flour ^ produces only eighteen pounds and a half. » The lieverend Mr. Ilagget’s economical £read. Only the coarse flake-bran is to be removed from the flour ; of this take five pounds, and boil it in r..ihermore than four gallons of water j so that whenDOMESTIC COOKERY. 2()G perfectly smooth, you may have three gallons and three qii.arts of bran-water clear. With this knead fifty-site pounds of the flour, adding salt and yeast in the same way and proportions as for other bread. When ready to bake, divide it into loaves, and bake them two hours and a half. Thus made, flour will imbibe three quarts more of bran-water than of plain ; so that it not only produces a more nutritious substantial food, but makes an in- crease of one-fifth of the usual quantity of bread, which i i a saving of one day’s consumption out of six ; and if this was adopted throughout the kingdom, it would make a saving of ten million sterling a year, when 'vheat was at the price it stood in the scarcity, reckon- ing the consumption to be two hundred thousand bushels a day. The same quantity of flour which, kneaded with water, produces sixty-nine pounds eight ounces of bread, will, in the above way make eighty- three pounds eight ounces, and gain fourteen pounds. ■\t the ordinary price of flour four millions would be saved. When ten days old, if put into the oven for twenty minutes, this bread will appear quite new again. Rice-and- Wheat Bread. Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till it becomes perfectly soft; when it is of a proper tvarmth, mix it extremely well with four pounds of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoonfuls ; knead it extremely well ; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. The whole expense, including baking, will not exceed three rhillinu's, for which eight pounds and a half of exceed- ingly good bread willbe produced. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more tlian others. French Bread. With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks tf lliree and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained,BREAD, &C. 2fi7 a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, niui as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dongh. Stir it about, but don't knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. To discover rnhether bread has been adulterated with whiting or chalk. Mix it with lemon-juice, or strong vinegar, and if this puts it into a state of fermentation, yon may be certain it has a mixture of alkaline particles ; and these are sometimes in large quantitiesin bakers’ bread. To detect Bones, Jalap, Ashes, ^c. in Bread. Slice a large loaf very thin, the crumb only ; set it over the fire with water, and let it boil gently a long time ; take it off, and pour the water into a vessel ; let it stand till near cold ; then pour it gently out, and in the sediment will be seen the ingredients which have been mixed. The alum will be dissolved in the water, and may be extracted from it. If jalap has been used, it will form a thick film at top, and the heavy ingre- dients will sink to the bottom. Excellent Rolls. AVarm one ounce of butter in half a pint of milk» put to it a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer> and a little salt. Put two pounds of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour ; knead it well ; make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and but- tered, they resemble Sally Lumm’s, as made at Bath, Tlie foregoing receipt, with the addition of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes re- markably good. French Rolls. Rub an ounce of butter into a pound of flour ; mix one egg beaten, a little yeast that is not bitter, and fts263 DOMESTIC COOKl ItY. much milk as will make a dough of a middling atifT- tiess. Beat it well, but do not knead ; let it rise and bake on tins. Brentford Rolls. Mix with two pounds of flour a little saB, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pin t of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the tire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size; then bake lialf an hour. Potatoe Rolls. Boil three pounds of potatoes, bruise and work them with two ounces of butter, and as much milk as will make them pass through a colander. Take half or tiiree quarters of a pint of yeast, and half a pint of warm water, mix with the potatoes, then pour the whole upon five pounds of flour, and add some salt. K Head it well: if not of a proper consistence, put a little more milk and water warm ; let it stand before the tire an hour to rise ; work it well, and make into rolls. Bake about half an hour in an oven not quite so hot as for bread. They eat well, toasted and buttered. Mi{ffins. Mix tw'o pounds of flour with two eggs, two ounces of butter melted in a pint of milk, and four or five spoonfuls of yeast ; beat it thoroughly, and set it to rise two or tlwee hours. Bake on a hot hearth in flat cakes. When done on one side turn them. Note.—Mullins, rolls, or bread, if stale, may be made to taste new, by dipping in cold water, and toasting, or heating in an oven, or Dutch-oven, till the outside bo crisp. Yorkshire Cake. Take two pounds of flour, and mix with it four ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three269 HOME-BREWERT. spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs; beat all well toge- ther, and let it rise ; then knead it, and make into cakes ; let tliem rise on tins before you bake, which do in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort ; the last lighter. Hard Biscuits. Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling-pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it thin, and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. Plain arid very crisp Biscuits. Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and some milk, into a very stiff paste ; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth ; roll very tliin, and cut into biscuits, bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. PART X. HOME-bREWEUY, WINES, &x. To breio very fine Welsh Ale. Pour forty-two gallons of water hot, but not quite boiling, on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand three hours. In the meantime infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water and hops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them together three hours. Strain off the hops, and kee)) for the small beer. Let the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two270 UOKKSTIC COOKEHY. quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done working the second or third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle, remove it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently, to prevent the fermentation from ^ continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or three days before stopping up. Strong Beer or Ale. Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, (or fourteen if you wish it of a very good body), eight for ale ; for either pour the whole quantity of water hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours close covered ; mash it in the first half-hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time. Run it on the hops previously infused in water ; for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel ; if for ale, half a pound. Boil them with the wort two hours from the time it begins to boil. Cool a pailful to add three quarts of yeast to, which will prepare it for putting to the rest when ready next day ; but if possible put to- gether the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working; and wiien it is to be stopped, have ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the tire, put them into the bung-hole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve montlia in casks, and twelve months in bottles before it be drank. It will keep fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed the beginning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are per- fectly prepared, and that the corks are of the best sort. The a'.e will be ready in three or four months ; and if the vent-peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at lirst for waste. After the beer or ale has run from the grains, po\ir a hogshead and half for the twelve bu.-;hels, and a hogs-271 HOME-BKEWERY. lieiid of water if ei^lit were brewed ; mash, and let it stand, and then boil, &c. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that were boiled for tlie strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a tea-spoonful, or more, if required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug, will rectify it. Let it be drawn just before it is drunk, or it wili taste flat. Excellent Table Eeer. On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use, which is to be thirty- nine gallons. Cover it warm half an hour, then mash, and let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry, add half the remaining water, mash, and let it stand lialf an hour, run that into an- other tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Kun that off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, as in the former receipt, and be put into the tub for the first running. Boil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add to the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pale. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for three days, when it may be safely fitstened close. In three or four weeks the beer will be fit fur drinking. Jfote, Servants should be directed to put a cork into every barrel as soon as the cock is taken out, and to fasten in tlie vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. To refine Beer, Ale, Wine, or Cyder. Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third p<trt of the ca;sk, and mix the above with it: likewiseUOllESXIC COOKERV. 272 a quarter of an ounce of pearl-ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcined, and one ounce of burnt alum pow- dered, Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it w'ith a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. Extract of Malt for CougJis. Over half a bushel of pale ground malt pour as much hot, not boilitig water, as will just cover it. In forty- eight hours drain off the liquor entirely, but without squeezing the grains; put the former into a large sweetmeat-pan, or sauce-pan, that there may be room to boil as quick as|X)ssible, without boiling over ; when it begins to thicken stir constantly. It must be as thick as treacle. A dessert-spoon thrice a-day. To preserve Yeast. When you have plenty of yeast, begiu to save it in the following manner ; whisk it until it becomes thin, theu take a new large wooden dish, wash it very nicely, and when quite dry, lay a layer of yeast over the inside with a soft brush ; let it dry, then put another layer ill the same manner, and so do until you have .a sufilcient quantity, observing that each coat dry tho- roughly before another be added. It may be put on two or three inches thick, and will keep several months ; when to be used, cut a piece out ; stir it in warm water. —If to be used for brewing, keep it by dipping largo handfuls of birch tied together ; and when dry, repeat the dipping once. You may thus do as many as you please ; but take care that no dust comes to them, or the vessel in w’hieh it has been prepared as before. When the wort is set to work, throw into it one of these bunches, and it will do as well as with fresh yeast; but if mixed with a small quantity first, and then added to the whole, it will work sooner. Remarks on English iriifes. English wines would be found particularly useful, now foreign are so high-priced ; and though sugar i;WINJiS, (See. 273 dtwr, they may I b made at a quarter the expense. If carefully made, and kept three or four years, a pro- portionable strength being given, they would answer tlie purpose of foreign wines for health, and cause a very considerable reduction in the expenditure. A Mich and pleasant Wine. Take new cyder from the press, mi.x it with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim it well ; when cool, let it be tunned, but don’t quite fill. In March following bottle it, and it will be fit to ciriuk in six weeks ; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve for any culinary ]>urposes whicli sack, or sweet-wine, is directed for. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render jiulatable new crabbed austere cyder. Ttaspherry Wme. To every quart of well picked raspberries put a quart of water ; bruise, and let them stand two days ; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put tliree pounds of lump-sugar ; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, whicli will be in about two uiontlrs, bottle it, and to each bottle put a spoonful of brandy, or a glass of wine. Raspberry or Currant Wine. To every three pints of fruit, carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water ; bruise llie former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart a pound of sugar, of good middling quality, of Lisbon. If for white currants, use lump- sugar.” It is best to put the fniit, (Sic. in a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.— Those who make from their own gardens may not liave a sutficiency to fill the barrel at once ; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, in the above proper- 70 TDOMKhXIC COOUEKY. 27 i tions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can ne ga- thered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in eacli time. Another way.—Put five quarts of currants, and a pint of raspberries, to every two gallons of water ; let them soak a night; then squeeze and break them well. Next day rub them well on a fine wire sieve, till all the juice is obtained, wasliing the skins again with some of the water ; then to every gallon put four pounds of very good Lisbon sugar, but not white, which is often adulterated ; tun it immediately,and lay the b ung lightly on. Do not use any thing to work it. I n I wo or three days put a bottle of brandy to every four gallons ; bung it close, but leave the peg out at top a few days ; keep it three years, and it will be a very fine agreeable W'ine ; four years would make it still better. Black Currant Wine, very fine. To every three quarts of j nice, put the same of water unboiled ; and to every three quarts of the liquor, add three pounds of very pure moist sugar. Put it into a c.xbk, preserving a hitle for tilling up. Put the cask ill a warm dry room, and the liquor will ferment of itself. Skim off the refuse, when the fermentation shall be over, and fill up with the reserved liquor. W'hen it has ceased working, pour three quarts of hiandy to forty quarts of wine. Bung it close for nine months, then bottle it, and drain the thick part through a jelly-bag, until it be clear, and bottle that. Keep it ten or twelve months. Excellent Ginger Wine. Put into a very nice boiler ten gallons of water, fifteen pounds of lump-sugar, with the whites of six or eight eggs well beaten and strained ; mix all well while cold ; when the liquor boils skim it well ; put in half a pound of common white ginger bruised, boil it twenty minutes. Have ready the very tliin rinds ofWlNKj, &C. 276 cw., tun It with two spoontiilsof veast ; put a Quart var^n SVliof'jS'nfr'a^-shavLgs, while v\arin, iLUuti it well threeor lour timpct anH nmn. oii "p’iuptK™ weeiis bottle, and in three monthsit will be a delicioni ^id refredung liqoor ; «nd tLoogh v«r, cool, perfectlj 1.01/ = spoonful and a half of reast. Stir it daily, then put in half a pint of brandV, and half an ounce of is^n- u'rr® ’ ®‘°P “P’ it six or seven eeks. Do not put the lemon-peel in the barrel. Orange }Vine. rti; £ 'hoV“"h™ Ifd" SC"! f” Hooiilc orooge. jr.ollion'*.''; pLi “S IS and five lemons as thin as possiblV; put theTTn tliread, and suspend them in the barrel for^two months • l^b^ng it up."“‘’ loaf-sugar.’ Excellent Cowslip Wine. lumUr4^r®"'bo‘il*t‘h w«igh tl‘ree pounds of quantity half an hour taking otf the scum as it rises. When cool enough m,t to^f a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yesMi let the irc.V™orfo7o™,V7.‘lfe fT,* • ‘r“3 o, «o. ii„,T.rb'ort".t one gallon of cowslip-pips, then pour on thira the276 DOMESTIC COOKERY. liquor. It most be carefully stirred every day for a week ; then to every five gallons put in a bottle of brandy. Let the cask be close stopped, and stand only sLs weeks before you bottle off. Observe to use the best corks. Elder Wine. To every quart of berries put two quarts of water, hoil lialf ail hour, run the liquor, and break the fruit through a hair-sieve ; then to every quart of juice, put three quarters of a pound of Lisbon sugar, coarse, but not the very coarsest. Boil the whole a quarter of an hour with some Jamaica peppers, ginger, and a few cloves. Pour it into a tub, and when of a proper warmth, into ihe barrel, with toast and yeast to work, which there is more difficulty to make it do tlian most other liquors. When it ceases to hiss, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and stop up. Bottle in the spriim or at Christmas. The liquor must be Ml a warm place to make it worlt. Mliite Elder Wine, very much like Frontmiac. Boil eighteen pounds of white powder sugar, with six gallons of vvater, and two whites of eggs well bt'sten ; then skim it, and put in a quarter of a peck of elder-flowers from tlie tree that bears white ber- ries ; don’t keep them on the fire. VA’hen near cold, stir it, and put in six spoonfuls of lemon-juice, four or five of yeast, and beat well into the liquor ; stir it every day ; put six pounds of the best raisins, stoned, into the cask, and tun the wine. Stop it close and bottle in six months. When well kept, this wine will pass for Frontiniuo. Clary Wine. Boil fifteen gallons of water with forty-five pounds of sugar; skim it ; when cold put a little to a quarter of a pint of yeast, and so by degrees add a little more. ' In an hour pour the small quantity to the large pour the liquor on clary-flowers, picked in the dry • the I277 U’l.NKS, &C. quantity for the above is twelve quarts. Those who gather from their own garden may not have sufficient to put in at once, and may add as they can get them keeping account of each miart. When it ceases to hiss, and the flowers are all in, stop it up for four months Rack it off, empty the barrel of the dregs ft gallon of the best brandy, stop it up* and let it stand six or eight weeks ; then bottle it. * Excellent Raisin Wine. spring-water put eight pounds of fresh bniyrnas in a large tub ; stir it tliorouglilv every day for a month; then press the raisins in a horsehair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask: and when it has done hissing, pour in a hot- tie of the best brandy; stop it close for twelve months • then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them' through a bag of flannel of three or four folds ; add the clear to the quantity, and pour one or two quarts ot brandy, according to the size of the vessel. Stop It up, and, at the end of three years, you may either bott e It, or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine would be extremely good, if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. Raisin Wine xoilh Cyder. Put two hundred weight of Malaga raisins into a cask, and pour upon them a hogshead of good sound cyder that is not rough ; stir it well two or three days ; stop it, and let it stand six months : then rack iiito a cask that it will fill, and put in a gallon of the best brandy. If raisin wine be much used, it would answer well to keep a cask always for it, and bottle n ° ? wine just in time to make the next, which, allowing the six months of infusion, would make the wine to be eighteen months old. In cyder- counties this way is very economical ; and even if not thought strong enough, the addition of another quar- ter of a hundred weight of raisins would be sufficient.lK>M£SnC COOKERi, 278 and the wine would still be very cheap. When the raisins are pressed through a horse-hair bag, they will either produce a good spirit by distillation, and must be sent to a chemist who will do it (but if for that purpose, they must be very little pressed ;) or they will make excellent vinegar, on which article see page 130. The stalks should be picked out for the above, and may be thrown into any cask of vine- gar that is making, being very acid. Itaisin Wine without Cyder. On four hundred weight of Malagas pour one hogs- head of spring-water, stir well diiily for fourteen days, then squeeze the raisins in a horse-hair bag in a press, and turn the liquor ; when it ceases to hiss, stop it close. In six months rack it off into another cask, or into a tub, and after clearing out the sediment, return it into the same, but don’t wash it ; add a gallon of the best brandy, stop it close, and in six months bottle it. Take care of the pressed fruit, for the uses of which refer to the preceding receipt. Sack Mead. To every gallon of water put four pounds of honey, and boil it tliree qu.arters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add an ounce of hops ; then boil it half an hour, and let it stand till next day : put it into your cask, and to thirteen gallons of the liquor add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stop- ped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask. Cowslip Mead. Put thirty pounds of honey into fifteen gallons of water, and boil till one gallon is wasted ; skim it, take it off the fire, and have ready a dozen and a half of lemons quartered ; pour a gallon of the liquor boiling hot upon them ; put the remainder of tlie liquor into a tub, with seven pecks of cowslip-pips ;WINES, &c. 27f> let them remain tliere all night, and then put the liquor and the lemons to eight spoonfuls of new yeast, and a handful of sweet-briar: stir all well together, and let it work three or four days. Strain it, and put it into the cask : let it stand six mouths, and tlien bottle it for keeping. Imperial. Put two ounces of cream of tartar, and the juice and paring of two lemons, into a stone jar ; put on them seven quarts of boiling water, stir and cover close. When cold, sweeten with loaf-sugar, and, straining it, bottle and cork it tight. This is a very pleasant liquor, and very wholesome ; but, from the latter consideration, was at one time drank in such quantities as to become injurious. Add, in bottling, ludf a pint of rum to the whole quantity. Itatafia. Blanch two ounces of peach and apricot-kernels, bruise and put them into a bottle, and All nearly up with brandy. Dissolve half a pound of white sugar- candy in a cup of cold water, and add to the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and they are strained off ; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. Itaspbernj lirauuy. Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water,or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run ; strain, and to every pint add half a pound of sugar, give one boil, and skim it ; when cold put equal quantites of juice and brandy, shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. An excellent Method of malting Punch, Take two large fresh lemons with rough skins, quite ripe, and some hirge lumps of double-refined sugar.2B0 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Rub the sugar over the lemons till it has absorbed all the yellow part of the skins. Then put into the bowl these lumps, and as much more as the juice of the lemons may be supposed to require ; for no certain weight can be mentioned, as the acidity of a lemon cannot be known till tried, and tlierefore this must be determined by the taste. Then squeeze the lemon-juice upon the sugar ; and .with a bruiser press the sugar and the juice particularly well together, for a great deal of the richness and tine flavour of the punch de- pends on this rubbing and mixing process being tho- roughly performed. Then mix this up very loell witli boiling water (soft water is best) till the w.ater is rather cool. When this mixture (which is now called the -sherbet) is to your taste, take brandy and rum in eqmd quantities, and put them to it, mixing the whole well together again, 'fhe quantity of liquor must be ac- cording to your taste : two good lemons are generally enough to make four quarts of punch, including a quart of liquor, with half a pound of sugar ; but this depends much on taste, and on the strength of the spirit. As the pulp is disagreeable to some persons, the sherbet may be strained before the liquor is put in. Some strain the lemon before they put it to the sugar, wliich is improper ; as, when the pulp and sugar are well mixed together, it adds much to tlie richness of the punch. When only rum is used, about half a pint of porter will soften the punch ; and even when both rum and brandy are used, the porter gives a richness, and to some a very pleasant fLavour. Tins receipt has never been in print before, but is greatly admired among the writer’s friend.s. It is im- possible to take too much pains in all the processes of and in minding to do them extremely loell, tliat all the different articles may be most thoroughly incorporated together.281 wi.vKS, &;c. Venilor, or Milk Punch. Pare six oranges and six lemons as thin as you can, grate them after with sugar, to get the flavour. Steep the peels in a bottle of rum or brandy stopped close twenty-four hours. Squeeze the fruit on two pounds of sugar, add to it four quarts of water, and one of new milk boiling hot; stir the rum into Ute above, and run it througha jelly-bag till perfectly clear. Battle, and cork close immodiately. Norfolk Punch. In ttventy quarts of French brandy put the peels of thirty lemons and thirty oranges, pared so thin that not the least of the white is left. Infuse twelve hours. Have ready thirty quarts of cold water that has boiled ; put to it fifteen pounds of double-refined sugar ; and when well mixed, pour it upon the brandy and peels, adding the juice of the oranges and of twenty-four lemons j mix well: tlien strain through a very fine hair-sieve, into a very clean barrel tliat has held spirits, and put two quarts of new milk. Stir, and then bung it close ; let it stand six weeks in a warm cellar ; bot- tle the liquor for use, observing great care that the bottles are perfectly clean and dry, and the corks of the best quality, and well put in. This liquor will keep many years, and improves by age. Ajwlhcr way.—Pare six lemons and three Seville oranges very thin, squeeze the juice into a large tea-, pot, put to it two quarts of brandy, one of white-wine, and one of niilk, and one pound and a quarter of sugar. Let it be mixed, and then covered for twenty- four hours, strain through u jclly-bag till clear, then bottle it. White C,urrant Shrub. Strip the frnit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly ; strain the juice, of which put two quarts to one gallon of rum, aud two pounds of lump-sugar ; strain tltrongh a jelly-bag.DOMESTIC COOKER'r. 2C2 PART XI. DAIRY AND POULTRY. DAIEY. The servants of each country are generally acquainteil with the best mode of managing the butter and cheese of that country ; but the following hints may not be unacceptable, to give information to the mistress. On the Management of Cows, §-c. Cows should be carefully treated ; if their teats are pore, they should be soaked in warm water twice a clay, and eitlier be dressed with soft ointment, or done with spirit and water. If the former, great cleanli- ness is necessary. The milk, at these times, sliould be given to the pigs. When the milk is brought into the dairy, it should be strained and emptied into clean pans immediatelv hi winter, but not till cool in summer. White ware is preferable, as the red is porous, and cannot be so thorougly scalded. The utmost possible attention must be paid to great cleanliness in a dairy ; all the utensils, shelves, dres» sers, and the floor, should be kept with the most per- fect neatness, and cold water thrown over every par; very often. There should be shutters to keep out the sun and the hot air. Meat hung in a dairy will spoil milk. 1 he cows should be milked at a regular and early hoar, and the udders emptied, or the quantity will decrease. The quantity of milk depends on many causes ; a.s the goodness, breed, and health of the cow, the pasture, the length of time from calving, tJie having plenty of clean water in the field she feeds283 DAIRV. la, &c. A change of pasture will tend to increase it. People who attend properly to the dairy will feed the cows particolai-ly well two or three weeks before they calve, which makes the milk more abundant after. In gentlemen’s dairies more attention is paid to the size and beauty of the cows tlian to their produce, which dairymen look most to. For making cheese the cows should calve from Lady-day to x'lay, that the large (juantity of milk may come into use about the same time ; but in gentle- men’s families one or two should calve in August or September for a supply in winter. In good pastures, the average produce of a dairy is about three gallons a-day each cow, from Lady-day to Michaelmas, and from thence to Christmas one gallon a-day. Cow.s will be profitable milkers to fourteen or fifteen yearn of age, if of a proper breed. ^V'hen a calf is to be reared, it should be taken from the cow in a week at furthest, or it will cause great trouble in rearing, because it will be difficult to make it take milk in a pan. Take it from the cow in the morning, and keep it without food till the ne.xt morning ; and then, being hungry, it will drink without difiiculty. Skimmed milk and fresh whey, just as warm as new milk, should be given twice a-day in such quantity a.s is required. If milk runs short, smooth gruel mixed with milk will do. At fir.st let the calf be out only by day, and feed it at night and morning. When the family is absent, or there is not a great call for cream, a careful dairy-maid seizes the oppor- tunity to provide for the winter-store: she should have a book to keep an account, or get some one to write down for her the produce of every week, and set down what butter she pots. The weight the pot will hold should be marked on each in making at the pottery. In another part of the book should be stated the poultry reared in one leaf, and the weekly cou- EUinption in another part.DO.MKSTIC COOKERY. 28-1 Observation respecting Cheese. This well-known article differs according to the pasture in which the cows feed. Various modes of preparing may effect a great deal: and it will be bad or good of its kind, by being in unskilful hands or the contrary ; but much will still depend on the for- mer circumstance. The same land rarely makes very fine butter, and remarkably fine cheese ; yet due care may give one pretty good, when the other excels in quality. When one is not as fine as the other, attention and change of method may amend the inferior. There is u-sually, however, too much prejudice in the minds of dairy people, to make them give up an old custom for one newly recommended. This calls for the eye of the superior. A gentleman has been at the e.x- pense of procuring cattle from every county noted for good cheese ; and it is affirmed that the Cheshire, double Gloucester, North Wiltshire, Chedder, and many other sorts, are so excellent as not to discredit their names. As the cows are all on one estate, it should seem that the mode of making must be a principal cause of the difference in flavour ; besides, there is much in the size and manner of keeping. Cheese made on the same ground, of new, skim- med, or mixed milk, will differ greatly ; not in rich- ness only, but also in taste. Those who direct a dairy in a gentleman's family should consider in which way it can be managed to the best advantage. Even with few cows, cheeses of value may be made from a toler- atde pasture, by taking the whole of two meals of milk, and proportioning the thickness of the vat to the quantity, rather than having a wide and fiat one, as the former will be most mellow. The addition of a pound of fresh-made butter, of a good quality, will cause the cheese made on poor land to be of a very different quality from that usually produced by it. A few cheeses thus made, when the weather is not extremely hot, and ,vlien the cows are in full feed.n&iiiY. 2;J5 v.ill be very advantageous for the use of the parlour. Cheese for common family-use will be very well pro- duced by two meals of skim, and one of new milk ; or. in good land, by skim-milk only. Butter likewise should be made, and potted down for winter-use, but not to interfere with the cheese as above, which will not take much time. To prepare Itennet, to turn the Milk, Take out the stomach of a calf as soon as killed, and scour it inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours • then sew it up with two good handfuls-of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick welJ salted ; or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over by fresh water. ^ Another icay.—Clean the maw asabove ; next day take two quarts of fresh spring-water, and put into it a liandful of hawthorn-tops, a handful of sweet-briar a handful of rose-leaves, a stick of cinnamon, forty cloves, four blades of mace, a sprig of knotted mar- joram, and two large spoonfuls of salt. Let them boil gently to three pints of water ; strain it off; and when only milk-warm, pour it on the veil (that is, the maw). Slice a lemon into it; let it stand two days ; strain it again, and bottle it for use. It will keep good at least twelve months, and has a very fine flavour. You may add any sweet aromatic herbs to the above. It must be pretty salt, but not brine. A little will do for turn- ing. Salt the veil again for a week or two, and dry it stretched on sticks crossed, and it will be near as strong as ever. Don’t keep it in a hot place when dry. 2'o make Cheese, Put the milk into a large tub, warming a part till it is of a degree of heat quite equal to new ; if too hot the cheese will be tough. Put in as much rennet as wjll turn it, and cover it over. Let it stand till com- pletely turned ; then strike the curd down several timesL'Omustk; cookery. 256 with the skimmin^-dish, and let it separate, still cover- ing it. There are two modes of breaking the curd ; and there will be a difference in the taste of the cheese, according as either is ob->erved ; one is, to gather it witli the hands verj gently towards the side of the tub, letting the whey pass through the lingers till it is cleared, and lading it off as it collects. The other is, to get the whey from it by early breaking the curd ; the last method deprives it of many of its oily particles, and is therefore less proper. Put the vat on a ladder over the tub, and fill it with curd by the skimmer ; press the curd close with your hand, and add more as it sinks ; and it must be finally left two inches above the edge. Before the vat is filled, the cheese-cloth must be laid at the bottom : and when full, drawn smooth over on all sides. There are two modes of salting cheese : one by mix- ing it in the curd while in the tub after the whey is out; and the other by putting it into the vat and crumbling the curd all to pieces with it, after the first .squeezing with the hands has dried it. The first method appears best on some accounts, but not on all; and therefore the custom of the country must direct. Put a board under and over the vat, and place it in the press ; in two hours turn it out and put a fresh cheese- cloth ; press it again for eight or nine hours ; then Balt it all over, and turn it again in the vat, and let it •stand in the press fourteen or sixteen hours, observing to put the cheeses last made undermost. Jiefore put- ting them the last time into the vat, pare the eilges if they do not look smooth. The vat should have holes at the sides and at bottom, to let all the whey pass through. Put on clean boards, and change and scald timm. To preserve Cheese sound. Wash in warm whey, when you have any, and wipe it once a month, and keep it on a rack. If you want to ripen it, a d.imp cellar will bring it forward. W henDAIRV. 2;;7 % whole cheese is cut, the larger quantity should be •spread with butter inside, and the outside wiped to jireserve it. To keep those in dailj- use moist, let a clean cloth be rung out from cold water, and wrapt round them when carried from table. Dry cheese may be used to ad vantage to grate for serving with macaroni, or eating without. These observations are made with a view to make the above articles less expensive, as in most families where much is used there is wa.ste. 2'o malte Sage Cheese. Bruise the tops of young red sa'.re in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is coW, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it IS pres.sed two inches above one vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. Cream Cheese. Put five quarts of strippings, that is, the last of the miik, into a pan, with two spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it down two or three times with the skimming-di.sh just to break it. Let it stand two hours, then spread a cheese-cloth on a sieve put the curd on it, and let the whey drain ; break the curd a little with your hand, and put it into a vat with a two-pound weight upon it. Let it stand twelve hours, take it out, and bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry, from one board to another ; cover them w.th nettles, or clean dock-leaves, and put between two )iewter-plates to ripen. If the weather be warm, it will be ready in three weeks. Another. Have ready a kettle of boiling water, put five quarts of nevv milk into a pan, &nd Jive pints of cold water, and Jive of hot ; when of a proper heat, put in as much rennet as will bring it in twenty miiiute.s, likewise a bit of sugar. When come, strike the skimmer three or four times down, and leave it on2S8 DOM>STrC COOliERT. the curd. In an hour or two lade it into the vat with- out touching it ; put a two-pound weight on it when the whey has run from it, and the vat is full. Another sort.—Put as mucli salt to three pints of raw cream as will season it ; stir it well, and pour it into a sieve in which you have folded a cheese-cloth three or four times, and laid at the bottom. When it hardens, cover it with nettles on a pewter-plate. To a quart of fresh cream put a pint of new milk warm enough to make the cream a proper warmth, a bit, of sugar, and a little rennet. Set netir the lire till the curd comes ; fill a vat made in the form of a brick, of wheat-straw or rushes sewed together. Have ready a square of straw, or rushes sewed flat, to rest the vat on, and another to cover it ; the vat being open at top and bottom. Next day take it out, and change it as above to ripen. A half-pound weight will be sufficient to put on it. Another imj/.—Take a pint of very thick sour cream from the top of the pan for gathering butter, lay a nap- kin on two plates, and pour half into each, let them stand twelve hours, then put them on a fresh wet nap- kin in one plate, and cover with the same ; this do every twelve hours until you find the cheese begins to look dry, then ripen it with nut-leaves ; it will be ready in ten days. Fresh nettles, or two pewter- plates, will ripen cream- cheese very well. Ohsei~vations respectiny Butter. There is no one article of family consumption more in use, of greater variety in goodness, or that is of more consequence to have of a superior quality, than this, and the economising of which is more uecessaiy. The sweetness of butter is not affected by the cream being turned, of which it is made. When cows are in turnips, or eat cabbages, the taste is very disagreeable ; ami the following ways have been tried with advantage to obviate it:—DAIRY. 2R9 V/hen the milk is strained into the pans, put to ever}' fix gallons one gallon of boiling water. Or dissolve one ounce of nitre in a pint of spring-water, and put a quarter of a pint to every fifteen gallons of milk. Or, when you churn, keep back a quarter of a pint of tile sour cream, and put it into a well-scalded pot, into which you are to gather the next cream ; stir that well, and do so with every fresh addition. To make Batter. During summer, skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy ; at that season it should stand for butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty- eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If yon cannot churn daily, cliange it into scalded fresh pots ; but never omit churning twice a week. If possible, put the churn in a thorough air ; and if not a b.arrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter-milk, and put the butter into a fresh- scalded pan, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness before you work it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of tlie butter-milk remain, and that the water, which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into it, weigli, and make it into forms ; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and cover of the queen’s ware. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather ; but in neither should be left with a particle of butter-milk, or a sour taste, as is sometimes done. To preserve Butter. Take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of s-altpetre ; beat them ivell together. To sixteen onnces of butter tiioroughly 70 VDOMESTIC COOKEUf. 290 cleansed from the milk, put one ounce of this com- position ; work it well, and pot down, when becomo firm and cold. The butter thus preserved is the better for keeping, and should not be used under a month. This article should be kept from the air, and is best in pots of the best glazed earth, that will hold from ten to fourteen pounds each. Tojyreserve Butter for Winter, the best tcay. When the butter has been prepared, as above direct- ed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf-sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten and blended well together. Of this composition put ono ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well to- gether in a mass. Press it into the pans after the but- ter is become cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On the top put some salt ; and when that is turned into brine, if not enough to cover the butter entirely, add some strong salt and water. It reijuires only then to be covered from the dust. To manage Cream for Whey Butter. Set the whey one day and night, skim it, and so till you have enough ; then boil it and pour it into a pan or two of cold water. As the cream rises, skim it till no more comes; then churn it. Where new-milk cheese is made daily, whey-butter for common and present use may be made to advantage. To scald Cream, as in the West of England. In winter iet the milk stand twenty-four hours, in the summer twelve at least; then put the milk-pan on a hot hearth, if you have one ; if not, set it in a wide brass kettle of water, large enough to receive the pan. It must remain on the fire till quite hot, but on no ac- count boil, or there will be a skin instead of a cream upon the milk. You will know when done enouglv-291 DAIRY. by the undalations on the surface looking thick, and having a ring round the pan the size of the bottom. The time required to scald cream depends on the size of the pan, and the heat of the fire ; tho slower the better. Remove the pan into the dairy when done, and skim it next day. In cold weather it may stand thirty- six hours, and never less than two meals. The but- ter is usually made in Devonshire of cream thus pre- pared, and if properly, it is very firm. Butter-milk, If made of sweet cream, is a delicious and most whole- some food. Those who can relish sour butter-milk> find it still more light, and it is reckoned more beneficia I in consumptive cases. Butter-milk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk. It likewise does equally for cakes and rice-puddings, and of course it is economical to churn before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. To keep Milk and Cream. In hot weather, when it is difficult to preserve milk from becoming sour, and spoiling the cream, it may be kept perfectly sweet by scalding the new milk very gently, without boiling, and setting it by in the earthen diali, or pan, that it is done in. This method is pursued in Devonshire, and for butter, and eating, would equal- ly answer in small quantities for coffee, tea, &c. Cream already skimmed may be kept twenty-four hours it scalded without sugar ; and, by adding to it as much powdered lump-sugar as will make it pretty swee;., will be good two days, keeping it in a cool place. isjp-up oj Cream May be pre.served as above in the proportion of a pound and quarter of .sugar to a pint of perfectly-fresh cream ; keep it in a cool place two or three hours ; then put it in one or two-ounce phials, and cork it close. It will keep good thus for several weeks and will be found very useful on voyages.DOMESTIC COOKEHT. 292 Qallino Curds and Whey, as in Italy, Take a number of the rough coats that line the giz- zards of turke}’s and fowls ; clean them from the pebbles they contain ; rub them well with salt, and Imng them to dry. Tliis makes a more tender and delicate curd tlian common rennet. When to be used, break off some bits of the skin, and put on it some boiling water ; in eight or nine hours use the liquor as you do other rennet. To choose Butter at Marhet. Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out ; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, It IS bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at we goodness hut by unhooping the cask, and trying It between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through j it sour in smell, it has not been sutiiciently washed ; if veiny and open, it is probably mixed with staler or an inferior sort. POULTKY-YARD. Management of Fowls. In order to liave fine fowls, it is necessary to choose n proper care taken of them. Ihe Dartford sort is thought highly of ; and it is de- sirable to have a hne large kind, but people differ in their opinion of which is best. The black are very luicy ; but do not answer so well for boiling, aa their legs partake of their colour. They should be fedZ nearly as possible at the same hour and place. Pota- toes boiled, unskiiiued, in a little water, and then cut. and either wet with skimmed milk or not form m.i on^them*^ .Turkeys and fowls thrive amazingly niust not be sour, ° ^ The best age for sitting a hen, is from two to five pars ; and you should remark which hens make the best brooders, and keep those to laying that are «^iddy293 POL'LTRY-VAUD. BTid careless of their young. In justice to the animal creation, however, it must be observed, there are but few instances of bad parents for the time their nursing is necessary. Hens sit twenty days. Convenient places should be provided for their laying, as these will be proper for sitting likewise. If the hen-house is not secured from vermin, the eggs will be sucked, and the fowls destroyed. niose hens are usually preferred which have tufts of feathers on their heads ; those that crow are not looked upmn as profitable. Some fine young fowls should be reared every year, to keep up a stock of good breeders ; and by this attention, and removing bad layers and careless nurses, you will have a chance of a good stock. l^t the hens lay some time before you sit them, which should be done from the end of February to the beginning of May. While hens are laying, feed them well, and sometimes with oats. Broods of chickens are hatched all through the summer, but those that come out very late require n\uch care till they have gained some strength. If the eggs of any other sort are put under the hen with Some of her own, observe to add her own ns many days after tlie others, as there is a difference in the length of their sitting. A turkey and duck sit thirty days. Choose large clear eggs to i>ut her upon, and such a number as she can properly cover. If very large eggs, there are sometimes two yolks, and of course neither will be productive. Ten or twelve are quite enough. A hen-house should be large and high ; and should be frequently cleaned out, or the vermin of fowls will increase greatly. But hens must not be disturbed while sitting ; for if frightened, they sometimes for- sake their nests. Wormwood and rue should be planted plentifully about their houses: boil some of tlie former and sprinkle it about the floor; whichm DOMES'! lU COOKERY. should be of smooth earth, not paved. Tlie windows of the bouse should be open to the rising sun: and a hole must be left at the door, to let the smaller fowls go in ; the larger may be let in and out by opening the door. There should be a small sliding board to shut down when the fowls are gone to roost; which would prevent the small beasts of prey from commit- ting ravages, and a good strong door and lock may possibly, in some measure, prevent the depredations of human enemies. When some of the chickens are hatched long before the others, it may be necessary to keep them in a ba.sket of wool tiU the others come forth. The day after they are hatched, give them some crumbs of wliite bread, and small (or rather cracked) grits BOiiked in milk. As soon as they have gained a little strength feed them with curd, cheese-parings cut small, or any soft food, but nothing sour ; and give them clean water twice a-day. Keep the hen under a pen till the young have strength to follow her atwut, which will be in two or three weeks ; and be sm-e to feed her well. The food of fowls goes first into their crop, which softens it ; and then passes into the gizzard, which, by constant friction; macerates it ; and tliis is facili- tated by small stones, which are generally found there, and which help to digest the food. If a sitting hen is troubled with vermin, let her be well washed, with a decoction of wild lupins. The pip in fowls is occasioned by drinking dirty water, or taking filthy food. A white thin scale on the tongue, is the symptom. Pull the scale off with your nail, and rub the tongue with some salt; and the complaint will be removed. It answers well to pay some boy employed in the fiixm or stabli?, so much a score for the eggs he brings in. It will be his interest then to save them from being purloined, which nobody but one in his situa- tion can preve nt; and sixpence or eightpence a-scoro will be buying eggs cheap.m PODLTRV- VARH. To make Hens Lay. Dissolve Rii ounce of Glauber’s salts in a quart of water ; mix the meal of potatoes with a little of the liquor, and feed the hens two days, giving them plenty of clean water to drink. The above quantity is suthcient for six or eight hens. They should have plenty of clean w’ater in reach. In a few days they will produce eggs. 2'o fatten JToivls or Chickens in four or five Days. Set rice over the fire with skimmed milk, only as much as will serve one day. Let it boil till the rice is quite swelled out: you may add a tea-spoonful or two of sugar, but it will do well without. Feed them three times a-day, in common pans, giving them only as much as will quite fill them at once. When you put fresh, let the pans be set in water, that no sour- ness may be conveyed to the fowls, as that prevents them from fattening. Give them clean water, or the milk of the rice, to drink ; but the less wet the latter is when perfectly soaked, the better. By this method the flesh will have a clear whiteness which no other food gives ; and when it is considered how far a pound uf rice will go, and how much time is saved by this mode, it will be found to be as cheap as barley-meal, or more so. The pen should be daily cleaned, and no food given for sixteen hours before poultry be killed. To choose Eggs at Market, and preserve them. Put the large end of the egg to your tongue; if it feels warm it is new. In new-laid eggs, there is a small division of the skin from the shell, which is filled with air, and is perceptible to the eye at the end. On look- ing through them against the sun or a candle, if fresh, oggs will be pretty clear. If they shake they are not fresh. Eggs may be bought cheapest when the hens first begin to lay in the spring, before they sit ; in Lent and at Easter they become dear. They may be preservedDOMESTIC COOKKllY. 2'J6 fresh by dipping them in boiling water, and instantly taking them out, or by oiling the shells ; either of which ways is to prevent the air passing through it: or kept on shelves with small holes to receive one in each, and be turned every other day ; or close packed in a keg, and covered with strong lime-water. Feathei's. In towns, poultry being usually sold ready picked, the feathers, which may occasionally come in small quantities, are neglected ; but orders should be given to put them into a tub free from damp, and as they dry to change them into paper bags, a few in each ; they should hang in a dr3’ kitchen to season ; fresh ones must not be added to those in part dried, or tliey will occasion a musty smell, but they should go through the same process. In a few months they will be lit to add to beds, or to make pillows, without the usual mode of drying them in a cool oven, which may be pursued if the}' are wanted before live or six months. Duclts (xenerally begin to lay in the month of Februarv. Their eggs should be daily taken away except one, till they seem inclined to sit ; then leave them, and see that there are enough. They require no attention while sitting, except to give them food at the time they come out to seek it; and there should be water placed at a moderate distance from them, that their eggs may not be spoiled by their long absence in seeking it. Twelve or thirteen eggs are enough : in an early season it is best to set them under a hen ; and then they can be kept from water till they have a little strength to be.ar It, which 111 very cold weather they cannot do so well, they should be kept under cover, especially in a wet season ; for though water is tlie natural element of ducks, yet they are apt to be killed by the cramp before they are covered with feathers to defend them. i>iick3 should be accustomed to feed and rest at onePOUl.TilY-YARD. 2P7 place, which would prevent their straggling too far to lay. Places near the water to lay in are advantageous ; and these might be small wooden houses, with a parti- tion in the middle, and a door at each end. They eat liny thing ; and when to be fattened, must have plenty, however coarse, and in three weeks they will be fat. Geese Require little expense; as they chiefly support them- selves on commons, or in lanes, where they can get water, 'fhe largest are esteemed best, as also are the white and grey. The pied and dark coloured are not so good. Tliirty days is generally the time the goose sits, but in warm weather she will sometimes hatch sooner. Olive them plenty of food, such as scalded bran and light oats ; and as soon as the goslings are hatched, keep them housed for eight or ten days, and feed them with barley-meal, bran, curds, &c. For green geese, begin to fatten them at six or seven weeks old, and feed them as above. Stubble geese require no fatten- ing if they have the run of good fields. 2'tirkies Are very tender when young. As soon as hatched, put three pepper-corns down their throat. Great care is necessary to their well-being, because the hen is so careless that she will walk about with one chick, and leave the remainder, or even tread upon and kill them. Turkies are violent eaters ; and must therefore be left to take charge of themselves in general, except one good feed a-day. The hen sits twenty-five or thirty days ; and the young ones must be kept warm, or the least cold or damp kills them. They must be fed often ; and at a distance from the hen which will eat every thing from them. They should have curds, green-cheese jinrings cut small, and bread and milk with chopped wormwood in it ; and their drink milk and water, but not left to be sour. All young fowls are a prey for vermin, therefore they should be kept in a safe place where none can come; weasels, stoats, ferrets, fee. creep in at very small crevices.D0M13STIC COOKERY. 1S8 Let the hen be under a coop, in a warm place exposed to the sun, for the first three or four weeks ; and the young should not be suffered to go out in the dew at morning or evening. Twelve eggs are enou°’h to nut under a turkey ; and when she is about to L-w, lock her up till she has laid ev'ery morning. They usually begin to lay in March, and sit in April. Feed them near the hen-house ; and give them a little meat i!i the evening, to accustom them to roosting there, hatten them with sodden oats or barley for the first fortnight j and the last fortnight give them as above, and rice swelled with warm milk over the fire, twice a-day. The flesh will be beautifully-white and fine- flavoured. The common w-ay is to cram them, but they are so ravenous that it seems unnecessary, if they are not suffered to go far from home, which makes them poor. Pea Fowl. Feed them as you do turkies. They are so shy that they are seldom found for soma days after hatching • and It is very wrong to pursue them, as many ignorant people do, in the idea of bringing them home ; for it only causes the hen to carry the young ones through dangerous places, and by hurrying she treads upon them. 1 he cock kills all the young chickens he can get at, by one blow on the centre of the head with his bill • and lie does the same by his own brood before the feathers of the crown come out. Nature, therefore, impels the hen to keep them out of his way till the feathers rise. Guinea Hem Lay a great number of eggs ; and if you can discover the nest, it is best to put them uuder common hens which are better nurses. They require great warmth ■ quiet; and careful feeding with rice swelled with milk* or bread soaked in it. Put two pepper-corns down their throat when first hatched. Pigeom Bring two young ones at a time ; and breed everyrouLraY-YAUD, See. 2<)fl month, if well looked after, and plentifully fed. They should be kept very clean, and the bottom of the dove-cote be strewed with sand once a-month at least. Tares and white peas are their proper food. They should have plenty of fresh water in their house. Starlings and other birds are apt to come among them, and suck the eggs. Vermin, likewise, are their great enemies, and destroy them. If the breed should be too small, put a few tame pigeons of the common kind, aixi of their own colour, among them. Observe not to have too large a proportion of cock-birds ; for they are quarrelsome, and will soon thin the dove-cote. Pigeons are fond of salt, and it keeps them in health. Lay a large heap of clay near the house • and let the salt-brine that may be done with in the family be poured upon it. liay-salt and cumin-seeds mixed is an universal remedy for the diseases of pigeon-s. The backs and breasts are sometimes scabby ; in which case take a quarter of a pound of bay-salt, and as much common- salt ; a pound of fennel-seeds, a pound of dill-seeds, as much cumin-seed, and an ounce of asafcBtida ; mix all with a little wheaten flour, and some fine- worked clay ; when all are well beaten together, put it into two earthen pots, and bake them in the oven. When cold, put them on the table in the dove-cote ; the pigeons will eat it, and thus be cured. Rabbits. Tlie wild ones have the finest flavour, unless great care is taken to keep the tame delicately clean. The tame one brings forth every month, and must be al- lowed to go with the buck as soon as she has kindled. The sweetest hay, oats, beans, sow-thistles, parsley, carrot-tops, cabbage-leaves, and brari, fresh and fresh, should be given to them. If not very well attended, their stench will destroy themselves, and be very un- wholesome to all who live near them ; but attention will prevent this inconvenience.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 200 PART XII. COOKERY FOR THE SICK, AND FOR THE POOR. SICK COOKERY. General Remarks. The following pages will contain cookery for the Bick ; It being of more consequence to support those whose bad appetite will not allow them to take the necessary nourishment, than to stimulate that of persons in health. It may not be unnecessary to adyise that a choice be made ot the thuigs most likely to agree with the patient ; that a change be provided ; that some one at least be always ready ; that not too much of those be made at once which are not likely to keep, as invalids require wiriety ; and that they should succeed each other in different forms and flavours. A clear Broth that will keep long. Put the mouse round of beef, a knuckle bone of veal, and a few shanks of mutton, into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust ; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. AV hen to be used, give what flavour may be approved. A quick-made Broth, t or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin sauce-pan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and ent in tlun bits ; put a bit of thyme and parsley, and,SICK COOKERY. 301 if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very qnick, skim it nicely ; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak ; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. A vei'xj supporting Broth against any kind of Weakness. Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herb or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. A very nourishing Veal Broth. Put the knuckle of a leg or shoulder of veal, with a very little meat to it, an old fowl, and four shank- bones of mutton extremely-well soaked and bruised, three blades of mace, ten pepper-corns, an onion, and a large bit of bread, and three quarts of water, into a stew-pot that covers close, and simmer in the slowest manner after it has boiled up, and been skimmed ; or bake it; strain, and take off the fat. Salt as wanted. It will require four hours. Broth of Beef, Mutton, and Veal. Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin sauce-pan, with five quarts of water ; simmer to three quarts ; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats, are more supporting, as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off, when cold, as clean as possible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap-paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. Calves'-feet Broth, Boil two feet in three quarts of water to half ; strain and set it by ; when to be used, take off the fat, put a large tea-cupful of the jelly into a sauce-302 DOMESTIC COOKERY. pan, with half a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and heat it up till it be ready to boil, then take a little of it, and beat by degrees to the yolk of an egg, and adding a bit of butter, the size of a nutmeg, stir it all together, but don’t let it boil. Grate a bit of fresh lemon-peel into it. Another.—Boil two calves’ feet, two ounces of veal, and two of beef, the bottom of a penny-loaf, two or three blades of mace, half a nutmeg sliced, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints ; strain, and take off the fat. Chicken Broth. Put the body and legs of the fowl that chicken panada was made of, as in page 304, after taking off the skin and rump, into the water it was boiled in, with one blade of mace, one slice of onion, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer till the broth be of a pleasant flavour. If not water enough, add a little. Beat a quarter of an ounce of sweet almonds with a tea-spoonful of water, fine, boil it in the broth, strain, and, when cold, remove the fat. Bel Broth. Glean half a pound of small eels, and set them on with three pints of water, some parsley, one slice of onion, a few pepper-corns ; let them simmer till the eels are broken, and the broth good. Add salt, and strain it off. The above should make three half-pints of broth. Tench Broth. Make as eel broth above. They are both very nutri- tious, and light of digestion. Beef Tea. Cut a pound of fleshy beef in thin slices ; simmer with a quart of water twenty minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skimmed. Season, if approved; but it has generally only saltSICK COOKERY. Dr. Ratcliff's restorative Porlt Jelly. Take a leg of well-fed pork, just as cut up, beat it, and break the bone. Set it over a gentle fire, with three gallons of water, and simmer to one. Let half an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmegs, stew in it. Strain through a fine sieve. When cold, take off tho fat. Give a chocolate-cup the first and last thing, and at noon, putting salt to taste. Shank Jelly. So.ak twelve shanks of mutton four hours, then brush and scour them very clean. Lay them in a sauce-pan with three blades of mace, an onion, twenty Jamaica, and thirty or forty black peppers, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a crust of bread made very brown by toast- ing. Pour three quarts of water to them, and set them on a hot hearth close covered ; let them simmer as gently as possible for five hours, then strain it off, and put it in a cold place. This may have the addition of a pound of beef, if approved, for flavour. It is & remarkably good thing for people who are weak. Arr010-root Jelly. Of this beware of having the wrong sort, for it has been counterfeited with bad effect. If genuine, it is very nourishing, especially for weak bowels. Put into a sauce-pan half a pint of water, a glass of sherry or a spoonful of brandy, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar ; boil once up, then mix it by degrees into a dessert- spoonful of arrow-root, previously rubbed smooth, with two spoonfuls of cold water ; then return the whole into the sauce-pan ; stir and boil it three minutes. Tapioca Jelly. Choose the largest sort, pour cold water on to wa.sh it two or three times, then soak it in fresh water five or six hours, and simmer it in the same until it become quite cle.'ir ; then put lemon-juice, wine, and sugar. The peel should have been boiled in it. It thickens very much.1 31)4 DOMESTIC COOKKRY. Gloucester Jelly. Take rice, sago, pearl barley, hartshorn shanngs, and eriiigo-root, each ah ounce ; simmer with three jhnts of water to one, and strain it. When cold it will be a jelly ; of which give, dissolved in wine, milk, or broth, in change with other nourishment. Panada, made in five Minutes. Set a little water on the fire with a glass of white wine, some sugar, and a scrape of nutmeg and lemon- peel ; meanwhile grate some crumbs of bread. The moment the mixture boils up, keeping it still on the fire, put the crumbs in, and let it boil as fast as it can. When of a proper thickness just to drink, take it off. Another.—Make as above, but instead of a glass of wine, put in a tea-spoonful of rum, and a bit of butter ; sugar as above. This is a most pleasant mess. Another.—Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel, mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, put some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients ; for if any be added after, the panada will break, and not jelly. Chicken Panada, Boil it till about three parts ready, in a quart of water, take off the skin, cut the white meat off when cold, and put into a marble mortar ; pound it to a paste with a little of the water it was boiled in, season with a little salt, a grate of nutmeg, and the least bit of lemon-peel. Boil gently for a few minutes to the consistency you like ; it should be such as you cun drink, though tolerably thick. This conveys great nourishment in small compass. Sippets, when the Stomach will not receive Meat, On an extremely hot plate put two or three sippets of liread, and pour over them some gravy from beef, mutton, or veal, if there is no butter in the disli. Sprinkle a little salt over.SIKK COOKiiUY. 30') Etjgs. An egg broken into a cup of tea, or beaten and mixed with a basin of milk, makes a breakfast more sripport- ing than tea solely. An egg divided, and the yolk and white beaten separately, then mixed with a glass of wine, 'will afford two very wholesome draughts, and prove lighter than when taken together. Eggs very little boiled, or poached, taken in small quantity, convey much nourishment ; the yolk, only, when dressed, should be eaten by invalids. A great Restorative. Bake two calves’ feet in two pints of water, and the same quantity of new milk, in a jar close covered, three hours and a half. AVhen cold, remove the fat. Give a large tea-cupful the last and first thin/j. Whatever flavour is approved, give it by baking in it lemon-peel, cinnamon, or mace. Add sugar after. Another.—Simmer six sheep's trotters, two blades of mace, a little cinnamon, lemon-peel, a few hartshorn- shavings, and a little isinglass, in two quarts of water to one ; when cold, take off the fat, and give near half a pint twice a day, warming with it a little new milk. Another.—Boil one ounce of isinglass shavings, forty Jamaica peppers, and a bit of brown crust of bread, in a quart of water to a pint, and strain it. This makes a pleasant jelly to keep in the house ; of which a large spoonful may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, or any way. Another, a most pleasant Draught.—Boil a quar- ter of an ounce of isinglass-.-havings with a pint of new milk to half ; add a bit of sugar, and, for change, a bitter almond. Give this at bed-time, not too warm. Dutch flummery, blainange, and jellies, as directed in pages 204, 206, and 214, or less rich, accord'iig to jndjraeut. 70 Xrf06 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Caudle. Make a fine smooth gruel of half-grits ; strain it when boiled well, stir it at times till cold. When to be used, add sugar, wine, and lemon-peel, with nut- meg. Some like a spoonful of brandy besides the wine ; others like lemon-juice. Another.—Boil up half a pint of fine gruel, wnth a bit of butter the size of a large nutmeg, a large spoon- ful of brandy, the same of white wine, one of capil- laire, a bit of lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Another.—IvAo a pint of fine gruel, not thick, put, when it is boiling hot, the yolk of an egg beaten with sugar, and mixed with a large spoonful of cold water, a glass of wine, and nutmeg. Mix by degrees. It is very agreeable and nourishing. Some like gruel with a glass of table-beer, sugar, &c. with or without a lea-spoonful of brandy. Cold Caudle. Boil a quart of spring-water ; when cold, add the yolk of an egg, the juice of a small lemon, six spoon- fuls of sweet wine, sugar to your taste, and syrup of lemons one ounce. A Flour Caudle. Into five large spoonfuls of the purest w’ater rub smooth one dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonfuls of new milk, and put two bits of sugar into it ; the moment it boils, pour into it the flour and water; and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astrin- gent food. Tliis is an excellent food for babies who have weak bowels. Rice Candle. When the water boils, pour into it some grated rice mixed with a little cold water ; when of a proper consistence, add sugar, lemon-peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. Another.—^oak some Carolina rice in water anSICK COOKERY. ■607 liour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk ; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into the sauce-pan, with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes ; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk, and serve with a thin toast. To mull Wine. Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg ; boil together, and serve with toast. Another way.—Boil a bit of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large cupful of water ; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste : beat it up, and it will be read}. Or it may be made of good British wine. 2’o make Coffee. Put two ounces of fresh-ground coffee, of the best quality, into a coffee-pot, and pour eight coffee-cups cf boiling water on it ; let it boil six minutes, pour out a cupful two or three times, and return it again ; then put two or three isinglass-chips into it, and pour one large spoonful of boiling water on it; boil it five minutes more, and set the pot by the fire to keep hot for ten minutes, and you will have coffee of a beau- tiful clearness. Fine cream should always be served with coffee, and either pounded sugar-candy, or fine Lisbon sugar. If for foreigners, or those who like it extremely strong, make only eight dishes from three ounces. If not fresh roasted, lay it before a fire until pefectly hot and dry; or, you may put the smallest bit of fresh butter into a preserving-pan of a small size, and, when hot, throw the coffee in it, and toss it about until it be freshened, letting it be cold before ground. Coffee M'llk. Boil a de.ssert-spoonful of ground coffee in nearly a pint of milk, a quarter of an hour ; then put intoDOMESTIC COOKERY. it a shaving or two of isinglass, and clear it; let it boil a few minutes, and set it on the side of the fire to grow fine. This is a very fine breakfast; it should be siveet- ened with real Lisbon sugar pf a good quality. Chocolate. Those who use much of this article, will find the following mode of preparing it both useful and eco- nomical :— Cut a cake of chocolate in very small bits ; put a pint of water into the pot, and, when it boils, put in the above ; mill it off the fire until quite melted, then on a gentle fire till it boils ; pour it into a basin, and it will keep in a cool place eight or ten days, or more. M'hen wanted, put a spoonful or two into milk, boil it with sugar, and mix it well. This, if not made thick, is a very good breakfast or supper. Patent Cocoa Is a light wholesome breakfast. Saloop. Boil a little water, wine, lemon-peel, and sugar, together; then mix with a small quantity of the pow- der, previously rubbed smooth, with a little cold water: stir it all together, and boil it a few minutes. Milk Porridge. Make a fine gruel of half-grits, long boiled ; strain off; either add cold milk, or warm with milk, as may be approved. Serve with toast. French Milk Porridge. Stir some oatmeal and water together ; let it stand to be clear, and pour off the latter ; pour fresh upon it, stir it well, let it stand till next day ; strain through a fine sieve, and boil the water, adding milk while doing. The proportion of water must be small. This is much ordered, with toast, for the breakfast of weak persons, abroad.SICK COOKERY. 803 Ground-rice Milk. Boil on» spoonful of ground-rice, rubbed down fiuiooth, with three half pints of milk, a bit of cinna- mon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. Sago. To prevent the earthy taste, soak it in cold water an hour; pour that ofiF, and wash it well ; then add more, and simmer gently till the berries are cleat, with lemon-peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. Set go Milk. Cleanse as above, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring. Asses’ Milk Kar surpasses any imitation of it that can be made. It should be milked into a glass that is kept warm, by b’ing in a basin of hot water. Ihe fixed air that it contains gives some people ;i pain in the stomach. At first, a tea-spoonful of rum may be taken with it, but should only be put in the moment it is to be swallowed. Artificial Asses’ Milk. Boil together a qimt of water, a quart of new milk, an ounce of white sug:ir-candy, halt an ounce of erin- ounce of conserve of roses, till h.-iif be v/asted. 7 his is astringent ; therefore proportion the doses to the effect, and the quantity to what will be used while sweet. Arutther.—Mix two spoonfuls of boiling water, two of milk, and an egg well beaten ; sweeten with pound- ed white sugar-candy. This may be taken twice oi thi-ice a day.DOMESTIC COOKERY. 3!0 Another.—Boil two ounces of hartshorn-shavings, t\vo ounces of pearl-barley, two ounces of candied eringo-root, and one dozen of snails that have been bruised, in t wo quarts of water, to one. Mix with an equal quantity of new milk, when taken, twice a day. Water Gruel. Put a large spoonful of oatmeal by degrees into a pint of water, and when smooth boil it. Another way. Rub smooth a large spoonful of oatmeal with two of water, and pour it into a pint of water boiling on the lire ; stir it well, and boil it quick ; but take care it does not boil over. In a quarter of an hour strain it off ; and add salt and a bit of butter when eaten. Stir until the butter be incorporated. Barley Gruel. Wash four ounces of pearl-barley, boil it in two quarts of water and a stick of cinnamon, till reduced to a quart; strain and return it into the sauce-pan with sugar, and three quarters of a pint of port wine. Heap up, and use as wanted. A very agreeable Drink. Into a tumbler of fresh cold water pour a table- spoonful of capillaire, and the same of good vinegar Tamarinds, currants fresh or in jelly, or sca?ded currants, or cranberries, make excellent drinks • with a little sugar or not, as may be agreeable. A refreshing Drink in a Fever. Put a little tea-sage, two sprigs of balm, and a little wood-sorrel, into a stone jug, having first washed and dried them ; peel thin a small lemon, and clear from the wmte ; slice it, and put a bit of the peel in ; then pour in three pints of boiling water, sweeten and cover it close. Anotl^ Drink.—W&sh extremely well an ounce of pearl-barley ; shift it twice, then put to it three pints of water, an ounce of mveet almonds beaten fine311 SICR COOKERT. and a bit of lemon-peel ; boil till you have a smooth liquor,, then put in a little syrup of lemons and capillaire. Another.—Boil three pints of water with an ounce and a half of tamarinds, three ounces of currants, and two ounces of stoned raisins, till near a third be consumed. Strain it on a bit of lemon-peel, which remove in an hour, as it gives a bitter taste if left long. A most pleasant Drink. Put a tea-cupful of cranberries into a cup of water, and mash them. In the meantime boil two quarts of water with one large spoonful of oatmeal and a bit of lemon-peel; then add the cranberries, and as much fine Lisbon sugar as will leave a smart flavour of the fruit ; and a quarter of a pint of sherry, or less, as may be proper ; boil all for half an hour, and strain off. Soft and fine Draught for those who are Weak and have a Cough. Beat a fresh-laid egs, and mi.x it with a quarter of a pint of new miik warmed, a large spoonful of capil- laire, the same of rose-water, and a little nutmeg scraped. Don’t warm it after the egg is put in. Take it the first and last thing. Toast and Water. Toast slowly a thin piece of bread till extremely brown and hard, but not the least black ; then plunge it into a jug of cold water, and cover it over an hour before used. This is of particular use to weak bowels. It should be of a fine brown colour before drinking. Barley Water. Wash a handful of common barley, then simmer it gently in three pints of water with a bit of lemon-peel. This is less apt to nauseate than pearl-barley ; but the other is a very [deasant drink. Another way.—Boil an ounce of pearl-barley a few minutes to cleanse, then put on it a quart ofdomestic cookery. S12 water, simmer an hour ; when half done, put into it a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and one bit of sugar. If hliely to bo too thick, you may put another quarter chose^u''^ water. Lemon-juice may be added, if Lemon-water, a delightful Brink. a littlVhit nf H leinon thinly pared into a tea-pot, a little bit of the peel, and a bit of sugar, or a large spoonful of topillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling watw and stop It close two hours. u«uing water, Apple Water. Cut two large apples in slices, and pour a quart of 5 roasted apples! strain in two or tliree hours, and sweeten lightly. Raspberry Vinegar Wafer. {Seepage 251.) This is one of the most delightful drinks that can be made. ueiigntiui Whey. That of cheese is a very wholesome drink esneciall v when the cows are in fresh herbage. ’ White Wine Whey. Vmegar and Lemon Wheys.313 SICK COOKKRY. Butter-milk, icith Bread or without. It is most wholesome when sour, as being less likely to be he;ivy ; hut most agreeable when made of iweet cream. Dr. Boerkaave’s tweet Butter-milk. Take the milk from the cow into a small churn of about price ; in about ten minutes begin churning, and continue till the flakes of butter swim about prett) thick, and the milk is discharged of all the greasy particles, and appears thin and blue. Strain it through a sieve, and drink it as frequently as possible. It should form the whole of the patient’s drink, and the food should be biscuits and rusks, in every wav and sort ; ripe and dried fruits, of various kinds, when a decline is apprehended. Baked and dried fruits, raisins in particular, make e.Kcellent suppers for invalids, with biscuits, or com- mon caJie. Orgeat. Beat two ounces of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two ; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar, or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a lender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half an ounce of gum arable, has been found to allay the painfulness of the attendant heat. Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. Another orgeat, for company, is in page 2-jU. Orangeade, or Lemonade. Squeeze the juice ; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil water and sugar to a thin syrup, and skim it. When all are cold, mi.x the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through aDOMKSTIC COOliEKY, 314 jelly-bag. Or, squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water afid capillaire. Egg Wine. Beat an egg, mix with it a spoonful of cold water , set on the fire a glass of white wine, half a glass of water, sugar, and nutmeg. When it boils, pour a little of it to the egg by degrees till the whole be in, stirring it well; then return the whole into the sauce- pan, put it on a gentle fire, stir it one way for not more than a minute ; for if it boil, or the egg be stale, it will curdle. Serve with toast. Egg wine may be made as above, without warming the egg, and it is then lighter on the stomach, though not so pleasant to the taste. COOKERY FOR THE POOR. Ge/ieral Reniarlts atid Hints. I promised a few hints, to enable every family to assist the poor of their neighbourhood at a very tri - vial expense ; and these may be varied or amended at the discretion of the mistress. Where cows are kept, a jug of skimmed milk is ;i valuable present, and a very common one. When the oven is hot a large pudding may be baked, and given to a sick or young family ; and thus made, the trouble is little:—Into a deep coarse pan put half a pound of rice, four ounces of coarse sugar or treacle, two quarts of milk, and two ounces of dripping ; set it cold into the oven. It will take a good while, but be an excellent solid food. A very good meal may be bestowed in a thing called brewis, wliich is thus made :—Cut a very fhick upper crust of bread, and put it into the pot where salt-beef is boiling and nearly ready ; it will attract some of the fat, and when swelled out, will be no unpalatable dish to those who rarely ta.ste meat.315 cookert for the poor. A bakea Soup. Put a pound ot any kind of meat cut in glices ; two onions, two carrots, ditto ; two ounces of rice, a pint of split-peas, or whole ones, if previously soaked, pepper and salt, into an earthen jug or pan, and pour one gallon of water. Cover it very close, and bake it with the bread. The cook should be charged to save the boiling of every piece of meat, ham, tongue, &c. however salt ; as it is easy to use only a part of that, and the rest of frpsh water, and, by the addition of more vegetables, the bones of the meat used in the family, the pieces of meat that come from table on the plates, and rice, Scotch barley, or oatmeal, there will be some gallons of nutricious soup two or three times a week. The bits of meat should be only warmed in the soup, and remain whole ; the bones, &c. boiled till they yield their nourishment. If the things are ready to put in the boiler as soon as the meat is served, it will save lighting fire, and second cooking. T:ike turnips, carrots, leeks, potatoes, the outer leaves of lettuce, celery, or any sort of vegetable that is at hand ; cut them small, and throw in with the thick part of peas, after they have been pulped for soup, and grits, or coarse oatmeal, which have been used for gruel. Should the soup be poor of meat, the long boiling of the bones, and different vegetables, will afford better nourishment than the laborious poor can obtain ; especially as they are rarely tolerable cooks, and have not fuel to do justice to what they buy. But, in every family, there is some superfluity ; and if it be prepared with cleanliness and care, the benefit will be very great to the receiver, and the satisfaction no less to the giver. I found, in the time of scarcity, ten or fifteen gallons of soup could be dealt out weekly, at an expense not worth mentioning, though the vegetables were bought. If in the villages about London, abounding withDO.MKSTIC COOKEKY. :u6 opulent families, the quantity of ten gallons wore made in ten gentlemen’s houses, there would be a hundreii gallons of wholesome agreeable food |iiven weekly for the supply of forty poor families, at the rate of two gallons and a half each. What a relief to the labouring husband, instead of bread and cheese, to have a warm comfortable meal! To the sick, aged, and infant branches how important an advantage 1 nor less to the industrious mother, whose forbearance from the necessary quantity of food, that others may have a larger share, frequently reduces I hat strength upon which the welfare of her family essentially depends. ^ It very rarely happens that servants object to second- :ng the kindness of their superiors to tlie poor ; but, should the cook in any family think the adoption of this plan too troublesome, a gratuity at the end of the winter might repay her, if the love of her fellow-crea- tures failed of doing it a hundred fold. Did she readily enter into it, she w-ould never wash away, as useless, the peas or grits of which soup or gruel had been made • broken potatoes, the green heads of celery, the necks and feet of fowls and particularly the shanks of mut- ton, and various other articles, which, in preparing dinner for the family, are thrown aside. h ish affords great nourishment, and that not by the part eaten only, but the bones, beads, and fins, which contain an isinglass. When the fish is served, let the cook put by some of the water, and stew in it the ‘he dish, until she obtain all the goodness. If to be eaten by it^lf, when It makes a delightful broth, she should onion, some pepper, and a little rice-ttour rubbed down smooth with it. But strained, it makes a delicious improvement to the meat-soup, particularly for the sick ; and when such are to be supplied, the milder parts of the spare bones ami meat should be used for them, wiih UtUe, iiJiy, of tliti licj^uor of the salt-iue/xts*COOKEUY FOR THE POOR. 317 Tile fat should not be taken off the broth or soup, .03 the poor like it, and are nourished by it. A?i excellent Soup for the Weakly. Put two cow-heels and a breast of mutton into a large pan, with four ounces of rice, one onion, twenty Jamaica peppers and twenty black, a turnip, a carrot, and four gallons of water ; cover with brown paper and bake six hours. Sago. Put a tea-cupful of sago into a quart of water, and a bit of lemon-peel ; when thickened, grate some ginger, and add half a pint of raisin wine, brown sugar, and two spoonfuls of Geneva ; boil all up together. It is a most supporting thing for those whom dis- ease has left very feeble. Caudle for the Sick and Lying-in. Set three quarts of water on the fire ; mix smooth as much oatmeal as will thicken the whole, with a pint of cold water ; when boiling, pour the latter in, and twenty Jamaica-peppers in fine powder ; boil to a good middling thickness ; then add sugar, half a pint of well-fermented table-beer, and a glass of gin. Boil all. This mess twice, and once or twice of broth, will be of incalculable service. There is not a better occasion for charitable com- miseration than when a person is sick. A bit of meat or pudding, sent unexpectedly, has often been the means of recalling long-lost appetite. Nor are the indigent alone the grateful receivers ; for, in the highest houses, a real good sick-cook is rarely met with ; and many who possess all the goods of fortune have attributed the first return of health to an appetite excited by good hitchen-physir, tis it Ls called.318 DOMESTIC COOKEIIT. PART XIII. VARIOUS RECEIPTS AND DIRECTIONS TC SERVANTS. VARIOUS RECEIPTS, To make Soft Pomatum, Beat half a pound of unsalted fresh lard in common water ; then soak and beat it in two rose-waters, drain it, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy ; let it drain from this ; add to it some essence of lemon, and keep it in small pots. Another way.—Soak half a pound of clear beef- marrow and a pound of unsalted fresh lard, in water • two or three days, changing and beating it every day. . Put it into a sieve ; and, when dry, into a jar, and the» jar into a sauce-pan of water, \Vhen melted, pour it into a basin, and beat it with two spoonfuls of brandy ;; drain off the brandy, and then add essence of lemon,, bergamot, or any other scent that is liked. Hard Pomatum, Prepare equal quantities of beef-marrow and mutton- • suet as before, using the brandy to preserve it. andi adding the scent ; then pour it into moulds, or, if youi have none, into phials of the size you choose the rolls s to be of. When cold, break the bottles, clear away? the glass carefully, and put paper round the rolls. Pomade Divine. Clear a pound and a half of beef-marrow from the- strings and bone, put it into an earthen pan, or vessel i of water fresh from the spring, and change the water- night and morning for ten days ; then steep it in rose- water twenty-four hours, and drain it in a cloth till.VARIOUS RKCKir-TS. quite dry. Take an ounce of each of the following articles, namel}', storax, gum-benjamin, odoriferous cypress powder, or of Florence ; half an ounce of cin- namon, two drachms of cloves, and two drachms of nutmeg, all finely powdered ; mix them with the mar- row above prepared ; then put all the ingredients into a pewter pot, that holds three pints ; make a paste of white of egg and flour, and lay it upon a piece of rag. Over that must be another piece of linen to cover the top of the pot very close, that none of the steam may evaporate. Put the pot into a large copper-pot, with water, observing to keep it steady, that it may not reach to the covering of the pot that holds the marrow. As the water shrinks, add more, boiling hot; for it must boil four hours without ceasing a moment. Strain the ointment through a linen cloth into small pots, and, when cold, cover them. Don’t touch it with any thing but silver. It will keep many years. A fine pomatum may be made by putting half a pound of fresh marrow, prepared as above, and two ounces of hog’s-lard, on the ingredients ; and then observing the same process as above. Pot Pourri. Put into a large China jar the following ingredients in layers, with bay-salt strewed between the layers, two pecks of damask roses, part in buds and part blown ; violets, orange-flowers, and jasmine, a handful of each ; orris-root sliced, benjamin and storax, two ounces of each ; a quarter of an ounce of musk ; a quarter of a pound of angelica-root sliced ; a quart of the red parts of clove-gillyflowers ; two handfuls of lavender-flow- ers ; half a handful of rosemary-flowers ; bay and laurel leaves, half a handful of each ; three Seville oranges, stuck as full of cloves as possible, dried in a cool oven, and pounded; half a handful of knotted marjoram ; and two handfuls of balm of Gilead dried. Cover all quite clo.se. When the pot is uncovered, the perfume is very flue.DOMKSTIC COOKF.RY. yo A quicher Sort of Sweet Pot. Take three handfnl? of orange-flowers, three of clove- tillyflowers, three of damask roses, one of knotted mar- joram, one of lemon-thyme, six bay-leaves, a handful <>£ rosemary, one of myrtle, half one of mint, one of lavender, the rind of a lemon, and a quarter of an ounce of cloves. Chop all ; and put them in layers, with pounded bay-salt between, up to the top of the jar. If all the ingredients cannot be got at once, put them in as you get them ; always throwing in salt with every new article. To make Wash-Balls. Shave thin two pounds of new white soap into about a tea-cupful of rose-water ; then pour as much boiling water on as will soften it. Put into a brass pan a pint of sweet-oil, fourpenny-worth of oil of almonds, half a pound of spermaceti, and set all over the fire till dissolved ; then add the soap, and half an ounce of camphor that has first been reduced to powder by rub- bing it in a mortar with a few drops of spirit of wine, or lavender-water, or any other scent. Boil ten )ninutes ; then pour it into a basin, and stir till it is (juite thick enough to roll up into hard balls, which must then be done as soon as possible. If essence is used, stir it in quick after it is taken off the fire, that the flavour may not fly off. Paste for Chapped Hands, and vihich will 2)rcscri:e them smooth, by constant ?r?e. Tflix a quarter of a pound of unsalted hog’s lard, which has been washed in common, and then rose- water, with the yolks of two new-laid eggs, and a large spoonful of honey. Add as much fine oatmeal, or almond-paste, as will work into a paste. JFor Chapped Lips. Put a quarter of an ounce of benjamin, storax, and spermaceti, twopenny-worth of alkanet-root, a large j nicy aj)ple chopped a bunch of black grapes bruised.321 VARIOUS RECEIPTS. » quarter of a pound of nnsalted butter, and two onnc"» of bees -wax, into a new tin sauce-pan. Simmer gently till thewax,&& are dissolved, and tlieu strain it through a linen. When cold, melt it again, and pour it into small pots or boxes ; or, if to make cakes, use the bottoms of tea-cups. Hungary Water. To one pint of highly-rectified spirits of wine put an ounce of oil of rosemary, and two drachms of essence of ambergris ; shake the bottle well several times, then let the cork remain out twenty-four hours. After a month, during which time shake it daily, put the water into small bottles. Honey Water. fake a pint of spirits as above, and three drachms of essence of ambergris ; shake them well daily. Lavender Water. Taxe a pint of spirits as above, essential oil of la- vender one ounce, essence of ambergris two drachms ; put all into a quart-bottle, and shake it extremely well. An excellent Water to prevent Hair fromfalhnq off, arid to thicken it. Put four pounds of unadulterated honey into a still With twelve handfuls of the tendrils of vines, and tha Slime quantity of rosemary-tops. Distil as cool and ns possible. The liquor may be allowed to drop till it begins to taste sour. Black Paper for dratving Patterns. Ulix and smooth lamp-black and sweet-oil ; with a bit of flannel, cover a sheet or two of large writing - paper with this mixture ; then dap the paper dry with a bit of fine linen, and keep it by for using in the fol- lowing manner:— Put the black side on another sheet of paper, and fasten the corners together with a small pin. Lay on the back of the black paper the pattern to be drawn /O TDOMESTIC (fcOOKERY. 322 and go over it with the point of a steel pencil: th«9 black paper will then leave the impression of the pat- tern on the under sheet, on which you must now draw it with ink. If you draw patterns on cloth, or muslin, do it with a pen dipped in a bit of stone-blue, a bit of sugar, and a little water mixed smooth in a tea-cup, in which it will be always ready for use; if fresh, wet to a due consistence, as wanted. Black Ink. Take a gallon of rain or soft water, and three quar- ters of a pound of blue galls bruised ; infuse them three weeks, stirring daily. Then add four ounces of green copperas, four ounces of logwood chips, six ounces of gum-arabic, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Another way.—The ink-powder sold in Shoe-lane is one of the best preparations in this useful article. Directions are given with it how to mix it ; in addition to which, a large cup of sweet wort to two papers of the powder, gives it the brightness of the japan ink. If a packet of six papers is bought together, it costs only eighteenpence, and that quantity will last a long time. To cement broken China. Beat lime into the most impalpable powder, sift it through fine muslin: then tie some into a thin muslin, put on the edges of the broken china some white of egg, then dust some lime quickly on the same, and unite them exactly. An excellent Stucco, xohich loill adhere to Woodrwork, Take a bushel of the best stone-lime, a pound of yellow ochre, and a quarter of a pound of brown nruber, all in fine powder. Mix them with a suffi- cient quantity of hot (but not boiling) water, to a proper thickness ; and lay it on with a whitewasher's brusn, which should be new. If the wall be quiteS23 various receipts. smooth, one or two coats will do ; but each must be f!ry before the next is put on. The month of March is the best season for doing this. Mason's Washes for Stucco. Blue.—To four pounds of blue vitriol, and a pound of the best whiting, put a gallon of water, in an iron or brass pot. Let it boil an hour, stirring it all thif time. Then pour it into an earthen pan ; and set it bv for a day or two, till the colour is settled. Pour off the water, and mix tlie colour with whitewasher’.s size. \\ ash the walls three or four times, according as is necessary. Yellow.—Dissolve in soft water over the fire equal quantities separately of umber, bright ochre, and blue-black. Then put it into as much white-wash as you think sufficient for the work, some of each, and stir it all together. If either cast predominates, add more of the others till you have the proper tint. The most beautiful whitewash is made by mixing Hie lime and size with sldm-milk instead of water.^ Jtoinan Cement or Mortar, for outside Plastering or Brickwork. This will resist all weather ; and may be used to great advantage to line reservoirs, as no water can penetrate. Take eighty-four pounds of drift-sand, twelve pounds of unslacked lime, and four pounds of the poorest cheese grated through an iron grater. When well mixed, add enough hot (but not boiling) water to make into a proper consistenc - for 'plastering, such a quan- tity of the above as is wanted. It must have good and quick working. _ One hod of this mortar will go a great way, as it is to be laid on in a thin smooth coat, without the least space being left uncovered. The wall or lath-work should be covered first with hair- and-lime mortar, and well dried. This was used by the ancients, and is now adopted among us. Th ■324 DOMESTIC COOKERY. Suffolk clieese does better tlian any other of this conn- try. To take Stains of any Kind out of Linen. Stains caused by Acids.—Wet the part, and lay on it some salt of wormwood. Then rub it without dilut- ing it with more water. Another.—Let the cloth imbibe a little water with- out dipping, and hold the part over a lighted match at a due distance. The spots will be removed by the sulphureous gas. Another icay.—Tie up in the stained part some pearl-ash ; then scrape some soap into cold soft water to make a lather, and boil the linen until the stain dis- appears. Stains of Wine, Fruit, frc. after they have been long in the Linen.—Rub the part on each side with yellow soap. Then lay on a mixture of starch in cold water very thick ; rub it well in, and expose the linen to the sun and air till the stain comes out. If not re- moved in three or four days, rub that off, and renew the process. When dry, it may be sprinkled with a little water. Many other Stains may be taken out by dipping the linen in sour butter-milk, and drying in a hot sun. Then wash it in cold water, and dry it, two or three times a day. Iron-moulds should be wetted ; then laid on a hot water-plate, and a little essential salt of lemons put on the part. If the linen becomes dry, wet it and renew the process; observing that the plate is kept boiling hot. Much of the powder sold under the name of salt of lemons is a spurious preparation ; and therefore it is necessary to dip the linen in a good deal of water, and wash it as soon as the stain is removed, to prevent the part from being worn into holes by the acid. 'To take out Mildew.—Mix soft soap with starch . powdered, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon j J lay it on the part of both sides with a painter’s brush. Jvarious rrceipts. 325 it lie on the grass day and night, till the stain Comes out. To make Flannels keep their Colour, and not shrink. Put them into a pail, and pour boiling water on, letting them lie till cold, the first time of washing. To preserve Furs and Woollen from moths. Let the former be occasionalv combed while in use, and the latter be brushed and shaken. When not want- ed, dry them first, let them be cool, then mix among them bitter apples from the apothecary’s, in small muslin bags, sewing them in several folds of linen, care- fully turned in at the edges, and keep from damp. To dye the Linirigs of Furniture ^c. Buff or Salmon-colour, according to the depth of the hue,—Rub down on a pewter-plate twopenny-worth of Spanish amatto, and then boil it in a pail of water a quarter of nn hour. Put into it two ounces of pot- ash, stir it round, and instantly put in the linen ; stir it about all the time it is boiling, which must be five or six minutes ; then put it into cold pump-water, and hang the articles up singly without wringing. When almost dry, fold and mangle it. Pink.—The calico must be washed extremely clean, and be dry. Then boil it in two gallons of soft water, and four ounces of alum ; take it out, and dry in the air. In the meantime boil in the alum-water two handfuls of wheat-bran till quite slippery, and then strain it. Take two scruples of cochineal, and two ounces of argal finely pounded and sifted ; mix withf it the liquor by little at a time. Then put into the liquor the calico ; and boil till it is almost wasted, moving it about. Take out the calico, and wash it in cliamberlye first, and in cold water after: then rinse it in water-starch strained, and dry it quick without hanging it in folds. Mangle it very highly, unless yon have it ^ alendered, which is best.g2G domestic cookert. jilue.—Let the calico he washed clean and dried ; then mix some of Scot’s liquid blue in as much water as will be sufficient to cover the things to he dyed, and put some starch to it to give a light stiffness. Dry a bit, to see whether the colour is deep enough ; then set the linen, &c. into it, and wash it ; then dry the articles singly, and mangle or calender them. To dye Gloves to look liJie York Tan or Limerick, according to the deepness of the dye. Put some saffron into a pint of soft water boiling- hot and let it infuse all night ; next morning wet the leather over with a brusln The tops should be sewn close, to prevent the colour from getting in. To dye White Gloves a beautiful Purple. Boil four ounces of logwood and two ounces of roche-alum in three pints of soft water, till half •wasted. Let it stand to be cold, after straining. Let tlie gloves be nicely mended ; tlien with a brush do them over, and when dry repeat it. Twice is suffi- cient, unless the colour is to be very dark. When dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth. _ Beat up' the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. The dye will stain the hands, but wet- ting them with vinegar will take it off, before they nre washed. A Liquor to 7cash Old Deeds, ^c. on Paper or Parchment, iohen the writing is obliterated, or when sunk, to make it legible. Take five or six galls, bruise them, and put_ them into a pint of strong white wine ; let it stand in the sun two days. Then dip a brush into the wine, and wash the part of the writing which is sunk ; and by 1 the colour you will see whether it is strong enough of j the galls, 1 To prevent the Rot in Sheep. H Keep them in the pens till the dew is off the gnutayI lUECTIONS TO SERVANTS. 327 7'o prevent Green Hay from Firing. Stuff a sack as full of straw or hay as possible ; tie the mouth with a cord ; and make the rick round the sack, drawing it up as the rick advances in height, and quite out when finished. The funnel thus left in the centre preserves it. To preserve a Granary from Insects and Weasels. Make the floor of Lombardy poplars. To destroy Crickets. Put Scotch snuff into the holes where they come out. DIRECTIONS TO SERVANTS. To clean Calico Furniture, when taken dovm for the Summer. Shake off the loose au.st, then lightly hru.sh with a small long-haired furniture brush ; after which wipe it closely with clean flannels, and rub it with dry bread. If properly done, the curtains will look nearly as well as at first, and if the colour be not light, they will not require washing for years. Fold in large parcels, and put carefully by. While the furniture remains up, it should be pre- served from the sun and air as much as possible, which injure delicate colours ; and the dust may be blown off with bellows. By the above mode, curtains may be kept clean, even to use with the linings newly-dipped. To clean Plate. Boil an ounce of prepared hartshom-powder in a quart of water ; while on the fire, put into it as much plate as the vessel will hold ; let it boil a little, then take it out, drain it over the saucepan, and dry it be- fore the fire. Put in more, and serve the same, till vou have done. Then put into the water some clean linen rags, till all be soaked up. When dry, they338 DOMESTIC COOICEUT. will serve to clean the plate, and are the very beet things to clean the brass-locks and finger-plates of doors. When the plate is quite dry, it must be rub- bed bright with leather. This is a very nice mode. In many plate-powders there is a mixture of quick- silver, which is very injurious ; and, among other disadvantages, it makes silver so brittle, that from a fall it will break. To clean Looking-glasses, Remove the fly-stains, and other soil, by a damp rag ; then polish with woollen cloth and powder-blue. To preserve Gilding, and clean it. It is not possible to prevent flies from staining the gilding without covering it; before which, blow off the light dust, and pass a feather or clean brush over it; then with strips of paper cover the frames of your glasses, and don’t remove it till the flies are gone. Linen takes off the gilding, and deadens its bright- ness ; it should therefore never be used for wiping it. Some means should be used to destroy the flies, as they injure furniture of every kind, and the paper likew’ise. Bottles hung about with sugar and vinegar, «)r beer, will attract them ; or fly-water put into little shells placed about the room, but out of the reach of children. To clean Paint. Never use a cloth, but take off the dust with a little long-haired brush, after blowing off the loose part with the bellows. With care, paint will look well for a length of time. When soiled, dip a sponge, or a bit of flannel into soda and water, wa.sh it off quickly, and dry immediately, or the strength of the soda will eat off the colour. When wainscot requires scouring, it should be done from the top downwards, and the soda be prevented from running on the unclean part as much as possible, or marks will be made which will appear after theDIUF.CTIONS TO SERVANTS. 359 whole is finished. One person should dry with old linen as fast as the other has scoured off the dirt and washed the soda off. To clean Paper Hangingt. First blow off the dust with the bellows. Divide a white loaf of eight days old into eight parts. Take the crust into your hand, and beginning at the top of the paper, wipe it downwards in the lightest mannew with the crumb. Don’t cross nor go upwards. The <lirt of the paper and the crumbs will fall together. Observe, you must not wipe above half a yard at a stroke, and after doing all the upper part, go round again, beginning a little above where you left off. If you don’t do it extremely light, you will make the dirt adhere to the paper. It will look like new if properly done. To give a Gloss to fine Oah Wa inscot. If grcAsj, it must be washed with warm beer ; then boil two quarts of strong beer, a bit of bees’ wax as large as a walnut, and a large spoonful of sugar ; wet it all over with a large brush, and when dry rub it till bright. To give a fine Colour to Mahogany, Let the tables be washed perfectly clean with vinegar, having first taken out any ink-stains there may be with spirits of salt; but it must be used with the greatest CJire, and only touch the part affected, and be instantly washed off. Use the following liquid :—into a pint of cold-drawn linseed-oil put four pennyworth of alkanet- root, and two pennyworth of rose-pink, in an earthen vessel ; let it remain all night ; thensfirririgwell, rub some of it all over the tables with a linen rag ; when it has lain some time, rub it bright with linen cloths. Eating-tables should be covered with mats,oil-cloth, or baize, to prevent staining, and be instantly rubbed wlien the dishes are taken off, while still warm.5-50 nOMKSTrC COOKERY. To take Ink o%it of Mahogany. Dilute half a tea-spoonful of oil of vitriol with a large spoonful of water, and touch the part with a feather ; watch it, for if it stays too long it will leave a white mark. It is therefore better to rub it quick, and repeat if not quite removed. Floor-cloths 'Should he chosen that are painted on a fine cloth, that is well covered with the colour, and the flowers on which do not rise much above the ground, as they wear out first. The durability of the cloth will depend much on these two particulars, but more especially on the time it has been painted, and the goodness of the colours. If they have not been allowed sufficient space for be- coming thoroughly hardened, a very little use_ will injure them ; and, as they are very expensive articles, care in preserving them is necessary. It answers to keep them some time before they are used, either hung lip in a dry barn where they will have air, or laid down in a spare room. When taken up for the winter, they should be rolled round a carpet roller, and observe not to crack the paint by turning the edges in too suddenly. Old carpets answer extremely well, painted and sea- soned some months before laid down. If for passages, ' tlie width must be directed when they are sent to the 1 manufactory, as they are cut before painting. ( I To clean Floor Cloths. Sweep, then wipe them with a flannel ; and when all dust and spots are removed, rub with a waxed flannel, and then with a dry plain one ; but use little wax, and rub only enough with the latter to give a little smoothness, or it may endanger falling. Washing now and then with milk after the above sweeping, and dry^ rubbing them, give as beautiful a look, and they ;ire less slippery.DIUKCTIOKS TO SERVANTS. 331 To dust Carpets and Floors. Sprinkle tea-leaves on them, then sweep carefully. The former should not be swept frequently with a whisk-brush, as it wears them fast; only once a week, and the other times with the leaves and a hair-brush. Fine carpets should be gently done with a hair hand- brush, such as for cloths, on the knees. To clean Carpets. Take up the carpet, let it be well beaten, then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand-brush ; turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox- gull, and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths. Then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. To give to Boards a beautiful Appearance. After washing them very nicely, clean with soap and warm water, and a brush ; wash them with a very large sponge, and clean water. Both times, observe to leave no spot untouched ; and clean straight up and down, not crossing from board to board : then dry with clean cloths, rubbing hard up and down in the .same way. The floors should not be often wetted, but very tho- roughly when done ; and once a week dry-rubbed with hot sand, and a heavy brush, the right way of the boards. The sides of stairs or passages on which are carpets, or floor-cloth, should be washed with sponge instead of linen or flannel, and the edges will not be soiled. Different sponges should be kept for the two above nses ; and those and the brushes should be well washed when done with, and kept in dry places. To extract Oil from Boards or Stone, Make a strong lye of pearl-ashes and soft water ; and add as much unsiacked lime as it will take up • stir it together, and then let it settle a few minutes • bottlo it and stop close ; have ready some water to332 DOMESTIC COOKERY. lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards, it will draw out tlie colour of them ; therefore, do it with care and expedition. To clean Stone Stairs and Halls. Boil a pound of pipe-makers’ clay with a quart of water, a quart of small beer, and pul in a bit ot stone- blue. Wash M'ith this mixture, and when dry rub the stones with flannel and a brush. To blacken the Fronts of Stone Chimney-pieces. Mix oil-varnish with lamp-black, and a little spirit of turpentine, to thin it to the consistence of paint. Wash the stone with soap and water very clean, then sponge it with clear water ; and when perfectly dry, brush it over twice with this colour, letting it dry be- tween the times. It looks extremely well. The lamp- black must be sifted first. To take Stains out of Marble. Mix nnslacked lime, in finest powder, with the strongestsoap-lye, pretty thick ; and instantly, with a painter’s brush, lay it on the whole of the marble. In two months’ time wash it off perfectly clean ; then have ready a fine thick lather of soft soap, boiled in soft water; dip a brush in it, and scour the marble with powder, not as common cleaning. This will, by very good rubbing, give a beautiful polish. Clear off the soap, and finish with a smooth hard brush till the end be effected. To take Iron-stains out of Marble. An equal quantity of fresh spirit of vitriol and lemon- juice being mi.\e<i in a bottle, shalte it well ; wet the spots, and in a few minutes rub with soft linen till they disappear. To preserve Irons from Rust. Melt fresh inutton-suct, smear over the iron with it while hot; then dust well with unslacked lime poundediDlilECTIOJIS TO SERVANTS. End tied up in a muslin. Irons so prepared will keep many mouths. Use no oil for them at any time, except salad-oil; there being water in all others. Fire-irons should be kept wrapt in baize, in a dry place, when not used. Another way.—Beat into three pounds of unsalted hogs’ hard, two drachms of camphor sliced thin, till it is dissolved ; then take as much black-lead as will make it of the colour of broken steeL Dip a rag into it, and rub it thick on the stove, &c. and the steel will never rust, even if wet. When it is to be used, the frea.se must be waslied off with hot water, and the steel e dried before polishing. 'I'o take Rust out of SteeL Cover the steel with sweet-oil well rubbed in, and in forty-eight hours use unslacked lime finely powdered, and rub until all the rust disappears. To clean the Back of the Grate, the inner Hearth, and the Fronts of Cast-iron Stoves. Boil about a quarter of a pound of the best black lead with a pint of small beer, and a bit of soap the size of a walnut. When that is melted, dip a painter’s brush, and wet the grate, having first brushed off all the soot and dust; tiien take a i^d brush, and rub it till of a beautiful brightness. Another Way to clean Cast Iron, and black Hearths. Mix black lead and whites of eggs well beaten to- gether ; dip a painter’s brush, and wet all over; then rub it bright with a hard brush. To take the Black off the. bright Bars of polished Stoves in a feio Minutes. Rub them well with some of the following mixture on a bit of broad cloth ; when the dirt is removed, wipe them clean, and polish with glass, not siind-paper. The mixture.—Boil slowly one pound of soft soap334 DOMESTIC COOKERY in two quarts of water, to one. Of this jelly take three or four spoonfuls, and mix to a consistence with emery. No. 3. To clean Tin Covers, and Patent Pewter Porter Pots. Get the finest whiting, which is only sold in large cakes, the small being mixed with sand : mix a little of it powdered, with the least drop of sweet-oil, and rub well, and wipe clean ; then dust some dry whiting in a muslin bag over, and rub bright with dry leather. The last is to prevent rust, which the cook must be careful to guard against by wiping dry, and putting by the fire when tliey come from the parlour; for, if but once hung up without, the steam will rust the inside. To 'prevent the Creaking of a Poor. Rub a bit of soap on the hinges. A strong Paste for Paper. To two large spoonfuls of fine flour put as much pounded rosin as will lie on a shilling ; mix with as much strong beer as will make it of a due consistence, and boil it half an hour. Let it be cold before it is used. Fine Blacking for Shoes. Take four ounces of ivory-black, three ounce.s of the coarsest sugar, a table spoonful of sweet oil, and a pint of small beer ; mix them gradually cold. BILLS OF FARE, FAMILY DINNERS, &:c. BILLS OF FARE, &C. List of various Articles in Season in different Months. JANUARY. Poultry.—Game; Pheasants. Partridges. Hares, Rabbits. Woodcocks. Snipes. Turkies. Capoiw. Pallets. Fowls, Chickens. Tams Pmeons.3;» BILLS OF FAiiK. Fish.—Carp. Tench Perch. Lampreys. Eels. Crayfish. Cod. Soles. Flounders. Plaice. Turbot. Thornback. Skate. Sturgeon. Smelts. Whitings. Lobsters. Crabs. Prawns. Oysters. Vegetables.—Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Sprouts. Broccoli. Leeks. Onions. Beet. Sorrel. Chervil. Endive. Spinach. Celery. Garlick. Scorzonera. Potatoes. Parsnips. Turnips. Broccoli, white and purple. Shalots. Lettuces. Cresses. Mustard. Kape. Salsafy. Herbs of all sorts ; dry, and some CTeen. Cucumbers. Asparagus and Mushrooms, to be had, though not in season. ^ Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Nuts. Walnuts. Medlars. Grapes. FEBRUARY AND MARCH. Meat, Fowls, and Game, as in January, with the addition of Ducklings and Chickens ; which last are to be bought in Loudon, most, if not all, the year, but very dear. Fish.—As the last two months ; except that Cod is not thought so good from February to J uly, but may be bought. Vegetables.—The same as the former months, with the addition of Kidney-beans. Fruit.—.Apples. Pears. Forced Strawberries. SeCOND (JOARTER : APRIL, MAY, A.ND JUNE. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. VeaL Lamb. Venison in June. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Ducklings. Pigeons. Rabbits. Leverets. Carp. Tench. Soles. Smelts. Plels. Trout. Turbot. Lobsters. Chub. Salmon. Herrings. Cray- fish. Mackerel. Crabs. Prawns. Shrimps. Vegetables.—As before ; and in May, early Pota- toes. Peas. Ridishes. Kidney-beans. Carrots. 'I’urnips. Early Cabbages. Caulifiowers. Asparagus. Artichokes. A11 sorts of S.dads forced. Fruits.—In June; Stra .vberries. Cherries. Me-domestic cookert. S36 lous. Green Apricots. Currants and Goosebernea for Tarts —In July ; Cherries. Strawberries. Pears. Melons. Gooseberries. Currants. Apricots. «rapes. Nectarines ; and some Peaches. But most of these are forced. THIRD quarter; JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBER. Meat as before. ^ , . Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Rabbits. Pigeons. Green Geese. Leverets. Turkey Poults. Two former montlis, Plovers. Wheatears. Geese iii Cod. Haddock. Flounders. Plaice. Skates. Thornback. Mullets. Pike. Carp. Eels, bhell-fash ; except Oysters. Mackerel the first two months of the quarter, but not good in August. , „ ^ . Partridge-shooting begins on the 1st of September ; what is therefore used before is poaciied. Vegetables.—Of all sorts, Beaus, Peas, rrench Beans, &c. &c. . v • PrMtf.—In July ; Strawberries. Gooseberries. Pine-Apples. Plums, various. Cherries. Apricots, Raspberries. Melons. Currants. Uamsons. In August and September ; Peaches. Plums. Figs. Filberts. Jilulberries. Cherries. Apples. Pears. Nectarines. Grapes. Latter months ; Pines. Melons, Strawberries. Medlars and Quinces in the latter month. Morello Cherries. Damsons ; and various Plums. OCTOBER Meat as before, and Doe-venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic fowls, as in for- mer quarier. Pheasants, from the 1st of Octobei. Partridges. Larks. Hares. Dotterels. The end of the month ; Wild-ducks. Teal, bnipes. Widgeon. Grouse. Dories. Smelts. Pike. Peach. Halibul?, Brills. Carp. Salinoii trout. Barbel. Gudgeons, j Tench. Shell-fish. IBILLS QF FARE. 337 Vegetables.—As in January; Frendi-beans, last crops of Beans, See - JVi/if.—Peaches. Pears. Figs. Ballace. Grapes. Apples. Medlars. Dainsons. Filberts. Walnuts. Nucs. Qiiinces* Services. novkmbbr. ilfeaf.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork, House-lamb. f>o^ven;soiL Poultry and Game as in last month, r ish as the last inontlu Vcgetables.-^CKXTOts. Turnips. Pawnips, Pota- tiws. Skirrets. Seorzonera. Onions. Leeks. Sbalote Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Spinach. Chard-heets. Oirdoous. Cresses. Endive. Celery. Lettuces. Salad. Herbs. Pot-herbs. FrKif.-Pears. Apples. Nuts. AValnuts. Bullaco. Cliesnuts. Medlars. Grapes. DKCSMCJSR. ilfcrtC—Beef. Mutton. Veal. House-lamb. Pork and Venison. Poultnj and G«/ne.—Geese. Turkeys. Pullets Pigeons. Capons. Fowls. Chickens. Babbits. JJnre.s! Snipes. \\ ood-eocks. Larks. Pheasants. Partndir&i b^-fovvls. Guinea-fowls. Wild-ducks. iw" Vidgeon. Dotterels. Dun-birds. Grouse. F’wA.—Cod. Turbot. Halibuts. Soles. Gurnets. Sturgeoiu Carp. Gudgeons. Codlins. Eels. Dories.' bhell-fish. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Asparagus iorc0clj ^cc* Fruit us the last, e.xoept Bullaee. FAMILY DINNERS. FIVB DISHES. Knuckle of Veal stewed with Rice. Apple-sauce. Bread-and-Butter Pot ifn* a Pudding. • Loin of Pork roasted, z 70;}88 DOMESTIC COOKEET. Peas Sonp. (Remove—Boiled FoioL) Oyster Sauce. • Potatoes. Apple-pie. Broccoli. Roasted Beef. Benton Sauce. Pigs’ Souse fried in Batter. (Remove for Yorkshire Pudding.) Potatoes. Peas Soup. Roast VeaL , Salads. Stewed Beet and Onions. Hessian Ragout. Hessian Soup, of the above. Leg of Lamb roasted. Potatoee. Beef Podovies. (Remove—Curd Puddings.) Mashed Potatoes Mutton Broth. Carrots grilled. and Turnips. Neck of Mutton. Potatoes. Broiled Haddocks stuffed. Light Suet Dumplings. isCound of Beef. Carrots and Greens. Salad. Crimp Cod. Gooseberry Pudding. Leg of Mutton. Jerusalem Artichukea. Spitchcock Eels. (Remove—Chine of Lamb in Cresses.) Potatoes. Damson Pudding. Stewod Cold Beef. Ciirrois.:in9 family DINNKns. Scrag of Veal amotliered with Onions. (Jie/nove—a Fruit Fie.) Mashed Potatoes trimmed with Peas Soup. Broccoli, small slices of Bacon. Hashed Hare. Half Calf’s Head, grilled. (Remove—Pie or Pudding.) Tongue Carrot Soup. Bacon, and Brains. Saddle of Mutton. Greens round. Potatoes and Salad, at side-table. Young Greens. Boiled Neck of Mutton. Baked Plum Pudding. Currie of dressed Aleat ill Casserol of Rice. Turnips. Carrots. Edgebone of Beef. Vegetable Soup. Pulled Turkey or Fowl, Leg Broiled. Greens. Potatoes. Boiled Fowls. ( Remove.—Snoio-balls.) Patties of Greens and dressed Meat. mashed Turnips. Chine of Bacon Pork, boiled. • SKVKN DTSHBS, Salmon and Fried Sinerlts. Macaroni Stewed Celery, i'lidding. Potatoes. Giblet Soup. Roast Beef. Veal P.attics.DOMESTIC COOKKIIY. 3iO Leg of Pork boiled. Peas Pudding. Bread Sanne. Onion Soup. Turnips Plum-pudding, and Potatoes. baked. Large Fowl, dressed us Turkey. Minced Veal, garnished with fried crumbs. Small Meat Hot Apple Pie, Potatoes Pie. in changefor Soup. in a Form. Stewed Onions. Beans and Bacoiu S.tddle of Mutton. FOUR AND FIVE. (FIRST COURSE.) Soup. Carrots. Mashed Turnips Bonillie. (second course.) Fricassee of Sweetbreads. Mushrooni.s Lemon Peas, stewed Pudding. (FIRST COURSE.) Mackerel broiled, with Herbs. Bacon. Butter. Greens and Carrots. Boiled Chickens. (SECOND C0UR8K,) Be<if Cecils. Salad. Fruit Pie. Potatoes, in a shu})6. Fore-quarter of Lamb roasted.FAMILY UI.NXERS. 241 Stewed Spinach. seven and seven, (first course.) Broiled Salmon. C lit move—Chine of Porb.) Mince- Pies. Peas- Pudding Peas Soup. Oxford Dumplings. Fillet of Veal. (Potatoes and mashed Turnips, on side-table.) (SECO.ND COURSE.) Itagout of Palate.s. Orange Fool. Potted Beef. Curd Star, with whip. Collared Eel. Stewed Pears. Pheasant. ( Bread^sauce on aide-table.) (FIRST COURSE.) Cod’s Head and Shoulders. (Remove—Boiled Turkey.) Oiblet Soup. ,, , Boiled Neck of Mutton, , 7 Bones. Small Leg of Pork. Lour small dishes oj Vegetables may he put round the Soup, or two served at the side-table. (second course.) _ Fricandean. Orange Padding. Scraped Beef. Lemon Creams. Anchovy Toast. Tart-s. Teal, or otlier wild Fowls.^ domestic cookery. SKVEK AND NINE. (first COURS8.) Popper Pot. Broccoli. Tongue, braised. Hunter’s Pudding. Chickens, Celery, boiled. dishes in a Pyramid. Saddle of Mutton. Greene and Potatoes on the side table. (SECOND COUnsB.) Roasted Partridges. Almond P otted Clieesecakes. Cheese. Celery in Raspberry Cardoona Wlute Sauce. Cream. stewed. Beef Collared. Hare. Lemon Pudding. Chickens. NINE AND SEVEN. (FII18T OOUB8B.) Stewed Carp. Parsley Butler. Butter. Cod-sounds, White. Epergae. Stewed Pigeons. Currant Jelly. Gravy. Cheek of Bacon. Rabbits and Onions. Cutlets Muiuteuon. Mushroorns stewed. Currant 'IV.rt with Custard. Green Peas Soup. (Remove—Haunch of Venison.) Vegetables on side-table, (SECONO COURSE.) Sweetbreads. Sauce Robart. 'Pride. Bread Sauce. Rousted Partridges. Blamange ia small forms. Stewed Cucumbers.FAMILY DINNbaS. Palates, French Pie. Veal Olives. Stewed Pippins. Scalloped Oysters. Cray- fish in Jelly. MINE AND ELEVEN ; AND A REMOVE. (FIRST COURSS.) Turbot. C Remove—Chickens.) Liver and Lemon Sauce. Carrot Soup. Butter. Edge-bone of Beef. Vegetables on side-table. (SECOND COURSE.) Wild FowL French Beans. Solid Syllabub iu a glass disk PeiLS. Lamb's Pry. Tongue in Turnips. Rabbit brown in Fricassee. Goose. Lobster in Fricassee Sauce. Stewed Mushrooms. Apricot Tart, open cover. NINE DISHES, TWO REMOVES, AND ELEVEN. (FIRST COURSE.) Fish. (Remove—Stewed Beef.) Oxford Dumplings. Fricandeau. Small Ham. White Soup. Turkey boiled. Lamb Steaks Oyster Sauce, round Potatoes. Lolister Patties. Fisli. (Remove—Saddle of Mutton.) (SECOND COURSE,) Sweetbreads larded. Frencli Beans, Orange Jelly. Pravnis. in White Sauce. Open Tart. Raspberry Cream. Sago Pudding, I.iub3ter. Form. Stewed Mushrooms. Grecu Goose.DOMESTIC COOKKP.T. (KIRST COURSE.) Fish. (liomovc—Hashed Calf's Head.) Rabbit and Onions. Sauce. Lamb’s Frr. Macaroni Transparent Beef-Stiak Pudding. Soup. Pie, Veal Butter. Stewed Pigeons, Cutlets. with Cabbace. Flsli. (Renume—Sirloin of Beef.) (SECOND COURSE.) Chickens, Cheesecakes. Pe.es. Mnearoni. Raspberry Cream Trifle. Lemon Cream. Stewed Lobsters. Asparageoi. Ducklings. Apricot open Tart. Pigeons stewed. ELEVEN AND NINE. (first COURSE.) Fish. ( Remove—Ham glazed.) Tongue. Boiled Mutton. Sauce. Gravy Soup. Butter. Fillet of Veal. (SECOND COURSE.) Pheasant. Raspberry Tartlets. Bread-sauce. Collared Kel. Plateau. Stewed Gravy and Jelly Celery. for Hare. Hare, Sweetbread grilled. Beef-steak Pie. Boiled Chickens. Artichokes. Collared Beef. Stewed Peers.FAMILY DIXNEllS. ELKVEN AND F.LEVBN. (KIBST COURSK.) Stewed Btef. Oxford Puddings. White Soup. Veal Fricandeau. iJam braised. Lamb Steaks. Potatoes. French Beans. White Sauce. Open TarUet Anchovy, ToasU. Fish. Saddle of Mutton. (8KCOND COORSS.) Sweetbreads. Orange Jelly, Whipped Cream. Wine Roll. Green Goo.se. Turkey. Oyster Sauce. Lobster Patties. Prawn.“L Muffin PiMldin,". Stewed Muslirooiua, eleven and eleve.n, and two remover, (first cuursb.) Salmon. (Remove—Brisket of Beef staved, and high Sauce.) Cauliflower. Fry. Shrimp Sauce. Pigeon Pie. Stewed Giblet Soup. Stewed Peas Cucumbers. and Lettuce. PotatoeA Cutlets Anchovy Sauce. Veal Olives Maiuteiion braised. Soles fried. (Remove—Quarter of Lamb roasted.) (seco.nd coursb.) Young Peas. Ooffee Cream. Ramakins, Lobster. Raspberrj Trifle. Orange Tourt. Gi-ated Beef. Roughed Jelly. Ducks.3i6 DOSIKSTIC COOKEnT. LONG TABLE ONCB CUVBHBU. Fruit Tavt llarrico. Mash Turnips, Carrots thick round. Cray- hHah. 11am braised. Fish. One Turkey or Blamangs. Two Poults. Mock Turtle Soup. Sweetbreads larded. Jerusalem Artichokes Stewed fricasseed. Spinach. Savoy Cake. Dried Salmon ill papers. Macaroni Pudding. Trifle. Chickens. French Pie. Casserol. of Rice with Giblets. Picked Crab. Sea Cale. Fricaudeau. Jelly Form. Stewed Celery. Young Sprouts. Apple Pie and Custard. Ox Rumps, and Spanish Onions. Rich MTiite Soup. Cheesecakes. Fish. • f Rcjiwve— Veniicm, or Loin q/' Veal.)aJ7 GENERAL REMARKS ON DINNERS. 1 hiiiyt used at First Courses.—Vjirious Soups, Fish dressed many ways. Turtle. Mock Turtle. Boil. d Meats and Steweii. Tongue. Ham. liacon. Joles of Bacon. Turkey and fowls, chiefly boiled. liuni.o. Sirloin, and Ribs of Beef roasted. Leg, Saddle, and other roast Mutton, lioast Fillet, Loin, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Veal. Leg of Lamb. Loin. Fore- Quarter. Cliine. Lamb’s-head and Mince. Matton stuffed and roasted. Steaks, variously prepared. Ragouts and Fricassees. Meat Pies raised, and in Dishes. Patties of Meat, Fi.di, and Fowl. Stewed Pigeon-s. Venison. Leg of Pork, Chine, Loin., Spare- rib. Rabbits, Hare. Puddings, boiled and baked. Vegetables, boiled and stewed. Calf’s Hoad different ways. Pigs’Feet and Ears different ways. In largo dinnens, two Soups and two dishes of Fi.sh. Things for Second Course—Birds: and Game or an sorts. Shell-fish, cold and potted. Collared and I’otted Fish. Pickled ditto. Potted Birds. Ribs of lAinb roasted. Brawn. Vegetables, stewed or in sauce. I French Beams. Peas. Asparagus. Cauliflower 1 Fricassee. Pickled Oysters. Sjiinach, and Artichoke3!3 liOMKsTlC COOliliHT. bottoms. Stewed Celery. Sea Cale- Fruit Tarts. Preserved^ Frmt Tourts. Pippins stewed. Cheese, cakes, various sorts All the list of Sweet Dishes, of n Inch abundance are given from imge '202 to2'28, with directions for preparing them, such as Creams, JeUies, and all the finer sorts of Puddimrs, iMince Pies, &c! piSd' Ojsters in ScaUops, stewed or Having thus named the sorts of things used for the two courses^ the reader will think of many others. For removes of Sioup and Fisli one or two joints of Meat or small course, the articles suited to the second must make a part. Where Vege- tables and howls, &c. are twice dressed, they add to fhe appearance of the table the first time ; tLee swe-t tlungs may form the second appearance without greater ru tn '^l^mhh'tve been given from page to d d., may be modified at discretion. °"® Is sent up with Ae vegetables or sauces j.roper to it, and this in suc- a. course of Soups and hish ; then Meat.s and boiled Fowls, Turkey &c f5 ^*’'‘1^1 Sweet Dishes , but these are not the common modes. do observation here, that common cooks do not think of sending up such articles as are in thm ®iT ,though, by so doing, theaddi- tion of a collared or pickled Siing, some Fritters, fried Patties, or quick-made dumplings, would be useful when there happened to be accidental visitors: and, at all times, it is right to better the appearance of the table rather than let things spoil S, by Jhich the expense of a family is more increased than can be Vegetables are put on the side-table <linners, as like wise sauces, and servants bring them round; hut some inconvenience attend-s th is pi aif and, when there are not many to wait, delay is occa- 8 oiled ; be.sidos that, by awkwardness tlie clotlics ofOEKEB.AL REilAlUtS ON DINNERS, &C. 349 the company may be spoiled- If the taUe is of a dae siie, the^arJcles alluded to will not fill it too much- SUPPERS. Hot suppers are not much in use where very hue When required either mav be Game. Fowls. Rabbit. lioiieaDui^ fluL M SoL, Mackerel. Oysters, French beans. Cauliflower, or JerusMem Artmh^ in whiteSauce.-broccoli with Eggs. and ditto. Sweetbread. «mM Potatoes. Scallop, A.c. Outlet. Neat’s Salmagundy. buttered Eggs on Cold IN^l Tone^. Ham. Colored things. Hunters Ueet aliced. Rusks buttered, with Anchovies o«^ Grat^ 11 une beef with butter, with or without Rn®ks. Orat^ ciieeferound,and butter dressed in the ® Jhidishes ditto. Custords m A^ bMs Ovsters,cold or pickled. Potted Meats- ^ J f’heese &c Good plain Cake, sliced. Pies of Birds or Fruit- Crabs- Lobsters. Prawns Cray-hsli. Any of the list of sweet things htUeS-co with any of the above articles, placed n‘Atl? from each other on the table, looks well; without tho ^'’The^5te7tlt things the better they appear ; and dSinSrSS^^ the best efl-ect. Jellies, dWereiit- Lloured things, and flowers, add to the beauty of the ^bl. An elegant supper may be served at a small oNpense, by tliose who know how to make trifles, that I^^iuThe house, form the greatest part of the meal. iVo<e.—Any of tho following things may he served as a relbh, whh tlie cheese after dinner -.-baked ornniinsTic cooKBar ^,.50 pickled Fisb done liigh. Dutch pickled llerrini;,' Sardinias, which eat like A nchovy, hut are larger An- cho\-ies. Potted Char> Ditto Lampreys- Potted Birds made high. Caviare and Sippets of Toast- Salad. Radishes. French Pie- Cold Butter. Potted Cheese Anchovy Toast, &c- Before serving a Dutch Herring, it is usual to cut to the bones without dividimj, at the distance of two inches from head to tail, before gerred. IINDEX. A. Acids, stains caused by. In linen, various ways of tak- ing out, 324 Adulterations, in the making of bread, how to detect, 267 Ale, very tine Welsh, to brew, 269 —, or strong beer, to brew, 270 to refine, 271 Almond puddings, 148 1 baked, 148 - small, 148 custard, 179 i cheesecakes, 181 two other ways, 181, and 182 cream, 211 Amber pudding a very fine one, 149 American flour, management of in mailing bread, 265 Anchovies, to choose, 132 to keep them when the liquor dries, 133 sauce, 129 toast, 226 another way. Apples, dried, 238 dumplings, or puuding. 163 216 trifle, 207 foci, 208 . marmalade, 237 • jelly, to serve to table, ! another, 216 • and rice, soufte of, 2(i2 or gooseberry trille, 207 jelly for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 237 pie, 169 ■ hot, 170 pudding, baked, 150 —— pulls, 175 sauce, for goose and roast pork, 125 , to scald codlins, 217 ■ to keep codlins for se- veral months, 247 stewed golden pippins, led apples in jelly , 238 217 Apricots, in brandy, 2W to dry in half, 231 a beautiful preserve 226 ——— essence of, 133 ^to make sprats taste like, 133 Apple-water, for the sick, 312 Apples, to prepare them for pufiis, 175 of apricots, 229 ,to preserve green,23i» to preserve in jelly, ' apple jel- 230 ly for this purpose, 237 cheese, 231 pudding, an excel- lent one, 160INDEX. 352 Arrow-root jolly, for tUe alck, ;i03 ArticViokes, to dress, 186 ■ bottoms, 186 , Jenisalom, UK! - bottoms, to keeiil lor the winter, Ul'l Articles in season in the differ- ent mouths, lists of them, 334, Ac. Asses’ milk, 309 artificial, three ways of making, 309 li. liiicon, to choose, 26 • , excellent, 74 , the manner of curing Wiltshire bacon, 74 llamboo, English, 196 litu'berries, to prepare for Uvrtlets, 229 in bunches, 22fi drops, 243 Earley-wator, 311 ; another way, 311 gruel, 310 Beef, on miroion, 3t> , stowed rump of, 36 —, another way, 37 , rump roasted, 37 , stewed brisket, 37 —, pressed beef, 33 —, hunter’s beef, 38 —an excellent mode of dressing, 38 —, collared, 39 — stealis, to dress, 39 and oyster sauce,39 , Blali'ordslure, 39 Italian, 40 of 1 latter-pudding, I.'i4 — w iib meat, 1 ru Uean (green) pudding, 160 la aas, to dress, 188 ,fricasseed Windsor,188 , French, 188 lleehamel, or white sauce, 118 lluef, to clioose, 25 , to keep, 33 , to salt for eating imme- diately, 33 , to salt red, which is ex- tremely good to eat fresh from the pickle, or to haiiK to dry, 34 • , the Eutck way to salt, 34 ■, a-lamode, 35 ■ , a fricauduau of, 35 collop, 40 palates, 40 —, ciikes for side-dish dressed meat, 41 —, potted, two ways, 41 —, to dress the inside of a cold sirloin, 41 —, fricassee of cold roast- beef, 41 , to dress cold beef that hfi« not been done enough, call ed beef-olives, 42 , to dress the same, called sauders, 43 —, to drcss.the same, called cecils, 42 —, minced, 42 I —, hashed, 43 , k-la-\ingrette, 43 , round of, 43 ,roUed,that equals hare,4? heart, 45 steak pie, 139 puddiug, 157 •,biUced,167 —, a pickle for, that will keep for years, 73 — pasty to eat as well as venison, 177 — patties, or podovles, 1?4 — broth, 301 — teik, 302IXDEX, 353 Beei (strong)-to brew, 270 (table) excellent, 271 , to reflno, 271 Beet-root, different ways of using, 192 , to preserve to eat in the winter, 19-1 Benton sauce for hot or cold roast-beef, 125 — tea-cakes, 261; another sort, as biscuits, 261; ano- ther sort, 261 Bills of fare, &c. 334, &c. Birds, a very economical way of potting, 96 Biscuit, orange, 234 cake, 261 of fruit, 242 , hard, 209 , plain 6c very crisp, 269 Black-cups, two ways of mali ing, 2l7 pudding, 69 two other ways, 70 BUicking for shoes, fine, 334 Blanching a rabbit, fowl, &c explained, 103 Blnn'c-mange, or Blamange, 206 - Jaunemange, 200 Boards, to give them a beau- tiful appearance, 331 • to extract oil from, 331 Bookings, 166 Boerhaave’s (Or.) sweet but- termilk, 313 Boiling meat, observ. on, 29 Braising explained, 90 chickens braised, 92 Brandy pudding, 161 cream, 209 , apricots or peaches in, 230 , cherries in, 2,10 Brawn, to dioose, 27 70 -2 A Brawn, souse for, 09 , mock, 69 Bread, to make, 264 Rev. Mr. Ilagget's economical bread, 265 Bread, management of Ame- rican flour, 205 , rice-and-wheat, 260 , French, 260 to discover whether bread has been adulterated with whiting or chalk, 207 , to detect bones, jalap. ashes, Ac. in, 267 , cake, common, 256 pudding, boiled, 152 - another and richer, 152 puddings, little, 151 and but ter pudding, 146 brown, pudding, 153 • brown, ice, 220 Brentford rolls, 268 BnKn'EHY (Home), 269, Ac. Broccox‘,to dress, 166 Broth. A quick-made broth, for the sick, 300 , a clear one, that will keep long, 300 , a very supporting one against any kind of weak- ness, 301 , of beef, mutton, and veal, 301 - Other broths are under different names, as Chicken broth, Ac. Brown-bread pudding, 153 ice, 220 Bro wning to colour and flavou. made-dishes, 135 Bubble and squeak, 47 Bun, a good plain one, 202 , richer ones, 262 Burnt cream, two ways, 209 Butter, to melt, 120INDEX. 354355 INDEX. Calico furniture, to cleaii when taken down for the summer, 327 Camp vinegrar, 129 To Candy any sort of fruit, 228 Capers, to keep, 202 —— ,an excellent substi- tute for caper-sauce, 128 , nasturtiums pickled for, 131 Capillaire, 310 Carmel cover for sweet- meats 214 Carp, to choose, 9 . boiled, 12 , stewed, 12 , baked, 12 Carpets, to dust, 331 , to clean, 331 Carrier sauce for mutton, 12(> Carrole of rice, 222 Carrots, to boil, 191 , to stew, 191 , to preserve to eat in the winter, 194 . pudding, 159 .. soup. 111 Casserol, or rice-edging for a currie or fricassee, 13(i Cast-iron,to clean stoves of,333 , another way, 3.33 Caudlo, for the siclt; three ways of making, 30(i ——, a flour caudle, good for babies who have weak sto- luaclis, 3lHi , rice, 306 ; another, 306 , cold, 306 , to give away to the poor sick, and lyiiig-in^ 317 Cauliflowers, to boil, 187 , in while sauce. Caveach, pickled mackerel so called, 14 Cecils, 42 Celery, to stew, 187 Cement for broken china, 322 Homan, for outside plastering, or brickwork, 323 Chantilly cake, 207 Chapped liands, paste for, 320 lips,ointment for,32 0 Cardoons, various ways of Oressmg, 192 to stew, 192 Charlotte, A, 164 Cheese, to pot, 225 , roast, to come up after is also under dift'ereiit names; as Cream-cheese, Apricot-cheese, 5cc Observations respect- dinner, 225 Welsh rabbit, 225 toast, 226 , damson cheese, 24 J -,muscleplum cheese, 241 ing it in tlie dairy, 284 to prepare rennet to turn the milk; two ways, 285 , to make, 285 to preserve itsound,286 -to make sage-cheese, 287 — , cream-cheese, 287 , rush cream-cheese,2(10 Cheesecakes,light paste for, 171 , way of making them, 179 , a plainer sort, 180 , another way, U;o , lemon, 180 —, another,] 80 , orange, 181 a very fine 187 to dress witl; Hurmesan, 187 crust for them, when to be piiiticularly nice, 168 , potato, 181 , almond, 181356 index. Cheesecakes, two other wavs 181 and 182 Cheese-puffs, 176 Cherry-pie, 170 Cherries, to keep (like cur- rants), 246 , in brandy, 236 , to dry cherries with sugar, 236 • without sugar, 236 , to dry them the best way 236 —, jam, 237 to preserve, 246 Cliickens, to pot with ham, 52 , scallops of cold, 64 ■ fricassee of, 91 , to pull chickens, 91 , another way, 91 > to braise chickeus,92 , chicken currie, 92 another. Cod, to clioose, 1 • , observations on buying and dressing, 8 head and shoulders, 9 , crimp, 9 sounds, boiled, 9 —, broiled, 10 , dressed, to look pie more easily made, 92 chicken an d parsley- —, chicken-pie, 142 ——, raised crust for, 146 , broth, 3U2 j panada, for the sick, 304 , to fatten, in four or five days, 295 Chimney-pieces, stone, to blacken the fronts of, 332 China, broken, a cement for 322 China-chilo, 81 orange juice, good to mix with water for fevers,-J50 Chocolate, to prepare, 308 cream, 211 like small chickens, 9 —, sounds ragout, 10 —, currie of cod, 10 —, salt, to dress, 10 — pie, 137 Codlins, to keep for several months, 247 , to scald, 217 tart, 172 cream, 212 Coffee, to make, 307 cream, much admired. 211 - milk, 307 Clary wine, 276 Cocoa, patent, 308 Clouted cream, 213 Cockle ketchup, 201 College (New) puddings, 152 Colouring for soups or gra- vies, 105 —^ to stain jellies, ices, or cream, 220 Collops, mutton, 79 , veal. 53 —, another way, 63 —, Scotch, 65 —, veal, dressed quick, 53 C00E.KKY for the sick, 300 for the poor, 314, &c. Cough, extract of malt for, 272 Cow-heels, various ways of dressing, 47 . jolly of, useful for soups and gravies, 104 Cows, management of, 282 Cowslip-mead, 278 Crabs, to choose, 3 —, hot, 22 -, dressed, cold, 23 Crack-nuts, 262 Cracknels, 262357 INDEX. CranI'erries, different ways of dressing, 25U jelly, 21C and rice-jelly, 216 Craster. Fish-sauce n-la-cras- ter, 127 Craw-fish soup, 116 Cray-fish in jelly, 22 Creaking of doors, how to prevent, 334 Cream. A cream, 208 . an excellent one, 208 , burnt, two ways of doing, 209 , sack, 209 , brandy, 200 , ratafia, two ways of making, 209 210 , lemon, 210 , yellow lemon, without cream, 210 , white lemon, 210 , imperial, 211 , almond, 211 , snow, 211 coffee, much admired. 211 , chocolate, 211 , codlin, 212 , orange, an ercellent one, 212 , raspberry, two ways of making, 242 , spinach, 213 , pistachio, 213 , clouted, 213 , a froth to set on,which looks and eats well, 213 , ice, 220 , to manage cream In the dairy, for making whey- butter, 290 , to scald, as in theWest of England, 290 to keep, 291 , syrup of, 291 Cream-cheese, three ways of making, 287 ' ,rush, two ways of making it, 288 Crickets, to destroy, 327 Crust, raised, for meat-pies or fowls, 146 , for venison pasty, 167 , raised for custards or fruit, 168 , excellent short, 168 , another, 168 , another, not sweet, but rich, 168 , a very fine one for orange cheesecakes, or sweetmeats, when requir- ed to be particularly nice, 168 for meat-pies, fowls, &c. See also the article Paste. Cucumbers, to stew, 186 — , another way, 186 ' andonions,sliced, to pickle, 193 vinegar, 130 , to pickle young ones, 199 Ciillis, or brown gravy, 1I8 Curd-star, 200 Curds and cream, 205 another way,20G and whey, Gallino, as in Italy, 292 puddings or puffs, 161 pudding, boiled, 161 Currants, to keep, 246 dumplings or pud- dings, 163 pie, 170 and raspberry pies or tarts, 171 jelly, red or black,2,37 ■jam, black, red, or white, 2373.58 INDEX. C:irrant sauce, tlie old, for venison, J2fJ . white, shrub. 281 , water-ice, 220 vrine, 273 , another way, 274 . black, wine, very fine, 274 Currie, rice boiled to eat with, 130 Custards, raised crusts for,lC8 -, cheap and excellent, 178 richer, 178 , baked, I79 , lemon, I79 , almond, 179 , a froth to set on cus- tard, which looks and eats well, 213 pudding, 159 Cutlets, Maintenon, 52 , another way, 52 , other ways, S3 Cyder, to refine, 271 D. Hairy, 282, 5ec. Xiamsons, to keep (like cur rants), 240' ; , to keep for winter pies, 248; another way, 248; another, 249 cheese, 241 dumplings, or pud- dings, 103 Davenport fowls, 89 Deeds (old), a wash to make their writing legible, 320 Devonshire junket, 221 Dinners, general remarks con- cerning, 347, &c. Doors, to prevent from creak- ing, 334 Dough nuts, 182 Drink, a very agreeable one for the sick, 310 , a refreshing one in a fever, 310 , two others, 311 , a most pleasant, 311 .draught for a cough,311 Drops, lemon, 243 , barberry, 243 , ginger; a good sto- machic, 244 , peppermint, 244 I ratafia, 244 Ducks, to choose, 86 , to roast, 93 , to boil, 93 , to stew, 93 , to hash, 93 , wild, to dress, 99 , sauce for, 122 pie, 143 -, management of, in the poultry-yard, 296 Duke of Cumberland’s pud- ding, 153 Dumplings, Oxford, 163 suet, 163 , apple, 163 currant, 163 , damson, 163 yeast, or Suffolk, 163 Dun-birds, to dress, 99 Dunelm of veal or cold fowl, 51 Dutch flummery, 2O4 - pudding, or souster, 150 — rice pudding, I5l —sauce for meat or fish, 124 To Dye the linings of furni- ture, 325 gloves, 326 Eels, to choose, S spitchcock, 17INDEX, r>5n Eels, fried, 18 , boiled, 18 , broth, 18 - for the sick, 302 , collared, 18 , stewed (like lamprey), 19 soup, 115 pie, 137 Eygs, buttered, 226 , Scotch, 227 , to poach, 226 sauce, 123 - wine for the sick, 314 , little eggs for turtles, 135 mince pie, 171 , different ways of pre- paring for the sick, 305 —to choose, at market, and to preserve them, 295 Elder-wine, 276 , white, very much like Frontiniac, 2/6 English bamboo, 196 English wines, remarks on,272 Essence of anchovies, 133 Eve's pudding, 153 Extract of malt for coughs, 272 F. Fish sauce, for fish-pies, 125 — jelly, to cover cold fish, 120 — sauce without butter, 127 sauce i-la-craster, 127 , avery fine fish-sauce, 126 Flannels, to make them keep their colour, and not shrink, 325 Floating-island, 204 —, another way,204 Floor-cloths, directions re- specting them, 330 , to clean, 330 Floors, to dust, 331 Flounders, to choose, 4 to fry, 19 Flour, American, management of, in making bread, 265 Flummery, 204 Dutch, 204 rice, 205 Fondu 225 F'ool, gooseberry, 208 apple, 208 , orange, 208 Forcemeat, to make, 183 for patties, balls, or stuffing, 134 -, ingredients for,133 to force meat or fowls, 134 pies, 134 for cold savoury ,very fine forcemeat Family dinners, list of, 337,&c- ■ Feathers, care and manage- ment of, 296 Fevers: China-orange juiw a very useful thing to mix- ’ i-- „ , with water, in fevers, when; balls, for fish;Soups, orffih the fresh juice cannot bej stewed,on V , QKj) I— » fortu-rtie, as at I observ. on dressing, 4 pie, a remarkably fine one, 138 -- gravy, strong, 120 , boiled with rice, 09 -—, roasted, 89 , broiled, two ways, 8'J ,’ Davenport fowls, 69INDEX. 3G0 Fowls, a nice way to dress a fowl, for a small dish, 9U , to force, 90 , to braise, 90 , fricassee ofchickens,91 , sauce for, 195 ■ , a good sauce for hiding the bad colour of fowls, 121 white sauce for fri- cassee of fowls, 121 ,aauce for cold fowls,122 mushroom sauce for fowls, 123 lemon white sauce for boiled fowls, 123 to blanch, 103 , a dunelm of cold, 51 , to roast wild fowl, 99 , vingaret, forcold fowl, 129 , scallops of cold chicken, 54 , to pot chicken with ham, 52 , management of, in the poultry-yard, 292 to fatten them in four or five days, 295 French-beans, to dress, 188 , to preserve, to eat ill winter, 194 French pie, 145 bread, 266 rolls, 267 Fncandeau of beef, 35 of veal, 54 a cheaper, but equally good one, 54 Fricassee of fowls, rabbits, ic. sauce for, 121 , crust for, 146 of parsnips, 192 Fritters, 165 ——, Spanish, 165 , potato, 166 another way, 166 Froth to set on cream, custardf or trifUe, which looks and eats well, 213 Fruit, to preserve for tarts, or family-desserts, 249 , raised crusts for, 168 —, remarks on using pre- served fruit in pastry, 169 —, to preserve for winter use, 245 —, to prepare for children ; a far more wholesome way than in pies & puddings, 219 —, to green, for preserving or pickling, 228 —, to candy any sort of, 228 —, biscuits of, 242 — stains, how to talrethem out of linen, 324 Frying herbs, as dressed in btalfordsliire, 193 the Staffordshire dish of frying herbs and liver, 227 Furniture-linings, to dye them of different colours, 335 calico, to clean, when taken down for the summer, 327 Furs, to preserve from moths, 325 G. Gallino curds and whey, as in Itidy, 292 Gamk, &c. 85 to 103 j to choose, 85 to 87 , directions fordressing, 87 George pudding, 156 German light puddings, or puffs, 151 Giblets, to stew, 94 soup, 107 pie, 144 , stewed, 94 Gilding,to preserved dean,.'^iiINDKX, 3()I Ginger drops, a good stoma- Okavibs, to draw, that will sort, 2t«3 keep a week, 117 , a clear gravy, HR , brown, orcullis, 118 , a rich, 11!) , another sort,2B3 , A, without meat,118 for a fowl,when there chic, 244 wine, excellent, 274 another, 275 Gingerbread, 263 ■1 a good plain good 263 sort. without butter Gloss, a fine one for oak-wain scots, 329 Gloucester jelly for the sick,304 Gloves, to dye them like York tan or Limerick, 326 , to dye white ones i beautiful purple, 326 Ooldeu-pippins, stewed, 217 Qeese, to choose, 85 , to roast, 93 , green, pie, 143 , mauagement of, in the poultry-yard, 297 Gooseberries, to keep, 247 , another way,247 , another, 247 trifle, 207 fool, 208 hops, 239 — jam, for tarts, 239 ,auother, 239 , white, 239 - pudding, baked. 160 — vinegar, 130 to preserve from ■ 327 Granary, insects or weasel Grates, to clean the backs of, 333 GaAViES, 117 to 121 . general directions respecting, Il7 . -, colouring for, 105 , a clear brown stock is no meat to make it of, 119 to make mutton eat like venison, 119 . a strong fish, 120 Grayling, to fry, 13 Green, to stain jellies, ices, or creams. 220 , to, fruit for preserv- ing or pickling, 228 Green sauce for green geese, or ducklings, 124 fJreengages, to preserve, 240 Green-goose pie, 143 Ground-rice pudding, 162 milk, 309 Grouse, to dress, 99 Gruel, water, 310 barley, 310 Gudgeons, to choose, 3 Guinea fowl, to dress, 100 management of Guinea-hens in the poultry- yard, 298 II. Il.-iddock, 15 , to dry, 15 stuffing for, 15 for gravy-soup or gravy, 105 soup, 110 Hagget, Rev. Mr., his econo- mical bread, 265 Hair: an e.xcellent water, to prevent it from falling off, and to thicken it, 321 Halls, stone, how to clean, 332 H;ims, to choose, 26 , to cure, 71 two other w.ays of curing them, 72INDEX. SG2 Hams, to cure, another wav,| that gives a high flavour, 72 ■ , a method of giv- ingastill higher flavour, 72 a pickle for, that will keep for years, 73 , to dress, 73 sauce, 126 Hog’s lard, 71 Home-brewkry, 209, <fec. Honey-comb, lemon, 221 — water, to make, 321 Hops, gooseberry, 23.9 Hotch-potch, an excellent, 01 , another, 81 Hangings, paper, to clean, 329 Hares, to choose, 86 , direct, concerning, 100 ■ , to roast, 101 ■■■ , to prepare and keep, 100 , to jug an old hare, 101 , broiled and hashed, 102 pie to eat cold, 145 , to pot, 102 soup, 112 Harrico of veal, 51 of mutton, 77 Harslet, 69 Hartshorn jelly, 216 Hay, green, to prevent it from firing, 327 Heart, beef, 45 Hearths (the inner), to clean, .3.33 • , another way, 333 Hens, to moke them lay, 295 Herb pie, 146 the St.aflfordshire dish of frying herbs and liver, 227 Herrings, to choose, 2 , to smoke, 19 , fried, 19 , broiled, 20 (red) to dress, 20 , potted, 20 , (like lobsters,) 21 , baked, 20 Hessian soup and ragout, 118 Hog’s head, to make e.xcellent meat of, 66 cheeks, to dry, 67 ears, to force, 67 puddings, white, 71 House-lamb steaks, white, 8-3 ^ , brown, 83 Hungary-w.iter, to make, 321 Hunter’s beef, 38 pudding, 158 I. Icing for tarts, 172 for cakes, 253 to ice a very large cake, 254 Ice, how to prepare for icing, 219 — waters, 219 , currant or raspberry water ice, 220 —, brown-bread ice, 220 — creams, 220 — colouring for staining ices, 220 Imperial, 279 cre.am, 211 Indian pickle, 195 Ink, black, to make, 322 -, another way, 322 Iron-moulds, totake them out of linen, 324 Iron-stains, to take them ou) of marble, S32 Irons, to preserve them fron rust, 332 —, anotner way, 333 J.ams. Cherry jam, 237 , currant jam, red, black, or white, 2373C3 IJ»DEX. K. Kebobbed mutton, 81 Ketchup, mushroom, 200 , another way, 201 , cockle. 201 J m, gooseberry, for tarts, 230 ■ , white, 239 , rasi>berry, 240 Jargonelle pears, to preserve most beautifully, 2.38 Jelly, a savouiy one for pies to eat cold, 120 , to cover cold fish, 120 , calfs-feet jelly, 214 , orange, 215 , hartshorn, 216 , cranberry, 216 , cranberry and rice, 216 -■—, apple, to serve at table, two ways of making, 216 .colouring to stain jel- lies, 220 -—, currant, red or black, 237 , apple, for preserving apricots, or for any sort of sweetmeats, 23/ —, red apples in jelly, 238 Jellies for the sick, 303 , Dr. RatclitTs restora- tive pork jelly, 303 , shank, 303 -—, arrow-root, 303 , tapioca, 303 , Gloucester, 304 , Other Jellies are under the names of the different principal articles they are made of; as Calfs-feet jel- ly, &c. Jeru Salem - artichokes, to dress, 186 Jugged hare, 103 Junket, Devonshire, 231 Ketchup, walnut, of the finest sort, 201 Kidney, veal, 61 , mutton, 80 pudding, 157 Kitchen popper, 131 L. I.amb, to choose, 2d —, leg, 82 —, fore-quarter, 82 —..breast <& cucumbers, 82 —, shoulder, forced, with sorrel-sauce, 82 —, steaks, 82 , house, steaks, white, a3 .brown, 8.3 cutlets with spinach, 83 head and hinge, 83 fry, 83 sweetbread, 83 pie, 142 Lambstoues fricasseed, 84 fricassee of them 4c sweetbreads, another way,84 Lamb, a very nice dish, 85 Lamprey, to stew as at Wor- cester, 18 Lard, 71 Larks and other small birds, to dress, 97 Lavender-water, to make, 321 Laver, 193 Leek soup, Scotch, 112 — and pilchard pie, 1.39 Lemons, to keep, for puddings, 4cc. 235 mince-pies, 171 , to preserve in jelly, 234 cheesecakes, 180 , another, 180 cream, 210 .yellow, without cream, 210 white ditto. 210 custards, 179INDEX. 564 Lemon drops, 243 honeycomb, 221 marmalade, 231 juice, to keep, 249 , pickled, 197 pickle, 195 pudding, an excellent one, 149 puffs, 175 white sauce, for boiled fowls, or a fricassee, 123 water, for the sick, 312 • and vinegar whey, 312 Lobster sauce,another way, 128 pie, 138 patties, 174 salad, 190 London syllabub, 220 Looking-glasses, to clean, 328 M. Macaront,as usually served,223 , two other ways, 223 , dressed sweet, a very nice dish of, 203 soup, 108 pudding, 159 Macaroons, 2lil Mackerel, to choose, 2 , boiled, 14 , broiled, 14 collared, 14 Lemonade, to be made a day before wanted, 251 , another way, 251 that has the flavour and appearance of jelly, 251 for the sick, 313 Lent potatoes, 203 Light, or German puddings, or puffs, 151 Lights (calf’s) and liver, to dress, 60 Linen, how to take stains of fruit or acids out of ,324; also. Magnum bonum plums, 24*3 ^iron-moulds and mildew, 3241 Mahogany, to give a fine colour , potted, 14 like lobsters, 21 , pickled, 14 pickled, called ca- veach, 14 • pie, like cod, 137 Linings of funiiture, to dye of different colours, 325 List of different articles in sea- son in each month, 334, &c. Liver (calfs) broiled, 59 , roasted, 69 the Staffordshire dish of frying-herbs, and liver, 227 Lobsters, to choose, 3 —, to pot, 20 ’ ■■ ■, to pot another way, as at Wood’s Hotel, 21 stewed, as a very high relish, 21 -, buttered, 21 —, to roast, 21 —, curry of them, 22 — sonp, excellent, 116 — sauce, 128 to, 329 , to take ink out of,330 Maids, 12 Malt, extract of, forcoughs,272 Mangoes, melon, 197 Marble, to take stains out of, 332 , iron stains, 332 Marmalade, orange, 231 , quince, 242 •, lemon, 231 ■, transparent, 231 ■, apple, 237 Marrow-bones, 46 , vegetable, 184 Mead, sack, 278 , cowslip, 278 Meat, 25 to 85 , to choose, 25 to 27INDEX. no3 Msat, observations on pur- diasiug, keeping, and dress- ing, 27, &c. -, to keep hot, 31 Melon mangoes, 1S)7 Melted butter, an essential ar- ticle, rarely well done, 12S) Mildew, to take out of lineu,3J4 MUk, to keep in the dairy, 2<J1 , rice and sago, 222 ■ —, coffee, 307 , ground rice, 309 , sago, 309 , asses’, 309 Milk-porridge, 308 , French, 308 Milk-punch, or vendor, 281 Millet pudding, I-W Mince pie, 1/0 , without meat, 170 ■, lemon, 1/1 , egg, 171 patties, resembling mince pies, 175 Mock-brawn, 69 Mock turtle, 58 —, a cheaper way, 58 ^ two others, 59 Moor-game, to pot, OH Morels and truffles, useful to thicken soups 4c sauces, 104 how to pre- serve them in the winter, 104 Mortar, Koman, for outsiile plastering, or brick-work.323i Mufl'ms, 268 I Mulled wine, 2 ways, 307 Mullets, to choose, 2 red, to dress, U Muicle-plmu clieese, 241 Mushrooms, observations re- specting, 189 —,to dry, 132 an excellent way to pickle, to preserve the Jlavoiir^ 200 Mushroom ketchup, 200 — another way, 2i> I , to stew, 190 — powder, 132 - sauce, very fine for fowls or rabbits, 123 Mustard, to make, 131 , another way. for immediate use, 131 Mutton, to choose, 26 observations on keep- ing and dressing, 74 •, leg, 75 , neck, 75 ■, shoulder, roasted, 76 —, haunch, 76 ., saddle, to roast, 76 , ftllet, braised, 76 , harrico, 77 , to hash, 77 , shoulder, boiled witli oysters, 77 , breast, 78 ——, loin, 78 , rolled loin, 78 ham, 78 coilops, 79 cutlets in the Portu- guese way, 79 steaks, 79 -, steaks of, or lamb, and cucumbers, 79 stealts 51aintenon, 80 sausiiges, 8U rumps and kidneys, 80 an excellent hotch- potch, 81 ' another, 81 • kebobbed, 81 ’ China chilo, 81 ■ broth, Scotch, 104 • pie, 141 ■ pudding, 157 -, another, 157 —, pasty, to eitt as well as vcu.sou, 177SG6 INuEX, N. Nasturtiums, to pickle for co- pers, 131 Nelson puddings, 153 New College puddings, 152 Norfolk punch, two wa^ s, 281 Nuts, crack, 262 , dough, 182 O. Oak-wainscot, fine, to give a gloss to, 329 Oatmeal pudding, 150 Oil, how to extract from boards or stone, 331 Old deeds, Charters, &c. on pa- per or parchment, when the writing is obliterated or sunk, to make it legible, 326 Olives, 198 Omelet, 224 Onions, pickled, 198 , sliced with cucumbers, 198 Onion sauce, 123 soup. 111 , to stew, 186 , to roast, 187 , store, to preserve in winter, 194 Orangeade for the sick, 313 Orange butter, 218 marmalade, 231 biscuits, or cukes, 231 clieesec^es, 181 —, a very niCi.' crust for, 168 • chips, 233 fool, 208 cream, excellent, 212 ■ jelly, 215 juice, buttered, 233 ■ pudding, three ways of malting, 149 Orange (Chinal juice; a very useful thing to mix with wa- ter in fevers, when the fieoh juice cannot be had, 250 tiirt, 172 Orange-flower ciikes, 234 Oranges, butter, 218 ; to butter hot, 232 , buttered orange-juice, a cold dish, 233 , to keep, for pud- dings, <kc. 235 , preserved, to fill; a corner dish, 232 , whole, carved, 233 , to preserve in jelly, 234 Orgeat, two ways, 250 for the sick, 313 another way, 313 Ortolans, to roast, loO Ox-cheek stewed, plain, 46 , to dress it another way, 46 — feet, various ways of dress- ing, 47 — rump soup, 112 Oxford dumplings, 163 Oysters, to chouse, 3 , to feed, 23 , to stew, 23 , boiled, 23 , scalloped, 23 , fried, to garnish boiled fish, 23 , loaves, 24 , to pickle, 24 —, another way, 24 patties, 174 sauce to beef-stealis, 30 sauce, 128 soup, 116 mouth ditto, 117 P. Paint, to clean, 328 Palaies, beef, 46367 IKDEX. Panada, made In flve minutes, for the sick, 304 , two oUiers, 304 , chicken, 304 I’aucakes, common, 104 , tine ones, fried with- out butter or lard, 104 , Irish, 165 of rice, 164 -, New England, 165 Pastry, 166 to 183 , observations on, lti9 remarks on using Paper, black, for drawing pat terns, 391 I'aper hangings, to clean, 329 Parmesiin and cauliflower, how to dress, 187 Parsley-sauce,when no parsley leaves are to be lad, 124 pie, 145 , to preserve for the winter, 194 Parsnips, fricassee of, 192 , to mash, 192 ———, to preserve to eat in winter, 194 Partridges, to choose, 87 , to roast, 9b ■, to pot, 98 ——a very cheap way, 98 , sauce for them soup, 107 pie in a dish, 144 Paste, rich pulT, H>6 , a less rich one, 107 , rich, for sweets, 167 , rice, for relishing things, 167 , potatoo, 1(>7 , light, for tarts and cheese- cakes, 171 , strong, for paper, 334 for chapped lips, 320 for chapped hands, 320 ■ ,royal, called ‘‘auchoux, m preserved fruit in, 169 Pasty, to prepare venison for, 176 , venison, 177 , of beef or mutton, to eat as well as venison, 177 potatoe, 178 Patent cocoa, 308 ,Patties, fried, 173 oyster, 17^ lobster, 17'! beef, or podovies, 174 veal, 174 turkey, 175 sweet, 175 , resembling mince-pies. 175 , forcemeat for, 134 . Otherpattics are under the names of the articles they are made of Peaches in brandy, 230 Pea-fowl, to drets, 100 ■, management of them cold, 122 in the poultry-yard, 298 Pears, stewed, 218 , baked. 218 , jargonclleto preserve most beautifully, 238 Peas, to boil, 185 (old) soup, 109 (green), ditto, 109 to stew, 186 to keep, 184 another way, as practised in the emperor of Uussia’s kitchen, 185 I’epper, kitchen, 131 Peppermint drops, 244 Pepper-pot, 108, and 227 Perch, 13 j to choose, 2 , to fry (like trout), 13INDEX. 368 Pettitoes, 66 I'ewter (patent) porter-pots, to clean, 334 Pheasants, to choose, 87 , to roast, 98 PiCKCES, 194 to 202 , rules to be observed with regard to them, 194 —; , piclde that will keep for years, for hams, tongues or beef, 73 Pickles are under the names of the articles pickled Pies, savoury, 136 to 146 , observations on, 136 , fruit-pies, 166, &c. . Pies are under the names of the principal articles they' are made of; as Apple pie Eel pie, ice. Pig (sucking), to scald, 64 — , to roast, 65 Pig’s cheek, to prepare for boiling, 66 ■ head, collared, 67 —— feet and ears, different ways of dressing, 68 , fricasseed, 68 • jelly of feet and ears, 68l , souse for, 69 ‘ harslet, 69 Pigeons, to choose, 86 , various ways of dress iiig, 94 Pigeon pie, 144 Pike, to choose, 2 , to bake, 15 ■ stuffing for, 15 Pilchard and leek pie, 139 Pipers, to dress, 14 Pippin pudding, 162 tart, 172 , stewed golden, 217 Pistachio cream, 213 Plaice, an excellent way of dressing a large one, 17 Plate, to clean, 327 Plovers, to choose, 86 , to dress, 100 , to dress their eggs, 100 Plums, magn um bonuni plums excellent as a sweetmeat, or in tarts, though bad to eat raw, 243 Plum cake, two ways of mak- ing, 256 & 2.'-,7 • very good common ones, 257 -, little ones, to keen long, 257 Plum pudding, common, 158 Podovies, or beef patties, I74 Pomade divine, to make, 318 Pomatum, soft, to make, 318 another way, 318 , hard, 318 Poor, cookery for, 300, &c general remarks and hints on this , . subject, 314 to <.r ‘0 'house, 26 —, to salt for eating imme- diately, 33 —•, remarks on cutting up <!cc, 61 , to roast a leg, 61 , to boil a leg, 62 , loin and neck, roast, 62 , shoulders and breasts, 62 —, rolled neck, 62 ■ , to broil, 95 , to roast, 95 , to pickle, 95 , in jelly, 96 , the same, a beautiful dish, 96 , to pot, 96 , management of live ingeous, -298INDEX. 3(>r Pork, spring or fiireliand, 02 , spurcrib, 02 , griskin, 0;i , blatle-bone, 0.') , to dress, as lamb, 03 , to pickle, 03 steaks, 03 sausages, 04 , iin e.xccileut sausage to eikt cold, 04 pies, excellent to cat cold, 141 jolly. Dr. RntclifPs resto- rative, 303 Porker’s luaid, to roast, 00 Portable soup, 114 Pot-pouri, to make, 319 , a quicker sort of sweetpot, 320 Potatoes, to boil, 1!K) , to broil, 191 1 , to roast, 191 , to fry, 191 . , to mash, 191 cheesecakes, 181 , Lent, 203 paste, 107 pasty, 178 pie. 140 jmdding, an excel pilain one, 150 with meat, 156 rolls, 268 Potted shrimps, 22 Potting birds, a very cheap way of, 98 to clarify butter for potted things, 98 PouETBY, See. 85 to 97 — .directions for dress- ing, 87 PoOf.TUV-YABD, 292, &C. Pound cake, good, 258 Prawns, to choose, 3 , currie of, 22 to butter, 22 70 B Prawns A: cray-fish in jelly, 22 soup, 116 on PrbsRRvks, Arc. 202, Ac. Preserved fruit, remarks using it in pastry, 169 to preserve fruit for winter use, 245 Prune tart, 172 Puddings, &c. 147 to ICC observations on making, 147 -, a quick-made one. - in haste, 151 to keep oranges 162 or lemons for, 235 Other puddings are under the names of the principal articles they aro made of, or their llrst names, as Dread pudding, Light pudding, Ac. Putf-paste, rich, 166 , less rich, 167 , light or Gorman, 151 —, excellent light ones. 170 —, apple, 175 —, lemon, 175 —, cheese, 170 —, to prepare apples for, 175 Puits d’mour, 203 Punch, an excellent method of making, 279 , nidk, or vendor, 201 , Norfolk, two ways 281 Purple, a beautiful one for dyeing gloves, 320 Q. Quails, to dress, 100 Quaking pudding, 153 Queen cakes, two ways of luaK- ing, 2.59 Quick-made pudding, 102 Quince marmalade, 242370 INDKX R. Rabbits, to choose, 86 , various wavs of dress ills, 162 , to make them taste much like hare, 103 , to blanch, 103 , to pot, 103 pie, like chicken, 143 .fricasseed,crust for, 146 management of, 2‘I9 Red herrings, to dress, 20 lied mullet, to dress, 14 Rennet, to prepare it to fum the milk in making clieese. 285 Restorative, a great one, 305 ■, two others, 305 another, a most Ragout (Hessian), & soup, 113 Raised crusts for custards or fruit, 268 " for meat-pies or fowls, &c. 146 Raisin wine, excellent, 2/7 , with cyder, 277 , without cyder, 278 Ramaliins, 224 Raspberry tart with crejim, 173 brandy, 279 cakes, 245 cream, two ways, 212 jam, 240 -—.another way,240 vinegar, 251 ) vinegar-water, for the sick, 312 water ice, 220 wine, two ways of making, 273 and 274 -and currant tart, 171 Ratafia, 279 — cream.209 ■ .another ivay .210 and 220 ;• drops, 244 Ratcliff’s, l)r. restorative pork jelly, 303 Rkckipi-8, vAnious, 318, &c. Red, a beautiful one, to stain jellies, ices, or cakes, 220 Red apples, in jelly, 238 Ked cabbage, to stew, 189 , to pickle, 200 pleasant draught, 305 —— pork jelly, 303 Rhubarb tart, I73 Rice, savoury, 222 edging, or casserol, 1.36 boiled to eat with cuiTie or roast meats, 136 —, corrole of, 222 —, buttered, 202 —, cake, two ways, 260 and wheat bread, 266 caudle for the sick, 306 two others. .306 flummery, 205 and apple, soufie of, 202 milk, 222 ground-rice milk, 309 pudding. Hutch, 151 , small, 154 , plain, 155 — , rich, 155 with fruit, 155 , baked, 155 ■; > “ifother.forthe family, 156 „ : ■. ground, 162 Roasting meat, observations on, 29 and 30 Robnrt sauce, for rumps or steaks, 124 Rolls, excellent, 267 , French, 267 ——, Brentford, 268 , potatoe, 268 Roman cement, or mortar, for outside plastering, or brick- work, 323 Rot in sheep, to prevent, 326INDEX. 371 Rout drop-cake, 253 UulTa ami reeves, to dress, 100 Uump of beef, stewed, 36 , another way, .37 , roasted, .37 ox-rump soup, 112 mutton aud kidney, 30 Rusks, 264 Kussian-seed pudding, 162 Ru.4t, to preserve irons from, 333 , to take it out of steel, 3.33j S. Sack cream, 209 mead, 278 Sage ciieese, to make, 287 Sago, to prepare, for the sick, 309 , to prepare, to give away to poor families, 317 milk, 222 pudding, 148 Salad, French, 190 , lobster, 190 SiUmagundy, 222 Sidmon, to clioose, 1 , to boil, 6 , to broil, 6 , to pot, 7 , to di7, 7 , an excellent dish of dried, 7 , to pickle, 8 , collared, 8 Saloop, 308 Saucks, iic. 121 to 136 ^ a very good sauce. especially to hide the bad colour of fowls, 121 , white, for fricassee of fowls, rabbits, white meat, fish, or vegetables, 121 - for wild fowl, 122 _ auotlier for the same. or for duclis, 122 ISauce, an excellent sauce for carp, or boiled turkey, 122 for fowl of any sort, 122 for cold fowl or par- ^AlaMaitred’Hotel, 122 a very fine mushroom- sauce for fowls or rabbits, 12.3 , lemon white, for boiled fowls, 123 , Uver, 123 , egg, 123 , onion, 123 , clear shalot, 124 , parsley, to luake when no parsley-leaves can be had, 124 , green, for green-gec-ae or ducklings, 124 , bread, 124 , Dutch, for .meat tr fish, 124 Hobart, for rumps or steaks, 124 , Benton, forhotorcold roast beef, 125 for fish pies, where cream is not ordered; two ways of making, 125 , Tomato, for hot or cold meats, 125 , apple, for goose and roast pork, 125 , the old currant, for venison, 126 , lemon, 126 , carrier, for mutton,126 , ham, 126 , a very fine fish, 126 another, 127 , fish, without butter, 127 , fish, h la Craster, 127 , an excellent substitute for caper, 128 , oyster, 128 , lobster, two ways, 129372 INOKX. ■auce, Blirimp, 129 , anchovy, 129 , white, or bechamel,! 18 Some other sauces, &c. are under the names of dif- ferent dislies, or of the prin- cipal articles the sauces are made of. Sausages, veal, 65 pork, 64 , an excellent, to eat cold, 64 — , Spadbury’s Oxford, 64 -, mutton, 80 Scallops of cold veal or cliicken, 54 ’ Scotch collops, 55 mutton broth, 104 leek soup, 112 eggs, 227 Sea cale, 193 Seed cake, a cheap one, 258 ■; , another, 258 Skuvants, Oiuections for. 318 Shalot sauce, clear, 124 7 \inegar, 129 Shank jelly forthesick, 303 Sheep, to prevent the rot in. 326 ’ Shelford pudding, 160 Shoes, a fine blacking for, 334 Short-cakes, little ones, how to make, 256 Shrew.sbury cakes, 2.59 Shrimps, to choose, 3 , to butter, 22 , to pot, 22 sauce, 129 ~—-— pie, excellent, 138 Shrub, white currant, 281 Sick Persons, Cuuksky for, 300, &c. ^ general remaiks on the suliject, 301/ Sippets for the sick, when the stomach will not receive meat, 304 Slcate, 12 . to choose, 1 , crimp, 12 soup, 115 Smelts, to choose, 2 , to fry, 17 Snipes, to dress, 100 Snow may be used instead of eggs, in puddings, or pan- cakes, 147 — balls, 203 — cream, 211 Soles, to choose, 2 boiled, 15 fried, 16 , anotherway, 16 .stewed, 16 , in the Port uguese way, 16 , Portuguese stutiing for baked, 17 — pie, 139 Somersetshire furmenty, 205 Sorrel, to stew, for fricaudoau and roast meat, 190 SouHe of rice and apple, 202 Sounds, cod’s, to look like small chicken, 9 Soups, &c. 103 to 117 —, genei-al directions re- specting them, 103 —, colouring for, 105 —, julienne, 105 —,'ftn excellent, 106 —, an excellent white, 106 —, aplainer white one, I07 —, a-hi-sap, 113 —, portable, 114 —, soup maigre, 114 , another, 116 , a baked one, to give away to poor families, 315 , for the weakly, lor tlie same purpo-e, 317I.NDUX, 37:5 Other soups are under the Stock, for brown or wliite fisli iiiimes of tlie principal arti-l soups, 115 des they are miuio of. Souse for brawn, and for pigs’ feet and ears, (iil Souster, or Dutch pudding, 150 Hpadbury’s O.xford sausfiges.U4' Sparerib of pork, H2 Spinach, to boil, 180 soup. 111 Sprats, iO , to choose, 4 , baked, 20 , to broil, 20 , to make them tastelike anchovies, l;S3 Spuiigu cake, 200 , another, without butter, 2G0 Squab pie, 142 . Biaffordsliire dish, of frying herbs, <l:c. with liver, 227 Stains, to take any kind out of linen, 824 caused by ac-.ds, 324 another way, for fruit stains, 324 ■ another, 324 another way, 324 Stone, to extract oil from, 331 —, chimney-pieces, to black- en the fronts of, 332 —, stairs and halls, to cietin, 332 I Stoves, to take the black off tlie bright bars of polished ones in a few minutes, 333 another way, 333 Strawberries, to preserve them whole, 235 , to preserve iu wine, 285 Stucco, excellent, which will adhere to woodwork, 322 -, mason’s washes for,323 -— of wine, fruit, ikc. after they have been long in the linen, 324 _ ——, many other stains, 324 , to take them out 01 marble, 332; itoii stains, 332 Stealvs, beef, 3!) ^ fc oyster sauce, 39 , Stalfordsliire, 3.1 -, Italian. 40 , sauce for, 124 pie. 139 pudding, 157 .baked, 157 Steel, to take rust out of, 333 Stock, clear brown, for gravy soup or gravy, 105 Stuffing for pike, haddock, 15 for soles, baked, 17 for sole, cod, or turbot pie, 133 Sturgeon, to dress fresh, 11 , to roast, 11 , an exceUeut iniila- tion of pickled, 11 Sucking pig, to scald, 34 to roast, 35 Suet, to preserve it a twelve- month, 227 puddiug, 108 — (veal), pudding, 158 — dumplings, 133 Suffolk dumplings, 133 Sugar, good to be used in cur- ing meats, 178 —, to clarify for sweet- meats, 228 , vinegar, 1.30 Suppere, general remailcs on, 349 Supper dish, a pretty one, 222 Sweet Iiishks, 202, &c. Sweetbrofids, 30 , roasted, (iOINDEX. 374 Sweetbreads, ragout, GO SWEKTllEATS, <VC. 228, diC. observ. on, 245 |Tench, to choose, 2 , to fry, like trout, 13 broth for the sick, 302 for, 228 , _ . • vuy I MA VbU lU. ■, to clarify sugar|Thomback, 12 iTin covers, to clean, 334 •, a very finecrubtlTipsy cake, ltl2 » J acvAWOb VcUk(#y lor, when required to belToast, anchovy, two ways, 22G particularly nice, 1G8 iToast i water, for the sick,311 • h carniel cover Tomato sauce, for hot or cold for, 214 a carmel cover . excellent, for tiu'ts, when fruit is plentiful, 242 Sweet pot, to make, 320 Sweets, rich paste for, 1G7 Sweet patties, 175 Syllabub, London, 220 , Staffordshire, 221 , a very fine Souier setshire one, 221 , eveilasting, orsohd, 221 Syrup of cream, 291 T. Table beer, excellent, to brew, 271 Tansy, 203 Tapioca jelly, forthesick, 303 Tartlets, how to prepare bar- berries for, 229 Tarts, ioinK for them, 172 , pippin, 172 , prune, 172 , orange, 172 , codlin, 172 , rhubarb, 173 , raspberry, with cream 173 Tea-cakes, 2G1 , Benton, 2G1 , another sort, as bis cults, 201 another sort, 201 I’eal, to dress, 99 Taiioh, 13 meats, 125 Tongues & udder, to roast, 44 , to pickle for boiling, two ways, 44 and 45 , Slewed, 45 , an excellent way of doing them to eatcold, 45 , a pickle for them, that will keep for years, 73 Transparent pudding, 154 Trifle, an excellent one, 207 , goosebeiry or apple, 2U7 , calce, 207 —,a froth to set on tiiflc, which looks and eats weli.213 Tripe, 4/ , soused, 47 Trout, to Iry, 13 , to pot, like lobsters, 21 , a-la-Geiievoise, 13 Truffles and morels, used for soups and sauces, I ti4 how to pro- f ..V •• bv serve them in the winter, I94 Tunbridge cakes, 259 Turbot, to choose, 1 , to keep, (i , to boil, 6 pie, 138 Turkeys, to choose, 85 , to boil, 88 , an excellent sauce for boiled, 122 , to roast, 88 , pulled, 88 , umnagement of, in the poultry-yard, 297INDF.X. 5/5 Turkey patties, 1/5 Turnip soup, 108 pie, 145 Turtles, little epRS for, 135 , forcemeat for 135 U. Veal pie, a rich one, 13.4 and parsley pie, 140 olive pie, 140 suet puddings, 158 patties, 1/4 broth, very nourishing, 301 Udder and tongue, to roast, ■ 44 V, Veal, to choose, 25 , to keep, 47 , leg, 43 , knuckle, 48 , shoulder, 46 , neck, 49 , a-la-braise, 49 , breast, 49 , rolled breast, 50 ■ , &-la-daube, 50 , rolls of either cold meat or fresh, 51 , haiTico, 61 , a dunelm of cold, 51 ■ , minced, 62 , putted, 52 , to pot with ham. 62 ■ , cutlets Mainteuoii, 52 , another way, 62 , other ways, 53 , coUops, 53 , to dress coUops quick, 53 , scJillops of cold veal, 54 , fricundeau, 64 , a cheaper, but equally good fricandeau, 54 , iricaudeau, another way, 64 , olives, 55 , cake, 55 , sausiiges, 55 , broth, lu5 , giavy, 110 , pie, 130 V'KGKT/tBLBS, 184 tO 194 , observations on dressing, 184 , to boil them green, 184; in hard water, 184 , how to preserve for the winter, 104 soup, 110 , another. 111 pie, 115 marrow, 184 Venison, to choose, 25 , to keep, 31 — , to dress, 31 , haunch, neck, &c. 32 , breast, 32 , hashed, 33 , the old currant-sauca for, 126 pasty, crust for, 167 , 177 •, to make a pasty of beef or mutton, to eat a, well as venison, 1/7 Vendor, or milk punch, 281 Vinegar, camp, 120 , gooseberry, 130 . , raspberry, 251 . raspberry vinegar wa- ter, 312 , shalot, 129 , sugar, 130 , cucumber, 130 , wiue, 130 and lemon whey, 312 Vingaret, for cold fowl or moat, 129INDEX 37') W. Walters, 201 Wainscot, One oak, to give n gloss to, 32<l Walnuts, to pickle, 199 . another way, 199 Wash h.alls, to make. 320 Washes for stucco, 323 '\'ater cakes, 200 • r gruel, two ways of mak- ing, 310 Bouchey, 19 ■ , barley, two ways of making, 311 , an excellent, to pre- serve the hair from falling off, 321 AVelsh pudding, 163 rabbit, 225 Whey, 312 , white wine, 312 vinegar and lemon, 312 M’hite, to stain jellies, ices, &c. 22(1 Wiitings, to choose, 2 -, to dry, like haddocks. 15 Widgeon, to dress, 99 Wild fowl, to roast, 99 '— , sauce for, 122 Windsor be.ans, fricasseed, 183 ^Vino, remarks on English wines, 2/2 ■ , a rich and pleasant, 273 , raspberry, 273 Wine, raspl)crry ,oreurmnt,two ways of making, 273 & 2/4 —, bhick currant, 274 —, ginger (excellent), two ways of making, 274 & 275 —, orange, 276 —, cowslip, 275 , elder, 276 —, white elder, like Fron- tiniac, 276 —, clary, 276 —, raisin, 877 —, raisin, with cyder, 277 ,without cyder, 278 —, egg, for the sick, 314 —, to refine, 271 —, roll, 218 —, vinegar, 130 —, mulled, two ways of making, 306 and 307 , to preserve strawberries in, 235 , white whey, for the sick, 312 Woodcocks, to dress, lOO Woollen, to preserve from moths, 325 Y. Yeast, tomake, two ways, 2Sl , to preserve, 272 dumplings, 163 Yellow, to stain jellies, &c.220 Yorltshire cakes, 268 puddings, 162 THE END. MII.KFI! AKD 80WIBBT, PBIIfTBHS, EALIFAX.A. D : 2 ^ (i- / y \ <J v^u < -iaxvss.^&n Jtf^W3B3U»V*A^Trr3A B 7^ a> > Q- r a or) 3 rr fid *< fid o ST n» c/3 o> 3 \ rr c/3 <* O) *-t H f*» c« c/3 3 fid D 3 k a> 3 'merijtf^ B^«room Manual ? Etiquette of Love, Courtship, ■' ttud Marriage Eiperinients of Living, and Mamma’s Pictores from' the Bible Maria Monk Mason’s Select EcmainsDate _£> D n> u> fCi r “TJ C 3 Oro n =r n> 3 o 3 o <✓» n> 3 ? R 3 a 3 *3 I o c r ^ • 1% ■* > .^oor woocicaiter, jilaggy’s Baby, &o. Haven-time, and Don’t-bo-in- ,<».Hfirry, &e. 2 o' 00 o 3 (W 2 o ?0 o 2 o ■r -n fl> 3 0-. 5 -c JO m n o ?o a o rn H JO m 2 m 2 rH m X H JO > n H o 2 JO m n> o The 'Wounded Boy, &c. The Lost Children. &e. Our Little Harry, &e. Pierre, the Orj;an Boy, &o. a'u-. T u..— ft.-