x *3^^$ \ 22101417196 JOHN HODGKIN, F.L.S.Med K8802BUCKMASTER’S COOKERY; WITH AN ABRIDGMENT OF SOME OK THE LECTURES DELIVERED IN THE COOKERY SCHOOL AT THE INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION. StHillj lttwlji Jour pttnbrrb ^rcipcs. NEW EDITION, CAREFULLY REVISED. “The number of inhabitants which may be supported in any country, upon its internal produce, depends as much upon the state of the Art of Cookery as upon that of Agriculture. . . . but if Cookery be of so much importance, it certainly deserves to be studied with the greatest care. . . . Cookery and Agriculture are arts of civilized nations ; savages understand neither of tliem.”^- Count Rum fono. LONDON GEORGE ROUTLEDGE AND SONS Broadway, Ludgate Hill NEW YORK; 9 LAFAYETTE PLACE/ 5 gOVOSiD / LONDON! BUADDUUY, AONE'V, & CO., PRINTERS, WHITE FRIARS. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. QT >JUbicnteb, bn ^permission, TO H.R.H. PRINCESS LOUISE, MARCHIONESS OF LORNE, AS AN ACTIVE PATRONESS OF THE ART OF COOKERY, AND ONE WHO APPRECIATES ITS IMPORTANCE AS AN ELEMENT OF SOCIAL AND DOMESTIC HAPPINESS.\PREFACE TO NEW EDITION. 4 The present edition has been carefully revised, and a large number of new and original recipes have been added, which are within the power of every girl of average intelligence. The book is intended for middle class families and young persons desirous of acquiring a knowledge of Domestic Cookery. I hope the book will be found useful in awakening attention and im- proving a much neglected and often despised art. Some of the lectures deal with the theory of cook- ing, and reasons are given for doing things, and it is only by connecting the theory with the practice that cookery can be made an educational discipline in girls’ schools. Next to the art of cultivating the earth, cookery opens up a field of national usefulness and importance. A cookery book may give recipes, but it cannot give brains. In every recipe a woman must exercise judgmentvi Preface to Nciv Edition. and taste: it is for her to decide what recipes she can afford. If this book should lead to more economy and better cooking, I shall have accomplished my purpose, and contributed in a humble degree to the happiness of domestic life. I must express my thanks to Lady Dryden for several recipes. St. John’s II:ll, Wandsworth, S.W.BUCKMASTER’S COOKERY. LECTURES. EARLY ENGLISH FOOD AND COOKING. “Whether ye eat or drink, do all to the glory of God.” The history of cooking is the history of our manners and our civilization. The food of monkeys was pro- bably the early food of men. Fruits, seeds, and roots were ground to pieces by the teeth, so that the saliva could act upon them and prepare them for the stomach, where they were raised to the temperature necessary for digestion, and afterwards converted into blood to keep up the temperature and repair the tissues. In imitation of nature, men bruised or ground their food between stones called querns; with a more advanced civilization these stones were moved by natural forces; and with the paste or dough formed by mixing the meal with water they prepared an unleavened cake, which was baked in live ashes or in an oven. This was probably the earliest kind of cooking. The Ancient Britons lived chiefly on coarsely-bruised barley mixed with milk. Sheep were unknown; meat was not much used, and was generally eaten raw. Hares, geese, and fowls were prohibited as food byBuckmaster s Cookery. 8 the Druids. At this early period of our history there was nothing which deserved the name of cooking. With the occupation of the Romans, houses, baths, roads, bridges, and temples were constructed, and for three centuries Britain was the centre of Roman civili- zation and luxury, which, however, left no permanent influence on the domestic life of the country they occu- pied. A Roman banquet was a marvel of gastronomic genius. Lampreys fattened on human flesh, a pig half boiled and half roasted, stuffed with small birds, and so skilfully managed that it was impossible to detect the line which separated the parts, peacocks’ brains simmered in wine, nightingales’ tongues, snail broth, and parrots with onion sauce, were favourite dishes The Greek and Roman soldiers do not appear to have eaten much, if any, meat. The Roman soldier worked harder than the Greek, and his rations were about one pound and a half of bruised barley, and three ounces of linseed or olive oil, and a pint of wine. Cooking in its best sense is not a device to make men eat more than is good for them. This is the abuse of an art which has its origin in the necessities of man. In his lowest civilized condition he must either cook his food or perish; his wants stimulate his faculties—he must do something to live, and iv is this constant conflict with adverse circumstances that develops his intellect and gives him a power over nature. He soon learns that cooking makes his food more palatable and more digestible. With the mission of S. Augustine a great change took place. The art of Agriculture, the earliest of civilized aits, was cultivated with attention. Wheat, barley,Early English Food and Cooking. 9 and rye were sown in .the spring. Ploughs, harrows, rakes, sickles, and flails for thrashing were soon in- vented, and continued in use till within the last half century with little change or improvement. The chief meat of the Anglo-Saxon was pork or bacon, and the swineherd was a necessary servant in every homestead. In autumn he used to drive the pigs into the woods and forests (which were very large and numerous) to fatten on roots, sweet chestnuts, beechnuts, and acorns. Fish, fowls, venison, cabbages, eggs, fresh and salted porpoises were also eaten. The cooking of the Anglo- Saxon was an improvement on that of the Ancient Briton; he had a greater variety of food; and boiling and making broth or soups became a popular kind of cooking, although baking and roasting were also prac- tised. The chief cooking utensil was an earthenware pot or pipkin which would stand the fire, and into this pot were put herbs and such vegetables as they could obtain, with bones and pieces of meat; these were simmered over the ashes of a wood fire, and in this way they prepared a stew or soup analogous to hotchpotch, or the pot au feu of the French. Mud huts, with dirt floors and a fire in the centre, were often the residence of Saxon kings. In the halls of the nobility an oak board was placed on tressels and removed after meals. On great occasions it was covered with a cloth richly embroidered. The chief food of the common people consisted of broth, barley and rye bread, with milk, butter, eggs, and cheese. Green vegetables and beans were also used. The wealthy lived chiefly on wheaten bread, game, eels, fowls, pork, venison; and the servants were calledJO Buckmaster's Cookery. loaf-eaters. Knives were in general use, but forks were unknown. After dinner followed the dessert, which consisted chiefly of wine, hone}'-, and wild fruits. Beer, mead, and mulberry juice flavoured with spices were their principal drinks, although French wines were not unknown. Minstrels entertained the com- pany with vocal and instrumental music. Eating and drinking often degenerated into gluttony and drunken- ness; and the feast not unfrequently terminated in quarrels. The principal meal of the Anglo-Saxon was dinner, and this was at eight o’clock in the morning, and supper at five in the afternoon. In 1109, we find at a banquet given near Bath by one of the nobles, that three sorts of broth, meat roasted and boiled, stur- geon, lobsters, eels, oysters, plaice, and horseflesh were eaten; and the bread was made with rye-meal and barley-meal in the form of cakes marked with a cross, and eaten hot. The poorer classes had abund- ance, but no great variety; and their cooking was chiefly baking in live ashes, stewing, and boiling; but hospitality even among the poorest was taught and inculcated as a Christian virtue. Every stranger or wayfarer who presented himself at the door of an Anglo-Saxon house, was boarded and lodged for two nights without question, except priests, who were only entertained for one night; if they remained for a longer period it was thought they were neglecting their duties. In this rude period of our history the Saxon woman was a noble example of every virtue—a good housewife, and the companion and comforter of her husband and children. Her occupations were spin-ii Early English Food and Cooking. ning, weaving, cooking, baking, brewing, and needle- work ; and her embroidery was known on the conti- nent as “ Fine English work.” During the twelfth and thirteenth centuries the office of cook rose to one of much distinction and import- ance. The old English families of the Cokes or Cooks sprang from professional cooks, and no one need bo ashamed of the names of Butler, Brewer, or Baker, because they have their origin in trade. William the Conqueror bestowed portions of land on his master kitcheners. We find it stated that “ Robert Argyllon holdeth a piece of land in Addington, in Surrey, by the service of making one mess in an earthen pot in the kitchen of our lord the king, on the day of his coronation, which mess is a kind of plum porridge or water gruel, with plums stoned and put into it.” This dish was served up at the royal table by the lord of the manor of Addington at the coronation of George IV., and probably at the coronation of subsequent sovereigns. The kitchens of the aristocracy were generally large, well ventilated, and well furnished with everything necessary for cooking. In a list of the utensils of a bishop’s kitchen at Ely in 1262, we have the following:—“A strong table for chopping and mincing herbs and vegetables ; pots of brass and copper of divers sizes for divers uses; trivets, tripods, an axe for chopping bones; a mortar and pestle, a mover, a pot-slick for stirring, divers crooks and pot- hooks, two large cauldrons, a frying-pan, two sauce- pans, a large dish (pewter), two large platters (pewter), a vessel for mixing sauces, a hand-mill for pepper, and an instrument for reducing bread to crumbs.” The-Biukmasters Cookery. 12 monks of St. Swithin, we find, made a formal com- plaint to the king that the abbot had ordered the withdrawal of three out of the fourteen courses usually served at dinner. Fourteen courses at dinner show a very advanced cooking. The clergy, both regular and secular, kept excellent tables, and were given to hospitality—no one was turned from the door without a meal. A Venetian gentleman who visited England in 1500, says, “The English are great epicures, and by nature very avaricious; they indulge in the most delicate fare themselves, but give their household broth, coarse bread and beer, and cold baked meat, which, however, they allow them in great abundance.” The monks of Canterbury, except on special days and seasons set apart by the church, had seventeen courses daily, besides dessert, dressed with all sorts of flavours and sauces which pleased the taste. The entertain- ments given to the poor by the nobles and prelates at Christmas, Easter, and Whitsuntide, diffused a taste and desire among all classes for good living. It would perhaps be a good thing if the poor and the noble met more frequently at the same table, for men do not proceed from rude habits of life except by con- tact with a higher civilization. The barons imitated what they had seen in the palace, and the yeomen and humbler classes, so far as they were able, imitated the example of the barons. Then, as now, only in a more powerful degree, the aristocracy influenced the life and habits of other classes, but the rapid develop- ment of a moneyocrac.y has broken the chain, and I doubt if the food of the agricultural labourer in Buck- inghamshire is so abundant or so well cooked as itEarly English Food and Cooking. 13 ' was in the reign of Henry VII., when almost every peasant had his pig and cow, with plenty of milk and right of common. Before the Reformation the people of England were celebrated for good living, hospitality, and abundance of food. The roast beef and plum pudding of old England, which are our standard national dishes, are as old as the hills. “For what are your soups and your sauces, Compared to the beef of old England ? And, oh ! the old English roast beef! ” The yeoman and peasant lived on cabbages, fish, cheese, butter, soup, pork, rye bread and milk ; the barons and ecclesiastics on roast beef, venison, game, fish, soups of the most varied kind, and meat bathed in delicious sauces, and wines. Long before France attained any distinction, English cooking was the best cooking in the world. With the Reformation a great change took place. Vegetables, soups, and fish, were regarded as popish food; and the making of soup and the cooking of fish generally fell into disuse and larger quantities of meat occupied their place. We know that “ The monks of Chertsey made good broth * On Fridays when they fasted.” With the breaking up of the monasteries and large establishments, cooks opened inns and hotels and the art of cooking gradually declined ; and in the reign of * There are a large number of recipes for fast-day or vegetable soups in the Liber Cure Cocorum, of about the time of Henry VI.H Buckmastcrs Cookery. James II. it had fallen to its lowest depth. It revived a little in the reigns of Anne and George I. Since that time it has gradually declined, but while the fire still flickers, we hope to enlist, in these efforts to pro- mote good English cookery, the best sympathies of thoughtful women. In the reign of Louis XV. French cooking attained perfection under the cordoji bleus, which was an order of women cooks. But English cooking is capable of a far greater development than French cooking, because we have a greater variety and better food, and we are fortunate in this school in having a greater patron than Louis XV. What is now called cooking in the houses of the humbler middle and working classes, is little better than that of the Ancient Britons. In many of our public restaurants, hotels, and railway stations the greasy messes served up as soups, the stuff called coffee, the oxidised pieces of cold meat under yellow gauze, the pyramids of sausage rolls, the skin and gristle between slices of bread and mustard called sand- wiches, and the wedges of pork pies, are sufficient to indicate the fewness of our resources and the barbar- ous condition into which we have fallen. We hope by this school of cookery to awaken an interest in cooking. We hope to teach you how to make your food wholesome, palatable, and digestible. How much misery, and indigestion, and bad temper, arise from bad cooking ! and I know of no civilized art so well calculated to quicken the best faculties of a woman. Cooking in its perfection is an experimental science, an intellectual exercise of the highest order; and if cooking had ever been studied as a science andEarly English Food and Cooking. 15 practised as an art, if it had ever been taught as a necessary part of a woman’s education, it would never have fallen to its present condition, nor would we have, as is now too often the case, a girl engaged as a plain cook incapable of boiling a potatoe, or toasting a slice of bread. In a disputed will case, one of the witnesses kept saying he knew the testator was a man of sound mind, and that he led a godly and pious life. The judge asked, “ What do you mean by a man leading a godly and pious life ? ” “ Please your lordship, he spent most of his time and money in teaching the poor to make cheap soup.” It would be a good thing if all who lead, or who think they lead a godly and pious life, were able “ both by precept and by example,” to teach the poor how properly to perform the common duties of life. The difference between new bread and stale bread in a family, is one loaf in five. The objects in cooking food are— 1st. To make it softer, so that it may be more easily masti- cated and digested. 2nd. To destroy life-germs, and make it more pleasant to the taste. Warm food is more digestible than cold food. Children and old, feeble persons require warm food more than strong adults, Tea is a most expensive substitute for food. Never take tea without something to eat. Home-made bread keeps fresh longer than bakers’ bread, and is more economical and wholesome. Ten pounds of flour will produce from 13 to 14 lbs of bread. The reprehensible practice of using alum is to enable the flour to absorb more water, and make the bread weigh heavier. Alum deteriorates the bread and injures the stomach.HOUSES OF THE WORKING AND MIDDLE CLASSES. “ Feed me with food convenient for me. “ And I will send grass in thy fields for thy cattle, that thou mavest eat and be fuU. “ Rest yourselves under the tree, and I will fetch bread to com- fort your hearts. ‘ ‘ Blessed be Thou, O God, who bringest bread out of the earth.” —Anglo-Saxon Prayer. “ Fools who sow farthings and hope to reap guineas.” “The greatest good of the greatest number is a measure of Right and Wrong.” It is very important that every family in every condition of life should possess the means of comfort and of health ; a sufficiency of plain wholesome food and neatness of dress ; and the man who has these blessings is not a poor man. There can be no such a thing as contented or happy hunger. A clean com- fortable home, a few wild flowers on the table, and wholesome well-cooked food, are great helps to happi- ness and moral progress. But among a badly fed and badly housed people there will always be a crav- ing for gin and beer and tobacco, and a low condition of morality. A family living in a dismal house, in a wretched alley, upon which the sun never shines — open, perhaps, to the rain and snow—breathing the stinking air of a crowded court or back-yard ; and striving two or three times a-day to satisfy their hunger on unsavoury and badly cooked food. Alas ! the father of such a family, and perhaps the mother,Houses for the Working Classes. I 7 too often find their way to the nearest public-house, and there obtain a temporary forgetfulness of their misery. Beer and tobacco are substituted for whole- some food. I know how difficult it is to cook or do anything with the grates and appliances usually found in the houses of the poor. Their only resources are often a dirty frying-pan and an old saucepan during the week, with sage and onions and the nearest baker’s oven on Sunday. Houses for the working-classes have generally been built by speculating builders, who take land at heavy ground-rents, and crowd together on the smallest area the largest number of houses without much regard either for ventilation or any of the conditions necessary for a healthy home. Houses are generally mortgaged before they are finished, and to meet the interest of borrowed money the builders exact high rents, and if these fail, the speculators pass through the chrysalis condition of bankruptcy, and come out with larger ideas on bricks and mortar. We live in an age of lath and plaster and stucco. Make your houses look grand outside; crowd into every room a family at three shillings a week; try and escape all rates or compound for them at 50 per cent, below persons who pay their own rates ; cover the scamping brick-work with piaster and whitewasn; and sell as quickly as possible to somebody who wants property either for occupation or investment: and this is called an enterprising policy. I cannot find language strong enough to express my contempt for men who try to make 20 per cent, out of dwellings for the labouring classes ; men who have made the outskirts of this18 Buck-master's Cookery. metropolis as ugly as possible; who have chopped clown thousands of trees without ever planting one; who have discovered that trees are unhealthy; who have run up dreary rows of houses with narrow streets, and at every corner planted a beershop, which deve- lops into a public-house • such enterprisers are the enemies of the working classes. No one can ever reproach me with any affection for these men; they are not my affinity ; I have spoken against them over and over again in the vestry, which is often made up of enterprising builders and publicans. I speak strongly because I feel deeply. -I live in a place which was once open and rather pretty, but it has now become a waste howling cvilderness of narrow streets and ugly houses shut out from everything in nature except the sky. With improved dwellings for the working-classes, such as I see on the Shaftesbury estate, I hope we shall have improved arrangements for warming and cooking, with plenty of pure air and water. Science has not yet produced a good economic fireplace suitable for the homes of the working-classes. You do not want a large kitchen or large range ; the French cook in a very small space; but you do want a fireplace which costs more than p. 6d., at which a woman can cook without being suffocated with smoke, or the grate falling into the room. One of the greatest comforts in a house is a sweet well-ventilated and well-lighted kitchen, with a good range and a clean good-tempered cook. Kitchens in large towns are mostly underground, next door to the coal-cellar and even more objectionable places. Kitchens, if possible, should be on the same level with the dining-room and19 Gas Stoves and Kitcheners. well-lighted from the roof, or so lighted that the light falls full on the surface of the saucepans and stewpans. Cooks now have to work half their time by gaslight, which is always a disadvantage; and where the gas is not convenient, a lucifer match or a piece of lighted paper or a candle is used to see how things are pro- gressing ; and the ashes and drops of tallow some- times fall into the saucepan. In the construction of a house architects think too little of the arrangements of the kitchen; but it would be much better if they would occasionally consult the opinion of a cook. In this school most of our cooking has been done by gas; and I am often asked What would you recommend ? It is not my business to recommend anything. Gas Stoves are very cleanly and are always ready for use ; ladies can cook at them without inconvenience ; and when no open fire is required they are a great comfort; they should always be fitted up, however, with a layer of white tiles round the edges. But if a constant fire is required gas becomes costly, especially where it is used for heating a regular supply of water. On the whole, a gas stove is not desirable as the only apparatus for cooking in moderate sized families, but properly managed it is economical. Utensils.—If better articles cost a little more you will be amply repaid in the comfort you have in their use, and with care they may last a lifetime. A lady must be the best judge of what she really requires and what she can afford. If you purchase ever so few things let them be good; there is really no saving, but rather waste, in buying cheap kitchen utensils. Cheap knives made of soft-iron ; a saw made of tin-plate ;20 Buckmasters Cookery. imperfectly tinned or enamelled saucepans; skewers made of soft wire; clocks that won’t keep time; scales which give you no idea of weight; common tin instead of block tin—avoid all such : they have a bad moral influence on the cook, and if the better articles cost a few shillings more, make the sacrifice. I should like to see porcelain saucepans and stewpans more used. When ladies make cooking fashionable we shall have many elegant things introduced; for there is no reason why a saucepan should not be beautiful as well as useful; and working with beautiful things will give us beautiful ideas and associations. We also want some simple contrivance for protecting persons against the heat of the fire. There should always be a good supply of kitchen paper for frying purposes. Lighting a Fire.—Fuel has now become a very expensive article in every household, and the proper management of a fire should be the constant consider- ation of the cook. To light a fire, begin by placing a few cinders at the bottom of the grate, then take some crumpled-up paper, carpenter’s shavings, or light dry brushwood, then a few dry sticks loosely across each other, then some of the largest cinders, then a few pieces of nobbly coal about the size of a tennis ball, and finish with a few pieces nicely placed between the bars. Light the fire in two or three places at the bot- tom with a lucifer or lighted paper. A servant who uses a candle is wasteful and untidy. When the fire is well-lighted place some larger pieces of coal and cinders at the back, and always put on the coal either with your hands, for which you may keep an old glove, or a shovel; never throw them on from the21 How to Light a Fire. scuttle. All the small coal, cinders, and refuse place on the top, and in a few minutes you will have a good fire; and by a good fire is not meant a wasteful and extravagant fire, but one suitable for its purpose. How often are fires allowed to blaze and waste away when there is nothing to cook. A steady uniform fire may by attention be kept up with less fuel than one constantly stirred and going out. Always make the best use of the fire when it is burning; your labour will be lightened by timely forethought. When a family sits round the cottage fire in the evening, why not think about to-morrow’s dinner; the fire which warms you will prepare your food, and this applies especially to soups, broths, and stews ; in the family of a working man these cannot be over-estimated. No fire can burn without a supply of air; if your cinders and coal are closely packed, the fire will neither light easily nor burn freely. The heat of the fire causes a current of air, which mostly passes through the lower part of the fire, and it is for this reason that a fire should always be stirred from the bottom. Remember always (even when you are cooking) to keep your fire- place and every thing about it clean and tidy, and while the fire is burning up and the kettle boiling, you can do many little things about the kitchen. Never be idle, and be not ignorant of anything in a great or small matter. If you want a clear fire for the gridiron place a few cinders at the top, and sprinkle the fire with a little salt. Kitcheners or closed ranges are, perhaps, the most convenient for middle class families, because they are22 Bv.ckmctsters Cookery. adapted to a greater variety of work and are safe against downfalls of soot, and the saucepans and stew- pans are not blackened with smoke. The hot-plate top is a great advantage, but a closed range makes the kitchen very hot, and if anything boils over there is not sufficient ventilation to carry off the smell which finds its way all over the house. Kitcheners are rather complicated in their construction, and there- fore require more care in their management. Some are of opinion that roasting can be done quite as well in the roaster of a kitchener as before an open fire, but I believe in constantly basting roast meat, which can- not be done conveniently in an oven, and what is not easily done is easily neglected.GENERAL INSTRUCTIONS. “ Whatever is worth doing is worth the trouble of doing.” At the head of each recipe, I have mentioned the ingredients ; but I have not thought it desirable to give either the price or the time required for cooking —unless these are given with accuracy they are liable to mislead ; nor have I thought it necessary to give in every recipe such ingredients as bread, water, pepper, salt, flour, sugar, and such things as are to hand in every kitchen. Remember a gill is a quarter of a pint, and before cooking, arrange all your things as nearly as possible in order; no time is lost with this preliminary arrangement, it saves a good many steps ; and as soon as you have finished with an article put it out of your way; this will save overcrowding, or perhaps in the middle of your cooking you will have to leave off to make room for your work. I have already referred to the proper manage- ment of a fire. Wash your hands, clean your nails, and read over slowly and carefully the recipe. No two cooks work exactly to the same recipe, nor is it desirable with persons who think about what they are doing. There are some recipes more difficult than a proposition in Euclid ; and, as a rule, I do not advise the inexperienced resorting to recipes in which theBuckmaster $ Cookery. 24 cook feels doubtful. Rain water is best for all cook- ing purposes—but it will sometimes be necessary t<? filter it. About half a pint of soup may be calculated for each person. Thick glutinous soups and sauces lequire constant stirring, because the heated particles are not so free to move upwards. The scum should be removed before the soup comes to the boil ; thick soups should be more strongly flavoured than thin soups. Always use wooden spoons. A small tcaspoonful of powdered loaf-sugar may be added to all vegetable soups, and green vegetables. Good oil may often be used instead of butter, or with butter, especially with lentils, beans, and peas. In seasoning, be careful with vegetables, herbs and spices remarkable for strong flavours, such as nutmeg, cloves, mace, cayenne, chervil, Tarragon, and garlic. Strain your soups twice if necessary, and avoid as much as possible the use of ground pepper. Salt, when meat is being cooked, is best added towards the end, as its tendency is to harden the meat. Consider whether the things you propose to cook are in season, and readily obtained ; so arrange your work that you have everything ready when it is wanted. Let every- thing be done at its proper time, and nothing wasted; keep everything dry, clean, and in its place; use everything properly. A convenient time should be selected for trying new recipes. Never use soda for cooking purposes. Let us begin with the Pot au Feu, and let me beg of you to spare no time or trouble in preparing this dish. Do it over and over again until you are able to do it from memory as perfectly as pos- sible. It is both an economical and wholesome dish,25 Pot an Feu and Bouilli. and well suited either to a large or small family. Beef broth is the best of broth for all cooking purposes. We commenced in the cookery school with the pot au feu ; it is the standard dish of all classes in France; and is the origin of beef stock. As a rule, you cannot prepare a more wholesome or hearty kind of food than soups and stews; it is the only kind of cook- ing by which you obtain the full value of all your materials, and it is not only the most wholesome, but it is the cheapest and most profitable form by which food can be prepared for working people. What a blessing if the wife of a labouring man knew how to turn little scraps of meat and bones, fish and vegetables into good food by making soups and stews. Persons who cook their food in water do it more economically, and derive from it a greater amount of nourishment than those who employ the direct action of heat, as in baking and roasting. Stewing, which must not be confounded with boiling, affords a greater facility for using up different kinds of animal and vegetable food. Bread is generally the cheapest food. At 1 \d. per lb. it yields 1995 grains of carbon, and 90 grains of nitrogen. Bread made of the whole meal is much richer in phosphates, which are necessary in the formation and repair of the bones. It has been said by a distinguished medical authority, that the early decay of teeth among children often proceeds from eating nothing but white bread. Brown meal is as expensive as fine flour, because brown bread is now a mark of luxury. It is frequently seen in the houses of the rich, but never in the cottages of the poor. Brown bread should be made from the whole meal, and not from hap-hazard mixtures of pollards, sharps, and bran.ON STOCK SOUPS AND POT AU FEU. “Soup makes the soldier.”—Napoleon /. “You cannot feed soldiers on soups made out of nothing.”— Napoleon 111, Soup is generally the first thing served at dinner, and when other dishes are to follow, it should never be of a heavy, satisfying character; a thin soup as clear as sherry to cleanse the palate and promote the flow of the gastric juice is the proper kind of soup to precede other dishes; as a rule, soups are too heavy. But if a soup is to be the only thing, as is frequently the case with the working classes in other countries, it should be of a nourishing character, and when no meat or meat-stock has been used, it may be im- proved with milk or thickened with macaroni, pea meal, Indian meal, pearl barley, or oatmeal, and in this way all the conditions of a cheap wholesome foot! may be prepared. “ The great heroes of antiquity/ says Sir John Sinclair, “lived on broth. The liquor in which mutton or venison was boiled, thickened with oatmeal and flavoured with wild herbs, formed the morning and evening meal in the hall of the Highland Chief.” A soup made without meat or a meat-stock is called vegetable soup or soup maigre; and in oldOn Stock Soups and Pot an Feu. 27 books fast-day soup; it is, however, generally thick- ened and improved by the addition of yolk of egg, cream, tapioca, sago, oatmeal, milk or butter, or some of these either separately or mixed. A meat soup may be regarded as a decoction in water of gelatine, osmazome, and the flavouring of the materials used in its preparation. No house should be without a little stock ; it is the foundation of all meat soups, sauces, and pure'es. It is to a cook what oil is to an oil painter; it is the life and soul of all domestic cooking, and has its origin in the French pot au feu. In preparing a stock the object is to extract from the materials the best broth, and for this purpose we should have a saucepan or stock-pot of tinned iron ; this is the cheapest and best, because it can be easily cleaned, and without a clean stock-pot or saucepan both the flavour and quality of the stock are injured. In France a glazed earthenware pipkin is often used, and there is no reason why something of the kind should not be used in this country. A grey earthenware jar which will stand the fire, with a suit- able lid, is a better looking utensil in a poor man’s house than a saucepan. It can be easily kept clean, and retains the heat longer.THE EDUCATION OF GIRLS. “For the fashion of this world passeth away.” “ What have I learn’d where’er I’ve been ? From all I’ve heard, from all I’ve seen, What know I more that’s worth the knowing? What have I done that’s worth the doing ? What have I sought that I should shun ? What duties have I left undone? Or into what new follies run ?” We live in a time when the atmosphere is clouded and our brains muddled with schemes for the higher education of women, but none of these, so far as I know, recognise the fact that when a woman gets married her whole habit of life and her occupations are changed. She has now to undertake duties and responsibilities of which as a single woman she knew nothing. What is there in the sentimentalism of novels, or the school-teaching of the middle and working classes, to fit them for these duties and responsibilities ? The education of women for the proper work of women is about as bad as it can be; they go to boarding-schools and colleges and learn all about the transit of Venus and the Zanzibar contract, and often get married without knowing how to boil a potato; their whole school life has been absorbed in29 The Education of Girls. showy accomplishments, and they grow up with a contempt for those household duties which have ever been the soul of domestic life. I am told that in some schools ladies have been drilled in curtseying to old velvet breeches and a red coat stuffed with straw ; to step in and out of mock carriages; and to mount wooden horses, without ever having occasion to do any of these things after they leave school. "What a pity these poor creatures are obliged to eat every year nearly half a ton of cooked food to keep them alive. The tyranny of fashion, the hypocrisy of trying to be thought what we are not, has turned many a good cook into a poor dressmaker, or a seller of sandwiches and bitter beer, because our pride attaches a gentility to these occupations. A domestic servant may not know much about spectrum analysis or French, but if she knows how to make good stock and to boil a potato she is an educated woman, and will often command higher wages than a telegraph clerk or a governess, and will make a better wife, because her knowledge will enable her to turn every- thing to the best account. In almost every country in Europe ladies of the middle and upper classes take a pride in cooking and arranging a dinner, and they are certainly never ashamed of doing so, and will some- times voluntarily explain at table the cause of any failure. In several towns in Russia, Germany, France, Switzerland, and Holland there are model kitchens, some of them, I believe, partly supported by the State, where neatness, order, and cleanliness regulate the work; shining metal and clean porcelain sauce- pans ornament the kitchen shelves ; and over a char-3° Biichnaster s Cookery. coal stove in forty minutes a lady will prepare a capital little dinner. Educated cooking is as much a science as chemistry. What you have to think about and understand there is always associated with some- thing which you have to do, and this pleasure of think- ing and doing everyone must be conscious of who has worked out with her own hands the plans which she has thought over and matured in her own mind. This exercise of a woman’s faculties is itself an educa- tion of the highest order, and a woman is never so amiable or beautiful as when she is useful. You must not understand me as speaking against accomplish- ments. I only wish to speak against the superficiality and shams which too frequently pass for education, and which unfit women to be wives and mothers. Imagine my disgust on a recent occasion, when a young lady, fresh from college, was handing round six elegantly bound books which she had obtained as prizes at a recent examination. A soft young man, who I subsequently heard was a clerk in the city on 120 a year, was paying his addresses to this young lady. The conversation was rather slow and vapid, as it often is under such circumstances. At last something was said about servants; and now the conversation brightened : the young man innocently asked the lady with six prizes how long it took to poach an egg, and putting on a rather stupid expression she replied, “ Really I don’t know, I was never allowed out after dark, and I never poached an egg in my life. Me, dear, how many hours does it take to do an egg?” Whether this ignorance was affected or real it was sufficient to show the tendencyThe Education of Girls. 31 of her mind. The young man would have acted sensibly if he had taken a'speedy farewell. For what hope could there be for a man with an income of E120 a year united to a woman who did not know how to poach an egg. It is to my mind of the first importance that eveiy woman who is to have the care and direction of a household, whether small or large, and the expenditure of her husband’s money, should understand how best to lay out his money on what is wholesome and nourishing; she should also know something of the relative value of the materials com- monly used as food, and the principles upon which that food can be most economically cooked. If the in- come is small your knowledge will make your money go as far again in the purchase of food, for after all, feeding a family is not so much a matter of money as it is of knowledge. Poverty is more frequently the result of ignorance and idleness than want of money; if on the other hand you have abundance, remember your duties and responsibilities are greater and your example more powerful. It is our duty to give our daughters the highest culture and accomplishment which educa- tion can confer; but in their desire for the last new fashion in bonnets and dogs, remember that no woman is less accomplished, or refined, or beautiful, because she knows something about household duties, and can, if necessary, cook her husband’s dinner better than nine-tenths of the plain cooks. I regard every lady ignorant of these matters as a lady of neglected education. Her future must be doubtful; there is hope for every young lady that can cook, but there is no hope for the lady that despises cooking. We have3 2 Buckmaster s Cookery. nearly a million of single women over twenty years of age, and most of them expect or hope to bG married, but scarcely one out of five hundred would know how to make a basin of mutton-broth. Need you wonder at thoughtful young men keeping single, or married men dining at restaurants and clubs. There was a time in our history when ladies of rank used to wear white muslin aprons and spend one or two hours every morning in the kitchen, and with their own hands prepare the lighter things required for dinner; but cooks now dispute the right of the mistress to enter the kitchen. If, on the same principle, land- owners were not permitted to walk on their land, or masters to enter their workshops, society would be in a state of anarchy, and all responsibility, which is the first element of good government, would be at an end. Mistresses are at the mercy of their cooks, and for the sake of peace many ladies never enter their kitchens. How often has a lady to submit to all sorts of petty annoyances for the sake of a decently cooked dinner. In three months a lady of intelligence would know how to cook a dinner better than half the cooks. Mistresses ought to be what they once were, the superiors and teachers of their servants. Our indifference and igno- rance of these matters is a national misfortune. We have the best and greatest variety of food the world can produce. Thousands of ships bring to our shore corn, wine, fruits, and spices, and in our ingratitude and ignorance the half is wasted. The young ladies of our time seem to have lost the idea of enjoying the simple inexpensive pleasures of their grandmothers : and unless they breathe the atmosphere of continual33 The Education of Gilds. excitement they are miserable. Gorgeous carriages, costly jewellery, balls and parties in the dead of night, the wearisomeness of dress, the struggle for appear- ances, the endless anxiety and labour to no purpose, are not enjoyments which any one is the better or happier for cultivating. Men are fortunately not possessed with this devil to the same extent; it is chiefly in the heart of a woman that the pomps and vanities of this world find a ready welcome. No one who has seen fifty years but must be sensible of the gradual demoralization of the wealthy middle classes and of their contempt for everything like household work. It is difficult to suggest a remedy. The denunciations of the pulpit, the satire of the press, are all unavailing ; but I look chiefly to sensible, thought- ful women, whose rank and position in society entitle them to consideration and respect, for a remedy to these evils. I ask these ladies to stamp our efforts with their approval; I ask them to take a personal interest in the practical work of cooking. Our attention is daily called to the great mission of woman, to the injustice which excludes her from her rights; but the household mission, which ought to be the highest mission, is rarely mentioned. When the wife of every man, rich and poor, has been taught to cook, to make the best of the food which God has provided; when the dirty courts and yards of our large towns have been cleansed and purified; when the bed of the sick and the suffering has been smoothed ; when the orphan and widow have been comforted, and our streets cleared of temptations to sin, the women engaged in such a work will deserve our purest love c3+ Buckmastcr s Cookery. and respect rather than the speechifiers on the in- tellectual equality and rights of woman. Do not interpret these remarks as favourable to any social or political degradation of woman. There are some duties inseparable from a woman—they have their origin in the fact of her being a woman which nothing can alter; and by the faithful performance of these duties she inherits her rights and responsibilities, and fulfils in the highest degree the mission assigned to her by God. Every girls’ school should have a properly arranged kitchen, not one where the cooking is done by steam and complicated arrangements, but one that contains an ordinary fireplace, with the pots and pans usually found in the houses of the working classes, so that dinners could be provided daily for some of the chil- dren. In large towns pupil teachers and the more advanced girls should be instructed at convenient centres. School Boards have the power of introduc- ing this instruction into their girls’ schools. But how is this knowledge to be introduced into ladies’ schools ? As far as my experience goes old maids are not the best persons to keep ladies’ schools; disappointed perhaps in early life they grow cold, rigid, formal, and often unfeeling. The natural joyousness of youth, the hearty merry laugh, is at once put down as rude and vulgar. I knew a school from which a young lady was expelled for jumping over a stile. The mention of such things as saucepans and gridirons would no doubt have been considered as a gross breach of etiquette. Some arrangement might be made in ladies’ schools for one or two to take part every dayThe Education of Girls. Ob * £ in the work of the kitchen under an educated cook, who ought to rank as one of the teachers; she might occasionally give lessons on the chemistry and physio- logy of food; and in this and other ways much useful knowledge might be communicated at school. I shall be met with the oft-repeated objection that there is no time for these things; but how many dreary hours are occupied over the piano, how large a portion of time is swallowed up with this accomplishment; and, when we consider its practical value on the after- life of a girl, is it worth the time and money bestowed upon it? I do not say you are not to learn the piano, but what I do say is, that your whole force of thought is not to be exhausted on it. It would not take a tithe of the time to learn how to make a fricassee of chicken or to fry a pair of soles in hot fat, as it does to learn a sonata which may be easily forgotten; cookery once learnt is never forgotten. Now that public attention has been called to the subject, mothers perhaps will take more personal in- terest in the domestic education of their daughters ; for it is chiefly in their own homes that this education must be encouraged and enforced. Making pastry, preserving fruit, pickling, making ketcup, cultivating, gathering, drying, and compounding herbs, are elegant, healthful occupations. After leaving school the life of many young ladies becomes most aimless and vapid, without any useful occupation or purpose; valuable hours are wasted on dress, and when the chance of marriage is over, no condition is more hopeless or helpless than that of a well-educated, dependant lady, Better take to hospitals and workhouses and orphanages.BiLckmaster s Cookery. and bestow on the sick and the suffering a little of that love which, from the want of some higher motive, is often bestowed on cats and dogs. Young ladies are often taken from homes where they have enjoyed every luxury and have had servants to wait on them. They marry and go perhaps to distant settlements where no amount of money can secure a female servant. A lady who had been stationed for some years in one of our colonies was obliged to do all the work of the house herself. With her baby tied on her back, she used to make the beds, cook the dinner, and for live years lived without a servant: and her husband said it was the happiest period of his life. “ My mother ” (said the lady) “ was a sensible woman. After I left school she sent me to finish in the kitchen; and, under the direction of the cook, the meat, fish, vege< tables, and poultry were brought in; and my mother insisted that I should do everything from beginning to end; and in a few months I was able to prepare a dinner from first to last.” On one occasion they had twelve persons in the house as visitors ; the cook met with an accident (they were some distance from any town), and this young lady undertook the preparation of the dinner. When the first bell rang she went up to dress, and in half an hour sat down to the dinner which her own head and hands had prepared. This lady belonged to one of the oldest aristocratic families in this country, and I have her permission to mention the circumstance. Now, I ask which is the greater lady, the one who easily adapts herself 'to altered cir- cumstances and can, when necessary, in a spirit of generous independence and cheerfulness, cook her37 The Education of Girls. husband’s dinner, or the woman who speechifies about her rights and has never learnt to boil a potato or to dress a baby. In the arrangements of society and in the designs of Providence certain domestic duties have always been assigned to women, and these duties ought never to be forgotten or despised. But human nature is full of imperfections and weaknesses which often make a large demand on our charity and forbearance. All accomplishments are useless to a woman if she has not learnt to look well to the ways of her own household, if her servants are not under respectful authority, and if her table be badly provided and decorated, she will be wanting in all those valuable qualities which once made English women distin- guished above the women of every other country ; and until they have learned and practised the duties and refinements of domestic life, have taught their young daughters howto cook economically and to dress neatly, how to be noble and happy, we have certainly not much to say to heathens and Hottentots. In this metropolis there are thousands of noble women—ladies in the highest and best sense—en- deavouring to do good among the poor, some of whom have given up all worldly indulgences and hopes for the benefit of others. I have seen them, on a cold winter’s day, collecting scraps of cast-off vege- tables at Covent Garden, amid the jeers and scoffs of vulgar well-dressed people. With these vegetables, and a few bones, often begged from houses, savoury and wholesome food has been prepared from materials which would otherwise have been trodden under foot. In dealing with suffering and poverty it is sometimes38 BucJcmaster s Cookery. difficult to do good without necessarily being the cause of evil: “ Blessed is he that feedeth the poor,” but still more blessed is he who teaches the poor to feed themselves. If those who are brought into fre- quent contact with the poor were able to give them some practical instruction in cooking, such instruction would not be without its influence for higher and better purposes. I know how feeble words of mine are to alter the habits and prejudices of society, or promote any united action for good among those who are separated by theological and political differences. To work, to hope, to love, and to pray, these are the things that make men happy. They have always had the power of doing this, and will have the power to the end of time, and whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with all thy might. The proper management of a household has always had a close fellowship with the best of virtues. The boiling of a potato may be dignified by the intelli- gence and the motive which inspire the doing of it, and there is no duty imposed on us so menial but may be done to a high purpose, and therefore en- nobled by doing it. The rich should not suffer the waste of their property while there are poor in want of food, and while they know not but that they or their families may one day want it themselves. Order and regularity, punctuality and cleanliness, are abso- lutely necessary in the management of a family. In no portion of domestic occupations are they more necessary than in the preparation of the daily meal of a household. The combination of these qualities in practice constitutes good management.MISTRESSES AND SERVANTS. “ Be ye kind one to another.” ‘ ‘ He that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster. ” The false notions which have grown up about domestic work are at the bottom of much of our social discomfort. I have often insisted on the dig- nity of all labour, and nothing but ignorance would ever make a woman ashamed of being known to work. There is a perennial blessedness in the faithful per- formance of household duties. Do you suppose that any man thinks less of his wife because she is always watching the ways of her own household? There is no necessity to put yourselves on terms of sisterly equality with cooks, but a more frequent friendly intercourse between mistresses and servants would help to a better mutual understanding. A good servant is a household blessing; on her temper depends your temper; if a cook, she is the guardian of your health, as well as your temper, but a cook who cannot cook, who does not know or care to know, who has no love either for the family or cook- ing, who will not learn to make the best of everything, is a destroyer of your peace, a waster of your sub-4° Buckmasters Cookery. stance, and the sooner you clear the house of such a person, and do the work yourself, the better. I have seen at morning prayers servants and mistresses with sulky tempers ; now the religion of life has to do with the common duties of life; it is the habit of thinking and doing good all the day long, and of being cheer- ful and good-natured to those who serve us; and if kindness on the part of a mistress fails to obtain kindness in return, the sooner you part the better. But ask yourself, has there been anything in my conduct, or wishes, or language, or treatment towards my servants unkind or unreasonable ? Ingratitude and wickedness are to be found in every class. Mistresses are no better than servants, only as they have had better opportunities, and a better education. I have often spoken against perquisites. No inven- tion of the devil has been a more fruitful source of dishonesty and waste among servants. The per- centage of the tradesman, the sale of kitchen grease, which is often good dripping, the skinunings of sauce- pans, and fat meat most useful in the kitchen, ought to be discountenanced in every household. To sell fat at fourpence per pound and purchase lard at elevenpence; to purchase egg powders and charge for eggs, is simply dishonest. Better give your cooks two or three pounds a year more, and encourage them to make the best of everything, than allow perquisites. Well may Mrs. Brown believe that the race of honest servants, like the Trilobite, is an extinct species. The maid of all work is a maid of no work; the cook is dirty, extravagant, impudent and bad-tempered, the4i Mistresses and Servants. housemaid is an untidy slattern, and the lady’s maid a proud time-serving minx. If a mistress when en- gaging a servant knew how to perform the various duties of a house herself, she would not have so much difficulty in obtaining a good servant, and the only way to know these duties is to learn them before you are married, or it will be a sorry business. The physical exertion would be healthful; the scrubbing of a room with the windows open, the use of a pestle and mortar, the wringing of a blanket, the sweeping of a carpet, and the making of bread, are better and safer calisthenic exercises for young ladies than lawn tennis. The physical effort necessary in the performance of house duties would be far more beneficial to health than either tatting or wool work. You must not understand by these remarks that I am speaking against accomplishments in a lady ; but of what value are these accomplishments unless they teach the responsibilities and duties of domestic life. A knowledge of cooking may go, and has often gone, with the highest culture, and most delicate refine- ment. The best educated and accomplished ladies at the cookery school are the best cooks; they can light a fire or prepare a dinner that would do no dis- credit to a professional cook. I wish this habit was more fashionable among the middle classes. But some women often think it genteel to affect the most oblivious ignorance of household work ; can you wonder at servants taking advantage of this ignorance, and speaking despisingly of their mistresses. Now the true remedy for this state of things is the early training of girls in the practical performance of4 2 Buckmaster's Cookery. household work ; and the chief duty of every house- hold, around which all other duties crystallize is cooking. I sometimes wonder how many of the young ladies one meets at places of public amusement are able to undertake the duties of managing a house, and yet I have read somewhere that every lady hopes before she is thirty to undertake these duties. I sometimes hear them not only acknowledge their ignorance of all household work, but make a boast of it, as if nothing would so debase them in the estimation of their ac- quaintances, as their ability to make a loaf of bread or to prepare their husband’s dinner. White hands, pretty faces, large chignons, curiously cut bunches, high-heeled boots, vulgar hats, and an artless ignorance of the practical work of a house, may appear to the poor deluded soul of a young man rather interesting, but, alas for the man who marries such a woman, un- less he also marries the Bank of England ! He soon learns that this world is made up of hard rugged facts and experiences, and that the most romantic of persons must have something to eat. To sit and look at a doll will not satisfy an empty stomach, or make the pot boil, or put anything into it. Young ladies are not entirely to blame; their mothers have often en- couraged their ignorance of domestic management, but happy beyond description is the young woman, whatever her rank or station in life, who has been early taught the blessedness of household work. If mistresses were better taught, there would be no diffi- culty with servants, but it is hopeless to expect better instructed servants, or better behaved servants, untilMistresses and Servants. 43 we have better instructed mistresses; and in dealing and speaking with servants, remember that of one flesh and of one blood He hath made all nations. You must not interpret what I am now about to say as unfavourable to orphan schools and benevolent asylums for girls. It is the practice of these institu- tions to send girls at sixteen or seventeen into domes- tic service. Their first situation is often a place where the mistress would be all the better and healthier for doing the work herself, and whose cir- cumstances do not admit of her acting justly towards a servant, even in the matter of food. The first situation often disgusts a girl with service, and she prefers the slavery of the needle and the factory, and the freedom of the street. In large establishments everything is done by machinery. Hot and cold water, coals, cleaning, washing, drying, and even scrubbing and sweeping, are done by steam; potatoes are washed, and food is cooked, not in pounds, but tons. You might as reasonably expect a man to learn farming in a hot-house, as to obtain good domestic servants (except by accident) from large charitable establishments. The whole economy of these places is unfavourable to domestic service; a servant of all work generally begins life by wheeling a perambulator and reading a penny novel. There ought to be open spaces with flowers and trees for the exercise and recreation of children in large towns. Everything about the girl is wretched, depressing and uncomfortable, and in a month she makes a change, till at last, if she fall no lower, she often becomes, perhaps - the wife of a soldier or a labourer, and the one room,44 Buckmaster s Cookery. called a home, gradually sinks into a den of filth and misery. This is a poor preparation for girls who become wives and mothers. Butterflies before marriage and grubs after. But domestic service was once the highest ambition of girls, and would be again if mistresses would only act kindly towards servants, and do a little to make them happy and hopeful. Among the earliest things I can remember, were two clean, healthy looking young women, with strong boots and straw bonnets of their own plait, calling one evening to thank my grandmother for some kindness before they left home for service. They were the daughters of a small farmer. They each had a piece of cake and a mug of mead. I recollect the waggon waiting at the end of the village, and most of the neighbours had turned out to wish them good luck and good bye. They sat behind on their little wooden boxes (made by the village wheelwright), which they opened to show my grandmother : on the top of each box was a bunch of lavender. The waggon, with six horses, laden with butter and pork and eggs, started on its journey, and my grandmother and I walked across the fields to meeting. I was a little boy without a mother. It was a lovely evening : the sun went down in a sea of gold and seemed to rise again. At meeting there were only about five or six persons. We sat quietly for some time, as was the custom, and often separated without a word ; but this evening my grandmother, who was not a minister, prayed fervently that God would be a perpetual shield and protection to these two girls, who were not of her way of thinking on religious matters. Compare this with two sistersMistresses and Servants, 45 leaving Whitechapel or Lambeth or an orphan asylum as general servant in London. Domestic servants were once taken from a very different class of society. Farmers and small trades- people used to train their daughters with a view to service, but servants were then treated more as equals and as part of the family, often taking their meals at the same table. Now they are frequently taken from the least educated class of society, and there are some who think the remedy is to be found in no education. It is in these times something for a poor girl to have a cheerful fire, a comfortable bed, a clean hearth-stone, plenty of food and decent clothing; and these, I should hope, are secured to domestic servants in most houses. In return for these, the mistress has a right to faithful service, obedience, carefulness, cleanliness, order, and a kindly interest in the welfare and happi- ness of the family; although a servant, there is nothing to prevent her feeling that she is one of the family. It was this feeling which kept girls in their first situa- tions till they either married, or died old servants in the service which they entered as young women. It is sometimes said, that this cannot be done in small houses where only one or two servants are kept ; but I know from experience that it is just as easy to keep servants for years in small houses as in large. I have been married thirty-three years, and I have never kept but one servant, and have never had but five and three of them left to be married, and I believe the offer of double the wages would never have induced one of them worth keeping to leave. The great secret is to treat servants kindly, to take an interest in them, and in46 Bucknicister s Cookery. most instances kindness begets kindness. I seldom allow a week to pass when I am at home without asking the servant a few friendly questions about he/ family. I wish her to feel that we have an interest in her and all that belongs to her, and this is much better than sneers and faultfinding. If you find your efforts to engage the love of your servants of no avail, then you must separate. Never keep a servant who feels no interest in the family, or who would not rise in the middle of the night to serve you, or who per- forms her daily work without a smile. I like to hear a girl sing over her work ; it shows she is happy. In dress, which is a constant source of complaint and trouble in many families, let mistresses set an example of neatness and good taste. The vulgarity of rich people is, for the most part, far worse in its in- fluence on society than the vulgarity of poor people. Nothing conveys a better idea of a womans culture, whether a servant or a mistress, than what is called good taste in dress. “ Neat, trim, and tidy, there she stood. No finery of dress, But simple, modest, woman-like, And pretty not the less. “ No hoop to swing and knock about, The firm and well-starched skirt Sits well, and just was short enough To clear the dust and dirt. <c And round her pleasant, cheerful face No vulgar colours shone; The neat white frill and well-brushed hair Had beauty of its own.”47 Mistresses and Servants. If there is any tendency to vulgarity in the style or colour of the mistress’s dress or bonnet, any large display of electro-plated jewellery, these will be exag- gerated by less educated persons. Teach your servants good taste in dress, not by tracts, and sermons, and ill-natured words, but the more powerful example of a meek and quiet spirit; and a mistress ought to feel rather complimented than angry when her example is followed by others. The love of ornament is no doubt instinctive in a woman, and those who have had a better education should guide and direct it among those who have not had the same opportunities. If your servant wants a brooch and deserves one, give her one on her birthday. A clean, neatly dressed, cheerful servant, is a perpetual charm in every house- hold. The only certain method of making good servants, is to make those dependent on you respect and love you. They cannot be made by fear to fulfil your wishes, but love and respect will command anything. The subject may appear too homely and common-place to require consideration; it is however, in the present day, one of importance. We are all in some sense servants one of another; the rich are as dependent on the poor as the poor are on the rich. There is a mutual servitude and a mutual obligation in every condition of life, and there is no sense in assuming high looks, and thinking and acting otherwise. The best servants are those who are best served ; and the goodwill and kindness which we show to others are by them ac- corded to us; for it is a sin to suppose that domestic servants are by nature worse than their mistresses.4-8 Buckmaster*'s Cookery. We cannot have a better example of what our be- haviour towards servants should be than that afforded by Boaz in his language to his reapers, when he came into the harvest field where Ruth the Moabitess was gleaning. Ruth, as we may all remember, was a young widow, living with her mother-in-law Naomi These two came down to Bethlehem in the time of barley harvest, and Ruth went to glean in the field which belonged to Boaz. Instead of flying into a passion and uttering oaths, or indulging in coarse jokes to those working and gleaning, the address of Boaz to his servants was, “ The Lord be with you ! ” and they answered him, •“ The Lord bless thee.” The blessing of God is generally seen to rest on those who are diligent, thrifty, and frugal; we are quite sure it never rests on indolence and extravagance. “ Waste a crumb, and you are likely to want a loaf. Squander a penny, and you are likely to want a pound.” “Waste not, want not.” “ Wilful waste makes woful want.” The habits which are acquired when we are young are most difficult to be eradicated, even though we may have a sincere desire of exchanging them for better. Order, neatness, and -cleanliness should then be practised by the mother of a family, if it were for no other reason than by example to form her 'children to habits which will be essentially useful to them in after-life. The mother, by enforcing on her daughters the necessity of industrious regularity, endows them with a property which will prove most valuable to 'them in their future destina- tion. The woman whose time is her capital, and who does not waste it by negligence, forgetfulness, or irregularity in her work, mav be considered to be twice as rich as she who has to ran for everything, and look for everything, just at the moment it is required. If engaged as a household servant, how much is her value enhanced by habits which gain her the esteem and good- will of her employers, and by which she makes friends through life!ON THE FUNCTION OF FOOD.—FEEDING CHILDREN. :c Blood is the life and strength of all flesh.” “ When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the Lord thy God.” The body is repaired and maintained from day to day by food, and by food we mean that kind of ali- ment, no matter by what name it may be called, which, by digestion, is converted into healthy blood, and capable of producing the most perfect physical power. In adult life, where the waste and gain are equal, the body remains at the same weight,—and this is the condition of health. In childhood and youth the supply must be in excess of the waste, because you have to build up the future man, and the body daily increases in weight. This is a period of the greatest importance as regards proper food. The growth of the whole body is the growth of its several parts, and from the food the materials are furnished out of which each part is formed. The body must be daily supplied with such substances as may be changed into tissue like that which it has to repair, because the stomach has no power to create anything or to change one kind of food into another kind. In old age the waste increases on the supply, and the50 Buckmctstei's Cookery. body slowly falls into decay. The particles of the tissues change more rapidly in youth, and this pro- bably explains why young meat is more tender than old, and why any excess in youth is more easily cast off. The principal daily requirements of the body are the repair of tissue and the maintenance of tempera- ture. Every vital action produces heat, and these actions must continue throughout life. Where the food is insufficient, and where there has been no storing of fat or nitrogen, the body falls into weakness and disease, and this is the natural tendency of all underfed or improperly-fed people; and with persons imperfectly nourished there is generally a low state of morality. Half the applications for hospitals and dispensaries come from persons who want food, and one cannot fail to be struck with the pale attenu- ated appearance of labourers who are undersized, twisted, and doubled up, and worn out before persons well fed and in comfortable circumstances begin to feel the influence of years. In all our large towns the same thing is observable. The declining physical power of the labouring poor is a matter of regret, and as a natural result opium eating, smoking, and drink- ing are, in many localities, on the increase. Pure air, physical exercise, temperance, and a sufficiency of plain wholesome food are the conditions of health and happiness laid down by a higher authority than a parish vestry. The best offering you can make the poor is to instruct them in the art of cooking, and teach them what constitutes food : and the most fitting memorial of God’s goodness is the provident and careful use of the blessings which He has provided.5i The Function of Food. It is very important that every poor woman should know how to spend her money on what is really worth the money, and to make what she purchases go as far as possible by good cooking. I want them to know that from vegetables alone a wholesome, economic, and nourishing diet may often be prepared, and that flesh meat is greatly overrated as food. Why are haricot beans, peas, lentils, oatmeal, macaroni, Indian meal, milk, and rice, not more used ? It is because people are ignorant of the value of these foods, and the art of making them savoury by cooking has yet to be learnt. As a rule, children, not only of the poorer classes, but of the middle classes, are often underfed, and many of their ailments arise from a debility of constitution brought about by under or improper feeding; and to give strength, quinine, cod-liver oil, port wine, and stimulants are given instead of good food. The diet of children should be three good meals a day; a breakfast, with cocoa, milk, macaroni, porridge, or eggs; a dinner of meat, vegetables, and pudding; a substantial supper, like the breakfast, with cocoa or milk. This is the dietary of health, a diet capable, with pure air and exercise, of making a strong body and a strong mind, and a diet which will often improve weakly children and protect them against many diseases. There is no period of life when more food is required than in childhood and youth. The hard- working labourer does not exhaust a greater quantity of nutritious food than a strong, healthy, growing boy or girl of twelve years of age. And up to that age they should have the same education.52 Buckmctster's Cookery. If it be admitted that from the food the body is continually built up and kept in health, how can it be expected if the food be insufficient, or, from its nature, incapable of making healthy blood, that we can have anything but a weak race of men and women always complaining of ill-health ? The stomach has often to work and waste its power on a mass of useless material. Masters of schools and parents should not measure the appetites of children by their own wants. A morbid condition of the skin, ringworm, and debility of constitution in children are often traceable to imper- fect nourishment Where there is an insufficiency of food, or, what is the same thing, improper food, the vital functions go on and the body lives on itself; and this explains in some degree the frequent occurrence of consumption in rapidly growing and ill-fed youths. The intellectual culture and progress of a boy depend very much on physical power. In looking over the advertisements of boarding schools, it is a matter of regret that a plain substantial diet is not always recog- nised. I do not undervalue the importance of light, cleanliness, physical exercise, temperance, and pure air and good water ; but all these are unavailing with- out abundance of wholesome, well-cooked food. As this question is very important, parents should be as particular about the food as they are about the education of their children. Insufficiency of food has given rise to an impression that children are over-worked. Cases of over-pressure in schools may generally be traced to hunger and hereditary weak- ness.HASHES AND STEWS. “ Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith. ” Hashed mutton it is said drive men to dine at clubs and restaurants. It is the horror of most husbands, but this arises from its not being properly prepared. The first thing required is tender meat; if the leg or shoulder of mutton be tough the hash will be tough ; but good tender mutton, with every piece which has seen the fire, carefully removed, and if the hash be properly prepared, it may be made a palatable, inviting dish. Cold mutton, with a few sprigs of parsley and mashed potatoes and pickles, is considered by most men a sufficient reason for not coming home to dinner; but what is good enough for the wife and children, ought to be good enough for the husband. I quite admit that the greasy messes called hashes are not very inviting to a man after a hard day’s work; but there ought to be no such thing as greasy messes, nor any place where a man can obtain a better, cheaper, or happier dinner than with his wife and children. The family dinner should be the daily humanizing influence of every household. There is a freedom which never obtains at any other54 Buckincister s Cookery. time, and you get at the inner life and thoughts of your children. Sir Thomas Lawrence used to invite his sitters to dinner that he might better understand the natural expression of their characters. It should be the study of the wife to make the plainest food varied and attractive by cooking, and she has a right to expect in return love from her husband and children, and a kindly interest in all the affairs of the family. STEWS. • Stewing is the basis of what is called made dishes. The roughest and coarsest parts of meat may be made tender by stewing. It is the kind of cooking I would especially recommend to the wives of working men in preference to frying. The perfection of stewing de- pends upon the slow process by which the cooking is accomplished; the temperature should never exceed i8o°. We often fail because we are in too great a hurry; but a stew, like everything else, suffers from being over-done. No rule can be given; everything depends upon the intelligence and judgment of the cook. The lid should be removed as little as possible. An occasional shaking of the stewpan will often save the trouble of stirring. Stewing is the most economical kind of cooking; the flavour and nourish- ment of all the materials are secured; and if the dish be not greasy and highly seasoned, the meat is made tender, savoury, and easy of digestion.FRYING. “Fish must swim twice—once in the water and once in the fat.” “Fried sole.;—you know, served with little kickshaws.” / There are two methods of frying : the dry method, as when we fry an omelette or a pancake ; and the wet method, as when the thing fried is immersed in fat. For dry frying we generally use a frying-pan; for wet frying a frying-kettle. As a bath for frying purposes we generally use fat. The light-coloured dripping of roast beef and the fat skimmed off broth are to be preferred. The next best fat for frying is beef suet, chopped fine and melted down over a slow fire without browning. Lard is the fat generally used for frying; but it is liable to leave an unpleasant flavour. When you can see the bottom of the stewpan through the liquid fat it is sufficiently melted. Let it cool for a few minutes, and strained through a pointed strainer. The reason for allowing the fat to cool a little is to prevent its melting the strainer. When butter is used greater care is required, because it rises rapidly in temperature and requires a slow fire. Oil requires even more care: it should be warmed for half an hour over a slow fire so as to prevent any rapid rise in temperature, and boiling over.56 Buckmaster1s Cookery. The usual method of frying is the most wasteful kind of cooking, although in most houses it is believed to be economical. A little fat or butter is melted in a frying-pan, and when the frying is finished the fat is so discoloured and burnt as to be of no further use. It is not possible to fiy a moderate sized pair of soles in less than a quarter of a pound of fat. In eight fryings you have used two pounds of fat. Now if you had taken two pounds of fat at first, and slowly melted it in a clean saucepan or stewpan till the fat had risen to the proper temperature you might have fried much better, and your fish would have been of the same colour on both sides, and the fat could have been used for ten or a dozen pair of soles instead of eight. The most economical way of frying is to have plenty of fat, and the quantity can be kept up by daily addi- tions from saucepans, dripping-pans, and fat meats. All kinds of fat, except bacon fat, may be used for frying until it becomes of a dark brown colour ; it must then be clarified by melting with water, or strained into hot water, when all the impurities fall to the bottom, and the fat, when cold, can be removed in a solid state. When the fat has become nearly black from use it has decomposed and lost its frying pro- perties, and will give a bad colour and taste to every- thing fried in it. Different liquids come to a boiling temperature at different degrees of heat. Water boils at 2120, and all the coal in the cellar will never enable you to obtain a higher temperature. Fats and oils require a much higher temperature, from 500° to 650°, before they come to the boiling point, and this is why fat isFrying. 57 used instead of water. If we could obtain the same temperature with water as with fats and oils we could fry as well, or better, in water, because everything fried would be free from any greasy taste. What takes place when a drop of water or sprig of parsley falls into hot fat ? If the temperature of the fat is not more than 212° no visible effect takes place, but if the temperature be above 2120 the water is con- verted into steam and explodes. The higher the temperature the more violent and rapid the explosion; and if any considerable quantity of water were thrown into hot fat it would be dangerous, because the fat would be thrown all over the kitchen. . From several experiments made in the Cookery School I am en- abled to give the following temperatures (Fahrenheit) for frying:— Soles . . . . . 380° Rissoles . • 385° Croquettes . - • 385° Cutlets • 3S5° Fritters • - • • 385° Potato chips •' 385° Whitebait 400° When anything is egged and bread-crumbed and fried in hot fat, the thing fried is not in contact with the fat, because the albumen is at once solidified, and forms a covering through which the fat never pene- trates. The temperature of the fat slightly varies according to the nature of the things fried, and as we use a thermometer to determine the temperature of ourBuckmasier's Cookery. 58 rooms, so we ought to use a thermometer much more in cooking. We can never raise cooking to a science until we have more exact language and methods. Too high a temperature must in all cases be avoided, and this temperature is indicated by the smoke rising from the kettle. The different degrees of heat are generally determined by throwing into the fat a small sprig of parsley, or a drop or two of water, or a piece of bread the size of a small nut; if ebullition is produced at once, and large bubbles rise to the surface, the fat has reached a temperature known in the kitchen as hot fat. For warm fat the bread should only give rise to small bubbles with scarcely any fizzing. If too many things are put into the frying-basket they will be badly fried, because the temperature of the fat will fall below the point necessary for proper frying. The most successful frying is when the tem- perature rises four or five degrees during the frying. Fried things should be of a golden-brown colour, crisp, and free from fat. The surface fat is removed by placing the things fried on kitchen paper as they are taken from the kettle. Use your fat first for frying delicate things such as rissoles, fritters, croquettes, and vegetables, and never fry anything but fish in fat after it has been once used for fish. Fresh fat must now be taken for rissoles, and used up for fish. This involves two lots of frying-fat, which is the most economical plan to adopt. The fat when not in use should be kept in clean glazed earthenware jars or white basins. If we had a thermometer protected by a cage or basket, and the words Rissoles, Croquettes, and so on,Frying. 59 legibly printed on the side opposite the temperature, and if the mercury never varied more than five degrees from these points, a child could fry perfectly in hot fat. If the quantity or nature of the things in the frying-basket lower the temperature too rapidly, “ remove the basket for a time and let the fat recover its temperature. It will always fall a little as soon as you begin to fry, especially with potato chips and all watery substances. As frying properly in fat is of much importance, and of constant use, no pains should be spared in thoroughly understanding it. If you attempt to fry at too low a temperature, or allow the temperature to fall more than five degrees, the things are not fried but soaked and soddened and of a dirty white colour. If the temperature is too high, then the thing is charred, burnt, and blackened, but not fried. We have at our command the power of frying in fat with all the exactness of a scientific experiment. Sprigs of parsley and drops of water will never give you exactness—the most experienced cook cannot tell within io or 15 degrees by any of these methods ; and guessing should never be substituted for certainty. A difference of 10 degrees is often sufficient to spoil the frying. Let me impress on you the necessity of learning to fry properly. Fish require greater care than meat: their flesh is much softer and more liable to break. They should be thoroughly dried between the folds of a clean cloth sprinkled with a little flour. With care you may fry pretty well without egging and bread-crumbing, but you cannot fry as things ought to be fried.FISH. “For with the sounds aijd seas, each creek and bay; With frie innumerable swarme, and shoals Of fish, that with their fumes and shining scales Glide under the greene wave, in sculles that oft Bank the mid sea.”—Milton, Paradise Lost. Turbot, halibut, skate, soles, and thick-skinned fish, if the weather be favourable, may be kept a day or two without injury, but all other fish cannot be too fresh. Fish cannot be kept twenty-four hours even on ice without injury. Persons living inland rarely ever have the true flavour of some fish. Shell-fish, unless quite fresh, are neither wholesome nor safe; lobsters and crabs keep longer by being under-boiled, a practice often resorted to by fishmongers to the injury of their customers. Thin-skinned white fish boiled are the most digestible, and soft-roed fish (male) are considered the best. In the selection of fish see that the gills are of a bright red colour, the scales fresh-looking, but the surest test is the brightness of the eyes; no very trust- worthy rules can be given for determining the fresh- ness of fish, because the world has become so corrupt that stale fish often have red gills and other deceitfulFish. 61 appearances given to them by artifice. The best way is to seize every opportunity for examining fish when fresh caught, this will give you more exact knowledge than anything in cookery books. There is a close analogy between the constituents of fish and meat, but the nutritive value of fish is very inferior; you cannot have the same nourishment from fish as you can from equal weights of mutton or macaroni. Before cooking, all fish should be thoroughly cleaned, but not allowed to soak unnecessarily in water, although some fish require a good time to cleanse, nor should they be ever roughly handled. In preparing fish there is no occasion for cruelty. I once spoke to a cook who was brutal enough to justify his cruelty by saying that the more eels suf- fered the better they tasted; I am sorry to say that this absurd and utterly false impression exists in the minds of many cooks. Fish should be well cooked, but not allowed to remain in the water or fat an instant after they are done. Nothing but the experienced eye of a cook can see when a fish is ready; all directions as to time are more or less fallacious; but to persons who have not had much experience it may be of service to notice when the eyes begin to start, and to use a thin plated skewer as a probe; to test the easy Svtparation of the meat from the bone. The minute any fish is sufficiently boiled raise it, and place the fish strainer across the kettle to drain, and if you have to It eep it a few minutes cover the fish with two or three fo Ids of clean flannel. To let the fish soak in water, or to keep watering it all day in the sun, is the best way to spoil the flavour of fish.MELTED BUTTER AND SAUCES. “ Our fatliers most admired their sauces sweet, And often asked for sugar with their meat : Insipid taste to them who Paris know, Where tarragon, shallot, and garlic grow.” Dr. King. We have seen that beef stock was the foundation of all meat soups, so plain melted butter is the foundation of nearly all hot sauces. All starchy com- pounds when exposed to heat and moisture begin to swell and then burst. If you were to see the starch of flour, or any kind of starch under a microscope, the particles would appear something like the shape of a flattened egg. These particles are called granules, and they are made up of cells, which burst in cooking. Boiled starch is not melted butter but paste. Now the art of making melted butter consists in bursting the starch-cells in the presence of sufficient fat or butter, so that the starch is well cooked. Making melted butter is one of those simple things which every servant of all-work is expected to know by instinct, but it is one of those things rarely ever properly done. It is often brought to the table more like starch, or even paste, than melted butter. It hasMelted Butter and Sauces. 63 always been our chief sauce, and has obtained for us the distinction of a nation with twenty religions and one sauce, a circumstance, probably, which led the late Lord Darnley to speak of one of the Barons of the Exchequer as “ a good man, a most religious man : he had the best melted butter I ever tasted.” There are a dozen, recipes, but I prefer the one on page 203.TINNED MEAT. “Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt, or is there any taste in the white of an egg? ” “ The fundamental principle of all Is what ingenious codes the relish call.” This morning we enter upon the discussion of an important question : The best way of cooking tinned meat, and rendering it palatable and wholesome. The best way is to make soup with the jelly, and eat the meat cold, with pickles, or salads prepared with cold boiled vegetables, the pieces of meat cut into half-inch cubes, and all mixed together with a Mayon- naise sauce. There are numerous recipes for cooking tinned meats, but the misfortune is that they . are already too much cooked. In this country a diet of animal and vegetable food is most acceptable, but the high price of fresh meat must exclude it, except in small scraps, from the homes of a large number of families, and the pieces occa- sionally purchased are often made tough and indiges- tible by frying or baking. In 1847, the attention of the late Sir Robert Peel was directed to the gradual diminution in the con- sumption of animal food, which he regarded as a65 Tinned Meat. standard of the physical power and comfort of the labouring classes, and with a view of increasing the quantity and keeping down the price, he removed all restrictions on the importation of foreign cattle, which had been prohibited in the interest of the British farmer. Since his time the population has nearly trebled, but the supply of animal food has not much increased, and the price has risen from thirty to forty per cent. ; and just as we have become dependent on foieign countries for more than half our supply of bread, we must, if we are to eat meat, become more and more dependent on other countries, it is doubt- ful if any importation of fresh meat will be sufficient to permanently reduce the price, and our home supply cannot increase in the same ratio as the population. There are four methods of preserving meat. The first is known as the freezing process; the second, and most general, is the tinning process; the third, the concentrated meat process ; the fourth, the antiseptic, or curing process. The freezing process consists in preserving the meat m ice, or in a freezing atmosphere. The idea is to bring the meat fresh from America and Australia in ice-houses, but the experiment has not proved so successful, as was anticipated. The tinning process has been in operation for years, and is the one generally in use. Tins are filled with meat; a 4-lb. tin contains 4 lbs. 4 oz. of raw meat without bone ; after the meat is placed in the tin the top is soldered on, and a small hole left in the centre. The tins are now placed on a gridiron in a bath of salt :and water, called the chloride of calcium bath; theBuckmaster s Cookery. 66 bath is first raised to a temperature of 220°, then to 230°, then to 260°, and the time occupied is about three hours : this is a temperature of 48 degrees hotter than boiling water, which is said to be necessary to remove all the air and life germs; every little cell containing air and water is broken-up, and the steam and air escape at the small hole, which is suddenly closed with the soldering iron. The tins are put aside to cool, when the external pressure of the atmosphere often forces the tops into a battered shape and makes them concave. You will understand from this process why preserved meats lose much of their flavour. The steam issuing from the tin may be condensed, wljen it is found to be nothing but water with a slight flavour of the meat. The osmazone upon which the flavour of the meat depends has been separated by the boiling, and while the flavour of the meat is injured, the flavour of the jelly is increased, and we can have this flavour in the soup. If science is to do anything for cooking, there ought to be some method of restoring this flavour of meat, much in the same way as a manufacturer of scents prepares from a few substances the perfumes of new-mown hay, violets, jasmine, and other flowers, without any of them being used in the manufacture. Du Broussin, a celebrated gourmand, used to say, if my cook were not able to prepare any kind of fish to eat like partridges or woodcocks, then he has not learnt the true art of cookery. Another method of preserving meat has been pro- posed, known as the antiseptic process, which consists in the use of sulphurous acid and other chemicals.Tinned Meats. 67 The object is to prevent the decomposition of fresh meat by excluding the oxygen of the air. This pro- cess has met with little success, and the meat so preserved tastes strongly of the chemicals, nor is the process a very reliable one. Another plan is known as the concentrated process. About 30 lbs. of meat is reduced to 1 lb., and this is called the essence or extract of meat, and is recom- mended for making beef-tea and soups. Almost every chemist and grocer sells this extract of meat; but we cannot depend on extracts of meat as an article of food any more than we can depend on a teaspoonful of flavoured alcohol for beer and spirits. The stomach requires quantity as well as quality. There is no method of making meat or vegetables more nutritious, in the sense usually understood. If you have one pound of extract and dilute it with thirty pounds of water, you have only one pound of solid matter in solution. You may desiccate vegetables and meat and free them from water, so as to occupy a smaller bulk, and when you have done this you have done all that you can do. What we have to consider is, Can these meats be used as an economic, wholesome article of food, with other things ? None of the nutritive or flesh-forming properties of the meat are lost in tinning, and you have 4 lbs. of solid cooked meat, without bone, which . are equal to at least 6 lbs. of butcher’s meat. The prejudice against preserved meat may be gradually overcome by the middle and upper classes eating it. Several varieties of soup may be prepared from i tinned meat. D 2VEGETABLES. All vegetables intended for boiling should be well washed in cold water, but not soaked ; a little vinegar in the water will be more effectual in removing insects than salt. Green vegetables should have plenty ol room, and be plunged into boiling water with a small teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar. The saucepan should be uncovered and the water, if necessary, skimmed. The vegetables should not remain in the water an instant after they are cooked. We do not attach sufficient importance to vege- tables ; they may be prepared in different ways, and eaten as separate dishes. In other countries they form quite a distinct part of the dinner. It is sometimes said that plain boiled vegetables are best; but this would also apply to plain boiled meat and fish. Care fully cooked vegetables are more wholesome and di gestible. No person can remain long in health with out fresh vegetables, but few vegetables can be eaten with safety without cooking. If some of the following recipes are thought rather expensive, they may often economically replace meat, which is now the most costly thing on a table. In summer, our food might with advantage consist chiefly of vegetables and fruit, Which accords not only with the desire but the season,CURRIES. I have frequently been told that we never succeed with curries as they do in India and China, where in some form or other it is a standing dish. Almost everything may be cooked in curry, but white meats are best; the great art consists in using good stock, and genuine curry paste or powder. Different things require different treatment. You would not curry a chicken exactly the same as a piece of cod; the seasoning should in each case be adapted to the thing curried, and no other kind of cooking admits of such a variety of flavouring. It is a mistake to boil curries; the aroma, which is very volatile, passes off with boiling, and the true flavour of the curry goes up the chimney. Whenever the nose is strongly impressed, it is an evidence that the cooking is going wrong. Curries are always served with plain boiled rice. It is sometimes difficult to obtain good curry powder. I have seen it stated that red lead has been detected in some curry powders. The following recipe is from Dr. Kitchener, who advises persons to prepare their own :— Curry Powder.—Dry and reduce to powder three ounces of coriander seed, three ounces of turmeric, one ounce of black pepper, one ounce of ginger, half70 Buckmaster s Cookery. an ounce of small cardamoms, quarter of an ounce of Cayenne pepper, quarter of an ounce of cinnamon, quarter of an ounce of cummin seed. Thoroughly pound in a mortar and mix together, and keep in a close stoppered bottle. Another Recipe.—Half an ounce of Cayenne, one ounce of mustard, half an ounce of black ground pepper, half an ounce of salt, four ounces of turmeric, four ounces of crushed coriander seed, one ounce of pounded cinnamon, one ounce of ground ginger, two ounces of fenugreek, and a quarter of an ounce of allspice all well mixed. Before proceeding with a curry I would suggest the reading over all the recipes, so as to exercise the in- genuity and intelligence of the cook by joining parts of several recipes. A nice curry is a favourite and economical dish, and not difficult of preparation. Our relations with India made curries popular before the failure of the potato, and the greater necessity for using rice had made this kind of cookery more general. All kinds of food may be dressed as a curry. The important thing, as already mentioned, is to have a good stock, and the art consists in seasoning so as to suit the taste of those for whom the curry is pre- pared. The Indian cook adapts his seasoning to the particular dish and the taste of his master, a thing not always considered in English cooking.ROASTING, BROILING, BOILING, STEAM ING, BAKING, BRAISING. “Who givetli Food to all flesh.” “Much food is in the tillage of the poor, but there is that destroyed for want of judgment.” The first thing is to select your meat, but as few persons go to market, families have to take whatever the butcher thinks proper to send. Beef constitutes by far the larger proportion of animal food; and in selecting a piece of beef or mutton, see that the grain is not coarse, that the meat is of a bright red colour, soft to the touch, and the fat is nicely intermixed with the lean. Mutton and beef will be more tender if the weather admit of their being hung some days before cooking j but where meat is ordered just as it is wanted, tender meat is almost impossible. The : flavour and quality of meat will depend on the breed, : age, and food. The lean is the muscular part of the : animal, and consists of fibrine, gelatine, and albumen. lExperiments, which have been carefully made, show 1 that a sirloin of beef, weighing twelve pounds, lost in roasting forty-four ounces, of which twenty-seven were 'rater and seventeen fat or dripping. A flank of beef, weighing twelve pounds, made into pot-au-feu, or72 Buckmaster s Cookery. bouilli, lost twenty-five ounces. It is therefore quite clear that boiling, especially when the liquor is turned into broth, as it should be, is the most economic kind of cooking. When meat is boiled, much of the albu- men remains in the water, and when flavoured with vegetables and herbs, and thickened with meal, you have a highly nutritious soup, much used in every country except our own. Glue is an impure gelatine. The white of egg is nearly a pure albumen ; this albu- men surrounds the fibres of the meat; and the stringy threads of long stewed meat afford an example of fibrine. The osmazone is that extract or essence which gives meat its peculiar odour and taste. By long simmering the osmazone is dissolved in the water, and this is the secret of the meat flavour in soups. Roasting appears to exalt the flavour of meat more than any other method of cooking. The essential condition of all good roasting is constant basting. The best joints for roasting are the ribs and fillet, the rump and sirloin ; for making soup, the neck, tail, and tops of ribs ; and for stewing, all the inferior pieces. To roast properly a good fire is most important: it should be evenly lighted, bright and radiant, and never allowed to get low. No reliable time can be given for roasting, because the nature and the qualities of meat vary. About two hours for seven pounds of beef, and one hour and three-quarters for a leg of mutton of the same weight, or roughly, about a quarter of an hour to the pound, will generally be found sufficient. To tell whether the meat is done, press the fleshy part with the thumb ; if the meat yield to the pressure it is done. In the case of poultry or game,Broiling. 73 the flesh of the leg may be tried in the same manner. Cooks attach importance to the “steams drawing to the fire.” When the meat is nearly done, remove the buttered paper, if any has been used, and sprinkle over the meat a little salt, and put the ends of the joint to the fire ; and endeavour to obtain a clear brown colour before the fire. If you wish the meat to be frothed, dredge very lightly a little well-dried flour over the sur- face, and give it time to crisp; do not baste after the flour. Practice is the only way to learn to roast properly. Broiling is a very acceptable kind of cooking when well done, but anything broiled requires constant watching. It is an easy method of making a small portion of fish or meat savoury, but it is not the cooking for families. Things broiled should be turned with steak tongs; a fork should on no account be used ; and without a clear, bright fire broiling is impossible. The principle is the same as in roast- ing ; the albumen of the meat or fish is coagulated, which forms a crust, and so retains all the juices. .Delicate appetites are often encouraged with a nice broiled fish. The national beef steak and mirTon chop have made us the best of broilers. There are still a few places in London where you can have a steak or chop cooked to perfection. Two gridirons are best—one for meat, the other for fish. The bars of gridirons are often too large and obstruct much of the heat. The gridiron should be very clean, and if bright when purchased it should be kept so, and always be washed before putting away. Before putting anything on the gridiron let it get thoroughly hot; the reason for this is obvious; much of the heat of the fire isclasses of your Majesty’s subjects. ON THE PREPARATION OF OMELETTES. ABRIDGMENT OF LECTURE DELIVERED BEFORE HER MAJESTY, AT THE SCHOOL OF COOKERY, MAY, 1873. May it please your Majesty :— The specimen of cooking which is now to be pre- sented takes only five minutes, and is within the reach of almost the poorest of your Majesty’s subjects. The materials cost fourpence, and they furnish a savoury and nourishing dish. An omelette is seldom properly cooked even in France, which gives it its name. It is never found in the homes of the poor in this country, and in the houses of the rich it is often very badly prepared. There is no occasion for an omelette pan and spoon. A clean frying-pan and spoon will answer perfectly well. And we endeavour to show in this school not only the best and the most economic methods of domestic cooking, but the various uses to which kitchen utensils may be fairly applied without injury. To make simple food wholesome and palatable by cooking was a duty imposed on man from the very earliest period of his civilization. An abundant supply of food, and its proper preparation by cooking, are matters intimately connected with the physical well- being and happiness of your Majesty’s subjects, and from a long and close connection with the working classes, through their schools, clubs, and institutes, I may be permitted to say, that the interest which j our Majesty has shown in this School of Popular Cookery will be very valuable and gratefully appreciated by allRECIPES. HOW TO PREPARE STOCK. TO MAKE THREE QUARTS OF GOOD BEEF STOCK. 1. Put into a saucepan or stock-pot 2 lbs. fresh shin of beef, h lb. bones broken into pieces, with 7 pints of clean rain - water preferred. 2. Let the contents come slowly to the boil. 3. Remove all the scum by frequent skimming. The addition of a little cold water at intervals will facilitate the rising of the scum by altering the specific gravity of the water; if the scum be not removed it will partially redissolve and spoil the clearness and flavour of the stock, and you will have the trouble of clarifying. I am sorry to say that scum is often the dirt of the saucepans. After well skimming add the following :— 1 oz. of salt; I onion, weighing 5 oz., with 2 or, at most, 3 cloves stuck in it; 2 leeks, say 5 oz. ; half head of celery weigh- ing i oz. ; turnip cut up into quarters, weighing 5 oz. ; carrot sliced, weighing 5 oz. ; parsnip sliced, weighing 1 oz. ; x tea- spoonful of whole pepper. The contents must now simmer at 180 to 200 degrees for four or five hours; remove the fat by skimming, which can be used when cold for frying or other purposes. Take out the meat, vegetables, and bones, and strain the stock into an earthenware vessel or largeON THE PREPARATION OF OMELETTES. ABRIDGMENT OF LECTURE DELIVERED BEFORE HER MAJESTY, AT THE SCHOOL OF COOKERY, MAY, 1873. May it please your Majesty :— The specimen of cooking which is now to be pre- sented takes only five minutes, and is within the reach of almost the poorest of your Majesty’s subjects. The materials cost fourpence, and they furnish a savoury and nourishing dish. An omelette is seldom properly cooked even in France, which gives it its name. It is never found in the homes of the poor in this country, and in the houses of the rich it is often very badly prepared. There is no occasion for an omelette pan and spoon. A clean frying-pan and spoon will answer perfectly well. And we endeavour to show in this school not only the best and the most economic methods of domestic cooking, but the various uses to which kitchen utensils may be fairly applied without injury. To make simple food wholesome and palatable by cooking was a duty imposed on man from the very earliest period of his civilization. An abundant supply of food, and its proper preparation by cooking, are matters intimately connected with the physical well- being and happiness of your Majesty’s subjects, and from a long and close connection with the working classes, through their schools, clubs, and institutes, I may be permitted to say, that the interest which your Majesty has shown in this School of Popular Cookery will be very valuable and gratefully appreciated by all classes of your Majesty’s subjects.RECIPES. HOW TO PREPARE STOCK. TO make three quarts of good beef stock. 1. Put into a saucepan or stock-pot 2 lbs. fresh shin of beef, § lb. bones broken into pieces, with 7 pints of clean rain - water preferred. 2. Let the contents come slowly to the boil. 3. Remove all the scum by frequent skimming. The addition of a little cold water at intervals will facilitate the rising of the scum by altering the specific gravity of the water; if the scum be not removed it will partially redissolve and spoil the clearness and flavour of the stock, and you will have the trouble of clarifying. I am sorry to say that scum is often the dirt of the saucepans. After well skimming add the following :— I oz. of salt; I onion, weighing 5 oz., with 2 or, at most, 3 cloves stuck in it; 2 leeks, say 5 oz. ; half head of celery weigh- ing $ oz. ; turnip cut up into quarters, weighing 5 oz. ; carrot sliced, weighing 5 oz. ; parsnip sliced, weighing 1 oz. ; I tea- spoonful of whole pepper. The contents must now simmer at 180 to 200 degrees for four or five hours; remove the fat by skimming, which can be used when cold for frying or other purposes. Take out the meat, vegetables, and bones, and strain the stock into an earthenware vessel or large7 8 Buckmasters Cookery. or fancy shapes. 9. Peel a turnip and an onion and basin, and keep it in a cool place free from dust; a piece of muslin gauze may be placed over it. Any remaining fat can be removed in a solid state when the liquor is cold. Stock soup, broth, or stew should always be kept in earthenware vessels. The vege- tables should not remain longer in the stock than is necessary to properly cook them, as they afterwards absorb the flavour. In spring and summer, when vegetables are young, they cook in less time, but a stock may be and often is prepared without vege- tables, when the flavour is more delicate. Be careful not to disturb the sediment in pouring from one vessel to another. Always prepare your stock a day or two before it is required. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS OF STOCK. Ingredients. ■ 4 lbs. of Shin of Beef, i Turnip, i Leek. 4 young Carrots. I Onion. J of a head of Celery. 1. Take four pounds of shin of beef, put it on a board, and cut off all the meat from the bone. 2. Remove the fat from the meat 3. Break the bone in half and remove all the marrow. If the marrow and fat were put into the stock, it would make it greasy. 4. Put the meat and bone into a large stewpan. 5. Pour into the stewpan as many pints of water as there are pounds of meat and one pint over, so in this case you must pour in five pints. 6. Put in half a tea- spoonful of salt; this will assist the scum to rise. 7. Put the cover on the stewpan, set it over the fire, and let it come to the boil quickly. 8. Take four young carrots, scrape them and cut them into small piecesWhite Stock. 79 cut them in quarters. 10. Wash a leek and a quarter of a head of celery in cold water. 11. Return to your soup and remove the scum and fat as it rises. 12. Put in all the vegetables and let the whole simmer gently for five hours. 13. Look at it occasionally and remove all the scum; also add from time to time a gill of cold water to make the scum rise. 14. Put a clean cloth over a large basin. 15. Put a hair sieve on the top of the cloth over the basin. 16. After the stock has been simmering for five hours, pour the contents of the stewpan through the sieve and cloth into the basin. 17. Put the stock into a cool place till the next day, when it will be a jelly. 18. Before this jelly is used remove all the fat. 19. Take a clean cloth, dip it in hot water and wipe over the top of the jelly, so as to remove every particle of fat. 20. Wipe the top of the jelly with a clean dry cloth. Precautions.—A clean stewpan or saucepan, careful removal of scum and fat are essential to suc- cess. Use, if possible, young vegetables, and let the contents gently simmer. White stock can be prepared from the above recipe, using knuckle of veal instead of beef; it may also be prepared with beef and veal together, or fowls, and sometimes rabbit and beef, but veal is best. WHITE STOCK—TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. This stock is used for white soups. 1. Take two pounds of knuckle or leg of veal. 2. Cut it up and break the bones. 3. Add a slice of lean ham, and one pound of gravy beef. The white flesh of poultry or the fillets of a fowl will be a valuable addition, although not necessary. 4. Butter the inside of aSo JBuckmaster's Cookery. three-quart stewpan. 5. Slice two onions and place them at the bottom. 6. Place the meat and bones on the onions. 7. Moisten with three gills of water or stock, and simmer for one hour. 8. Add two quarts of water, three small carrots sliced, one leek, half head of celery, £ oz. of salt, six white peppercorns, and a small bunch of fine herbs. 9. Skim frequently. 10. Let the whole simmer for five hours. 11. Strain, if necessary, through a horsehair sieve into an earthen- ware vessel, and the stock is ready for use. A General Stock. A stock may also be prepared from previously cooked meat and bones, but the stock will not be so good or rich in flavour as when prepared from fresh meat and bones. We never .allowed our children to take bones in their fingers, and after dinner the servant breaks up the bones, with any meat, skin, or gristle which has not been blackened by cooking, and with two or three pennyworth of fresh bones we have always a little fair stock prepared from materials which many persons give to dogs or throw into the dust-bin. In this way we have always something in the house which can be turned in a few minutes into a good nourishing soup. The idea which must be ever present in preparing a stock is absolute freedom from fat. Spare no pains in skimming, and a little kitchen- paper or blotting-paper laid on the surface will remove small globules of fat which often evade the spoon. Caramel. It is sometimes desirable that stock or soup should be of a bright golden colour, although it is no betterTo clarify Soups. Sr on that account. The point to remember in colour- ing is not to alter the flavour of the stock or soup; burnt onions or carrots are occasionally used, but they impart a disagreeable taste. The only proper colour- ing substance is caramel or burnt sugar, which may be prepared as follows :— 1. Take a clean stewpan or saucepan and put in 4 lb. of pounded loaf sugar. 2. Constantly stir it over the fire with a wooden spoon. 3. When the sugar is thoroughly melted, let it come to the boiling point. 4. Boil slowly for fifteen minutes, with occa- sional stirring. 5. When the sugar is of a dark-brown colour add gradually one pint of cold water. 6. Boil for twenty minutes on the side of the fire. 7. Let it cool. 8. Strain it, and keep it in clean well-stop- pered bottles. It is now ready for use. Caramel should be of a dark-brown colour; if it boil too quickly it will become black, and will spoil the colour and flavour of the broth. When you use caramel put it into a soup tureen just before serving. To clarify Soups. 1. Take the white and clean shell of an egg for every quart of soup. 2. Crush the shell in a mortar, and mix the shell and white of egg with a gill* of cold water. 3. Well whisk the mixture. 4. Now add half a pint of the boiling soup, still beating all up together. 5. Tour the mixture to the remainder of the soup in the saucepan, still stirring briskly till the whole comes to the boiling point. 6. Remove * A gill is a quarter of a pint82 Buckmaster s Cookery. from the fire, and let the stock remain ten minutes or till the white of the egg or albumen rises to the surface. 7. Strain carefully, and the broth is clari- fied. The albumen and egg-shells entangle the small solid particles floating in the soup. If care be taken in the preparation of a stock or soup it will not often require clarifying. To preserve Broth or Stock. 1. Remove all the fat. 2. Strain carefully into an earthenware vessel. 3. Keep it in a cool place; a light gauze may be thrown over it. In winter the stock will keep three or four days, but in summer it must be looked at every morning, or it is liable to ferment, and this can only be prevented by again boiling. Purees. The fnirce of any vegetable or meat is prepared by simmering till the substance is sufficiently pulpy or soft to be passed through a colander, or a wire, horse- hair, or tammy sieve. In the case of meat it is some- times necessary to beat in a pestle or mortar after simmering. The sieve is placed bottom upwards over a dish or tin, and with a wooden spoon or purce- presser the substance is worked through, and what passes through is called a puree. It is necessary to moisten with a little liquor, which facilitates the pass- ing of the puree. The pur'ce of any vegetable stirred into a clear beef stock makes a soup and gives it its characteristic name. On the use of Butter for Soups. Butter required for soups should be added at two different times, except for a Julienne soup. In vege-A Bouquet garni. 83 table soups the first butter sweats the vegetables and adds little or nothing to the flavour. But, just before serving, three or four pieces of butter, the size of a nut, in the tureen are a very acceptable addition; the butter should only be melted, for if boiled it loses its flavour and freshness. The addition of cold butter to soups and sauces is sometimes called a liaison of butter. A less quantity is required for sweating vegetables than for frying or browning them. Liaisons. Liaisons are methods for thickening soups. One liaison is prepared by mixing flour with water, or milk, or broth. 1. Mix the flour smooth with one of the above liquids. 2. Strain through a pointed strainer into the soup, continually stirring with the other hand till the flour is well cooked. The proper way to mix a liaison is to add some of the soup to it, thoroughly mix, and then stir all into the soup. 1. Take the yolk or yolks only of eggs, say the yolk of one egg for one pint of soup. 2. Carefully separate all the white from the yolk by pouring back- wards and forwards. 3. Put the yolk into a basin, and beat up with a little powdered-loaf sugar (if none has been used with the soup) and a small piece ot butter. 4. Add a quarter pint of cream or half a pint of milk for each yolk; when thoroughly mixed, (5) add a little soup and stir. 6. Remove your soup from the fire. 7. Stir in the liaison with a wooden spoon. Never allow your soups to go on the fire after adding a liaison with egg, or they will curdle. Bear in mind that heat coagulates or hardens albumen but softens and liquefies gelatine.84 Buckmasters Cookery. A bouquet garni. A faggot of herbs, is constantly referred to in cook- ing, and is a mixture of parsley, thyme, and bayleaf, and sometimes marjoram, rosemary, and a clove of garlic; these are tied into a bunch, and are used for seasoning. Wash the parsley, and arrange the other herbs so that they are enclosed within the parsley. The ends of the parsley should be folded over to more effectually enclose the herbs, and then tied round with string. A small handful of parsley, weighing say one ounce, one sixteenth in weight of thyme, the same weight of bay-leaves, the same weight of marjoram, and, if used, one clove only of garlic, constitute an ordinary bouquet garni, or faggot of herbs. Dried herbs. These should always be to hand, and are best pre- pared in the following way: Gather the herbs just before flowering, which is when their flavour is the strongest. Dry them quickly in an over or before a screen, and pick out all the stalks. Gouffe recom- mends the following preparations :—quarter ounce of thyme, one-eighth ounce of marjoram, quarter ounce of bay-leaf, one-eighth ounce of rosemary. These are to be pounded in a mortar, with half ounce of nutmeg, quarter ounce of whole pepper, half ounce of cloves, one-eighth ounce of cayenne pepper, and passed through a fine hair sieve, and kept in a dry place in a well-stoppered bottle. In these proportions a good seasoning is secured. The proportion for mixing with salt is one ounce of the mixture with four ounces of dry salt. This mixture is called spiced salt.85 Pot an Feu and Bouilli. In addition to the usual flavourings, the following should be to hand : white vinegar, Tarragon vinegar (which you can make yourself by putting into a half- pint bottle of good vinegar three or four sprigs of tarragon, and in three weeks it is ready), vanilla, garlic, orange flower water, chillies, mixed pickles and olive oil. POT AU FEU AND BOUILLI. TO MAKE FIVE QUARTS. Ingredients. 4 lbs. of Beef. 2 Leeks. 2 Parsnips. 2 lbs. of Bones. 2 Carrots. 2 Turnips. 2 Onions. Celery. Bouquet garni. 1. Take a piece of fresh beef, weighing 4-}lbs., but not very fat, and 2lbs. of broken bones. 2. Tie up the meat neatly with string or tape. 3. Put all into a large saucepan. 4. Add filtered rain-water to well cover the meat and bones. 5. Set it over the fire. 6. Let the contents come as near as possible to the boil without boiling. 7. P.emove carefully the scum which will rise as the water warms. 8. Add at intervals half a pint of cold water sufficient to make five quarts of broth; this will have the effect of check- ing the ebullition, and will help the scum to rise. When the scum is all removed, (9) put in a teaspoom ful of whole pepper and fifteen allspice tied up in a muslin bag, an ounce of salt, one onion stuck with three cloves, one leek slit into four, wait ten minutes. 10. Add three carrots of average size, cut in two-inch lengths, wait ten minutes. 11. Add two turnips of average size, each cut in four, and a bouquet garniBuckmaster s Cookery. 86 (page 84). The above vegetables should not be put in all at once, but so as to keep the contents at th? same temperature, which may now be skimmed for the last time, and placed by the side of the fire to simmer gently for three or four hours. According to the season, all or some of the following vegetables may be added : a young cabbage cut into quarters, a small head of celery, cut in two-inch lengths, and a couple of parsnips; a small cabbage added one hour after the other vegetables is a great improvement. At the time of serving': 1. Take out the meat and bones. 2. Skim off all the fat. 3. Add a small teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar. 4. Make the broth boiling hot, and strain or pour it into the soup tureen over small slices of toasted bread, adding, according to taste, a portion of the vegetables cut into thin slices. 1. Re- move the string or tape from the meat. 2. Garnish with mashed potatoes, spinach, or other vegetables in season. Pepper and salt should be carefully used, they can be added to suit the taste after the soup is ready. In spring and summer, vegetables are more tender and require less time to cook; they should never remain in the broth after they are cooked. Precautions.—Remove all the scum and fat; fresh vegetables, and only to simmer. POT AU FEU. Ingredients. Eeef. Turnips. Sage. Celery. Bones. Parsnip. Eschalot. Cabbages. Carrots. Bouquet garni. Caramel. Cloves. 1. Take four pounds of beef, “ the silver side ofSoups. Spinach. 2 quarts of Stock. Mint. the round is best,” and a few fresh bones or giblets. 2. Put them into a saucepan with four quarts of water. 3. Put in a little salt. 4. Let it come slowly to the boil and skim well. 5. Add two carrots, two turnips, one parsnip. 6. Tie in a bunch two leeks cut into quarters, a small piece of celery, a bouquet garni, and put them in. 7. Two cloves stuck into an eschalot or clove of garlic. 8. Put in one dessert spoonful of caramel or burnt sugar. 9. Simmer very gently two hours. 10. Add two cabbages nicely tied up, and a little pepper, and simmer another two hours. 1. Take a peck of peas, this will give you about a quart, but whatever the quantity, divide into two equal parts. 3. Shred finely one lettuce, one onion, or a dozen spring onions, and, if convenient, twelve leaves of spinach. 4. Take a clean three-quart stew- pan or saucepan. 5. Melt two ounces of butter. 6. Add your vegetables and one part of the peas, a sprig of mint, and a small teaspoonful of salt, and half a pint of stock. 7. Stew gently in the vapour of the butter with constant stirring till the vegetables are sufficiently soft to pulp or pass through a sieve. 8. Place your sieve bottom upwards over a dish, pass the vegetables through the sieve by gently working with a wooden spoon, or better, a puree presser; by this process all the tough, stringy parts of the vege- GREEN PEA SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. I peck of Green Peas. I Lettuce. 1 Lettuce. I Onion.Buck-master s Cookery. 88 tables will be separated. 9. Add the pulp (that which has passed through the sieve) to two quarts of clear stock, f(pp. 77, 78) a teaspoonful of whole pepper, a teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar, and a little more salt, if necessary. 10. Bring it to the boil, skim, and put it aside to simmer. This part is now ready. 1. Take the remaining part of the peas and turn them into a saucepan of boiling water, with plenty of salt, and a small lump (size of a nut) of loaf sugar. 2. Boil gently till done. 3. Drain them through a colander. 4. Add them to the soup. 5. Serve with sippets of bread. Some cooks add a little chopped mint. The spinach gives a greener colour to the soup. Precautions.—Fresh shelled peas, sweet butter, clean stewpans, good stock, constant stirring of the vegetables while stewing in the butter to prevent burn- ing, are essential. GREEN PEA PUREE SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 3 pints of Green Peas. 1 Onion, x Carrot. 2 q<!s. of Stock. 1. Take a three-quart stewpan. 2. Boil three pints of green peas in plenty of salt and water, with one carrot and one onion. 3. When the peas are suffi- ciently soft take out the carrot and onion. 4. Drain the peas in a colander. 5. Pass them through a hair or tammy sieve. G. Return the puree to the stewpan. 7. Add two quarts of stock, half a teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar, and stir till it just comes to the boil. 8. Stand it aside to simmer.Soups. Sp WITH RICE. 1. Boil four ounces of rice (see recipe for boiling rice, page 247), when done, put into a soup tureen. 2. Skim the soup. 3. Put half an ounce of sweet butter into the tureen. 4. Pour over the soup and stir till it is thoroughly melted. It is now ready. If the colour is too pale a few leaves of spinach passed through a fine sieve may be added. The rice for this soup is all the better if boiled with a little butter. Precautions.—It is important to have fresh shelled peas, and constant stirring till it comes to the boil. GREEN PEA SOUP WITHOUT STOCK. Ingredients. Green Peas. Proceed in precisely the same way as in the pre- ceding recipe, using the water in which the peas have been boiled instead of stock. Precautions.—Be sure to have young fresh shelled peas, a clean stewpan, and well-boiled rice. See page 121. LENTIL SOUP (1). TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 3 pints of small Lentils. 1 Carrot. l Onion. Bouquet garni. Celery. 2 qts. of Stock. Purchase three pints of lentils a la reine. There are two kinds—the small (d la reine) and the larger variety. The small variety are the better for makingBuckmaster s Cookery. 90 into a puree. 1. Wash the lentils in two waters. 2. Put them into a clean stewpan. 3. Add three quarts of water (clean rain water if you have it), a bouquet garni, one onion, size of tennis ball, with two 'cloves stuck in it, two or three leaves of celery, one carrot a quarter of a pound. 4. Bring to the boil. 5. Skim and simmer till the lentils are soft. 6. Remove the bouquet garni, the onion and carrot. 7. Drain in a colander. 8. Pound the lentils in a mortar and pass them through a sieve. 9. Return the puree to the stewpan with two quarts of stock, stirring till it comes to the boil. 10. Simmer for one hour with the lid partly over. 11. Cut up a small bunch of young green celery leaves; boil them in water, or better, in a little stock. 12. Drain them in a colander. 13. Season with pepper and salt. 14. Skim the soup. 15. Put the celery into the -soup tureen. 16. Pour the soup over, boiling hot, and serve. Precautions.—Have good lentils, and good stock; stirring to prevent burning, and not too much celery, or carrot. LENTIL SOUP WITHOUT STOCK (2). TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 pints of Yellow Lentils. % a Carrot, i Onion. Celery. 1. Take two pints of yellow lentils, wash them in luke- warm-water—remove the bad ones. 2. Put the lentils into a stewpan with two quarts of water, a small onion, one ounce, a sprig of celery, a quarter of an ounce, half a small carrot, one ounce, and a quarter of an ounce of salt 3. Boil. 4. Skim and allow the wholeSoups. 9i to simmer till the lentils are cooked (which you can ascertain by pressing one or two between the fingers, when they should bruise easily). 5. To accelerate the cooking, pour in every half hour a gill of cold water, starting the boiling again after adding the cold water. (It was formerly usual to soak dry vegetables for purees, for twenty-four hours, but the addition of cold water'whilst boiling often renders this operation unnecessary.) 6. The lentils being well done, drain them in a colander. 7. Reserve the liquor. 8. Pass the lentils through a wire sieve on to a dish placed underneath to receive the puree. 9. Moisten now and then, with some of the liquor to facilitate the pas- sing of the pur'ee. 10. Return the pur'ee to the stew- pan and add the liquor for the soup. 11. Boil and simmer for half an hour, stirring frequently with a wooden spoon. 12. Put half an ounce of sliced bread in the soup tureen. 13. Add half an ounce of fresh butter in small pieces. 14. Pour in the soup, stirring to melt the butter. Precautions.—Be careful in selection of lentils, and see they are well cooked before making the pur'ee. LENTIL SOUP WITHOUT STOCK (3). TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. ^ pint of Lentils. 1 Onion. 1 gill of Salad Oil. Bouquet garni. 2 oz. of Rice. 1 lb. of Spinach. 1. Take a saucepan and put into it two quarts of warm water. 2. Add half a pint of lentils, one onion, with two cloves stuck into it, a bouquet garni, and a gill of good salad oil, or two ounces of butter. 3. Let92 Buckmasicr s Cookery. them come to the boil. 4. Stir frequently and skim, simmer for two hours. 5. Add two ounces of rice or pearl barley, and a pound of spinach blanched and chopped up. 6. Boil together till well cooked. 7. Season with pepper and salt. Precautions.—This soup is thick, and requires almost constant stirring. It is very nourishing. HARICOT BEAN SOUP AND BACON. Ingredients. I pint Haricot Beans. £ lb. Bacon. i Onion. 1. Boil a pint of haricot beans. 2. When half done, strain off the water and set them on with fresh boiling water, but in a smaller quantity. 3. Add one onion stuck with two cloves, a piece of bacon, weighing half a pound. 4. Add black pepper a.nd salt to taste. 5. Let the whole boil till the beans and bacon are cooked. Precautions.—Have good beans, the bacon not too salt. Soak the beans all night in plenty of cold water. PEA SOUP. . TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. £ lb. of split Peas. 2 oz. of Dripping. 3 pints of Stock. i Spanish Onion. Dried Plerbs. 1. Take half a pound of good split peas. 2. Wash them in several waters, and let them soak all night in a pint of water. 3. Put two ounces of good butter or sweet dripping into a saucepan; when it is melted93 Soups. add the peas, well drained from the water, with a lump of sugar the size of a walnut. 4. Stir frequently. 5. As they begin to thicken add from time to time a gill of water; when they have been on the fire about an hour (8) add a Spanish onion, or two or three com- mon ones, shredded very finely, half a teaspoonful of dried herbs, and half a teaspoonful of dried mint. 7. Add water as it thickens. 8. Let all boil gently for two hours. 9. Stir frequently to prevent burning. 10. Rub the peas through a coarse sieve. 11. Return the pulp to the saucepan with three pints of good stock, add salt and pepper to taste. 12. Boil five minutes, and the soup is ready. This soup may be made with mutton broth, or with the liquor in which beef has been boiled, if not too salt. Then the water may be omitted and the broth used instead. Split peas will never soften in hard or salt water. When the liquor from salt pork or beef is used for soup, the peas should be boiled in soft water. If the soup is required to be veiy thick, use one pound of peas instead of half a pound. Precautions.—This soup will require frequent stirring. SCOTCH BROTH. Ingredients. Neck of Mutton. 2 Onions. Leeks. Parsley. 2 oz. of Scotch Barley. Turnips. Carrots. 1. Take a neck of mutton, and trim it as for cutlets (see p. 264). 2. Remove seven of the cutlets and put them aside on a dish. 3. Put the remaining part of the neck into a saucepan with two quarts of soft cold94 Buckmaster s Cookery. water. 4. Add two onions, one with two cloves. 5. When the water is just on the boil, skim. 6. Add altogether half a pint of the following vegetables, made up of about equal quantities, carrots, turnips, leeks, and onions, cut up into quarter inch dice. 7. Simmer for three hours. 8. Add pepper and salt to taste. 1. Blanchtwo ounces of Scotch barley. 2. Finish cooking it in water with a little butter and salt. 3. Put the chops into another stewpan, with some of the broth or stock. 4. Slowly cook them. 5. Drain the barley, and put it into the tureen with the cutlets. 6. Remove the neck of mutton on to a dish. 7. Pour the broth into the tureen. 8. Add a dessertspoonful of coarsely chopped parsley previously blanched. Precautions.—Do not boil after adding the vege- tables. Have the barley ready soaked for two hours before blanching. SHEEP’S HEAD BROTH. Ingredients, Sheep’s Head. Turnips. Celery. . Carrots. Onions. Pearl Barley. 1. Take a sheep’s head, split it in half, and soak it in warm salt-and-water for a quarter of an hour. 2. Put the head into a saucepan with three pints of cold water. 3. Take two onions, one carrot, one turnip, and a quarter of a head of celery. 4. Cut the vege- tables into moderate-sized pieces, and put them into the saucepan with the head. 5. Add a teaspoonful of salt. 6. Skim when necessary. 7. Simmer gently * To scald or parboilSoups. 95 for three or four hours, or until the meat is tender. 8. Strain off the broth into another saucepan or basin, and put it aside. 9. Have ready, by the time the meat is cooked, one turnip, one carrot, and a teacup- ful of pearl barley boiled in separate waters. 10. Cut the meat off the head and tongue into square pieces. 11. Cut up the carrot and turnip into dice. 12. Put the vegetables, meat, and barley, with a good tea- spoonful of chopped parsley, into the broth. 13. Boil up and the broth is ready. The first vegetables are merely to flavour the broth, and are not served. Precautions.—Simmer slowly and soak the barley before boiling it. MUTTON BROTH. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of scrag of Mutton. I oz. of Scotch Barley. Turnips. Parsley. i Onion. 1. Take two pounds of scrag of mutton. 2. Put it into a large basin. 3. Cover with cold water and a little salt to remove the blood. 4. Let it remain one hour. 5. Put it into a stewpan, with two quarts of water, with either one ounce of Scotch barley or rice or oatmeal according to taste, and one onion. 6. Let it come to the boil slowly. 7. Skim. 8. Add two turnips cut into quarters. 9. Let the contents simmer for two hours. A little chopped parsley or petals of marigolds are sometimes added. 10. Season with salt only. 11. Strain into the tureen. 12. Serve the meat as a separate dish, with parsley and butter (page 204), or caper sauce. For sick persons this broth9 6 Buckmaster s Cookery. should be prepared without any vegetable flavour, and be carefully freed from fat. Precautions.—This broth should be prepared slowly, and not too strong with turnip. BRABANT BROTH. ID MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 quarts of White Stock. Spinach. Sorrel. 1. Put two quarts of good white stock into a clean saucepan, with a handful of coarsely shredded spinach and a few leaves of sorrel. 2. Let these stew in the stock till tender. 3. Add a little pepper and salt and half a teaspoonful of sugar. Take half a pint of cream or a pint of milk and beat it up with the yolks of four eggs, and just before serving mix the liaison with the soup (see page 8o). Precautions.—Be careful with the sorrel, the acid flavour is sometimes objectionable. JULIENNE SOUP (1). TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 3 oz. of Carrots. Chervil. I oz. of Leeks. I oz. of Celery. i oz. of Onion. 2 qts. of Stock. 3 oz. of Turnips. Sorrel. 1. Take carrots (three ounces), turnips (three ounces), onion (one ounce), leeks (one ounce), celery (half ounce). 2. Shred them into small strips about one and a quarter inches long. 3. Melt one ounce and a half of good butter in a stewpan. 4. Add the shredded vegetables. 5. Fry to a nice brown colour.Soups. 97 6. Add two quarts of stock. 7. Simmer at one corner of the fire. When the vegetables are cooked, (8) skim. 9. Put in a few leaves of sorrel and a sprig of chervil, chopped finely. 10. Add a little powered loaf-sugar, and serve in a soup tureen, having first put in several crusts of bread cut up in dice. Precautions.—Well dry the vegetables before frying. 2 Carrots, x Leek. JULIENNE SOUP (2). TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. Chervil. Sorrel. \ head of Celery. I Turnip. i Onion. This soup can be made all the year except in the months of January, Februaiy, and March, when the vegetables are too stringy to make a good Julienne. 1. Shred into small fillets two carrots, one turnip, one onion, a leek, and half head of celery; mince a teaspoonful of sorrel and chervil, and put these on a plate by themselves. 2. Melt an ounce and half of butter in a saucepan or stewpan. 3. Add the shredded vegetables and stew in the butter till they are of a nice golden colour. 4. Add two quarts of stock. 5. Let it come to the boil. When the vegetables are cooked, (6) remove all scum and fat. A Julienne soup should be clear and transparent. When skimmed, (7) add the minced sorrel and chervil and a little pounded loaf-sugar, and serve with small crusts of bread. Precautions.—In this soup it is better to use only the red portion of the carrot, and well dry the vege- tables before frying, ° EBuckmasters Cookery. 9S SOUP FROM REMNANTS OF JOINTS. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 3 lbs. of Bones. Bouquet garni. 2 Carrots. 2 Turnips. 2 Onions. After all the meat available for a hash has been cut away from a leg of mutton or other joint, (1) break the bones into pieces; the addition of a pound or two of fresh bones will be desirable. 2. Put them into a saucepan with two carrots and two turnips cut in quarters, and two whole onions, one with three cloves, and a bouquet garni. 3. Nearly fill the sauce- pan with soft water. 4. Add one dessertspoonful of whole pepper and allspice in equal parts, and salt to taste. 5. Set the saucepan on- the fire, and let the contents simmer for four hours. 6. Strain the broth. 7. Remove the fat, and use the stock for any kind of thick soup. 1. Pass through a hair sieve the carrots and one of the onions. 2. Melt an ounce of butter in a three- quart saucepan, and stir in a tablespoonful of flour. 3. When the two are well mixed, (4) add a little of the stock, (5) then the carrot and onion pulp, and gradually the remainder of the stock, or so much of it as will produce a puree of the consistency of pea soup. 6. Pour it boiling hot over small dice of toasted or fried bread. Precautions.—Take care that the soup is not too strongly flavoured with the vegetables,Soups. 99 CHANTILLY SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. li- pint of Green Peas. Parsley. 2 Onions. I Cucumber. Mint. 2 quarts of Stock. 1. Put into a three-quart stewpan one pint and a half of green peas, a small bunch of parsley, and a small bunch of mint with two finely-shredded onions (two and a half inches in diameter), and a small cucumber, peeled and cut into thin slices. 2. Add sufficient water to cover the vegetables. 3. Boil with a teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar till they are soft enough to pass through a tammy sieve. 4. Strain over a colander. 5. Make a puree of the vegetables. 6. Stir the puree into three or four pints of stock, but do not boil after adding it or you spoil the colour of the soup. Precautions.—A proper mixture of the vegetables so as to agreeably blend the flavours. BONNE FEMME SOUP (1). TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 4 Lettuces. I Onion. Sprig of Chervil, i Cucumber. Sorrel. 1. Shred finely a small handful of sorrel, four lettuces, one onion, two and a half inches in diameter, a sprig of chervil, and one small cucumber sliced. 2. Place the vegetables, except the chervil, in a stewpan with one and a half ounce of butter, and a little flour. 3. Simmer and stir for ten minutes over a quiet fire 4. Put into a large basin a full tablespoonful of E 2Buckmaster s Cookery. 100 flour. 5. Add two quarts of white stock, and thoroughly mix. The liquor in which a fowl has been boiled, free from fat, will do quite well; th& stock may, however, be made with beef or mutton, but the soup will not be so white. 6. Add the stock to the contents of the stewpan. 7. Stir frequently till it comes to the boil. 8. Add a small teaspoonful of loaf-sugar. 9. Skim and stand it aside to simmer for fifteen minutes. 10. Just before serving add the the chopped chervil, and a milk or cream liaison. Precautions.—Do not burn, or brown, the vege- tables. 1. Take two lettuces, two leaves of sorrel, four sprigs of tarragon, four sprigs of chervil, and wash them well in cold water. 2. Remove these vegetables and herbs and dry them. 3. Put them upon the board and shred them finely. 4. Take half a cu- cumber, peel it, cut it up in thin slices, and shred it with a sharp knife. 5. Put half an ounce of butter in a stewpan, and put it over the fire to melt. 6. Place all the shredded vegetables and herbs in the stewpan to sweat for five minutes. 7. Sprinkle over them a little salt and a saltspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar. 8. Stir the vegetables occasionally with a wooden BONNE FEMME SOUP (2). TO MAKE ONE QUART. Ingredients. 2 Lettuces. 2 leaves of Sorrel. 4 sprigs of Tarragon. 4 sprigs of Chervil. ^ a Cucumber. \ oz. of Butter. pint of White Stock. Yolks of 3 Eggs, i gill of Cream or Milk. The crust of a French Roll.IOI Soups. spoon to prevent burning. 5. Add four pints of spoon to prevent them discolouring or turning. 9. Take a pint and a half of white stock and put it in another stewpan and place it over the fire to boil. 10. Make a liaison; (a) Put the yolks of three eggs into a basin and beat them well; (b) Stir in one gill of vream, and well mix. 11. Bring to the boil, and well skim. 12. Pour the stock into the stewpan which contains the vegetables. 13. Boil gently for ten minutes. 14. Remove the stewpan to the side of the fire. 15. Cut the crust off a stale French roll. 16. Cut the crust of the roll into small pieces or fancy shapes. 17. Put the crust on a tin in the oven to dry for a minute or two. 18. Now the stock has cooled a little, pour the liaison into it through a hair sieve, stirring the soup all the time. 19. Put them into a hot soup-tureen, and pour the soup over them. Precautions.—Great care must be taken to pre- vent the vegetables discolouring or burning, and the soup must not boil after adding the liaison, SOUP MAIGRE. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 3 Turnips. 3 Carrots. Celery. 3 Onions. 1 \ oz. of Butter. f pint of Green Peas. 1. Melt slowly in a clean stewpan about one and a half ounces of butter. 2. Add two onions, a quarter of a head of celery, two small carrots, and two turnips, all coarsely shredded. 3. Stew the vegetables in the butter for fifteen or twenty minutes until they are nicely browned. 4. Stir frequently with a woodenBuck-master's Cookery. 102 boiling water, and, if at the proper season, three- quarters of a pint of green peas and six white pepper- corns. 6. When the vegetables are quite tender let the soup stand for a few minutes to clear. 7. Strain into another stewpan. 8. Boil and add an onion, quarter of head of celery, a carrot and a turnip cut into fillets, or into wheels or into stars, with a vege- \ Uble cutter. When these vegetables are sufficiently cooked, the soup is ready. If necessary, season with pepper and salt. A liaison is an improvement. Precautions.—Cleanliness, tender vegetables, and good butter are essential. Stir occasionally to prevent burning. VEGETABLE MARROW SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 5 Vegetable Marrows. Stock. 1. Take five young vegetable marrows, about six inches in length, the green variety is best. 2. Pare and remove the seeds. 3. Cut into small pieces of an equal size. 4. Boil in about four pints of stock. 5. When sufficiently soft strain through a sieve into another stewpan. 6. Make the marrows into a puree and return it to the stock. 7. Boil separately half a pint of cream. 8. Add it to the soup. 9. Thoroughly mix and serve. A milk and egg liaison may be used instead of cream. Precautions.—Take care to remove all the seeds.Soups. 103 LEEK SOUP. TO MAKE ONE QUART. ' Ingredients. 6 Leeks. I French Roll. Potatoes. 1. Trim and wash six leeks, weighing altogether about six or seven ounces. 2. Cut them into pieces an inch long, and half an inch thick. 3. Put a little butter into a stewpan. 4. Add the leeks and cook till they are of a light brown colour. 5. Add one quart of warm water, a pinch of pepper and salt. 6. Let them come to the boil. 7. Simmer for about twenty minutes. 8. Cut a French roll into slices a quarter of an inch thick. 9. Divide each into four parts, and put into the tureen. Prepare a milk liaison, add it to the soup and then serve. To convert this into a potato and leek soup add, after pepper and salt, a quarter of a pound of sliced potatoes and let the whole boil gently till the potatoes are soft enough to make into a puree. Precautions.—Carefully fry the vegetables. ONION SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 10 oz. of Onions. 1. Take of onions ten ounces. 2. Cut them into slices. 3. Blanch them in boiling water. 4. Take a stewpan and melt one ounce and a half of butter. 5. Add the onions and stir till they are of a light brown colour. 6. Thicken with a tablespoonful of flour. 7. Stir for five minutes. 8. Add four pints of104 Buckmasters Cookery. boiling water, and salt and pepper to taste. 9. Stir frequently till it comes to the boil. 10. Let the contents simmer for five or ten minutes. 11. Put into the soup tureen a few slices of dried bread and about one ounce of butter in small pieces. Pour the soup in gently, stirring all the time to dissolve the butter. This soup may be improved with a liaison. As a rule all seasoning should be added just before serving. Precautions.—Be careful to have good onions well boiled. Omit the butter if a liaison is used. SPANISH SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 4 Onions. Spinach. Bread Raspings, i Lettuce. Celery. Endive. Bouquet garni. 1. Thicken two quarts of water in a stewpan with bread raspings. These may be prepared by baking in an oven odd crusts of bread to a crisp brown colour. Then reduce to powder and pass through a sieve, and keep in a dry place in a dry stoppered bottle. 2. Take four or five onions, two inches in diameter. 3. Cut each into six pieces and add to the water and bread raspings, with a little pepper and salt and a small bouquet garni. 4. Cover the saucepan closely and boil for an hour and a quarter. 5. Strain the contents into a basin. 6. Shred a quarter head of celery, one small lettuce, half head of endive, six leaves of spinach, and dry them in a clean cloth. 7. Fry them then in butter. 8. Melt an ounce of butter in a three-quart stewpan. 9. Stir in someSoups. J05 parts into boiling water, with a little salt. 5. Blanch flDur till nicely browned. 10. Add the shredded vegetables; and in five minutes add the soup. 11. Boil till they are tender. 12. Skim. 13. Pour into a soup tureen over fingers of fried bread. Precautions.— Be careful to dry the vegetables before frying. SPANISH ONION SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. Spanish Onion. 1. Melt in a stewpan one ounce of butter or sweet dripping. 2. Add one large Spanish onion (shredded), and one and a half ounce of wheat flour or pea flour. 3. Stir for ten minutes. 4. Add four pints of boiling water, a little salt and pepper. 5. Skim, and boil till the onions are thoroughly cooked. 6. Add a milk or cream liaison. 7. Cut up some pieces of bread and put in the tureen. 8. Pour over the soup and serve. A few pieces of butter in the tureen are an improvement. Precautions.—Avoid boiling quickly, and let the onions be tender. ASPARAGUS SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. Asparagus. Stock. 1. Take a good bundle of fresh green asparagus 2. Remove all the tender parts and points. 3. Put the points aside for the soup. 4. Plunge the otherBuckmaster's Cookery. io6 them for three minutes. 6. Drain over a colander. 7. Take a clean three-quart stewpan and melt one ounce of butter with one ounce of flour. 8. Add the blanched asparagus. 9. Stir the contents for five minutes. 10. Add two quarts of good white stock. 11. Simmer till the asparagus is tender. 12. Strain into another stewpan. 13. Make a puree of the aspa- ragus. 14. Return the puree to the soup. 15. Boil steadily for fifteen or twenty minutes. 16. Skim. 17. Boil the asparagus points in salt and water. 18. Pour the soup into the tureen and add the asparagus points, To make the soup much better, mix in the tureen one ounce of butter or a gill of cream. Well stir when pouring in the soup. Precautions.'—The asparagus must not be tough or stringy, and the points not broken. POTATO PUREE. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of Potatoes. I oz. of Putter. X gill of Cream. I small Onion. 2 pts. of White Stock. Fried Bread. I stick of Celeiy. 1. Take two pounds of potatoes, put them in a basin of cold water, and scrub them clean with a scrubbing-brush. 2. Peel the potatoes with a sharp knife, and cut them in thin slices. 3. Take a small onion, wash it well in cold water, and peel it. 4. Wash one stick of celery. 5. Put one ounce of butter in a stewpan. 6. Now place the sliced potatoes, onion, and celery in the stewpan. 7. Place the stewpan over the fire and let the vegetables sweat for five minutes 8. Pour one pint of white stock over the vegetablesSoups. 107 into the stewpan, and stir frequently with a wooden spoon to prevent burning. 9. Boil gently till the vegetables are quite cooked. 10. Now place a hair sieve over a basin and pour the contents of the stew- pan through it; the vegetables must be pressed through the sieve with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees one pint of hot white stock to enable them to pass through more easily. 11. Pour the puree back into the stewpan. 12. Add salt to taste, also a quarter of a pint of cream, and stir with a wooden spoon until it boils. 13. Pour it into a hot soup- tureen and serve with fried crotitons of bread. Precautions.—Take care the vegetables do not discolour. POOR MAN’S SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. $ lb. of Potatoes. 6 oz. of Onions. Parsley. 1. Shred six ounces of onions, and put them into a clean saucepan, with one ounce of butter or dripping or skimmings of saucepans. 2. Cook to a pale-brown colour, constantly stirring. 3. Add one ounce of flour, and cook it for five minutes in the dripping. 4. Add four pints of boiling water and stir till it boils up. 5. Skim. 6. Add half a pound of mealy po- tatoes, shredded or cut into small slices. 7. Boil till they are tender. 8. Add pepper and salt and a des- sert-spoonful of chopped parsley. 9. Boil up, and pour into the tureen over half-inch squares of bread. This soup can be made very nourishing by using oat- meal or peameal instead of flour. A milk liaison isBuckmaster s Cookery. io8 1. Wash thoroughly a nice white-heart cabbage. a valuable addition to this soup, or pieces of butter in the soup tureen. Precautions.—See that the fat and onions do not burn or get too dark a colour. If too thick, add a little more water. CABBAGE SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 or 3 Savoys or Cabbages. I quart of Milk. i teacup full of Scotch Oatmeal or Scotch Barley. 3 lbs. of fresh Bones. 1. Take two young cabbages and well wash them in salt and water. 2. Cut them across in pieces about three quarters of an inch in length. 3. Put them into a clean saucepan with a quart of water and three pennyworth of fresh bones. 4. Boil up. 5. Skim and boil for four hours. 6. Remove the bones. 1. Beat up to a smooth paste, to the consistency of cream, a teacupful of oatmeal with milk. 2. Add suf- ficient milk to make a quart. 3. Stir it into the soup. 4. Boil for half an hour, constantly stirring. 5. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Some meal thickens more than others. If too thick, add more water. The first part of this can be prepared over night. Precautions.—After adding the oatmeal constant attention is necessary. SOUP AUX CHOUX. Ingredients. Cabbage. Milk. Butter.Soups. 109 2. Let it lie in salt and water half an hour. 3. Put on three pints of water to boil. 4. Rinse the cabbage in fresh water. 5. Cut it up as you would lettuce for a salad. 6. When the water boils put in the cabbage, with two ounces of butter and a half of a teaspoonful of salt. 7. Boil one hour. 8. Skim when necessary. 9. Cut up some bread into dice. 10. Put it in the oven to dry, then put it into your soup-tureen. 11. Add half a pint of milk and two ounces more butter to the soup. 12. Pepper and salt to taste. 13. Pour it on to the bread, and it is ready. Precautions.—Be sure the cabbage is free from insects, do not cut it too fine. CABBAGE AND BACON SOUP TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 or 3 Savoys or Cabbages. Bouquet garni, f lb. of Bacon. 1. Take two or three young summer cabbages or savoys, remove the outside leaves. 2. Wash them in plenty of salt and water. 3. Cut them across into pieces three quarters of an inch in length, and remove the hard stalk. 4. Take three quarters of a pound of fat bacon or salt-pork, scrape it clean. 5. Cut it down to the rind into fillets three-quarters of an inch in section, do not cut the rind which is to hold the meat together; the fillets are easily removed with the ladle when serving the soup. 6. Place the bacon rind downwards in the saucepan. 7. Add a muslin bag with a teaspoonful of whole pepper, two cloves and three allspice, and a bouquet garni. 8. Add the cab-I 10 Buckmaster s Cookery. bage. 9. Cover well with cold water. 10. Let it come to the boil. 11. Skim. 12. Let the contents simmer till the cabbages are tender. Towards thi end, add salt if necessary. Serve with slices of bread in the tureen. Precautions.—Young cabbages and young bacon, MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Ingredients. Calf’s Head. Carrots. Eschalots. Butter. Knuckle of Veal. Turnip. Herbs. Sherry. Ham. Leelc. Lemon. 1. Take half a calf’s head, bone it, and blanch for ten minutes. 2. Butter a stock pot. 3. Place in a rasher of lean ham cut up, a knuckle of veal of two pounds and the calf’s head. 4. Then two carrots, one turnip, one leek, and two eschalots, a small bouquet garni and salt. 5. Let it simmer gently in three quarts of water till the head is tender, it will take about three hours. 6. Remove the head, and when cold cut it into neat squares. 7. Strain the stock, which should be reduced to two quarts. 8. Add one ounce of butter, two ounces of flour to thicken it. 9. Let it boil and throw up all scum. 10. Add two glasses of sherry, the juice of half a lemon, and the pieces of head previously cut up. 11. Then put in one dozen forcemeat balls, very small ones. Precautions.—Do not boil the soup after adding the forcemeat balls.111 OX-TAIL SOUP (1). TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 Ox-tails. Bouquet garni. Carrot. Onions. Stock. 1. Take two ox-tails of average size. 2. Cut them up at the joints, as nearly as possible into pieces of the same bulk. 3. Put them into cold water with a little salt. 4. Let them remain two hours to remove the blood. 5. Drain and dry them in a clean cloth. 6. Put them into a three-quart stewpan with two ounces of butter, and a few pieces of lean beef. 7. Cook till nicely browned. 8. Add two quarts of stock or water, one onion with two cloves stuck in it, and a bouquet garni. 9. Bring to the boil. 10. Skim. 11. Simmer for three or four hours till the meat will remove easily from the bones. 12. While the soup is simmering slice three young carrots, and cook them with fifteen button-onions in a little stock. 13. Take the pieces of tail from the soup, remove the bones, and put the meat only into the tureen with the carrots and onions and strain the soup over, and serve. Precautions.—Careful cooking in the butter, and tender carrots are required, and the meat cut into shapely pieces. 1. Cut up two ox-tails at the joints, and soak for OX-TAIL SOUP (2). 2 Ox-tails. Onion. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 Carrots. Celery. Stock. Bouquet garni.Buckmasier’s Cookery. 112 two hours in water with a little salt to remove the blood. 2. Dry the pieces in a clean cloth. 3. Pul them into a stewpan with two ounces of butter, and cook till the pieces are nicely browned. 4. Add a tablespoonful of flour and stir for five minutes. 5. Strain in three pints of stock or water. 6. Tie up two small leeks, a bunch of parsley, small heads of celery, two bay leaves, thyme and eschalot into a faggot. 7. Slice two young carrots. 8. Add one onion, with two cloves, a little pepper and salt 9. Simmer for three hours. 10. Skim, strain and serve. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. Ingredients. 2lb. tin of calf’s head. 2 lbs. of Australian Mutton. 2 Apples. 2 Leeks. 2 Carrots, I turnip. 2 Good-sized onions. 2 Tablespoonsful of flour, i Tablespoonful of curry powder. Salt and sugar. 1. Open a 2lb. tin of Australian mutton. 2. Remove all the fat from the top of the meat. 3. Put the mutton in a basin, with two quarts of warm water. 4. Peel two apples. 5. Cut them into slices, and put them into a saucepan with two ozs. of the clarified fat. 6. Take one turnip and two good-sized onions, peel them, cut them in pieces, and put them in the saucepan. 7. Put the saucepan on the fire, find occasionally stir the vegetables with a wooden spoon. 8. Take two leeks, wash them in cold water, and cut off the green tops, cut them up, and put them in the saucepan. 9. Take two carrots, wash, scrape, and cut them in pieces, and put them in the sauce- pan. 10. Stir the vegetables together, and let themfry for ten minutes; add a bouquet garni. 11. When the vegetables have fried for ten minutes take half a pint of the liquor (in which the meat is soaking), pour it into the saucepan, and let it boil to a quarter of a pint. 12. Stir the vegetables occasionally. 13. Put two tablespoonsful of flour and one tablespoonful of curry powder into a basin, and mix them into a smooth paste with one gill (-£ pint) of the liquor. 14. Stir this into the saucepan with the vegetables. 15. Put the meat and the liquor into the saucepan, and let it come to the boil. 16. When it boils add a little salt and moist sugar. 17. Move the saucepan to the side of the fire and let it simmer for two hours and a half. 18. Watch it, and skim it. 19. Strain off the soup into a basin. 20. Put it back into the saucepan, and add a two lb. tin of calf’s head. GIBLET SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 sets of Giblets. Bouquet garni. 1. Scald and pick very clean two sets of goose, or four of duck giblets (the fresher the better). 2. Wash them well in two or three warm waters. 3. Cut off the beaks and split the heads. 4. Divide the gizzards and necks into one-inch pieces. If the gizzards are not cut into small pieces, the rest of the meat will be done too much. 5. Crack the bones of the legs, and put all into a stewpan. 6. Add four pints of cold water. 7. Let it come to boil and take off the scum. 8. Add a bouquet garni. 9. Tie up ten berries of all- spice, twenty of black pepper in a muslin bag. 10. Simmer till the gizzards are tender. This will take114 • Buckmaster s Cookery. from an hour and a half to two hours and a half, according to the size and age of the giblets. 11. When tender, take them up and put them into the tureen, and cover down close to keep warm till the soup is ready. 12. Melt an ounce of butter in a clean stewpan, stir in a dessert-spoonful of flour. 13. Add by little a gill or half a pint of the giblet liquor. 14. Gradually add the remainder. 15. Boil for ten minutes, stirring it all the time. 16. Skim it. 17. Strain it through a fine sieve into a basin. 18. Wash out the stewpan. 19. Pour the soup into it, and season with a little mushroom catsup and salt. 20. Boil up. 21. Add the giblets, and the soup is ready. Precautions.—Young giblets and freedom from scum and fat are essential. SOUP MA1GRE (1), OR VEGETABLE SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 2 pints of Green Peas. Bouquet garni. Bread raspings. Sugar. i Lettuce. Parsley, i Leek. Celery. 1. Put two quarts of water into a clean saucepan. 2. Add a pint and a half of green peas, a bouquet garni, page 2g, a tablespoonful of bread raspings, a very small piece of mace, a little pepper and salt, three cloves, and a small teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar. 3. Simmer for two hours. 4. Strain into another stewpan. 5. Add another half-pint of fresh-boiled peas. 6. Fry lightly in some butter the coarsely shredded heart of one lettuce, a little chopped parsley, one leek, half-ounce of celery. 7. Add these to theSoups. ii5 soup. 8. Simmer till tender. 9. Pour into the tureen, and serve. Precautions.—Tender vegetables and careful frying are essential. SOUP MAIGRE (2), OR VEGETABLE SOUP. TO MAKE THREE PINTS. Ingredients. 3 Onions. 2 small Turnips. 2 small Carrots. A new Roll. Oatmeal. Dried Herbs. 1. Shred three good-sized onions. 2. Fry them to a nice brown colour in an ounce and a half of sweet dripping or butter. 3. Put them into a saucepan with three pints of water. 4. Cut into small slices one large or two small turnips and the same of carrots. 5. Add them to the onions, with a pinch of dried herbs, pepper and salt. 6. Simmer three hours without the lid. 7. Thicken with a spoonful of flour or oatmeal. 8. Boil ten minutes. 9. Serve with pulled bread. Pulled Bread.—Take a new roll, pull it in half, tear out the crumb in small pieces with a fork, put them into the oven until crisp. Precautions.—Young turnips and sweet dripping are necessary, and the onions carefully fried. POTATO AND LEEK SOUP. » Ingredients. Ground Tapioca. Milk. Potatoes. Leeks. Butter. 1. Peel four large potatoes, trim two good-sized leeks. 2. Cut up the potatoes and leeks. 3. Putn6 Buckmaster’s Cookery. into a clean saucepan three pints of water and boil the vegetables till they are soft enough to pulp. 4. Rub the vegetables through a fine wire sieve. 5. Return the puree and water into the saucepan. 6. Add half a pint of skim milk and two ounces of sweet butter. 7. When just on the boil shake in two ounces of crushed tapioca. 8. Stir and boil for ten minutes. 9. Season with pepper and salt. Precautions.—Well wash the vegetables. Be careful to shake in the tapioca, gradually stirring all the time to prevent lumping. FISH SOUP. TO MAKE ONE QUART. Ingredients. I pair of Soles. Celery. Parsley. i Onion. 1. Skin and fillet a pair of soles. 2. Cut out of the fillets with a cutter, pieces the size of a penny. 3. Put the head bones and all the trimmings into a saucepan, with one quart of stock, a large handful of parsley, a piece of celery, one onion stuck with two cloves, a blade of mace, and pepper and salt to taste. 4. Let this boil slowly from three to four hours. 5. Skim and strain the liquor. 6. Put it on the fire again, and when it boils put in the cut pieces of sole. 7. When they are cooked take them out, and put them into the soup tureen with a little chopped. parsley (blanched). 8. Strain the soup into the tureen, and serve. Precautions.—If the pieces of fish remain in the soup longer than is necessary they will break.117 Soups. MACARONI AND VERMICELLI SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. 3 oz. of Vermicelli. Parmesan Cheese. Stock. 1. Take four ounces of vermicelli and blanch foi five minutes in boiling water with a little salt. 2. Drain in a colander. 3. When cold plunge it into four pints of boiling stock. 4. Skim. 5. Simmer gently for ten minutes, with frequent stirring, and it is ready. Rice, tapioca, sago, and all macaroni soups are prepared in the same way. When macaroni proper is used, it should be wiped with a clean cloth, boiled, and cut into one-inch lengths before adding to the boiling stock. Some boil the vermicelli or maca- roni or pastes separately in boiling stock or water, drain, and put into the tureen, and pour over the boiling stock. Vermicelli and all pastes for soups are varieties of macaroni, and should be of the best quality. A plate of grated Parmesan cheese should be served with these soups. Precautions.—Be careful to have the vermicelli done, but not too soft by over boiling. TAPIOCA SOUP. Ingredients. Stock. Tapioca. 1. Take three tablespoonfuls of tapioca to every quart of stock. 2. When it boils shake in the tapioca, stirring it continually with a wooden spoon. 3. Boil a quarter of an hour, and serve. Precautions.—Stir when adding the tapioca, which should be crushed fine before using.Buckmasler s Cookery. i IS CLEAR GRAVY SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. A lb. of Ham. 2 Onions 2lb. of lean Beef. 2 small Turnips, 2 lb. of Veal. 2 Carrots. 2 lb. of Bones. 1. Cut the ham into slices and lay it at the bottom of a clean stewpan with the beef and veal cut into pieces. 2. Place the bones, then the vegetables which should be previously blanched, and spices. 3. Cover the stewpan closely and place it over a brisk fire. 4. When the meat begins to stick turn it. 5. When there is a nice brown glaze at the bottom of the stew- pan add three pints of hot water. 6. As it comes to the boil, skim. 7. Add a pint of cold water and skim again, and finally another pint. 8. Remove all the scum. 9. Season with salt and very little cayenne. 10. Let the contents now simmer for four hours. 11. Strain through a tammy sieve into a basin. 12. When cold remove all the fat. 13. When required for use be careful not to disturb the sediment. Precautions.—Be very particular with the skim- ming and the removal of the fat. The vegetables should be fresh. CLEAR SOUP. TO MAKE TWO QUARTS. Ingredients. Stock. Gravy Beef. Carrots. Turnips. Leeks. Cabbage Lettuce. Green Peas. Eggs. 1. Put two quarts of stock free from fat into a stew- X head of Celery. 3 Cloves, i blade of Mace.T IQ Soups. pan. 2. Cut lip finely on a board three-quarters of a pound of lean shin of beef. 3. Remove all the fat and skin. 4. Add the beef to the stock in the stew- pan. 5. Well wash in cold water one young carrot, one turnip, and one leek. 6. Remove the vegetables from the water. 7. Scrape the carrot and cut it into thin slices on a board. S. Peel the turnip and cut it into quarters. 9. Cut each quarter into slices about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 10. Cut off the green leaves of the leek and all the fibres at the root. 11. Cut into quarters the remainder of the leek. 12. Add all the vegetables to the stock. 13. Stir with a wooden spoon till the beef, stock, and vegetables are well mixed, and continue stirring till the contents come to the boil. 14. Stand the stewpan aside to simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. 15. Strain the soup through a clean soup cloth into a large basin. 16. When the soup has passed through remove the basin and substitute another. 17. With a tea-cup or soup ladle pour small quantities at a time over the meat in the cloth so that it passes through the filter slowly and be careful not to disturb the meat at the bottom of the cloth while the soup is filtering through. 18. Well wash in cold water one small young carrot, one turnip, half a leek, or a few spring onions, one cabbage lettuce, and a tablespoonful of young peas. 19. Scrape the carrot and peal the turnip. 20. Shred all the vegetables finely into equal lengths. 21. Put into a small saucepan the shredded carrot, turnip and leek or onions. 22. Cover with cold water and add a small pinch of salt 23. Let the contents just come to the boil. 24. Strain off theI 20 Buckmastcrs Cookery. water, the vegetables are now blanched. 25. Put the blanched vegetables into a stewpan, also the cabbage lettuce and peas, add a iump of sugar and half a pint of the filtered soup. 26. Reduce the soup to a glaze by boiling quickly at first and then gradually slackening the hear. 27. Stir occasionally. 28. When the vege- tables are covered with a glaze add the filtered soup, and let the contents just come to the boil. 29. Stand the stewpan aside to slightly boil for half an hour, and the soup is ready. This soup may be served with the shredded vegetables warmed in a little stock, or it is sometimes served with a savoury custard which is prepared as follows :— 1. Take the yolks of two eggs and the white of one egg and put them in a pint basin, add half a gill of the soup and a saltspoonful of salt. 2. Whisk well to- gether. 3. Butter evenly the inside of a gallipot. 4. Pour the mixture into the gallipot. 5. With the back edge of a knife butter a piece of kitchen paper large enough to cover the gallipot. 6. Tie the buttered paper over the top of the gallipot same as for pre- serve. 7. Take a saucepan of hot water and when it just comes to the boil stand in the gallipot; the water should not touch the paper. 8. Simmer for a quarter of an hour, if it is allowed to boil the custard is spoilt. 9. Remove the gallipot, take off the paper, and turn the custard on to a plate. 10. Cut the custard into diamonds or fancy shapes. 11. Boil up the soup and pour it into a hot tureen. 12. Add the savoury custard to the soup in the tureen, and serve. Precautions.—Be careful not to boil the water in which you cook the custard.Hashed Mutton. 121 HASHED MUTTON. Ingredients. 2 Eschalots. Cold Mutton. Tomato Sauce. Bouquet garni. I oz. of Butter. Walnut Ketchup. 1. Cut up neatly from a leg of mutton or other joint all the meat in slices of about the same size. 2. Remove all the fat, skin and bone, and every piece which is burned or blackened by the fire, or the hash will have a strong disagreeable flavour. The parts not used for hash may go into the stock-pot. 3. Melt in a quart stewpan one ounce of sweet butter, add two finely minced eschalots and a dessert- spoonful of flour, and stir for five minutes, or till it is brown. 4. Now add two gills of stock, salt if neces- sary, half a teaspoonful of whole pepper, one clove, three allspice, a small bouquet garni, a teaspoonful of walnut ketchup, or half the quantity of Worcester sauce, and a tablespoonful of tomato sauce. 5. Stir continually till the contents come to the boil. 6. Boil five minutes. 7. Strain into another stewpan, and let the sauce cool before adding the meat, or it will harden. 8. When cold lay in the pieces of meat. 9. Place the stewpan over the fire, occasionally shake, but be careful not to let the hash boil. 10. As soon as the meat is sufficiently warmed through, serve with sippets of bread fried in butter or dripping. Precautions.—Do not allow any of the fat, tough skin, or gristle to go into the hash, and only let the meat be warmed through in the sauce.Buckmaster s Cookery. 12 2 IRISH STEW. Ingredients. A Neck of Mutton. 6 Onions. Potatoes. 1. Take a neck of mutton, trim off most of the fat, and cut into as many cutlets as you have bones; shape them, and sprinkle them with pepper. 2. Peel six moderate-sized onions ; and for every pound of meat take one pound of potatoes. 3. Blanch or parboil (which is the same thing) the vegetables sepa- rately, and cut them into slices. 4. Take a clean three-quart stewpan, and add half a pint of water or stock. 5. Arrange a layer of potatoes at the bottom of the stewpan, then cutlets, then onions; then potatoes, then cutlets, then onions; and finish the top with a good layer of potatoes. A rasher or two of bacon or ham is a valuable addition. 6. Stew very slowly till the cutlets are done. 7. Have sufficient stock or water to prevent the stew from burning. Scrag end, or inferior pieces of meat, or the remains of previously cooked meat, may be used; and if the mutton is not very fat, add a little butter or dripping to the contents of the stewpan. HUNTER’S PIE. Mash the potatoes, arrange the meat and onions in an earthenware pie-dish, same as for Irish stew. The top of the potatoes should be covered with greased paper, or they will bum before the meat is cooked. The top may be glazed with white of egg, or the pie may be baked in a mould. Mashed potatoes make a good pastry for layers of meat.Hashes and Stews. 123 Precautions.—Keep the lid very close for the Irish Stew. Do not let the stew or pie be greasy, and be careful as to the partial cooking of the vegetables. STEWED EELS. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of Eels. Bouquet garni. Lemon reel. 2 Onions. 1oz. of Butter. Stock. 1. Skin, and cut into pieces about two inches in length, two pounds of eels. 2. Wash in salt and water, and dry in a cloth. 3. Take a three-pint stew- pan, put into it one ounce and a half of butter, one onion shredded finely. 4. Add a little flour, pepper, and salt. 5. Add the pieces of eel, and fry to a nice colour, with constant stirring. 6. Add a half pint or three gills of good stock; flavour with a bay-leaf or a small bouquet garni and a little lemon-peel. 7. Simmer gently till the eels are done. 8. Take them out and arrange on a dish. 9. Strain over the sauce, and serve with toasted bread cut into triangles and arranged round the edge of the dish. Precautions.—The stew requires constant atten: tion, and must only simmer. HOTCH-POTCH. Ingredients. Neck or Scrag of Mutton. 1 Pint of Green Peas. 3 Onions. 5 Carrots. 3 Turnips. 1 Lettuce. Cauliflower. Scotch Barley. Stock. 1. Grate rather coarsely two young carrots. 2. Slice three carrots, three turnips, and three onions. 3. Shred one lettuce and a bunch of parsley, alto-124 Buck-master s Cookery. gether say a quart. 4. Take a pint of green peas when shelled, and the sprigs of a cauliflower. 5. Put aside half the peas in a basin. 6. Have ready in a clean stewpan three pints of mutton stock or broth. 7. Put in all the vegetables except the peas in the basin. 8. Have ready cutlets as for Irish stew, and put them in the stewpan. 9. Let the contents come slowly to a boil. 10. Skim and add two ounces ot pearl barley or rice, previously blanched in a little water or stock, and simmer till the meat is ready. 11. Skim and season with white pepper and half a tea- spoonful of pounded loaf sugar. 12. Boil the remain- ing peas separately, and add them the moment of serving. Hotch potch should be thick. Precautions.—Young vegetables are very neces- sary in preparing a good hotch-potch. STEWED PIGEONS (1). Ingredients. 3 Pigeons. £ lb. of Bacon. Mushrooms. Butter. Onions. Stock. 1. Take three house pigeons (they are the best), draw, pick, and singe them. 2. Put the livers inside, and truss them with legs inward. If the pigeons are large you may divide them into halves. 3. Take half a pound of streaky bacon, remove the rind, and cut it into one inch dice. 4. Fry the bacon in one ounce of butter in a stewpan to a light brown. 5. Remove it, and put in the pigeons and fry also to a light brown. 6. Take out the pigeons and put them on a plate. 7. Thicken the butter in the stewpan with flour. 8. Add a pint of stock with a feAV button125 Hashes and Stews. mushrooms or ketchup. 9. Season with pepper and salt. 10. Stir till it comes to the boil. 11. Strain into a basin. 12. Rinse out the stewpan with a little hot water. 13. Put in the pigeons, breasts down- wards, with the gravy and bacon and a bouquet garni. 14. Add ten button onions previously blanched and fried in a little butter to a nice brown. 15. Simmer half an hour. 16. Take out the pigeons, put them on a dish. 17. Bring the sauce to a boil, skim, and strain it over the pigeons. 18. Garnish with the onions, bacon, and mushrooms. Instead of onions and mushrooms garnish with green peas or French beans. Precautions.—It will be necessary occasionally to move the pigeons in the stewpan, or they are liable to burn. STEWED PIGEONS (2). Ingredients. 3 Pigeons. Bacon. Stock. Bechamel Sauce. Proceed as already described. 1. Cut off the heads and necks of three house pigeons, truss them, and tie round each of them a rasher of fat bacon. 2. Put them breast downwards into a stewpan with a little rich stock. 3. Keep the lid closed. 4. Simmer twenty minutes. 5. Put them on a dish. 6. Remove the string and pour some Bechamel sauce, page 167, over the pigeons, and serve with French beans or other vegetables. Some cooks divide the pigeons into halves before stewing. Precautions.—Young pigeons are necessary.126 Buckmaster's Cookery. STEWED FOWLS. Ingredients. i Fowl. Mushrooms. 4 oz. of Tomatoes, x pint of Stock. 1 Onion. Parsley. 1. Prepare and cut up at the joints a fowl or chicken. 2. Take a six-pint stewpan, melt two ounces of butter, and fry in it for five minutes one ounce of sliced carrot, and one sliced onion, stirring with a wooden spoon. 3. Put in the pieces of fowl with a little pepper and salt. 4. Dredge in one tablespoon- ful of flour stirring so as to thoroughly mix with the butter. 5. Add at three intervals about a pint of good stock, and four ounces of picked tomatoes with the skins and seeds removed, and broken in pieces. 6. Stir. 7. Let it come slowly to the boil. 8. Skim and simmer. 9. Add six button mushrooms cut into slices, and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley. 10. Let it come to the boil. 11. Simmer for fifteen minutes. 12. Skim, baste, and serve. Precautions.—Fresh tomatoes and mushrooms are essential. STEWED RABBITS. Ingredients. I Rabbit. $ lb. of Bacon. Onions. Mushrooms. Lemon. 1. Cut up a young rabbit into small joints, and put them aside. 2. Take half a pound of streaky bacon, and cut it into one inch cubes. 3. Melt in a clean stewpan one ounce and a half of butter, or sweet dripping. 4. Add the bacon, and when lightly fried add the pieces of rabbit, and fry to a nice brown,127 Hashes and Stews. constantly stirring the whole with a wooden spoon. 5. Dredge in a tablespoonful of flour, work it well. 6. Add at short intervals water or stock, stirring all the time till the pieces are just covered. 7. Season with pepper and salt, and a small piece of lemon peel. 8. Simmer slowly for twenty minutes. 9. Then add a dozen button onions and six mushrooms, both pre- viously blanched. When the rabbit is done, take it out, and arrange it on a dish. 10. Boil the sauce, which should just coat the wooden spoon. 11. Pour it over the rabbit. A small bouquet garni is some- times added. Precautions.—The rabbit must be young, and neither burn nor boil. The flavouring should be delicate, and the sauce free from fat. STEWED BREAST OF VEAL. Ingredients. Breast of Veal. 16 Oysters. Lemon. 6 Button Mushrooms. 1. Cut off the neck, and remove the bone from a breast of veal, and stew them for stock. 2. Stuff the thin part of the breast with some savoury forcemeat, page 278 and 166, 3. Secure the stuffing nicely by sewing or with skewers. 4. When nearly cold put in the veal and simmer for two hours in the stock. 5. Take a pint of the stock and make a sauce, thicken it with a little flour. 6. Remove the beards from six oysters, stew them, and cut them up and add to the sauce. Mince twelve button mushrooms, and add them and a dozen of white peppercorns. 7. Strain the sauce hot over the veal. 8. Garnish with slices of128 Buckmaster s Cookery, lemon and forcemeat balls. 9. Cream, wine, truffles, ketchup, anchovy, are all occasionally put into this dish, Precautions.—The stock should be made some time and allowed to cool before putting in the veal. 1. Take two pounds of beefsteak; or, better, rump- steak an inch and a half in thickness. 2. Cut off the skin and fat. 3. Beat it with the flat side of a chopper, or, what is better, a kreatone, which is an instrument invented by a medical man at Chester to make steaks tender, and which may be used for such purposes with advantage. 4. Cut your steak into convenient pieces. 5. Put them into a stewpan to brown with two ounces of butter, when brown on the one side turn it to the other. 6. Cut into thin slices two onions and two young carrots. 7. Cut into quarter inch dice two young, turnips, or cut them into shapes with a vegetable. 8. Put them all into the stewpan with the steak. 9. When the steak is browned strain off the butter and pour in three gills of cold water or stock. 10. Simmer slowly till the meat is tender, about an hour. 11. When half done turn the meat on the other side. 12. Season with a little pepper and salt, a little ketchup, or six button mush- rooms, or flavour the gravy with anything you prefer. 13. Take out the meat, thicken the gravy with a little flour, let it boil for ten min utes, skim, pour over the steak and serve. STEWED STEAK, Beef or Rump Steak. Turnips. Ingredients. Onions. Carrots. Mushrooms.. Hashes and Stezvs. 12 9 Garnish with the fat and vegetables prepared thus : 1. Take the pieces of fat cut off the steak and bake them on a tin dish for six minutes. 2. Then shred finely the peelings of the turnips and. carrots. 3. Boil them till tender, and place them round your dish. Any other vegetables may be used, as peas, French beans, or asparagus. Those boiled with the steak must not be used. Precautions.—The steak must stew slowly, be free from fat, and not too highly seasoned, TINNED MEAT STEW. Ingredients. Australian Meat. Onions. Ketchup. Worcester Sauce. 14 oz. of Butter. Stock. 1. Stew six onions in one ounce and a half of butter or dripping till thoroughly done. 2. Cut the meat across the grain into slices, about half an inch in thickness. 3. Divide the onions into two parts. 4. Put one part at the bottom of a clean frying-pan. 5. Season with pepper and salt. 6. Place the slices of meat on the onions; add, if you have it, a teaspoonful of ketchup or Worcester sauce. 7. Cover the meat with the remainder of the onions. 8. Put a saucepan lid on the frying-pan, and gently warm the mea> through by putting it in the oven. 9. Two table- spoonfuls of stock or water may be added, if neces- sary, to prevent the stew from being too strong. Serve with potatoes, or other vegetables. Precautions.—Remember the meat is already cooked, and must only be warmed through. The onions will be better for being parboiled before frying. F130 Buckmaster s Cookery. BROWN FRICASSEE RABBIT. Ingredients. Rabbit. Butter. Mushrooms. Onion. Eschalot. Stock. Vinegar. Harvey Sauce. Sherry. Bacon. 1. Wash and dry a young rabbit. 2. Cut it in small pieces. 3. Slightly flour each piece. 4. Season with pepper and salt. 5. Chop up fine four mush- rooms, one onion, one eschalot. 6. Cut up a few slices of bacon. 7. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan, when it boils lay in the rabbit, brown it well. 8. Take out the pieces of rabbit, lay them on some kitchen paper. 9. Put the chopped mushrooms, onions, eschalot, and bacon into the butter with one large tablespoonful of flour, and brown all well. 10. Add one pint of stock, half a tablespoonful of vinegar, one of Harvey sauce, two of sherry ; stew for ten minutes. 11. Strain the gravy. 12. Return the gravy to the stewpan and lay in the rabbit. 13. Stew gently one hour until the gravy reduces to about half a gill and becomes quite thick. 14. Fry some croutons of bread for garnish. Precautions.—Take care it does not burn. Be sure to let the gravy reduce well. Have a. young rabbit, and be careful not to boil. JUGGED HARE. Ingredients, i lb. of Beef-steak. Bacon. Bouquet garni. I Onion. Bay-leaves. 1. Cut the hare into pieces convenient for serving. .2. Place at the bottom of a stewpan, or better anHashes and Stews. *3* earthenware jar, half a pound of beefsteak, and one or two rashers of bacon or ham, a bouquet garni, an onion with three cloves, the rind of a lemon, and a little water or stock. 3. Give the inside of the jar a rub with a clove of garlic. 4, Put in the pieces of hare, and season with pepper and salt. 5. Cover very closely, if necessary, with flour-and-water paste. 6. Place the jar in a large saucepan or copper, with water up to within two inches of the top, or in a slow oven for three hours. 7. When ready, skim off the fat, take out the pieces of hare, thicken with flour, and further season the sauce if necessary. 8. Arrange the pieces of hare on a dish, pour over the hot sauce, and serve. Precautions.—Have a close-fitting lid, and a little hay or something at the bottom of the saucepan in which the jar is placed to prevent it moving over with the ebullition of the water. A bain-marie is better than an oven. CIVIT OF HARE. Ingredients Hare. Butter. Bacon. Onion. Cloves. Carrot. Celery. Eschalots. Port Wine. Stock. Suet. Lemon rind. Mushrooms. Bouquet garni. Ketchup. Herbs. I Egg. 1. Small joint the hare. 2. Dry it. 3. Slightly Jlour it. 4. Put a quarter of a pound of butter in a stewpan when it boils, lay in the pieces of hare and brown them. 5. When brown remove them. 6. Fry a quarter of a pound of bacon cut in slices. 7. Remove the bacon. 8. Brown two tablespoonfuls of flour in the pan. 9. Stir in by degrees one and a halfi32 Buckinaster s Cookery. pint of good stock. 10. Put in the hare, bacon, six mushrooms chopped fine, one onion stuck with four cloves, one carrot sliced, bouquet of herbs, small piece of celery, two eschalots, pepper, salt, half a pint of port wine, two tablespoonfuls of ketchup. 11. Stir all well together until it boils. 12. Simmer gently two hours. 13. Strain the gravy; if too much, reduce to half a pint. 14. Make a dozen forcemeat balls, thus—four ounces of bread crumbs, two ounces of suet chopped fine, pepper, salt, grated rind of half a lemon, thyme, and chopped parsley. 15. Mix together with one egg. 16. Roll into little balls. 17. Fry brown in boiling fat. 18. Lay in the hare gravy for half an hour before it is finished. 19. Serve with fried crofitons of bread. Prfxautions.—’Be careful not to have an old hare, and do not allow the balls to break. 1. Cut up with a sharp knife into small dice the remains of any cold veal. 2. Trim off all the fat, gristle, and brown parts which have seen the fire. If you have no stock, prepare a little in the following manner. 3. Take a clean stewpan, break up the bones, add the trimmings of the veal and any odd pieces in the larder (a slice of ham is acceptable), cover with water, and season with pepper and salt, a bouquet garni, a blade of mace, and fifteen pepper- MINCED VEAL. Ingredients. A Rasher of Lean Ham. White Stock, i oz. of Eutter. A Bouquet garni. Lemon. Flour.Hashes and Stews. corns, a strip or two of lemon-peel (and a small sliced carrot and onion if the flavours are liked). Let these simmer for two or three hours. 4. Strain into a basin. 5. When cold remove all the fat. 6. Melt in a stew- pan an ounce of butter. 7. Stir in a tablespoonful of flour. 8. Add the stock. 9. Boil. 10. Skim if necessary, and stand it aside to cool a little. 11. Stir in the veal. 12. Gently simmer, just sufficient to warm the meat through. 13. A spoonful of cream is an acceptable addition to the mince. Serve with toasted or fried sippets of bread. Precautions.—The careful preparation of the sauce is important, which should be the thickness of cream, and the meat should be cut into pieces of uniform size. HARICOT MUTTON (1). Ingredients. 3 lbs. of Neck of Mutton. 2 Onions. 3 Carrots. Pickles. Butter. Ketchup. 3 Turnips. Haricot properly means French beans; it now means meat cut into chops, and stewed with vege- tables. 1. Divide three pounds of the best end of neck of mutton into chops. 2. Trim and shape them, and remove the fat. 3. Cut two onions into slices. 4. Cut three moderate-sized turnips and three carrots into fancy shapes with a vegetable cutter. 5. Take a clean frying-pan, and fry the cutlets lightly in butter over a. brisk fire, but do not cook them. 6. Fry the vegetables in the same butter for three or four minutes, but do not brown them or change their colour. 7. Put the cutlets into a stewpan. 8. Lay134 Buckmaster s Cookery. the vegetables oil them. 9. Cover with stock, and let the contents come slowly to the boil. 10. Skim off all the fat. 11. Put aside to simmer for two hours. 12. Season with pepper and salt, and finish with a teaspoonful of mushroom or walnut ketchup, and mixed pickles finely minced. 13. Dish the chops in a soup-dish, pour over the gravy and vegetables, and serve. Precautions.—Freedom from fat and delicate flavouring are necessary. HARICOT MUTTON (2). Ingredients. Neck of Mutton, or the scrag end. Pint of 2nd Stock. Carrot. i Onion. Sugar. Turnips. Button Onions. Potatoes. 1. Take the best end of the neck of mutton, and put it on a board. Saw off the end of the rib, leaving the cutlet bone three inches in length. 2. Saw off the chine bone at the back of the cutlets, and joint each cutlet with the chopper. 3. Remove each cutlet with a sharp knife. 4. With a flat meat chopper, beat each cutlet to about three-quarters of an inch in thickness; moisten the side of the chopper with a little water. 5. Trim the cutlet round, scraping about half an inch of the rib bone bare. 6. Form the cutlets into a good shape. 7. Take one onion, peel it, and cut it into slices. 8. Put two ounces of butter in a stewpan, and fry the onion and cutlets a nice brown on both sides. 9. When brown, remove the cutlets, and pour away the fat from the pan. 10. Brown one tablespoonful of flour in the pan, and pour in one pint of stock; stir well until it boils. 11. Strain the sauce and return135 Hashes and Stews. it with the cutlets to the pan. 12. Wash and scrape one carrot, and cut it into fancy shapes with a cutter. 13 Peel two turnips, and cut them in quarters. 14. Carefully peel one dozen button onions. 15. Stew the cutlets gently for half an hour, then add the pre- pared vegetables, and let all simmer together for half an hour. 16. When the vegetables are tender, arrange the cutlets in a circle on a hot dish, remove all the fat from tire sauce, and pour over, placing the vegetables in the centre. The button onions are for garnish. Precautions.—Same as before. / STEWED ONIONS. Ingredients. 6 Onions. Eschalot. Parsley. Mushroom. Butter. Stock. 1. Take half a dozen large onions, peel them, and cut off the tops and bottoms, but not so that they fall into pieces. 2. Blanch them in two quarts of boiling- water for twenty minutes. 3. Drain on a colander. 4. Take out the centre of each onion and fill it with fine meat flavoured with chopped parsley, eschalot, and button mushrooms. 5. Butter the onions. 6. Put them into a stewpan with white stock. 7. Let them simmer over a slow fire. 8. Turn them over. 9. When tender and covered with a glaze, they are ready. Precautions.—Be careful in the selection of the onions, and let them stew gently.136 Buckmaster s Cookery. STEWED VEGETABLE MARROW. Ingredients. I Vegetable Marrow. Mignonette Pepper. 1 oz. of Butter. Lemon. fake a vegetable marrow, peel, trim, and remove all the seeds. Cut it into sections like an orange, melt an ounce of butter in a six-pint saucepan, put in the pieces of marrow, season well, a little nutmeg, mignonette pepper, salt, and a small teaspoonful of powdered loaf-sugar, add half a pint of white stock, and let the marrow boil gently for ten minutes ; when it is cooked take it out carefully and place it on a dish, mix with the sauce a small piece Of butter and the juice of half a lemon, skim, taste, then strain the sauce over the marrow, and serve hot. Precautions.—Young vegetable marrows are essen- tial. STEWED LENTILS AND BACON. Ingredients. 2 pint of Lentils. 1 lb. of Bacon. Parsley. 1 Onion. 1. Soak for four hours in cold water three-quarters of a pint of lentils. 2. Put them into a saucepen with plenty of cold water. 3. Let them boil for half an hour. 4. Strain them over a colander. 5. Return the lentils to the saucepan, and cover with barley- water, which is made by boiling an ounce of pearl barley in one pint of water. 6. Add an onion with three cloves, and a bouquet garni. 7. Scrape and trim a pound of bacon or salt pork, which will be all the better if previously blanched for a few minutes. 8. Put it in the saucepan with the lentils. 9 SimmerStews. 137 till the lentils are thoroughly cooked : season with pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley. Turn the lentils on a dish, and place the bacon on them, and serve. Haricot beans will do as well as lentils. A tablespoonful of pimento is a Spanish flavouring for this dish. Precautions.—The bacon or pork should not be old or coarse; and add just sufficient water to cover. TRIPE AND ONIONS. Ingredients. 2 lbs. of Tripe. 6 Onions. 2 pints of Milk. Tripe is usually purchased ready boiled; it should be thick, white, and fresh; but it still requires cook-' ing. 1. Cut it into pieces about three inches by two inches. 2. Trim off the fat. 3. Wash it well in cold water, and dry it on a clean cloth. It may be whitened like veal, chicken, or turbot, by rubbing over with lemon-juice. 4. Blanch the tripe for five or ten minutes in water. 5. Take a quart of new milk, put it into a stewpan. 6. Add the tripe. 7. Simmer very gently for two or three hours. 8. Stir frequently with a wooden spoon to prevent the tripe sticking or burning at the bottom of the saucepan. 9. Boil six or eight onions, and, when done, chop them up. 10. Add them to the tripe, and season with pepper and salt and a small teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar. Two dessert spoonfuls of flour may be stirred into the milk to thicken it, a quarter of an hour before serving. Tripe may be boiled in plain water, and served with onion sauce and mustard, or it may be boiled in veal stock with fresh beef bones, or baked in milk138 Buchnaster's Cookery. and served with onion sauce, or, after it is boiled, it may be dipped in batter, and fried for five minutes in butter with finely minced eschalots to a golden colour. Precautions.—It is necessary that the tripe should be fresh and slowly simmered, with frequent attention. Add the onions a few minutes before serving, or the milk will curdle. TRIPE A LA COUTANCE. Ingredients. Tripe. Bacon. Herbs. Eschalots. Carrots. Parsley. 1. Blanch one and a half pounds thin tripe. 2. Cut it in slices three inches long and two inches wide. 3. Cut some thin slices of bacon the same size. 4. Lay a strip of bacon on a slice of tripe. 5. Sprinkle over it some chopped eschalot and parsley. 6. Season well with pepper and salt. 7. Roll up and tie with a thin string. 8. Lay the rolls round a stewpan. 0. Put twTo carrots cut in slices and a bouquet of herbs in the centre of the stewpan. 10. Put in suffi- cient stock to cover the rolls, season it, stew four hours. 11. Rub the carrots through a sieve. 12. Set the rolls of tripe standing on end in an entree dish. 13. Untie the strings. 14. Put a spoonful of carrot and a sprig of parsley on each roll. 15. Reduce the gravy to a gill and pour round. Precautions.—Be careful not to flavour too strongly with herbs or vegetables.Stews. brown colour, first on one side then the other. 6. > 39 KIDNEY SAUTg. Ingredients. Kidneys. Oil. Eschalots. Stock. Parsley. Mushrooms. 1. Skin the kidneys, or kidnies, and cut them across into slices of not more than half an inch in thickness. 2. Dredge them with flour, and place them on a dish. 3. Take a clean frying pan, and well cover the surface with oil. 4. Let the oil come to a pale green colour. 5. Now add some finely minced eschalot, parsley, and button mushrooms (if they can be obtained;. 6. Cook in the oil for three minutes. 7. Add the slices of kidney, and toss them so as to thoroughly mix. 8. Move them about with a wooden spoon. 9. Season with pepper and salt. 10. Add a little meat stock. .Precautions.—The temperature of the oil or butter must not rise after adding the kidneys, or they will harden. The sauce should be rather thick. STEWED KIDNEYS. Ingredients. 6 Kidneys. Thyme. 2 Mushrooms Lemon. Parsley. 2 oz. of Butter. Stock. 1. Skin half a dozen kidneys, and remove all the fat. 2. Cut them across into slices not more than half an inch in thickness. 3. Mince finely a small eschalot, two mushrooms, and a little thyme, use double the quantity of minced parsley. 4. Sprinkle the sliced kidneys with the mixture and a little salt and pepper, with just the smallest sprinkle of cayenne. 5. Melt two ounces of butter in a clean stewpan, and fry the kidneys to a140 Buckmaster’s Cookery. Thicken with flour, and finish with a gill or half a pint of hot stock or gravy, and a squeeze of lemon. 7. Let it just come to the boil. 8. Skim. 9. Serve with sippets of fried bread. Salad oil may be used with the butter. Precautions.—The kidneys are not to be opened, but cut into slices across, and be careful not to fry them too much. STEWED CHEESE. Ingredients. \ lb. of Cheese. 2 Eggs. Ale or Chablis. Cayenne. 1. Cut into thin slices half a pound of good Gloucester or Cheddar cheese. 2. Take a clean quart stewpan, and put in the cheese with a little old ale or chablis, and stir over the fire till it is melted. 3. Beat up the yolks only of two eggs and a small tea- spoonful of dry mustard and a dust of cayenne. 4. Stir for three minutes over the fire, and serve very hot with toasted or fried sippets of bread. The top may be browned with a hot iron or salamander, or in front of a brisk fire. Sometimes the cheese is spread over toast and served. Precautions.—Do not let it burn, and if the cheese is not very rich add a little butter or salad oil; serve hot; and be careful with the cayenne. BEEF A LA MODE. Ingredients. 5 lbs. of Flank of Beef. 2 Calf’s Feet. Stock. 4 lb. of Fat Bacon. Bouquet garni. 4 Carrots. I Onion. Garlic. This is a very popular dish, and, if nicely prepared, is one which never fails to give satisfaction.Beef & la Mode. 141 1. Take five pounds of thick flank of beef, and two slices of fat bacon half an inch in thickness. 2. Remove the rind, and cut the bacon into strips of half an inch ; this will give you pieces half an inch in section. 3. Sprinkle the strips of bacon with pepper. 4. Tie up the beef and lard it in the direction of its grain. 5. Place it in a stewpan, with two quarts of stock, the rind of bacon, and two calf’s feet, all previously blanched, and the feet boned. Proceed exactly as for the pot au feu, add a tea- spoonful of salt. 6. Let it come gradually to the boil, and skim. 7. Add four small carrots, one onion with three cloves stuck in it, a bouquet garni with a clove of garlic, and a little pepper. 8. Close the stewpan tightly, and simmer slowly for four hours. 9. When the beef is done take it out, with the calf’s feet and carrots, and put them aside to keep hot. 10. Remove all the fat. 11. Strain the liquor through a pointed strainer into another stewpan. 12. Reduce over a brisk fire for half an hour. 13. Remove the string, place the beef on a dish, and garnish with carrots and calf’s feet. 14. Pour over the reduced liquor, and serve. If required cold, put it into a basin, or earthenware mould, with the calf’s feet, vegetables, and liquor, which will gelatinize into a solid mass. When cold it can be turned on to a dish. In summer the vegetables soon turn sour. Precautions.—The gravy should be thick and gelatinous, and slow cooking is necessary for success. Be sure to skim the gravy when you are reducing it.142 Buckmaster s Cookery. ) TO BOIL MACARONI. Ingredients. I lb. of Macaroni. 1 Onion. 1 Clove, x oz. of Butter. 1 teaspoonful of Salt. There are several kinds of macaroni, but whatever the name or kind, it is all manufactured from the same raw material or paste, and whatever dish you wish to prepare, the cooking must always be the same. It should never be soaked in water before boiling. The proper way is to break it into convenient lengths, wipe it with a clean cloth, and plunge it into plenty of boil- ing water with a teaspoonful of salt; an onion with one clove stuck in it, and one ounce of butter. The length of time it will take to cook will be from twelve to twenty-five minutes, according to its age; newly prepared macaroni does not take more than ten or fifteen minutes. Keep it boiling, try it now and then with the thumb and finger, and as soon as it yields easily immediately stop the boiling by adding a pint of cold water which should be in readiness; then drain over a colander, and the macaroni is ready.Macaroni. 143 MACARONI A LA MILANAISE. Ingredients. Macaroni. Cream. Nutmeg. 3 ozs. of Gruyere cheese. 3 ozs. of Parmesan cheese. 1. Boil a pound of macaroni, see recipe, page 142. 2. Put into a clean saucepan three ounces of grated Gruyere cheese, also three of grated Parmesan, a little nutmeg, pepper, and three tablespoonfuls of cream. 3. Stir over a slow fire from three to five minutes. 4. Add the boiled macaroni and stir for three minutes. 5. Arrange the macaroni in the form of a dome on a hot dish, and pour over a rather thick tomato sauce, see page 215. Precautions.—Be careful in boiling the macaroni, and in the preparation of the tomato sauce. This dish requires constant attention. / MACARONI WITH CHEESE AND BUTTER. Ingredients. Macaroni. Cheese. Butter. 1. Boil half a pound of the best macaroni as already described, melt two ounces and a half of butter to a light brown colour. 2. Take a deep gratin tin and lightly cover with some of the melted butter. 3. Ar- range on the butter a uniform layer of macaroni. 4. Sprinkle with grated cheese, either Parmesan or Gruyere is the best, and pepper and salt, some144 Buck master ’ 5 Cookery. like, just a dash of cayenne instead of the pepper. 5. Then a layer of butter, about half of what is left. 6. Then another layer of macaroni. 7. Then grated cheese. 8. Finish by pouring over the surface the remainder of the butter. 9. Put it before a brisk fire, or in the oven. 10. When the top is of a golden brown colour serve on the same dish. Precautions.—Have your grated cheese and butter ready as soon as the macaroni is boiled. BAKED BATTER PUDDING. Ingredients. Eggs. Milk. Flour. 1. Take six ounces of fine flour, three eggs, and a pinch of salt. 2. Add by degrees as much milk as will, when wrell beaten make it the consistence of thick cream. 3. Pour into a pudding-dish. 4. Bake for one hour; or it may be boiled in a basin, or tied up in a cloth. It will require two hours’ boiling. Precautions.—The milk should be added gra- dually, and the dish well buttered. YORKSHIRE PUDDING. - Ingredients. Eggs. Flour. Milk. 1. Use for every egg as much flour as a tablespoon will carry, and a small pinch of salt. 2. Whisk the eggs well. 3. Strain and mix them gradually with the flour. 4. Pour in by degrees as much new milk as will reduce the batter to the consistence of rather thin cream. The tin or pan which is to receive the pudding must have been placed for some time pre-Orange Custard Pudding. 145 viously under a joint which has been put down to roast; one of beef is usually preferred. 5. Beat the batter briskly and lightly the instant before it is poured into the pan. 6. Watch it carefully that it may not burn, and let the edges have an equal share of the fire. When the pudding is quite firm in every part and well coloured on the surface, 7. Turn it to brown on the under side. This is best accomplished by fiist dividing it into quarters. In Yorkshire it is made much thinner than in the South, roasted generally before an enormous fire, and ?iot turned at all: currants are sometimes added to it. This pudding should be quite an inch thick when it is browned on both sides, but only half the thickness when roasted in the Yorkshire manner. Precautions.—Be careful in mixing the batter, which should be rather more liquid than for a boiled pudding. ORANGE CUSTARD PUDDING. Ingredients. 4 Eggs. 4 ozs. of Loaf-sugar. Orange-peel, ij pint of Milk. 1. Beat up, as for an omelette (page 282), four eggs, with four ounces of powdered loaf-sugar, and one pint and a half of milk previously boiled and allowed to cool. 2. Add the grated peel of one orange. 3. Beat all up together. 4. Strain into a shallow pie-dish. 5. Put into a moderate oven to bake. The safer way is to put the dish containing the custard into a tin dish, with boiling water coming two-thirds of the way up the dish containing the custard, then put it into a146 Buckrncistcr s Cookery. moderate oven for twenty minutes, and if at the end of this time it is not sufficiently firm, let it remain till it is so. When cold, sprinkle over the pudding powdered loaf-sugar. Use no white of the orange peel. Lemons may be used in the same way. Precautions.—The materials should be well mixed, but not too much beaten; if the custard is baked without putting it into another dish with water, then the dish containing the custard should be shallow. MARMALADE PUDDING. Ingredients. 4 ozs. of Suet. 4 ozs. of Bread. 4 ozs. of Marmalade. 3 Eggs. 4 ozs. of Sugar. 1. Take four ounces of suet 'chopped finely, four ounces of grated bread crumbs, four ounces of moist sugar, four ounces of marmalade. 2. Mix these ingredients well together with three eggs. 3. Allow the mixture to stand for an hour. 4. Butter an earthen- ware mould. 5. Put in the mixture, and lay a buttered paper on the top. 6. Tie it over with a cloth, and boil for two hours. When turned out, sprinkle it over with powdered loaf-sugar. Precautions.—Do not let the water come over the top of the mould. BAKED RICE PUDDING. Ingredients. 1 lb. of Rice. 2 Eggs. pint of Milk. Nutmeg. 2 ozs. of Sugar. 1. Wash in two or three waters four heaped table-L emon Pudd'mg. 147 spoonfuls of rice. 2. Boil it in a pint and a half of new milk for half-an-hour. 3. Stir in two tablespoon- fuls of pounded loaf-sugar. 4. Flavour with anything you like. 5. Let it get cold. 6. Add two well-beaten eggs. 7. Butter a pie-dish, and put in the pudding. 8. Grate a little nutmeg over the top, and bake in a moderate oven for half-an-hour; some prefer shaking the rice into the boiling milk. Precautions. — The pudding should be baked quickly. LEMON PUDDING. Ingredients. 2 Lemons. 3 ozs. of Sugar. Short Paste. 1. Take two fresh lemons and three ounces of moist sugar. 2. Grate the rind off the lemons into a basin with the sugar. 3. Squeeze all the juice out, and mix together. 4. Line a shallow tin with short paste (page 160), about a quarter of an inch in thick- ness. 5. Spread over it some of the mixture. 6. Then another layer of paste. 7. Then some more of the mixture. 8. Cover with a thin layer of paste. 9. Bake in a quick oven, and serve hot. SPONGE PUDDING. Ingredients. 3^ ozs. Dried Cherries. Preserved Angelica. Cream. £ lb. Sponge Biscuits. £ lb. Ratafia. 2 or 3 Eggs. 1. Butter thickly a quart mould, and ornament it with the fruit. 2. Lay lightly into it sponge and ratafia biscuits intermixed (sweeten with ^ oz. of sugar, if preferred). 3. Flavour with vanilla. 4. Beat up148 Buckmaster’s Cookery. well 2 whites and 2 or 3 yolks of eggs. 5. Add the cream warm, and strained to the eggs. 6. When the mixture is nearly cold pour into the mould, and stew for an hour or more. N.B. A buttered paper over the top must not be forgotten. The angelica is used to ornament the mould. SAUCE FOR SPONGE PUDDING- Ingredients. 2 Eggs. 1 Wineglassful of Sherry. Dessert-spoonful of Brown Sugar. 1. Beat together in a basin the whites of two eggs and the yolk of one. 2. Add a wine-glassful of sherry. 3. Add a dessert-spoonful of brown sugar. 4. Put it into a basin of boiling water, whisk till it thickens. BROWN BREAD PUDDING. Ingredients. Brown Bread. 1 Lemon. \ a teaspoonful of Essence of Vanilla. 3 ozs, of Castor Sugar. 1 gill of Milk. 1 gill of Cream. 4 Eggs. 1. Take a twopenny stale brown loaf and cut off the crust. 2. Place a fine wire sieve over a plate, and rub the crumb through. 3. Put a gill of milk into a stew- pan and place it on the fire to boil. 4. Mix five ounces of bread-crumbs in a basin with three ounces of castor sugar. 5. Wipe a lemon, and grate the rind into the bread-crumbs. 6. Add half a teaspoonful of vanilla. 7. Bring the milk to the boil, and pour it into the basin over the bread-crumbs. 8. Take another basin and put it into a gill of cream, and whip to a stiff froth149 Genoese Pastry. with an egg whisk. 9. Add the cream to the other ingredients. 10. Stir in one by one the yolks of four eggs. 11. Whip the whites of two eggs only to a stiff froth with a knife. 12. Lightly stir them into the other ingredients, mixing thoroughly together. 13. Well butter the inside of a pudding mould. 14. Pour in the mixture. 15. Cover the top with a piece of buttered kitchen paper. 16. When the water boils put in the mould; the water should not stand more than half way up the mould. 17. Steam for one hour and a quarter. 18. Remove the buttered paper, and care- fully turn the pudding on to a hot dish. Serve with German sauce, page 175. Precautions.—Be careful about the boiling. GENOESE PASTRY. Ingredients. 6 ozs. of Flour. 6 ozs. of Melted Butter. £ lb. of Castor Sugar. 7 Eggs. 1. Melt in a small stewpan six ounces of butter, and be careful it neither boils nor burns. 2. Take a tin about two inches in depth and cut a paper to stand two inches higher, line the tin with it. 3. Butter the paper with a paste brush dipped in the melted butter. 4. Break into a quart basin seven eggs, add half a pound of castor sugar. 5. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water large enough to rest the basin on. 6. Place the basin on the sauce- pan, and whip the eggs and sugar for twenty minutes to a stiff cream ; do not allow it to get very hot. 7. Remove the basin from the saucepan. 8. Place a fine sieve over a plate and gradually rub through six150 Buckmaster s Cookery. ounces of flour. 9. Stir into the basin with a wooden spoon the six ounces of melted butter. 10. Now stir in lightly and gradually the flour, so that it may be thoroughly mixed. 11. Pour the mixture into the tin and bake for half an hour in a quick oven; the cake should be of a pale brown ; when sufficiently baked the pressure of the finger leaves no mark. 12. Remove the cake from the tin, and turn it upside down on a hair sieve to cool. 13. When cold it can be cut into shapes with a cutter or made into jam sandwiches. Precautions.—Well butter the paper, and have a moderate oven. A small frying-pan does well to bake it in. PLUM PUDDING. Ingredients. 4 Eggs. 1 gill of Milk. 1 wineglass of Brandy, { teaspoonful of Salt. 2 ozs. of Almonds 1 Lemon. i lb. of Moist Sugar. } lb. of Mixed Candied Peel. \ lb. of Bread-crumbs. £ lb. of Beef Suet. \ lb. of Sultanas or Raisins. 4 lb. of Currants. h a Nutmeg. 1 lb. of Flour. 1. Place a saucepan of water over the fire to boil. 2. Chop up, very finely, half-a-pound of beef suet. 3. Well wash half-a-pound of currants and rub them dry in a cloth. 4. Spread the currants on a cloth and remove all the stones and staiks. 5. Pick over half-a- pound of sultanas, if raisins are used remove the stones. 6. Place a wire sieve over a piece of kitchen paper, and rub through a quarter of a pound of stale bread- crumbs. 7. Cut into small pieces a quarter of a pound of mixed peel. 8. Take a large basin and putBrandy Sauce. 151 into it a quarter of a pound of flour, the chopped suet, and half a teaspoonful of salt. 9. Work together with the hands so as not to leave any lumps. 10. Add the bread-crumbs, currants, sultanas, mixed peel, and half-a-pound of moist sugar. 11. Mix well together. 12. Wipe a lemon and grate the rind into the basin with (13) half a nutmeg grated, and two ounces of almonds previously blanched and chopped finely. 14. Break into another basin four eggs and add a wine-glass of brandy. 15. Mix v/ell together and stir into the other ingredients with a wooden spoon. 16. Take a clean strong pudding cloth, sprinkle some flour over it and lay it over a basin. 17. Turn the mixture on to the centre of the cloth, and tie it tightly with a piece of tape, or the pudding may be put into a buttered mould and a cloth tied over the top. 18. When the water boils, put in the pudding and boil for five hours. 19. Turn the pudding on to a hot dish, and serve either with brandy or wine sauce in a boat, or poured over. Precaution.—Thorough mixture of all the in- gredients is essential. BRANDY SAUCE. Ingredients. 3 Eggs. Castor Sugar. £ pint of Milk or Cream. 1 gill of Brandy or Sherry. 1. Put into a pint saucepan the yolks of three eggs, a dessert-spoonful of castor sugar, a gill of wine or brandy, and a £ of a pint of milk or cream, well mix with a whisk. 2, Take a quart stewpan and half fill it with hot water. 3. Stand the stewpan in the hot water and whisk for six or seven minutes. 4. Take152 Buchnaster s Cookery. the stewpan out of the saucepan and pour the sauce over the pudding. Precautions.—The sauce must not be allowed to boil or curdle. PEASE PUDDING. Ingredients. Pease. Butter. Eggs. There are many varieties of peas. I have met with some called marrowy melters, and these are far the best. 1. Soak a pint of peas for ten hours in rain or soft water—the bad ones float and can be removed. 2. Drain them. 3. Tie them up loosely in a clean cloth, and put them into plenty of cold rain water, peas will never boil soft in hard or salt water. 4. Let them come to the boil. 5. Then simmer till the peas are tender; the time will vary with the kind of peas, but never less than two hours. 6. Drain them over a colander. 7. Pass them through a clean wire sieve. 8. Season the pulp with pepper and salt.' 9. Beat up one or two eggs with an ounce of sweet butter, and stir it into the pulp. 10. Thoroughly mix with a wooden spoon. 11. Have a clean cloth, and tightly tie up the pudding. 12. Let it boil for another half hour. 13. Turn it on to a dish and serve. This is usually served with fat pork, and is a very sensible and nutritious dish for working people. Precautions.—Be careful in the selection of the peas, and be sure that they are soft enough to pulp before turning them out.Vcnnoise Pudding. 153 VEN NOISE PUDDING. Ingredients. I gill of Cream. 3 ozs. of Sultana Raisins. 1 gill of Sherry. 5 ozs. of Bread-crumbs. 2 ozs. of Candied Peel. 3 ozs. of Castor Sugar. 1 oz. of Lump Sugar. 1 Lemon. 4 Eggs. 4 pint of Milk. 1. Cut into half inch dice the stale crumb of five ounces of bread. 2. Put the bread in a basin with three ounces of castor sugar and three ounces of sultana raisins. 3. Wipe a lemon and grate the rind into the basin. 4. Cut into small pieces two ounces of candied peel and put it into the basin with a glass of sherry. 5. Put on a saucepan of water to boil. 6. Take a small stewpan and brown one ounce of lump sugar. 7. When the sugar is of a dark brown stir in half a pint of milk. 8. When the milk is sufficiently coloured stand the stewpan off the fire. 9. Separate the yolks from the whites of four eggs, put the yolks in one basin and the whites in another. 10. Pour the milk into the basin with the yolks of the eggs and thoroughly mix. 11. Stir the milk and eggs into the basin containing the other ingredients. 12. Stir in a gill of cream. Let the pudding soak half an hour. 13. Butter the inside of a pudding mould and pour in the mixture. 14. Cover the top with a piece of buttered kitchen paper. 15. Place the mould in boiling water so arranged that the water in the saucepan does not come more than half way up the mould. 16. Boil gently for one hour and a half. 17. Take off the buttered paper and turn the pudding carefully on to a hot dish. Precautions.—Be careful not to allow the water to go into the mould.154 Buck-master s Cookery. CABINET PUDDING. Ingredients. I pint of Milk. 4 Eggs. 12 Sponge Finger Biscuits. I oz. of Castor Sugar. 12 Dried Cherries. Angelica. Vanilla. Ratifias. 1. Butter the inside of a pint and half mould with the fingers. 2. Take some cherries or raisins and pieces of angelica, and ornament the bottom of the mould. 3. Break some finger biscuits, which should be stale, into pieces, and partly fill the mould with the pieces and a few ratifias. 4. Break into a basin the yolks of four eggs and the whites of two. 5. Add one ounce of castor sugar, and lightly whip them together. 6. Stir in gradually one pint of milk. 7. Put in fifteen drops of vanilla. 8. Pour this mixture over the cakes into the mould. 9. Place a piece of buttered paper over the top. 10. Stand the mould in a saucepan half full of boiling water and let it steam for an hour. Precautions.—Be careful the boiling water does not rise to the top of the mould. SUET CRUST. Ingredients. I lb. of Flour. 5 ozs. of Suet. To every pound of flour allow five or six ounces of beef suet. 1. Free the suet from skin and mince it finely. 2. Rub it well into the flour with a pinch of Salt. 3. Work the whole to a smooth paste with half a pint of water. 4. Roll it out, and it is ready. This crust is quite rich enough for most purposes; but when a better one is desired, use from half to three-Steak Pudding. 155 quarters of a pound of suet to every pound of flour. For rich crusts pound the suet in a mortar, with a small quantity of sweet butter. 5. Lay it on the paste in small pieces, this will be found exceedingly good for hot tarts. Five ounces of suet to every pound of flour will make a good crust, and even a quarter of a pound will answer very well where the crust is wanted very plain. ✓ SUET PUDDING. 1. Put a pound of sifted flour in a basin with half a pound of beef suet, finely chopped. 2. Add two eggs, with a pinch of salt and a quarter of a pint of water or milk. 3. Beat well together with a wooden spoon, making a rather thick batter. 4. Flour a pudding-cloth, and lay it in a small round-bottomed basin ; pour in the mixture. 5. Tie the cloth tightly. 6. Put the pudding into boiling water : an hour and a quarter would be sufficient to cook it. When done, remove the cloth, turn the pudding over upon a dish, and serve very hot. Precautions.—The water must be kept boiling. STEAK PUDDING. Ingredients, Rump or Beef Steak. Oysters. 1. Take a pound of flour and half a pound of beef suet very finely chopped, and mix together. 2. Make a hole in the middle, into which put a teaspoonful of salt, and enough water to form a stiffish paste. 3. Mix it well together, using a little more flour to dry itBuckmctster's Cookery. >56 and prevent its sticking. 4. Lightly butter the in- terior of a round-bottomed pudding basin. 5. Roll out two-thirds of the paste to half an inch in thick- ness, with which line the basin. 6. Have ready cut into slices, about the size of the palm of the hand and a quarter of an inch in thickness, two pounds of a rump or beefsteak with a little of the fat included. 7. Lay the pieces upon a dish. 8. Season with two tea- spoonfuls of salt and one of black pepper. 9. Sprinkle a little flour over, move them about a little until each piece is well covered with flour and seasoning. 10. Lay them within the paste, putting in whatever seasoning may remain upon the dish; a dozen oysters, blanched and with beards removed, is an excellent addition. 11. Pour a gill of water over, moisten the edges of the paste. 12. Roll out the remainder of the paste to form a lid, which place over, pressing it down with the thumb. 13. Tie the basin in a pudding- cloth, and put it into a saucepan containing enough boiling water to well cover it. 14. Keep continually boiling for nearly two hours, adding a little more boiling water occasionally to keep up the quantity. 15. Take it up, untie the cloth. 16. Run a sharp pointed skewer into the pudding, and if the meat feels tender, it is done (if not it will require more boiling); turn it over upon your dish, lift the basin carefully from it, and serve. A few mushrooms are an improvement. Precautions.—The steak must be tender, or made so with a kreatone (seepage 128), the pudding well boiled, and the basin not too full.Amber Pudding. 157 AMBER PUDDING. Ingredients. 6 Apples. 3 ozs. of Moist Sugar. 2 ozs. of Butter. I Lemon. 3 Eggs. Castor Sugar. Puff Paste. 1. Peel six large apples, cut out the core, and cut them up into slices. 2. Put them into a stewpan with three ounces of moist sugar and two ounces of butter. 3. Take a lemon, wipe it and peel it as thinly as possible with a sharp knife. 4. Cut it in halves and squeeze the juice through a strainer into the stewpan. 5. Add also the peel. 6. Let the apples stew till they are quite tender, which will take about three-quarters of an hour. 7. Place a sieve over a large basin, turn the apples on to the sieve, and rub them through into the basin with a wooden spoon. 8. Stir in the yolks of three eggs. 9. Take a pie dish, line it with puff paste or short paste (see page 160). 10. Pour the mixture into the dish and put it in the oven for twenty minutes. 11. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. 12. When the pudding is a light brown, take it out, spread the whites of the eggs over the top, and sift over a little castor sugar. 13. Put the dish back into the oven till the icing is a light brown. It is then ready. Precautions.—Do not allow the icing to get too dark a colour in baking. A TREACLE PUDDING. Ingredients. Treacle. Suet. Milk. Lemon. Sugar. Flour. 1. Take a quarter of a pound of suet, half a poundi5» Biickmaster s Cookery. lemon. 5. Wrap the butter in a clean cloth, and well of flour, half a pound of treacle, a teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar, and the juice of half a lemon. 2. Mix all together in a large basin, with sufficient milk to form a thick batter. 3. Tie it up in a floured cloth with plenty of room to swell, and boil for three hours. Precautions.—It is necessary that the pudding should be thoroughly boiled. GREENGAGE PUDDING, OR OTHER FRESH FRUIT. Ingredients. Greengages. Suet Crust. Sugar. 1. Line a quart pudding basin to the thickness of a quarter of an inch with a good suet crust, page 264. 2. Fill the basin with as much fruit as you can heap up. 3. Add sugar. 4. Cover with crust. 5. Fold the edges over and close them tightly together to prevent the juice escaping. 6. Tie over a floured cloth. 7. Put the pudding into plenty of boiling water and boil two hours and a half. 8. Turn it on to a dish and serve. PUFF PASTE. Ingredients. 4 023. of Flour. I Lemon. 4 ozs. of Fresh Butter. I Egg. Salt. 1. Take a clean paste-board, sprinkle it with flour; and place in a heap in the centre a quarter of a pound of flour. 2. Make a hole in the centre. 3. Put into the hole the yolk of half an egg (put the white into a teacup). 4. Squeeze in six drops ofPuff Paste for Tartlets. 159 squeeze it to remove all the water. 6. Add a table- spoonful of water to the lemon juice, egg, and flour, and work all together with the hands until the paste is of the same consistency as the butter. 7. Flour a rolling-pin, sprinkle the paste-board, and roll the paste into a square shape about the thickness of a quarter of an inch. 8. Place the pat of butter in the centre, and fold the paste over from each side so as to enclose the butter, pressing the edges together with the thumb. 9. Stand it aside in a refrigerator or cool place for ten or fifteen minutes. In cold weather there is no occa- sion for this, you may proceed at once. 10. Sprinkle the board with flour, and roll out the paste to the length of two feet. 11. Fold over one-third of the length, and now fold over from the other end. The paste is now in three thicknesses of equal length. 12. Bring the rough edges towards you, roll the paste out and fold it again into three. 13. Stand it aside in a cool place for ten minutes or a quarter of an hour, and again roll it out as before. 14. Stand the paste aside for ten or fifteen minutes, and roll it out again. Each rolling out and standing aside is called a turn, and some cooks give as many as five or six turns. The paste is now ready. 15. Proceed exactly the same as for fruit pies with short crust, p.' 160. For Tartlets. If the paste is to be used for tartlets it should be rolled out to the thickness of a penny-piece. 18. Take a tartlet tin and brush the inside with white of egg or water. 17. Take a cutter one size larger than the tin, dip it in the flour and cut out16 o Buckmaster s Cookery. the paste. 18. Put a piece of paste into each tin and place in the tin a dummy to prevent the paste rising. 19. Place the tins on a baking sheet, and bake in a hot oven for six or seven minutes. 20. Remove the baking tin, take out the dummies, turn the paste out of the tartlet tins and fill them with jam. For Patties or Rissoles. 1. Roll out the paste to the thickness of half an inch. 2. Cut the paste into pieces with a round cutter. 3. Place the pieces on a baking tin. 4. Take another round cutter three sizes smaller, dip it in hot water, and stamp the centre of each piece of paste. The paste must not be cut through. 5. Bake for six minutes, when the centre stamped with the smaller cutter will have risen so as to be taken off. 6. With a small knife remove all the moist paste from the centre of the patty case. 7. Fill the patty case with prepared oysters, game, chicken, fish, veal, sausage meat, or anything you choose. Precautions.—Be particular to work the paste lightly. SHORT PASTE. Ingredients. i Egg. 6 ozs. of Flour. 4 ozs. of Butter. i Lemon. i oz. of Castor Sugar. Salt. 1. Rub lightly together with the hand on a clean paste board six ounces of flour and four ounces of butter. When properly mixed there are no lumps, and the mixture resembles sifted bread crumbs. 2. Take aV. Sho?'t Paste. 161 large teaspoonful of castor sugar and thoroughly mix with the butter and flour. 3. Heap it together on the paste-board, and make a hole in the centre, and into this hole add the yolk of one egg; put the white into a cup. 4. Add a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and a large table- spoonful of water. 5. Mix these ingredients lightly and gradually together with the hand until they form a stiff paste, keep the hands and paste-board well floured. 6. Fold the paste over and knead it lightly with the knuckles. 7. Flour the rolling-pin and roll out the paste to the desired thickness. For Fruit-J>ics. 1. Roll out the paste to the thickness of a quarter of an inch and the shape of a pie-dish, but a little larger. 2. Arrange the fruit in the dish, and well heap up the centre. 3. Sprinkle moist-sugar over the fruit according to taste. 4. Take a paste brush and wet the edge of the dish with the white of the egg. 5. Cut a strip of the paste the full width of the edge of the dish, and place it round the edge. 0. Moisten the paste with the white of the egg. 7. Lay the remaining paste carefully over the top of the dish, pressing it lightly round the edge ■with the thumb. 8. Trim off the edges with a knife. 9. With the back edge of the knife ornament the edge of the pie-crust with notches, pressing the paste with the thumb so as to keep it in its place. 10. Make a small hole in each side of the pie with a skewer, so as to allow the steam to escape. 11. Brush over the top of the pie with water or white of egg. 12. Sprinkle some castor sugar over the pie, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour or three- GBuckmaster s Cookery. 162 quarters of an hour, according to size. 13. Watch it and turn it so as to bake a pale brown. Precautions.—Be careful not to break the paste in placing it on the dish or blacken by baking. ROLY-POLY PUDDING. Ingredients. Flour. Suet. Jam. 1. Make a nice light suet crust (p. 154) and roll it out to the thickness of about a quarter of an inch. 2. Spread jam, or currants and treacle, equally over it, leaving a small margin, of paste without any treacle. 3. Roll it up. 4. Fasten the ends securely. 5. Tie it in a floured cloth. 6. Put the pudding into boiling water, and boil for two or three hours. Precautions.—Fresh suet and a light crust are necessary. APPLE-PUDDING. Ingredients. Flour. Suet. Apples. Lemon. 1. Take a basin, butter it, and line it with a suet crust (p. 1.54). 2. Pare, core, and cut the apples into pieces, and fill the basin. 3. Add sugar according to taste. 4. Add one small teaspoonful of finely minced lemon peel, and one tablespoonful of lemon-juice. 5. Cover with crust, and close the edges well together. 6. Flour the cloth, and tie it securely over the pudding, and put it into plenty of boiling water. 7. Let it boil from one-and-a-half to tvvo-and-a-half hours, according to the size. 8. Turn it out of the163 Giblet Pie basin and send to table quickly. Apple pudding does not suffer by being boiled an extra hour, if care be taken to keep it well covered with the water all the time. Precautions.—The water must be kept constantly boiling, and if more is added, let it be boiling water. PIGEON PIE. Ingredients. Pigeons. Eggs. Steak. Puff Paste. Mushrooms. Stock. Eschalot. Parsley. 1. Prepare three or four house pigeons, and cut them in halves. 2. Take half a pound of tender beefsteak and cut into convenient pieces. 3. Lightly fry the steak with a little butter, in a clean stewpan. 4. Fry the pigeons. 5. Season with chopped mush- rooms, one eschalot, a little parsley, and pepper and salt. 6. Place the steak at the bottom of the dish. 7. Upon this place the halves of the pigeons. 8. Rinse out the stewpan in which the things have been fried with half a pint of stock or water. 9. Strain into the dish. 10. Add the yolks only of five hard- boiled eggs. 11. Cover with a puff paste. 12. Bake for an hour and a quarter in a moderate oven. Precautions.—The pigeons must be young and the steak tender, and do not fry too long in the butter. GIBLET PIE. Ingredients. Giblets. Bay-leaf. Butter. Paste. Olllon, Steak. 1. Clean and blanch the giblets (except the liver). G 2164 Buchnaster s Cookery. 2. Put them, with the wings, feet, head, and neck, into boiling water. 3. Remove the skin from the feet and beak. 4. Put into a stewpan a piece of butter the size of a walnut, one onion cut in slices, a bay-leaf, a little salt, pepper, and sugar. 5. Place them on the fire until the onion is brown. 6. Put in the giblets with the head cut in two. 7. Let them remain on the fire for about three minutes, stirring them round. 8. Add nearly a quart of boil- ing water. 9. Stew gently for one hour and a half. 10. Remove from the fire and let them get cold. 11. Take a pie-dish and place a piece of steak on the bottom. 12. Place over it the giblets with the liver, and steak again over them. 13. Add the liquor the giblets were stewed in. 14. Season and cover with a good paste. Precautions.—The giblets must be fresh and well stewed. RUMP-STEAK PIE. Ingredients. Rump-steak. Eschalots. Ketchup. Stock. Oysters. Paste. 1. Take two pounds of tender rump-steak, cut it -into pieces half the size of your hand, trim off all the skin, the sinews, and every part which cannot be eaten, and beat the steak with a chopper or a kreatone. 2. Chop very finely four eschalots, and mix them with a quarter of an ounce of pepper and salt. 3. Strew some of the mixture at the bottom of the dish, then a layer of steak, then some more of the mixture, and so on till the dish is full. 4. Add165 Veal and Ham Pie. quarter a gill of mushroom-ketchup and half a gill of rich stock. 5. Cover with a good paste, and bake it two hours. Large oysters, blanched, bearded, and laid alternately with the steak, are a great improve- ment, and the liquor in which they are blanched, when reduced, may be used instead of the ketchup or stock. Precautions.—The steak must be tender, or made so by beating. VEAL AND HAM PIE. Ingredients. Veal. Ham. Stock. Mushrooms. Parsley. Ketchup. Eggs. Lemon. 1. Take about two pounds of lean veal, from the breast or fillet, free it from fat, skin, bone, and gristle, and three-quarters of a pound of ham or bacon, cut in thin rashers free from rind and coarse parts. 2. Cutinto convenient pieces. 3. Prepare a short or puff paste and line the dish. 4. Mince finely half-a-dozen button mushrooms and a sprig of parsley. 5. Sweat these in a clean stewpan with an ounce of butter and a little flour. 6. Add a gill or half a pint of good stock, or in default water, and a dessert-spoonful of ketchup. 7. Bring these slowly to the boil and stand it aside. 8. Prepare three hard-boiled eggs and cut them into dice; if preferred use only the yolks. 9. Arrange a layer of veal, then ham, and so on alternately, finishing with ham mingled with the egg (some use a little grated lemon-peel, others add oysters, sweetbreads, mushrooms, &c.). The pie may be made rich and savoury in a dozen ways, according to taste. 10. FinishBuckmaster's Cookery. 166 the pie and strain through the hole at the top all but a wineglassful of the gravy. 11. Cover the hole with an ornamental piece of paste and bake. 12. When ready remove the ornament at the top. 13. Make the remainder of the gravy very hot and strain it in. 14. Cover the hole again and serve. Precautions.—In meat pies it is essential the meat should be tender and free from skin and gristle. VEAL PIE WITH FORCEMEAT. 1. Remove the rind, gristle, bone, and brown parts from three-quarters of a pound of fat bacon. 2. Take the three-quarters of a pound of veal previously set aside, with any trimmings, and mince them very finely. 3. Add a good dessert-spoonful of spiced salt (see page 30.) 4. Work all these well together in a mortar till it is of a rather stiff paste. 5. Put it aside in a basin. 1. Make a short paste (page 160) and line the inside of a plain oval pie mould. 2. Arrange a layer of the forcemeat on the paste at the bottom of the mould; use about one-fourth. 3. Then a layer of rashers of ham ; then another layer of forcemeat; then the veal, cut into convenient pieces. 4. Sprinkle over with spiced salt. 5. Another layer of forcemeat, then rashers of ham, then forcemeat. 6. Cover the surface with three rashers of fat bacon and a bay-leaf. 7. Cover with paste, and bake for two hours in a moderate oven, covering the top with a piece of buttered paper. 8. A fine plated skewer thrust in will enable you to judge when the meat is sufficientlyRissoles. 167 baked. If the spice is to hand, this pie is no more trouble, nor does it take more time than an ordinary- veal and ham pie, and is much better. Precautions.—The chief point to be borne in mind is not to have it too highly seasoned, and the meat should be free from gristle and skin. RISSOLES. Ingredients. Minced Meat. Puff Paste. Hot Fat. 1. Make a puff paste. 2. Roll the paste out to the thickness of a penny piece. 3. Place small balls of meat (the same as prepared for croquettes, page 221), and put the balls of meat at distances of two inches from each other. 4. Moisten the paste round these balls of meat with a brush dipped in water. 5. Fold the flap of the front part of the paste over the balls, just as you would fold a sheet of paper lengthwise. 6. Press all round them with the edge of the thumb. 7. Cut them out with a fluted round tin cutter. 8. Place them on a dish sprinkled with flour : having cut out a sufficient number, (9) fry them in a frying basket in hot fat, at 385°, and serve with fried parsley on a napkin. The difference between a croquette and a rissole is this,—the rissole is always fried in a puff paste, the croquette in egg and bread-crumb. Precautions.—Take care to have a good paste and the rissoles neatly made.i6S Buckmaster s Cookery. OPEN JAM TARTS. Ingredients. Puff, or Short Paste. Jam. All fruit pies and tarts require a light, good crust. 1. Take an open tart mould and line it with paste about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 2. Make a few holes in the bottom; this is to prevent the paste puffing up in the centre. 3. Bake in a brisk oven ten or fifteen minutes. 4. Let the paste cool. 5. Add the preserve, but if the tart is to be served hot, warm the jam in a clean stewpan and add at once. The tart may be decorated with leaves, flowers, or stars, cut out of the paste and baked. It is not desirable to bake the jam in the tart; it spoils its flavour and appearance and makes the crust heavy. Precautions.—A good oven is essential for all fruit pastry. APPLE PiE. Ingredients. Apples. Puff Paste. 1. Prepare the apples, by peeling and removing the cores, and cutting them into eight pieces. 2. Moisten the edge of the dish with a little butter. 3. Lay a slip of puff paste round it. 4. Arrange a layer of apples at the bottom, then sugar, and flavour with cinnamon, cloves, lemon-peel, orange-peel, candied citron, or whatever flavouring you prefer; a little quince is a great improvement. 5. Ke6p adding the apples till the dish is full and well heaped up in theSnow Eggs and Custard. 169 centre. 6. Cover with puff paste and decorate the top. Cream is a good addition to apple pie. Precautions.—In making pies and tarts a light crust is essential. To prevent the crust falling in the centre, let the fruit be well heaped up. SNOW EGGS AND CUSTARD. Ingredients. 1 quart of Milk. 6 Eggs. Vanilla. Pounded Loaf-sugar. Hundreds and Thousands. • 1. Take half-a-dozen eggs, separate the yolks, and put them aside. 2. Whisk the whites to a stiff froth, with a tablespoonful of powdered lump-sugar. 1. Take one quart of milk, sweeten it to taste, and bring it nearly to the boil. 2. Take two dessert-spoons and shape the white of the egg and drop them one by one on to the milk, which should now be on the point of boiling without boiling; when the eggs are set on one side, turn them over ; a few seconds will be sufficient. 3. Take them out and drain on a sieve. When the egg froth is used up (1) strain the milk into a stewpan; let it get cold. 2. Mix gradually with it the yolks of the half dozen eggs with a little vanilla or lemon, or any flavouring you like. 3. Put the stewpan containing the milk and the yolks of eggs into a saucepan of hot Avater, rising about two-thirds the height of the inner vessel, and keep stirring over the fire till the custard thickens. This is in fact a bain-marie, like a carpen- ter’s glue pot. 4. Pile up the eggs on a dish, and as soon as you observe small lumps on the side of the stewpan containing the custard, remove it instantlyi ;o Buckmctster's Cookery. from the fire, and pour it round the eggs. Sprinkle the surface with “ hundreds and thousands.” Precautions. — Fresh eggs and new milk are essential, and the custard must on no account be allowed to boil. CUSTARDS. Ingredients. 6 Eggs. 3 ozs. of Loaf-sugar. i pint of Milk. Bay-leaf. Lemon. 1. A pint of new milk, three ounces of loaf-sugar, and the thin rind of half a lemon are to be boiled in a clean enamelled saucepan for three minutes. 2. Take it off the fire for five minutes. 3. Beat up six eggs, leaving out the whites of three of them. 4. Add the milk to the eggs, stirring quickly as it is poured in. 5. Strain the custard into the saucepan, and stir with a wooden spoon over a gentle fire till it begins to thicken ; then strain through a fine sieve into a basin. Use no white of the egg. Precautions.—The custard should not be flavoured too strongly, and never cease stirring. Watch for the small lumps on the side of the pan (this is the com- mencement of boiling), and remove immediately. APPLE CHARLOTTE. Ingredients. 15 Apples. Bread. £ lb. of Sugar. Butter 1. Peel fifteen Ribston or Blenheim pippins, slice them, and remove the cores. 2. Put them for ten minutes into cold water, to which has been added theApple Charlotte. 171 juice of half a lemon. 3. Then put them in a clean stewpan over a moderate fire with a quarter of a jiound of loaf-sugar and a little cinnamon. 4. Cover the stewpan and occasionally shake it and stir the apples. When quite soft and pulpy (5) pass them through a tammy. 6. Cut the crumb of some stale bread into slices of about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 7. Cut out a centre-piece to cover the bottom of the mould, then cut some heart-shaped, or other fancy forms. 8. Dip each of them on one side in melted butter as they are wanted, beginning with the large piece, which place at the bottom of the mould. 9. Arrange the heart-shaped pieces round it, overlapping one another, and with the points resting on the piece at the bottom. 10. Cut the remainder of the slices of bread into strips one and a half inch wide, and of the height of the mould. 11. Dip them in butter, and stand them all round the mould, also overlapping one another like feather-edged boarding. 12. Fill the centre with the cooked apples. 13. Put the charlotte in the oven until the bread is well coloured. 14. Turn the charlotte out of the mould on to a dish, glaze it over with some boiled apricot jam, and serve. Precautions.—Every part of the mould must be well covered with bread and butter, or the charlotte will not turn out, and the apples must be boiled to 3 firm marmalade : they take a long time.172 Buckmaster s Cookery. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. Ingredients. 12 Apples. Cinnamon. Butter. Red Currant Jelly. Finger Biscuits. 1. Peel and core twelve large pippins and cook them, as just described, for apple charlotte. 2. Melt a little sweet butter, and well cover the inside of the mould, using a brush. 3. Line the mould with finger biscuits, and fill it up with the apples. 4. Make a hole in the centre; this may be done by standing a cylindrical lamp-glass in the centre of the mould. 5. Fill the glass with red currant jelly or apricot jam. 6. Remove the glass. 7. Cover with finger biscuits, and put the mould into a good oven for seven minutes. 8. Turn the charlotte on a dish and serve hot. Precautions. — Be very particular to well cover the mould with butter and biscuits, so that none of the fruit comes into contact with the mould. SWISS ROLL. Ingredients. 3 Eggs. Teacupful of Castor Sugar. Teaspoonful of Baking Powder. Teacupful of Flour. 1. Mix all together. 2. Pour into a baking-tin (14-in. by 9-in.). 3. Bake 20 minutes. 4. Turn out on to paper, on which should be sprinkled • some castor sugar. 5. Spread on some preserve, and roll up while warm. 6. When cold, trim the ends, and serve on a folded serviette. 7. Dust over it a little castor sugar.173 Apple and Rice Meringue. GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE. Ingredients. I quart of Gooseberries. £ pint of Cream. £ pint of Milk. $ lb. of Pounded Loaf-sugar. 2 Eggs. 1. Scald a quart of green gooseberries. 2. Pass the pulp through a sieve. 3. Sweeten with pounded loaf-sugar. 4. Make a thick layer with the goose- berries at the bottom of a rather deep dish, or trifle dish. 1. Mix half a pint of milk which has been scalded and allowed to cool with half a pint of cream and the yolks of two fresh eggs. 2. Stir well together. 3. Put the mixture into a clean stewpan or saucepan. 4. Continue stirring, but do not allow it to boil. 5. Add more sugar if necessary. 6. Set it aside to cool in a basin. 7. When cold, lay this over the goose- berries with a spoon. 8. Cover it with a very high whip of cream or white of egg flavoured with vanilla. Precautions.—If the custard boils it is spoilt. Watch for the formation of small solid bodies on the sides of the stewpan and remove it instantly, and pour the contents into a basin. The solid particles show the commencement of curdling. APPLE AND RICE MERINGUE. Ingredients. 3 lb. of Rice. 3 Cloves. Cinnamon. 1 Lemon. 3 Eggs. 4 oz. of Sugar. 1 pint of Milk. 8 Apples. 1. Peel eight apples, core them, cut them in pieces, and place them in a stewpan with half-a-pint of water, four ounces of loaf-sugar, three cloves, and a little cinnamon. 2. Let them boil gently till they become*74 Buckmasters Cookery. one yolk, then another, till they are all used. 4. Add quite soft. 3. Remove the apples, and let the syrup boil away till it is reduced to three tablespoonfuls, then strain it over the apples. Boil quarter of a pound or rice, ioo°, drain off the water. 4. Add one pint of milk, four ounces of pounded loaf-sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon. When the rice has absorbed all the milk, (5) let it get cold. 6. Remove the lemon-rind, and work into the rice the yolks of three or four eggs one after the other. 7. Put the whites aside in a basin to whip up. 8. Make a shallow wall of rice round the dish in which it is to be served. 9. Place the apples in the centre, and cover the whole with the whites of the eggs beaten up with a tablespoonful of powdered lump-sugar, into a stiff froth. 10. Neatly cover over the whole surface. 11. Sprinkle powdered sugar over and bake about fifteen minutes till the surface is nicely browned. Gooseberries or any other fruit may be substituted for apples. Precautions.—Well beat the whites, use the best rice, and spread the whites of the eggs neatly over the surface. The quantity of sugar will depend on the fruit. RICE SOUFFLE Ingredients. I quart of Milk. 6 ozs. of Pounded Loaf-sugar. 6 Eggs. Orange-flower Water. Rice. 1. Boil in a quart of milk six tablespoonfuls of rice with two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower water and six ounces of pounded loaf-sugar. 2. Take six fresh eggs and separate the yolks from the whites. 3. Stir in175 Pikelets. three ounces of butter in parts of one ounce each. 5. Stir with a wooden spoon so as to thoroughly mix the ingredients, and continue stirring till the rice is tender and sufficiently thickened. 6. Well whisk the whites of the eggs till they are very stiff; if these are insuffi- ciently beaten the souffle will never rise. 7. Take the stewpan aside, and let the contents cool a little. 8. Add the whites and mix them quickly with the rice. 9. Have ready a warm tin or souffle-dish slightly buttered. 10. Pour in the souffle mixture. 11. Sprinkle with pounded loaf-sugar, and put it into a rather brisk oven for seven or ten minutes; a straw run through will indicate when it is sufficiently baked. Serve very hot with a napkin round the tin. SCOTCH SCONES. Ingredients. 4 small teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. Butter Milk. 1 lb. of the finest Flour. 1. Rub well together, mix with the milk like dough, but not too stiff. 2. Roll out and cut into shapes, round or three-cornered. 3. Bake on a girdle. May be used cold, the shapes cut open and buttered and laid together again. When hot they are laid open. PIKELETS. Ingt edients. I pint of cold Water. § pint of boiling Water. oz. of Salt. \ oz. of fresh Brewer’s Yeast. if lb. finest Flour. 1. Put the salt into cold water, and pour into a deep earthen jar (12-in. deep and n-in. across). 2. Stir well, then add all the yeast, and well stir it again. 3. Add the hot water. 4. Stir in the flour by degrees, and stir all well together. 5. Put it on176 Buckmasler s Cookery. the side to stand all night to rise; next morning the batter will almost be running over the jar. 6. Stir it gently down with a wooden spoon. 7. Put the girdle on the fire, first rubbing it over with salt to prevent sticking. 8. When hot begin to bake. 9. Have ready some tin rings, about 4f-in. in diameter, and grease them. 10. Pour the batter into the rings, measuring them by \ gill. 11. When the under side is done, turn carefully with a large knife. 12. Bake the upper side slightly. 13. When quite done stand them on a sieve to cool. German yeast can be used, but they are not so light. While baking the batter will spread, and as it grows warmer will bubble, which bursts into holes. SULTANA CAKE. Ingredients. 4 lb. of Flour. $ lb. of Butter. £ lb. of Sugar. $ lb. of Sultanas. 1 oz. of Candied Peel. 1 Egg. 1 teaspoonful of Baking Powder. \ gill of Milk. 1 Lemon. 1. Put into a basin half a pound of flour, and rub into it with the hands a quarter of a pound of butter. 2. Add a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a tea- spoonful of baking powder, and a quarter of a pound of sultanas. 3. Wipe a lemon and grate the rind into the basin. 4. Cut into small pieces one ounce of candied peel and add to the other ingredients. 5. Put into another basin half a gill of milk and add to it the yolks of two eggs and put tire whites into a tea- cup. 6. Stir the milk and eggs together and then mix thoroughly with the other ingredients. 7. Butter a cake tin. 8. Whisk the whites into a stiff froth and stir them lightly into the mixture. 9. Pour into the tin and bake in a moderate oven one hour and a quarter. 10. Take the cake out and stand it on its side to cool.Rice Buns. 177 ROCK CAKES. Ingredients. ^ lb. of Dripping. I teaspoonful of Ground Ginger or Nutmeg. 2 ozs. of Candied Peel. £ lb. of Sugar. } lb. of Currants. i lb. of Flour. \ gill of Milk, i Egg. 2 teaspoonfuls of Baking Powder. 1. Put half a pound of flour into a basin. 2. Stir in two teaspoonfuls of baking powder. 3. Take a quarter of a pound of clarified dripping. 4. Rub it well into the flour with the hands that no lumps remain. 5. Take a quarter of a pound of currants, wash and pick them clean and dry them. 6. Add the currants to the flour with a teaspoonful of ground ginger or grated nutmeg, a quarter of a pound of crushed loaf sugar, and two ounces of candied peel cut in pieces. 7. Mix all these together with a wooden spoon. 8. Beat up one egg with about half a gill of milk. 10. Pour this into the basin and mix all well together into a very stiff paste. 11. Take a tin and grease it with a little dripping. 12. Divide the paste with two forks and lay them in small rough heaps on the tin. 13. Bake in a quick oven about a quarter of an hour and they are ready. Precautions.—Be careful to well butter the tins, and make the paste very stiff. RICE BUNS. Ingredients. 2 02s. of Butter. 4 ozs. of Sugar. 4 ozs. of Ground Rice. 2 Eggs. | teaspoonful of Baking Powder. 1. Put into a basin four ounces of rice, half a tea- spoonful of baking-powder, a quarter of a pound of17^ Buckmoster s Cookery. pounded loaf-sugar, and two ounces of butter. 2. Mix together with a wooden spoon. 3. Break each egg separately into a tea-cup, to see they are good, and beat them lightly with the other ingredients. 4. Take eight or ten small tins or patty pans, and grease them with dripping or butter • if more convenient, bake in a cake tin. 5. Put them into an oven and bake for fifteen minutes. 6. Turn the buns out of the tin, and stand them on their edges to cool and prevent their getting heavy. Precautions.—Let the tins be well buttered SHREWSBURY CAKES. Ingredients. I Egg. \ lb. of Butter. 6 ozs. of Flour. ^ lb. of Caster Sugar. i teaspoonful of Cinnamon and Mace. 1. Mix thoroughly together in a basin, to the consis- tency of cream, a quarter of a pound of butter and a quarter of a pound of castor sugar. 2. Add one egg and a small teaspoonful of cinnamon and mace mixed together. 3. Work well together. 4. Stir in gradually and smoothly six ounces of flour. Be sure to have the paste quite smooth. . Dust a little flour over the paste-board. 6. Flour the rolling pin, and roll out the paste as thin as possible. 7. Dip a wine-glass in flour if you have no cutters, and cut the paste into cakes. 8. Grease a baking tin with butter or sweet dripping. 9. Arrange the cakes on the tin, and bake on a slow oven lor twenty minutes, or till the cakes are of a light brown.179 Cakes. MAIZENA CAKES (SUITABLE FOR TEA OR TENNIS PARTIES). Ingredients. J lb. Maizena Flour. 6 ozs. Butter. 1 Lemon. 1 tablespoonful of Baking Powder. 1. Beat the 6 ounces of butter to a cream, and mix it well into the flour and baking powder. 2. Add the grated rind and juice of one lemon. 3. Add the eggs well beaten, mix with milk if necessary. 4. Bake in small tins in a tolerably quick oven for 10 minutes. No other flour answers. CHOCOLATE CAKES (SWEDISH). Ingredients. \ lb. Icing Sugar. £ lb. best eating Chocolate. 7 Eggs. 1. Scrape the chocolate. 2. Add the sugar and the whites of 7 eggs. 3. Stir for one hour. 4. Drop a dessert-spoonful of the mixture on to a baking-tin, rubbed with wax flrst, and bake in a brisk oven. GINGER CAKES. Ingredients. 1 lb. of Flour. 2 ozs. of Ground Jamaica Ginger. S Eggs. 12 ozs. of Fresh Butter. 12 ozs. of Pounded Loaf-sugar. 1. Take one pound of flour, twelve ounces of fresh butter, twelve ounces of pounded loaf-sugar, two ounces of best ground ginger, add the yolks of eight eggs. 2. Work the whole of these together on a pastei8o Buckmasters Cookery. board or slab, and after having gathered the paste up into a compact mass, separate it by cutting with a round patty cutter. 3. Place them on a slightly buttered baking sheet. 4. Bake them to a light brown colour in a moderate oven. Precautions.—The ingredients must be thoroughly well mixed. PLAIN CAKE. Ingredients. J lb. of Dough. 4 Eggs. \ lb. of Dripping. J lb. of Sugar. J lb. of Currants. 1. Take half a quartern of common dough, four eggs, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter (or dripping), a quarter of a pound of currants, carefully washed and dried, and a little salt. 2. Work the dough lightly in a basin, put in the sugar, the butter, and two eggs. 3. Thoroughly mix the whole together. 4. Add the other two eggs, one at a time. 5. Work the mixture well, and, lastly, work in the currants. 6. Fill a plain mould, previously buttered, with the mixture, and set it in a warm place to rise. 7. As soon as it has risen put it into a moderate oven and bake to a brown colour. Precautions.—The chief thing is to carefully mix the ingredients, and bake the cake thoroughly. SEED CAKE. Ingredients. Jib. of Sugar Ginger. Yeast. Nutmeg. Allspice. \ pint of Milk. I oz. of Caraway seeds. J lb. of Butter. 1. Mix a half pound of pounded loaf-sugar with two 4 -KFish. 181 pounds of flour in a large bowl or pan. 2. Make a hole in the centre, and pour into it a half pint of luke- warm milk and two tablespoonfuls of yeast. 3. Draw a little of the surrounding flour into this, and throwing a cloth over the vessel, set it in a warm place for an hour or two. 4. Add half a pound of butter just liquefied, an ounce of caraway seeds, a little allspice, ginger, and very little nutmeg, and milk sufficient to make the whole of a proper stiffness. 5. Mix it thoroughly. 6. Butter a plain mould, and pour in the mixture. 7. Let it stand half an hour at the mouth of the oven to rise, and bake it. Precautions.—Be careful to prove your yeast before using it, and if it be very thick, work only half the quantity. TO BOIL A WHOLE OR PART OF A SALMON. Ingredients. Salmon. 1. Clean it without bruising or much cutting, and remove all the blood. 2. Have a clean fish-kettle with plenty of room. 3. Put the salmon on the strainer, and place it in the fish-kettle. 4. Cover with cold water, measured with a jug to know the quantity. 5. Add salt in the proportion of an ounce and a quarter to a quart of water, but do not pour it over the fish. 6. Bring the water quickly to the boil. 7. Skim. 8. Simmer till done. Time, about a quarter of an hour to a pound. With a slice of salmon or jowl put it into hot or boiling water with salt; hot water fixes the colour. Dish up on a napkin, and garnish with182 Buckmasters Cookery. / fresh parsley. Sauces are to be used according to taste. Precautions.—Be careful to remove all the scum, and, when nearly cooked, watch the salmon, or it is liable to break. BROILED SALMON. Ingredients. Fennel Sauce. Salmon Cutlets. Salad Oil. 1. Cut out of the middle of a good salmon cutlets one inch in thickness. 2. Dry them (but do not press them) between the folds of a clean cloth. 3. Take some good salad oil and rub lightly over each side of the cutlet. 4. Sprinkle with pepper and salt. 5. Broil over a clear brisk fire. 6. Serve with caper or fennel sauce. French cooks often marinade salmon cutlets by steeping them in oil seasoned with fine herbs, &c., &c. Precautions.—A good clear fire, or broiling is im- possible. See page 21. BAKED SALMON. Ingredients. Salmon Cutlets. Butter. 1. Prepare the cutlets same as for broiling. 2. Butter a sheet of white writing paper. 3. Wrap up each cutlet, folding the edges of the paper closely together. 4. Lay the cutlets in a tin baking dish with four ounces of good butter. 5. Put it into the oven and baste frequently. 6. When done remove the paper, and serve on a drainer with plain melted butter, and dressed cucumber. One large cutlet may be baked in the same way.Fish. 18 O SALMON CUTLET EN PAPILLOTE. Ingredients. A Salmon Cutlet. 1. Have a cutlet from the middle of a large salmon weighing about one pound and a half. 2. Dry it in the folds of a clean cloth. 3. Wrap it in a sheet of well oiled writing paper. 4. Fry about ten minutes in plenty of hot fat in a frying basket. 5. Put the cutlet on some kitchen paper to remove the superfluous fat, and serve with the paper in which it was fried. Salmon cutlets may be egged and bread crumbed, and fried without paper in hot fat. FILLETS OF SALMON A LA MONTEBELLO. Ingredients. Salmon. Butter. Stock. Lemon. Parsley. Eggs. 1. Prepare some slices of salmon, not quite an inch thick. 2. Put some butter in a frying pan, when warm fry the slices of salmon with a little salt and pepper. 3. Drain them a minute or two on a sieve. 4. Stir into a clean saucepan five or six tablespoon- fuls of good stock. 5. Add the butter in which the slices have been fried with a little chopped parsley pre- viously blanched, a very little nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon. 6. Stir in the yolks of two or three eggs. 7. Now arrange your slices in a circle or oval on a dish, and pour the hot sauce in the centre. Precautions.—Be careful to fry the salmon a nice colour, and not too much nutmeg.184 Buckmastcr's Cookery. FILLETED SOLES. Soles and other flat fish are sometimes filleted, that is, the flesh is removed from the bones. To fillet a sole, wash it and remove the black skin, scrape or skin the other side; lay the sole flat on a board, and with a sharp kitchen knife make one cut from the head to the tail, along, and down to the backbone, now hold the knife obliquely (the ribs forming a guide for the knife), ease the fillet gently with the left-hand and cut from the backbone to the fins, and in two cuts the fillet may be removed; but this requires a little practice to do neatly and quickly; one sole gives four fillets. Thick firm soles are best for filleting. The head, fins, and bones may be put into a stewpari and simmered for stock, which is useful in many fish sauces. FILLETS OF SOLES A LA MAIL RE D’HOTEL. Ingredients. Soles. Lemon. Butter. 1. When prepared as in the former recipe, wash and well dry them in a clean cloth, fold them neatly or roll them. 2. Put them into a tin dish previously buttered. 3. Sprinkle a little salt and one squeeze of a lemon over the fillets. 4. Cover them with buttered paper. 5. Put the dish into the oven for six minutes. 6. Have your maitre d’hotel sauce ready. 7. Take the fillets out of the oven and arrange them on a hot dish for serving. 8. Mix the liquor from the fillets out of the tin into your sauce. 9. Pour it over the fish and serve. Precautions.—Be particular with the sauce, see page 210.Fish. bone. 3. Take an oval gratin pan and well butter it. SOLE AU GRATIN. Ingredients. Butter. 4 Mushrooms. £ of Eschalot. Parsley. Stock. Bread Raspings, 1. Clean the sole as already directed. 2. Mince finely four button mushrooms, and a quarter of an eschalot, and a little parsley the same as for baked sole. 3. Take an oval gratin tin, butter it. 4. Place half the mixture of fine herbs at the bottom, sprinkle lightly over their surface the bread raspings. 5. Lay the sole on the bread raspings, and cover it with the remainder of the fine herbs, season with a little pepper and salt. 6. Put on the surface a few pieces of butter. 7. Sprinkle the top freely with bread raspings. 8. Pour by the side some good stock to come up to the fish, but not over it, and, if you like, a glass of chablis, or other white wine ; bake for fifteen or twenty minutes, and serve on the gratin tin. The soles are better filleted; they must then be rolled. Precautions.—Do not drown the fish in stock or wine. BAKED SOLE. Ingredients. A Sole. Lemon. Stock. Mushrooms. Eschalots. 3 oz. of Butter. Parsley. Flour. 1. Take a large sole, remove the black skin, and scrape or skin the other side, remove the gills, cut off the fins, clean it, and wipe it with a clean cloth. 2. Make an incision on each side down the back to the186 Buckmastcr s Cookery. 4. Lay on the sole. 5. Add a little salt and pepper, the juice of a lemon, and a gill of stock or water. 6. Bake in an oven fifteen or twenty minutes. Make a sauce as follows : 1. Put into a small stewpan an ounce of butter and the same weight of flour. 2. Stir for two or three minutes. 3. Add half a pint of water or stock. 4. Season with salt and pepper, after the soles have been in the oven fifteen or twenty minutes. 5. Pour the liquor from the soles into the sauce. 6. Add another ounce of butter and a good tablespoon- ful of fine herbs composed of equal parts of button mushrooms and parsley, and half the quantity of eschalots all finely minced; these should have been previously blanched. 7. Add to the sauce, which should now be boiled up. 8. Place the sole on a dish. 9. Pour the sauce over, and serve. Precautions.—Careful preparation of the sauce and the blanching of the fine herbs are essential. BATTER FOR FRYING. Ingredients. 5 oz. of Flour. 2 Eggs. Oil. Batter is often required for fish, meat, and fritters. 1. Take five ounces of flour, make a hole in the centre, and mix it up with a gill of lukewarm water and a little salt. 2. Separate the yolks of two eggs (put aside the whites). 3. Add to the yolks one tablespoonful of oil. 4. Work all into a paste rather thicker than cream; if too thick add a little more water. 5. Well whisk the whites of the eggs, and stir into the batter a quarter of an hour before it is wanted.Fish. i S 7 fire, or in an oven. 5. Be careful not to brown them. FRIED SOLE. Ingredients. Milk. Sole. Parsley. Lemon. Egg and Bread Crumb. 1. Strip off the black skin of a large sole, scrape or skin the other side, remove the gills, cut off the fins. '2. Wash it, wipe it, and dry it in a clean cloth ; this is necessary with all fish that have to be broiled or fried. 3. Make an incision down each side, not quite to the back bone. 4. Put it on a dish and cover it with milk, let it remain ten or fifteen minutes, then dry in a clean cloth. 5. Flour it well on both sides, or brush it over with egg and bread crumb. 6. Put it into fat at a temperature of 380°, gradually raising it to a temperature of 385°. 7. When the sole is of a golden-brown colour, place it on kitchen-paper, or better, a clean cloth, sprinkle with salt, put it on a napkin, garnish with fried parsley, and send it up with half a lemon. The sole may be fried in a frying-pan, but a frying-kettle is better. Precautions.—Let the sole be thoroughly dried and covered with the hot fat. EGG AND BREAD CRUMB. Ingredients. Eggs. Salad Oil. Butter. Bread Crumbs. 1. Take some stale crumb of bread, and lay it on a cloth. 2. Take the corners of the cloth in one hand, and break the bread into crumbs with the other. 3. Pass them through a wire sieve. 4. Dry before the188 Buckmaster s Cookery. They can be kept in a stoppered bottle or jar in a dry place. 1. Well beat up in a flat dish two eggs with one tablespoonful of oil, and one of water, add little pepper and salt. The water is to prevent the mixture adhering too thickly on the surfaces of the things egged, which give them the appearance at table of being covered with a thick paste. These quantities would be sufficient for three or four pairs of soles. SOLE A LA MENUISE. Ingredients. I Sole. Eschalots. Lemon. i oz. of Butter. 1. Prepare the sole as already directed. 2. Cut four incisions diagonally on each side. 3. Well rub in a teaspoonful of salt and. the same quantity of finely-minced eschalots (previously blanched). 4. Flour the sole, and broil over a slow clear fire. 1. Melt an ounce of fresh butter in a clean stewpan. 2. Add the juice of half a lemon and a very little cayenne. 3. Lay the sole on a hot gratin dish. 4. Rub the sauce into the incisions. 5. Cover the fish well with the remainder. 6. Put it into a hot oven for two minutes only, and serve quickly on the dish. Precautions.—Let the sauce be well rubbed into the incisions on the sole. FILLETED SOLES A LA REINE. Ingredients. Sole. Milk. Parsley. 2 oz. of Butter. Horse-radish. 1. Fillet a sole or soles. 2. Divide the fillets, if large, into two parts by cutting across. 3. Roll them•189 Fish. up, and tie if necessary with cotton. 4. Put them in boiling salt and water sufficient to cover. 5. Let them boil ten minutes. Prepare a sauce : 1. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan. 2. Add a tablespoonful of flour, and bring it to the consistency of cream with hot milk. 3. Season with salt and pepper and a little grated horse-radish or lemon juice. 4. Take up the fillets with a slice and put them into the sauce, which should just cover them. 5. Simmer for two minutes; a little chopped parsley may be added. Precautions.—Take care not to boil the fillets after they are in the sauce, the fillets should be so arranged as just to occupy the bottom of the stewpan. PLAIN BOILED SOLE. Ingredients. Sole. Lemon. Parsley. 1. Clean the sole as already directed. 2. Put it into plenty of cold water with salt, say one ounce to a quart of watei 3. Bring it gently to the boil. 4. Put it aside to simmer from five to ten minutes according to size. 5. When ready place it in a clean napkin. 6. Garnish with parsley and slices of lemon. 7. Serve with plain melted butter, or other sauce. Precautions.—Rapid boiling is to be avoided. BOILED TURBOT. Ingredients. T urbot. A moderate-sized turbot, six or eight pounds, is to be preferred; large turbots are generally tough and190' Buckmasters Cookery. stringy. 1. Soak the fish in cold salt and water for two hours to remove the slime; some rub it with a lemon to make it white, but its utility is doubtful. 2. Place the turbot on the strainer, and put it into a clean oval fish-kettle with plenty of cold water and salt; give it plenty of room. 3. Bring it gradually to the boil. 4. Skim and set aside to simmer gently for half an hour. French cooks use milk and water for cooking a turbot. 5. Dish it on a hot napkin, the white side uppermost. 6. Garnish with parsley and nasturtium flowers. 7. Serve with melted butter or shrimp sauce. Brill is cooked in the same way after soaking and removing the scales. Precautions.—Very careful boiling and a clean strainer and kettle are essentials. . Halibut is often sold for turbot, but its flavour is not so delicate. The halibut is smooth, and covered with oblong scales, which adhere firmly to the body. The turbot has large blunt tubercles like flattened warts. The halibut is more oval in shape than a turbot. PRIED SMELTS. Ingredients. 12 Smelts. Parsley. Egg and Bread Crumb. 1. Take a dozen smelts and clean them with as little washing and handling as possible. 2. Trim off the fins, dry them thoroughly in a cloth. 3. Flour them, or brush over with egg and bread crumb. Six are sometimes fastened together before frying with a skewer run through the eyes, or they may be friedFish. 191 singly. 4. Fry in hot fat at a temperature of 380° till they are of a rich golden colour and crisp. 5. Put them on some kitchen paper. 6. Sprinkle with salt, and garnish with fried parsley. Precautions.—The smelts must be fresh, well dried, and evenly covered with flour or egg and bread crumb. FRIED WHITING. Ingredients. Whiting. Lemon. Parsley. Egg and Bread Crumb. 1. Clean the fish in salt and water. 2. Dry tho- roughly in a clean cloth. 3. Fasten the tail in the mouth. 4. Flour and brush over with egg and bread crumb. 5. Fry in hot fat to a golden colour. 6. Dish on a napkin, and garnish with fried parsley and a lemon cut in two. Precautions.—Unless the fish is quite fresh they have no flavour, and break in frying. WHITEBAIT. Ingredients. Whitebait. Lemon. Cayenne. Hot Fat. Whitebait should be cooked as soon as possible after they are caught, or kept on ice. 1. With a skimmer remove them to a colander to drain (it is better to avoid as much as possible handling so delicate a fish). 2. Dry them carefully in a clean cloth, which has been previously sprinkled rather thickly with dry flour. 3. Remove them to a coarse wicker sieve. 4. Gently shake the sieve to removeBuckmasters Cookery. 192 any excess of flour. 5. Put them into the frying basket and fry at a temperature of 400° for fifty seconds or one minute. The instant they are suffi- ciently fried, which is indicated by their whitey-brown appearance, or better by eating one, remove the whitebait on to kitchen paper, and place them in a sieve before the fire. Serve on a hot napkin, with brown bread and butter and lemon and cayenne. Precautions.—Whitebait are very delicate, and should not be bruised or broken by rough handling. BOILED COD. Ingredients. A Cod Fish. Parsley. Melted Butter. 1. Put the fish, or a piece of it, into cold water for one hour, and wash it. 2. Place it in a fish-kettle with sufficient cold water to cover it, with plenty'of salt. 3. Bring it quickly to the boil. 4. Skim. 5. Simmer till it is done. 6. Drain it, and dish on a hot napkin. 7. Garnish with parsley. 8. Serve with melted butter or oyster sauce in a sauce boat. Time, about fifteen minutes for a pound. Precautions.—Be particular that the fish does not break in boiling. SALT COD. Ingredients. Salt Fish. Potatoes. Lemon. 1. Soak a piece of salt fish for six hours in tepid water, and then in cold water for six hours, changing the water three or four times. 2. Take a stewpan orFish. *93 saucepan. 3. Put in the fish and nearly fill with cold water. 4. Let it come to the boil. 5. Skim. 6. Simmer till cooked. 7. Drain it. 8. Place it on a dish. 9. Make some plain melted butter, and squeeze in the juice of a lemon (some prefer egg sauce), pour over the fish, and garnish with plain boiled potatoes. Precautions.—Careful soaking of the fish is neces- sary to remove the salt. Lemon juice according to taste. GREY MULLET BROILED. Ingredients. Grey Mullet, Parsley and Butter. Lemon. Oil. / 1, Remove the gills and scales, and cleanse the in- side of the fish. 2. Wash and wipe it. 3. Score it on each side a dozen times a quarter of an inch deep. 4. Lay it on a dish and sprinkle with a little salt. 5. Pour over it three tablespoonfuls of oil. 6. Broil on a moderate clear fire on each side for ten minutes. 7. Place it on a dish, and serve with parsley and butter, with a little lemon juice stirred in. Precautions.— Broiling can only be done properly over a bright, clear fire. Time, according to size. RED MULLET BAKED. Ingredients. Red Mullet. 1. Clean the fish as for grey mullet. 2. Score them. 3. Fold them in white oiled or buttered paper. 4. Bake them slowly in an oven; when baked, (5) pour the liquor into a stewpan with an ounce of HBuckmaster s Cookery, 194 butter. 6. Thicken with flour. 7. Season with salt, a little dust of cayenne, and chopped parsley. 8. Let it come to the boil, and serve the sauce in a tureen. Precautions.—Let the paper be well buttered to keep the surface of the fish moist. Time, about fifteen minutes. BROILED MACKEREL. Ingredients. Mackerel. Maitre d’Hotel Butter.* 1. Cut off the tails and fins, remove the gills and inside, wipe it and clean it without washing. 2. Split the back in the direction of its length to the bone. 3. Put it on a dish, and season with pepper and salt and two tablespoonfuls of oil. 4. Lay the mackerel on a gridiron over a brisk fire for five minutes on each side, and four minutes on the open back. Place a quarter of a pound of maitre d’hotel butter on the back, and serve on a hot dish. Precautions.—The butter must be thoroughly melted by the heat of the fish before serving. Too much washing and soaking in water injures the flavour of fish. BROILED MACKEREL (2). Ingredients. Mackerel. Parsley. Chives. Lemon. 1. Clean the fish as already described. 2. Stuff it through the gills with a previously prepared mixture * See page 209.Fish. 195 of fresh butter, finely minced parsley, and chives, or eschalots, and pepper and salt, all worked into a stiffish paste. 3. Open the back from head to the tail with a sharp knife. 4. Fill up the cut with the re- mainder of the stuffing. 5. Well butter a piece of clean paper. 6. Wrap up the fish. 7. Put it on the gridiron over a slow fire, or in the oven. When ready remove the paper, and squeeze over the fish the juice of a lemon. Precautions.—The most important thing is the fire: if not quite clear, put the fish in the oven. If the stuffing is not stiff enough, work in a few bread crumbs. BOILED MACKEREL. Ingredients. Mackerel. Fennel Sauce. 1. Thoroughly clean the fish. 2. Place it in a kettle. 3. Cover it with cold water, with plenty of salt. 4. Bring it slowly to the boil. 5. Skim and simmer till done. 6. Dish on a hot napkin, and serve with fennel sauce. Precautions. — The amount of salt should be about one ounce to a quart of water. MAQUEREAU \ LA NORMANDE. 1. Clean the fish and wipe dry. 2. Split open the back. 3. Take out the bone, cut off the head and tail. 4. Butter a flat tin. 5. Lay the fish on the tin with the skin side downwards. 6. Mix half a teacupful qf n 2196 Buckmaster s Cookery. bread crumbs with some chopped parsley and thyme, pepper and salt. 7. Chop one eschalot finely, and add to the bread crumbs, &c. 8. Sprinkle the mixture thickly over the fish. 9. Cut up one ounce of butter into small pieces, and lay on the bread crumbs. 10. Put in a hot oven for fifteen minutes. 11. Serve with melted butter with a little vinegar stirred in and slightly browned with caramel. CROQUETTES OF FISH. Ingredients. Cold boiled Fish. Egg. Anchovy Sauce. Milk. Hot Lard. Parsley. 2 oz. of Butter. Flour. 1. Take some of the remnants of boiled turbot, soles, or any other kind of fish. 2. Pull them into small pieces with a fork, season with pepper and salt, and put them aside on a plate. 3. Put two ounces of butter in a saucepan, let it come to a light brown. 4. Add a tablespoonful of flour, stir well over a gentle fire. 5. Then add half a pint of hot milk, and keep stirring till the mixture thickens. 6. Add a teaspoon- ful of anchovy sauce, or a little Worcester sauce, a very small quantity of grated nutmeg, and just a dust of cayenne; put the fish into the sauce, shake it gently until it nearly boils, and turn the whole on to a plate. When quite firm and cold, roll out the mince in bread icrmnbs into the shape of corks, flour them well, then kiip them into a beaten egg, and again roll them in bread crumbs, smooth them into shape with a knife, and fry in hot lard, at a temperature of 385°. Serve with fried parsley.Fish. 197 Precautions.—The pieces of fish should be about: the size of half-inch dice, and are easily removed from the bones, if done before the fish is cold. Do not attempt to form the croquettes till the mince is firm. FISH PUDDING OF A HADDOCK. Ingredients. Haddock. Fotatoes. Butter. Egg. Cayenne. 1. Wash your haddock in cold water. 2. Put it into boiling water with a little salt. 3. Let it be well covered. 4. Simmer for fifteen minutes. 5. When done take it up carefully. 6. Cut off the head and tail. 7. Skin it from the head to the tail. 8. Cut it and take out the bones. 9. The fish must be cut into small pieces the size of dice and put into a basin. 10. Boil six potatoes, well dry them to make them mealy. 11. Put them on to a wire sieve, and rub them quickly through with a wooden spoon. 12. Add the potatoes to the haddock and mix well together. 13. A little pepper and salt with a few grains of cayenne. 14. Put in two ounces of butter. 15. One egg slightly beaten. 16. Pour the egg into the mix- ture and mix to a thick paste. 17. Put it on to a buttered tin. 18. Shape it as well as you can like a haddock. 19. Put some little pieces of butter all about on the shape. 20. Bake for fifteen minutes until it is a nice brown. 21. Serve with egg sauce. Precautions.—Do not make the mixture too soft. It can be made into cakes and fried (if preferred), in which case, egg and bread-crumb well.Buck-master's Cookery. 158 and place it on a chopping board. 2. Break the shell BAKED HADDOCK. Ingredients. Iladdodc. Parsley. 2 oz. of Suet. 2 oz. of Dripping. Bread Crumbs. Herbs. Eec. 1. Wash and dean in cold water a haddock and dry it in a cloth. 2. Prepare four tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs. 3. Wash a sprig of parsley, remove the stalks and dry it in a cloth. 4. Chop up the parsley finely (a dessertspoonful). 5. Mince finely a sprig of thyme and marjoram (a teaspoonful). 6. Mix thoroughly parsley and herbs with one tablespoonful of bread crumbs, a little pepper and salt, and half an ounce of butter or sweet dripping. 7. Work the mix- ture thoroughly together. 8. Stuff the belly of the fish and sew it up. 9. Break an egg into a plate and beat it up. 10. Brush the haddock over with the egg, roll it in bread crumbs so as to well cover every part. 11. Grease a dish with butter or dripping. 12. Lay the fish in the dish with a few small pieces of dripping. 13. Put it in the oven and bake thirty or forty minutes, with frequent basting. Precaution.—Be particular in preparing the stuff- ing. LOBSTER CUTLETS. Ingredients. I Lobster. Cream. Flour. Lard. Butter. Seasoning. I Egg. Bread. Parsley. 1. Take a small lobster (a hen lobster is preferred)by striking it with the flat side of a chopper. 3. Break off the shell and claws and remove all the flesh. 4. Cut up the flesh with a sharp knife into quarter of ; an inch cubes. In a hen lobster you will find a strip of coral down the back and in the head. 5. Re- move this coral and put it into a mortar with one ounce of fresh butter. 6. Well work the coral and butter together in the mortar. 7. Remove it from the mortar with a palate knife or slice of raw potato, so that none of the mixture is wasted. 8. Take a plate and place over it a sieve, the plate should be large enough to support the cage of the sieve. 9. Make a puree by rubbing the mixture through the sieve with a wooden spoon.. 10. Carefully remove all the mix- ture which adheres to the under side of the sieve. 11. Make the whole of it into a pat, and put the pat into a basin of cold water. 12. Put into a clean stewpan one ounce and a half of flour, and half an ounce of butter, and thoroughly mix with a wooden spoon. 13. A.dd a gill of cold water. 14. Put the stewpan over the fire and stir till it thickens and boils. 15. Add one tablespoonful of cream and stir till it comes to the boil; it must now be quite smooth. 16. Remove the stewpan and place it on the table, stand- ing on a piece of paper or wooden stand. 17. Gradually stir in the pat of coral butter, and be very particular that the sauce is quite smooth. 18. Add a little pepper, salt, the smallest speck of cayenne, six drops of lemon juice, and thoroughly mix. 19. Lightly stir into the sauce the chopped lobster so as not to break the pieces. 20. Pour the mixture from the stewpan on to a clean plate, and smooth the surface200 Buckmaster s Cookery. with a clean knife. 21. Take a piece of kitchen paper cut into the size of the plate, butter it and cover the mixture so as to keep it free from dust. 22. Stand the mixture aside in a cold place, if possible on ice. 23. Place a wire sieve over a sheet of kitchen paper, and rub through the crumb of a stale piece of bread. 24. Beat on a plate one egg with a teaspoonful ot water and same quantity of oil. 25. Prepare for fry- ing by placing a pound and a half of clarified fat in a clean saucepan or stewpan. 26. Melt slowly and see that the fat does not smoke or burn. 27. If the mix- ture is sufficiently firm, divide it into seven parts, and shape each part into a cutlet. 28. Well cover each cutlet by brushing over in the egg mixture. 29. Remove them carefully, and cover them well all over with bread crumbs. It is better to stand them aside for half an hour before frying. 30. When the fat is the proper temperature, (31) take a frying basket, put in two cutlets so as not to touch each other. 32. Fry for two or three minutes till they are of a pale golden colour. 33. Remove the cutlets carefully on to a piece of kitchen paper, so as to absorb all the fat on the surfaces. 34. Stick the small claws of the lobster into the end of each cutlet. 35. Wash and well dry in a cloth a few sprigs of parsley, and fry for one minute in the frying basket. 36. Arrange the cutlets on a hot dish, garnish with the fried parsley. Precautions.—Great care and attention are neces- sary. Especially take care not to oil the butter; if it does oil it can be rectified by stirring in a little cold water.Fish. 201 • BAKED SPRATS. Ingredients. Herbs. 2 lbs. of Sprats. \ lb. of Bread Crumbs. * 1. Mix in a basin a teaspoonful of fine herbs with a little pepper and salt, and half a pound of bread crumbs. 2. Rub the sprats in a clean coarse cloth to remove the scales. 3. Strew over a tin dish some ol the mixed bread crumbs. 4. Arrange on these n layer of sprats, but not to cover each other. 5. Sprinkle the sprats with the mixed bread crumbs, and so on for three layers of sprats. 6. Finish with a good layer of the bread crumbs. 7. Put on the top a few pieces of butter the size of a nut, and place the dish into an oven for twenty or thirty minutes. This is a cheap, excellent dish. Precautions.—The sprats should be fresh and carefully wiped, but not washed. Cleanliness is an essential condition of all cooking. The kitchen may be small, dark, and badly arranged, but it should be kept clean. Many a dinner has been spoilt by a dirty spoon or a dirty saucepan, and failure in cooking is often attributable to want of cleanliness. In washing cooking utensils the water should be changed as soon as it becomes greasy, or the thing washed is made dirtier. The brightness of the outside of a saucepan is a poor apology for the dirt inside. I once took down six bright shining stewpans before I could find one fit for melted butter. Kitchen utensils should be frequently examined, especially those made of copper; as soon as the copper begins to show inside they should be re-tinned, a badly tinned stewpan will give a bad colour to everything cooked in it, especially sauces and jellies.Buckmccster s Cookery. 202 PLAIN MELTED BUTTER. TO MAKE ONE PINT. Suppose we wish lo make a pint of plain melted butter :—Take three ounces of good butter; one ounce of flour; a pinch of pepper and salt; half a pint of cold water: put one ounce of the three ounces of butter and the one ounce of flour, into a quart stewpan, mix the butter and flour into a soft paste, add the pepper and salt and half a pint of cold water. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the contents boil. If it should be too thick (which will depend on the flour, for old flour requires more water), add half a gill or so of warm water before putting in the remainder of the butter. The sauce should then be thick enough to coat the spoon. Cut the remaining two ounces of butter into pieces to accelerate the melting, take the stewpan off the fire and stir till the butter is melted. It must not be placed on the fire again. The great point in preparing melted butter is this : —as soon as it has come to the boil to take it off the fire, and then add the cold butter, which gives it the flavour of butter. The failure in properly making melted butter may arise from the flour being in excess, which destroys the flavour of the butter; or it maySauces. 203 arise from mixing the whole quantity of butter with the flour at once. If too thin, mix a tablespoonful of flour with half an ounce of cold butter, take the sauce off the fire and • # allow it to cool for a few minutes, add the mixture of flour and butter, and stir while off the fire. When melted, put the sauce over the fire again till just boil- ing, then add a small piece of butter before serving. The essential condition of success is that the flour and butter should be of the very best, or good melted butter is impossible, no matter what recipe is followed. The butter, unless good and fresh, gives an unpleasant flavour to the sauce. Melted butter is sometimes pre- ferred slightly acid, when a little lemon-juice is stirred into the sauce before serving. All plain sauces should have a simple but decided character, and be served as hot as possible. They should therefore never be made until just before they are wanted. Sauces with liaisons or creams should be well stirred, and never allowed to boil after the liaison or cream is added. The same care must be exercised with lemon-juice, pickles, and other acid mixtures. For sauces use clean stewpans, those of enamel or porcelain are the best, and stir always with a wooden spoon. MELTED BUTTER. Ingredients. 1 gill of Cream. .1 oz. of Butter. Lemon. 1. Place a gallipot in a saucepan of water. 2. Put into the gallipot one ounce of fresh butter; when it is204 Buckmaster's Cookery. melted, (3) stir in gradually a gill of cream, with a little salt and a few drops of lemon-juice. Let tire water in the saucepan come gradually to the boiling point, and in four or five minutes it is ready. Precautions.—Constant stirring is necessary. This arrangement is in fact a bain-marie. Be careful the water does not rise over into the gallipot. FENNEL, PARSLEY, AND TARRAGON SAUCES. A little fennel blanched for a few minutes in boil- ing water and finely minced, then stirred into the butter, makes fennel sauce, and so with tarragon or parsley. Capers either chopped or whole makes caper sauce. EGG SAUCE. Ingredients. Melted Butter. Eggs. When the butter is prepared as in the foregoing recipe, chop into small cubes two hard-boiled eggs and stir them in. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. TO MAKE HALF A PINT. Ingredients. Egg- Tarragon Vinegar. Oil. Vinegar. This sauce is used as a dressing for salad and cold meat or fowl; it is the foundation of all cold sauces, and must be well made. 1. Separate thoroughly from the white the yolk of205 Sauces. one egg and put it into a basin with half a tablespoon- ful of tarragon vinegar (p. 85), one tablespoonful of good vinegar, and a little salt and pepper. 2. Take the oil bottle and place your thumb over the top and let the oil fall in at short intervals, drop by drop, and well mix. The great art is to thoroughly mix the oil before adding more. 3. After adding about forty or fifty drops of oil you may now add it, in quantities of a teaspoonful, till you have used about four ounces alto- gether, which will make about half a pint of sauce. 4. Add by degrees half a tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, one tablespoonful of good vinegar, and pepper and salt to taste. As a rule this sauce should be well seasoned. If desirable, slightly rub the basin in which the sauce is mixed with an eschalot or garlic. Some think a finely-minced eschalot and parsley are agreeable additions to this sauce, and it is sometimes made without the egg. Precautions.—Gradually and thoroughly stir in the oil till the sauce is of the consistency of cream, and of a pale straw colour. Do not add the vinegar until the egg and oil are well mixed. Tartare Sauce.—Add to half a pint of white mayonnaise sauce, prepared as above, without flavour- ing, one tablespoonful of dry mustard, half an ounce of eschalots or spring onions, and half an ounce of gher- kins, minced finely with one tablespoonful of ravigote (minced chervil, tarragon, and burnet), a tablespoonful of Chili vinegar, and a small pinch of cayenne pepper, mix thoroughly with the white lpayonnuise and it is ready.206 Buckmaster s Cookery. GREEN MAYONNAISE SAUCE. TO MAKE HALF A PINT. Ingredients. Mayonnaise sauce. Burnet. Chervil. Cress. Tarragon. 1. Mince finely a teaspoonful of garden cress, the same quantity of burnet, the same quantity of tarra- gon, and half a teaspoonful of chervil, with any other herbs you may fancy. 2. Mix these together. 3. Stir them into the sauce. This mixture is called ravigote, if tarragon vinegar has been used ; in preparing the white mayonnaise no tarragon should be used in the ravigote. When tarragon is scarce, tarragon vinegar may be used instead. Two tablespoonfuls of ravigote may be used for half a pint of sauce. Precautions.—The herbs should be finely minced. 1. Mince half an ounce of eschalots, one dessert- spoonful of capers, and the same quantity of gherkins. When minced (2) take two anchovies, clean them, and put them for a minute into hot water. 3. Remove their heads and backbones and chop them up. Mix them together with a teaspoonful of French mustard, and stir into half a pint of mayonnaise sauce. Precautions.—With all cold sauces the chief thing is a good mayonnaise sauce SAUCE REMOULADE. TO MAKE HALF A TINT. Mayonnaise sauce. Eschalots. Ingredients. Capers. Gherkins. 2 Anchovies. French Mustard.207 Sauces. PIQUANT SAUCE (1). TO MAKE THREE QUARTERS OF A PINT. Ingredients. Flour. Vinegar. $ pt. of Stock. -Jr oz. of Eschalots. Gherkins. Parsley. 1 oz. of Butter. 1. Chop up a good half ounce of eschalots, a table- spoonful of parsley, and a tablespoonful of gherkins 2. Take a clean quart stewpan and put into it one ounce of butter, four tablespoonfuls of vinegar, and the chopped eschalots. 3. Stir over the fire with a wooden spoon till the vinegar is sufficiently reduced and the butter clear. When the eschalots have absorbed all the vinegar (4) add one ounce of flour. 5. Stir four or five minutes. 6. Add three-quarters of a pint of broth or stock (if unflavoured with vegetables the better), season with pepper and salt according to the saltness of the broth. 7. Bring it to the boil. 8. Skim. 9. Continue boiling gently for ten minutes. 10. Now add the parsley and gherkins. 11. Boil up, and skim again if necessaiy. 12. Any additional seasoning may now be added, and the sauce is ready. Reducing is necessary to give a proper sharpness to the sauce and secure a proper mixture of the flour and butter. When anything has to be reduced a brisk boiling is necessary. The essential condition of all sauces is cleanliness. Many an eniree has been spoilt through dirt. The utensil may appear clean, but the evidence of the nose is often necessary. Precautions.—Be careful not to burn the butter.Biickmaster s Cookery. 2oS my PIQUANT SAUCE (2). TO MAKE HALF A TINT. Ingredients. Parsley. Melted Butter or Stock. Capers. Gherkin. Worcester Sauce. Eschalots. 6 Anchovies. Oil. Dry Mustard. Vinegar. 3 EhrSs- 1. Take a small bunch of fresh parsley, wash it and dry it in a cloth. 2. Remove the stalks. 3. Put a tablespoonful of the leaves into a mortar, the same quantity of capers and dry mustard, the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, and half a teaspoonful of Worcester sauce or ketchup. 4. Bone six anchovies and pass them through a sieve (puree). - Add one tablespoon- ful of vinegar, two of oil and one finely minced eschalot, and work all together in the mortar until thoroughly well mixed. 6. Stir the mixture into half a pint of melted butter, or good beef stock, season with salt and pepper, and serve hot. Precautions. — All the ingredients must be thoroughly mixed in the mortar. DUTCH SAUCE, OR SAUCE HOLLANDAISE. TO MAKE HALF A PINT. Ingredients. 2 Eggs. 4 oz. of Fresh Butter. White Pepper. Vinegar. When well made this is the first and best of white sauces. 1. Reduce two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to one tablespoonful in a clean stewpan, with a little salt and coarsely ground white-pepper (mignonette). 2. Re- move the stewpan from the fire. 3. Add two table- spoonfuls of cold water and the yolks of two eggs.209 Sauces. 4. Put the stewpan on the fire and stir, but do not boil. 5. Divide four ounces of sweet fresh butter into six parts. 6. Take the stewpan off the fire. 7. Stir in till melted one part only of the butter. 8. Place the stewpan again on the fire for about a minute, constantly stirring. 9. Remove it again from the fire. 10. Add another part of the butter and repeat in the same way till all the butter has been used. It will be necessary to add at intervals a tablespoonful of cold water, to prevent the sauce from thickening. Season with pepper and salt and serve hot. Precautions.—The yolks of the eggs are to be •well freed from the white, and constant attention is necessary in the preparation of this sauce. MAITRE D’HOTEL BUTTER. TO MAKE SEVEN OUNCES. Ingredients. I oz. of Parsley. 6 oz. of Butter. Lemon. 1. Take some fresh parsley and wash it in plenty of water, then dry it. 2. Remove the stalks. 3. Mince it. 4. Take a clean cloth and secure the parsley in one corner and dip it two or three times in cold water, then wring out the water. This second washing greatly removes the acrid flavour of the parsley. The parsley is now ready, and there should be about one ounce. 5. Take six ounces of fresh butter. 6. Put it in a basin. 7. Add the parsley, a little salt and pepper, and a tablespoonful of lemon-juice. 8. Work all together with a clean hand or a wooden spoon near the fire till it comes to the consistency of a very thick cream, and it is now ready.Buckmaster's Cookery. 2 IO Precautions.—Do not mix too near the fire, or the butter becomes oily. When well made this butter will keep for a week. MAITRE D’HOTEL SAUCE, OR WHITE SAUCE. Ingredients. Butter. Eggs. Lemon. Parsley. 1. Put about two ounces of butter into a very clean saucepan, and the yolks of two eggs, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of good vinegar (the juice of a lemon is better). 2. Place the saucepan over a slow fire, and stir with a wooden spoon until the butter is quite melted and mixed with the eggs (it must not boil), add to it a little chopped parsley, and use the same at once, if not it is liable to curdle. For this reason the sauce, which is very delicate and quickly prepared, must be made at the very moment it is wanted. MAITRE D’HOTEL SAUCE. TO MAKE HALF A PINT. Ingredients. Maitre d’Hotel Butter. Plain Melted Butter. 1. Take a clean quart stewpan and make a gill of plain melted butter. 2. Now add a gill of water, and boil for three minutes with constant stirring. 3. Take off the fire. 4. Add five ounces of maitre d’hotel butter. 5. Stir till melted and serve hot. When used for fish add a little fish stock and two table- spoonfuls of cream. Precautions.—Cleanliness and good maitre d’hote! butter are essential.Sauces. 211 HOT MINT SAUCE. TO MAKE A PINT. Ingredients. Mint. Sugar. Vinegar. 1. Take a clean quart stewpan and reduce half a pint of vinegar with half an ounce of brown sugar. 2. Add three quarters of a pint of water. 3. Boil up. 4. Simmer for ten minutes. 5. Add a teaspoonful of finely minced young mint. 6. Well mix, and it is ready. Precautions.—Remove the large stalks, and the younger the mint the better. COLD MINT SAUCE. TO MAKE HALF A PINT. Ingredients. Mint. Sugar. Vinegar. 1. Take three ounces of brown sugar, three table- spoonfuls of young mint, previously picked and washed and finely minced. 2. Add half a pint of vinegar. 3. Mix well in a basin till the sugar is melted. Put the sauce into a tureen, and serve. Precautions.—The ingredients should be tho- roughly mixed. BECHAMEL SAUCE (1), TO MAKE THREE PINTS. Ingredients. i pint Cream. Veal or Fowl. Mushrooms, i Onion. Stock. I Carrot. Bouquet garni stock. 6 oz. of Butter. If you have no rich white stock (1) cut up some212 Buckmcister's Cookery. lean veal, free from fat, into two inch cubes. 2. Put them into a three-quart stewpan. 3. Add one onion, two and a half inches in diameter, one small carrot cut into pieces, and six ounces of butter. 4. Fry the vegetables carefully in the butter for ten minutes, without colouring. 5. Stir in three ounces of flour, and continue stirring seven minutes. 6. Add three pints of stock, half pint of cream, five ounces of sliced mushrooms, a small bouquet garni, half a teaspoonful of salt, and a pinch of mignonette pepper (white pepper). 7. Stir till it comes to the boil. 8. Skim occasionally to remove the fat. 9. Simmer for two hours. 10. Strain through a tammy sieve into an enamelled or porcelain stewpan with a gill of cream. 11. Simmer over the fire till it coats the spoon. 12. Strain again through a tammy sieve into a basin and stir till the sauce is cold. Precautions.—This sauce especially requires the cook’s utmost attention. BECHAMEL SAUCE WITHOUT MEAT (2). TO MAKE A QUART. Ingredients. Onion. Carrot. Eschalot. Bouquet garni. 4 oz. of Butter. 3 pts. of Milk. 1. Take an onion three inches in diameter, and cut it into six or eight pieces. 2. Slice a small carrot, and cut up one eschalot. 3. Fry these for five minutes in a two quart stewpan with four ounces of butter. 4. Add one ounce and a half of flour. 5. Stir for five minutes. 6. Add three pints of newSauces. 213 milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of white pepper, a small bouquet garni, and stir for twenty minutes. 7. Strain through a tammy sieve into a basin, and put aside for use. When required, boil it up again and thicken, if necessary, with butter. If stirred till cold this prevents any film forming on the surface Precautions.—Take care not to brown the vege- tables or butter. This and the preceding sauce can be put by for use and warmed up when wanted. HORSERADISH SAUCE. TO MAKE HALF A PINT. Ingredients. Horseradish. Cream. Pounded Loaf Sugar. 1. Boil half a pint of rich cream or new milk. 2. Add one ounce of finely-grated horseradish, a tea- spoonful of loaf sugar, and a little salt, and serve cold in a boat. Precautions.—The horseradish should be young. A little vinegar is sometimes added. « ITALIAN SAUCE. TO MAKE A PINT. Ingredients. Stock. Eschalots. Mushrooms. Onions. Ilam. Chablis. Butter. 1. Put into a clean quart stewpan half a dozen mushrooms, one onion, three eschalots, and a rashet of ham, all minced finely. 2. Fry these for five minutes to a golden colour. 3. Add three gills of214 Buckmaster's Cookery. stock and a small bouquet garni. 4. Let the whole come slowly to the boil. 5. Simmer for three-quarters of an hour. 8. Add a glass of chablis, sauterne, or madeira, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. 7. Season with pepper and salt. 1. Melt in another stewpan three-quarters of an ounce of butter. 2. Add a tea- spoonful of flour, and thoroughly mix. 3. Ask some one to strain the sauce gradually into the second stewpan while you stir, and the sauce is ready. Precautions.—The success of this sauce depends on the constant attention of the cook. ONION SAUCE (1). Ingredients. Onions. Melted Butter. Milk. 1. Peel the onions, and put them for a quarter of an hour into salt and water. 2. Blanch them, and then boil them in plenty of water or milk. 3. Pass them through a hair sieve. 4. Stir the pulp into thin melted butter. 5. Boil up. 6. Season with pepper and salt, and serve. Precautions.—By boiling the onions in milk a more delicate flavour is obtained. ONION SAUCE (2). Ingredients. Onions. Cream or Milk. 1. Peel the onions and blanch them. 2. Roughly mince them. 3. Put an ounce of butter into a clean stewpan. 4. Add a teaspoonful of flour. 5. Stir for two minutes. 6. Add the onions and stir to preventSauces. 215 colouring. 7. Add a little pounded loaf-sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. When the onions are suffi- ciently soft pass them through a sieve. 8. Return the pulp to the stewpan. 9. Bring the sauce to its proper consistency with milk or cream, continually stirring. Serve hot. Precautions.—Do not let the sauce boil after adding the cream. TOMATO SAUCE. Ingredients. 8 Tomatoes. Bouquet garni. Stock. | oz. of Butter. This sauce is best made with fresh tomatoes. 1. Take six or eight tomatoes. 2. Remove the stalks and squeeze out the juice and seeds. 3. Take a three- pint stewpan with a close-fitting lid. 4. Put in the tomatoes. 5. Add a gill of water, a little salt and pepper, and a small bouquet garni. 6. Boil for twenty minutes or half an hour, Avith frequent stirring. When soft, (7) pass them through a hair sieve. 1. Melt half an ounce of butter. 2. Stir into it a teaspoonful of flour. 3. Stir for two or three minutes. 4. Take it off the fire. 5. Add in small portions the puree of tomatoes, constantly stirring. 6. Add a gill of stock, better if flavoured with a rasher of ham or bacon. 7. Boil for a quarter of an hour. Should the sauce be too thick, add a little more stock. If preserved tomatoes are used, begin with them as if they were a puree, and proceed as already described, and the sauce is ready. Precautions.—Almost constant stirring is required216 Buckmaster''s Cookery. BREAD SAUCE. Ingredients. French Roll. 5 Peppercorns. 1 Onion. £ pt. of Milk. A tablespoonful of Cream. 1. Take a French roll, cut it in half, and pull it into small pieces (or use bread crumbs). 2. Peel a small onion. 3. Put half a pint of milk into a clean stewpan. 4. Add the onion, French roll, and five peppercorns and a little salt. 5. Put on the lid, and stand the stewpan aside to soak the bread for a quarter of an hour. 6. Place the stewpan on the fire and stir with a wooden spoon till it is perfectly smooth and boils. 7. Remove the onion and peppercorns, and pass through a sieve. 8. Return the sauce to the stewpan and add a tablespoonful of cream. 9. Stii again till the sauce boils, when it is ready. Precautions.—This sauce requires constant stir- ring. OYSTER SAUCE. Ingi clients. Milk. 12 Oysters. ij oz. of Butter. 1. Open a dozen oysters and boil them for two minutes in their own liquor. 2. Drain them over a colander. 3. Strain the liquor. 1. Mix to a smooth paste in the same stewpan three quarters of an ounce of butter with the same weight of flour. 2. Add the liquor of the oysters. 3. Make nearly a pint by adding milk. 4. Stir over the fire till it comes to the boil. 5. Take it off the fire andSauces. 217 stir in half an ounce of butter till melted. 6. Remove the beards from the oysters. 7. Return the oysters into the sauce to warm. Precautions.—The sauce must not boil after the oysters are added. MUSHROOM SAUCE (1). Ingredients. 1 pottle of Mushrooms. 1 pt. of Bechamel Sauce. Lemon-juice. 1. Wash and pick a pottle of mushrooms. 2. Re- move the gritty part near the stalk. 3. Put them into a basin of cold water for three or four minutes. 4. Dry them on a cloth. 5. Trim them, and, if you like, whiten them in a stewpan with a tablespoonful of lemon-juice and the same quantity of water. 6. Mince them, stalks and all. 7. Put them into a clean quart saucepan Avith an ounce of butter. 8. When the mushrooms are nearly done add half a pint of Bechamel sauce. 9. Simmer for half an hour. 10. Pass the whole through a strainer, and serve hot. Precautions.—Good Bechamel sauce and young mushrooms will be required. MUSHROOM SAUCE (2). TO MAKE A PINT. Ingredients, I pt. of Button Mushrooms. 1 pt. of Cream. 1 £ oz. of Butter. 1. Take a pint of button mushrooms and prepare them as directed in the previous recipe. 2. Put them218 Buckmasters Cookery. into a clean quart stewpan, with one ounce and a half of butter and one ounce of flour. 3. Mix by stirring well with a wooden spoon. 4. Add the mushrooms. 5. Season with a little salt. 6. Add one pint of cream. Boil for ten or fifteen minutes, stirring. Precautions.—This sauce requires almost constant stirring. LEMON AND LIVER SAUCE, Ingredients. Liver. Lemon. Melted Butter. 1. Wash and score the liver of a fowl or a rabbit. 2. Blanch it for five minutes. 3. Cut half a lemon into small slices. 4. Remove all the white and seeds. 5. Take a quarter of the lemon-rind and mince it and the liver finely. 1. Prepare half a pint of melted butter. 2. Add the minced liver and lemon. 3. Season with a little salt. 4. Let it come gradually to a good temperature without boiling, and then serve. Precautions.—Be sure the livers are fresh and healthy. LIVER AND PARSLEY SAUCE. Ingredients. Liver. Parsley. Melted Butter. Proceed as in the last recipe by blanching the parsley and liver, mincing them separately, and stirring the melted butter. Precautions.—The same as the preceding.Sauces. two minutes). 4. Pour round the pudding immediately. ROUX. Ingredients. Stock. Flour. 3 oz. of Butter. 1. Melt three ounces of butter. 2. Stir in one ounce of flour over the fire until it becomes of a. light brown colour. 3. Cover the stewpan, and let it re- main for half an hour on the stove, then add half a pint of boiling water. 4. Season with pepper and salt. 5. Stir gently till well mixed.. 6. Continue the stirring five minutes after it comes to the boil. Stock, as I have before explained, is better than water. Roux is used for thickening sauces and gravies ; when wanted white it must not remain on the fire long enough to brown. The difference between brown roux and white roux is simply in the browning of the butter. It can be kept for some days in a clean earthenware jar in a cool place. Precautions.—Great care must be given to the preparation of roux, for if the butter and flour are not good, or allowed to become too brown, the flavour of the sauce is strong and acrid. GERMAN SAUCE. Ingredients. Eggs. Sugar. Sherry. 1. Put the yolks of two eggs into a stewpan with one teaspoonful of castor sugar. 2. Add one glass of sherry. 3. Put the stewpan on the fire, and whisk the mixture vigorously until it becomes a stiff froth (about220 Buck-masters Cookery. APRICOT SAUCE. Ingredients. Jam. Sugar. Lemon. Sherry. 1. Put half a gill of water in a small stewpan with one dessertspoonful of castor sugar. 2. Boil five minutes. 3. Add two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, a good squeeze of lemon-juice and a glass of sherry. 4. Boil ten minutes, then strain round the pud- ding. GRAVY SOUP (FROM TINNED MEAT). 1. Open a four pound tin. 2. Place it for two or three minutes in a saucepan with boiling water to loosen the fat and jelly. 3. Pour a little hot watei close to the inside of the tin so as not to soak the meat. All this is to dissolve the jelly and gravy. 4. Turn the meat into a large basin. 5. Pour over it a little more boiling water. 6. Remove the meat to a dish. 7. Pour the contents of the basin into a two- quart stewpan. 8. Add sufficient boiling water to make a quart or three pints of stock. 9. Let it come to the boil. 10. Skim off the fat. 11. Season with pepper and salt. 12. Strain it into a soup tureen over small cubes of toasted bread. A JULIENNE SOUP (FROM TINNED MEAT). Proceed in precisely the same way with another tin. 1. Fillet one onion, one small turnip, a little celery, and two young carrots. 2. Melt one ounce221 Tinned Meat. and a half of butter in a three pint stewpan. 3. Cook the vegetables for ten minutes in the butter, without stewing. 4. Strain your soup into the stewpan with the vegetables, season with pepper and salt. 5. Stand the stewpan aside to simmer. 6. When the vegetables are tender the soup is ready. The meat may be made into a stew, as already given (page 129), the small pieces either made into mince or sausage rolls or treated as follows:— CROQUETTES OF TINNED MEAT Croquettes are considered rather a delicacy, and may be made with the remnants of game, chicken, fish, potatoes, mushrooms, sweetbread, lobster, rabbit, &c., and is an excellent way of using what might otherwise be wasted. 1. Mince finely the trimmings of the tinned meat and put them on a plate. 2. Melt one and a ' half ounce of butter in a stewpan. 3. Stir in a des - sert-spoonful of flour. 4. Add a little good stock. Season with pepper and salt. 5. Add a little powdered spice, or nutmeg, but not both. 6. When the butter and flour are thoroughly mixed, add the minced meat and a little chopped parsley. Stir for three minutes. 1. Prepare a liason, by beating up the yolk of one egg with the juice of a lemon. 2. Take out some of the mince and mix in the basin with the liason. 3. Remove the stewpan from the fire. 4. Add the liason and thoroughly mix by stirring with a wooden spoon. Turn the mixture on to a dish and spread it out to cool. When it is sufficiently firm t} handle,Buckmcister s Cookery. 222 make the croquettes by shaping the mince with the hands into pieces about the size of a cork, flattening the ends of a knife. 5. Lay them on a plate. 1. Beat up an egg, adding a teaspoonful of oil and a teaspoonful of water. 2. Well roll each croquette in flour, then the egg mixture, and then in dried bread crumbs. 3. Cover thoroughly and put them aside on a dish. They are now ready for the frying-basket, and should be fried to a golden-brown colour in fat, at a temperature of from 380° to 390° All cro- quettes are made the same way. Garnish with fried parsley. These were some of the methods adopted in the Cookery School for cooking Australian meat, but the recipes are numerous. Precautions.—Do not attempt to form the croquettes till the material is firm enough to shape. Fry in a frying-basket. In the preparation of Australian beef and mutton, the most important thing is the preparation of some sauce by which the meat is disguised and made savoury. A number of dishes beside Australian meat depend entirely for their success upon the sauce ; the meat is simply to give a body to the dish, and the body of such a dish may be, and often is, very mysterious, but the flavour delicate and refined. In this way the gristle of meat, the tough legs of fowls, and pieces regarded as inferior, may be made delicious by skilful arrangement. All previously cooked meat, and especially preserved meat, require not cooking but judiciously warming. In tinned meats you always have a strong jelly, which can be made the basis of a number of sauces.Vegetables. 2 2 3 POTATOES, PLAIN BOILED. Ingredients. Potatoes. Salt. To boil potatoes properly they should all be of the same sort, and as nearly as possible of the same size. 1. Wash off the dirt. 2. Scrub them very clean with a hard brush, but never use a knife in any way, not even to clear the eyes. 3. Rinse them well, and arrange them compactly in a saucepan so that a small quantity of water may be sufficient to cover them. 4. Pour the water in cold, and when it boils throw in one large teaspoonful of salt to each quart of water. 5. Simmer until the potatoes are nearly done. 6. For the last two or three minutes let them boil rapidly. 7. When they are tender quite through, which may be known by probing them with a thin skewer, (8) pour away the water immediately. 9. Lift the lid of the sauce- pan to allow the steam to escape. 10. Place them by the side of the fire for the moisture to evaporate. 11. Peel and send them to table as quickly as pos- sible, either in a hot napkin or in a dish of which the cover is so placed that the steam may pass off. There should be no delay in serving after they are once taken from the fire. The Irish put the potatoes into cold water. When the water comes to the boil it is poured away, and the cooking commenced again with cold22 4 Buckmaster’s- Cookery. in the sliced potatoes. 6. Let them gently boil for water. Some kinds will be sufficiently boiled in twenty minutes ; others in not less than three-quarters of an hour. Precautions.—Pour away the water as soon as the potatoes are cooked, and dry them thoroughly. MASHED POTATOES. Ingredients. Potatoes. Cream. 3 oz. of Butter. 1. Boil or steam the potatoes. 2. Turn them into a basin, and with a fork bruise them to flour; to three pounds of potatoes (3) add a teaspoonful of salt, three ounces of fresh butter, and a gill of cream or hot milk. 4. Stand the basin in a saucepan of boiling water. 5. Beat the potatoes for five minutes. Serve on a very hot dish, either in a rough cone shape or smoothed over with a knife. Precautions.—The potatoes should be well mixed with the butter and cream. POTATOES WITH MILK. Ingredients. 2 Eggs. Potatoes. Milk. Cream. 3 oz. of Butter. 1. Have ready some boiled potatoes. 2. When nearly cold cut them into slices and cover them with a clean cloth. 3. Take a stewpan and melt three ounces of butter with two ounces of flour, stir with a wooden spoon. 4. Add gradually a gill of warm milk; season with pepper and salt and a little grated nutmeg. When the sauce comes to the boil (5) putVegetables, 225 about fifteen minutes, then stand the stewpan aside. 1. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a gill of milk and pour into the stewpan, stirring till it becomes thick. 2. Turn it on to a hot dish and serve. Precautions, — Take care to prepare the butter sauce carefully, POTATOES WITH CREAM. Ingredients. 4 Potatoes. 1 oz. of Butter. A dessert-spoonful of Flour. 2 Eschalots. Parsley. Nutmeg. Cream. 1. Boil the potatoes as already described. 2. Put into a saucepan one ounce of butter, and stir in a good dessert-spoonful of flour, with two finely minced escha- lots and a good teaspoonful of chopped parsley. 3. Add pepper and salt and - a grate or two of nutmeg. 4. Thoroughly mix with a wooden spoon. 5. Add a tablespoonful of cream, and stir till it just comes to the boil. 6. Cut the potatoes into slices, and put them into the sauce. ’7. Remove the saucepan aside, or stand over a slow fire and stir for three minutes. Precautions.—Be careful not to break the potatoes in the sauce, FRIED POTATO CHIPS, Ingredients, 6 Potatoes. Hot fat. 1. Peel six large potatoes, and cut them in slices each an eighth of an inch in thickness. 2. Wash and thoroughly dry them in a cloth. 1. Melt your frying 1226 Buckmaster’s Cookery. fat over a brisk fire, and when the temperature rises to 385° throw the potatoes in. 2. Stir with the skimmer occasionally to secure an even cooking; eight or ten minutes’ frying will be sufficient. Drain them on a wire sieve before the fire, sprinkle with salt, and serve. When potatoes are required very crisp, let them fry three or four minutes longer. It is sometimes neces- sary to fry them twice. Precautions.—Do not put in too many potato chips or the fat will fall too low for frying. A slight increase of temperature while the potatoes are frying is desirable. FRIED POTATOES AND ONIONS. Ingredients. 3 Onions. Potatoes. Parsley. I Lemon. Oil. 2 oz. of Butter. The remains of cold potatoes may be used thus :— 1, Put two ounces of butter and one of oil in a frying- pan. 2. In which fry three sliced onions. 3. Put on the potatoes, cut in thin slices each about the thickness of half-a-crown. 4. Toss them now and then until they are a nice yellow colour. 5. Add a spoonful of chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and the squeeze of a lemon. 6. Shake the pan well that they may mix thoroughly together; dish, and serve very hot. An excellent dish to serve with a chop, a steak, or a joint Precautions.—A clean frying-pan and good oil are essential If carefully tossed the potatoes will not break.227 Vegetables. POTATO SAUTE. Ingredients. Now Potatoes. 2 oz. of Butter. Salt. 1. Take some new potatoes, as small as possible, wash them in cold water and scrape them clean, “large potatoes may be cut in halves or quarters and trimmed.” 2. Put them in a saucepan with cold water, and just bring them to the boil. 3. Drain off the water and wipe them dry in a clean cloth. 4. Take a stewpan, and put in two ounces of butter and the potatoes. 5. Put the stewpan on a quick fire for twenty minutes to brown the potatoes. 6. When they begin to brown, toss them occasionally to brown them on all sides alike. 7. Strain off the butter, sprinkle them over with salt, and serve on a hot vegetable dish. Precautions.—Take care not to burn or blacken the potatoes. POTATOES AND SPINACH Ingredients. 1 lb. of Potatoes. 1 lb. of Spinach. 1. Boil a pound of potatoes and mash them. 2. Have ready the same weight of boiled spinach. 3. Chop it up, and thoroughly mix with the potatoes. 4. Add salt, pepper, a little grated nutmeg, and three ounces of sweet butter. 5. Work the whole together. 6. Put it into a pie-dish and bake. 7. When the top is of a nice brown colour, it is ready. Precautions. —The ingredients should be well mixed before baking.Buckmaster s Cookery. 228 POTATOES AND BACON. Ingredients. I lb. of Potatoes. ^ lb. of Bacon. Bouquet garni. 1. Take half a pound of bacon, scrape it, and cut it into half-inch dice. 2. Put the pieces into a stew- pan with two ounces of sweet dripping or butter. 3. Let the bacon brown lightly. 4. Add a table- spoonful of flour, and when thoroughly mixed add a pint of hot water, or, better, stock, and a bouquet garni, with a clove of garlic. 5. Cover the stewpan, and let the contents come to the boil. 6. Wash and peel about a pound of good potatoes (the kidney variety is the best). 7. Slice them in pieces about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 8. Put the potatoes into the stewpan, cover it, and let them boil till they are cooked. 9. Take out the seasoning and serve. Precautions.—Good potatoes and careful prepara- tion of the sauce are essential. POTATO SOUFFLE. Ingredients. 6 Potatoes. 4 Eggs. 4 oz. of Parmesan cheese. Gruyere cheese. 1. Boil six large mealy potatoes, and mash them with three ounces of sweet butter, a little pepper and salt, and four ounces of grated cheese (half Parmesan and half Gruyere is the best mixture). 2. Add the yolks of four eggs, then the whites, previously whisked to a rather stiff paste. 3. Mix these thoroughly. 4. Put into a pie-dish and bake. When the top is nicely browned in the oven it is ready. ♦Vegetables. 229 Precautions.—The ingredients should be tho- roughly mixed before baking, and the whites well whisked before mixing: POTATO SOUFFLE. Ingredients. 4 Potatoes. 1 oz. of Butter. Milk. 4 Eggs. 1. Wash and scrub four good-sized potatoes in cold water. 2. Dry them in a cloth. 3. Put them to bake in a brisk oven. After three quarters of an hour try them with an iron skewer to see if they are done. 4. When soft inside remove them from the oven and cut them in half, so that each half of the potato will stand. You should have regard to this in the selection of your potatoes. 5. Take a small teaspoon and carefully scoop out all the inside of the potatoes so as not to break or make holes in the skin. 6. Take a wire sieve, put it over a plate, and rub the potatoes through with a wooden spoon. 7. Put into a clean stewpan one ounce of butter and half a gill of milk. 8. Bring to the boil, with an occasional stir. 9. Add pepper and salt to taste. 10. Stir in gradually and very smoothly three ounces of the potatoes. 11. Remove the stewpan, and stand it on a piece of paper on the table. 12. Break separately three eggs, and put the whites into a basin. 13. Stir in one by one the yolks only, well stirring all together with a wooden spoon. 14. Add to the whites of the three eggs the white of another egg and a pinch of salt. 15. Whip the whites to a stiff froth. 16. Stir the whites lightly into the mixture. 17. Stand the skins of the potatoes on a2 3° Buckmasters Cookery. baking' tin. 18. Carefully fill each skin with the mix- ture. 19. Put the tin into a brisk oven. 20. Let them remain ten minutes till they have risen and become of a golden brown. 21. Arrange them in a napkin and serve. Precautions.—Great care is necessary in removing the potatoes from the skins. POTATO CROQUETS. Ingredients. Mashed Potatoes. Egg* Parsley. Spice. Plot Fat. Cold mashed potatoes may be used up as croquets. 1. Stir an egg or two into your potatoes. 2. Add a little spice, pepper and salt to taste, and some minced parsley. 3. Mix well, and roll the mixture into balls, or the shape of corks. 4. Egg and bread-crumb. 5. Fry to a nice golden colour in hot fat. 6. Garnish with fried parsley. Precautions.—Careful frying of the croquets to a nice colour is essential. CABBAGE. Ingredients. Cabbage. 1, Wash and trim off the outer leaves of a cabbage. 2. Divide it, or split the stalk into four. 3. Throw the cabbage stalk upwards into boiling water, with a teaspoonful of pounded loaf-sugar and salt. When cooked well, (4) drain it on a colander and serve, if preferred, with a white sauce.Vegetables. 231 Precautions.—The cabbage should be young and have plenty of room in the saucepan. SPINACH. Ingredients. Spinach. Butter. 1. Pick and wash perfectly clean two or three pounds of spinach. 2. Put it into a saucepan with a very little water, and boil till quite done. 3. Turn the spinach on to a colander. 4. Squeeze out the water between two plates. 5. Mince the spinach finely, or, better, pass it through a sieve. 1. Put two ounces of butter into another saucepan, fry the butter a light brown. 2. Add a dessert-spoonful of flour. 3. Mix well. 4. Put in the spinach with pepper and salt to taste, and a little milk. Precautions.—The spinach should only remain in the second saucepan long enough to thoroughly mix with the butter and seasoning. BRUSSELS SPROUTS. Ingredients. Brussels Sprouts. 1. Wash and remove the loose leaves from a quart of sprouts. 2. Throw them into plenty of boiling water, with salt and sugar. In a quarter of an hour (3) drain them on a colander. 1. Melt two ounces of butter in a stewpan with a little salt and pepper. 2. Add the brussels sprouts. 3. Shake them for two or three minutes in the stewpan and serve. Precautions.—Be careful to keep them from burn- ing in the butter.2 3 2 Bucklnasier's Cookery. CAULIFLOWERS. Ingredients. Cauliflowers. Pounded Loaf Sugar. 1. Wash the cauliflower thoroughly clean. 2. Re- move the coarse outer leaves. 3. Split the stalk into four by cutting it across, but not deep enough to separate the flower. 4. Plunge it flower downwards into plenty of boiling water with a teaspoonful of sugar and salt. 5. Keep the saucepan-lid off. 6. Skim; when it is cooked (which will be in about ten or fifteen minutes). 7. Remove the cauliflower carefully with a slice, and drain on a sieve. Precautions.—Plenty of boiling water and plenty of room are essential. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. Ingredients. Cauliflower. 2 oz. of Cheese. 2 oz. of Butter. Mustard. 1. Boil the cauliflower as already described. 2. Grate two ounces of Parmesan cheese, and mix it with a teaspoonful of flour of mustard, a saltspoonful of white pepper, and half a grain of cayenne. 3. Sprinkle the cauliflower with the mixture, and place it flower upwards on a flat dish. 4. Strew over the top the remainder of the cheese. 5. Melt two ounces of butter and pour over it. 6. Bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour, and serve immediately. Some cooks before arranging on the baking dish divide the cauliflower into pieces the size of a walnut, leaving out the stalk and leaves.Vegetables. 2 33 Precautions.—Be careful the butter is sweet, and not of too brown a colour. COLCANNON Ingredients. Potatoes. Green Vegetables. 1. Boil potatoes and greens or spinach separately, in equal quantities. 2. Mash the potatoes. 3. Squeeze the greens dry. 4. Chop them quite fine. 5. Mix all together in a basin, with a little butter, pepper, and salt. 6. Put the whole into a mould, previously well buttered with a brush. 7. Let it stand in a hot oven for ten minutes, and then turn out. Precautions. — Let the vegetables be free from water, and the mould properly buttered, or the col- cannon will break on turning out. ASPARAGUS. Ingredients. Asparagus. Vinegar. 1. Scrape the sticks of the asparagus, wash them, and cut them into equal lengths. 2. Divide the sticks into bundles of ten or twelve, tie them together, and stand them in salted boiling water with a dessert- spoonful of vinegar. Take care not to over-cook— about fifteen or twenty minutes will be sufficient—or the heads, which are the most delicate part, will break off in the saucepan. When sufficiently cooked, re- move them carefully and serve on buttered toast.234 Buckmaster s Cookery. Precautions.—Care is necessary to prevent the heads breaking off, and the water should stand within i \ inches from the top. SEA KALE. Ingredients. Sea Kale. Melted Butter. Toast. 1. Wash the kale and tie it in bundles. 2. Put it into boiling water with a little salt, let it boil quickly for twenty minutes. 3. Drain it, and serve on a toast with melted butter (page 203) or white sauce (page 210). Sea kale is sometimes stewed in good gravy; it must then be boiled for ten minutes in water, and afterwards stewed in gravy for a quarter of an hour. CARROTS. Ingredients. Carrots. Eschalots. Chives. Butter. 1. Scrape clean and wipe, but not wash, fifteen or twenty small young carrots. 2. Put them in a stew- pan with two ounces of butter. 3. Cover the stewpan, and from time to time give it a shake. After fifteen minutes (4) add a little pepper and salt, and some finely minced parsley and chives, or eschalots. 5. Put on the lid, occasionally shake till the carrots are tender. Old carrots should be previously well blanched, and cut into slices, and finished cooking in the sauce. Precautions.—If the carrots are not young they should be nearly cooked before adding to the sauce.Vegetables. 235 CARROTS WITH HAM OR BACON. Ingredients. Carrots. Ham. Bouquet garni 1. Melt in a stewpan three ounces of butter, and (2) mix with it one ounce of flour; stir for five minutes. 3. Add a gill of boiling stock or water, stirring with a wooden spoon. 4. Add half a pound of ham or bacon, cut into half-inch dice, with a little pepper (and, perhaps, a little salt, but this will depend on the saltness of the ham or bacon), a bouquet garni, with a clove of garlic, or a large onion instead of the garlic. 5. Cut into slices, about the thickness of a penny, six large carrots and put them in the stewpan. 6. Let the contents boil till the carrots are tender. 7. Re- move the onion and bouquet garni, and serve. Precautions.—Constant attention is necessary after adding the sliced carrots. FRICASSEE OF PARSNIP8. Ingredients. Parsnips. Milk. Flour. Butter. Toast. *< 1. Wash and peal the parsnips. 2. Cut them length- wise into pieces two or three inches long. 3. Boil in milk until quite tender. 4. Make a nice white sauce (page 210), put in half a gill of cream and a blade of mace. 5. Lay in the pieces of parsnips, simmer for five minutes. 6. Place a piece of toasted bread on a dish. 7. Lay the parsnips on the toast, and pour the sauce over.2 36 Buckmaster s Cookery. GREEN PEAS. Ingredients. Green Peas. Butter. Mint. Lettuce. Onion. Sugar. 1. Tie into a small bunch a small head of lettuce and one onion, and throw them with the peas into plenty of boiling water, with salt, and a little pounded loaf-sugar. When cooked (2) strain off all the water and remove the bunch. 3. Mix with about an ounce of cold butter a small quantity of finely minced mint, previously blanched, put this on a dish, and turn the peas over it. Precautions.—The peas should be young, quickly boiled, and not shelled before they are wanted. GREEN PEAS X LA PAR1SIENNE. Ingredients. Green Peas. Parsley. Sugar. Spring Onions. Flour. Butter. 1. Put into a stewpan a pint of fresh shelled green peas, with half an ounce of butter, a gill of water, a tea- spoonful of caster sugar, six spring onions, and a small bunch of parsley tied together. 2. Place the stewpan over a moderate fire for twenty-five minutes. 3. Remove the parsley and onions. 4. Add half an ounce of cold butter with a little flour. 5. Stir five minutes, and serve. Precautions.—Fresh shelled peas and good butter are essential; be careful not to break the peas.Vegetables. 2 3'/ FRENCH BEANS, PLAIN. Ingredients. French Beans. Sugar. 1. Take one pound of French beans. 2. Remove the strings and stalks, and, if they are old, split them 3. Turn them into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water and a small teaspoonful of sugar and salt. 4. Boil till they are tender, which can be ascertained by trying them. When this vegetable is too old, no cooking will ever make it tender. Precautions.—In boiling green vegetables the colour can only be retained by quick boiling in plenty of water in an uncovered saucepan. FRENCH BEANS WITH FINE HERBS. Ingredients. Beans. Parsley. Eschalots. Lemon. Butter. 1. Boil the beans till done. 2. Drain them on a colander. 3. Put into a saucepan two ounces of fresh butter with some finely chopped parsley and two eschalots. 4. Salt, pepper, and the juice of a lemon. 5. Simmer till the butter is melted. 6. Put in the beans and toss all together. 7. Dish up with or with- out croutons arranged round the dish. TURNIPS WITH GRAVY STOCK. Ingredients. 6 Turnips. Butter. Pounded Loaf Sugar. 1, Select six young moderate-sized turnips. 2. WashBuckmclster s Cookery. 238 them, peel them and cut into four or six pieces. 3. Put them into a saucepan with boiling water for five minutes. 4. Drain them on a colander. 5. Return them to the saucepan, with two and a half ounces of butter. 6. Put the saucepan over a moderate fire, and occasionally shake till the turnips take a light brown. 7. Now add a tablespoonful of flour, a teaspoonful of pounded loaf sugar, and thoroughly mix with a wooden spoon. 8. Add salt and half a pint of good stock. 9. Simmer slowly for twenty-five minutes with the lid on. 10. Remove the lid, and place the saucepan for five minutes over a brisk fire. 11. Remove the turnips to a hot dish without breaking, and serve with the sauce. Precautions.—The turnips should be young and not cooked too rapidly at first, or broken in the cooking. BOILED VEGETABLE MARROW. Ingredients. Vegetable Marrow. Butter. Pepper. Salt. 1. Wash and wipe a vegetable marrow. 2. Take a small knitting-needle or fine skewer and prick the marrow. 3. Put it into boiling water with a little salt. 4. When tender remove it from the saucepan and cut it into quarters. 5. Remove all the seeds, and gently press out the water without breaking the marrow. Serve with melted butter on toast, or put in a clean stewpan an ounce of butter and a little pepper and salt. Add the pieces of marrow, and shake for five minutes over a brisk fire. Precautions.—Be careful not to break the vege- table marrow in cooking.Vegetables. 239 TOMATOES.: Ingredients. I tin of preserved Tomatoes. Pepper and Salt. 1. Pour half of them into a frying-pan, with or without butter, and a slice of toasted bread. 2. When warmed through take out the toast, place in a dish, and pour the tomatoes over it. 3. Season with pepper and salt. Tomatoes are also good with macaroni, as eaten in Italy. 1. Boil the macaroni, stir in a little grated cheese, then some well-boiled tomatoes, add pepper and salt, and serve hot. STUFFED TOMATOES. Ingredients. Tomatoes. Herbs. Eschalot. Glaze. Bread crumbs. Butter. 1. Take some large tomatoes and cut them in half, round. 2. Remove the seeds. 3. Chop fine some parsley, thyme and one eschalot. 4. Mix the herbs with half a teacupful of bread crumbs. Add pepper and salt. 5. Butter a flat dish and lay the tomatoes on it. 6. Fill them with the mixture. 7. Divide one ounce of butter into small pieces and lay on the top. 8. Pour a little strong stock or half glaze round. 9. Bake about fifteen minutes. 10. Drain all the juice from the seeds and mix it with half an ounce of butter and a little flour just to thicken it; boil for one minute and pour over the tomatoes when they are dished up.Buckmaster s Coo'toy. 240 BENGAL CHUTNEY, 1. Ingredients. l lb. Salt. I lb. Stoned Raisins. ^ lb. Onions, i lb. Mustard Seed. i lb. Moist Sugar. 2 quarts of unripe Gooseberries. i or 2 ozs. Cayenne Pepper. 12 ozs. French Garlic. 2 quarts best Vinegar. 1. Wash and dry the mustard seed. 2. Make the sugar into a syrup with i pint of the vinegar. 3. The gooseberries picked, dried, and boiled, in a quart of the vinegar. 4. When cold gradually mix the whole in a mortar, and with the rest of the vinegar thoroughly mix all the materials. It will take a day to be properly mixed. 5. Put it into a pickle-jar, and tie down firmly. The mustard seed.must be dried, and raisins chopped as well as stoned. • • • N.B. The longer it is kept the better. BENGAL CHUTNEY, 2. Ingredients. 3 doz. Apples. i lb. Green Ginger. 2 ozs. Mustard Seed. 6 Eschalots. 5 Spanish Onions. 2 Bird’s-eye Chilies. \ lb. Salt. 2 lbs. Brown Sugar. 2 quarts of Vinegar. 4 ozs. Sultanas. 1. Peel and core 3 dozen apples, cut into 4 pieces, or 8 if large. 2. Scrape £ lb. green ginger. 3. Wash and bruise 2 ozs. mustard seed, 6 eschalots. 4. Cut 5 Spanish onions into thin slices, 2 bird’s-eye chilies, h lb. salt, 2 lbs. brown sugar, 2 quarts of vinegar, and 4 ozs. sultanas. 5. The sugar and salt to be melted in the vinegar, and the whole to be boiled till the apples are tender. 6. When done put into pickle-jar, and tie down when cold.241 Vegetables. HARICOT BEANS WITH EGGS. Ingredients. Haricot beans. Milk. Parsley. Flour. Eggs. Butter. 1. Soak half a pint of haricot beans all night in plenty of cold water. 2. Pick out all the imperfect ones, and put the rest on to boil in plenty of warm water. 3. As the water boils away add a little more cold. 4. When the beans are cooked (they will take about two hours) strain through a colander. 5. Put four eggs on to boil for ten minutes. 6. Remove the shell from the eggs. 7. Chop up about half a tea- spoonful of parsley fine. 8. Make a white sauce, thus: (a). Put one ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour in a stewpan and mix together over the fire; (b). Add half a pint of milk and boil for one minute, (c). Remove from the fire and stir in the raw yolk of one egg and a little salt. 9. Put the beans into a tureen. 10. Pour the sauce over. 11. Put an egg at each corner and sprinkle a little parsley on each one. All sautes require a brisk fire, so that the meat may obtain a good colour. Care must be taken that the butter does not burn, or the flavour of the dish is spoilt. When once the boiling point has been reached no addition of fuel will enable you to reach a higher temperature. Eggs should always be broken one after the other and smelt, for although the egg may be good, it may have an unpleasant flavour by being packed in damp straw or hay. No good cooking can be done with bad dripping or butter; imelling and tasting are necessary before purchasing butter.242 Buckmaster s Cookery. CURRIED FOWL OR CHICKEN. Ingredients. A. Fowl. \ oz. of Curry Powder. 2 Onions. i £ oz. of Butter. 1 pint of Stock. After preparing the fowl, cut it up by first separating the wings, then the legs; now separate the breast from the back, cut off the neck and the pinions at the second joint, and the feet at the first joint; cut each piece across twuce neatly, and keep on the skin. 1. Put one ounce and a half of butter into a clean stewpan with two onions cut into small slices, or one Spanish onion, and let them stew to a pulp. 2. Add the pieces of fowl, and fry lightly. 3. Add one ounce of flour, stir till well mixed. 4. Stir in half an ounce of curry pow'der. 5. Season with salt. 6. Add at in- tervals one pint of stock. 7. Simmer till the fowl is ready. 8. Place a colander over a basin, and pour into it the contents of the stewpan. 9. Shape the pieces of fowl and return to the stewpan. 10. Strain the sauce over them. 11. Add a little lemon juice. 12. Warm up, and serve with boiled rice. Precautions.—It is essential in preparing a curry, that the contents of the stewpan are not allowed to boil. A little chutnee is sometimes added. The curry should be rather thick.Curries. 243 CURRIED RABBIT. Ingredients. A Rabbit. Salt. Apple. Two dessertspoonfuls A Lemon. Small Onions. of Curry Po\\;der. Butter. Cream or Good Milk. - r 1. Take a young rabbit properly prepared for cook- ing, and cut it into pieces the size for carving. 2 Wash each piece of rabbit separately in cold water, and change the water if necessary. 3. Remove the pieces on to a sieve to drain.. 4. Melt in a clean stewpan three ounces of sweet butter without burning or browning. 5. Take two small onions, peel them and chop them up finely. 6. Fry the onions to a pale brown in the butter with constant stirring. 7. Take a slice and carefully remove the onions on to a piece of kitchen paper to absorb the fat, or they may be strained from the butter, in which case return the butter to the stewpan. 8. Put the pieces of rabbit into the stewpan and let them brown, turning them occasionally so as to take colour on both sides; this will take, over a brisk fire, about ten minutes, and requires constant attention. 9. Take an apple, peel it, core it, chop it up finely, and put it aside. 10. When the rabbit is sufficiently fried, add two dessertspoonfuls of good curry powder, half a teaspoonful of salt, and stir for five minutes so as to thoroughly mix. 11. Add the onions, the apple, and a pint of good stock, free from fat. 12. Cover the stewpan and stand it aside for the contents to simmer slowly for two hours, with an occa- sional shake. 13. Stir in gradually a gill of good cream. 14. Squeeze in the juice of a lemon throughBuckmaster s Cookery. 244 a strainer. 15. Arrange the pieces of rabbit neatly on a hot dish, and pour the sauce over. Precautions. — Curries require frequent stirring and shaking—they should never be allowed to boil. The lid of the stewpan should not be removed more than is necessary, or the fine aroma of the curry is partly lost. DRY CURRY. Ingredients. Cold Meat. Onion. Butter. Milk. Curry Powder. 1. Trim off the skin and gristle of any cold meat, fowl, or rabbit. 2. Cut the meat into small slices. 3. Finely shred an onion. 4. Put into a clean stewpan three-quarters of an ounce of butter, add the shredded onion, and fry to a nice brown. 5. Add the pieces of meat, and stir with a wooden spoon till they are warmed through. 6. Sprinkle over a little curry powder. 7. Add salt and pepper. 8. Add milk or cream suffi- cient to moisten the curry. 9. Stir till the curry is dry, and serve with boiled rice. Precautions.—Constant attention from beginning to end is necessary. CURRIED MEAT. Ingredients. \ oz. of Curry Powder. Mushrooms. Onions. Lemon. i pint of Stock. oz. of Butter. Milk. 1. Cut into pieces rather small, but suitable to serve at table, any lean meat or rabbit, fish, or fowl. 2. Take a clean stewpan, and melt an ounce and a half245 Curries. of butter. 3. Add the pieces of meat, a Spanish onion sliced or button onions, a few chopped mushrooms, and fry them lightly to a golden brown colour. 4. Add at intervals and stir in a pint of good stock or broth, which need not be seasoned. 5. When this has simmered slowly for ten or fifteen minutes, add half an ounce of curry powder, or half powder and half curry paste, first mixed smoothly together in a basin with a little cream or milk, or stock ; stir in and mix thoroughly. 6. When the curry is ready, add the juice of half a lemon ; and skim off the fat. Precautions.—Constant attention is necessary in the preparation of curries. CURRIED EGGS. Ingredients. 4 Hard-boiled Eggs. £ oz. of Curry Powder. 2 Onions, Cream. £ pint of Stock. 1. Shred finely two onions or one Spanish onion, and fry in butter till they are of a nice brown colour. 2. Add a little flower. 3. Stir continually. 4. At intervals add half a pint of stock. 5. Let the whole boil up for five minutes. 6. Mix three tablespoonfuls of cream with half an ounce of curry powder, (6) and add to the contents of the stewpan. 7. Now add four hard-boiled eggs (ten minutes), cut carefully into slices or quarters, so that the yolk does not fall away from the white. 8. Slowly simmer for five minutes and serve. Precautions.—Constant stirring, and not too strongly flavoured, are essential.246 Buckmaster s Cookery. INDIAN DISHES.—KHICHRY. Ingredients. I lb. of Pulse (Dried Peas, Lentils, or small Haricot Beans). I lb. of Rice) lb. of Butter. pint of Milk, oz. of Salt. *5 Whole Cloves. *15 Whole Cardamoms. 1. Wash your peas (lentils or small haricot beans) in three or four waters. 2. Remove all the bad ones. 3. Wash your rice in three or four waters. 4. Put one pint of water in a stewpan, and place it over the fire. 5. When the water is warm put in your peas. 6. When the peas become soft without being broken, add the rest of the ingredients.* 7. Let the whole stew for half an hour over a slow 'fire. 8. Put it in a tureen, and serve with a curry or omelette. In India meat or fish is rarely served without khichry. Precautions.—Be careful in the selection of ingre- dients. FRIED KHICHRY. Ingredients. I lb. of Rice. £ oz. of Onions. *15 Cardamoms. Ilb. of Pulse. *15 Cloves. *15 Aniseed Grains. J lb. of Butter. oz. of Salt. *15 Black Pepper Grains. 1. Pick and wash the rice and pulse separately in three or four waters. 2. Slice the onions. 3. Put half a pound of butter into the stewpan and fry it until it leaves off spitting. 4. Put in the slices of onions and fry them until they are brown, and then take them out. 5. Now put in the other ingredients,* stir them and mix them well. 6. When brown add gra- dually half a pint of water. 7. Let them stew until the rice and pulse become soft. 8. Take the various'j i 7 Curries. ingredients out and put them on a dish, strew the onions over the top. 9. Serve with curry or omelette. Precautions.—Be careful not to burn the onions. BOILED RICE. Ingredients. Rice. Salt. 1. Wash your rice in two or three waters. 2. Pick out all the yellow grains and pieces of black. 3. Drain off the water and rub the rice with your hands. 4. Just before putting it on to boil pour some fresh cold water over it. 5. Drain on a colander. 6. Shake the rice into plenty of boiling water with a small tea- spoonful of salt. 7. Give it one or two stirs with a wooden spoon. 8. Skim it occasionally. 9. Let it boil briskly about 17 minutes with the lid partly off. 10. Try a grain or two with the thumb and finger and if tender turn it into your colander, and hold it under the tap to let the cold water run on to the rice for one or two seconds. 11. Dry it before the fire or return it for a few minutes to a warm dry saucepan. 12. Stir or shake it occasionally to prevent the grains sticking to the bottom of the saucepan. 13. When the rice has become quite dry, take it out carefully with a wooden spoon and place it lightly on a hot dish. Precautions.—Every grain of rice should be sepa- rate, dry, and well boiled. So far as I have been able to inquire, I find there is no uni- versal curry powder in India. The native cook suits the seasoning according to the dish. He has one kind of curry for fowl, another for fish, and another for meat. Curry powders were first com- pounded to suit long voyages at sea, when it was impossible to obtain the ingredients in a fresh condition.248 Buckmaster s Cookery. BOILED BEEF OR BOUILLI. Ingredients. Bouilli. Beef used for the pot-au-feu is called Bouilli, and has no doubt given much of its flavour to the broth ; but it may be made into a very acceptable dish. As soon as the beef broth has been prepared, the meat should be taken out and placed on a dish, garnished with vegetables that can be eaten. BOUILLI WITH SHARP SAUCE. Ingredients. Boiled Beef. Piquant or Tomato sauce. 1. Take about a pound and a half of cold beef and cut it across the grain into slices a quarter of an inch thick. 2. Trim off the gristle and outside parts; 3. Put the meat into a small gratin dish, sprinkle with pepper and salt, and moisten with a gill of stock; 4. Let the meat bake for a quarter of an hour in a moderate oven. 5. Serve either with piquant or tomato sauce (pp. 207 or 215), poured over the meat ROAST SIRLOIN OF BEEF. Ingredients. Sirloin of Beef. Buttered paper. 1. Take a piece of sirloin of beef, weighing seven249 To Cook a Han: or nine pounds. 2. Cut off the chine bone, flatten the flap part, and tie it under the fillet, or remove it. 3. Trim up the joint. 4. Tie a layer of suet over the fillet. 5. Cover the meat with buttered paper. 6. Secure it with a piece of tape, and roast before an i even fire. 7. Put it close to the fire for seven minutes, then remove to a short distance. Ten minutes before the meat is ready, remove the paper and sprinkle with salt. TO COOK A HAM. 1. Stew it gently till done, and let it remain in its liquor all night. 2. Next day skin and glaze it or bread-crumb it. ROAST RUMP OF BEEF. . . Ingredients. Rump of Beef. Onions. Chablis. Bacon. Oil. Thyme. Parsley. A rump of beef may be roasted like sirloin, but it is sometimes finely larded. Before roasting, (1) put the rump of beef into a dish with half a pint of white wine, three tablespoonfuls of oil, a little pepper and salt, two shredded onions, a sprig of thyme, and two or three sprigs of parsley. 2. Let the beef remain in the dish for two days before roasting, turn- ing it three or four times. On the third day it should be roasted. When half roasted, (3) add a tablespoon- ful of the liquor in which it has been placed to the gravy in the dripping-pan. This placing of meat in oil, wine, vinegar, herbs, &c., is called marinading,Buckmaster’s Cookery. 250 and is often a great improvement. This is the best joint for roasting. Precautions.—The meat will absorb quite suffi- cient flavour without rubbing. Baste frequently. ROAST RIBS OF BEEF. Ingredients. Ribs of Beef. Saw off the chine-bone, trim the joint, wrap it in buttered paper, and roast as sirloin. BRAISED FILLETS OF BEEF. Ingredients. I lb. of Fillet of Beef. i pt. of Stock. 2 young Carrots. I stick of Celery. 1 Onion. A Bouquet garni. A piece of fat Bacon. 1. Take from the under side of a sirloin one pound of beef and cut it into seven or nine slices. 2. Shape the pieces with a sharp knife into the size of a break- fast cup and the thickness of not more than a third of an inch. 3. Take a quarter of a pound of fat bacon about one inch and a quarter thick from the rind and with a sharp knife cut it down to the rind in rashers one eighth of an i,nch in thickness; now cut it across the same thickness and you have little strips of bacon one eighth of an inch in section and about one inch in length. 4. With a clean cloth take up each fillet of beef. 5. Introduce into a proper sized larding needle a strip of bacon, and lard all the fillets in regular rows with strips of bacon. 6. Arrange the larded fillets in saute pan. 7. Add aBraised Fillets of Beef. 2 51 bouquet garni, (parsley, thyme, bayleaf and, if liked, a sprig of marjoram, an eschalot, a clove of garlic). 8. Scrape and clean two young carrots and split them in halves. 9. Peel an onion and wash a quarter of a stick of celery. 10. Put all these vegetables into the saute pan. 11. Add some good stock but not enough to come over the fillets. 12. Baste the fillets con- tinually. 13. Cut a piece of paper the size of the saute pan and butter it. 14. When the stock comes to the boil lay the paper neatly on the fillets to prevent the too rapid browning of the meat. 15. Remove the paper and baste frequently, returning the paper each time. 16. Place the saute pan in a hot oven for half an hour to brown the meat. 17. Re- move the meat and reduce the stock 18. When in the oven remove the paper and occasionally baste. 19. Remove the fillets from the saute pan, arrange them on a hot dish on a circle or oval of mashed potatoes. Keep the dish hot and, if necessary, reduce quickly the sauce to what is called half a glaze. Strain the sauce over the meat and fill up the centre with mixed vegetables, green peas, French beans, carrots and turnips cut into small dice. Precautions.—Have the fillets all the same thick- ness. Be careful not to allow the stock to boil over the fillets; the stock should be very good and not too highly flavoured. This should be considered in the use of herbs and vegetables. It is sometimes neces- sary to brown the fillets with a salamander.2 5 2 Buckmasters Cookery. BEEF OLIVES. Ingredients. I pt. of Stock. lb. of Rump Steak or Fillet of Beef. 2 oz. of Beef Suet. 3 oz. of Bread-crumbs. Teaspoonful of chopped Parsley. Teaspoonful of chopped Thyme and Marjoram. Lemon. Nutmeg. 1 Egg. Salt. Pepper. 1. Take one pound and a half of tender rump or fillet of beef. 2. Cut the beef into pieces half an inch in thickness, four inches in length, and two and a half inches in breadth. 3. Moisten the side of a flat chopper with water, and give the pieces one or two small blows with the chopper. 4. There will be some trimmings from the meat; mince these finely and put them in a basin. 5. Prepare the suet and chop it up finely. 6. Put through a wire sieve on to a piece of kitchen paper three ounces of stale bread crumbs. 7. Wash and dry and chop up a teaspoonful of parsley and a quarter of a teaspoonful of thyme and marjoram. 8. Mix all together in the basin. 9. Grate in a little lemon rind and very little nutmeg, and season with pepper and salt. 10. Add one egg to the mixture and work all the materials well together with a wooden spoon. 11. Take some of the mixture out of the basin and form it into the shape and size of a cork with the hands, forming the ends with a knife. 12. Place the stuffing in the centre of each piece of beef, and roll it up compactly and neatly. 13. Tie it with a piece of twine. 14. Place these rolls in a stew- pan with one pint of good stock. 15. Simmer gently for three quarters of an hour. 16. Arrange the olives on a hot dish. Pour the sauce round the edge andBeef Steak. 253 fill up the centre with young or mashed potatoes or spinach. Precautions.—Take care to have the pieces oi meat the same size, and on no account allow the stock to boil. BEEF STEAK, (FROM A FRENCH NOBLEMAN IN PARIS.) A rather thick rump steak, beat it well on the block, sprinkle with vinegar, and then turn and beat again. Put it on a gridiron over a hot clear fire till you see the meat shrink up, turn and let it cook for eighteen or twenty minutes. The cook will judge the time re- quired. Have ready some chopped parsley and tar- ragon, and put into a dish three knobs of butter. Lay the steak on this and place on the top three more knobs of butter with the chopped herbs mixed with the butter. Cover the dish with a plate and serve. There will be gravy enough without adding any other sauce. Fine potato slices may be used as a garnish round it. ROAST NECK OF VEAL. Ingredients. Neck of Veal. Buttered paper. Roast veal is rather tasteless; it is greatly im- proved by larding. Veal should be thoroughly cooked, before a moderate fire. The neck, loin, and chump are best for roasting. 1. Take a neck of veal and saw254 Buckmaster s Cookery. off the chine-bone, as for cutlets. 2. Cut through the ribs about the middle, so as to roll the flaps under- neath. 3. Tie the meat with a piece of tape, and wrap it in buttered paper when there is no caul. 4. Baste every few minutes. 5. About ten minutes before it is finished roasting remove the paper, sprinkle with salt, and let it come to a golden colour. 6. Skim off the fat, and strain the gravy over the meat. The French make a great many delicate dishes from the liver, tongues, ears, feet, brains, kidneys, and sweet- breads of calves. ROAST LOIN OF VEAL. Ingredients. Loin of Veal.' 1. Take four or five pounds, including the kidney. 2. Remove the chine-bone. 3. Trim off some of the fat. 4. Roll the flap underneath, and tie it with a piece of tape, so as to enclose the kidney. ROAST CHUMP OF VEAL. Ingredients. Chump of Veal, 1. Take about the same weight as for loin of veal, and keep it in shape with a piece of tape. 2. Cover the veal with caul or buttered paper. Precautions.—The fire for roasting must not be too fierce, or the outside will be hardened before the inside is cooked; always remove the tape before sending to table. Remove all the fat from the gravy, and baste.Veal a la Bourgeoise. -o:? VEAL A LA BOURGEOISE. Ingredients. 5 lbs. of Veal. Bacon. Bouquet garni. 40 Button Onions. Carrots. 1 pt. of Stock. Clove. Onion. Salt. 1. Take five pounds of fillet of veal and lard it. 2. Put it into a clean stewpan with four ounces of fat bacon cut into inch cubes. 3. Let the veal take a light brown on both sides. 4. Sprinkle with a little salt. 5. Add one onion with one clove stuck into it, and a bouquet garni. 6. When the meat begins to stick slightly to the stewpan, add a pint of stock. 7. Cover the stewpan and let the contents simmer for forty minutes. 8. Prepare thirty or forty button onions and the same number of pieces of carrot cut into pieces the same size and shape as the onions. 9. Remove the onion and bouquet garni, and put in the button onions and carrot. 10. Add, if necessary, a little more stock or hot water. 11. Cover the stew pan, and simmer for thirty or forty minutes longer. 12. Remove the veal carefully on to a hot dish, so as not to break it. 13. Place the vegetables round the veal, and pour the gravy over it. If the gravy is too thin it must be reduced by rapid boiling and stirring. Precautions.—The lid of the stewpan should not be removed more than is necessary, and before adding the stock an occasional shake of the stewpan is desir- able. Be very careful the meat does not take too high a colour or burn.256 Buckmaster’s Cookery. *7*. ■rstjjk FRICANDEAU OF VEAL- Ingredients. Veal. Carrots. Stock. Frying Butter. Onions. 1. Take about three pounds of the lean part of a fillet of veal, about two inches in thickness. 2. Lard one side with bacon, cut into fillets of not more than a quarter of an inch in section. To lard a piece of meat will require a little practice; you had better see it done; for no verbal description will be of much service. 3. Put into a clean stewpan any trimmings from the veal, with an ounce of butter, a sliced carrot, a sliced cnion with pepper and salt. 4. Lay the veal on these. 5. Add half a pint of good stock when it has become thick and gelatinous. 6. Watch it that it does not burn. 7. Add another pint. 8. Let it simmer, not boil, for an hour, frequently basting with the liquor by shaking the stewpan. 9. When cooked, skim off the fat. 10. Place it on a dish. 11. Strain over the liquor. The fricandeau is generally served with sorrel, endive, or spinach. Precautions.—In larding be particular to lard across the grain, and if possible use fat bacon which has not been cured with saltpetre. VEAL CUTLETS. (1.) Ingredients. Veal Cutlets. Oil. Tomato sauce. 1. Trim and flatten the cutlets taken from a neck of veal. 2. Remove the chine-bone and all the skin and gristle. 3. Sprinkle the cutlet with pepper, and07 Veal Cutlets. oil it on both sides. 4. Put it on the gridiron over a clear fire. 5. Sprinkle with salt and dish up with brown gravy, or a sharp sauce, or with maitre d’hotel butter under the cutlet, or with tomato sauce. Precautions.—A clear bright fire and the gridiron slightly inclined towards the cook are necessary. VEAL CUTLETS. (20 Ingredients. lb. of Veal. Eschalot. Mushrooms. Parsley. Flour. Butter. Stock, Cream. Eggs. Lemon, 1. Make half a pint of white sauce thus : (a). Put one ounce of butter and one ounce of flour in a stew- pan and mix into a smooth paste; (l). Add by degrees half a pint of good white stock, and boil up; (c). Stand it aside until wanted. 2. Chop up finely half an eschalot, six mushrooms, one teaspoonfui of parsley. 3. Trim neatly seven or nine pieces of veal about the size of the top of a teacup and half an inch thick. 4. Rub one ounce of butter on to a saute' pan. 5. Lay in the cutlets, warm them through, taking care not to brown them in the least. 6. Turn the cutlets, and season well with pepper and salt. 7. Sprinkle the chopped herbs &c., over the cutlets, and fry altogether ten minutes, taking care not to brown the meat. 8. Remove the scum from the sauce, add to it two table- spoonfuls of cream and pour it into the pan with the cutlets. 9. Stir all well for ten minutes. 10. Then mix in briskly the yolks of two eggs and remove: the pan from the fire; squeeze the juice of half a KBuckmaster s Cookery. 258 lemon over all. 11. Dish up the cutlets and pour the sauce over. Precautions.—Take care not to brown the meat or curdle the eggs. QUENELLES OF VEAL. Ingredients. I lb. of Fillet of Veal. 2 oz. of Butter. I teaspoonful of Lemon-juice. 2\ oz. of Flour. I tablespoonful of Cream. 12 button Mushrooms. 2 Eggs. 15 pt. of white Stock. 1. Melt in a clean stewpan one ounce of butter, and stir in with a wooden spoon two ounces of flour. 2. A gill of white stock. 3. Put the stewpan over the fire and stir till it thickens and boils. This mixture is called panada. 4. Pour it on to a plate and put it aside to cool. 5. Take one pound of fillet of veal and remove all the skin, fat, and gristle. 6. Cut it into small pieces. 7. Well pound the meat in a mortar. 8. Place a wire sieve over a plate and rub the meat through the sieve with a wooden spoon. 9. When cold put half the panada and half the meat into the mortar with one egg and work it to the consistency of cream. 10. Add salt and pepper to taste, and work well together. 11. Add the remainder of the panada, another egg, and the remainder of the meat. 12. Work well to- gether in the mortar. 13. Remove the mixture from the mortar into a basin. 14. Butter the inside of a saute pan. 15. Have by your side a basin of boiling water, take a dessert spoon and fill it with the mixture, and shape it while in the spoon to an oval form with a knife, occasionally dipping the knife into hotSauce for Quenelles of Veal. 259 water to prevent its sticking. 16\ Take another dessert spoon, dip it into boiling water, and scoop the quenelle from the first spoon to the second spoon and place it in the saute pan, repeating the operation till the mixture is used up. Prepare a sauce. 1. Melt in a stewpan half an ounce of butter and stir in half an ounce of flour. 2. Place the stewpan over the fire and well mix with a wooden spoon ; cut off the ends of the stalks of a dozen button mush, rooms and wash them in cold water. 3. Remove them from the water, and peel them carefully with a sharp knife. 4. Add one pint of white stock to the mixture in the stewpan and the peelings of the mush- rooms. 5. Stir with a wooden spoon till the mixture thickens and boils. 6. Stand the stewpan aside with the lid partly off, and let it gently boil for fifteen minutes. 7. Skim off all the fat. 8. Stir in a good tablespoonful of cream, and stand the stewpan aside to keep hot. 9. Put into another stewpan a piece of butter the size of a marble and the twelve mushrooms. 10. Add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and same quantity of cold water. 11. Let the contents come to the boil. 12. Return to the quenelles in the saute pan and pour, gently and carefully, enough boiling water to cover them; don’t pour the water over the quenelles. 13. Place the sautd: pan over the fire and poach the quenelles for ten minutes, occasionally turning them with a slice. 14. When the quenelles are done remove them carefully from the saute' pan, and lay them on a clean cloth to absorb the water.Buchnaster s Cookery. 26o 15. Arrange the quenelles in a circle or oval on a hot dish. 16. Fill the centre with the mushrooms or spinach, or green peas, or French beans according to taste. 17. Strain the sauce over the quenelles. QUENELLES OF VEAL, 2. Ingredients. 1 lb. Fillet of Veal, or any white meat. I Egg. Cream. Flavouring. Lemon. Breadcrumbs. Butter. Pepper and Salt. 1. Pound the uncooked meat in a mortar. 2. Add i egg and a piece of butter the size of a walnut. 3. Work it all well together, and season to taste. 4. Rub through a sieve and add the cream, and flavouring to taste. 5. Add the juice of one lemon, and pepper and salt. 6. Mould as in previous recipe, and poach like an egg. 7. Serve with white sauce. Mushrooms or truffles may be used to garnish. If made into a mould it is called cream of veal or chicken, and must be cooked like a pudding and served with sauce. CALF’S LIVER AND BACON. Ingredients. Calf s Liver. Bacon. Ketchup. Stock. Flour. Pickles. 1. Cut the liver in slices, each about a quarter of an inch in thickness. 2. Cut also some streaky bacon into thin rashers of uniform thickness. 3. Fry them first, and drain on a plate. 4. Add the fat from the plate to the frying-pan. 5. Cover each niece of liverRoast Leg of Mutton. 261 with flour. 6. Fry them in the fat from the bacon, and when nicely browned on both sides, dish up the liver and bacon in a circular row, placing a piece of each alternately. 7. Strain off the fat from the pan in which the liver has been fried. 8. Add a little flour and a tablespoonful of ketchup, a little pepper and salt, and half a gill of stock or water; a few minced gherkins or mushrooms, pickled walnuts, or mixed pickles may be mixed with the sauce. 9. Stir all together over the fire until the sauce just boils. 10. Pour it over the liver and bacon. Precautions.—Be careful to flour the pieces of liver uniformly; and the bacon should be young. ROAST LEG OF MUTTON. Ingredients. Leg of Mutton. Mutton for roasting is generally all the better for being kept for a week or more in a dry, airy place, free from flies. A short thick leg is the best; the lean rather of a dark red, and the fat firm and white. 1. Saw off the shank-bone two inches below the knuckle. A clove of garlic may be introduced near the knuckle for those who like the flavour, or two or three eschalots wrapped in blanched sage leaves and inserted in different parts of the meat. 2. Place it before a sharp fire for ten minutes, to keep in the gravy. 3. Remove it a short distance to finish roast- ing. 4. Five or ten minutes before taking from the fire, put a gill of broth into the dripping-pan. 5. Sprinkle with salt. 6. Place the mutton on a dish,262 Buckmaster s Cookery. and put a white paper frill round the knuckle-bone. 7. Skim off all the fat. 8. Strain the gravy over the meat. You may serve with this joint white haricot beans, or macaroni under the meat or separately. A leg of mutton may be marinaded before roasting. (See p. 249.) Precautions.—Constant basting is necessary for all roast meat. Allow 15 to 20 minutes to the pound. BOILED LEG OF MUTTON. Ingredients. Boiled Turnips. A leg of Mutton. Caper sauce. 1. Cut off the shank, wipe it, put it into a clean saucepan or stewpan with plenty of boiling water. 2. Let it again come slowly to the boil. 3. Skim, and stand it aside to simmer for about a quarter of an hour for each pound. The mutton should be well done, but not overdone ; it should retain all the juices and look plump ; when the meat is not very white it is some- times blanched for ten minutes in hot water or wrapped in a floured cloth. A few minutes before it is ready add a teaspoonful of salt to the water. South Down Wether mutton, four or five years old, is the best both for boiling or roasting; for boiling it is a whiter colour if cooked fresh, but more tender if kept four or five days. Serve with boiled turnips, and caper sauce not poured over it, but served in a boat. Precautions.—Skimming and simmering are neces- sary, or the meat will be hard and tough.Braised Leg of Mutton. 263 BRAISED LEG OF MUTTON. Ingredients. Carrots. Stock. Cloves. Salt. Allspice. Lemon. Onions. Leeks. Celery. Mace. For braising it is best to have a braising pan, so that live coals may be placed on the top, but, in default, 1. take a saucepan or stewpan large enough to hold the leg of mutton comfortably. 2. Cut off the shank and trim the meat. 3. At the bottom of the saucepan arrange a layer of rashers of ham or bacon. . Lay on these the leg of mutton, and pack it round with the trimmings and shank and any odd pieces of bacon or scrag ends. 5. Take six young carrots, six onions, each about two inches in diameter, one with two cloves stuck in it, two leeks and a teaspoonful of whole white pepper, a blade of mace, half a teaspoonful of allspice, a good botiqurf garni, with a sprig of celery, a clove of garlic, and two bay leaves in it. 6. Add a pint and a half of good stock, and the squeeze of a lemon. 7. Simmer for five hours. 8. Keep the lid close. 9. Give die contents an occasional shake. If you have an oven large enough, the saucepan may be placed in it. 10. When ready strain the liquor over the meat, and serve. Precautions.—The object is to cook the meat very slowly in the vapour of the various ingredients, and care must be taken that it does not boil, nor should the lid be removed unless absolutely necessary.Buckmasters Cookery. 264 MUTTON CUTLETS. Ingredients. Neck of Mutton. Oil, or Egg and Bread-crumb. 1. Take the best end of a neck of mutton, which will give seven cutlets. 2. Saw about four inches off the end of the upper rib-bones. 3. Saw off the chine- bone. 4. Remove the fat. 5. Cut the seven cutlets, giving a bone if possible with each cutlet. 6. Let each of them be about half an inch in thickness, clear- ing the meat an inch off the end of each bone. 7. Flatten them with a chopper just moistened with water to prevent its sticking to the cutlet. 8. Remove the gristle from the lean, and pare away the meat and skin from the inside of the bone; this is to give the cutlets the requisite shape. 9. Sprinkle the cutlets on each side with two pinches of salt and one small pinch of pepper. 10. Oil them slightly. 11. Make them into shape with the flat side of a knife. 12. Put them on a gridiron over a brisk fire and cook them for four minutes on one side, and for three minutes on the other: dish up in a circle; or egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in hot fat. (See page 187.) Precautions.—The mutton should be tender and the cutlets nicely browned, and egged and bread- crumbed an hour before frying. ROAST HIND-QUARTER OF LAMB, Ingredients. Hind-quarter of Lamb. Horseradish sauce. Watercresses. 1. Saw off the knuckle-bone of a hind-quarter or265 Roast Breast of Lamb. leg of lamb. 2. Roast before a sharp, even fire, and baste frequently; when ready, place it on a dish, and garnish with watercresses. Horseradish or mint sauce may be served in a boat. Precautions.—Frequent basting and a clear uniform fire are necessary. ROAST BREAST OF LAMB. Ingredients. Breast of Lamb. Watercresses. Mint sauce. 1. Select a nice breast or leg of lamb. 2. Put it before a clear fire. 3. Take some stale bread-crumbs, minced parsley, and a little salt and pepper. 4. Mix these thoroughly together. After about a quarter of an hour, when the fat begins to melt freely, (5) sprinkle the mixture uniformly over the surface. When done, (6) skim the fat from the gravy. 7. Strain over the joint. Garnish with watercresses, and serve with hot mint sauce in a boat. A lemon is often sent up with roast lamb. Precautions.—A clear uniform fire and basting are essential for all roast meat. LAMB CUTLETS AND ASPARAGUS PEAS. Ingredients. Lamb. Asparagus. Butter. Sugar. Oil, or Egg and Bread-crumb. White Sauce. 1. Prepare your cutlets as in the foregoing recipe. 2. Cut the green part of your asparagus into small pieces the shape of peas. 3. Boil them carefully. 4. Drain them free from all moisture. 5. Add an ounceBuckmaster s Cookery. 266 of butter, a little pepper and salt, a pinch of sugar, and a tablespoonful of white sauce, see page 210. 6. Stir the contents of the saucepan gently over the fire till the butter is melted. 7. Garnish your cutlets with the asparagus peas, and serve. ROAST PARTRIDGE. Ingredients. Partridge. Bacon. Watercresses. 1. Draw, wipe, and singe a partridge. 2. Tie round the breast a rasher of fat bacon. 3. Put it before a clear good fire, and in eighteen or twenty minutes the bird is ready. 4. Remove the bacon, and serve with gravy and garnish with watercresses; or (5) take a round of toast without crust, moisten it in hot water or stock, press it lightly, butter it,'and soak it in the dripping-pan, and serve each partridge on a piece of toast. Some prefer the toasted bread slightly moistened with lemon-juice. Precautions.—In selecting a partridge, grouse, or pheasant, see that the spurs are small; look at the under feathers of the wings—if pointed, the bird is young ) if round, old. Try the pinions and breast. ROAST GROUSE. Ingredients. Grouse. 1. Take a grouse, draw, singe, and truss it. 2. Tie a thin rasher of fat bacon over the breast. 3. Put it to roast before a good fire. When ready serve on a piece of toasted bread, or same as for partridge.Roast Pheasants. 267 Blackcock may be roasted in the same way, but garnish with watercresses. ROAST PHEASANTS. Ingredients. Pheasant^ Bacon. Proceed as above, to draw, wipe and singe * pheasant. 1. Truss it. 2. Tie over the breast a rasher of fat bacon. 3. Put it before a clear fire, and in thirty or forty minutes it is ready. 4. Remove the bacon, garnish with watercresses, and serve up with gravy made either from lean beef or from game. The latter is the better. The pheasant should be kept just long enough to bring out the flavour. Guinea fowls and pea fozc/ls are cooked and served like pheasants. Precautions.—Young birds are to be preferred. SALMIS OF PHEASANT. Ingredients. Roast Pheasant. Mushrooms or Truffle. Stock. Chablis. Butter. 1. Roast a pheasant as above. 2. Cut it up at the joints. 3. Remove all the skin. 4. Arrange the pieces on a dish, and keep them hot. 5. You will have some trimmings from the pheasant. Chop these up with four small mushrooms, and, if convenient, a truffle. 6. Put into a stewpan one ounce of butter. 7. Stir in the trimmings and the mushrooms. 8. When the butter is of a pale golden colour add a glass of white wine and half a pint of stock. 9. Simmer forBuckmasters Cookery. 268 fifteen minutes. 10. Carefully skim. 11. Pour the hot sauce over the pheasant and serve, ROAST TURKEY. Ingredients. Turkey. Watercresses. Prepare a turkey; one of about six or seven pounds is to be preferred. 2. Stuff it with sausage-meat, veal stuffing, or chestnut stuffing. 3. Put the turkey before a good fire and roast till of a golden colour. 4. Skim off the fat. 5. Strain the gravy, and garnish with watercresses. Turkeys are sometimes stuffed with sausage-meat and garnished with sausages, but the taste is doubtful. ROAST SNIPE. Ingredients. Bacon. Toast. Watercresses. 1. Pick them thoroughly, and take the skin off the head. 2. Cut off the wings. 3. Twist the legs so as to bring the feet behind the thighs. 4. Pass the bill through the thighs and body. 5. Singe them care- fully. 6. Cover them with rashers of fat bacon tied round. 7. Roast them before a clear fire for twenty or twenty-five minutes. 8. Place under them as many pieces of toasted bread as you have birds, so that the gravy shall fall on to it. 9. Baste the birds frequently. 10. Serve them on a dish with a piece of toast under each bird, and garnish with watercresses. Precautions.—Be careful to have bacon free from a strong flavour.Roast Duck. 269 ROAST DUCK. Ingredients. Duck. Onions. Sage. Bread-crumbs. Stuff the duck with a stuffing prepared as follows:— 2. Take two or three onions, say six ounces. 2. Cut them in slices, with six or eight sage leaves. 3. Blanch each separately for five minutes. 4. Drain and chop them finely. 5. Put the whole in a stewpan, with one ounce of butter, two pinches of salt, and two small pinches of pepper. 6. Simmer gently for ten minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon. 7. Add a handful ot bread crumbs. 8. Stir for two minutes more; the stuff- ing is then ready for use; an apple mixed with the stuffing is thought by some to be an improvement. 9. Truss the duck, and put it down to roast for twenty or thirty minutes before a very brisk fire. Precautions.—A young duck, a good fire, and occasional basting are necessary. BRAISED DUCKLING WITH TURNIPS. Ingredients. Duck. Butter. Stock. Bouquet garni. Turnips. Sugar. Flour. 1. Prepare a young duck and put it into a stewpan with three ounces of butter. 2. Cook till the duck is of a nice brown all over. 3. Remove it from the stewpan on to a dish. 4. Put into the same putter twenty or thirty pieces of turnip cut into size of marbles with a cutter. 5. Cook till they begin to brown. 6. Sprinkle over them a teaspoonful of powdered loaf2 70 Buck-master s Cookery. sugar. 7. Let them remain two minutes. 8. Remove the pieces of turnip from the stewpan into a basin 9. Stir in a tablespoonful of flour, and thoroughly mix. 10. For a moderate-sized duck add gradually about a pint of stock, season with salt and pepper and a small bouquet garni. 11. Put in the duck in ten minutes, or when the duck is half done, add the turnips. 12. Turn the duck over two or three times, and be careful not to break the turnips. 13. Remove the bouquet garni. 14. Skim off all the fat, and serve. Precautions. — Do not allow the sauce to boil after adding the duck, and be very particular to have the sauce so as it just coats the spoon. ROAST GOOSE. Ingredients. A Goose. Duck oi* Chestnut stuffing. A goose weighing six or eight pounds is to be pre- ferred. 1. Pick, draw, singe and wipe. 2. Stuff it with stuffing as for roast duck or chestnut stuffing. 3. Sprinkle with a little salt. 4. Baste frequently. 5. Skim off all the fat, strain the gravy over the goose, or serve separately in a sauce-boat. Precautions.—It is essential that the goose should be young, and roasted before a good fire, but not a fierce one. Try the pinion, and if the lower part of the beak breaks easily the goose or duck is young. ROAST FOWL. Ingredients. Fowl. Bacon. Onion. 1. Tick, draw, wipe, singe, and truss a fowl. UnlessBoiled Fowl. 271 stuffed, an onion inside and a piece of butter are thought to be an improvement. 2. Tie a rasher of fat bacon over the breast. 3. Put the fowl before a bright clear fire. 4. Roast slowly, with frequent basting. When ready (5) strain the gravy and pour it under the fowl. Garnish with watercresses. Precautions.—A young fowl is essential, which may be known by the large size of its feet and knee-joints and the smallness of the spurs. Try the pinions and breast. Baste frequently. BOILED FOWL. Ingredients. A Fowl. 1. Neatly truss and prepare a fowl; be careful not to break the skin in picking. 2. Wrap it in a sheet of white buttered paper. 3. Put it into a clean stewpan or saucepan with plenty of lukewarm water. 4. Let it just boil. 5. Skim, and in fifteen minutes turn the fowl over for another fifteen minutes, and for a fowl of about three pounds this will be sufficient. Fowls and all poultry will be the better for being kept two or three days before boiling. Serve with a white sauce, or bechamel sauce, or parsley and butter, according to taste. Precautions.—Choose a young fowl with white or pale-coloured legs. Occasional skimming is necessary. A FRICASSEE OF FOWL. Ingredients. A young Fowl. An Onion. Mushrooms. Lemon. To prepare a fricassee of chicken, which may be272 Buckmaster s Cookery. slightly varied from the following recipe, is one of the best examples of good English cooking. 1. Pick, draw, and singe a fowl about three pounds. In singeing use a spirit lamp with alcohol, and be careful not to break the skin or blacken the fowl. All poultry should be carefully singed; it tightens the skin and de- stroys the small down. 2. Some prefer cutting up the fowl, and putting the pieces to soak for an hour in cold water before boiling, but the following method is gene- rally adopted. 3. Put the chicken into a clean three- quart stewpan with sufficient warm water to cover it. 4. Add one onion, with a clove, a little salt, and a bunch of parsley or a small bouqueigarni. 5. Skim when neces- sary. 6. Let it come to the boil, and simmer for ten minutes; remove it to sieve, and drain it for three minutes. With the liquor in which the chicken was boiled prepare a sauce. 7. Add two ounces of butter and two table- spoonfuls of flour, and thoroughly stir. 8. Prepare and blanch for five minutes a dozen mushrooms, in just suf- ficient water to cover them. 9. Add the juice of half a lemon and (10) strain into the sauce and put the mush- rooms aside; be careful that they are not broken. 11. Neatly cut up the fowl into ten pieces, keeping the skin on each piece. 12. Finish cooking the pieces in the sauce,which will take from twenty to twenty-five minutes. 13. Arrange them neatly on a dish. 14. Strain over the sauce and garnish with the mushrooms. Four crayfish make a good garnish, or croutons of bread fried in butter. A little cream is a great improvement to the sauce. Precautions.—It is necessary to have a young fowl, and it must not remain in the sauce longer than is necessary.273 To Utilise Cold Chicken. TO UTILISE COLD CHICKEN. Ingredients. Cold Chicken. I Lemon. Worcester Sauce. Parsley. 1. Cut the chicken into joints and remove the skin. 2. Strew over them pepper and salt, the juice of one lemon, and Worcester sauce. 3. When this is soaked in, fry each joint in batter to a pale brown, and serve with fried parsley. Gravy, if liked, can be served with this. Very young rabbits are excellent this way. TO UTILISE COLD BEEF OR MUTTON. 1. Place the slices on a dish and pour aspic jelly over them. 2. When cold cut them out, and place them on a dish with mayonnaise sauce, and salad in centre. The jelly can be made from Liebig’s meat, and flavoured with Tarragon vinegar and chopped parsley. GALANTINE. An excellent breakfast dish can be made of breast of veal, cut square and boiled till the bones can be easily taken out. Roll it up with pieces of tongue and hard-boiled egg, and season. Press and glaze it. Chopped herbs can be strewed on it, as well as tongue, and ornamented with slices of hard-boiled egg. Season to taste in the centre.274 Buchnasters Cookery. SWEETBREADS. Ingredients. Sweetbreads. Stock. Whatever the dish, sweetbreads are always first prepared as follows : 1. Soak for three hours in cold water three sweetbreads. 2. Change the water oc- casionally if it becomes discoloured. 3. Put them into boiling water for half-an-hour, or long enough to become firm, but not hard. 4. Press them into shape by placing them between two paste-boards or baking tins, with a four or five pound weight on the top. 5. Lard them with bacon about one-eighth of an inch in section. Bacon for larding should be cured without saltpetre, or it gives a pink tinge to all white meat. 6. Put them in a clean stewpan with three gills of rich stock. 7. Season with salt.' 8. When the stock thickens add another half-pint, baste frequently with the stock. 10. Arrange them on a dish. 11. Strain the gravy over them. 12. Serve with sorrel, green peas, or tomato sauce. Precautions.— Throat sweetbreads are the best, and the gravy should be rich and free from fat. Do not allow the sweetbreads to harden in cooking or they will be difficult to lard. SWEETBREADS A LA JARDINIERE. The sweetbreads must be arranged in order over a proper quantity of jardiniere, which is prepared as follows. 1. Scrape two young carrots and peel two small turnips. 2. Cut them into fancy shapes with aOx Palate. 275 vegetable cutter. 3. Boil them in a little broth. 4. When done drain them and put them into a saucepan with about the same quantity of green peas, French beans, asparagus peas, and sprigs of cauliflower. 5. These vegetables must have been previously cooked and drained. 8. The gravy from the sweetbreads must be poured over these vegetables. OX TONGUE. Ingredients. A Tongue. Tomato Sauce. 2 Bouquets garni. Onion. Carrot. 1. Trim the root of a fresh ox tongue, and soak it for an hour in cold water. 2. Put it into a stewpan with plenty of cold water. 3. Add a good-sized onion, with two cloves, two bouquets garni, and an ounce of salt and half an ounce of pepper. 4. Bring it to the boil. 5. Skim. 6. Simmer for three hours; when cooked, 7. Take off the skin. 8. Arrange the tongue on a dish, and serve with tomato sauce. Precautions.—The tongue should not remain in the liquor after it is cooked. OX PALATE. Ingredients. Ox Palate. Bouquet garni. Butler. Onion. Carrot. Stock. 1. Blanch for ten minutes an ox palate. 2. Drain it. 3. Remove the fat, and scrape it carefully. 4. Divide it into two parts. 5. Put them into a small stewpan, with a pint of stock, half an ounce of butter, a little276 Buckmasters Cookery. pepper and salt, a bouquet garni, a small onion, and a small carrot. 6. Let the contents simmer for three hours. 7. Remove the palate to a cloth, then clean away any fat, and serve with sharp sauce. Precautions.—The palate should be slowly sim- mered, or it becomes hard. HARICOT BEANS AND BACON. Ingredients. Haricot Beans. Bouquet garni. Bacon. Garlic or Eschalot. 1. Put a pint of beans into cold water the over- night. 2. Cut half a pound of bacon into half-inch dice. 3. Put the bacon and beans into a clean sauce- pan with just sufficient cold water to cover them. 4. Boil the beans till they are tender. 5. Stir in one or two tablespoonfuls of flour, a - little pepper, and a bouquet garni, with a clove of garlic or an eschalot. 6. Let the contents simmer slowly. 7. Remove the bouquet garni, and when the sauce is sufficiently thickened the beans and bacon are ready. Precautions.—The beans, if old, will require long soaking, or much longer boiling than is necessary for the bacon. FAT PORK OR BACON AND HARICOT BEANS. Ingredients. Haricot Beans. Pork. 1. Soak a pint of haricot beans in cold water for ten or twelve hours. 2. Boil them with a little salt till they are tender. 3. Take a common yellow dish,Aspic Jelly. 277 and put the beans at the bottom. 4. On a tripod place two pounds of fat bacon or pork. 5. Bake for an hour, or the meat may be roasted and the beans placed in the dripping-pan. Precautions.—The beans should be quite tender before baking. ASPIC JELLY. Ingredients. Stock. Gelatine. Eggs. Bouquet garni. Tarragon Vinegar. White Pepper. Common Vinegar. 1. Soak two ounces of good gelatine in water till it softens. 2. Strain off the water. 3. Put the gelatine into a basin with three pints of strong stock. This may be prepared either from knuckle of veal or calves’ feet, or lean beef, or all of them. 4. Whisk up the whites and shells of two eggs, and one egg without the shell. 5. Put them into a clean stewpan with six white peppercorns and a bouquet garni, containing a clove of garlic. 6. Add a dessertspoonful of tarragon vinegar and two dessertspoonfuls of common vinegar. 7. Whisk all together in a stewpan till the eggs froth a little, and then add the stock and gelatine. 8. Sea- son if necessary with pepper and salt. 9. Put it over a slow fire, whisking till it comes to the boil. 10. Let ft simmer. 11. Stand it aside till it becomes clear. 12. Strain it into a basin, when cold it is ready for garnishing cold dishes and salads. A glass of sherry is a great improvement. Precautions.—This jelly requires constant atten- tion, and when well prepared is very useful.278 Buckraaster s Cookery. GRAVY FOR GENERAL USE. Ingredients. Veal. Bouquet garni. Onion. Carrot. It is often necessary to prepare a gravy for general use. 1. Take about two pounds of fillet of veal. 2. Remove any fat. 3. Cut it into three or four pieces and add any odd portions of uncooked meat. 4. Put them all into a six-pint saucepan or stewpan with half a pint of soft water. 5. Let it come slowly to the boil. 6. Continue reducing till it forms a glaze. 7. Turn the pieces of meat over and add three pints of water, a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, a bouquet garni, a small carrot split into four, and one onion, with two cloves. 8. Let the contents come to the boil. 9. Simmer slowly for two hours with the lid off. 10. Skim as occasion requires. 11. Strain the liquor through a tammy sieve and put it aside for use. The pieces of meat can be eaten with a sharp sauce. Precautions.—The contents must not boil or the gravy will not be clear, and freedom from fat is most essential. CHESTNUT FORCEMEAT. Ingredients. Chestnuts. Veal. Bacon. Spiced salt. Stock. A forcemeat should be of sufficient consistency to cut, but should not be dry or heavy. 1. Roast slowly thirty sweet chestnuts. 2. Peel them, and put them in a basin. 3. Take half a pound of lean veal, free from skin and gristle, and three-quarters of a pound of279 Stuffing. fat bacon. 4. Scrape the bacon and remove the rind. 5. Mince the bacon and veal finely. 6. Add a little stock and a tablespoonful of spiced salt (page 84). 7. Mix thoroughly. 8. Turn the ingredients into a mortar. 9. Work them for a quarter of an hour, then put in a basin. 10. Add the chestnuts to the force- meat. 11. Work up with the hands and stuff the turkey or veal (p. 268). Precautions.—These ingredients must be thoroughly mixed and the forcemeat moderately firm. If the chest- nuts are difficult to mix, work them for two or three minutes in a mortar. CHESTNUT PUREE. Ingredients. Chestnuts. Milk. Cream. Butter. Sugar. 1. Cut off the tops and bottoms of twenty large chestnuts. 2. Put them in boiling water and boil twenty minutes. 3. Remove the shell and brown skin and rub them through a wire sieve while hot. 4. Put the chestnut puree in a stewpan with one ounce of butter and one gill of milk. 5. Boil for five minutes. 6. Add a quarter of a gill of cream, a pinch of powdered sugar, pepper and salt. 7. Stir over the fire until quite hot (not boiling). 8. Serve with the goose. STUFFING (1). Ingredients. Onions. Butter. Sage leaves. Bread-crumbs. 1. Melt in a clean stewpan one ounce of butter.2 So Buchnaster s Cookery. 2. Season it with pepper and salt. 3. Blanch for seven minutes three-quarters of a pound of sliced onions and ten sage leaves. 4. Remove the stalks and mince them finely. 5. Then stir into the butter. 6. Stir for ten minutes with a wooden spoon. 7. Now add stale bread-crumbs, sufficient to bring the stuffing to its proper consistency, and the stuffing is ready for use. Precautions.—The mixture requires constant stir- ring. STUFFING (2). Ingredients. Parsley. Eschalot. Suet. Eggs. Marjoram. Nutmeg. Thyme. 1. Take half a pound of stale bread-crumbs, four ounces of finely-chopped suet, two eggs, a dessert- spoonful of minced parsley, a very small teaspoonful of minced eschalots, marjoram, and thyme. 2. Season with pepper and salt and two grates of nutmeg. 3. Work these thoroughly well together with the hands and it is ready. TO PREPARE A GLAZE. 1. Put some stock into a clean stewpan. 2. Reduce it quickly till it becomes thick. 3. Turn it into a smaller stewpan, and continue reducing and stirring till it is of sufficient consistency to form a firm jelly. The glaze should not be of too dark a colour. 4. Turn it into an earthenware jar. 5. When it is wanted melt the glaze by putting the jar into a saucepan ofHow to Glaze. 2S1 warm water, and gradually bring the water to the boil, on the principle of a carpenter’s glue pot, which is a bain-marie. An arrangement of this kind can be easily extemporised in every house. HOW TO GLAZE. Whatever cold dish has to be glazed, it is essential the surface should be well dried, or it will never properly cover the meat. 1. Melt the glaze in the manner just described. 2. With a clean brush varnish the surface. 3. Lay on the glaze thinly, evenly, and smoothly. 4. When firm, lay on if necessary another coat, and a third. The object is not to hide the thing glazed, but to see it through a transparent film of gelatine. Old fowls will never do the cook credit. Carefully examine all poultry before purchasing ; take the fowl in the hand and cx-amine the knee joints, feet, and neck. In young fowls the joints and feet are large, the legs smooth ; the combs are of a blight colour, and spurs short; black legged fowls are considered best. Old fowls have a thin neck and flesh of a violet tinge. Now try the flesh of the pinion and breast, if tender in both these places the fowl can be used with confidence. A turkey is selected by the whiteness of the flesh and fat. In a young turkey the toes and bill are soft and pliable ; those with long hairs on the legs and back, with flesh of a violet tinge, should be avoided. A cock turkey is generally preferred.282 Buckmasters Cookery. A PLAIN OMELETTE WITH HERBS, Ingredients.—3 Eggs. Pepper and Salt. Parsley. Butter. 1. Break three eggs separately into a cup and pour them into a basin. 2. Add a small teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley, and a small pinch of pepper and salt. 3. Whisk the mixture for fifteen seconds. 4. Melt three-quarters of an ounce of butter in a frying- pan without browning. When it is in a state of froth (5) give the mixture two or three whisks, and pour into the centre of the pan. 6. Stir very slightly till the mixture begins to thicken. 7. Give the pan an occasional shake to keep the mixture free, or strike the handle of the pan with the left hand, so as to produce a gentle vibration. As soon as the mixture is suffi- ciently firm, fold half the omelette neatly over into an oval shape. When of a golden colour turn it on to a hot dish, and serve immediately. Precautions.—The frying-pan must not be more than six inches in diameter for three eggs, the fire not too fierce, and all care must be taken to prevent the mixture burning. If there is any tendency to burn, a little butter placed under the omelette will generally prevent it. CHEESE OMELETTE. Ingredients.—3 Eggs. Parmesan Cheese. Cayenne. 1. Mix as before, but introduce into the omelette mixture a dessert-spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese. 2. Add a little pepper and salt, and sometimes a few grains of cayenne pepper. 3. Sprinkle the omelette when it is turned out with a little grated cheese. Precautions.—The same as before.Omelette Souffle. 283 SWEET OMELETTE. Ingredients.—3 Eggs. Sugar. Jam. Cream. 1. Beat up three eggs, the same as in plain omelette, with half a teaspoonful of castor sugar and half a gill of cream. 2. Pour it into the frying-pan when the butter is ready. 3. When firm spread over a little apricot or other jam, 4. Fold the omelette over the jam. 5. Turn it on to a hot dish. 6. Sprinkle with the sugar. Precautions.—The same. BACON OR HAM OMELETTE. Ingredients.—3 Eggs. Bacon or Ham. Butter. 1. Proceed as for plain omelette. 2. Just before folding it over, spread on it a dessert-spoonful of finely chopped bacon or ham previously cooked. 3. Fold over and serve. OMELETTE SOUFFLE. Ingredients.—3 Eggs. Cream. Pounded Loaf-sugar. Jam. 1. Take three eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, and turn the yolks into one basin and the whites into another. 2. Add to the yolks a dessert- spoonful of pounded loaf sugar and a tablespoonful of cream. 3. Stir these together with a wooden spoon. 4. Whip the whites for four minutes into a stiffish froth. 5. Add them to the yolks, and mix altogether same as for an omelette. 6. Have ready in a state of froth about half an ounce of butter in a small clean frying-pan. 7. Pour in the mixture, and proceed in precisely the same way as for a sweet omelette (see above). The only difference between a plain omelette and an omelette souffle is that cream is used, and the whites are whipped, and added to the mixture for a souffle'.Buckmasier s Cookery. 284 Precautions.—Keep the mixture free from the pan while cooking, and do not beat more than just sufficient to thoroughly mix the yolks and whites. FRITTERS. Ingredients.—\ pint of Milk or Water. 4 ozs. of Butter. 5 ozs. of Flour. 2 ozs. of White Sugar. 3 Eggs. A few drops of Flavouring Essence. A very little Salt. 1. Put the milk, butter, sugar, and salt into a stew- pan over the fire. 2. As soon as the contents boil, withdraw the stewpan, and add the flour gradually. 3. Stir the whole well together with a wooden spoon | over the fire until it becomes a thick paste. 4. Add the flavouring and one egg, and mix thoroughly. 5. Add the other 2 eggs, and mix again. 6. Have a sauce- pan three parts full of hot fat. Drop pieces of the paste into the fat about the size of a pigeon’s egg. 7. Turn them about continually in the fat till they are more than double the size: when done they should be hollow balls, about the size of an orange. Dish them up in pyramid shape, and sprinkle castor sugar over them. If preferred the underside can be opened with a knife and a little preserve inserted. The next day they may be served cold for luncheon, cut in half, and the hollow of each filled with whipped cream of two colours. SALADS. Salads are a very simple and harmless luxury, and in summer they make an agreeable addition to our ordi- nary food ; if the vegetables are fresh and eaten with plenty of oil, salads are rarely unwholesome. In this country we are perfect savages in the making of salads.Salads. 285 The sauce is often served up in a bottle, and the flabby wet vegetables are heaped up on a dish. A salad properly prepared should be one of the most attrac- tive and elegant dishes on the table. There are several things necessary to secure good salads, and their variety is only limited by the ingenuity of the cook. The essential conditions of a salad are a good mayonaise sauce, young, fresh vegetables, freed from moisture, in a clean cloth. Young ladies in the country, where they have an abundance and variety of vegetables, might render a national service if they would turn a little attention to mixing salads as well as to croquet and skating rinks. If you wish to preserve the crispness and flavour of green vegetables for salads they should be gathered either early in the morning or late in the evening, and put in a cool damp place. To soak green vegetables in water to keep them fresh, or to keep up their appearance of freshness, is a mistake. Lettuce, which is the chief thing in most green salads, should be young; old leaves are too strong for a delicate salad; and if possible lettuce should never be washed or cut with a steel knife, but wiped with a clean cloth, the best way is to break the lettuce into the bowl, or to cut it with a silver knife. If you must wash the vegetables do it quickly, and thoroughly dry them in a clean cloth before putting into the salad bowl. A salad should never be prepared till it is wanted. A variety of vegetables may be used according to taste, but the fewer the better ; cress is often too thready to be used agreeably; the chief vegetables are lettuce, endive, radishes, onions, basil, mustard, watercress,Bucbnasters Cookery. 2S6 cucumber, celery, mint, parsley, beetroot, dandelion, tarragon, chervil, sorrel, and tomatoes. On the Con- tinent cold meat, fish, fowl, game, and previously cooked vegetables, are more often served as salads than green uncooked vegetables. Ravigote (p. 206) is sometimes sprinkled over the salad. Above all things be particular with the sauces and jellies, meat or fish, served as part of the salad. Chervil must be used in small quantities. Nasturtium leaves and flowers, and other suitable flowers, with boiled beet-root may be used to ornament salads. I should like to see prizes given at vegetable and flower shows for the best salads. MACEDOINE SALAD. Ingredients. French Beans. Green Peas. Mayonaise Sauce, Carrots. Celery. Beet-root. Turnips. Asparagus. Artichoke. Ravigote. 1. Blanch and boil separately, equal quantities of some or all of the following vegetables—young carrots, turnips, beetroot, French beans, celery roots, green peas, asparagus peas (the young tops of asparagus are called asparagus peas), and two artichoke roots. 2. Dry them in a clean cloth. 3. When the vegetables are quite cold, cut them into dice of about three-eighths of an inch. 4. Mix the whole in a salad bowl with a wooden fork and spoon. 5. Sprinkle with Ravigote (see p. 206). 6. Add a good mayonaise sauce, and thoroughly mix. Precautions.—This salad requires great care in the selection of vegetables. When carefully made it is an excellent summer salad. Garnish with simple flowers.Vegetable Salad. 287 VEGETABLE SALAD. Ingredients. Carrots. Peas. Turnips. Asparagus. French Beans. Ravigote. 1. Boil separately equal weights, according to the quantity required, of the following vegetables:—French beans, carrots, green peas, turnips, and asparagus points. 2. Dry the vegetables in a clean cloth. 3. When quite cold cut them into dice of one quarter or three-eighths of an inch; the French beans should be cut into squares. 4. Arrange them on a dish. 5. Place the French beans at the bottom and in the centre. 6. Arrange round the French beans in about equal quantities in narrow rows the carrots, then peas, then turnips, then asparagus points, and, if the dish is large enough and the vegetables sufficient, proceed again in the same order. 7. Sprinkle the surface with a tablespoonful of Ravigote—i.e., tarragon, burnet, chives, garden-cress, and half the quantity of chervil, all previously blanched, strained, cooled, dried in a clean cloth, and finely minced. Serve the mayonaise sauce in a boat. Precautions.—The success of this salad depends on the vegetables being young and tender. FISH OR GAME SALAD. Ingredients. Lettuce. Cucumber. Beet-root. Hard-boiled Eggs. Cold fish. Tarragon. Chervil. Mayonaise Sauce. Sorrel. Watercress. Endive. Nasturtium Flowers. 1. Take the remains of' any cold boiled fish. 2. Cut them into small scollops or neat pieces ofBuckmaster's Cookery. 288 about one and a half inch. 3. Dip them into mayonaise sauce. 4. Prepare two freshly-gathered young Goss lettuce, a little endive and watercress. 5. Drain over a colander. 6. Well dry in a clean cloth by shaking. 7. Break up the lettuce, water- cress, and endive into pieces about three-quarters of an inch in length. 8. Mince a small sprig of chervil, two leaves of tarragon, and a few leaves of sorrel. 9. Peel and slice one cucumber and one beetroot. 10. Mix altogether thoroughly. 11. Rub the dish with garlic. 12. Arrange at the foundation a layer of the green vegetables. 13. Then a layer of cold fish, meat, chicken, lobster, shrimp, fowl, or game. 14. Now a thin layer of mayonaise sauce. 15. Now a layer of vegetables, and so on, finishing with mayonaise sauce, and garnishing with nasturtium flowers; some of the beetroot and cucumber may be reserved to arrange alternately round the edge of the dish, and hard-boiled eggs, or olives or aspic jelly may also be introduced : this makes a very pretty foundation. With all fish salads mayonaise sauce should also be served in a boat. Precautions.—The mayonaise sauce must be good and the vegetables fresh, and taste should be shown in the arrangement of the materials. LETTUCE SALAD. Ingredients. Lettuce. Tarragon. Eggs. Oil. Eschalot. Vinegar. Cress. 1. Wash, if necessary, two lettuces. 2. Dry them thoroughly in a cloth. 3. Break the leaves or cut289 Lettuce Salad. them with a silver knife into convenient pieces. 4. Put the yolks of two hard-boiled eggs into a basin (not boiled more than eight or nine minutes, or the yolks will be dark-coloured), with a teaspoonful of dry mustard, pepper and salt to taste, and one table- spoonful of oil. 5. Work the mixture into a smooth paste. 6. Now add oil and vinegar as for mayonaise sauce, page 160. 7. Add two or three leaves of tarragon, and one small eschalot finely minced, and the whites of the two eggs cut into half-inch dice. 8. Add the lettuce and a small handful of garden cress. 9. Thoroughly mix the sauce with the vege- tables, using a wrooden or bone fork and spoon, and the salad is ready. Precautions.—See that you have young tender Tettuce. Be careful about the sauce. TOMATO SALAD. Ingredients. Tomatoes. Oil. Vinegar. Mustard. Basil. 1. Take six tomatoes, but not too ripe to handle. 2. Cut them into slices and remove all the seeds. 3. Rub a dish with garlic. 4. Work together oil and vinegar, in the proportion of two of oil to one of vinegar. 5. Lay the tomatoes in the mixture. 6. Sprinkle pepper and salt over according to taste, and a few leaves of fresh basil finely minced. 7. Let them lie in the sauce for two hours, and the salad is ready. Precautions.—Be careful in the selection of the tomatoes, and well free them from seed. L290 Buckmaster's Cookery. JELLIES, ICE CREAMS, AND ICES. Animal gelatine is the basis of all jellies. Isinglass, which is the purest variety, is prepared from the swimming bladder of the sturgeon. The jelly sold in shops is often a highly clarified glue, made from the trimmings from tan yards. The preparation of a jelly is one of the most refined and delicate operations in cookery. The chief qualities of a jelly are colour, transparency, and flavour, which depend on the quality of the materials and filtering. Everything should be scrupulously bright and clean; the spoons should be of wood or bone, and for coloured jellies earthenware or copper moulds should be used. The jelly should be prepared the day before it is wanted, and the foundation is calf’s feet. CALF’S FOOT JELLY. TO MAKE A QUART. Ingredients. 2 Calf’s Feet. A wine glass of Sherry. ^ a wine glass of Brandy. x inch of a stick of Cinnamon. 2 Eggs. 2 ozs. of Loaf Sugar. 2 Lemons. 4 Cloves. 1. Take two calf’s feet (and if necessary), scald them, and scrape off all the hair. Chop each foot into four pieces. 2. Well wash them in cold water. 3 Place them in a clean stewpan, and cover them with cold water (this is to bleach or whiten the feet). 4, When the contents come to the boil, 5, remove the stewpan to the table ; standing it on a board or piece of paper. 6. Take out the pieces and well wash them in a basin of cold water. 7. Empty the stewpan andCalf's Foot Jelly. 291 well rinse it out. 8. Return the pieces of feet to the stewpan, and add three pints of cold water. 9. Bring the contents of the stewpan to the boil. 10. Skim frequently; this is important. 11. Boil steadily till the liquor is reduced to about a pint and a half; this will take from four to five hours. 12. Strain through a hair sieve into a clean basin. 13. Throw over the basin a piece of muslin or gauze, and stand it aside until it is perfectly cold; you have now about a pint and a half of jelly. 14. Carefully remove all the fat. 15. Take a clean cloth and put it into hot water. 16. Wring it and carefully wipe the jelly, so as to remove every particle of grease. 17. Now wipe the jelly lightly with a clean dry cloth. 18. Put two lemons in a clean cloth and thinly peel them with a sharp knife. Be particular not to remove any of the white of the lemon. 19. Put the lemon peel into a stewpan. 20. Squeeze the juice of the two lemons through a strainer into the same stewpan. 21. Take two eggs, break the whites into one basin and the yolks into another. 22. Whip the whites lightly and put them into the stewpan with the broken-up shell of the eggs. 23. Add to the contents of the stewpan three ounces of loaf sugar, one inch of a stick of cinnamon, and four cloves. 24. Mix altogether with a whisk for two minutes. 25. Add the jelly, and whisk the contents of the stewpan till they come to the boil. 26. Stand the stewpan aside for half an hour, when a crust will form on the surface of the jelly. 27. Take a jelly bag, and if you have no stand, suspend it safely from two chairs in front of the fire. 28. Place a basin or pail underneath the bag, and pour in a quart of boiling292 Buchnaster's Cookery. water. 29. Repeat this four or five times, so as to make the bag quite hot. 30. Well squeeze the bag so as to remove all the water. 31. Arrange the bag securely and place a clean basin underneath it. Have another basin ready if wanted. When a crust is formed on the surface of the jelly it is ready for straining. 32. Pour the jelly carefully from the stewpan into the bag. If the jelly should at first force through a few remaining drops of water into the basin; remove the basin, and place the other under immediately. The jelly will now filter through the bag into the basin. 33. Repeat the filtering two or three times till the jelly passes through quite clear. Be careful each time not to disturb the settlement which forms at the bottom of the bag. 34. Add half a wine glass of brandy or a glass of sherry. If the jelly is to be used for fruit or liqueurs, the wine, cinnamon, and brandy may be omitted, and another lemon used instead. 35. Well rinse a quart mould in boiling water. 36. Take a clean cloth and wipe out the inside. 37. Place the mould firmly on ice, or in a very cold place. 38. Pour in a little of the jelly. 39. When the jelly has partly set, ornament the mould with cherries, raspberries, grapes, or strawberries, according to fancy. 40. Add the remainder of the jelly, and let the mould remain in the ice until it is firm. 41. When the jelly is required, dip the mould into a basin of hot water, just to loosen the jelly. 42. Shake the mould gently so as to free the jelly without breaking. 43. Place a dish over the top of the mould, and carefully turn the jelly out. Cow heels are sometimes used, but the jelly is not so delicate.On Whipping Eggs and Cream. 293 Precautions. — The most careful cleanliness is essential to success. Earthenware or copper moulds should be used. The jelly should not be stirred after it begins to boil. A little melted isinglass is some- times added at No. 25, which gives firmness to the jelly in hot weather. ON WHIPPING EGGS AND CREAM. Whipping the whites of eggs requires more care and attention than almost any other operation. It appears very simple, but often fails from the non-observance of a few simple rules. 1. See that the basin and whisk are perfectly clean, cold, and dry. 2. In break- ing the eggs (which should be done separately) into a teacup, see that no portion of tire yolk falls into the basin. 3. Be sure the whites are all fresh, smell them before pouring into the basin, one stale white will prevent the rising. 4. Always whip in one direction. If two persons whip the same eggs, one in one direction and the other in the opposite direction, the whites will never rise. 5. Do not stir the eggs while whipping. 6. A cool air is helpful. 7. Do not mix anything with the whites before whipping except a small pinch of salt. 8. The whites of two eggs are better whipped on a plate with a broad knife. In whipping cream the chief things to be observed are : 1. That the cream is fresh. 2. That the basin and whisk are clean, dry, and cold. In hot weather it is a good plan to stand the basin on ice. 3. Always whip one way, and be careful not to stir. 4. Do not mix sugar, flour, or anything with the cream beforeBuckmaster s Cookery. 294 whipping. 5. Whip lightly and not too long, or butter will be the result. ORANGE COMPOTE. Ingredients. 6 large sweet Oranges. * Whipped Cream. 1. Cut 6 oranges into halves. 2. Take out the inside of each, and make some orange jelly, clear in the usual manner. 3. Colour half red, and pour some of each colour into the orange cups. 4. When set firm cut them into quarters, and build them up round a mountain of whipped cream. MACEDOINE OF WHOLE FRUITS. Ingredients. Fruits. ii lb. Sugar. Ice. 1. Put all kinds of fruit into a china bowl (peaches and apricots must be peeled). Make a syrup of sugar and water. Make the syrup hot, then add a wine- glass of liqueur or brandy, and pour hot over the fruits, and let it get cold. Ice can be mixed in or not at the bottom. (Suitable for garden parties or supper.) WHOLE STEWED APPLES AND WHIPPED CREAM Ingredients. 6 Apples. Gelatine. 2 ozs. Loaf Sugar. Cochineal for colouring. Cream. 1. Peel and core the apples. 2. Stew them with 2 ozs. of loaf sugar till tender, and lay them on a deep glass dish. 3. Mix a little gelatine in the syrup in which they were cooked, and colour with cochineal. 4. Pour some syrup over the apples, and the rest on a plate. 5. Whip some cream and place it on the apples. 6. Cut the jelly out in fancy shapes, and ornament the top of the cream.Italian Cream. 295 STRAWBERRY ICE PUDDING. Ingredients. Ice. 2 pints Strawberries. 1 oz. of Isinglass. J lb. of Loaf-Sugar. Almonds. 1. Take two pints of strawberries, pick them, and put them in a basin with half a pound of pounded loaf-sugar. 2. Let them remain a few minutes. 3. Pass them through a hair sieve. 4. Melt in a small stewpan over the fire one ounce of isinglass in half a pint of water. 5. When cold strain it through a fine sieve into the pure'e, and thoroughly mix by stirring with a wooden spoon. 6. Take a plain mould, which may be decorated with blanched almonds. 7. Fill it with the puree, and put it on the ice. 9. Cover the top with a stewpan lid, and then put on ice. 10. Let it remain two hours and it is ready. Precautions.—Be careful in turning it out, and do not add the water till quite cold. ITALIAN CREAM. Ingredients. ^ oz. Isinglass. Sugar. Milk. & pint Cream. 2 Lemons. Sherry. 1. Simmer and dissolve half an ounce of isinglass in sufficient milk to cover it, with the thin outer rind of half a lemon. 2. Whip up half a pint of cream with the juice of one or two lemons, half a gill of sherry, and a dessert-spoonful of pounded loaf-sugar. 3 When the isinglass is all dissolved (remove the lemon rind), and, while just warm, stir the whole296 Buckmaster s Cookery. together in a basin. 4. Put it into a mould, stirring to prevent any settlement. 5. Surround the mould with ice. This cream may be flavoured with any liqueur, with raspberry, strawberry, or any other fruits, instead of lemon, and coloured, if necessary, with cochineal. Precautions.—The isinglass must be thoroughly dissolved before mixing. APPLE FRITTERS. Ingredients. Apples. Batter. Hot Fat. Pounded Loaf-Sugar. 1. Prepare a batter as directed in page 186. 2. Peel some apples, Ribston or Blenheim pippins are the best. 3. Remove the core with a vegetable cutter, and cut the apples across into slices of about three-eighths of an inch. 4. Roll in pounded loaf-sugar, and dip the slices into frying batter and fry in hot fat till they are of a nice yellow colour and crisp. 5. Remove them on to a cloth and sprinkle with pounded loaf-sugar. 6. Arrange them in a heap on a hot napkin and serve. Precautions.—The temperature of the fat should be slightly increased after adding the fritters. MEDLAR JELLY OR ENGLISH GUAVA. Ingredients. 6 ripe Medlars. g lb. of Sugar. 1. Wash the medlars and put them into a preserv- ing-pan, with sufficient water to cover. 2. Put on the lid, and let them simmer slowly all day until reduced to a pulp. 3. Put pulp and water into a297 Tapioca Cream. jelly-bag and keep them all night, that they may not dry; do not pulp them, the juice must run of itself, or it would be thick. 4. Next day add f lb. of sugar to every pint of juice. 5. Boil about an hour until it is quite clear and inclined to set. 6. When the sugar is added stir it, but not before. 7. Put into pots and tie down. SNOWDON PUDDING. A good sized sponge cake, or sponge loaf, Huntley and Palmer’s make if unable to make one. Cut the top off, and pour over the cake enough sherry to soak it through, let it stand some time, and a little while before serving pour over it some good custard, and grate over it a cocoa-nut. TAPIOCA CREAM. Dissolve two tablespoonfuls of tapioca in cold water for two hours, boil one quart of milk with lemon rinds, strain it boiling over the tapioca, add a little sugar and the well-beaten yolks of three eggs. Let it boil until it thickens, and turn it into a glass dish. When cold pour over it an icing made of the whites of eggs and sugar. A little tapioca boiled and some cream added to it, put into a mould and turned out when cold, is a favourite dish.Buckmaster s Cookery. 298 CLARIFIED SUGAR FOR WATER ICES. 1. Dissolve one pound and a half of loaf-sugar in one pint of water. 2. Beat up and stir in half the white of one egg. 3. Bring to the boil and continue boiling for ten minutes with frequent skimming. 4. Strain through a hair sieve, and when cold the water is ready for use. This is called clarified sugar. There is often a little difficulty in freezing, which generally arises from the water or cream being too sweet. It will then be necessary to add a little more water or milk. Too much sugar in solution prevents the liquid from freezing. The quantities given in the following recipes are for one pint and a half of ice. For Freezing, see page 300. CHERRY-WATER ICE. Beat up in a mortar one pound of cherries with their stones, and make them into a puree, then add the juice of two lemons to one pint of clarified sugar and half a pint of water, mix thoroughly and freeze. LEMON-WATER ICE. Rub off the rind of two lemons on some lumps of sugar, add the juice of six lemons and one orange, a pint of clarified sugar, and half a pint of water, strain through a hair sieve and freeze.299 Lemon Ice Cream. STRAWBERRY AND RASPBERRY-WATER ICE, Place in a basin one pound of picked strawberries and half a pound of raspberries, make into a puree, and mix with one pint of clarified sugar and half a pint of water, thoroughly mix and freeze. RASPBERRY AND CURRANT ICE CREAM. Prepare a pound of strawberries and half a pound of red currants, pass them through a sieve, and mix with three-quarters of a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, and a pint of cream. Freeze. PINE-APPLE CREAM. Remove the peel and seeds from a pine-apple, take one pound and work it to a pulp in a marble mortar, pass the pulp through a large hair sieve, mix the pure'e with three-quarters of a pound of pounded loaf- sugar and one pint of cream. Thoroughly mix and freeze. GINGER ICE CREAM. Bruise in a mortar six ounces of the best preserved ginger, and pass it through a hair sieve, add the juice of a lemon, half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, and a pint of cream. Thoroughly mix and freeze. LEMON ICE CREAM. Rub off the rind of two lemons on some lumps of loaf-sugar, squeeze the juice of the lemons into a basin -with the pieces of sugar, and add half a pound300 Buckmaster s Cookery. of powdered loaf-sugar and one pint of cream. Thoroughly mix, pass through a .horsehair sieve, and freeze. A glass of good brandy added will make Italian ice cream. STRAWBERRY ICE CREAM. Take a pound of fresh strawberries, remove the stalks and cast aside the bad ones. Put them in a basin and sprinkle them with half a pound of powdered loaf-sugar, then add the juice of a lemon, make a puree by passing through a horsehair sieve, and add one pint of cream. Mix thoroughly and freeze. FREEZING. For freezing ices, creams, &c., you must have an ice pot or a proper freezing apparatus. Directions are given with each as to its use. If you have an ice pot, the process is very simple. Pound the ice and mix it with a little bay salt or common salt. Place your freezing pot in a bucket, and surround it with the pounded ice. Wipe the top and cover and pour in the mixture you wish to freeze. Close the lid, and in a quarter of an hour begin and continue turning the freezing pot from right to left; when the mixture begins to freeze at the side, work it with a wooden spatula till it is smooth, and when frozen, place the mixture in a mould, and stand it on ice till wanted.Lamb's Sweetbreads. o or OYSTER KROMESKIES. Ingredients. 12 Oysters. Cream. Bacon. Salt. Bread. Batter, 1. Beard one dozen oysters. 2. Put them in a basin with a gill of cream and a pinch of salt. 3. Let them remain in the basin half an hour. 4. Take a sharp knife and cut six rashers of fat bacon not thicker than a penny piece. If the bacon has been boiled so much the better, if not put the rashers for an instant into boiling water. 5. When cold, roll two oysters in each rasher. 6. Have ready some frying batter, page 186. 7. Dip each kromeskie in the batter. 8. Fry in fresh fat at a temperature of .380° Serve on a napkin or triangular pieces of fried bread. Some think it better to fry the kromeskie without batter Precautions.—Take care to free the bacon from lean and rind, and have the rashers of uniform thick- ness. Be careful in frying, and on removing each kromeskie from the hot fat lay it on kitchen paper. LAMB’S SWEETBREADS. Ingredients. Sweetbreads. Stock. Parsley. Bread-crumbs. Egg. 1. Put the sweetbreads into boiling water and let them boil ten minutes. 2. Drain and press them. 3. Brush them over with egg. 4. Cover them well with bread crumbs with a little pepper, salt, and chopped parsley mixed in. 5. Fry a nice brown and serve with good gravy.INDEX Apple, Charlotte, 170 — fritters, 296 — pie, 168 — stewed, 204 Asparagus, boiled, 233 — peas, 263 Australian meat, 222 Bacon and haricot beans, 276 Batter for frying, 186 Beans, French, 237 — with fine herbs, 237 — haricot, 241 Beef, boiled, 248 — cold,howto utilise,273 — roast ribs of, 230 — rump of, 249 — sirloin of, 248 — olives, 252 — steak, 253 — a-lu-mode, 140 Blackcock, roast, 267 Bouilli, 83, 248 — with sharp sauce, 248 — baking, 75 — boiling, 74 — braising, 75 Bouquet garni, how to make, 84 Braised fillets of beef, 250 Broiling, 73 Broth, Brabant, 96 — how to keep, 82 — mutton, 95 — Scotch, 93 — sheep’s head, 94 Brussels sprouts, 231 Butter, maitre d’hotel, 209 — melted, 202, 203 — use of, 82 Cabbage, 230 Cakes, chocolate, 179 — ginger, 179 — maizena, 179 — plain, 180 ' — rock, 177 '—seed, 180 — Shrewsbury, 178 Cakes, sultana, 176 Calves’ liver, 260 Caramel, how to prepare, 80 Carrots, 234 — with ham or bacon, — boiled, 232 Charlotte Russe, 172 Cheese, stewed, 140 Chestnut forcemeat, 278 —• puree, 279 Chicken, cold, how to utilise, 273 Chutney, Bengal, 241 Civit of hare, 131 Cleanliness in cooking, 201 Cod, boiled, 192 — salt, 192 Colcannon, 233 Cream, ginger ice, 299 — Italian ice, 295 — lemon ice, 299 ■— pine apple ice, 299 — raspberry and cur- rant, 299 — strawberry ice, 299, 300 — tapioca, 297 — whipping of, 293 Croquettes, 221 — fish, 196 Crust, suet, 154 Curried fowl or chicken, 242 — eggs, 245 — meat, 244 — rabbit, 243 Curries, 69 Curry, dry, 244 — powder, 69 Custard, savoury, 120 Custards, 170 Cutlets, lobster, 198 — mutton, 264 — veal, 256, 257 Diet of children, 51 Duck, roast, 269 — braised with turnips, 269 Eels, stewed, T23 Egg and bread-crumb, 187 Eggs, curried, 245 — snow, 169 Fish croquettes, 196 — selection of, 60, 61 Forcemeat, chestnut, 278 — veal, 166 Fowls, boiled, 271 — curried, 242 — fricasseed, 271 — roast, 270 — stewed, 126 Freezing, 300 French beans, plain, 237 — — with fine herbs, „ . 237 Fritters, 284 — apple, 296 Galantine, 273 Genoese pastry, 149 Glaze, how to prepare, 280 — how to use, 281 Goose, roast, 270 Gooseberry trifle, 173 Gravy, 278 Grouse, roast, 266 Guinea fowls, roast, 267 Haddock, baked, 198 — pudding, 197 Ham, to cook, 249 Hare, civit of, 131 — jugged, 130 Haricot beans, with eggs, 241 _ Herbs, dried, 84 — how to preserve, 84 Hotch-potch, 123 Ice creams, 290 Ices, cherry water, 298 — clarified sugar for 298 — currant, 299 — ginger, 299 — Italian, 295Index, 303 Ices, lemon water, 298 — — cream, 299 — raspberry, 299 — strawberry, 299 Instructions, general, 23 Jellies, aspic, 277 — calfs foot, 290 — medlar, 296 Khichry, 246 Kidney, stewed, 139 — saute, 139 Kitchen utensils, 19 Kreatone, 128 Lamb cutlets, 265 — roast breast of, 265 — — hind-quarter of, 264 Lecture on early English food and cook- ing, 7 — — houses of the working and middle classes, 16 — — lighting a fire, 20 — — economy of close ranges, 22 — — general .instruc- tions, 23 — — stock soups, and pot-au-feu, 26 — — education ofgirls, 28 — — mistresses and servants, 39 — — the function of food, and the feeding of children, 49 — — hashes and stews, 53 — — stews, 54 — — frying, 55 — — fish, 60 — — melted butter, and sauces, 62 — — tinned meat, 64, 222 — — vegetables, 68 — — curries, 69 — — roasting, boiling, broiling, &c., 71 — — preparation of omelettes, 76 — — purees, 82 — — the use of butter for soups, 82 — — dried herbs, 84 —- — how to choose poultry, Scc.,281 Lecture on salads, 284 — — jellies,ice creams, &c., 290 Lentils and bacon, stewed, 136 Liaisons, 83 — how to prepare, 83 Liver and bacon, 260 Macaroni, boiled, 142 — a la Milanaise, 143 — with cheese and but- ter, 143 Macedoine, 294 Mackerel, boiled, 195 — broiled, 194 Maquereau a la Nor- mande, 195 Marinading, 249 Marrow, vegetable, 136 — — boiled, 238 Meat, curried, 244 Melted butter, lecture on, 62 — — plain, 202, 203 Meringue, apple and rice, Mullet, grey, broiled, 193 — red, baked, 193 Mutton, boiled leg of, 262 — braised leg of, 263 — cold,how to utilise,273 — cutlets, 264 — haricot, 133, 134 — hashed, 121 — roast leg of, 261 Omelettes, bacon, 283 — cheese, 282 — lecture on, 76 — plain, 282 — souffle, 283 — sweet, 283 Onions, stewed, 135 Orange compote, 294 Ox tongue, 275 — palate, 275 Oyster kromeskies, 301 Parsnips, fricassee of, 235 Partridge, roast, 266 Paste, puff, 158 — for fruit pies, 161 — — tartlets, 159 — short, 160 [ties, 160 — for rissoles and pai- Pea fowls, roast, 267 Peas, green, 236 — a la Parisienne, 236 Pheasant, roast, 267 — salmis of, 267 Pie, apple, 168 — giblet, 163 — hunter’s, 122 Pie, pigeon, 163 — rump-steak, 164 — veal and ham, 165 Pigeons, stewed, 124, 125 Pikelets, 175 Pork and haricot beans, 276 Potatoes, boiled, 223 — chips, fried, 225 — croquettes, 230 — mashed, 224 — new, with cream, 225 — saute, 227 — souffle, 228 — with bacon, 228, 229 — — milk, 224 — — onions, 226 — — spinach, 227 Pot-au-feu, 86 — how to prepare, 85 Pudding, amber, 157 — apple, 162 — baked batter, 144 — baked rice, 146 — brown bread, 258 — cabinet, 154 — greengage, 153 — lemon, 147 — marmalade, 146 — orange custard, 145 — pease, 152 — plum, 150 — potato saute, 227 — roly-poly, 162 — Snowdon, 297 sponge, 147 — steak, 155 — strawberry ice, 293 — suet, 155 — treacle, 157 — vennoise, 153 — Yorkshire, 144 Purees, 82 — chestnut, 279 — potato, 106 Quails, 232 Rabbits, brown fricassee, 130 — curried, 243 — stewed, 126 Rice, boiled, 247 — buns, 177 — pudding, baked, 146 — souffle, 174 Rissoles, 167 Roasting, 72 Salad, boiled vegetable, 287 — fish or game, 287 — lecture on, 284 — lettuce, 2B8 tIndex. 304 Salad Macedoine, 286 — tomato, 289 Salmon, baked, 182 — boiled, 181 — broiled, 182 — cutlet, 183 — fillets of, 183 Salt, spiced, 84 Sauces, apricot, 220 — Bechamel, 211 — — without meat, 212 — brandy, 151 — bread, 216 — — brown, 148, — Dutch, 208 — egg, 204 -- fennel, 204 — German, 219 — horseradish, 213 — Italian, 213 — lemon and liver, 218 — liver and parsley, 218 — Mayonnaise, 204 — — green, 206 — maitre d’hote], 209, 210 — mint, hot, 211 — — cold, 211 — mushroom, 217 — onion, 214 — oyster, 216 — parsley, 204 — piquant, 207, 208 — r£moulade, 206 — roux, 219 — sponge pudding, for, 148 — tarragon, 204 — Tartare, 205 — tomato, 215 — white, 210 Sautds, 241 Scotch scones, 175 Sea kale, 234 Smelts, fried, 190 Snipe, roast, 268 Sole, au gratin, 183 — baked, 185 — boiled, plain, 189 — filleted, 184 — — h. la reine, 188 — — Ua mdnuise, 188 — — h. la maitre d’ho- tel, 184 Sole, fried, 187 Souffld, potato, 228 — rice, 174 Soup, asparagus, 103 — aux choux, 108 — bonne femme, 99, 100 — butter, use of, in, 82 — cabbage, 108 —• cabbage and bacon, 109 —- Chantilly, 99 — clear, 118 — clear gravy, 118 — colouring for, 66 — fish, 116 — from remnants of I joints, 98 — giblet, 113 •—• gravy, 220 — green pea, 87 — — with rice, 89 — — — pur6e, 88 — — without stock, 89 — haricot bean, 92 — how to clarify, 81 — Julienne, 96, 97, 220 — leek, 103 — lentil, 89, 90, 91 — maigre or vegetable, 101 — maigre, 114, 113 — mock turtle, no — Mulligatawny, 112 — onion, 103 — ox-tail, in — pea, 92 — poor man’s, 107 — potatoe and leek, 115 — Spanish, 104 — — onion, 103 — tapioca, 117 — vegetable, 101 — — marrow, 102 — Vermicelli, 117 — with rice, 89 — without stock, 89 Spinach, 231 Sprats, baked, 201 Steak, beef, 253 — stewed, 128 Steaming, 75 Stew, tinned meat, 129 — Irish, 122 Stews, 54 Stock, foundation of, 77 — general, 80 — how to prepare, 77, 78 — how to keep, 82 — object of, 27 — origin of, 27 — to clarify, 81 — white, 79 Stuffing, two kinds of, 279, 280 Suet crust, 134 Sweetbreads, 274 — a la jardiniere, 274 — plain, 301 Swiss roll, 172 Tarragon, 85 Tarts, open jam, 168 Temperature for frying, . 57 Tinned meat, croquettes of, 221 — —gravy soup, from, 220 — — Julienne soup, from, 220 — — lecture on, 64 — — stew, 129 Tomatoes, 239 — stuffed, 239 Tongue, ox, 273 Tripe and onions, 137 — a la coutance, 138 Turbot, boiled, 189 Turkey, roast, 268 Turnips, 237 Utensils, kitchen, 19 Veal a la bourgeoise, 255 — and ham pie, 165 —• cutlets, 256, 257 — forcemeat, 166 — fricandeau of, 256 — galatine of, 273 — minced, 132 — quenelles, 258, 260 — — sauce for, 259 — roast chump of, 254 — — loin of, 234 — — neck of, 253 — stewed breast of, 127 Vegetables, cooking of, 68 Whitebait, 191 — fried, 191 Whiting, fried, 191 Whipping eggs, 293 PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS,k