LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery BatemanDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b21539418A GOOD SUGGESTION IS OFTEN INVALUABLE. THE BOOK THAT EVERY FAMILY NEEDS. PREFACED AND IMPROVED WITH NUMEROUS ADDITIONS, BY THE AUTHOR OF “ENQUIRE WITHIN.” THERE IS SOMETHING TO BE LEARNED FROM THE MEREST TRIFLE.Made and Printed in Great Britain by Truslove & Bray, Ltd., West Norwood, S.E.27.CONSULT ME HOW TO COOK Meats, Poultry, Fi3h, Game, Vegetables, Soups, Gravies, Sauces, Meat Pies, Puddings, Food for the Sick, etc. CONSULT ME ON CONFECTIONERY; How to Make Biscuits, Cakes, Pies, Tarts, Creams, Cheesecakes, Jellies, etc., to Preserve, etc.,—and the Art of Sugar Boiling, Candying, to Make Sweetmeats, etc. CONSULT ME, I will Teach you How to Brew, to Make Wines, Cordials, Tinctures, to Pickle, etc. CONSULT ME ON HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT AND ECONOMY; I WILL TELL YOU HOW TO WASH, Get UP LlNEN, POLISH FURNITURE to Keep the House Clean and Sweet—to Beautify the Person, etc. CONSULT ME ON DISEASES AND THEIR REMEDIES, And I will point out their Symptoms, their Causes, and their •Cure ; based chiefly on the Medico-Botanical System, bo Safe, Effectual, Cheap, and Rational. How to Cure Colds, Coughs, Asthma, Consumption, Aches, Pains, Bruises, Burns, etc., etc. To Make Bitters, Decoctions, Extracts, Electuaries, Fomentations, Gargles, Infusions, Injections, Lotions, Ointments, Pills, Plasters, Salves, etc. CONSULT ME on the Games of Cards, Chess, etc. CONSULT ME HOW TO DYE In Modern Style, and the Newest Colours. CONSULT ME as to Married Women’s Property, CONSULT ME On the Cold Water Cure, and on a Thousand Other Things. NEW EDITION PREFACED AND IMPROVED WITH NUMEROUS ADDITIONS BY THE AUTHOR OF "ENQUIRE WITH IK." LONDON: W. NICHOLSON AND SONa 14 PATERNOSTER SQUARE, E.C.4.. 3 ■ 1 * \ *CONSULT ME, PREFACED AND IMPROVED BY THE AUTHOR OF “ENQUIRE WITHIN.” EING solicited to make an earnest and impartial exam- ination of “CONSULT ME,” and, as Author and Compiler of “Enquire Within,” to intimate such approvals or revisals as appeared to be necessary, I consented to undertake the duties, with mistrust and surprise, fearing that something in the way of “puffery” from one of the most popular Domestic Bookmakers might be expected. But I have no hesitation in now stating that I have never met with a work of its class, embracing so great a variety of subjects, that could meritoriously compare with “CONSULT ME.” I have carefully read and mentally weighed every para- * graph or article occupying the “CONSULT ME” pages. And I doubt whether, upon practical domestic subjects—upon preservation of health—and prevention and cure of disease, such an amount of reliable matter, from old to young, experi- enced to inert, can be equalled or excelled elsewhere. And, as old people often turn to younger ones, to learn what is now going on — approved or disapproved — and often desire to see the realization of what they may previously have anticipated, or the substitution of some improvement there- upon—so I, at mature age, alike vital and literary — have taken the next great favourite of the thoughtful public, by a friendly hand. With becoming modesty, he has exclaimed: ,6 PREFACE. t “ I shall be pleased it you, once my strong and healthy Leader, will, in treading the down-hill of life, sometimes “CONSULT ME.” 1 have made a few corrections and many additions. L now advise that this accumulation of good and well-tried experiences, having passed the careful examination of a recog- nised authority upon the various parts of household economy, health, morals, luxury, moderation and success, should be made a “CONSULT ME” Text Book, recommended by the Author of “ Enquire Within.” There are many very ex- cellent hints upon Simplicity of Living, the avoidance of un- necessary stimulants and condiments, and excesses of many kinds. Accept, therefore, with conscientious regard for the truth, and its sustaining influences upon, the welfare of mankind, a strong recommendation of “CONSULT ME,” by The Author of “ENQUIRE WITHIN.” The Publishers of “ CONSULT ME” have to thank a generous public for the enormous patronage bestowed upon it sinte its first issue many years ago; they have in consequence been induced to publish a NEW EDITION with many Improvements and Additions} which they believe will cause it to be still further appreciated.—January, 1902.I TO THE READER. HE design of the author and compiler of the following pages has been to make a useful book, — useful to individuals, to families, and jsT/'f't1 to the public at large; and he presumes that in this purpose he has succeeded; but he will leave the public to determine that matter for him. The culinary department has been derived from ex- perienced persons, from various authentic sourcett; nor has he excluded from this work some of the old modes of cookery, which are still in use, and are found to be the best. The same also may be said of the confectionery department, and of those portions embracing Domestic Economy. For every thing likely to be useful, the author has searched many volumes, European and American, and whatever could be legitimately selected, he has with dis- crimination, and, in most cases, with great improvements, adopted, and presented to the world—hence the majority of the receipts and recipes in this book are made copy- right. In the medical department, the Treatment of Diseases is very different from that of the allopathists. , The barbar- ous system of bleeding, salivating, cauterizing, and bli»- tering, is abandoned; for such methods often only debili- tate the system, and create disease instead of caring it; and, it is really surprising with what tenacity they are retained. The author has adopted the Reformed Practice of Medicine peculiar to America, and now rapidly obtain- ing in this country and on the continent. It has a differ-TO THE READER. 8 (5Rt process from allopathy, and calls to its aid the various plants of the world possessing curative powers; for “ vege- table substances afford the mildest, most efficient, and the most smgmial remedies to the human frame. The numerous cures that are now daily performed by the use of vegetable medicines, lire sufficient evidence of their super-excellent virtues—Pro- ?*ssor Fafinesque. This department of medicine in this work will doubt- less prove a blessing to many families. Many of the receipts are more precious than rubies! They are price- tassl This volume treats of Diseases, their Symptoms, Causes, md Remedies. This Book recognizes chiefly BOTANICAL REMEDIES; Embracing also whatever is valuable, rational, and innocuous, in Allopathy, Homoeopathy, and Hydropathy. The Botanical Remedies are not sold by the ordin- ary Chemists and Druggists; but there are now, nearly in every town Dealers in Botanical Medicines, compris- ing—Herbs, Roots, Cordials, Essences, Extracts, Mixtures, Ointments, Pills, Plasters, Powders, Salves, Spirits, Syrups, Tinctures, &c. These remedies are cheap, innocuous, and most eflfec- &ual. If properly taken, or applied, they seldom fail to effect a cure.(3ON SULT ME. AilD ABDOMINAL RUPTURES, s>r Hernia, take place at the navel, in females, and the scrotum and groin in males. When the bowel lies quietly in the bag, and admits of being readily put back into the abdomen, the rupture is termed reducible; but irreducible when the contrary. A hernia is stran- gulated when the intestine is, as it were, tied round with a string, so as to pre- vent the contents of the bowels from passing off; in such a case, inflammation is excited, and alarming and sometimes fatal, symptoms, are manifest. The causes of ruptures are various; viz. sedentary habits, violent exercise, such as feats of agility, jumping, run- ning, lifting and carrying heavy we-.ghts, vomiting, straining, laughing, sneezing, and whatever induces extreme action of the abdominal muscles. Some parts of the parietes, cr enclosure of the bowels, are naturally weaker than others; especially the inguinal and crural rings, and the umbilicus ; and it is of these parts that hernia most fre- quently occurs : or the abdominal walls may be defectively formed. When a hernia takes place suddenly, there is a sensation of something giving way at the part, and some pain ; but in many persons it comes on gradually, and al- most imperceptibly, particularly in very debilitated constitutions. The general symptoms of a hernia, when reducible and free from strangu- lation, are an indolent tumour at some point of the abdomen, frequently des- cending out of the abdominal ring, or out of the navel, but occasionally from other situations. The swelling often arises suddenly, and is subject to a change of size, being smaller when the ! A.BD patient lies down on his back, and larger when he stands up or holds his breath. It frequently diminishes when pressed, and grows larger again when the pressure is removed. Its size and tension often increase after a meal, or when the bowels are flatulent. In con- sequence of the unnatural position of the bowels, many persons who have rupture are occasionally troubled with colic, costiveness, and vomiting. But sometimes the functions cf the intestines suffer little interruption. But in all cases ruptures are trouble- some and dangerous, and therefore ought to be attended to in time. When a rupture is reducible, return the pro- truded parts to their original cavity, by gently pressing the projecting tumour, which can be best effected when the patient is lying on his back, with the legs bert, so that the knees may be erect , an attitude which he should al- ways preserve as much as possible. An injection should be given made of gruel, butter, salt, and five or six drops of laudanum. Folds of linen dipped in ice-water should be placed upon the tumour, and renewed every fifteen min- utes. Ice also may be applied with, good effect. If the case has been de- layed too long, use flannels dipped in a warm decoction of bitter herbs, as tansy, wormwood, horehound, and hops; these herbs tend to soften the tumour, and facilitate its return. Change the flannels frequently. Infants are often subject to umbilical hernia, or rupture of the navel. It is cured by applying a proper bandage or truss, which, with increasing strength, effects a cure. Particular attention i should be paid to the cure of femaleABD EO ABO infants that are raptured; that they may he free from the complaint when they become adult and pregnant; for then it often recurs from the too great distension of the abdomen, ire. During pregnancy, it is often troublesome, but after parturition, if the contents have not contracted any adhesion, they will often return into the abdomen, and may be kept there by a proper bandage. Females subject to umbilical rupture, should keep their bowels unconstipated, especially if the navel rupture be irre- ducible : and they should avoid indi- gestible food. When the tumour is returned, it should be kept in its place by a bandage or truss. By the permanent pressure of a truss upon the opening, the parts are prevented from descending, and a permanent cure is often effected. A truss may be obtained of a Surgical In- strument Maker. Dr. Beach, of America, states;— " Most of the cases of strangulated hernia for which an operation is per- formed, might be cured by proper treat- ment In very many cases, where an operation has been proposed, the patient lias recovered by very simple means. I have been called to some, where, at first view, it has seemed impossible to return the protruded viscera without cutting down and dividing the stricture; and yet, by prompt and energetic means, I nave succeeded in reducing it" The following directions sire founded upon the American practice :— Commence the treatment by giving a dose of castor oil; avoid strong and irritating purgatives,—Use injections of an oily nature; as Lobelia injlata, a sufficient quantity. Infuse in half a pint of hot water, to which add as much milk and treacle, and a gill of olive or sweet oil. Repeat every hour. This is one of the most powerful relaxants that can be used in this disease. The following External Applications are recommended by Dr. Beach:— Steam and foment with bitter herbs (herbs afore mentioned). Put the decoc- tion in a tub or pail, and sit over it by means of a narrow board put across it. Place a blanket over the patient. This will cause perspiration, and reduce the Inflammation. In extreme cases, a warm bath should be taken for some tirue. An alkaline poultice may bz' applied over the rupture. Mix the slip, pery elm bark with weak ley, until a poultice of a proper- consistence is form- ed. to be. applied tepid, and often re- newed. The best effects have been produced by this application. Dr. Reese, of New York, uses the sulphuric ether for the reduction or re- turn of hernia. He wets the tumour with the liquid, and then, in order to> produce speedy evaporation, blows upon it with a pair of bellows. Fie states that- he has reduced a number of strangulated hem ire by this method alone, when they bad been doomed to undergo an operation. While these means are being used, manual aid must be used, called taxis, (meaning the replacement of parts by the hand). The position of the patient requires care and skill. His legs and! buttocks should be elevated as high as possible, forming an angle, if possible, of 45 degrees. This may be effected by- placing die back parts of a chair under- neath him. His thighs and the body should be a little flexed or bent, in order to relax the muscles. The tumour should then be seized, and moderau pressure made, in order to return tht viscera. The constant application of a solutioa of alum it) a strong decoction of oak bark (two drachms to a pint) has been recommended by some surgeons for the radical cure of rapture in the groin. It. is applied by means of soft linen, which should be wetted as soon os it becomes dry. In incipient cases this topical re- medy, by constringing the part, may succeed in preventing the escape of in- testine or omentum through ihe abdo- minal ring. The compress should for some time be kept on the part by a- bandage or a truss with eisy springs. ABORTION, to prevent. — Women of a weak or relaxed habit should use solid food, avoiding great quantities of tea and other W'eak and watery liquors. They should go soon to bed and rise early, and take frequent exercise, but avoid being over-fatigued. If of a full habit, they ought to use a spare diet, and chiefly of the vegetable kind, avoiding strong Liquors, and every thing that may te.nd to heat the body* or increase the quantity of blood.11 ABS ACE In the first ai.se, take flatly In It a pint of decoction of Lignum Guincum ; boil- ing an ounce of it in a quart of water for five minutes. In the latter case, give half a drachm of powdered nitre in a cup of water- gruel. every five or six hours; in both cases she should sleep on a hard mat- tress with her head low, and be kept cooi and quiet. ABSCESS.—They require the ap- plication of warm poultices and fomen- tations, and a cooling aperient medicine. The best fomentation comprises a decoc- tion of marsh mallows, camomile flowers, poppv-heads, or hemlock leaves. The poultice may be made of bread and water, or linseed meal. These to be applied till the abscess bursts. When burst, allow the discharge of purulent matter, and after it has ceased, apply moist rags for a day or two ; then draw together the edges of the wound by means of diachylon plaster, and to the wound apply Cerate or Spermaceti Ointment. It is necessary sometimes when the bursting is slow and tedious, and the pain great, to open the abscess with the point of a lancet, which pre- vents much suffering. When the ab- scess is indolent, and slow in ripening, apply a poultice of oatmeal, and water, and yeast, and a little salt. Let the patient live on nourishing diet. Keep the body open ; and if the pain be great, mix with the aperient, about 10 or ia drops of lauriamun. ABSCESS, Milk.—This abscess affects mothers, and requires careful treatment. Apply every two hours warm vinegar to the part. This, if done In time, soon gives relief. ABSORBENTS, OR ANTI- ACIDS.—Arc medicines administered to counteract acidity in the stomach or Intestinal canal. In most cases, emetic*' and aperients are given previous to their oeing taken ; they are; Ammonia, car- bonate of, in doses from 5 grains to 1 scruple; Ammonia, liquor of, ro to 20 drops ; Ammonia, aromatic spirit of, 20 to yo drops; Litne water, 2 ounces to hall a pint; Magnesia calcined, 20 to 40 grains ; Magnesia, carbonate of, half to 2 drachms; Potass, carbonate of, 10 grains to half a drachm ; Potass, solu- tion of, 10 drops to half a drachm ; •Soda, carbonate of. to grains to hall a. drachm ; Soda water, half a pint. ABSTINENCE.— Disease may oft be cured by abstinence from all food, especially if the disorders have been, pro- cured by luxurious living and repletion The latter overtaxes nature, and it re- bels against such treatment. Indiges- tion, giddiness, headache, mental de- pression, Ac., are often the effects of greediness in meat and drink. Omitting one, two, or three meals, allows the system to rest, to regain strength, and allows tlie clogged organs to dispose o! their burdens. The practice of drug taking to cleanse the stomach, though it may give the needed relief, always weak- ens the system, while abstinence secures the good result, and yet does no injury. Said a young gentleman to a distin- guished physician of Philadelphia,— 1 Doctor, wbat do you do for yourself when you have headache, or other slight attack?’ ‘Go without my dinner,’ was the reply. ‘ Well, if that will not do, how do you proceed then ?’ 1 Go with- out my supper,' was the answer. ‘ But if that does uot cure you, what then?’ 1 Go without my breakfast. We phy- sicians seldom take medicines ourselves, or use them in our families, for we know that starving is better, but we cannot make cmr patients believe it.' Hippocrates (the father of medicine), said wisely, that if a man eats sparingly and drinks little, he is nearly certain oi" bringing no disease upon himself, aDd that a moderate supply of food nourishes the body best. The quantity of food' which nature really requires for her support is small, and he that eats and drinks moderately at each meal, stands fair to enjoy sprightliness, vivacity, and' freedom of spirits. Bodies governed by temperance and regularity are rarely hurt bv melancholy, or any other affec- tion of the mind. To have a clear head we must have a clean stomach ; for this is the grand reservoir in which the food is first deposited, and thence its nutri- tive power is distributed throughout nil parts of the body. ACETOUS CATAPLASM, 01 POULTICE.—This is made with vinegar and bran only, or with the addi- tion of oatmeal, or bread crumbs. It is a simple poultice, but very useful fowJEO 12 ACR sprains and bruises. As it becomes dry, it should be moistened with vinegar. ACHES AND PAINS.—Rub a tittle opodeldoc upon the part affected, two or three times a day and wear a flannel upon it; or mix Camphorated Spirit, Ammonia, sweet oil, and lauda- num : (of the last the least), rub the part well, and then apply a cloth well sat- urated with the mixture, and cover with a bandage. If this does not give relief, take twenty drops of Volatile Tincture of Guiacum, every night and morning. ACID DROPS.—Boil i lb. of sugar in a cupful of water over a slow Are for half an hour, till half candied ; then add lemon juice, or citric acid, or tartaric acid, according to taste. A little dissolved gum Arabic added will make them harder and more wholesome. ACIDITY, and FLATULEN- CY, in Children.—It often arises from a mother’s impure milk ; when it is so she must take the Neutralizing Mixture ; and if not effecmal, administer it to the infant. Also foment the belly with warm brandy and water, to which add a little salt. Give also the Carmina- tive Drops, which see. ACIDITY of the STOMACH. —The Neutralizing Mixture, (which see) is very effectual in curing this dis- order. Or, 10 grains of Calumba, powdered, and ro grains of magnesia, well mixed. Magnesia and a little finely powdered chalk will be of great service. —See Absorbents. ADHESIVE PLASTER.— Take of common Plaster, half a pound; of burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound. Melt them together. See Common Plaster. This plaster is principally used for keeping on other dressings. ADULTERATION OF ALE AND BEER.—They are often adul- terated with the most virulent poisons, which in the intemperate, are gradually and constantly undermining the constitu- tion. Ye intemperate ones, just think, ye are drinking cocuius indicus, & stupe- fying poison ; tobacco, a deadly narcotic; sulphate of iron, poisonous ; strychnine, or nux vomica, virulent poison ; vitriol, and many other body-destroying articles. ADULTERATION OF COF- FEE, CHICORY, &c.—Coffee is often adulterated with Chicory, oak ot mahogany saw-dust, or roasted corn, In examining 34 specimens of ground Coffee, all, with three exceptions, were more or less sophisticated. Chicory also is often adulterated with ground acorns and roasted wheat, coloured with Ven- etian Red. Of 36 Brown Sugars exam- ined, the Acarus insect was found in all but one, abundance of flour in four, and sand or stone grit in n instances. Mustard was found adulterated with wheaten flour, highly coloured with Tur- meric—49 tested loaves of Bread con- tained alum.—Only 8 of 56 specimens of ‘ Broma,' 'Soluble' and Homoeopathic Cocoa,' were really such, the rest having variable proportions of sugar, wheat, ar.d potato flour, sago-meal, and red earthy matter. Three other Cocoas were made up of sugar, sago-meal, arrow-root, and potato flour; others with tapioca, starch, sugar, and earthy colouring matter, the latter ingredient being present in 7 of the 9 Rock and flaked articles, the nibs being chiefly mixed with Chicory. Quassia and Gentian are used instead of Hop, for bitter flavour to Beer; and the Sulphate of Copper to beautify Green Pickles and bottled fruits. — Cayenne and Curry Powder are often adulterated with red lead and vermillion. Arrow-root is often adulterated by Potato, Sago, and Tapioca Starches.— Bread, by Pea-flour, Bone-dust, and Mashed Potatoes, with Alum, ‘ Hards,’ and ‘Stuff.’ Butter with water and lard. Wheat Flour with Bean and Pea flours, Indian Com, Bran, and Plaster of Paris. Ginger with Wheat, Sago, Potato Flour, and Mustard Husks. —Dr. W. Alexander on Adulteration. AEOLIAN HARP, To Manu- facture an.—Let a box be made of thin deal, the length to correspond ex- actly to the breadth of the window in which it is to be placed, five inches in depth, and six in width. Glue on it at the extremities of the top two pieces of oak about half an inch high and a quarter of an inch thick, to serve as bridges for the strings, and withiD-side of each end glue two pieces of beech, about an inch square, and of length equal to tire width of the box, which is to hold the pegs. Into one of these bridges fix as many pegs (like those of ft violin) as there arc13 AGR AIR lo be strings, and into the other fasten as many small brass pins, to which attach one end of the strings. Then string the instrument with first-fiddle strings, fixing one end of them and twisting the other round the opposite peg. These strings, which should not be drawn tight, must be tuned in unison. To procure a proper passage for the wind, a thin board, supported by four pegs, is placed over the strings at about three inches distant from the sounding board. Place the instrument in the wtadow partly open ; and, to increase the force of the current of air, op«en the door of the room or an opposite window. When the wind blows, the strings pro- duce a pleasing admixture of ail the notes of the diatonic scale, in the most delightful harmonic combinations. AGRICULTURE.— The first principles of agriculture are these, make hz,A keep the land perfectly dry and free from weeds. Make and keep the soil which is too adhesive, or too loose, of *»ch a friable nature as will make it re- ceive, retain, and transmit moisture, and thus fit it to produce the most luxuriant state of vegetation. Restore to the soil as a manure, in a state of decay, the produce after it has been consumed by sheep or other stock. Never manure land until every weed is exterminated, for weeds grow most luxuriantly in the soil to which they are natural; if any are left they will outgrow the plant cultivated and take up the greatest quantity of manure laid on the land. AGRIMONY.—See RoHnson's Herbal. It is useful in coughs and bowel complaints—In decoction. It is a most valuable plant, having very many medical virtues.—It is a mild astringent, tonic, diuretic, and vulnerary, and in its qualities resembles the maiden-hair— having, however, less mucilage and more tannin, with sorofc gallic add. The best way to take it is in a strong decoction of dther the root, or plant, or both, sweetened with hooey. Dose, four tea cupfuls per day. The roots and whole plant boiled in milk is used for diabet£3 and incontinence of urine. Taken foe a length of timw it is a great benefit in scrofula, and in gravel and other obstructions. AGUE.— ,rhe la debility ; frequently marsh miasma, or the effluvia arising from stagnant water in pools, or on marshy ground. On the attack, the patient should be placed between blank- ets, and partake freely of water-gruel or barley-water. From 20 to 30 drops of laudanum, or more, should be given just before the commencement of the ague fit. The nails turn blue just before the fit begins. The fit may be moderated also by taking 1 scrapie of the carbonate of Ammonia, 8 grains compound powder of Ipecacuanha, mint-water, 1 % ounce. Peruvian Bark, or Sulphate of Quinine, is an efficacious remedy. An emetic be- fore taking it is necessary; about 20 grains of Ipecacuanha powder; then take a small dose of Salts and Senna, and the Peruvian bark in powder; an ounce will make eight doses, one of which should be taken every hour or two. Or, instead of the Peruvian bark, take from a to 4 grains of Quinine, with 1 grain of extract of Gentian, made into pills. When the disease is arrested, continue the use of the pill, taking two per day for a few weeks. Ague—Take 30 grains erf Sn&ko- root, 40 of Wormwood, % ounce of Peruvian Bark powdered, and half a pint of Port Wine. Put the whole into a bottle, and si lake it well together; divide it into four equal quantities, and take it the first thing in the morning, and the last at night, when the til 13 over. The dose should be often re- peated, to prevent a return erf the com- plaint Or, when the fit is on, take an egg beaten up in a glass of brandy, and go to bed immediately. AIR.—Impure air is highly charged with noxious gases. It is the chief cause of influenza, cholera, and fevers.—In crowded assemblies, the atmosphere soon becomes injurious. It is computed that a man destroys the vital portiou of a gallon of air per minute. Fish cannot live in impure water. Man cannot live healthfully in an Impure atmosphere. Hence houses, chapels, churches, prisons assembly rooms, sc., ought to be well ventilated.—Persons inhabiting towns should often walk into the country, for the purpose of obtaining pure air.—Pure ' air is essential to good health ; and just in proportion aa the air wc breathe be. come* irnnmw, the system h*— imp* UTV»4 AIR ALE healthy. It tresh air be necessary tor those in health, it is still more so for the lick who often lose their lives for want jf it. The notion that sick people must fe kept very hot is so common, that one can scarcely enter the room of the sick, without being ready to faint, on account of the hot suffocating smell. How this' must affect the sick any one may judge. No medicine is so beneficial and reviv- ing to the sick as fresh air, if it be ad- ministered pnidenily.—The atmosphere 1 of a sick room may be greatly purified and freshened bv sprinkling the floor frequently with vinegar, or any strong vegetable acid. Air:—To purify.—Powdered nitre and oil of vitriol, six drachms each. Mix, by adding one drachm of vitriol at a time. The vessel must be placed on some hot substance, and the mixture stirred with a glass rod. Place in differ- ent parts of the room. This is excellent to prevent infection from Typhus and other fevers. Air:— Country superior to Town Air. — “If you examine," says M. Pouchet, “ the bodies of animals, which live in our towns, and in our houses, you will be astonished at the enormous quantity of starch contained in their respiratory organs. In birds you will find ii even in the middle of their bones. Particles of soot, filaments of the differ- ent kinds of textures of which our clothes are made, are also found there in gTeat abundance. But the farther the animal lives from a town, the more scarce be- come these bodies. In animals and birds living in the midst of forests, you will scarcely find any at all of them ; in their case the respiratory apparatus is, on the contrary, filled with a Large quan- tity of vegetable debris chlorophyllce, &c. I liave found in the lungs of man the same atmospheric corpuscles as in ani- mals. 1 found two persons who died in one of our Hospitals—a man and a wo- man—and whose lungs I inspected, a notable quantity of fecula, normal, or after paaincation, particles of silica, and fragments of glass; fragments of painted wood of a beautiful red colour ; debris of clothes, and a Larva: of a microscopic aractmis still olive." ALABASTER, to clean.—Soap well and wash with hot water. If stained, apply fullers earth, pipe-clay, or winding. tor three or lour hours, then wash off. If very dirty and stained, first wash with, aquafortis diluted with water. ALE, FINE WELSH, to brew. —Pour forty-two gallons of water, hot, but not quite boiling on eight bushels of malt, cover and let it stand three hours. In the mean time infuse four pounds of hops in a little hot water, and put the water and bops into the tub, and run the wort upon them, and boil them to- gether three hours. Strain off the hops, and keep for the small beer. Lx-t the wort stand in a high tub till cool enough to receive the yeast, of which put two quarts of ale, or if you cannot get it, of small-beer yeast. Mix it thoroughly and often. When the wort has done work- ing the second or third day, the yeast will sink rather than rise in the middle. remove it then, and tun the ale as it works out; pour a quart in at a time, and gently to prevent the fermentation from continuing too long, which weakens the liquor. Put a bit of paper over the bung-hole two or tiiree days before stop- ping up. Ale, or Strong Beer, to brew.— Twelve bushels of malt to the hogshead for beer, (or fourteen if you want it of a very good body), eight for ale; for eitner pour the whole quantity of water, hot, but not boiling, on at once, and let it infuse three hours dose covered; mash it in the first half-hour, and let it stand the remainder of the time. Run it on the hops previously infused in water, for strong beer three quarters of a pound to a bushel; if for ale, half a pound. Boil it from the wort two hours from the time it begins to boiL Cool a pailful to add three quarts of yeast to, which will pre- pare it for putting to the rest when ready next day; but if possible put together the same night. Tun as usual. Cover the bung-hole with paper when the beer has done working ; and when it is to be stopped, Live ready a pound and a half of hops dried before the fire, put them into the bung-bole, and fasten it up. Let it stand twelve months in casks, and twelve months in bottles before it be drank. It will keep fine eight or ten years. It should be brewed the begin- ning of March. Great care must be taken that the bottles are perfectly prepared, and that the corks an: of the best sort.I5 ALE ALM The ale will be ready in three or four months ; and if the vent-peg never be removed, it will have spirit and strength to the very last. Allow two gallons of water at first for waste. After the beer or ale has run from the grains, pour a hogshead and a half for the twelve bushels, and a hogshead of water if eight we e brewed ; mash, and let it stand, and then boil, &e. Use some of the hops for this table-beer that was boiled for the strong. When thunder or hot weather causes beer to turn sour, a teaspoonful, or more If required, of salt of wormwood put into the jug will rectify it. Ale and Beer, to refine Put two ounces of isinglass shavings to soak in a quart of the liquor that you want to clear, beat it with a whisk every day till dissolved. Draw off a third part of the cask, and mix the above with it: like- wise a quarter of an ounce of pearl- ashes, one ounce of salt of tartar calcin- ed, and one ounce of burnt alum pow- dered. Stir it well, then return the liquor into the cask, and stir it with a clean stick. Stop it up, and in a few days it will be fine. ALE, WINDSOR.— Take 5 quarters of the best pale malt, % cwt. hops, 8 lbs. of honey, 1 lb. of coriander seed, % lb. of grains of paradise, K lb. of orange peel, and a K lbs. of ground liquorice root. The hops should be of the best kind, and soaked all night in cold liquor. Turn on at 1800; mash thoroughly an hour and a quarter, and stand an hour. Boil one hour. Turn on second liquor at 195°, and stand three quarters of an hour. Boil 3 hours ; run on third liquor at 165°, and mash three quarters of an hour, and stand the same. Pitch the tun at 6o° and cleanse at 8o°, on the third day. Siam as soon as a close yeasty head appears, until no yeast arises. Half a pound of hops per quarter should be roused in, and the whole left to settle. Also rouse In six ounces of salt, half a pound of finely sifted flour, six ounces of ground ginger, and six ounces of ground carraway seeds. ALE, MULLED,—Place a pint of good ale or beer in a. saucepan, with a little grated nutmeg. When It boils take It off tl»e fire, and sweeten. Peat two or three eggs, and mix with a little cold also. Boil, and then add the egg to the hot ale, pouring backwards and forwards from one vessel to the other to prevent curdling. Rum or brandy may be added ad libitum. ALE OR PORTER, to ripen. —Bottle and put a couple of raisins, or a few grains of rice or sugar into each bottle, to generate the required effer- vescence. ALMOND CAKES.—Rub 2ozs. of butter into 5 ozs. of flour, 5 ozs. pow- dered lump sugar; beat an egg with half the sugar, then put it to the other ingredients. Add 1 oz. blanched al- monds, and a little almond flavour ; roll them in your hand the size of a nutmeg, and sprinkle with fine lump sugar. They should be lightly baked. ALMOND CAKE.—Bake It in a mould, or baking hoop; bruise 1 lb. ol sweet almonds very fine, and 12 bitter almonds, adding a little whites of eggs, to hinder them from oiling ; then put to it 34 lb. of fine sugar powder by de- grees, two whole eggs, and “lemon peel, finely chopped or rasped ; when this is properly mixed, add 8 eggs, the yodts and whites first beat up separately : stir It, and mix it all properly : pour into the mould, to bake about an hour; serve it in its natural colour. (Glaze with white of egg, and frost with fine loaf sugar.) ALMOND CHEESECAKES. — Blanch and pound f-our ounces of almonds, and a few bitteT, with a spoon- ful of water; then add four ounces of sugar pounded, a spoonful of cream, and the whites of two eggs well beaten ; mix all as quickly as possible ; put into very small pattypans; and bake in >x pretty warm oven under twenty minutes. Another Way.—Blanch and pound’ four ounces of almonds, with a little orange-flower or rose-water; then stir in the yolks of six and the whites oof three eggs, well beaten, five ounces of butter wanned, the peel of a lemon grated, and a little of the juice, sweeten with fine powdered sugar. When well mixed, bake in a delicate paste, in small pans. Another Way.—Press the whey from as much curd as will make two dozen small ones; then put it on tho back of a sieve, and with half an ottnc*16 ALM AMA of butter rub it through with the back of a spoon; put to it six yolks, and three whites of eggs, and a few bitter almonds, pounded with as much sugar | as will make the curd property sweet: •nix with it the rind of a lemon grated, and a glass of brandy. Put a puff paste into the pans, and ten minutes will bake them. ALMOND CUSTARD.— Blanch and beat four ounces of almonds fine with a spoonful of water ; beat a pint of cream with two spoonfuls of water, and put them to the yolks of four eggs, and as much sugar as will make it pretty sweet; then add the almonds; stir over a slow fire till of a proper thick- ness ; but don’t boil. Pour into cups. ALMOND ICEING for Bride- cake and other Cakes.— Beat the whites of three eggs to a strong froth ; beat x lb. of Jordan almonds very fine with rose-water; mix them with the eggs lightly together, x lb. of common loaf sugar beat very fine, and put in by degrees. When your cake is enough take it out, and lay your iceing on, then put it in to brown. ALMOND PUDDING, Small. —Pound eight ounces of almonds, and a few bitter, with a spoonful of water; mixed with four ounces of butter warm- ed, four yolks and two whites of eggs, sugar to taste, two spoonfuls of cream, and one of brandy ; mix well, and bake in little cups buttered. Serve with pudding-sauce. ALMOND PUDDING, Baked. —Beat fine four ounces of almonds, four bitter, a little wine, yolks of six eggs, peel of two lemons grated, six ounces of butter, a quart of cream, and juice of a lemon. Mix well; bake half an hour ; with paste round the dish. ALMOND PUDDING. —Beat half a pound of sweet and a few bitter almonds with a spoonful of water ; then mix four ounces of butter, four eggs, two spoonfuls of cream, warm with the butter, one of brandy, a little nutmeg, and sugar to taste. Butter some cups, half-fill, and bake. Serve with nutter, wine, and sugar. ALOES, Compound Decoc- tion of. — Extract of valerian, two drachms ; extract of Liquorice, half an ounce ; extract of Soccotrine aloes, pow- dered myrrh, powdered saffron, of each two drachms ; subcarbonate of potash, two scruples; aniseed, quarter of an ounce bruised ; water, a pint and a half. Boil 20 minutes ; add four ounces of compound tincture of cardamoms. This decoction cures constipation, jaundice, mental depression, bilious and nervous affections, female irregularities, <.Vc.— Dose from half an ounce every other morning. A LT E R A TIV E S.—Medicines- adapted to cure a disease without pro- ducing any very sensible effeci on the human system. ALTERATIVE PILLS.— Lobelia Seeds, 2 drachms ; Mandrake, 2 drachms; Blue Flag, 2 drachms; Blood Roct, 2 drachms ; Cayenne Pep- per, 1 drachm ; Gum Guiacum, two drachms ; Extract of Dandelion, 6 drachms ; Oil of Peppermint, 3 or 4 drops ; Simple Syrup to form into Fills. —Dose, two pills twice or thrice a day. These pills are cf great service in bilious and liver complaints, diseased joints, boils, carbuncles, cutaneous eruptions, scrofula, syphiUis, &c. ALTERATIVE SYRUP.— Tincture of cayenne, & oz. ; tincture of lobelia, and tincture of myrrh, of each, 2 ozs. ; treacle, % lb. Mix. A tea- spoonful two or three times a day. ^jpNoted for its effectual cure of cut- aneous sores; boils, indigestion, and some chronic complaints. ALUM-ROOT. — An American plant, a great remedy in sores, wounds, ulcers, and cancers. It is a powerful styptic in all bleedings; and a great vulnerary, or healer of wounds, sores, cuts, &c. The root is powdered, and applied to bleedings. Made into an ointment with lard, it cures Piles. ALUM, to discover in bread. —Heat a knife, and thrust it into a loaf or cake; if alum be present, it will partially coat the knife. AMAUROSIS.—A total or par- tial loss of sight, caused by paralysis oi the opric nerve or retina. It first mani- fests itself by specks floating before the vision, which increase till they become like a cloud ; then dilation of the pupil and insensibility to light. It is difficult to cure. Tbe diet must be low, and alcoholic drinks must be avoided. ThaAMM AMB 17 bowels must be kept gently open by small doses of Black Draught, or by Salts and Senna, or by Rhubarb, Col- ocynth, &c. Electricity may be applied to the eye, to produce a healthy action of the system. Foment the eye with the diluted tincture of Cayenne Pepper. Frequently bathe the head in cold water, and avoid taking cold. Apply blistering or mustard plasters to the back of the ears. AMBER PUDDING.—Put a pound of butter into a sauce-pan, with three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar finely powdered; melt the butter, and mix well with it; then add the yolks of fifteen eggs well beaten, and as much fresh candied orange as will add colour and flavour to it, being first beaten to a fine paste. Line the dish with paste for turning out; and when filled with the above, lay a crust over, as you would a pie, and bake in a slow oven. It is as good cold as hot. AMMONIA —To Clean, to Remove Grease, etc.—There are very many articles with which every house-keeper is familiar that can be made helpful in many ways, and some that can lighten labour wonderfully, if their modest excellencies were only bet- ter understood ; and none can be used for so many purposes, with great success and entire safety, as ammonia. Most of our housekeepers think of it as only to be used in "smelling-bottles,’’ as our grandmothers used to call them, for faintness and headache. But let us en- umerate some of the ways in which, if properly applied, it can make many kinds of labour easy, over which now we groan and are troubled. A quart of “ concentrated spirits of ammonia” can be purchased at the wholesale druggists at a cheap rate. This is the strongest form — so very powerful that one should take care in removing the stopple, which should be of glass, not to inhale the fiery vapour, as it would be dangerous. To prepare this for common use, or like that found generally at the drug- stores, mix one quart of alcohol with one quart of soft water ; shake well together and then add the quart of concentrated ammonia, and, for a trifle, you have three quarts of one of the most useful compounds to be found. To remove Grease-spots, put half a teaspoonful of this ammonia to half a tablespoonful of alcohol; wet a bit oi woollen cloth or soft sponge in it, and rub and soak the spot with it, and the grease, if freshly dropped, will disap- pear. If the spot is of long standing, it may require several applications. In woollen or cotton the spot may be rubbed when the liquid is applied, and also in black silk, though not hard. But with light or coloured silk, wet the spot with the cloth or sponge with which the ammonia is put on, patting it lightly. Rubbing silk, particularly coloured silk, is apt to leave a whitish spot almost as disagreeable as the grease-spot. For Pants, coat-collars, and woollens, nothing cleanses so quickly or so thor- oughly. For grease-spots on carpets it is unequalled. It will not injure the most delicate colours. It is well to rinse off with a little clear alcohol. For Ink-spots on marble, wood, or paper, apply the ammonia, clear, just wetting the spot repeatedly till the ink disappears. For Cleansing the Hair, a few drops in the water with which the hair is to be washed leaves it bright and clean. Rinse with clear water after, as ammonia has a tendency to dry the hair. A few drops of ammonia put into a little water will clean a Hair-brush better than anything else, and does the brush no harm. If very dirty, rub a little soap on the brush. After cleans- ing, rinse in clear water and hang the brush up by the window to dry. Do not let the bristles rest on any hard substance while wet. It is better to tie a string round the handle and hang up. Ink-spots on the fingers may be instantly removed by a little ammonia. Rinse the hands after washing in clear water. A little ammonia in a few spoonfuls of alcohol is excellent to sponge silk dresses that have grown “shiny" or rusty, as well as to take out spots. A silk—particularly a black—becomes al- most like new when so sponged. For cleaning Jewelry there is no- thing better than ammonia and water. If very dull or dirty, rub a little soap on I a soft brush and brush them in this B18 AJV1M AN1> wash, rinse in cold water, dry first In an old silk handkerchief, and then rub with buck or chamois skin. Their freshness and brilliancy when thus cleaned cannot be surpassed by any compound used by jewellers. For washing Silver, put half a teaspoonful into the suds ; have the water hot; wash quickly, using a small brush, rinse in hot water, and dry with a clean linen towel; then rub very dry ' with a chamois-skin. Washed in this manner, silver becomes very brilliant, requires no polishing with any of the powders or whiting usually employed, and does not wear out. Silver-plate, jewelry, and door- plates can be beautifully cleaned and made to look like new by dipping a soft cloth or chamois-skin in a weak prep- aration of ammonia-water, and rub- bing the articles with it. Put half a teaspoonful into clear water to wash Tumblers or glass of any kind, rinse and dry well, and they will be beautifully clear. For washing Windows, looking- glasses, etc., a little ammonia in the water saves much labour, aside from giving a better polish than anything else; and for general house-cleaning it removes dirt, smoke, and grease, most effectually. Spots on towels and hosiery will disappear with little trouble if a little ammonia is put into enough water to soak the articles, and they are left in it an hour or two before washing ; and if a cupful is put into the water in which white clothes are soaked the night be- fore washing, the ease with which the articles can be washed, and their great whiteness and clearness when dried, will be very gratifying. Remembering the small sum paid for three quarts of ammonia of common strength, one can easily see that no bleaching preparation can be more cheaply obtained. No articles in kitchen use are so likely to be neglected and abused as the dish-cloths and dish-towels; and in washing these, ammonia, if properly used, is a greater comfort than anywhere else. Put a teaspoonful into the water in which these cloths are, or should be, washed every day; rub soap on the towels. Put them in the water; let them stand a half hour or so, then rub them out thoroughly, rinse faithfully, and dry out-doors in clear air and sun, and dish-cloths and towels need never look gray and dingy—a perpetual dis- comfort to all housekeepers. Sweet-oil or almost any grease may be taken out of a Carpet by putting one tablespoonful of ammonia or hart- shorn and two of beefs gall into a pint of warm water, and sponging the spot with the mixture very thoroughly. Then rinse repeatedly with pure alcohol, and wipe with a piece of woollen cloth till nearly dry. If the spot has been of long standing, this may need to be re- peated two or three times before the grease is all removed. We have never known it to fail. ANCHOVIES, to choose.— They are preserved in barrels, with bay- salt : no other fish has the fine flavour of the anchovy. The best look red and mellow, and the bones moist and oily; the flesh should be high flavoured, the liquor reddish, and have a fine smelL ANCHOVIES, Essence of.— Take two dozen of anchovies, chop them, and without the bone, but with some of their liquor strained, add to them sixteen large spoonfuls of water; boil gently till dissolved, which will be in a few minutes—when cold, strain and bottle it. ANCHOVY SAUCE. —Chop one or two anchovies, without washing, put to them some flour and butter, and a little water ; stir it over the fire till it boils once or twice. If the anchovies are good, they will dissolve. ANCHOVY TOAST.— Bone and skin six or eight anchovies ; pound them to a mass with an ounce of fine butter till the colour is equal, and then spread it on toast or rusks. Another way.—Cut thin slices of bread into any form, and fry them in clarified butter. Wash three anchovies, split, pound them in a mortar with some fresh butter, rub them through a hair- sieve, and spread on the toast when cold. Then quarter and wash some anchovies, and lay them on the toast. Garnish with parsley or pickles. ANDERSON’S PILLS—Con- sist of Barbadoes aloes, with a propor- tion of jalap, and oil of anise seed. InANI ANG *9 general they are safe, except the patient has piles ; and in pregnancy it is better to use other purgatives. ANGLING.—The rod ought to be light and taper, and from 4 to 6 yards long. The line in strength, should be according to the fish you angle for. When shots are used fasten them about 1 foot from the hook. For your float take two goose quils, cut the head off each, about 1% inches long, put a pill of shoemaker’s wax in the end of each, to keep out the wet, then shut them to- gether like a needle-case, and fasten the joint with the same kind of wax ; cut 3 caps from a larger quill, to slip on each end of the float, after you have passed the fine through them. Some anglers use cork floats; bore the cork with a red hot wire, into which insert a small quill, on which you must fit two caps, to attach it to the line. Have your tackling in good order, go to the river, provided with a panier, a landing net and a penknife, &c,, then look for a place with a smooth gravelly bottom, and about 3 or 3 yards in depth, cast in your line and await the result. For ground angling bait your hook with a corn and use it only morning and evening, in hot sunny weather, if cloudy, then at any time of day. In winter, choose the middle of the day, and where the sun is on your face warm, bait with a little white-tailed worm found in rotten thatch. Eyes of fish are a good bait. For angling after a shower, have the wind on your back, coming from the south or west, sun in your face. When the earth is hot and dry, it is no use angling; or after sudden showers, or when the north or east winds blow cold and strong. The best time to angle is, when the weather is calm and clear, or cool and cloudy, with little wind. The best months for fly-fishing are from March to June. For carp or tench fish from sun-rising till 8 or 0 In the morning, and from 4 in the afternoon till night. They bite best after a gentle shower of rain, when the water is not muddled. Salmon bite best at about 3 in the afternoon, from May to September, the water should be clear, and a little wind. Barbel bite best in the early mom, from May to August. Pike bite best at 3 in the afternoon in August and September, and through the winter all day ; and at early morn from April to July. Perch bite all day in cool cloudy weather, from 8 till 10 in the morning, and from 3 till 5 in the afternoon. Bream bite from 5 to 9 in the morning, in muddy water and a brisk wind, and in ponds the stronger the wind the better; fish in the middle of the pond, in June, July, and August. Roach and Dace bite all day. Eels—angle for them on a rainy or gloomy day, especially after thunder, the line must be strong and have an armed hook. Gudgeon bite in April, and until Spawing time in May, all day long. Flounders bite from April to July, in a swift stream, and in still deep water. Trout bite best in muddy water, in cloudy, windy weather, from 8 till 10 in a morning, and from 3 till 5 in the after- noon ; March till June are the principal months. After you have caught the first fish, cut it open with a sharp knife, take out the stomach and see what kind of food it is taking, as a guide for your success. Keep out of sight, when you fish, let the sun be in your face, or you will have little sport, for if the sun is on your back the shadow of the rod will frighten them. To take worms stick a poker or round piece of iron in the ground, shake the earth well and the worms will start out. For Artificial flies, tackling &c., see price list of some respectable maker. ANIMAL FOOD.—Man is called a camiverous animal. Where animal food is seldom or not allowed, mortality is great, and disease rife. One of the most common forms of disease generated by an exclusively vegetable diet is scro- fula, and when traceable to this cause, the most speedy remedy is the addition of animal food to the diet. There are also many other forms of disease pro-ANT 20 ANI duced by the want of animal food, which require for their cure but an abundant supply of the needed material. But it may be eaten too often. It contains much grease, or oil, by which digestion is frequently impaired, the bile vitiated, the blood corrupted, cutaneous and other diseases induced. High-seasoned meat, with condiments, often produce dyspepsia, flatulency, &c. By all, ani- mal food should be eaten sparingly. By frequent participation, the springs of life are hurried on too fast, and often bilious, plethoric, and inflammatory effects follow. Dr. Beach says, “Among other ill effects of animal food is a temporary fever after eating it, called by the old medical writers, “ the fever of digestion.” No such effects follow the full use of vegetable food,” Dr. Dick considers it incompatible with a state of innocence, to take the life of any sensitive being and feed on its flesh; and that, consequently, no such grant was given to Adam in para- dise, or to the antediluvians. He con- sidered it a grant only fitted to the de- graded state of man after thg flood. ANISE.—This plant is carminative and pectoral, useful in indigestion and flatulency. It is a component part of the Cough Drops. For flatulent and bowel complaints in children and adults, the seeds are used : a tea-spoonful and a half. The seeds to be infused. The oil dropped on sugar (four or five drops) is best. It is a good remedy for coughs. ANODYNES.—Medicines allay- ing pain and disposing to sleep. ANODYNE BALSAM.—Take of white Spanish soap, one ounce; opium, unprepared, two drachms ; recti- fied spirit of wine, nine ounces ; Digest them together in a gentle heat for three days; then strain off the liquor, and add to it three drachms of camphor. This balsam is of service in violent strains and rheumatic complaints, when not attended with inflammation. It must be rubbed with a warm hand on the part affected ; or a linen rag moist- ened with it; and renewed every third hour, till the pain abates. ANODYNE FOMENTA- TI ON—Take of white poppy-heads, two ounces; elder flowers, half an ounce ; water, three pints. Boil till one pint is evaporated, and strain out the liquor. This fomentation relieves acute pain, If the affected part is very painful, add forty drops of Laudanum, and 30 drops of Tincture of Cayenne. ANODYNE PLASTER.— Melt an ounce of adhesive plaster, or diachlyon, and whilst cooling add a drachm of powdered Opium, and the same quantity of Camphor, previously dissolved in a small quantity of Olive oil. Spread on leather. This soon relieves an acute local pain. ANODYNE POWDER.— Opium, oz. ; camphor, 3 drs. ; va- lerian, 1 oz. ; cayenne pepper, 1 oz. Put the opium and camphor into a close bag ; place it on the oven top to harden. Powder and mix. Take a quarter of a tea-spoonful at a time. Most valuable in colic, cramp, and severe pains. ANTHELMINTICS. — Medi- cines, destroying or expelling worms. See Worms. ANTI-ACIDS.—Medicines, neu- tralizing acids. AN TIBILIOUS PILLS.— Extract of Colocynth, 2 drachms ; ex- tract of J alap, 1 drachm ; Almond Soap, 1 % drachms; Guiacum, 3 drachms; tartarized Antimony, 8 grains; oil of Juniper, 4 or 5 drops ; oil of Carraway, 4 drops; oil of Rosemary, 4 drops. Form into a mass with Syrup of Buck- thorn, and divide into pills. AN^TI- CHOLERA DROPS. —Tinctures of capsicum, opium, lobelia, essence of peppermint, of each, 1 oz. Mix. Take when needful, a tea-spoonful in a little coffee. Most efficient in cholera, and affections of the bowels. ANTI - CHOLERA POW- DER—Ipecacuanha, 3 drachms ; gin- ger, 1 oz.; tormentii root, 1 % ozs. ; poplar bark, 1 % ozs.; cayenne, gum, myrrh, each 3 drachms ; carbonate of soda, 3 drachms ; cloves 2 drachms; slippery elm, 5 drachms. Powder and mix. Dose, half a tea-spoonful every half-hour. ANTIMONIAL WINE.—This may be purchased at the druggists. As an emetic, the dose is from one to two tabic-spoonfuls. As a febrifuge, sudori-ANT ARE 21 fic, or relaxant, from twenty to forty drops every three or four hours.—As an Emetic, Ipecacuanha, and Lobelia, stand very high, especially the latter. ANTISCORBUTIC DRINK. —Take of cream of tartar three ounces, juniper berries four ounces, ginger in powder two drachms, and five pounds of sugar, boil in six gallons of water, after boiling half-an-hour, the whole is poured into a tub and allowed to fer- ment. It may be drunk in the quantity of from one to three pints daily, as soon as the fermentation commences. ANTISEPTIC S.—Medicines, counteracting putrescency. ANTI SPASM O DICS. — Medi- cines, abating spasm. ANTI SPASMODIC TINC- TURE.—Tincture of Lobelia, i ounce, Tincture of Cayenne, i ounce ; Com- pound Tincture of Lady’s Slipper, % ounce ; oil of Aniseed, 20 drops.—Begin with a teaspoonful. This is an infallible remedy for spasms, fever, ague, and painful flatulence, and colic. ANTI SPASMODIC CLYS- TER.—To half a pint of thin gruel, add half an ounce, or an ounce of the Foetid Tincture, and forty to sixty drops of Laudanum. This is very useful in spasmodic affections of the bowels, in convulsions, or in all hysteric complaints. ANTS—A small quantity of green sage, placed where ants infest will cause them to disappear.—Quicklime thrown on their nests, and then watered, will destroy them.—Or a strong solution of alum water.—Or gas tar ;—or lime from gas-works.—Gas tar painted round a tree an inch or two broad, will prevent ants and other insects from climbing trees, and will preserve the fruit. APERIENT FOR CHILD- REN.—Infusion of senna, one ounce; mint water, half an ounce; calcined magnesia, one scruple; manna, three drachms ; syrup of roses, two drachms ; (a solution of sugar will do). Mix and give in doses of one or two teaspoonfuls at a time. APERIENT ELECTUARY. Senna, one ounce, powdered; flour of sulphur, half an ounce ; ground ginger, two drachms ; treacle, or honey, four ounces. Mix well. Dose about the size of a nutmeg morning and night. If not strong enough, add a small quantity of jalap. APERIENT, INFANTS’.— Take of rhubarb, five grains; magnesia, three grains ; white sugar, a scruple *, manna, five grains ; mix. Dose, vary- ing from a piece half the size of a sweet- pea to a piece the size of an ordinary pea. APERIENT MIXTURE, Ab- emethy’s. — Epsom Salts, half an ounce; infusion of Senna, six drachms ; tincture of Senna, two drachms; spearmint water, an ounce; distilled water, two ounces; best manna, two drachms. Mix ; and take three or four table-spoonfuls every morning, or every other morning.—This is a valuable mix- ture.—A decoction of Peruvian Bark will render it a Tonic Aperient. APERIENT MIXTURE.— Senna leaves, 2 drachms ; infuse in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, for half an hour, and add Epsom salts, half an ounce ; compound Tincture Of Senna an ounce. Three table-spoonfuls to be taken every three hours. APERIENT MIXTURE, (Tonic).—Boil two ounces of bruised dandelion roots, and one ounce of pow- dered liquorice, in. one quart of water down to one pint; then add Epsom Salts, four drachms ; Sulphate of Iron, four grains ; Elixir of Vitriol, thirty-five drops. This mixture is aperient, and does not debilitate. APERIENT MIXTURE, (Tonic).—Take of Epsom salts 1 ounce, diluted sulphuric acid, one drachm, in- fusion of quassia chips, half an imperial pint, compound tincture of rhubarb, a drachms. Half a wine-glassful for a dose—to be taken twice a day. APERIENT PILLS. —Com- pound Rhubarb Pill, a scruple ; extract of Colocynth, half a drachm ; castile soap, ten grains; oil of juniper, three drops. Beat into a mass; make into ordinary sized pills. Take cne at bed- time. APERIENT PILLS, to pro- mote Digestion—Aloes, 40 grains; extract of gentian, twenty-four grains; extract of colocynth, one drachm ; oil of aniseed, sufficient to make into pills. Take from one to three whan necessary.APO APG 22 APOPLEXY.—It is a sudden de- privation of all the senses, and of volun- tary motion, generally the effect of com- pression of the brain ; which, when pro- duced by an effusion of blood, or a distension of the internal vessels of the head, from an accumulation of blood, is termed Sanguineous Apoplexy; and when caused by an effusion of serum, which occurs chiefly in dropsical habits, Serous Apoplexy. APOPLEXY, Sanguineous. —The short necked, the indolent, great eaters and great drinkers, are its victims ! The fit is generally preceded by a sense of weight in the head, and giddiness ; frequent head-ache ; bleed- ing at the nose ; redness of the eyes ; imperfect vision ; ringing in the ears ; numbness in the extremities ; weakness of the knees ; faltering of the voice ; drowsiness, and disturbed sleep. It is brought on by whatever hurries the cir- culation, so as to increase the afflux of blood into the vessels of the head; such as violent exercises; passions of the mind ; much straining ; whatever im- pedes the free return of blood from the head ; as a tight ligature, or handker- chief round the neck ; or lying with the head lower than the chest. If the fit has lasted long, i. e. two or three days; if the breathing is very laborious and loud ; if the patient is far advanced in life; it is probable that the disease will prove fatal. A second at- tack is always of more danger than a first; and when apoplexy comes upon a patient who has had frequent attacks of epilepsy, it very commonly proves fatal. Treatment: — Remove the cause, that is, pressure upon the brain—apply blisters to the head, and also between the shoulders—and lessen the determina- tion of the blood to the head by increas- ing the circulation in the extremities ; i. e. stimulating the feet and hands by Mustard Poultices, and by emptying the lower intestines by a clyster, made of Epsom salts, castor oil, salt, and aloes. Also give sudorifics, or medicines to pro- mote sweat. If the attack takes place soon after a full meal, an emetic should be given; Lobelia. See Robinson s Herbal, under that article ;—Keep the body nearly in an erect posture to promote the return of the blood from the head. APOPLEXY, Serous. Compression of the brain, producing apoplexy, is seldom caused by an effu- sion of the serous part of the blood. When it occurs in a dropsical person, it may be referred to an effusion of serum, which will require the aforesaid means. Cordials are proper and may be given. It is in consequence of extreme debility of the system, and generally terminates in death. Give emetics of Ipecacuanha and tartarised antimony—blisters to the head—mustard poultices to the legs and feet sharp purges diffusive stim- ulants of Ammonia, castor oil, assafos- tida, valerian, and electricity passed through the head. Prevention of Apoplexy.— Avoid intoxicating drinks, keep the feet dry and warm, take plenty of exercise, eat sparingly, sleep with the head higher than the trunk, prevent con- stipation, wash the head and sponge the chest every morning in cold water. For the treatment of Apoplexy, the following hints have been collected from the works of the most eminent physicians :— Remove all compression from every part of the body.—Immerse the legs in warm water and mustard for twenty minutes, applying friction at the same time,—Bathe the whole surface with the diluted tincture of Cayenne.—Avoid bleeding.—Put a mustard plaster be- tween the shoulders. If possible, let a brisk purgative be administered, for evacuation is necessary to unload the bowels and stomach, and therefore the pressure on the brain.—Blood-letting in Apoplexy aggravates the cerebral con- gestion.—Professor Recamier says, “ I have not the least evidence that blood letting has the smallest power to dimin- ish the violence or duration of an apop- letic paroxysm; nay, I have every rea- son to believe that it so far weakens the powers of reaction as to prove fatal, or greatly to retard the cure.”—Apply cold water to the head, and hot water to the feet, if slight symptoms begin to appear. At first do it slightly, and increase the application gradually. This will force back the blood from the upper to the lower extremities through the heart, and remove the disease.—The whole secret of treatment consists is* equalizing the circulation.ilPP APO 23 L Apothecaries’ Weight, so Grains (gr.) make x Scruple, sc. equal to 20 grains Troy. 3 Scruples 1 Dram, dr., equal to 60 grains. 8 Drams.. 1 Ounce, os., equal to 480 grains or 24 scruples. 12 Ounces.... 1 Pound, lb., equal to 5760 grains, or 288 sc., or 96 drams. By this weight medicines are mixed ; but drugs are bought and sold whole- sale by avoirdupois. Apothecaries’ Measure. 60 Minims make 1 Fluid Dram, dr. 8 Fluid Drams 1 Ounce os. 16 Fluid Ounces 1 Pint pt. 8 Pints 1 Gallon gal. APPLES, to keep.—Let them be well dried and packed in a hamper, or box without lid, wrapped in straw, or covered with saw-dust in layers. Keep in a cool place, and not exposed to frost. Apples should always be plucked when the weather is fine; and when packed they should not touch one another. The Americans preserve apples and pears by cutting them into eights, with- out the core, and dry them in a kiln till quite hard; they will keep for two or three years. When used, they steep in hot water. APPLE, Currant, or Damson Dumplings, or Pudding Shred very fine about 5 or 6 ounces of suet, and roll it into 8 or 10 ounces of flour ; add a little salt, and make into a paste with water. Line a basin with the paste, and cover it with the same; tie a cloth over it tightly, and boil till the fruit is enough. Some add eggs and milk in making the paste, but the above is more whole- some. APPLE EGG PUDDING.— Beat an egg well; then add a gill of water or milk, seven or eight table- spoonfuls of flour, and half a spoonful of salt; mix well together. Pare and cut into pieces three apples, and stir them into the batter. Boil the whole in a cloth an hour and a quarter, if in a basin, a little longer. Serve with melted butter flavoured with lemon. APPLE POOL.—Stew apples as directed for gooseberries, and then peel and pulp them. Prepare the milk, &c,, and mix as before. APPLE FRITTERS.—Take one pint of milk, three eggs, salt just to taste, and as much flour as will make a batter. Beat the yolks and whites separately, add the yolks to the milk, stir in the whites with as much flour as will make a batter ; have ready some tender apples, peel them, cut them in slices round the apple ; take the core carefully out of the centre of each slice, and to every spoonful of batter lay in a slice of apple, which must be cut very thin. Fry them in hot lard to a light brown on both sides. APPLE GINGER.—To 4 lb. of apples add 4 lb, of sugar, 1 quart of water, and 2 oz. of the best essence of ginger. First pare the fruit, cutting out every particle of core ; then shape it so as to resemble the small kind of pre- served ginger. Boil the sugar and water together for twenty-five minutes until it is a nice syrup ; then put in the apple, but be sure and do not stir it too much. Add the essence of ginger; if 2 oz. be insufficient, add more. It will take nearly an hour to boil, until it becomes yellow and transparent. There will be some that will not clear; put them by themselves, as they will spoil the appearance of the rest. It .will re- quire skimming. American or Ribstone apples are the best to use. This is an excellent substitute for preserved foreign ginger. APPLE JAM.—Fill a wide jar nearly half full of water ; cut the apples, unpeeled, into quarters, take out the core, then fill the jar with the apples; tie a paper over it, and put it into a slow oven. When quite soft and cool, pulp them through a sieve. To each pound of pulp put three-quarters of a pound of crushed sugar, and boil it gently until it will jelly. Put it into large tart dishes or jars. It will keep for five or more years in a cool, dry place. If for present use, or a month hence, half a pound of sugar is enough. APPLE J ELLY.—Prepare twenty golden pippins; boil them in a pint and a half of water from the spring, till quite tender ; then strain the liquor through a colander. To every pint put a pound of fine sugar ; add cinnamon,APP 24 APP grated orange or lemon; then bofl to a jelly. Another—Prepare apples as before, by boiling and straining ; have ready half an ounce of isinglass boiled in half a pint of water to a jelly ; put this to the apple-water and apple, as strained through a coarse sieve; add sugar, a little lemon juice and peel; boil all together and put into a dish. Take out the peel. APPLE MARMALADE.— Scald apples till they will pulp from the core; then take an equal weight of sugar in large lumps, just dip them in water, and boil it till it can be well skimmed, and is a thick syrup, put to it the pulp, and simmer it on a quick fire a quarter of an hour. Grate a little lemon-peel before boiled but if too much it will be bitter. APPLE PIE—Pare and core the fruit, having wiped the outside, which with the cores boil in a little water till it tastes well; strain and put a little sugar, a bit of bruised cinnamon, sim- mer again, in the mean time place the apples in a dish, a paste being put round the edge; when one layer is in sprinkle half the sugar, shred lemon peel, squeeze some lemon juice in, or a glass of cider if the apples have lost their flavour, put in the rest of the apple, sugar, and the liquor that you have boiled, cover with paste. APPLE PRESERVE.—Take 20 fine apples; peel and core them; grate them into a pulp, and strain through a colander ; allow J£1’d of fine sugar to ilb. of pulp. Clarify the sugar by adding water, and the beaten white of an egg. Then boil the fruit in the syrup, till sufficiently done. Add cinnamon, or ginger, according to taste. APPLE PUFFS.—Pare the fruit, and either stew them in a stone jar on a hot hearth, or bake them. When cold, mix the pulp of the apple with sugar and lemon-peel, shred fine, taking as little of the apple-juice as you can. Bake them in thin paste, in a quick oven ; a quarter of an hour will do them, if small. Orange or quince- marmalade, is a great improvement. Cinnamon pounded, or orange-flour water, as a change. APPLE PUDDING, Amen- can.—Peel and core one dozen and a half of good apples ; cut them small; put them into a stew-pan with a little water, cinnamon, two cloves, and the peel of a lemon ; stew over a slow firs, till soft; sweeten and strain, add the yolks of four eggs and one white, a quarter of a pound of butter, half a nutmeg, the peel of a lemon grated, and the juice of a lemon : beat well to- gether ; line the inside of a pie-dish with good puff paste; put in the pud- ding, and bake half an hour. APPLE PUDDING, Baked.— Pare and quarter four large apples; boil them tender with the rind of a lemon, in so little water, that when done, none may remain; beat them quite fine in a mortar ; add the crumb of a small roll, four ounces of butter melted, the yolks of five, and whites of three eggs, juice of half a lemon, and sugar to taste; beat all together, and lay it in a dish, with paste to turn out. APPLE PUDDING, Boiled. —Suet, 5 ozs. ; flour, 8 ozs. ; chop the suet very fine, and roll it into the flour. Make it into a light paste with water. Roll out. Pare and core 8 good sized apples; slice them; put them on the paste, and scatter upon them % lb. of sugar ; draw the paste round the apples, and boil two hours, or more, in a well floured cloth. Serve with melted butter sweetened. APPLE PUDDING, Swiss.— Butter a deep dish; put into it a layer of bread crumbs ; then a layer of finely chopped suet; a thick layer of finely chopped apples, and a thick layer of sugar. Repeat from the first layer till the dish is full, the last layer to be finger biscuits soaked in milk. Cover it till nearly enough ; then uncover, till the top is nicely browned. Flavour with cinnamon, nutmeg, &c., as you please. Bake from 30 to 40 minutes. APPLE SAUCE, for Goose or Roast Pork.—Pare, core, and slice some apples, and put them in a strong jar, into a pan of water. When suffi- ciently boiled, bruise to a pulp, adding a little butter, and a little brown sugar. APPLES, Baked.—Put the ap- ples on a baking-dish, with a sprinkle of sugar, and a drop of cider or water.APR APP 25 and set them in the oven to bake. Baked apples or pears, with bread, form a cheap and wholesome supper for children. , APPLE SNOWBALLS—Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and hav- ing pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. APPLES, (Red,) in Jelly.— Pare and core some well-shaped ap- ples ; pippins, or golden rennets, if you have them, but others will do; throw them into water as you do them ; put them in a preserving pan, and with as little water as will only half cover them; let them coddle, and when the lower side is done, turn them. Observe that they do not lie too close when first put in. Mix some pounded cochineal with the water, and boil with the fruit. When sufficiently done, take them out on the dish they are to be served in, the stalk downwards. Take the water and make a rich jelly of it with loaf-sugar, boiling the thin rind and juice of a lemon. When come to a jelly, let it grow cold, and put it on and among the apples; cut the peel of the lemon in narrow strips, and put across the eye of the apple. APPLE SYRUP.—Take 2 pounds of good ripe apples, pare and slice ; place in a jar with about half a pint of water, and x lb. of sugar. Place the jar in a pan of water and boil two or three hours. When cold flavour with orange flower water, or lemon, cinnamon according to taste. Place in jars or bottles for use. APPLE TREES, New mode of Planting.—A horticulturist in Bohe- mia has a beautiful plantation of the best apple-trees, which have neither sprang from seeds, nor grafting. His plan is to take shoots from the choicest sorts, insert them in a potato, and plunge both into the ground, having put an inch or two of the shoot above the surface. The potato nour- ishes the shoot, whilst it pushes out roots ; and the shoot gradually springs up, and becomes a beautiful tree, bear- ing the best fruit, without requiring to be grafted. APPLE, or GOOSEBERRY TRIFLE.—Scald such a quantity of either of these fruits, as, when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish ; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; and add to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint of milk, half a pint of cream, and the yolk of one egg ; give it a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time ; don’t let it boil; add a little sugar only, and let it grow cold. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and then put on it a whip made the day before, as for other trifle. APPLE WATER.—Cut four large apples in slices, and pour upon them a quart of boiling water ; let them remain for two or three hours, and then strain and sweeten them according to your palate. Put in lemon juice. APPLE WINE. Pure cider made from sound, dry apples, as it runs from the press. Put sixty pounds of brown sugar into fifteen gallons of the cider and let it dissolve, then put the mixture into a clean barrel, and fill the barrel up to within two gallons of being full with clean cider ; put the cask in a cool place, leaving the bung out forty- eight hours, then put in the bung with a small vent, until fermentation wholly ceases, and bung up tight, and, in one year, the wine will be fit for use. This wine requires no racking ; the longer it stands upon the lees the better. APRICOTS, to preserve.— When ripe, choose the finest apricots ; pare them as thin as possible, and weigh them. Lay them in halves on dishes, with the hollow part upwards. Have ready an equal weight of good loaf sugar finely pounded, and strew it over them ; in the meantime break the stones, and blanch the kernels. When the fruit has laid twelve hours, put it, with the sugar and juice, and also the ker- nels, into a preserving pan. Let it simmer very gently, till clear ; then take out the pieces of apricots singly as they become so ; put them into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels over them. The scum must be taken off as it rises. Cover with brandy-paper, APRICOT CAKES.—Scald 1 lb, of ripe apricots, peel and take out the2b APR APR stones as soon as you find the skin will come off. Beat them in a mortar to a pulp; boil % lb. of refined sugar, with a spoonful of water, and skim it well. Then put in the pulp of the apricots ; simmer a quarter of an hour over a slow fire, and stir gently all the time. Pour into shallow flat glasses, turn them out upon glass plates, put them into a stove and turn once a day till dry. APRICOT JAM.—Pare the ri- pest apricots, and cut them thin. Infuse them in an earthen pan till they are tender and dry. To i lb. of apricots, put i lb. of refined sugar, and 3 spoon- fuls of water. Boil the sugar to a candy height and put it upon the apricots. Stir over a slow fire till they look clear and thick ; but they must only simmer, and not boil. Put them into glasses. APRICOT JELLY.—Peel and stone 20 fine apricots. Grate them to a pulp, and put them into a pan with a small cupful of water, and 1 lb. of fine sugar. Add lemon juice, and stir in the white of one egg thoroughly. Boil it till it will jelly when put to cool. Apples, grapes, and damsons, may be jellied in the same way, and in sum- mer they make fine effervescing drinks. —The jelly may be boiled down to make elegant Fruit Candy. APRICOT PUDDING.—Halve twelve large apricots, give them a scald till they are soft; meantime pour on the grated crumbs of a penny loaf a pint of boiling cream ; when half cold, add 4 ounces of sugar, the yolks of four beaten eggs, and a glass of white wine. Pound the apricots in a mortar with some or all of the kernels ; then mix the fruit and other ingredients together; put a paste round a dish, and bales the pud- ding half an hour. APRICOTS, or PEACHES in Brandy.—Wipe, weigh, and pick the fruit, and have ready a quarter of the weight of fine sugar in fine powder. Put the fruit into an ice pot that shuts very close ; throw the sugar over it, and then cover the fruit with brandy. Be- tween the top and cover of the pot, put a piece of double cap-paper. Set the pot into a sauce-pan of water till the brandy Is as hot as you can possibly bear to put your finger in, but it must not boil. Put the fruit into a jar, and pour the brandy on it. When cold, put a bl&ri der over, and tie it down tight. APRICOT MARMALADE.— Apricots that are not fit for preserves, or too ripe for keeping, will answer this purpose. Boil them in syrup till they will mash, then beat them in a mortar to a paste. Take half their weight of loaf sugar, and water enough to it to dissolve it. Boil and skim it till it is clear, and the syrup thick like a fine jelly. Put it into sweetmeat glasses, and tie up close. APRICOTS, to dry in half.— Pare thin and halve four pounds of apricots, weighing them after ; put them in a dish; strew among them three pounds of sugar in the finest powder. When it melts, set the fruit over a stove to do very gently; as each piece becomes tender, take it out, and put it into a china bowl. When all are done, and the boiling heat a little abated, pour the syrup over them. In a day or two remove the syrup, leaving only a little in each half. In a day or two turn them daily, till quite dry, in the sun or a warm place. Keep in boxes, with layers of paper. APRICOTS^ to preserve in Jelly.—Pare the fruit very thin, and stone it; weigh an equal quantity of sugar in fine powder, and strew over it. Next day boil very gently till they are clear, move them into a bowl, and pour the liquor over. The following day pour the liquor to a quart of codlin- liquor, made by boiling and straining, and a pound of fine sugar; let it boil quickly till it will jelly; put the fruit into it, and give one boil, skim well, and put into small pots. APRICOTS, to preserve Green.—Lay vine or apricot leaves at the bottom of your pan, then fruit, and so alternately till full, the upper layer being thick with leaves ; then fill with spring water, and cover down, that no steam may come out. Set the pan at a distance from the fire, so that in four or five hours they may be only soft, but not cracked. Make a thin syrup of some of the water and drain the fruit. When both are cold, put the fruit into the pan and the syrup to it; put the pan at a proper distance from the fire till the apricots green, but on noARK 27 APR Account boil or crack; remove them very carefully into a pan with the syrup, for two or three days ; then pour off as much of it as will be necessary, and boil with more sugar to make a rich syrup, and put a little sliced ginger into it. When cold, and the thin syrup has all drained from the fruit, pour the thick over it. The former will serve to sweeten pies. APRICOT TART.—Use puff paste, see page 322, and put in Apricot Jam, Jelly, or Marmalade. Ornament with little bars of paste. ARDENT SPIRITS.—Water Is the natural beverage of man. Strong alcoholic liquors were formerly kept and sqjd in Apothecaries’ shops, and were by physicians prescribed as medicine merely. Spirituous liquors and wines, more or less, inflame the blood, and induce gout, stone, rheumatism, fevers, pleurisies, &c. They scorch and shrivel the solids, destroy digestion, dry up the juices, and bring on rapidly premature old age, gray hairs, &c. Nothing has a greater tendency to destroy the coats of the stomach, to impair the digestion, destroy the appetite, and produce dis- eases, as inflammation of the liver, dropsy, jaundice, apoplexy, palsy, and madness. Ardent spirits, &c. produce imbecility and often insanity. AROMATIC TINCTURE.— Infuse two dunces of Jamaica pepper in two pints of brandy, without heat, for a few days ; then strain off the tincture. This simple tincture will sufficiently answer all the intentions of the more costly preparations of this kind. It is rather too hot to be taken by itself; but is very proper for mixing with such medicines as might otherwise prove too cold for the stomach. ARROW-ROOT BLANC- MANGE.—Put two tablespoonfuls of arrow-root to a quart of milk, and a pinch of salt. Scald the milk, sweeten it, and stir in the arrow-root, which must first be wet up with some of the milk. Boil up once. Orange-water, rose- water, or lemon-peel may be used to flavour it. Pour into moulds to cool. ARROW-ROOT CUSTARD. —Arrow-root, one tablespoonful ; milk, 1 pint; sugar, one tablespoonful, and one egg. Mix the arrow-root with a j little of the milk, cold ; when the milk 1 boils, stir in the arrow-root, egg, and sugar, previously well beaten together. Let it scald, and pour into cups to cool. To flavour it, boil a little ground cinna- mon in the milk. ARROW-ROOT JELLY— To a dessert-spoonful of the powder, add as much cold water as will make it into a paste, then pour on half a pint of boiling water, stir it briskly and boil ll a few minutes, when it will become a clear smooth jelly; a little sugar and sherry wine may be added for debilitated adults; but for infants, a drop or two of essence of carraway seeds or cinna- mon is preferable, wine being very liable to become acid in the stomachs of infants, and to disorder the bowels. Fresh milk, either alone or diluted with water, may be substituted for the water. ARROW-ROOT AND TAP- IOCA GRUELS.—Make a thiD paste as before, and put into boiling water, adding sugar, salt, nutmeg, and a little lemon-juice. Tapioca may be soaked to hours in twice the quantity of water; then add milk and water. Boil till it is soft. Flavour the same as Arrow-root. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING. —Take 2 tea-cupfuls of arrow-root, and mix it with half a pint of cold milk. Boil another half-pint of milk, flavour- ing it with cinnamon, nutmeg, or lemon-peel. Stir the arrow-root and milk into the boiling milk. When cold, add the yolks of 3 eggs beaten into 3 02. of sugar. Then add the whites beat to a stiff froth, and bake in a buttered dish an hour. Ornament the tops with sweetmeats, or citron sliced. ARROW-ROOT PUDDING, as used in a West Indian family.—Two table-spoonfuls of arrow-root, one egg beaten, yolk and white together; sweeten to taste, add any seasoning agreeable; a pint of milk; mix well together, boil, put in a shape, when cold and stiff, turn out. Sauce, melted butter, and wine, cold. This prepara- tion is very suitable for invalids, who often take a dislike to it, prepared in the ordinary way, if medicinally ordered.ARR ART 28 ARROW-ROOT, to make for Invalids.—Put into a saucepan half a. pint of water, grated nutmeg, and fine sugar, boil up once, then mix into by degrees a dessert-spoonful of Arrow- root, previously rubbed smooth, with two spoonfuls of cold water. A glass of sherry, or a table-spoonful of brandy, may be added when the patient has no tendency to inflammatory action. ARSENIC, Remedies for Poi- soning by.—Mustard and water, and other emetics, or milk, lime water, and white of an egg, as much as can be got down. Also Glauber’s or Epsom salts ; chalk and water, or in linseed tea, if at hand. In case of inflammation, give a clyster of gruel, Epsom salts, and trcEclc ARTICHOKES, to dress.— Trim a few of the outside leaves off, and cut the stalk even. If young, half an hour will boil them. They are better for being gathered two or three days first. Serve them with melted, butter, in as many small cups as there are arti- chokes, to help with each. ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS.— If dried, they must be soaked, then stewed in weak gravy, and served with or without forcemeat in each. Or they may be boiled in milk, and served with cream sauce; or added to ragouts, French pies, &c. ARTICHOKES, Jerusalem.- Tbfty must be taken up the moment they are done, or they will be too soft. They may be boiled plain, or served with white fricassee sauce. ARTICLES IN SEASON. JANUARY. Poultry.—Game : Pheasants, Par- tridges. Hares. Rabbits. Woodcocks. Snipes. Turkeys. Capons. Pullets. Fowls. Chickens. Tame Pigeons. F i s h. — Carp. Tench. Perch. Lampreys. Eels. Crayfish. Cod. Soles. Flounders. Plaice. Turbots. Thorn- back. Skate. Sturgeon. Smelts. Whitings. Lobsters. Crabs. Prawns. Oysters. Vegetables.—Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Sprouts. Brocoli, Leeks. Onions. Beets. Sorrel. Chervil. Endive. Spinach. Celery. Garlic. Scorzonera. Potatoes. Parsnips. Tur- nips. Brocoli, white and purple. Shalots. Lettuces. Cresses, Mustard. Rape. Salsafy. Herbs, dry, and een. Cucumbers. Asparagus and ushrooms, though not in season. Fruit. — Apples. Pears. Nuts. Walnuts. Medlars. Grapes. FEBRUARY AND MARCH. Meat, Fowls and Game, as in Janu- ary, with the addition of Ducklings and Chickens ; which last are to be bought in London, most, if not all the year, but very dear. Fish.—As the last two months, ex- cept that Cod is not thought so good from February to July, but may be bought. Vegetables.—The same as the former months, with the addition of Kidney-beans. Fruit.—Apples. Pears. Forced Strawberries. SECOND QUARTER : APRIL, MAY AND JUNE. Meat. — Beef. Mutton. Veal. Lamb. Venison in June. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chick- ens. Ducklings. Pigeons. Rabbits. Leverets. Fish. — Carp. Tench. Soles. Smelts. Eels. Trout. Turbot. Lob- sters. Chub. Salmon. Herrings. Crayfish. Mackerel. Crabs. Prawns. Shrimps. Vegetables.—As before; and in May, early Potatoes. Peas, Radishes, Kidney-beans. Carrots. Turnips. Early Cabbages. Cauliflowers. As- paragus. Artichokes. All sorts of Salad forced. Fruits.—In June; Strawberries. Cherries. Melons. Green Apricots. Currants and Gooseberries for Tarts.— In July; Cherries. Strawberries. Pears. Melons. Gooseberries. Cur- rants. Apricots. Grapes. Nectarines; and some Peaches. But most of these are forced. THIRD QUARTER : JULY, AUGUST, AND SEPTEMBER. Meat as before. Poultry.—Pullets. Fowls. Chick- ens. Rabbits. Pigeons. Green Geese. Leverets. Turkey. Poults. Two former months, Plovers. Wheatears. Geese in September. Fish.-Cod. Haddock. Flounders. Plaice. Skates. Thomback. Mullets.ART 29 ASA Pike. Carp. Eels. Shellfish; except Oysters. Mackerel the first two months of the quarter, but not good in August. Partridge-shooting begins on the 1st of September; what is therefore used before is poached. Vegetables.—Of all sorts, Beans. Peas. French Beans, &c., &c. Fruits.—In July; Strawberries. Gooseberries. Pine-apples. Plums, various Cherries. Apricots. Rasp- berries. Melons. Currants. Damsons. In August and September ; Peaches. Plums. Figs. Filberts. Mulberries. Cherries. Apples. Pears. Nectarines. Grapes. Latter months; Pines. Melons. Strawberries. Medlars and Quinces in the latter month. Morillo Cherries. Damsons. Plums. OCTOBER. Meat as before, and Doe-venison. Poultry and Game.—Domestic Fowls, as in former quarter. Phea- sants, from the xst of October. Par- tridges. Larks. Hares. Dotterels. End of the month ; Wild-ducks. Teal. Snipes. Widgeon. Grouse. Fish .—Dories. Smelts. Pike. Perch. Halibuts. Brills. Carps. Salmon-trout. Barbel. Gudgeons. Tench. Shell-fish. Vegetables.—As in January: French-beans, last crops of beans. Fruits.—Peaches. Pears. Figs. Bullace. Grapes. Apples. Medlars. Damsons. Filberts. Walnuts. Nuts. Quinces. Services. November. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. Pork. House-Lamb. Doe-venison. Poultry, Game, Fish, as in last month. Vegetables.—Carrots. Turnips. Parsnips. Potatoes. Skirrets. Scor- zonera. Onions. Leeks. Shalots. Cabbage. Savoys. Colewort. Spinach. Chard-beets. Cardoons. Cresses. En- dive. Celery. Lettuces. Salad. Herbs. Pot-herbs. Fruits.—Pears. Apples. Nuts. Walnuts. Bullace. Chestnuts. Med- lars. Grapes. DECEMBER. Meat.—Beef. Mutton. Veal. House-Lamb. Pork and Venison. Poultry and Game.—Geese. Turkeys. Pullets. Pigeons. Capous. Fowls. Chickens. Rabbits. Hares. j Snipes. Woodcocks. Larks. Pheas- ! ants. Partridges. Sea-fowls. Guinea- j fowls. Wild-ducks. Teal. Widgeon, i Dotterels. Dun-birds. Grouse. Fish.—Cod. Turbot. Halibuts. Soles. Gurnets. Sturgeon. Carp. Gudgeons. Codlins. Eels. Dories. Shell-fish. Vegetables.—As in the last month. Asparagus forced, &c. Fruit.—As in the last. ARTIFICIAL COLD.—For an intense degree of cold, sufficient for turning liquids into ice. Mix equal parts of muriate of ammonia and saltpetre, both finely powdered, in 6 parts water. ARTIFICIAL SKIN, For Burns, Bruises, &c.—Take gum, cotton, and Venice Turpentine, equal parts of each, dissolve them in 20 times as much sulphuric ether, dissolving the cotton first, then adding the turpentine ; keep it corked rightly. The object of the turpentine is to prevent pressure, or pinching caused by evaporation of the ether when applied to a bruised surface. Water does not affect it, hence its value for cracked nipples, chapped hands, and surface bruises, &c, ASAFCETIDA, Tincture of.- This strong solution of asafoetida gun. in proof spirit, in the quantity of thirty to fifty drops, in a glass of pennyroyal or peppermint water, is much and suc- cessfully employed as a remedy for low- ness of spirits, hysteric and fainting fits ; different nervous complaints, spas- modic colic and asthma. The addition of ten drops of sal volatile to each dose will render it more pleasant to the palate, and at the same time coincide with its virtues. A mixture of one-third of tincture of asafoetida, and two of paregoric elixir, taken in the dose of a teaspoonful, has been found particularly serviceable in relieving asthma in languid constitu- tions, and chronic difficulty of breath- ing, by expelling air from the stomach, promoting expectoration, and allaying irritation, (see Asthma.) In the hoop ing-cough, unattended with fever, it will prove equally beneficial, in doses proportioned to the nge of the patient, viz. to a child of two years old, six drops, Increasing two drops for every year.AST 30 ART ARTIZAN’S WAGES TABLE. s. d. s. d. g. d. s. d. &. <t a. d. g. d. Per Week 26 30 3 6 40 46 60 66 Per Day, 6 to Week 06 06 07 OS 0 9 0 10 Oil Per Hour, 10 to Day 0 0j 0 O .t 0 0} 0 0> 0 1 0 1 0 1 s. d. s. d. 8. d. a. d. b. d. s. d. a. d. Per Week 60 66 70 80 90 10 0 11 0 Per Day, 6 to Week 10 11 12 14 16 18 110 Per Hour, 10 to Day 0 1J 0 lj 0 1* 0 1} 0 1} 0 2 0 2} a. d. s. U s. d. 8. d. 8 d. s. d. B. d. Per Week 12 0 13 0 14 0 15 0 16 0 17 0 13 0 Per Day, 6 to Week 20 22 24 26 28 2 10 30 Per Hour, 10 to Day 0 2} 0 2} 0 2} 0 3 0 3 0 3} 0 3} s. d. s, d. s. d. s. d. e. d. s. d. s. d. Per Week 19 0 20 0 21 0 22 0 23 0 24 0 25 0 Per Day, 6 to Week 32 34 86 38 3 10 40 42 Per Hour, 10 to Day...... 0 3} 0 4 0 4 0 4} 0 4} 0 4} 0 6 a. d. s. d. ». d. b. d. s. d. g. d. b. d. Per Week 26 0 27 0 28 0 29 0 30' 0 31 0 32 0 Per Day, 6 to Week 44 46 48 4 10 60 52 64 Per Hour, 10 to Day 05 06} 0 5} 0 6} 06 06 06} ASAFCETIDA.—Sold by Drug- gists. It is stimulant, antispasmodic, expectorant, and laxative. Its action is quick, giving relief in spasmodic, flatu- lent, and nervous affections, especially when they arise from costiveness. It is useful in cough, hooping cough, and difficult breathing, and senile constipa- tion. Dose, from 10 grains in powder ; Tincture from half drachm to two drachms. For Pills, it may be combined with aloes, and a little ginger. ASCARIDES, or Seat-worms, to destroy.—A teaspoonful of flowers of sulphur, in a wine-glassful of Gin, or Brandy, in a morning fasting. The addition of a small quantity of Aloes will render it more effectual. ASPARAGUS, Officinalis.— Asparagus is one of the most wholesome and nutritious of our culinary vege- tables ; it is both a diuretic and a seda- tive, and is recommended in cases of dropsy, stone, and affections of the chest and lungs. For the latter com- plaint the following extract will be found serviceable :—Boil the asparagus in water for several hours, then strain, and evaporate the liquor gradually over a very slow fire until it becomes exceed- ingly 'hick ; then add ft wineglassfpl «f brandy to each pint, and put by in bottles. Take a tablespoonful night and morning in warm milk. ASPARAGUS, to boil.—Scrape the asparagus; tie them in small bunches; boil them in a large pan of water with salt in it; before you dish them up toast some slices of bread, and then dip them in the boiling water ; lay the asparagus on the toasts ; pour on them rich melted butter, and serve hot. ASPARAGUS, ragout of.— Cut small asparagus like green peas; the best method is to break them off first ; then tie them in small bunches to cut, boil them till half done; then drain them, and finish with butter, a little broth, herbs, two cloves, and a sprig of savory. When done take out the cloves, herbs, &c., mix two yolks of eggs, with a little flour, and broth, to garnish a first course dish. But if you intend to serve it in second course mix cream, a little salt, and sugar. ASPARAGUS AMULET.— Beat up six eggs with cream, boil some of the largest and finest asparagus, and when boiled cut off all the green in small pieces. Mix them with the eggs, and add pepper and salt. Heat a slice of butter, and put them in, and serve on buttered toast, ASPARAGUS OMELET,—AST ASP 31 Boil a dozen of the finest asparagus, cut off the green portion, and chop into thin slices ; season with salt and cayenne pepper; (soluble is best); beat an egg in cream, and melt four ounces of butter in a frying-pan ; pour half the batter into the middle of the pan, when the butter is hot; then place the aspara- gus tops upon the eggs, and cover with the rest of the batter. Serve on butter- ed toast. ASPHALTING, for Walks, Roads, Roofs, &c.—This composi- tion is a mixture of pitch and gas-tar, or tar oil, with either furnace ashes, slag, pebbles, broken limestone, spar, or sand. Ashes when used should be tindery and free from dirt. Breese, the riddlings from gas-coke is one of the best materials to use and makes a good road. For a cheap roof, sand is used. Take io cwts. of gas-tar and 3 cwts. of coal-tar pitch, boil together unul in- timately mixed, add this to about 2 tons of ashes or breese, to be well mixed on an even piece of ground. Have the pan for boiling the tar and pitch as near to the work required as possible. Place in the pan about one- fourth of brittle pitch, which requires a little time to melt, then add to it in a continuous stream, stirring all the time, three parts more of gas-tar. If there is any moisture in the tar it will cause the material to rise in the pan, cease putting the tar in, and lessen the heat under the pan, it will then go down. Empty into galvanised iron buckets when ready. When the mixture is ready mix as rapidly as possible the ashes and asphalt together. It is as well to use the coarser ashes first; to about 1 gallon of asphalt add 1 cwt. of ashes, or for finer ashes or sand use 2 gallons of asphalt, or a little more. When well mixed it will appear black and grainy, and should leave an Impression of the foot without sticking to it. If too much asphalt has been used, add more ashes until it ceases to stick. The first operation is to make a good foundation, use broken material, gravel, or ashes, from a to 3 inches thick, make It as near level as possible, then put on the top the coarser mixture which must be beaten down with a pavior's dolly, (a long wood handle with a round iron flat at the end), then roll it to consoli- date it. The second operation is to place the finer mixture on the top of the coarser until it is about two inches thick, beat down again, then add white spar as required, roll again with a heavier roller, if this is properly done you will have a good road. ASTHMA.—This disease is well known. It manifests itself in temporary fits of difficult breathing, is accompanied with wheezing cough, a sense of suffoca- tion, and constriction of the chest. The cause; hereditary predisposition ; cold and moist atmosphere ; sudden changes of temperature ; intense study ; sup- pression of long accustomed evacua- tions ; certain fevers : irritation of the air cells of the lungs, by aerial acrimony, or other causes; irritation of the stomach, &c. When this disease is attended with expectoration, it is called humoural Asthma; and when there is no dis- charge, it is named dry Asthma. It is remarkable, that what will excite the disease in one patient, will often prove a means of relieving it in another. This peculiarity is shown in the eight pair of nerves, branches of which go to the lungs and stomach. When these branches are in a state of morbid ex- citement, or irritation, the muscles con- cerned in conveying air from the lungs become contracted so as to limit the expansion of the chest, and by retard- ing the circulation of the blood through the lungs, the blood becomes surcharg- ed with carbon, causing a dark Appear- ance of the lips, &c. Asthma may be distinguished from Pulmonary Consumption, by the former being attended not only with tits of difficult breathing, but with violent fits of suffocation ; whereas in consumption the patient has only shortness of breath on motion. Asthma also more gener- ally attacks persons in advanced life. If the system is much debilitated, so that swelling of the legs, great oppres- sion of breathing, and florid counten- ance, are predominant symptoms, a more powerful tonic is requisite ;—Tinc- ture of Rhatany, 6 ounces; Ammonia, 2 scruples; Compound Spirit of Jum- per, a ounces ; Tincture of Squills, hall' an ounce. Mix. Three table-spoonfulsAST 32 AST to be taken every four hours, with the following Pills:— Precipitated Iron, 3 grains; Extract of Hemlock, 3 grains ; Gum Ammoniac, 4 grains ; Oil of Aniseed, two drops. Mix, and divide into two or three Pills. Keep the bowels open by any of the aforementioned Aperients. But if the patient is affected with Diarrhoea, a frequent attendant on the last stage of this malady, the following may be sub- stituted for the preceding tonic mix- ture :—Compound Tincture of Rhatany, 1 ounce ; Lime water, 6 ounces ; Laud- anum, 30 drops. Mix. Three table- spoonfuls to be taken every three hours ; if it does not restrain diarrhoea, add to the above 1 or 3 ounces of Decoction of Logwood. Should a distressing pain affect the integuments of the head, or the back of the head, a small blister will give relief, Or, take Ammoniated Tincture of Valerian, two drachms ; Tincture of Castor, a drachm ; Laudanum,, thirty drops ; Camphor Mixture, one ounce; Syrup of Tolu, one diachm. Mix, This is the most valuable for spasmodic '■flections. ASTHMA, Treatment of.—For its cure or relief, see my Herbal, under the following articles; they are first- rate remedies for this disease ; — Asa- foetida, Black Byrony, But ter-Bur, Chervil, Coffee, Colt’s foot, Foxglove, Garlic, Horse-radish, Lobelia in two places, Meadow Saffron, Hedge Mus- tard, Myrrh, Thorn Apple, Thyme, and Skunk Cabbage. The smoking of Stramonium, known as Thorn Apple, is particularly recom- mended, the vapour, if possible should be inhaled. It wonderfully allays mor- bid irritability, and the caloric which is taken with it, during the operation of smoking, powerfully promotes the secre- tion of mucus, and thus often speedily terminates the fit. If the patient is un- able to smoke it, the vapours of a strong decoction of it may be inhaled, by breathing over it as soon as it is taken off the fire. Boil an ounce in a pint of water; as soon as it boils, take it off the fire; it should be made in a close vessel. Hedge Hyssop) is an excellent remedy. It powerfully allays the morbid irrita- tion of the lungs, promotes expectora- tion, obviates costiveness, strengthens the stomach, and increases the secre- tion of urine, and perspiration of the skin. A strong decoction of it, com- bined with Carraway, or Aniseed, is the best form of administration. Before and during the fit the patient iould immerse his feet in warm water, awd drink warm simple beverages, as balm tea, barley water, &c., with two or three tea-spoonfuls of iEther, or of aromatic spirit of Ammonia. What- ever tends to quiet the nervous system, is of the greatest service; though ac- tive remedies should be applied with the greatest caution. Washing the head with warm water has been of very great service ; and sometimes sneezing, produced by snuff, made of Asarabacca, has suddenly terminated the paroxysm. If the chest be much pained, foment with hot flannels, or apply a bran or oatmeal poultice. Very strong Coffee is much recommended if the attack is violent; combine with it 10 or 15 drops of laudanum, half a drachm of iEther, and two drops of oil of mint. This mixture may be taken several times during the day. The following pills are valuable in Asthma;—Ipecacuanha powder, 6 grains ; James’s Powder, is grains; Camphor, 15 grains; Extract of Henbane, or Syrup, to form into 10 or is Pills. One or two may be taken 'every hour, or less frequently. Asthmatics are veiy subject to accu- mulation of inflammable air in the in- testines which renders an aperient necessary. Distension of the stomach or intestines from any cause is a source of great distress to the patient, by me- chanically preventing the motion of the diaphragm. Therefore, take of Com- pound Colocynlh Pill, 1 drachm ; pre- pared Calomel, 8 grains ; Asafcetida half a drachm, or more. Divide into 15 or 20 Pills ; take two or three occa- sionally. But probably the best Aper- ient is Castor Oil given in peppermint, or weak Brandy and water. To hasten the termination of the Paroxysm, rubbing the scalp with Camphorated Sal Volatile, and im- mersing the feet in warm water are often useful. Vomiting excited in the evening will sometimes, by unloading the stomach, promoting expectoration, and increasing perspiration, prevent theAST AST 33 i accession of a paroxysm. For this purpose, take 20 grains of Ipecacuanha powder: — Or, Ipecacuanha powder, 15 grains ; sulphate of zinc, 4 grains ; oxymel of squills, 2 drachms ; pepper- mint water, 1 ounce. Mix:—Or, Tinc- ture of Lobelia is good, in obstinate cases; dose 1 drachm. Lobelia is now declared by the most eminent physicians to be the king of all reme- dies for Asthma. See my Herbal on Lobelia. I shall now subjoin a few other remedies, and some advice, the value of which has been confirmed by my medical experience, and that of others. iEther is a good remedy during the fit. Dr. Graham directs its use thus; “ Heat a common tea-pot with boiling water—let it stand three or four min- utes ; pour the water entirely out, and then put one or two tea-spoonfuls of iEther into the pot, close the lid, and inhale the fumes through the spout in the mouth, breathing in that way for several minutes.—Strong Brandy and Water, and Gin and Water, have been found very serviceable during the fit, especially the latter, with two or three drops of the Oil of Juniper added. The following receipts for asthma have been found very useful:— Take of the Milk of Gum Ammonia, six ounces ; syrup of squills, four ounces and a half; mix. A spoonful to be taken when relief is required. It pro- motes copious expectoration. Or, Gum Ammoniac, one drachm; gum Asafoetida, squill pill, of each half a drachm ; oil of Cinnamon, six drops ; form into 24 pills, with common syrup. Take twice a day. Or, Powdered Senna, 1 ounce ; flour of Sulphur, % ounce ; powdered ginger, 2 drachms; powdered saffron, % drachm. Size of a nutmeg to be taken night and morning, in treacle or honey. Or two ounces of best honey, and one ounce of castor oil mixed. A tea- spoonful or two to be taken night and morning. Carraway and Sweet Fennel seeds of each half an ouncej; boil in a pint of vinegar about twenty minutes ; take it off the fire, and add three ounces of sliced Garlic. Cover up, and when cold, squeeze and strain, and by gentle heat, mix with it a pound and a quarter of good honey. A tea-spoonful or two to be taken night and morning. To relieve the breathing, steep some blotting paper in a strong solution of saltpetre ; dry it, and light a portion when going to bed, lay it on a plate. Many have experienced much relief from this. ASTHMA.—The Rev. J. Wes- ley recommend.': the following :—A pint oi cold water every morning, and wash the head in cold water, and using the cold bath once in two weeks. -Or a decoction of liquorice often gives relief. Or half a pint of tar water twice a day. Or live a fortnight chiefly on boiled carrots. It SELDOM FAILS. Many have been cured by this diet. Or take from ten _ to sixty drops of Elixir of Vitriol in’ a glass of spring water three or four times a day. Or into a quart of boiling water put a tea- spoonful of Balsamic iEther ; receive the steam into the lungs, through a fumigator, twice a day. Balsamic Alt her is made thus : —Put 4 ozs. of Spirits of Wine, and one ounce of Balsam of Tolu, into a phial, with one ounce of iEther. Keep it well corked. It will not keep above a week or two. Or, vomit with warm water, and always keep the body open. — Wesley. To prevent a return of a fit of Asthma, or to relieve Asthma.— Keep the bowels gently open with Rhu- barb, or some other mild aperient, and strengthen the tone of the stomach by bitter infusions, as Camomile, Gentian, and Quinine. When the chest is con- stricted, apply mustard, or blistering plasters, and take an emetic occasionally to clear out the phlegm from the bron- chial passages—avoid everything difficult of digestion—wear flannel next the skin —avoid a bleak damp air, easterly winds and take constant exercise. An animal diet, rather light, is preferable to a vegetable diet. ASTHMATIC COUGH.— Take Spanish liquorice, two ounces, salt of tartar, half an ounce ; boil the liquor in three pints of water to a quart: add the salt to it when it is blood warm. Drink two spoonfuls of this every two . hours. It seldom fails. I have known jithis cure an inveterate moist asthma.34 ATR AST ASTRINGENTS.—Medicines which contract the living fibre. Their more immediate effect is to diminish excretion and secretion, acting subsequently as a tonic; they are remedies for debility, inward or external haemorrhage, injurious secretions from the glands, fluxes, &c. The following is a List of Astringents:— ALUM, POWDERED AROMATIC CONFECTION BISTORT, root of CATECHU, TINCTURE OR ... CHALK, PREPARED CINNAMON, TINCTURE OF ELIXIR OF VITRIOL GALLS GALLS, TINCTURE OF IRON, SULPHATE OF IRON, FILINGS OF ... IRON, TARTAR!ZED IRON, SUBCARBONATE OF . KINO, POWDER OF ... ., KINO GUM, TINCTURE OF LOGWOOD, DECOCTION OF LOGWOOD, EXTRACT OF OAK, POWDERED BARK OF PERUVIAN BARK ROSE WILLOW, decoction of RASPBERRY LEAVES, infusion of ROSES, RED, THE PETALS OF .. ROSES, DAMASK QUICKSILVER, NITRATE of SAGE, LEAVES OF SIMAROBAR, bark of SAUNDERS, RED, THE WOOD TANIN TORMENTIL, the root WORTLEBERRY; use the leaves dose II It II II II II II II II II II II II II II II II II II II II II 8 grains to i scruple. 12 to 30 grains, rx grains to 2 scruples. 1 to 2 teaspoonfuls. 8 to 16 grains. 2 to 5 drachms. from 6 drops in watei 1 to 12 grains. 20 grains to 154 drachm. 54 grain to 4 grains. 3 grains to 2 drachms. 10 grains to 54 drachm. 1 to 12 grains. 8 grains to 34 drachm. 1 to 2 drachms. from 34 to x wineglass 10 grains to x34 scruple. >4 drachm to 1 drachm. 10 grains to 34 oz. A cupful 3 times a-day. A cupful. 1 scruple to r drachm. 1 scruple to 1 drachm. 1-8 grain to 2 grains. 10 grains to 1 drachm. 1 grain to 54 drachm, t grain to 34 drachm. 5 grains to 10 grains. to grains to 1 drachm. 10 grains to 1 drachm. ATROPHY.-The word is derived from the Greek a, not, and tropke, nourishment; not nourishment, and the want of that nourishment induces ema- ciation, and loss of strength. The symptoms are a gradual consuming or wasting away, impaired digestion, loss of appetite, depression of spirits, and general languor; in the later stages hectic fever, cough, and difficult breath- ing. In young persons of scrofulous habit, there is enlargement of the mesen- treic glands, indigestion, costiveness or diarrhoea, uncertain appetite, flushed or pallid cheeks, remittent fever, swelling of the abdomen, emaciated limbs, and eruptions of the skin on the shoulders, arms, thighs, &c. I have seen the ves- sels so attenuated as to be scarcely able to contain the blood, and in some cases, the smaller ones congested. The cause may be hereditary, damp houses, rooms, and beds, unwholesome foul air, close and bad ventilated sleep- ing rooms, excessive evacuations, worms, mental anxiety, excessive indulgence in venery, or spirituous liquors. It is in- duced in females by suckling their chil- dren too long. Treatment.—Many diseases are accompanied by Atrophy to a greater or less extent. In those cases, therefore, it is but an effect of a disease, and that disease must be prescribed for. There are cases, however, in which the most careful and repeated scrutiny fails to detect any serious disease of the vital organs, though some important viscus may be affected. If the glands are affected, apply the Tincture of Iodine by means of a Camel Hair brush, or the Ointment of the same. The following formula has been recommended :— Iodine of Potassium, x lira cbm; Coro-BAC 35 AUN pound Infusion of Gentian, 6 ounces ; Aromatic Spirit or Ammonia, 2 drachms, mix, and take a table spoonful three times a day ; with the following Aperient at bed-time ;—Compound Rhubarb Pill, 4 grains; Sulphate of Quinine, 4 grains ; Cayenne Pepper, 2 grains ; make into 3 or 4 pills. In this disease, fresh air should be obtained, and abundant exercise in the open air. Keep the bowels regular, and always combine a tonic with a purgative. The diet must be light and nutritious. If the disease arises from a venereal taint, (alas 1 how many monstrous pa- rents thus infect their children !) then Sarsaparilla will be useful. See article Venereal, in Robinson's Herbal; the same course will, in a great measure, be applicable to Atrophy. If the disease proceeds from worms, then Anthelmin- tics must be administered. Sometimes Atrophy is produced by suckling too long, which must be aban- doned, or it will cause wasting, and ultimately consumption. The child should be weaned immediately, and out- door exercise in a pure atmosphere, and a course of tonics should be taken immediately. AUNT NELLY’S PUD- DING.—Half a pound of flour, half pound of treacle, six ounces of chop- ped suet, the juice and peel of one lemon, 4 table-spoonfuls of cream, two or three eggs. Mix and beat all to- gether. Boil in a basin, (previously well buttered) four hours.—For sauce, melted butter, a wine-glassful of Sherry, and two or three table-spoonfuls of apricot jam. AVENS.—Thisplantis astringent, styptic, tonic, febrifuge, stomachic, and it is very applicable to all fevers, and promotes digestion. This plant is use- ful in dysentery, a lax state of the bowels, asthma, colics, debility, sore throat, &c., &c. It is the opinion of an eminent physician, that its continued use restores strength to the most shat- tered and enfeebled constitutions. De- coction, sweetened with sugar and milk, makes a very pleasant beverage, having much of the taste of coffee or chocolate. Take half a pint of the decoction at a time ; and about forty or fifty grains of the powder daily. — See Robinson's Herbal. AVOIRDUPOIS WEIGHT. 16 Drams .. 1 .. 1 Ounce. 16 Ounces 1 Pound. 14 Pounds 1 Stone. 28 Pounds, or 2 stones 1 Quarter. 4 Quarters or 8 stones or 112 pounds 1 Hundred weight 20 Hundred weights ... 1 Ton. By this weight nearly all the neces- . saries of life are weighed ; bread, cheese, butter, meat, groceries, coal, &c. B. BACHELOR’S CAKE.—One pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, quarter of a pound of butter or lard, four wine-glassfuls of milk, half a pound of Sultana raisins, quarter of a pound of currants, the same of candied peel, a quarter of a nutmeg, two teaspoonfuls of ground ginger, one of cinnamon, and one of carbonate of soda. These in- gredients being well mixed, and slowly baked for an hour and a half, will form a very nice cake. BACK, Strain in the—The first th'ng is rest; take night and morning 15 or 20 drops of the balsam of capiva. If the part is inflamed, apply cold water cloths. Let the bowels be kept gently open by aperients. * When the in- flammation is gone, rub the part with the Stimulating Liniment, page 378. The application of the Plaster for the Stomach, or the Warm Plaster, page3ro,wili be found useful. BACKGAMMON.—This game is played by two persons, with a box and dice upon a table divided into two parts, upon which there are twelve black and twelve white points. Each player has fiteen men, black and white, to distinguish them, which are thus placed :—If you play into the right- hand table, two upon the ace point in your adversary’s table ; five upon the six-point in the opposite table; three upon the cinque point of the nearest table ; and five on the six point in your own table. The grand point is to bring the men round into your own table ; all throws that contribute towards it, and prevent your opponent doing the like, are ad vantageous to you, and vice-versa. The best throw upon the dice is the aces, as it stops the six point in the outer table, and secures the cinque in36 BAC BAC your own; whereby the adversary’s two men upon your ace point cannot get out with either four, five, or six. When you carry your men home, in order to lose no points, carry the most distant men to your opponent's bar- point, as the first stage you are to place it on ; the next stage is six points fur- ther, namely in the place where your opponent's five men are first placed out of his tables ; the next stage is upon the sixth point in your tables. Pursue this method till your men are brought home, except two, when by losing a point, you may often save your gammon, by put- ting it in the power of two fives or two fours to save it. If you play to win a hit only, try to gain either your own or your adversary’s cinque point; if that fails by your being hit, then you must throw more men into his tables, thus : put a man upon your cinque or bar point, and if he hit it, you may then gain a forward instead of a back game, but if he hits you, play for a back game ; and the greater num- ber of men which are taken up makes your game the better, because by that you preserve your game at home ; and must then always endeavour to gain both your adversary’s ace and trois points, or his ace and deuce points. At the beginning of a set, do not play for a back game ; that is, running the risk of a gammon to win a single hit. If you play three up, your principal object is, either to secure your own or your opponent’s cinque point; when that is effected, you may play a pushing game, and endeavour to gammon him by so doing, The next best point, after having gained your cinque point, is to make your bar point; thereby prevent- ing him running with two sixes. Then prefer making the quatre point in your own tables, rather than the quatre point out of them. Then you have a chance to gammon the adversary if he is very forward; for if his tables ar6 broke at home, it will be your interest to open your bar point, to oblige him to come out of your tables with a six, and having your men spread, you not only catch that man your opponent brings out of your tables, but may also take up the man left in your table, (supposing that he had two men there.) And if he should have a blot at home, it will then be your interest not to make up your table, because if he enter upon a blot, which you are to make purpose- ly, you may get a third man ; which, if accomplished, will give you four to one of the gammon. If you play for a hit only, one or two of your opponent's men taken up, makes it surer than a greater number, providing your tables are made up. To play for a gammon you are to make blots purposely, the odds being that they are not hit; but should it happen, in such cases you will have three men in your adversary’s tables ; you must then try to secure your adver- sary’s cinque, quatre, or trois point, to prevent a gammon ; and do not suffer him to take up a fourth man. If your opponent is greatly before you, never play a man from your quatre, trois, or deuce points, in order to bear that man from the point where you put it, because nothing but high doublets can give you any chance for the hit; therefore, instead of playing an ace or a deuce from any of the afore- said points, always play them from your highest point; by which means throw- ing two fives or two fours, will, upon having eased your six and cinque point, be of great advantage. But, had ypur six point remained loaded you might be obliged to play at length those fives and fours. As soon as he enters one, compare his game with yours; and if you find your game equal, or better, take the man if you can, because it is twenty-five to eleven against his hitting you ; which, being so much in your favour, you ought always to win that risk when you have already two of his men up ; except you play for a single hit only. Never be deterred from taking any one man of your adversary’s, by the ap- prehension of being hit by double dice ; it is five to one against it. If you should happen to have five points in your tables, and to have taken up one of your adversary's men, and are obliged to have a blot out of your tables, rather leave it upon the doublets than any other, because doublets are thirty-five to one against his hitting you ; any other chance is seventeen to one against his doing so. Two of your adversary's men upon37 BAC BAC your tables are better for a hit than any greater number, providing your game is the most forward ; because having three or more men on your tables, gives him more chance to hit you than if he had only two men. If you have a blot upon entering a man upon your adversary’s tables, and have your choice where, always choose that point which is most disadvantage- ous to him. CRITICAL CASES FOR A BACK GAME. Question.—Suppose A plays the fore game and that all his men are placed in the usual manner; for B’s game suppose that fourteen of his men are placed upon his adversary's ace point, and that B is to throw, which game is the likeliest to win the hit ? Answer.-A’sis the best by twenty- one to twenty, because if B misses an ace to take his opponent’s deuce point, which is twenty-five to eleven against him, A is in that case to take up B’s men in his tables, either singly or to make points; and if B secures either A’s deuce or trois points, then A is to lay as many men down as possible, in order to be hit, and so get a back game. DIRECTIONS FOR PLAYING AT SETTING OUT THE-36 CHANCES OF THE DICE. x. Two aces to be played upon your cinque point and bar point, for gammon or hit. 2. Two sixes to be played on your adversary’s bar point, and on your own, for a gammon or hit. 3. Two trois to be played on your cinque point and the other two in your trois point, in your own tables, for a gammon only. 4. Two deuces to be played on your quartre point in your own table, and two to be brought over from the five men placed in your adversary’s tables ; this also for a gammon only. 5. Two fours to be brought over from the five men placed in your adver- sary's table, and to be put upon the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon only. 6. Two fives, to be brought over from the five men placed in your adver- sary’s tables, and put on the trois point in your ow". for a gammon or hit. 7. Six ace, now take your bar point for a gammon or hit. 8. Six deuce, a man to be brought from the five, in your adversary’s tables, and placed on the cinque point in your own, for a gammon or hit. 9. Six and three, bring a man from your oponent’s ace point as far as he will go, for a gammon or hit. xo. Six and four exactly the same as last. 11. Six and five, ditto. 12. Cinque and quatre, ditto. 13. Cinque-trois, makes the trois point in your own tables for a gammon or hit- 14. Cinque-deuce, play two men placed in your adversary’s outer table in the five, for a gammon or hit. 15. Cinque-ace, bring one man from the five in your adversary’s tables for the cinque, and play one down on the cinque-point in your own tables, for the ace, for a gammon or hit. 16. Quatre-trois, bring two men from the five in your adversary’s tables, for a gammon or hit. 17. Quatre-deuce, make the quatre- point in your own tables, for a gammon or hit. 18. Quatre-ace, play a man from the five, in your adversary’s tables for the quatre; and for dice, a man down on the cinque point in your tables, for a gammon only. 19. Trois-deuce, bring two men from the five in your adversary’s tables, for a gammon only. 20. Trois-ace, make the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon or hit. 21. Deuce-ace, play one man from the five in your adversary’s tables, fqr the deuce; and for the ace, play a man down upon the cinque point in your own tables, for a gammon only. LAWS OF BACKGAMMON. 1. If you take a man or men from any point, that man or men must be played. 2. You are not understood to have played any man till placed upon a point, and quitted. 3. If you play with 14 men only, there is no penalty attending it, because with a lesser number you play to a dis- advantage, by not having the extra man ! to make up your tables.BAG 38 BAC 4. If you bear any number of men, before you Lave entered a man taken up, and which consequently you were obliged to enter, such men, so borne, I must be entered again in your adver- sary’s tables, as the man taken up. 5. If you have mistaken your throw, and played it, and if your adversary has thrown, it is not in your choice nor his to alter it, unless both sides agree to do so. BACON, YORKSHIRE. Yorkshire Bacon is first-rate, equal to that of Wiltshire, Cumberland, &c. The peculiarity of fla vour depends upon curing, which is conducted in the fol- lowing manner :—After killing, the pig must hang for twenty-four hours, be- fore being cut up. Take saltpetre, six ounces to the cwt., and rub it well in ; and xo lbs. of common salt to the cwt; well rub it in, and place in the salting- tub. After having been in salt twelve or fourteen days, it must be turned over, a few pounds of fresh salt applied, and left for ten days longer. Then take out, wipe well, and bang up in a cool, dry place in a linen or cotton bag, or wash over with lime and water, to pre- vent rancidity, and the attack of the bacon-fly. Hams especially should be preserved in this way. Some people make their bacon thus: Take off all the inside fat of a side of pork, and lay it on a long board or dresser, that the blood may run from it. Rub it well on both sides with good salt, and let it lie one day. Then take a pint of bay-salt, a quarter of a pound of saltpetre, and beat them both fine ; two pounds of coarse sugar, and a quarter of a peck of common salt. Lay your pork in something that will hold the pickle and rub it well with the above ingredients. Lay the skinny side down- wards, and baste it every day with the pickle for a fortnight. Then hang it on a wood-smoke and afterwards hang it in a dry place, but not in a hot place. Observe that all hams and bacon should hang clear from everything, and not touch the wall. Take care to wipe off the old salt before you put it into the pickle, and never keep bacon or hams in a hot kitchen, or in a room ex- posed to the rays of the sun, as all these matters contribute to make them rusty. BACON, to cure as in Wilt- shire.—Sprinkle each flitch with salt, and let the blood draiD off for twenty-four hours ; then mix a pound and a half of coarse sugar, the same quantity of bay-salt, nearly half a pound of saltpetre, and a pound of common salt. Rub this mixture well into the bacon, turning it every day for a month, then hang it to dry, and afterwards smoke it ten days. This quantity of salts is sufficient for the whole hog. BACON, to choose.—If the rind is thin, the fat firm and of a red tinge, the lean tender, and of a good colour, and adhering to the bone, you may conclude it good and not old. If there are yellow streaks in it, it is going, if not already, rusty. BACON, Excellent.—Divide the hog, and take the chine out; it is com- mon to remove the spareribs, but the bacon will be preserved better from being rusty if they are left in. Salt the bacon six days, then drain it from that first pickle ; mix as much salt as you judge proper with eight ounces of bay- salt, three ounces of saltpetre, and a pound of coarse sugar, to each hog, but first cut off the hams. Rub the salts well in, and turn it every day for a month. Drain, and smoke it a few days; or dry without, by hanging in the kitchen, not near the fire. BAD SMELLS.—When a per- son is so much affected by a pungent smell, as to cast him down, instantly convey him to a place where there is fresh air, dash cold water upon his head, lace, and chest. Then let a per- son press upon his breast bone, and push his bowels up to his chest, and suddenly let them go, producing the same action as breathing, which must be continued some minutes. Rub the chest and limbs with brandy or ammo- nia, mixed with oil, as a stimulant. Hold ammonia, or strong smelling salts to the nose, tickle the throat to cause sickness. If cold put him to bed, put bottles of hot water to his feet, thighs, and arm-pits ; and if possible, get some brandy, or other spirit and water, down his throat; or put him into a warm bath, and use the flesh brush while in it. BAGATELLE. — The player commences by having the eight white39 BAL BAK balls at the front of the tabie, he then places the red ball on the “spot," then be takes his cue and strikes the white ball with it so that it again strikes the red ball, forcing it either into one of the pockets at the side or otherwise into one of the highest numbered holes. The red bail counts double either in pocket or hole. Should he miss the red ball then he forfeits his white one. Should a ball rebound so far as to cross the marked line on the table the ball is forfeited. The object of the player should be to try to get the hignest number. If the red ball has been Doled at starting the play, the player mus. aim at the highest numbered holes on trie board. BAKING POWDER.—Take 6 oz. carbonate of soda, 4 oz. tartaric acid, 2 oz. sugar (very finely sifted,) 1 oz. salt. Mix well together, and after the flour has been made into dough (with water for bread, or milk for rolls,) add one teaspoonful of the powder to every pound of flour, and knead it well. By this powder hot rolls may be had to breakfast every morning, as its action is so rapid. Keep the powder in a well corked-bottle. BALDNESS. — The cause of baldness is defect in the hair follicles, from which the hair is developed. Sometimes it is the result of disease; and it is frequently hereditary. Those who perspire much about the head are generally bald. If the hair falls off after fever, shaving a few times will tend to promote the growth. Keeping the head closely wrapped prevents the growth of hair. A drachm of the Tinc- ture of Cantharides mixed with an ounce of lard, is a good application. An infusion of the Asarum Europeum Asarabacca, (see Robinson's Herbal) may be used as a lotion for the scalp. Rub the bald part frequently with the juice of an onion till it looks red.—Or, water, 1 pint; pearlash, half an ounce ; onion juice, 1 gill; rum, half a gill; oil of rosemary, 20 drops. Rub the head hard with a rough linen towel dipped in the mixture.—Or, take 4 ounces of castor oil, 8 ounces best rum, 30 drops oil of lavender, apply occasionally to the head, shaking the bottle well.—Or, beef marrow, well washed, melted, and strained, half a pound; tincture of cantharides, one ounce; oil of berga- mot, 12 drops.—Wash the head fre- quently with warm water and Windsor soap ; or with a decoction of rosemary and southernwood. BALDNESS. — Rub the part morning and evening with onions, till it is red, and afterwards with honey.— Or wash it with a decoction of box- wood.—Or electrify it daily.— Wesley. BALDNESS.—Infuse for a few days, 1 drachm of powdered canthar- ides in 1 ounce of proof spirit; beef marrow, half pound, soak in several waters, lastly in weak salt and water: melt, strain, and mix, adding 10 or 12 drops of oil of bergamot, or lavender. BALM.—It is diaphoretic. It makes an excellent drink in colds, fevers, and influenza. See Robinson's Herbal. BALM TEA.—Balm leaves, 1 ounce, fine sugar, 1 spoonful, lemon juice, 1 ounce, infused in a pint of boil- ing water, for twenty minutes. This forms a useful drink in colds, or fevers. (See Robinson’s Herbal, under Balm.) Or it may be made just like common tea, without the lemon. Let the patient drink it frequently, especially the last thing at night, and keep himself warm during the perspiration. BALM WINE.—Take 40 lbs. of sugar, and 9 gallons of water, tjoil it gently two hours, skim it well, and put it into a tub to cool. Take 2% lbs. of the tops of balm, bruised, and put them into a barrel with a little new yeast; and when the liquor is cold, pour it on the balm. Stir it well together, and let it stand twenty-four hours, stirring it often. Then close it up, and let it stand six weeks. Rack it off, and put a lump of sugar into each bottle. Cork well; it will be better the second year than the first. BALM OF GILEAD, Decoc- tion of, and Tincture of.—These form excellent remedies for coughs, asthma, wheezing, &c. Populous bal- somefera, or balsoiu poplar, belongs to America; but it may be obtained by applying to the Medical Botanists. For the decoction, simmer t ounce of the buds in a quart of soft water, down to half a pint. Take a wine glassful or more, when the cough is troublesome.BAL 40 BAR. —For the Tincture., Infuse 2 ounces of the buds in a quart of good rum, and 4 ounces of sugar. Digest for four days. Take two or three tea-spoonfuls at a time. It greatly relieves cough, pains in the chest, and other pulmonary affections. BALM ON Y. — An American plant. It is a good tonic, antibilious and stimularit. It is very bitter, and purgative. Hence it may be used in constipation, indigestion, loss of appe- tite, and general debility, with great effect; also in complaints of the liver and ague, and in jaundice. It is a good anthelmentic, soon ridding chil- dren of worms. Make an infusion with one eighth of a pint basin of loose leaves, fill with boiling water and steep, drink the whole in the course of the day, and repeat 3 or 4 days, or until well. If taken in powder from 4 to 8 grains. It is also used as an injection for children troubled with worms. BALSAM FOR COUGHS AND COLDS.—Tincture of tolu, and compound tincture of benzoin, of each, one ounce; rectified spirit, two ounces; syrup of blood-root, a table- spoonful. (See Blood-root Syrup.) Mix. Dose, a teaspoonful. BALSAM, Locatilla’s.—Olive- oil, one pint; oil of turpentine and yel- low wax, of each half a pound ; red saunders, six drachms. Melt the wax with part of the oil over a gentle fire, then add the remainder of the oil of tur- pentine ; afterwards mix in the saunders, reduced to powder, and stir till the balsam is cold. This balsam is recommended in erosions of the intestines, the dysentery, hemorrhages, internal bruises, and in some complaints of the breast. Out- wardly it is used for healing and clean- sing wounds and ulcers. The dose, internally, is two scruples to two drachms. BALSAMIC MIXTURE.-— Balsam of Capiva, 3 ozs. ; oil of juniper, 30 drops; gum arabic, dissolved in water, a sufficient quantity ; a cupful of spring water, and 1 oz. each of proof spirit, and syrup of marshmallows. Mix. Good for urinary affections. BANBURY CAKES. Take 3 lbs. of flour, i lb. of butter nibbed | into the flour, mix it with milk and a little balm; about two ounces for a penny ; roll them round, then put sugar, currants, and a little of the essence of lemons in the middle; make them up long and bake them in a hot oven. BANBURY CAKES. Roll out puff paste about a quarter inch thick, and place Banbury Composition in the middle of the piece cf paste you are to use; fold the other side over it and press it into an oval shape, flatten it with your hand at the top, letting the joining be at the bottom. Rub the top over with white of egg, and dust with powdered sugar. Banbury Composition. — Beat up well a quarter pound of butter, mix with it half a pound of candied orange and lemon cut small, one pound of cur- rants, and quarter ounce each of ground cinnamon, and allspice. Mix all to- gether with eight ounces of sugar. Keep in a jar for use. Bake fifteen minutes. BANDOLINE FOR THE HAIR.—This fixature is best made a little at a time. Pour a tablespoonful of boiling water on a dozen quince seeds ; and repeat when fresh is required. Or a solution of Gum Arabic ; scent- ed with otto of Roses. BANNOCK.—Meal, 2 cupfuls; flour, 2 cupfuls ; a teaspoonful of salt; one of ginger; two table-spoonfuls of treacle; sufficient buttermilk; half a teaspoonful of soda. Bake an hour. BARBERRIES, for Tartlets. —Pick barberries that have no stones, from the stalks, add to every pound weight three quarters of a pound of lump sugar; put the fruit into a stone jar, and either set it on a hot hearth or in a saucepan of water, and let them simmer very slowly till soft; put them and the sugar into a preserving-pan, and boil them gently fifteen minutes.—Use no metal but silver. BARBERRIES, to preserve. —This fruit must first be boiled in water twenty minutes, drained, and then pre- served ,with sugar like other fruit. BARBERRY JAM, to make. —Pick the barberries from the stalks; bake them in an earthen pan; whet) baked, puss them through a sieve with4* BAR BAR a large wooden spoon; weigh the hemes, and put their weight of powdered sugar ; mix well together; put it in your pans and cover it up ; set it in a dry place ; when you have filled the pans, sift powdered sugar over the tops. This fruit is cooling, antiscorbutic, and deobstruent, containing malic and citric acid. They are very useful in all inflammatory fevers, especially typhus, and bilious disorders, and scurvy. In the form of jam, the fruit is very refreshing. BARCLAY’S ANTIBILI- OUS PILLS.—Extract of coly- dnth, 3 drachms; extract of jalap, 1 drachm; almond soap, 1 drachm and a half; guiacum, 3 drachms; tartarised antimony, 8 grains; oil of juniper, 4 drops; oil of caraway, 4 drops: oil of rosemary, 4 drops ; form into a mass with syrup of buckthorn, and divide into pills. BARK, Decoction of.—Boil an ounce of the Peruvian bark, grossly powdered, in a pint and a half of water, to one pint, then strain the decoction. If a teaspoonful of the weak spirits of vitriol be added to this medicine, it will render it both more agreeable and efficacious. BARK, Compound Decoction of.—Take of Peruvian bark, and Virginia snake-root, grossly powdered, each three drachms. Boil in a pint of water to one half. To the strained liquor add one ounce and a half of aromatic water. BARK, Electuary of.—Take of Peruvian bark, in powder, three ounces; cascarilia, half an ounce ; syrup of gin- ger, enough to make an electuary. In the cure of obstinate intermitting fevers, the bark is assisted by the casca- rilla. In hectic habits, however, it will be better to leave out the cascarilia, and put three drachms of crude sal ammo- niac in its stead. BARK, Tincture of.—Peruvian bark, 2 ounces ; of cinnamon and orange peel, Y, ounce each ; cayenne pepper, 4 teaspoonfuls. Infuse all in x% pint of brandy, for six days in a close vessel,— Very useful in agues, remittent fevers, and the slow, nervous, and putrid kinds, especially at their decline. A table- spoonful at a time in anv suitable liquor. sharpened with a few drops of elixir of vitriol. BARLEY GRUEL.—Take of pearl barley 3 ozs. ; boil in two quarts of water till reduced to about one; a little cinnamon or ginger may be added ; strain, and return into the saucepan ; and then add, according to your palate, three quarters of a pint of port wine. BARLEY MILK.—Boil half a pound of pearl barley in three pints of milk ; when sufficiently boiled, add one quart of cream, a stick of cinnamon, and sugar to taste ; when nearly cold, pour in a pint of sherry wine, beat it into a froth, and serve. BARLEY PUDDING.—To 6 eggs well beaten put a quart of cream, half the whites, sweeten to your palate, a little orange flower or rose water, and 1 lb. of melted butter. Then put in six handfuls of barley, boiled tender in milk. Butter the dish, and put it in. Bake it a light brown. BARLEY SOUP.— Take a gallon of water, and half a pound of barley, a blade or two of mace, a large crust of bread, a small piece of lemon- peel ; let it boil till it comes to two quarts ; then add half a pint of sherry wine, and sweeten to your palate. When boiled to 3 quarts, chopped chicken and bacon may be put in, and salt; omitting the sugar. BARLEY SUGAR, Common. —Boil three pounds of coarse raw sugar in three tea-cupfuls of water, over a slow fire for half an hour. Dissolve a little gum in hot water ; and put it in to clear; keep skimming while any scum rises ; when ready it will snap like glass ; cut it into long sticks. BARLEY SUGAR.—Boil one pound of very fine sugar in a tea-cupful of water, over a slow fire for half an hour ; keep skimming it as often as any scum arises on the surface, till enough. Before it comes to the crack, take it off, and pour it on a stone. Clear with vin- egar. You must not pull this but make it into long sticks. Flavour with lemon juice, or oil of lemons ; rub a little fresh butter over a stone or marble slab, and pour sugar along it in narrow strips ; twist it to a spiral form while warm ; and when it becomes cold, mark it across with a42 BAT BAH knife, and it will break into any length desired. BARLEY WATER.—Careful- ly clean two table-spoonfuls of pearl barley, put it into a quart jug, adding a very little salt, and lump sugar to taste. Fill up with boiling water, and keep stirring for ten minutes. Cover, and let cool. It will be fit for use in ten or twelve hours. Finely shred lemon peel, or a little calfs feet jelly, greatly im- proves it. To make Barley-water pectoral, add to the above, sliced figs, bruised liquor- ice root, raisins, stoned ; the quantity of each according to taste; distilled water, 1 pint; boil awhile, and strain. These drinks are useful in fevers, and diseases of the chest. The barley should be well washed, then boiled a few minutes to extract its colouring matter. Then boil in fresh water to a proper consistence. Or, take a tea-spoonful of pearl bar- ley, two ounces of loaf sugar of the ordinary size, half a lemon, and enough isinglass to clear it. Pour half a gallon of spring water on these ingredients, and let it stand till cold. Or. add the juice and rind of one lemon to a table-spoonful of honey, and two teacupfuls of barley. Pour a quart of boiling water upon it. BARONESS’S PUDDING.— Suet, flour, raisins, of each, three quarters of a pound, and a little salt, and cinnamon. This is a real good pudding. BASILICON OINTMENT, Yellow.—Yellow wax, 8 ounces; yellow rosin 8 ounces ; Burgundy pitch, 3 ounces ; Venice turpentine, 4 ounces ; linseed oil, 10 ounces. First melt the rosin, to which add the wax, and the Burgundy pitch. When the whole is melted, remove from the fire, and slowly put in the oil, stirring well till it is cold. For the Black Basilicon, yellow wax, and yellow rosin, 10 ounces; common pitch, 5 ounces. Melt as before, and add 10 ounces of linseed pil when taken from the fire. For the Green Basilicon, yellow wax, and yellow rosin, of each, 3 ounces ; Venice turpentine, 6 ounces; powdered verdigris, I ounce; lard, 6 ounces. Melt first the rosin, as before. These ointments are very efficacious in healing cuts, abscesses, and local affections of any kind. BATH BUNS.—Take 1 lb. of flour, put it in a dish, and make a hole in the middle, and pour in a dessert spoonful of good yeast; pour upon the yeast half a cupful of warm milk, mix in one-third of the flour, and let it rise an hour. When it has risen, put in 6 oz. of cold butter, 4 eggs, and a few carraway seeds ; mix all together with the rest of the flour. Put it in a warm place to rise. Flatten it with the hand on a paste-board. Sift 6 ozs. of loaf sugar, half the size of a pea; sprinkle the particles over the dough ; roll to- gether, to mix the sugar ; let it rise, in a warm place about 20 minutes, Make into buns, and lay on buttered tins ; put sugar and 9 or 10 comfits on the tops, sprinkle them with water; bake in a pretty hot oven. BATH CAKES. — Take six pounds of flour, three quarters of a pound of butter, and three pounds of raw sugar, rub the butter and sugar well into the flour, after crushing the sugar small; take a little volatile salts dissolved in milk, mix the sugar and tniik together, and then put the other things in: roll it thin, and cut it into round cakes with a tin mould, and bake them in a slow oven ; they must not be browned much. Some persons prefer them with a few caraway seeds. BATHING.—See under their descriptive Names, as Cold Bath, Warm Bath, Vapour Bath, &c. BATHING the feet and legs in warm water at night.—Excellent for colds, coughs, hoarseness, pains, headaches, and fevers. It prevents de- termination of blood to the head, ex- cites the. blood downwards, and pro- motes perspiration. Add a little mus- tard to the water. The patient should go to bed immediately. BATHING THE FEET for Walking.—Take a breakfast cup- ful of Sea Salt, make into solution with a little hot water, when dissolved, add 6 or 7 quarts of aired water, bathe the feet in it for 5 minutes ; after which they should be wiped dry, when usedBEA BAT 43 several times the feet will feel like velvet. If the person is troubled with corns it will take them away by regular- ly bathing the feet. BATH PIPE.—Take powdered white sugar, 16 parts; Italian juice, dissolved in a little water, a parts; powdered gum Arabic, i part. Make them into a stiff mass with warm water, and roll it into the usual form. BATTER PUDDING.—Rub three spoonfuls of fine flour extremely smooth by degrees into a pint of milk : simmer till it thickens; stir in two ounces of butter : set it to cool; then add the yolks of three eggs; flour a cloth that has been wet, or butter a basin, and put the batteglnto it; tie it tight, and plunge it into ooiling water, the bottom upwards. Boil it an hour and a half, and serve with plain butter. If approved, a little ginger, nutmeg, and lemon-peel may be added. Serve with sweet sauce. BATTER PUDDING WITH MEAT.—Make a batter with flour, milk and eggs ; pour a little into the bottom of a pudding dish ; then put seasoned meat of any kind into it, and a little shred onion : pour the remain- der of the batter over it; bake in a slow oven. BATTER, to be used with all sorts of roasting meat. — Melt good butter ; put to it three eggs, with the whites well beat up, and warm them together, stirring them continually. With this you may baste any roasting meat, and then sprinkle bread crumbs thereon ; and so continue to make a crust as thick as you please. BATTER, for frying Fruit, Vegetables, &c.—Cut four ounces of fresh butter into small pieces, pour on it half a pint of barley water, and when dissolved, add a pint of cold water ; mix by degrees with a pound of fine dry flour, and a small pinch of salt. Just before it is used, stir into it the whites of two eggs beaten to a solid froth ; use quickly, that the batter may be light. BAY-BERRY.—The American kind of this plant is the best. It is very astringent and stimulant, and is judged to be the most valuable and astringent medicine ever discovered. As a stimu- kint it is very powerful, and preferred by some to cayenne, and other stimulants. It removes canker, or morbific matter from the mucous membranes of the sto- mach and bowels. It is a wonderful cleanser. In cold phlegmatic systems, it generates heat, and it is sometimes combined with cayenne in all cases of •cold clamminess, where there is much morbific matter in the system ; in such cases it may be given strong and fre- quently. Being an alterative it is a good remedy for bowel complaints, and effects a radical change in the secre- tions. The bark is the strongest. The powdered leaves, or the bark of the root make an excellent poultice for ulcers, cancerous and scrofulous sores, &c. BAY LEAVES—Are used for flavouring soups, gravies, pickles, &c. They should be dried, then pounded and put into a glass-stoppered bottle ready for use. BEANS, to dress.—Boil tender, with a bunch of parsley, chopped to serve with them. Bacon or pickled pork must be served to eat with, but not boiled with them. BEANS AND BACON, to dress.—When you dress beans and bacon, boil the bacon by itself, and the beans by themselves, for the bacon will spoil the colour of the beans. Always throw some salt into the water, and some parsley nicely picked. When the beans are done enough, which you will know by their being tender, throw them into a colander to drain. Take up the bacon and skin it; throw some raspings of the bread over the top, and if you have a salamander, make it red hot, and hold it over it, to brown the top of the bacon; if you have not one, set it before the fire to brown. Lay the beans in the dish, and the bacon in the middle, on the top, and send them to the table, with butter in a tureen. BEANS, Ragout of.—Boil your beans, so that the skins will slip off, take about a quart, season them with pepper, salt, and nutmeg ; then flour them, and have ready some butter in a stew- pan, throw in some beans ; fry them of a fine brown, then drain them from the fat, and lay them in your dish ; have ready a quarter of a pound of butter melted, and half a pint of the blanched44 BED BEA beans boiled, beat in a mortar, with a very little pepper, salt, and nutmeg; then by degrees, mix them to the butter. BEANS, FRENCH. —String, and cut them into four or eight; the last looks best. Lay them in salt and water, and when the sauce-pan boils put them in with some salt. As soon as they are done, serve them immediate- ly ; to preserve the green colour. BEANS, FRENCH, a la Creme.—Slice the beans and boil them in water with salt. When soft, drain: Put into a stew-pan two ounces of fresh butter, the yolks of three eggs, beaten up into a gill of cream, and set over a slow fire. When hot, add a spoonful of vinegar, and the bones, simmer for five minutes. BEANS, FRENCH, ala Pou- lette.—Choose the beans small and tender; clean them, and take out the fibers, and throw them into fresh water ; cut them all to one size ; put them upon a hot fire, in a pot or stew pan, with water, and a handful of salt; let them be well done and very green; throw them into cold water, drain, and put them into a stewpan with a bit of butter, cut onions in little dice, do them white in butter, dust in a little flour, let them cook a little without browning; add a spoonful of soup; mix it well with hashed parsley and scallions ; salt and pepper ; when done enough put in the beans, give them a boil; thicken the sauce with two or three yolks of eggs ; finish with the juice of a lemon and butter. BEANS, FRENCH, to boil.— Cut the ends of your beans off, then cut them slantways ; put them in strong salt and water as you do them ; let them stand an hour ; boil them in a large quantity of water, with a handful of salt in it, they will be a fine green; when you dish them up pour on them melted butter. BEANS, FRENCH, to pre- serve for Winter. — Pick them oung, and throw into a little wooden eg a layer of them three inches deep ; then sprinkle them with salt, put ano- ther layer of beans, and do the same as high as you think proper, alternately with salt, but not two much of this. Lay over them a plate, or cover of wood, that will go Into the keg, and put a heavy stone on it. A pickle will rise from the beans and salt. If they are too salt, the soaking and boiling will be sufficient to make them pleasant to the taste. BEANS, FRENCH, Pickled. —Put small young beans into strong salt and water for three days, and stir now and then. Put them into a sauce- pan with vine leaves, under and over them, and fill with salt and water ; keep on the fire till they are a fine green; drain; place in jars, and cover them with vinegar, allspice, cayenne, ginger, boil six minutes ; pour on hot. BEANS, FRENCH, as Salad. —Boil the beahs in salt and water, drain them, season with cayenne pepper, cream and vinegar; cover them; to stand three hours. Drain again, and mix salad of any kind, seasoning in the usual way, BEANS, Windsor, Fricasseed. —When grown large, but not mealy, boil, blanch, and lay then in a white sauce ready hot; just heat them through in it, and serve. If any are not of a fine green, do not use them in this dish. BEAUTY, personal, to pro- mote.—Labour to be cheerful. Do not give way to trouble. If you have misfortunes, bear them with submission; for brooding, maundering, &c. do no good. Above all be good-tempered. For the state of the mind has great influence upon the facial appearance, and bodily attitude. BECHAMEL SAUCE.—Put a few slices of ham into a stew-pan, a few mushrooms, two or three shalots, two clovei, also a bay leaf and a bit of butter. Let them stand a few hours. Add a little water, flour, and milk or cream ; simmer forty minutes. Scalded parsley, very fine, may be added. BEDS, to detect dampness in. —After having warmed the bed with the pan, place between the sheets a wine or beer glass ; if after a few minutes, the glass collects no vapour, it is safe, and vice versa. In all doubt- ful cases, such as a strange bed, sleep between the blankets. BED SORES.—The white of an egg beaten to a strong froth ; then dropBEE 45 BEE In gradually, whilst you are beating, two table-spoonfuls of spirits of wine ; put it into a bottle, and apply occasionally with a feather. Soap Plaster, sold by the Druggists, protects the affected part from friction or rubbing. BEECH WOOD, to stain Mahogany colour.—Put two ounces of dragon's blood in small pieces into a quart of spirits of wine ; let it stand in a bottle, in a warm place, and shake it frequently. Beef—Hind-Quarter 1. Sirloin. 2. Rump. 3. Edge-Bone. 4. Buttock. 5. Mouse-Buttock. 6. Veiny Piece. 7. Thick Flank. 8. Thin Flank. 9- Leg. 10. Fore Rib; 5 Ribs. Fore-Quarter. 11. Middle Rib ; 4 Ribs. 12. Chuck ; 3 Ribs. BEEF, to Choose.—If the flesh of ox-beef is young, it will have a fine imooth open grain, be of a good red, and look tender. The fat should look white rather than yellow ; for when that is of a deep colour, the meat is seldom good ; beef fed by oil-cakes is in general so, and the flesh is flabby. The grain of cow-beef is closer, and the fat whiter, than that of ox-beef; but the lean is not of so bright a red. The grain of bull- beef is closer still, the fat hard and skinny, the lean of a deep red, and a stronger scent. Ox-beef is the reverse. Ox-beef is the richest and largest, but in small families, and to some tastes, heifer-beef is better, if finely fed. In old meat there is a streak of horn in the ribs of beef: the harder this is, the older; and the flesh is not finely flavoured. BEEF a-la-mode.—Choose a piece of thick flank of a fine heifer or ox. Cut into long slices some fat bacon, but quite free from yellow ; let each bit be near an_inch thick: dip them into vinegar, and then into a seasoning ready 13. Shoulder, or Leg of Mutton Piece. 14. Brisket. 15. Clod. 16. Neck or Sticking- Piece. 17. Shin. 18. Cheek. prepared of salt, black pepper, allspice, and one clove, all in fine, powder, with parsley, chives, thyme, savory and knot- ted majoram, shred as small as possible, and well mixed. With a sharp knife make holes deep enough to let in the larding ; then rub the beef over with the seasoning, and bind it up tight with tape. Set it in a well-tinned pot over a fire, or rather, stove; three or four onions must be fried brown and put to the beef, with two or three carrots, one turnip, a head or two of celery, and a small quantity of water ; let it simmer gently ten or twelve hours, or, till ex- tremely tender, turning the meat twice. Put the gravy into a pan, remove the fat, keep the beef covered, put them to- gether, and add a glass of port wine. Take off the tape and serve with the vegetables ; or you may strain them oft', and send them up cut into dice for garnish. Onions roasted and then stewed with the gravy are a great im- provement. A tea-cupful of vinegar should be stewed with the beef. BEEF, boiled.—Boil the thick end of a brisket of beef, some carrots.BEE BEE 46 turnips cut in small balls, and some celery, for two hours. Let it simmer for six hours longer, taking care to fill up the pot as the water decreases. An hour before the meat is done, take out as much broth as will fill your soup dish, and boil in it turnips and carrots, cut in small pieces, with some celery, and season it with salt and pepper; serve the beef in one dish, and the soup in another. Add toast bread to the soup. BEEF, Brisket of, to Stew.— Put the part that has the hard fat into a stew pot, with a small quantity of water, let it boil up, and skim it thor- oughly ; then add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few pepper-corns. Stew till extremely tender; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that and the meat in a tureen ; or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnish- ed with some vegetables. The following SAUCE is much admired, served with the beef:—Take half a pint of the soup, and mix it with a spoonful ofketchup, a glass of port wine, a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat Chop capers, walnuts, red cabbage, pickled cucumbers, and chives or parsley small, and put in separate heaps over it BEEF BROTH.—Put two pounds of lean beef, one pound of scrag of veal, one pound of scrag of mutton, sweet herbs, and ten pepper-corns, into a nice tin saucepan, with five quarts of water ; simmer to three quarts ; and clear from the fat when cold. Add one onion if approved. Soup and broth made of different meats, are more supporting as well as better flavoured. To remove the fat, take it off, when cold, as clean as possible ; and if there be still any remaining, lay a bit of clean blotting or cap-paper on the broth when in the basin, and it will take up every particle. BEEF CAKES.—Pound some beef that is underdone with a little bacon, or ham ; season with pepper, salt, and a little shalot, or garlic: mix them well; and make into small cakes three inches long; and half as wide and thick; fry them a light brown, and serve them in a good thick gravy. BEEF, to Collar.—Choose the thin end of the flank of fine mellow beef, but not too fat; lay it into a dish with salt and saltpetre, turn and rub it every day for a week and keep it cool. Then take out all bone and gristle, remove the skin of the inside part, and cover it thick with the following season- ing cut small: a large handful of parsley, the same of sage, some thyme, mar- joram, and pennyroyal, pepper, salt, and allspice. Roll the meat up as tight as possible, and bind it, then boil it gently for seven or eight hours. A cloth must be put round before the tape. Put the beef under a good weight while hot, without undoing it: the shape will then be oval. Part of a breast of veal rolled in with the beef, looks and eats very well. BEEF-COLLOP.—Cut thin slices of beef from the rump, or any other tender part, and divide them into pieces three inches long; beat them with the blade of a knife, and flour them. Fry the collops quick in butter two minutes; then lay them into a small stew-pan, and cover them with a pint of gravy ; add a bit of butter rub- bed in flour, pepper, salt, the least bit of shalot shred as fine as possible, half a walnut, four small pickled cucumbers, and a teaspoonful of capers cut small. Take care that it does not boil; and serve the stew in a very hot covered dish. BEEF Cooked in a French Manner.—Procure six pounds of beef, and a pound of fat bacon in thin strips ; roll each strip separately, in a seasoning of parsley and pepper, and cover the beef thickly over with them. Place some veal bones at the bottom of a pan,, with a cover, tie the larded beef round, and place it upon the bones. Then slowly pour over it two tablespoon- fuls of rum, so as to penetrate the beef. Place a thin slice of bacon at the top, and vegetables : viz. a few carrots, an onion, half a turnip, and one head of celery. Put these into the pan, with pepper-corns, and a bunch of sweet herbs in a bag, and pour over the whole a cupful of good gravy. Cover the pan well. Bake in an oven slowly for four hours; garnish, when cold, with jelly,BEE 47 EEE and with the vegetables stewed with the meat. This is a very nice dish. BEEF, Corned.—Make the fol- lowing pickle :—water, a gallons ; salt, aK lbs. ; treacle, % lb. ; sugar, i lb.; saltpetre, i % ozs. ; pearlash, % oz. Boil all together; skim, and pour the pickle on about twenty-five pounds of beef. Let it stay in a few pays. Boil in plenty of water when cooked to remove the salt, and eat with it plenty of vegetables. It is nice to eat cold, and makes excellent sandwiches. BEEF, to Cure.—Take 28 lbs. of good beef and rub it thoroughly with salt and saltpetre ; then make a pickle of 4 ozs. of bay salt, kf oz. of saltpetre, and 4 ozs. of coarse sugar, and 50 ozs. of common salt. Rub this well in every day for 3 or 4 weeks. Take out and roll in bran or sawdust and hang it in a wood smoke for 6 or 8 days. Hang in a dry place near the chimney for a week ; then keep it by covering it with bran. Spiced Beef is done the same way, adding mace, cloves, and pepper. All rubbed well into the beef. Spiced beef is not smoked, and it is generally boiled—slowly. BEEF, Fricandeau of.—Take a nice bit of lean beef; lard it with bacon seasoned with pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and allspice. Put it into a stew-pan with a pint of broth, a glass of white wine, a bundle of parsley, all sorts of sweet herbs, a clove of garlic, a shalot or two, four cloves, pepper and salt. When the meat is be- come tender, cover it close; skim the sauce well, and strain it; set it on the fire, and let it boil till it is reduced to a glaze. Glaze the larded side with this, and serve with sorrel-sauce. BEEF, Fricassee of cold Roast Beef.—Cut the beef into very thin slices, shred a handful of parsley very small, cut an onion into quarters, and put all together into a stewpan, with a piece of butter, and some strong broth : season with salt and pepper, and simmer very gently a quarter of an hour : then mix into it the yolks of two eggs, a glass of port wine, and a spoonful of vinegar ; stir it quick, rub the dish with shalot, tuid turn the fricassee Into It, BEEF GRAVY.—According to the quantity wanted, cut slices of lean gravy beef, which place in a stew-pan upon a slice of ham or lean bacon, sliced onions, a carrot, two or three cloves, and a head of celery; add a good fat broth, and a pint of water; put on a slow fire for about half an hour, stirring it a few times. Then add boil- ing water as you think proper. Get it to the proper colour. It should be fre- quently skimmed, and at last strained. BEEF HASH.—Take the bones of the joint to be hashed, break them small; then stew them in very little water, with two onions, pepper, salt, a few sweet herbs, and a little butter; then add some slices of underdone beef with fat. If you like, add gravy, ketch- up, and a glass of sherry. Put it into a small stew-pan with a little water, an onion, pepper and salt. Simmer it till hot through, and serve with dried parsley. BEEF, to Hash.—Do it the same as in the last receipt; only the meat is to be in slices, and you may add a spoonful of walnut-liquor or ketchup. Observe, that it is owing to boiling hashes or minces that they get hard. All sorts of stews, or meat dressed a second time, should be only simmered ; and this only hot through. BEEF, HASHED, American. —Put nearly a pint of boiling water into a small saucepan, and make a thin paste with a dessert spoonful of flour, and a table-spoonful of cold water. Stir it in, and boil three minutes. Add half a teaspoonful of black pepper, and one of salt. Gently simmer 10 minutes. Cut the beef into half-inch pieces and add as many pieces of boiled potatoes and turnips, and two or three ounces of butter, and if you like, a table-spoonful of tomato-ketchup. Simmer again 5 or 10 minutes; add gravy, port wine, and lemon juice, if you like. BEEF-HEART.—Wash it care- fully ; stuff as hare; roast, and serve with rich gravy, and currant-jelly sauce. Hash with the same, and add port wine. BEEF, Hunters’.—To a round of beef that weighs twenty-five pounds, take three ounces of saltpetre, three ounces of the coarsest sugar, an ounceBEK BEE 48 of cloves, a nutmeg, half an ounce of allspice, three handfuls of common salt, all in the finest powder. The beef should hang two or three days ; then rub the above well into it, and turn and rub it every day for two or three weeks. The bone must be taken out at the first. When to be dressed, dip it into cold water, to take off the loose spice, bind it up tight with tape, and put it into a pan with a tea- cupful of water at the bottom, cover the top of the meat with shred suet, and the pan with a brown crust and paper, and bake it five or six hours. When cold, take off the paste and tape. The gravy is very fine ; and a little of it adds greatly to the flavour of any hash, soup, &c. Both the gravy and beef will keep some time. The meat should be cut with a very sharp knife, and quite smooth, to pre- vent waste. BEEF, to Keep.—The kernels should be removed from the neck pieces. As the butchers seldom attend to this matter, the cook should do it, and then rub the salt well into such beef as is designed for boiling, and slightly sprinkle that which is for roast- ing. BEEF, to Mince.—Shred the underdone part fine, with some of the fat; put it into a small stew-pan, with some onion or shalot, (a very little will do,) a little water, pepper, salt; boil it till the onion is quite soft, then put some of the gravy of the meat to it, and the mince. Don’t let it boil. Have a small hot dish with sippets of bread ready, pour the mince into it, but first mix a large spoonful of vinegar with it: if shalot-vinegar is used, there will be no need of the onion, nor the raw shalot. BEEF, to Mince.—Shred the meat fine, and boil with onion, or shalot, pepper, &c.; add a little of its gravy, or some butter. Garnish with toast. BEEF, en Miroton.—Cut thin slices of cold roast beef and put them into a frying-pan with a K lb. of butter, and six onions, and a few cloves, turn the pan frequently, then mix a little broth and some salt, pepper, and after a few boils, serve up hot. This dish is excellent and economical. BEEF-OLIVES, or to dress meat that has not been done enough. ,■— Cut slices half-an-inch thick, and four inches square; lay on them a forcemeat of crumbs of bread, shalot, a little suet, or fat, pepper, and salt. Roll them, and fasten with a small skewer; put them into a stew- pan with some gravy made of the beef- bones, or the gravy of the meat, and a spoonful or two of water and stew them till tender. Fresh meat will do. BEEF - PALATES. — Simmer them in water several hours, till they will peel; then cut the palates into slices, or leave them whole, as you choose ; and stew them in a rich gravy till as tender as possible. Before you serve, season them with Cayenne, salt, and ketchup. If the gravy was drawn clear, add also some butter and flour. If to be served white boil them in milk, and stew them in a fricassee sauce ; adding cream, butter, flour, and mushroom powder, and a little pounded mace. BEEF PATTIES.—Use the best beef, half roast it, cut it very small, season with pepper, salt, and onion, or shalot, put it into thin paste, close up, and bake to a brown.—Underdone beef may be used instead of fresh. BEEF, to Pot.—Take two pounds of lean beef, rub it with salt- petre, and let it lie one night; then salt with common salt, and cover it with water four days in a small pan. Dry it with a cloth and season with black pepper; lay it into as small a pan as will hold it, cover it with coarse paste, and bake it five hours in a very cool oven. Put no liquor in. When cold, pick out the strings and fat; beat the meat very fine with a quarter of a pound of fine butter just warm, but not oiled, and as much of the gravy as will make it into a paste; put it into very small pots, and cover them with melted butter. Another way.—Take beef that has been dressed, either boiled or roasted; beat it in a mortar with some pepper, salt, a few doves, grated nut- meg, and a little fine butter, just warm.49 BEE BEE This eats as well, but the colour is not so fine. It is a good way for using the remains of a large joint. BEEF, to Roast.—Beef may be roasted before the fire, though this method is not now so common. It is mostly roasted in the oven'. If before the fire, it is a good plan to put a little salt and water in the dripping-pan; baste the meat a little with it; let it dry ; then dust it well with flour; baste it with good butter, to give the meat a better colour. Place at a proper dis- tance from the fire, and baste it often; let the thickest part of the beef have the most fire. If you allow it to scorch, it makes the meat hard, and prevents the heat from penetrating to the centre ; besides it will appear enough when it is only about half done. When the steam draws near the fire it is a sign of its being enough. Never salt your meat much before you lay it to the fire, as salting brings out the gravy, and forms brine. This caution applies to beef for immediate eating. If you roast in the oven, have it hot before you put in the beef; keep the oven door open five or six minutes after putting the beef in, to get rid of the steam. Baste it occasionally. BEEF, Rolled. — Hang three ribs three or four days; take out the bones from the whole length, sprinkle it with salt, roll the meat tight, and roast it. Nothing can look nicer. The above done with spices, &c., and baked as hunters’ beef is excellent BEEF, Rolled to equal Hare. —Take the inside of a large sirloin, soak it in a glass of port wine and a glass of vinegar mixed, for forty-eight hours ; have ready a very fine stuffing, and bind it up tight. Roast it on a hanging spit; and baste it with a glass of port wine, the same quantity of vinegar, and a tea-spoonful of pounded allspice. Larding it improves the look and flavour ; serve with a rich gravy in the dish ; currant-jeliy and melted but- ter in tureens. BEEF, Round of.—Should be carefully salted and wet with the pickle for eight or ten days. The bone should be cut out first, and the beef skewered and tied up to make it quite round. It may be stuffed with parsley, if approved, in which case the holes to admit the parsley must be made with a sharp {Mint- ed knife, and the parsley coarsely cut and stuffed in tight. As soon as it boils, it should be skimmed, and after- wards kept boiling very gently. BEEF, to Salt, Dutch way.— Take a lean piece of beef; rub it well with treacle or brown sugar, and let it be turned often. In three days wipe it, and salt it with common salt and salt- petre beaten fine ; rub these well in, and turn it every day for a fortnight. Roll it tight in a coarse cloth, and press it under a large weight; hang it to dry in a wood-smoke, but turn it upside down every day. BEEF or PORK to Salt for immediate use.—The piece should not weigh more than five or six pounds. Salt it very thoroughly just before you put it into a ppt; take a coarse cloth, flour it well, put the meat in, and fold it close. Put it into a pot of boiling water, and boil it as long as you would any other salt beef of the same size, and it will be as salt as if done four or five days. BEEF, to Salt red.—Choose a piece of beef with as little bone as you can (the flank is most proper,) sprinkle it, and let it drain a day; then rub it with common salt, saltpetre, and bay- salt ; but only a small proportion of the saltpetre, and you may add a few grains of cochineal, all in fine powder. Rub the pickle every day into the meat for a week, then only turn it. It will be excellent in eight days. In sixteen drain it from the pickle ; and let it be smoked at the oven-mouth when heated with wood, or send it to the baker's. A few days will smoke it. A little of the coarsest sugar may be added to the salt. It eats well, boiled tender with greens or carrots. If to be grated as Dutch, then cut a lean bit, boil it till extremely tender, and while hot, put it under a press. When cold, fold it in a sheet of paper, and it will keep in a dry place two or three months,—ready for serving on bread and butter. BEEF, called Sanders, to dress.—Mince beef, or mutton, small with onion, pepper, and salt; add a little gravy ; put it into scallop-shells, or DBEE BEE 5° saucers, making them three-parts full, and fill them up with potatoes, mashed with a little cream ; put a bit of butter on the top, and brown them in an oven, or before the fire. BEEF SAUSAGES.—Take 2 lbs. of nice lean tender beef, and one pound of beef suet. Cut and chop them fine. Mix powdered sage and sweet herbs with the meat. Season pretty high with pepper, salt, nutmeg, &c. ; also the finely shred rind of a small lemon. Skins may be dispensed with, if they be rolled well in a beaten egg, fried in hot butter, and rolled about in the pan. BEEF, SIRLOIN, to Force.— Split it; cut off the skin and fat; bone it; chop the meat fine with beaten mace, shalots, an anchovy, half a pint of port, pepper and salt; lay the bones, fat, and skin on; skewer and pepper it well. Serve with sauce made of port wine, shalot, anchovy, and horseradish. BEEF, Sirloin, to £>ress.—Cut out all the meat and fat in little pieces as thick as your finger, and two inches long ; dredge it with flour; and fry in butter, of a nice brown; drain the butter from the meat, and toss it up in a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, anchovy, and shalot. Do not let it boil on any account. Before you serve, add two spoonfuls of vinegar. Garnish with crimped parsley. BEEF SOUP.—Put into ten pints of water, eight pounds of beef, cut into two or three pieces, one pound of mixed green vegetables, four tea- spoonfuls of salt, half a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, a few shalots, and three cloves. Boil gently three hours. BEEF SOUP.—See Soup and Bouille, page 370. BEEF-STEAKS should be cut from a rump that has hung a few days. Broil them over a very clear fire, or in the oven; put into the dish a little minced shalot, and a table-spoonful oi ketchup; and rub a bit of butter on the steak the moment of serving. It should be turned often, that the gravy may not be drawn out on either side. This dish requires to be eaten so hot and fresh done, that it is not in perfec- tion if served with anything else. Pepper and salt should be added when taking It off the fire. BEEF-STEAKS, Fried.—Cm your steaks as for broiling ; put them into a stewpan, with butter; set them over a slow fire, turning them till the buttei becomes a thick white gravy ; add a little pepper and salt, pour it into a basin, and add more butter ; when they are almost enough, pour all the gravy into the basin, and put more butter into the pan ; fry them a light brown over a quick fire ; put them in a hot dish, slice a shalot among them ; put a little in the gravy drawn from them, and pour it hot upon them. BEEF-STEAKS, Rich.—Cut a fine large steak from a rump that has been well hung, or it will do from any tender part; beat it, and season with butter, pepper, salt, clove, and onion; lay it in a dish that has a cover to fit quite close, and set in the oven with water. In two or three hours it will be quite tender, and then serve with its own gravy. BEEF-STEAK, with Potatoes. —Cut thin slices of beef, beat and season them with pepper and salt, dip them into a little melted butter and broil them. When done, put them into a dish before the fire, and fry potatoes to a fine brown colour, serve with parsley chopped fine, a small piece of butter, pepper and salt. BEEF-STEAKS and OYS- TER SAUCE.—Strain the liquor from the oysters, and throw them into cold water to take off the grit; simmer the liquor with mace and lemon-peel; put the oysters in, stew a few minutes, add a little cream, and butter rubbed in flour; boil up once; and have rump- steaks, well-seasoned, and broiled, ready for throwing the oyster-sauce over, when you serve. BEEF-STEAKS, Stafford- shire.—Beat them well; flour and season; then fry with sliced onions of a fine brown; place in a stew-pan, and pour as much boiling water over them as will serve for sauce ; stew very gently half an hour, and add a spoonful of ketchup, or walnut-liquor. BEEF-STEAK, Stewed.—Peel and chop two Spanish onions, cut into small parts four pickled walnuts, and put them at the bottom of a stewpan ; add a tea-cupful of mushroom ketchup.BEE BEE 5 1 two teaspoonfuls of walnut ditto, one of shalot, one of Chile vinegar, and a lump of butter. Let the rump-steak be cut about three-quarters of an inch thick, and beat it flat with a rolEng-pin, place the meat on the top of the onions, &c., let it stew for one hour and a half, turning it every twenty minutes. Ten minutes before serving up, throw in a dozen oysters with the liquor strained. BEEF-STEAK PIE.—Take fine rump steaks; beat them with a rolling pin : then season them with pep- per and salt, according to your palate ; make a good crust; lay in your steaks ; fill your dish; then pour in as much water as will half fill the dish. Put on the crust, and bake it well. If the pie be intended to be eaten cold, more sea- soning must be put in than if intended to be eaten hot. An onion, finely sliced, is a great improvement to it. BEEF-STEAK PIE.—Prepare the steaks as stated under Beef-sieaks, and when seasoned and rolled with fat in each, put them in a dish with puff paste round the edges; put a little water in the dish, and cover it with a good crust. BEEF-STEAK PUDDING.— Take some fine rump steaks ; roll them with fat between ; and if you approve a little shred onion. Lay a paste of suet in a basin, and put in the chopped steaks; cover the basin with a suet paste, and pinch the edges to keep the gravy in. Cover with a cloth tied close, let the pudding boil slowly lor two hours. BEEF-STEAK BUDDING, Baked.—Make a batter of milk, two eggs and flour, or, which is much better, potatoes boiled and mashed through a colander ; lay a little of it at the bottom of the dish ; then put in the steaks very well seasoned; pour the remainder of the batter over them and bake it. BEEF, Stewed Rump.—Wash it well; and season it with pepper, cayenne, salt, allspice, cloves, and mace, in fine powder. Bind it up tight, and lay it in a pot that will just hold it. Fry three large onions sliced, and put them to it, with three carrots, two turnips, a shalot, four cloves, a blade of mace, and some celery. Cover the meat with good beef-broth, or weak gravy. Sim- mer it very gently for several hours, till quite tender. Clear off the fat, and add to the gravy half a pint of port wine, a glass of vinegar, and a large spoonful of ketchup; simmer half an hour, and serve in a deep dish. Half a pint of table beer may be added. The herbs to be used should be parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, marjoram, pen- nyroyal, and chives. Garnish with carrots, turnips, or truffles and morels, or pickles of differ- ent colours, cut small, and laid in little heaps separate; chopped parsley, chives, beet-root, &c. If, when done, the gravy is too much to fill the dish, take only a part to season for serving, but the less water the better; and to increase the richness add a few beef-bones and shanks of mutton in stewing. A spoon- ful or two of made mustard is a great improvement to the gravy. Rump roasted is excellent; but in the country it is generally sold whole with the edge bone, or cut across instead of length- ways. Another way.—Half roast it; then put it into a large pot with three pints of water, one of small beer, one of port wine, some salt, three or four spoonfuls of vinegar, two of ketchup, a bunch of sweet heibs of various kinds (such as bumet, tarragon, parsley, thyme, basil, savoury, pennyroyal, mar- joram, knotted marjoram, and a leaf or two of sage,) some onions, cloves, and cayenne; cover it close, and sim- mer till tender. When done lay it into a deep dish, set it over hot water, and cover it close. Skim the gravy; put in a few pickled mushrooms, truffles, morels, and oysters if agreeable, but it is good without; thicken the gravy with flower and butter, and heat it with the above, and pour over the beef. Force- meat balls of veal, anchovies, bacon, suets, herbs, spices, bread, and eggs, to bind, are a great improvement. BEEF STOCK.—Cut a piece of good beef into pieces, and boil with water just to cover it. Keep skimming, and add parsley, thyme, carrot, onion, turnip, celery, and a little salt; boil till the meat is tender, and strain it fine. BEEF TEA.—Cut a pound of fleshy or shin beef in small thin pieces; simmer with a quart of water twenty52 BEE BIC minutes, after it has once boiled, and been skirnmed. Season, if approved. BEER, Excellent Table.—On three bushels of malt pour of hot water the third of the quantity you are to use,' which is to be thirty-nine gallons. ICover it warm half an hour, then mash, and let it stand two hours and a half more, then set it to drain. When dry add half the remaining water, mash and let it stand half an hour, run that into ano- ther tub, and pour the rest of the water on the malt, stir it well, and cover it, letting it infuse a full hour. Run that off, and mix all together. A pound and a half of hops should be infused in water, and be put into the tub for the first running. B.oil the hops with the wort an hour from the time it first boils. Strain off and cool. If the whole be not cool enough that day to add the yeast, a pail or two of wort may be prepared, and a quart of yeast put to it over night. Before tunning, all the wort should be added together, and thoroughly mixed with the lade-pail. When the wort ceases to work, put a bit of paper on the bung-hole for three days, when it may be safely fastened close. In four weeks the beer will be fit for drinking. Note Servants should be directed to put a oork into every barrel as soon as the tap is taken out, and to fasten in the vent-peg, the air causing casks to become musty. BEETLE, House.—Take some small lumps of unslacked lime and put into the cracks or holes from which they issue ; it will effectually destroy them : or it may be scattered on the ground. Another method, is to sprinkle the floor at night with coarse red wafers which they will greedily devour; the red lead will act upon them as poison. Another method. Those who cannot procure a regular beetle trap, may make a very good substitute, by placing a bell-lipped tumbler upon the ground near their haunts, and run up a conical surface with sand to the lip of the glass; then, after filling the glass about half-way up with beer, or sugar and water, suspend a little sugar itself in a thimble over the glass, horizontally with its margin, and in the centre : you will find in their eagerness to get at the sugar, which is not within their reach, they will overstretch themselves, and falling into the liquor, which will attract them, you will destroy thousands. Or make a cake of sugar, dripping, flour, and any poison, as arsenic, pow- dered phosphorus, &c. Be careful to keep the poison out of the way of chil- dren, and domestic animals.—See Cock- roaches. BEET ROOTS, to Pickle.— Beet Roots are a very pretty garnish for made dishes, and are thus pickled. Boil the roots till they are tender, then take off the skins, cut them in slices, gimp them in the shape of wheels, or what form you please, and put them in- to a jar. Take as much vinegar as you think will cover them, and boil it with a little mace, a race of ginger sliced, and a few slices of horse-radish. Pour it hot upon your roots, and tie them down. BETHROOT.—An American plant. It stops inward bleeding from the kidneys, bladder, urethra, &c. It is good in fevers, coughs, asthma, con- sumption, taking a teaspoonful of the powdered root at a time ; or it may be infused and taken. United with blood- root, and made into a poultice, it is effectual in gangrene, or incipient mor- tification, ulcers, and sores. It restrains profuse menstruation, the whites, and it is an excellent astringent taken after child-birth for the uterine organs, em- ployed as an enema. It may be ob- tained at the Medical Botanists. The powdered root is used a tea- spoonful at a time ; or it is infused, to be drunk freely. This powder united with raspberr, leaves, and made into tea is most effectual in diarrhoea, or laxity of the bowels. BICYCLE, to Ride.—The first time you try should be in a boarded room, or on a gently falling smooth road. Mount the machine from an elevation, and slightly pushing off with the inside foot, let the bicyle run with- out placing the feet on the treadles. This is a simple way to practise balan- cing, and tire moment the machine ap- pears to be falling to the left, draw the left hand a little towards you, it will have the effect of turning the driving wheel in the same direction, readjusting the balance; if it should fall to the right, reverse the action, and guide the wheel to the right.% BIC 53 When you have mastered the preced- ing, bring the bicycle up to the side of the road, let the outer treadle be slightly inclined or just falling over the centre, then throw your leg over the saddle, place the outer foot on the treadle and press on it, at the same time pushing of from the side with the inner leg, by the time you have done this the inner treadle will have come up, and soon as it has begun the descent place your in- ner foot oh it, and press it down as you did the outer one. Give the treadles a steady pressure and then only when going over, allowing the wheel to com- plete the revolution itself, the foot merely feeling the touch. In holding the handles do not grasp them too hard, or it will cramp the hands. There are three ways of holding them.—i.—with the hands over them, 3.—with the hands under them, and 3.—holding them with the ends in the palms of the hands. The second posi- tion is the best for a learner, when con- fidence is gained use the third position. After you have mastered the rudi- ments and can travel a few hundred yards without a spill, you will then re- quire to learn to mount from the ground without elevation, this is called the ‘ step,’ mount from the left side of the bicycle, stand just behind the step, stretch over and hold both the handles in your hands, placing the toes of the left foot on the step, hop a few paces on your right foot, pushing the bicycle at the same time,—and as soon as it has run a little way, spring yourself on the step, and throwing the right leg over on the backbone, drop a little forward into the saddle, get your right foot on the treadle and also your left as soon as possible so as to prevent the machine from stop- ping. If you wish to dismount, hold the handles firmly, hand uppermost, take the left foot oft the treadle and move it back until you are able to place your toe on the step, keeping the other treadle work- ing with the right foot, when you have got your toe firmly on the step, raise your body out of the saddle, then bring your right leg backwards and jump oft, letting the right foot touch the ground first, let go of the handle with the right hand, still holding with the left. It is best to lean) on a small machine, ou then gain confidence to mount one igher. Tricycles do not require much learning, tread lightly and at the right time, that is, when the treadle is just going over. BILLIARDS, Rules.—1 The game commences by stringing for the lead and choice of the balls, as in the White Winning Game. It; is imagined by some persons, that the re- ceiver of points, if any be given, is bound to lead off. But this is wrong, for the points given are understood to equalize the game. Why, therefore, should one party give away any supposed advantage he may possess over the other ? 3 The red ball must be placed on the lower of the two spots at the bottom of the table, and replaced there when it is holded, or forced over the edge of the table, or when the balls are broken. N.B. Breaking the balls is placing them as at the commencement of the game. 3 Whoever breaks the balls, leads off, unless when they are broken by mutual consent, in which case the lead should be stipulated for, or strung for. 4 If a player makes one stroke in a game, he must finish that game ; other- wise he loses it. 5 If the striker makes any points, he may continue his game until he ceases to make points. 6 If, when the ate is pointed, the ball should be moved without the striker in- tending to strike, it must be replaced; and if not replaced before the smoke be played, the adversary may claim it as a foul stroke. 7 If a ball springs from the table, and strikes one of the players, or a bystand- er, so as to prevent its falling on the floor, it must be considered as off the table. 8 If a ball runs so near the brink of a pocket as to stand there, and after- wards falls in, it must be replaced and played at, or with, as the case may be. N.B. There is no necessity for chal- lenging a ball. The umpire must decide whether the ball has stood or not. 9 If (as it may sometimes happen) a ball be spinning on the brink of a poc- ket, and, although stationary for a time, afterwards falls in, in that case the hazard is scored, if the motion be not gone out of the ball at the time it falls into the pocket.54 BIL BIL 10 If the ball lodges on the top of a -ushion, it is considered as off the table. n After the adversary’s ball is off the table, and the two remaining balls are either upon the line, or within the stringing dots at the upper end of the table, where the white balls are origin- ally placed in leading, it is called a baulk, and the striker, who is to play from the ring, must strike outside the baulk, so as to occasion his ball, in re- turning, to hit one of the balls in the baulk ; if not, he loses one point, 12 A line ball is when the centre of the ball is exactly on the line of the baulk, in which case it is to be consider- ed in the baulk, and cannot be played at, except from a cushion out of the baulk. 13 All misses to be given, with the point of the cue, and the ball struck only once ; if otherwise given, the adversary may claim it as a foul stroke, and enforce the penalty,—make the striker play the stroke over again,—or have the ball replaced where it was struck from the second time. 14 A person cannot score if he makes a foul stroke. Note 1. It is called foul if a striker moves a ball in the act of striking; or if he plays with the wrong ball; or if he touches his own ball twice in playing ; or if he strikes a ball whilst it is running; or if he touches another ball; or if his feet are off the floor when playing. The penalty in all these cases is breaking the balls, and losing the lead. Note 2. Enforcing the penalty for a foul stroke is entirely at the option of the adversary. 15 If the adversary does not choose to enforce the penalty for a foul stroke, the striker may play on, and score all the points he made by the foul stroke— which the maker is bound to score. 16 If the striker holes the white ball, (called a white winning hazard), or if he holes his own ball from the white ball (called a white losing hazard), he gains two points; if he does both he gains four points. 17 If the striker holes the red ball, he wins three; and if by the same stroke he holes his own from the red, he wins three more. 18 When the red ball is pocketed, or off the table, and the spot on which it - 1 should stand is occupied by the v/bite ball, in must be placed in a correspond- ing situation at the other end of the table; but if that should be occupied also by the other white ball, it must be placed in the centre of the table, im- mediately between the two middle poc- kets ; and wherever it is placed, there it must remain, until it be played, or the game be over. It is the eastern in some billiard rooms, it the spot be occupied by the white ball, to plane the red ball in the centre of the table; but it is much more common to place at the other end; besides the situation is more uniform. 19 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and pockets his own ball, he gains four points ; two for the canon, and two for the white losing hazard. 20 If the striker plays at the white ball first, and pockets his own ball and the red one, he gains five points. 21 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and pockets the red and white balls he gains seven points. 22 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and at the same time pockets his own and his ad- versary’s ball, he wins six points; two for the canon and two for each white hazard. 23 If the striker plays at the white ball”first, and pockets all the balls with- out making a canon, he gains seven points. 24 If the striker plays at the white ball first, makes a canon, and pockets all balls, he gains nine points. 25 If the striker plays at the red ball first, and pockets it and his own ball, he gains six points. 26 If the striker plays at the red ball first, make a canon, and by the same stroke pockets bis own ball, he gains five points ; two for the canon, and three for the red losing hazard. 27 If the striker plays at the red ball first, makes a canon, and pockets the red and the white ball, he gains seven points. 28 If the striker plays at the red ball first, makes a canon, and af the same time pockets his own and the red ball, he wins eight points ; two for the canon, three for the red losing, and three for the red winning hazard. 29 If the striker plays at the red ballBIX. 55 first, and pockets his own and the white hall, without a canon, he gains five points. 30 If the striker plays at the red ball first, and pockets all the balls, without a canon, he gains eight points. 31 If the striker, by striking the red bail first, makes a canon, and by the same stroke pockets his own and both the other balls, he gains ten points, being the greatest number that can be gained by one stroke. 32 If the striker, in taking aim, moves his ball, so as to strike the ball he is playing at, without intending to strike it, it is a stroke, and must pass as such, unless the adversary chooses to let him play the stroke over again. 33 If a striker, in the act of striking, moves his ball ever so little, it is a stroke. 34 If the striker misses the ball he intended to play at, he loses one point; and if by the same stroke his own ball runs into a pocket, he loses three points ; that is to say, his adversary scores so many points. This is called a coup. 35 If the striker forces his own or either of the other balls over the table, after having made a canon or a hazard, he gains nothing by the stroke, and his adversary may play on without breaking the balls. 36 If the striker wilfully forces his ball off the table without striking ano- ther ball, he loses three points ; but if the ball goes over by accident, he loses one point only for the miss. To a person conversant with the game, it is not a very difficult thing to discern whether a ball is forced over wilinlly or not; and it would be severe upon the striker to bo compelled to loose three points for whut may be the fault of the table. 37 If the striker plays with the wrong ball, and a canon or hazard be made thereby, the adversary may have the balls broken; but if nothing be made by the stroke, he (the adversary) may take his choice of balls the next stroke, and with the ball he chooses he must continue to play until the game is over. N.B. The playing with the wrong ball must be discovered before the next stroke is played ; otherwise, no penalty attaches to it. 38 No person has a right to inform the adversary that the striker has played, or is about to play, with the wrong ball. 39 No person, except die adversary, has a right to inform the striker that he is playing the wrong ball. 40 If the adversary does not see the striker play with the wrong ball, or, seeing it, does not choose to enforce the penalty, the marker is bound to score all the points that may have been made by the stroke. 41 If the striker’s ball be in hand, and the red and the adversary's balls within the baulk, he (the striker) cannot play at them, except from a cushion out of the baulk. 42 If the striker's ball be in hand, and the ether two balls within the baulk, and should he, either by accident or design, strike one of them, without first playing out of the baulk, the adversary has the option of letting the balls remain as they are, and scoring a miss,—of having the ball so struck replaced in its original position, and scoring a miss,— of making the striker play the stroke over again,—or of making it a foul stroke, and breaking the balls. At first sight this would appear a harsh rule, with a heavy penalty annexed to it; bat perhaps, the adverse party may have laid his plans with skill, and must not, therefore, have them unfairly frustrated with impunity. Be- sides, care must be taken that the adversary be not a sufferer by the unfair play or blunders of the Btriker. 43 If the striker's ball be in hand, he has no right to play at a cushion within the baulk, in order to strike a ball that is out of it. 44 If the striker’s ball be in band, and he, in playing from the baulk, should move his ball in the act of striking, it is a stroke, although the ball should not go out of the baulk ; but the adversary may, if he chooses, compel him to play the stroke over again. 45 If the striker’s ball be near the ball he plays at, and he plays the stroke with the point of the cue, it is fair ; but if he plays it with the butt end, the marker must decide whether it be foul or fair. N.B. The principle which ought to govern the decision of the marker in such a case as this, namely, that the striker’s butt must quit his ball before it comes in contact with the other ball. 46 If the striker’s ball be on the brink of a pocket, and he, in the act of strik- ing, misses the hit, and, in drawing back bis cue, knocks it (the ball) into the56 BIL BfL 47 If the striker, in giving a miss from the baulk; should let his bail remain in She baulk, without its have gone out, the adversary may either let it remain so,, or compel him to play the stroke over again. 48 If the striker, in giving a miss, should make a foul stroke, and his ad- versary claim it as such, and enforce the penalty, the miss is not scored. 49 No person is allowed to take up a ball without permission of the adver- sary. 50 If one of the players moves a ball by accident, it must be replaced to the satisfaction of the adversary. 51 If, in the course of the game, a person takes up a ball, supposing it to be in hand, the adversary may break the balls, or have them replaced to his own satisfaction. 52 If the marker, or a bystander, touches either of the balls, whether it be running or not, it must be placed as near as possible to the place it did, or would, apparently have occupied. 53 If after the striker has made a canon or a hazard, he takas up the ball, thinking the game is over, the adver- sary has the option of breaking the balls, or having them replaced. 54 If after the striker has made a miss, or a coup, he takes up a ball, supposing the game to be over, he loses die game. 55 If, after the striker has made a miss or a coup, the adversary thinking :he game is over, takes up a ball, he ythe last striker) may have the balls replaced as they were, or break the balls. 56. If, after the striker has made a canon, or hazard, the adversary, think- ing the game is over when it is not, takes up a ball (whether running or not), he loses the game. 57 If, after striking, the striker should obstruct or accelerate the running of the balls in any way, it is at the adver- sary's option to make it a foul stroke, and break the balls, or have them replaced. 58 If, after the striker has played, the adversary should obstruct or accelerate the running of the balls in any way, he (the striker) may claim the right of breaking the balls, or having them re- placed to his own satisfaction. 59 No person has a right to offer ad- vice to the players during the progress of the game. But (1) If a person be appealed to by one of the players, or by the marker, he has then a right to give an opinion whether he be interested in the game or not; and (2) If a spectator sees the game marked wrong, he has a right to men- tion it, provided he does it in time for it to be rectified, but not afterwards. 60 No person is allowed to walk about the billiard room during the game, make a noise, or otherwise annoy the players. 61 When silence is demanded in the room, it is expected that all persons will comply therewith. 6a It is expected that all persons in the room, whether they are playing or not, will conform to the foregoing rules, in so far as they relate to them respec- tively. BILLIARDS. The Game of POOL.—There are several ways of playing Pool: namely, with as many balls as there are players ; or with two balls only, the players playing in turns, and playing with the alternate balls; playing at the nearest ball ; playing at the last player ; or the player playing at whichever ball he chooses. But the most popular mode is that in which the player plays at the last player. This is likewise the fairest way of playing the game. Rules for playing the game according to the last method : 1 When the coloured balls are used, the players must play progressively, as the colours are placed on the Pool marking-board, the top colour being No. 1. 3 Each player has three lives at starting. No. 1 places his ball on the winning and losing spot; No. 3 plays at No. 1; No. 3 at No. 2; and so on ; each person playing at the last ball; unless it should be in hand, then the player plays at the nearest ball. 3 If the striker should lose a life in any way, the next player plays at the nearest ball to his own ; but if his (the player's) ball be in hand, he plays at the nearest ball to the centre of the baulk line, whether in or out of baulk. 4 Should a doubt arise respecting theBIL BIL 57 distance of balk, it must (if at the com- mencement of the game, or if the player’s ball be in hand) be measured from the centre spot in the circle; but if the striker’s ball be not in hand, the measurement must be made from his ball to the others; and in both cases it must be decided by the marker, or by the majority of the company; but should the distance be equal, then the parties must draw lots. 5. The baulk is no protection to pool under any circumstances. 6 The player may lose a life by any one of the following means:—by pocket- ing his own ball; by running a coup ; by missing a ball; by forcing a ball off the table ; by playing with the wrong ball; by playing at the wrong ball; or by playing out of his turn. NJ3.—A life Is lost b7 a ball being pocketed. 7 Should the striker pocket the ball he plays at, and by the same stroke pocket his own, or force it over the table, he loses the life, and not the person whose ball he pocketed. 8 Should the player strike the wrong ball, he pays the same forfeit to the person whose ball he should have played at, as he would have done if he had pocketed himself. 9 If the striker miss the ball he ought to play, and strike another ball, and pocket it, he loses a life, and not the person whose ball he pocketed; in which case, the striker’s ball must be taken off the table, and both balls should remain in hand until it be their turn to play. 10 If the striker, whilst taking his aim, enquire which is the ball he ought to play at, and should be misinformed by any one of the company, or by the marker, he does not lose a life; the ball must, in this case, be replaced, and the stroke played again. 11 If information is required by the player, as to which is his ball, or when it is his turn to play, he has a right to an answer from the marker, or from the players. 12 When a ball or balls touch the striker’s ball, or are in line between it, and the ball he has to play at, so that it will prevent him hitting any -part of the object ball, they must be taken up until the stroke be played; and after the balls have ceased running, they must be replaced. 13 If a ball or balls are in the way of a striker’s cue, so that he cannot play at his ball, he can have them taken up. 14 When the striker takes a life, he may continue to play on as long as he. can make a hazard, or until the balls are all off the table ; in which latter case he plays from the baulk, or places his ball on the spot as at the commence- ment. 15 The first person who loses his three lives is entitled to purchase, or, as it is called, to star, (that being the mark placed against his fives on the board to denote that he has purchased), by pay- ing into the Pool the same stun as at the commencement, for which he receives lives equal in number to the lowest num- ber of fives on the board. 16 If the first person out refuses to star, the second person may do it; but if the second refuses, the third may do it; and so on, until only two persons are left in the Pool, in which case the privilege of starring ceases. 17 Only one star is allowed in a Pool. 18 If the striker should move his or another ball whilst in the act of striking his own ball, the stroke is considered foul; and if by the same stroke he pocket a ball, or force it off the table, the owner of that ball does not lose a life, and the ball must be placed on the original spot; but if by that stroke he should pocket his own ball, or force it off the table, he loses a fife. 19 If the striker’s ball touch the one he has to play at, he is at liberty either to play at it, or any other ball on the table, and it is not to be considered a foul stroke ; in which case, however, the striker is liable to lose a life by go- ing into a pocket, or over the table. 20 After making a hazard, if the striker should tike up his ball or stop it before it has done running, he cannot claim the fife or the hazard from the person v/hose ball was pocketed ; it be- ing possible that his own ball might have gone into a pocket if he had not stopped it. 21 If, before a star, two or more balls are pocketed, by the same stroke, in- cluding the ball played at, each having one ljfe, the owner of the ball first struckBIL BEL 58 has the option of starring ; but should he refuse, and more than one remain, the persons to whom they belong must draw lots for the star. 22 Should the striker’s ball stop on the spot of a ball removed, the ball which has been removed must remain in hand until the spot is unoccupied, and then be replaced. 23 Should the striker’s ball miss the ball played at, no person is allowed to stop the ball till it has ceased running, or struck another ball, except the striker who may stop the ball when he pleases. 24 If the striker should have his next player's ball removed and stop on the spot it occupied, the next player must give a miss from the baulk to any part of the table he thinks proper, for which miss he does not lose a life. 25 If the striker has a ball removed, and any other than the next player’s ball should stop on the spot it occupied, the ball removed must remain in hand till the one on its place be played, unless it should happen to be the turn of the one removed to play before the one on its place ; in which case that ball must give place to the one originally taken up; after which, it may be replaced. 26 If the corner of the cushion should prevent the striker from playing in a direct line, he can have any ball re- moved for the purpose of playing at a cushion first. 27 The two last players cannot star or purchase ; but they may divide, if they are left with an equal number of lives each ; the striker, however-, is en- titled to his stroke before the division. 28 All disputes to be decided by a majority of the players. 29 The charge for the play to be taken out of the Pool before it is de- livered up to the winner. BILLIARDS, Game of Pyra- mid Pool.—1 This game may be played with any number of balls, but it is generally played with sixteen; viz., fifteen red and one white. 2 At the commencement, the coloured balls are to be placed on the table in form of a triangle, the first ball to stand on the winning spot, which will form the point of the triangle nearest to the j centre of the table. 3 If more than two persons play, and i the number Is odd, each must play alternately; the rotation to be decided by stringing. The player holing the greater number of balls, to receive from each of the others (a certain sum per ball having been agreed upon) the differ- ence between their number and his. 4 If the number of players is even, they may form sides, when the partners may play alternately, or go out upon a hazard, miss, &c., being made, as may be previously agreed upon. 5 The players to string for the choice of lead—the leader to place his ball (the white) within the semicircle at the baulk, and to play at the coloured balls. 6 The next player plays with the white ball from the spot on which it was left by his opponent, except it should be off the table; in which case he plays from the baulk as at the com- mencement. 7 None but winning hazards can be made, and the same rules are generally to be observed as at common P00L 8 The player who pockets the greatest number of balls wins the game. 9 If the player give a miss—pocket the white balls, or force it over the table, he loses one; that is to say, he must place one of the coloured balls, which he has pocketed, on the winning spot, if unoccupied; if not it must be placed in a direct line behind it. 10 If the striker hole his own ball, or foFce it over the table, and at the same time pocket one or more of the coloured balls, or force them over the table, he gains nothing by the stroke ; the colour- ed balls so removed, must be replaced on the table, together with one of the striker’s coloured balls, as a penalty. 11 Should the striker losing a ball not have taken one, the first he holes must be placed on the table as in rule 9 ; should he not take one during the game he must pay for each ball so forfeited, as much as he is playing for per ball. 12 If the white ball touch a coloured one, the player may score all the colour- ed balls he pockets—he cannot give a miss. 13 Should the striker move any ball in talcing aim or striking, he loses all he might otherwise have gained by the stroke. 14 If the striker force one or more of the coloured halls over the table, beBIL BIL 59 scores one for each, the same as if he had pocketed them. 15 If the game is played with an even number of balls, the last hazard counts but one; if, with an odd num- ber, it counts two. 16 When all the coloured balls but one are pocketed, the player who made the last hazard continues to play with the white ball, and his opponent with the red, alternately, as at single Pool. 17 When only two balls are on the table, and two persons playing, should the striker hole the ball he is playing with, or make a miss, the game is finished; if there are more than two players, and they not partners, the striker places a ball on the spot as in Rule 9. BILIOUSNESS. — The first thing is to allay the irritability of stomach; second, to evacuate the bowels of their acrid matter; third, to remove spasms, irritation, or urgent symptoms ; fourth, to excite a healthy secretion of the liver. For these the Neutralizing Mixture (see page 275,) will be found applicable for the pur- pose ; give a small tablespoonful every half hour, or as often as the vomiting occurs, and when allayed take a good purgative ; such as 1 oz. of castor oil, or a strong dose of Rhubarb ; or a purging mixture : Glaubers salts, % oz. ; Epsom salts, K oz-1 spearmint water 5% ozs. ; antimonial wine, 2 drachms ; tincture of senna, % oz. ; mix, and take 2, 3, or 4 tablespoonfuls for a dose, every 3 hours until it operates. If these do not act recourse must be had to injections com- posed of:—Sweet milk, 1 pint; muci- lage of slippery elm, 1 pint; olive oil, 1 gill; molasses, % pint; common salt, 1 oz. ; mix. Use a large size syringe. Should there be great pain in the lower intestines add a drachm of laudanum to each injection, it will relieve the griping pain. Introduce as much of the injec- tion as the p>atient can bear, to be re- peated every hour or two until the bowels are moved or the pain abated. Apply Rheumatic l.inament warmed, with a flannel dipped in it, to subdue pain in the abdomen. BILLS of EXCHANGE and PROMISSORY NOTES:—The acceptor of a bill, or the maker of a Promissory note is formally and abso- lutely liable upon it, even after indorse- ment by any other parties ; the drawer and each indorser are only collaterally liable to the owner, in the event of the nonpayment by the acceptor or maker. Every subsequent indorser is a surety for each prior indorser. But an indorser as such, is not liable to the acceptor, and a subsequent indorser, as such is not liable to a prior indorser. When a bill is accepted payable at a particular place, the drawer or indorser can only be made liable upon present- ment and dishonour at that place. U n- less the bill be presented on the day it becomes due, and at the right place of payment the drawer and all the indorsers will be discharged. A Bill of Exchange continues negotiable until paid at ma- turity by the acceptor or party liable. There are three days of grace allowed on a bill exclusive of the day on which it would, otherwise, become due. And they are counted consecutively, without any deduction for Sundays or holidays, and whenever the last day of grace oc- curs on a Sunday, or other holyday, the bill becomes payable on the preceding day. Bills payable on demand, or, at sight, are payable immediately upon presentment without any days of grace. Bills falling due on Bank Holidays are payable on the following day. The holder of a bill can sue any of the in- dorsers of it, either all at one time or successively, but on payment of the bill and costs by one, proceedings against the others will be stayed. BILLS OF SALE.—A New Act came into force on November 1, 1882. It repeals part of the act of 1878. Henceforward every Bill of Sale must have a schedule, and will only cover goods specifically written down on the said schedule, and not after-ac- quired property. Bills given for a consideration under ^30 are void, and even when goods are seized, they are not to be removed or sold, until after the expiration of five clear days, during which time the grantee may be restrained from pro- ceeding by a judge upon cause shown. All absolute powers to grantees to enter and seize goods at any time are abolished. Bills of Sale are declared void, evenBIS BIS 6o as between grantor and grantee, if not registered. Bills of Sale are to be attested by one or more credible witness or witnesses, not being a party or parties thereto, attestation and explanation to the grantor by a solicitor being no longer required. No Bills of Sale executed after the Act shall be a protection to any goods comprised therein against distress for poor or other parochial rates. Bills of Sale unsatisfied, must be re- newed every five years. Local Registration of Bills of Sale is provided in County Courts. (45 & 46 Viet. c. 43.) BISCUITS, a la duchesse.— They are made with rice flour, sifted as fine as possible ; dried orange flour, preserved and powdered very fine; rasped lemon-peel; a quarter of a pound of flour, to one pound of sugar ; six yolks, and twelve whites of eggs, well beat up ; finish as other biscuits. Add fruit or marmalade if you like. BISCUITS, American.—Rub half a pound of butter into four pounds of flour, and a full pint of milk or water. Well wet them up. Break your dough well, and bake them in a hot oven. They will be better with two ounces of sugar added. Cut out with the top of a wine-glass. These biscuits are made light by dissolving a quarter of a teaspoonful of salt of tartar in half a cupful of water, and adding to the mixture. BISCUIT, American.—Butter- milk, x % pints; a little salt, 2 spoonfuls of carbonate of potash dissolved in 4 table-spoonfuls of hot water. Mix flour enough to be stiff. Add shorten- ing. Form and bake immediately. BISCUITS, Buttered. —Dis- solve a pound of butter in a quart of warm milk, and with eight pounds of flour make up a stiff smooth paste, roll thin and stamp out the biscuits, prick them, and bake on tins in a quick oven. BISCUIT CAKE.—One pound of flour, five eggs well beaten and strained, eight ounces of sugar, a little rose or orange-floweri water : beat well, bake one hour. BISCUIT CAKE.—Rub into 1 pound of flour six ounces of butter, and three large spoonfuls of yeast, and make Into a paste, with a sufficient quantity of new milk ; make into biscuits, and pride them with a clean fork. BISCUITS, Drop.—Beat the yolks of 10 eggs, and the whites of 6, with one spoonful of rose water, half an hour; then put in 10 ozs. of loaf sugar sifted; whisk them well for half an hour, then add 1 ounce of caraway- seeds crushed a little, and 6 ounces of fine flour; whisk in the flour gently, drop them on wafer-papers, and bake in a moderate oven. BISCUIT, French.—Flour 6 lbs. ; milk, 1 % pint; butter, 6 ozs.; sugar, 1 % cupful; salt, a teaspoonful; 6 eggs, and half a pint of good yeast. Melt the butter in the milk, and beat the eggs. Add all the ingredients, set it to rise, and when very light, mould it into small biscuits, and bake in a quick oven. BISCUITS of FRUIT.— Take fruit of any kind, scald it, and to the pulp, put an equal quantity of the finest sugar, beat it an hour or two, then place in little white paper forms, dry in a cool oven, turn the next day, and in a few days box them. BISCUITS, Ginger.—Take half an ounce of pounded ginger, the weight of seven eggs in sugar, and half the weight in flour; pound the sugar and sift it through a silk sieve; beat up the yolks of the eggs with the sugar until it is quite thick, then beat up the whites until they are stiff; put them together, add the flour, stirring it lightly in, and bake them in a slow oven. BISCUITS, Hard.—Warm two ounces of butter in as much skimmed milk as will make a pound of flour into a very stiff paste, beat it with a rolling- pin, and work it very smooth. Roll it thin and cut it into round biscuits ; prick them full of holes with a fork. About six minutes will bake them. BISCUIT JELLY.—White bis- cuit, 1 pound ; white sugar, 3 poimds ; water, 2 gallons. Boil to one-half, strain and evaporate to a proper consis- tence, then add wine, 1 pint; cinnamon, half an ounce. BISCUIT, LIGHT LEMON. —For eight eggs put eight spoonfuls of sugar in a basin, and a little raspedBIS BIS 61 lemon ; put six yolks into the sugar, and beat them well; then beat the whites of eggs to snow, and add them ; mix well three spoonfuls of flour ; drop them into paper cases, and sift sugar over them. Bake in a slow oven. BISCUITS Naples and Savoy. —To one pound of loaf sugar, grated fine, add nine eggs, (take the whites out of two), add one pound of flour, beat your eggs very well, and then whisk your sugar and eggs together with a little rose water, add the flour and bake them long or round. BISCUITS, Orange Heart.— Put three quarters of a pound of powdered sugar into a basin, and thirty yolks of eggs; take seven preserved orange peels pounded very fine ; add a handful of sweet and a half a handful of bitter almonds pounded fine, and then mixed with a little orange flower water. Then put four eggs into the basin with the other ingredients, mix- ing them well, and beating until a fine froth arises. Then add half a pound of sifted flour to mix with the batter very lightly. Butter the moulds, fill them and sift a little powdered sugar over the top. Place in a quick oven, and empty the tins while hot. BISCUIT PIC NIC.—Into a pound of flour, work very small two ounces of butter, mix well with half a salt-spoonful of the finest carbonate of soda, two ounces of sugar, mix these thoroughly with the flour, and make up the paste with a few spoonfuls of milk, not more than quarter of a pint. Knead it very smooth and roll it quarter of an inch thick. BISCUITS, Plain.—Make a pound of flour, the yolk of an egg, and two ounces of sugar, and some milk into a very stiff paste; beat it well, and knead till quite smooth ; roll very thin, and cut into biscuits. Bake them in a slow oven till quite dry and crisp. BISCUIT POWDER. —Dry your biscuits in a slow oven, roll them, and grind them with a rolling-pin on a clean board, till reduced to powder. Sift it through a close hair sieve, and it is fit for use. BISCUITS, Rice.—Six ounces of fine sugar, half a pound of ground rice, six ounces of butter, six ounces of flour, and mix it into a paste with two eggs. Add a little lemon juice. Be careful in the baking. BISCUITS, Richmond. Flour, 2 lbs.; butter, lb., two eggs, and milk sufficient to make a thick paste; a little sugar, and a few cur- rants. Make the biscuits round, and half an ounce in weight. Bake in a quick oven; they will be brown in a minute or two. Previously steep the currants in hot water. Season if you like with cinnamon, &c. BISCUITS, Seed.—Flour, i lb. ; sugar, 4 ozs. ; caraway seeds, as many as you like ; half a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; with milk and cream, or buttermilk, mix well, roll thin, and with the top of a wine-glass cut them out, and bake quickly. BISCUIT, SODA.—Put 2 tea- spoonfuls cream of tartar into a quart of flour, sift both through a fine sieve ; rub into the flour 2 ounces butter, 1 ounce of lard, add a small teaspoonful of salt to the lard ; thoroughly mix. Take a tea- spoonful of soda in just enough milk to dissolve it, and then pour to it 3 gills of sweet milk, and stir into the flour quickly, using the hands to it as little as possible. Lay the dough on a well- floured board; work it into shape lightly, roll out, cut in shape, prick and bake in a quick oven. By adding a little more shortening, this soda bis- cuit is excellent for the crust of straw- berry or any fruit short cake. BISCUIT, Spanish.—Beat the yolks of 8 eggs near half an hour, then beat in 8 spoonfuls of sugar; beat the whites to a strong froth, then beat them very well with yolks and sugar near half an hour; put in 4 spoonfuls of flour, and a little lemon cut very fine, and bake them on papers.’ BISCUITS, Spice.—Take three pounds of flour and three pounds of sweet almonds cut in half; add three ounces of cinnamon and mace pounded, and me pound of fine sugar. Mix. Take three pounds of loaf sugar, boil slightly in some water, and mix with the other ingredients, and pound to the consistency of paste, heat the oven very hot, cover a plate with three sheets of clean paper. Roll the paste to a form like a large rolliog-pin, place It on the6 2 BIS BLA paper, and press it down, letting it bulge slightly in the middle. When baked, and, while hot, cut into slices across, about the eighth of an inch in thickness, in the form a rusk, BISCUITS, Spicy. Pound candied lemon in a mortar with some orange-flowers crisped ; add two spoon- fuls of apricot marmalade, four ounces of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs. Mix well, and rub it through a sieve; then add the whites of the eggs beaten to a froth, and put the biscuits, in an oblong form on white paper; sift sugar over, and bake. These biscuits are very rich. The sweetmeat may be varied according to fancy. BISCUITS, Yarmouth.—Take six ounces of well washed and picked currants; dry them well, and rub a little flour among them to make them white; add half a pound of powdered sugar, twelve ounces of sifted flour, and half a pound of the best fresh butter. Break three eggs and mix the whole together until it becomes of the consistence of paste ; then roll and cut into shapes. The oven must be hot, and paper must be used. Bake to a slight brown colour, BITE OF A MAD DOG.— Mr. Hildebrand, Veterinary Surgeon of Germany, says : Bathe the bitten part in hot water. He has ascertained, by experience, that hot water has the effect of decomposing the virus, and if applied in time renders cauterization unneces- sary. In that case, all that is to be done after well bathing the part, as stated, is, to apply the solution of caustic potash to the wound with a brush, and afterwards anoint it with antimony ointment. Apply ice to the Spinal column. This Is effectual. Or, wash well with a strong decoction of tobacco, and then bind wetted tobacco on the wound. Or, take a pound of salt, dissolve in a quart of water. Squeeze, bathe, and wash the wound with this liquid for one or two hours ; then bind some salt upon it for ten or twelve hours. Or, mix powdered liverwort, four drachms; black, pepper, two drachms. Divide this into four parts, and take one in warm milk for four mornings, fasting. Dr. Mead aflirms he never knew this fail. BITTER, an excellent family. —Two ounces of gentian root, half ounce of Virginian snake root, a pint of water, and a pint of brandy. Infuse for three days, strain, and bottle for use. This bitter is excellent for the stomach. BITTER INFUSION.—Take gentian root, cut into pieces, half an ounce; dried Seville orange peel, bruised, one drachm ; coriander seeds, bruised, half a drachm ; spirits of wine, four ounces; water, one pint. First pour on the spirits of wine, and in three hours the water; then macerate for twelve hours, and strain. Take three spoonfuls between meals to promote digestion. BITTER TONIC. — Gentian root, one ounce ; the yellow rind of a fresh lemon : put into a jar or bottle with hot water ; let it stand. A cupful in the morning promotes appetite. BITTERSWEET.—See Rob- inson’s1 Herbal, page 193 ; Nightshade, Woody.—It is a valuable plant, on ac- count of its detergent, tonic, and heal- ing qualities/ Useful in scrofula, skin diseases, bad ulcers, syphilis, &c. BITTERSWEET OINT- MENT.—Bark of bittersweet root, 2 ounces; cover with spirits of wine, and add, unsalted butter, 8 ounces. Simmer and strain. Excellent for swelled breasts, tumours, ulcers, &c. It may be applied twice a day. BLACK BALL FOR LEA- THER.—Beeswax, 2 pounds; tal- low, % pound ; gum arabic, % pound; lamp black, of a pound. Melt the tallow and wax ; then cool a little and stir in the black and gum, previously mixed. BLACKBERRY.—See Robin- son’s Herbal. Of the Blackberry, Dr. Chapman says, ‘‘Of the vegetable as- tringents, I believe that the blackberries are amongst the most efficacious. To check the inordinate evacuations which attend the protracted stages of cholera infantum, no remedy has ever done so much in my practice." BLACKBERRY BRANDY. —To half a gallon of blackberry juice put one pound and a half of lump sugar, half an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of grated nutmeg, quarter ofBLA 63 BLA an ounce of doves, and one ounce of alispice. Boil it a few minutes and when cool, add one pint of brandy. This is an invaluable remedy for diarrhoea. BLACKBERRY CORDIAL. —To one gallon of blackberry juice put four pounds of lump sugar. Boil and skim off. Then add one ounce of cloves, one ounce of cinnamon, ten grated nutmegs ; boil down till suffi- ciently rich. Let it cool and settle. Then drain off and add one pint of brandy. BLACKBERRY and WINE CORDIAL.—The following is re- commended as a delightful beverage, and an infallible specific for diarrhoea, or diseases of the bowels :—To half a bushel of blackberries, well mashed, add a quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of cinnamon, to ounces of cloves; pulverize well, mix, and boil slowly until done ; then strain the juice through flannel, and add to each pint of the juice one pound of loaf-sugar; boil again for some time, take it off, and, while cooling, add half a gallon of best Cognac brandy.—Dose: for an adult, a wine-glassful; for a child, a tea-spoonful or more, according to age. BLACKBERRY JAM. Gather the fruit in dry weather. Boil or bake it for three-quarters of an hour, with half its weight of coarse sugar. Pot it, and keep it air tight, and it will be excellent. The fruit must be used when fresh gathered. BLACKBERRY JELLY. — Bruise two quarts of Blackberries ; add 2 quarts of water ; and when they boil, run them through a linen bag ; boil the syrup five minutes; then to every pound of juice, add a pound of sugar: boil 15 minutes, skim well, and pot, and put brandy papers over them. The addition of a little isinglass, and stewing them in a slow oven till a little candied, is a great improvement, espe- cially if half of the water be left out. BLACKBERRY SYRUP, for Cholera and Summer Com- plaints.—Blackberry juice, t quart; fine sugar, lb. ; nutmegs, cinnamon, allspice, of each, oss. ; cloves, 1 % drachms, cayenne pepper, % drachm. I Powder them all. qr.ri gently boil them I In the juice for about twenty minutes. When cold, add half a pint of brandy. It relieves inward pains, cramp, and diarrhtea. BLACKBERRY SYRUP. — Make a syrup of a pound of sugar, to each pint of water; boil until it is thick ; add as many pints of the ex- pressed juice of blackberries as there are pounds of sugar; put half a nut- meg grated to each quart of the syrup ; boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then add half a gill of best French brandy for each quart of syrup ; bottle it for use. A tablespoonful for a child, or a wineglass for an adult, is a dose. BLACKBERRY WINE.—To make a wine equal to port. Take ripe blackberries, press the juice from them, let it stand thirty-six hours to ferment (lightly covered) and skim well; then, to every gallon of the juice, add one quart of water and three pounds of sugar; let it stand in an open vessel for twenty-four hours; strain, and barrel it. Let it stand six months, then bottle and cork close. It improves with age. BLACK CAP PUDDING.— Make a batter with milk, flour, and eggs; butter a basin; pour in the batter, and 5 or 6 ounces of well cleaned currants. Cover it with a cloth well floured, and tie the cloth very tight. Boil nearly one hour. The currants will have settled to the bottom; there- fore dish it bottom upwards. Serve with sweet sauce and a little rum. BLACK CUPS.—Halve and core some fine apples, put them in a shallow pan, strew white sugar over, and bake them. Boil a glass of wine, the same of water, and sweeten it for sauce. Another way.—Take off a slice from the stalk end of some apples, and core without paring them. Make ready as much sugar as may be sufficient to sweeten then, and mix it with some gTated lemon, and a few cloves in fine powder. Stuff the holes as close as possible with this, and turn the flat end down in a stew-pan ; set them on a very slow fire, with half of raisin wine, and the same of water; cover them close, and then baste them wuh the liquor. BLACK CURRANT JAM — See I'vrrant, pageBLA 64 BLA BLACK CURRANT JELLY. —See Currant, page 150. BLACK CURRANT LOZEN- GES.—Boil the fruit in ajar stopped close. Str ain the juice thr ough a coarse sieve. Measure the juice, and boil briskly half an hour. The more the juice has evaporated before adding the sugar, the better. For every full quart of juice (as first measured into the pan,) allow—Fine loaf sugar, 5 os.; best gum arabic, finely powdered, 3 drachms, cream of tartar, 3 drachms. Mix these well in a basin with a very small quan- tity of the boiling juice, stirred briskly to it till smooth, then stir in the whole. Boil the mass till it is stiff and candies on the sides of the pan. Pour it on plates turned upside down; the thick- ness should not exceed one eighth of an inch. Dry in the sun, or in front of a fire, but at some distance. When quite dry cut out in lozenges. A sharp tin cutter is the best instniment. The form should be either square, diamond, or hexagonal, that the pieces may be cut close to another without waste. Shake among the lozenges a little magnesia to prevent sticking. Keep them in a wide wide-mouthed botde, with a glass stopper. N.B.—These lozenges may be made with the entire fruit. BLACK CURRANTS, to Pre- serve.—Get the currants when they are dry, and pick them ; to every 1 K lb. of currants, put 1 lb. of sugar into a pre- serving pan, with as much juice of cur- rants as will dissolve it; when it boils, skim it, and put in the currants, and boil them till they are (clear; put them into a jar, lay brandy paper over them, tie them down, and keep in a dry place. A little raspberry juice added is an improvement. BLACK CURRANT PUD- DING, to Bake.—Make a puff paste crust, roll it thin, line a basin with it, put three parts full of the currants, fill up with sugar, and put a paste cover over on the top, well closed ; bake on a tin in a moderate oven 50 or 60 minutes. When served turn out upon a dish. Serve with cream, &c. When boiled, use a suet crust, and proceed as above, boiling two hours. BLACK CURRANT WINE. —Take sis gallons of ripe currants and I put them into a large jar. Boil nine or ten gallons of water with four pounds of loaf sugar. Skim well and let it stand for forty-eight hours. Then strain through a flannel bag into another vessel, return it into the jar, and let it stand three weeks to settle, and then bottle off. BLACK DRAUGHT.—Infuse 2 ozs. of senna leaves, and a oz. of ginger in hot water (not boiling) for eight hours. Strain, and to the liquor add six ounces of Epsom salts, x oz. of liquorice; gently simmer till the salts are dissolved. When cold, add % oz. of sal volatile and six drops of oil of cloves. Cork tightly. In order to keep it for a length of time, 2 oz. of tincture of senna should be added. BLACK EYE.—This is caused by a blow or bruise. If attended with inflammation and pain, wash the eye often with very warm water, in which is dissolved a little carbonate of soda ; or with equal parts of tincture of opium and water. If the pain be acute, foment with a decoction of stramonium leaves, simmered in spirits. Wash the eye, and bind on the leaves ; often repeat. Per- haps the best application is a poultice of slippery elm-bark. Mix with milk, and put it on warm. To remove the black colour of the eye, bind on a little raw meat; or a poultice made of the root of Solomon’s seal. Culpepper says, “ It is available for bruises, falls, or blows, to dispel the congealed blood, and to take away the pains, and the black and blue marks that abide after the hurt." The black- ness may be concealed by painting the part with flesh-coloured paint. BLACKING BALLS, (to Make).—Take of mutton suet, four ounces ; bees’ wax, one ounce ; sugar- candy, or gum arabic and coarse sugar, one drachm, in fine powder. Melt these well together, over a gentle fire, and add about a spoonful of turpentine, and lampblack sufficient to give it a good black colour. While hot enough to run, make it into a ball, by pouring the liquid into a tin mould ; or let it stand till almost cold, or it may be moulded by the hand. BLACKING, real Japan.— Take three ounces of Ivory-black, twoounces of coarse sugar, one ounce of sulphuric acid, one ounce of muriatic acid, one lemon, one tablespoonful of sweet oil, and one pint of vinegar. First miy the ivory-black and sweet oil together, then the lemon and sugar, with a little vinegar to qualify the black- ing ; then add the sulphuric and muria- tic acids, and mix them all well to- gether. The sugar, oil, and vinegar, prevent the acids injuring the leather, and add to the lustre of the blacking. BLACKING CAKE for Boots and Shoes.—Gum Arabic, one ounce ; a pint of soft water, or more ; ivory black, two ounces; a tablespoon- ful of sweet oil; treacle, or brown sugar, one ounce. Boil till of a proper thick- ness, and mould into cakes. These cakes, when used, must be dissolved in vinegar, or vinegar and water. BLACKING, Cheap.—Take of Ivory-black, one pound; lamp-black, half an ounce; treacle, one pound; sweet oil, one ounce and a half; coarse gum-arabic, half an ounce; and stale vinegar, three pints and a half; mix well: first dissolve the gum in a little water ; then add gradually half an ounce of oil of vitriol. Let the mixture stand two days. BLACKING, Matchless.— Take a quarter of a pound of ivory black, two ounces of the coarsest brown sugar, three pints of sour table beer; mix it well together, then throw in a small table-spoonful of sweet oil, and as much vitriolic acid ; stir it well to- gether, and in a few hours bottle. BLACKING, Oil Paste.—Ivory black, two pounds ; treacle, four or five ounces ; oil of vitriol, two ounces ; tan- ner’s oil, five ounces ; (if this cannot be obtained, then use four ounces of best tallow) gum arabic, one ounce. Mix the oil and vitriol together, and let it stand 24 hours ; dissolve the gum in a cupful of warm water; then add three table- spoonfuls of best vinegar ; heat it and mix with the oil; &c., and then add the ivory black, treacle, and white of two eggs. A superior Blacking. BLACKING, Another.—A quarter of a pound of ivory black, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, a tablespoonfu! of flour ; a piece of tallow the size of a walnut; and a small piece of gum arabic. Make a paste of the flour; and, while hot, put in the tallow; then the sugar; and, afterwards, mix the whole well together in a quart of water. BLACK LACE, to Clean.— Wind the lace round a board four inches wide. Make a lather of white soap and water, and then wash the lace with great care and a gentle hand ; rinse away the soapy water with clean, milk-warm water ; then let it gently dry. Next day make some good strong tea—black tea is best—and dissolve in it a little gum arabic, using about as much gum as one would sugar. Rinse the clean lace in this gum-tea several times. The tanning principle will restore the colour of the lace, the gum will impart stiffness. Be- fore the lace is quite dry it must be folded backwards and forwards between the alternate leaves of an old book, and then pressed. BLACK LACE, to Clean.— Pass the lace through a warm liquor of bullock’s fall and water; afterwards rinse in cold water ; then take a small piece of glue, pour boiling water on it, and again pass the lace through it; clap it with your hands, and frame it to dry. BLACK PAPER for Transfer. —Mix well together fine lamp black and sweet oil, and a drop or two of turpen- tine. Apply it to soft sheets of paper with a flannel or a soft sponge. BLACK REVIVER.—First dip the cloth in, or apply to the article with a sponge, a solution of bichromate of potass. Then do in the same way with a decoction of logwood, and lastly with a little solution of copperas ; this makes a capital black. Cloth is best dyed when it is boiled a little. BLACK SALVE, or, Healing Salve.—Olive oil, 1 pint; common resin, % ounce; bees’ wax, % ounce; Venice turpentine, % ounce. Melt, raising the oil nearly to the boiling point; then gradually add two or three ounces of powdered red lead while on the fire ; do not burn it; boil slowly till it becomes a dark brown ; remove from the fire, and add one drachm of pow- dered camphor when it Is nearly cold.— This is a first-rate healing salve, superior to most, is wonderful in bums, scaldsBLA 66 BLA scrofulous, fistulous, and all other ulcers, Spead on linen, and renew daily. BLACK STAIN for WOOD. —Pour one quart of boiling water on half an ounce of commercial extract of Logwood ; when the solution is effected, add half a drachm of yellow chromate of potash, and let the whole be well stirred. BLADDER, Inflammation of. —It manifests itself by pain and tight- ness in the lower part of the abdomen; the pain increases by pressure, there is a constant desire to pass urine, and great difficulty in passing a few drops; sometimes there is complete retention; the bladder may become enlarged, caused by the inflammatory action. In old people the chronic form occurs, and it is frequently caused by stone. In the decline of life, the common symptom is the difficulty of making water. In painful retention of urine, hot fomentations of herbs, as hops, worm- wood, tansy, camomile flowers, and a little valerian root, may be applied over the region of the bladder. Use also the warm foot-bath. Parsley tea with a little spirits of nitre and best gin may be taken. Take also the Diuretic In- fusion, which see. Should these fail, use the hip-bath, temperature from 86 to 96, for half an hour; take also a tablespoonful of castor oil, and, if the pain is severe, twelve drops of lauda- num. Warm injections are also service- able. Add to the injections a little Tincture of Lobelia. The following is an excellent remedy In affections of the bladder, particularly in old age :— Solidified Copaiaba, Alcholic Extract of Cubebs, equal parts. Mix and make into three or four grain pills, and give one or two three times a day. It has been known to act like a charm. It is invaluable in all urinary affections, and especially those which affect old people. It allays pain and irritation about the neck of the bladder, of the prostrate gland, and in the kidneys. In case of extreme pain apply the Irritating Plaster (which see) over the pubic region. To strengthen the in adder, avoid all intoxicating drinks, exposure to wet. damp, and cold; sponge the lower parts of the abdomen with salt and water, and occasionally with vinegar. See Urine, or Urinary. BLANC-MANGE, A RICH. —Simmer an ounce and a quarter of fine isinglass in a pint and a half of new milk; add the rind of half a lemon, shred very fine, two blades of mace, a stick of cinnamon, and sweeten to taste with loaf-sugar. Blanch and pound with a spoonful of rose-water, half an ounce of sweet almonds, eight or ten bitter; put them to the milk, and mix. When the isinglass is dissolved, strain through a new flannel, to half a pint of rich cream, and stir well. When it has stood an hour, pour it off into another basin, leaving the sediments at the bottom, and when nearly cold, pour it into moulds, jelly glasses, or custard cups. Two tablespoonfuls of noyeau will answer the purpose of the almonds. And the isinglass may be dissolved in a pint of water and half a pint of milk. Another way.—Put one ounce and a half of isinglass into a basin, and pour over it a quart of boiling milk; cover it over with a plate, and let it stand till the next day ; put it into a saucepan with the rind of a lemon, a bit of cinnamon, and a liftle loaf sugar ; let it boil till the isinglass is dissolved, then add to it some orange flour and rose-water, and a little Sherry wine; strain and cool a little, wet the moulds in cold water, and pour it into them. Sweet and bitter almonds blanched, and beat in a mortar with a little rose-water, may be added, if agreeable. BLANC - MANGE. Arrow- root.—Put two tea-cupfuls of arrow- root to a quart of milk. Flavour it with an ounce of sweet almonds, and fifteen or sixteen bitter, blanched and pounded ; or with noyeau. Moisten the arrow-root with a little cold milk, and pour to it the boiling milk, stirring all the time. Then put it in the sauce- pan, and boil it a minute or two, still stirring. Dip the moulds in cold water. Turn it out when cold. BLANC-MANGE, Isinglass. —One ounce of isinglass dissolved in one pint of boiling milk, and flavoured with bitter almonds, lemon-peel, &c. li tolled lor some time together, it will/ BLA 67 BLO be nt for moulding. Stir occasionally while cooling. It is an excellent diet for an invalid. BLANC-MANGE, Oswego.— Four tablespoonfuls or three ounces of Oswego Prepared Com to one quart of milk. Dissolve the corn to some of the milk. Put into the remainder of the milk, four ounces of sugar, a little salt, a piece of lemon rind, or cinnamon stick, and heat to near boiling. Then add the mixed com, and boil (stirring it briskly) four minutes: take out the rind, and pour into a mould or cup, and keep until cold. When turned out, pour round it any kind of stewed or preserved fruits, or a sauce of milk and sugar. BLANC-MANGE, RICE. — Swell four ounces of rice in water; drain and boil it to a mash in good milk, with sugar, a bit of lemon-peel, and a stick of cinnamon. Take care it does not bum, and when quite soft pour it into cups, or into a shape dip- ped into cold water. When cold turn it out, garnish with currant jelly, or any red preserved fruit. Serve with cream or plain custard. BLANC-MANGE, RICE.— Steep a tablespoonful of rice in half pint of cold milk for eight hours, add- ing more milk as it dries up, to keep it moist and soft. Boil half an hour. Flavour with almonds, or lemon-peel, cinnamon, or nutmeg. When the rice becomes pulp, place it in moulds till cool, when it will turn out. BLEEDING AT THE NOSE. — Use wheaten flour; it forms a good styptic; snuff it up the nose. Tighten the garters; apply ligatures to the arms, and put the feet into warm water, to bring the blood downwards. To apply a cold wet cloth to the privities is effectual. When it arises from constipation, the bowels should be moved immediately. Or plug the nostrils up with lint steeped in strong vinegar, and apply cloths dipped in cold water. The application of ice to the back, temples, &c., is also ser- viceable.—Or dissolve two scruples of nitre in half a pint of water, and take a cupful every hour. Or apply to the neck behind, and on each side, a cloth dipped in cold water. Or wash the temples, nose, and neck, with vinegar. Or snuff up vinegar and water. Or foment the legs and arms with it. Or dissolve an ounce of powdered alum in a pint of vinegar; dip a cloth in it, and apply it to the temples, steeping the feet in warm water.— BLEEDING OF A WOUND. —Make two or three tight ligatures toward the lower part of each joint: slacken them gradually. Or, apply tops of nettles bruised. Or, strew on it the ashes of a linen rag dipped in sharp vinegar and burnt. Or, take ripe puff balls, break them warily, and save the powder. Apply it to the wound, and bind it on. This will stop it speedily. Or, take two ounces of brandy ; two drachms of Castile soap ; potass, one drachm ; scrape the soap fine, and dissolve it in the brandy, add the potass, mix, and keep well corked. Apply a little of this to a bleeding wound, and the blood will immediately congeal. BLESSED THISTLE.—See Robinson’s Herbal. BLISTERS, Management of. —Spread the plaster thinly on paper, or linen, and rub over it a few drops of olive oil. In this way the blister acts speediiy, and with less irritation than usual. BLISTERED FEET.—Before and after walking, wash the feet well in a solution of Sal Ammoniac—half an ounce in two quarts of water. Let not the stocking be wrinkled, or much mended, when you walk. Easy boots and shoes should be worn, and very smooth next to the sole of the foot. Or, the best remedy for this is to rub the feet, when going to bed, with spirits mixed with tallow, dropped from a lighted candle into the palms of the hand. BLOOD-ROOT; Sanguinaria Canadensis.—An American plant. It has great emetic and expectorant influence. It is tonic, narcotic, stimu- lant, emetic, according to the dose and form in which it is administered. In a large dose it produces nausea, &c. In small doses, it acts as a stimulant and tonic. Like digitalis, it calms the pulse. It is an invaluable remedy in diseases of the chest, lungs, and liver. Dr. Beach, of America, says, “InBLOOD-ROOT 68 BLOOD-ROOT plethoric constitutions, when respira- tion is very difficult, the cheeks and hands livid, the pulse full, soft, vibra- brating, and easily compressed, the Blood-root has done more to obviate the symptoms and remove the disease than any other remedy used. It is most useful in bleeding at the lungs, influ- enza, hooping-cough, and croup. It should be given in quantity to cause vomiting. , Thirty drops of the saturated alco- holic solution taken three times a day, cured a bad case of rheumatism in a gouty person. It is also of great benefit in Asthmatic affections, scarlet fever, jaundice, and female obstructions. In Water of the Chest, (hydrothorax,) doses of fifty or sixty drops should be fiven until nausea follows each dose, t is excellent in chest complaints, ^and excessive expectoration. Externally, Blood-root is a great healer of the worst sores, ulcers, ring- worms, tumours, (and taken as snuff, of Polypus ;)—used as a powder, or as a wash. The roots are generally used ; but the leaves have similar virtues. It is given in the form of syrup, extract, infusion, decoction, and tincture. As an emetic it should be combined with Lobelia. If infused in vinegar, its effects as a wash, are more powerful in sores, ulcers, tetters, and ringworms. Dr. Tully asserts that in the subacute form of inflammation, which often pre- cedes a rapid phthisis, or consumption, the cure may, in general, be trusted to Sanguinaria, (Blood-root) and Opium, after the previous use of aperients. In confirmed phthisis, it is of more value, he says, in combating and palliating symptoms than any other remedy. Dr. Stevens, of Ceres, (1850) has seen the most marked benefit result from it in haemoptysis, (spitting of blood.) For this symptom it was employed by Dr. N. Smith, and others, with remarkable success, some years ago. As an expectorant in the first and second stage, its action is said to be certain to arrest the cough and freely empty the bronchial tubes. In the second and third stages, it is a remedy of some importance, that can be relied on. "• I gave it to three cases of that condi- v n of body, preceding the deposition of tubercle, although there was cough, short and feeble inspiration, and a general phthisical aspect. In one, a girl of ten years, there was an hereditary predisposition, and many symptoms of phthisis in the first stage were present, but no physical signs of the disease. She had taken cod-liver oil and other remedies without benefit, and was ex- tremely weak and emaciated. After attending to the secretions, I put her on the compound sanguinaria powder nightly, which permitted me subsequent- ly to give her steel, and to resume the cod-liver oil. Her health improved; the cough diminished and disappeared ; she gained strength and flesh, and was restored to perfect health. In a girl of ten years with a sluggish liver, jaundice, cough, but no deposition of tubercle, the same good result ensued, although the time was longer. In the first stage of phthisis, wherein actual deposition of tubercle was going on, with all the symptoms well marked, in which cod-liver oil alone was not agreeing, I have combined with it small doses of the compound sanguinaria powder twice a day, with relief to short- ness of breath, and improvement of the general health; and all the improve- ment has been attributed by the patients to the sanguinaria. In the second stage, the tincture in moderate^doses may be combined with other expectorants with great advantage, and will assist other remedies to cure ; whilst, in the third, the relief afforded in a ready expectoration and complete emptying of the bronchial tubes is really marvellous. The expectoration becomes more easy, the breathing clearer, the spasmodic efforts of coughing less ; and much improvement will result for a time in the last stage of this malady. Some bitter infusion may be combined with the sanguinaria, with decided good effect in the dyspepsia, or loss of appe- tite sometimes present. I believe the sanguinaria in moderate doses will be found a remedy of much service in the pretubercular and first stages of phthisis, either alone or combined with other sub- stances ; and that as an expectorant, in the second and third, it cannot be sur- passed. It materially helps to prolong life even in very hopeless cases. Bronchitis. In the chronic form,BLOOD-ROOT 69 BLOOD-ROOT It Is in general use all over America, as one of the most active expectorants. Dr. Leonard observes, that its acrimony renders it powerful in removing the tenacious phlegm, and which it is our object to get rid of. Dr. Wood, of Philadelphia—a name honoured in America, and well knowg, in Europe— recommends the tincture, among other remedies, as well adapted for this com- plaint, four to six times a day, kept just within the nauseating point. It is used extensively in the various hospitals in Canada, and is found truly valuable as a remedy. Its value in bronchitis I have known for some years, and have found it more serviceable than many other ex- pectorants, and one that promotes the expulsion of mucus in such a manner as to afford very great relief, with a feeling of warmth and comfort to the patient. Catarrh, is much benefited by this remedy. Equal parts of the tincture and of paregoric were found by Dr. Tully to afford most marked relief. It produces a warmth about the chest, which the patients find agreeable. It is much employed in cold in the head, pro- moting the discharge of mucous, and im- parts a pleasing sense of warmth to the whole head. Dr. R. P. Stevens speaks highly of its virtues in this affection, combined with cloves and camphor, and taken as snuff. As a gargle it is very efficacious. Asthma. The paroxysms of asthma are much relieved by it. I gave it with advantage to a female aged 57, who had been asthmatic since the change of fife in 1850, and who suffered from frequent diarrhoea and dyspnoea, or difficult breathing. It completely dispelled an asthmatic cough in a female of 30, who had aborted a few weeks before. Among other cases, was a girl of 13, with hereditary asthma, and symptoms of stone in the bladder. She passed her water in bed, was fretful and irritable, and the urine was loaded with lithates. She rapidly improved under a suitable pectoral mixture and the com- pound sanguinaria powders, and in a little while was restored to perfect health. Its efficacy in asthma is confirmed by other observers, amongst them may be mentioned Dr. Eberle, who speaks well of it.—It is most valuable in Hooping Cough. It should be combined with camphorated tincture of opium. Croup. Dr. Nathan Smith and others speak of it as a sovereign remedy in this disease. Dr. Bird recommends its use in the membranous stage, as an emetic, in the form of decoction. It expels the false membrane, and pro- duces a stimulating effect upon the mouth and fauces. Dr. Barton pro- nounces it an excellent remedy in malig- nant sore throat, croup, and similar affections, in the form of an emetic and stimulating expectorant. Dr. Ives re- commends it as highly useful in the first stage of croup, and must be given so as to produce vomiting. He observes that many physicians have relied, for years, wholly upon it as a remedy for croup. Diphtheria. Of the three forms of this disease, the simple, croupal, and malignant, it is in the two last that the sanguinaria will be found especially use- ful. In my own practice, I employ this Substance as an emetic in the croupal form ; it acts with energy, and produces a thrilling effect upon the entire mucous membranes of the fauces and respiratory tract, with a feeling of warmth. It alone, seems to impart vitality to the suffering throat, and I recommend it with the very greatest confidence. In the malignant form of diphtheria, besides the most active treatment, as hydrochloric acid to the throat, &c., a gargle, of a Warm decoction of sanguin- aria in vinegar, is invaluable. Scarlatina. Dr. Tully has used the decoction as a gargle with benefit, and Dr. Stevens, of Ceres, denved great benefit from full emetic doses of the decoction in the malignant form of scar- latina. It removes the morbid secretions of the mucous membrane of the stomach, oesophagus, and fauces, and tends to break up the morbific influence of the disease. In an epidemic of scarlatina, with symptoms of the most alarming character, Dr. R. G. Jennings, of Vir- ginia, after the failure of almost every thing else, including nitrate of silver, found gargles of the infusion of sanguin- aria in vinegar most efficacious. They effectually cleansed the throat of viscid secietion, and afforded much comfort to the suffering patients, allaying all irrita- tion.BLOOD-ROOT BLO 70 Rheumatism has been treated by Professors Smith and Ives, in the acute form, with the tincture or decoction, given till its operation upon the skin and system generally becomes manifest. Very many other physicians speak of its use in the chronic form. I have cured some cases of chronic rheumatism by the tincture and compound powder. In one, a female of 29, the subject of leucorrhoea and rheumatism, all the pains disappeared in a fortnight, and even the leucorrhoeal discharge dimin- ished. Hepatic or Liver Diseases. In the Southern States of America, yellow fever, jaundice, inactivity of the liver, &c. from the nature of the climate, pre- vails, but the sanguinaria has been found by Dr. Macbride of Charleston, of utility in torpor of the liver, with colic and yellowness of the skin. Jaundice he submitted to frequent trials of the medi- cine with advantage. Dr. A. D. Wilson cured a case of enlargement of the liver and spleen in a girl of 16, by the tinc- ture and extract. The evidence of its value in jaundice, is favourable by a host of careful American writers. Amenorrhcea. It is an emmena- gogue of some importance and power. Indeed, its first known use among the native Indian women was for this pur- pose. If the patient is plethoric and of full habit, large doses are necessary ; and if combined with aloes, shortly be- fore the usual monthly period, it will scarcely or never fail to produce men- struation. Powder. The usual dose of this as an emetic is from ten to twenty grains suspended in water. It is preferable sometimes to administer it as a pill, to avoid the irritation of the fauces. Dr. Leonard frequently combines it with ipecacuanha; the dose is from one to five grains, repeated according to the 2ffect desired. Grain doses will produce a diaphoretic and expectorant effect; if given every one or two hours, it will then exert a sedative action, and reduce the frequency of the pulse. Compound Powder. Powdered blood-root, two Scruples; opium pow- dered, one scruple ; sulphate of potass, powdered, seven scruples. Mix. Dose is from three to fifteen grains. It is probably the least irritating of all the preparations. The Powder of Sanguinaria with Camphor. Take of Sanguin- aria powdered, one scruple; powdered camphor, eight grains; powdered cloves, thirty-two grains. Mix. This is used in cold in the head, and proves very efficacious. Infusion of Sanguinaria. San- guinaria bruised, five drachms ; boiling water, a pint. Macerate for four hours, and strain. The emetic dose is from half an ounce to an ounce, at short in- tervals, till its effects are produced. Decoction of Sanguinaria. San- guinaria bruised, six drachms; distilled water, a pint and a half. Boil down to a pint, and strain. Dose same as the infusion. Extract of Sanguinaria. This and the powder can be obtained of the Medical Botanists. The dose is from an eighth to half a grain per day. It'is best to commence with a sixteenth, according to the strength of the patient. Tincture of Blood-root. This, also can be bought. Will prove emetic in a dose of two to four drachms ; but is rather intended to act as a stimulanl to the stomach, expectorant, or altera- tive.. for which purpose twenty to sixty drops may be given every two or three hours in acute cases,-and three or four times a day in chronic. BLOOD-ROOT, SYRUP. — Bruised Blood-root, two and a half ounces ; lobelia, quarter of an ounce ; white sugar, one and a half ounce; water, one and a half pint; gently simmer half an hour, till it thickens ; when cool, add a teaspoonful of pare- goric elixir. Take a tablespoonful oc- casionally ; a child a teaspoonful, cr less. This Syrup is very valuable in chest complaints, bronchial affections, coughs, and difficult breathing. BLOODY FLUX. —Feed on rice, sago, and beef-tea. To stop it, take a spoonful of suet melted over a slow fire. Do not bleed. A person was cured in one day by- feeding on rice-milk, and sitting a quarter of an hour in a shallow tub, having in it warm water, three inches deep. BLOTCHES,—Blotches or pirn-BLU 7 1 BOl pies on the face and neck are often the effect of some functional derangement of the liver or stomach, Lotions, in that case, do more harm than good. If they proceed from a disordered liver, take the compound colocynth and blue pill, (which a druggist will supply,) night and morning, for two or three days ; then purge off with two or three doses of Epsom salts and senna. If they proceed from derangement of the stomach, take fifteen grains of carbon- ate of soda, six grains of rhubarb, and two of ginger, or cayenne pepper in water twice a day, and a compound colocynth pill every other day. Last thing at night rub the blotches with tallow, and in the morning apply fullers earth about half an hour, wash off with warm water and soap ; and during the day bathe several times with elder- flower water. Take also extract of sarsaparilla to purify the blood. BLUE FIRE.—Nitre two parts; sulphur, three parts ; zinc, three parts ; neal gunpowder, four parts. Mix. BLUE FIRE for ROCKETS. —Fine zinc filings, one part, antimony, two parts : nitre, four parts. Mix. BLUE FLAME.—Gunpowder, one part; king's yellow, one part; sulphur vivum, two parts ; crude anti- mony, powdered, four parts; nitrate of potash, fourteen parts. Mix, and sift through lawn. BLUE WRITING FRUID. —Pure Prussian blue, six parts ; oxalic acid, one part; triturate with water to a perfectly smooth paste, then dilute. Add a little gum. BLUE WRITING INK — Prussian blue in fine powder, one ounce, placed in a common phial, and concen- trated Hydrochloric acid, two ounces, poured over it. Effervescence ensues, and the mixture soon assumes the con- sistence of a thin paste. After twenty four hours it may be diluted with eight or nine ounces of water, and preserved in a glass bottle. The intensity of this colour may be lessened by water. It forms an excellent Blue Writing Fluid. BOARDS, to Scour.—Brush well with soft soap, and soda, adding a small quantity of washing salts. To kill vermin wash again with salt, or alum, or borax, or with chloride of lime. BOARDS, to remove Stains and Grease from.—Make a ley of pearl ashes, unslacked lime, and soft water. Let it settle and bottle it. When used, dilute it with water, and wash it very quickly, that it may not discolour the boards. Should the first application not succeed, the operation must be repeated two or three times, or as often as may be necessary for its removal. To remove Ink spots apply strong muriatic acid, or spirits of salts. BOILS.—Poultice the boil, and paint it with aqueous extract of opium, or tincture of iodine, or the Rheumatic Liquid, (which see) frequently. Renew the process every two or three hours. A piece of lint soaked in olive oil may be strapped over the boil, if the person is necessitated to do business. An aperient may be proper, except in weakness, when it is best to give weak elixir of vitriol and quinine. Or, give two of the Alterative Pills night and morning, and the compound decoction of sarsaparilla. If a boil breaks, apply the Black Salve. BOILS.—Apply a little Venice turpentine. Or, an equal quantity of soap and brown sugar well mixed. Or, a plaster of honey and flour. Or, of figs. Or, a little saffron in a white bread poultice. Or, a table- spoonful of yeast in a glass of water twice a day. Take an aperient. The celebrated Hunter said, ‘‘I was always troubled with boils until I took thirty drops of liquid solution of potass, in milk, night and morning, for two months when the boils disappeared. BOILS on the GUMS. —A Gum boil sometimes arises from ex- posure to cold, but in the majority of cases is caused by the irritation of a spoiled tooth, and will often continue until it is extracted. Warm fomenta- tions and poultices applied externally appear to be of little service. The treat- ment consists in cutting into the abscess as soon as the smallest quantity of mat- ter has formed. Afterwards the mouth may be washed occasionally with an astringent lotion composed of Tincture of galls and water ; or of 25 grains of sulphate of zinc (white vitriol) dissolved in half a pint of rose-water. Quinine is useful in ‘his compliant. A little mildBOW 72 BON opening medicine taken every other day will be found useful. BONESET. — An American plant, and in America it Is a regular family medicine. It possesses emetic, expectorant, and sudorific properties. As a laxative it acts gently without irri- tating the bowels. In fevers it is very valuable, relaxing the bowels and sub- duing the febrile symptoms. In rheu- matism and influenza it has a good effect. The cold infusion is an excellent tonic. To produce a vomit, take one ounce of the powdered leavesc and in- fuse in a pint of Lot water. Drink a cupful every fifteen minutes until it takes effect. To promote perspiration, take small doses frequently. The root of the purple Boneset in- fused is most excellent for gravel, stone in the bladder, and all obstructions in the kidneys, &c. BORAGE. See Robinson's Herbal. All parts of this plant contain much mucilage; the stem and leaves contain the nitrate of potassa, and other saline qualities. It is tonic, demulcent; it is good in rheumatic affections, pro- moting perspiration. It is very cooling in fevers, &c. The flowers are some- times made into a healing ointment BORAX is used as an astringent and gargle in sore throat or thrush, and in excessive salivation, attended with ulceration of the tongue and the inter- nal surface of the cheeks. It readily allays heat and irritation. A solution of it forms the following Cooling Wash : borax 1 oz; rain, or spring water, 1 quart. Mix, and let it stand 10 or 12 hours. Applied freely and often to inflamed nipples, canker, sore mouth and throat, ophthalmia, and other in- flammations, and diseases of the skin. Borax is also an excellent diuretic in cases of uric gravel, as a solution of it dissolves that acid freely, and does not produce any injurious constitutional effect when used for a length of time. Borax is an excellent preservative for meat, milk, butter, and other articles of animal food. Borax is a disinfectant for closets, sinks, and impure water. It is also good for washing glass or china, giving a brilliant lustre to them. Beetles and other insects do not like it and soon dis- appear with continued use. Borax will kill the green fly on rose trees, being made into a solution and applied. It is also good for wash- ing the boards in greenhouses, and for destroying the red spider in grape vines. Borax for Cleaning Marble.— Put some dissolved borax on the soiled marble, let it stay a short time, then wash off with hot water, soap, and borax mixed, using a soft flannel. BOTTLES,; to Purify.—Rinse with lime water, or water and powdered charcoal. BOTTLE SEALING WAX. —Rosin and linseed oil, and any colour boiled together, and then moulded. Boil over a slow fire, and carefully, to prevent ignition. BOWEL COMPLAINT. Tincture of rhubarb, one ounce ; syrup of rhubarb, one and a half ounce; lau- danum, quarter of an ounce; essence of peppermint, three quarters of an ounce; mix in half a quartern of the best brandy, and cork tightly. When required for use, take two teaspoonfuls in half a glass of warm water, and the pain will be almost instantly remedied. Sometimes sickness and vomiting are present. In that case take a wine- glassful of soda water, with two tea spoonfuls of brandy every hour or oftener. One drachm of the tincture of assafoetida, j twenty or thirty drops of laudanum, / aromatic powder, two drachms ; oil of peppermint, six drops ; prepared chalk, one ounce, will remove the pain and griping in the stomach and bowels. If not, add a quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper. For bowel complaints in children, give tincture of kino, from six to thirty drops in a little warm water sweetened. BOWELS-—Keep them regular. —Neglect of them brings on all sorts of diseases, and many persons are apt to neglect them. Many years ago, an old gentleman at Greenock, left at his death, a number of sealed packets to his friends, and opening them, they found a Bible, £50, and a box of Pills, with ihe words, "Fear God and keep your bowels open.” It was good advice, though it might have been more de- corously worded. If you were a doctor, you would be astonished how manyBRA 73 BRA violent diseases of the mind, as well as of the body, are produced by irregu- larity of the bowels. The old Greeks, who were always seeking after wisdom, but did not always find it, showed their knowledge and sense in calling depres- sion of the mind melancholy, which means black bile. BRAIN, Inflammation of.—It begins with inflammatory fever, a flush- ed countenance, redness of the eyes, pain in the head, disturbed sleep, dry- ness of skin, constipation, restlessness, Irritability, pain in the stomach, a ten- dency to delirium. It is caused by hard study, intemper- ance, grief, anxiety, stopping of evacua- tions, exposure to the heat of the sun, external injuries, &c., respiration deep and slow, and sometimes difficult. The disease is a dangerous one, and often proves fatal in a few days, if not speedily arrested. Cure.—Promote the evacuations. Remove constipation by purgatives, clysters, and mix nitre with tea and other beverages. Divert the blood from the head by restoring the circula- tion in the extremities—equalize the circulation. Bathe up to the knees in warm water. In excessive inflamma- tion, apply cups to the temples, and the nape of the neck. Perspiration should also be promoted as much as possible. Should the disuse appear obstinate, put a mustard plaster between the shoulders, and to the feet at night. Frequently apply vinegar cloths to the head and temples. The less irritation, noise, light, and the better it will be for the patient. “ Cold water to the head,” says an .eminent physician, "and tepid or hot water to the surface of the body, have a powerful effect in forcing the congested blood from the head, and restoring an equilibrium in the circula- tion. The food must be simple and light, as panado, water-gruel, toast and water, or lemonade, light jellies, barley-water. Nothing stimulating must be taken. BRAN BEER. — Good bran, one bushel; water, (to produce,) eigh- teen gallons; hops, one quarter of a pound. Mash with hot water, and fer- ment in the usual way. This beer will cost about threepence per gallon ; two or three pounds of sugar, or four or five of treacle, improve It. BRANDRETH'S FAMOUS PILLS.—Aloes, four ounces; gam- boge, two ounces; extract of colo- cynth, half an ounce; Castile soap, two ounces ; peppermint, balfa drachm; cayenne pepper, lialf a drachm. Mix and form into pills. BRANDY BITTERS.—Bruis- ed gentian, eight ounces ; orange peel, four ounces ; cardamoms, three ounces; cassia, one ounce; cochineal, quarter of an ounce ; spirit, one gallon. Digest for one week, then decant the clear, and pour on the dregs, water, five pints. Digest for one week longer, decant, and mix the two tinctures together. BRASS and COPPER, to Clean.—Gently rub the article with sweet oil, and then with finely powdered rotten stone; clean, and polish with fine leather. American Method.—Powdered rotten stone, and put it into a pint ot water, intimately mix, and add a tea- spoonful of sulphuric acid. Apply, then nib off, and polish with the finest whit- ing. Or, wash in a hot solution oi alum, and when dry polish with Tripoli powder. BRASS WORK, to Clean.— Rub the article first with finest flour of emery and oil, using a piece of felt; then rub the article weU with Bath brick and lastly with fine whiting. Then rub well with wash-leather alone. This plan answers well. See Ammonia. BRASS ORNAMENTS.—Di- lute one part of sulphuric acid with three parts of water. Apply it to the article; and then polish with rotten stone and whiting. Or, rub them with powdered sal ammoniac moistened with water, first heating the article; then rub fine rotten stone, or tripoli powder. Polish with a piece of felt hat, and good wash leather to finish with. BRAWN.—Clean a pig’s head, and rub it over with salt, and a little saltpetre, and let it lie two or three days, then boil it until the bones will leave the meat; season with salt and pepper, and lay the meat hot in a mould, and press and weight it down for a few hours. Boil another hour, covering. Be sure and ait the tongue, and Lay the slices74 BRE BRE In the middle, as it much improves the flavour. BREAD, Making and Baking. Currants should be well washed, dried, and set before the fire. If damp they will make cakes or puddings heavy. Before they are added, dredge them with dry flour, and a shake given to them which causes the cakes, &c., that they are put to, to be lighter. Eggs should be well beaten, whites and yolks apart, and always strained. Sugar should be rubbed to a powder on a clean board, and sifted through a fine hair sieve. Lemon-peel should be pared thin, and with a little sugar beaten to a paste, and then mixed with a little wine, or cream, so as to divide easily among the other ingredients. After all the articles are put into the pan, they should be very well beaten, as the lightness of the cake depends on their being well incorporated. Whether black or white plum-cakes, they require less butter and eggs for having yeast, and eat equally light and rich. If the leaven be only of flour, milk and water, and yeast, it becomes tougher, and is less easily divided, than if the butter be first put with those in- gredients, and the dough set to rise by the fire. The heat of the oven is of great im- portance for cakes, especially those that are large. If not pretty quick, the batter will not rise. Should you fear its catch- ing by being too quick, put some paper over the cake to prevent its being burnt. If not long enough lighted to have a body of heat, or if it is become slack, the cake will be heavy. To know when it is soaked, take a broad-bladed knife that is very bright, and plunge it into the centre, draw it instantly out, and if the least stickiness adheres, put the cake immediately in, and close the oven. If the heat was sufficient to raise, but not to soak, I have had fresh fuel quickly put in, and kept the cakes hot till the oven was fit to finish the soaking and they turned out well. But those who bake ought to be careful that no mistake occur from negligence when large cakes are to be baked. BREAD, TO MAKE. —Put' half a bushel of good flour into a knead- ing-tub; mix with it between four and five quarts of warm water, and a pint and a half of good yeast, put It into the flour, and stir it well with the hands till it becomes tough. Let it rise an hour and twenty minutes, or less if it rises fast; then, before it falls, add four quarts more of warm water, and half a pound of salt; work it well, and cover it well with a cloth. Put the fire then into the oven; and by the time it is warm enough the dough will be ready. Make the loaves about four pounds each ; sweep out the oven clean and quick, and put in the bread ; shut it up close, and two hours and a half will bake it. In summer the water should be milk warm, in winter a little more, and in frosty weather as hot as you can well bear your hand in, but not scalding, or the whole will be spoiled. If baked in tins, the crust will be very nice. Rolls, muffins, or any sort of bread, may be made to taste new when two or three days old, by dipping them uncut in water, and baking afresh or toasting. BREAD CAKE. —Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it two ounces of butter, two of sugar, and eight of currants. Warm the butler in a tea-cupful of good milk. By the addition of an ounce of butter or sugar, or an egg or two you may make the cake the better. A tea- cupful of raw cream improves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. BREAD, FRENCH.—With a quarter of a peck of fine flour mix the yolks of three and whites of two eggs, beaten and strained, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast that is not bitter, and as much milk, made a little warm, as will work into a thin light dough. Stir it about, but don’t knead it. Have ready three quart wooden dishes, divide the dough among them, set to rise, then turn them out into the oven, which must be quick. Rasp when done. BREAD, ITALIAN.—Make a stiff dough, with two pounds of fine flour, six of white powdered sugar, three or four eggs, a lemon-peel grated, and two ounces of fresh butter. If the dough is not firm Enough, add more flour and sugar. Then turn it out, and work it well with the hand, cut it into round long biscuits, and glaze them with white of egg.75 BRK BRJEE BREAD PUDDING. — Pour boiling milk over grated bread, and cover it close. When soaked sufficiently beat it fine, and mix with it two or three eggs, well beaten. Put into a basin that will just hold it, and cover it with a fiowered cloth, and put it into boiling water. To be eaten with melted butter and sugar, or preserves. BREAD PUDDING.—Boil half a pint of milk with a bit of cinna- mon ; take four eggs, and the whites well beaten, the rind of a lemon grated, half a pound of suet chopped fine, and as much bread crumbs as are necessary. Pour your milk on the bread and suet, keep mixing it till cold, then put in the lemon-peel, eggs, a little sugar, and some nutmeg grated fine. This pud- ding may be either baked or boiled. BREAD AND BUTTER PUDDING.—Slice buttered French rolls, scatter over them two ounces of well-washed currants; beat up three eggs in half a pint of new milk, and quarter of a pint of cream, and four ounces of sugar. Put in the dish a layer of currants ; then a layer of bread and butter, and so on till the dish is full; pour the milk and eggs over the whole, and add nutmeg; bake forty minutes. BREAD, Rice and Wheat.— Simmer a pound of rice in two quarts of water till soft; when it is of a proper warmth, mix it well with four pounds of flour, and yeast, and salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoon- fuls ; knead it well; then set it to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. BREAD CUP PUDDINGS. —Steep bread crumbs in a pint of warm milk ; beat it with 6 eggs, 2 ozs. of but- ter ; sugar, brandy, nutmeg, and a cup- ful of cream. Beat well; bake in tea- cups. BREAD, SAGO.—Boil two lbs. of sago in three pints of water until re- duced to a quart, then mix with it half a pint of yeast, and pour the mixture into fourteen lbs. of flour. Make into bread in the usual way. BREAD SAUCE.—Grate some old bread into a basin ; pour boiling new milk upon It; add an onion with five cloves stuck in It, with pepper and salt to taste. Cover it, and simmer in a slow oven. When enough, take out the onion and cloves ; beat it well, and add a little melted butter. The addition of cream very much improves this sauce. BREAD, Unfermented.—Take fine flour, five pounds; bicarbonate of soda, one ounce; pure muriatic acid, one ounce ; water, one quart; salt, half an ounce ; mix the bicarbonate of soda and the salt with the flour, and put the muriatic acid into the water, and then blend the whole in the usual way of making dough ; bake it either in tins or not. Bread thus made has an agree- able natural taste; keeps much longer than fermented bread, and is more di- gestible, and less liable to turn sour or mouldy. The chemical action of the acid on the soda disengages gas, which, though it makes the bread “ light,” dis- appears in the oven ; the result of this action is to produce nothing but com- mon table-salt, which can be proved by mixing a similar proportion of the acid and soda in an appropriate vessel, when the taste of salt will be recognised. BREAD AND FLOUR. lbs. oz. dr. A peck loaf weighs 17 6 1 A half peck 8 11 A quartern 45 8% A peck (or st.) of flour ... 14 7 o A bushel of flour 57 13 o A barrel of American flour 196 o o A sack, 5 bushels of flour 288 12 o BREAKFAST RELISH Roast fowl, cold, the same quantity of tongue, half the quantity of nice ham, and boiled egg, salt, cayenne pepper, and a small portion of powdered mace and nutmeg, all chopped fine, and then beat in a mortar. Pot, and pour lard over the same ; but in potting leave out the egg, and use butter instead. BREAST, Inflammation of.— The breasts of females are sometimes inflamed, swelled, and subject to ab- scess. In mothers these affections are painful, and prevent the flow of milk. A swelling in the breast may be reduced by applying the Bitter-sweet Ointment, and the Common Strengthening Plaster, If there be chill, it must be removed by perspiration. For this purpose take theBRE 76 BRE Sudorific Powder. Also, take a tea- spoonful of best Rum, a teaspoonful of ginger, quarter of a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper ; boil four or five min- utes, and thicken with coarse flour, or ground elm bark, or slippery elm ; put a little oil upon the breast, then apply the poultice, and repeat three or four times. It generally cures. If the pain be excessive, add a small quantity of Laudanum to the poultice. This gener- ally cures. Ointment made with Marsh Mallows Is excellent for rubbing the breast. Continued application soon reduces the inflammation. In hard swellings of the breast, rub with sweet oil, or friction with Soap Liniment; a drachm of Compound Tincture of Iodine to each ounce will render it more effectual. The bowels should be kept gently open, to subdue the fever. When matter has formed, it is best to let it break and discharge spontaneous- ly ; or it may be punctured with a lan- cet. An abscess in the breast will dis- charge a long time. The diet therefore should be nutritious, light and strength- ening. A warm bread poultice is good for an abscess ; it should be changed every four or five hours, and covered with oiled silk. When the discharge has nearly ceased, simple warm water dressings may be substituted, and then apply the Black Salve, which see. BREASTS, Hard.—Apply tur- nips roasted till soft, mashed and mixed with a little oil of roses. Change twice a day, keeping the breast warm with flannel. BREASTS, Sore and Swelled. —Boil a handful of Camomile, and as much Mallows in milk and water. Fo- ment with it between two flannels, as hot as can be borne, every twelve hours. This also dissolves any knot or swelling in any part. BREATH, Foetid.—The smell may proceed from the lungs or the stomach, but in nine cases out of ten it originates in the stomach, and the fol- lowing is a simple and prompt remedy : —Three hours after a meal take a large teaspoonful of a solution of six parts of chlorate of potash in 120 parts of sugar- ed water, and at the same time rinse out the mouth well with the same solu- tion. When the breath is tainted with onions; eat parsley and vinegar, or orris root, or gum kino. Or, take a dose of rhubarb and mag- nesia occasionally; finely powdered charcoal has been recommended ; also, a decoction of camomile and wormwood. For impure breath caused by decaying teeth, chew Orris root, and Peruvian bark, or use the same as a powder. Or take charcoal powder, powdered myrrh, powdered cuttle-fish, carbonate of soda, and a drop or two of oil of cloves. Keep the mixture in the mouth as long as possible. BREATHING, Difficult.— Vitriolated Spirits of Ether, 2 ounces; Camphor, 15 grains ; Paregoric, oz. ; Ipecacuanha wine, a tablespoonful; water, half a pint. Mix, and cork well. Take a teaspoonful when the breathing is laborious. It relieves at once. BREAST PANG.—Called An- gina Pectoris. This is a sudden and most violent pain across the chest, par- ticularly about the breast bone extend- ing Jowards the arms, attended with difficulty of breathing, and a sense of suffocation, seeming to threaten imme- diate dissolution. In the young, it arises from nervous irritability of the heart, or internal muscles of the chest; but, in old persons, it is generally ac- companied with some organic disease of the heart or the coronary arteries. Effectual relief may be obtained by quiet, rest, opium and cordials. The part should be well rubbed with antispas- modics, as the ammoniated tincture of guiacum ; or cause an eruption by rub- bing the chest with the tartar emetic ointment. The bowels should be kept open by a laxative, as salts and senna. Take foetid spirits of ammonia, half an ounce: solution of morphia, three drachms; camphor mixture, six ounces ; mix, and take a tablespoonful every half hour till relieved. If the paroxysm be violent, thirty drops of ether, and ten or twelve of laudanum, may be taken immediately in a little brandy and water. The tinc- ture of Lobelia also is an efficacious remedy. (See Robinson's Herbal, arti- cle Lobelia) Take twenty or thirty drop*, and gradually increase. The bowels must be kept regular; and if there be irritability and want of sleep take fif-BRO 77 BRE teen or twenty drops of laudanum, or six or eight grains of the extract of hen- bane at bed-time. Let the diet be light and sparing, the exercise gentle, the mind be kept easy, and avoid all spirituous and heating liquors. Dr. Beach says, ' Nothing is so well calculated to remove this affection per- manently, as a long-continued course of purgation; even where it arises from disease or ossification of the coronary arteries of the heart. All mental exer- tion, violent exercise, overeating, ardent spirits, and excessive venery—indeed, all excesses, must be carefully avoided —cold and wet should especially be guarded against. The diet should be fight and easy of digestion.” BRENTFORD ROLLS.—Mix with two pounds of flour a little salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, four ounces of butter, and two eggs, beaten with two spoonfuls of yeast, and about a pint of milk. Knead the dough well, and set it to rise before the fire. Make twelve rolls, butter tin plates, and set them before the fire to rise, till they become of a proper size; then bake half an hour. BREWER’S BITTERS. Quassia, two parts; cocculus indicus, one part; Italian juice, one part; water, twenty-five parts. Boil until re- duced to twenty parts, then add cop- peras, one part. Boil to a syrup. Or, extract of quassia, extract of cocculus indicus, extract of liquorice, sulphate of iron, equal parts. This preparation is used for the same purpose as the last, and also to give an appearance of strength to weak liquor. BRIDE CAKE. —Take four pounds of fine flour well dried, four pounds of fresh butter, and two pounds of loaf sugar. Potfbd and sift fine quarter of an ounce of mace, and the same of nutmeg ; and to every pound of flour, put eight eggs well beaten. Wash four pounds of currants, pick them well, and dry before the fire. Blanch one pound of sweet almonds, and cut them lengthways very thin, take one pound each of citron, candied orange, and candied lemon, and half a pint of brandy. First work the butter to a cream with your hand, then beat In the sugar a quarter of an hour, and work up the whites of the eggs to a strong froth. Mix them with the sugar and butter, beat the yolks half an hour at least, and mix them with your other ingredients.—Then put in the flour, mace, and nutmeg, and beat it well till the oven is ready ; put in the brandy, and beat in lightly the currants and almonds. Tie three sheets of paper round the bottom of the hoop, to keep it from running out, and rub it well with butter. Then put in the cake, and place the sweetmeats in three layers, with some cake between every layer, As soon as it is risen and coloured, cover it with paper and bake it in a moderate oven for three hours. BRITANNIA METAL, to Clean.—If very dirty, rub them gently with rotten stone and water ; then with oil, turpentine, and whiting ; finish off with dry whiting. Some persons moisten with oil, and polish with fine whiting, or finely pow- dered rotten stone. See Ammonia. BRITISH CHAMPAGNE, to Make. — Take gooseberries before they are ripe, crush them with a mallet in a wooden bowl, and to every gallon of fruit put a gallon of water; let it stand two days, stirring it well; squeeze the mixture thoroughly with the hands, through a loop sieve ; then measure the liquor, and to every gallon put three pounds and a half of loaf sugar ; mix it well in the tub, and let it stand one day ; put a bottle of the best brandy into the cask, which leave open five or six weeks, taking off the scum as it rises; then make it up, and let it remain one year in the barrel before it is bottled. The proportion of brandy is one pint to seven gallons. BROCCOLI, to Boil.—Peel the thick skin off the stalks, and boil for nearly a quarter of an hour, with a little bit of soda, then put it in salt, and boil five minutes more. Broccoli and savoys taste better when a little bacon is boiled with them. BRONCHIAL TROCHES.— Powdered extract of liquorice, four ounces ; sugar, two ounces ; powdered cubebs, one ounce; gum Arabic, hall an ounce; powdered hemlock, one drachm. Mix.BRO ' 78 BRO BRONCHITIS. — This disease Is very prevalent in the English climate, and often proves fatal. The acute affection often passes into the chronic form. Bronchitis is derived from the Greek Bronkos, the wind-pipe, and has a reference to the bronchia, the ramifi- cations of the trachea. It is an inflam- mation of the lining membrane of the passages of the throat, through which respiration is carried on. The first symptoms are running at the nose, eyes watering, frequent sneez- ing, shivering, dulness, and sometimes pain in the head. The chest is affect- ed, there is a roughness of feeling in the trachea, or wind-pipe, which causes frequent attempts to clear the throat. The fever runs high, there is great weakness, a troublesome cough, and difficult breathing, hoarseness, tightness and pain across the chest. The cough is soon accompanied with expectoration of a thin fluid, having a saline taste, possessing an irritating quality. As the expectoration thickens and increases, the pain begins to abate, and the breathing to be relieved. The pulse is not so violent and the fever abates. These are favourable symptoms; and especially so when the phlegm changes from a glairy liquid to a tenacious phlegm, and decreases in quantity. The unfavourable symptoms are, feeble, frequent, and irregular pulsation, palid countenance, cold sweats, in- creased mucous, and the prostration of strength through the cough in efforts to remove it; the cough becomes less effectual to expectorate; wheezing comes on, and next a rattling in the large air- tubes, delirium, and suffocation. Fre- quently, the collapse is very rapid, in- ducing dissolution in two or three days. Cure.—The loss of vitality in the system has caused a diminished tem- perature, chills, coldness of the surface and extremities, imperfect cutaneous functions and the effusion of impure blood on the mucous membrane of the bronchia; followed by irritation and congestion, and the secretion of mu- cous hinders the breathing. Nature requires the removal of these obstruc- tions. Place the feet in warm water, and administer warm and mucilaginous drinks; as, linseed tea, barley water, with a little lemon juice; balm tea; gentle aperients, if required ; foot-baths, and hot bran poultices to the chest. The surface of the body should occa- sionally be bathed with warm water and carbonate of soda. The vapour bath also is recommended. Nothing is so effectual as nauseating medicines. The design of all remedies in this disease is to dislodge the tena- cious and viscid secretion which lines the air-tubes, and the impure blood must be corrected and returned to the surface. Emetics have a specific action on the respiratory organs, dislodging the bronchial phelegm, and removing the tension of the parts. Take four grains of ipecacuanha powder, in a little warm water, every twenty minutes, till vomiting takes place. Repeat if necessary. Or, take the following emetic :— Lobelia, six drachms; shunk cab- bage, three drachms; ipecacuanha, four drachms ; cayenne pepper, half a drachm. Powder and mix* A tea- spoonful in camomile tea, every twenty minutes till it operates. It is most effectual in clearing the lungs from ac- cumulated matter. These Herbs are sold by the Medi- cal Botanists and Druggists. Laborious breathing may be relieved by inhaling steam from a decoction of bitter herbs, or even hot water. Gentle perspiration must be promoted, and medicines employed to allay the cough, if troublesome. The following is a good mixture:— Ipecacuanha wine, one drachm ; aro- matic spirit of ammonia, two drachms ; carbonate of potash, one drachm; water, eight ounces; and if the cough be irritable, add a grain of acetate of morphia—take two tablespoonfuls every four hours. Or, take almond oil, half an ounce; solution of the carbonate of scda, half a drachm ; syrup of tolu, one ounce; syrup of poppies, one ounce ; water, six ounces. Mix, and take two tablespoon- fuls every two or three hours. Perspiration may be promoted by taking the Sudorific Powder, p.jar, 383, Counter-irritants are sometimes effec- tual, as mustard plasters; and in ex- treme cases, small blistering plasters to the chest. Dr. Beach recommends flannels dip-79 BRO BRU I - ped in a decoction of hops and worm- wood, boiled in vinegar ; the flannels to be gently wrung, and applied as hot and l as often as possible over the bronchial tubes, or the upper part of the chest, i If it produces an eruption, it is favour- able. The bowels must not be neglected, j but kept open by gentle aperients, as ! castor oil, a weak infusion of salts and senna, according to the strength of the i patient. This tends to cool the system, I and divert the humours from the chest to the bowels. Bronchitis from the acute sometimes | passes into the chronic. The person in such case should be well clothed, wear flannel next to the skin—should avoid exposure to cold and damp, and abstain from alcoholic drinks. Indeed, in many cases, bronchitis is caused by intemper- ance, and also by much public speaking. When the cough is violent and fast, lake expectorants recommended in this book, and apply to the chest the Stimu- lating Ointment (which see) Dr. Beach i advises the use of the Tar-bath exactly in the following way :—Add one ounce of common potash to one pound of tar, to deprive it of its pyroligneous acid. | Mix well, and boil together in the open i air for fifteen minutes—then to be kept j gendy simmering in the room of the I patient. This may be done by placing it over a spirit lamp. The Irritating Plaster is very service- j able in bronchial affections. The Americans recommend the smoking of Mullen leaves dried. During the inflammation attendant i on this complaint, the diet must be I simple and soothing; as gruels, sago, rice, tapioca, arrowroot, &c. The ) patient must keep in a warm room, and j avoid cold and damp. During conva- I lescence, tonics should be freely taken. | Avoid stimulating drinks. BROOM. Ste Robinson's Herbal. \ —It is a valuable diuretic, and it may j be safely administered. The green tops I are to be infused, an ounce to a pint of j boiling water, covered and placed near i a warm fire from six to eight hours. | Take a teacupful twice a day. A little ! spirits of nitre, and a few juniper ! berries will assist to cause the flow of i urine. BRONZING PLASTER OF PARIS, &c.—First, give to the figures a coat of oil, or size varnish, and when nearly dry, apply with a dabber of cotton or camel-hair pencil, any of the metallic bronze powders; or the powder may be placed in a little bag of muslin, and dusted over the surface, and afterwards finished off with a wad of linen. The surface must be after- wards varnished. BROTH, that will Keep.— Put part of a round of beef, a knuckle bone veal, and a few shanks of mutton into a deep pan, and cover close with a dish or coarse crust; bake till the beef is done enough for eating, with only as much water as will cover. When cold, cover it close in a cool place. When used, give what flavour may be ap- proved. BROTH, Readily-made. Take a bone or two of a neck or loin of mutton, take off the fat and skin, set it on the fire in a small tin saucepan that has a cover, with three quarters of a pint of water, the meat being first beaten, and cut in thin bits : put a bit of thyme and parsley, and, if approved, a slice of onion. Let it boil very quick, skim it nicely; take off the cover, if likely to be too weak ; else cover it. Half an hour is sufficient for the whole process. BROTH, Strengthening.—Boil two pounds of loin of mutton, with a very large handful of chervil, in two quarts of water to one. Take off part of the fat. Any other herbs or roots may be added. Take half a pint three or four times a day. BROWN BREAD ICE. Grate as fine as possible stale brown bread, soak a small proportion in cream two or three hours, sweeten and ice it. BROWN BREAD PUD- DING.—Grate half a pound each of stale brown bread, currants, shred suet, sugar, and nutmeg; mix the v/hole with four eggs, and two spoonfuls of cream, boil in a cloth or basin three or four hours. BRUISE.—Apply treacle spread on brown paper. Or, a plaster of chopped parsley mixed with butter. Or, electrify the part. To prevent8o BUG BRU swelling, apply a cloth five or si* times doubled, dipped in cold water, and redipped when it grows warm. BRUISES.—Cover with linen, wet with vinegar and wormwood boiled together. Put a small bit of lard on the surface, and apply slightly warm. In very bad cases a leech or two will ex- pedite the cure. BRUISES, Embrocation for. —Pour upon two ounces of carbonate of ammonia, (smelling salts) as much distilled vinegar as will dissolve it; then add a pint and half of common rectified spirit, and shake the whole together in a bottle. It is a good remedy for sprains and bruises. BRUSSELS SPROUTS.— Place in boiling water for fifteen min- utes, then add sufficient salt, and boil ten minutes more. Drain them well, and serve with melted butter. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.— Cut cold boiled or roast beef into slices ; squeeze and chop some cabbage that has been dressed; put both together into a frying pan, with a little butter, pepper and salt, if requisite; fry them for a few minutes ; when done, raise the cabbage high in the middle of a dish, and put slices of beef round, fat and lean alternately. BUBBLE AND SQUEAK.— Cold roast veal, cut into tit bits, with the flower (only) of a cauliflower, and cut small; warm in a frying-pan with a quarter pint of cream, and seasoned with salt and cayenne pepper. It is a de- lightful dish. BUCHU LEAVES.—They are diuretic and tonic, and a most valuable remedy in rheumatism, irritable bladder, gravel, stricture, &c. They are given in infusion and tincture. Infuse half an ounce of leaves in half a pint of boiling water, for three or four hours. A wine- glassful for a dose two or three times a day; or from one drachm to half an ounce of the tincture. BUCKBEAN.—See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable herb in scurvy, hypochondria,'ague, rheumatism, erup- tions, &c. The leaves in infusion. BUCKtHORN. —See Robin- son's Herbal. The plant is purgative, and celebrated in dropsies, rheumatism, and gout. BUGS.—Persons who travel often meet with these vermin, and are sadly bitten by them. To prevent this, let your shirt, or night shirt be washed as ordinarily, well wrung, and then dipped in a solution of alum, or in a solution of camphor, and then dried. A sure preventive. BUG POISON.—The spirit of tar is a powerful remedy, applied by means of a brush ; chloride of lime is a very good wash.—Bugs have become so general a nuisance, much care is neces- sary to get rid of them. Bedsteads should be taken to pieces at the begin- ning of the year, and each part washed with a strong solution of corrosive sub- limate. The crevices or cracks should be stopped up with putty, then the joints and crevices painted with white lead, to be well dried before the bed is put together. Bugs do not like paint, it is too cold for them. If the walls are infested, the paper should be removed, and the walls washed with the corrosive sublimate, (stopping all cracks in the walls with plaster of Paris.) The floor in inveterate cases, may be painted all round the skirting-board to the extent of four inches. As the corrosive sub- limate is a strong poison, the bottle con- taining it should be marked, and a caution given to those who apply it. Coal oil, or naptha, is said to be a sure destroyer of bed-bugs. Apply plentifully, with a small brush or fea- ther, to all places where they congre- gate. The cure is effectual and per- manent. Gilt frames, chandeliers, &c., rubbed slightly over with coal oil, will not be disturbed by flies. BUGS, to Destroy.—r. Corro- sive sublimate, i ounce; muriatic acid, 2 ounces; water, 4 ounces; dissolve, then add turpentine, 1 pint; decoction of tobacco 1 pint; mix. For the decoc- tion of tobacco boil two ounces of it in a pint of water. This mixture must be applied with a paint brush. This wash is a deadly poison. 2 Dissolve camphor in spirits of wine, then add nearly the same quantity of turpentine. Apply it with a brush to the bed, furniture, &c., infested by the vermin. The smell of this is very whole- some, but death to the bugs, &c. 3 Arsenic, one ounce ; soft soap, two ounces ; camphor nearly half ounce, dis-BUG 8i BUR solved as above, made into a paste, and I applied. 4 Use a strong ^solution of alum water.—Or spirits of naptha applied with a brush. Or apply turpentine and creasote, or oil of tar. 5 Camphor placed in a small bag, and suspended over and under a bed, is a good remedy. BUGLE.—A plant growing in woods, ditches, swamps, copses, &c. i (See Robinson's Herbal.) It is of great use in coughs, and the first stages of consumption, spitting of blood, &c. Amongst the doctors of America it is in high repute. Like Digitalis, though not so powerful, it allays irritation, cough, regulates the pulse, and equalizes I the circulation. It has been described I as "one of the mildest and best nar- | cotics in existence.” Administered by infusion, or decoction. BUNIONS.—A plaster of Bur- gundy pitch should be kept over a bunion. Or, a piece of lint or linen rag wetted with a strong solution of sal- ammoniac, to be kept on constantly wet.—Poultice them with houseleek and ground ivy, dipped in strong vinegar.— Some recommend the application of j caustic to the part; and also the appli- | cation of leeches, and the Burgundy | pitch and soap plasters, spread upon soft leather. To be free from bunions and corns, especially avoid pressure from tight boots, shoes, and stockings ; the last are very injurious, as they com- press the feet by their elasticity. BURDOCK.— See Robinson's Herbal. It has been successfully em- ployed in scurvy, rheumatism, gout, and pulmonary complaints. It is a great diuretic. As it neither excites nausea, nor increases irritation, it is worthy of a trial where more active remedies are improper. BURNS AND SCALDS.—See Spanish Flies. If the clothes have I caught fire, wrap the person in a shawl, coat, blanket, &c., very tightly, to ex- tinguish the flames; or when these are not at hand, roll the person on the floor. Then gently disengage the clothes from around the burned surface. ; If any parts of the dress should stick to I the burned part, do not remove them, but cut the clothes from around that part. The treatment for burns is ap- plicable to scalds. If the injury is ■merely superficial, saturate a piece of cotton wool, or wadding, &c. with tinc- ture of Spanish flies, largely diluted with water, and apply it over the burn- ed or scalded part, and cover it with folded cotton or linen, &c., to exclude the atmospheric air. Saturate with the liniment as the cloth dries. If the wound is deep, use the arnica lotion, (see plant Leopard’s Bane,) instead of Cantharis. When the burning pain ceases, apply simple cerate spread on a linen rag, and cover well up. Liniments are better than lotions, as they contain soap dissolved in spirits of wine, both curative of bums, &c. The arnica lotion may be obtained from any Homoeopathic chemist. When the afore-mentioned liniments are not at hand, cotton wool, or a linen rag may be well saturated in oil and soap lather, and applied. ‘ A most primitive, yet very effectual remedy in the treatment of bums and scalds is cow-dung; and from its being so rich in phosphorus, it must exert a specific, and a mechanical action to cure injuries resulting frem fire.’ Apply a poultice of elm bark and milk, and when the inflammation has left, apply Black Salve. For very slight bums, the Black Salve alone will cure. The slippery elm poultice is a sovereign remedy, and has effected the greatest ciues. Dr. Beach relates the case of a girl dreadfnlly scalded by falling into a large pan of boiling water, which scald- ed, and actually burnt or disorganized the parts from the back nearly to the feet. A poultice of slippery elm bark, and olive oil alone, very soon arrested the inflammation and acute sufferings of the patient, to the astonishment of all. The elm bark may be bought of the medical botanists. In all cases of bums and scalds, it is necessary to observe, that if fever should ensue gentle laxative medicines ought to be given; as castor oil, or salts and senna. In cases of scalding the mouth with hot liquids, gargle with a solution of borax, and then hold in the mouth a mucilage of slippery elm, swallowing It slowly, if the throat also has been scalded ; the slippery elm bark may beBUT 82 BUR mixed with olive oiL Some recommend soap liniment, which is made by dis- solving soap in spirits. When a bum is only trifling, and causes no blister, it is sufficient to apply a compress of several folds of soft linen upon it, dipped in cold water, in which has been dissolved a little carbonate of soda ; to be renewed every 15 minutes, until the pain is removed. Dr. Tissot says, In cases of blisters, beat up an egg with two table-spoonfuls of olive oil, or linseed oil, spread it on soft linen, and apply it to the affected part. For very slight bums or scalds, the Black Salve alone is sufficient to remove the pain and inflammation ; page 65 If the skin is not broken, cover the part with a layer of flour or starch, place cotton wool over it, or a linen rag, and bind it over lightly. If a blister has been burst or cut, use a cerate. Where the skin has been burnt off, wet applications may be used ; the best is lime water and linseed oil; one part of the former to two of the latter, well mixed. Milk may be used to advantage in the same way; or in the absence of milk use bread and water till you can get the linseed oil and lime water. BURNS AND SCALDS.—If any part of the body be scalded or burnt, it should be placed in a vessel of new milk as soon as possible, and be kept there till the fire is drawn out. There must be an abundance of new milk obtained where the greater part of the body is burnt; and if a bath of milk cannot be got, the patient must be laid on the first convenient place, and soft cloths steeped in milk must be contin- ually applied, till the fire is drawn out. This has been known to give instant relief to a man who fell into a copper of boiling wort, when the skin peeled off with his clothes. Or, peel a few raw potatoes, beat them in a mortar; add a drachm or two of laudanum ; Spply to the affected parts, like a poultice. It is very effi- cacious in the cure of bums or scalds, and other inflamed parts. An eminent surgeon in the army says, "Opiates are excellent things, and should be given to relieve pain ; but the stimulants mrst not be torgotten. The shock of the burns depresses the whole system, and laudanum, though it re- lieves the pain, is also depressing in its effects, I would, therefore, (as in acci- dents of this kind time is most precious) recommend the following mixtures to be given at once:—Laudanum, 30 drops; sulphuric ether 40 drops; brandy, a tablespoonful, in a wine glassful of warm water. This should be given directly, and repeated in an hour's time if the pain is not sub- dued. This treatment should be followed up by beef tea and other concentrated forms of nourishment. Of course the ever-present remedy of covering the bums freely with flour from a flour dredge, and applying cotton wool above the layer of flour, must not be neglected. BURN OR SCALD.—Imme- diately plunge the part in cold water, and keep it there for some time.—Or electrify it immediately.—Or if the part cannot be dipped, apply a cloth four times doubled, dipped in cold water, changing it when it becomes warm.—Or a bruised onion.—Or mix lime-water and sweet oil to the thickness of cream. Apply with a feather. Most effectual. Or, take a piece of thick brown paper, dipped in the best salad oil; then set the paper on fire upon a common plate, upon which will remain a deposit of oil. Apply this oil to the bum. Or, put on the bum or scald a covering of flour.— Or, cover with treacle, and dust on flour. Or, cover with the white of egg. Or, apply whiting or chalk, and linseed oiL Or, apply a cloth dipped in a solu- tion of alum. Another remedy is to cover the bum with moistened whitening placed on a cloth, and kept damp with a sponge. BUTTER, to Make.—In Swe- den, they thus make it:—Put the cream, either sweet or sour, into a bag of suffi- cient fineness to prevent its passing through, and then bury the bag four feet in the earth, carefully covering it up. In twenty-four or twenty-five hours, on taking up the bag, the cream will be found to be converted into excellent butter. BUTTER, to Make.—During summer, skim the milk when the sun has not heated the dairy ; at that season83 BUT BUT it should stand for butter twenty-four hours without skimming, and forty-eight in winter. Deposit the cream-pot in a very cold cellar, if your dairy is not more so. If you cannot chum daily, change it into scalded fresh pots; but never omit churning twice a week. If possible, put the chum in a thorough air ; and if not a barrel one, set it in a tub of water two feet deep, which will give firmness to the butter. When the butter is come, pour off the butter-milk, and put the butter into a fresh-scalded pae, or tubs which have afterwards been in cold water. Pour water on it, and let it lie to acquire some hardness be- fore you work it; then change the water, and beat it with flat boards so perfectly that not the least taste of butter-milk remain, and that the water, which must be often changed, shall be quite clear in colour. Then work some salt into it, weigh, and make it into forms ; throw them into cold water, in an earthen pan and cover of the queen’s ware. You will then have very nice and cool butter in the hottest weather. It requires more working in hot than in cold weather ; but in neither should be left with a particle of butter-milk. BUTTER, a Novel Method to Make.—At Hougham, says the Stamford Mercury, a farmer's wife ties up her cream in a linen cloth, buries it for twenty-four hours in a damp comer of her garden, empties it into a bowl, stirs it with a spoon, and the butter and buttermilk separate. Her butter is said to be sweeter than that which is made by churning. BUTTER, Fairy. — Take the yolks of four eggs boiled ; butter, quar- ter of a pound; beat two ounces of sugar in a tablespoonful of orange- flower water ; beat all to a fine paste ; let it stand two hours, mb it through a colander upon a plate. BUTTER, to clarify for Potted Meat, &c.—Put It into a sauce-boat, and set it over the fire in a stew-pan that has a little water in. When melted, take care not to pour the milky parts over the potted things ; they will sink to the bottom. BUTTER, to Preserve for Winter.—-When the butter has been prepared, as above directed, take two parts of the best common salt, one part of good loaf sugar, and one part of saltpetre, beaten, and blended well to- gether. Of this composition put one ounce to sixteen ounces of butter, and work it well together in a mass. Press it into the pans after the butter is be- come cool; for friction, though it be not touched by the hands, will soften it. The pans should hold ten or twelve pounds each. On tne top put some salt; and when that is turned into brine, if not enough to cover th« butter entire- ly, add some strong salt and water. BUTTER, another Mode of Preserving.—Pour a pint of boiling water on one pound of common salt; add half an ounce of saltpetre, one ounce of lump sugar. Let it stand till cold. Pour it off clear of sediment and put the butter into it This pickle will keep butter firm and sweet during the hottest weather. BUTTER, to Choose.—Put a knife into the butter if salt, and smell it when drawn out; if there is any thing rancid or unpleasant, it is bad. Being made at different times, the layers in casks will vary greatly, and you will not easily come at the good- ness but by unhooping the cask, and trying it between the staves. Fresh butter ought to smell like a nosegay, and be of an equal colour all through ; if sour, it has not been washed enough ; if veiny and open, it has been mixed with an inferior sort. BUTTER and PARSLEY.— Wash the parsley; boil it in a bunch till soft, shred fine, and mix it with melted butter. BUTTERMILK.—If made of sweet cream, it is a delicious and most wholesome food. Those who can relish sour butter-milk find it still more light, and it is reckoned more beneficial in consumptive cases. Butter-milk, if not very sour, is also as good as cream to eat with fruit, if sweetened with white sugar, and mixed with a very little milk.-1 It likewise does equally for cakes and rice puddings, and of course it is economical to chum before the cream is too stale for any thing but to feed pigs. BUTTERED EGGS. — Beat four or five eggs, yolk and white to-BUT CAK 84 gether, put a quarter of a pound of butter in a basin, and then put that in boiling water, stir it till melted, then pour the butter and the eggs into a sauce- pan ; keep a basin in your hand, just hold the sauce-pan in the other over a slow part of the fire, shaking it one way, as it begins to warm ; pour it into a basin, and back, then hold it again over the fire, stirring it constantly in the sauce-pan, and [touting it into the basin, more perfectly to mix the egg and butter, until they shall be hot without boiling. Serve on toasted bread ; or in a basin, to eat with salt-fish, or red herrings. BUTTERED ROLLS, or RUSKS. — Take one pound of bread paste, four ounces of butter, roll it in the paste, bake them on tins, long or round, in a hot oven.—The above is recommended for sick people. BUTTERNUT.— See Robin- son's Herbal. It is an American plant, and makes a very easy purge, causing no pain or irritation. As a regular pur- gative, it is valuable; for it does not leave the bowels with a tendency to be constipated. It is administered in the form of an extract, in doses from fif- teen to thirty grains.—Can be obtained of the Medical Botanists. C. CABBAGE, to Boil.—Cut off the outside leaves, then cut it in quar- ters ; pick it well, and wash it clean; boil it in a large quantity of water, with plenty of salt in it; when it is tender and a fine light green, lay it on a sieve to drain, but do not squeeze it, if you do, it will take off the flavour; have ready some very rich melted butter, or chop it with cold butter.—Greens must be boiled the same way. Strong vege- tables, like turnips and cabbage, &c., require much water. CABBAGE, a la Flamande.— Cut a large cabbage into quarters; scalding it in boiling water some time ; drain well; cut the stem out of each quarter, and chop it fine; put into a stew pan with slices of ham, butter and cream ; simmer till it is quite mashed, stirring often; add gravy, pepper, and salt. The sauce must be thick. Toast bread, and put it into the table-dish, pour the ragout upon it, and garnish with fried or stewed sausages. CABBAGE PUDDING Braize one pound of beef suet, one pound of lean veal, half a pound of nice ham, and a small scalded cabbage, Season with mace, nutmeg, ginger, pepper, and put in some good goose- berries. Mix with all the yolks of four or five eggs well beaten up. Wrap all up in a green cabbage leaf, tie it in a cloth, and boil it an hour. CABBAGE, RED, to Pickle. —Choose a sound large cabbage ; shred it finely, and sprinkle it with salt, and let it stand in a dish for a day and night. Then boil vinegar (from a pint) with ginger, cloves and cayenne pepper. Put the cabbage into jars, and pour the liquor upon it when cold. CAKE, a Fine.—Wash two and a half pounds of butter in rose-water, beat the butter to a cream ; beat twenty eggs, yolks and whites separately, half an hour each. Have ready two and a half pounds of the finest flour, well dried, and kept hot, also, one and a half pound of sugar pounded and sifted, one ounce of spice finely powdered; three pounds of currants clean and dry ; almonds blanched half a pound, three quarters of a pound of sweetmeats cut, not too thin. Keep all near the fire, mix all the dry ingredients; pour the eggs strained to the butter; pour half a pint of sweet wine with a large glass of brandy to the butter and eggs, mix well, then gradually put in all the dry things, beat them thoroughly. Then chop very fine half a pound of stoned raisins, and mix them carefully, so that there shall be no lumps, and add a teacupful of orange-flower water. Beat well a little longer. Have a hoop well buttered, take a white paper, doubled and buttered, and put in the pan round the edge, if the cake-batter fill it more than three parts; for space should be allowed for rising. Bake in a quick oven. It will require three hours. CAKE, an Excellent. — Rub two pounds of fine flour, with one pound of butter washed in rose-water, mix it with three spoonfuls of yeast, in a little warm milk and water. Set it to rise an hour before the fire ; then beat into it two pounds of currants, oneCAK 85 CAK pound of sugar, sifted, four ounces of almonds, si* ounces of stoned raisins, chopped fine, half a nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, and a few cloves, the peel of a lemon chopped fine, a glass of wine, ditto of brandy, twelve yolks and whites of eggs beat separately and long, orange, citron, and lemon. Beat well., and butter the pan. A quick oven. CAKES, Brevet,—Rub into one pound of dried flour four ounces of butter, four ounces of white powdered sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make into a paste. When mixed, put currants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut them, and bake on tins. CAKE, Boumeville. Work half a pound of flour with five or six eggs, lemon peel, chopped fine, a little orange-flower water, and plain water and salt. Take as much butter as paste, and work it well together. Bake it in a mould or hoop, and garnish as you like. CAKES, Browning for.—Half lb. of moist sugar, 2 ozs. of butter, add a little water. Simmer till brown. A little of this mixture will give a rich colour to cakes. CAKES, Cinnamon.—As the above, adding cinnamon according to taste. CAKE, Common. — Take the quantity of a quartern loaf from the dough, when making white bread, and knead well into it 2 ozs. of butter, 2 ozs. of sugar, and % lb. of currants. Warm the butter in a tea-cupful of milk, By the addition of 1 oz. of butter, or sugar, or an egg or two, you may make the cake better. A tea-cupful of cream im- proves it much. It is best to bake it in a pan, rather than as a loaf, the outside being less hard. CAKE, COCOA-NUT SPONGE.—Grate a cocoa-nut, the outer part peeled off. A teaspoonful of salt, and half a grated nutmeg. A pound of white sugar. Beat and strain the yolks of six eggs ; the whites cut to a stiff froth. One teaspoonful of essence of lemon, and half a pint of flour. Mix the yolks, sugar, and other ingredients, except the whites and flour. Before putting it into the oven, add the whites, and flour gradually, and gently mix it. Put it on buttered paper on tius, in a I quick oven. Cover with paper lest the | top harden quick. CAKES, Derby.—Mix 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. rf&gar, 1 lb. of currants, 1 lb. of flourrwith an egg, in a paste. Roll it round in small cakes, and bake them on a tin. CAKES, Drop.—Mix 2 lbs. of flour, 1 lb. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of currants, clean and dry : then wet into a stiff paste, with two eggs, a large spoonful each of orange-flower water, rose-water, sweet wine, and brandy; drop on a tin-plate floured ; a very short time bakes them. CAKES, Ginger. — As above; but mixing with it half an ounce of ginger. CAKES, Graham Griddle.— Three tea-cups of brown flour, one cup of white flour, three cups of buttermilk or sour milk, one teaspoonful of soda dissolved in warm water, (not hot) one teaspoonful of salt, a heaping table- spoonful of butter, or lard, (butter is best), three eggs beaten to a froth ; mix all by quick beating and bake as soon as mixed. If obliged to use sweet milk, sift two teaspoonfuls of cream of tartar with the flour. CAKES, Rice Griddle.—One and a half cupful of cold boiled rice, one pint of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, 3 well beaten eggs, (yolks and whites beaten separately,) with boiled milk enough to make a batter rather thicker than for common griddle cakes. If the milk is poured over hot, the eggs must not be added till it is cool. CAKES, Rye Griddle. —One quart of rye flour and one cup of wheat flour. Wet it up with sour milk or buttermilk, until the batter is thick enough to cook easily on a griddle. Add a (ittle salt and a scant teaspoonful of soda, dissolved in warm water, (not hot) and one beaten egg. Rye griddle cakes are far better than wheat, very much tenderer. If prefer- ed, use com meal with it instead of wheat flour. CAKES, Iceing for.—Powder and sift one pound of loaf sugar; put it into a basin with the whites of three or four eggs ; beat well together, and add the juice of six lemons ; beat well until it becomes very light and hangs in86 CAK CAK flakes from the spoon ; it is then ready j for use. CAKES, Lillyput.—Dry half lb. , of flour, rub into it a little pounded j sugar, one ounce of butter, one egg, a few carraways, and as much milk and water as to make a paste ; roll it thin, and cut it with the top of a canister or glass. Bake fifteen minutes on tin- plates. CAKES, Liliputian.—Fine flour % lb. ; fine sugar, 6 ozs. ; carbonate of ammonia, 4 drachms ; essence of lemon 8 drops ; 3 eggs. Beat well the eggs, sugar, and flavouring, add the flour and ammonia, and mix all well. Drop on buttered tins. If the drop is as large as a shilling, allow it the space of a half- crown. Bake in a quick oven a short time. CAKES, Marlborough.—Beat eight eggs, and 1 lb. of pounded sugar three quarters of an hour, then by de- grees mix in 1 lb. of fine flour well dried ; add 2 ozs. of caraway seeds, and bake in tin pans, in a brisk oven. CAKES, Orange-flower. — Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour ; drain and put between napkins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised; then have ready boiled a pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, simmer until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. CAKE, Oswego.—Eight ounces of Oswego Prepared Corn ; eight ounces of sugar ; four ounces of butter ; three eggs ; a teaspoonful of baking powder. Bake in patty tins. CAKES, Rice.—Mix 10 ozs. of ground rice, 3 ozs. of flour, % lb. of fine sugar ; sift by degrees into it seven well beaten eggs, and the peel of a lemon shred extremely fine; mix the whole well in a stew-pan over a slow fire with a whisk, then put it immediate- ly into the oven in the same, and bake forty minutes. Another.—Beat twelve yolks and six whites of eggs with the peels of two lemons grated. Mix 1 lb. of rice flour, and % lb. of flour, and 1 lb. of sugar sifted : then beat it well with the eggs for an bout with a wooden spoon. But- ter a pan well, and. pit it in at the oven mouth for an hour and a half. CAKE, RICH, Butter for.—For large and rich cakes the directions are, to beat the butter to a cream ; but they are quite as light when it is cut small and gently melted with just so much heat as will dissolve it. If it be shaken round in a saucepan, previously warmed, and held near the fire for a short time, it will soon be liquefied ; it must not oe when added gradually to the other ingredients. To cream butter, drain the water well from it, after it is cut, soften it a little before the fire, if hard, and then with the back of a large wooden spoon, beat it till it resembles thick cream. When prepared thus, the sugar is added to it first, and then the other ingredients in succession. CAKE, Short.—Rub into 1 lb. of dried flour, 4 ozs. of butter, 4 ounces of white powdered sugar, one egg, and a spoonful or two of thin cream to make it into a paste. When mixed, put cur- rants into one half, and caraways into the rest. Cut as before, and bake on tins. CAKES, Shrewsbury.—Into 1 lb. of flour rub % lb. of butter, and 6 ozs. of sugar; make a hole in the mid- dle, into which break two or three eggs, add milk to form a paste ; roll out one- eighth of an inch thick, and cut into small cakes ; bake in a slow oven. CAKE, Spanish.—Take 12 eggs, % lb. of fine sugar, and mill them in a chocolate mill till they are of a lather ; mix in 1 lb. of flour, % lb. of pounded almonds, 2 ozs. each of candied orange- peel and citron, four spoonfuls of orange flower water, % oz. of cinnamon, and a glass of wine. Bake it in a slow oven. CAKES, Sugar.—Take a quarter of a pound of butter well worked ; mix it with a pound of brown sugar, an egg well beat, and as much flour, as it will take to make it stiff: roll it thin, and cut with a tin mould; bake the cakes in a slow oven. CAKE, to keep good a year.— Flour, butter, currants, raisins, sugar, of each, one pou^d ; one ounce of almonds blanched and dried before the fire, six eggs well beaten, orange peel, and lemon peel, of each one ounce. Beat the butter to a cream, and gradu- ally mix with the flour; add a wineS7 CAT. CAK glass of brandy. This cake should not be cut under three months. CAKES, Tunbridge. — Rub 6 ozs. of butter into 1 lb. of flour; then mix 6 ozs. of sugar, beat and strain two eggs, and make all into a paste. Roll it very thin, and cut with the top of a glass; prick them, and cover with car- aways, or wash with the white of an egg, and sift white sugar over. CAKES, Victoria.—Boil half oz. of saffron in a pint of water ; strain, add loaf sugar, 1 lb., then beat up six eggs In the sugar and water; rub K lb. of fresh butter in 1 lb. of flour, mix this with the rest, adding % lb. of currants, and 1 oz. of candied orange and lemon peel cut small. Make like a large bun, put it on an iron plate, and bake two hours and a quarter. CAKES, Water.—Dry 3 lbs. of fine flour, rub it into 1 lb. of sugar sifted, 1 lb. of butter, and 1 oz. of car- away seed. Make it into a paste with yA of a pint of boiling new milk, roll very thin, and cut into any size ; punch full of holes, and bake on tin plates in a cool oven. CAKES, Yorkshire. Two pounds of flour, mix with it four ounces of butter melted in a pint of good milk, three spoonfuls of yeast, and two eggs ; beat all well together, and let it rise; then knead and make into cakes : let them rise on tins before you bake, in a slow oven. Another sort is made as above, leaving out the butter. The first is a shorter sort; the last lighter. CALAMINE CERATE. Take of olive oil one pint, calamine prepared, and yellow wax, of each half a pound. Melt the wax with the oil, and as soon as the mixture begins to thicken, mix with it the calamine, and stir the cerate until it is cold. This is an excellent application for BURNS, and all cutaneous excoriations. CALF’S FEET, Boiled or Braised. — Bone them quite, and stuff them with forcemeat of whatever kind you please ; tie them in slices of lard with string or tape; boil them slowly in broth and sherry wine, sweet herbs, cloves, roots and onions; serve with any sauce. When thus cooked, they may be broiled, dipped in butter, or with bread-crumbs. CALF’S FEET BROTH.— Boil two calves feet, quarter of a pound of veal, the same quantity of beef, the bottom of a penny loaf, three blades of mace, and a little salt, in three quarts of water, to three pints; strain, and take off the fat.—Or put a cupful of the jelly into a saucepan, with a glass of sweet wine, a little sugar and nutmeg, and make hot ; beat into it gradually an egg, a little butter, a bit of lemon- peel grated ; and mix well. CALF’S FEET, Fricasseed.— Parboil; take out the iong bones ; split them ; put them into a stew-pan, with veal gravy, and a glass of sherry, and the yolks of two or three eggs, beaten with cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and butter. Stir till thick. Simmer the whole ten minutes, dish, and garnish with shred lemon. CALF’S FEET JELLY. Boil two feet in five pints of water till the feet are broken, and the water half wasted ; strain it, and when cold, take off the fat, and remove the jelly from the sediment; put it into a sauce-pan, with sugar, raisin wine, lemon-juice to your taste, and lemon-peel. When the flavour is rich, put to it the whites of five eggs well beaten, and their shells broken. Set the saucepan on the fire, but do not stir the Jelly after it begins to warm. Let it Doil twenty minutes after it rises to a head; then pour it through a flannel jelly-bag, first dipping the bag in hot water, and squeezing it quiet dry. Run the jelly through until clear ; then put it into glasses or forms. When the mixture has boiled twenty minutes, throw in a teacupful of cold water; let it boil five minutes longer, then take the sauce-pan off the fire covered close, half an hour; then it will be so clear as to need only once running through the bag, and much waste will be saved. Calf’s feet should be only scalded to take off the hair. A little isinglass may be used to secure the firmness. CALF’S FEET LEMON JELLY.—Boil four quarts of water with three calfs feet, or two cow heels, till half wasted ; take the jelly from the fat and sediment, mix with it the juice of a Sevile orange and twelve lemons, the peels of three ditto, the whites and shells of twelve eggs, sugar, to taste, n88 CAN CAL pint of raisin wine, one ounce of eori-t under seeds, quarter of an ounce of allspice, a bit of cinnamon, and six cloves, all bruised, after having mixed them cold. The jelly should boil fifteen minutes without stirring; then clear it through a flannel bag. CALF’S FEET STEWED.— Take calfs feet boiled, put into a stew- pan, with a little butter, half a lemon sliced and peeled, as much broth as will simmer half an hour; take out, and wipe dry ; strain the sauce ; add a bit of butter and flour, gravy, a pounded anchovy, and half a lemon cut into dice. CALF’S HEAD, Boned. Take the bones out of half a calfs head, stuff with egg and tongue, and sew the top and bottom together. Put it into a stew-pan and the bones, a pound of good beef cut into bits, a little parsley, sweet herbs, chopped onions, salt, and half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper. Fill the pan three parts with water, and stew three hours. When you take out the head, glaze it with egg while hot. Bacon is a suitable accompaniment. CALF’S HEAD, Hashed. — When half boiled, cut off the meat in slices, brown some butter, flour, and sliced onion, and throw in the slices, with some good gravy, truffles, and morels; give it one boil, skim it well, and set it to simmer till tender. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, at first: and ten minutes before serving, throw in some shred parsley, and a very small bit of tarragon and knotted marjoram cut very fine, just before you serve, add the squeeze of a lemon.- Forcemeat balls, and bits of bacon rolled round. CALF’S HEART.—Cut it open and broil like a beef-stake. When done, rub a bit of fresh butter over it, and pour into the dish half a tea-cupful of hot mushroom ketchup and |some soluble cayenne. t CALF’S HEART, Baked. — Stuff it with bread crumbs, minced suet, sweet marjoram, lemon-peel grated, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and yolk of egg, and put it into the oven. Serve up with gravy, melted butter, and cur- rant jelly. CALF’S LIVER and BACON. —Cut the liver into slices, and fry it first, then the bacon; lay the liver in the dish, and the bacon upon it; serve it up with gravy, made in the pan with boiling water, thickened with flour and butter, and lemon juice; and, if agree- able, a little parsley and onion may be chopped into it, or a little boiled parsley stewed over the liver. Garnish with slices of lemon. CAMBRIAN PUDDING. — Grated cocoa-nut, three quarters of a pound; four ounces of butter; one pound of sugar ; half a pint of cream ; nine eggs ; a wineglassful of rose water. Stir the sugar and butter as for cake ; add the eggs well-beaten. Stir in the grated cocoa-nuts with the butter and eggs. Add the other ingredients, and bake with or without a crust. Bake about forty minutes. Rusks or sponge cake steeped in wine make a good addition. CAMOMILE. The flowers possess antispasmodic, carminative, cordial, and diaphoretic effects. The infusion of the flowers greatly promotes digestion, and with the addition of a few drops of elixir of vitriol, has arrested the worst of fevers. A strong decoc- tion proves an emetic, and greatly cleanses the stomach. CAMPHOR, Tincture of, or Camphorated Spirit of Wine.—Cam- phor, one ounce ; alcohol, one pint; mix, that the Camphor may be dis- solved. It may also be made with a double proportion of Camphor. Good for rheumatic pains, paralytic numb- ness, inflammation, for dispersing tu- mours, and preventing mortification. Not to be administered internally. CAMPHOR OINTMENT.— Camphor, finely powdered, one ounce ; lard, two ounces. Mix. It is designed to ripen indolent tumours. CAMPHORATED OIL. Beat four ounces of camphor in a mor- tar, with four ounces of Florence oil, till the camphor is dissolved. An ex- cellent liniment for rheumatism and all kinds of sprains. CANCER.—A cancer is a hard indolent tumour, usually seated in some of the glands, as the arm-pits, eye, nose, lips, tongue, womb, and the female breast; the two last are most subject to it. It affects the aged more than the'CAN 89 CAN young, and may exist for years. It commences with a small hard tumour, Increasing slowly, and attended with acute shooting pains; sooner or later ulceration sets in. The discharge is so acrid as to inflame the part with which It comes in contact. The place where cancer occurs assumes a purplish ap- pearance previous to its ulceration. Ulceration gives ease for a time, but the cancer penetrates deeper, and spreads wider, corrupting the stream of life, and reducing to the greatest debility, and often terminating in death. To Cure, remove debility, and im- prove the general health. Regulate the bowels, and give an emetic. Give a vapour bath made of bitter herbs, as camomile, hops, catnep, tansy, &c. and boiling water and vinegar. Occasion- ally rub the whole surface of the body with the following liniment;—cayenne, a tea-spoonful; salt, two table-spoon- fuls ; pour upon them half a pint of boiling water; infuse three hours, and then add half a pint of boiling water ; infuse an hour longer, stirring occa- sionally. Steaming with the bitter herbs, combined as above, allays the pain, swelling and inflammation. The following pills will be of much use; blood-root, one and a half drachms: extract of dandelion, three drachms; lobelia seed, one drachm; cayenne, one drachm; senna, in powder, one drachm; add three drops of oil of mint, and form into pills. These pills will be found very efficacious in the cure of jaundice, and liver complaints. Citric Acid will relieve the pain of cancers. Dr. Brandini, of Florence, had a patient, aged 71, affected with cancer on the tongue. An operation could not be made, for the affection was too extensive, investing the base, the sub-lingual, and the sub-maxillary glhnds. In the midst of his pain, the poor man asked for a lemon. It abated the pain; and the next day it gave him still greater relief. This led the doctor to try Citric Acid; four gTains of the acid, in one ounce of water ; and this, as a gargle, entirely carried off the pain, and reduced the swelling of the tongue very much. The doctor tried the same remedy on n iemale with an ulcerous cancer on the breast, deemed incurable. Her tor- ments were so great, that neither she, nor the other "patients could get any rest. He applied a pledget of lint soaked ir. the above solution, and the relief was instantaneous. It was re- peated with the same success. Thus Citric Acid promises to be a great boon to mankind.—Citric Acid is prepared from lemons. Externally apply the following; —Simmer cicuta leaves till they are soft, then mix them with slippery elm bark, to form a poultice; apply morn and night. It is valuable.—Or apply the Irritating Plaster, for a continual discharge must be kept up, as the pa- dent is able to bear it. The douch bath has been recommended, and doubtless it has had a good effect in many cases. The following applica- tions are useful:— Cayenne and lobelia seed,' equal quantities powdered ; meadow-fem and balm of Gilead buds, of each 3 ozs. (these two steeped in spirits for five or six days, and made into ointment, with lard sufficient.) Unite the whole as a paste, and apply to the cancer, covering with a cloth. When the plaster is taken off wash with soap-suds.—Or bum a quantity of red oak bark to ashes, and make into lye. Boil the lye till it be- comes as thick as honey. Then apply constantly. Such preparations, by their •stimulating and relaxing properties, excite a preternatural discharge, or cause a sloughing of the ulcer, and thus remove or lessen it. Use one of these ointments principally, the Black Salve occasionally, and after much discharge, dress with an emollient ointment. This treatment has effected numerous cures. (See Black Salve.) A decoction of narrow-leaved dock- root. has been found to produce rare effects. Saturated cloths with the same may also be applied. Or the root may be powdered, and made into an oint- ment with lobelia seeds powdered. CANCER.—Use the cold bath. —This has cured many.—A bleeding cancer was cured by drinking twice a day a quarter of a pint of the juice of clivers, or goose grass, and covering the wound with the bruised leaves. Ano- ther by the following receipt:— Take half a pint of small beer. When 1 It boils, dissolve in it an ounce and »CAN 90 CAR half of bees’ wax : then put in an ounce of hog’s lard and boil them together. When it is cold pour the beer from it, and apply it spread on white leather. Renew it every other day. It brings out great blotches, which are to be washed with sal prunello dissolved in warm water. If it be not broken, apply a piece of sheet lead beat very thin, and pricked full of pin holes, for days or weeks to the breast. Purges should be added every third or fourth day.—Or, rub the whole breast morning and evening with spirits of hartshorn mixed with oil. Or, keep it continually moist with honey. CANCER PLASTER.—White oak-bark, 4 uz. ; bruise it well, and add urine sufficient to cover it. Infuse four days, boil it till it becomes as thick as treacle. Add 2 ozs. of honey, and 2 ozs. of strained turpentine gum. To make this plaster caustic, add 2 drachms of white vitriol. Spread on soft leather, or linen.—It may be applied to all kinds of ulcers, white swellings. For cancers it is invaluable. CANDIED CITRON-PEEL. —Soak the peel in several waters to take away the bitterness ; the last water to be warm; drain, and cover with syrup until they are transparent. The syrup should be renewed once or twice by adding more sugar. Drain and dry. CANDIED LEMON—Boil three pounds of loaf sugar in a pint of water, till candied; then drop sixteen drops of essence of lemon therein, stir it well, and then pour it out imme- diately. Make it up as candied pepper- mint. CANDIED LEMON, OR ORANGE.—Soak the peel in salt and water four or five days, take out and wash well. Boil in soft water till they are tender. Then make syrup of loaf sugar and water, and boil till they are candied. Add sugar, as required: You may regulate the taste, by adding cinnamon, mace, and cloves. When candied, dust them with fine sugar. CAPERS, to keep.—Scald some vinegar, when cold, pour it upon the capers ; tie dose to keep out the air. CAPER SAUCE.—Melt some butter, chop the capers fine, boil them with the butter. An ounce of capers will be sufficient for a moderate sized sauce-boat. Add, if you like a little chopped parsley, and a little vinegar. More vinegar, a little cayenne, and essence* of anchovy, make it suitable for fish. As a substitute for capers, some use chopped pickled gherkins. CAPILLAIRE.—Take z\ lbs. of loaf sugar, 2 eggs well beaten, 1 quart of water. Simmer it one hour, skim it, let it cool; boil and skim, and add a ozs. of orange flower water and 4 table- spoonfuls of brandy. Strain and bottle for use. A spoonful in a tumbler of water makes a pleasant beverage. CARBUNCLE.—A carbuncle is a species of boil, but larger, and much more painful. It shows debility in the constitution.—Give a mild aperient, rendered tonic by the addition of quin- ine. Foment the part with bitter herbs, or steam it with the same. Linseed meal, and slippery elm bark, well boiled make an excellent poultice. Or of pop- lar bark and slippery elm, and a few drops of tincture of myrrh. When the poultice is taken off, wash well with a decoction of bayberry. The Vegetable Caustic, and the Black Salve, are good remedies. Every time the place is dressed, it should be well washed with soap and water, or weak tincture of myrrh and’water. The diet must be light and nourishing ; the patient must take exercise in the open air. When the tongue indicates no fever, give tonic bitters. CARDS. Explanation of Terms. Shuffling is the first thing done in all games, it is simply mixing the cards; it is proper to shuffle before every new deal. Cutting is the next operation, it is done by lifting from the top of the pack a portion of the cards, which must be more than a trick, generally from one- fourth to three-fourths of the pack, and placing that portion under the remain- der. In cutting for deal, each person lifts a few cards from the pack, and shows the undermost card of those he lifted; and whoever shows the lowest card (which is an ace in this case) is en- titled to deal. If two have cards equally low, they each drop two or three, and91 CARDS CARDS the person then showing the lowest deals. It Is usual in large companies, instead of cutting, to deal one card to each of the party, and the person getting the lowest is dealer. Dealing is distributing the cards, and is done by giving to each player in succession, from the top of the pack, one, and sometimes three cards at a time, according to the game played, the dealer beginning with the person on his left hand, and going regularly round. The faces of the cards must be down- wards, so that none may see what cards another player gets. Faced Card is a card lying in the pack with its face upwards, so as to be seen in dealing, and in most games ren- ders a fresh deal necessary. Hand. — The portion of cards given to each person by the dealer is called a hand, and the cards of which it consists should be kept from the ob- servation of the other players. Leading hand is the person who leads, or plays the first card ; and the suit to which the card he plays belongs is called the suit led—in that trick. Trick.—Each person having play- ed one card in succession after the lead- ing hand, the cards played in that round are called a trick, which thus consists of as many cards as there are individuals in the party playing. The card which ranks highest in value of those played takes the trick, provided it be of the suit led ; but it must be observed, that the cards rank differently in value in differ- ent games. Trump is the card turned up after all the players have got their portions, and in games where all the cards are dealt out, it belongs to the dealer. All the cards of the suit to which the trump card belongs are called trumps, and the smallest card of that suit ranks higher in value than the best card of any other suit. Suits.—There are four suits in a pack of cards, viz. Spades and Clubs (black), and Hearts and Diamonds, (red,) each consisting of 13 cards, Ace, King, Queen, Knave, ten, nine, and so on down to two. Renouncing is playing a card of a different suit from that led. If a trump card is played, it is called Trump- ing Suit. Penalties are annexed for renouncing or trumping suit, if the player holds a card of the suit led, and it is in this case termed Revoking. ALL FOURS. — A game at Cards, very amusing; it is played by two, and sometimes by four persons, in two partnerships. This game derives its name from the four chances therein, for each of which a point is scored ; namely, "high” (the best trump out) "low” (the smallest,) "Jack” (the knave of trumps,) "Game” (the majority of pips) reckoned for the following cards the respective players have in their tricks, viz— Every ace is counted as four. Every king is counted as three. Every queen is counted as two. Every knave is counted as one. And each ten counts as ten. Low is always scored by the person to whom it was dealt, but Jack, being the property of whoever can win or save it, the holder is permitted to revoke and trump with it, and when turned up as a trump, the dealer scores one. It is also allowable for the player who lays down a high or low trump to inquire at the time whether the same be high or low. After cutting for deal, at which either the highest or lowest card wins as previously fixed, six cards are to be given to each player, either by three, or one at a time; and the thirteenth turned up for trump;—If the card turned up is a knave, the dealer scores one point to his game ; but the knave of trumps in hand does not reckon, un- less you make a trick with it; for if your adversary takes it with the ace, king, or queen, he scores it; then if the eldest does not like his cards, he may for once in a hand, say " I beg when the dealer must either give a point or three more cards to each, and turn up again; but if that should prove of the same suit as the first turnup, then three cards more must be given, and so on until a different siut occurs. Endeavour to make your knave and ten of trumps as soon as you can, as they are reckoned by the person in whose tricks chey are. The cards rank and are played as at whist; and each player should always strive to win their opponents best cards92 CARDS CARDS when they can, either by trumping them, or with superior cards of the same suit; and to secure /his own tens and court-cards, or take those of the adversary, to obtain which, except when commanding cards are held, it is usual to play a low one, to throw the lead into the opponent’s hands. Ten or eleven points constitute the game. When the dealer shows any of his adversary's cards, a new deal may be demanded ; but in showing his own, he must abide by the same. If discovered previous to playing, that too many cards are given to either party, a fresh deal may be claimed, or the extra cards drawn out. But should even a single card have been played, then there must be a new deal. With strict players the adversary may score a point whenever their oppo- nent does not tramp or follow suit; and each calculates their game without looking at the trick, which, when erro- neously set up, must not be taken down ; but also the antagonist scores a point instead. CARDS, Bezique.—This game can be played by either two, three, or four players. For each player a pack of thirty-two cards is required. Bezique cards comprise the ace, ten, king, queen, knave, nine, eight, and seven of each suit The twos, threes, fours, fives, and sixes being omitted from a full pack of fifty-two cards. In Bezique the ace is the highest, then the ten, king, queen, knave, nine, eight, seven. The Deal.—The players cut for deal, the holder of the highest card dealing. Two-handed Bezique.—The dealer being determined, he shuffles the two packs well together, dealing eight cards to each player, viz. three to his opponent, then three to himself, then two to each, and lastly three to each. He then turns up the seventeenth card, which becomes the tramp, and is placed on the side of the remainder of the packs on the table. Should the tum-up card be a seven, the dealer scores ten. If too few cards be dealt, the number must be made up from the pack, or the non-dealer (if he has not looked at his cards) may claim a new deal. If a card be exposed in dealing the non-dealer may claim a new deal. A trump card takes any cards of ano- ther suit. Playing.—The non-dealer leads a card. The dealer plays to it, but is not obliged to follow suit, nor win the trick. Should he, however, desire to win the trick, it must be done with a higher card of the same suit, or with a tramp card If two cards of equal value are played the first wins. The great object of the game is to win aces and tens, and to form in the hand a. combination of cards which, when declared, scores a certain number of points (See Declaring). The tricks, therefore, are of no value, except for the aces and tens they may contain, or to give the player an opportunity of making a declaration. After the trick is taken, the winner takes a card from the top of the pack, then his opponent. Eight cards will thus be held by each player, the winner leads next, and alternately playing a card and drawing a card con- tinues till all the pack is distributed, in- cluding the trump card, which falls to the loser of the trick last played. If a player plays without drawing, he forfeits ten, andmtist draw two cards next time. If a player draws out of bis turn, and his opponent does not follow, he for- feits ten. If the player discovers that his oppo- nent holds more than eight cards while he has only eight himself, he adds ico to his score, but should both have more than the proper number, there is no penalty, but each must play twice before drawing. If a player draws two cards instead of one, his opponent may have them both turned face upwards, and choose which he will take. Declaring.—Immediately after taking a trick, and then only, the winner has the privilege of making a declaration, but he must do so and score it before drawing a fresh card. Only one declar- ation can be made at a time. A declaration is made by placing on the table any combination of cards, face upwards, as follows: Bezique Combinations.— "Bezique”—Queen of spades ami knave of diamonds. "Double Bezique"—Two queens oi spades and two kiMytrs of diamonds.a CARDS 93 CARDS All four cards must be seen on the table together. “Sequence”—Ace, ten, king, queen, and knave of trumps. " Royal Marriage ”■—King and queen of trumps. “ Marriage "—King and queen of any suit, except trumps. “Four aces"—The aces of any suit or suits. "Four kings"—The kings of any suit or suits. “Four queens”—The queen of any suit or suits. “Four knaves"—The knaves of any suit or suits. The cards, though left on the table, can be used as if in the hand of the player, and can be played to a trick as if they had not been declared. A card cannot be played to a trick and be declared at the same time. Kings and queens once married, can- not be married again, but can be used, while they remain on the table, to make up four kings, four queens, or a se- quence. The king and queen used in a se- quence cannot afterwards be declared as a royal marriage. If four knaves have been declared, the knave of diamonds may again be used for a B^zique, or to complete a se- quence. If four aces have been declared, the ace of trumps may again be used to perfect a sequence. If the queen of spades has been mar- ried, she may be again used to form a Bdzique, and vice versa, and again for four queens. B^zique having been declared, may be again used to form double Bdzique. The seven of trumps can be exchanged for the trump card, and for this ex- change ten is scored. A player can only make this exchange, like a declaration, immediately after he has taken a trick. Whenever the seven of trumps is played, except in the last eight tricks, the player scores ten for it, no matter whether he wins the trick or not. The winner of the last 'trick—that is, the twenty-fourth or trick before the last eight—scores ten, and can at the same time declare anything in his hand. The Last Eight Tricks.—When the last two cards are taken, the players take up the cards that are left on the table, having eight each. No more declarations can now be made, and the play proceeds as at whist, except that the ten still ranks before the king. In the last eight tricks, the player is obliged to follow suit, or trump. If a player revokes in the last eight tricks, or does not trump, having none' of the suit, or does not wm the card led, if able, he forfeits the eight tricks to his opponent. The tricks are still only valuable for the aces and tens they may contain. When all the cards are played, each player looks through his tricks, and counts the number of aces and tens they contain, and for each be scores ten. They are first counted by the winner of the last or thirty-second trick. Scoring. B&sique (queen of spades and knave ol diamonds) 40 Double Bdzique (two queens of spades, and two knaves of diamonds) .. 500 ■Sequence (ace, ten, long, queen, and knave of trumps) 250 Four aces 100 Four Kings .. .. 80 Four Queens 60 Four Knaves 40 Royal Marriage (king and queen of trumps) 40 Marriage (king and queen of the same suit) 20 Turning up the seven of trumps (and may be exchanged for the trump card turned up by the dealer) .. .. 10 Playing the seven of trumps—except in last eight tricks to The last trick to Each ace, and ten in the tricks at tha end of each deal 10 Forfeits. 10 10 10 too For drawing out of turn For playing out of turn .. For playing without drawing For overdrawing For a revoke in the last eight tricks, all the eight tricks. Winning the Game.—When a player, by declaring B^zique, marriage, or other combination, scores 1000 or up- wards he wins, although his opponent might make the score higher with hisCARDS CARDS 94 aces and tens after the cards are all played. Bezique, Three-handed.—Three packs of cards are required, which should be well shuffled together. Each person plays on his own account. Bdzique is always played from left to right, the player on left of dealer com- mencing. In other respects the manner of playing is the same as in two-handed Bdzique. The game is 1500. Bezique, Four-handed.—In this game the players cut for partners, and sit opposite each other, as in Whist, the one collecting the tricks, the other keep- ing the score. Four packs of cards are requisite. A player can make a declar- ation immediately after himself or his partner has taken a trick, the winner having the privilege of asking his part- ner if he has anything to declare. Only one player can make a declaration at a time. The game Is 2000. In playing the last eight tricks, the third hand, if he cannot follow suit nor win the trick by trumping, may play any card he likes. Four-handed Bdzique may be played by each on his own account, as well as by partners. Remarks.—1 The first thing a player should do on receiving his cards, and before commencing the game is, to consider which cards to reserve, and to group them accordingly. 2 There is no advantage In getting the lead unless you have anything to declare. 3 Declare a royal marriage before a sequence, if you have both. 4 Do not show your opponent that he cannot make a sequence or Double Bezique, and observe any sign on his part showing that you cannot make a sequence or Bezique, 5 Do not part with sequence or Bdzique cards while you have a chance of making declarations wiih them. Should the trump card be one of a sequence it is important to get the same into your hand by exchanging for the seven, if you have the latter and one leading. 6 Make aces and tens In your tricks whenever there is an opportunity, and keep one or two small trumps to cap- ture aces and tens of other suits, and to 'i»*on.re the lead when wanted. 7 If in doubt whether to reserve aces or kings, prefer the latter, as you have the chance of making double use of them by marriage, and declaring four kings. 8 Win the last trick, that is the twenty-fourth, if possible, by doing so you place ten to your score, and can declare anything you may have in your hand, and prevent your opponent from declaring anything more. 9 In playing the last eight tricks, your object is to save your aces and tens, and to win those of your competitors. Take notice what cards were previously lying on the table, and make good use of that knowledge. Variations for Four-handed Bezique.—1 The parties sit as in Whist, one keeping the score. Eight packs of cards are required, and twelve cards arejdealt to each player, in parcels of three alternately. 2 To follow suit is not necessary ; the higher card of any suit takes the trick when a tmmp is not played. If two cards of equal value are played, the first wins. 3 When a player takes a trick, both he and his partner have the privilege -of making a declaration. 4 ‘ ‘ Bezique ’’ having been declared, may be used again in forming “ Double Bdzique,” and once more in forming “Triple Bdzique,” but only after the player has taken, on each occasion, a trick. All six should be seen on the table together. First Bdzique scores ... 40 Double Bdzique scores ... 50c Triple Bdzique scores ... 800 5 Any number of marriages may be declared from the hand at one time, whenever a trick has been taken. 6 In exchanging the seven of trumps for the trump card, it is sometimes allowed to make a declaration at same time, the card exchanged not being used in the declaration. 7 A variation is occasionally made in using the queen of clubs and knave of hearts as “Bdzique" cards, when spades or di;unonds is trump. 8 In the last twelve tricks the player follows suit, as in Whist; but having none of the suit led, he is at liberty to trump, or play any other card. g The game proceeds as in two-hand-95 CARDS CARDS ed " B&rique.” The highest score made with the cards twice dealt out is the winner. BRAG, Single Brag.—The nines and knaves are called " Braggers,” from their being the best cards,—or “ Turners,’’ because they are converti- ble into cards of any other value, so as to form pairs or pairs-royal, by the highest of which the game is decided. Thus three braggers in one hand can- not be beat, as they form a pair-royal of the best cards, and are better than a natural pair-royal of aces, &c. Two braggers and an ace, &c. are better than one bragger and two aces, &c. In the same manner, a pair formed by the assistance of a bragger is better than a natural p>air, or two cards, of like value. Thus nine and a king take precedence of two kings, but are inferior to two aces. A knave and a king are better than a nine and a king ; and if the pairs in two hands are equal, the higher value of the third card gives the preference ; if they are equal in every respect, the elder hand has the preference. The lowest pair-royal that can be formed, as three twos, is better than the highest pair, as two aces, &c. In some companies the knave of clubs and the nine of diamonds only are ad- mitted to be braggers or turners ; and it is sometimes agreed that natural pairs or pairs-royal are to precede artifical ones of the same value, or those formed by the assistance of the knave of clubs or nine of diamonds ; as thus, two kings to be considered better than a king with a nine or knave, but to yield to an ace and a nine or knave. Mode of Playing.—The cards having been shuffled and cut, a certain stake, is deposited by the dealer, who gives three cards to each of the com- pany. The elder hand, and the others after him, having examined their hands, either "piass,” which is signified by laying down their cards, or "brag,” in which case the dealer’s stake is to be answered by all who brag. On pruning down another stake, or bragging a second time, the person doing so, if he holds a pair, but not otherwise, may insist on seeing the next player’s hand, saying “ I’ll sight you,” in which case they examine each others cards, and the person having the worst hand of the two is obliged to lay it down, or " prass.” The players go on in this way till the braggers are reduced to two, who con- tinue bragging against each other (either an equal sum with the dealer's stake, or higher) till one "sights” the other, and whichever of the two has the best brag hand wins the whole of the stakes. Brag and Pairs.—To vary the above game, the dealer sometimes de- posits two separate stakes, one of which is for natural pairs, and the company may brag on either stake they please, or on both. Thus if one of the players has a pair or pair-royal of good cards, such as aces, down to tens or eights, he may answer one or both of the dealer’s stakes, according to the chance of suc- cess afforded by the cards he holds; and can, if he holds a pair, “sight” those who are bragging on the same end with himself, as described above. Those who put their stakes on the brag-end proceed exactly as at Single Brag. Three Stake Brag.—Three stakes are deposited by the dealer, who gives two cards to each player, and then turns up a third all round. The best whist card turned up takes the first stake, the leading hand having the preference if two equal cards are turned, except in the case of the ace of diamonds, which is always the best at this stage of the game. The second stake is the brag-stake, and is determined at a Single Brag, each reckoning his tumed-up card along with the other two. The third is gained by the player who holds, or obtains by drawing from the undealt cards, 31, or the highest num- ber under that, the ace reckoning for ix, the pictured cards for 10 each, and the rest according to their pips. The leading hand has the preference in case of equality, and any one drawing above 31, loses. The three stakes may be all gained by one person, iu which case he is entitled, in some companies, to three more from each play ; this is usually set aside. GASSINO.—52 cards are used in this game, which is generally played by four persons. The partners and deal are determined in the same manner as at whist. Eleven pioints constitute the game, and are calculated thus :—96 CARDS CARDS Great Cassino, or ten of diamonds, reckons for two points. Little Cassino, two of spades, reckons for one point. The Cards, is having a greater share of the pack than your adversary, and reckons for three points. The Spades is having the majority of that suit, and reckons for one. The Aces, each of which reckons for one point, four points. Lurched, is when your adversary has won the game, before you have gained six points. Mode of Playing.—The deal is made by giving each player one card, and turning up one on the board, and thus alternately until each player has four cards, and four on the board. When each has played his four cards, four more are dealt round, but none turned up; and so on till the pack is finished. The cards being dealt thus, examine your cards in hand and those on the board, to see if you can pair them, or combine a number of pips from the cards on the table, equal to the card you lay down ; if so, you take them up, and place them before you with their faces downwards. If you can neither pair nor match any of the cards on the table, you must put down one. When by playing a card you can match all on the board, that is, sup- pose there were eight or ten cards which would make three or four distinct tens, and you play a ten, you take them all up, and thus clearing the board, are entitled to add one point to your score. Take up spades in preference to any other suit, as the majority in that suit constitutes a point towards game; and you should likewise give a prefer- ence to either of the cassinos or aces, though you may thereby take up fewer cards. When you can neither pair nor take up any cards, play such a card as will not assist to make up an eight, nine, or ten, &c. In this case, the best to play is a pictured card, or a small one, but not an ace. f When you hold a pair, and a similar card is on the table, you should, if the fourth is out lay down one of them, wait your turn to play the other, and then take up the three together; but you are not obliged to take them if a more favourable card offers. Always take up the card laid down by your opponent in preference to any other on the table. While great or little cassino is in, for- bear playing a ten, or a two. Always take up as many cards as possible with one card, and endeavour to win the last cards. While you can play your cards to advantage, avoid doing so when it may give your opponent an opportunity of clearing the board. Remembering the cards played, and those that remain in, will be a great ad- vantage to you. You are not allowed to examine the cards taken up, unless you suspect a mistake, when you must challenge it at once, (before you play your cards,) otherwise you have no claim. When you take up a pair, it is best to separate them by placing them in dif- ferent parts of the cards before you, to prevent their coming in pairs the fol- lowing deal. Those cards that remain on the table unmatched at the conclusion, belong to the person who last took up, and each party then proceeds to reckon his game, that is, the points that may arise from either of the cassinos, the aces, and the majority of the cards, or of the spades. If both should be equal, neither party scores anything. The lesser number' is likewise to be deducted from the greater ; as thus, suppose that you have great cassino and two aces, which make four points, and your ad- versary has little cassino, the cards, the spades, and two aces, which are seven points, he can only mark three, as your four must be deducted. It may thus occasionally happen that neither party reckons anything in a single deal, par- ticularly when three persons play, as in this case the two lowest subtract their points from the highest, and he can score only what is over if any. CRIBBAGE is considered to be the next most scientific game to whist. It is played by four or two partners, with a whole pack of cards, and Is termed five, six or eight card cribbage, according to the number dealt to each person; but five card cribbage is the usual game.97 CARDS CARDS The parties cut for deal, and he that cuts the lowest card, deals out five cards to each player, one at a time; each player then lays out one card for crib, which always belongs to the dealer; one opponent then cuts the cards, and the dealer takes the uppermost card, and lays it face upwards on the four cards composing the crib. If it should happen to be a knave it counts two to the dealer ; the card thus turned up is Included in the counting, by both parties, when counting their hands; the crib is counted by the dealer alone. For every two cards of one sort that can be made, the person playing the second, that is, making the pair, counts two. Should the third player play another card the same as the two former, it is called a Pair Royal and counts six. And should the last player also pos- sess a similar card to the previous three, It is called a double Pair Royal, and scores twelve. Any four cards, of any suits, reckon a double Pair Royal, either in hand or in crib ; such as four deuces, kings, sevens, nines, in short four of any number or description. Same with pair royals and pairs. All sequences count of any suits, according to the number. All flushes count, that is, your hand being com- posed of any four cards of the same suit. If you hold the knave of the suit turned up, you score one for his nob, as it is termed. Should you hold four hearts, clubs, or any other suit, in vour hand, and the tum-up card is of the same suit, you count a flush of five. Pair-handed Cribbage is more generally played than four-hand, from which it only varies in each of the play- ers putting out two cards for the crib, retaining only three in their hand. First, the two cut for deal, which be- longs to the person cutting lowest, the non-dealer securing three points as equivalent to the crib; the dealer must give one card alternately to his oppo- nent and himself, until each has five. In laying out for the crib, study your hand, for what might be correct in one in- stance, would be dangerous in the other. When you hold a pair royal, or three cards of one sort, put out the other two for either crib ; unless those two others be fives, or a two and a three, or seven and eight, or a ten and a five ; in which cases it is better if it is your opponent's crib, to spoil your hand by keeping these cards, and chance a card turning up to your advantage. Laws of Cribbage.—The dealer may discover his own cards during the deal if he pleases ; but if he shows any of his opponent’s, that opponent may call a fresh deal, and also add two to his score. Should too many cards be dealt to either hand, the non-dealer may demand another deal, and also add another two points to his score ; but if not, the sur- plus cards must be drawn; and when any player, after the game has com- menced, has more than his proper num- ber of cards in hand, then the adverse party may add four to their score, and demand a new deal. If any player touch or interfere with the cards, after dealing, until cutting them, for the tum-up card, his adversary shall score tjvo points. When either player scores more than he is justly entitled to, the adverse party cannot only put him back as many holes as he has over-marked, but he may score the same extra number fbr himself. If either party by mistake should take out his front peg, he must place it back, behind the other. If either party touches even his own peg, without occasion, his opponent may score two points. Either party putting down a less num- ber of points than are due to him, in- curs the loss of those points. Each player, when he has taken his hand and scored it, has a right to place his own cards on the pack. ECARTE.—It admits of only two players at a time, yet it may be so played as to include several. Two packs of cards are sometimes used, it can be played equally well with a single pack. There are several minor regula- tions in force, which keep the attention alive, and if neglected, expose the care- less player to severe losses. The cards rank thus :—King, Queen, Knave, Ace, Ten, Nine, Eight, Seven, Mode of Playing. — The two, three, four, five, and six of each suit98 CARDS CARDS having been thrown out of the pack, leaving 32 cards, the parties cut for the Deal, which the highest Whist card wins, with the advantage of scoring one point if the king is turned up as the trump card. When it is played in rub- bers, as is frequently the case, the deal follows as in single games, till the three are played. The cards having been shuffled and cut, five cards are dealt to each player, by two and three, or three and two, at a time, and the same order must be continued throughout the game, which has been adopted at first; the eleventh card is turned up for trumps, and the remainder of the pack, called the Talon, the dealer places at his right hand. The leading hand then commences to play, first naming the suit he intends to lead; the adversary is bound to take the trick if he has a winning card of the suit led, but he need not trump in order to win it, unless he chooses. The holder of the king of trumps must de- clare it before he plays, saying, ‘ * I have king,” If he leads the king, he may announce it after he has played; but should it be covered by his adversary’s card, before his declaration, he cannot score the king that time. This applies only to the leading hand ; the oppo- nent must always declare the king be- fore he plays, but for his own sake, he will not speak till the adversary has played his first card. The trump, as in other games, wins the trick. Whoever wins one trick leads for the next, and the playing goes on till the five tricks are played. Five are Game, of which three points may be made in one hand, by having the King of trumps in hand, or turning It up as the trump card, which reckons one—and winning all the tricks, which entitle the party to score two more. Winning three tricks reckons one point. Discarding.—If the leading hand Is not content with the cards dealt to him, and wishes to change all or any of them, he says, “ I propose.” If the dealer also wishes to discard, he ascents, and the former, throwing aside the re- jected cards (called the Discard,) gets from the dealer, from the top of the Talon or stock, as many in place of them. The dealer then changes as nmny of iris own cards as be thinks proper ; but the discard must always be thrown aside before fresh cards are taken in. If both parties agree, dis- carding may go on as long as there are cards remaining in the stock; but as soon as one party is satisfied with his hand, the other is not allowed to change any more. If, after several discards, it is found that there are not as many cards left in the stock as will supply the number required, the party asking them must complete his hand from his last discard. Should the dealer refuse to change the cards of the leading hand after the first deal, he must win three tricks, otherwise he loses two points; and the same consequence attends the leading hand if he plays without proposing to discard. The Discard is not to be looked at by either party, under the penalty of playing the hand with his cards ex- posed to the adversary; and if the dealer turns up a card for trumps while dealing for the discard, he cannot refuse cards to the adversary that hand, The playing now goes on as before directed. Laws of the Game.— 1. He who does not show his cut, loses the deal; and if he shows two cards, he must take the lowest. 2. The deal is good, though it should be discovered afterwards that there are either too few or too many cards in the pack. 3. If a faced card occurs in the p>ack during the first deal, the deal is void, unless it should be the eleventh or trump>card. 4. If faced cards are discovered in dealing for the discard, and those cards fall to the dealer, he must take them, and the deal is good ; but if they fall to the adversary, he has the option to rail a fresh deal, or to go on- 5. If the dealer shows ^ny of his own cards in dealing, the deal goes on ; but if any of the adversary’s cards are shown, he has the option to stand the deal or not, after inspecting his hand. 6. If too many or too few cards are dealt at first, and it is discovered before the cards have been looked at, the error may be rectified, and the deal is good; but if either party has seen his cnrrtf:, and the dealer has not enough.99 CARDS CARDS the adversary may either permit him to complete his hand from the Talon, or call a new deal. If he has too many, the adversary may either draw the over- plus cards from his hand, or take the new deal himself. 7. If the adversary has too few cards dealt to him, he may take from the top of the Talon as many as he wants ; or If he has too many, he may discard from the overplus,—having the option, in either case, of calling a new deal. 8. The 6th and 7th rules are appli- cable where the dealer is in fault; but if the mistake has been caused by the carelessness of the adversary in discard- ing or taking in cards, he loses one point, besides being debarred from reckoning the king, if he has it that deal. 9. If the dealer deals out of turn, and it is discovered before the trump is turned, the cards are thrown up, and the right dealer takes them; if the error is discovered after the trump is turned, but before the parties have played or discarded, then the cards are put in reserve for the next hand, and the proper dealer goes on with the other pack: should the discovery, how- ever, not be made till after the parties have played or discarded, then the deal is to be held good. 10. If the dealer shows more than one card in turning up for trump, the adversary may either demand that the eleventh card be the trump, and put the others shown to the bottom of the pack, or call a new deal, 11. The player who, under any pre- tence, looks over his adversary's cards, or the discard, must play out the hand with his own cards exposed. 12. Any one playing with more than five cards in his hand, loses a point, and cannot score the king if he has it. 13. If one party play without pre- viously naming the suit, or play a suit different from the one named, he must (if required) take up his card and play the suit named; but if the adversary judges the card played to be more favourable for him than the suit named, be covers it, and then it cannot be re- called 14. A card played out of turn may be taken up. if not played to: but if covered by the adversary’s card, it must remain. 15. A card falling accidentally from the hand upon the table, is considered to be played if it partly covers or is partly covered by the adversary's card, but not otherwise. 16. If it is discovered that a revoke has been made—that a party has refused to take a trick when he had a winning card, each must take up his cards and play the hand over again : if the offen- der wins the five tricks, he is allowed to score only one point; and if he gains the point only, cannot score it at all. 17. If a player throws down his hand, either from mistake or want of temper, and the cards get mixed, the adversary scores two points. 18. The player who quits the game before it is finished, loses it; but if any bets are depending, the adversary is obliged to play it out with any of the bystanders in the interest of the betters. LOO.—Amongst all round games Loo deservedly occupies the most prominent position; and being the most interesting, is generally played. It is a game so generally known as to require little comment; and so easily learnt, that a thorough knowledge of the game may be obtained in half an hour’s play. There are two kinds of Loo, “ limited Loo,” in which the person looed has to pay a certain amount as previously agreed to, and “unlimited Loo,” in which the party looed pays whatever amount may be on the table at the time he was looed. The method of playing, however, is precisely the same in both games, and is as follows: The whole pack of cards are used, as at whist, and rank in the same order; the deal is cut for, and when decided, the dealer pays a stake previously agreed upon : he then gives three cards (one at a time,) to each person playing; he also deals a spare hand called “miss," which the leading hand has the option of taking if his own cards do not suit him ; each person looks at his cards in rotation, beginning with the leading hand and finishing with the dealer ; and each in his turn may take “miss” (so long as she remains nntaken,) if his own cards do not please him.CARDS IOO CARDS It Is optional whether you stand your own hand or not ; but if you take “miss,” you are compelled to stand : if there is only one player standing before him, the dealer is compelled to stand. Laws of the Game.—I. If you hold your trumps or more in your hand, lead one ; if only two players, lead the highest. 2. If you hold ace of trumps, you must lead it, but if not leader you are not compelled to play it unless you can head the trick otherwise. 3. If you cannot follow suit, you must play a trump if you have one. 4. After taking a trick you must play a trump. 5. The cards after dealing must be taken up in rotation by the players, and no one to look at his cards until the one before him has declared whether he stands or not. 6. The dealer must not look at his cards until he has asked each player if he stands ; and if there is but one player, he is forced to stand. 7. No one must play a card out of his regular turn, under penalty of being looed. 8. If the dealer makes a misdeal he Is looed, and the next player must take the deal. 9. Any one looking at “miss” is looed. 10. Any one making a revoke is looed ; and even if he wins a trick, can- not claim it, but the cards must be taken up, and the hand played over again in the proper manner. There is a kind of Loo played called five-card Loo, but it differs only from the three-card Loo in two or three points; namely, that the knave of trumps is the best card, and when held must be led as the ace ; and secondly, that the dealer has the privilege of taking the tum-up card into his own hand, and discarding one from it. MATRIMONY, the game of. —Matrimony may be played by any number of persons, from five to four- teen. This game is composed of five chances, usually marked on a board or sheet of paper, in the following man- ner .— Ace ol diamonds turned up. « >■ . «f I h Intrfcua 01 Queen and Knars. I ¥ g 3: a. a o O = a ? a> Pairs, the highest. It must be understood that when the ace of diamonds is turned up, it takes the whole pool; but when held in hand, it ranks only as any other ace; and when it is neither turned up nor held in hand, then the king, or the next superior card in order, wins the call. The game is generally played with counters, and the dealer may stake what he likes on each or any chance; the other players depositing each the same quantity, except one ; that is, when the dealer stakes twelve, the rest lay down eleven, and so on. After this, two cards are dealt to each, then one card is turned up to each, and if any happen to have the ace of dia- monds, he sweeps all; if not turned up, all show their hands. Any holding matrimony, intrigue, &c., takes the counters on that point; and when two or three happen to have similar com- binations, the eldest hand has the pre- ference ; and should any chance not be gained, it stands over to the following deal. The ace of diamonds turned up takes the whole pool, when in hand counts only as any other ace; if the ace of diamonds, or any other ace is not turned up, then the king or next best card wins. ‘NAP.’ or NAPOLEON.—This game is now so well known that it needs but very little description. The following are the principal points of interest:— Cut the cards as in whist, deal out five cards one at a time to each player, beginning at the left. The first card played of whatever sui* constitutes the trump suit. When the player after looking at his cards makes a declaration and says, “ I go two, three," &c. just as he feelsCARDS CARDS IOI able, he must win the number of tricks declared, one, two, three or four, or ‘Nap,' as the case may be, or pay the players the amount of their stakes as arranged at the commencement of the game. Should the declaration be ‘Nap,’ he pays in accordance to previous arrange- ment double, or treble the stakes, or if he wins he receives from each player three or in some cases six times the amount of the stake. Should any player declare a trick known by the name of “ Blucher” he takes precedence of any declaration thait may be made. His object being to lose all his tricks. Any number of players can join in, and if on examination of their cards do not think them worthy of a declaration, that is, do not see a chance of making tricks, simply say " I pass.” PIQUET, Game of.—Piquet is a very scientific game, and is much played in the clubs in London and Paris. It is played by two persons, with 32 cards, all below the seven being discard- ed. The ace is the highest in rank, and equal to n points; the other cards follow in their common rotation, the court cards and the ten being equal to ten points each, and the others as many points as they have pips on them. The game consists of 101 points ; the players cut for the deal, the lowest being dealer. He gives twelve cards each by two at a time, and the eight cards that remain must be placed upon the table, and are called the talon or stock. The follow- ing are the terms used at piquet:— Capot. — This is a term used when either player makes every trick, for which he scores forty. Cards.—Majority of tricks which reckon ten points. Carte Blanche, means a hand without a court card in the twelve dealt, which counts ten, and takes place of every thing else. Huitieme, eight successive cards of the same suit and counts eighteen points. Pique, is when the elder hand has reckoned thirty in hand, and plays be- fore the other counts one, in which case, instead of thirty points it is called sixty. adding thereto as many points as one got above thirty. t Point, the greatest number on the cards of the same suit in hand, after having taken in and reckoned by their pips scores for as many points as cards. Quart.—Four cards in sequence of the same suit counting four points; there are five kinds of quarts ; the first called quart-major, consists of ace, king, queen, and knave ; the second is from the king ; the third is from the queen ; the fourth from the knave; and the fifth a basse-quart of quart minor, ef ten, nine, eight, and seven. Quartoze, the four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens, scoring four- teen points. Quint, means five cards of the same suit in sequences, and counts fif- teen points ; there aret four sorts of quints; a quint-major, of ace, king, queen, knave, and ten ; down to knave, ten, nine, eight, and seven, which is called a quint-minor. Ripique, signifies when one of the players counts thirty or more in hand before his opponent attains cne ; then it is called ninety, reckoning as many above ninety as were gained above thirty. Sixieme, or six cards of a suit in sequence, and counts for sixteen points, there are three sorts of sixiemes, viz., sixieme major from ace, sixieme from the king, and sixieme minor, from the queen. Septieme, seven of the same suit in sequence, counting seventeen points ; there are two of them, one from the ace, the other from the king. Threes, three of any kind from aces to tens, count three. Talon or Stock. — This is the name given to the eight cards remaining after twelve each dealt. Tierce, or sequences of three count three points; there are six kinds of tierces, from tierce-major, of ace, king, and queen, down to tierce-minor, of nine, eight, and seven. In this game there are three chances, viz., the repique, the pique, and the capot, all of which may be made in one deal; for instance, suppose one player has four tierce-majors, his point good, and he elder band, be begins by countCARDS CARDS 102 lag three for his point and twelve for his four tierce-majors, making fifteen ; fourteen for the four aces, fourteen for kings, and fourteen for queens, with sixty for the repique, making in all one hundred and seventeen; thirteen in playing, make one hundred and thirty, and forty for the capot, which is one hundred and seventy. To pique your adversary you must be elder hand ; for if younger he counts one for the first card he plays, and then you having counted twenty-nine in hand, even if you then take the first trick, will not warrant you in taking sixty, but only thirty. The Carte Blanche precedes every thing; then follow the point, the huitie- mes, the septiemes, the sixiemes, the quints, the quarts, and the tierces, then the four aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens; then the three aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens ; then the points gained in play ; and lastly, the ten for winning the cards, or forty for the capot. After sorting your cards, the first thing to be considered is whether you have a Carte Blanche ; if so, let your opponent discard ; and then, when he is going to take in, lay your cards upon the table, counting them one after another. The players, having examined their hands, the elder takes not more than five cards, which seem the least useful, and laying them aside, takes the same number from the talon, the younger may lay out three, and take three from the talon. In discarding, the first intention of the most skilful players is, to gain the cards and to have the points, which most commonly engages them to keep in that suit of which they have the most cards, or that which is their strongest; for it is convenient to prefer sometimes forty-one in one suit, to forty-four in another, in which asquint is not made ; sometimes even having a quint, it is more advantageous, to hold the forty- one, where if one card only is taken it may make it a quint-major, gain the point or the cards, which could not have been done by holding the forty-four, at least without an extraordinary take in. Also endeavour in laying out, to get a quartoze, each of which counts four- teen ; the fourteen aces hinder the count- ing fourteen kings, &c., and by that authority you may count a lesser quar- toze, as of tens, though your adversary may have fourteen by kings, &c. ; be- cause the stronger suit annuls the weak- er ; and also in want of a lesser quar- toze you may count three aces, kings, queens, knaves, or tens; the same ap- plies to the huitiemes, septiemes, sixie- mes, quints, quarts, and tierces, to which the player must have regard in his discarding, so that what he takes in may make them for him. The point being selected, the elder hand declares what it is, and asks if it is good; if his adversary has not so many, he answers, ‘‘it is good;” if he has just as many, he answers, “ it Is equaland if he has more, he answers, ‘‘it is not good;" for whoever has the point, whether elder or younger, counts it first; but if the points are equal, neither can count; it is the same when the players are equal in tierces, quarts, quints, &c. ; and whoever should hold several other sequences, either of the same value or not, cannot count one. There are no trumps at piquet, but the highest card of the same suit takes the trick. If the elder hand has the bad luck to have neither point, sequence, nor quartoze, nor any threes which are good, he must begin to count by play- ing that card which he thinks most pro- per, and continue until the adverse party wins a trick, and takes his lead. This method must be continued till all the cards are played; and he who takes the last trick counts two ; then each player counts how many tricks he has taken, and he who has most reckons the cards; but if they are equal, neither counts any thing, Mr. Hoyle’s Maxims for Play- ing Piquet.—Play by the stage of your game, that is, when behind your adversary, play a pushing game ; other- wise you ought to make twenty-seven points elder hand, and thirteen points younger hand. Discard in hopes of winning the cards, which generally make twenty-two, or twenty ; therefore do not discard for low quartoze, because the odds are against your succeeding. At the beginning of a party play to make your game, which is twenty-seven points ekiei tiand, and thirteen younger hand.CARDS 103 CARDS Gaining the point generally makes ten difference; therefore when you dis- card, endeavour to gain it, but do not risk losing the cards. Saving your lurch, or lurching your adversary, is so material that it is al- ways worth risking some point to ac- complish either of them. If you have six tricks, with any win- ning card in your hand, play that card; you would play greatly against yourself not to do so. The younger hand should always play upon the defensive, therefore, in order to make his thirteen points he is to carry tierces, quarts, and especially strive for the point. It is often good play for a younger hand not to tall three queens, knaves, &c. ; also to sink one card of his point, which his adversary may suppose to be a guard to a king or queen. The younger hand having the cards equally dealt him is not to take in any card, if thereby he runs the risk of losing them. The younger hand having three aces, it is generally best to throw out the fourth suit. The younger hand should carry guard to his queen suits in order to make points and make cards. If the elder hand is sure to' make the cards equal by playing in any particular manner, and is advanced before his adversary in the game, he should not risk them ; but if his opponent is greatly in advance, ne should risk losing the cards in hopes of winning them. If the elder hand has two aces dealt to him, it is eighteen to one that he does not take in the other two that are against him; that he does not take in one, is five to four against him, or nearly so. Laws of Piquet. — The elder hand is obliged to lay out one card at least. If the cider hand takes in one of the three cards which belong to the younger, he loses the game. If the elder hand, in taking his five cards, turns up one belonging to the younger hand, he Is not to count any thing that hand. If either play with thirteen cards, they cannot count any thing that deal. Should either of the players have thir- teen cards dealt, it is at the option of the elder hand to stand the deal or not: if he chooses to stand, then the person having thirteen is to discard one more than he takes in ; should either have above thirteen, theD a new deal must take place. If either hand reckon more than they hold, or what they have not, they count nothing. If the elder hand touches the stock after he has discarded, he cannot alter his discard. If a card is faced, and it happens to be discovered either in dealing or in the stock, there must be a new deal, unless it is the bottom card. If the younger hand takes in five cards it is the loss of the game, unless the elder has left two cards. If the elder hand shows a point, or a quart or tierce, and asks if they are good, and afterwards forgets to reckon any of them, the other cannot reckon any of similar value. When you are cutting, you must cut two cards at least. If the elder hand calls a point, and does not show it, it is not to be reckon- ed ; and the younger hand may show and reckon his point. In the first place call your point, and if you have two points, and design to reckon the highest, you call that first, and ajDide by your first call. If you play fewer than your proper number of cards, there is no penalty attached to it. If the elder hand leaves a card, and after he has taken in, happens to put to his discard the four cards taken in, they must remain with his discard, and he must play with eight cards. Whoever deals twice together, and discovers it previous to seeing his cards, may compel his adversary to deal, not- withstanding he may have seen his cards. No player can discard twice, and after he has touched the stock he is not allowed to change his discard. When the elder hand does not take all his cards, he must specify what num- ber he takes or leaves. Any card that has touched the board Is deemed to be played, unless in case of a revoke. If any player names » suit and then104 CARDS CARDS plays a different one, the antagonist may call a suit. The player who looks at any card be- longing to the stock is liable to have a suit called. POPE JOAN, Game of.—The game of pope, or as it is sometimes j called, pope joan, is somewhat similar i® that of matrimony. It is played by a number of people, who generally use a board painted for this purpose, which may be purchased at almost any toy-shop. The eight of diamonds must first be taken from the pack, and, after arrang- ing the deal, shuffling, &c., the dealer dresses the board, as it is called, by putting fish, counters, or other stakes, one each to ace, king, queen, knave, and game; two to matrimony, two to intrigue, and six to the nine of dia- monds, styled "pope.” This dressing is in some companies at the individual expense of the dealer, though in others the players contribute two stakes each towards the same. The cards are next to be dealt round equally to each player, one turned up for trump, and about six or eight left in the stock to form stops ; as for example, if the ten of spades is turned up, the nine consequently be- comes a stop. The four kings, and the seven of diamonds, are always fixed stops ; and the dealer is the only person permitted in the course of the game to refer to the stock for information what other cards are stops in that respective deal. If either ace, king, queen, or knave happen to be the tumed-up tramps, the dealer takes whatever is deposited on that head ; but when pope is turned up, the dealer is entitled to both that and the game, besides a stake for every card dealt to each player. Unless the game is determined by pope being turned up, the eldest hand begins by playing out as many cards as possible; first the stops, then pope, if he has it, and afterwards the lowest cards of his longest suit; particularly an ace, for that can never be led through. The other players are to follow when they can, in sequence of the same suit, until a stop occurs; and the party having the said stop thereby becomes eldest hand, and is to lead accord- ingly, and so on until some person parts with all his cards, by which he wins the pool, which is game, and becomes en- titled besides to a stake for every card not played by the others, except from any one holding pope, which excuses him from paying ; but if pope has been j played previously, then the person having held it is not excused. King and queen form what is termed matrimony ; queen and knave make in- trigue, when in the same hand; but neither they, nor the ace, king, queen, knave, or pope, entitle the holder to the slakes deposited thereon unless played out. No claim can be allowed after the board is dressed for the succeeding deal; but in all such cases the stakes are to remain on the board for future deter- mination. This game only requires a little atten- tion to remember what stops have been made in the course of the same ; as for instance, suppose a player begins by laying down the eight of clubs, then the seven in some other hand forms the stop. Whenever clubs are led after that from any lower card, the holder may safely play it in order to clear his hand. PUT, Game of.—Put is usually played by two persons, with a complete pack of cards. In this game the cards rank differently from all others, the tray being the best; next the deuce, then ace, king, queen, knave, and so on in the usual order. After cutting for deal, &c., at which the best put card wins, three cards by one at a time are given to each player ; and the game is played in the following way. If the non-dealer throws up his cards he loses a point; if he plays, and the dealer does not lay down another to it, he gains a point; but should the dealer either win the same, pass it, or lay down one of equal value, forming what is called a tie, the non-dealer is still at liberty to " put,’’ that is, play or not, and his opponent only gains a point. Then if both parties agree to go on, whoever gains all the tricks, or two out of the three, wins five points, which constitute the game. If each player obtains one trick, and the third is a tie, then neither party must be allowed to score. Four-hand Pvt differs only in that au.s105 CARDS CARDS two of the players give each their best card to his partner, who then lays out one of his own, and the game is then played as two-handed put. If the dealer turns up any of his ad- versary’s cards, another deal may be demanded, but when he shows his own, he is to abide by them. Either party saying “I Put,” must stand his cards or pay the stakes. QUADRILLE, Game of.— This game is played by four persons, and only forty cards are used, the tens, nines, eights, being discarded from the pack. The deal is made by giving each player in rotation three cards at a time, for any two rounds, and once four cards at a time, beginning with the right hand player, who is the elder hand. The following is the correct way of playing this game: When you are the ombre, and your friend leads from a mat, play your best trump, and then lead your best trump the first opportunity. If you hold all the trumps, keep lead- ing them, except you have other certain winning cards. If all the mats are not revealed by the time you have six tricks ; risk not play- ing for vole. When you are the friend called, and hold only a mat, lead it, but if only a mat guarded by a small trump, lead the small one ; though when the ombre is last player, lead the best trump you have. Punto in red, or king of trumps in black, are good cards to lead, when they are your best; and should either of them succeed, then play a small trump. When the ombre leads to discover a friend, if you hold king, queen, and knave, put on the knave. Preserve the called suit, whether friend or not. When playing against a lone hand, never lead a king, unless you have the queen, nor change the suit, nor allow, if you can prevent it, the ombre to be the last player. Call on the strongest suits, except you have a queen guarded : when elder hand, you have a better chance than middle hand. A good player may succeed with a weaker hand, when either elder or Sounger, better than if he was middle and. The Hank of the Cards when not trumps: Clubs and Spades.—King, Queen, Knave, Seven, Six, Five, Four, Three, Two.—Total 9. Hearts and Diamonds.—King, Queen, Knave, Ace, Deuce, Three, Four, Five, Six, Seven.—Total, 10. Laws of the Game of Quadrille. 1 The cards are to be dealt to the right hand by threes and fours, and not differently; and the dealer is at liberty to begin either with four or with three ; if a card be turned up in dealing, there must be a new deal. 2 He who deals wrong is to deal again. 3 He who has asked leave is obliged to play. 4 No one is basted for playing out of turn, but the card played may be called at any time in that deal, providing it does not cause a renounce ; or either of the adversaries may demand of his part- ner to play any suit he thinks proper. S The three matadores cannot be forced by an inferior trump, but the superior forces the inferior when led by a first player. 6 A player naming trumps must abide by the same. 7 Whoever plays with eleven cards is basted. 8 If you play “sans prendre,” or have matadores, they should be demanded before the next dealer has finished, or you lose the benefit. 9 Any person naming his trump with- out asking leave, is obliged to play “sans prendre,” unless he is the younger hand, and all the rest have passed. xo After the game is won, if the per- son who won the sixth trick, plays the seventh card, he is obliged to play for vole. xi If you have your kings dealt you are at liberty either to call a queen to one of your kings, (except the queen of trumps,) or to call one of your own kings. 12 If any person separates a card from the rest, he ought to play it, if the opposite party has seen the same, un- less he plays "sans prendre.”106 CARDS CARDS 13 If the king is called, or his partner plays out of bis turn, the vole is to be played for. 14 No person is to be basted for a renounce, unless the trick is turned and quitted; and if any renounce is dis- covered in time, should the player happen to be basted by such a re- nounce, all the parties are to play three cards over again. 15 Forced spadille is not obliged to play for the vole, nor make three tricks, 16 Whoever undertakes to play the vole, has the preference of playing before him who offers to play “sans prendre." 17 If agreeable to all parties, let the person have the preference of playing, who plays for the most tricks, which will prevent small games. 18 N The ombre is entitled to know his king called, before he declares for the vole. 19 When six tricks are played, he who won the sixth ought to say, “ I play the vole,’’ or “ I do not play the vole,” or “ I ask and nothing else. 20 He who wins the vole is to take the double stake played for, out of the pool. 21 tie who asks leave (if elder hand,) may play "sans prendre,” in preference to any of the other players. 22 A player who has one or more kings, may call himself, but must win six tricks. 23 If you play the king surrendered, he must win six tricks who demands the king of any player. 24 He!who has passed once (unless spadilld) has no right to call afterwards ; also he who has asked is obliged to play, unless somebody else plays “ sans prendre.” 25 If the ombre or his friend show their cards, before they have won six tricks, the adversaries may call their cards as they please. 26 Whoever asks leave, cannot play “ sans prendre,” unless forced. 27 You may look at all the tricks turned, when you are to lead, but not otherwise. 28 Whoever undertakes playing for the vole and does not succeed, has a right to the stakes “ sans prendre,” and matadores, if he has them, having won his game. 29 Any person discovering his game, is not entitled to play for the vole. 30 If there happen to be two cards oi one sort, and found out before the deal is ended, the deal is void, but not other- wise. 31 Nobody is to declare bow many trumps are played out. 32 He who calls and does not make three tricks, is to be basted alone, un- less forced spadille. QUINZE.—This game, as its name implies, is a French game of fifteen up, (very similar to Vingt-un,) which are to be made in the following manner: The pack of cards must be shuffled by the players, and when they have cut for deal, which belongs to him who cuts the lowest, the dealer has the privilege of shuffling last; this being done, the adversary cuts, after which the dealer gives one card to his adver- sary, and one to himself: if his adver- sary does not like his card, he has a right to have as many more given him, one after the other ; the pips of which will make fifteen, or come nearest to it; which are usually given from the top of the pack. For example ; if he should draw a deuce and then a five, which make seven, he should go on again in hopes of coming nearer to fifteen ; if he draws an eight, which makes just fifteen, and being elder hand, he is sure of winning the game ; but if he overdraws himself, and makes above fifteen, he loses, unless the dealer does the same; in which case it is a drawn game, and they double the stakes. Thus they go on, until one of them wins the game, by standing, and being fifteen, or the nearest to it below that number. At the end of each game the cards are shuffled, and the players cut again for deal; the elder hand always having the advantage. This game is admired for its fairness and simplicity ; depending entirely on chance, being soon decided, and not requiring that attention which most other games of cards do. , ROUGE ET NOIR, Game of. —This game is much in vogue on the continent. It takes its name of red and black, not from the cards, but from the colours marked on the green cloth with which the table is covered.107 CARDS CARDS All the terms used in this grams are French ; nevertheless to be better un- derstood by the general reader, we shall give them in English as well. The game is played in the following manner:— The tailleur and croupier sit opposite to each other, at each side of the table, with a basket, for the purpose of re- ceiving the cards of every coup after dealing, placed on the middle of the table, just between them, The tailleur then passes round six packs of cards, to be shuffled, and mixed confusedly to- gether by all the company. He then shuffles them himself, put- ting all the end cards into various parts of the entire lot, until he comes to an honor of any kind, which being placed upright at the end, is offered to a punter or player, who puts the same into any part of the pack he thinks proper: the tailleur then separates the pack just at that part, and lays that portion of the card that was below the honour uppermost, and, taking there- from a handful of cards, places a weight upon the remainder, and com- mences to deal: he takes afterwards the other portions from the heap under the weight, as they are wanted, until the whole are dealt. He looks at the first card, and puts it face downwards: a red card and a black card are then placed back to back, and that one which is of the same colour with the first card he looked at, is placed uppermost in a conspicuous manner: these two cards that are placed back to back, are turned over each deal, if necessary, so that that card may be uppermost whose colour is the same as the tum-up card in each succeeding coup. When the stakes are deposited, the tailleur cries " Noir” (black,) and turn- ing up the top card, places each suc- ceeding card in a row, until the number of points of those turned up shall exceed thirty; whatever number that may happen to be he declares, at "trente et une ” (one and thirty ;) if above that number, he merely says, “deux, trois, quatre, cinq, six, sept, huit, neuf" (two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine,) if it reaches forty, he says quar- ante. Another pared of the cards is then dealt out for Rouge, or red, until he comes to thirty-one, or the number nearest to it; and whichever colour comes nearest to that number wins the stakes; this the tailleur declares by saying “rouge gagne ” (red wins) 0/ “ rouge perd " (red loses.) These two parcels, one for each colour, make coup. When the same number is dealt and turned up for each, the tailleur says “apres," (after,) which forms “ un refait” (a doublet,) by which neither party loses, except it is “un refait trente et une," then the tailleur wins half the stakes punted on each colour, which half the punters may either pay or have their stakes moved into the middle semicircles of the colour, they then choose on the table called “la premiere prison,1’ (the first prison,) to be determined by the next event whether they lose all or are set at liberty; but if what is called “ un re- fait second trente et une ” (a second doublet of one and thirty) should hap- pen in the next succeeding deal, the punters lose half of their remaining moiety, or three-fourths of the stake they put down at first, and are removed into the smallest semicircle named “la seconde prison" (the second prison,) and the next coup determines whether the punter loses all, or is to be removed again into the first prison. At this game the banker cannot refuse any stake that does not exceed his funds; which the punter declares by saying “Je vais la Banque” (I aim at the bank.) Bankers most generally furnish punters with slips of card-paper ruled in columns, each marked N. or R. on the top, on which accounts are kept by pricking with a pin. Some bankers give up the profit of "un re- fait” during the first deal. SPECULATION, Game of.— This is a lively round game, very often introduced into parties, as allowing scope for conversation and laughter. Almost any number may play at it; in fact, the more the merrier. A complete pack of cards is used, bearing the same value as at whist, with fish or counters, on which a certain value is fixed ; the highest trump in each deal wins the pool. After determining the deal, the dealerCARDS CARDS 108 puts six fish into the pool, and the other players four each; next three cards are given to each by one at a time, and another turned up for trumps. The cards must not be looked at except In this manner: the eldest hand shows his top card, which if a trump, the company may speculate or bid for; he that bids highest getting it and paying for it, pro- vided the price offered is satisfactory to the seller of that trump. After this is settled, or if the first card does not prove a trump, then the next eldest shows his top card, and so on, the company speculate as they please on each trump turned up, till all are discovered, when the possessor of the highest trump, whether by purchase or otherwise, gains the pool. To play this game well, little more is re- quisite than recollecting what superiors of that particular suit have appeared in the receding deals, and calculating the pro- ability of the trump offered proving the highest in the deal. When no high trump has been discovered, It is often customary to purchase cards on speculation, before they are shown; more particularly when but few are left to be turned up. When a party turns up a trump he ought to be allowed time to sell it to the best advantage, before another card is turned up. It is advisable to sell any low trump if you can, particularly if there are many players. When a card is purchased, the buyer places it on his other cards immedi- ately before him, and does not turn up any more until a better trump appears in some other hand. In some companies it is usual for all who turn up a knave to put a fish in the pool. The game may also be varied, as is fre- quently done, by dealing a spare hand, which must not be looked at till all the rest have been shown; and if it contains the best trump, the pool remains for the next deal, in addition to the usual contri- bution of every player. BRIDGE, how to Play.—The game is in some respects like ordinary Whist with one hand exposed j none who have ever thus played with a dummy need fear to sit down and join in the new pas- time. Bridge is played by four persons, who cut for partners and deal as at Whist. Two packs of cards are used, one for each pair of partners. These are shuffled, cut and dealt in the ordinary way, except only that the last card must not be turned face upwards. “ A,” the dealer, having looked at his haad, either declares a trump suit, saying “ are trumps," or that there are “ No trumps," or declines to make any decision, saying “ 1 leave it to partner.” In this case It devolves upon ** B" (opposite) to name a trumnsuit, or to declare “No trumps," I as he may prefer, It being now obligatory upon him to do one thing or the other. If the declaration be “ No trumps," the cards of each suit will win on their own merits; there is no possibility of trumping, so that cards not of the suit being led at the mo- ment can only be thrown away. A declara- tion having been made, “C" the leader, has the first option of doubling the value of the stakes. Should his opinion of his cards be so good that he desires to do this, he says, “ I double,” or he says to “ D” oppo- site, “Shall I play?" In the latter case, the option of doubling is transferred to ‘ D’ who either says “ 1 double," or " Yes, please,” according as he may decide. Theoretically, there Is no limit to the number of times the stakes may be re- doubled, io practice, a limit is often agreed upon prior to play. When “ Shall I play ?" has been answered in the affirmative, “C" leads a card from his hand, then “A” places all his 13 cards face upwards on the table, and the rest of the deal is played as at Whist with a single Dummy. “ A" takes no further part in the play of that deal, the exposed cards are all to be played by “ B," who has to work them in to the best advantage with the 13 cards dealt to him on his sideof the table. Nor may “A" suggest the play of any card, should he attempt to do so, by partially drawing the card, touching it, or otherwise, “ D"or,‘C’ may order the card indicated either to be played or not to be played, as they may prefer. “ A" may not interfere except to stop “ B” from leading out of the wrong hand; and if “ B" renounces in his own hand to a suit led, “ A” is at liberty to in- quire whether “ B” is void of the suit. The object of the question, as at Whist, is to save “ B” from revoking by inadvertence. The revoke is incomplete until “ B" has confirmed the renounce, even though the trick under inquiry has been turned and quitted. The penalty for a revoke being severe, inquiry should be made to the dealer, if not, the partner is as much to blame, in case of error, as the offender. The 13 tricks having been played and gathered, the next step is the marking up of the score. The value of a point has first to be settled. Halfpenny points are nearly equivalent to shilling points at Whist. The number of points scored on any deal depend upon the trump declaration, the number of tricks won over and above six, the distribution of the honours. In cases of doubling, the value of tricks only is affected, honours, slam, chicane, etc. re- maining unaltered. The side that first scores 30 points by tricks wins the game. Two games out of three win the rubber, for which 100 points extra are awarded. The trump declarations range in value as follows, ascending from the cheapest to the most expensive:—Spades 2 points per trick.CARDS CARDS IO9 Clubs, 4; Diamonds, 6; Hearts, 8; No Trumps, ia. In a suit declaration, there are five honours—Ace, king, queen, knave, ten. Any three of these, held between the two partners, score the value points of two tricks. Four score as four tricks; five as five tricks; but four or five in the same hand count double. In a declaration of No Trumps, the honours are the four aces, WHIST holds the first place in the estimation of all good players. The great art of playing this game depends on recollecting cards that have been played, and those remaining in hand. The game is played by four persons, who cut the cards for partners. The partners sit opposite. The two high- est are against the two lowest. The person who cuts the lowest is entitled to the deal. In cutting, the ace is lowest. Each person has a right to shuffle the cards before the deal; but it is usual for the leading hand only, and the dealer after. The deal is made by having the pack cut by the right-hand adversary; and the dealer distributing the cards, one at a time, to each, beginning with the left- hand adversary, till he comes to the last card, which he turns up, being the trump, and leaves it on the table till the first trick is played. No intimations of any kind, during the play of the cards between the part- ners, are to be admitted. The mistake of one party is the game of the adver- sary, except in a revoke, when the part- ner may inquire if he has any of the suit in his hand. The tricks belonging to each party should be turned and collected by those who win the first trick in every hand. The ace, king, queen, and knave of trumps, are called honours ; and when either of the partners have three sepa- rately, or between them, they count two points towards the game, and in case they have four honours, they count four points. Ten points are the game. Terms used in the Game, Finessing, is when a card is led, and you have the best and third of that suit, you put the third best on that lead, and run the risk of your adversary hav- ing the second best of it, which if he has not, you gain a trick. Forcing, means the obliging your partner or adversary to trump a suit. Long Trumps, means one or more when the rest are played out. Loose card, means a card in hand of no value, and the most proper to throw away. Points. Ten make the game; as many as are gained by tricks and hon- ours, so many points are set up to the score of the game. See-saw, is when each partner trumps a suit, and they play those suits to each other for that purpose. Score, is the number of points, which are set up as follows :— One Two Three Four Five a o 00 000 0000 00 Six 0 Seven Eight Nine 0 000 00 000 0 0 0 0 Slam, is when either party wins every trick. Tenance, is having the first and third best cards, and being last player. The adversary must lose the last trick, whichever card of the suit may be play- ed ; thus :—if you hold ace and queen of any suit, and your adversary leads that suit, you must win two tricks, by having the best and third best of the suit played, and being last player. Sequences, are eligible leads, beginning with the highest. Terce, is a sequence of any three cards in a suit. Quart, is a sequence of four. Quint, of five. Trumping Suit, is when you have none of the suit led, and play a trump. Short Rules. 1 Lead from your strong suit, and be cautious how you change suits, and keep a command- ing card to bring it in again. 2 Lead through the strong suit and up to the weak, but not in trumps, un- less very strong in them. 3 Lead the highest of a sequence, but if you have a quart or cinque, to a king lead the lowest. 4 Lead through an honour, particu- larly if the game is much against you. 5 Lead your best trump, it the adver- Pcr th* (tAtn* cf Sc In A'iim*. im 41/.IIO CARDS CARDS aijout 4 in 100 only. saries are eight, and you have no hon- our ; but not if you have four trumps, unless you have a sequence. 6 Lead a trump if you have four or five, or a strong hand ; but not if weak. 7 Having ace, king, and two or three small cards, lead ace and king if weak in trumps, but a small one, if strong in them. 8 If you have the last trump, with some winning cards, and one losing card only, lead the losing card. 9 Return your partner's lead, not the adversary’s ; and if you have only three originally, play the best; but you need not return it immediately when you win with the king, queen, or knave, and have only small ones ; or when you hold a good sequence, have a strong suit, or have five trumps. 10 Do not lead from ace queen, or ace knave. n Do not lead an ace unless you have a king. la Do not lead a thirteenth card un- less trumps are out. 13 Do not trump a thirteenth card, unless you are last player, or want the lead. 14 Keep a small card to return your partner's lead. 15 Be cautious in trumping a card when strong in trumps, particularly if you have a strong suit. 16 Having oniy a few small trumps, make them when you can. 17 If your partner refuses to trump a suit of which he knows you have not the best, lead your best trump. 18 When you hold all the remaining trumps, play one, and then try to put the lead in your partner’^ hand. 19 Remember how many of each suit are out, and what is the best card left in each hand. 20 Never force your partner if you are weak in trumps, unless you have a re- nounce, or want the odd trick. 21 When playing for the odd trick, be cautious of trumping out, especially if your partner is likely to trump a suit; and make all the tricks you can early, and avoid finessing. 22 If you take a trick, and have a sequence, win it with the lowest. Second Hand. 23 Having ace. king, and small ones, play a small one if strong in trumps, but the king if weak ; and having ace, king, queen, or knave only, with a small one, play the small one. Third Hand. 24 Having ace and queen, play the queen, and if it wins, return the ace, and in all other cases play the best if your partner leads a small one. 25 Neglect not to make the odd trick when in your power. 26 Attend to the score, and play the game accordingly. 27 Do not part with the card turned up till the last. 28 When in doubt win the trick ; and be sure to 29 Keep your temper. Rules for betting the odds, with the chances of winning. At any score of the game, except eight and nine, the odds are nearly in proportion to the points wanted, viz. Supposing A wants four, and B six of the game, the odds are six to four in favour of A; and if A wants three, and B wants five, it is seven to five in favour of A At the beginning of a game, it is ten and a half to ten, in favour of the dealer. Chances for laying Wagers with the deal. 1 love to 11 to 10 2 .... 5 .. 4 S . . . . 3 . . 2 4 7 A 5 2 i 6 5 2 7 7 2 8 5 2 9 • • • 9 ' • 2 2 to 1 is 9 to 8 3 1 9 7 4 1 9 6 5 1 9 5 6 1 9 4 7 1 3 1 8 1 9 2 9 1 4 1 3 to 2 id 8 to 7 4 2 4 3 r. 2 8 5 « 2 . 2 1 7 T t 2 8 3 8 2 4 1 9 2 7 S 4 to 3 to 7 to 0 5 8 7 5 6 3 7 1 7 3 7 s 8 3 7 2 9 • • 3 • • 3 • • 1 5 to 4 is 6 to 5 6 4 6 4 7 4 2 1 8 a 3 1 9 4 5 2 0 to 5 is 6 to 4 7 E 5 3 8 6 5 2 9 1 7 to e is 4 to 3 8 6 . £ 1 9 7 4 8 to 7 is 3 to 2 9 7 • • 12 8 8 to 9 is a small cxid* in favour of the ties!:III CARDS CARDS Calculations.—I It is about five to four that your partner holds one card out of any two. a It is about five to two that he holds one card out of three. 3 It is about four to one that he holds one card out of any four. It is two to one that he does not d a certain card 5 It is about three to one that he does not hold two cards out of any three. 6 It is about three to two that he does not hold two cards out of any four. Laws of Whist.—I It a card is turned up in dealing, the advent party, on naming it, may call a new deal, un- less they have touched or looked at the card, so as to have been the means of causing it. a If any card, except the last, is faced it is undoubtedly a new deal. 3 Should any one play with twelve cards, and the others with their proper number, the deal is good, and he who has the twelve cards is punished for any revoke he may have made, but if either of the others have fourteen cards, the deal is lost. 4 If the dealer does not turn up the last card, it is a lost deal. 5 The dealer to leave the last, or trump card, on the table, till he has played; after which, none may ask what card was turned up, although they may inquire what suit is trumps at any time. Should he leave it on the table after the first round, it may be called, as if shown by accident. 6 Any one has a right before he plays to call on the players to place their cards before them ; which is, in other words, to ask who played them. It is therefore a quibble to say, they have no right to make that demand. 7 If any one omits playing to a trick, and remains with a card too many, the adversaries, at their option, may call a fresh deal 8 If a person leads, and his partner plays before his turn, the adversary’s partner may do the same. 9 If any one plays out of his turn, the adversaries have the option to call that card at any time, or direct the party whose turn it was, to play any suit they choose, to If a person supposing that he has won a trick, leads again before his part- ner has played to it, the adversaries may oblige bis partner to win it if he can. n If the ace or any other card of a suit is led, and any person plays out of turn, whether his partner has any of the suit led or not, he is neither to trump it nor win it provided he does not revoke. Of Calling Honours.—12 The partner who reminds his partner to call after the trump card is turned up, for- feits a point. 13 Mistakes relative to tricks may be rectified at any time during the game, whether called or not. Also honours, if proved to have been called in time, though not scored ; but they cannot be claimed after the trump is turned up. 14 If any one calls, except at the point of eight, the adverse party may consult together and call a new deal. 15 If any person calls, after he has played, the adversaries may call a new deal, but not consult together. 16 If any person answers without an honour, the adversaries may consult, and stand the deal or not. Of Separating, or Showing the Cards.—17 Any player may call a card from his adversary, if he names it, and proves the separation. Should he name a wrong one, he may have his best or worst card called of any suit played during the deal. 18 Cards thrown down cannot be re- sumed, but may be called by the adver- saries. They may be shown down by the player, if sure of every trick. Revoking. — 19 There are four penalties on a revoke, which take place every other score. The adversaries may make three tricks from the party revok- ing, or three from their score, or add three to their own ; and if there still should remain enough to make the party revoking win the game, they cannot win it but remain at nine. 20 If any person revokes, and before the party revoking nas played again, or the trick being turned or quitted, it may be recalled ; but the adversaries, at their option, may call from the highest or the lowest of the suit at the time, or the card shown at any time during the deal. 21 If a revoke Is claimed, the adver-CARDS 112 CAR, saries forfeit the penalty of a revoke, if they mix the cards before it is deter- mined. 22 No revoke can be claimed after the cards are cut for the next deal. 23 Whoever shall, by word or ges- ture, manifestly discover his approval or disapprobation of his partner’s mode of play during the deal, or ask any ques- tions but such as are specially allowed by the existing Laws of Whist, the adversary shall either add a point to his own score, or deduct one from the party so transgressing, at his option. *»' This law, of course, does not affect the privilege of talking over the hands between the deals. How to discover a revoke.—A Strict observance of the following rules will enable the player to discover when and in what suit an adversary revokes. The player should separate four of his tricks from the remainder, remembering that the first is to stand for clubs, the second for diamonds, the third for hearts, and the last for spades. In case he suspects the revoke to have been made in spades, separate the fourth trick a short distance from the other three; if in hearts, separate the third and fourth from the first and second, and in like manner the rest. From these tricks, the player will receive assistance. Supposing the first trick to stand for the letter A, so clubs beginning with C, they should be nearest to the first letter of the alphabet; diamonds beginning with D should stand next; hearts and spades then come in turn ; by which means he may easily recollect the suit in which he thinks the revoke has been made. And by removing these towards the adver- sary he suspects of having revoked, he will probably remember in which trick the revoke took place. CARMINATIVES.—Rind of Seville oranges, 3 drachms ; fresh lemon peel, 2 drachms ; ginger, in powder, Y, drachm ; boiling water, 8 ozs. Infuse 2 hours, and strain. Then take of the above, % oz. ; spirit of peppermint, % drachm ; spirit of lavender, X drachm. Antiflatulant Mixture.—Oil of aniseeds, 10 drops; refined sugar, 1 drachm. Beat up together, and add, tincture of ginger, 2 drachms ; pepper- mint water, 6 ozs. Mix; three table- spoonfuls when needful. Another.—Assafcetida, 6 grains; rhubarb, 4 grains; oil of aniseeds, 5 drops. Make two pills, and take every five or six hours. CARMINATIVE DROPS; for Expelling Wind.—Angelica, 2 ounces; lady’s slipper, 1 ounce: sweet flag, % ounce; anise, 1 ounce; fennel seed, Yi ounce ; catnep flowers, 1 ounce; motherwort, 1 ounce; pleurisy root, 2 ounces. Infuse in a pint of spirits of wine for three or four days, oft shaking, keeping it in a warm place ; then add a pint of water, and a tablespoonful of tincture of cayenne. Excellent in flatu- lency, colic, nervous affections, pro- moting perspiration, and refreshing sleep. Another Receipt.—Anise, dill, fennel seed, of each Y ounce; catnep flowers, and motherwort, of each, 1 ounce ; pleurisy root, 4 ounces. Infuse in brandy for 22 hours, and then strain ; to children, give from five to fifty drops ; and to adults, from one to four tea- spoonfuls, every three or four hours.— It eases pain, produces perspiration and sleep, removes flatulency, colic, and is an excellent nervine. CARMINATIVE PURGA- TIVE.—Tincture of senna, 1 oz.; powder of aloes, 10 grains; pepper- mint water, 3 ozs. ; syrup of ginger, 1 oz. Two table-spoonfuls for a dose, repeated in three hours if necessary. CARNATION LIP SALVE. —Olive oil, K lb; alkanet root, % oz. macerate with heat, until the oil is well coloured ; then add white wax, 3 ozs. ; spermaceti, 3 ozs. ; oil of lavender, 15 drops ; essence of bergamot, 15 drops. CARP OR TENCH.—Clean and scale ; wash and dry them ; dredge them well with flour ; fry them in lard, or dripping, until of a light brown ; then put them into a saucepan with gravy, port wine, and a little water if requisite; add a table-spoonful of browning, the same of walnut ketchup, and cayenne pepper to taste. Stick an onion all over with cloves; add it and two bay leaves to the rest of the ingredients. Stew gently over a slow fire until the gravy is reduced to a sufficient quantity to cover the fish when they are served ; take the fish out and place carefully upon the dish for table ; pnt the gravyCAR CAR 113 again upon the fire, and thicken with it flour and butter ; boil fora few minutes, and stain it over the fish. A sprig of myrtle placed in the mouth of each fish forms a pretty garnish. CARP to Fry.—Split a carp at the back, flatten the back bone, and marinate it about two hours, with a glass of vinegar and water, parsley, shalots, a clove of garlic, two of spices, thyme, whole pepper, and salt; drain and flour it over, fry on a smart fire and serve with fried parsley. CARPETS to Clean.—Take up the carpet, and let it be well beaten; then laid down, and brushed on both sides with a hand brush, turn it the right side upwards, and scour it with ox gall, and soap and water, very clean, and dry it with linen cloths ; then lay it on grass, or hang it up to dry. Newly-cut grass is much better than tea-leaves for sweeping carpets, Tea leaves destroy the colours. CARPETS Soiled. —Beat all the dust out. Then take 2 gallons of water, y, lb. of soft soap, well dissolved in it, and 4 ozs. of liquid ammonia. Dip in it a flannel, and rub the carpet well with it, and afterwards with a dry doth. CARAWAY BRANDY to Make.—Steep an ounce of caraway seeds, and six ounces of loaf sugar, in a quart of brandy ; let it stand nine days, and then draw it off. CARAWAY CAKES.—Sift 2 lbs. of fine sugar, 2 lbs. of flour ; mix and sieve into the bowl; butter 2 lbs. ; 18 eggs, leaving out 8 of the whites ; add 4 ozs. candied orange, and 2 ozs. caraway seeds ; work the butter with rose-water ; then put in flour and sugar gradually, and the eggs with a glassful or two of sherry wine ; beat constantly, till you put into the hoop for the oven. Buttered paper must be placed under- neath. You may add allspice, ginger, and nutmeg, as you like. Sift fine sugar upon them. CARAWAY SEED BIS- CUITS.—Make as other biscuits, \ adding caraway seeds. CARRIER SAUCE.-Chop fine ! 6 shalots; boil with % pint of good gravy, a little vinegar, salt, and pepper. | CARROTS BOILED.-Scrape, wash, and clean them ; if large, cut them into two or four pieces, set them over the fire in boiling water with some salt in it, and boil them for two or three hours. Very young carrots will only require one hour. CARROTS to Prepare.-Scrape clean, put them into the pan, when enough, take out, rub them in a cloth. Slice them into a plate, and pour melted butter, pepper, and salt over them. If young carrots, boil half an hour, if large, an hour; old carrots will take two hours boiling. Some cooks mash them, and add milk or cream. CARROT PUDDING.—Boil a large carrot tender ; then bruise it in a marble mortar, and mix with it a spoon- ful of biscuit-powder, or three or four sweet biscuits, without seeds, four yolks and two whites of eggs, a pint of cream either raw or scalded, a little ratafia, a large spoonful of orange or rose-water, a quarter of a nutmeg, and two ounces of sugar. Bake it in a shallow dish lined with paste, and turn it out to serve with a little sugar dusted over. CARROT SOUP. —Put some beef-bones, with four quarts of the liquor in which a leg of mutton or beef has been boiled, two large onions, a turnip, pepper and salt into a sauce- pan, and stew for three hours. Have ready six large carrots, scraped and cut thin, strain the soup on them, and stew them till soft enough to pulp through a hair-sieve or coarse cloth, then boil the pulp with the soup, which is to be as thick as peas-soup. Use two wooden spoons to rub the carrots through. Make the soup the day before it is to be used. Add cayenne. Pulp only the red part of the carrot, and not the yellow. CARROT SOUP.—The liquor in which you have boiled mutton o? veal, or a gravy drawn front beef bones will make a sufficient foundation to tin's excellent soup ; put a coupie of quarts of either of these into a stewpan, then scrape six large carrots, and cut off the red portion ; put that, with a head of celery and onion both cut up, in the stew-pan, cover down close, and set it near the fire, or in a very slow oven, for two hours and a half; if you do not find the carrots quite soft by this time, aI 14 CAT CAR give them another halt hour’s simmer- ing ; force the vegetables through a sieve by the aid of a wooden spoon, and if you find the pulp mixed with the liquor, is too thick for soup, add more broth ; season with salt and pepper to your taste. Warm before sending to the table. Serve with toasted bread. CARROTS, Stewed. Half- boil, then nicely scrape, and slice them into a stew-pan. Put to them half a tea-cupful of any weak broth, some pepper, and salt, and half a cupful of cream ; simmer them till they are very tender, but not broken. Before serving rub a very little flour with a bit of butter, and warm up with them. If approved, chopped parsley may be added ten minutes before the carrots are served. CASCARILLA, Tincture of.— Cascarilla bark, powdered, 2 ozs. ; proof spirit, 1 pint; digest with a gentle heat for seven days, and strain. A valuable stimulant of great use in gout; it gives tone and system to the stomach. Two drachms three times per day. CASKS, to Sweeten.—To scour casks effectually rinse them with a solu- tion of vitriol and water, which will entirely deprive them of their foulness. CASTOR OIL.—A valuable and safe aperient. It acts speedily, effec- tually cleanses the bowels, without leav- ing any tendency to constipation. The dose is one or two table-spoonfuls. To most it is disagreeable, and it requires to be disguised. A good way is to take it in meal and water, or barley water, or brandy and water, or in milk well mixed, or in coffee, or in orange-juice. Some eat a little orange or lemon-peel, previously to taking . CASTOR OIL, French way of giving it to Children.—Pour the oil into a pan over a moderate fire; break an egg into it, and stir up ; when it is done, add a little salt or sugar, or some currant jelly. The sick child will eat it agreeably, and never discover the dis- guise. CASTS of PLASTER, to Harden.—Immerse them in a solu- tion of alum to about 84° Fah.. for about five hours ; 1 lb. of alum dissolved in 4 or 5 gallons of water will form the solution. CATARRH.—This comprises a Cold in the Head, or Influenza.—Both begin with chilliness, sneezing, bad appe- tite, running at the nose, red and watery eyes, fever, &c. It is inflammation of the mucus membrane of the nostrils, or bronchial passages. Sometimes there is a slight cough only, and sometimes a harrassing one. It is caused by expo- sure to cold or wet, damp, epidemic poison. To cure, let the diet be low, drink toast and water, warm gruel, or barley water acidulated with a little lemon or cream of tartar. Bathe the feet at bed-time in hot water. Use the vapour bath, or wrap hot bricks in cloths or flannels dipped in vinegar and water, to the feet and sides. Should the cough be troublesome, take a cough pill or the pulmonary syrup. CATECHU. — An extract ob- tained from an acacia tree, growing in Hindostan.—It is a most valuable as- tringent in looseness, dysentery, or flux, bleeding from the anus or womb, the whites, and obstinate coughs. It makes an excellent gargle for relaxation of the uvula, or the body which hangs down from the soft part of the palate. It may be sucked in the mouth for that purpose, and for curing sponginess of the gums. It makes an excellent den- trifice, combined with Peruvian bark and myrrh. The extract, say a.% ozs.; 2 ozs. resin ; 10 ozs. of olive oil, with a very little water ; is most efficacious in ulcers. Melt and mix. CATERPILLARS, to Destroy. —Syringe the trees with decoction of tobacco, or a solution of alum, or dust the trees with dust from the common road, and in a day or two wash off with clean water. CATHARTICS.—Medicines in- creasing the discharge from the bowels. CATHARTIC POWDER. — Best senna, ginger, camomile flowers, of each 1 oz. ; jalap, oz. Powder fine, and mix well. Take from half to a teaspoonful in warm water or tea. This is a valuable aperient; it is power- ful, and yet mild ; effectually cleanses the bowels, and produces a healthy action in them, and also upon the liver. CATNEP.—An American plant. —It Is carminative, diaphoretic, and refrigerant. It produces perspiration115 CAT CEL effectually, and is most useful in colds ; throwing off fever, and restoring to health rapidly. It is good for nervous complaints, indigestion, wind, colic, and is very suitable for infants and children in belly-ache, flatulency, &c. Dose; infuse a small quantity in a pint of boiling water. It is a good fomenter in swellings. CATTLE, TO ASCERTAIN THE WEIGHT OF.—Measure the girt close behind the shoulder, and the length from the fore part of the shoulder-blade along the back to the bone at the tail, which is in a vertical line with the buttock, both in feet. Multiply the square of the girt, ex- pressed in feet, by five times the length, and divide the product by 21; the quo- tient is the weight, nearly, of the four quarters, in stones of 14 lbs. avoirdu- poise. For example, if the girt be 6% feet, and the length 5^ feet, we shall have 6% multiplied by 6% equal to 42 and 5# multiplied by 5 equal to 26 % ; then 42 multiplied by 26 X is equal to 1,109 i-i6th, and this divided by ai, gives 52 4-sths stones nearly, or 52 stones 11 lbs. It is to be observed, however, that in very fat cattle the four quarters will be about one one-twentieth more, while in those in a very lean state they will be one-twentieth less than the weight obtained by the rule. The four- quarters are little more than half the weight of the living animal; the skin weighing about the eighteenth part, and the tallow the twelfth part of the whole. CAULIFLOWERS, to Boil. —Strip the leaves which you 'do not intend to use, and put the cauliflowers into salt and water some time to force out snails, worms, &c. Boil them twelve minutes on a drainer in plenty of water, then add salt, and boil five or six minutes longer. Skim well while boiling. Take out, and drain. Serve with melted butter, or a sauce made of butter, cream, pepper, and salt. CAULIFLOWER, to Fry.— Wash as before. Boil twenty or thirty minutes ; cut it into small portions, and cool. Dip the portions twice into a batter made of flour, milk, and egg, and fry them in butter. Serve with gravy. CAULIFLOWERS, to Pickle. —Take the best and firmest cauli- flowers. Separate the flowers into small parts, spread them on a dish, sprinkle salt over them for a few days. Then put them into jars, and pour boil- ing salt and water upon them, and let stand all night; then drain them on a hair sieve, and jar them again, and fill up with the best vinegar, in which you have simmered mace, long pepper, white pepper-corns. &c. CAULIFLOWER, with Par- mesan.—Prepare the cauliflower as before, and cut the stalk, so that the flower will stand upright two inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan with a little white sauce ; stew till done enough, a few minutes ; then dish it with the sauce round, and grate parme- san over it. Brown it with a sala- mander. CAULIFLOWER, with Queen’s Sauce.—Make the sauce with a bit of ham, fillet of veal, cut into small dice, a little butter, chopped pars- ley, shallots, and a clove of garlick; soak this for a time on the fire; then add a few spoonfuls of jelly broth, and half a pint of cream ; pour part off into the table-dish; place the cauliflower therein, boiled properly, and the re- mainder of the sauce over it; garnish with bread crumbs, and colour it in the oven with a little butter on it. CAULIFLOWER, with White Sauce.—Parboil it; then cut into nice pieces, and lay them in a stew-pan with a little broth, a bit of mace, salt, pepper; simmer half an hour ; then add a little cream, butter, and flour; shake ; simmer a few minutes ; serve. CAYENNE, good Soluble*— All cooks acknowledge the supremacy of cayenne among the peppers. It is thus made:—infuse 1 oz. of genuine cayenne in boiling water, enough to cover it; let it stand on the hob for a couple of hours, and then pour the liquor through a fine sieve upon 1 oz. of salt in a soup plate; cover this down, and let it cool. The new crystals have absorbed the liquid, which can be rubbed up to any size required, and placed in a cruet-stand. These new grains will dissolve, and be free from the husk and seed of the pepper-pods. CELERY, Essence of.—Soak the seeds in spirits of wine or brandy ;116 CEL CEM or infuse the root in the same for 24 hours, then take out, squeezing out all the liquor, and infuse more root in the same liquor to make it stronger. A few drops will flavour broth, soup, &c. CELERY SAUCE.—Wash well the inside leaves of three heads of celery, cut them into slices quarter inch thick, boil for six minutes, and drain ; take a table-spoonful of flour, two ounces of butter, and a tea-cupful of cream ; beat well, and when warm, put in the celery, and stir well over the fire about twelve minutes. This sauce is very good for boiled fowl, &c. CELERY VINEGAR.—Infuse the root in best vinegar, for 48 hours, rear a fire, and renew, as needful.— Cress, Mustard, Parsley, &c., vinegar, may be made in the same way. CEMENT.—Asphaltum and a small quantity of india-rubber dissolved in refined naptha, make an adhesive cement, not affected by water. CEMENT.—A little ground borax mixed with plaster of Paris makes an excellent cement for many purposes. It is, simply mixed up into a plastic con- sistency, then applied with a trowel. It soon hardens. CEMENT.—A Strong Repair- ing.—Professor Edmund Davy pro- poses as an excellent cement for repair- ing gutters, drain-pipes, pumps, &c., two parts of common pitch melted with one part of gutta percha. This com- pound is in many cases preferable to gutta percha alone, and may be dryed and preserved for use. To apply it to metal gutters or pipes, they should be warmed with a hot iron, and the cement be poured upon the leaky places. It is equally applicable to wood, glass, por- celain, ivory, leather, parchment, and a number of other substances. CEMENT, Durable.—Common clay well dryed and powdered, then mixed with oil; it will last years. CEMENT, for Glass to Resist Heat.—Equal parts of wheat flour, finely powdered glass, and powdered chalk; add half as much brick dust, scraped lint, and white of eggs. CEMENT, FOR ROOMS.— SI. Sorel has recently discovered a pro- perty possessed by oxychloride of zinc, which renders it superior to plaster of Paris for coating the walls of rooms. It is thus applied :—"A coat of oxide of zinc mixed with size, and made up like a wash, is first laid on the wall, ceiling, or wainscot, and over that a coat of chloride of zinc is applied, being pre- pared in the same way as the first wash. The oxide and chloride effect an imme- diate combination, and form a kind of cement, smooth and polished as glass, and possessing the advantages of oil paint, without its disadvantages of smell, &c." The inventor further sug- gests the employment of oxychloride of zinc as a paint for iron, and also to stop hollow teeth, for which its plasticity and subsequent hardness and impenetrability to the moisture of the mouth, render it particularly applicable. CEMENT, for Joining Mar- ble, Stone, &c,—Hold the fractured parts to the fire, and then apply shellac and sulphur, melted together. This holds firmly. CEMENT, for Joining Steam- Pipes.—Boiled linseed oil, litharge, and white or red lead, mixed up to a proper consistence, and applied to each side of a piece of flannel, or linen, and placed between the pieces before they are joined. This will effectually join broken stones, and the seams of a water cistern, &c. CEMENT, for Joining Steam Joints.—Sublimed sulphur, 1 oz.; sal-ammoniac, z ozs.; fine cast-iron turnings, 1 lb. Mix, and keep dry. When it is to be used, mix with it 20 times its bulk of clean iron turnings or filings; and grind ail in a mortar. Mix to a proper consistence with water. CEMENT, for repairing Cop- per Boilers.—Mix powdered lime and ox-blood intimately, and apply while fresh. CEMENT, for Mending Broken Vessels.—To half a pint of milk put a sufficient quantity of vinegar, in order to curdle it; separate the curd from the whey, and mix the whey with the whites of 4 eggs, baking the whole well together ; when mixed, add a little quicklime through a sieve until it ac- quires the consistency of a paste. With this cement, broken vessels or cracks can be repaired ; it dries quickly, and resists the action of fire and water.117 CHA CEM CEMENT, JAPANESE.—In- timately mix the best powdered rice flour with a little cold water, then gradu- ally add boiling water until a proper consistence is acquired, being careful to keep it well stirred all the time ; lastly, it must be boiled for one minute in a clean saucepan. This glue is beautifully white, and nearly transparent, for which reason it is well adapted for fancy paper work, which requires a strong and colourless cement. CEMENT, Never Yielding.— Calcine oyster shells, pound and sift them through a sieve, and grind them on a flat smooth stone with a muller till reduced to the finest powder, then take the whites of eggs and form the whole into a paste. With it join the pieces of china or glass, and press them together for six or eight minutes. This cement will stand both heat and water, and will never give way, even if the article should fall to the ground. CEMENT, to tyend Stones.— Mix ground white lead with as much powdered red lead to make it as thick as putty. Or, mix equal weights of red lead and white lead with boiled linseed oil, to a proper consistence. Effectual, however large the stone. CENTAURY.—See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable tonic, pro- moting digestion, appetite, destroying fever, and worms. Infuse in warm water, or in brandy. CEPHALIC SNUFF. —Take half an ounce each of rosemary, sage, lilies of the valley, and the tops of sweet marjoram, with a drachm each of asara- bacca root, lavender flowers and nut- meg. Reduce the whole to a fine pow- der, and take it like common snuff for the relief of the head, &c. CERATE, White. Take of olive oil, % pint; white wax, 4 ozs.; melt them together, and stir till the cerate is quite cold. This is a good soft dressing for blisters, cuts, &c., where the drawing plaster generally employed for that purpose is too irritating. CHALK OINTMENT.—It is good for burns. Powder some chalk, and mix with lard. CHAMPAGNE.—Raisins, 8 lbs. sugar, 20 lbs. ; water, 9 or 10 gallons; citric acid, t 07.; honey 1 lb. Boil the water and sugar half an hour. Ferment with good yeast. When the fermenta- tion is nearly over, add 2 quarts of brandy. Bung well for 2 months. Then bottle, and put a lump of white sugar into each bottle. Cider will resemble champagne, if you put a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, 2 teaspoonfuls of fine sugar, and a table- spoonful of brandy in a tumbler, and fill it up with sharp cider. CHANTILLY TRIFLE. Bake a rich cake in a mould. When cold, cut it round about two inches from the edge with a sharp knife, taking care not to perforate the bottom, put in a thick custard, and some teaspoonfuls of raspberry jam, and then put on a high whip. CHAPPED HANDS. Rub them night and morning with raw Linseed Oil. CHAPPED HANDS.—Rub a little Glycerine, with a little Borax, upon your hands at night, and wear gloves in bed. Vaseline Salve is excel- lent. CHAPPED HANDS, &c.— Wash with soft soap, mixed with red sand.—Or, wash them in sugar and water.—Or apply a little sal prunello. CHAPPED LIPS. —Clarified honey, a table-spoonful; pour a few drops of rose or lavender water into it. Apply it to the lips often.—Or, honey, i oz. ; litharge and myrrh, each oz.; melt, and perfume ; cork well. CHARCOAL, useful proper- ties of.—All sorts of glass vessels and other utensils may be purified from bad smells hy rincing them out with charcoal powder, after the grossest im- purities have been scoured off with sand and potash. Rubbing the teeth, and washing out the mouth with charcoal powder will render the teeth beautifully white, and the breath perfectly sweet. Putrid water is immediately deprived of its smell by charcoal. CHARCOAL MEDICINE.— It is much used in Mexico, and in South America, where few drugs are procura- ble, save those “simples” which the in- genuity and experience of the Indian Herbalists have devised. Freshly-burnt Charcoal, reduced to powder and given in water, is in great repute. It immedl-CHE 1x8 CHE ately removes offensive odours from in- testinal and renal discharges, and puri- fies the breath, it removes offensive exhalations from any part of the body, either given in water, or in the form of [ pills, made up in wheat flour, or gum mucilage. It removes pains about the right shoulder caused by obstructions of the liver. As an antiacid, either alone, or combined with rhubarb, and carbon- ate of soda, it speedily and permanently removes heartburn. Charcoal is a powerful antiseptic, removing, or check- _ ing decay, and must be very valuable in the incipient stages of consumption. CHEESE, as Iced Butter.— Boil a pint of good cream a few minutes with rasped lemon-peel, and a table- spoonful of orange flower water; when taken off the fire, add 12 yolks of eggs, well beaten up ; mix all together ; sift, and put into an icing pot to freeze; whisk it like ices; ice it so that you may take it up with a spoon to serve like pats of butter stamped, and bits of clean ice appear between as crystals. CHEESE, to Stew.—Cut best Cheshire cheese very thin ; lay it in a toaster; set it before the fire ; pour a glass of ale over it; let it stand till it is like a light custard. Serve on toasts hot. CHEESE, to Stew. —Cut a plateful of best cheese; pour upon it a glass of port wine; grate upon part of it light biscuit unsugared; pour over it two or three spoonfuls of hot port; then put the rest of the cheese upon it. CHEESE to Toast.—Cut the cheese fine, and put it with a little butter into the oven, or before the fire in a dutch oven; salt, pepper and mustard as you like it. It is nice with finely chopped onions mixed with it. Better still with finely chopped onions and nice ham. CHEESECAKES—Strain the whey from the curds of two quarts of milk; when rather dry, crumble it through a coarse sieve, and mix with 6 ozs. of butter, 1 oz. of pounded blanch- ed almonds, a little orange-flower water, half a glass of raisin wine, a grated biscuit, 4 ozs. of currants, some nut- meg, powdered fine, and beat all with three eggs, and half a pint of cream till quite light; then fill the tins three parts full. CHEESECAKES.—Butter, 4 ozs.; powdered sugar, 4 ozs.; potatoes boiled, and floured through a sieve, 6 ozs.; three eggs, and 25 drops of essence of lemon. Line the moulds with a light puff paste, and fill them.—This makes a cheap cheesecake. CHEESECAKES,—Put a quart of new milk near the fire with a spoon- ful of rennet; when it is broken, drain the curd through a coarse cloth, break- ing the curd gently with the fingers ; rub into the curd % lb. of butter, % lb. of sugar, a nutmeg, and two Naples’ biscuit grated, the yolks of 4 eggs, and the white of one, 1 oz. of almonds well beaten, two spoonfuls of rose-water, and two of sherry wine; add 6 ozs. of cur- rants. Line the moulds with light paste, pour the mixture into each, and bake in a slow oven from 15 minutes. CHEESECAKES, ALMOND. —Almonds, 4 ozs., blanch and beat them with a little orange-flower water; add the yolks of eight eggs, the rind of a lemon grated, % lb. of melted butter, and sugar to taste; lay thin puff paste at the bottom of the tins ; and little slips across. Add 6 bitter almonds. CHEESECAKES, BREAD.— Slice a penny loaf very thin, pour on it a pint of hot cream, and let it stand two or three hours; then take eight eggs, % lb. of butter, and a nutmeg grated ; beat well, and mix them into the cream and bread, with % lb. of currants, well washed and dried, and a spoonful of white wine, or brandy, bake them in moulds, or raised crusts. CHEESECAKES, LEMON. —Boil the peelings of two large lemons till they are tender; pound them well in a mortar, with lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of six eggs, with % lb. of fresh butter; lay puff paste in the moulds; and pour half full, and bake them. CHEESECAKES, ORANGE. —Blanch % lb. almonds, beat them very fine, with orange-flower water, and J£lb. of fine sugar sifted, 1 lb. of butter melted carefully without oiling, and nearly cold ; then beat the yolks of ten, and whites of four eggs; pound two candied oranges, and a fresh one with the bitterness boiled out, till as tender as marmalade, without lumps; and beat the whole together and put into moulds.CHE CHE I !<) CHEESECAKES, RICE. Boil 4 ok. of rice till It is tender, and then drain ; mix it with four eggs well beaten up, lb. of butter, half a pint of cream, 6 ozs. of sugar, a grated nut- meg, and a glass of brandy. Beat them well together, and put into raised crusts, and bake in a moderate oven. CHEESE SANDWICHES.— Take Cheshire cheese 3 parts, butter, 1 part, ham and veal one part each, and two eggs, a little salt, pepper, and mus- tard. Powder well in a mortar. Make Into sandwiches. It may be potted in a similar way, either with or without the meat; the eggs would require to be well boiled. CHEESE SOUP. —Bread crumbs, % lb. sifted; 1 lb. of good Cheshire cheese ; simmer these together in a stew pan with some good broth ; in another pan mix well together four yolks of eggs, and four spoonfuls of broth. Mix both when ready to serve. CHEMICAL SOAP.—Fullers earth, 1 oz. powdered; moisten with a little spirit of turpentine ; salt of tartar, oz. ; potass. 1 oz. Work the whole into a paste with a little soft soap. Form into squares.—Moisten grease, and with a little water rub the soap well on till it lathers; the spot will dis- appear. CHERRIES, Iced.—Bruise 2 lbs. of cherries, put to them a pint of of water; strain, and add sugar suffi- cient. See ice. CHERRIES, to Jar.—Stone xa lbs. of cherries ; put them into the pan, with 3 lbs. of double refined sugar; and a quart of water; put on the fire till they begin to boil; take off to cool a little ; then boil till they are tender ; sprinkle with % lb. of refined sugar, afterwards, skim clean. Put all in a china bowl; let them stand in the syrup three days, then drain, and take them singly, with the holes downwards, on a wicker sieve, and set them on a warm stove to dry, turning them upon clean sieves. When dry enough put a white sheet of paper in the pan, all the cherries, with another sheet at the top ; put them on the fire till they sweat: cool, and put in boxes or jars to keep. CHERRY BRANDY. —Cher- ries. 36 lbs; half red and half black; squeeze them with the hands, and add i)4 gallons of brandy. Let them in- fuse 24 hours; then put the bruised cherries and liquor into a canvas bag, a little at a time, and press it as long as it will run. Sweeten with fine sugar, and let it stand a month ; bottle off, putting loaf sugar into every bottle. Another.—To every gallon of brandy put 4 lbs. of red cherries, 2 lbs. of black, 1 quart of raspberries, with a few cloves, a stick of cinnamon a little orange peel; closely stop for a month in a barrel; bottle off as before. CHERRY JAM.—Pick and stone 4 lbs. of May-duke cherries; press them through a sieve ; then boil together half a pint of red currant or raspberry juice, and Jf lb. of white sugar, put the cherries into, them while boiling; add 1 lb. of fine white sugar. Boil quickly 35 minutes, jar, and cover well. CHERRY JELLY.—Cherries, 5 lbs. ; stone them ; red currants, a lbs.; strain them, that the liquor may be clear; add two pounds of sifted loaf- sugar ; and 2 ozs. of isinglass. CHERRY MARMALADE.— Take some very ripe cherries, cut off the stalks, and take out the stones; crush them, and boil them well; put them into a hand sieve, and force them through with a spatula, till the whole is pressed through and nothing remains but the skins; put it again upon the fire to dry ; when reduced to half, weigh it, and add an equal weight of sugar; boil again ; and when it threads between the fingers, it is finished. CHERRY PIE.—Having made a good crust, lay a little of it around the sides of your dish, and throw sugar at the bottom. Then lay in your fruit, and some sugar at the top. A few red currants put along with the cherries make an agreeable addition. Put on the lid ; bake in a slack oven. CHERRY PUDDING.—Make a paste of flour, beef suet chopped small, and water. Butter a basin, and line with paste. Put in the cherries and sugar; cover with crust, tie in a cloth, boil 1% hours. t CHERRY WINE.—Pick and press out the juice of good cherries, White or Black Hearts, or May Dukes,CHE CHE 120 without breaking the stones. (This wine is much improved by adding rasps, and red currants, an addition of black currants causes it to resemble port). To every gallon put a lbs. of fine loaf sugar. Put in a pask till the fomenta- tion ceases, stop it close. In three or four months, bottle it, and in five or sis weeks it will be fit to drink. CHESS.—This is a very scientific game. The reader is referred to Hoyle, Walker, and Lewis on Chess, Each player has a force of 16 men, viz., a king, queen, 2 bishops, 2 knights, 2 castles, or rooks, and 8 pawns. They all have different moves. The king can only move one square at a time, forwards, backwards, diagonally, &c. The Queen is the most powerful of all the pieces ; can move in straight lines, either for- wards, backwards, or sideways, to the extent of the board, or she can move diagonally within the same range. The Rook moves same as the Queen, except diagonally. The Bishop moves either forwards or backwards diagonally, the full extent of the board, keeping on his own square. The Knight moves one square, and one diagonally, or one diagonally, and one square, forwards, or sideways, &c. He is the only piece that leaps over the head of another piece. The Pawn moves one square at once straight forward; but it takes a piece diagonally. If a pawn reaches the other side of the board, it claims a superior piece, instead of itself, except the king. Laws of Chess.—1 The chess- board must be so placed that each player has a white corner square nearest his right hand. 2 If a piece or pawn be misplaced, it must be rectified, if perceived before four moves have been made. 3 If a player on commencing the game omit to place all his men on the board, he may correct the omission before malting his fourth move. 4 Should a player, who undertakes to give the odds of a piece or pawn, neg- lect to move it from the board after four moves, the adversary may continue or recommence the game. 5 When no odds are given the players must take the first move of each game alternately, drawing lots who shall begin the first game. 6 The player who gives the odds has the right of moving first in each game, unless agreed otherwise. Whenever a pawn is given it is to be the king’s bishop's pawn. 7 If a piece or pawn be touched, it must be played, unless at the moment of touching it, the player exclaims, “ J'adoube " (I adjust). 8 While the player holds the piece or pawn he has touched, he may play it to any square but the one he took it from, but if he quit the piece, he cannot recall the move. 9 If a player takes one of his adver- sary’s pieces or pawns without saying "J’adoube," or words to that effect, his adversary may compel him to take it ; but if it cannot be legally taken, he may oblige him to move his king; if the king cannot be legally moved, no penalty can be inflicted. 10. If a player move one of his ad- versary’s men, his antagonist may com- pel him either to replace the piece or pawn, and take it, or to let the piece or pawn remain on the square to which it had been played. 11. If a player takes one of his ad- versary’s men, with one of his own, that cannot take it without making a false move, his antagonist may either compel him to take it with a piece or pawn that can legally take it, or to move his own piece or pawn which he touched. 12. Should any player by mistake take one of his own men with another, his adversary can compel him to move either. 13. If a player make a false move, that is, plays a piece or pawn to any square to which it cannot legally be moved, his opponent may compel him to take the piece or pawn to a correct square, or let it remain on the square to which he had moved it, or to re- place the piece or pawn, and move his king. 14. Should a player move out of his turn, his opponent may choose whether both moves shall remain, or the second be retracted. 15. When a pawn is first moved in a game, it may be played one or two squares, but in the latter case the adver- sary has the privilege of taking, it as it is named “ en passant,’’ with any pawD which could have taken it had it beenCHE cm 121 moved only one square; a pawn cannot be taken en passant by any other piece, but a pawn. 16. A player cannot castle in the fol- lowing cases :—ist. If the king or rook have been moved. 2nd. If the king be In check. 3rd. If there be any piece between king and rook. 4th. If the king pass over any square attacked by one of the adversary's pieces or pawns. 17. If a player touch a piece or pawn that cannot be moved without leaving the king in check, he must replace it, and move his king; but if the king cannot be moved, no penalty can be inflicted. 18. If a player attack the adverse king without saying “check,” the last player must retract his last move and free his king from check, but if moves be made subsequent to the attack being known, they must be retracted. 19. Should any player say 'check' without giving it, and his adversary, in consequence, moves his king ; or touch a piece to protect it, he may retract such moves. 20. If the king has been in check for several moves, and it cannot be ascer- tained how it occurred, the player whose king is in check must retract his last move, and free his king from check ; but whatever moves made, previous to the check being known, must remain. 31. Every pawn which has reached the eighth square of the chess-board, may be immediately exchanged for a queen, or any other piece the player may think proper. 22. If a player remain at the end of a game with a rook and a bishop against a rook, or with both bishops only, or knight and bishop only, &c., he must check-mate his adversary in fifty moves on each side at most, or the game will be considered drawn. 23. If a player agrees to check-mate with a particular piece or pawn, or on a particular square : or engages to force his adversary to stale-mate or check- mate him, he is not restricted to any number of moves. 24. A stale-mate is a drawn game. 25. If a player makes a false move, castles improperly, &c., the opponent must notice it before he touches a piece or pawn, or he will not be allowed to Inflict any penalty. CHESTNUTS. Roast them well, depriving them of husks. Mix four ounces of sugar in a cupful of water, and the juice of a lemon ; put all together in a saucepan over a slow fire for ten minutes; serve in a dish and grate sugar over it. CHICKEN BROTH.—Skin a small chicken, and split it in two ; boil in a quart of water, or more, with three blades of mace, and a small crust of white bread, over a slow fire till reduced to half the quantity. Skim. CHICKEN CURRY.—Remove the skin; cut up raw, slice onions, and fry both in butter to a light brown. Lay the joints cut into two or three pieces each, into a stew-pan, with a veal or mutton gravy, and two cloves of garlick. Simmer till tender ; and before serving, take a spoonful or two of curry powder, a spoonful of flour, and 1 oz. of butter, and four table-spoonfuls of cream, and add them to the stew ; salt to taste. Squeeze in a little lemon. A dish of rice, boiled dry must be served. CHICKEN and HAM PAT- TIES.—Take the white meat from the breast of chickens, and 4 ozs. of ham cut small; put them into a a stew- pan, with 1 oz. of butter rolled in flour, half a gill of cream, half a gill of real stock, a little nutmeg, lemon-peel, cay- enne pepper, salt, and a spoonful of lemon juice. Stir over the fire some time, but do not bum. CHICKEN and HAM Potted. —Bake the chicken in a close covered pan with a little water for about 30 minutes, adding, as you like, salt, pep- per, cloves, mace. Broil or fry some ham, and pound both chicken and ham small, moistening with butter : place in alternate layers when you pot them, and press tightly. CHICKEN PANADA.—Boil a chicken in a quart of water, till three parts done; skin it, cut off the white meat, and pound it to a thick paste with a little of the water it was boiled in; season it with salt, nutmeg, and lemon-peel; boil gently for a few minutes ; let it not be so thick. It is very nourishing. y CHICKEN PIE.-: Cut the chickens in pieces, and boil nearly tender. Make a rich crust with an eggcm CHI 122 or two to make it light and puff. Sea- son the chicken and slices of ham with pepper, salt, mace, nutmeg, and cay- enne. Put them in layers, first the ham, chicken, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs in layers. Make a gravy of knuckle of veal, mutton bones, seasoned with herbs, onions, pepper, &c. Pour it over the contents of the pie, and cover with a paste. Bake an hour. CHICKEN POX.—This is a mild eruptive disease, and seldom occurs more than once in a person’s life-time. The eruption is attended with but little indisposition. There is a slight chilli- ness, weariness, cough, fever, bad appe- tite, &c., a day or two before the erup- tion appears, which resembles the small- pox. Treatment is simply plenty of cooling drinks acidulated, some cooling and aperient medicine, to keep the bowels gently open. Let the patient also be kept warm till the pox die away. CHICKEN PUDDING.—Cut half a pound of good ham very fine, and a couple of chickens. Season with salt, pepper, thyme, nutmeg, and mace. Stew them gently, and in ten minutes, add a lump of butter. When half stewed, take them out, and cool. Re- serve the gravy to serve with the pud- ding. Then take a pound of flour, a quart of milk, four eggs, well beaten, and salt. This will form the batter. Put a layer of chicken in a dish, and pour over it a portion of the batter, and so alternately till the dish is full. Bake it brown. Put an egg to the gravy pre- served ; give it a boil, and put in a sauce-boat to serve with the pudding, CHICKENS, Boiled.—Fasted the wings and legs to the body by thread tied round. Steep them in skim milk two hours. Then put them in cold water, and boil over a slow fire. Skim clean. Serve with white sauce or melted butter sauce, or parsley and butter.—Or melt i oz. of butter in a cupful of milk ; add to it the yolk of an egg beat up with a little flour and cream ; heat over the fire, stirring well. CHICKENS, to Broil.—Slit down the back, and season with pepper and salt; put them before a clear fire, at a distance, the inside next the fire, till half-done; turn them, and mind the fleshy side does not bum, rasp bread over it, and nicely brown. Let the sauce be good gravy, with mushrooms ; garnish with lemon, and the livers broiled, the gizzards cut, slashed, and broiled with pepper. Or, take a handful of sorrel, dip it in boiling water ; drain, have ready half a pint of good gravy, a shallot chopped fine, and boiled parsley, thickened with a piece of butter rolled in flour ; add a glass of port; lay the sorrel round the fowls; pour the sauce over them; garnish with lemons, CHICKENS, to Braise.—Bone them and fill them with forcemeat; lay the bones and any other poultry trim- mings into a stewpan, and the chickens on them. Add a few onions, herbs, mace, a pint of stock, and a glass or 2 of sherry. Cover the chickens with slices of bacon, and white pepper; cover, and boil slowly two hours. Take up, strain, skim off the fat; then boil very quick to a glaze, and do the chick- ens over it with a brush. Serve with a brown fricassee of mushrooms. CHICKENS, to Fatten quickly.—Make a paste with ground rice scald with milk, mixed with trea- cle. Give it warm in the day-time as much as they will eat, leaving none. It fattens in a short time. CHICKENS, to Fricassee.— Skim and cut in small pieces ; wash in warm water, and dry ; season with pep- per and salt; put into a slew-pan with water, and a large piece of butter, a little lemon, a glass of white wine, one anchovy, mace and nutmeg, an onion stuck with cloves, a bunch of lemon thyme, and sweet marjoram. Stew till the chickens are tender; then dish. Thicken the gravy with flour and butter, strain it; beat the yolks of three eggs in a large cupful of cream, and put it in the gravy; shake over the fire; do not boil, pour over the chickens. CHICKENS, to Roast.—Pluck carefully, draw and truss them, and put them to a good fire; singe, dust, and baste them with butter. Cover the breast with a sheet of buttered paper; remove it ten minutes before it is enough, that it may brown. A chicken will take 15 or 20 minutes.Serve with butter and parsley. CHILBLAINS.—To cure chil- blains, simply bathe the parts affected123 CHI OKI in the water in which potatoes have been boiled, as hot as can be borne. On the first appearance of this ailment, indicated by inflammation and irritation, this bath affords relief. In the more advanced stages, repetition prevents breaking out, followed by a certain cure, and an occasional adoption will prevent a return. CHILBLAINS.—Take 1 oz. of 'white copperas; dissolve in a quart of water, and apply it occasionally to the affected parts. Let this be used before the chilblains break.—Or, apply a poul- tice of roasted onions.—Or, wash with a decoction of horseradish made with vin- egar and water.—Or, with a little cam- phorated brandy. Or rub into them before the fire, a solution of white vitriol and sugar of lead. If the chilblains are broken it must not be used.—Or, take lard, 2 ozs.; turpentine, oz. ; camphor, oz.; melted together. If the parts have been frost bitten, keep from the fire; immerse the parts in snow or cold water ; then apply brisk friction, and a little camphorated spirits. To ease the pain, apply an elm bark poultice, or a poultice made of wheat bran, soft soap, and table salt. Apply afterwards the Black or Healing Salve. If unbroken, take sal ammoniac, 1 oz., vinegar, pint; bathe the part.—Alum and salt will do, but not so effectually— mix in vinegar and water.—If the chil- blains are old, use the Stimulating Liniment. CHILBLAIN LINIMENT.— One ounce of camphorated spirit of 'vine, half an ounce of liquid sub-acetate. Mix, and apply in the usual way three or four times a day. Some persons use vinegar as a preventive, its efficacy may be increased by the addition of one- fourth of its quantity of camphorated spirit. CHILBLAIN LOTION.—Get 1 drachm of sugar of lead, 2 ditto of white vitriol, reduce them to a fine pow- der, and add 4 ozs. of water. Before using this lotion, it is to be well shaken, then rubbed well on the parts affected, before a good fire with the hand. The best time for application is in the even- ing. It scarcely ever fails curing the most inveterate chilblains by once or twice using. It is not to be used on broken chilblains. CHILI VINEGAR.—Infuse * an oz. of cayenne pepper and six cloves in a pint of vinegar. CHINA, to Mend.—Bum oyster shells in the fire, and then reduce them to fine powder. Mix the powder with the white of egg, and lay it thickly on the edges of the broken article, and dry before a hot fire.—Some persons com- bine with the above white lead. Common lime finely sifted and the white of an egg, make an excellent cement. The Chinese use finely ground flint glass with the white of an egg, and it is very adhesive. The pieces to be united should be well heated. Or, mix plaster of Paris with a thick solu- tion of gum arabic. CHIMNEYS ON FIRE.— Shut all the doors and windows ; stop up the bottom of the chimney with a piece of water-saturated sacking, wrap- ing, &c., throwing first salt, or sulphur, upon the fire. CHINE OF BACON, to Boil. —Soak a chine, salted and dried, in cold water several hours. Take a hand- ful of parsley, a few sprigs of thyme, and a little sage ; chop them very fine ; stuff these into the chine, both in the fat and in the lean ; skewer it close in a cloth. Boil slowly for two or three hours. CHINE OF PORK.—Boil it * an hour ; then make holes in it; stuff them with shred parsley ; rub it all over with the yolks of eggs, and strew over it bread crumbs, baste it, and set in a Dutch oven; when it is done enough, lay round it dried spinach. CHINESE FIRE, for Sky- rockets.—1. If three quarter inch or under, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4 parts; sulphur, 8 parts ; cast-iron bor- ings, 4 parts. Mix. 2. If over 1 inch and under 2 inches bore, nitre, 16 parts ; charcoal, 4 parts ; sulphur, 4 parts; iron boring, 5 parts. Mix. CHINTZ, to Wash.—Use only a little white soap. Or boil sago or rice to a perfect pulp, and use it instead of soap; the articles may afterwards be washed in the pulp well diluted withCHO 124 CKL warm water, and this will stiffen it beautifully. This will be found useful for printed dresses whose colours are likely to give way by the use of alkaline soaps. CHLORIDE OF LIME.— Scatter chloride of lime on a board in a stable to remove all kinds of flies, but more especially biting flies. Sprinkling beds of vegetables with even a weak solution, effectually preserves them from caterpillars, slugs, &c. A paste of one part powdered chloride of lime and one half-part of some fatty matter placed in a narrow band round the trunk of a tree, prevent insects from creeping up it. Even rats, mice, cockroaches, and crickets flee from it. CHLORIDE OF LIME.— It is a. great purifier. One pound requires three gallons of water; use the clear solution. To purify rooms, sprin- kle on the floor ; and if needful, on the bed-linen. Infected clothes should be clipped in it and wrung out, just before they are washed. It purifies night com- modes, and water closets, &c. CHOCOLATE CREAM. Scrape into a quart of thick cream i ounce of the best chocolate, lb. of sugar; boil and mill it; when quite smooth, cool, then add the whites of new eggs. Whisk, and take up the froth on sieves, and serve it in glasses, to rise above some of the cream. CHOLERA.—A compound of two Greek words, chole, bile, and rein, to flow. Its literal meaning is, a dis- charge of bile. But the word cholera designates that dreadful Asiatic disease which is so very fatal. In this disease the secretion of bile is suspended, and the evacuations are entirely free from it. Therefore there are two species of Cholera—the English—and the Asiatic. The English Cholera, or Bilious Diarrhcea, attacks suddenly, with nau- sea, purging and vomiting ; sometimes painful colicky griping of the bowels. The evacuations are thin and watery, and at last become very bilious, the colour sometimes green, at other times approximating to black, indicating viti- atcd bile caused by unhealthy secretions during its passage through the alimen- tary canal. If the disease is not restrained, the vomiting, retching, and spasmodic pain, increases, accompanied with cramp in the legs, and muscles of the abdomen. Coldness of the extremi- ties, cold sweats, and faindng some- times occur. Sometimes this disease ends in death, especially with old and delicate subjects. But in this country it is seldom fatal. It is caused by intemperance, by a vitiated atmosphere, by eating unwhole- some food, and unripe fruits. In the treatment of it, it is necessary to neu- tralize the acid, vitiated or acrid bile, and produce a determination to the surface. As soon as the symptoms appear, give the Neutralizing Mix- ture, page 275. If vomited, re- peat the dose, and it will soon pro- duce a beneficial effect, subduing the irritation, nausea, vomiting, and passing through the alimentary canal, changing its contents to the most healthy state. It is useful to bathe the feet in hot water and salt, and when the disease is violent, to give a vapour bath; and to check the vomiting, salt in vinegar or brandy. To allay the pain, foment the belly and breast with the following;— Cayenne pepper, lA oz., spirits of wine, % a pint, vinegar, a gill. Simmer a few minutes; then a tea-spoonful of tincture of opium, and two table-spoon- fuls of turpentine. Apply flannels dipped in it warm to the stomach. Hops and camomile flowers simmered in vinegar, make an excellent fomenta- tion. The drink should be toast and water. Milk thickened with arrowroot, tapioca, sago, or slippery-elm, may be taken as food. In the ASIATIC CHOLERA, there is a total suppression of bile, and a profuse cold, clammy sweat over the body; the cramps become fearful, the stomach and bowels are emptied by vomit, &c.—and exhaustion becomes apparent, giddiness, deafness, sinking of the eyes and nostrils, blueness of the skin, lips and nails ; weakness of voice, &c., are often fatal symptoms. To cure the same, as for English Cholera, but more active. Give the Neutralizing Mixture ; and this Injec- tion;—Bogbcrry, 3 drachms; scullcap, 1 drachm; slippery-elm, 1 drachm ; boiling water, % a pint. Infuse ten minutes; then add two tea-spoonfuls of tincture of myrrh, eight drops of lauda-CHO 125 CLA mini, anil a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda. Foment as in English cholera, or with the Rheumatic Liniment. Apply as hot as possible. Apply also friction to the limbs; or apply hot bricks, wrapped in vinegar cloths, to the feet, legs, and sides. Give a tea- spoonful of the Anti-Cholera Drops every half hour, which see, page 20. The following Anti-Cholera Mix- ture is a sovereign remedy :—tormentil root, i ounce ; bayberry bark, 1 ounce ; cayenne pepper, % ounce; carbonate of soda, % ounce. Simmer forty min- utes in three pints of water down to 1 quart. Strain, and add tincture of myrrh, 2 ounces, and 1 drachm of cam- phor, dissolved in spirits of wine. In the first attack of cholera, give a wine- glassful ; place the feet in hot salt and water, or mustard and water, and repeat the mixture every twenty min- utes, and apply mustard plaster, and hop poultice to the stomach. Rub freely the cramped and drawn parts of the body with boiled cayenne pepper and vinegar; and the effects will in most cases appear like magic. Such treatment has cured thousands upon thousands. CHOLERA IN INFANTS is treated in the same way as English cholera, but in a milder, and more restricted manner. CHRISTMAS PUDDING.— Suet, 1 lA lbs., minced small ; currants, iK lbs. ; raisins, stoned, % lb. ; sugar, 1 lb. ; ten eggs, a grated nutmeg ; 2 ozs. of mixed spice, a teaspoonful of grated ginger, % lb. of bread crumbs, % lb. of flour, 1 pint of milk, and a wine-glassful of brandy. Beat first the eggs, add half the milk, beat altogether, and gradually stir in all the milk, then the suet, fruit, &c., and as much milk to mix it very thick. Boil in a cloth six or seven hours. Another.—Flour, suet, currants, raisins, of each 1 lb. ; nine eggs ; 2 ozs. of candied peel; almonds and spices, according to taste. Boil in a cloth six or seven hours. CIDER CUP.—Grate nutmeg and ginger; put it in a cup with a well- browned toast; on these pour two glasses of sherry, or one of pale brandy ; then add cider. A few fresh borage leaves add to the refreshing appearance of the cup. CINNAMON. —This valuable spice comes chiefly from Ceylon. It is a most useful aromatic. Its effects are stimulating, carminative, tonic, and wanning; but it is used rather as an adjunct to other remedies than as a remedy itself. The oil is a most power- ful stimulant, and is used in cramps of the stomach, and in syncope, or in par- alysis of the tongue. CINNAMON CORDIAL. Take 8 lbs. of cinnamon, broken; 17 gals, of rectified spirit, and 2 gals, of water. Digest in the still 24 hours by a gentle heat; draw 16 gallons by a stronger heat. CINNAMON CAKE.—Put 6 eggs, and 3 table-spoonfuls of rose- water into a pan; whisk well together ; add 1 lb. of fine sugar, a large spoonful of ground cinnamon, and flour to make it into paste; roll, form, and bake on white paper. CINNAMON SOAP. —Good tallow soap, 10 lbs. ; palm-oil soap, 7 lbs. ; essence of cinnamon, 3 ozs. ; essence of sassafras, oz. ; bergamot, % oz. ; colour, 4 ozs. of yeilow ochre. CINNAMON WATER.—Take of cinnamon bark, one pound ; proof spirit and common water, of each one gallon. Steep the cinnamon in the liquor for two days, then distil off one gallon. Or, cinnamon, 2 ozs. in 3 qrts. of brandy, with a quart of water, the rind of two lemons, and 2 or 3 ozs. of liquor- ice root; infuse five days, distil, and add 2 lbs. of fine sugar, and 3 pints of water. - CISTERNS, to Measure. Multiply the diameter of the bottom in inches by the diameter of the top ; then multiply that, product by the height in inches, and that product by 7, 854; divide the last obtained number by 231, cut off four figures at the right hand, and the quotient will be the answer in gallons. CITRIC ACID.—It Is cooling, allays inflammation, and is a substitute for lemon juice ; in fact, it is the same. CLARIFIED SUGAR.—Put 2 lbs. of finest sugar into a tinned stew- pan with a pint of cold spring water toCOD CLE 126 dissolve. Beat half the white of an egg ; put it to the sugar, and stir : put on the fire, and boil gently till no scum rises, and it is perfectly clear ; strain through a cloth, and closely bottle. CLEAVERS. — The American plant is the best. It is a good diuretic, perhaps one of the best for curing all suppressions of urine, and gravelly com- plaints, scurvy and spitting of blood. Infuse 2 ounces in a pint of cold water, and drink a wine-glassful occasionally, See Robinson’s Family Herbal. CLOTH, to Raise the Nap on. —When woollens are worn threadbare the part of the dress must be soaked in cold water for half an hour, then put on a board, and the threadbare parts rubbed with a half-wom hatter’s “card” filled with flocks, or with a prickly thistle, until a sufficient nap be raised. If faded, apply the Black Reviver, which see. Then hang the coat to dry, and and with a brush lay the nap the right way. COCKIE LEEKIE.—A favour- ite Scotch dish. Take scrag of mutton or knuckle of veal, and 3 quarts of liquor in which some meat has been boiled. Get a fowl, and a fine leek cut in pieces, with salt and pepper. Boil an hour and a half, then add five more leeks, and boil one hour more. Beef liquor is the best. COCKLE KETCHUP.—Open the cockles, scald them in their own liquor; add a little water when the liquor settles; strain; season with pepper, mace, cloves, and other spices ; if for brown sauce, add port, anchovies, and garlick. COCKROACHES, to Destroy. —Mix bread crumbs, sugar, and corro- sive sublimate, and place it near their haunts.—Or mix sugar, laudanum, and water together.—They are very fond of beer, which might be substituted for 'Vater.—Some persons have found a mixture of plaster of Paris, sugar, and oatmeal, effectual. Powdered phos- phorous, oatmeal, and sugar, form a sure remedy. COCOA SAUCE. — Scrape a portion of the kernel of a cocoa nut, adding the juice of three lemons, a tea- spoonful of the tincture of cayenne pep- per, a tea-spoonful of shallot vinegar, and half a cupful of water. Gently sim mer for a few hours. COD, to Boil.—If boiled fresh, it is watery ; but it is excellent if salted, and hung for a day, to give it firmness. Wash and clean the fish well, and rub salt inside of it; tie it up, and put it on the fire in cold water ; throw a handful of salt into the fish-kettle. Boil a small fish 15 minutes ; a large one 30 minutes. Serve it without the smallest speck and scum ; drain. Garnish it with lemon, horse-radish, the milt, roe, and liver. Oyster or shrimp sauce may be used. Another way.— After cleaning well, put into the boiling water a hand- ful of salt, a small cupful of vinegar; boil as above, as to time. Take it up ; strip off the skin, put before a brisk fire, dredge with flower, and baste with butter; when the froth begins to rise, throw over it fine white bread crumbs ; baste on to make it froth well; when a fine brown, dish it up, and garnish it with sliced lemon, horse-radish, oysters, &c. COD’S HEAD and SHOUL- DERS, to Boil.—Wash it well, dry, and tie it up. Put in salt and a glass of vinegar. Frequently skim it. Boil half an hour. Half boil the milt and roe. Cut thin slices, fry, adding gravy, and a little port wine. For sauce, oysters, eggs, or butter and parsley. COD, Broiled.—Clean as before. Cut into slices an inch thick ; rub them with thick melted butter. Sprinkle a little salt and pepper over them. Place on the gridiron, and broil on both sides. Serve with parsley sauce, or melted butter and anchovy sauce. COD’S HEAD, to Bake. — Clean well; put in a dish rubbed with butter. Put in sweet herbs, an onion stuck with cloves, three blades of mace, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, horse radish, and r quart of water ; dust and grate flour and nutmeg over it, and put bits of butter in various parts, and place it in the oven. When done, place in the serving dish. Pour all the liquor out of the dish in which it was baked into a sauce-pan, and boil three minutes; strain, and add a gill of red wine, twn spoonfuls of ketchup, and a pint of I shrimps, half a pint of oysters, a spoon-COD 127 COL i ful of mushroom pickle, and 4 oxs. of butter rolled in flour. Garnish with toasted bread, parsley, lemon, and horse-radish. COD, to Fry.—Cut the cod in slices about 1% inch thick, and dry and flour them well. Make a good clear fire; rub the gridiron with a piece of chalk, and place it high from the fire. Turn often till they are enough, and of a fine brown. Be careful, or they will break.—Or do them in a dish in the oven, with a little butter, vinegar, or lemon, and salt and pepper. Serve with lobster or shrimp sauce. COD, Salted, Egg Sauce for.— Boil the eggs hard; half chop the whites, put in the yolks, and chop all together, but not very small; put them into % lb. of good melted butter, and boil up ; then put it on the fish. COD LIVER OIL.—This is very good in debility, in wasting dis- eases, in the incipient stages of con- sumption, in chest diseases, rheuma- tism, gout, rigid limbs, &c. It should be taken freely. Yet some people are unable to retain and digest this useful remedy. In such cases, it should be taken in milk, or orange wine, bitter ale, cinnamon water, cold coffee, &c. COFFEE.—It is a tonic and stimulating beverage, of a wholesome nature.— To make cofftt. Use the best. For eight cups, use nearly eight cups of water ; put in coffee as much as you like ; a solution of isinglass ; boil a minute, take off, and throw in a cup of cold water to throw the grounds to the bottom ; in five minutes it will be very clear. Or, beat one or two eggs, which mix with ground coffee to form a ball; nearly fill the pot with cold water, sim- mer gently for half hour, having intro- duced the ball; do not boil, or you will destroy the aroma. COFFEE ICE.—Pour some of this coffee into a bowl, and sufficient sugar-candy and cream, and place it in an ice pail till quite frozen. Serve in proper glasses. This is a delightful refreshment in hot weather. COFFEE MILK.— Boil a table spoonful of ground coffee in a pint of milk IS minutes, put in a little Isinglass ; clear it; boil a minute; throw in a little cold water to precipitate the grounds. Let it stand on the rib ten minutes. COHOSH, Black.—An Ameri- can plant, astringent, diuretic, altera- tive, &c. It restrains diarrhoeas, and is much used by the American Indians in rheumatism and parturition. In in- cipient consumption, it prevents febrile symptoms, the hectic flush, and reduces pulsation. It promotes the menstrual flux ; it has rarely failed to cure hoop- ing-cough. It is most valuable in rheumatism, using the saturated tinc- ture, from six to forty drops, and first cleansing the bowels. A strong decoc- tion or powder united with slippery elm forms a valuable poultice for all Idnds of inflammation. The powdered root made into a syrup is effectual in coughs. The tincture may be made by infusing one ounce of the powdered root in half a pint of spirits. COLCHICUM, Oxymel of.— This preparation has been found bene- ficial in asthma and winter cough. Dose from two teaspoonfuls to a des- sert-spoonful, three times a day in barley-water. It effectually allays fever and irritation about the wind-pipe. COLD.—Never neglect a cold. It may be the forerunner of some dis- ease difficult to cure. Consumption is often followed by a neglected cold. A cold is caused by the loss of heat, and a decrease of nervous energy, causing an obstruction of the perspiration. To remove a cold restore the perspira- tion. Take a decoction of the sudorific herbs, as catnep, pennyroyal, yarrow, or angelica. Take the Composition Powder, page 134. Place the feet in warm water before going to bed, and put a bottle of water to the feet, wrap- ped in cloth wet with vinegar and water. Giv ; a basin of hot gtuel, and let the patient oft drink of the hero1, tea. Repeat this treatment, if necessary. If the throat is sore, wet some hops in hot vinegar, put in cloth, and wrap round the neck. If the cough is troublesome, use some of the Cough Remedies. Set Cough, page 140. Or, take linseed, a cupful; raisins, 4 ozs. ; liquorice in stick, two penny- worth ; soft water, a quarts; simmer till reduced to 1 quart; add 3 ozs. of vur/ar mndv, n table-spoodful of old128 COLD WATER CURE. COL rum, and one of good vinegar, or lemon-juice. Add the rum and vinegar as the decoction is taken. Take a cup- ful two or three times a day—the patient shouid he in bed a day or two. COLD IN THE HEAD.—M. F&rn, a Belgian physician, says, a cold may often be arrested by a brisk friction of the back of the head with some stimulant lotion, as lavender water, sal volatile, &c. And also a similar rub- bing, two or three times a-week will prevent the “catching” of a cold by those who are liable to do so from slight causes. COLD TO AVOID CATCH- ING.—Accustom yourself to the use of sponging with cold water every morning on first getting out of bed fol- lowed with a good deal of rubbing with a wet towel. It has considerable effect in giving tone to the skin, and maintain- ing a proper action in it, and proves a safeguard to the injurious influence of cold and sudden change of temperature. Sir Astley Cooper said, “The methods by which I have preserved my own health are—temperance, early rising, and sponging the body every morning with cold water, immediately after get- ting out of bed; a practice which I have adopted for nearly thirty years without ever catching cold.” COLD, to throw off a.—Have a proper hot water bottle filled and placed in the bed sometime before re- tiring. This has prevented aud assisted to throw off many a cold. COLD, a, to Cure.—The follow- ing plan is very effectual in curing most colds, but not all:—Let a man eat next to nothing for two days, provided he is not confined to bed, for by taking no carbon into the system by food, and by consuming the surplus which caused his disease, by breath, he soon carries off\ his disease by removing the cause. This will be found more effectual if he adds copious water draughts to the protracted fasting. By the time a per- son has fasted one day and night, he will expeiience a freedom from disease, and a clearness of mind, iu a delightful contrast with mental stupor, and physi- cal pain caused by colds. Or take one handful of Yarrow, half on ounce of ginger root, bruised, or a | teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, aud about three pints of water. Boil to one pint. Add a little sugar if you like. Take a good dose at bed-time, and your cold will be cured by the next morning ; if not, repeat the dose. COLD BATHING.—It is use- ful in some fevers, chronic rheumatism, hysterics, hypochondriac, and paralytic affections, rickets, scrofulous com- plaints, debility, obstructed perspira- tion, languor and weakness of circula- tion, &c. It requires great prudence in using, and should be of short duration. In some cases it would be best to com- mence with tepid bathing, and proceed to the use of the cold bath, which should be from 40° to 65° Fahrenheit. Sea-water is preferable, from the stimu- lating effects of the salt. The most suitable time for bathing is morning ; because in the latter part of the day the body becomes too enfeebled to bear the cold shock. A dose of cayenne, ginger, or any of the pure stimulants, taken before the cold bath, will keep up the heat of the body, and promote the reaction and determination of blood to the surface, which causes a refreshing glow. Cold bathing is inadmissible in in- flammatory diseases, fluxes, diseases of the breast, difficult breathing, short and dry' coughs, pregnancy, palsy, diseases of the skin, &c. The cold bath is injurious in all cases where immediate reaction does not follow its use. If it produces chilis, depression, languor, headache, and blueness of the lips, it should not be used. After leaving the bath, the body should be rubbed with a flesh-brush, or coarse towels. Cold bathing is never beneficial unless follow- ed by a warm glow of the skin. COLD WATER CURE.—The Cold Water treatment is that which nature has placed in the power of all her creatures ; and without water taken inwardly and applied outwardly, there can be no health. Nature has no secrets in giving man life ; she has im- planted within him the knowledge of that which is to support and render pleasant that life. “I leave behind me,” said a celebrated physician, on his death-bed, ‘' two great fhysuians, diet and water." Water is the great dissolvent in na-COLD WATER CURE I 29 COLD WATER CURE ture. If the primary ducts be obstruct- ed, water dilutes, attenuates, divides, and scatters the impurities contained in them ; and these are afterwards ejected by the stomach and intestines. If disease be settled in the blood, and the morbific matter deposited in the different organs of the animal economy, nothing is so effectual as water to dilute the thickened and blunt the acute; to revivify that which languishes, extin- guish that which bums, and to open again all the passages by which injuri- ous humours can escape. Cold water creates a sudorific process causing perspiration, without wearying the organic system. It is supported by copious draughts of cold water, which quench the thirst, moisten and refresh the blood, replace the lost juices, and maintain the tone of the muscles. The drinking of cold water, and its application to the body by various pro- cesses, convey the morbid humours to the sldn, whence they exude in erup- tions, boils, and abscesses. These erup- tions, constituting the crisis of the com- plaint, are the certain sign of a perfect cure. After the unwholesome juices are driven out and replaced by wholesome ones, then follow the restoration of the digestive powers, and the freeing of all the organs by the dissolving of all ob- structions ; the vital and animal func- tions are re-established in their former harmony; and thus nothing then remains but health, a treasure which can only be preserved by continuing the system by which it has been obtained. Some will ask, Is the cold water treatment applicable to all descriptions of disease? We answer, that its appli- cation must be of advantage in the large number of acute and chronic diseases. There are cases, however, wherein some essential organ having become defective, art can do no more than prolong exis- tence and alleviate suffering. Among such exceptions are consumption, or- ganic diseases of the heart, of the lungs, of the large vessels, dropsy, &c. Yet all these cases and others deemed incur- able, by the moderate judicious use of some of the cold water applications, will ensure relief and palliation of pain. Again, will the cold-water treatment produce a radical cure ? What Is to be understood by the word radical ? If It means the final extirpation from the system the cause of disease, and the relief of the patient from pain, then, the cure by the cold water method is radical! But if to be radical, a cure is sought which is to prevent a return of the disease, in cases of parties exposing themselves to the same influences which originated the disease, then neither this nor any other means of treatment will produce such an effect. As to danger from the cold water treatment there can be no active mode of treatment more innocent, with refer- ence to its present or future effects, if applied with judgment; but if not, it may be followed by very dangerous consequences. The water used must be cold, and fresh, and soft; that is, it must have the quality of dissolving, and therefore must be cold, and without any mineral properties. To prove its fitness, linen cloth washed in it must become white, and vegetables dressed in it must be tender. The Sweating Process Is the most disagreeable part of the treatment; but it is the most important, and the benefits derived from it compensate for the unpleasantness of its duration. The patient is enclosed, naked, in a large coarse blanket, the legs extended, and the arms kept close to the body; the blanket is then wound round it, as tight ns possible, turning it well under at the feet; over this is placed, and well tucked in a small feather bed, some- times two; and then a sheet and a counterpane are spread over all; thus, the patient resembles a mummy. Some- times when perspiration is difficult, the head, except the face, is covered. Per- spiration begins in about 45 minutes, and then the irritation goes off. The patient should lie perspiring at least one hour. The windows in the room must be opened, and a glass of cold water given every half hour, to refresh the patient, and promote perspiration. If there is headache, a damp cloth may be wrapped round the head. This process does not weaken the patient; he loses neither weight nor strength, but improves in personal appearance, even under several processes. The necessary duration of the process may be known by profuse perspirationCOLD WATER CURE 130 COLD WATER CURE on the patient’s face. The person should be washed well in warm or tepid water. The sweating process must be used with great care, and the constitu- tion of the patient must be considered. M. Priessnitz, of Silesia, practised and recommended the cold bath immediately afterwards. ‘ Strange as it may appear to many,’ says Dr. Graham, ‘ I consider the determination towards the skin, induced by the perspiring blankets, to be a great advantage, prior to the use of the cold bath ; because the internal organs are thereby relieved, and the shock has quite a different effect on them from what it would have if they were not first soothed, and the skin relieved.’ By this process internal diseases are often brought to the surface, and pass away; the nervous system is wonder- fully strengthened; and skin diseases are annihilated. The sweating contains morbid matter. M. Priessnitz justly remarks,— Covered and swaddled with clothes, in our darkness we do not see that if the corrupt and dirty matter from daily insensible perspiration, or from sensible sweating, is not carefully cleared from the skin by washing, it must increase and attach itself to the skin, close the pores, and obstruct the excretion so in- dispensable to health, and must inevit- ably, from such evil tendency, at last produce disease. We relax and debili- tate the skin, by dressing so warmly during the day, and sleeping on feather beds at night, or by washing ourselves with warm water. The Cold Bath.—Do not bathe soon after walking. During the bathing immerse the head several times in cold water. Keep in motion during the time. Priessnitz advises his patients to avoid the second sensation of cold, which is a sort of fever, by leaving the bath before it is felt, that they may avoid a too powerful re-action, provoked by a great subtraction of heat. Take a glass or two of water immediately after the bath. The Douche Bath is very effica- cious in extracting the morbid humours from all the parts they have seized upon for years. In long continual complaints the douche is a most powerful remedial agent. It removes the weakness of the skin, and strengthens it. It renders the body hardy, and fortifies it to endure all changes of the air. It powerfully ex- cites the muscular and nervous systems. The Douche Bath is a stream of falling water as thick as the wrist, and permit- ted to fall on the diseased parts of the body, which it benefits and strengthens. The water should fall from 12 to 18 feet. The Eye Bath is a glass instru- ment made to fit the eye, so as to apply cold water, the eye being opened at the same time. The Finger Bath is used for Whitlows, &c. Place the finger in a glass of water, four times a-day for a quarter of an hour each time ; and the elbow in water twice a-day, and put on a heating bandage above the elbow, to draw the inflammation from the hand. The Foot Bath is used when the doctor would order warm baths. Thus headaches, toothaches, eye-inflamma- tion, and a flow of blood to the head, are always relieved by the foot-bath, with the addition of wet bandages on the parts affected. But the foot-tub should not contain more than from two to four inches depth of water, just enough to cover the fool, not the ancles ; for toothache an inch is enough, and the time from 15 to 30 minutes. For sprains the water must be up to the ancles. The water to be changed as soon as it feels warm. Afterwards apply friction, or walk out, to restore the warmth. Dr. Graham says, "1 can recommend the foot-bath, with con- fidence, in determination of blood to the head, in headache, in affecuons of the eyes, and in habitual coldness of the feet.” The Head Bath is a vessel with a few inches of water for bathing the back part of the head, to cure its rheu- matic pains, common headaches, rheu- matic inflammation of the eyes, deafness, loss 0! appedte, delirium tremens, giddi- ness of the head, and to prevent apo- plexy. It often causes bad morbific matter to exude from behind the ears. The Sitz or Sitting Bath is a small shallow tub iS inches in diameter, with water 3 or 4 inches deep, in which the patient sits, with his feet on the ground, for 15 minutes or more, twiceCOLD WATER CURE 131 COLD WATER CURE. or thrice per day. It wonderfully strengthens the nerves, draws down humours from the head and chest, re- lieves flatulency, and has the most im- portant results to those who lead a sedentary life. Use only 3 or 4 inches of water, as a larger quantity would re- main cold, and perhaps cause conges- tion to the upper extremeties ; a wet bandage to the head will, however, pre- vent any congestion. Rub the abdo- men as much as possible, while in the bath, with the wet hand. It is a most valuable bath. It is a remedy of great power in weak bowels, piles, congestion in the liver, chlorosis, and other female complaints ; its value is little known. Cooling Bandages.—These are mostly used in inflammation, congestion of blood, headache, rheumatism, &c., and should always be accompanied by the sitz baths. Linen is first wetted in cold water, doubled in several folds, and placed on the parts affected; renew them as they get warm. Stimulating Bandages.—They are dipped in cold water, then well wrung out, then applied to the part affected so as to exclude the external air ; to effect this, an outside bandage is placed over the first, which retains and throws back the moisture. Heat is thus generated, and has an exciting and dissolving property, which stimu- lates perspiration, and draws out the vicious humours. For throat and chest complaints, they are worn one round the neck, and one on the chest, at night; for weak and inflamed eyes, one is worn at the back of the head or neck at night; for weak digestion and cases of debility, one round the waist, all day ; and for gout and rheumatism, the legs are wrapped in them night and morning. The umschlag, or stimula- ting bandage, is always used for wounds, bruises, and diseased parts, and for pain in any particular region of the body. Its alleviating power is most surprising. The bandage for the waist is a towel, three yards long, and one foot wide; of this one-third is dry, and two-thirds wetted. The wet part is placed on the belly, the dry covers it. It is made tight round the body. It is a cure for intestine congestion, for constipation of the bowels, relaxation, colics, and for gripes. It rallies the power of the stomach, increases its heat, and by assisting digestion, enables the system to form better juices. Gotit, rheuma- tism, enlargement of the bones, ab- scesses, chronic inflammation, cancers, caries, and syphilitic ulcers, demand the application of these bandages ; for they relieve pain when all other remedies fail. The Wet Sheet.—AU diseases of the skin, as ringworms, small pox, measles, and scarlet fever, may be cured by the wet sheet. Do not start at this, for it is consonant with reason. It soothes the patient, promotes the erup- tion, and in fevers it produces salutary perspiration. Spread a blanket on a bed, then on it a wet sheet, well wrung out; wrap the patient close up in it, except his face; wind the blanket round the body, already cased in the sheet; then add plenty of blankets, tuck them well in, and the necessary perspiration will soon be generated. To stop fever, change the sheet every hour or half hour. “In desperate cases,” says a medical writer, “ we have known this done fifty times in little more than 24 hours, and perseverance in this treatment ends in- fallibly in success." When the fever has abated, the patient is placed in a bath of tepid water (about 64° Fahrenheit,) for a quarter of an hour ; during which time two persons must rub him briskly with the hand, water being taken up from the bath occasionally, and poured over his head and shoulders. The wet sheet, or bandages, is not unpleasant long; the patient gets warm almost directly ; but we must not regard in- convenience or unpleasantness for a cure. Are drugs, blisters, and leeches pleasant? But the application of cold water, in any way, relieves the skin, ex- cites it, and disencumbers it of obstruc- tions which close the orifices of the pores, a reaction of the whole system ensues, a heat being created on the surface, 40 or 50 degrees above the usual temperature of the body. The body imbibes a portion of the water, which in conjunction with the heat newly caused, softens and dissolves the morbid humours, and assists in their exudation by the pores of the skin.COL COLD WATER CURE 132 j Ablutions.—Where persons are very weak, washing and rubbing the body must be done, in place of the bath or douche; and water may be poured over the heads of feverish patients, and rubbed on the shoulders and parts af- fected. If the patient be too weak to allow of this rubbing, a wet sheet is thrown over him, on which the friction is applied. This is of great advantage in weak cases and young children. The ablutions are an essential, agreeable, and valuable portion of the cold water system. In trifling complaints, gout in its infancy, nervous irritability, or in weakness in the skin, ablutions, accom- panied by drinking abundantly cold water is very often sufficient to establish health. Ablutions should be performed in the morning immediately in getting out of bed, before the body has become chilled, and the patient must afterwards take exercise in the open air Fatigued persons may try the wet sheet and the rubbing, and they will speedily find the benefit of it. To use the wet sheet as an ablution, the patient stands up, and the servant throws it over his head and body; rub the body well for five minutes, then take off the wet sheet, and put on a dry one. This is a certain relief for fatigue and over-exertion. Cold Water Drinking. — The best time both for drinking cold water and exercise is before breakfast. Then they both produce their best effects; but the only general rule prescribed by Priessnitz is to drink cold water as much and at all times, as it can be done with- out inconvenience. Water may be drunk after breakfast, but the stomach must not be over-charged. At dinner also a few glasses may be taken to moisten the food ; after that the stomach must be left to itself; and after the lapse of a few hours, we may go on drinking cold water until supper time. It may be taken after supper, but not so as to dis- turb the rest. Exercise, which is in it- self a part of the curative process, excites the beneficial action of the water, and promotes the cure. The water should be fresh from the spring, and as cold as possible. Stoppers must be kept in the bottles and decanters which hold it, as the water then will preserve its coldness and freshness much longer. Advice.—Immediately on rising ' in the morning, rinse the mouth, and wash the teeth with cold water, then drink two or three glasses of spring water, after this, the whole body especi- ally the head, must be washed. If a thickness in the throat be felt, gargle well, and rub the outside of the throat three or four times a-day, with a cold wet hand ; keep the water in the mouth until it becomes warm, then repeat it. This method is recommended for clear- ing and strengthening the throat. COLD CREAM. — Take the juice of house-leek, a few drops of cam- phorated spirit: melt spermaceti, white wax, and olive oil; then beat in the spirit and juice. Excellent for sore lips. COLD PUNCH, or COOL CUP.—Loaf sugar, 9 ozs.; rub each lump over a lemon to collect the flavour of the lemon rind ; then squeeze the lemon juice over it, and add half a pint of rum or gin, and grated nutmeg. In- fuse twenty minutes, and add 3 pints of cold spring water. Add a lump of ice. COLIC.— This is a spasmodic affection of the bowels, especially of the colon. It begins with great pain in the bowels, especially just under the navel, nausea, retching, and vomiting. The pain is of a sharp twisting character, very distressing. This affection is caused by wind, disagreeing food, acrid bile, obstinate costiveness, worms, nox- ious metallic vapours, &c. COLIC.—Drink strong camomile and ginger tea.—Or, from 30 to 40 drops of oil of aniseed.—Or, apply out- wardly a bag of hot oats, or bran.—Or, steep the legs in hot water.—Or, take as much Daffy's Elixir as will purge. Very effectual. COLIC, Bilious.—Drink warm lemonade. I know nothing like it. Or, give a spoonful of sweet oil every hour. This cured one at the point of death. Flatulent Colic.—Give a teacup- ful of the Anti-Spasmodic Tincture, in a cupful of peppermint tea ; or a tea- spoonful of Turkey rhubarb, and one of magnesia, with a pinch of cayenne pepper; this will often afford relief. Apply fomentations or friction to the abdomen. If the bowels are not oper- ated upon, give castor oil, from half an ounce ; add also a simple injection.COL *33 COM The Bilious Colic is more severe. It is known from the former by a bitter taste in the mouth, great thirst, fever, vomiting of bilious matter, headache, and great costiveness. The remedies must be the same, but stronger and brisker. The Neutralizing Mixture p. 375, must not be forgotten; give also the Stimulating Injection, p. 378. COLIC Ball for Horses.—Pow- dered opium, half a drachm ; Castile soap and camphor, of each 3 drachms ; of cayenne pepper, 1 drachm; ginger, 1 drachm. Make into a ball with liquorice powder and treacle. If the horse is constipated as well, add to the ball s or 6 drops of croton oil. COLLEGE PUDDING.— Grate the crumb of a two-penny loaf; shred suet, 8 ozs.; and mix with 8 ozs. of currants, one of citron mixed fine, one of orange, sugar, 4 ozs. ; half a nut- meg, three eggs beaten, yolk and white separately. Mix and make into the shape and size of a goose-egg. Put % lb. of butter into a frying-pan; and, when melted and quiet hot, stew gently in it over a stove; turn them two or three times till of a fine light brown. Mix a glass of brandy with the batter. Serve with pudding-sauce. COLONEL PUDDING.— Pour a pint and a % of boiling milk and cream upon some of the choicest biscuits grated; they must be very light; add the yolks of 4 eggs and the whites of 2, some grated nutmeg, a spoonful of flour, some fine sugar, a little brandy, some candied lemon, and lemon juice accord- ing to taste. Butter a basin, boil 1 hour, serve it with melted butter, wine, and sugar. COLOURINGS FOR JEL- LIES, ICES, OR CAKES.— For a beautiful red, boil fifteen grains of cochineal in the finest powder, with a dram and a half of cream of tartar, in half a pint of water, very slowly, half an hour. Add in. boiling a bit of alum the size of a pea. Or use beet-root sliced, and some liquor poured over. For white, use almonds finely pow- dered, with a little drop of water ; or use cream. For yellow, yolks of eggs, or a bit of saffron steeped in the liquor and squeezed. For green, pound spinach-leaves or beet-leaves, express the juice, and boil in a tea-cupful of water in a saucepan, in order to take off the rawness. COLOURING MATTER.— A chemist of Lyons states that the col- ouring matter of any tree may be known by the colour of its fruit; and advises the boiling of the bark with lime, when a precipitate will be formed of the same colour as its fruit. Several of the new vegetable dyes have thus been dis- covered. COLTSFOOT. —This plant is well known. The leaves are the basis of the British herb tobacco. It has de- mulcent bitter qualities, and is slightly tonic and stomachic. The leaves smok- ed are useful in asthma. Dr. Cullen found a strong decoction of the leaves beneficial in scrofula cases—and to suc- ceed where sea-water had failed. It should be persevered in. Dr. Percival found it useful in hectic diarrhoea. A decoction with wormwood has done wonders in gravel and stone. COLTSFOOT SYRUP.-Colts- foot, s ozs. ; balm and hyssop, 1 oz. each; horehound, % oz. Boil in a quarts of water down to 1 quart; strain, add 1 lb. or more of sugar ; boil till as thick as honey. For cough or shortness of breath, take a teaspoonful occasion- ally. COLTSFOOT LOZENGES. —To a pint of water add one handful of coltsfoot leaves ; boil down to a gill, strain it, when cold, and add % lb. of sugar. Boil to a syrup. Strain again and put to it as much common liquorice as will give it consistency. Then form it into any shape you please. COMFITS.—Take 1 lb. of raw sugar, and make it into syrup with water; then take 1 lb. of coriander seeds, and dip them in the syrup ; then put the seeds into a sieve with a little flour, shake them well in it, and place them to dry. Keep steeping them in the syrup, adding flour, and drying them till they are of the size you want them to be. Caraway Comfits are made the same way. The colouring for com- fits is rose or Dutch pink. COMMON STRENGTHEN- ING PLASTER.—Yellow resin, % lb.; beeswax, 3 ozs.; cayenne pep-CON COM 134 per, 1 os, ; spirits of wine, half a pint or more. Simmer carefully till the spirits are almost evaporated. When nearly cold, add camphor, 1 oz.; oil of sassa- fras, 1 }£ drachm; opium, 1 drachm. As a strengthening plaster, it always gives relief. COMPOSITION POWDER. Thompson's, See Robinson's Family Herbal, page 341.—Take bay-berry, 8 ozs. ; ginger, 8 ozs.; poplar bark, 4 ozs.; white oak bark, 4 ozs.; cayenne pepper, 3% ozs.; cloves, % oz. Powder and mix intimately. Dissolve a teaspoonful in a cup of boiling water, sweetened. This powder is invaluable for removing colds, influenza, fever, relax, pain in the bowels, cold extremities. For promot- ing perspiration, and morbific matter, the cause of disease, it is invaluable. When taken, the patient should go to bed, and apply the hot brick, &c. COMPLEXION, to Improve it.—Be cheerful; get as much fresh air in-doors and out-doors, as possible. Keep in health ; promote a good diges- tion, and regular evacuations; avoid alcoholic drinks: a milk and vegetable diet makes a fair complexion; plain living, without condiments and hot sea- sonings, &c., makes the fairest face. It is good to rise early in the morning, drink a cup of milk, walk into the fields, wash the face in sparkling dew, gaze on creation, below, above, and all around you, till mental pleasure beams forth on your face in radiant smiles. Check the effects of grief, disappointments, embar- rassment, &c. Dissolve flowers of sulphur in milk, and strain. With the clear milk, wash the face.—Or infuse sifted bran in best vinegar; add, well beaten, the yolks of 3 or 4 eggs, and 1 grain of ambergris. Distil. Bottle, and cork well. — Or, Castile soap, 4 ozs. ; Fuller’s earth water, 1 quart. Dissolve. Add oz. of spirits of wine, and x drachm each of oil of lavender and rosemary. Fuller’s earth water is made by merely dissolving it in water, stirring well, and then let it settle. This earth alone is good for the complexion. CONSTIPATION, Costive- ness.—A sluggish state of the lower bowel, causing the retention of the faeces. It is a very common disease. It may be caused by food hard to be digested, by ardent spirits which have a very constipating influence, and debili- tate the lower bowel; frequent excessive purges have the same effect. Sedentary employments, the want of exercise, and fresh air, and not drinking water in suf- ficient quantity, lead to costiveness. It is often attended with many distressing symptoms, and is the cause of various dangerous diseases; as piles, fistula, indigestion, hernia, colic, cholera. And it is also the effect of many diseases. Constipation is to be removed by an attention to diet, by adopting a veget- able diet, and by eating bread made of unsifted flour ; that is, no bran, sharps, &c., taken away. Also, by taking much exercise, and a more copious supply of diluents, especially toast and water. Make a regular habit of evacuating once a day at a fixed hour, and always make an effort whether successful or not. Assist the bowels by an injection of warm water, about % a pint; if very ob- stinate, add to the water a little castor oil. For several nights take one or two of the Dyspeptic Pill; page 168, or one or two of the following:— Powdered aloes, jalap, gamboge, colocynth, extract of gentian, man- drake, cayenne pepper, of each, % oz.; castile soap, % oz. ; oil of peppermint, % drachm. Mix well, and form into pills. It purges without griping and weakening. Dose :—two or three pills. Sulphur is a good remedy, especially when there is a tendency to piles. If there is a deficiency of bile, take blood- root, page 67, with a little powdered dandelion root. The flesh brush, cold sponging, and the shower-bath, are ex- cellent remedies. CONSTIPATION, or COS- TIVENESS.—Professor Phoebus, of Giessen, refers habitual costiveness to the following causes :— 1. The too spare use of articles of diet which promote the action of the bowels. Water is placed first. It is taken by many in insufficient quantity. In sedentary occupations the sensation of thirst is too seldom excited, and the habitual frequency of such sensation may be diminished if the satisfaction ol the call be neglected. To this class of ailments belong fruits, salads, sour milk, honey, and fat. Many country*35 CON CON people, who sett all their produce, eat little of these things, and the poorer Inhabitants of towns get them in in- sufficient quantity. Those persons who can procure them, eat salads and fats In too small quantities. 2. Too little bodily exercise. 3. Want of exercise of the large intestine. This is the most influential of all the causes. It is an error to suppose that the power of the will extends only over the sphincter; for it prevails much higher, only it re- quires more time for its exertion. Several minutes, or a quarter of an hour, may be required to initiate the evacuatory movement. By exercising it, we increase the disposition of the intestine to act, but this is rarely the case in less than five minutes. Numerous remedies have been recom- mended for constipation; but the ac- tion of medicinal substances in so chronic an affection may become pre- judicial, especially such as exert a chemical acdon, as salts or drastics. If a stool is desired, the patient must earnestly practice the necessary gym- nastic, which consists in alternate movements of the rectum as during actual evacuation, and in rapidly draw- ing in and then expanding the abdominal muscles. Such movements may be commenced in the chamber and com- pleted in the closet, several minutes, a quarter of an hour, or even more, being required. If evacuation has com- menced, but has not proved productive enough, the movements must be con- tinued, the person resolving not to quit the closet until the aim has been attain- ed. The movements are the same as those normally employed ; but they are more rapid, and continued for a longer time. Kneading and rubbing the abdo- men, may be useful, but they are un- necessary ; and may be reserved for those not able to follow the above directions, such as children, &c. An adult should compel a stool every day. In from four to eight weeks a complete mastery may be acquired over the intestine, so that a stool may be always secured once in the twenty-four hours. This powerful agency acts more efficiently when conjoined with articles of diet favourable to an open state of the bowels. A large quantity of water will be more easily drank if 1 at first carbonic acid gas be added. An adult, during winter, should take from fifty to seventy ounces daily (de- ducting from this the equivalent of any artificial drinks he may take,) a larger quantity still during great bodily exer- tion, and from one-and-a-half to twice the quantity in a summer. When raw fruit gives rise to flatulence, it may be taken cooked with spices, and especially when dried and cooked. With greater regularity of stools, flatulence becomes less, the food being retained for a less time within the canal. Exercise is of great service ; but it exerts no sudden effect, and at first may even induce con- stipation. Trying the plan upon himself when a student, the author has, during his twenty-eight years of practice, recom- mended it to an immense number of persons, and in the great majority of cases with complete success. He has attained the power of procuring a daily stool at any convenient time between four o’clock a. m. and mid-day, the average time required being a quarter of an hour. Only on one occasion during thirty years has he failed in his object. The plan is not so suitable for the aged ; and is inapplicable to women during advanced pregnancy, or in or- ganic disease or prolapsus of the uteras. When from insufficient perseverance the means does not succeed, cold water clysters form the best supplement; and, exceptionally, salt and oil, with camo- mile tea, etc., may be thrown up. The author never gives purgatives by the mouth in chronic constipation, believing it to be the most impolitic to irritate the stomach and small intestine, disturbing chylopcesis, and introducing into the blood materials that are always more or less injurious. CONSUMPTION.—The word is derived from the Latin verb consumo, to consume or to waste away. It is also called phthisis, from the Greek verb phthio, to waste away. Consump- tion is the most frequent and most fatal of all pulmonary diseases. It often begins with a slight dry cough, so slight and painless as not to attract notice. By and by the cough increases, and expectoration gradually becomes copious, thick, yellow, and tinged with blood. Sometimes the appetite re-CON 136 CON mains tolerable, bat the breathing Is more difficult, especially during and after bodily exertion, and the pulsation Is become accelerated. There is a gradual emaciation of the body, de- bility, night sweats, interrupted rest, the hectic flush, or a bright scarlet spot on the cheek, especially after eating, tightness of the chest, and acute pains under the breast-bone. In the last stage emaciation rapidly increases, and the patient has alternations of hope and fear as to recovery. Hope, however, the most prevails. As to the Treatment of Con- sumption, Dr. Beach says, “ If the pathology of phthisis consists in a dis- eased state of the blood, all former treat- ment is wrong, or very inefficient. We prescribe for the symptoms instead of the cause. If the elements of this dis- ease circulate in the blood, as in scro- fula, syphilis, and other complaints, and are thrown by the efforts of the system to the lungs, and these develope tubercles then is it not obvious that we must prescribe alteratives, or such medicines as will eradicate its morbid condition?” It is evident from these rational remarks, that the nature of this disease, and that of others, de- pends upon a morbid and diseased condition of the blood. Hence then there must be an attempt to alter the quality of the blood, Remove all the causes which have produced itas u, ease, as obstructed perspiration, evacu ations, and secretions, a cold and damj. residence, insufficient warmth and clothing, intemperance, venery, and self-pollution ; the last habit is the most prolific cause of consumption. In the first stage of consumption, special attention must be given to the skin and bowels, by adopting the va- pour bath, Stimulating Liniments page 378, and also injections, to equalize the circulation, reduce all feverish symp- toms. and prevent night sweats. A Medicated Vapour Bath is the best; page 402. Put the patient to bed, and place to the feet and sides hot bricks wrapped in cloths dipped in vinegar, and half wrung out, and give an emetic ; repeat this process once or twice a week, and sponge morning and evening with the aforenamed liniment, and occa- sionally in the morning with a decoction of Poplar Bark, p. 314. Rub very dry with a towel. This will prevent night sweats. To improve the appetite, if bad, give the Tonic Bitters, p. 62 & 389. If the patient is constipated, give an injec- tion of half a pint of warm water, or thin gruel, with a little butter or sweet oil, or castor oil, adding one or two teaspoonfuls of tincture of myrrh. Sometimes a lax state of the bowels prevails; in that case give from 10 to 15 drops of laudanum ; or mix finely pulverized charcoal, 2 parts, and mag- nesia, 1 part; a table-spoonful occa- sionally, or give the Neutralizing Mix- ture, page 275. Let the Cough Syrup, page 141 be taken two or three times a day, to promote expectora- tion, ease pain, &c. Let the patient’s diet be light, nourishing, and easy of digestion. In consumption, the celebrated Dr. Beach, of America, highly extols the use cf Sanguinaria Canadensis, or Blood-root. It is a sedative and altera- tive of great power; in reducing the pulsation, it is superior to digitalis, and it does not debilitate at all. It pro- motes the secretions of the liver, and therefore promotes the appetite ; it is a powerful tonic, and when it is taken properly nothing tends more to check morbific influence, to promote the se- cretions, appetite, and digestion, and to improve the muscular power, and facial appearance. In restraining spit- ting of blood, and especially in females .where the menses are substituted by the effusion of blood from the lungs, no medicine is so efficacious as Blood-root, page 67. As to the benefit to be derived from cod liver oil, the matter is dubious. It is feeding, but not antiseptic. It may prevent to some extent, emaciation; but to prevent the formation of tubercles, and, consequently, decay, it is a matter of doubt. Much benefit may be de- rived from gentle emetics, tonics, the Irritating Plaster, page 222, and for pain in the side the Rheumatic Liquid, page 338. Also constant fresh air in a genial atmosphere. The following syrup is a fine expectorant and altera- tive ;—blood-root, 4 ozs.; bruise and simmer in a qtiart of water, down to a pint nearly ; add 1 lb. of sugar; sim- mer again to form a syrup ; and ojl137 COW CON of solution of Iodide of iron ; take a teaspoonful two or three times a day. Many have derived much benefit from Tar-water, and some have been com- pletely cured by it. " In Dr. John William's Legacy to the World,' this redpe is given,—common tar, a table- spoonful ; honey, three table-spoonfuls; three yolks of hen’s eggs ; wine, half a pint. Mix, and bottle for use. A tea- spoonful thrice a day. Should the bowels be extremely re- laxed, take a grain of powdered ium, and a grain of sulphate of iron, as a powder. This has performed wonders. Drink much barley-water, taking occa- sionally five or six drops of the oil of aniseeds to relieve the cough. Chlo- rodyne also affords much relief to a cough. With regard to climate for the con- sumptive it is not only as uniform a climate as can be found that is wanted, but the same means of eradicating the disease as the patient had in his own country, but where he was prevented by fitful weather from malting use of them. Occupation for his mind and body is essential to recovery. His object should be to remain as much as possible in the open air; to enjoy moderate daily exercise for several hours; to partake of a mixed and wholesome nourishing diet; to be re- freshed by undisturbed repose during the night; to cleanse the body by daily ablutions ; and to have his mind divert- ed by new and cheerful scenery, from home-longings, and from dwelling too much upon the nature of his malady. Dr. Richardson, in his treatise on pulmonary consumption, says, “ 1 shall recommend no particular place as a resort for consumptives. It should be near the sea coast, and sheltered from the northerly winds ; the soil should be dry; the drinking-water, pure; the mean temperature about 6o°, with a range of not more than about ro° or 150 on either side. It is not easy to fix any degree of humidity ; but extremes of dryness or of moisture are alike in- jurious. It is of importance in selecting a locality, that the scenery should be enticing, so that the patient may be the more encouraged to spend his time out of doors in walking, or riding exercise ; I and a town where the residences are isolated, and scattered about and where drainage and cleanliness are attended to, is preferable to one where the houses are densely packed, however small the population. A sea-voyage is sometimes recom- mended in incipient consumption. This is often followed by a total sus- pension, or removal of the disease, in cases where it is judiciously recom- mended. Short voyages are often more injurious than beneficial. To a delicate person going out to India, a voyage round the Cape is of great benefit; but the most serviceable voyage is one to Australia, New Zealand, and back again....the great advantage is the enjoyment of a perpetual summer, which may be effected by leaving this country about the beginning or middle of October, and returning before the cold weather sets in at the antipodes, CONSUMPTION.—One in a deep consumption was advised to drink nothing but water, and eat nothing but water gruel, without salt or sugar. In three months time he was quite well.— Take no food but new buttermilk, churned in a bottle, and white bread. I have known this successful.—Or, use as common drink, spring water and new milk, each a quart, and sugar candy 2 ozs.—Or, boil two handfuls of sorrel in a pint of whey, strain it, and drink a glass thrice a day. Or, turn a pint of skimmed milk with half a pint of small beer. Boil in this whey about twenty ivy-leaves and two or three sprigs of hyssop. Drink half over night, the rest in the morning. Do this, if needful, for two months daily. This has cured in a desperate case. Tried. Or, every morning, cut a little turf of fresh earth, and laying down, breathe in the hole for a quarter of an hour. Or, take in for a quarter of an hour, morning and evening, the steam of white resin and bees’ wax boil- ing on a hot fire shovel. This has cured one who was in the third stage of a consumption. Or, take morning and evening a tea-spoonful of white ▼ resin powdered and mixed with honey. This cured one in less than a month, who was near death. Or, drink thrice a-day two spoonfuls of juice of water- cresses. This has cured a deep con- sumption. In the last stage, suck aCOR 138 CON healthy woman daily. This has cured my father. For diet, use milk and apples, or water gruel made with fine flour. Drink cider-whey, barley water, sharpened with lemon-juice, or apple- water. So long as the tickling cough continues, chew well, and swallow a mouthful or two of a biscuit or crust of bread twice a day. If you cannot swallow it spit it out. This will always shorten the fit, and would often prevent a consumption.—John Wesley. CONSUMPTION, Useful Drink for.—Coltsfoot, two ounces; horehound, rue, of each one ounce; and blood-root, three drachms. Boil in three quarts of water down to two quarts. Strain, and to the liquor, add of figs and sugar, of each four ounces, and boil fifteen minutes. Take a wine- glassful three or four times a day. CONVULSIONS, in Children. —They originate in some derangement or irritation of the bowels, stomach, brain, or from teething. Give an ape- rient, as magnesia and rhubarb, and a warm bath about 90°, and apply to the head linen dipped in the water. The following powder is useful:—Rhubarb in powder, 8 grains ; super-sulphate of potash, 12 grains. Mix. Give also a little syrup of poppies. If aperients cannot be taken, give a mild injection ; as a 'ittle epsom salts in barley gruel, with a little butter ; or a weak solution of salt and water, with a few drops of oil, or butter. Convulsions often arise from over- feeding ; this must be avoided. If in- digestible food has been taken, give an emetic,—the wine of ipecacuanha ; or if the patient cannot be sufficiently roused from sleep, so as to take the emetic, tickle the back part of the mouth with a feather to produce the effect. If the convulsions are obstinate, apply friction along the spine, when in the bath ; or out of it, rub the spine with an anodyne composed of 10 drops of laud- anum, 10 drops of oil, and 6 drops of tincture of cayenne. Mustard plasters may be applied a minute or two to the legs and feet. If convulsions are caused by teething, the gums must be lanced a little. COOKING. —Liebig the great chemist says, ‘ ‘ If the flesh be intro- duced into the boiler when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling be kept up for a few minutes, and the pot then placed in a warm place, so that the temperature of the water is kept at 160°, we have the united conditions for giving the flesh the quali- ties which best fit it for being eaten." By plunging the meat into boiling water the albumen on the surface cannot es- cape, as it at once coagulates and seals it, and excludes the water. Meal placed in cold water loses its savoury ingre- dients. Fresh meat should never be soaked in water. Only salted and dried meats require it. COOL TANKARD.—Mild ale, 1 quart; port, or sherry wine, 1 glass- ful ; the same of brandy; one of capi- laire ; the juice of a lemon ; a little of the peel pared thin, with os. of cream of tartar. Strain it. COPPER, to Detect in Pickles or Tea.—Into a beer glass put a portion of the pickles or tea; add a little liquid ammonia, with nearly as much water ; stir well, and if the liquid become blue, it indicates the presence of copper. COPPER or BRASS PANS. —Always put away dry, or they will generate verdigris, which is very poison- ous. If tinged with dye, clean with oil of vitriol and water, and a little fine sand. Wipe quite dry. COPYING INK.—Powdered galls, 2 lbs. ; sulphate of iron, 8 ozs.; gum, 6 ozs. ; logwood, 6 ozs. ; sugar, 4 ozs.; vinegar, 2 quarts; water, gallon. Stir often for a fortnight. A few drops of oil of cloves will prevent mould. Another.—Add £ oz. of gum ara- bic, and 1 oz. of fine brown sugar, to every pint of good black ink. COPYING PAPER, Black.— Mix well and stiff, lamp black and lard, or butter. Spread evenly over fine print- ing paper with a soft brush or flannel. Dry in a warm room. It is used for transferring drawings, &c., or for mul- tiplying copies.—Place a sheet of white paper upon it; place the pattern upon it to be copied, and trace with a style. CORNS.—When small, they may be removed by stimulants or escharoties.139 COS COR as nitrate of silver, (lunar caustic,) by wetting the com, and touching it with a pencil of the caustic every evening ; pre- viously soften the skin by immersing the feet in warm water.—Or apply a blister the size of a sixpence.—Or the following remedies:— 1 Apply fresh every morning, the yeast of small beer spread on a rag.-— Or, after paring them close, apply bruis- ed ivy-leaves daily, and in fifteen days they will drop out—Or, apply chalk powdered and mixed with water. This also cures warts. Some corns are cured by a pitch plaster.—All are greatly eased by steeping the feet in hot water where- in oatmeal is boiled. This also helps dry and hot feet 2 Four ounces of white diachlyon plaster, 4 ozs. of shoemaker’s wax, and 50 drops of muriatic acid, or spirits of salt Boil these ingredients for a few minutes in an earthen pipkin, and when cold, roll the mass out between the hands or upon a marble slab, slightly moistened with olive oil. 3 Rub together in a mortar, 2 ozs. of powdered savine leaves ; % oz. of ver- digris, and % oz. of red precipitate. Mix, and put some of it in a linen bag; apply to the com at bed-time. 4 Some people roast a clove of garlic, and fasten it on with a piece of cloth at the time of going to bed. It softens the corns, and removes the core in 2 or 3 night’s using. When the garlic is taken off, wash the foot with warm water, in a little time the indurated skin that forms the homy tunic of the com will disap- pear. Avoid tight shoes, boots, and stock- ings, to be devoid of corns. 5 Bathe the feet for 20 or 30 minutes In strong soda water and soft soap. After repeating a few times, the com may be easily drawn out.—If the com be soft, apply a rag dipped in turpentine. —Corns should never be cut without be- ing softened in warm water and soap. 6 Sir Astly Cooper gives the following recipe as an infallible cure : — Gum Ammoniacum, 2 ozs. ; yellow wax, 2 ozs. ; verdigris, 6 drachms. Melt them together, and spread the composition on a piece of soft leather, or linen ; cut away as much of the corn as you can, before you apply the plaster: renew in a fortnight, If the com Is not gone. 7 A hard com should be soaked night and morning in hot water, and scraped. Tincture of Iodine, laid on with a camel's hair brush twice a day will remove a hard com. For a soft com, the solution of potass should be well rubbed in. 8 Tincture of Iodine, 4 drachms ; Io- dide of iron, 12 grains ; chloride of an- timony, 4 drachms. Mix and apply, after paring the com. After bathing the feet and cutting the corns, apply to them a leaf of house- leek, or one of ground-ivy, or of pur- slane, well steeped in vinegar. Renew every evening for a few days.—Or bathe the feet in Sea salt. CORN SOLVENT, Sir H. Davy’s.—Potash, 2 parts; Salt of Sorrel, 1 part: Mix in fine powder. Lay a small quantity on the com for four successive nights, binding it on with rags. CORPULENCY. —Mr. Alfred William Moore, sent the following com- munication to the Medical Times:— " Fat is a necessary ingredient of the body. Nature is sometimes too liberal in its supply ; it then becomes burden- some, and subjects the objects of its prodigality to ridicule. The discovery of a certain remedy may prove a boon. The following systematic plan of treat- ment, adopted by myself, who am con- stitutionally fat, will clearly show that abstaining from bread and fermented liquors will remedy this inconvenience : —Weighing 15 % stones, I reduced my- self in three months to 12 % stones by strictly adhering to the following plan of dieting myself: Breakfast early, con- sisting of 2 oz. of biscuit, 1 egg, 2 cups of tea or coffee ; then fasted till five, my dinner consisting of animal food, Sec., but no bread : likewise avoiding bread at my tea or supper.” Abstain as much as possible from the use of butter, sugar, and fat meat, and take plenty of exercise every day. COSMETICS. —It is said that Pimpemal water is a great beautifier of the countenance.—Or, melt r lb. of soft soap, and % a pint of sweet oil, and add a tea-cupful of very fine sand, and 3 or 4 drops of camphorated spirit. COSTIVENESS.—See Consti- pation, page 134,140 cou cos COSTIVENESS. —Rise early every morning. Or boi) in a pint and a half of broth, half a handful of mallow leaves, strain, and drink it before you eat any thing else. Do this frequently, If needful. Or, take daily, 2 hours be- fore dinner, a small tea-cupful of stewed primes. Or, live upon bread made of wheat flour with all the bran in it. Or, boil 1% oz. of tamarinds in 3 pints of water to a quart In this,, strained, when cold, infuse all night 2 drachms of senna, and 1 drachm of red rose leaves ; drink a cupful every morning.—An in- fusion of senna, and Epsom salts, with gentian root, and camomile flowers, may be taken every other day. COUGHS. — The following are the best recipes for Coughs. Some of them are of rare excellence :— 1 To allay a Tickling Cough.— 6 table-spoonfuls of treacle ; the juice of % a lemon; simmer over the fire till well incorporated. Take off, and add I table-spoonful of paregoric, and about the size of a horse-bean of refined nitre. Take 2 tea-spoonfuls when the cough troubles. 2 Take 4 ozs. of sugar candy, pow- dered, % oz. of citric acid, or lemon Juice ; mix by heat; add a few drops of oil of aniseed. If the cough is not a dry one, add 20 drops of laudanum, or a dessert spoonful of paregoric. Take a tea-spoonful at a time, when the cough Is troublesome. 3 Two table-spoonfuls of Linseed, 4 ozs. of Liquorice root, or Spanish Juice, 4 ozs of Elecampane root, water 3 quarts, boil down to 3 pints. Dose, a wine- glassful 4 or 5 times a day. 4 Powder of tragacanth, 1 drachm; syrup of white poppies, 2 drachms; laudanum, 40 drops; water, 4 ozs. Shake the powder in the water till it is dissolved, then add the others. Dose : —A teaspoonful 3 times a day. 5 Asthmatic Cough.—Take 2 good handfuls of"Coltsfoot leaves, 1 oz. of Gallic, and 2 quarts of water. Boil down to 3 pints. Strain, and to the liquor add 8 ozs. of sugar, boil gently for 10 minutes. Take % a cupful occa- sionally. 6 Consumptive Cough.—-The following is a most valuable recipe:— Of Sanctuary, Horehound, Bayberry Bark, two pennyworth of each; and of Agrimony, Raspberry Leaves, Clevers, and Ground Ivy, one pennyworth; Ex- tract of Liquorice, 4 ozs. ; and % a tea- spoonful of Cayenne pepper. Gently simmer in 2 gallons of water for z hour. 7 The following has cured most ob- stinate coughs :—Take a pint of milk, warm it, and when it comes to the boil- ing point, add as much made mustard as will turn it to a posset. Take away the curd, and into % a pint of the posset put 1 oz. of brown sugar candy, to dis- solve. Take the posset as hot as you can at night, when in bed, and renew it for 3 or 4 times. This has given relief in asthma. 8 A Dry Cough.—Dissolve £ oz. of gum arabic, oz. of Spanish J uice, and 2 table-spoonfuls of treacle, in a little warm water; add 3 drachms of the syrups of squills, and 2 drachms of syrup of poppies. Cork and shake well. Take a tea-spoonful when the cough is annoying; drink linseed tea, sweetened with sugar-candy. 9 Chew a little Peruvian Bark con- stantly swallowing the spittle. It seldom fails to cure a dry cough. 10 Two or 3 table-spoonfuls of Lin- seed, a small bunch of horehound ; boil to a jelly, and strain. Add lb. of Sugar Candy, lb. of Honey, % ’lb. of loaf Sugar. First boil the horehound in a quart of water ; then add the strained Linseed and the other articles. Simmer for two hours. When cold, add of Chlorodyne to the value of is. Bottle it and cork tight. A small quantity of spirits of wine or Brandy to keep it. When the cough is troublesome, take a table-spoonfuL This Recipe is invalu- able. 11 Balsam cf Tolu, Y> oz. ; gum storax, % drachm; opium, 8 grains ; best honey, 2 oz. ; spirits of wine, % a pint. Digest for 6 days, and strain. If the cough is fast, add K oz. of Ipecacu- anha in powder. 12 An old remedy is to dissolve 2 oz. of mutton suet in a quart of milk, and drink it warm. This relieves a violent cough. 13 Beat well the yolk of an egg, put it in a mortar, and add % a drachm of powdered spermaceti, a little fine sugar, and a table-spoonful of paregoric elixir.i4I cou cou Take a table-spoonful when the cough Is troublesome. 14 Dr. James recommends a mixture of vinegar and treacle in equal quanti- ties ; a teaspoonful to be taken when re- quired—Or take % a pint of vinegar, % oz. Spanish juice, 1 oz. each, sugar candy, and spirits of wine. A table- spoonful at a time. 15 Take honey and treacle, of each 4 ozs. ; best vinegar, 5 ozs. Mix, and slowly simmer them in a common pipkin for fifteen minutes. When the mixture is cold, add a dessert-spoonful of pare- goric elixir. Dose—a table-spoonful 3 or 4 times a day. This is very useful in the coughs of children, as it has a very pleasant taste. Dose, one or two teaspoonfuls. 16 Or, peel and slice a large turnip, spread coarse sugar between the slices, and let it stand in a dish till all the juice drains down. Take a spoonful of this when you cough. 17 Or, take a spoonful of syrup of horehound morning and evening. 18 Or, take from ten to twenty drops of elixir of vitriol, in a glass of water, twice or thrice a-day. This is useful when the cough is attended with cos- tiveness, or a relaxation of the stomach and lungs. 19 For a Tickling Cough, drink water whitened with oatmeal four times a-day. Or, keep a piece of barley-sugar or sugar-candy constantly in the mouth. COUGH, For.—Lobelia, 2 oz.; cayenne, 3f oz. ; vinegar, 1 pint; sugar, 2 ozs. : boil the vinegar, and pour it hot upon the herb, &c. into a stone bottle ; cork close for a few days. Dose for a cough, half a tea-spoonful, or a piece of loaf sugar moisted with it. Or take of lobelia, 2 drachms ; blood- root, 1 drachm; skunk cabbage, 1 drachm; pleurisy root, 1 drachm. Make into pills with treacle, honey, or balsam of Peru. Dose, one or two, twice a day. COUGH DROPS.—Gum guia- cum, 2 drachms ; camphor, 2 scruples ; Castile soap, 1 scruple; laudanum, 40 drops ; spirits of wine, 2 ounces ; bal- sam of Peru, 24 drops. Mix. Dose— to or 15 drops three or four times a day. COUGH DROPS.—Linseed half a cupful; olive oil, half a pint; treacle or honey, half a pint; spirits of turpentine, balsam of fir, oz. each ; extract of liquorice, oz. Mix and simmer. Take from 10 to 20 drops two or three times a day. COUGH LOZENGES.—Best Spanish liquorice, one ounce; refined sugar, two ounces ; gum arabic finely powdered, 2 drachms; and extract of opium, x scruple. Well beat, or pound the whole together; then with mucilage of gum tragacanth, make into small lozenges, to be dissolved in the mouth when the cough is troublesome. COUGH LOZENGES.—Lau- danum, 1 ounce; balsam of tolu, one ounce and a half; liquorice, three and a half ounces; ipecacuanha powder, two ounces; oil of aniseeds, half an ounce ; starch, one pound ; sugar, three pounds ; mucilage to mix. COUGH PI L L .—Extract of henbane, % ounce; ipecacuanha, % ounce ; extract of balm of Gilead buds, 34 ounce; cayenne, 2 grains; oil of mint, 3 drops. Form into pills. Take one or two when needful. In bronchi- tis, catarrh, &c., these pills are invalu- able for cough. COUGH PLASTER.—Castile soap, 1 ounce • lead plaster, 2 drachms ; powdered sal ammoniac, % drachm. Mix the soap and lead plaster together, and when the mass has cooled, add the sal ammoniac, and x drachm of cayenne pepper. COUGH, PLASTER FOR.— Bees’ wax, Burgundy-pitch, and rosin, of each an ounce, melt them together, and stir in three quarters of an ounce of common turpentine, and half an ounce of oil of mace. Spread it on leather, grate some nutmeg over, and apply quite warm to the pit of the stomach. COUGH SYRUP.—Hyssop and rue, of each 1 ounce; horehound, 1 ounce; acid tincture of lobelia, 3 ounces; essence of pennyroyal, 1 drachm; essence of spearmint, a drachms.—Boil the hyssop, rue, and horehound till the strength is obtained ; strain, add sugar and treacle : boil to a syrup, and when nearly cold, add the tincture and essences. COUGH SYRUP.—Sage, 1 ounce, St. John’s wort, 1 ounce, Iceland moss, a ounces; white poppy heads acou 142 CRA ounces ; pearl bariey, 2 table-spoonfuls ; water, 2 quarts. Boil to a quart and sweeten with sugar candy, adding a little lemon juice. If the cough is ob- stinate, add & ounce of ipecacuanha. If the patient is asthmatical, add 1 oz. of sulphuric ether. COUGH SYRUP.—Tincture of lobelia, 1 oz.; Iceland moss, 2 ozs. ; white poppy capsules, bruised, 2 ozs; pearl barley, 2 table-spoonfuls; water, 2 quarts ; treacle, 2 ozs. Boil down to three pints, and strain. Dissolve in it from 4 to 8 ozs. of sugar-candy. It effectually allays a tickling cough. A table-spoonful when the cough is troublesome. It does not constipate like laudanum and paregoric. Or, take lobelia herb, horehound, boneset, of each 1 oz. ; comfrey root, spikenard, St. John’s wort, poppy cap- sules, of each, % oz. Infuse in three pints of boiling water for three hours. Strain and add H lb. of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup. Add a wine-glassful of best rum. A table-spoonful is a dose. This is a valuable receipt for cough, hoarseness, &c. COURT PLASTER.—Isin- glass, oz. : Friar’s balsam, 1 drachm. Melt the isinglass in 1 oz. of water, and boil the solution till a great part of the water is consumed ; add ijt gradually to the balsam, and mix well. Keep a little longer on the fire, and brush it evenly over silk. Or, isinglass, 4 ozs.; water, 3 ozs. Dissolve ; then add tincture of benzoin, 1 oz. Heat. Apply warm. COWHAGE.— An effectual remedy for round and other worms. It is made into an electuary with treacle ; a tea-spoonful to be taken at a time; and to be followed by a brisk purge with rhubarb and jalop, or salts and senna* COW-HEEL BROTH.—Put a cow-heel into a pan with three quarts of water, and boil; skim it well, season with peppercorns, thyme, parsley, and salt; boil gently for two hours; skim well, and serve the broth with the glu- tinous part of the heel in it. It is very strengthening. , „ COWSLIP WINE.—To two gallons of water, put'six pounds of pow- dered sugar, boil 40 minutes take oft the sKum as it rises, pour into a tub to cool, and add the rinds of two lemons ; when it is cold, add four quarts of cowlip flowers to the liquor, with the juice of two lemons, let it stand in the tub two days, stirring it every two or three hours, then put in the barrel and let it stand three weeks or a month, then bottle it, and put a lump of sugar into every bottle. The addition of brandy im- proves it much. CRABS, to Choose.—They must feel heavy in the hand; the very large ones are seldom good; those of the middle size are the sweetest. If light they are watery; the joints of the legs are stiff, and the body has an agreeable smell. CRABS, to Butter.—Boil two crabs; when cold, take all the meat out; mince it small; but it into a pan, with a glass of sherry, two spoonfuls of vinegar, and a nutmeg grated; boil till it is thoroughly hot. Take % lb. of butter, melt with an anchovy ; mix with the same the yolks of two eggs; mix all together after shaking the pah round all quite hot. Serve. CRAB, Dressed Cold.—Empty the shells and mix the flesh with butter, vinegar, salt, white and cayenne pepper. Put the mixture into the large shell, and serve. It may be served hot by putting it into a Dutch oven before the fire, adding a few crumbs of bread and nutmeg. Brown it nicely. CRAB, to Stew.—Put the meat into a stew-pan, with half a pint of sherry, pepper, nutmeg, salt, a few crumbs of bread, the yolk of an egg well beaten, and a spoonful of vinegar. Put on a slow fire, shaking up. Serve on a plate. CRACK NUTS.—Mix 8 ozs. of flour, and 8 ozs. of sugar; melt four ozs. of butter in two spoonfuls of rasin- wine: then, with four eggs beaten and strained, make into a paste ; add cara- ways ; roll out as thin as paper, cut with the top of a glass, wash with the white of an egg, and dust sugar over. CRACKNELS.—Mix with a quart of flour, half a nutmeg grated, the yolks of four eggs beaten, with four spoonfuls of rose-water into a stiff paste, with cold water; then roll in’ a pound of butter, and make them Into a cracknelCRA CRE 14 3 shape ; put them into a kettle of boiling water, and boil them till they swim, take out, put into cold water; when hardened, lay them out to dry, and bake them on tin plates. CRAMP.—Employ friction, rub- bing the part affected with the hands. A draught of camphor-jalap at night is strongiy recommended. Stretch the heel out as far as possible, bending the toes slightly upwards. Persons subject to cramp should sleep on a mattress, slightly declined at the foot, and exer- cise caution in eating and drinking, for cramp often arises from a weak or im- perfect digestion. A towel dipped in hot water applied to the part, will afford immediate relief. But rubbing with the Stimulating Oint- ment is more effectual. Persons sub- ject to cramp should keep the lower limbs warm; occasionally bathe the feet in warm water before bed-time. Keep the bowels open. CRAMP in the STOMACH. —Apply friction over the stomach im- mediately ; bathe the feet in hot water ; give the Anti-Cholera Mixture, describ- ed under Asiatic Cholera; p. 125. Sometimes strong peppermint tea is effectual; if not, apply a hot brick wrapped in cloths dipped in vinegar to the stomach. Or take a tea-spoonful of sal-volatile in warm water immediately. CRAMP, Pills for.—Camphor, 1 dr.; spirits of wine, 1 dr. ; dissolve, and add opium, 10 grains; confection of roses to form a mass. Mix, and divide into 24 pills. Take one every night CRANBERRY JELLY.— Make a very strong Isinglass-jelly. When cold, mix it with a-double quan- tity of cranberry juice, sweeten it and boil up ; then strain it into a shape. The sugar must be good loaf, or the jelly will not be clear. CRANBERRY AND RICE JELLY.—Boil and press the fruit, strain the juice, and by degrees mix into it as much ground rice as will, when boiled, thicken to a jelly ; boil it gently, stirring it, and sweeten to your taste. Put it in a mould, and serve to eat with milk or cream. CRANBERRY TART.—Wash the cranhcrrins well; put them Into the dish with the juice of half a lemon; % lb. of moist sugar to each quart of cran- berries. Cover with a good paste, and then bake it 45 minutes. Five minutes before it is done, take from the oven, and ice it. It is the best served cold. CRANESBILL. — It is a fine plant. It strengthens the stomach and bowels, restraining all excessive evacua- tions, and preventing internal mortifica- tion. In bowel complaints, and fluxes, it is of great use. A decoction of the root forms a valuable gargle in quinsy, sore mouth and throat. For bleeding wounds it is a sovereign styptic. The root bruised and saturated with cold water should be applied to the wound. Dose. Powdered root, from 13 grains. Decoction, boil x oz. in a pint of water, a table-spoonful. CRAYONS.—Take shellac, 6 parts; spirits, 4 parts; turpentine, 2 parts; colour, 12 parts; pale clay, 12 parts. Mix. CREAM, Almond.—Beat 4 ozs. of blanched sweet almonds, and a few bitter, with a teaspoonful of water, to prevent oiling. Put a paste to a quart of cream, and the juice of 3 lemons sweetened ; beat it to a froth, which take off; then fill glasses with the liquor and froth. CREAM, An Excellent.—Whip up of a pint of rich cream to a strong froth, with finely scraped lemon peel, a squeeze of the juice, a glass of sweet wine, and sugar to taste j lay it in a form, and next day put it on a dish, and ornament with light puff-paste biscuits, the length of a finger, and about two thick, over which sugar may be strewed, or a little glaze with isinglass. Or, use macaroons, to fine the edges of the dish. CREAM, Brandy. — Boil 12 blanched and 12 bitter almonds pounded, in a little milk. When cold, add the yolks of 5 eggs well beaten in a little cream; add sugar, and X of a pint of brandy. Mix well, and pour to it a quart of thin cream : gently simmer on the fire till it thickens ; do not let it boil. Pour into cups or low glasses. A ratafia drop may be added to each. CREAM CAKES.—Beat the whites of 9 eggs to a stiff froth and keep it up ; grate the rinds of 2 lemons toCKl CKE 144 each white of egg. Sprinkle in a spoon- ful of fine sugar, lay a wet sheet of paper on a tin, and drop it on in little lumps, a little distance from each other. Sift sugar over them. When put in the oven the froth will rise. As soon as coloured, they are baked ; take out, and put two bottoms together; put on a sieve, and dry in a slow oven. CREAM CHEESE.—Put five quarts of the last milking of a cow, called “strippings,” into a pan with 2 spoonfuls of rennet. When the curd is come, strike it down with the skimmer to break it. Let it stand 2 hours, spread a cheese cloth on a sieve and drain upon it; break the curd a little with your hand; put it into a vat with a 2 lb. weight upon it. After standing 12 hours bind a fillet round. Turn every day till dry ; cover with green leaves, and let them gradually ripen on a pewter plate. CREAM COOKIES.— One tea-cupful of cream turned ; % lb. of sugar ; 1 or 2 eggs, a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved ; sufficient flour to make into dough. Add spices and seeds if you like. CREAM, Sack.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, 2 or 3 spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon-peel; stir it over a gende fire, till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold; then serve it in glasses, with dry toast. CREAM FOR THE HAIR. —Lard, two parts ; oil of almonds, one part. Melt and scent with jessamine or bergamot. CREAM, Italian.—One quart of good cream, and a quart of new milk, the grated rind of two or three lemons, and strain the juice; take also eight ounces of fine sugar powdered, a litde ground cinnamon, and three grains of salt. Boil dll the milk is reduced one- third ; then take five or six eggs thick- ened with a little fine flour, well beaten, and gradually add to the milk, stirring well; strain through a fine sieve into the dish for the table ; place it in a hot bath on the hob till the cream is set. Grate a litde nutmeg over the top, and brown. CREAM PUDDING.—Cream, k pint; the yolks of seven eggs, seven table-spoonfuls of flour, 2 table-spoon- fuls of sugar, salt, and a small bit of soda. Rub the cream with the eggs and flour; add the rest, the milk last, just before baking, and pour the whole into the pudding dish. Serve with sauce of wine, sugar, butter flavoured as you like. CREAM and SNOW.—Make a rich boiled custard, and put it in the bottom of a dish ; take the whites of eight eggs, beat with rose water, and a spoonful of fine sugar, till it be a strong froth ; put some milk and water into a stew-pan ; when it boils, take the froth off the eggs, and lay it on the milk and water ; boil up once ; take off carefully, and lay it on the custard. CRICKET is played by twenty- two persons, eleven on each side, and two umpires, with two persons to score and count the innings. Thirteen players play at one time, viz., two strikers, one bowler, one wicket-keeper, long-stop, short-stop, point, cover, middle-wicket, long-field, off-side, on- side, and leg ; of these the two strikers are the inside, or have their innings. The object of the game is to get the greatest number of runs, and this is to be done by the strikers. Each side having been in once and out once, the first innings is concluded, and, we might say, a complete game has been played, but in most matches another innings is played. The scorers keep the account of runs to each striker separately for each innings. The side that has obtained the greatest number of runs, wins the game. Single Wicket may be played with any number of players, and is better than double wicket for any num- ber of players under seven. At double wicket, a small number of players would get fatigued with running after the balk The first innings in single wicket must be determined by chance. The bowler should pitch the wickets, and the striker measure the distance fen1 the bowling-stump. Measure a distance of the length of the bat, and then one of the striker’s feet, from the middle stump in a direction towards the bowling stump: there make a mark, which is the same as the popping-crcase, and this will show when you are on the ground ; place your bat upright on the mark at the place where the measure145 CRI CRI came to, and see that your bat is before the middle of the wicket; here make a mark on the ground, which is generally called the blocking-mark. The bowler now begins to bowl, and the striker should endeavour to hit any ball which comes within his compass, or if the ball given be not favourable for that purpose, he may block it; but in blocking he must be careful never to let the tip of the bat come before the handle, as the ball in such a case will probably rise in the air towards the bowler, and he will be caught out. In running, the striker must touch the bowling-stump with his bat or person, or it is no run, and he may be put out if he do not put his bat or some part of his Derson on his ground before the ball touches his wicket. With three players, the bowler and striker will be the same as when two are at play; the second player will be fieldsman, who, when the ball be hit nearer to him than to the bowler will pick it up, or catch it if he can and return it to the bowler. If the striker should attempt to run, the bowler should immediately run to the wicket, and the fieldsman should throw the ball to him, so that he may catch it, and touch the wicket with it to get the striker out. When the first striker is out, the fieldsman will take his place, the striker will bowl, and the bowler will take the field. When four players are engaged, the fourth should stand behind the wicket; and when five or more play, the additional players should take the field. The rule in such a case is simply, that as soon as a striker is out he becomes bowler, then he becomes wicket-keeper, and then he takes his place in the field on the left of the bowler, and afterwards the other places In regular succession, until it is bis turn to have a new innings. Laws of Single Wicket.—1. If there shall be less than four players on a side, bounds shall be placed, twenty- two yards each, in a line from the off and leg stump. 2. The ball must be hit before the bounds to entitle the striker to a run, which run cannot be obtained unless he touch the bowling-stump or crease, in a line with it, with his bat or person, or go beyond them, returning to the pop- ping-crease, as in double wicket, accord- ing to the law. 3. When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on the ground behind the popping-crease, otherwise the umpire shall call " no hit." 4. When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither byes nor over- throws shall be allowed, nor shall the striker be caught out behind the wicket, nor stumped out. 5. The fieldsman must retum'’the ball so that it shall cross the space between the wicket and the bowling stumps or between the bowling stumps and the bounds ; the striker may run till the ball be so returned. 6. After the striker has made one run, he must touch the bowling stump, and run before the ball shall cross the play, to entitle him to another. 7. The striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and the same number for ball stopped with bat. 8. When there shall be more than four players to a side, there shall be no bounds ; all hits, byes, and overthrows, will then be allowed^ 9. The bowler is subject to the same laws as at double wicket. xo. No more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball. Double Wicket.—When double wicket is played, two batsmen go in at the same time,—one at each wicket: there are two bowlers, who usually bowl four balls in succession alternately. The batsmen are said to be in as long as they remain at their wickets, and their party is called the in-party; on the contrary, those who stand in the field with the bowlers, are called the out-party. Both parties have two in- nings, and the side that obtains the most runs in the double contest, claims the victory. Laws of Double Wicket.—1. The Ball must be in weight between five ounces and a hall and five ounces and three quarters, and must be be- tween nine inches and nine inches and one-eighth in circumference. 2. The Bat must not be more than thirty-eight inches in length, nor ex- ceed four inches and a quarter in its widest part. 3. The Stumps, which are three 3CRI CRI 146 to each wicket, must be twenty-seven inches out the ground, and placed so closely as not to allow the ball to pass through. The bails must be eight inches in length. 4. The Bowling Crease must be in a line with the stumps, and six feet eight inches in length, the stumps in the centre, with a return-crease at each end towards the bowler at right angles. 5. The Popping Crease must be three feet ten inches from the wicket, and parallel to it, unlimited in length, but not shorter than the bowling-crease. 6. They must be opposite to each other, twenty-two yards apart. 7. It is not lawful for either party, during a match, without the ether party gives consent, to make any altera- tion in the ground by rolling, watering, covering, moving, or beating. This rule is not meant to prevent the striker from beating the ground with his bat near to the spot where he stands during the innings, nor to prevent the bowler from filling up holes with saw- dust, &c., when the ground is wet. 8. After rain, the wickets may be changed with the consent of both parties. . The Bowler must deliver the with one foot behind the bowling- crease, and bowl four balls before he changes wickets, which he is permitted to do, once only, in the same innings. 10. The ball must be bowled ; if it be thrown or jerked, or if the hand be above the shoulder in the delivery, the umpire must call “no ball ” (this being reckoned as one of the four balls.) 12. In some matches, the bowler may give six balls where the parties are agreed. The bowler may order the striker at the wicket from which he bowls, to stand on which side of it he pleases. 12. Should the bowler toss the ball over the striker’s head, or bowl it so wide that it shall be out of distance to be played at, the umpire, although the striker attempt it, shall adjudge one run to the parties receiving the innings, either with or without an appeal from them, which shall be put down to the score of wide balls, and such balls shall not be reckoned as any of the four balls. When the umpire shall have called "wide ball," one run only shall be reckoned, and the ball shall be considered dead. 13. If “no ball" be called by the umpire, the hitter may strike at it, and is allowed all the runs he can make, and is not to be considered out except by running out. Should no run be obtain- ed by any other means, then one run shall be scored. 14. When a fresh bowler takes the ball, only two balls shall be allowed for practice; he must, however, continue the next four in the game before he can change for another better approved. If six balls are agreed to be bowled, then he must continue the six instead of four. 15. No substitute in the field shall be allowed to bowl, keep wicket, stand at the point or middle wicket, except by mutual agreement. The Striker is out if either of the bails be struck off by the ball, or either of the stumps struck out of the ground. He is Out, if the ball from a stroke of the bat or hand below the wrist, be held by his adversary before it touches the ground, although hugged or caught between the arms and breast of the catcher. He is Out, if in striking, or at any other time while the ball is in play, both his feet be over the popping-crease, and his wicket put down, except his bat be grounded within it. He is Out, if in striking at the ball, he either with his bat, clothes, or person, hits down his wicket He is Out, if under pretence ol running a notch, or otherwise, either of the strikers prevent a ball from being caught, or if the ball be struck up and he wilfully strikes it again. He is Out, if in running a notch the wicket be struck down by a throw, or with the hand or arm with bail in hand, before his bat is grounded over the popping-crease. If the bails should happen to be off, a stump must be struck out of the ground. He is Out, should he take up or touch the ball while in play, unless at the request of the opposite party. He is Out, if with a part of his person he stop the ball, which the bowler, in the opinion of the umpire at147 CRI CRi the bowler’s wicket, has pitched In a straight line with the wicket. If the players have crossed each other, he that runs for the wicket that is put down, is out; and if they have not crossed, he that has left the wicket which Is put down, is out. When a ball is caught, no run is to be reckoned. When a striker is run out, the notch they were running for is not to be rcclcoocd If “lost ball" shall be called, the striker is allowed the runs ; but if more than sir shall have been run before “ lost ball " shall have been called, then the striker shall have all that have been run. When the ball has been lodged in the wicket-keeper’s or bowler’s hands, it is considered dead, that is no longer in play, and the striker need cot keep within ground, till the umpire has called ‘ play ;’ but if the player goes off his ground, with intent to run, the bowler may put him out. Should the striker be hurt, he may retire from his wicket and return to it any time during that innings. Some other person may stand out for him, but 1 not go in. If any person stop the ball with his bat, the ball is to be considered as dead, \ and the opposite party to add five notches to their score. If the ball be struck up, the striker may guard his wicket with his bat or any part of his body except his hand. If the striker hit the ball against his j partner's wicket when he is off his ground, he is out, should it previously have touched the bowler or any of the fieldmen s hands, but not otherwise. The Wicket-Keeper should not take the ball for the purpose of stump- ing. until it have passed the wicket. I He shall stand at a proper distance behind the wicket, and shall not move till the ball be out of the bowler’s hand. He shall not by any noise, in- commode the striker, and if any part of his person be over or before the wicket, although the ball bit it, he shall not be out The Umpires are the sole judges I of fair and unfair play, and all disputes 1 are determined by them, each at his j own wicket. They shall not stand more than six yards from the wicket. In case of a catch, which the umpire at the wicket cannot see sufficiently to decide upon, he may apply to the other umpire, whose opinion is conclusive. The umpires shall pitch fair wickets, and the parties shall toss up for the choice of innings. They shall allow two minutes for the striker to come in, and fifteen minutes between each innings. When the um- pires shall call "play," the party who refuses shall lose the match. They are not to order a player out unless assented to by the adversaries. If the bowler’s foot be not behind the bov/ling-crease and within the return crease when he delivers the ball, they must, unasked, call "no ball;” if the striker run a short run, the umpire must call “ no run." If in running either of the strikers shall fail to ground his bat, in hand, or some part of his person, over the pop- ping crease, the umpire, for every such failure, shall deduct two runs from the number intended to have been run, be- cause such striker, not having run in the first instance, cannot have started in the second from the proper goal. No umpire is allowed to bet. No umpire to be changed during a match, unless with the consent of both parties, except in case of a violation of the last law, then either party may dis- miss the transgressor. After the delivery of four balls, the umpire should call "over," but not until the ball shall be lodged and defi- nitely settled in the wicket-keeper's or bowler’s hand ; the ball shall then be considered dead. Nevertheless, if an idea be entertained that either of the strikers is out, a question may be put previously to, but not after the delivery of the next ball. The umpire must take especial care to call "no ball" instantly upon de- livery, and "wide ball," as soon as ever it shall pass the striker. CRICKETS, to Destroy.—See Cockroaches, page 126, for the same directions are applicable to Crickets. Or put a little chloride of lime and powdered tobacco in their holes. Or a little snuff. The smoke of charcoal destroys both them and148 CRI CRO cockroaches.—Loud vibrating sounds drive away crickets. CRIMSON DYE for SILK— For each lb. of cloth, or stuff, dissolve In boiling water 2% ozs. of alum, and 1% ozs. of white tartar. Boil two minutes; put in the goods, and boil 1% hoar. Take out and add fresh water; when it boils, put in 1 % oz. of cochineal powdered ; boil 1 hour. The shade may be lighter by using less of the ingredients. CRIMSON FLAME.— Take alcohol, any quantity, and dissolve a little of one of the salts of strontia in it CROQUET is played by both sexes. The ground should be an evenly cut square piece of lawn, and level as possible. The hoops are arranged according as the parties agree to fix them. And the game consists in hiring the balls from the starting peg through the hoops to the peg at the opposite end, and -then driven back to the start- ing point. The best number to play, is 4, some- times 8. Should there be only 2 players, each take a balls, a mallet, croquet clip of one colour or number, clips being used to indicate the hoop the player has to,aim at. The ground being laid out in the usual manner. See “All England Club" Rules, Price 6d. H. Cox, 346, Strand, London. CROSSING BANKERS CHEQUES.—If a cheque has two lines drawn across it, thus, & Co. or without the word ‘ & Co.,' it will only be paid by a banker. Or if the name of any particular bank be written across, it can then only be paid to that bank or their agent. Any person obliterating the crossings of a cheque, with intent to defraud, will be guilty of felony. CROSS BUNS—To 2J lbs of flour add 1 lb. of powdered sugar, and a little coriander seed, cassia, and mace, powdered fine ; make a paste with % lb. of butter dissolved in half a pint of hot milk; work in three table-spoonfuls of yeast and a little salt; set it before the fire for an hour to rise; make it into buns; and place before the fire on a tin for half an hour; lastly brush them over with warm milk, and bake to a nice brown in a slow oven. CROUP.—This is a dangerous disease. It is common to infancy, and rarely occurs to adults. It is an inflam, mation of the larynx, treachea, and con- tiguous tissues. It derives its name from the peculiar sound of the voice and breathing, being of a whistling or crow- ing character, owing to a contraction of the glottis. It generally commences with a common cold and catarrh, hoarse- ness, cough, and increased difficulty of breathing, and the crowing already spoken of. It demands prompt treat- ment. The great object is to diminish the inflammation and irritation, and to relax the spasmodic state of the muscles in the parts diseased. The vessels in those parts are overcharged with blood, by an imperfect action of the exhalents. Place the feet in warm water, and give an emetic. After bathing, rub the legs and feet well with flannel. Then give a vapour bath, if the patient can bear it. (See Emetic Pcrwdcr — Expectorant Tincture.) Repeat the process, if need- ful. The perspiration will be greater by applying to the feet and each side hot bricks, and wrapped in flannel saturated with vinegar and a little water. At the same time give an aperient to produce a free action on the bowels. Apply this tincture to the throat, viz •— Half a tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, nearly a cupful of vinegar ; simmer ten minutes, and strain. This tincture may be diluted with warm water, according to the strength of the patient. Rub it well on the throat for 5 or ro minutes; and next saturate a flannel with it, and apply it to the throat. This application tends to relieve the internally congested blood-vessels. Repeat the application, as necessary. Mustard plasters may be applied to the feet, the upper part of the chest, and between the shoulders alternately. It has been recommended to steep hops in hot vinegar, and the patient to inhale the vapour. Even a large sponge dip- ped in as hot water as the hand can bear, squeezed half dry, and renewed before it is cool, is of great advantage. Keep the atmosphere of the room at a regular temperature. Aid the perspira- tion by warm drinks, as balm tea, Ac.CRU 149 cue To prevent a return of this disorder, keep the child warm, avoid wet feet, cold, damp, easterly winds, &c. Chil- dren whose constitutions dispose them to croup, ought to have their diet pro- perly regulated, and be kept from all crude, raw, and trashy fruits. CRUMPETS.—Beat well 2 eggs and put them into a quart of warm milk and water, with a table-spoonful of yeast ; beat in as much fine flour to make them rather thicker than a com- mon batter pudding. Heat the bake- stone very hot, rub it with a little butter on a cloth; have a tin ring the size and thickness of a crumpet, into which pour the batter. Turn them qnickly with a thin broad knife. CRUMPETS, Orange.—Cream and new milk, of each i pint; warm and put to it a little rennet to break it, then stir it gently ; drain on a cloth 6 hours ; take the rind of 3 oranges, boiled, as for preserving, in 3 waters ; pound fine, and mix with the curd and 8 eggs, in a mor- tar, some nutmeg, the juice of a lemon, and sugar to taste. Bake as above. ! Some persons add slices of orange. CRUMPETS, Royal. —Three cups of raised dough; work 4 table- spoonfuls of melted butter in the dough, a cup of sugar and 3 eggs beaten ; put in buttered tins; bake 20 minutes. When served too many should not lie on each other, as it destroys the crisp- i ness, and makes them soft. CRUMPETS, Scotch.—Milk, 1 pint; 2 or 3 eggs ; a little butter ; 4 l table-spoonfuls of yeast, salt; as much I oatmeal, or unsifted flour, as will make a batter. Melt the butter in the milk made hot; and when the batter is just i warm, beat the eggs, and mix them well I in. Let it stand to rise. Butter them, ! and serve hot. CRUSHES.—Take 1 lb. of flour, i and % lb. of butter, rubbed in ; mix with cold water, and a little yeast, stamp I it with a butter print, and lay the paste on the mould; lay on tins, to bake a fine brown. CRUST, a Short One.—Make I a ozs. of pounded and sifted white sugar I dry ; mix it with 1 lb. of flour well dried, I rub into it 3 or 4 ozs. of butter, so fine I as not to be seen—into some cream put the yolks of 2 eggs, beaten, and mix the above into a smooth paste ; roll it thin, and bake it in a slow oven. CRUST for APPLE PIES, &c.—Rub 6 ozs. of butter In 9 of flour, mix it into a stiffish paste, with as little water as possible, beat it well, and roll it thin ; bake it in a moderate oven. CRUST for RAISED MEAT PIES, &c.—Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which is to be made by good kneading and beating it with the rolling pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth to soak till nearly cold. Those who are not clever at raising crust, may roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bot- tom of the pie, then a long piece of the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together; put egg between the paste to make it adhere to the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side-crust together. The same way of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but the tin should bfe buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough ; and as the form makes the sides of too light a colour, the paste should be put in the oven again for 15 minutes. With a feather, put egg over as at first CRUST, for Sweet Pastry.— Work % lb. lightly of butter into 1 lb. of flour, breaking it small; add salt, 3 ozs. of finely powdered sugar, and suffi- cient milk to make it into a smooth paste. Bake slowly, and keep it pale. CRUST FOR TARTS.—Beat 1 egg till quite thin, have ready xo ozs. of butter, melted without being oiled; when cold mix the egg with it and stir it into x lb. of flour well dried ; make the paste very thin, line the patty pans quickly ; as you put them in the oven, brush them over with water, and sift sugar over them. CUCUMBERS, for Immedi- ate use.—Slice, sprinkle with salt; let them stand several hours, drain, and then put to them sliced onions, vinegarCUR 150 cue to cover them, with salt, pepper, Ac. Cayenne pepper and ground mustard render them wholesome. CUCUMBERS, to Pickle in Slices.—Cut into slices; sprinkle salt over them, and lay with them sliced onions ; let them stand 24 hours ; then drain them; boil 2 quarts of vinegar, with cayenne pepper, large mace, gin- ger, and a table-spoonful of ground mustard. Mustard renders them whole- some. Put the cucumbers into a jar, and pour the vinegar boiling hot upon them. Cover well; after standing 2 days, boil the pickle again until they are green. Cucumbers keep best unpared. CULVER’S ROOT.—A valu- able American plant. The root is a good purgative, tonic, diaphoretic, anti- septic, &c. Its operation is mild, with- out producing weakness or prostration, and is most effective in fevers, to remove black and morbid matter from the bowels. Good for indigestion, to purify (the blood, and acts powerfully on the absorbent system. Valuable in dropsy. Dose, one or two spoonfuls in a small cupful of water sweetened. CUMMIN PLASTER.—Take cummin seeds, caraway seeds, bayber- ries, of each, 3 ozs. ; burgundy pitch, 3 lbs. ; yellow-wax, 3 ozs. ; melt the pitch and wax together, and the other ingredients, powdered ; make into rolls. To be spread on leather. To be applied to the lower part of the abdomen for expelling flatulence, and colicky pains. CURDS AND WHEY may be made by putting half a drachm of citric acid into a pint of milk. CURD CHEESECAKES— Half a pint of good curds; beat them with four eggs, some rich cream, half a nutmeg, a spoonful of ratafia, rose, or orange flower water; add 4 ozs. of sugar; 8 ozs. of currants, well washed and dried. Bake in patty-pans, with a good crust under them. CURD PUDDING.—Rub the curd of two gallons of milk, well drained through a sieve ; mix it with six eggs, a little cream, two spoonfuls of orange flour water, half a nutmeg; flour and bread crumbs, three spoonfuls each; currants and raisins, half a pound each. Boil one hour in a thick, well floured cloth. CURLING of the Hair.—Use no oil; curl it when wet, and allow It to dry in that state. Use a weak solu- tion of isinglass, which secures a per- manent form. CURRANT BISCUITS— Sugar, 1 % lb. ; flour, 2 lbs. ; butter 1 % lbs. ; currants, 1% lb. ; 1 teaspoonful each of cinnamon and nutmeg; five eggs. Beat the butter and sugar to- gether, whisk the eggs, and add to the other ingredients, mix well. Roll out the dough in sheets, cut into cakes, place them on tins, strew white sugar on the top, and bake in a moderate oven. CURRANT WATER ICE. —Put a teaspoonful of black cur- rant jelly into a basin; add the juice of two lemons, a gill of black currant syrup, aDd half a pint of water ; strain, and freeze. CURRANT CAKES—Take 2 lbs. of flour, and 1 lb. of butter rubbed into the flour; mix it to a paste with cold water, and two teaspoonfuls of yeast; take 10 ozs. of currants, 4 ozs. of sugar, a little clove pepper, and a little cinnamon: mix, and put a Httle into the inside of every cake ; roll your cakes thin, and cut into different shapes with a tin mould ; bake them in a sharp oven. CURRANT DROPS—Put 1 lb. of pounded loaf sugar upon a plate ; then the juice of black or red currants ; make into a paste of thickish consis- tency ; drop on fine paper, and dry. CURRANT JAM, Black, Red or White.—Let the fruit be very ripe, pick it clean from the stalks, bruise it, and to every pound put three quarters of a pound of loaf-sugar ; stir it well, and boil half an hour. CURRANT JELLY, Red, or Black.—Strip the fruit, and in a stone jar stew them in a sauce-pan of water, or on the fire; strain off the liquor, and to every pint weigh 1 lb. of loaf-sugar ; put the latter in large lumps into it, in a stene or china vessel, till nearly dissolved ; then put it into a pre- serving-pan ; simmer and skim. When it will jelly on a plate, put it in small jars or glasses. CURRANTS, to Preserve for Tarts.—Let the currants be ripe.*5* cus CUR dry, and well picked. To every i % lb. of currants, put i lb. of sugar into a preserving-pan with as much juice of currants as will dissolve it; when it boils skim it, and put in the currants; boil till clear; jar, and put brandy- paper over; tie down; keep in a dry place. CURRANT SHRUB.—To every quart of juice, add i lb. of fine while sugar, and a quarter of a pint of brandy. Bottle and cork. CURRANTS, Syrups of Black. —Half a pint of strained juice of black currants ; fine sugar, 12 ozs. Dissolve the sugar in a pint of water, and boil to make a syrup. It is valuable for sore throats; it cleanses from phlegm, and abates thirst and fever. CURRANT WINE. —Gather the currants when ripe, strip them, and squeeze out the juice ; to one gallon of the juice put two gallons of cold water and two spoonfuls of yeast; let it fer- ment two days; strain through a hair sieve ; and to every gallon of liquor add 3 lbs. of loaf-sugar, stir it well together, put it in a good cask; to every 10 gallons of wine put one quart of brandy; close well up and let it stand four months, then bottle it; a few rasp- berries will improve the flavour. CURRY, Indian way of Dress- ing. — Stew your meat in water enough to cover it. Mix the curry powder with milk, salt, and lemon juice ; add this to the meat liquor; fry a few onions to a light brown, and put them in just before dishing. CURRY POWDER.—Take 3 ozs. of coriander ; 1 oz. of black pepper ; mustard and ginger, of each % oz. ; lesser cardamoms, cayenne, and cum- min seed, of each, % oz. Dty them well, and powder fine; mix, and keep in a well-stopped bottle. CURRY STEW.—Cow-heel is the best material for a dish of curry. Being mucilaginous, it absorbs the nature of the curry, and gives a better flavour to the meat. If a rabbit or fowl, cut into small bits, add butter, or rich gravy to the meat, and onion in thin slices ; put into a stew-pan. Stew over a gentle fire for twenty minutes. Mix a tablespoonful of flour with one of salt, in water, half a cupful of cream, if you like, and three or four teaspoonfuls of curry powder, and the juice of a lemon. Stir all well together, and boil from ten to twenty minutes. CURRY, to Dress. — Cut up fowls or rabbits; put yf lb. of butter into a stew-pan, and when melted put In the meat, with two onions sliced ; brown well, and add % pint of gravy; simmer 20 minutes ; mix in a basin a tablespoonful of curry powder, one of flour, and a little salt, mix it smooth with water; simmer all in the pan ao minutes ; add lemon juice, and a bit of butter. CUSTARDS, Almond. —Take of almonds, lb., blanch and beat them very fine, put them into a pint of cream, with two spoonfuls of rosewater. Sweeten it to your palate ; beat up the yolks of four eggs, very fine, and put them in. Stir altogether one way over the fire, till it is thick, and then pour it into cups. CUSTARDS, Baked.—Boil a pint of cream with some mace and cin- namon : and when it is cold, take 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs, a little rose and orange-flower water, sack, nutmeg, and sugar to your palate. Mix them well, and bake it in cups. Or, pour into a deep dish, with or without lining or rim of paste; grate nutmeg and lemon peel over the top, and bake it in a slow oven about thirty minutes. CUSTARDS, Beast. — Set a pint of beast over the fire with a little cinnamon, and three bay leaves, and let it be boiling hot. Then take it off, and have ready mixed a spoonful of flour, and the same of thick cream. Pour the hot beast upon it by degrees, mix it well together, and sweeten it to your taste. You may bake it either with crust or in cups. CUSTARDS Cheap and Good. —Boil three pints of new milk with a little lemon peel, a little cinnamon, three bay leaves, and sweeten it; rub down a large spoonful of rice flour into a cup of cold milk, and mix it with two yolks of eggs well beaten; take a basin of boil- ing milk and mix with the cold, then pour that to the boiling, stirring it one way till it begins to thicken, and is just going to boil up, then add a largeDAF cus *52 spoonful of peach water, and a little ratafia; marbles boiled in custard or any thing likely to bum, will, by shak- ing them in the saucepan, prevent its catching. CUSTARD FRITTERS. Beat the yolks of 8 eggs with a spoonful of flour, half a nutmeg, a little salt, and a glass of brandy ; add a pint of cream ; sweeten ; bake in a dish ; when cold, cut into quarters ; dip them in batter made of % pint of cream, % pint of milk, 4 eggs, a little flour, and ginger grated; fry in good lard or dripping, then strew over them grated sugar. CUSTARD, ORANGE.—Boil the juice of 12 oranges with a little of the rinds and sugar to your taste. Strain it, and when cold add a pint of cream and the yolks of 12 eggs. Stir over a slow fire until it thickens. CUSTARD, Oswego, Boiled. —Two tablespoonfuls of Oswego prepared corn to one quart of milk ; mix the com with a small quantity of the milk, and flavour it; beat up two eggs. Heat the remaindei of the milk to near boiling,—then add the mixed com, the eggs, four tablespoonfuls of sugar, and a little butter and salt. Boil it two minutes, stirring it briskly. CUSTARD PIE.— Boil a quart of milk with the rind of a lemon. Strain it, and then boil. Mix a tablespoonful of flour smoothly with two of milk, and stir it into the boiling milk. Boil a minute, constantly stirring; take off, and when cool, add three beaten eggs ; sweeten to your taste; bake in a quick oven. CUSTARD PUDDING.— Half-pint of cream ; pint of new milk, boiled ; stir in a little finely sifted flour ; add three or four table-spoonfuls of white sugar, quarter of a nutmeg grated, a tea-spoonful of lemon-peel finely cut; the yolks of two eggs. Beat well and mix. Add brandy according to taste. Then place some light puff paste round the sides of a dish, pour in the custard, and bake about half an hour. CUSTARD PUDDING, Boil- ed.—Boil a stick of cinnamon and lemon peel in a quart of thin cream, with yi lb. of sugar; when cold, add the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and mix; set over a slow fire, and stir one way, till it is thick; but do not let it boil; let it cool; butter a cloth ; dredge it with flour, tie up the custard; boil three quarters of an hour. When out, turn it upside down on the dish ; take the cloth off carefully. CUSTARDS, Rice. — Pat a blade of mace and quarter of nutmeg into a quart of cream ; boil, strain, and add to it some whole rice boiled, and a little brandy. Sweeten to your palate, stir it over the fire till it thickens, and serve it up in cups, or a dish. It may be used either hot or cold. CUSTARD, RICH.— Boil a pint of milk with lemon peel and cinna- mon ; mix a pint of cream and the yolks of five eggs well beaten. When the milk tastes of the seasoning, sweeten it enough for the whole ; pour it into the cream, stirring it well; then give the custard a simmer till of a proper thick- ness. Do not let it boil; stir the whole time one way ; season as above. 1 f. to be extremely rich put no milk, but a quart of cream to the eggs. CUTS.—All that is required in cases of incised wounds or cuts, is to clear away the surrounding blood, &c., and bring the lips of the wound closely together, retaining them in that posi- tion by slips of adhesive plaster, and if the cut be deep and extensive, support- ing it and the surrounding parts by proper bandages. In all large wounds, interstices should be left between each slip of plaster, to facilitate the escape of secreted matter, or effused blood. The first dressing should remain for three or four days, and if much pain or inflam- mation follows the accident, gentle pur- gatives should be taken. The bleeding consequent upon wounds may be stopped by pressure and rest. The application of cobweb will arrest the flow of blood. For light cuts with a knife, or any sharp instrument, the Riga balsam usually stops the bleeding immediately. CUTS.—After closing the wound, bind on toasted cheese.—Or pounded grass ; shake it off after twelve hours. D. DAFFY’S ELIXIR.—Take of the best senna, guiscum, liquorice sliced small, aniseeds, coriander seeds,DAI 153 DAN and elecampane root, of each half an ounce; raisins of the sun, stoned, a quarter of a pound: let them all be bruised and put into a quart of brandy. Let it stand by the fire for a few days, and then strain it. Good for flatulence. DAINTY BISCUITS.—A cup- ful of flour, the whites of four eggs, well beaten, 3 or 4 ozs. of beef suet, chopped fine; bitter almonds, blanched, and chopped, % oz. ; mix the yolks with six ounces of fine sugar; mix all with lemon to flavour. Bake in small tins quickly. DAINTY BREAD.—Flour, 6 lbs. ; butter, 6 02s. ; 5 or 6 eggs well beaten ; 1 % pint of milk, and sufficient yeast. Mix into a paste, and form into rolls or cakes. When risen, bake. When cool, dip in milk, and dry in a Dutch oven before the fire. DAMP WALLS.—Cover with this mixture:—boil 1 quart of linseed oil, 3 ozs. of litharge, and 4 ozs. of resin, and put on four or five coats. Or, line the wall with sheet lead, the thickness of tea lead, and fasten with copper nails. DAMP WALLS. —Boil two quarts of tar, with two ounces of kitchen grease, for a quarter of an hour, in an iron pot. Add some of this to a mixture of slaked lime and powdered glass, passed through a flour-sieve, two parts of lime and one of glass, till the mixture is like thin plaster. It must be used immediately after being mixed, and no more of it should be mixed than will coat one square foot of wall, as it quickly becomes too hard for use. For a wall merely damp, a coating one eighth of an inch thick is sufficient; but if the wall is wet, there must be a second coat. Plaster made of lime, hair, and plaster of Paris, may after- wards be laid on as a cement. DAMSON DUMPLINGS.— Line a basin with suitable crust, rolled thin, fill with damsons, and sugar, cover it with paste ; boil in a cloth for an hour. Sauce ;—melted butter, milk or cream. DAMSON JELLY. —Proceed as in Cherry Jelly, page 119. DAMSON PIE.—The same as Cherry Pu, page iiq. DAMSON PRESERVES.— Cut the damsons into pieces, and put them on the fire, with as much water as will cover them. When they are boiled, and the liquor strong, strain, and add to every pound of the damsons 1 lb. of refined sugar. Put one third of it into the liquor, put on the fire, and when it simmers, put in the damsons. Give one good boil, and take off for half an hour covered close. Set them on again, and simmer over the fire after turning them. Then put them in a basin, stew all the sugar that was left on them, and pour the hot liquor over them. Cover ; let them stand till the next day, and then boil them up again till they are enough. Then put them in pots; boil the liquor till it jellies, and pour it upon them when almost cold. Put paper over them, and tie them up close. DAMSON PUDDING.—Four or five table-spoonfuls of flour, three eggs beaten, a pint of milk, made into batter. Stone 1% lbs. of damsons, put them and 6 ozs. of sugar into the batter, and boil in a buttered basin for one hour and a half. DAMSON WINE.—Takeseven or eight pounds of fruit to a gallon of water. Bruise the damsons, and pour the water boiling upon them. Let it stand two or three days. Draw off the liquor, and to every gallon of liquor, add three pounds of sugar. Barrel and stop it close. It should be kept several months before using it. DANCING has ever been a great source of amusement. It expresses joy and hilarity by gestures and attitudes of various yet graceful kinds. Few exercises are more beneficial to the body than dancing. It preserves and restores health, if used in modera- tion ; it gives exercise to the organs of life ; and elasticity to the muscles ; the lungs are expanded, the circulation of the blood is promoted ; it gives tone to the stomach, and promotes all the necessary secretions and p, "events all obstructions in the viscera. "At first they move slowly, with mutton aci3 grace, Tike horses when just setting out on u raou: For danoers a,t bulla, juat like horses at moos. Must amble a Utti« to nhow oft thoir psoss.DAN 154 DAN " The music plays faster; their raptures bwrin; Like lambkins they skip, like teetotums they spin; Now draperies whirl, and now petticoats fly, And ankles, at least, are exposed to the eye. “O’er the well-polished ball-room in circles they swim; He smiles upon her, and she smiles upon him. Her hand on his shoulder is tenderly placed; His arm quite as tenderly circles her waist. " They still bear in mind, aa they’re turning each other. The proverb, “ One good turn’s deserving ano- ther;” And these bodily turns often end, it is said. In turning the lady’s or gentleman’s head." French Terms Used in Dancing. A droite—To the right. A gauche—To the left. A vos places—To your places. A la fin—To the end. Assortment du Quadrille—A set of Quadrilles. A rebour—The wrong or reverse way. Balancez—Set to partners. Balances d vos dames—Gentlemen dance four bars before their partners. Balances cn rond—All join hands and set in a circle. Balances en moulinet—Gentlemen join right hands with partners, and set in form of a cross. Balances quatre en ligne—Four set in a line, joining hands. Balances aux coins—To set at the corners. Balances quatre sans vous quitter la main—Four persons dance without quitting hands. Ballotez—A step repeated four times in the same position. Chaine Anglaise— Right and left. Chainc Anglaise double—All the couples perform the figure at the same time. Chaine des dames-—Ladies' chain. Chaine des dames double—The whole of the ladies commence at the same time. Chasses croisez, tous les huit, et de- chassez—Gentlemen all change places with partners and back again. Chasses et d/chasses—To move to the right and left. Change des dames—To change ladies. Contre partie pour les autres—The other dancers do the same. Demi chaine Anglaise—Half right and left. Demi promenade—Half promenade. Demi tour d quatre—Four hands half round. Demi moulinet—Ladies advance to the centre, give right hands half round, return to places. En avant quatre—The first and oppo- site couple advance and retire. En avant trois deux fois—Three persons advance twice. En avant deux et en arrilre—Four opposite persons advance and retire. Figuerez devant—Dance before. Holubieeh— Mazurka step, turning round to each lady. La dame—The lady. La grand chaine—All eight move round, giving alternately right and left hands to partners, beginning with the right. La grand promenade—All eight pro- menade quite round to places, lead- ing to the right. Le cavalier—The gentleman. Le grand quarre—The eight dancers in the figure to form squares. Moulinet—Hands across. The figure will explain if it is the gentlemen, or the ladies, or all eight. Pas d'Allemandc — Each gentleman turns his partner once under his arm, either side. Queue du chat entier—The four oppo- site persons promenade quite round. Retravcrscs—Return to places. Rctravcrses deux en donnant la main gauche—Recross, giving left hands. Traverses — Two opposite persons change places. Traverses deux en donnant la main droite—The two opposite persons cross over, giving right hands. Tour aux coins—Turn at the comets. Tour des mains—Turn and give both hands. Pantalon—First figure in a Quadrille. L'Etl—Second figure in a Quadrille. La Poule—Third figure in a Quadrille. Trenise and La Pastorale — Fourth figure in a Quadrille. La Finale—Fifth figure in a Quadrille. First Set of Quadrilles. 1 Le Pantalon.—Right and left, set and turn partners, lady’s chain, half promenade, half right and left; then sides repeat. 2 Le Ete.—First lady and oppo- site gentleman advance and retire twice,DAN 155 DAN chassez to the right and left, cross and advance again then retire, chassez to the right and left, recross and turn partners. 3 La Poule.—First lady and op- posite gentleman cross to each others places, presenting the right hand. Re- turn, taking left hands half way giving right hands to their partners who ad- vance to meet them. Set now in a line of four, half promenade ; the lady and gentleman advance, and retire twice, the four advance and retire, half right and left to places. 4 La Trenise.— Ladies’ chain, set, and turn to partners; first couple advance twice, leaving the lady at the left of the opposite gentleman, first gentleman retires ; two ladies cross over and change sides, while the first gentle- man passes between them up the centre, the same repeated to places, set, and turn partners. (This is omitted when " La Pastorale” Is danced.) 5 La Pastorale.—The first couple advance twice, leaving the lady on the left of the opposite gentleman, the first gentleman then retires. Three advance twice and retire, first gentleman ad- vances twice and retires, hands round by four, half right and left to places. 6 La Finale.—Grand Rond (gal- ope promenade) and L' Et£, or advance four and retire, cross over, advance and retire, recross, and ladies' chain. The Caledonians. 1 The two leading dancers hands across and back,—set to partners and turn,—ladies’ chain,—half promenade, half right and left. 2 The first gentleman advances and retires twice—set at comers, and turn, each lady passing into the next lady’s place, having changed partners, all pro- menade quite round, the second, third and fourth gentleman repeat the figure, fall to places. 3 The leading lady and opposite gentleman advance and retire, advance and turn to places,—the top couple pass between the opposite couple, and return outside,—all set at comers and turn, grand round, advancing once only, turn partners. 4 The leading lady and opposite gentleman advance and stop, partners advance—turn partners to places,—four ladies’ move to the right, each lady taking the next lady’s place, and stop— gentlemen to the left—same repeated, promenade to places, turn partners. 5 The leading couple promenade round inside the figure.—the four ladies’ advance, move to each other, and re- tire ; the four gentlemen do the same and bow. Set to partners and turn, grand chain, half round, promenade to places and turn partners. All Ckassex Croisex, other couples repeat in succes- sion, promenade for finale. Lancers Quadrilles. 1 La Rose.—In this, the first or leading lady and opposite gentleman advance and set, turn with right hands round to places, the first couple cross over, leading between the opposite couple, who cross over on the outside, return on the outside, the other return between, set at the comers, and turn to places. Repeated by the other couples. 2 La Lodowiska.—First couple advance and retire, again advance, the lady remaining in the centre, the gen- tleman retiring to place, ckassex to right and left, turn partner to place, the side couples join hands with top and bottom couples, all advance in two lines, and turn partners to places. The same by other couples. 3 La Dorset.—First lady advance and stop, then the opposite gentle- man advance and stop, lady retires to place, then the gentleman retires, four ladies’ right hands across half round, re- turn with left hands back to places while the gentlemen lead, half round outside to the right, returning by the left to places. Repeated by the other couples. 4 L’Etoile.—Fust couple lead to the couple on their right, partially retire, then to the couple on the left re- maining opposite to them, ckassex croiscr and set, turn partners to places, right and left. 5 Les Lanciers. — The grand chain quite round, (sixteen bars,) the first couple advance and turn half round, then the couple on the right advance, following the first couple, then the cou- ple on the left follow, then the last couple forming two lines, ckassex croiser and set, back again and set, cast off in two lines, ladies going to the right, gen-*56 DAN DAW tlemen to the left, meet your partners, advance, and set back again, forming two lines, all advance and retire, turn partners to places. Grand chain at finish. Mazourka.—This a Polish dance, The position is the same as for a quad- rille. Eight bars of music are played before commencing each figure. The gentlemen take their ladies by the hand round to the left; at the end of which the ladies pass to the left of their part- ners, without leaving their hands. Set, by all the couples turning twice round in their places, and changing hands at the second turn; at the end of which the ladies resume their places. The first gentleman then leads his partner forward, and make her pass from one hand to another, round him. They set in the centre, turning ; the gentleman doing the step holupca, while the lady, whose left hand he holds with his left hand, behind his back, and the right before passes round him. They change hands and turn, with the same steps, in a contrary direction. This last turn must be finished opposite to the side couple on his left, with whom the gen- tleman exchanges partner and performs the same figure, which he afterwards repeats with the other two ladies. The other gentlemen, each in turn, dance the sarv.e figure. Figure 2 Right and left with side couple. Set, turning ; the ladies having previously passed to the left of their partners. The first gentleman leads his partner and the lady on his left forwards and round the circle. When they have reached the centre of it, he gives a stamp with his foot, on the eighth bar ; at the same moment both ladies pirouette rapidly, and place at the end, their arm in attitude on the gentleman's shoulder. The three set, turning and going back to their places ; the gentleman holding the two ladies by the waist, immediate- ly after the pirouette. The other gentle- men repeat the same figure. Figure j Right and left all round. The first gentleman leads bis partner all round, and kneels at the end of this promenade. Holding his lady by the left hand, be makes her pass round him, and rises quickly at the eighth bar. Set in turning. The other gentlemen do the same. Finish by Kolo, or hands round to the right. Galopade.—First Figure. -Ladies chain half double ; turn comers ; then first couple advance and salute; same with opposite partners ; second, third, and fourth couple the same figure ; half double ladies' chain, turn comers ; four ladies advance to the centre, and salute to the left; four gendemen perform the same figure ; half promenade to places ; turn partners. Second Figure.—Le Grand promenade with galopade A-la-chasse ; top and bot- tom couples lead to right, and set, hands four round ; separate into two lines; the first gentleman and opposite lady lead down the centre, other couples following, and return outside; finish with quick galopade step. Third Figure.—All turn with right hand to partners ; set in a circle, and turn to places ; first couple advance and leave the lady at left of opposite gentle- man ; salute round with partner ; then with opposite lady ; hands four round to places; turn partners; half chassez croisez ; turn comers ; repeat the same to places. Waltz Finale.—Balances, turn cor- ners, each lady taking next lady’s place ; repeat the figure until each lady is with her partner; first couple advance and retire with the partner at left; reel with the same lady ; ladies waltz quite round to the right; gentlemen at the same waltz half round to left; ladies’ hands across half round, give left hand to partner ; set and turn to partners; waltz to places. Country Dance.—Dashing white Sergeant. The leading lady and gentleman cross, and pass round below the second couple ; they then turn with the right hand, halting between the second couple ; the four then form a line, the second couple being outside, advance and retire ; advance again, and turn down the middle and back again, and chassez; remaining couples con- tinue the figure. The above is one of the most elegant Country dances, and when danced by a good number has a very imposing effect. Polka. — The Gentleman places his right hand on the lady’s waist,DAN * 57 DAN taking her right hand in his left, the lady then placing her left hand on the gentleman’s right shoulder, and giving her right hand to the gentleman in the same manner. The waltz may be done by turning to the right or left, or from side to side, or forward and back with- out turning, just at the discretion of the performers ; it must be done in such a manner as to avoid coming into collision with other couples. The gentleman should guide the iady, and regulate his steps by hers. It is better not to at- tempt this or any other dance, except he or she has had a little instruction. The Schottische.—The gentle- man places his right arm to encircle the lady’s waist, her left hand resting on his shoulder, the gentleman holding the lady’s right hand in his left. The gentleman then commences to slide his left foot to the side, hopping on the same foot; he then slides to the right side, and again hops; this he repeats, forming four steps and four bops; he then repeats the same step four times, turning round on each hop. The above is danced during sixteen bars of music. The gentleman then moves the left foot with a slight glissade to the side, bringing the right foot up. In the third position move the left foot forward, and again hep. Repeat with the right foot to the right side, then with the left foot commence the step, and hop four times, turning as before on each hop. This will occupy eight bars, and will bring you to the original position, repeat again. The lady makes the same steps as the gentleman, only using the right foot to her partners left. Sir Roger de Coverly.—It is similar to all country dances, the gentle- men in one line, the ladies in another, facing their partners. All advance and retire; cross over; again advance and retire; recross to places. This is omitted on some occasions, the figure being then commenced as follows :—top lady and bottom gentleman advance to meet each other, bow and courtesy, and return to places. Top gentleman and bottom lady do the same. Top lady and bottom gentleman again advance, present right hands, and pass quickly round each other to places. Bottom lady and top gentleman again advance, give left hands, and pass quickly round to places, top gentleman and bottom lady the same. The beginning couple advance and turn with both hands quite round to places, the same by the follow- i ing couple, first couple advance back to back and retire to places, the same by the other couple. The beginning couple advance, bow to each other and retire; this is repeated by the other couple. The top gentleman then turns to the left and his partner turns to the right; all the other ladies and gentlemen turn and follow the leaders, who run to the bottom of the room, giving right hands and raising their arms, while all the other couples pass under the arch. The first lady and gentleman remain at the bottom of the room, and the figure is then repeated by the other couples in succession. Valse a troi temps.—Known as the old Valse. It is composed of three steps, the gentleman begins with the left foot, with a gliding step, making one step to the left and two backward in turning one half round; he then with the right foot, makes three steps forward in turning the other half round. The lady waltzes after the same manner, she slides to the right with the right foot. Valse a deux temps. — The position is the same in this Valse as in the Valse H troi temps ; it occupies three intervals like the Irois temps, only they are otherwise divided. The first con- sists of a sliding step, the second by a chassi which include two intervals in one. This chassi is performed by bringing one foot behind the other: which is then moved forward, backward, to the right, left, or round as required. The gentleman begins by sliding (glissade or slide) his left foot to the left, then performing a chassi towards the left with his right foot, without turning at all during the two first times. He then slides his right foot backwards, turning half round ; after which he places his left loot behind to make a little chasst forward, turning round for the second interval. He must finish with his right foot a little forward, and begin again with his left. The lady waltzes in a similar manner, only at the first time she slides to the right with the fight foot, and performsDEA DAN *5* the chassex also on the right. She must then continue the same as the gentleman, but a contre pied: that is she slides with her right foot when the gentleman slides with his left; and when the gentleman slides with his right foot, she slides with her left to the left. The beauty of this waltz is never to jump, but only to slide. Make the steps rather wide, and keep the knees slightly bent. DANDELION.—This very valu- able plant is well known, It is diuretic, tonic, and aperient, and has a direct action in removing obstructions of the liver, kidneys, and other viscera. It is peculiarly valuable in all liver com- plaints, derangement of the digestive organs, and in dropsical affections. Had not this plant been so common and so cheap, it would be prized like gold! An infusion or decoction may be made of the roots and leaves. But the extract is the best, thus prepared: —Take up the roots in September, clean them; bruise in a mortar, and press out the juice : strain, and put it upon a plate in a warm room to evapo- rate, and render it thick and solid, Dose : from a scruple to a'drachm three times a day. Dandelion has cured liver complaints when all other means have failed. “ The more dandelion is used, the more certain proof will, it afford of its utility." Dr. J. Johnson. DANDELION BEER.—Dan- delion root, lb. to 1 gallon of water ; boil well, and when cooled new milk warm, add 1 lb. sugar, 1 oz. ginger, a lemon, and 1 oz. cream of tartar. Add a little yeast It is very good for the liver and digestion. Young nettles, balm, or any other herb may be treated the same way. DANDELION COFFEE. — Good colonial coffee, 3 parts ; hard ex- tract of dandelion, 1 part; chicory, 1 part. Reduce them to coarse powder, and mix, and grind them together. Good for digestion and affections of the liver. DEAFNESS.—Fox-glove leaves well bruised ; mix the juice with double the quantity of brandy. Keep for use. Drop one drop into the ear once a day, Mid place in the ear a small piece of sponge saturated with it. Or, clean the ear well out with warm water, dry it, and then soak sponge in glycer- ine, and put it into the ear, moving it backwards and forwards, to lubricate it thoroughly. Or, syringe the ears well with warm milk and oil; then take opodeldoc, and oil of almonds, of each, % oz., and apply with sponge or lint. Or, fill a clean stone bottle with hot water; lay the ear on the bottle as hot as it can be borne, so that the steam may ascend into it every night when going to bed, for five or ten minutes. Or, take fine black wool, dip it in Camphorated Oil, and put it into the ear ; as it dries, dip it again; and keep it moistened in the ear for two or three weeks. Be electrified through the ear. Or, put a little salt in the ear mixed with sweet oil. Or, three drops of onion juice at lying down, keeping it in with lint.- Or, mix brandy and sweet oil; dip black wool in this and put it into the ear. When it grows dry, wash it well in brandy ; dip it and put it in again.—If attended with headache, peel a clove of garlic, dip it in honey. Apply it with black wool. Previously drop into the ear a few drops of the juice.—A mixture of ten drops of spirit of turpentine with 1 oz. of almond oil, using black wool, will tend to the cure of deafness arising from diseased ceru- minous glands.—If deafness arises from wax, syringe the ear with warm water, applying the night before a little glycer- ine. DEAFNESS, If recent, to Cure.—If not, to Relieve.—Hen’s oil, 1 gill; and a single handful of the sweet clover raised in gardens ; stew it in the oil until the juice is all out, strain it, and bottle for use. Where deafness is recent, it will be cured by putting 3 or 4 drops daily into the ear, but if of long standing, much relief will be obtained if continued a sufficient length of time. DEAFNESS.—Take the juice of foxglove leaves, and an equal quantity of best brandy. Mix. Put 2 drops into the ear at bed-time. Stop the ear with a little lint or sponge, wet with the same mixture.159 DJA DEA It has cured many persons, some who had been deaf many years. Or, take the juice of a frosted turnip, and apply on sponge. Or, saturate a piece of grey wool with your own urine, when warm, and apply it very wet 3 times a day. DEAFNESS CURED BY ETHER.—The method consists in introducing sulphuric ether into the aural conduit, in doses of two to 8 drops a day for twenty days, when the application is suspended for a |short time, and again commenced. Much has been said in France about sulphuric ether, it does very well in some cases, but does not as a rule give general satisfaction. An eminent physician says,—“Take sassafras oil, 5 drops ; sweet oil, % oz. Mix, and drop into the ear once or twice a day.” He says that this seldom fails. —Or, saturate a little lint with tincture of Lobelia, and insert twice a day. Avoid the use of all mercurial prepara- tions in any disease ; an eminent physi- cian says, “ that most cases of deafness have been caused by the use of mercury. Some Medical men speak strongly against the use of cotton wool put in the ear, they say the fibres often fasten to the wax and are drawn inward, causing deafness. DELIRIUM TREMENS.— This is the disease of drunkards, and those who take narcotics, as opium, &c. It may be called " the brain fever of drunkards." The person is tremulous, has nausea, vomiting, and wakefulness, restlessness; he raves, and imagines snakes, demons, &c., are about him. This disease doubtless arises from extreme stimulus of the brain. To Cure.—First allay the par- oxysm, calm and support the nervous system, by giving brandy and other spirits. The redness of the face, and the pulsation of the arteries, heart, &c., indicate determination of blood to the head. Equalize the circulation by bath- ing the feet and legs in warm ley-water, then apply mustard plasters to the feet and nape of the neck. Give a purge ; and now and then a cupful of valerian scull-cap, or strong hop tea, or from ro to 20 drops of laudanum. Emetics are very useful, and may be Rivet) In the same kind of spirits the patient has been accustomed to take. A strong decoction of wormwood is successfully used in American hospitals. DELIRIUM TREMENS, to obtain Sleep.—Give an emetic of ipecacuanha, then give 15 to 18 grains of the same, every 2 hours, using the shower bath, and giving all the beef tea the patient desires. The danger arising from the sudden stop of their accustomed stimulants, is overcome by administering, freely, a strong decoction of wormwood. This has been very successfully used in Amer- can Hospitals. Or, use the Stimulat- ing Anodyne, page 378. Give also strong coffee. DEMULCENTS. — Medicines moistening, softening, and abating irri- tation in a part. DENTIFRICE, Indian.—Pro- cure 6 betel nuts from a drysalter’s, and place them in a charcoal fire, until they become white hot. When they are cold, place them in a mortar, and re- duce them to fine powder. Deposit in boxes for use. It may be scented with orange flower water or extract of orris root. This tooth powder is prized for its antiseptic efficacy, dispelling all im- purities of the teeth and gums, and pre- serving the enamel from corrosion. DENTIFRICE, Invaluable.— Dissolve nearly a tea-spoonful of finely powdered borax in half a pint of tepid water ; add to it 10 drops of tincture of myiTh.—Or, prepared chalk, 1 oz. ; camphor, 1 drachm. Mix. Dissolve the camphor in a little spirits of wine.— Or, Cuttlefish, 3 ozs. ; cream of tartar, oz. ; orris root, oz. Powder all fine. Mix, and add xo drops of tincture of myrrh. DEPILATORY. — To remwe superfluous Hairs.—Saturate the part well with fine oiL In about an hour, wipe it off; then take finely powdered quick lime, 1 oz. ; powdered orpiment, 1 drachm; mix with white of egg; and apply with a small brush. DETERGENT S.—Deterge means to cleanse. Detergents remove unwholesome matters adhering tc, and obstructing the vessels , usually applied to foul ulcers, &c., as tincture of myrrh, honey, alum, water, turpentine.DIN DEV 160 DEVONSHIRE SOUP.-Lean beef, a lbs. ; 6 onions, 6 potatoes, x car- rot, i turnip, % a pint of split peas, i gallon of water, a head of celery, and a nice herring, with salt and pepper. When boiled, pass through a sieve, add spinach and celery boiled, dried mint, and toasted bread. D I A B E T E S.—An excessive discharge of urine. Sassafras, 3 oz.; guiacuiu, r. oz. ; liquorice root, 3 ozs. ; coriander seeds, bruised, 6 drachms ; infuse in 1 gallon of cold lime water for 2 days. Take a cupful 3 or 4 times a day. Or 4 ozs. of alum whey may be taken 3 times a day. Made thus—Boil 2 quarts of milk over a slow fire, with 3 drachms of alum till turned into whey. Or, take Diuretic Drops, page 162.— Give the Bitter Vapour Bath occasion- ally, and rub the body well with the Stimulating Liniment. If the bowels are constipated, give the Cathartic Powder. DIABETES. — Drink wine, boiled with ginger, as much and as often as your strength will bear. Let your drink be milk and water. All milk meats are good.—Or, drink 3 or 4 times a-day a of a pint of alum pos- set, putting 3 drachms of alum to 4 pints of milk. It seldom fails to cure in 8 or 10 days.—Dr. Mead.—Or, infuse % oz. of cantharides in a pint of elixir of vitrioL Give from 10 to 30 drops in Bristol water 2 or 3 times a-day. DIAMOND CEMENT.—Take Isinglass, soak it in water until it be- comes soft, then dissolve it in proof- spirit, and add a little resin varnish. Used for joining china, glass, &c., and, under the name of " Armenian cement," for joining and fixing precious stones. DIAPHORETICS.— Medicines producing perspiration, or gentle sweat. DIAPHORETIC POWDER. —Ipecacuanha powder, 2 grains ; puri- fied opium, % grain ; nitrate of potass, or saltpetre, 10 grains. Take at bed- time in a severe attack of influenza, or bronchitis, in gruel. ig^T Henbane is preferable to opium. DIAPHORETIC DECOC- TION.—Simply 2 or 3 ozs. of Pleu- rfsyroot, boiled in 2 or g pints of water. A tea-cupful. A good remedy for pleu- risy, and inflammation of the lungs. DIARRHCEA.-From the Greek, dia rheo, to flow through. It is an un- due relaxed state of the bowels, as in- duced by improper food, drunkenness, cold; or it may be a symptom of another disease, as consumption, &c. The Neutralising Mixture will be found efficacious in this complaint.—Or take a tea-spoonful of Composition Pow- der, and x of tincture of myrrh, and keep the patient warm. The following are good remedies :— To 1 quart of blackberry juice add 1 lb. of white sugar, 1 table-spoonful of cloves, I of allspice, I of cinnamon, and 1 of nutmeg. Boil all together 15 min- utes ; add a wineglassful of whiskey, brandy, or rum. Bottle while hot, cork tight and s6ah This is almost a speci- fic in diarrhoea. Dose : a wineglassfhl for an adult—% for a child—will often cure diarrhoea. Take 3 or 4 times a day if the case is severe-. Or, Confection of catechu, 2 drachms, cinnamon water, 4 ozs.; syrup of white poppies, 1 oz.; mix together. 1 or 2 table-spoonfuls to be taken 2 or 3 times a day as required ; for children under 10 years of age, a dessert spoonful to be used ; under 2 years, a teaspoonful, also 2 or 3 times a-day, as above stated. Draught for Diarrhoea. Take tincture of opium, 30 drops ; prepared chalk, 2 drs. ; powdered gum, 4 drs.; tincture of catechu, 2 drs. ; rose-water, 2 ozs. Mix, and take a table-spoonful 3 or 4 times a-day. Or fill a small basin with dry flour, tightly cover it with a greased cloth; boil it 3 hours. Then let it cool. For use, grate a dessert spoonful of it into peppermint water; more for an adult. —Or make a strong tea of blackberry leaves, or raspberry leaves. I have known the latter superior to all physi- cians. Follow it with a little port wine, grated nutmeg and ginger. Or, take of poplar bark, lA oz.; prickly ash berries, % oz. ; fleabane, % oz.; slippery elm, 1 drachm; pour on them a pint of boiling water ; infuse two or three hours.—Tonics must be given after the cessation of the relax. DINING TABLES, to Polish. —Put a little cold-drawn linseed oil InIOI DIN DIS the middle of a table, and then with a piece of linen rub it well over the table; repeatedly change the linen till the table is dry. The table, by repeating this process, will assume a beautiful polish. DINNER PILLS.—Aloes and jalap, of each a ozs. ; rhubarbj % oz. Make into three grain pills with syrups of wormwood. Take from one to four during the day. DIPHTHERIA.—“I have had the treatment of several cases, and have uniformly been successful; the remedy is very simple. It is the external appli- cation of water to the throat, at degrees of temperature alternating from the highest that the human skin will bear, down to almost zero. I am prepared to verify that by proof. A HENDER- SON, M.R.C.S., Eng. 13, Upper Sey- mour St., Portman Square, London, 1858. M. Roche mentions in L' Union Medi- cult that he had saved six patients in six cases of diphtheria by the following mode of treatment. The false mem- branes were first freely cauterized with lunar caustic, and injections then made every hour against the fauces with a solution of common salt, the strength of the solution being such as not to create nausea. Cholorate of potash was also given internally; and tincture of iodine as a topical application, was used in half the cases ; but M. Roche considers that the irrigations with the solution of common salt were the chief agents in the case. DIPHTHERIA, American Remedy for.—Make two small bags to reach from ear to ear, and fill them with wood ashes and salt; dip them in hot water, and wring them out so that they will not drip, and apply them to the throat; cover up the whole with a flan- nel cloth, and change them as often as they become cool, until the throat be- comes irritated, near blistering. For children it is necessary to put flannel cloths between the ashes and the throat to prevent blistering, When the ashes have been on a sufficient time take a wet flannel cloth and rub it with castile soap until it is covered with a thick lather; dip it in hot water, and apply it to the throat, and change as they cool; at the same time use a gargle made of one tea-spoonful of cayenne pepper, one of salt, one of molasses, in a tea-cupful of hot water, and when cool, add one- fourth as much cider, vinegar, and gar- gle every 15 minutes, until the patient requires sleep. A gargle made of cas- tile soap is good to be used part of the time. A correspondent in Maine, in sending the above remedy, says there had been a number of deaths from diphtheria until this remedy was used, since then all had recovered. The Sulphur Treatment of Diphtheria.—An eminent London physician has worked great wonders in treating diphtheria as follows : "He put a teaspoonful of flour of brimstone into a wine-glass of water, and stirred it well with his finger instead of a spoon. When the sulphur was well mixed he gave it as a gargle, and in ten minutes the patent was out of danger. Instead of spitting out the gargle the patient must swallow it. In extreme cases in which he had been called just in time, when the fungus was too nearly closing to allow the gargle, he blew the sulphur through a quill into the throat, and, if the fungus had shrunk to allow of it, then the gargling. He never lost a patient from diphtheria. If a patient cannot gargle, take a live coal, put it on a shovel, and sprinkle a spoonful or two of flour of brimstone at a time upon it; let the sufferer inhale it, holding the mouth over it, and the fungus will die. “ If plentifully used, the whole room may be filled almqst to suffocation, and the patient can walk about in it, inhal- ing the fumes, with doors and windows closed.” DIPHTHERIA.—A gentleman who has administered the following remedy for diphtheria says that it has always proved effectual: Take a to- bacco pipe, place a live coal in the bowl, drop a little tar upon the coal, and let the patient draw smoke into the mouth, and discharge it through the nostrils. The remedy is safe and simple. DISCUTIENT OINTMENT. —Deadly night-shade, bark of bitter- sweet root, cicuta leaves, stramonium leaves, of each 3 ozs.; lard. 1% lb.162 Dru DXS Bruise and simmer the roots in spirits ; then add the lard, and simmer till the ingredients are crisp, and strain. A great disperser of scrofulous and gland- ulor swellings. DISCOUNT TABLE. per cent s. d. 0% is • • 0 6 per £ 3 11 • • 0 7% M 4 11 • • 0 » 5 11 • • I II 6 11 • • I „ 7& 11 • • I 6 „ 10 11 • e 2 0 „ 12% 11 • • 2 6 IS 11 ■ • 3 0 „ 17^ 11 • • 3 6 20 11 • • 4 0 .. 22 x 11 • • 4 6 „ 25 11 • • 5 0 » 30 11 • • 6 0 „ 35 11 • • 7 0 „ DISEASE Indications Disease sometimes attacks suddenly; sometimes it comes on slowly. Irrita- tion and inflammation make themselves understood at once. Mental depres- sion is often a sign of failing health. Fevers have four stages :— 1 The forming stage, characterised by a feeling of weariness, aching of the limbs, pain in the back, loss of appetite and sleep, and depression of spirits. 2 The cold stage. A chill over the entire body is felt, with drowsiness, prostration, and sometimes by sickness. 3 The hot stage, when heat follows the chilliness, and the skin becomes flushed and dry. Great headache pre- vails, restlessness, intense thirst, nau- sea, and tight and sound give pain. 4 The last stage, in favourable cases, Is marked by perspiration and by some relief from pain. The state of the tongue indicates health or disease. Florid redness is a sign of dyspepsia; a livid or purple tongue, shows obstruction in the cir- culation, or lungs; a white tongue denotes a weak and impoverished state of the blood; a furred tongue is com- mon to some people even when in health, but when there are bright red points perceptible beneath the fur, fever Is present; a tongue with red edges and furred in the middle is a sign of intem- perance, or brain disorder. DISINFECTANTS. —The most effectual and agreeable is coffee. Even the smell of musk and castor, which cannot be overpowered by any other substance, is completely dispelled by the fumes of coffee. Powder the beans well in a mortar, and strew the powder over a heated shovel or iron plate. Carry it up and down the house to neutralize all offensive smells. Or, in a quart of water dissolve three ozs. of sugar of lead, and then add three ounces of aquafortis. Shake up well. It is efficacious, in removing offensive smells from chamber utensils. Sprinkle the place or room infected, or hang up cloths dipped in it. See Chloride Lime.—Or, saltpetre, 6 drachms, sul- phuric acid, 1 oz.; add the acid very slowly. Stir oft, that it may be diffused. —It prevents infection in fevers. DIURETICS. —Medicines in- creasing the secretion of the urine. DIURETIC DECOCTION.— Queen of the meadow, wild carrot seed, spearmint, milkweed, dwarf elder, juni- per-berries, of each, 2 ozs. Bruise, and boil a short time in two quarts of water. Very useful in gravel and dropsy. A cupful to be taken occasionally. DIURETIC DROPS.— Tinc- ture of kino, K oz. ; balsam of copaiba, spirits of turpentine, of each 1 oz.; sweet spirits of nitre, 2 oz.; queen of the meadow, 1 oz. Mix, and add x scruple of camphor. Take nearly a tea-spoonful in mucilage. Most valu- able for scalding urine, inflammation of the kidneys, &c. DIURETIC DROPS.—Sweet spirit of nitre, 1 oz.; aromatic tincture, X oz. Mix. Fifty drops may be taken 3 or 4 times a day, in wine and water. This will be found very efficient in re- moving obstructions in the kidneys, and promoting the natural flow of urine. DIURETIC INFUSION. — Paisley seeds, oz.; cleavers, X oz.; burdock seeds, X oz.; coolwort, X ox.; spearmint, oz.; Juniper berries, X oz.; linseed, X oz.; gum arabic, X oz. Pour upon these two quarts of boil- ing water; infuse two or three hours, covering the vessel. Strain, and add half a pint of best gin, 4 ounces of honey, and three table-spoonfuls of slippery elm. This Is a most valuableDfU BRA 163 diuretic; it is cooling, and allays all urinary affections, gravel, scalding of urine, and it causes an easy and suffi- cient flow of the same. DIURETIC PILLS.—Calcined magnesia, 1 drachm ; solidified copaiba, 2 ozs. ; extract of cubebs, 1 oz. ; oil of turpentine, 4 drops; oil of juniper, 6 drops ; form into 3 grain pills. Take one or two a few times a-day. A sovereign remedy for diseases of the kidneys, bladder, urethra, gravel, whites, and venereal complaints. DOMESTIC RULES.—Have a place for every thing—and every thing in its place, when wanted.—Do every- thing in its proper time.—Keep every thing to its proper use.—Keep your temper, and be forbearing.—Be econo- mical, and not extravagant. Avoid luxuries ; plain living is best for bodily health, and mental comfort.—Avoid intemperance, as you would the fiercest tiger. DOMINOES.— The game is played with a set of ivory parallelo- grams 23 in number, marked on the face with black indented spots. In playing an ordinary game each player draws one after the pieces have been shuffled face downwards, and if four play those who have the two highest numbers are declared partners against the two whose numbers are lowest. The lowest gives the right to play first. Each player then takes a certain number as may be agreed on, five or seven from the lot, and arranges them in his hand, he then calculates his chance of winning by the number of spots on the pieces. The first player then puts down a dominoe whatever number of spots on it he likes, his object is to get rid of his double sixes, fives, &c., and the sooner he plays the lot the sooner he is the winner. When a player has no dominoe that corres- ponds to the spots at either end, he says ' can't go.’ The next player goes on, but if he cannot play then the spots on the remaining pieces are counted, and the player who has the smallest number wins the game. Rules for Playing.—1. A domi- noe once laid down that corresponds at either end, must be played and cannot be recalled. 2. A dominoe once exposed must be played at the earliest opportunity. , 3. A dominoe exposed in shuffling must be turned face upward, and re- main so till the end of the game. 4. No player is allowed to ask advice from a non-player without the consent of his adversary, otherwise he loses the game. 5. Each player has a right to shuffle the dominoes. 6. A dominoe wrongly played, and discovered before two moves have been made, must be removed, and the right one played, should three moves be made before it is discovered then the dominoe holds good. 7. The holder of the highest double dominoe in his hand, has the first move, after that each player takes the lead, alternately. 8. A dominoe played out of its turn must be left exposed on the table until it can be played. 9. If a placer abandons the game before it is finished he loses. DOUGH-NUTS.— Make into dough, 1 lb. of flour, lb. of butter ; lbs. of fine sugar ; a nutmeg grated, a little cinnamon, a table-spoonful of yeast, and milk sufficient to mix. Let it rise an hour; form in squares, diamonds, twists, and bake, or fry. DOVER’S POWDER.—Ipe- cacuanha, in powder, 1 drachm ; pow- dered opium, one drachm ; powdered saltpetre, 1 oz. All well mixed. Dose, from 8 to 20 grains. DRAUGHTS.—Each player al- ternately moves one of his men forward at a right angle to the next white square ; and when a man is moved to a square adjoining an enemy, and the square behind that man angularly is unoccupied or becomes so, that man must be captured by the adversary by leaping over with his own man to the vacant square, and the man leaped over is removed from the board. When any man gets to the other end of the board, he becomes a king, and is crowned by placing one of the captured men upon him, he then can move and take either forwards or backwards in an angular direction ; and when any player neglects to capture the adversary when he has the opportunity, he then is said164 DRO DRI to stand the "Huff.” The following are the Laws of the Game :— 1. The first move of each game to be taken alternately. 2. Pointing over the board, or other- wise interrupting the view is not per- mitted. 3. Whoever touches a man must play him somewhere ; and if a man is removed into another square, he must remain there. 4. In case of standing the " huff,” it is optional with the adversary to take the man or insist upon him taking his omitted by the “ huff.” 5. If either party, when it is his turn to move, hesitates for a longer period than three minutes, the other may call upon him to play; and if, after so calling upon him, he delay longer than five minutes, he loses the game. 6. During a game neither party must leave the room without the permission of the other ; and a third person should decide the time of absence. 6. When the draws are given to an Inferior player, the game must be played in a more advanced state; and when the situations become so equal that no advantage can be gained, then he who gives the draws shall either force the other out of his strong position, or he must be considered to have lost the game. DRINK, Strengthening.—Put to a cupful of pearl barley, with three pints of cold water, the rind of a lemon, and a Small piece of cinnamon. Boil gently till the barley is tender; add % oz. of extract of sarsaparilla, and boil gently five minutes more. Strain, and sweeten with honey, or sugar. You may add ginger or cayenne, if flatulent, or, phlegmatic. DRINK FOR THE SICK— Take half an ounce of sugar-candy, quarter of an ounce of cream of tartar, and a few lemon and orange chips; pour upon them one quart of boiling water. When cold pour off. DRIPPING, to Clarify—Put water in a pan, boil, and pour your dripping in; cool, and the dripping will swim at the top, while all impurities will sink into the water. Repeat the process, If it is needful. DROPSY. — From the Greek, udor, water, and opsis, an appearance. It denotes the effusion of water, or rather serous fluid into any cavity of the body, or into the cellular tissue under the skin. It is indicated by distension of the belly, difficult breathing, dry skin, im- moderate thirst, a dry cough, swelling of the feet and legs, deficient urine, and deficient perspiration. Observe; Dropsy is a symptom of disease, rather than itself a disease, and generally the original cause is a morbid change in one or more of the principal organs of the body, the heart, fiver, or kidneys. It is caused by a loss of vitality in the capillary exhalents of the blood vessels, by which they are deprived of their elasticity or contractility, consequent upon the loss of the electric fluid, or the nervous energy upon which their con- tractility chiefly depends; and from a deficiency of iron in the blood. Give a vapour bath made of bitter herbs. (See Vapour Bath) Drink the Composition Powder tea, sweetened. Give diuretics, and a pill made of cay- enne, colocynth and rhubarb : and also the Diuretic Infusion. Keep up the perspiration when deficient; and fo- ment the body daily with the Stimula- ting Liniment. The compound extract of jalap is very effective in evacuating the water. Or, mustard, % oz.; juniper berries, milkweed root, horse radish root; black alder bark, mandrake root, bitter-sweet bark, of each, 1 oz. Bruise them, and infuse in 3 quarts of hot water, adding the juice of a lemon. A wineglassful two or three times a-day. Or, take as much as lies upon a six- pence of powdered laurel leaves, every second or third day. It works both ways. Or, make tea of roots of dwarf elder. It works by urine. Every twelve or fourteen minutes (that is, after every discharge) drink a tea-cupfuL I have known a dropsy cured by this in twelve hours' time. Or, one was cured by taking a drachm of nitre, every morning, in a little ale. Or, Tar-water drank twice a-day has cured many; so has an infusion of juniper berries, roasted, and made into a liquor like coffee. -Or, three spoonfuls ofDYE 165 DK.U the juice of leeks, or elder leaves.— Tried. This cured the windy dropsy.. Or, % a pint of decoction of butcher’s broom, (intermixing purges twice or thrice a-week.) The proper purge is 10 grains of jalap with 6 of powdered giD- ger. It may be increased or lessened according to the strength of the patient. Or, of the decoction of the tops of oak boughs. This cured an inveterate dropsy in 15 days. Or, take senna, cream of tartar, jalap, yt 01. of each. Mix them and take a drachm every morning in broth. It usually cures in twenty days. This is nearly the same as Dr. Ward’s powder ; He says it seldom fails, either in the watery or windy dropsy. DRUNKENNESS, to Cure a fit of.—Take 1 oz. of ininderus spirit in a cupful of water. Repeat the dose every 15 minutes. DUCKS, to choose.—A young duck should have supple feet, breast and belly hard and thick. A tame duck has dusky yellow feet. They should be picked dry, and ducklings scalded. DUCK, Boiled.—A duck boiled and smothered in onions, is an excellent dish, and fit for a monarch. Boil 25 minutes. The onions should be twice boiled before being made into a sauce. Serve them as follows:—To the onion sauce add chopped parsley, a cupful of good gravy, a spoonful of lemon juice, and a wine glassful of port wine. Pour the whole upon the ducks. DUCK PIE.—Make a stiff paste crust; clean well a couple of ducks; scald them ; cut off the feet, pinions, neck, and head, all clean picked and scalded, with the gizzard, liver and hearts ; pick out all the fat of the in- side ; lay a crust all over the dish ; season the ducks with pepper and salt, inside and out; lay them in the dish, and the giblets at each end, seasoned; cover the meat with water ; lay on the crust, and bake. DUCKS, to Roast.— Carefully pick, and clean the inside. Boil 2 or 3 oniorA in 2 waters; chop them very small. Mix the onions with about half the quantity of sage leaves, bread crumbs finely powdered, a spoonful of salt, and « little cayenne pepper; beat up the yolk of an egg, and rub the stuffing well together. With a brisk fire roast about 35 minutes. Serve with gravy sauce. DUCK, to Stew.—Lard 2 young ducks down each side the breast dust with flour ; brown before the fire ; put into a stewpan with a quart of water, a pint of port wine, a spoonful of walnut ketchup, the same of browning, 1 an- chovy, a clove of garlick, sweet herbs, and cayenne pepper. Stew till they are tender, about half an hour; skim, and strain, and pour over the duck. DUCK, to Stew with Peas.— Half roast the ducks. Then put them into a stew-pan with a pint of good gravy, a little mint, and 6 sage leaves chopped small, salt, &c., cover, and stew half an hour : boil a pint of green peas, as for eating, and put them in after you have thickened the gravy. Dish up the ducks, pour the gravy and peas over them. DUSTING POWDER FOR CHILD REN.-Mix prepared chalk, rice, starch, and fullers earth equally. First wash the part in cold water. DUTCH CAKE.—Take 5 lbs. of flour ; 2 ozs. of caraway seeds ; % lb. of sugar ; better than a pint of milk, and % lb. of butter ; make a hole in the middle of the flour; put in a pint of good yeast; pour in the butter and mill:; make into a paste ; rise, roll into thin cakes ; bake 15 minutes. DUTCH SAUCE. —Slice an onion, put into a stew-pan, with a little scraped horseradish, 2 anchovies, some elder vinegar, and some second stock ; boil for ten minutes ; strain; return it into the stew-pan, and beat up 2 eggs, put it to the sauce, and set it on the fire till it comes to a boil. DYEING, the Newest Modes. —Black for Worsted or Wool- len.—Water, 3 gallons; bichromate of potass, % oz. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes ; then wash in cold water. Then take 3 gallons of water, add 9 ozs. of logwood, 3 ozs. of fustic, and 1 or 2 drops of D. O. V. or Double Oil of Vitriol; boil the goods 40 minutes, and wash out imfcold water. This will dye from 1 to 2 lbs. of cloth, or a lady’s dress, if of a dark colour, as brown, claret, &r„DYE i66 DYE (J®* All coloured dresses with cotton warps should be previously steeped one hour in sumach liquor ; and then sad- dened in 3 gallons of clean water, with I cupful of nitrate of iron for 30 minutes, then it must be well washed and dyed as first stated. Black for Silk.—Dye the same as Black for Worsted ; but previously steep the silk in the following liquor. Scald 4 ozs. of logwood, and % oz. of turme- ric in a pint of boiling water. Then add 7 pints of cold water. Steep 30 or 40 minutes ; take out, and add 1 oz. of sulphate of iron, (or copperas) dissolved in hot water; steep the silk 30 minutes longer. Brown for Worsted or Wool. —Water, 3 gallons, bichromate of pot- ass, % oz. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes. Wash out in cold vr-Uer. Then take water, 3 gallons, 6 ozs. of peachwood, and 2 ozs. of turmeric. Boil the goods in this 40 minutes. Wash out. Imperial Blue for Silk, Wool, and Worsted.—Water, 1 gallon; sulphuric acid, a wine-glassful; Impe- rial Blue, 1 table-spoonful, or more, ac- cording to the shade required. Put in the silk, worsted, or wool, and boil ten minutes. Wash in a weak solution of soap lather. Sky Blue, for Worsted and Woollen.— Water, 1 gallon; sul- phuric acid, a wine glassful; glauber salts, or crystals, 2 table-spoonfuls; liquid extract of indigo, a teaspoonful; boil the goods about 15 minutes. Rinse in cold water. Claret for Wool or Worsted. —A short way of dyeing the same.— Water, 3 gallons; cudbear, 12 ozs.; logwood, 4 ozs. ; old fustic, 4 ozs.; alum, % oz. Boil the goods in it one hour. Wash. This will dye from 1 to 3 lbs. of material. Crimson for Worsted or Wool. —Water, 3 gallons ; paste Cochineal, 1 oz.; cream of tartar, 1 oz. ; nitrate of tin, a wine glassful. Boil your goods in this 1 hour. Wash out in cold water. Then in another vessel with 3 gallons of warm water, a cupful of ammonia, the whole well mixed. Put in the goods, and work well 15 minutes. For a bluer shade, add more ammonia.. Then wash out. Fawn Drab for Silk.—Hot water x gallon ; Annotta liquor, a wine glass- ful ; 2 ozs. each of sumach and fustic. Add copperas liquor, according to the required shade. Wash out. It is best to have the copperas liquor in another vessel. A Dark Drab may be obtained by using a little archil, and extract of Indigo. Flesh Colour, for dyeing Silk. —Boiling water, 1 gallon ; put in 1 oz. of white soap, and 1 oz. of pearlash. Mix well; then add a cupful of Annotta liquor. Put the silk through several times, and proportion the liquor till you obtain the required shade. A Salmon colour may be obtained by first passing through the above liquor, and then through diluted muriate of Tin. Magenta for Silk, Wool, or Worsted.—Water, 1 gallon, heated up to 189° ; add Magenta Liquor, one table-spoonful; stir it well up. This will dye a broad ribbon 4 yards long ; or a pair of small stockings. To dye a larger quantity of material, add more Magenta Liquor and water. The shade of colour may be easily regulated by using more or less. Magenta Pink may be obtained by increased dilution. Mauve, for Silk, Wool, or Worsted*—Water, 1 gallon; add 1 table-spoonful of sulphuric acid ; then heat to boiling point. For a very light Mauve, add 1 teaspoonful of imperial Violet Liquor ; boil the same amount of material, as stated under Magenta, about 10 minutes. Rinse in cold water. If the colour be too deep, use a little soap in rinsing, using warm water. A Violet colour may be produced by using a tablespoonful of Violet Liquor instead of a teaspoonful. Pea-green, for Silk.—To 1 quart of water, put half a teaspoonful of Pic- ric Acid, and rather more than half a wine glassful of sulphuric acid, and a tea-spoonful of paste extract of indigo ; boil about 5 minutes ; then add water to cool it down to blood heat, or ioo°. Put in the silk, and work it about 20 minutes. The shade may be varied by adding more or less of the Picric Add,DYE OYS 167 or extract of indigo ; if more of cither be added, boil separately in a little water, and add to the previous liquor. Pe2-Green, for Worsted.—Use the same materials as I he aforesaid ; but boil all the time in 1 gallon of water for about so or 30 minutes. tgg" A darker Green may be ob- tained by using a larger quantity of material. Plum Colour, for Worsted, Silk, or Cotton.—Water, 1 gallon ; sulphuric arid, a teaspoonful; glauber salts, or common Dyer's crystals, two table-spoonfuls; violet liquor, a table- spoonful ; magenta liquor, % a table- spoonful. Boil the article (silk, wool, or worsted), about 10 minutes. (S~ Cotton should be dyed the above colours separately, and by first running them through weak Gall Liquor, and weak double muriate of tin./Then wash well, and work in the aforesaid liquor, according to colour and shade. The Jquor should be cold for Cotton. Scarlet on Worsted or Wool. —Water, 3 gallons, a ozs. of dry cochi- neal, 1 oz, of cream of tartar, nitrate of tin, a wine-glassful; boil the goods 1 hour. To give the goods a yellow hue, add a little young fustic. Wash out as before. Yellow, for Dyeing Silk.—Pro- ceed the same in Dyeing as Pea Green, omitting the extract of indigo, and using oxalic tin instead of sulphuric arid. DYEING.—Blue; first dip the article in a solution of nlum ; and then in a solution of extract of Indigo. Wash out. If not bloomy enough, pass it through a weak solution of Archil. Buff ; use annotta, ground down, and boiled in water, with potass added, to give the requisite colour. Boil and stir it well 10 or 12 minutes. Wash out.— Brown ; Saffron, or Persian Berry li- quor, and soda, or bichromate of pot- ass.—Black ; logwood and copperas, or shumac and copperas, or galls, log- wood, and copperas.—Green ; Persian Berry liquor, and extract of indigo ; of quercitron bark, extract of indigo, and alum.—Grey ; by diluting down the black dye.—Lilac ; logwood, first dip- ping the article in a weak solution of alum; — or use archil—Pink ; from safflower and alum ; or brazil wood, and quercitron bark, or Persian berry liquor. —Purple ; from archil, or logwood and roche alum.—Scarlet ; Cochineal and Persian berry liquor. Or, dye in a soap lather with annotta, boiling hot, for an orange bottom. Wash the article, then dye with Cochineal and a little Nitrate of tin.—Red ; from Brazil wood and madder.—Nankeen ; from annat- to and pearl ash.—Orange ; from brazil wood and quercitron bark, or young fustic, or Persian berry liquor, and alum.—Lavender ; extract of Indigo, alum, a little Plum liquor. The shade may be altered by decreasing the indigo. —Blue Black ; Steep in Nitrate of Iron for about 1 hour ; then wash, make a soap lather, and add logwood liquor ; dip the. article into the liquor. DYSENTERY, or Bloody Flux.—From the Greek; dus, pain- ful, and enter on, the bowels. It is in- flammation of the mucous membrane of the large intestines, especially the colon. It is attended by frequent bloody stools, straining, nausea, long attempts at evac- uation, and often great pain. There is loss of appetite, strength, and great lowness of spirits. The evacuations in- crease, and become more fce.tid. It often ends in death. It is caused by obstructed perspiration, morbid hu- mours, unwholesome diet, night air, damp beds, wet clothes, intemperance, and infection, in close habitations, pri- sons, cells, &c. It is very prevalent in tropical climates. To cure, give gentle emetics, and mild purgatives, if needful. The Neutraliz- ing Mixture page 275 is of great effi- cacy—a table-spoonful per hour. It will neutralize the acidity of the stomach, relieve the spasms, &c., and effect a wondrous change. Should inflamma- tion continue, give an injection; as, milk, % pint; mucilage of slippery elm bark, % pint; treacle, pint; olive oil, % wine glassful; and a tea-spoonful of salt. This affords great relief. Keep up a gentle perspiration by the Sudori- fic Powders, or by the application cf hot bricks, as before stated. See also Diaphoretic Powder. If there be local pain, foment with a decoction of vinegar, hops, tansy, horehound, and catnep. Give warm diluents, and mucilaginous drinks, and If putresence appeals, giveEEL 168 DYS yeast in a decoction of logwood. The following has beet! recommended :— Prepared chalk, % drachm, compound powder of gum dragon, 2% drachms, aromatic confection, 1 drachm, tinc- ture of catechu, and of kino, two drachms each, laudanum, % dr., aroma- tic spirit of ammonia, 1drs., and cin- namon water 3 or 4 ozs. Dose, 2 table- spoonfuls every 3 hours. Or, simmer 1 oz. of blackberry root bark, and 2 ozs. of Raspberry leaves in a quart of water for 40 minutes, strain and add 1% ozs. of tincture of myrrh, and a little sugar. Take a wine glass- ful every half hour. It seldom fails. Butter just churned is said to be a sure cure; it must be unsalted, and clarified over the fire. Two table- spoonfuls several times a day. The following is said to be an unfail- ing remedy ; good vinegar, and as much salt as it will dissolve. Give as many teaspoonfuls till it becomes purgative. The diet must be light and easy of digestion, as sago, arrow-root, mutton and beef-tea. DYSPEPSIA.—See Indigestion. Pure water, 6 ozs. ; carbonate of am- monia, 2 drachms; syrup of orange peel, 1 oz. Mix. DYSPEPTIC PILL. — Colo- cynth, castile soap, gamboge, of each 2 ozs. ; socotrine aloes, 4 ozs.; oil of cloves, 2 drachms ; extract of gentian, 4 ozs. Mix and form into pills. Most valuable for indigestion, and cleansing the stomach, and giving it tone. E. EAR-ACHE.—Place in the ear a piece of lint moistened with sweet oil and laudanum. A flannel bag of salt, or camomile flowers, made very hot and applied to the ear at bed-time, will often give relief.—Or, wet a rag with lauda- num, and coveT the ear with it. A bag of hops, a roasted onion, and hartshorn and oil, are household remedies. If it arises from heat, frequently apply wet cloths.—If from cold, boil rue, or rose- mary, and steam the ear through a funnel. EAR-ACHE.—Rub the ear hard for a % of an hour.—Tried. Or, be electrified.—Or, put in a roasted fig, or onion, as hot as may be.—Or, blow the smoke of tobacco strongly into it. But if the ear-ache is caused by an Inflam- mation of the uvula, it is cured in 2 or 3 hours by receiving into the mouth the steam of bruised hemp-seed boiled in water. EAR-ACHE, from Worms.— Drop in warm milk, which brings them out.—Or, juice of wormwood, which kills them. EAR-ACHE, Indian Cure for. —Take a piece of the lean of mutton, the size of a large walnut, put it into the fire and bum it for some time till it is reduced almost to a cinder ; then put it into a piece of clean rag, and squeeze it until some moisture is expressed, which must be dropped into the ear as hot as the patient can bear it EAU DE COLOGNE.—Alco- hol, 1 gallon ; neroli, 50 drops ; essence of cedrat, so drops ; essence of orange, 50 drops ; essence of lemon, 50 drops; essence of bergamot, 50 drops ; essence of rosemary, 50 drops; lesser carda- mons, 2 drachms. Distil, or macerate and filter. EAU DIVINE.—Spirit of wine, 1 quart; essence of lemons, and essence of bergamot, each % dr. Distil in a bath heat; add 1 lb. of sugar, dissolved in two quarts of water, and 4 ozs. of orange flower water. EAU SUCjRE.—Dissolve fine loaf sugar in boiling water; add a little cinnamon, or ginger, &c. EBONY, Imitation of.—Wash the wood over several times with a strong decoction of logwood, and then with a solution of copperas. When dry, polish with furniture paste. EELS, to Stew.—Clean them well. Cut in pieces two or three inches long, and fry till quarter cooked. Put thin slices of butter into the stew-pan, then the fish, with salt, pepper, a little shred lemon-peel, mace, cloves, and nutmeg; a gill of sherry wine, with marjoram, thyme, savory, and an onion partly boiled, and chopped. Stew gently till tender; take them out, and put an anchovy into the sauce ; thicken with the yolk of an egg, or butter rolled in flour. Boil and pour on the eels. EELS, to Boil.—Remove the gut, skin, blood, and heads; dry them well; and boil in salt and water. Serve with parsley sauce.EGG EEL 169 EELS, to Broil.—Skin, gut, and clean well; rub them with the yolk of an egg ; strew over them bread crumbs, chopped parsley, sage, pepper, and salt; baste them well with butter in the dripping-pan, roast or broil them on a gridiron, or in a dutch oven. EEL PIE.—Skin and wash clean, cut in pieces i}4 inch long, season them with pepper, salt, and sage rubbed small, mace, bread crumbs and parsley. Place the fish in a pie-dish; (if you have any veal stock it will improve them.) Cover with a light paste, and bake for an hour. Before sending it to table, make an opening at the top, and pour in a tea-cupful of veal stock in which a glass of sherry and the juice of a lemon have been mixed. The pie may be made plainer by omit- ting some of the articles. EEL SOUP.—A pound of eels will make a pint of good soup.—To every pound of eels, put a quart of water, three blades of mace, cayenne, an onion, and sweet herbs, as lemon thyme, and winter savory, and a little parsley ; boil till half the liquor is wasted, skimming well. When boiling, cover close. Strain, toast some bread ; cut it small, and pour some soup over it boiling. A piece of carrot may be put in to brown It—A rich soup. EFFERVESCING BEVER- AGES.—These may be made by taking any fruit syrup, as apricot, cherry, raspberry, &c., &c. About half a pint, filtered ; add half an ounce of tartaric acid, and a little brandy, to keep it, bottle and cork well. To half a tumbler of water, put two tablespoon- fuls of syrup, and nearly half a teaspoon- fill of carbonate of soda, stir well, and and drink while effervescing. EGGS.—In making bread, con- fectionery, &c., the eggs should be added, if possible, after all the other articles are well mixed. By this method, two eggs will enrich the cake and make it as light as three eggs used at. first. EGGS, to Have in Winter.— To cause hens to lay all winter, give them flesh meat to supply the place of insects which they eat in summer. Let them have a sufficiency of fresh water, and sheltering places when the weather is inclement. Put a small portion of lime or ground oyster shell or chalk into their food ; also give them potatoes and bran, cabbage leaves, &c. This plan will produce a harvest of eggs in winter. EGG FLIP.—Beat up four or five new laid eggs, omitting two of the whites; add 3 ozs. of fine sugar, and rub these well in the eggs : pour in boil- ing water, half a pint at a time, and when the pitcher is nearly full throw in two glasses of brandy, and one of Jamaica rum. Or, 1 quart of ale, 1 of porter; mix, and place over the fire till it creams only. Add half a pint of gin, and two wine- glasses of good rum, and five eggs well beaten ; add sugar to taste. Mix the ale, &c., with the egg and spirit, pour- ing backwards and forwards ; return it to the fire, but do not boil. Use a little nutmeg or cinnamon. EGGS, to Fricassee.—Boil the eggs rather hard; cut in round slices. Make a sauce of butter, parsley, shalots, pepper, &c. Boil, and when ready, add cream in proportion to the eggs used, and a little flour to thicken the same ; pour all upon the eggs. EGGS AND BACON.—Toast some cutlets of fine streaked bacon in a dutch oven ; they will be done in about ten minutes ; then put the fat and some dripping into a frying-pan, and when hot, break the eggs into it; do not turn while frying, but keep pouring fat- over them ; when the yolk looks white, they are enough ; turn, and serve with the bacon. EGG PICKLE.—Boil from two to three dozen fresh eggs quite hard; then set a sufficient quantity of good vinegar over the fire, ginger, white pepper, mustard seed, and a clove or two of garlic. Having placed the eggs without shells into broad mouthed jars, pour the vinegar, &c., over them. When cold tie them down. The pickle will be ready in a month. It forms a pretty garnish when cut in slices, and constitutes a piquant relish with cold meat. EGGS, to Poach.—They must be fresh. Put a little vinegar and salt into the water, and break the eggs into it when boiling ; boil three minutes ; turn them with a skimmer. When you take them out, immerse then; in warm water,EGG ELD i 70 to free them from froth, &c. Eat with pepper, salt, and butter. Or serve on toast. They are nice served on greens, as spinach, &c. EGGS, to Preserve.—Apply , with a brush a solution of gum arabic to the shells, or immerse the eggs there- in, let them dry, and pack them in dry charcoal dust. This prevents their being affected by any alterations of temperature. EGG PUDDING.—It Is made chiefly of eggs. It is nice made thus : beat well seven eggs ; mix well with 3 oss. of flour, pint and a half of milk, a little salt; flavour with nutmeg, lemon juice, and orange flower water. Boil 1 % hour in a floured cloth. Serve with wine-sauce sweetened. EGG SAUCE.—Boil two eggs hard, half chop the whites, put in the yolks, chop them together, but not very fine; put them with & lb. of good melted butter. EGGS IN SNOW.—Take ii pint of cream ; 3 ozs. of sugar, and the pulp of an onion. Take six whites of eggs and whip them well; put in a little salt, 2 ozs. of sugar and some drops of orange flower water ; whisk well. Take a spoonful of the whites ; poach them In cream ; turn them, that they may be equally done ; arrange them when done, as if they were poached eggs; dilute four yolks with a little cream which has cooled ; thicken it over the fire,—with- out boiling. ELDER FLOWERS. —They are alterative and cooling. The infu- sion is recommended for erysipelas, fever, gout, &c. As an external appli- cation, it is very useful in inflammations and painful swellings. ELDER BUDS to Pickle.— Put the buds into a strong brine for nine days, stirring well; then boil them in the water slowly, covered with vine leaves, till they are quite green ; drain. Then pour over them in jars hot vinegar in which has been boiled mace, ginger, cloves, cayenne, &c. ELDER FLOWER OINT- MENT.—Very cooling and healing. It is made by simmering the fresh flowers in butter or good lard, with one eighth the proportionate quantity of spermaceti. ELDER FLOWER WATER. —To a % oz. of eider flowers put 3 pints of boiling water; infuse for two hours, and strain. A good wash for sunburn and freckles.—But the distilled water is the best. Steep a peck of the flowers in two quarts of water all night; put in a cold still, and let the water come cold off the still, and it will be very clear. Cork well; it will keep a year. ELDER FLOWER WINE. —Spring water, 6 gallons ; sugar, 12 lbs. ; raisins, chopped, 6 lbs. ; boil these one hour. When this liquor is cold, put into it 14 peck of elder flowers, and the next day the juice of three lemons, and four spponfuls of good yeast. Cover for two days. Strain; to every gallon of wine, put a half pint of brandy. Bung for six months. A splendid wine, equal to Frontigneau. ELDER RAISIN WINE.— To every gallon of water, put 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins, chopped small; pour the water upon them boiling hot; let it stand 9 days, stirring well. Put the elderberries in a moderate oven all night; strain them through a coarse cloth, and to every gallon of liquor add 1 quart of juice; mix well; toast a slice of bread, and spread yeast on both sides; put it in, and ferment a day or two. Barrel it, bung close, and let it stand from 6 to 12 months. Brandy may be added, ad libitum. ELDER WINE .—Put the berries into a jar, and put them all night in a slow oven; then mix one quart of the juice with three quarts of water ; add 4 lbs. of sugar, a little gin- ger and cloves ; boil three quarters of an hour, and when cool ferment it with yeast, spread upon toast, and let it work two days, then put it into the cask, and bung lightly till the fermentation is over. Another.—To every quart of berries, put two quarts of water ; boil half an hour ; run the liquor, and break the fruit through a hair sieve ; to every quart of juice, put nearly 1 lb. of sugar. Boil 15 minutes with Jamacia pepper, cloves, and ginger. Pour into a tub, and ferment with toast and yeast. After fermentation, put a quart of brandy to eight gallons, and barrel it; bung well for a few months ; then bottle off.KMK 171 ELF. In America they flavour elder wine with hops, which renders it a more wholesome beverage—about 1 02. of hops to every gallon of wine. ELECAMPANE. —This plant Is tonic, astringent, diuretic, and expec- torant. It is good in colds, coughs, pulmonary irritation, consumption, and indigestion. It may be given in pow- der, decoction, or infusion. ELECTUARY for COUGH. —Take syrup of horehound, ground- ivy, and white poppies, of each one ounce, and spermaceti, half a drachm. Mix and beat these very fine, and take a little spoonful when your cough is troublesome, and at going to rest. ELM BARK. — See Slippery Elm. EMBROCATION, for Sprains and Bruises.—Vinegar, 1 pint; distilled water, % pint; rectified spirits, 1 % pint; camphor, 2 ozs. ; Dissolve the camphor in the spirits of wine, and put all together. Another. — Carbonate ammonia, 2 ozs. : vinegar, 2 pints; proof spirits, 3 pints. Mix the ammonia and vinegar ; when the effervescence ceases, add the spirit. For inflammation of the joints, of some standing, mix with aniseed meal, and use as a poultice twice a day. It is also valuable for sprains, bruises, and other injuries. Another for Lumbago, Gouty Pains, and Rheumatism.—Soap Liniment, 2 ozs. ; spirit of camphor, 1 oz. ; oil of thyme, 2 drachms ; tincture of opium, i drachm. Mix, and rub well over the part affected. It is good for toothache. EMBROCATION, Valuable. —Take half an ounce of camphor, cut it into small pieces, and dissolve it in half a pint of spirits of wine, in a closely corked bottle; when completely dis- solved, add one pint of ox-gall, (which can be had of any butcher's) and about forty or fifty drops of laudanum ; shake it well and bottle it tor use. Apply lint dipped into it. EMBROIDERY, Articles of, to Clean.'—Gold and silver fancy- work may be cleaned with a little spirit of wine, diluted with an equal weight of water. Alkalies and Acids destroy the beauty of the ardcles Instead of cleaning them. EMERGENCIES.—Recovery of persons apparently drowned or dead.—1. Lose no time. 2. Avoid all rough usage. 3. Never hold the body up by the feet. 4. Nor roll the body on casks. 5. Nor rub the body with salt and spirits. 6. Nor inject tobacco smoke, or infusion of tobacco. Restorative Means, if appar- ently Drowned.—Send quickly for medical assistance; but do not delay the following means :— I. Convey the body carefully, with the head and shoulders supported in a raised condition, to the nearest house. II. Strip the body and rub it dry then wrap it in hot blankets, and place it in a warm bed in a warm chamber. III. Wipe and clean the mouth and nostrils. IV. In order to restore the natural warmth of the body ; 1. Move a heated covered warming pan over the back and spine. 2. Put bladders, or bottles of hot water, or heated bricks, to the pit of the stomach, the armpits, between the thighs, and to the soles of the feet. 3. Foment the body with hot flannels ; but if possible. 4. Immerse the body in a warm bath as hot as the hand can bear without pain, 5. Rub the body briskly with the hand ; but do not suspend the use of the other means at the same time. V. To restore breathing, introduce the pipe of a common bellows, into one nostril, carefully closing the other and the mouth; at the same time draw- ing downwards, and pushing gently backwards, the upper part of the wind pipe, to allow the free admission of air ; blow the bellows gently, in order to in- flate the lungs, till the breast be a little raised : the mouth and nostrils should then be set free, and a moderate pres- sure made with the hand upon the chest. Repeat this process till life appears. VI. Electricity to be employed early by a medical assistant. VII. Inject into the stomach, by means of an elastic tube and syringe, % pint warm brandy, or wine and water.EP1 EME 172 VIII. Apply sal-volatile to the Nos- trils. If Apparently Dead from In- tense Cold.—Rub the body with Ice, snow, or cold water. — Restore warmth by slow degrees; and, after some time, if necessary, employ the means recommended for the apparently drowned. It is highly dangerous to apply heat too early. If Apparently Dead from Hanging.—In addition to the means recommended for the apparently drown- ed, bleeding should early be employ- ed by a medical assistant If Apparently Dead from Nox- ious Vapours, Lightning, die.—x. Remove the body into a cool fresh air. 2. Dash cold water on the neck, face, and breast frequently. 3. If the body be cold, apply warmth, as recommend- ed for the apparently drowned. 4. Use the means for inflating the lungs in direction V. 5. Let Electricity (par- ticularly in accidents from lightning) be early employed by a medical man. If Apparently Dead from In- toxication,—Lay the body on a bed, with the head raised : remove the neck- cloth and loosen the clothes. Obtain instantly medical assistance; in the meantime apply cloths soaked in cold water to the head, and bottles of hot water, or hot bricks, to the calves of the legs and to the feet General Observations. — On restoration to life, a teaspoonful of warm water should be given ; and then, If the power of swallowing be returned, small quantities of weak brandy and water, warm; the patient should be kept in bed, and a disposition to sleep encouraged, except in cases of apoplexy and intoxication. Great care is requisite to maintain the restored vital actions, and to prevent undue excitement. The treatment is to be persevered in for three or four hours. It is an erroneous opinion that persons are irrecoverable because life does not soon make its appearance. See Antidotes for do ISON, page 31a. EMETIC MIXTURE. —Ipe- cacuanha wine, % oz. ; water, 1 oz. ; simple syrup, % oz. Mix.—For a child, ao drops, or more, every quarter of an hour until vomiting ensues. An adult may take from half to one oz. EMETIC POWDER.—Ipeca- cuanha and lobelia, of each 2 ozs. ; blood-root, 1 oz. Powder, and mix well. Take half a teaspoonful every twenty minutes till it operates. EMMENAGOGUES.— Medi- cines exciting the womb to secretion of the menses. ENGRAVINGS, to TRANS- FER TO PAPER. —Place the engravings a few seconds over the va- pour of iodine. Dip a slip of white paper in a weak solution of starch, and, when dry, in a weak solution of oil of vitriol. When again dry, lay a slip upon the engraving, and place both for a few minutes under the press. The engraving will thus be reproduced in all its delicacy and finish. The iodine has the property of fixing the black parts of the ink upon the engraving, and not on the white. This important discovery is yet in its infancy. EPILEPSY, or Falling Sick- ness. — A sudden deprivation of sense, with violent convulsions of the whole system. Previous to the fit, there is a peculiar sensation felt by the patient; a scream or cry is then uttered, and he falls heavily to the ground. The eyes are fixed and reverted, and the convulsive agitations are violent; the teeth gnash against each other, the tongue projects, and is sadly bitten; the patient froths at the mouth, and is quite unconscious. “ The period of re- currence of epileptic fits is very variable. Death sometimes occurs in the first; or, though rarely, recovery taking place, the disease never returns. Years may intervene, or an irregular period of months, weeks, or days, may separate the attacks." Epilepsy is more com- mon in the night than in the day. As it becomes more firmly rooted in the system, the fits recur more frequently. Treatment.—Prevent the patient from injuring himself during the fit. A piece of wood, india rubber, &c., should be placed between the teeth to prevent injury to the tongue. Remove all tight clothing especially about the neck. Elevate the head and shoulders. If the fit does not depart, give one or two tea-spoonfuls of the A ntispasmodie173 EPP ERR Tincture. When the fit subsides, give a vapour bath, and an emetic two or three times a week. After the bath, rub the body over with the Stimulating Liniment. Gentle aperients should also be given now and then. Sponge the body every or every other morning with cold salt and water. Let the diet be very light and digestible. As it is a disease of debility, tonics should be em- ployed ; as peruvian bark, snake root, lady’s slipper, and peony, which may be obtained of the Medical Botanists. Boil them till strong; add sugar, and best Madeira wine. Dr. Beech says that salt is very efficacious. ‘‘As soon as there are any premonitory symptoms, give a tea-spoonful of salt, in a little water; and, if practicable, repeat it in twenty minutes ; it shortens the fit, and may be taken twice or thrice a day. The shower bath may also be used. If the disease proceeds from worms, use the remedies in that case prescribed. A pill made of equal parts of scullcap, lobelia seed, and cayenne, and mucilage is very useful in this disease. learned me Grammar,... taught I propose to offer a few hints,...purpose, or intend I never omit walkiiig out whenever the weather is fine,...leave out ever I. seldom or ever see her... seldom or never, or seldom, if ever You have sown the seam badly ...sewed I shall summons...summon This here is my farm...leave out here Without you study, you will not learn, ... Unless you study, &c The obser- vation of the sabbath is a duly,...obser- vance Add one more reason,...one reason more Be sharp, and get your work done,...quick Who finds Tom in money,...leave out in I admire such an one, a one An Euro- peon,...a An University,...a A quantity of men, or horses,...a number of, &c Lots of money, lots of friends, lots of learning...plenty of money, many friends, much learning Galileo dis- covered the telescope,...invented. I rose up, and put on my clothes,...leave out up It lays on the floor,...lies. I intend to stop at home,...j/<zy. No man has less enemies,., fewer. EPPING SAUSAGES. —Six pounds of good pork, free from skin and gristle, cut it small, and beat it fine in a mortar. Chop 6 lbs. of beef suet very fine, powder a handful of sage leaves, which sprinkle over the meat; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and with sweet herbs, scatter it on the meat, and two nutmegs grated, a spoonful of pepper, (less if cayenne) and salt. Mix the suet and all together ; when used, roll it up with as much egg as will make It smooth. EPSOM SALTS, are distin- guished from oxalic acid, which is poison, thus:—epsom salts have a bitter taste; oxalic acid has a very acid or sour taste. To mix for use see Aperient Mixture, page 21. ERRORS IN SPEECH. — Never use a verb plural to a singular nominative; as, Thomas were there... should be was Never use a verb singular to a plural nominative; as, The things has come—the cows was in the field...should be have and were. I expect the books were sent...say, I think; expect refers to the future Give me both of them apples...should be, both those apples Mr. Smith A coupled men,...two men Tom was in eminent danger,...imminent The two first pages ....first two He came last of all,... leave out, of all I plunged down into the water,...leave out, down He was exceeding indus- trious, ...exceedingly I did it conform- able to your wishes,...conformably Litde grows there beside a coarse kind of grass,...except He ascended up into heaven,...leave cut, up It is not as large as I expected,...so A young beautiful boy,. ..beautiful young boy The latter end of the pious is peace,... leave out, latter On either side of the river,...each. I will think on thee, friend,...of. Take hold on it; T knew nothing on it; He was made much on in London,...<>f. No need for that,...of. Free of blame,.. from He is resolved of going to America, ...on I had rather not,... would rather not We prevailed over him to come,...upon He ran again me,...against I put it in my pocket, ...into He was accused for neglect- ing his duty, ...of I am ruler over my house,...of She reads slow,...slowly. At best,...af the best A few weeks back,...ago Harvey inventedERR ERP *74 the circulation of the blood, dis- covered. I am very dry to-day,...thirsty No less than twenty persons,.. fewer... ...Opposite the town-hall,...to the...... Tell me tke reason why he is dejected, ...leave out, the reason Edwin speaks bad grammar,...speaks ungrammati- cally His character is undeniable,... unquestionable Before you go you must first finish your work,...leave out, first That was his principle reason, ...principal The Board of ordinance, ...ordnance The horse is full of metal,...mettle A new pair of boots, ...a pair of new boots Direct the letter to me, at, &c.,...Address, It militates against my business,...operates He lifted up his arm to strike me,... leave out, up His case was heard pro and con,...on both sides. Take two spoonsful of, &c spoon- fuls Bring me them books,...those... ...They are coming to see Charles and l,...me These sort of entertainments, ...this It is I who is to do it,...am... ...The money was divided between fifty, ...among He was no sooner departed, than they expelled his officers, ...had. That is him,...he At some time, or another,...other You are mistaken, ...you mistake She has such a bad temper, ...a temper so bad. The fellow was hung last week,...hanged This is my oldest sister,...eldest. tg§|“ Leave out the superfluous words printed in Italics:— She fell down upon her knees More than you think for Who has got my inkstand What are you doing of. Missing his way, he returned back You may enter in Her conduct was approved of. I can not by no means allow it The fellow again repeated the assertion Such conduct admits of no excuse I can do it equally as well as he They combined together, and covered it over No- body else As soon as ever I have not had no dinner yet Please give me both of those books Our cat caught a great big rat It is a won- derful phenomenon Has Alfred re- turned back from his journey? It is four months ago since I had a letter The verdant green field It is very true. See “ How to Talk," price fid. ERUPTIONS on the FACE. —After washing the eruptions, foment with camphor spirit, two or three times a day. See Borax, page 72. ERYSIPELAS.—Dr. Baumann employs collodifin in all cases, and has found it, even in several cases of erysi- pelas of the face, and in one case of phlegmonous erysipelas of the thigh, highly useful. He first gives an emetic, and then daily applies collodion to the parts. The recovery is rapid, and no ill consequences have been observed. Bathing the legs and feet in warm water is very serviceable. Some recom- mend the part to be covered with meal, or flour, or yeast. Some persons re- commend a poultice of cranberries pow- dered fine, in a raw state. A decoction of elder-leaves will pro- mote perspiration ; applying to the part a cloth dipped in limewater. Or take gentle purgatives, as senna, manna, cream of tartar, with a little fennel seed, to prevent griping. The vapour bath is very beneficial. The marshmallow ointment is very serviceable; also the elder ointment. Wash the parts oft with the following liquid or tincture:— Infuse 1 oz. of celandine leaves in a pint of whiskey a few hours. Apply it when there is much itching. But the best application is a poultice made of slippery elm bark. Mix the bark with milk, buttermilk, or cream. Should there be ulceration, add brewer’s yeast to the poultice. The diet should be cool and nourishing. Dr. Beach referring to a case, says, " The patient was so bad that he had to sit in a chair five or six months, day and night,” and the most eminent allopathic doctors could do him no good. “I used the pulverized willow bark, com- monly called pussy willow; it was mixed with cream, under which it grew better; it sloughed in several places nearly to the bone. When the pain almost subsided, I applied the slippery- elm bark and milk, and then the Black Salve, which effected a cure in a few months.” ESPRIT DE ROSE.—Otto of roses, Yj oz. ; spirits of wine, 1 pint; mix, and bottle. Shake frequently, Put the bottle in a warm bath till it is warm. Take out and shake up tillEYE css *75 cold. If not bright, filter rapidly through fine linen. ESSENCES, &c., to Extract from Wood, Barks, Roots, Herbs, &c.—Take balm, mint, sage, or any thing you please; put into a bottle, and pour upon them a spoonful of ether ; keep in a cool place a few hours, and then fill the bottle with cold water; the essential oil will swim on the surface, which may be easily separated. EVERTON TOFFEE.—Fine sugar, i lb.; butter, a ozs. ; water, a wine-glassful, and a small lemon. Boil the butter, sugar, water, and half the rind of a lemon together. Drop a little into cold water; if crisp, it is done. When the boiling has ceased stir in the Juice of the lemon. Pour it into a buttered dish about a quarter of an inch thick. Or to i lb. of fine sugar, add 2 ozs. of butter, When boiled to the crackled degree, grain it, and pour into buttered tins. It may be flavoured with ginger, pepper-mint, cloves, &c., as you like, by adding a drop or two of the respective essential oiL EVE’S PUDDING.—Take six large juicy apples ; pare, core, and chop them fine ; six ounces of bread crumbs ; six ounces of currants; six eggs, and three or four ounces of sugar, and the rind of half a lemon shred very fine. Mix well, and boil in a mould or close- ly-covered pan for three hours; serve with sweet sauce. EXCORIATIONS, Chafing. —Apply fullers earth.—Wash with a strong raspberry-leaf tea. — Apply a weak solution of brandy and salt.—The Celandine Ointment is very efficacious. EXPECTORANTS.—Medi- cines increasing the secretion from the lungs. EXPECTORANT SYRUP.— St. John’swort, 1 oz.; sage, 1 oz. ; lobelia, 1 drachm. Fo?m a syrup by using sugar, or treacle. For a child six months old, a small teaijpoonful, and increase by age. EXPECTORANT TINC- TURE.—See Antispasmodic Tinc- ture, page at, which is the same. Another. — Biood-root, lobelia seed, ipecacuanha, of each, % oz.; 1 pint of spirits. Infuse for a week. Take in water. Useful in coughs, in- flammation of the lungs, pleurisy, asthma, hooping cough. EXPLOSIVE COMPOUND. —Nine parts of well-dried and finely- powdered chlorate of potash, mixed with three parts of finely powdered galls, will make a highly explosive compound. Do not mix it in a mortar, as it would explode, but by means of a bone spatu- la, or passing through a brass sieve. The strength of common gunpowder may be increased by working up with the powdered meal about 12 per cent, of powdered galls, and regranulating it. EXTRACTS, to Make.—Take of the plant, root, or leaves you wish to make the extracts from, any quantity, add sufficient water, and boil them gradually, then pour off the water and add a second quantity ; repeat the pro- cess untii all the virtue is extracted, then mix the several decoctions, and evapo- rate at as low a temperature as possible, to the consistence of an extract. Ex- tracts are better made in a water-bath, and in close vessels, and for some very delicate articles, the evaporation may be carried on at a very low temperature, in a vacuum, by surrounding the vessel with another containing sulphuric acid. Manufacturing druggists usually add to every seven pounds of extract, gum arabic, 4 ounces; alcohol, 1 ounce; olive oil, 1 ounce. This mixture gives the extract a gloss, and keeps it soft. EXTRA PUDDING.-Cut light bread into thin slices. Form into the shape of a pudding in a dish. Then add a layer of any preserve, then a slice of bread, and repeat till the dish is full. Beat four or five eggs, and mix well with a pint of milk ; then pour it over the bread and preserve, having pre- viously dusted the same with a coating of rice flour. Boil twenty-five minutes. EYE, Blood-Shot.—Apply linen rags dipped in cold water for two or three hours.—Or, apply boiled hyssop as a poultice. Very efficacious. EYE-BRIGHT.—This plant Is useful in affections of the eyes, as it im- proves the vision, especially in old age. See Robinson's Herbal. EYES, Bruised.—Frequently bathe in water with a little carbonate ofEYE 176 EYE T soda dissolved in. — Or apply bread poultices pretty warm, change often.— Or foment with a decoction of stramo- nium leaves, and then bind them on the eye-—Or use slippery elm poultices. EYE, Films.—Mix juice of Eye- bright, and juice of Ground Ivy with a little honey, and 2 or 3 grains of Bay Salt. Drop it in morning and evening. EYE, Hot Humours.—Apply a few drops of double refined sugar melted in brandy.—Or, boil a handful of bram- ble leaves with a little alum in a quart of spring water, to a pint. Drop this frequently into the eye. This likewise speedily cures cancers or any sores. EYE, or EYELIDS Inflamed. —Apply as a poultice, boiled, roasted, or rotten apples warm.—Or, wormwood tops with the yolk of an egg. This will hardly fail.—Or, beat up the white of an egg with 2 spoonfuls of white rose-water into a white froth. Apply this on a fine rag, changing it so that it may not grow dry till the eye or eye-lid is well.— Or, dissolve 1 oz. of fine gum arabic in 3 spoonfuls of spring water ; put a drop into the inner comer of the eye, from the point of a hair pencil, 4 or 5 times a-day. At the same time take as much saltpetre as will lie upon a six- pence, dissolved in a glass of water, 3 or 4 times a-day; abstaining from all liquors till cured. White bread poul- tices applied to the eyes in an inflamed state often occasion blindness. EYES, Inflammation of.—Mix bread crumbs with the white of an egg, 3 drops of laudanum, 3 drops of brandy, and a very little salt. Apply in a bag of thin soft linen or muslin. It is better to apply it at night when lying down. It always affords relief.—Drink also eye- bright tea, and wash the eyes with it. EYE, Lime in the.—Bathe it well with warm vinegar and water, to neutralize the lime, 1 oz. of vinegar to a pint of water. Keep the eye covered. EYE-LID, Removing Foreign Bodies from beneath the.—M. Renard, in the case of small moveable bodies which become entangled beneath the upper eyelid, recommends the fol- lowing simple procedure, which will often dispense with ail others. 'Take hold of the upper eyelid near its angles with the index finger and thumb of each hand, draw it gently forwards and as low down as possible over the lower eyelid, and retain it in this position for about a minute, taking care to prevent the tears from flowing out. When, at the end of this time, you allow the eye- lid to resume its place, a flood of tears washes out the foreign body, which will be found adhering to, or near to, the lower eyelid. EYE POULTICE.—Stir 2 drs. of powdered alum in the powdered whites of two eggs till a coagulum bo formed. Place it between a piece of soft linen rag, and apply it. Very ap- plicable for inflamed eyes attended with a purulent discharge, and for chil- blains. EYES, Good for the.—To give brilliancy to the eyes, shut them eariy at night, and open them early in the morn- ing ; let the mind be constantly intent on the acquisition of benevolent feelings. This will scarcely ever fail to impart to the eyes an intelligent and amiable ex- pression. EYE-SALVE.-White or yellow wax, % oz.; red precipitate, 3 drachms: prepared tutty, or pure zinc powdered, 1 drachm; laid, 4 ozs. Melt and mix. Add 1X drachms of camphor dissolved in oiL EYE-SIGHT, to Preserve.— Never sit long in absolute gloom, or ex- posed to a blaze of light.—Avoid, read- ing SMALL PRINT.—Do not strain the eyes by looking at minute objects. . — Do not read in the dusk, nor by 1 candle-light or gaslight, if the eyes be disordered.—Do not permit the eyes to gaze on glaring objects, as the sun, or bright day-light, especially on opening the eyes in the morning.—Do not let the curtains, walls, &c., be white; green is the best for curtains, &c.—Avoid much exposure to cold easterly winds ; especi- ally avoid intemperance, and excessive venery, which are awfully destructive to eye-sight. EYE WATER.—Boil lightly a spoonful of white copperas, and 3 spoon- fuls of salt, in 3 pints of spring water. When it is cold, bottle it without strain- ing. Put a drop or two in the eye Utomlng and evening.EYE 177 FEA It takes away redness and soreness ; It cures pearls, rheums, and often blind- ness. If it makes the eye smart, add more water to it. Another. — Stamp and strain ground ivy, celandine, and daisies, an equal quantity ; add a little rose-water and loaf-sugar. Drop a drop or two at a time into the eye; it takes away all the inflammation, smarting, itching, spots, webs, &c. Or take two table-spoonfuls each of brandy, and rain water, and about the size of a horse-bean of camphor. Dis- solve the last in the first. Valuable. EYE WATER.—Take of white vitriol, 10 grains ; rose, or elder flower water, 8 ozs. Mix. EYE WATER.—Half a pint of the best brandy, 2 pints of spring water, and sugar of lead, i oz. ; mix. This is a good eye-water.—Or, take 6 ozs. of Rectified Spirits of Wine, dissolve in it i drachm of Camphor, then add 2 small handfuls of dried Elder Rowers ; infuse 24 hours. Bathe the forehead, over your eyes, and each temple, several times a day; meantime, dip a soft rag in stale small beer, new milk warm, and bathe each eye a few times gently morn- ing and evening. If it is a watery hu- mour, wet the eyelids two or three times but be sure to shut your eyes, or it will make them smart and bum excessively. It is also a good remedy for the toothache, or swelled face, bruises, &c., used as a rubefacient. EYES, Weak.—May be relieved by washing them in cold water ; or dis- solve 4 grains of sugar of lead, and crude sal ammoniac, in 8 ozs. of water, to which add a few drops of laudanum. With this mixture bathe the eyes night and morning. Rose water is also good for the eyes. If lime gets into the eyes, a few drops of vinegar and water will dissolve and remove it. Almond or olive oil will do away with any hot fluid that may reach the eye. Styes should be bathed with warm water, and it is as well to take an aperient. A little ointment of citron and spermaceti may be used when the stye is broken. F. FACE-ACHE die.—The jaws, teeth, and face, often swell, and become painful. It proceeds from cold.—Poul- tice the parts with bread or bran poul- tice hot. For neuralgiac pains, take % a drachm of sal-ammoniac in water 3 times a day.—Or steam the parts over bitter herbs. If the swelling be great apply a ley poultice.—Or bathe the parts with the Rheumatic Liquid., page 338. For jaw and tooth-ache, apply tincture of cayenne on cotton lint be- tween the cheek and the teeth. FACE BURNING.—It arises from acidity of the stomach. Take one or two teaspoonfuls of magnesia in milk. FAINTING FITS. —Remove the patient to the open air, and lay him in a horizontal position, with nothing tight left upon him. Should the case be obstinate, immerse the feet and legs in warm water, and apply spirits of hartshorn to the nostrils ; and give a few drops in a glass of water, or hot brandy and water. FAMILY WINE.—Equal parts of black, red, and white currants, cher- ries, and raspberries. Bruise and mix with soft water,—4 lbs. of fruit to 1 gal. of water. Press, strain, and add 3 Tbs. of sugar to each gallon of liquor. After standing 2 or 3 days, skimming it, barrel it, and let it ferment for a fortnight. Add brandy, and bung. It gels rich with age. FEATHERS, to Clean- Feathers may be cleansed from their animal oil by steeping them in lime water—1 lb. of lime to a gallon of water, stir well, and then pour the water from the lime. To Cleanse Feathers from Dirt, make a strong lather of white soap and hot water. Put in the feathers and rub them for 5 minutes. Rinse in clean hot water. FEATHERS TO CURL.— Heat them slightly before the fire, then stroke them with the back of a knife, and they will curl. . FEATHERS TO DYE.-Steep them a few hours in warm water.—Blue may be dyed by extract of indigo and boiling water. Simmer over the fire a few minutes.—Green ; Verdigris and Verditer, x oz. each ; and gum water; dip the feathers. Or mix the indigo liquor with Persian berry liquor. — I,FEB FIR 178 Lilac. Use cudbear and hot water.— Red. Brazil wood, a little vermilion and alum, and vinegar; boil 30 minutes; and then dip the feathers.— Yellow by tur- meric.—Scarlet, by cochineal, cream of tartar, and muriate of tin.—Ready pre- pared dyes can be purchased at the druggist's shops. FEBRIFUGE S.—Medicines abating beat and fever. FEBRIFUGE.---Take house- leek ; place in a coarse cloth, and squeeze out the juice, and strain ; to 1 lb. of which add 1 I'd. of loaf sugar; simmer a short time to form a syrup. Give a table-spoonful every 2 hours. In fevers this acts like magic—in all kinds of fever. See Mixture page 256.* FELON, or WHITLOW.—A very painful inflammation of the fingers, thumb, or hand. A whitlow resembles a felon, but it is not so deeply seated. It is often found at the root of the nail. Immerse the diseased finger in strong ley as long and as hot as can be borne several times a day. Constantly poul- tice it with a mixture of strong ley and elm bark, or elm bark and powdered linseed, and 1 poppy head softened in the ley. Or steam it well with the bitter herbs, which may be used several times, about so minutes at a time. Continue till well, or when it begins to suppurate, then will appear a white spot, which when fully ripe, may be opened with a fine needle. Should gangrenous matter appear, apply a little Vegetable Caustic, page 407. Apply the Black Salve page 65, to heal it. Keep the bowels open, and take now and then the Composition Powder. FEMALE PILL.—Aloes and lobelia, 1 drachm each; black cohosh, gum myrrh, tansy, unicorn root, 1 oz. each ; cayenne, % oz. Mix, and form into pills with solution of gum.—These pills remove female obstructions, and are good for head aches, lowness of spirits, nervousness, and sallowness of the sldn. Or, aloes, red oxide of iron, white turpentine, 1 oz. each. Melt the tur- pentine, and strain; mix well; form into pills with mucilage. Take two or three per day. FENNEL SAUCE.—Soak four sliced onions, in two spoonfuls of oil, a cup of gravy, two cloves of garlick ; simmer an hour ; skim off the fat, and sieve; add chopped parsley, fennel, pepper and salt; boil a moment. FERMENTATION, to Check. —The least bit of sulphate of potass. It is applicable to liquors, syrups, pre- FERMENTATION, to Pro- mote.1— Put into the wort some powdered ginger. Or fill a bottle with boiling water, and sink it into the worts. Or heat a small quantity of the worts, and put it to the rest, with a little yeast. Or beat up the whites of two eggs with some brandy, and put it into the wort. Do not disturb the wort. FERNS, to Copy.—Dip them well in common porter, and then lay them flat between white sheets of paper, with slight pressure, and let them dry out. FERTILITY, IMMENSE.— A single plant may produce :— No. of Seeds to flowers. a flower. Total. Groundsel. 130 x 50 = 6,500 Chickweed. 500 x 10 = 5,000 Shepherd’s Purse. 150 x 30 = 4,500 FEVER DRINKS.—The Juice of a lemon, cream of tartar, 1 tea-spoon- ful ; water, 1 pint. Sweeten with loaf sugar. When the patient is thirsty, let him drink freely. FIG PASTE, for Costiveness. —Chop small 1 lb. of figs, and mix with them 2 ozs. of best senna, cut small, and a cupful of treacle; stew and stir it till it becomes stiff and firm. Take a piece about the size of a walnut. FININGS FOR BEER.—Isin- glass, 4 ozs. ; dissolve it in two quarts of stale beer; simmer it till thick as a syrup, put into it a handful of salt, and half a pint of powdered oyster-shells ; mix them with one gallon of strong beer or ale, stir till it ferments ; cover it up close. The quantity will be sufficient for a butt of beer. FIRE IRONS, to Pievent Rusting.—Apply sweet oil, and dust them with unslalced lime powdered. If rusted, oil them, and in two or three hours, polish with fine emery, lime, or powdered pumice stone.—tlS 179 FIR Tripoli and sulphur, equal parts, com- bined, will remove rust. FIRE KINDLERS. — Tar, 1 quart; rosin, 3 lbs.; melt them. When not quite cool, add 1 gill of spirits of turpentine, and mix as much saw-dust, with a little charcoal, as can be worked in; spread out while hot on a board ; divide into pieces. They will instantly ignite, and briskly burn long enough to ignite coal, or wood. FIRE, to Extinguish. — Dis- solve pearlash, soda, wood-ashes or common salt in the water, before it is put into the engine, and direct the jet on the burning wood work. The pro- portion may be 20 pounds to every 50 gallons ; the more, however, the better. Or throw sulphur on the fire. A solution of s ozs. of ammonia in one gallon of water, will extinguish a large fire. FIRE, to Light. — Clear the grate, and place at the bottom a few coals about the size of a walnut, place the fuel (shavings and wood split) upon them,, then cinders, and lastly coals. This method speedily produces a good fire. FIRE, Protection from, &c.— Washing linen, dresses, &c., in a solu- tion of altim prevents them taking fire. If in a house or room on fire, crawl with your face as near the ground as you can. Wet a blanket, and throw it upon things on fire. Or dip a blanket in water and beat the flames, putting a handkerchief over your mouth and Dose if there is much smoke. If a lady’s clothes take fire, roll on the floor, or wrap her in a carpet tightly. Throw a solution of pearl-ash upon the flames. FIRE, to Revive.—Strew on a dull fire powdered nitre, or saltpetre. FIRE-PROOF STUCCO. — Take moist gravelly earth (previously washed,) and make it into stucco with the following composition : pearlashes, 2 parts ; water, 5 parts ; common clay, 1 part. Mix. This costs about one shilling and sixpence per hundred square feet. It has been tried on a large scale and found to answer. FISH, to Choose. — Carp. They have the same signs of freshness «s other fish. Cod. Gills should be very red, the neck thick, flesh white, firm ; eyes fresh. Eels. Except the middle of summer, they are always in season. Those taken in ponds are not good—a flowing river is the best for them. Flounders. Should be thick, firm, bright eyes. Gudgeons are best in running streams. Her- rings. Gills red ; eyes bright,{flesh firm. Mackerel. Season, May, June, July ; they keep worse than any fish. Mullets. The sea ones are the best. Season, August. Perch. River Perch are the best. Pike. The best as Perch—rather a dry fish. Salmon. Flesh and gills, fine red, scales bright, and the fish stiff and firm. Small heads, and thick in the neck, are the best. Skate. When good, very white and thick. Smelts. If good, a fine silvery hue, firm. Soles. If good, thick; belly cream colour. Tench. Gills red, and hard to open, eyes bright') body stiff. Turbot. If good, thick ; belly a yellowish white. Whitings. Firm, smell fresh. Shell Fish.—Crabs. The heaviest are best; middling size, sweetest; joints of the legs, stiff. Lobsters. The heaviest are the best. If fresh, will have a strong motion, when you press the eyes. Oysters. The Pyefleet, Colchester, and Milford, are the best. The native Milton are fine, being white and fat. When alive and strong, the shell closes on the knife. Prawns and Shrimps. If fresh, they have a sweet flavour, and firm, bright in colour. FISH, to Keep Sound.—To prevent meat, fish, &c., going bad, put a few pieces of charcoal into the sauce- pan Wherein the fish or flesh is to be boiled. FISH, to render Boiled Firm. —Add a little saltpetre to the salt in the water in which the fish is to be boiled ; a quarter of an ounce to one gallon. FISH PIE.—Pike, perch, and carp may be made into savory pies if cut into fillets, seasoned, and baked in paste, sauce made of veal broth, or cream put in before baking. FISH SAUCE.—Indian soy, 1 gill ; shalot vinegar, a wine-glassful; mixed mushroom and walnut ketchup, % pint in equal proportions, the juiceFIT FIS 180 of a lemon, with its peel chopped fine, two anchovies boned, three tea-spoon- fuls of soluble cayenne pepper, two table-spoonfuls of horse-radish vinegar, and a tumbler of port wine. Bottle, and for two or three weeks shake fre- quently. FISHING-ROD VARNISH. —Equal parts of Canada balsam and fine turpentine, wanned together for several hours, make an excellent varnish. Or, alcohol, one pint; Venice tur- pentine, a quarter of a pint; gum san- darach, 4 02s.; gum mastic in tears, 1 oz. ; resin, 2 ozs.; heated by ether till dissolved. FISTULA.—This disease Is seat- ed near the anus and rectum, in the form of abscess, or ulcer, emitting an offensive discharge. It may be caused by derangement of the liver, costiveness, or great laxity, high living, intemper- ance, bruises, piles, &c. It is first known by a painful swelling near the rectum, inflammation, a pressure upon the bladder, or urethra, supression of urine, great pain in passing the foeces. The treatment generally is by the knife; but we prefer the reform prac- tice of America; for cures by the knife are very rare indeed. Dr. Beach says, 11 Moderate excessive inflammation; diminish painful symptoms; promote suppuration; if the swelling cannot be discussed. Apply to the swelling the Discutiext Ointment, page 161, after- wards foment with bitter herbs, tansy, wormwood, horehound, catnep, hops, a handful of each—make a decoction. Put into a vessel, and add half a pint of soft soap. Put a board across the vessel, or tub, and let the patient sit over it for twenty minutes, covered with a blanket, except the head, to retain the steam. Repeat several times a day." It often relieves the most painful cases. Apply the Discutient Ointment as often as possible ; also a poultice made of linseed meal, and powdered slippery elm bark, renewing it every day. If the pain prevents sleep, take a little of the Diaphoretic Powder page 160, at bed-time. Promote perspiration by bathing the feet daily, drinking balm and hyssop tea. The bowels must be kept open by emollient purgatives ; but If internal medicines cause pain, in- lections must be given ; of warm water mixed with butter, or castor oil. This treatment will ripen the abscess; it is the best to let it break spontaneously; after which the Black Salve, page 65, will be found of great service, intro- duced into the ulcer by means of small tents of lint. Inject also into the anus a weak solution of carbonate of potash ; or castile soap and water. It renders the discharge more healthy. Wash the fistula twice a day with salt and water. After the painful symptoms are gone, the patient can scarcely tell whether he is improving or not, though the fistula may be daily decreasing. FISTULA.—Use a sitz-bath as often as you can bear it. Wash muscle shells clean, bum them to powder, sift them fine, mix them with hog’s lard, spread it on clean wash- leather, and apply it. This cured one who was thought to be at the point of death. N.B. This also cures the piles. FISTULA LACHRYMALIS. —This is a swelling, and inflammation in the inner comer of the eye, caused by an obstruction of the tear-duet. Steam over the vapour of camomile and groundsel tea, for thirty minutes twice a day. Snuff up the nostril near the affected eye, powdered lobelia herb, mixed with a little blood-root. Should the eye swell, use eye-waters and the Brown Ointment, page 279. FITS.—If a person falls into a fit, let him remain on the ground provided his face be pale; for should it be faint- ing or temporary suspension of the heart’s action, you may cause death by raising him upright, or by bleeding; but if the face be red or dark coloured, raise him on his seat, throw cold water on his head immediately, and send for a surgeon. 1. Ascertain the cause of the convul- sions, and treat that. If the gums are swollen, lance them. If the bowels are constipated, open them by an injection of warm water, soap, ana molasses. 2. Apply cloths wet in cold water to the head, and especially to the back of the neck. Nearly all forms of convulsions in children and in adults may be cut short sooner by applying cloths wet in cold water, or, better still, ice to the back tf181 FLE FIX the neck, than by making the same ap- lications to the top and front of the ead, because the back part of the brain and upper portion of the spine are frequently eonjested during the attacks. Ice-bags are very useful in such cases. As a substitute for the rubber ice-bags we may wrap the ice in a piece of oiled silk, or even a common towel. The ice or wet cloths should not be kept too long on the child, else they may work injury. 3. Put the child in a warm lath if the cold applications fail. 4. Apply mustard plasters to the stomach and legs ; cup the back of the neck in desperate cases. During the intervals of attacks, use all means to improve the general con- dition of the child. It should be remembered that con- vulsions may be evidences of serious disease of the brain, for which, of course, medical advice should be obtained if possible. FIXED STARS.—Nitre, 12 parts ; sulphur, 6 parts ; meal gunpow- der, 12 parts ; antimony, 1 part. Mix. The bottom of the rocket must be stuffed with clay; one diameter of rocket composition must be then intro- duced, and the remainder filled with the above mixture; the case is then to be tied up, and the paste-board pierced with five holts for the escape of the luminous rays. FLANNEL.—Before it is made up, flannel should be immersed in hot water. FLANNELS, to Wash.—Do not use boiling water, but as hot as the hands can bear. Wash with good brown soap and a little pearl-ash, or soda, and blue. FLANNEL, to Wear.—Put it on at once, winter and summer— nothing better can be worn next to the skin than a loose red flannel shirt— " loose," for it has room to move on the skin, thus causing a titillation, which draws the blood to the surface and keeps it there, and when that is the case no one can take cold ; "red,” for white flannel creases up, mats together, and becomes tight, stiff, heavy, and imper- vious. Cotton wool merely absorbs the moisture from the surface, while woollen flannel conveys it from the skin and deposits it in drops on the outside of the shirt, from which the ordinary cotton shirt absorbs it, and by its nearer exposure to the air it is soon dried with- out injury to the body. Having these properties, red woollen flannel is worn by sailors even in the midsummer of the hottest countries. Wear a thinner material in summer. FLANNEL, Beware how you Lay aside—Never be in a hurry to put off woollen garments. Flannel pro- tects against the sudden changes of temperature. When perspiration flows freely, the quick evaporation carries with it much heat from the body, and chili may be produced, and that may be followed by derangement of some function, as cold in the head, or un- natural discharge from the bowels. Flannel is a slow conductor of cold or heat, and evaporation proceeds from it more slowly than from cotton or linen ; hence its excellence for clothing. Many persons wear flannel next to the skin all the year round, and find it a shield against prevalent complaints in the summer. Much depends of course upon the constitution and employment of the in- dividual, but in all cases flannel should not be laid aside till the weather is settled permanently warm, and the change should be made in the morning, not in the after-part of the day, when the energies are somewhat abated, and the air is usually cooler. Many a deli- cate person has sown the seeds of con- sumption in undressing for an evening party. FLATULENCY—See Carmin- atives, page 112, and Colic, page 132. FLATULENCY, Griping, &c., in Children.—It proceeds from in- digestion. Give an emetic to produce a vomit. In two hours after, give a little rhubarb and magnesia, and occa- sionally a little castor oil, in aniseed water. Also a warm bath now then. FLEAS AND LICE, on Ani- mals, to Destroy. — Solution of camphor—the camphor first dissolved in spirits of wine.—The root of the tail, and most of the back of dogs may be rubbed with Scotch snuff.—Use borax; 1FLU FLI 182 insects do not like it.—Or apply oil of turpentine. FLIES.—Horses, cows, and oxen may be relieved from the annoyance of flies and the stings of venomous insects, by nibbing their legs and stomachs with train oil, which drives those unwelcome visitors away. v FLIES annoying W orking Horses.—An infusion of walnut leaves, or borax, applied occasionally between the ears, and on other sensitive parts of the horse, is successful. FLIES, to Destroy.—A tea- spoonful of laudanum, and two table- spoonfuls of water, strongly sweetened with sugar, placed in a saucer. Or dissolve quassia chips in boiling water, and sweeten. Or a strong infusion of green tea, well sweetened.—Or ground black pepper and sugar, diluted in milk, and put on plates, &c. FLIES, to Keep off. — Dust meat over with pepper, or powdered ginger, or fasten to it a piece of paper on which camphor has been well rubbed, or a few drops of creosote. Borax is now used as a preservative and as a disinfectant. FLIP.—Put a quart of ale on the fire; beat 3 or 4 eggs, with 4 02s. of sugar, a tea-spoouful of grated nutmeg or ginger, and a gill of good old rum or brandy. When the ale is about to boil, put it into one pitcher, and the eggs, rum, &c. into another; then pour it from one vessel to the other till it is as smooth as cream. FLOUNDERS, to Fry.—Rub with salt inside and out; let them stand two hours to give them firmness; dip them into egg, cover with crumbs and fry. To Boil.—Open and clean; boil in salt and water; make either gravy, shrimp, cockle, or mussel sauce, and garnish with red cabbage. FLOUR, to Detect Adulter- ated.—Take a little in the hand, and squeeze it for half a minute ; if good it can be put out of the hand in a lump; if adulterated, it will fall apart as soon as it leaves the band. FLOUR CAUDLE.—Into five large spoonfuls of pure water rub smooth a dessert-spoonful of fine flour. Set over the fire five spoonfuls of new milk, sweetened; the moment It boils, pour into it the flour and water; and stir it over a slow fire twenty minutes. It is a nourishing and gently astringent food—an excellent food for babies with weak bowels. FLOWERS, a Hint to Lovers of.—A beautiful show of evergreens may be had by a very simple plan. If geranium branches, taken from luxu- riant trees just before the winter sets in. be cut as for siips and immersed in soap-water, they will, after drooping for a few days, shed their leaves, put forth fresh ones, and continue in vigour all winter. By placing a number of bottles thus filled in a flower-basket, with moss to conceal them, a show of evergreens is insured for the whole season. They require no fresh water. FLOWER BULBS AT ANY SEASON in THREE WEEKS. —Fill a flower pot half full of quick lime, fill up with good earth, and plant the bulb, and keep the earth damp. FLOWERS, to Extract Es- sence from.—Take any flowers you choose; place a layer in a clean earthen pot, and over them a layer of fine salt. Repeat the process until the pot is filled, cover closely and place in the cellar. Forty days afterwards, strain the essence from the whole through a crape by pressure. Put the essence thus ex- pressed in a clear bottle, and expose for six week to the rays of the sun and evening dew to purify. One drop of this essence will communicate its odour to a pint of water. FLOWERS, to Preserve in Water.—Mix a little saltpetre or a little carbonate of soda with water, and it will preserve the flowers for a fort- night. FLOWERS, when Faded to Revive.—Put one-third of the stalk in hot water till it is cold. Then cut off the end of the stalk, and put in cold water in which a little saltpetre has been dissolved. It acts like magic. FLUMMERY.—Put 1 oz. each of bitter and sweet almonds into a basin; pour boiling water upon them to remove the skins; place the kernels in cold water a little; then beat in a mortar with rose-water ; afterwards put them into a pint of calf-feets’ stock:183 FOW FLU sweeten with loaf sugar. When it boils, strain; cool, and add a pint of thick cream, and stir till it is thick and cold ; wet the mould and pour in the flum- mery. In five or six hours turn out. Constant stirring is essential to preserve the figures of the moulds, and the clear- ness of the flummery. FLUMMERY, French.— Cream, 1 quart; isinglass, oz. ; beat it fine and stir it into the cream ; boil gently over a slow fire 15 minutes, stirring all the time; take off; sweeten to taste; add a spoonful each of rose and orange-flower water; poor into a glass or mould, and when cold, turn it out. FLUX.—Castor oil, 4 ozs.; gum arabic, two table-spoonfuls ; gum kino, 1 table-spoonful; laudanum, 1 tea- spoonful ; water, 1 pint; mix, and take a table-spoonful three or four times a day. It is unfailing in most cases. PLY P A P E R S.—'Take Bird Lime, reduce it to a proper consistency with Turpentine, adding a small quan- tity of treacle. Then spread on paper. FOMENTATION, Decoction for.—Take tops of wormwood, and oak bark, and camomile flowers dried, each, two ounces. Boil in two quarts of water. Pour off the liquor, and then add French brandy, or spirits of wine, as the case may require. FOMENTATION, Aromatic. —Take of Jamaica pepper, half an ounce; red wine, a pint. Boil them a little, and then strain the liquor. This is intended not only as a topical applica- tion for external complaints, but also for relieving internal parts. Pains of the bowels which accompany dysen- teries, and diarrhoeas, flatulent colics, uneasiness of the stomach, and retching to vomit, are frequently abated by fomenting the abdomen and region of the stomach with a warm liquor. FOMENTATION, Soothing. —Take 3 ozs. each of hops, horehound, tansy, wormwood, and 2 ozs. of poppy heads. Make a decoction by boiling in equal parts of vinegar and water.— Excellent for removing pain, caused by dislocations contusions, sprains, and other causes. It may also be usefully employed in inflammation of the bowels, and ail inflammations. FOOT SPRAINS.—Slide the fingers under the foot, and having greased both thumbs, press them suc- cessively with increased force over the painful parts for about a quarter of an hour. Repeat the application several times, or until the patient is able to walk. This is a simple remedy for a very common casualty, and can be per- formed by the most inexperienced. FORCEMEAT.—Take a pound of fresh lean veal, and the same weight of beef suet, and a bit of bacon or ham ; shred all together ; beat it in a mortar very fine; then season it with sweet herbs, pepper, salt, cloves, mace, and nutmegs ; add the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten. A few oysters may be added ; or marrow, if the force- meat is intended to be rich. This may be made into balls about the size of a walnut. Another, to force Fowls or Meat.—Shred a little ham, some cold veal, or fowl, or beef-suet; a small quantity of onion, parsley, a little lemon-peel, salt, nutmeg, or pounded mace, and white pepper, or cayenne, and bread crumbs. Pound it in a mortar, and bind it with one or two eggs beaten and strained. FOUL AIR IN WELLS.— To remove the gas before a descent is made into any well, a quantity of burned but unslacked lime should be thrown down. This, when it comes in contact with whatever water is below, sets free a great amount of heat in the water and lime, which rushes upward, carrying all the deleterious gases with it; after which descent may be made with safety. The lime also absorbs the carbonic acid in the well. FOWLS, to Boil.—Truss as in page 184. Put in a pan of cold water; cover; skim; boil slowly twenty minutes; take off, cover close, and the heat of the water will stew them enough in half an hour ; it keeps the skin whole, white, and plump. Pour over them white sauce. FOWLS, to Dress Cold.—Peel off all the skin, and pull the flesh off the bones in large pieces ; dredge with flour; fry it a nice brown in butter; toss it up in a rich gravy, well seasoned; thicken it with a piece of butte.r rolledTOW FRR to flour; before serving; squeeze to the juice of a lemon. FOWLS, to Fatten.—Mix a little unsifted flour, ground rice, scalded with milk; add a little butter and coarse sugar, and a little chopped meat. Make it thick, and feed them several times a-day. This soon fattens them. Give them also now and then barley meal and water mixed thin. FOWL, to Hash.—Cut up the fowl as for eating; put it into a stew- pan with half a pint of gravy, a tea- spoonful of lemon pickle, a little mush- room ketchup, a slice of lemon, and a chopped shalot or two. Thicken with flour and butter; before it is dished, add a table-spoonful of thick cream ; lay sippets round the dish, and serve. FOWL, Roasted.---When the fowl is about half done, skewer pieces of fat bacon to it. It serves for larding, and saves time and trouble for the same. The bacon will serve to garnish the dish. Make a gravy of the necks and gizzards ; strain, and put in a spoonful of browning. Serve with egg sauce. FOWLS, to Roast a la Ser- vante.—Prepare a fowl for roasting, and make a forcemeat with the liver, parsley, shalots, butter, pepper, salt, and basil. Stuff the fowl with this ; roast it, wrapped in slices of lard and paper. When three parts done, take off the lard and paper ; baste it all over with the yolks of eggs beaten up with melted butter; freely sprinkle bread crumbs over it; roast to a fine yellow. Make a sauce with butter, a chopped anchovy, a few capers, flour, three spoonfuls of broth, nutmeg, pepper, and salt; make like a white sauce. FOWLS, to Truss. — Pluck them, cut off the neck close to the back ; take out the crop, liver, and en- trails ; cut off the vent, draw it clean, and beat the breast-bone flat. If for boiling, cut off the nails of the feet, and tuck them close to the legs ; put your finger into the inside, and raise the skin of the legs ; then cut a hole in the top of the skin, and put the legs under; put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, bring the middle of the leg close to it, put the skewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body, and do so on the other side. I 84 T lake the gizzard and clean it; put It and the liver in the pinion ; turn the points on the back, and tie a string over the tops of the legs to keep them in their place. If to be roasted, put a skewer in the first joint of the pinion, bring the middle of the leg close to it; put the skewer through the middle of the leg, and through the body:—put a skewer in the small of the leg, and through the sidesman and one through the skin of the feet. Cut off the nails of the feet. FOWL, the Best for the Winter.—Cochins are the only birds to lay all the winter; and by their will- ingness to sit almost at any time in the summer, you may get pullets which will lay late in the autumn, FOWL SOUP.—Cut up two fowls and some nice ham in small pieces, with sliced onions and celery; fry them in butter till brown ; then boil them in water, thicken with fresh cream, and season with pepper, salt, and mace. Boil all together; and before serving add port wine. FOXGLOVE INFUSION.— Foxglove leaves, 1 dr. ; boiling water, % pint; tincture of cinnamon, 1 fluid oz. Infuse the leaves in the water for five hours, strain, and add the tincture. A dessert spoonful twice a day. Valu- able in water of the chest, and palpita- tion of the heart. See Robinson's Family Herbal. FRAGRANT ODOUR, to Diffuse a.—A few drops of oil of sandal wood dropped on a hot shovel, will diffuse a most agreeable balsamic perfume through the room. FRECKLES.—Take 1 oz. of lemon-juice, a quarter of a drachm of powdered borax, and half a drachm of sugar; mix, let them stand a few days in a glass bottle, then rub it on the hands and face occasionally. Or, mix two-teaspoonfuls of muriatic acid with 2 ozs. of spirits of wine ; and 1 pint of distilled water. Or, 2 drs. of muriatic acid in 1 pint of water, and a teaspoonful of spirits oflavender. Apply with a camel hair pencil, or linen.— Or, horse-radish steeped in sour milk for 12 hours, and a drop or two of tinc- ture of myrrh. Wash two or three times per day.FR3 FRK 185 FREEZING MIXTURES.— If ice cannot be obtained, water may be cooled to the freezing point by the fol- lowing mixtures : — sal ammoniac, 5 pans; nitre, 5 parts; glauber salts, 8 parts ; water, 16 parts. Or, nitrate of ammonia, 1 part; carbonate of soda, 1 part; water, 1 part. Or mix 1 part of muriate of ammonia, or sal-am- moniac powder, with 2 parts of nitrate of potash, or saltpetre :—this forms one powder. The powder to be mixed with it is formed of barilla, or the best Scotch soda, powdered. This must be kept in a cool place, well corked, as must the first powder. For use put an equal quantity of these two powders into the ice-pail, and pour on them as much cold spring water as will dissolve them. FRENCH BEANS, for Winter Use. — Put into boiling water for a minute, then into cold, drain, and dry them. Put at the bottom of a large earthen vessel, a two inch layer of salt, then a layer of beans, and so proceed till it is filled, the top layer always to be salt. Cover well. When you take out, fill the vacancy with salt. In cooking, soak them all the previous night, and add a little carbonate of soda. See page 44. FRENCH BREAD.—Mix the yolks of three, and the whites of two eggs with a quarter of a peck of flour, a little salt, half a pint of good yeast, as much milk, warm, as will work it into a thin light dough. Do not knead it, but stir it about; put into dishes or tins, to rise; then turn them out into a quick oven ; rasp when done. See page 74. FRENCH BROWN BREAD. —Sour milk, 1 quart; salt, 1 tea-spoon- ful ; carbonate of soda, 1 tea-spoonful; and half a tea-cup of treacle put into the milk. Thicken with unsifted or ground-down flour, and bake imme- diately. FRENCH POLISH, and the Art of Staining and Graining.— Take 2 ozs. of wood naptha, >4 oz. of best shellac, 1 drachm gum benzol" ; crush the gums, mix them with the naptha in a bottle ; shake them fre- quently till dissolved ; it is then ready for use. This is the clear polish. Take a little cotton wool, apply a little of the polish to it, cover it tightly with a linen rag, to which apply a drop of linseed oil, to prevent it from sticking to the wood ; use your rubber gently, polish- ing from a centre in a circular manner; finish with a drop of spirits of wine on a clean rubber, which will extract the oiL Wood may be stained or grained any colour or design, by mixing it with the polish, or dipping the rubber in the colour (finely powdered,) at the time you apply the polish with the cotton. To produce a red : dip the cotton into dragon’s blood (finely powdered,) im- mediately applying the polish; then cover with the linen, and polish. For yellow: use the best chrome yellow. For blue : ultra-marine blue, or indigo. For black; ivory, or lamp-black, &c. Graining is produced by touching or streaking the wood with the colour, as above, in irregular lines or marks, and in such shapes as the fancy may sug- gest, then finishing it with a coat of dear polish. FRENCH ROLLS.—Rub 1 oz. of butter into 1 lb. of flour, mix one egg, well beaten, a little yeast, not bitter, as much milk as will make a dough of a middling stifihess ; beat it well, but do not knead, let it rise ; bake on tins quick. FRIAR’S BALSAM. —Gum benzoin, 3% ozs. ; strained storax, •2.% ozs. ; balsam of tolu, 10 drs.; aloes, 5 drs. ; rectified spirit, 2 pints; let it stand for 14 days, shaking oft before using. A good application for wounds and cuts ; and such was very effectual in the hands of the old friars. Inter- nally, it is stimulant, expectorant, and antispasmodic, and is useful in asthma, catarrh, consumption, and languid cir- culation. Dose, a drachm on loaf sugar. FRENCH POMADE.—Pom- ade (any) 8 ozs. ; white wax, 1 oz*; spermaceti, oz. ; oil of almonds, 3 ozs. Mix. FRENCH PUDDING,—Milk, 1 quart; flour, a cupful, or more, 8 or 9 eggs. Beat the eggs, and add them to the milk, with the flour. Butter a dish, and bake. Serve with sweet sauce. FRITTERS.—Make them of any I of the batters directed for pan-cakes, by j dropping a small quantity into the pan ; | or make the plainer sort, and put pared186 FBI? FRI apples sliced and cored Into the batter, and fry some of it with each slice, Cur- rants or sliced lemon as thin as paper, and orange flower water make an agree- able change. FRITTERS, Common.—Half a pint of ale and 2 eggs, beat in 3 or more table-spoonfuls of flour, with nut- meg and sugar to taste ; let it rise four minutes ; then drop them into a pan of boiling lard ; fly a light brown ; serve with sugar grated upon them. It may be varied by adding cream, sweatmeat, marmalade, jam, currants, &c. FRITTERS, Spanish.—Cut the inside of a French roll into lengths as thick as your finger, in what shape you will. Soak in some cream, nutmeg, sugar pounded, cinnamon, and an egg. When well soaked, fry to a nice brown; and serve with butter, wine, and sugar sauce. FROST BITES.—Keep from the fire, and rub well with snow, and then with cold water. FROTH, to set on Cream, Custard, or Trifle.—Sweeten J lb. of the pulp of damsons, or any other scalded fruit, put to it the whites of 4 eggs beaten, and beat the pulp with them until it will stand as high as you choose; and being put on the cream, &c., with a spoon, it will take any form, it should be rough, to imitate a rock. FRUIT, to Bottle.—Currants, gooseberries, and other fruits may be thus preserved :—After having been well cleaned, put them into wide-mouthed glass bottles, shaking them so that each bottle may be full. Place them, slightly corked, in an oven nearly cold, for 4 or 5 hours; when the fruit contracts or wrinkles, take out, cork well down rapidly and cover with leather and wax. Keep in a dry place. FRUIT, to Candy.—After apri- cots, peaches, plums, nectarines, &c., have been preserved, take the fruit from the syrup ; drain ; to 1 lb. of loaf-sugar put a teacupful of water; when dis- solved set it over a moderate fire ; when boiling hot put in the fruit; stir it con- tinually until the sugar is candied about it; then take it upon a sieve and dry in a warm oven, or before a fire; repeat thi3 2 or 3 times if necessary. FRUIT PIE for Invalids and Children.—The rich crusts generally made are not fit for invalids and chil- dren. Therefore divide into 2 slices each, as many sponge cakes as will be required for the size of your dish ; put a layer of these, with the brown side downwards, at the bottom of the pie- dish, then fill with currants and rasp- berries, plums, damsons, or whatever fruit the season affords; sprinkle well with fin? Lisbon sugar, and pour in water nearly to the brim ; place a por- tion of the cut cakes upon the fruit as an upper crust, and let the dish be put in the oven for 40 minutes. FRUIT SALT.—This excellent article is composed of 2 ozs. of Epsom Salts, 2 ozs. of Cream of Tartar, a% ozs. of Carbonate of Soda. 2 ozs. of Tar- taric Acid, 4 ozs, of finely powdered sugar. Mix rapidly altogether adding a small quantity of Bromide of Potass. Put into a dry bottle, well corked. Take a good tea-spoonful in a tumbler glass of water occasionally. It is excellent for quickly moving the bowels, pain in the stomach, &c. FRUIT STAINS, to Remove from Linen.—Rub each side of the stained part with soap ; then steep it in a strong solution of pearl-ash ; soak well in hot water, or boiL Dry in the sun.—Or, saturate the cloth with a little water, and hold the part over a lighted match, at a little distance. The spots will be removed by sulphureous gas. FRUIT TART.—Spread puff paste with a rolling pin; cut a piece the size of the dish, and out of the trimmings cut some strips; brush the edge of the dish with egg-wash and stick the strips on it; then put the fruit into the dish with sugar and a little water ; roll the paste on the rolling pin and lay it over the fruit. Before you put the paste on brush the strips with egg-wash to make them stick. When you have trimmed the dish all round brash white of egg over the tart and sift sugar over it; then dip the paste brush into water and shake it over the tart. Bake it properly and serve up cold. ; FRUMENTY.—To a quart of ready boiled wheat put 3 quarts of new milk, and a % lb. of currants, or raisins,boll and stir til) dons; beat the yolks of 3 eggs, a little nutmeg, with 4 spoon- fuls of milk ; add this to the wheat; Stir over the fire a little ; then sweeten. FUEL, Cheap.—One bushel of small coal or saw-dust, or both mixed together, 2 bushels of sand, 1 % bushels of clay, made into balls, or bricks, and allowed to set firmly, will supply an excellent fuel, and effect a great saving in coals. FUEL, to Save.—Take 4 lbs. of chalk in lumps, not above % lb. each. Make a clear fire of coal, and place the lumps of chalk in the grate, as coal is laid. The chalk becomes red hot, so as to be scarcely distinguish- able from burning cinders. A few ashes or small coal tnrown lightly on from time to time, will keep up a clear bright fire all day. The same chalk may be used 3 or 4 days, when it becomes lime, and manure for gardens or allotments, or for whitewashing. Half-a-peck of coal used thus with chalk, will give a capital fire for 14 hours. The saving in coal is 1%. In grates the chalk should be kept behind, and coals in front; because chalk will not bum un- less in has coal or heat on all sides of it. FULMINATING SILVER. —Put into a small-necked bottle, rest- ing on a little sand, one part of fine silver filings and 3 parts of nitro-muria- tic-acid. When the silver is dissolved, pour the solution into a glass, add 5 times the quantity of water, then take spirit of sal-ammoniac, and pour it into the solution drop by drop, until the silver is precipitated to the bottom ; decant the clear liquor, and wash it several times in warm waters, dry and place it on paper, to absorb the mois- ture. If a grain of this powder is put into an iron spoon, and exposed to the flame of a candle, it will explode with a loud report. The crackers are made with this powder, a small quantity be- ing placed in a bit of paper with a pea and a bit of sand twisted up. FUNERAL BISCUITS.— Take 8 eggs, 3 lbs. of flour, and 3 lbs. of lump sugar grated, which will make 48 finger biscuits for a funeral. FUNERAL BUNS.-Take 2 stones of flour, 1 lb. of butter, and 1 lb. of sugar, rubbed together, 3 lbs. of cur- rants, ginger, seeds, cinnamon, and a little rose-water mixed up with milk. The above will make 48 cakes, at three- pence per cake, each weighing 1 lb. be- fore they are baked. Make them round, and bake them a fine brown. They will take 1 pint of yeast. FURNITURE CREAM.— Linseed oil, 1 pint; spirits of wine, 3 ozs.; vinegar, 1 oz.; butter of antimony XA oz. FURNITURE POLISH.— The cheapest is a mixture of linseed oil and turpentine, laid on in a thin coat, rubbed off with a soft cloth and pol- ished. Furniture in constant use is greatly improved by washing with vinegar and water, and afterwards applying cold drawn linseed oil, rubbing it very much. It should be rubbed again in a day or two afterwards. Or, linseed oil, 1 pint; spirits of wine, % gill. Mix well. Apply with a linen rag. Rub dry with a soft cotton cloth. Rub last and hard with a piece of old silk. In time it will have a most beauti- ful gloss. Or, Linseed oil, bees wax scraped into, and gradually dissolved in turpentine, to the thickness of cream. Apply as above and rub well. Or, 1 pint of linseed oil, 1 oz. of finely powdered rose pink, 1 oz. of shellac; beat well 1 oz. of alkanet root, and add it to the other. Keep the vessel in a warm place for a week, stirring now and then. This is excellent for darkening new wood, and removing marks, &c. Apply, and rub as before. Chamois leather is the best to rub with. FURNITURE POLISH.— Spirits of wine, 1 pint; gum shellac, and gum lac, of each an oz. ; gum sandarac, oz. Melt with very gentle heat, frequently shaking the bottle. Double or treble a piece of cloth ; put a little polish upon it; cover that with a piece of soft linen rag lightly touched with cold-drawn linseed oil. Rub the furniture or wood in a circular direction. Afterwards; nib in the same way spirits of wine, with a little of the polish added to it; and a very brilliant polish will be produced. Some furniture requires pre- vious scraping with fine glass paper, onFOR 188 GAR account of having been polished with wax. Or, linseed oil, x pint; treacle, 8 ozs. ; add a glass of gin; stir well; apply with a rag; rub till dry, and it will pro- duce a splendid gloss. FURS, to Keep Moths from.— Sprinkle them with spirits of turpentine. Or wash them with corrosive sublimate, io or ia grains in a pint of warm water. Or use borax dissolved. FURS, to Improve.— Warm bran in an oven. Rub it well into the fur several times. Shake and brush till free from dust. Rub light furs with magnesia. G. GAME, to keep Sweet.—Game of all kinds, birds, rabbits, or deer, can be kept sweet a long time by putting finely pulverized charcoal in a thin mus- lin bag and placing it inside the game. Change the charcoal every day. It is excellent to keep any meat, fish, or fowl pure and sweet. Wash clean before cooking. Charcoal is also used for fil- tering impure water. GAME PIE.—Divide the birds If large, into pieces or joints. They may be pheasants, partridges, &c. Add a little bacon or ham. Season welL Cover with puff-paste, and take care- fully. Pour into the pie % a cupful of melted butter, the juice of a lemon, and a glass of sherry, when rather more than half baked. GAME SOUP.—Cut in pieces a partridge, pheasant, or rabbit; add slices of veal, ham, onions, carrots, &c. Add a litde water; heat a little on a slow fire, as gravy is done; then add some good broth ; boil the meat gently till it is done. Strain, and stew in the liquor what herbs you please. GANGREEN, or MORTIFI- CATION.—See Logwood, page 242. GARDENING, Directions for each Month in the Year. January. — Trench and manure; prepare hot-beds for asparagus, cucum- bers, 'mint, potatoes, and the small salads. Sow the brown, Dutch, and grand admiral cabbages, curled parsley for transplanting; frame peas, horn carrots, mazagan beans, onions (to be allowed to grow large); plant out cab- bage plants to succeed those which have been planted out in autumn. February.—All the ground which is destined for early crops must now be prepared, and hot-beds be multiplied for cucumbers and early melons. Celery may be sown on a moderate hot-bed; also sow cabbages, hom carrots, let- tuces, leeks, parsnips, and in fact most of the table vegetables. Those plants, such as cabhages, chives, garlic, shalots underground onions, and horseradish, which are fit, should now be trans- planted. March. — In open borders sow asparagus, cabbages, carrots, and Ham- burgh parsley, Neapolitan kale, par- snips, onions, &c. ; plant out such vege- tables as have been already sown. Be- fore sowing, dig carefully, and make the ground level and fine. Main crops may be sown in this month, such as early long-pod beans, peas, celery, tur- nips, and, indeed, most other vegetables. Mustard, cress, lettuce, spinach, and radishes, may be sown every week or fortnight, for succession. Chives, sha- lots, garlic, &c., may be planted; also rhubarb, potatoes, J erusalem artichokes. Cuttings, or slips of sweet herbs may be planted. April. — Planting the vegetables which have been sown is now the chief business. Make hot-beds for cucumbers and melons; force kidney beans and Victoria rhubarb. Plant out artichokes and potatoes; sow asparagus, beets, cabbages, celery, garden and kidney beans, Dutch turnips, lettuces, peas, radishes, small salading. May.—Sow carrots, lettuce, cap- sicums, cauliflowers, spinach, Knight’s marrow-fat peas, campions, &c. Trans- plant cabbages, winter greens, lettuces, and celery. Hoe and stake peas, water newly planted crops, and propagate aro- matic plants by slip® and cuttings. Pro- tect from wind and rain choice tulips, ranunculuses, and anemonies. Propa- gate herbaceous plants by dividing the roots ; wall-flowers, sweet-williams, and rockets, by slips; and China roses, beliotropiums, &c., by cuttings. June.—Sow Cape brocoli, kidney beans, peas, lettuces, campions, spinach, small salading, &c. The best peas for sowing now are Knight’s marrow-fat picas ; they will bear till October. HoeGAR 189 GAR tbs table vegetables, and pick out the most curled plants of curled parsley, cress, and chervil, for seed. Watering the freshly-planted crops must now be attended to in dry weather in the even- ings, or very early in the mornings. Weeding and thinning out are also of Importance, as well as hoeing, particu- larly with potatoes, cabbages, and peas. July. — Plant cabbages, savoys, coleworts, brocoli, lettuce, celery, &c. Train and regulate the summer shoots both of wall trees and standards ; prune vine and fig-trees, and shade ripe cur- rants that are exposed to the full blaze of the sun. Place nets on the cherries to protect them from birds. Take up garlic, onions, and shalots, as thpir leaves begin to decay. August.—Both cabbages, brocoli, endive, spinach, Welsh onions, turnips, and radishes should now be sown. The celery sown should be planted, and that already planted, as well is cardoons, should be earthed up. September.—Sow vegetable seed for a spring crop. Prick out cabbage plants, and gather ripe seeds. Endive and lettuce may be planted out on beds sloping to the south-west, and fenced round to drain off water. Hoe and clear the ground about turnips. Cab- bage for collards in November, and German greens may be planted early in the month. October.—Sow magazan beans, and frame peas on a warm southern border ; lay into the ground purple and white brocoli, within a few inches of their lower leaves, letting their heads face the north; transplant cauliflowers and purple brocoli under frames and hand glasses ; cabbages, garlic, lettuces, and shalots, under frames. November.—Force seakale, rhu- barb, and asparagus; take up endive, brocoli, and cauliflower, and lay them flat in dry ground; transplant suckers taken from the roots of the pear and codling plum, and prepare them for budding and grafting different fruits upon. December.—Celery should now be earthed up, and in so careful a man- ner as not to require the operation again ; force asparagus, also rhubarb, and seakale ; lay in as early as possible this month the brocoli, purple, and white. The following sorts of winter greens are best suited for cottage gardens :—1 The first sort, after the summer cab- bages, is the Savoy. 2 The Brussels sprouts ; it has a long stalk, with small heads all the way up. 3 Green bore- cole, or Scotch kale; a fine tall early green. 4 Buda kale, also the Manches- ter, the Russian, or the Prussian kale; a short plant, with little or no stem, and very hardy. These four sorts will keep up a constant supply from November to May. If a cottager has a large garden, he should have some of each. If he has only room for one sort, it should be the Scotch kale. The first three sorts may be sown in Mar ch ; and the strongest plants put out in June, leaving the weaker to be planted out in July. The Buda kale should not be sown till May, nor planted out till July. General Hints, Operating on the Soil.—Trenching should always follow draining, or the latter will act but partially. U nless the ground be stirred pretty deeply, half the effect of draining will be lost. Both must be done in the autumn or early part of the winter, and the ground will then be in a good state, for cropping in spring. Manuring may be done in early winter, when the ground is somewhat frozen, as the material can then be wheeled on with greater ease, and the grounds and paths will be less cut up. Light.—Want of light is often the real cause of evils which are ascribed to want of air, though both combined may occasionally be acting. Light may, however be prejudicial to plants in cer- tain stages, as after fresh planting or potting, when it stimulates them more than their crippled roots will bear. Dull weather, is therefore, best both for potting and planting, and a little shade after either process may often be bene- ficial. * Seed Sowing.—Seeds to germin- ate require light, heat, air and moisture. They should be sown when the ground is mellow and fine, and, if possible, be- fore a gentle rain ; and the soil should be rolled or gently pressed upon the seed after sowing. The best of seeds often fail from improper management. When sown too early, while the ground Is wet.GAR 190 GAR they art apt to rot. When sown too shallow, in a dry time, there may not be sufficient moisture to sprout them, or they may be destroyed by dry and hot weather after they have germinated, or insects may destroy the plants as soon as they appear out of the ground. The first effect of air, heat and moisture is to change the starchy matter of the seed into a sugary pulp, the proper food of the embryo. If at this time the seed be withered by exposure to heat without sufficient covering, it will perish; or if planted in a fresh dug soil, and the above change in the nature of the seed takes place, but the earth is not pressed upon it, the seed dries up and the em- bryo perishes. Others, again, are buried too deeply, and though the seed swells, yet sufficient warmth and air are not ob- tained to give it life.—The first thing in sowing is a suitable preparation of the soil, so that the young roots may easily penetrate it. It must be made more or less fine for different seeds. Depth to Sow.—The size of a seed is a nearly safe guide as to the depth at which it should be sown— Beans of all kinds at two inches ; Peas an inch and a half; Carrots, Parsnips, Turnips, Onions, Radishes, Lettuce, Cabbage, and such seeds, require to be sown shallow, almost close to the sur- face. Seed must be firmly fixed in the soil and pressed by the earth on every part in order to retain moisture sufficient to encourage vegetation; yet not so firmly buried as to be deprived of air, or to have their ascending shoots impeded by too much soil above. The earth should be pressed upon them with a roller, or by treading with the feet in the case of large seeds, or by smoothing the surface with the back of the spade, or by walking over them on a board for the smaller kinds. In all cases seeds should be sown in fresh-dug soil, that they may have the benefit of the mois- ture within ; but they should never be put in when the soil is really wet, as the ground will bake and the seeds perish. Never sow broadcast if it is desirable to save time expense and trouble. When sown in drills or rows weeds can be more easily destroyed and the ground kept open and loose. Transplanting should be done just at evening, or immediately before or after a shower. Make the holes with the dibble, hold the plant in one hand and with the other bear the point of the dibble into the ground by the side of it, and press the earth closely to the bottom of the root. Give each plant a good watering, and shade in sunny weather. Watering. — The best time to water plants is at sunrise, or just at evening ; rain water is the best if it can be had. Water may be given to the roots at any time, but should never be sprinkled over the leaves in a hot sun. One copious watering is better than a little often, and the hoe should follow the watering pot whenever the ground becomes dry. Thinning. — All plants, when crowded together, run up tall and scraggy. As soon as plants are well above the ground they should be thin- ned out. Hoeing and Weeding.—The surface of the soil cannot be too fre- quently stirred. No weed should ever be allowed to seed—“ One year’s seed, seven years’ weed,” says the proverb. Constant hoeing is indispensable, to prevent the soil being exhausted of its nourishment by the rapid growth ot weeds. Manures directly assist vegetable growth by re-charging the soil with those nutritive properties which have been exhausted by the previous crop, and also indirectly by destroying vermin and weeds. The manure from ruminat- ing animals is termed cold, and is suited to a light soil; that of horses, hogs, and poultry is hot, and suited to a cold heavy soil. All new and fresh manure ferments, and has the effect of lightening the soil, while old rotten manure renders it more compact. The manure of birds (such as guano) is richer than that of any animals. Guano should never, in a fresh state, come in contact with seeds or the roots of plants, as it will destroy them. If animal manures are employed in a fresh state, they should be well mixed with the soil, and given to coarse feeding crops, such as Peas and Beans. Most plants dc better with manure composed and fully fermented before being used. Bone dust is very beneficial for Turnips,GAR 191 GAR Cabbages, &c., and the small quantity required makes it very inexpensive. Common salt is very useful in destroy- ing worms and slugs ; so also is soot, which should be carefully preserved and applied to all Cabbages and Turnips, and also to plants infected with insects. Leaves, straw and general litter thrown together and moistened with lime and salt, and kept damp till decomposed, is the best manure for trees and shrubs ; wood ashes is a good top dressing to most vegetables, especially Onions and Turnips. Hot Bed.—For forwarding seed- lings for early planting. Get a quantity of fresh horse manure and mix thorough- ly with about half of its bulk in straw, rotten leaves, &c., tramping it down in successive layers. In two or three days fermentation will be apparent by the es- cape of steam from the heap. Turn the heap over again and allow it to remain two or three days longer, or until the second fermentation begins. The frame should be eighteen inches high at the back and twelve in front—this gives the proper slope to catch most sunlight. When everything is ready, the manure is placed in and trodden down firmly in layers to the required depth. Then keep the sash closed till the heat rises. It will be too hot to sow the seeds at once, but in two or three days it will subside to about 90°, when soil may be put on to the depth of six or eight inches. The soil should be well-rotten sods mixed with fine old manure in equal parts, and in this the seed may be sown thinly in drills two or three inches apart, and afterwards either thinned out or else transplanted to another part of the frame. Air must be given every mild day by raising the sash at the back. Water with tepid water when necessary, and during cold nights and snow-storms keep the frame covered with straw or mats. If the Hot Bed has been made about the beginning of February, the seedlings will be ready for planting out by the time the weather grows warm. Cold Frame. — Kill the Frame with good rich soil—that taken from old hot beds, mixed with the fine rich manure from them is the best. It should be got ready in Autumn, and young cabbage, cauliflower and lettuce plants set in it, so that they will get established before cold weather. During cold nights and stormy days the sash should be kept closed and covered with straw mats—in mild days the air should be admitted freely—the object being to keep the plants dormant, so that in Spring they are in a forward state for planting out for early crops. Flower Seeds may be sown as soon as the soil becomes dry and easily crumbled after spring frosts have disap- peared. They may be sown in the bor- ders where they are intended to flower, or in seed beds or pans and transplanted to the flowering borders. The latter is the best plan, especially with very small seed, as it enables the plants to be sooner established, and also because during the period of early growth the ground occupied is not attractive. There must be discretion exercised as to the depth to which seed should be covered—small delicate seeds merely on the surface, some barely pressed into the soil, and others fully one-fourth inch deep—the depth in every instance being regulated by the size of the seed itself. Seedling plants can be nearly as well raised in a window—provided the tem- perature is right—as in a greenhouse. Seeds do not need a strong direct light while germinating. Germination of Seeds. — The average period is ten to fourteen days, but some seeds of a hard body often remain dormant for weeks or even months. The germination of such seeds will be great- ly accelerated by putting them into a cup of warm water and letting them steep for a night before sowing. As soon as the plants are up they will require careful attention, and should have as much sun and air as possible in fine weather. Prick out of the seed pans into other pans or boxes, placing them about an inch apart, and shading from the sun for a few days till they are established. It is a good plan to sow only part of a packet of seed at once, and then in a week or ten days the remainder. Thinning out of Plants in their earlier stages is most important. It is always desirable to sow thicker than the plants are required, but if the young plants ate allowed to remain in a crowd- ed state they soon spoil each other;GAR 192 GAR they must therefore be thinned oat. In all cases commence thinning in time—before they become crowded. Transplant whenever the plants are large enough to handle. Lift the plants carefully with the aid of a garden trowel, retaining as much soil to the roots as possible. This should be done in wet or cloudy weather ; if the ground is dry a good soaking with water before and after transplanting is advisable. Shade them for a few days from the sun. Plants in Pots should only be watered when the surface of the soil be- comes dry. Liquid manure is beneficial to plants whose roots are confined in pots, but should never be given to very young plants, or oftener than twice a week, and always in small quantities. Annuals are those plants that arrive at maturity, bloom, produce seeds and die in one season. Hardy Annuals are those which require no artificial heat at any period of their growth—every stage of their development, from germination to ripen- ing of the seed, may be passed in the open ground. They are the most easily cultivated of all plants. For succession sow from February to May for summer display; J une and J uly for autumn blooming, and August and September for spring flowering. Seeds of the hardier Annuals may be sown where they are to grow ; but as a rule it is pre- ferable to transplant, as the plants are generally stronger and stand draughts better. During very dry weather, and when the seedlings are first set out, they should be watered frequently. If the weeds are kept down and the ground loosened often, the plants will receive the fall benefit of the rains and dews, which they will not if the ground is allowed to become hard or baked. Half-Hardy Annuals are those species that flower and ripen their seeds in the open air, but need the assistance of artificial heat in the earlier stages of their growth. They should be sown in pans or frames on a gentle bottom heat, in March or April. By the end of May the seedlings will be ready for transplanting to the borders, but previous to removal they should be hardened by gradually admitting air to fb« (vara* night *>.\d day. Biennials do not generally flower till the second year from the sowing of the seed, and are only in perfection one season, and for a limited period; they are not, therefore, adapted for a bed in the lawn, which should make a show of blooms all through the season. Perennials are herbaceous plants, which die down during the winter but spring up and produce new stems an- nually. Many of the species improve by age, forming large clumps or bushes; by being divided the stock is increased and the plant invigorated. Some per- ennials, like the pansy, stock, dianthus and antirrhinum flower the first season, but true perennials, like biennials, do not bloom till the second season. Hardy Biennials and Peren- nials require the same treatment as hardy annuals. If seeds of Hardy An- nuals, Biennials and Perennials are sown in boxes in September, and win- tered in cold frames, they will make strong plants by spring, and come into bloom sooner—in the case of Biennials and Perennials a season earlier. Or they may be planted in the open garden in September and at the beginning of winter, covered with straw or other litter as a protection against frost. In spring this covering must be carefully removed and the surface around them loosened, and when large enough transplant them to the border where they are to remain. Tender Annuals, Biennials, and Perennials. — To obtain an early bloom and to ensure strength to the plants, is to sow the seed in boxes or pans early in March, placing them in a warm greenhouse or plunging in a moderate hotbed, carefully protecting them from the cold, shading from mid- day sun, and watering with a fine rose. The seed should be sown in very light sandy compost, and the pans well drained. The finer seeds must not be planted more than an eighth of an inch deep, and the soil pressed down closely over them. Water frequently, particu- larly if the house or hot-bed be very warm. As soon as the plants arc two or three inches high transplant into small pots, three or four in each, and when they have acquired sufficient strength transplant them into the flower beds—not before the middle of May.GAR 193 GEN Seeds of Tender Greenhouse Plants are very small and delicate generally, and require the greatest care to ensure success. These conditions are usually warmth and moisture—a humid, warm air as well as soil. They may be sown as directed for Tender Annuals, in pans or shallow boxes, and be kept in the house, carefully watched, slightly watered occasionally, and sheltered from the hot sun, till strong enough to trans- plant. Most varieties may be sown at any season of the year, except during November and December. The smaller seeds of greenhouse plants are some- times difficult to germinate unless great care be taken in the mode of sowing. Sow in pans, in a soil in which sufficient sand has been mixed to prevent it cak- ing. See that it is clear of worms and all kinds of insects. As the seeds are small and lie near the surface they must be shaded—sunshine would dry them up In a few minutes. A damp atmosphere can best be obtained by covering the pans with glass, but when the plants are up a little air must be given or they will become mouldy and droop. As soon as the young plants have two leaves they should be transplanted into similar com- post in another pan. To do this, do not pull them out of the seed pan, but invert the pan, taking care not break the young plants—a slight tap on the pot will loosen the whole mass, when the plants can be taken out with good roots. By that means the young minute roots are taken up without breaking. After transplanting they should be kept in a shady part of the greenhouse for a few days until they are established in the new soil. When large enough they can be planted singly into thumb pots, and re-potted into larger sizes as the roots grow. Keep the plants clean, and the thermometer about 75° during the day and 50° to 6o° in the night. Minute plants from the finer seeds are killed by drenching with water while very young. In the first stage of their existence plants require moisture in minute quantities, often repeated, and not in such large quantities as to satur- ate the soil in which they are growing. GARGLE.—A gargle of yeast act] milk is good tear a sore throat. Also a decoction 0/ cohosh has the same effect. Sage and hyssop, 1 or,, each. Infuse in 1 quart of water. Cool, strain, and add 1 drachm of borax. Good for thrush, quinsy, or sore throat. GARGLE, Cooling.—Nitre, z drachms; honey, 4 drachms; rose water, 6 oz. Mix. Gargle for Sore Throat.—De- coction of bark, 7 ozs. ; tincture of myrrh, 2 drachms; purified nitre, 3 drachms. Mix. This will disperse tumefied gland, or common sore throat. A little nitre alone put into the mouth now and then, and swallowing the saliva, often prevents or cures throat affections. Gargle for Putrid Sore Throat. —Decoction of bark, 6 ozs. ; diluted vitriolic acid, 1 drachm ; honey of roses, or yeast, 1 oz. Mix with the same quantity of port wine. Use oft. Or, cayenne pepper, 2 drachms ; tinc- ture of myrrh, 2 drachms; water, half a pint; vinegar, 1 oz. Mix. At first using, it may be diluted. GARLIC SAUCE.—Pound two. cloves of garlic with fresh butter the size of a nutmeg, rub it through a double hair-sieve, and stir into it half a pint of beef gravy, or melted butter, or it may be made with garlic vinegar. GARLIC VINEGAR. —Peel and chop 2 ozs. of garlic ; pour upon it the best vinegar; cover the jar, and shake it frequently ; infuse ten days, then strain off the liquor. GEESE, to Choose.—The larg- est are esteemed the best; also the white and the grey ; the dark coloured are not so good. A young goose has a yellow bill; if the bill be red, it is a sign of age ; if fresh, the feet will be pliable, but when stale, stiff and dry. GENTIAN.—The root is a most valuable bitter tonic, proper for all cases of debility, and indigestion, it strengthens the stomach, and promotes digestion, and prevents acidification of the food. GENTIAN, Compound Infu- sion of.—The root, cut in pieces, £ oz. ; dried Seville orange peel bruised, x drachm; coriander seeds, bruised, half a drachm; spirits of wine, 4 ozs. ; water, 1 pint; infuse first in the alcohol three hours; then add the water, and I macerate 12 hours without heat The 1 dose U a or 3 drachms 5 times • day.GEN GIN I94 GENTIAN, Tincture of.—Gen- tian. oz. ; orange peel, 4 drs, ; car- damoms, a drachms; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Macerate for 15 days. Dose, one teaspoonful. GHERKINS, to Pickle. — Put them into strong salt and water, and stir twice a day ; take out and place in a jar with vine leaves, and pour boiling vinegar over them. When cold heat the vinegar again, cover the gherkins with fresh vine leaves, and pour it upon them; repeat till of a good colour. Then add to it as much vinegar as is necessary, suppose two quarts, oz. of mace, 6 cloves, % oz. of ginger, % oz. of black pepper, and a table spoonful of salt. Boil five minutes, and pour upon thp niplrlp GHERKINS, to Pickle. —Put them into a jar, and cover them with boiled vinegar ; add a little salt; place them near the fire; boil the vinegar every day for five or six days ; cover to keep in the steam ; then take fresh vine- gar, with black, white, or cayenne pep- per, and ginger; put in the gherkins; simmer slowly till they look green. When cool, cover, and keep in a dry place. GIBLET PIE.—Clean the gib- lets well; stew with a little water, onion, pepper, salt, sweet herbs till nearly done. Cool, and add beef, veal or mutton steaks. Put the liquor of the stew to the giblets. Cover with paste, and when the pie is baked, pour into it a large tea-cupful of cream. GILDING, for Books, tftc.— Screw a quantity of pages strongly into a press. After being cut and scraped as smooth as possible, size them with Isinglass glue mixed up with spirits of wine, and then apply the gold leaves, let them dry, then burnish with a blood- stone. GILDING, to Preserve from Fly-dirt.—Cover over with gauze or tissue paper, till the flies are gone. Or boil a few leeks in a pint of water ; with a very soft brush wash over the glasses and frames with the liquid—flies do not like it, and will not alight. GILDING, to Renew.—Give the wood a coating of size made of the white of an egg, well beaten, and diluted with water, or Isinglass dissolved in a weak spirit Apply the size, and when half dry, apply the gold, and when com- pletely dry, polish with an agate. GINGER, to Candy.—Put 1 lb. of loaf sugar finely powdered into a pan with as much water as will dissolve it, and i oz. of ginger powdered; stir over a slow fire till the sugar begins to boil: then stir in 1 lb. more sugar, and stir till it becomes thick, and falls in a mass from the spoon ; take off, and dry it in cakes upon earthem dishes ; put in a warm place, and they will be white, hard and brittle. Colour with a little saffron. GINGER, Syrup of.—Macerate 1% oz. of beaten ginger in a quart of boiling water, closely covered for twenty- four hours; then strain the infusion, make it into a syrup by adding at least two parts of fine loaf sugar, dissolved and boiled up in a hot water bath. GINGER, Tincture of.—Ginger, 1 oz. ; proof spirit, 1 pint. Digest in a gentle heat seven days, and strain. A good stimulant, and expellent of wind ; used as a corrective to purgative draughts. GINGER BEER, Cheap.— Sugar, 1 lb.; boiling water 1 gallon; ginger, % oz., and a lemon sliced thin. Stir till all is mixed. Cool, and add a tablespoonful of yeast. Let it stand so hours, then strain, bottle, and tie down the corks. Will be prime in a few days. GINGER BEER.—To every gal- lon of spring water, add 1 oz. of sliced white ginger, and 1 lb. of white sugar, or lb., if you like. Boil nearly an hour. Then add % oz. of lemon juice to every gallon; strain, cool, and add yeast, 1 table-spoonful or rather more to a gallon. In 48 hours, add a little isinglass, and the white of one or two eggs. Put into the cask, and let it stand 24 hours longer. Bottle and cork well. GINGER BEER.—Ginger, 3 ozs. ; sugar, 4 lbs. ; cream of tartar, % oz. ; essence of lemon, % oz. ; the juice and peel of two lemons; brandy, pint; yeast, quarter of a pint; water, 4 gallons. Bruise the sugar and ginger ; boil 35 minutes; pour it boiling upon the lemon, tartar, essence, Sec. Stir well; nearly cool, and auld the yeast; let195 GIN It work three days, skimming well; then strain into a cask; add the brandy; bung down close; and in a fortnight, draw off, and bottle. GINGER BEER, 6 Gallons.— Bruised ginger, 8 ozs. ; cream of tartar, 6 ozs. ; loaf sugar, 6 lbs. ; water, 6 gallons; three unpeeled lemons sliced. As soon as the water boils pour it on the ingredients, and stir well. Add a small portion of yeast. Some prefer the addition of 1 lb. of honey. After fer- mentation, strain, and bottle. Or strain, and bottle, without previously adding yeast. GINGER BEER, Common.— Brown sugar or treacle, iA lb.; water, 1 A gallon, 1 oz. of ginger, ground, and a lemon, if preferred. Bod, and then add yeast. GINGER BEER, Instantly Made.—Sugar, ij lb.; bruised gin- ger, oz. ; water, 1 quart. Boil down to a syrup. When cool, strain, and add the juice of a lemon, or A oz. of citric acid, and a little brandy. Keep this always by you in a bottle. It is to be used along with carbonate of soda and tartaric add. First dissolve in water a quarter of a tea-spoonful of tar- taric acid, into which put ginger syrup according to taste ; then dissolve half a tea-spoonful of carbonate of soda in water ; unite the two mixtures, and you will have a grateful beverage. Ginger Beer, Quickly Made.— Dissolve 4 ozs. of candied ginger in ajf gallons of boiling water, add 2 lbs. of sugar; add % oz. of citric acid, pow- dered when nearly cold, and two table- spoonfuls of yeast. GINGER BEER POWDERS For the White Papers.—Loaf sugar, powdered, 2 drachms; ginger, powder- ed, 6 or 7 grains ; carbonate of soda, 26 grains. Mix well. For blue paper ; ritric add, 30 grains, or tartaric acid, 28 grains (which you please). Dissolve each powder in nearly half a tumbler of water, and mix together. GINGER BISCUITS.—Grated ginger, A oz. ; sugar, 12 ozs. ; flour, 6 ozs. ; beat the yolks of 7 eggs till thick, then the whites stiff; stir the flour into the whole. Bake in a slow oven. GINGERBREAD BUT- TONS, Snap.—Treacle, 3 lbs.; sugar, 1 lb. ; ginger, iA oz. ; seeds, &c. ; butter, A lb, rubbed in 2 lbs. of flour; mix and drop them on tins. Gingerbread Buttons, Best.— Treacle, 7 lbs., warmed; sugar, oat- meal, 2 lbs. each ; butter, 2 lbs. rub- bed in 7 lbs. of flour ; candied lemon peel, 1 oz. cut very thin; caraways, dnnamon, or clove, according to taste; mix stiff, and bake in small balls on a tin in a slow oven. GINGERBREAD, Fine. Flour, 2 lbs.; sugar, 8 ozs. ; orange peel, or candied lemon, cut very thin, 8 ozs. ; ground »ginger, 1 oz. ; caraway seeds, A oz. ; cloves, mace, allspice, according to taste ; mix with these, 1 A lb. of treacle, and A lb. melted butter, and 2 drachms of carbonate of soda. Mix well, and let it stand 2 or 3 hours. Use flour in rolling out. Cut into shapes. GINGERBREAD NUTS.— Treacle, 3 lbs. ; sugar, 1 lb. ; butter, 1 lb. rubbed into 4 lbs. of flour : essence of lemon, 2 tea-spoonfuls; ginger, seeds, &c., according to taste. Mix ; drop on buttered tins : bake in a slow oven. These may be varied by the addition of candied lemon, brandy, and a couple of eggs well beaten. GINGERBREAD, Superior. —Flour, 2 lbs.; carbonate of magnesia, A oz. ; mix, and add treacle, 1 lb. ; powdered sugar, A lb. ; melted butter, 2 ozs. ; tartaric acid in solution, 2 drachms. Make a stiff paste; add grated nutmeg and cinnamon, of each 2 drachms; grated nutmeg, 1 A oz. Mix well. Let it stand 1 hour, and then bake slowly. Gingerbread. — Flour, 3 lbs.; sugar, 1 lb. ; butter, 1 lb.; treacle, 1 A lb. ; ginger, % oz. ; cloves, % oz. and the peel of a good sized lemon ; form into cakes and bake. GINGERBREAD, Victoria. —Flour, 3 A lbs. ; fine sugar, 2% lbs. ; honey, 1 % lb.; % lb. each of sweet almonds blanched, and chopped small, and candied lemon or orange peel; the rinds of two lemons ; cinnamon, 1 oz., nutmeg, A oz.; powdered cloves, mace, and cardamoms, according to taste, and 3 tablespoonfuls of water. Melt the sugar, and honey in the water over the firr*. Mix well the other articles in theGIN GLO 196 flour, and pour in the syrup from the fire. Mix well. Do not bake till the day after. Mix the whitd of an egg and sugar, and brush it over the ginger- bread. GINGERBREAD, White.— Flour, 6 lbs.; white sugar, 3 lbs.; rub 1 lb. of butter into the flour, and oz. caraway seeds; mix well with milk. Make it light the same as Bath Cakes, page 42. Gingerbread, without Butter. —Treacle, 3 lbs.; 4 ozs. of orange, lemon, citron, and candied ginger, all thinly sliced ; 1 oz. each coriander seeds, caraways, and bruised ginger; as much flour as will make a soft paste ; bake in a quick oven on tin plates. GINGER CAKES.—Beat 3 eggs in pint of cream ; stir in a saucepan till warm ; add butter, 1 lb.; loaf sugar, & lb.; ginger, a.% ozs. Stir these ingredients over the fire to melt and mix ; make into a good paste with 3 lbs. of flour; roll out, cut into forms half an inch thick. Lay on papers, and bake in a hot oven. GINGER DROPS. — Beat 2 ozs. of soft candied orange in a mortar with a little sugar to a paste ; mix with 1 oz. of powdered white ginger, with 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Wet the sugar with a little water, and boil all together to a candy, and drop on paper. GINGER POP.—This is made by adding strong ale to the Ginger Beer ingredients, and fermenting. GINGER WINE.—Fine loaf sugar, is lbs. ; powdered ginger, 6 ozs.; water, 6 gallons. Boil for an hour. Whisk the whites of 6 eggs, to mix with the liquors. When cold, put into a barrel, and 6 lemons cut into slices, and a cupful of yeast; ferment 3 days, then bung. In eight days, bottle it. It is improved by adding a pint of brandy. GLASS, to Cut, &c. — Glass may be easily filled, sawed, cut, drilled, or turned, by keeping the edge of the tool constantly wet with spirits of tur- pentine. GLASS, to Draw on.—Grind lamp black with gum water, and com- mon salt; draw the design with a pen or hair pencil. GLASS, to Frost.—This may tie done by sugar of lead, glauber’s salts, epsom salts. Dissolve In hot water, and apply with a brush. GLASS, to Join.—Melt a little isinglass in spirits of wine, and add a little water. Gently warm the mixture over the fire. When thoroughly melted, it forms a transparent glue, which will unite broken glass firmly, and so that the joining will not be seen. Lime mixed with the white of an egg forms a very strong cement for joining glass, porcelain, &c. GLASS, to Paint Gold Colour. —Silver, 1 oz.; antimony % oz.; mix in a crucible ; then pound the mass to powder, and grind it on a copper plate, adding yellow-ochre, or brick dust cal- cined again, 15 ozs., and grind them well together with water. GLASS, to Paint Red.—Take jet, 4 ozs. ; litharge of silver, 2 ozs. ; red chalk, 1 oz. Powder fine, and mix. GLASS, to Remove Crust from. — Wash with sulphuric or muriatic acid diluted with water, and mixed with coarse sand. GLASSES, to Clean.—Wash with warm water and soap, then rinse in clean cold water: wipe the wet off with a cloth, and finish with a dry one. Sifted fullers earth is excellent for cleaning glasses. It restores the lustre of glass. See Ammonia, page 18. GLASS STOPPLES, to Loosen.—Drop a little hot oil round the stopple, close to the top of the neck of the bottle, and place before the fire so as not to crack. In about half an hour apply more oil, and then gently try to work it about, occasionally gently beating it against the soft part of your hand. Try the stopper, but do not twist it round, draw it straight out. If this does not succeed, apply more oil, and a cloth dipped in hot water wrapped round the neck only. GLOVES, to Clean.—Wash in soap and water; then stretch them on wooden hands, or pull them out in their proper shape. Dry. If wanted yellow, rub with yellow ochre ; if white, with pipe day; or mix the two. GLOVES, to Cleanse.—Lay the gloves upon a dean board, pass over them with a brush a mixture of fullers earth and powdered alum ; sweep off, and rub well with dry bran and whiting;197 GOO 6L0 and dust them well. But If they are greasy and soiled, take out the grease with crumbs of toasted bread, and burnt bone powdered, then take a clean woollen cloth, and rub them over with the first-named powder. GLOVES, KID. to Clean.— Rub with very slightly damped bread crumbs. Or put gloves of a light colour on the hands, and wash the hands in a basin of spirits of hartshorn ; or wash with rice pulp using a piece of new flannel;—Or sponge them well with turpentine on your hands; then hang up the gloves to dry in a current of air. GLOVES, KID, to Clean.— For Gloves not much soiled, take a tea-spoonful of Powdered French Chalk, put the gloves on the hands, and the chalk into the palm of one glove, then rub the hands and fingers together as if washing your hands. Take off the gloves, without shaking them, lay them aside for a night. Put them on the hands and clap or wipe with a clean cloth. Fullers Earth will act nearly as well. GLOVES, KID, Very Dirty.— Apply a strong lather made from white soap and new milk, put one glove on the hand and use a soft brush or a fine piece of new flannel, keeping the strokes towards the ends of the fingers. Apply, until the dirt disappears, then take a clean soft towel and dab it till the soap is removed. Take the glove from the hand, and blow it to open the fingers, then hang it up (with a bit of string put through the button hole,) in a warm place where there is a current of air. When dry they will have regained their colour, also be smooth and soft. GLOVES, Perfume for.—Ex- tract of ambergris, 4 drops, spirits of wine, 1 oz. Rub the inside with cotton saturated with it. GLUE, Liquid.—‘Glue, water, vinegar, each a parts. Dissolve in a water bath; then add alcohol, 1 part. An excellent cement. GLUE, Liquid. — Shellac, 2 parts; borax, 1 part. Boil till the shellac is dissolved. Shellac dissolved in naptha will unite glass, china, wood, iron, &c. GLUE, MOUTH.—Dissolve 4 ounces of fine Russian glue, or gelatine, In water, adding two ounces of sugar. Boil till it Is of a consistence to become solid when cool. Then mould it to any size you like. It may be wet with the tongue, and applied to paper, silk, &c. GLUE, Portable for Draughts- men, &c.—Glue, 5 parts; sugar, 2 parts ; water, 8 parts. Melt in a water- bath and cast it in moulds. For use, dissolve in warm water. GLUE, to Resist Water. — Boil 1 lb. of glue in two quarts of skim- med milk. GLUE, Waterproof.—1. Glue, 2 parts ; skimmed milk, 8 parts. Melt, and evaporate in a water bath to the consistence of strong glue. 2. Glue, 12 parts ; water sufficient to dissolve it. Then add yellow resin, 3 parts, and when melted, add turpentine, 4 parts. Mix thoroughly together. ‘Ibis should be done in a water-bath. GOLD, Value of. — Gold is divided in 24 parts or carats to the ounce Troy; the ounce of pure gold being worth about 85s. £. s. d. Pure Gold 24 carats per oz. 4 4 n* • Standard coin 22 „ „ 3 17 lOj 18 ,, „ 3 8 8( 16 „ 2 13 1 12 2 2 65 » .. 1 11 lOj In sterling gold there are 22 carats fine to 2 of alloy. GOLD LIQUID.—Honey and gold leaf in equal parts. Grind inti- mately together upon a slab ; agitate with thirty times its weight of hot water; settle, and pour off; repeat the agita- tion. Dry the gold. Mix up with gum water for use. GOOSE, (a la mode.)—Skin and bone the goose; boil and peel a dried tongue, also a fowl; season with pepper, salt and mace, and then roll it round the tongue ; season the goose in the same way, and lay the fowl and tongue on the goose, with slices of ham between them. Beef marrow rolled between the fowl and the goose, will greatly enrich it. Put it all together in a pan, with two quarts of beef gravy, the bones of the goose and fowl, sweet herbs, and onion; cover close, and stew an hour slowly; take up the goose ; skim off the fat, strain, and put in a glassful of good port wine, two table- spoonfuls of ketchup, a veal sweet \GfOO GOO *98 bread cut small, some mushrooms, a piece of butter rolled in flour, pepper, find salt; stew the goose half an hour longer: take up and pour the ragout over it. Garnish with lemon. GOOSE PIE.—Bone two young green geese, of a good size, but first take away every plug, and singe them nicely. Wash them clean ; and season them high with salt, pepper, mace, and allspice. Put one inside the other; and press them as close as you can, drawing the legs inwards. Put a good deal of butter over them, and bake them either with or without crust: if the latter, a cover to the dish must fit close to keep in the steam. It will keep long. GOOSE, to Roast.—After it is picked, the plugs of the feathers pulled out, and the hairs carefully singed, let it be well washed and dried, and a seasoning put in of onion, sage, and pepper and salt. Fasten it tight at the neck and rump, and then roast. Put it first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. A slip of paper should be skewered on the breast- bone. Baste it very well. When the breast is rising, take off the paper ; and be careful to serve it before the breast falls, or it will be spoiled by coming flat- ted to table. Let a good gravy be sent, in the dish.—Gravy and apple sauce; gooseberry sauce, for a green goose. GOOSE SAUCE, For Roast- ed Goose, Duck, or Pork.—Mix a tea-spoonful of made mustard, a salt- spoonful of salt, and a few grains of cayenne pepper, in a large wine-glassful of claret, or good port wine; pour it into the goose just before serving up. GOOSEBERRIES, to Bottle. —Gooseberries picked green from the trees into bottles, corked tightly, and buried in the earth, the corks down- wards, are as good at Christmas as if freshly picked from the trees. The old Red Rough and the Warrington (both red) are best for preserving ; the white or green are best for bottling. GOOSEBERRIES, to Pre- serve.—The old English boiling berry, and the rough reds are the best. Take 8 lbs. of fruit, and 6 lbs. of loaf sugar. Boil 40 or 50 minutes, skim- ming well. Some prick each berry with, a needle. Jar the same as other fruits. GOOSEBERRY CREAM— Boil them In milk till soft; beat them, and strain the pulp through a coarse sieve. Sweeten cream with sugar to your taste; mix with the pulp ; when cold, place in glasses for use. GOOSEBERRY FOOL.—Put the fruit into a stone jar, and some good sugar; set the jar in a sauce-pan of water over the fire. When it is done enough to pulp, press it through a col- ander ; have ready a sufficient quantity of new milk, and a tea-cupful of raw cream, boiled together, or two or three eggs instead of the latter, and left to be cold ; then sweeten it pretty well with fine sugar, and mix the pulp by degrees with it.—A table-spoonful of orange- flower water, a seasoning of cloves, cinnamon, or nutmeg, improves it. GOOSEBERRY JAM. —Put 12 lbs. of the ripe red hairy gooseberries gathered dry, into a preserving pan with a pint of currant juice ; boil quick, beat them with a spoon ; when they begin to break, put to them of sugar, 6 lbs. and simmer slowly to a jam; it requires long boiling or it will not keep. It is not expensive, but it is excellent for tarts or puffs. Do not bum the bottom. Another. — Gather your goose- berries, (the clear white or green sort when ripe; top and tail, and weigh them ; a pound to three quarters of a pound of fine sugar, and half a pint of water; boil and skim the sugar and water; then put in the fruit, and boil gently till clear; then break and put into small pots. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. Make as currant jelly; or it may be made of green gooseberries, the same as apple jelly. GOOSEBERRY PIE. —Pick and wash the gooseberries; dry them well; let the dish be three-parts full of the gooseberries; fill up with sugar; cover with a nice puff paste. Put in a small cup inverted, to prevent the syrup escaping. Some line the dish with puff paste; but a cover is generally suffi- cient. Bake in a moderate oven 40 minutes. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING, to bake.—Scald the gooseberries till they are soft; drain; when cold, squeeze the juice through a sieve with aGOU 199 GOO wooden spoon ; add % lb. of sugar, % lb. of butter, 4 ozs. of Naples biscuits ; beat well six eggs ; mix altogether, beat 15 minutes ; pour into an earthem dish with or without paste. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. —Chop fine H lb. of beef suet; roll it well into about 1 lb. of flour ; then mix with cold water till it becomes a nice paste ; add a little salt. Line a butter- ed basin with the paste, and let it be three parts full of gooseberries ; fill up with fine sugar, and cover with paste. Bake hour. Sauce, melted butter, sweetened, or with fresh cream. GOOSEBERRY OR APPLE TRIFLE.—Scald as many of either of these fruits, as when pulped through a sieve, will make a thick layer at the bottom of your dish; if of apples, mix the rind of half a lemon grated fine; add to both as much sugar as will be pleasant. Mix half a pint each of milk and cream, and the yolk of one egg; give It a scald over the fire, and stir it all the time ; do not let it boil; add a little sugar, and cool. Lay it over the apples with a spoon ; and then put on a whip made the day before, as for other Trifles. GOOSEBERRY VINEGAR. —Bright yellow English gooseberries, ripe, 1 quart; stamp them small; water, 3 quarts; stir well together, and let them stand 48 hours; strain, and add 1 lA lb. of sugar. Let it remain in the cask for 9 or 10 months. GOOSEBERRY AND CUR- RANT WINE.—Six gallons of cold soft water ; four gallons of goose- berries ; four gallons of currants; fer- ment ; mix raw sugar, 13 lbs. ; honey, a lbs. ; citric acid, 1 oz. Brandy, 6 pints. This will make 12 gallons. Another. —Water, 5* gallons; gooseberries and currants, 4 gallons; ferment; sugar, 13 lbs. ; tartar, in fine powder, 1 oz. ; ginger, do. 3 ozs. ; sweet marjoram, half a handful. Brandy, x quart, or more. Will make nine gallons. GOUT,—Supposed to be a dis- ease of the blood. It is generally pro- duced by luxurious living, beer and wine drinking, and the want of exercise ; also by too free a use of animal food, and Intoxicating drinks. These cause deficient secretionary action, deficient perspiration and urine, so as to'corrupt the blood with uric acid and other matter, which should have been ejected from the body, but which are thrown upon some debilitated part of the body, causing inflammation and great pain. Gouty inflammation does not terminate in suppuration and gangrene, but by an effusion of chalky liquid deposited at the joints, causing a stiffness of them ; the deposit is called chalk-stones. A fit of the gout attacks suddenly, without warning, generally in the night; often with a severe pain in the ball of the great toe, the heel, or perhaps the whole foot. The inflammation may also attack the knee, hand, wrist, elbow, &c., or change from one joint to ano- ther, It is attended with a quick pulse, fever, hot skin, confined state of the bowels, urine high colour, with dense deposits. Hard malt liquor tends to produce uric acrid, even in spite of regular exertions and labour. Treatment.—First restore the de- ficient secretions, and cleanse the stomach and bowels. If there be much fever, nausea, &c., give an emetic, say 15 grains of ipecacuanha powder. Give purgatives ; as small doses of rhubarb, about 10 grains, and bi-carbonate of potash, 15 grains. The following are very useful internal remedies : Infusion of gentian, 3 ozs.; tincture of coiumba, 2% drachms ; liquor potassa, 25 drops. Mix; and take in four doses, two per day. Or, Dissolve 1 oz. of gum guiacum In a pint of best French brandy ; infuse a day, then add half a pint of water. Two table-spoonfuls to be taken every morning fasting, followed by a cup of tea. Or, Rhubarb, saltpetre, milk of sulphur, mustard, of each % an oz. ; powdered coriander seed, powdered gum guiacum, of each % an oz. Mix; take a tea- spoonful every other night in a wine- glassful of weak peppermint water. Meadow-saffron, or colchicum, is said to exert a wonderful influence over gouty affections :—Calcined magnesia, 16 grains ; vinegar or wine of meadow- saffron, 1 drachm ; mix with 3 table- spoon iu Is of peppermint water for nGRA 200 GRA draught. Of the wine alone, (colchi- aim) take 30 or 40 drops for several days. Pain arising from inflammation may he relieved by saturating a piece of lint in spirits of wine and camphor, applied to the part and covered with oiled silk. Or steam the part several times a-day over the vapour of bitter herbs, after which rub with the tincture of cayenne; in severe pain, add a little opium. Occasionally apply a poultice of bran and vinegar. If gout of the stomach arises from indigestible food, take an emetic. On recovery, sponge the body every morn- ing with cold salt and water, drying well and using the flesh brush freely. Take also exercise in the open air freely. The food must be plain—be sparing of malt liquors—promote the evacuations —be sparing of animal food, avoiding it at supper—use unsifted flour, and vegetables, cooling fruits—milk prepar- ations—tea and coffee should not be taken strong. GRAPES, to Prevent Drop- ping off.—Make a circular incision in the wood, cutting a ring of bark, about the breadth of the twelfth of an Inch. The wood acquires greater size about the incision, and the operation accelerates the maturity, and also of the fruit. GRAPES, to Pickle. — Lay grapes not too ripe, in a stone jar; then a layer of vine leaves alternately till the jar is full. Then take two quarts of water, common salt, % lb. and bay salt, % lb.; boil 30 minutes; skim; take off to settle ; pour the liquor, milk warm, upon the grapes, and lay plenty of vine leaves upon the top ; cover close ; stand two days ; then drain, and dry the grapes. Put in flat bottomed stone jars with vine leaves in layers, and plenty on the top. Boil a quart of hard water, and 1 lb. of white sugar 15 minutes; skim well, and add 3 blades of mace, a nutmeg, and two quarts of the best vinegar; when cold, prour upon the grapes. Tie up with bladders. GRAPES, ta Preserve.—Into an air-tight cask put a layer of bran dried in an oven; upon this place a layer' of grapes, well dried, and not quite ripe, and so on alternately tih the barrel is filled ; end with bran and close air-tight; they will keep 9 or 10 months. To restore them to their original fresh- ness, cut the end of each bunch stalk, and put into wine, like flowers. Or, Bunches of grapes may be preserved through winter by inserting the end of the stem in a potato. The bunches should be laid on dry saw, and turned occasionally. Or they may be kept in layers of cotton, as the Americans do. GRAPES, to Preserve in Brandy.—Take close bunches of grapes not too ripe; put them into a jar with 4 ozs. of sugar candy, and fill the jar with brandy. Tie close with blad- der. Morello cherries are done the same way. GRAPE JAM.—Stew grapes to a soft pulp, and strain. To 1 lb. of pulp add 1 lb. of sugar. Boil 25 min- utes slowly, stirring well. GRAPE JELLY.—Mix equal quantities of the juice of ripe grapes, and dissolved isinglass; add sugar as you like. Add 2 glasses of Madeira, strain and put into moulds. GRAPE WINE. — Bruise a gallon of white grapes into a gallon of water, to stand a week without stirring; pour off the liquor fine. To each gallon add 3 lbs. of lump sugar; after it ceases hissing, stop it close, and in 6 months it will be fit to bottle. Less water used, and better the wine. GRATES, Bright to Clean.— Use rotten stone and sweet oiL GRAVEL.—A collection of sand or small particles of stone in the kid- neys, ureters, or bladder. The urine oft gives the deposit of a brick-dust ap- pearance, uric acid. * The symptoms are shivering, pain in the loins, gener- ally felt more severely on one side, and passing downwards—towards the blad- der, a frequent desire to make water, which is passed in small quantities, sometimes with blood, or for a time not passed at all, irritation about the neck of the bladder. As the irritating matter passes from the kidneys into the ureter, it produces pain so great as to cause faintings and convulsive fits. The tran- sit of this matter may be made in a few hours, or it may last for several days.— The following are good remedies:—GRA 201 GRA -s'uieeesum.-.1'*" "s.'.::s^sz— —— ; DIssohre 3 drs. of prepared, natron or carbonate of soda, in a quart of cold soft water, and take Y dining the day. Continue as the case may require. The greatest martyrs have been relieved by this simple remedy. Or, Take 1 oz. of the spirits of sweet nitre a drs. of liquid laudanum, and % oz. of the oil of juniper. Take a tea-spoonful In a crap of linseed tea sweetened with honey. This has performed woDders. Or, Take dandelion and marsh-mallow roots, of each a ozs., agrimony, a small handful, to 3 quarts of water ; boil to 2 quarts. Dose—a wine-glassful every 3 or 4 hours. A gentle aperient may at times be given, and warm injections sure very soothing. Take also the Diuretic Infu- sion, page 162. Flannels dipped in hot Tincture of Cayenne, and wrung out, or the Stimulating Liniment may be applied to the pained part Hops sim- mered in vinegar, to which add 20 or 30 drops of laudanum. Drink at the same time a strong infusion of spear- mint, and bathe the feet in warm water. The vapour bath now and then is very useful. Dr. Beach advises the following;— Acetate of potash, 2 drs. ; honey, £ oz.; spirits of turpentine, £ dr. ; carbonate of soda, £ dr.; mint water or tea, 8 ozs. Mi*. Dose, 2 table-spoonfuls 3 times a day. Eat largely of spinach. Or, drink largely of warm water sweetened with honey.—Or, of pellitory of the wall tea so sweetened.—Or, infuse 1 oz. of wild parsley-seeds in a pint of white wine for 12 days. Drink a glass of it, fasting, Lmonths. To prevent its return, break- st for 3 months on agrimony tea. It entirely cured me 20 years ago, nor have I had a symptom of it since.— Wesley. Red onion juice, and horse-mint tea, as much as the patient can take morn- ing and night, is a fine remedy, and will dissolve stone. GRAVY.—If richness be wanted In any gravy, a lump of butter, mixed with flour, and boiled in the soup, will enrich and give greater eonsistency. Long boiling is necessary to give the full flavour of the ingredients. A clear jelly of cow heels Is very useful to keep In the house; it la a great improvement to gravies and soups, GRAVY.—Most joints will afford sufficient trimmings, cuttings, &c., to make half a pint of plain gravy, which may be enriched, if necessary, with vari- ous seasonings, cow heel, lemon, sweet herbs, ham, mutton, or veal. An emi- nent cook observes, “Good browning may be made for roast meat and poultry, by saving the brown bits of roasted or boiled meat; cut them small, cover them with boiling water till next day in a basin, then boil 3 minutes; strain; keep for use. Gravy for Boiled Meat.—May be made with parings and trimmings, or pour from a £ to £ a pint of the liquor in which the meat was boiled into the dish with it, and pierce the inferior part of the joint with a sharp skewer. Gravy for Brown Sauces.—Take some neck of beef; cut it into thin slices; flour it well, and put it into a saucepan with a slice of fat bacon, a sliced onion, powdered sweet marjoram, pepper and salt; stir a little on a slow fire ; when brown, put some water to it, stir, and boil half an hour, strain, and take the fat off, adding a little lemon juice. Beef Gravy.—See page 47. Gravy Soup.—Take the bones of a rump of beef, and a piece of the neck ; wash them well; and then boil all the goodness from them. Add some beef marrow ; strain off; put a piece of but- ter into a stew-pan, brown it, add a glass of good port wine ; put in two carrots, pepper, salt, a little sugar, and boiling water as needed. Stew gently for 3 or 4 hours. It may be varied by adding onions, sweet herbs, cloves, mace, or allspice, cayenne pepper, port wine, mushroom ketchup, &c. Gravy for a Fowl.—Take the neck, liver, and gizzard ; boil them in half a pint of water, with toasted bread, pepper, salt, thyme ; boil till reduced to half; add a glass of port wine ; boil; strain ; bruise the liver well, and thicken with butter rolled in flour. Instead of the gizzard, you may use beef, or ham. GRAVY .SAUCE for Ragouts, Game, Poultry, &c.—Take a slice | of fat barn, or bacon, or 1 oz. of butter.GR-E 202 GRA and an onion, upon It lay i lb. of juicy beef; cover; set on a slow fire ; turn the meat about, and slightly brown; add pint of boiling water; boil; skim; put in brown toasted bread, a sprig of savory, or lemon thyme, pars- ley, lemon peel, allspice, black pepper, stew 2 hours ; strain. To thicken it, idd butter and flour melted and mixed on the fire, add a little of the gravy, stir, and add the remainder gradually ; simmer gently 15 minutes; skim off the fat, and pass through a sieve. Gravy for a Turkey.—Lean beef X lb.; hash and flour it; melt i| oz. of butter in a stew-pan, and put in the beef; fry brown ; add 3 pints of boiling water, sweet herbs, 3 blades of mace, 3 cloves, a few pepper corns, a small car- rot, a brown crust of bread ; boil down to a pint. Add salt Gravy may be made without Meat, by using Butter.—A glass each of small beer, and water, chopped onion, pepper, salt grated lemon peel, a cloves, a spoonful of mushroom ketch- up, or walnut liquor ; put on the fire ; stir in some flour till the froth sinks, and it will be brown. Give all a boil up. GRAYLINGS, to Fry.—Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping; serve with crimp pars- ley, and plain butter. Perch and Tench may be done the same way. GREASE and OIL, to Re- move.—Make strong lye of pearl- ashes and soft water ; add as much un- slaked lime as it will take up ; stir it to- gether ; let it settle; bottle it and stop close; have water ready to lower it as used, and scour the part with it. If the liquor should lie long on the boards it will extract the colour of them ; use care and expedition. See page 17. GREASE, to Clean from Floors.—Spread over the stain a thick coat of soft soap, then pass a heated flat-iron a few times across it, after which wash immediately first with fullers' earth water, and then clean water. GREASE SPOTS, to Remove. —The application of spirits of turpen- tine, and a little essence of lemon; wash with soap and water. Some wash with alum water, or white soap, potass, and ox-gall, or with sour butter-milk mixed with strong ascetic acid.—Or apply a solution of magnesia. See page 17. GREASE SPOTS, to Remove from Books. — Moisten the spot with a camel -hair pencil dipped in spirits of turpentine; when dry, moisten with spirits of wine. GREASE, to Remove from Cloth.—Soft soap, and Fullers earth of each lb.; beat well together in a mortar, and form into cakes. The spot, first moistened with water, is rubbed with a cake, and allowed to dry, when it is well rubbed with a little warm water, and rinsed, or rubbed off clean. GREEN BRONZE DIP.— Wine vinegar, 2 quarts ; verditer green, 2 oz. ; sal-ammoniac, 1 oz. ; salt, 2 oz.; alum, % oz. ; French berries, 8 oz.; boil the ingredients together. GREEN COLOUR, for Con- fectioners, Perfectly Harmless.— Infuse % oz. of saffron for 24 hours, in distilled water ; then % oz. of carmine indigo, and infuse in the same way. Mix, and a beautiful green colour is ob- tained. It may be preserved a long time by evaporating to dryness, or by making it into a syrup. GREEN FIRE.—Take of flow- ers of sulphur 13 parts, of nitrate of baryta, 77, of oxymuriate of potassa, 5, of metallic arsenic, 2, of charcoal, 3. The nitrate of baryta should be well dried and powdered ; it should then be mixed with the other ingredients, all finely pulverised, and the whole tritura- ted until perfectly blended together. A little calamine may be occasionally add- ed, in order to make the compound slower of combustion, and it is above all things requisite that the rubbing toge- ther of the materials should be continued until they are mixed. GREEN GAGES, to Pre- serve.—Choose the largest, when they begin to soften ; split them with- out paring; strew upon them part of the sugar. Blanch the kernels with a sharp knife. Next day, pour the syrup from the fruit, and boil it with the other sugar 6 or 8 minutes gently, skim and add the plums and kernels. SimmerGRE 203 H till dear, taking off the scum; put the fruit singly into small pots, and pour the syrup and kernels to it. To candy it, do not add the syrup, but observe the directions given for candying fruit; some may be done each way. GREEN GAGE JAM.—Peel and take out the stones. To 1 lb. of pulp put yt lb. of loaf sugar ; boil half an hour ; add lemon juice. GREEN GAGE TART. — Select fruit not quite ripe, but sound ; fill a pie-dish ; beat up % lb. of pow- dered sugar, in as much water as will dissolve it; pour over the fruit, cover with puff paste, and bake in a moderate oven. Lay on a coating of yolk of egg with a brush over the crust; put the tart back in the oven for a few minutes ; sprinkle powdered sugar over the top before serving. GREEN GOOSEBERRY JELLY.—Place the berries in hot water on a slow fire till they rise to the surface ; take off; cool with a little water, add also a little vinegar and salt to green them. In two hours drain, and put them into cold water a minute; drain, and mix with an equal weight of sugar ; boil slowly 20 minutes ; sieve, and put into glasses. GREEN OINTMENT.—One ounce each chickweed, tansy, worm- wood, horehound, hops, and a pinch of salt, finely powdered. Bruise, put into a kettle, cover over with lard and some spirits of wine. Infuse a week or two, and then simmer a little over the fire. Add from 8 to 12 ozs. of Venice tur- pentine.—This salve is very healing, applied to wounds, sores, and ulcers. It is useful in contusions, sprains, swellings, &c. GRETNA BUNS.—Flour, 1 lb. ; yeast, 1 gill; butter, lb. ; which rub into the flour; add the yeast, and flour sufficient to form the dough ; rise, and make into cakes; bake them on greased tins in a quick oven. GROUND IVY.—See Robin- son's Herbal. It is a purifier of the blood, beneficial to the lungs and kidneys. It is stimulant and tonic. Taken in decoction and infusion. Made into an ointment, it cures inflammation of the eyes. GROUND RICE MILK.— Boil a spoonful of ground rice, rubbed down smooth, with better than a pint of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten. GROUND RICE PUDDING. —Boil father more than a table-spoon- ful of ground rice in a pint of new milk with lemon-peel and cinnamon. When cold, add sugar, nutmeg, and two eggs well beaten. Bake with a crust round the dish. Some incorporate currants or raisins. GROUNDSEL. — United with chickweed, and slippery elm, it makes an excellent poultice for inflammations and all painful swellings. GROUSE PIE.—Maybe made as most fowl pies, seasoning with cay- enne, salt, cloves, stock, brown gravy, and a glass of port wine. GROUSE, to Roast.— Roast them like fowls; twist the head under the wing. Roast carefully half an hour. Serve with a rich gravy with bread sauce, or on buttered toast, the under- side saturated with gravy. GRUEL,—Mix intimately a table- spoonful of oatmeal or patent groats in three or four of cold water ; add a pint of boiling water, and boil 8 or 10 minutes. GUM ARABIC STARCH.— Make a solution of the finest gum arabic with hot water. Strain. Put a little into the ordinary starch ; mix well. It will give to muslin, lawn, &c., a much improved appearance. GUMS, Tincture for the.—In- fuse 1 oz. of peruvian bark, grossly powdered, in a pint of brandy for two or three weeks. Gargle the mouth every morning and night with a tea- spoonful of this tincture diluted with an equal quantity of rose-water. The ad- dition of a little tincture of myrrh will render it more effectual as a tonic for the gum. H. This Letter is often aspirated when it should not be, and not aspirated when it should be. Aspirated. Heart Hand Hail Not to be Aspirated. Art, skill. And, a conjunction All, every one.HAJ 204 HAD Aspirated, Halter Hale Bara Hat Hare Hell Hedge Her Hill Hear Hard Cow herd Not to be Aspirated. Alter, to change. Ale Am, ftobt.) At, prep. Are, (to be.) Ell, a measure. Edge. Err, to do wrong, 111, unwell. Ere, Ear. Ardor. Coward. Words in which the h is not aspira- ted, or is dropped. Spelt Heir Herb Historian Historical Honest Honour Hour Humble Pronounced. air erb istorian istorical onnest onnur our umble Common words in which the h is often wrongly dropped. t§§5“ Pro- nounce the h STRONGLY Horse, house, happy, heaven, head, home, holy, hurt, heat, habit, hospital, hostler, humour, &c. Words which are often wrongly as- pirated:—Angel, amiable, am, anec- dote, animal, appetite, earth, enemy, elegant, eloquent, elephant, ever, image, imitate, infant, opulent, odd, oracle, omatory, ugly.—Never pronounce these with h, as hangtl, hamiable, &c. HADDOCKS, or Whitings, to Broil.—Gut and wash them; dry them ; rub a little vinegar over them, to keep the skin on ; dust well with flour ; rub the gridiron with butter; let the gridiron be very hot; turn the fish two or three times. When served, lay pickles round them, melted butter, or cockle sauce. HADDOCKS.—Having cleaned them, put them in a Dutch oven before a quick fire ; when the skins rise, take them off; rub egg over them, and strew them with a few bread crumbs, dredge with flour; when you have turned them, rub butter over them ; turn till they are done enough ; lay round them cockles, muscles, or red cabbage. Use shrimp sauce, to melted butter, as you please. HADDOCK, to Boil. — The same as for Cod. See page 136. HAIR-BRUSHES and COMBS, to Clean.—Dissolve pot- ash in boiling water, and rub the brush with soap ; dip the brush into the solu- tion, and draw it through the comb frequently, taking care to keep the wood dry 1 Lastly rinse the hair in cold water, and dry. See page 17. Borax is an effective cleanser for Brushes and Combs. HAIR, to Dye.—Hair may be changed from a red, gray, or other colour, to a brown or deep black, by a solution of silver. The silver is dis- solved in aquafortis, and then largely diluted with water—rain-water is the best An eminent physician says that the hair will assume a darker hue by having it cut dose, and passing a leaden comb through it every morning and evening. HAIR OILS.—Olive oil, 2 ozs.; oil of lavender 1 drachm ; otto of roses, % drachm ; apply morning and even- ing. Or, Palma Chrisd oil, 2 ozs. ; oil of lavender, oil of rosemary, oil of nutmeg, 1 drachm each. Or, olive oil, 1 oz.; oil of origanum, 1 drachm; oil of rosemary, 2 drachms. Or, oil of sweet almonds, 2 ozs.; spermaceti, % oz. ; melt over the fire. Cool, and add a tew drops of oil of bergamot. HAIR WASHES.—A weak In- fusion of tea, with a small quantity of rum, is a good application. Apply with a sponge—If fire person can bear it, wash the head in cold water, mori- ing and night, and then brush the head until of a warm glow; then apply twice a day this mixture;—tincture of cantliarides, oz.; eau de Cologne, % oz.; rose water or distilled water, a ozs.——Or, wash the hair with Windsor soap suds twice a. week, rub well in, wash with clean soft water, and then apply a little rum, brandy, or weak camphor water. Or, to 1 oz. of borax, add % oz. of camphor; dissolve in a little spirits of wine ; then mix with a quart of boiling water; cool and it will be ready for use. It cleanses and strengthens the hair effectually. Or, boil in water. 3 ozs. of sassafras wood, and oz. of pearl-ash. Or, honey, 4 lbs.; tendrils of vines, 1% lb; rose-HAM HAL 205 mary, 1 lb. Put Into a still, and distil slowly. -Or, take rosemary, maiden- hair, southern-wood, myrtle berries, and hazel bark, 3 ozs. each; bum them to ashes, and with the ashes make a ley, and wash the hair with it. It cleanses and strengthens the hair. HALIBUT, to Fry.—Cut Into thin slices; rib it with a knife; fry it almost brown with butter or dripping; take it up; drain it from the butter; clean the pan, and put it in again with port wine, sliced ginger, nutmeg, an- chovy, salt, and saffron beaten; fry a little more ; add a little butter ; shake well together with a minced lemon. HAMS, to Choose.—Stick a skewer or sharp knife under the bone ; if it comes out with a pleasant smell, the ham is good ; but if the knife be daubed, and has a bad scent, do not buy it. Hams short in the hock are bek. Choose not long-legged pigs. HAMS, to Cure.—If the weather be cool, hang it up two days before it is salted. Beat it with it with a rolling- S'n. Take plenty of common salt, % . of coarse sugfar, and 4 ozs. of salt- petre ; mix ; warm; rub the ham with it well, and lay the rest of the salt upon it; in two days turn it; rub it well with brine ; baste it several times a day for a month, for a large ham ; drain, wash off the salt with cold water; dry with a cloth ; rub black pepper over the inside and in at the knuckle ; hang in a warm room to dry. Another Way.—Hang two days as before; if large, use 1 lb. of bay salt; 4 ozs. saltpetre; 1 lb. coarse sugar, and a handful of common salt, all finely powdered. Rub in the mix- ture thoroughly. Lay, the rind down- wards, and cover the fleshy parts with the mixture. Baste it often for four weeks, turning every day; proceed as before. HAM, to Give a High-Flavour. Hang as before. Sprinkle it with salt; let it drain ; make a pickle of 1 quart of strong beer, J4 lb. of treacle, 1 or. of coriander seeds, a ozs. juniper berries; pepper, allspice, saltpetre, 1 oz. each; salprunella, oz. ; a handful of salt, and a head of shalot, sliced; boil all together five minutes, and pour over the bam. Rub and turn every day for a fortnight. This is for a ham weighing 10 lbs. HAMS, to Keep.—The most effectual way is to tie them closely in cotton or canvas bags. Hang in a dry, cool, and well ventilated room when bagged. HAM AND EGGS FRIED. —Cut slices, place in the pan, and fry carefully. Do not bum. When done, break the eggs into the fat; pepper slightly ; keep them whole ; do not turn them. Ham rashers may be served with spinach, and poached eggs. HAMS, to Cook.—Scrape it clean. Do not put into cold nor boiling water. Let the water become warm ; then put the ham in. Simmer or boil lightly for five or six hours; take out, and shave the rind off. Rub granulated sugar into the whole surface of the ham, so long as it can be made to receive it. Place the ham in a baking-dish with a bottle of champagne or prime cider. Baste occasionally with the juice, and let it bake an hour in a gentle heat. A slice from a nicely cured ham thus cooked is enough to animate the ribs of death.—A merican. Or, having taken off the rind, strew bread crumbs or raspings over it, so as to cover it; set it before the fire, or in the oven till the bread is crisp and brown. Garnish with carrots, parsley, &c. The water should simmer all the time, and never boil fast. HAM EXTRACT.—Cut away from a ham all the skin and fat; then take the meat from the bone and put it into a large saucepan, having plenty of water ; add two large carrots, and three onions sliced, a handful of sweet basil and parsley, three cloves, and a tablespoonful of mushroom powder; stew over the fire for an hour, then take out the bone, and put in the meat. Set the saucepan well covered, on a slow fire, for two hours : stir the ingredients well, taste the flavour, and judge of the thickness. Stew till the liquor, when cold, is a very stiff jelly. It must be put through a sieve, to clear it from the vegetables and meat. A table-spoonful of this extract is sufficient to flavour a I tureenful of winter pea or carrot soup, I and a tea-spoonful of melted butterHAM HAR 206 makes an admirable sauce for a roast fowl. To keep it some time, add salt. HAM and CHICKEN PAT- TIES.—Mince finely i£ lb. of cold boiled or roasted chicken, and 1 lb. of lean ham. Put some good gravy to the minced meat, (see Gravy) with a little cayenne, or white pepper, grated lemon peel, and a squeeze of lemon. Stir till hot. Fill the moulds lined with paste, cover with crust and bake. Ham and Veal Patties may be made the same way. Some mix a little cream with it. HAM PIE.—Slice cold boiled ham half an inch thick; make a good crust; cover the dish, and put a layer of ham ; clean a young fowl; put pepper and salt in the belly, and rub a little outside; lay the fowl on the ham ; boil eggs, put in the yolks, cover all with hiam ; put on pepper, and cover with crust. Bake and when done, fill with rich beef gravy. HAM POTTED.—Take 2 lbs. of cold lean ham; 1 lb. of cold roast veal. Cut, and pound very fine, adding 12 ozs. of butter, ground mace, nutmeg, and a little cayenne pepper. Pot, and cover with butter.—Chicken may be potted with ham in the same way. HAM SAUCE.—When a ham Is almost done with, pick the remaining meat from the bone; beat the meat and bone to a mash with the rolling- pin, put it into a sauce-pan with three spoonfuls of gravy, set it over a slow fire, and stir it all the time ; when it has been on some time, put to it a small bundle of sweet herbs, some pepper, and half a pint of veal gravy, and stew over a gentle fire ; when it has the flavour of the herbs, strain. A little of this is an improvement to all gravies. HAM TOAST.—Ham * lb., mince fine; the yolks of two eggs; cream, two table-spoonfuls ; season with salt, and a very little cayenne. Boil all together. Pour it upon toast; cover with fine bread, and brown it nicely. HANDS, to Whiten.—Take a wine-glassful of eau de Cologne, half a cupful of lemon-juice, scrape two cakes of Windsor soap to a powder; mix well, then add a tea-spoonful of sulphuric acid. Mould it and let it harden. HARE, Broiled.—The flavour of broiled hare is very fine. The legs and shoulders must be seasoned first, 'ribbed with cold butter, and served very hot. HARE, to jug.—Cut it up ; sea- son with pepper, salt, allspice, pounded mace and nutmeg. Put it into a jar with an onion, a clove or two, a bunch of sweet herbs, a piece of coarse beef, or good beef steak, and the bones of the hare at the top. Tie the jar down with a bladder or strong paper. Put into a saucepan up to the neck. Keep the water boiling four hours. The jar will also do well in an oven in two or three hours. When it is to be served, boil the gravy up with a piece of butte*' and flour. Add a little stock gravy, and a glass or two of port wine. Pour it over the hare. A little bacon is an improve- ment. HARE, to Pot.— Season and bake with butter; when cold beat the meat in a mortar with some nice cold ham, a little parsley, thyme, &c. If not high enough, add salt, mace, pep- per, a little butter melted in a spoonful of gravy that came from the hare. Pot, and cover with butter. HARE, Roasted.—After skin- ning, wash well. Stuff with bread crumbs, the liver half boiled, an an- chovy, or bacon, parsley, grated lemon- peel, nutmeg, salt, cayenne, the yolks of three eggs, and a little lemon-thyme. Fasten all tight. Boil half an hour. Take out and roast it for one hour or more. Baste it with milk till half done, then with butter. Do not place too near the fire. Serve with rich gravy, melted butter, and currant jelly sauce. The gravy may be improved by ketchup, port wine, and a little flour. HARE SOUP.—Cut the hare into pieces, and 1 % lb. of good beef; put into a jar with three blades of mace, two large onions, three anchovies, a little bacon or ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, cayenne, and a pint of port wine. Stew in the oven three hours; strain into a stew-pan ; put in % lb. of French barley, or the crumbs of two penny rolls, ready boiled; scald the liver, rub it through a sieve into the soup ; place on the fire till near boiling. Put toasted bread in the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. HARE, Stewed.—Cut to pieces; put into a stew-pan, with mace, pepper.HAR HKA 207 an onion stuck with cloves, an anchovy, 1 lb. of beef, % lb. of bacon, sweet herbs, salt, nuuneg ; cover with water ; stew till the hare is tender; strain the sauce into a clean pan, and put in the hare again with the sauce ; take butter the sue of a walnut, rolled in flour, a table-spoonful of ketchup, and two of red wine. Stew till it is thick and smooth. HARNESS, to Clean.—Free it from all dirt, sweat, and grease. Then use Bristol-brick, or rotten stone, and pulverized charcoal, and a little Galipoli oil. Apply it with a soft brush, wipe off, and polish off with charcoal dust. The Brass Ornaments may be cleaned with half ounce of oxalic tin, half a pint of water, and half a pint of naptha. Then polish off with sal-ammoniac pow- dered, before a hot fire, and then with fine whiting. When the harness is faded, it may be restored by a mixture of logwood and bichromate of potass, cr aleppo galls, powdered, with a little alum. HARNESS POLISH.—Take 2 ozs. of mutton suet, 6 ozs. of bees’ wax, 6 ozs. of powdered sugar-candy, 2 ozs. of soft soap, and 1 oz. of indigo or lamp black. Dissolve the soap in a quarter of a pint of water ; then add the other ingredients; melt and mix together; add a gill of turpentine. Lay it on the harness with a sponge, and polish off with a brush. HARROGATE WATER, Artificial.—Dissolve half a drachm of liver of sulphur, and 1 oz. of tartarised kali in 1 quart of pure soft water. It is as good as the real Harrogate water. Take a wine-glassful now and then. Useful in chronic rheumatism, skin dis- eases, and piles. HARTSHORN JELLY.— Simmer 8 ozs. of hartshorn shavings with two quarts of water to one ; strain, and boil it with the rinds of four oranges and two lemons pared thin ; when cool, add the juice of both, % lb. of sugar, and the whites of six eggs beaten to a froth ; let the jelly have three or four boils without stirring, and strain it through a jelly-bag. HASTY PUDDING. —Rub down a table-spoonful of flour in a little cold milk, then stir it into a pint of boiling milk; sweeten with sugar, and serve hot. Another is made by stirring flour into boiling water, into which a little salt has been put. It is served with treacle, or sugar, or sugar and butter. It is good for a lax state of the bowels, without treacle. HASTY PUDDING, Baked. —Into a pint of cold milk stir % lb. of flour, and boil up ; let it stand till cold ; then add two eggs beaten; mix well with sugar to sweeten, and spices ; put into cups and bake. HATS. — When silk hats are wetted by the rain, shake it off, and wipe round frequently with a silk hand- kerchief, and when dry with a soft brush. HAY, to ascertain the Weight of.—Measure the length and breadth of the stack ; then take its height from the ground to the eaves, and add to this last one third of the height from the eaves to the top. Multiply the length by the breadth, and the product by the height, expressed in feet; divide the amount by 27, to find the cubic yards, which mul- tiply by the number of stones supposed to be in a cubic yard (viz : in a stack of new bay, six stones ; if the stack has stood a considerable time, eight stones; and if old hay, nine stones), and you have the weight in stones. For exam- ple, suppose a stack to be 60 feet in length, 30 in breadth, 12 in height, from the ground to the eaves, and 9 (the third of which is 3) from the eaves to the top ; then 60 multiplied by 30 and by 15, is equal to 27,000: 27,000, is divided by 27, is equal to 1,000 ; and i.ooo, multi- plied by 9, is equal to 9,000 stones ol old hay. HEADACHE. — Take a small handful of centaury, and as much fever- few, and one ounce of camomile flowers, to two quarts of water; boil to one quart; then add while hot half an ounce of rhubarb, and stir well. Dose—a wine- lassful three times a day.—Wear the air short, often wash the head in cold water, rub the hair dry, and keep the head uncovered as much as possible. Sometimes headache proceeds from a torpid liver; in that case, take extract of colocynth and blue pill, of each % a drachm, aud 4 drops of the oil of cloves.208 HEA HEA Make 12 pills. Dose, two to four. Bathing the crown of the head every morning in cold water has been found of singular use. Should the pain be ex- treme, put mustard plasters between the shoulders, and on the soles of the feet. HEADACHE.—Rub the head for a quarter of an hour.—Tried. Or, be electrified.—Tried.—Or, apply to each temple the thin yellow rind of a lemon newly pared off. Or, pour upon the palm of the hand a little brandy and some zest* of lemon, and hold it to the forehead; or a little aether. Or, snuff up the nose cara- horated spirits of lavender. Or a ttle of horse radish. Take of white-wine vinegar and water, each three spoonfuls, with half a spoon- ful of Hungary water. Apply this twice a-day to the eyelids and temples. HEADACHE, Chronic.—Keep your feet in warm water a quarter of an hour before you go to bed, for two or three weeks. — Tried. Or, wear tender hemlock leaves under the feet, changing them daily. Or, order a tea-kettle of cold water to be poured on your head every morning, in a slender stream. Or, take a large tea-cupful of carduus tea without sugar, fasting, for six or seven mornings. HEADACHE, from Heat.— Apply to the forehead cloths dipped in cold water. To prevent heat affecting the head in summer. Place a cabbage leaf or a large lettuce leaf in your hat, it will keep the head cooL HEALTH, Preservation of.— Adopt the plan of rising early, and never sit up late at night Wash the whole body every morning with cold water, by means of a large sponge, and rub it dry with a rough towel, or scrub the whole body for ten or fifteen minutes with flesh brushes. Or, sponge with sea salt, dissolved the night previous, is good. Or, sponge with water to which has been added a small quantity of vinegar. Those who use cold water regularly, either with a sponge or as a bath, are able to bear exposure to the weather much better than without its aid. In winter take the chill off the water before bathing. “ Zert .of lemon is the Juice of tho peal sqaeenod out. Drink water generally, and avoid tak- ing spirits, wines, or fermented liquors. Sleep in a room which has free access to the open air, and is well ventilated. Keep the head cool by washing It with cold water when necessary, and abate feverish and inflammatory symp- toms when they arise, by preserving stillness. Symptoms of plethora and indiges- tion may be corrected by eating and drinking less per day for a short time. Never eat a hearty supper, especially of animal food. Never indulge in luxuries; guard against intemperance; and never sit in a draught, or in wet clothes, nor lie in a damp bed. Exercise regularly taken tends to preserve the health. Walk one or two miles a day, regardless df weather, un- less very ted indeed. Even a lady with stout walking boots, a large thick cloak, and an umbrella, may defy ted weather. In taking exercise in very severe weather, keep your mouth close and walk rapidly; the air can only reach the lungs by a circuit of the nose and head, and becomes warm before reach- ing the lungs, thus causing no derange- ment. Brisk walking throws the blood to the surface of the body, thus keeping up a vigorous circulation, making a cold impossible if you do not get into a cold bed too quickly after reaching home. Neglect of these precautions brings sickness and death to multitudes every year. The amount of exercise necessary for health is variable, depending upon natural constitution, education, sex, and age. For men from twenty to fifty, eight or ten miles a day of walking ex- ercise may be taken as the average; and for women of the same age, about half this quantity will suffice. Less than this will gc a great way, but foe keeping up high health, the above amount, omitted only on thoroughly wet days, may be considered necessary. By all means avoid a morbid des- ponding feeling, for scarcely anything is more injurious to health. Mental as well as bodily exercise is essential to the general health and happiness ; therefore, labour and study should succeed each other.HEA 20Q HEA The plainest food Is the best, taken in quantities so small as not to oppress the stomach. A man should never know that he has a stomach except when he is hungry. To increase muscular power, food should be taken which does not produce fat; for fat is frequently a sign of dis- ease. A race-horse is brought to his primp condition by a system of training. So with man, if he wishes to see the full development of all his muscular power, he must restrict himself in diet, and exhaust his fat by having a good sweating every day, but not to take cold. Lying too long in bed is injurious to health. The want of expansion of the chest through exercise, will aggravate or create consumptive tendencies, which all more or less have; and the constant heat of the back or one side, occasioned by cushioning, disturbs healthy action. When food rises in the stomach, the stomach is speaking to us, and we ought to listen to it, or health will suffer. In due time headaches will be the result; the liver is oppressed and cannot fulfil its functions. There has been more introduced into the body than can be conveniently disposed of. Every part receives some of die obtru- sive matter; it is forced into the ab- sorbents ; the blood is unwillingly com- pelled to take a part of it; the brain feels the effect of the poisonous infusion ; the circulation is impeded ; the heart feels it, and labours hard to do its allotted work. By persisting in the habit, life will be shortened. Too little food has its symptoms as well as too much. The body will flag for want of stimulus; it will lose warmth and energy; and if it be found that more food restores both, and brings comfort, then more food is wanted. Every one should endeavour to discover his own maximum and minimum allow- ance, and adhere to it. Those who think most, require the most sleep. The time “saved "from necessary sleep is destruction to mind, body, and estate. Give yourself, chil- dren, and servants, the fullest amount of sleep by compelling them to go to bed at some early hour, and to rise in the morning the moment they wake of themselves, and within a fortnight nature will unloose the bonds of sleep the moment enough repose has been secured. Rise and retire at a fixed hour; take a gentle walk before breakfast; and take your meals at the same hours daily. The less quantity of fermented liquors you drink the better. Nothing conduces more to health and long life than abstinence and plain food, with due labour. Where water does not disagree, value the privilege, and continue it. Late hours and anxious pursuits ex- haust the nervous system ; therefore avoid them as much as possible. In order that digestion may take place, the food should be well chewed. The stomach will not deal with it in lumps. It must be thoroughly masti- cated and well mixed with the saliva which flows into the mouth during mas- tication. Do without medicine if possible; but in case of real indisposition, immediate- ly consult a competent medical man. HEARTBURN.—Drink a pint of very cold water.—Tried. Or, drink slowly a decoction of camomile flowers. -Or, eat four or five oysters. HEARTBURN.—“If acidity of the stomach occasions the heartburn, absorbents are the proper medicines. Take 1 oz. of powdered chalk, % oz. of fine sugar, and % oz. of gum arabic may be mixed in a quart of water, and a tea-cupful of it taken when necessary. But the best absorbent is Magnesia Alba. It acts also as a purgative. This powder is not disagreeable; it may be taken in a cup of tea, or a glass of mint water." If it arises from wind, take a tea- spoonful of spirits of lavender, or the Neutralising Mixture. Page 275. HEARTBURN LOZENGES. —Powdered lump sugar, 100 parts; prepared chalk, 15 parts ; sn bear bona to of soda, 5 parts; mix with gum mucilage. HEARTBURN, Pills for. — Carbonate of ammonia, extract of gen- tian, of each half a drachm ; mix, and divide into twelve pills ; take two twice or thrice a dav. HEARTBURN POWDER.— Quassia, powdered rbulvarb, of eachHER 210 HEA scruple; and calcined magnesia, i scruple. Mix, and make into 12 pow- ders. Take 3 per day. Spanish liquorice has been found a very good palliative in heartburn. Neutralize the add which produces heartburn ; take of carbonate of soda, half a teaspoonful; half a teaspoonful of peppermint plant powdered, in a , table-spoonful of brandy, and a little cold water ; take it for a dose. HEAT, to Moderate.—To mod- erate the intensity of heat during the summer, where slated or tiled roofs are in close proximity with bed-rooms ; let the roof, (i. e. the slates) be whitewash- ed ; and the temperature in the room underneath, which before was almost insupportable, will be not only tolerable, but very agreeable. The materials to use are Buxton lime, whiting, size, or thin glue, and a little linseed oil. This mixture has a good body, and will not be very soon washed off by rain. HEMLOCK LINIMENT.— Oil of Hemlock, oz.; camphor, in gum, oz.; opium, % oz. ; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Mix. It is a first-rate rubefacient in inflammatory rheuma- tism, gout, quinsy, inflamed breast, white swellings, &c. HERBS.—They make the best medicines, and the completest cures. For their Medical Properties, see Rob- inson's Herbal. HERBS.—For Dyspepsia, or Indigestion.—Camomile, agrimony, betony, thistle, (blessed,) caraway seeds, sweet flag, fennel, garlic, horehound, hyssop, lavender, masterwort (the root,) mint, mustard seed, pennyroyal, horse- radish, rue, wormwood. Decoctions of the above are made by pouring boiling water on them. A little should be taken in the morning fasting. For Purging the Bowels.— Class 1. The powerful are the follow- ing : common dock, hellebore, (white), in doses not exceeding 4 grains ; black hellebore, from 2 to 5 grains; marsh- mallow leaf decoction, and mountain flax. Class 2. more moderate; buckthorn berry, broom, and dandelion. For Worms.—Bear’s-foot, cow- bage, camomile, garlic, fern root, savin, and wormwood. Astringents, which serve to cor- rect excessive discharges. Logwood, red roses, sage, and tormentil root. Carminatives, or those herbs which allay pain, or dispel wind from the stomach; aniseed, caraway seed, peppermint, spearmint, ginger, and dill root. Demulcents; those herbs which soften, or which lesson acrimony, or the effects of stimulus on the solids ; as, colt's-foot, liver-wort, mallows, liquorice root, comffey, &c. Diaphoretics, or those which pro- mote perspiration; burdock, centaury, bay tree, betony, balm, germander, lovage, and rue. Tonics, or those which give strength and vigour to the body; bistort, balm, bog-bean, camomile, centaury (lesser), logwood, gentian, southern- wood, tansy, tormentil, valerian, and wormwood. To Heal Ulcers.-Adder’s tongue agrimony, archangel, arses mart, cuckoo pint, blue bottle, burdock, bryony, soap- wort, celandine, centaury, chickweed, cinquefoil, comfrey root, mugwort, cud- weed, dog grass, water dock, figwort, flaxweed, foxglove, glass wort, ground ivy, ground pine, tormentil, tansy, bugle, scurvy grass, and nightshade. Either made into ointments with hog's-lard, or washes made of them, and daily applied to the parts. To Purify the Blood.—Agri- mony, borage, burdock (sea,) chick- weed, chervil, fennel, fir tree, fumitory, garden cresses, wild water cresses, ground pine, hops, maiden hair, sorrel, and tansy. Made into decoctions with hot water, and taken every morning. HERRINGS, Fresh, to Broil, or Roast.—Scale, gut, and wash; cut off the heads ; steep them in salt and vinegar 10 minutes; dust them with flour, and broil them over or before the fire, or in the oven. Serve with melted butter and parsley. Herrings are nice jarred, and done in the oven, with pepper, cloves, salt, a little vinegar, a few bay leaves, and a little butter. HERRINGS, Fresh, to Fry.— Slice small onions, and lay in the pan with the herrings; add a little butter,HOO 2 11 HER and fry them. Perhaps It is better to fry the onions separately with a little parsley, and butter, or drip. HERRINGS, to Pot.—Clean, cut of the heads, and lay them close in an earthen pot. Strew a little salt be- tween every layer ; put in cloves, mace, whole pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg; fill up the jar with vinegar, water, and a % of a pint of sherry, cover, tie down, bake in an oven, and when cold pot it for use.—A few anchovies and bay leaves intermixed will improve the flavour. HICCUP.—One drop of chemical oil of caraway on a small lump of sugar, which must be kept in the mouth till dissolved, and then gently swallowed.— If you press firmly on the end of the collar-bone next the throat, the hiccup- ing will be stopped.—Or hold your breath as long as you can. If it should prove obstinate, and become spasmodic, a teaspoonful of ether, 8 drops of lauda- num, in a glass of cold water, is the best remedy.—It is often removed by start- ling a person. HICCUP.—Swallow a mouthful of water, stopping the mouth and ears. —Tried.—Or, take any thing that makes you sneeze.—Or, 3 drops of oil of cin- namon on a lump of sugar. HIPS, Conserve of.—Cutoff the stalks of ripe Hips ; take out all the seeds ; throw hot water upon them, and let them stand till soft enough to be sieved; mix the pulp with the same weight of sugar, without boiling. Good for consumptive coughs, hoarseness. Where the cough is very troublesome, with mental depression, add a few drops of laudanum and of tincture of valerian. HOARSENESS.—Rub the soles of the feet, before the fire, with garlic and lard well beaten together, over night, The hoarseness will be gone by next morning. Or, take a pint of cold water, lying down. Or, swallow slowly the juice of radishes. Or, dry nettle roots in an oven ; then powder them finely, and mix with an equal quantity of treacle. Take a tea- spoonful twice a-day. Or, boil a large handful of wheat bran In a quart of water, strain, and sweeten U with honey. Drink frequently. HOARSENESS. — Frequently gargle with a decoction of sage.—Or, a solution of alum.—Or, a solution of gum kino.—Or chew catechu.—Or take 2 or 3 times a day a teaspoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in a wine-glassful of weak ginger and water.—Or, take occasion- ally a tablespoonful of the decoction of horse-radish.—Or, dip a piece of flannel in brandy, or in brandy and salt; and apply to the chest; cover with a dry flannel, wear it all night.—Boiled onions are sometimes useful in colds, hoarse- ness, &c.—Or, take spermaceti and sugar candy, equal parts, and make them into a fine powder.—A piece of anchovy has been known to restore the proper tone of the voice. HOARSENESS OF SING- ERS.—A celebrated singer states, that the greatest benefit is derivable from taking, during 5 or 6 days, twice a-day, 5 or 6 drops of nitric acid in a glass of sugared water. If from use the acid loses its efficacy, the dose may be in- creased to 10 or 12 drops. HONEY, Balsam of.—To 1 lb. of honey add a teacupful of vinegar; boil and skim ; when cold stir in 1 oz. of elixir of paregoric, and bottle. This is first-rate for a cough: dose, 1 table- spoonful 3 times a day. HONEY OF ROSES.—Dried red rose buds, 4 ozs. ; clarified honey, 5 lbs. ; distilled boiling water, 3 pints ; macerate the rose leaves in the water for 6 hours ; then mix the honey with the strained liquor, and boil to a syrup. Good for sore mouths, &c. HONEY OF VIOLETS. Violet flowers, the bottoms chipped off, 2 lbs. ; infuse in 2 quarts of water ; boil up, and add 2 lbs. of honey ; boil to a syrup ; press the liquid part through a linen cloth. HONEY WATER.—Powder i ozs. of volatile salts; dissolve it in a pint of water for use. it is a good cos- metic. Add a little lavender water. HOOPING COUGH.—Use the cold bath daily.—Or, rub the feet thoroughly with hog’s lard, before the fire, at going to bed, and keep the child warm therein.—Or, rub the back at lying down with old rum. It seldom fails.— Or, give a spoonful of the juice of212 HOO HOR pennyroyal, mixed with brown sugar- candy, twice a-day. HOOPING COUGH.-Dissolve a scruple of salt of tartar in a quar- ter of a pint of water; add 8 drops of laudanum, sweeten it with sugar. Give to an infant a teaspoonful four times a day ; two years old, two spoon- fuls ; for four years, a table-spoonfuL— Or, take flower of Benjamin, and strain- ed opium, of each 2 drachms, camphire, 2 scruples, essential oil of aniseeds, half a drachm, rectified spirit of wine, one quart, 4 02s. of powdered liquorice, and 4 ozs. of honey : digest and strain.—Or, take of musk julep, 6 ozs. ; paregoric elixir, \ oz., volatile tincture of valerian, 1 drachm ; mix and take two spoonfuls three or four times every day.—Or, take ipecacuanha, 14 grains ; warm water % a pint. Infhse. Take a teaspoonful now and then. HOOPING COUGH.—1 scru- ple salt of tartar dissolved in a gill of water, add xo grains of powdered cochi- neal, sweeten it with brown or fine sugar. Give an infant a fourth part of a tablespoonful, for a child 3 or 4 years old, half a tablespoouful, 10 years old, 1 tablespoonful 3 times a day. HOOPING COUGH, Embro- cation for.—Olive oil eight ounces, oil of amber, four ounces, oil of cloves, sufficient to scent it strongly; croton oil, 3 drops; mix, rub on the chest.— Or, oil of amber and spirit of hartshorn, equal parts. Mix. Apply to the soles of the feet, and to the palms of the hands, morning, noon, and night. HOPS.—The extract of tincture of hops may be used instead of opium in most cases; it is not narcotic, but very anodyne. In consumption it gives ease without any deleterious effects. Its valuable medicinal properties are but little known. In jaundice, indigestion, melancholy, nervous depression, &c., it has been of singular use. A strong in- fusion or decoction, is a cure for indigesc tion, attended with nervous irritation, weakness of the stomach and bowels; and for typhoid fevers, and twitching of the tendons. It is of vast service in the after pains of child-birth. It may be taken in tincture, decoction, Infusion, or pills mode of the extract. HOP BITTERS, Infusion of. —Hops, 2 ozs.; boiling water, 1 quart. Infuse a day. Dose : a wineglassful; excellent for appetite. HOPS, Tincture of.—It is made by macerating 1 oz. of the bops in quar- ter of a pint of proof spirits; dose, % a drachm to 1 drachm. In form of tinc- ture, Dr. Beach says “he has given it with success in inflammation of the bowels.” HOPS, Extract of.—Is made by boiling the strength of it obtained by infusion or decoction, to a thin syrup, and then evaporating till it becomes thick. Cover close. Dose, in pills, from four to ten grains. HOPS HEATED, in a flannel bag, are a good remedy for the tooth- ache, and neuralgic pains. A bag of hops warmed, and put under the head, allays nervous excitement, and procures sleep. A strong decoction of hops, half a pint at a time, is drunk by the Spaniards for venereal, loss of appetite, and is also good for drunkards. HOREHOUND.—The plant is very stimulant, diaphoretic, pectoral, and tonic. It is good for coughs, asthma, and female weakness. Very beneficial in consumption.—See Pul- monary Balsam, or Syrup, page 323. HOREHOUND, to Candy.— Boil some horehound till the juice is ex- tracted. Boil some sugar till feathery; (Set Sugar); add the juice to the sugar, and boil till it is again the same height, stir till it is thick; pour into a paper case dusted with fine sugar, and cut into squares. HOREHOUND CAKES. Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in one pint of water, till candied; then rub a little dried horehound into the pan while boiling. Pour it on buttered paper. HOREHOUND SYRUP. Dried horehound, 2 ozs.; honey, lb.; boiling water, % pint; spirits, % pint; laudanum, 20 drops ; essence of lemon, 1 teaspoonful. Infuse the horehound in the spirits and water for 2 days; then strain through a fine sieve, and add the other Ingredients.H OR MOT 213 USEFUL HORSE RECIPES. Horse Ointment.—Resin 4 ozs.; bees’ wax, 3 ozs. ; hog’s lard % lb.; turpentine, 6 ozs. ; dissolve in a pipkin with a gentle heat; then add 3 ozs. of fine verdigris, stir well together, and strain the whole through a coarse cloth : cool for use. This is a good ointment for a wound, or bruise in flesh or hoof, broken knees, galled backs, bites, crack- ed heels, mallenders, or, when a horse is gelded to heal and keep off the flies. Purge for a Horse.—Aloes 1 oz.; rhubarb, 2 drs. ; oil of mint, 4 drops, made into a ball with honey. Cordial for a Horse.—If the horse is weak through travel, give him a pint of warm ale, with 1 oz. of diapente in it. Diapente will comfort his bowels, drive out cold and wind, and may cause him to carry his food the longer.—Dia- pente is composed of gentian root, bay berries, bay leaves, birthwort, mint, and snyrrh. Sore Back.—If the saddle bruises his back and makes it swell, a greasy dishcloth laid on hot, and a cloth over it, bound on fifteen minutes, (with a surcingie), and repeated once or twice, will sink it flat. If it is slight, wash it with a little salt and water only. Alter the saddle, that it may not press upon the tender part, for a second bruise will be worse than the first. Splint.—The splint is a fixed, callous, bony excrescence, growing upon the flat of the inside or outside, of the shark bone ; a little under, and not far from the knee, and may be seen and fdt-—Cure. To take it off, first cut the hair close, then gently beat it with a round rule until it appears hot to the touch, then rub hard soap all around the edge of the splint, to prevent the blister affecting any other part, and apply on the splint the following blister ointment: mercurial ointment, 1 oz.; Spanish flies, 2 drs. ; mixed well to- gether ; a little of this may be applied once a week until the splint is removed. Spavin.—The spavin is of the same nature, and appears in like man- ner, on the instep bone behind, not far below the hough.—Cure. The same blister as recommended for splints ; if it fails, firing and taming the horse to grass for 3 months, is the best method. HORSES, to Water.—Water is as necessary to a horse as food, and horses are found to thrive better by having water ad libitum than by being stinted. The best way is to have the manger divided, so that corn may be in one half and the water in the other ; by this plan the horse takes the water as he wants it, and not when it is offered to him. The plan of having clean water in the manger has been tried by a great number of the London merchants, and found to answer admirably. HORSERADISH SAUCE.— Grate very small a stick of horseradish ; then with two tablespoonfuls of it, mix a little salt, and four tablespoonfuls of cream ; stir briskly, and add gradually a wineglassful of vinegar, and sherry wine. Excellent with cold roast beef. Another.—Grate horseradish into a basin, then add three tablespoonfuls of cream, a teaspoonful of mustard, and a little salt. Mix well with half a cupful of vinegar, to which has been put a little melted butter, a little gravy, and some mushroom, or walnut ketchup. Season with clove, black, or cayenne pepper. HORSERADISH VINEGAR. —To 3 ozs. of scraped horseradish, put a quart of best vinegar, 1 oz. of minced shalot, and 1 dr. of cayenne. Let it stand a week. HOSIER BISCUIT.-One pint of new milk. Stir in a teaspoonful of salt, and flour, until it becomes a stiff batter ; add two tablespoonfuls of yeast; let it rise in a warm place as much as it will. Then stir in a teaspoonful of bicarbonate of potass dissolved in hot water; beat up three eggs ; stir them,, and flour with the batter till it becomes thick dough ; let it rise; knead again; cut for biscuits ; bake in a quick oven. HOTCH-POTCH.—Stew peas, lettuce, and onions in a little water with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry mutton or lamb steaks brown; forty minutes before dinner put the steaks into a stew-pan, and the vegeta- bles over them ; stew, and serve in a tureen.—A knuckle of veal and a scrag of mutton, stewed with vegetables, as above, will make a nice hotch-potch. HOTCH-POTCH, of Different Kinds.—Take a brisket of beef, or mutton steaks or pigeons, rabbits cut in214 HOT HYD quarters, or veal, or poultry ; boll long over a slow fire In a little liquid, with onions, carrots, parsnips, turnips, celery, parsley, shalots, spices, a laurel leaf, thyme, sausages and thin broth or water. When done, drain; Fowl may be done in the same way, pickled pork, a little ham, &c. Pigeons also with bacon, broth, a little butter, nutmeg, ginger, a little lemon, &c. HOT WATER PIPES, to Stop Leakage in.—Iron borings and filings, mix them with vinegar and a little sulphuric acid; let the mixture stand till it becomes a paste ; with this fill up the cracks, where the leakage is ; and if the pipe has been previously dried, and is kept dry till the paste hardens, it will effectually stop the leakage, and will last a long time. HOUSELEEK.—It is used as a cooling application to sores, ulcers, &c. The juice mixed with cream is good for inflammation of the eyes, and erysipelas. Taken inwardly it is good for fevers, cooling them down wonderfully. First give a purgative to cleanse the stomach and bowels ; then bruise the housclcch ; adding to the juice its weight infine sugar to form a syrup. A tablespoonful every two hours. Drink balm or catnep tea. This receipt is worth gold. See Robin- son's Family Herbal. HOW TO PROTECT Build- ings from Damp.—Asphalt is cheap and effectual. The foundations or foot- ings where the earth is likely to be placed against the sides of the building, should have a thick coating plastered against it, also, when the building is a sufficient height out of the ground, the bricks should have a good layer put on them, then a layer of blue slates, and another coat of asphalt on the top of them, this will prevent the damp ascending. (See page 31.) If the dampness proceeds from the outside walls of the building through absorption give them one or two coats of brown or red varnish, or resin varnish, coloured, it is better than paint for filling up the pores of bricks. HUNTER’S PUDDING. Mix i lb. each of suet, flour, currants, rasins stoned, and cut; the rind of half a lemon shred fine ; 6 Jamaica peppers finely powdered, 4 eggs, a glass of brandy, salt, and a little milk to make it of a proper consistence; boil it in floured cloth 8 or 9 hours. Serve with white sauce. This pudding will keep 6 months, if tied up in the same cloth. HYDROGEN GAS, to Make. —Procure granulated zinc, put it into a bottle, and pour over it 1 pint oil of vitriol (sulphuric acid) to 5 or 6 pints of water ; to collect the gas you must have a pipe inserted through the cork leading to a pneumatic trough or bladder. HYDROPHOBIA. — Immedi- ately wash the bitten part with clear water; then take good tobacco, (leaf tobacco, if possible; if not, strong manufactured cut tobacco) and make a suitable poultice for the place, changing it three or four times a day for a week. This effectually absorbs every thing poisonous. A strong decocuon of the roots of the white ash will cure the bite of a mad dog. At Ulina, in Friula, a man suffering under the agon- izing tortures of hydrophobia, was cured by draughts of vinegar given him by mistake. A physician at Padua hearing of it, tried the same remedy upon a patient at the hospital, giving 1 lb. of vinegar in the morning, another at noon, and a third at sunset, and the man was speedily and perfectly cured. See also page 62. CURE for HYDROPHOBIA, —Dr. Buisson, of Lyons, claims to have discovered a remedy. In attend- ing a female patient in the last stage of canine rabies, the doctor imprudently wiped his hands with a handkerchief impregnated with her saliva. He had a slight abrasion on the index finger of the left hand, and confident in his own curative system, the doctor merely washed the part with water. However, he was fully aware of the imprudence he had committed, and gives the following account of the matter afterwards:— “ Believing that the malady would not declare itself until the 40th day, and having numerous patients to visit, I put off from day to day the application of my remedy—that is to say, vapour baths. The ninth day being in my cabinet, I felt all at once a pain in the throat, and a still greater one in the eyes. My body seemed so light that I felt as if I could jump to a prodigious height, or that, if I threw myself out ofHYD 215 Hk’S ■ window I could sustain myself in the air. My hair was so sensitive that I appeared able to count each separately without looking at it Saliva kept con- tinually forming in the mouth. Any movement of the air inflicted great pain on me, and I was obliged to avoid the sight cf brilliant objects ; I had a con- tinual desire to run and bite, not hu- man beings, but animals, and all that was near me. I drank with difficulty, and the sight of water distressed me more than the pain in the throat. I believe that, by shutting the eyes, any one suffering under hydrophobia can always drink. The fits came on every five minutes, and I then felt the pain start from the index finger and run up the nerves to the shoulder. In this state, thinking that my course was preservative and not curative, I took a vapour bath, not with the intention of cure, but of suffocating myself. When the bath was at a heat of 52 Centigrade (93 3-5 Fahren- heit,) all the symptoms disappeared, as if by magic, and I have never felt any thing more of them. I have attended more than 80 persons bitten by mad animals, and I have not lost a single case.” When a person has been bitten by a mad dog he must for seven succes- sive days take a vapour bath a la Russe, as it is called, of 57 to 63 degs. This is the preventive remedy. When the disease is declared, it only requires one vapour bath, rapidly increased to 57 Centigrade, then slowly to 63; the patient must confine himself to his chamber until the cure is complete. Dr. Buisson mentions other curious facts. An American had been bitten by a rattlesnake, about eight leagues from home; wishing to die in the bosom of his family, he ran the greater part of the way home, and going to bed perspired profusely, and the wound healed as any simple cut. The bite of the tarantula is cured by the exercise of dancing, the free perspiration dissipa- ting the virus. If a young child be vaccinated and then be made to take a vapour bath, the vaccine does not take. When first bitten, or when the symp- toms are manifest, give a dessert-spoon- ful of the anti-spasmodic tincture, and a mild injection. Then proceed to the vapour bath, as hot as the patient can bear it. After the bath, give an emetic. The wound should be cupped, and caustic potash applied afterwards. Ap- ply a yeast poultice, and keep up the discharge. Add a little powdered char- coal to the poultice. Repeat the vapour bath and the injection every ten or twelve hours- The diet should be light and unstimulating ; the drink sudorific, or promoting perspiration. Drink oft a decoction of skullcap, and at night take sulphur and cream of tartar. HYPOCHONDRIA, or Melan- choly.—A disordered state of mind caused by the debility of the nervous system. It is manifested by lowness of spirits, inactivity, shunning and dread- ing effort, foreboding of evil, fears with- out cause ;—;physically by flatulency, eructations, costiveness, pale urine, pal- pitations, spasmodic pains in various parts of the body, &c. Treatment.—First ascertain the causes of the disease, and try to remove them. As to medicine, give an emetic ; if the disease is obstinate, repeat it; give also anodyne aperients and injec- tions. For an hypochondriac, the Dys- peptic Pill is very efficacious, taken at night. Also the Nervous Pill. Treat the patient kindly and encouragingly. Harshness will aggravate the disease. The great thing is to arouse the nervous energy from its lethargy ; and this must be effected as above, and also by giving tonics, light and digestible food, open air exercise, sea air, change of scenes, travelling and lawful amusements. An aged minister once said that "weak nerves are the devil's fiddle strings, and he always plays well on them.” Should this disease arise from affec- tions of the liver, he must be treated for that disease also. The following is a Good Pill for Melancholly;— lobelia seed, 1 dr. ; extract of dandelion, 3 drs. ; bloodroot, 1 dr.; senna, pow- dered, 2 drs. ; cayenne, 1 dr. ; valerian powdered, 2 drs. ; butternut powdered, 3 drs. Form into pills with syrup and oil of mint. Two or three, three times a-day. These ingredients may be obtain- ed at the Medical Botanists. HYSSOP.-—It is very useful in colds, coughs, catarrhs, influenza, and affections of the lungs ; as a gargle for sore mouth. See Robinson's Herbal.KYS ICE 216 HYSTERICS. — This disease mostly affects young, nervous, single women. It manifests itself by fits, often preceded by nervous lowness, difficult breathing, sickness at the stomach, pal- pitations, and a pain at the left side, a rumbling noise in the bowels, the sensa- tion of a ball ascending to the throat, with the feeling of suffocation, convul- sions, laughing and crying without any apparent cause. Almost every part of the nervous system is liable to this affec- tion. The disease seldom proves fatal. It is caused by menstrual irregularities, indolence, irregular liying, costiveness, indigestion, worms, obstructed perspi- ration, &c. An Hysteric Fit may be easily distinguished from fainting; for, in fainting the pulse and respiration are entirely stopped ; in hysterics, they are both perceptible. Treatment. — First loosen the dress, and dash cold water in the face. It is of the greatest importance to put the feet and legs in warm water as soon as possible. Give an emetic. The Expectorant Tincture, (pages ax and 175) must be given to remove the rising in the throat, the sense of suffocation, collected phlegm, &c. If the patient cannot swallow, pour it into the mouth, and it will relax the jaws, &c., and cause the patient to swallow; it will send the blood to the surface and ex- tremities, affect the brain and nervous system so as to end the attack even by a single dose. The vapour bath should be given as soon as possible. Or, put the patient to bed, and apply hot bricks or bottles of hot water to thp feet and sides ; the bottles to be folded in cloths wet with vin egar and water. Should these means fail give the Anodyne Powders, page 20. Give also gentle aperients ; and above all, do not neglect to give the Nervous Pill, which is wonderfully efficacious, (page 274.) The aperients may be assist- ed by injections of gruel, % oz. of the tincture of assafeetida, or a table-spoon- ful of spirits of turpentine; sweeten with treacle. Tonics, as quinine, should be freely given. If the disease arises from obstructed menses, worms, &c., the case must be treated as directed under those complaint*. I ICE, to Procure.—(See Freez- ing Mixture.)—Nearly fill a gallon stone bottle with hot spring water (leaving room for about a pint,) and put in 2 ozs. of refined nitre; the bottle must be stopped very close, and let down into a deep well. After three or four hours it will be completely frozen; the bottle must be broken to pro- cure the ice. If the bottle is moved up and down, so as to be sometimes in and sometimes out of the water, the conse- quent evaporation will hasten the pro- cess. ICE CREAM. — Put into a bucket 1 lb. of ice broken very small; throw two handfuls of salt, among it, and have it in the coolest place you can find. Put the cream into an ice-pot, and cover it; immerse it in the ice, and draw the ice round the pot, so as to touch every part. In a few minutes put a spatula or spoon in, and stir the parts that ice round the edges to the centre. Stirring quickly increases the cold. There should be holes in the bucket to let out the ice as it thaws. The cream for icing is thus made :— New milk, 1 quart; yolks of 6 eggs; fine sugar, 4 ozs. Mix. Strain. Heat gently, and then cool. ICEING, for Cakes.—Beat the whites of two eggs to a solid froth, add 6 ozs. of finely powdered white sugar; mix in the juice of a quarter of a lemon. Place the cakes before the fire; pour over them the icing, and smooth over the sides and tops with a knife. Set them to dry at the mouth of a cool oven. ICEING, for Tarts.—Beat the yolk of an egg, and some melted butter well together; wash the tarts with a feather, and sift sugar over them as you put them in the oven. Ice Waters.—Rub some fine sugar upon lemon or orange, to give the colour and flavour, then squeeze the juice of either on its respective peel, add water and sugar to make a fine sherbet, and strain it before it be put into the ice-pot. If orange, the greater propor- tion should be of the China juice, and only a little of Seville, and a small bit of the peel grated by the sugar. Currant or Raspberry Water lea.—The juice of these, or any otherICE 217 IND sort of fruit, being gained by squeezing, sweetened and mixed with water, will be ready for iceing. Ice Creams.—Mix the juice of the fruits with as much sugar as will be wanted, before you add cream, which should be of a middling richness. ICELAND MOSS.—It derives its name from the country in which it is found. As an article of food for inva- lids, it is very light, and nutritious. It has tonic, and demulcent properties, and it forms a very suitable diet for the consumptive. It allays the tickling cough, relieves the breathing, and im- proves the digestion. The decoction is the most medicinal It is bitter; but.that may be obviated by previous washings. ICELAND MOSS JELLY.— Moss, ^ oz. to r oz. ; water, 1 quart. Simmer down to % pint Add fine sugar, and a little lemon juice. It may be improved with % oz. of isinglass. The moss should first be steeped in cold water an hour or two. IMPERIAL.—Cream of tartar 2 ozs. ; citric add, 1 oz. ; orange or lemon peel, 3 ozs. ; fine sugar, 6 or 8 ozs. ; boiling water, 2 qrts. Mix ; cover the vessel to cooL Very suitable for hot weather. It might be bottled by adding a little yeast. IMPERIAL CREAM.—Boil a quart of cream with the thin rind of a lemon ; stir till nearly cold ; have ready in a dish to serve in, the juice of 3 lemons strained with as much sugar as will sweeten the cream; pour it into the dish from a large tea-pot, holding it high, and moving it about to mix with the juice. It should be made from 6 to la hours before it is served. INDELIBLE INK.—German Receipt—Dissolve 20 grains of sugar in 30 grains of water, and the addition to the solution of a few drops of concen- trated sulphuric add; the mixture is then heated, when the sugar is carbon- ized by the action of the add. It is said that the writing is not only of a solid black colour, but that the add re- sists the action of chemical agents. INDELIBLE INK. —Add a little nitrate of silver to ordinary writing Ink. INDIA PICKLE.—Strong vin- egar, 3>i quart) ; salt, % lb, ; shallot), % Eh. ; ginger, a ozs. ; white pepper, » r*. ; mustard seeds, a ozs. ; cayenne pepper, % a table-spoonful. Boil all together ; put into a jar ; add 2 ozs. of ground mustard. You may put in kidney beans, cauliflower, &c., as you like. INDIAN PUDDING.—Indian meal, a cupful, a little salt, butter, 1 oz.; treacle, 3 ozs. ; 2 teaspoonfuls of ginger or cinnamon. Put into a quart of boil- ing milk. Mix a cup of cold water with it, bake in a buttered dish 50 minutes. INDIGESTION. —It may be the effect or symptom of some disease, as nervous debility of the stomach, affec- tions of the liver, inflammation of the stomach, costiveness, obstructed per- spiration, want of exercise, especially in the open air, defidency or vitiation of the gastric juice, gluttony, alcoholic drinks, depressing passions; intense study, onanism, or self-abuse, &c. Tea, coffee, and tobacco are most fruitful causes of this disease. Treatment.—Abandon, if possi- ble, the causes which produce the effect. Give occasionally an emetic. If neces- sary, gentle aperients. Injections are often of great use. These methods may be repeated about once a week, till the disease abates. Emetics serve to remove morbid matter, impart new tone to the stomach, and give healthy action to the secretions. Dr. Beach recommend) lobelia combined with mandrake, as the best emetic. The bowels are best regu- lated by always eating brown bread; for the bran gives a more natural stimulus to the liver and alimentary canal than any medicine which can be given. The use of the Dyspeptic Pill tends very much to improve the tone of the stomach, page 168. The Restorative Wine Bitters cannot be too much re- commended, page 336. If indigestion arises from affections of the liver, treat for the same ; especially take the Liver Pill with the aforesaid medicines, page 241. If, from a disordered stomach, there is acidity, &c., take the Neutralix- ing Mixture, page 875. In fine, be choice in your diet; and eat the unsifted flour, by some called ground down, or brown bread—a better name would be—ground altogether. It is the grand panacea for indigestion. The dyspeptic must avoid or take littleINF 218 JND of fat meat, butter, cheese, pastty, strong coffee, green tea, and ardent spirits, which harden the food, in course of diges- tion, and cause tne feculent matter diffi- cult and painful to be evacuated. Eat sparingly, take open air exercise as much as possible ; use cold water with a little vinegar in, for sponging. IN DIG E S TIO N.-Prescriptions. —Dr. Babington’s.—Infusion of Colum- ba, 6 ozs.; carbonate of potass, i dr. ; compound tincture of gentian, 3 drs. Mix ; 3 tablespoonfuls to be taken every day, at noon.—Or, take Gentian and Columba roots (bruised) and camomile flowers, of each 1 oz., to 3 qrts. of water, boil to 3 pints. Dose : 2 or 3 teacupfuls a day.—Or, take 1 oz. each of hops and caraway seeds ; 24 cloves; % oz. of sen- na, and 24 black peppers. Boil the whole in 3 pints of water till it is re- duced to 2 pints. A wine-glassful of the Infusion to be taken twice a day, at 11 and 3 o’clock. Pain in the Stomach from Bad Digestion.—Take fasting, or in the fit, i a pint of camomile tea. Do this 5 or 6 mornings.—Or, drink the juice of Vt a large lemon, or sweet orange, im- mediately after dinner every day.—Dr. Mead.—Or, from 10 to 20 drops of elixir of vitriol in sage tea, 2 or 3 times a-day. —Or, in the fit a glass of vinegar.—Or, take 2 or 3 teaspoonfuls of stomachic tincture, in a glass of water, thrice a- day. (ti* The tincture is made thus :—Gen- tian root, sliced, 1 oz. ; orange peel, dried, % oz.; cochineal, 15 grs. : proof brandy, 1 pint; in 3 or 4 days it is fit for use.—This is useful in all disorders that arise from a relaxed stomach. INFANTS, Management of. —A child, when born, should be laid, for the first month, upon a thin mat- tress, which the nurse may sometimes keep on her knee, that the child may always lie, and only sit up as the nurse slants the mattress. Keep it as dry as possible. At the end of a month, the nurse may set it up, and dance it by degrees. The clothing should be light, and not much longer than itself, that the legs may be readily reached and rubbed, for rubbing takes off scurf, and causes the blood to circulate. Rubbing the ankle- bones and inside of the knees wifl strengthen those parts, and make the child stretch its knees, and keep them flat. Do not keep a child too long in the arms, lest the legs should be cramped, and the toes turned inwards. The oftener the posture is changed the better. During the first fortnight the child should sleep on a bed, except when taken up to supply its wants, which will give it early habits of cleanliness. It is injurious to be laid always asleep on a person’s knee. By slow degrees the infant should be accustomed to exercise, within doors, and in the open air. It should be car- ried about, and gently dandled in the nurse’s arms. Exercising a child in the open air, in fine weather, is of the greatest service. Endeavour to harden the body, but without violent means. A child is con- stitutionally weak and irritable ; hence we should try to strengthen the child, and diminish this irritability, in order to procure it the greatest blessing,—a firm body; which may resist all influence of air and weather. The cold bath may be used too much, and bodily exercise may be too violent. Infants should by imperceptible de- grees be inured to the cool, and then to the cold bath. If they have been accus- tomed to an effeminate treatment, and should be suddenly subjected to an op- posite extreme, such a change would be attended with danger. The child's skin is to be kept perfectly clean, by washing its limbs morning and evening ; begin with warm water, till, by degrees, it will bear, and like, to be washed with cold water. After carefully drying the whole body, head, and limbs, another dry soft cloth, a little warmed, should be used gently, to take all the damp from the wrinkled and fat parts of the body. Apply gentle friction to the body, but do not press upon the stomach and bowels. If the skin is chafed, hair powder, or violet powder, is to be used, or a thin mixture of fullers earth. For the head, a small soft brush is safer than a comb. It should have clean linen, &c. every day. Some females in dressing an Infant are very rough, and must harass and fatigue it much. The most tender dell-219 nog INF beration should he observed. Never let the clothes be tight. Never use pins, for they are dangerous. The strings must be tied so slack that one might get two fingers between. Many instances of idiotism, fits, and deformity, are ow- ing to tight bandages. Never expose an infant to open doors or windows, especially in winter. The extreme of a summer day should also be avoided. Excessive heat or cold will injure an infant. Infants should not be kept too near the fire. The wisest course in treating infants, is to follow the simple dictates of nature, yet some people are so devoid of con- sideration as to give them wine, spirits, spices, sugar, and other things too strong for their tender stomachs. The first milk a baby can draw from its mother's breast is medicine and nourish- ment for it, and if she is too ill to give it, it is better to let it wait a few hours, than to give it any kind of food. But if it is very craving, mix milk with soft boiled water, and give it half a teaspoon- ful at a time, only warm, for its mouth cannot bear much heat. Let it swallow one little portion before another is offer- ed, and raise its head that it may pass the gullet easily. Do not overload the stomach, which may greatly disorder the infant, and become the foundation of gluttony. If a mother cannot suckle the child, get a healthy cheerful woman, with young milk, who is fond of infants. After the first six months, broths, and simple food, may do as well as living wholly upon milk. If milk cannot be had, a tea-spoonful of the yolk of a fresh egg, well beaten and mixed with two table-spoonfuls of soft boiled water will do instead. Three inches square of lean veal, and one inch thick, will make soup for a baby for two or three days. Boil only half at once, in a pint of soft water, down to two- thirds. Strain. When cold, take off the scum. Warm a little as wanted. A thin gruel also may be made from rice flour. In the latter part of the first year, pure water may occasionally be given. Those parents who accustom their chil- dren to drink water only, bestow on them a benefit, the value of which will be sensibly felt through life. Habits of intemperance, the curse of after life, are often laid in infancy. Rising early in the morning is good for all children, provided they wake of themselves, which they generally do; they ought not to be waked out of their sleep. Children, till they are two or three years old must never be allowed to walk long enough to be weary. In laying a child to sleep, place it upon the right side oftener than on the left, but twice in the twenty-four hours it should be changed to the left side. Laying it on its back when it awakes, is enough of that posture, in which alone it can move its legs and arms with freedom. Place the cradle so that the light may come equally on both eyes, to prevent squinting. Infants cannot sleep too long. Sleep promotes a more calm and uniform cir- culation of the blood, and facilitates assimilation of the nutriment received. Mothers and nurses should try and ac- custom infants, from the time of their birth, to sleep in the night, preferably to the day. To awaken children from sleep with a noise, or in an impetuous manner, is unwise and hurtful; also to carry them from a dark room immediately into a glaring light, for the sudden impression of light debilitates the organs of vision, and lays the foundation of weak eyes from infancy. Infants are sometimes very restless at night, caused by either cramming them with too much food, by tight night clothes, or by being overheated with blankets, &c. Never give an infant wine, spirits, or any drug, to make it sleep. Milk, water, or both mixed, whey or thin gruel ; these are the fittest for infants. The more simple and light their drink, the more they will thrive. A bed-room or nursery, ought to be spacious and lofty, dry, airy, and not inhabited through the day. Feather beds should be banished from nurseries, as they are an unnatural and debilita- ting contrivance. The windows should never be open at night, but left open the whole day, in fine clear weather. Nurses ought never to conceal any ac- cident befalling a child. All violent impressions on the senses and bodies of children should be avoided. It is in-INK INF 220 Jurious to toss them about rapidly and violently in their arms. Loud crying, or shouting in their ears, presenting glittering objects to their view, and sudden and too great a degree of light; such practices are very injurious. Do not bare their arms, throat or legs, have all well covered. Thousands of young children die annually, simply from want of their limbs being protected from cold ; sacrificed merely to follow a foolish fashion. INFECTION, to Prevent.— Sprinkle a room, &c. with a solution of chloride of lime ; or sprinkle dissolved camphor in spirits of wine upon your handkerchief; it may be diluted with acetic acid. Or, smoke this mixture:—Tobacco, 4 ozs.; cascarilla bark, % oz. ; un- bum t coffee, ground, i oz.; mix, and smoke occasionally. INFECTION, to Prevent. — Powdered charcoal mixed with clean water will disinfect a bad smelling sink or closet. Powdered charcoal will thoroughly deodorize a room, if placed on a tray, or on pieces of paper. But its power may be increased by heating it to a red heat in a covered pan, or placed on a hot shovel. Glacialine is now largely used as a disinfectant and antiseptic. It preserves meat, fish or fowls, also prevents sour- ness in beer, &c. Diluted carbolic add, and carbolic powder are excellent disinfectants, they require care in using, and to prevent accidents should always have the word “ Poison ” labelled on them. See Borax, page 72; Chloride of Lime, page 124 ; and Disinfectants, page 162. INFLAMMATION of the Bowels, page 72. See Diarrhea, page 160. Intestines, page 221. INFLUENZA.—See Catarrh 114 INK.—This will keep for very many years. Boil 4 ozs. of logwood chips in a gallon of water for 15 minutes, and pour it boiling hot upon 12 ozs. of galls coarsely powdered. Stir during four or five days. Pour off the liquor clear, and add to it 4 ozs. each of cop- peras and gum arabic. To prevent moulding, add bruised cloves, or oil of cloves. INK. — Water, 1 quart; best aleppo galls in coarse powder, 4 ozs., and 1 oz. each of rasped logwood, green vitriol or copperas, and gum arabic. Stir or shake four or five times a day, for 12 or 14 days, when it will be fit for use. Vinegar instead of water makes a deeper coloured ink, but it is not fit for steel pens. INK, Receipt for a Gallon.— Aleppo galls, 1 lb., slightly bruised; rain-water, 1 gallon, nearly boiling. Let them stand mixed together for 14 days. Then add 4 ozs. of green cop- peras ; 4 ozs. of logwood chips ; 1 oz. each of alum and sugar-candy, and 4 ozs. of gum arabic. Cover over and agitate for 14 days in a warm place. Strain, and bottle, add a little brandy on the top of the ink in each bottle. INK, Invisible or Sympathetic. —Dissolve bismuth in nitrous acid. When the writing is exposed to the vapour of sulphur, it will become quite black.—Make a weak solution of galls ; write with it. To make it visible, moisten with a weak solution of cop- peras ; moisten the paper with a solu- tion of prussiate of potass, and it will appear blue. Sulphate of copper (blue vitriol) and sal ammoniac, equal parts, dissolved in water, write colour- less, turn yellow when heated. Onion juice, like the last. Solution of salt or saltpetre, shows when heated. Write with starch water—a weak solu- tion of iodine will make it visible. INK, Permanent:—Best galls, and logwood, each 6 ozs.; copperas, 3 ozs. ; gum arabic, oz. ; pomegran- ate bark, 1 oz. (sold by druggists) rain water, cold, 3 pints ; doves, 2 or 3 ozs. Stir several times a day for two or three weeks. INK, JAPAN.—Aleppo galls, * lb. ; logwood chips, and copperas, of each 4 ozs. ; gum arabic, 3 ozs. ; sugar, 1 oz. ; blue vitrol, and sugar-candy, of each % oz. Boil the galls and log- wood in 6 quarts of water till reduced one half; strain; add the other ingre- dients. Stir, until dissolved. Clear, and bottle. If it does not shine enough, add more gum; also a few doves to prevent mould. INK, to Erase.—Press a little emery paper over the finger, and rubINK 22 I IPE out the ink-spot, or writing, or wrong figure. This method is better than that of the erasing knife. INK, to Prevent Moulding.— Put a few cloves into each bottle.- Or, add to the ink before boiling, spirits of wine and oil of cloves. INK, to Take Out of Marble. —U nslaked lime, and strong soap ley ; make it thick, and lay it on with a painter’s brush; let it remain a week, wash it off, and apply again, and wash it off with soft soap and water. INK POWDER. — Copperas, four ounces; nutgalls, powdered, six ounces ; common salt, three quarters of an ounce ; powdered gum arabic, one ounce and a half. Mix and keep dry. A small quantity of this powder, stirred up with a tablespoonful or two of hot water, will make good ink, ready for use in a few minutes, and will keep good for years in any climate. INK SPOTS, to Remove.— Apply a solution of salts of lemon, or wet with strong acetic acid. Or, apply a solution of muriate of tin. Or, muriatic acid. On the ink disap- pearing, rub it over immediately with a rag wetted with cold water, to prevent a white mark. INSECTS on Plants to Des- troy.—Tie up sulphur in a muslin bag, and dust the leaves of young shoots and plants. A dredging box may be used. Sulphur increases verdure. A weak solution of alum sprinkled upon plants is not relished by insects.—Or, a thin mixture of soap and oil of turpen- tine painted on the stems of trees.—Or, use a solution of borax, (see page 72.)— Painting the walls behind rose trees, fruit trees, &c., prevents the visits of spiders, earwigs, caterpillars, &c. The best paint for this purpose is gas tar. INTERMITTENT FEVER. See Ague, page 13. INTESTINES, Inflammation of.—See Bowel Complaint; page 72. The mucous membrane is generally the seat of this disease. The stomach and intestines are lined with a mem- brane which secretes a liquid termed "mucous." This disease is often caused by exposure to cold and wet, especially while in a state of perspira- tion ; the suppression of customary evacuations, Indigestible food, mercury, frequent drastic purges, feculent accumu- lation in the intestines, strangulated rupture, and over-feeding, giving nature more than it is able to do ; drunkenness is an awful thing for the bowels, gradu- ally, by its extreme terrible friction, lessening the secretion of the mucous. When that ceases, farewell to life. It manifests itself by acute pains in the bowels, pains shooting around the navel, which increase by pressure. There is great constipation, and vomit- ing of bilious matter, fever, debility, mental depression. It is a dangerous disease, and requires prompt attention. The object is to remove the inflamma- tion. Let all exciting food and drinks be abandoned. Avoid severe purgatives. Give a tablespoonful, or rather more of castor oil every two hours until it acts on the bowels. Bathe the feet and legs in warm water. If the oil takes no effect, give the following Injection Lobelia herb, 'A dr.; slippery elm, % dr. ; valerian root, 1 dr. ; boiling water, half a pint. Infuse ten minutes, strain, and give warm. If the pain is severe, make a decoction of bitter herbs, with a trifle of cayenne and opium, and flannels dipped in it, and applied to the abdo- men. To allay Vomiting, take infusion of spearmint, half a pint; bicarbonate of potash, half a teaspoonful. Give a tablespoonful every hour. As soon as the bowels are relieved, give a vapour bath, and then the Diaphoretic Powder. Should the extremities become cold, repeat the vapour bath. IODINE LOTION.—Tincture of Iodine, A fluid or. ; iodide of iron, 12 grains ; chloride of antimony, % or. Mix for a wash. It is a remedy for corns. Apply with a small brush. Or Iodine, 1A grains ; spirits of wine, 3 teaspoonfuls. Dissolve, and add a pint of water. A most excellent wash for scrofulous sores. IPECACUANHA.—It is emetic, stimulant, tonic, and sudorific. It is useful in bleeding from the lungs, and indigestion, if taken in small doses, so as not to produce nausea ; also in fluxes, diarrhoea, hooping cough, and in some fevers. From 25 to 30 grains form a good emetic, without causing debility. In doses of 2 or 3 grains, it forms a tonic, giving tone to the stomach, andmi 222 ITa. promoting digestion. It is valuable in bilious and liver complaints.—See Rob- imon's Herbal. IRISH STEW.—Cut off the fat of part of a loin of mutton, and cut it Into chops. Pare, wash, and slice very thin some potatoes, two onions, and two small carrots; season with pepper, and salt. Cover with water in a stew-pan, and stew gently till the meat is tender, and the potatoes are dissolved in the gravy. It may be made of beef-steaks, or mutton and beef mixed. IRON-MOULD, to Remove. Rub the iron-mould part with a little oxalic acid, or salts of lemon, dissolved in warm water. After remaining ten minutes, rinse well in warm and then cold water.—Or apply a mixture of milk and salt. IRON AND STEEL, to Pre- vent from Rusting.—Fat oil var- nish one part, and rectified spirits of turpentine, three parts, intimately mix- ed, and applied with a sponge. Camphor, lard, and black lead, mixed, applied, and after two |days wiped off, will preserve from rust. Or smear over the iron, or metal hardware, &c. with melted mutton-suet, and dust with powdered unslaked lime. For bright parts of machinery to be sent abroad, use tallow and white lead. Brown paper is a good preservative from rust. Hence all Sheffield and Birmingham hardware, cutlery, &c., are wrapped in glazed brown paper. IRON AND STEEL to Clean. —Fine flour of emery, 2 ozs. ; soft soap, 1 oz. made into a paste ; rub the articles with the paste, then clean off with whitening and wash-leather. IRRITABLE.— Physically de- notes a habit of body prone to tonic in- flammation, but without strength to form it perfectly, or to bear the remedies proper to subdue it.—Irritation signi- fies an imperfect inflammation. Many infantile diseases partake more of irrita- tion than inflammation. A state of irritation is present in most diseases, and is very trying both to the patients and their attendants, and one for which every allowance and consideration ought to be made. IRRITATING LINIMENT. Tincture qf cayenne, % oz. ; spirits of turpentine, 1 oz.; croton oil, oz.; olive oil, 1% oz. It produces eruptions, and removes the severest pains. IRRITATING PLASTER— Burgundy-pitch and beeswax, % lb. each ; thick tar, % lb.; Venice turpen- tine, oz. Melt well and mix on a slow fire. When cold, mix with them powdered blood-root, poke-root, and a little cayenne. Spread on linen or soft leather. This plaster is counter-irritant, causes eruptions, and is a good curative for old sores and ulcers. It is highly recommended. ISINGLASS JELLY— Boil 1 oz. of isinglass in a quart of water, with yi oz. of Jamaica pepper-corns, or cloves, and a crust of bread, till reduced to a pint. Add sugar. It keeps well, and may be taken in wine and water, milk, tea, soup, &c. ISINGLASS PLASTER. Dissolve isinglass in a little hot water, and brush it over silk or fine linen, to form a glaze upon it. Dry and when wanted cut strips, and moisten them. It is an excellent plaster for abrasions of the skin. ISSUE OINTMENT. —Mix half an ounce of Spanish flies, finely powdered, in six ounces of yellow basili- con ointment; This ointment is chiefly intended for dressing blisters in order to keep them open during pleasure. ITALIAN PUDDING.—Lay puff paste at the bottom and round the edge of the dish ; over which pour a pint of cream, French rolls enough to thicken it, ten eggs beaten fine, a nut- meg grated, 12 pippins sliced, orange peel, sugar, and half a pint of red wine. Half an hour will bake it. ITALIAN SAUCE, Brown- Chop a few mushrooms and shalots; put them into a stewpan, with some stock, and a glass of sherry; boil up; add clove, nutmeg, a little lemon, and the juice of parsley, thyme ; add a little sugar. ITALIAN SAUCE, White- Put some chopped mushrooms, and shalots into a stew-pan with a slice of ham minced very small, and put in a little stock ; simmer 15 minutes ; add bechemel, (page 44). Boil a minute ; if it loses Its colour, add a spoonful of cream ; strain; season with salt, a few223 JAU ITC drops of garlic vinegar, a squeeze of lemon, and a bit of sugar. ITCH.—It is a skin desease, in- fectious. Sometimes it is caused by poor living, unwholesome food, bad air, unventilated and dirty houses, dirty beds and clothes. The itch begins with small eruptions, on the joints of the fingers, on the wrists, thighs, &c. They cause a most intolerable itching, the scratching of which only spreads the disease. Remedies:—Sweet oil, 1 pound ; suet, 1 lb. Melt and macerate; then add powdered nitre, 3 ozs,; powdered alum, 3 ozs.; powdered sulphate of zinc, 3 ozs.; oil of aniseed, oil of spike, and oil of origanum, to perfume. Or, mi* 2 ozs. of lard with 1 oz. of sul- phur-vivum, and a few drops of essence of lemons. Before going to bed rub this well into the affected parts. In the morning wash with soap and warm water; change the linen and clothes. Repeat the application, if necessary. Take at the same time flour of sulphur and cream of tartar, in milk, beer, or treacle. Frequently take a Warm Bath. The greatest cures have been effected by it. Wash the parts affected with strong rum.—Tried.—Or, anoint them with black soap, but wash it off soon.—Or, steep a shirt half an hour in a quart of water mixed with half an ounce of pow- dered brimstone. Dry it slowly, and wear it five or six days. Sometimes it needs repeating.—Tried.—Or, mix pow- der of white hellebore with cream for three days. Anoint the joints for three mornings and evenings. It seldom fails. —Or, beat together the juice of two or three lemons, with the same quantity of oil of roses.—Anoint the parts affected. It cures in two or three times using. The following is said soon to effect a cure :—Sulphur-vivum, Venice turpen- tine, 1 oz. each ; lard, % oz. Melt the lard and turpentine; add the sulphur. Apply several times a day. Or, wash the body well in warm water, and rub it with the following pre- paration :—Lime, 2 ozs.; sulphur-vivum, 3 ozs. Mix in 1 quart of water. Pour off, and use it when clear. A decoction of white hellebore, with a little lavender water, has been recom- mended. IVORY, to Polish.—Ivory L) polished with putty and water, by means of a rubber' made of hat which in a short time produces a fine gloss. IVORY and BONE, to Stain. —Black ;—Rub over with diluted oil of vitriol; wash, and then steep in nitrate of silver and good ink.—Blue ; steep in a strong solution of extract of indigo and a little potash.—Green; dissolve copper in nitric acid, and steep the ivory in it.—Steep in oxalic tin, and then in a strong decoction of Brazil wood, or lac dye, and alum.—Purple ; nitric acid, a parts; sal ammoniac, 1 part; mix, and steep the ivory in it. J‘ JALAP.—It is the resin of a Mexican plant. It is one of our com- mon and most valuable purgatives; it acts upon the whole alimentary canal, chiefly on the small intestines, increasing the peristaltic action, the secretions, and exhalations ; and it is useful in Bilious and Dropsical Complaints; in low spirits, melancholy, worms, &c. It is given in doses of ten to thirty grains. For worms it is combined with calomel; and for dropsy, with cream of tartar. Mixed with sugar in small doses, it is a safe purge for children. JAPANNER’S COPAL VAR- NISH.—Copal, picked, 5 pounds; linseed oil, 20 ounces. Melt and digest until dissolved, then withdraw it from the fire and add oil of turpentine, 6 pounds. Well mix. JAPANNER’S GOLD SIZE. —Gum ammoniac, 1 pound; boiled oil, 8 ounces ; spirits of turpentine, 13 ounces. Melt the gum, then add the oil, and lastly the spirits of turpentine. JARGONEL PEARS, to Pre- serve.—Pare the fruit very thin, simmer them in a thin syrup. In two days make the syrup richer ; simmer again, and repeat till they are clear ; drain, and dry in the sun, or in a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in a syrup, and dried as wanted. JAUNDICE.—From the French word, jaune, yellow. This disease is known by the yellow colour of the eyes, skin, and urine. The stools are either white or grey, caused by the absence of bile; and there is often pain in the224 JAU JEL right side, arising from the state of the liver ; also, mental depression, consti- pation, headache, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting. Jaundice is caused by ob- structed secretion, or by a reabsorption of the bile. Hence it appears that the yellowness of the skin is produced by bile taken up into the circulation, the effect of those causes. When large gall-stones get into the gall-ducts, they cause jaundice, and very severe pain. When they pass away, a cure soon takes place. Should the colour of the skin become very dark-coloured, it is an indication of some incurable organic disease of the liver. Treatment.—Those means must be used which will promote the secre- tions, and the regular flow of bile. Give an Aperient composed of senna, camomile flowers, ginger, and powder- ed jalap, of each 1 oz. Mix. Take half a teaspoonful in a litde warm tea. After it has operated, give the common Emetic, page 172. Keep the bowels always gently open ; and give the Liver Pill, page 24s. Dr. Beech says, “ In obstinate cases, the barberry root, cut up, and infused in cider, may be taken, and tne purga- tive repeated, and the emetic also, if necessary. Common soot (he must mean wood-soot, peculiar to America) scraped from the chimney, enclosed in linen, and boiled in water, makes a liquid which will be found very effica- cious ; it may be taken alternately with the other medicines." If the pain on the right side is severe, use fomentations of the Decoction of Hops. Use the vapour bath, and take some of the Sudorific Powder, p. 321 383, for such means tend to relax the biliary duct, that the gall-stones may pass away. Let the diet be light and nourishing. The following decoction is useful: — Burdock root, one ounce, agrimony, one ounce, water, two qrts. ; boil down to three pints. Dose, a wine- glassful two or three times a day. Dr. A. Hunter recommends eggs. He states that the yolk of an egg is the most salutary of all animal substances. In jaundice no food is equal to it. “When the gall Is too weak, or by ac- cidental means, does not flow sufficient- ly Into the duodenum, our food which consists of watery and oily parts, can- not unite so as to become chyle. The yolk of an egg unites the water and oil into a uniform substance, thereby sup- plying the deficiency of natural bile. Or, take a small pill of castile soap every morning for eight or ten days.— Tried. Or, beat the white of an egg thin ; take it morning and evening in a glass of water. Or, half a pint of strong decoction of nettles, or of bur- dock leaves morning and evening. Or, boil three ounces of burdock root, in two quarts of water to three pints. Drink a tea-cupful of this every morning. The plant Bitter-sweet has been very useful in this disease. See Robinson s Herbal, for that plant, and also for Jaundice. JELLY, Stock,—Put a sufficient number of calves’ feet into a stew-pan, with 3 pints of water to each foot; boil gently for 4 or 5 hours ; then take out the meat part, and put it into cold water. When cold, trim it for any use it is designed for ; throw the trimmings back into the stock, and let it boil to a proper strength. Four feet to produce two quarts of stock. JELLY FOR THE SICK.— Mix 1 oz. each of rice, pearl barley, sago, and hartshorn shavings, in three pints of water; boil till reduced to one, and strain. When required for use, dissolve in milk, wine or broth. JELLY of GOOSEBERRIES. —Bruise gooseberries, and strain out the pulp. To every pint of juice put & lb. of sugar; boil up well together, so that if a little is laid upon a plate, it will not stick, but come clean off. Strain off, and keep to put into tarts with pears, apples, &c., to make them taste like gooseberries. Other fruits may be done in a similar way. JELLY, Savoury Meat.—Chop a knuckle of veal and a scrag of mutton, so that one bone may be placed on the other. Scrape and slice 3 carrots and 2 turnips, cut small a stick of celery, butter the bottom of a small jar or well- tinned saucepan. Place the meat and vegetables in alternate layers, closely together. Sprinkle with a little salt, cover the jar, and place it in a slow oven for half an hour; pour in as much hot water as will cover the contents. Place in the oven hotter than before, forKID 225 JON •Sve hoars. Strain the liquor from the meat and vegetables; when cold, re- move the fat from the surface, and the sediment. The jelly will be ready for ase. JONQUILLE PERFUME. —Oil of sassafras, 1 part; oil of orange, 1 part; oil of caraway, a parts ; oil of lavender, 3 parts ; essence of lemon, 8 parts; essence of bergamot, 8 parts. Mix. JUMBALLS. — Flour r lb.; sugar, 1 lb. ; make into a light paste with whites of eggs beaten fine ; add % pint of cream ; % lb. of butter, melted; and 1 lb. of blanched almonds, well beaten; knead all together, with a little rose-water : cut into any form ; bake in a slow oven. A little butter may be melted with a spoonful of white wine, and throw fine sugar all over the dish. JUNIPER BERRIES.—Very diuretic, and pleasant, as it is (or should be) a principal ingredient in Hollands or Geneva Gin. The oil is the best for dropsical and urinary diseases. The dose is from 10 to 15 drops three times a day. K KERNELS, to Blanch.—Sim- ply put them into boiling water a minute or two; rub them between a clean cloth, and the brown skins will soon peel off. Almonds and other kernels may be blanched. KETCHUP, See Mushroom Ketchup, page 268. Walnut Ketchup, page 412. KETCHUP, to Keep Twenty Years.—Take 1 gallon of strong stale beeT, 1 lb. of anchovies, washed from the pickle ; 1 lb. of shalots ; % 02. of mace ; % oz. of cloves; oz. of whole pepper ; K 02. ginger ; 2 quarts of large mushroom flaps, rubbed to pieces; cover all close, and simmer till It is half wasted ; strain ; cool; then bottle. A spoonful of this ketchup is sufficient for a pint of melted butter. KETTLES, Incrustation, or Furring, to Prevent.—Keep in the vessel a clean marble, a cockle, or oyster shell; these will attract the par- ticles of sand. KIDNEY BEANS. — String them; cttt down the middle, and across; boil in salt and water till tender, and serve with melted butter. KIDNEY BEANS, French way.—Cut in small dice two onions; put them in a stew-pan with a little butter ; when they begin to brown put in a little good gravy ; flour them ; give them atd the flour a fine brown colour : if gravy is not used, put in a spoonful of soup, season with salt and pepper; reduce this sauce; put in the beans already cooked; simmer till enough; dish, and serve. Another French way.—Cut two onions in half rings, and put them into a frying-pan with butter; when they begin to brown, put in the beans which have been cooked ; fry with the onions ; put in hashed parsley, scallions, salt and pepper ; give a turn or more, and dish: boil a little vinegar in the pan, and pour it over them. KIDNEY BEANS, in Salad. —Take haricots already cooked, put them in a salad-dish ; garnish them with strips of anchovy, onions, roasted in the ashes, beet root, or anything proper- ly hashed; season with salt, pepper, oil, and vinegar, and serve. KIDNEY, (Beef,) Broiled.— Cut the kidney lengthways. Season with nutmeg, pepper, and salt. Pass a wire skewer through them to prevent them curling. Have a brisk clear fire, and place on the gridiron for about ten minutes, turning them often. When dished, rub them over with butter, and serve with parsley fried crisp, and a little sheny, butter, salt, and pepper. Kidneys may be minced by a similar seasoning, and done in the oven, or in a dutch oven before the fire. KIDNEY, (beef,) Fried.—Chop the kidney with a little veal and ham, and butter or lard. Season as you like with white pepper, cayenne, and salt. To make them into balls add nee flour and yolk of egg. Fry in lard or butter. Dish ; pour the gravy upon them, and serve with toasted bread. KIDNEY PUDDING.—If kid- ney, split and soak it, and season that or the meat. Make a paste of suet, flour, and milk ; roll it, and line a basin with some ; put the kidney or steaks in, cover with paste, and pinch round the226 KID KIT edge. Cover with a cloth and boil a considerable time. KIDNEY, VEAL, to Fry.— Chop veal kidney, and some of the fat; also a little leek or onion, pepper, and salt; roll it up with an egg into balls, and fry them. Calf s heart, stuff and roast as a beast’s heart, or sliced, make it into a pudding, as directed for steak or kidney pudding. KIDNEYS, Inflammation of. —It is indicated by chilliness and fever, with severe piercing pains, sometimes dull, with a sense of weight over the kidney inflamed. The urine Is very high coloured, and is partially or wholly sup- pressed, and sometimes it is bloody. Sometimes faintness, nausea, vomiting, hiccup, and relax are present. It may be caused by calculus, external blows, falls, hard riding, &c. Persons of intemperate habits are very liable to diseases of the kidneys. Gin drinkers, on account of the admixture of turpen- tine with that spirit, often pay dear for their tippling. Treatment.—In severe cases the patient should lie in bed. The bowels should be cleared by gentle aperients and injections. If there is coldness of the surface and extremities, bathe the feet in warm water. Drink decoctions of the diuretic plants; as, hofsemint, marsh-mallow, broom tops, parsley, pennyroyal, &c. Take also the diuretic drops. Diluents may also be drunk; the best is common barley-water. Make a strong infusion of parsley, 2 parts ; of pennyroyal, 1 part, and cupful of best Hollands gin, and % oz. of sweet nitre, all mixed ; take at 3 times ; it often acts effectually. Externally, apply cayenne pepper simmered in vinegar, and add 30 drops of laudanum. The Rheumatic Liniment will be of great service. To prevent vomiting, drink peppermint tea, with a little bicarbonate of potass. If there is great swelling of the testicle use ice to reduce the inflammation. KING’S CAKE.—The finest flour, s lbs.; salt, 1 % teaspoonful; cin- namon, % oz. ; nutmeg, % oz.; mace, 1 dr. ; all finely powdered. Add 14 ozs. of sugar, and gradually work well into the mass 1 % lb. of fresh butter. Then add 6 eggs, a quart of cream, % pint of good yeast, a % pint of sherry wine, and a tabie-spoaafuls of orange water, All must be mixed and kneaded well toge- ther. After it has stood a little, knead in 2 lbs. of clean-picked raisins stoned and chopped, and 2 or 3 lbs. of currants. Bake for 3 hours in a gentle oven, wheE baked, rub the surface with white of an egg and rose-water, and sift over it finely powdered sugar. KING’S EVIL.—See Scrofula. KINO.—It is the concrete juice of an Indian tree. It is a powerful astring- ent similar to catechu. It is applied ex- ternally to ulcers, and is used as a gar- gle for relaxed uvula, sore throat, &c. It is good for relax, whites, and internal bleedings. The dose of the gum is from 10 grains to % dr.; of the tincture from 1 to 2 drachms. KISSES.—Boil the same as bar- ley sugar, and flavour with lemon juice and a few drops of essence of lemon; after which let it boil a little. Drop it on a slab, nearly the size of a shilling. When cold, put them into sifted white sugar in a dish; shake them, and fold them singly in papers, with mottoes, if you like. Another.—Beat the whites of 5 eggs till they stand alone. Mix gradu- ally with this 1 lb. of the finest sifted white sugar, and 15 drops of essence of lemon; beat the whole well. Lay a sheet of stiff writing paper at the bottom of a baking tin ; drop upon it at equal dis- tances, a small teaspoonful of stiff rasp- berry, currant, apricot, or pine apple jelly, and then cover the same over with the white of egg and sugar. Do it so evenly that the kisses may be quite smooth and compact. Place in a cool oven, and when coloured, take out, and place the flat parts of each together. Put lightly on a sieve, and dry in a cod oven. KITCHEN PEPPER.—Mix in the finest powder 1 oz. of ginger; of cinnamon, cayenne pepper, black pepper nutmeg, and Jamaica pepper, J oz. each, 10 cloves, and 6 oz. of salt. Keep it in a bottle; it is an agreeable addition to any brown sauces or soups. KITCHENER’S RELISH.— Cayenne pepper, ginger, black pepper, and salt, of each 1 oz., ground allspice, 1% oz.; horseradish and shalots, 1 oz. each, well minced ; walnut pickle, and mushroom ketchup, x pint each. AddKNI 22'/' LAC ground mace and cloves, 5£ oz. each. Infuse for 15 days. KNIFE BOARD. — Cover a smooth board with thick buff leather on both sides. For one side melt sufficient mutton suet; apply it hot to the leather, and sprinkle it with fine emery and bath brick, smoothing it down with a knife. Use the other side for polishing off, us- ing three parts of powdered charcoal, and one part of Bath brick, or rotten- stone. KNIVES, HANDLES OF, to Fasten.—Melt resin, add brick-dust and mix well together. This is a very good cement for this and other purposes. —Shellac, and prepared chalk, intimate- ly mixed, answer well. Heat the part to be inserted, and fill the aperture with the mixture. Press it in. KRINGLES. — Beat well the yolks of 8, and whites of a eggs, and mix with s ozs. of butter warmed ; with this knead 1 lb. of flour, and 5 ozs. of sugar to a paste. Roll into thick biscuits, prick and bake them on tin plates. L. LACE, White, to Wash.—Wash it the same way as Chintz. See Chintz, page 133. LACE EDGINGS, To do up. —Roll the lace, point, or guipure care- fully on a round bottle ; (a long Cologne) see that the edging is wound on the bot- tle very evenly, and none of the pearl edging turned in. Have a wash-bowl of warm soap suds (white soap) ready, and lay the bottle in it. Have them well covered with the suds. If a fair day, set the bowl in the sun, and let the lace soak several hours. Then rinse through several waters to cleanse from all soap. Slightly blue the last wrinsing water, and put in enough gum arabic water, to stiffen—no more than new lace—then hang in the sun to dry. When throughly dry, unwrap it from the bottle, and, folding it very evenly, lay it in a clean soft towel, and put a heavy weight on it tor an hour or two. Never iron lace. LACQUER for BRASS. Seed-lac, 6 ozs.; amber, or copal, well ground, 3 ozs. ; dragon’s blood, 40 grs. ; extract of red sandal wood, 30 grs. ; saffron, 36 grs.; pounded glass, 4 ozs.; pure alcohol, 40 ozs. Expose the article to a gentle heat, and dip it into the varnish a or 3 times. This varnish is durable, beautiful in colour, and may bo cleaned with water and a bit of dry rag. LACQUER, Pale, for Tin- plate.—Best alcohol, 8 ozs.; turme- ric, 4 drs. ; hay saffron, a scs.; dragon’s blood, 4 scs. ; red sanders, 1 sc.; shel- lac, 1 oz. ; gum sandarach, 2 drs.; gum mastic, 2 drs. ; Canada balsam, 2 drs. ; when dissolved add spirits of turpentine 80 drops. LACQUERED ARTICLES. —Ormolu, Candelabra, Mosaic Gold, Gilt, Jewelry, &V. to clean.—Wash or brush them with soap and hot water. Dry and rub with wash leather. Acids must not be used. Or, take rotten stone, 1 oz., finely powdered ; oil, a teaspoonful ; oxalic acid, 2 drs.; water sufficient to make into a paste. LACQUER, for Philosophical Instruments.—Alcohol, 80 ozs.; gutta percha, 3 ozs.; gum sandarach, 8 ozs. ; gum elemi, 8 ozs.; dragon’s blood, 4 ozs. ; seed lac, 4 ozs. ; terra merita, 3 ozs.; saffron, 8 grs.; pulver- ized glass, 12 ozs. LA CROSSE is a game equally suitable for male or female and can be played either in winter or summer. Its origin is said to be Indian. Rules of La Crosse. 1 That the “ Crosse ” may be of any length to suit the player, but the woven network must be bagged, nor of a greater width than one foot. 2 That the ball be of solid india- rubber, not more than seven nor less than six inches in circumference. It must be furnished by the challenging party. 3 That, when practicable, the goals shall be placed at not more than 250, or less than 150 yards apart, and that the ground be not more than 100, nor less than sixty yards wide ; that the goals be upright posts seven feet apart, with a tape or bar across them, six feet from the ground. 4 4 That the game be started by a ball being placed on the ground opposite the centre flag between two players on op- posite sides, who shall “ tussel ” for the ball. Thl3 is called “facing.”LAM LAM 228 5 When the ball goes out of bounds, It shall be thrown in by the player who first touches it with his crosse ; when it goes behind goal without passing through goal, it shall be thrown out by one of the players on the side behind whose goal it has passed. 6 That the ball shall not be hit or kicked. 7 No player shall wear spiked soles. 8 That the ball must not be caught, thrown, or picked up with the hand, except in the case of Rule 9 ; but a ball coming in the air may be blocked or patted away with the hand to protect the face or body ; otherwise it must not be touched. 9 Goal-keepers may stop the ball in any way. 10 A goal is obtained when the ball Is in any way whatever caused by a player on either side to pass between the goal posts and under the bar or tape, except when kicked by one of the attacking side. 11 Players shall not hold each other, nor grasp an opponent's crosse ; neither shall they deliberately trip or strike each other. 12 After each game the players shall change goals unless otherwise agreed. 13 A match shall be decided by a majority of goals won by either side during the time specified for play. 14 Twelve players shall constitute a fuU field. 15 No change of players shall be made after a match has commenced, except by reason of accident or injury during the match. When a match lias been agreed on, and one side is deficient in the number of players, their oppo- nents, at their option, may either limit their own side to the same number, or select men to fill up the complement* LAMB, to Choose.—If the hind quarter and the knuckle be flexible, it is stale. If the neck-vein of a fore quarter be of an azure colour, it is fresh ; • but if greenish or yellowish, the meat is nearly tainted. If the eyes are sunk, the head is not fresh. LAMB, Breast of, and Cucum- bers.—Cut off the chine-bone from the breast, and set it on to stew with a pint of gravy. When the bones will draw out, put It on the gridiron to grill; and then lay it in a dish on cucombera nicely stewed. * LAMB CHOPS, en casserolle. —Cut a loin of lamb into chops; do them with yolk of egg on each side and stew them with bread crumbs, cloves, pepper, salt, mace, mixed ; fry them of a light brown, put them round in a dish very close; leave a hole in the middle for sauce made of sweet herbs and parsley shred fine, and stewed in good thick gravy. Garnish with parsley. LAMB, Fore Quarter of, To Roast.—Roast it either whole, or in separate parts. It should be roasted before a brisk fire, or done in the oven. While roasting baste well with butter. If left to be cold, chopped parsley should be sprinkled over it. The neck and breast together are called a scoven. LAMB, Fore Quarter of, To Ragout.—Take off the knuckle bone and cut off all the skin. Lard well with bacon, and fry it to a nice brown ; put it into a stewpan, and just cover it with gravy, sweet herbs, pepper, salt, ground mace, and a little whole pepper ; cover and stew half an hour; strain off the gravy, and have ready half a pint of fried oysters ; pour off the fat, and put them into the gravy with 2 spoonfuls of port wine, a few mushrooms, and a little butter rolled in flour. Boil all together with the juice of half a lemon. Pour the sauce over the lamb. LAMB’S F R Y.—Should be scalded a moment; then soaked 1 hour in vinegar, pepper, and salt, with parsley and shalots ; then dip them in a thick batter, and fry to a good colour ; serve with fried parsley. To Ragout, put them into a light braise, with small onions, thin slices of lard, sweet herbs, half a bay leaf, thyme, a glass of sherry, sufficient broth, pep- per, and salt. Serve with any sauce, with fried bread round the dish. To Fricassee.—Take the marTow out of the small bladders, and prepare a cream thus—a little flour, an egg, a chestnut pounded, rasped lemon, sugar and cream; make small paste cases ; place the fry in them, and put them a moment into the oven. Boil the cream a moment before filling the bladders with it, and baste them over with eggs and cream.LAM LAM 229 LAMB’S HEAD and HINGE. —This part is best from a house-lamb ; If soaked in cold water, will be white. Boil the head separately till very tender. Have ready the liver and lights, three parts boiled and cut small; stew them in a litde of the water in which they were boiled, season and thicken with flour and butter, and serve the mince round the head. LAMB, LEG OF.—Should be boiled in a cloth to look as white as possible. The loin fried in steaks and served round, garnished with dried or fried parsley; spinach to eat with it; or dressed separately, or roasted. LAMB, LEG OF, to Boil.— Steep it half an hour in cold soft water, a cupful of vinegar, and a handful of salt having been mixed with the water ; flour a thin white cloth, and wrap the leg in it, and boil it; add a bundle of sweet herbs. It will require boiling 1 % hour. Serve with spinach, or French beans. Garnish with parsley, and thin slices of lemon. LAMB, LEG OF, to Force.— Slit the leg on the wrong side, and take out as much meat as possible, without cutting or cracking the outward skin. Pound this meat well with an equal weight of fresh suet; add 13 large oysters, and two anchovies boned, with salt, black pepper, mace, and nutmeg, and a little thyme and parsley, finely shred ; beat all well together, and mix it up with the yolks of three eggs. Having filled the skin tight with this stuffing, sew it up very close. Fry the remainder of the stuffing to garnish the loin of lamb, which is to be fricasseed as chickens are done. Tie the stuffed leg with packthread to the spit and roast. In the fricassee of lamb, add a little oyster liquor, and fried oyster. LAMB, a Nice Dish of.—Take the best end of a neck of lamb, cut it into steaks, and chop each bone so short as to make the steaks almost round. Egg and strew with crumbs, herbs and seasoning ; fry them of the finest brown : mash some potatoes with a little butter and cream, and put them into the middle of the dish raised high. Then place the edge of one steak on another with the small bone upward, all round the potatoes. LAMB PASTY. — Bone the lamb, cut it into square pieces ; season with salt, pepper, cloves, mace, nut- meg, and minced thyme; lay in some beef suet, and the lamb upon it, making a high border about it; then turn over the paste close, and bake it. When it is enough, put in some claret, sugar, vinegar, and the yolks of eggs, beaten together. To have the sauce only savoury, and not sweet, let it be gravy only, or the baking of bones in claret. LAMB PIE,—Make a good puff paste ; cut the meat into pieces ; it is best from the loin, neck, or breast; some prefer the leg ; lightly season with pepper, salt, mace, cloves, and nutmeg finely ground ; place in the crust, with a few sweetbreads seasoned like the meat, (and, if you like, some oysters and forcemeat balls, hard yolks of eggs, and the tops of asparagus, first boiled green.) Butter all over the pie, put on the lid, and place in a quick oven one hour and a half. Take a pint of gravy, and the oyster liquor, a gill of port wine, a little grated nutmeg, with the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten; stir one way all the time. When it boils pour it into the pie. LAMB SAUCE.—Mix a little butter with shred parsley, shalots, and crumbs of bread, grated fine. Put the whole into a stew-pan with a cupful of good stock, and one of sherry ; season with pepper, salt, &c., and squeeze a lemon into it. LAMB, SHOULDER OF.— Bone a shoulder of lamb, and fill it up with forcemeat; braise it two hours over a slow stove. Take it up, glaze it; or it may be glazed only, and not braised. Serve with sorrel-sauce under the lamb. LAMB STEAKS.—Fry them of a beautiful brown ; when served, throw over them a good quantity oi' crumbs of bread fried, and crimped parsley. Mutton or lamb steaks, seasoned and broiled in buttered capers, either with crumbs and herbs, or without, are a genteel dish, and eat well. LAMB STEAKS, to Dress White.—Stew them in milk and water till very tender, with a bit of lemon-peel, a little sailt, pepper, and230 LAM LAN mace. Have ready some veal gravy; put the steaks into it; mix some mush- room-powder, a cup of cream, and a bit of dour; shake the steaks in this liquor, stir, and get hot. Just before taking it up, put in a few white mush- rooms. LAMB STEAKS, to Dress Brown.—Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, and chop- ped parsley; but dip them first into egg: fry them quick. Thicken some good gravy with a bit of flour and but- ter ; and add to it a spoonful of port wine, and some oysters ; boil it up, and then put in the steaks warm: let them heat up, and serve. You may add palates, balls, or eggs, if you like. LAMB STONES, Fricasseed. Skin and wash, then dry and flour them; fry brown in hog’s lard. Lay them on a sieve before the fire till you make the sauce : thicken half a pint of veal gravy with a little flour and butter, adding a slice of lemon, a large spoon- ful of mushroom ketchup, a tea-spoon- ful of lemon pickle, a grate of nutmeg, and the yolk of an egg beaten in two large spoonfuls of thick cream. Put this over the fire, and stir till it is hot, and looks white ; but don't let it boil, or it will curdle. Then put in the fry, and shake it about near the fire for a minute or two. Serve in a hot dish and cover. LAMB-STONES and Sweet- breads.—Blanch some lamb stones, parboil, and slice. Flour two or three sweetbreads ; if very thick, cut them in two. Fry all together with a few oysters, of a fine brown. Pour the butter off; and add a pint of good .gravy, some asparagus-tops, a little nutmeg, pepper, and salt, two shalots shred fine, and a glass of white wine. Simmer ten minutes ; then put a little of the gravy to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, and by degrees mix the whole. Turn the gravy back into the pan, and stir it till of a fine thickness without boiling. Garnish with lemon. LAMB’S SWEETBREADS. —Blanch them, and put a short time Into cold water. Put them into a stew- pan with a cupful of broth, pepper, salt, a bunch of small onions, and a blade of mace ; stir in it a bit of butter and flour, and stew half an hour. Have ready two or three eggs well beaten in cream, and a little minced parsley and nutmeg. Put in some boiled asparagus-tops. Do not boil after the cream is in; but make it hot, and stir all the while. Take great care it does not curdle. Young French beans or peas may be added, first boiled of a beautiful colour. LAMB’S HEAD and PLUCK.—Wash clean; take the black part from the eyes, and the gall from the liver. Put into warm water, boil the heart, liver, &c. ; serve, LAMPREYS to Stew.—Clean the fish, remove the cartilage which funs down the back, and season with a little clove, mace, nutmeg, pepper, and allspice; put it into a stew-pot with strong beef-gravy, port and an equal quantity of Madeira, or sherry. Cover close: stew till tender, take out the lamprey and keep hot, while you boil up the liquor with three anchovies chopped, and some flour and butter; strain the gravy, and add lemon juice, and mustard. Serve with sippets of bread and horse radish. Eels done in the same way are much like the lamprey. When there is spawn it must be fried and put round. LANDLORD and TENANT. —A yearly tenant must give notice to quit his premises half a year before the time of the expiration of the current year of his tenancy. If by agreement, a quarter's notice is to be sufficient, such notice must always expire with the tenancy if that is yearly.—If a landlord neglect to repair die premises according to his covenant, the tenant may main- tain an action against him; but such neglect does not absolve the tenant from payment of the rent—A landord can legally dispose of goods taken under a distress for rent, by appraisement, with- out putting them up by auction.—A landlord may take possession of the goods of his tenant's lodger which have been distrained under distress for rent; or he may maintain an action for pound breach.—A landlord can be compelled, according to the Small Tenement Act, to pay the poor rates, if the rent is under j£io per annum.—If a landlord agrees to make repairs, and neglects to do so, the tenant may do it, and deduct the amount from the rent. But the231 LAN LAN tenant must give previous notice of these repairs to the landlord; the no- tice to be signed by himself and a wit- ness.—If the landlord has to pay the rates, an agreement properly witnessed and signed, should be drawn up to that effect—The payment of the rent of a house, or building of any kind is ab- solute, if the landlord demands it; even though the house fall down, be blown or burnt down, the tenant is bound to pay the rent; and the tenancy can only cease by giving the proper Notice to Quit just as if the house continued in a perfect state. When the rent is paid the landlord is bound to give the tenant a receipt;—thus, Received of Mr. John Thomas, the rum of (here insert amount) for half year1 rent due on the Pint day of May last, for the house. No, Street. £—(Stamp) Robert Southey. Landlord's Notice to Tenant to Quit; —Sir, I hereby give you Notice to quit the house (or workshop, warehouse, as the case may be) and appurtenances, which you as tenant, now hold of me, situate No.—, Street, on or before next. (Signed) T. C. landlord. To Mr. W. S. Notice to Quit of Tenant to Landlord: —Sir, I hereby give you notice, that on or before the——day of next, I shall quit and deliver up possession of the house and premises (or workshop, or warehouse, as the case may be) I now bold of you, situate at in the parish of county of. Dated the -day of , 188 , Witness, Job Clark. P. R. To Mr. C. S. If the rent is payable quarterly, or yearly, six months’ notice to quit must be given; the notice to expire on the same day of the year when you took the house, warehouse, &c. Suppose you took a house the first day of May ; then you must give notice a day or two before the first of November, for then the six months’ notice will expire on the came day of the year on which you took it, viz. on the first day of May. Leases for less than three years are often made by word of mouth. But in all cases it is best to have a written agreement; for sometimes the words of n mutual agreement may be forgotten, or be misconstrued on account of imper- fect remembrance. All leases for terms abov* three yean must be by deed of agreement, upon stamped paper, and properly signed and witnessed. It is best to have this deed made by a solicitor. The tenant shouid specially inquire if the landholder is the freeholder, or if he is merely a tenant by lease, and is about only to sub-let it. If so, he should inquire if the rent has been regularly paid, and also the rates and taxes, either by himself, if he has it on lease, or by the previous lessee. In cases where a landlord leases or lets a furnished house, it is sometimes customary to receive from the tenant, and his surety, a bond for the due per- formance of the covenant or agreement, stipulations, and for the payment of rent:—for being a furnished house, he cannot enforce the payment of the rent by distraint. When a house is let from year to year, and then sublet, the incoming sub- tenant must inquire if the rent to the chief landlord, the queen’s taxes, and the local rates, have been duly paid, for he will be answerable for any arrears. If a lessee holds possession after the expiration of his term, he is until he has paid rent subsequently due, merely a tenant by sufferance, and may be dis- possessed at any moment; but as soon as he has paid, and the landlord has re- ceived any such rent, he constitutes him- self a tenant from year to year, and can legally give, and must legally receive, a proper notice to quit. A distress can not now be levied on a Lodger's goods for arrears of rent OWING BY THE TENANT OF THE HOUSE, providing the lodger make and serve a declaration in writing upon the bailiff or owner of the premises, stating that the goods so described belong to him, and that the tenant of the house has no right or property in the same, he must also state how much rent he owes to the said tenant. This rent, or so much of it as he owes, must be paid to the bailiff or landlord, taking a receipt for the same. If after tender of rent owing by the lodger and the declaration made to the bailiff or landlord, the goods of a lodger are distrained upon, he may enter an action for Illegal distress. The amountLAV 232 LAN paid by him to the superior landlord cannot be recovered from him by the tenant of the house, but must be con- sidered as really paid to him. If lodgings are taken for a specified time, a notice to quit is not required. Should the lodger continue to occupy after the expiration of the time, he becomes a regular lodger. (Unless he has an agreement to the contrary.) If the lodger owes rent, the housekeeper can detain his goods, or chattels whilst on the premises, or distrain in a similar manner as a landlord does the goods of his tenant. The keeper of an inn, hotel, or pub- lic-house has a legal right to, and may detain the goods of a Lodger till the rent is paid. If the lodgings be taken monthly, a month’s notice is required on either side; if three months, or six months, then a three or six months’ notice will be required. A Lodging-house keeper cannot forci- bly eject, or by a policeman, a lodger who is determined to remain after the expiration of his term, or the expiration of the time properly specified in a notice to quit. But, during his Lodger’s tem- porary absence, he may fasten up the doors of the rooms he occupied, to pre- vent his occupation of them; but the Landlord is bound, on the return of the tenant, to deliver any property he has left there. But if a Lodger leave his rooms without paying all demands upon him the Landlord may sell any property the Lodger may have left behind him, after giving the owner sufficient notice of his intention to do so. A fortnight's notice is sufficient All chattels and personal effects found on the demised premises may be dis- trained, whether they belong to the tenant or a stranger. Fixtures cannot be distrained, though the tenant may have fixed them ; yet the landlord may claim those which are in- corporated with the building. Cloth sent to a tailor’s to be made Into clothes, or old clothes sent to be repaired, warps and weft sent to be woven, dresses to make or alter, a horse sent to be shod, books to bind, paper to print, com to grind, watches to be repaired, shoes to mend, See., Sec.; these are not to be distrained. No distress can be made till the day after that on which the rent falls due ; it1 cannot be made between sunset and sun- rise ; nor after the rent has been tended. Goods removed to avoid distraint, may be followed and seized within thirty days, wherever they may be found, unless really bought by some person ignorant of the fraud. Goods fraudulently secret- ed, the landlord may with a peace officer, break open any house, warehouse, &c., where they are secreted, and distrain the said property. A landlord cannot legally distrain for more rent than is due to him ; but if the amount of the first distraint does not cover the amount of rent due, he can distrain again. Or should the distraint be postponed by mutual agreement, the landlord can still distrain. The outer door of the house, except where goods have been fraudulently re- moved. cannot be broken open. But if the outer door has been passed, the inner doors may be forced. Should the landlord or his agent, or both after they have legally entered the premises, and having begun to distrain, be forcibly ejected, they may break open the outer door and re-enter to distrain. Should they be violently treated, or threatened with violence, they may legally call in the aid of a policeman. An inventory of the goods distrained must be taken ; the amount of rent for which they are distrained, the day on which they were distrained, and the costs. A copy of this inventory must be served upon the tenant, or must be left at the house, shop, warehouse; or be posted up on some prominent place on the pre- mises. The goods may then be removed to any convenient place for sale, which may take place five days after. LAVENDER. —A well-known plant. It is a pleasant and efficacious cordial, and very useful in languor, weakness of the nerves, lowness of spirits, faintings, Sec. It should be propagated by slips in March ; plant them in a shady situation till they have taken root, after which they may be exposed to the sun, and when strong may be transplanted. LAVENDER WATER.—Put in a bottle half a pint of spirit of wine, and two drachms of oil of lavender. Mix with it rose-water, five ounces,uw 233 LAV orange flower water, two ounces; also (two drachms of essence of mush, and six ounces of distilled water, LAVENDER, Compound Spirit of.—Spirit of Lavender, 11 lb.; spirit of rosemary, 1 lb. ; cinnamon, # ox.; nutmeg, Jf ox, ; red Sanders, a drachms ; digest for 10 days, and then strain off. It is taken from 40 to 80 drops upon loaf sugar, In cases of low- ness of spirits, &c. LAWN POOL.—This is a game that has now become very popular in America, and it is probable that if in- trod’i--d in England it would become a fesu., able pastime. The implements consist of eight mallets ; eight numbered balls, which are poised upon short ornamental stakes placed in position upon the lawn ; eight playing balls, and an apparatus for scoring the points made by the respective sides or players. The game is to dislodge the numbered balls from the stakes supporting them, each ball so dislodged counting upon the player's score for as many points as are indicated by the number it bears. There are penalties for failure to make the points played for, and these are de- ducted from the unlucky player's score. The game is won not by ability of a player to pass quickly around the “course,1’ but by skill in avoiding for- feits, and by making the largest counts during his play. All the excitement and fascination pertaining to the game of billiards or pool are embodied in “ lawn pool,” and there is room for never end- ing combinations, and the exercise of skilful, adroit play. The game when set up presents a very brilliant appear- ance, the bright colours of the poised bails and their handsomely painted sup- porting stakes, standing out in strong contrast with the green grass, and they are easily seen in the late twilight, into which the games are by their absorbing interest almost invariably prolonged. In points of real merit as a game, and general appearance, “lawn pool," is said to be far ahead of any other lawn game (not excepting croquet) ever intro- duced to the public. LAWN TENNIS.—This is a very popular game among fashionable people, and is played on a grass lawn by two, three, or four players, with balls and racquet bats. The point of tfa* game is to strike the ball over a netting stretched vertically and to keep the ball in play backwards and forwards witliin certain defined limits. The court or ground is usually marked out with chalk lines, or tapes (which are sold for the purpose,) pinned to the turf. The lawn should be nicely cut and well rolled. 1 For a single handed game the court should be from 70 to 80 feet long by about 25 to 30 feet wide. For a double-handed game, the same length but about 36 feet wide. The court is then divided across its centre by a piece of netting stretched to two posts, the net to be 3 feet 6 inches high at the posts and about 3 feet in the centre. At the ends of the court, in a line with the net are base lines the extremeties of which are connected by the side lines. The half-court line is half way between the side lines and parallel with them. The service lines are 21 feet from the netting and are parallel with it. 2 The balls should weigh 2 ounces, and in size about 2j inches in diameter. • 3 The players stand on opposite sides of the netting. The player who first delivers the ball is called the server, the other one the striker out. 4 At the finish of each game the striker out becomes server, and the server striker out. 5 The server stands with his foot be- yond the base line, and delivers the service from the right and left courts alternately. 6 The balls served must, without touching the netting, drop within the court nearest to the netting, diagonally opposite to that from which the striker serves it. 7 If tile service be delivered from the wrong court it is a fault. It is a fault if the server does not stand in the man- ner as stated above, or if the ball served drop in the net or beyond the service line, or if it drop out of court, or go into the wrong court. 8 A fault must not be played back to to the server. 9 The striker-out is not allowed to volley the service. 10 The returned ball must be kept in play either by volleying it, or striking it back after die first bounce. A ball that bounces twice is out of play.LAX 2 34 LKM 11 In serving should the ball touch1' the netting, and go over into the proper court it counts to neither player. 12 The server scores if the striker-out volley the service, or fail to return the service in such way that the ball would fall within the opponents court. 13 Two consecutive faults count a stroke against the server. 14 Should the ball touch either player (when in play) it scores a stroke for his opponent. 15 The first stroke won by either player, scores 15; the second won by the same raises it up to 30, his third stroke 40, and his fourth counts game. Should both players have scored 40, it Is called duct, and the next stroke gain- ed by either is called advantage, and if he should gain the following stroke he scores the game. 16 The first player that scores six games wins the set. LAX in the Bowels, with Pain. —Laudanum, 24 drops ; spirituous cin- namon water, half a gill; if it cannot be got, use French brandy. Take a table- spoonful at a time.—5->ee Bowel Com- plaint. Page 72. LAXATIVE POWDER for Horses.—Crocus of antimony, finely levigated, nitre, cream of tartar, and flour of sulphur of each 4 ozs. Powder and mix well together. A table-spoon- ful of this mixture may be given every night and morning a few times, in a mash of scalded bran, or a feed of com moistened with water. This powder is good for horses kept on dry meat; and for stallions in the spring, as they keep the body cool and open, and cause them to cast their coat, and make their skin as bright as silk. LEATHER, to Clean.—Uncol- oured leather may be cleaned by apply- ing a solution of oxalic acid with a sponge. Dissolve in warm water. LEATHER-BOTTOMED CHAIRS, to Restore the Black- ness of.—Take two yolks of eggs, and the white of one. Beat well, and shake in a botde to make them thick like oil. Dissolve in a table-spoonful of spirits of wine, lump sugar the size of a walnut. Thicken it with ivory-black, mix with the egg for use. Lay on with a brush; after a few minutes polish with a soft clean brush, till dry and shining. Let it stand a day to harden. Shoes also may be done in the' same way. LEATHER, to Join. — Gutta percha, % lb.; india rubber, 2 ozs.; pitch, 1 oz. ; shellac, K oz. ; boiled oil, 1 oz= Melt together and use hot. LEATHER, to Make Water- Proof.—Dissolve gutta percha, and india rubber in wood naptha. Rub over the soles and upper leather.—Or, melt boiled linseed oil, a pint; mutton suet, 1 lb.; bees’ wax, % lb.; resin, J lb. Melt altogether, and apply. LEEK and PILCHARD PIE. —Clean and skin the white part of some large leeks; scald in milk and water, and put them in layers into a dish, and between the layers, two or three salted pilchards which have been soaked for some hours the day before. Cover the whole with a good plain crust. When the pie is taken out of the oven, lift up the side crust with a knife, and empty out all the liquor; then pour in half a pint of scalded cream. LEGS, Sore and Running. Wash them in brandy, and apply elder leaves, changing twice a day. This will dry up all the sores, though the legs were like a honey-comb.—Tried. Or, poultice them with rotten apples. Tried. But take also a purge or two every week. LEMON BISCUITS. —Beat the yolks of 10 eggs, and the whites of 5, with 4 spoonfuls of orange flower water, till they froth up, then put in 1 lb. of sifted loaf sugar ; beat it one way for 40 minutes ; add % lb. of flour with the raspings of two lemons, and the pulp of a small one ; butter the tin, and bake in a quick oven carefully. Dust with sugar before placing in the oven. LEMON BLANCMANGE.— Isinglass, , 1 part; water, 16 parts ; lemon-juice, 2 parts; Lisbon wine, 8 parts. Sugar to sweeten, and a little grated lemon-peel to flavour. Clarify with an egg. LEMON BRANDY. —Put 2 quarts of brandy to 3 quarts of water ; take 2 lbs. of fine sugar, and 3 pints of milk. Pare 12 lemons thin; steep the peel in the brandy 12 hours, and squeeze the lemons upon the sugar; then pusLEM LEM 235 the water to it, and mix aH the ingredi- ents together. Pour the milk in boiling. Let it stand 24 hours, then strain, and bottle. LEMON DRINK.—Water, 4 quarts; the juice of 10 lemons, loaf sugar, a lbs. ; get the oil from the rinds by rubbing them with the sugar ; mix ; steep the rinds a day ; then strain. LEMON CAKE.—Put 3 spoon- fuls of rose or orange-flower water to the whites ro eggs, 3 ozs. of butter, a cupful l ik, and 1 lb. of white sifted sugar ; beat them an hour with a whisk, and grate in the rind of a lemon. When well mixed, add the juice of half a lemon, and the yolks of ro eggs beaten smooth ; stir in 1 lb. of flour ; butter a pan, and bake it in a moderate oven for 1 hour.—Orange cakes may be made in the same way. 6®* Add a small bit of carbonate of soda to the milk, to pre- vent acidity. LEMON CHEESECAKES.— Boil the peel of a large lemons ; pound well, with % lb. of loaf sugar, the yolks of 6 eggs, i lb. of fresh butter, and some curd beaten fine. Mix all toge- gether ; lay a puff paste on the patty- pans ; fill half full, and bake. Orange cheesecakes are done the same way ; but the peel must be boiled In 2 or 3 waters to neutralize its bitter taste. LEMON, Conserve of.—Grate the rind of a lemon into a saucer, squeeze the juice of the fruit over and mix it well together with a spoon ; then boil some sugar very high, mix it in, and when of a due consistency, pom into moulds. LEMON CREAM. —Take a pint of thick cream, and put to it the yolks of 3 eggs well beaten, 4 ozs. of fine sugar, and the thin rind of a lemon grat- ed ; boil; stir it till almost cold, put the juice of a lemon in a dish, or bowl, and pom the cream upon it, stirring it till quite cold. It is excellent when iced. LEMON CREAM, Yellow.— Pare thin 4 lemons into a large cupful of water, and squeeze the juice on 7 ozs. of finely pounded sugar, beat the yolks of 9 eggs well; add the peels and juice beaten together for some time ; then strain it into a block-tin sauce-pan ; set it over a gentle fire, and stir it one way till thick, and scalding hot; but not boiling, or it will curdle. Pour It Into jelly-glasses. A few lumps of sugar should be rubbed hard on the lemons before they are pared, or after, as the peel will be so thin as not to take all the essence, and the sugar will attract it, and give a better colour and flavour. LEMON CREAM, White Is made the same as the above, only put the whites of the eggs in lieu of the yolks, whisking it well to froth. LEMON CUSTARD.—Sherry wine, a pint; refined sugar, 1 lb.; the juice of 2 lemons, the rind of 1 pared thin, and the rind of the other boiled soft, and rubbed through a sieve; boil well. Take out the peel, and a little of the liquor ; cool; pom the rest into the dish you design it for ; beat 4 yolks and 2 whites of eggs; mix them with the cool liquor ; strain them into the dish ; stir well together; set on a slow fire to bake as a custard ; when it is enough, grate the rind of a lemon over the top; brown it over with a sala- mander. Another.—Beat up the yolks of 8 eggs till quite white ; put to them a pint of boiling water, the rinds of 2 lemons grated, and the juice sweetened to taste, stir on the fire till thick enough ; then add a glass of rich wine, and half a glass of brandy. Give the whole one scald, and put it into cups to be eaten cold. LEMON DROPS.—Sifted loaf sugar, £ lb. ; squeeze 3 or 4 lemons over it; mix it well with a spoon, till it makes a thickish paste; then drop it upon writing papier about the size of a sixpence ; place in a slightly warm oven to dry, and then remove from the paper. LEMON DUMPLINGS.—Two table-spoonfuls of flour ; bread crumbs, £ lb. ; beef suet, 6 ozs. ; the grated rind of a large lemon ; sugar, pounded, 4 ozs.; 4 eggs well beaten, and strained, and the juice of 3 lemons strained. Make into dumplings, and boil in a cloth one hour. LEMON HONEY-COMB.— Sweeten the juice of a lemon to your taste, and put it in the dish that you serve it in. Mix the white of an egg that is beaten with a pint of rich cream, and a little sugar ; whisk it, and as the froth rises put it on the lemon juice. Do it the day before ft is to be used.LEM 236 LEM. LEMON JELLY. —Clarify 2 ois. of isinglass in 3 gills of water, add H lb. of loaf sugar, and the rinds of ai lemons cut very thin, squeeze the Juice of s lemons ; strain through mus- lin, then stir into cool sugar and isin- glass, take out the peel, boil 5 minutes, and when cool pour into moulds, and place in ice. In peeling lemons care should be taken not to cut below the colour. LEMONS, to preserve in Jelly. Cut a hole in the stalk part, the size of a shilling, and scrape out the pulp. Tie each separately in muslin, and lay in spring water 2 days, changing twice a day; then boil them tender on a slow fire. Keep them covered to the last. To every pound of fruit weigh two of double refined sugar, and 1 pint of water, boil the two latter together with the juice of the lemon to a syrup, clarify, skim well, and cool; then boil the fruit in the syrup half an hour ; if not clear, do this daily till they are done. Pare and core some green pippins, and boil in water till it tastes strong of them; don’t break them; strain the water through a jellybag till clear ; then to every pint put a pound of double- refined sugar, the peel and juice of a lemon, and boil to a strong syrup. Drain off the syrup from the fruit, and turning each with the hole upwards in a jar, pour the apple jelly over it. The bits cut out must go through the same pro- cess with the fruit. Cover with brandy paper. LEMON JUICE, to Purify— Add 1 oz. of powdered charcoal to a quart of lemon juice ; after standing 12 hours, filter the juice through fine mus- lin. It will keep good several years in a cellar, well corked in bottles, and the mucilage will fall to the bottom. LEMON KALI—Dry the fol- lowing well; finest sugar, \ lb. ; citric acid, or tartaric acid, 4 ozs.; carbonate of soda, 6 ozs. ; essence of lemon, 30 drops. Keep in a dry tightly corked bottle. A dessert-spoonful in a tumbler of water will make a pleasant beverage. LEMON MARMALADE— Rasp the lemons, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil 3 lbs. of loaf •sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add 1 lb. of the rind ; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully; then put a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple liquor ; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Orange Marmalade may be done in the same way. LEMON MINCE PIES.— Squeeze a large lemon, boil the outside till tender enough to beat to a mash, add to it 3 large apples chopped, and 4 ozs. of suet; currants, lb. ; sugar, 4 ozs. ; put the juice of the lemon and candied fruit, as for other pies. Make a short crust, and fill the patty pans as usual. LEMON-PEEL CREAM.— Boil a pint of cream ; when half cold, put in the yolks of 4 eggs ; stir till cold, put on the fire with 4 ozs. of loaf sugar, a tea-spoonfnl of grated lemon-peel; stir till hot; take off the fire ; when it is cold, put it into sweetmeat glasses. Lay paste-knots or lemon-peel, cut like long straws, over the tops of the glasses. LEMON SYRUP—Put ij lb. of loaf sugar to each pint of juice; add some of t">e peel; boil 10 minutes; then strain and cork it. It makes a fine beverage diluted, and is useful to flavour pies and puddings. LEMON SYRUP, Common. —Citric acid, 2 ozs. ; loaf sugar to syrup it; rub the sugar on 4 lemons to extract the oil. Add a wine-glassful of brandy to keep it, and also a little cinnamon. Water sufficient for the purpose. LEMON PICKLE. They should be small, with a thick rind; rub them with flannel; slit them half down in 4 quarters, but not through to the pulp : fill the slits with salt hani pressed in, set them upright in a pan 3 days un- til the salt melts ; turn them thrice a day in their own liquid, until tender; make enough pickle to cover them, of vinegar, the brine of the lemqns, Jamaica pepper, and ginger; boil, and skim; when cold, put it to the lemons with a ozs. of mustard-seed, and 3 cloves of garlic to six lemons. Jar it, and cover closely. LEMON PUDDING.—Beat the yolks of 4 eggs ; add 4 ozs. of white sugar, the rind of a lemon being rubberr.TTM LEM 237 with some lumps of it to take the es- sence ; then peel, and beat it in a mor- tar with 4 or 5 ozs. of butter warmed. Put a crust into a shallow dish, nick the edges, and put the above into it. When served, turn the pudding out of the dish. Another.—Cut off th*; rind of 3 lemons ; boil tender ; pound them, and boil 1 lb. of nice biscuits in a quart of miik and cream ; mix the lemon rind with them. Beat 12 yolks and 6 whites of eggs ; melt % lb. of fresh butter, and put in $ lb. of sugar, and a little orange flower water. Mix all together ; put it over the fiTe; stir till thick, and then squeez' the juice of half a lemon. Put puff paste round the dish, and pour in the pudding. Cut candied sweet- meats, and strew them over. Bake about 45 minutes. Another.—Blanch and beat 8 ozs. of Jordan almonds with orange flower water; add $ lb. of butter, the yolks of 8 or 10 eggs, the juice of a large lem- on, and half the rind grated ; work them in a mortar till white ; put puff paste in the dish; pour in the pudding, and bake half an hour. LEMON PUFFS.—Beat and sift 1 lb. of refined sugar ; put it into a bowl, with the juice of two lemons, and mix them together; beat the white of an egg to a high froth ; put it into the bowl; put in 3 eggs with two rinds of lemon grated; mix it well up, and throw sugar on the buttered papers; drop on the puffs in small drops, and bake them in a moderately heated oven. LEMON TARTS.—Pare the rinds of four lemons, and boil tender in two waters, and beat fine. Add to it 4 ozs. of blanched almonds, cut thin, 4 ozs. of lump sugar, the juice of the lemons, and a little grated peel. Sim- mer to a syrup. When cold, turn into a shallow tin tart dish, lined with a rich thin puff paste, and lay bars of the same over, and bake carefully. LEMON WATER—Put two slices of lemon, thinly pared, into a tea- pot, a little bit of the peel, and sugar, or a table-spoonful of capillaire ; pour in a pint of boiling water, and stop it close two hours. LEMON WHEY—Pour into boiling milk as much lemon juice as will make a small quantity quite clear ; dilute with hot water to an agreeablo sharp acid, and sweeten as you like. LEMON WINE. —Take six large lemons ; pare off the rind thin ; squeeze out the juice ; steep the rind in the juice; and put to it a quart of brandy; let it stand closely covered three days; then squeeze 6 lemons more, and mix 2 quarts of spring water, and as much sugar as will sweeten the whole; boil the water, lemons, and sugar together ; when cold, add a quart of sherry, the other lemons, and some brandy ; mix them together; and run it through a flannel bag ; let it stand two or three months. Bottle, cork well, and keep in a cool place. LEMONADE—Hot water, 2 quarts; 2 lemons, sliced; \ lb. of sugar ; % oz. of gum arabic. Strain through a flannel bag, and bottle off. LEMONADE, to be made the day before wanted. — Pare 24 lemons thin, put 8 of the rinds into 3, quarts of hot water, and cover for four hours. Rub some fine sugar on the lemons to attract the essence, and put it into a bowl, into which squeeze the juice of the lemons. To it add ij lb. of fine sugar, then put the water to the above. Some persons add boiling milk, 2 or 3 quarts, and strain; but this is optional. LEMONADE, Concentrated. —Take 2 lbs. of loaf sugar, break it up, and pour on it a pint of cold water ; let it heat gradually, until it boils and is converted into syrup ; add, while hot, 1 drachm of essence of lemon, and \ oz. of citric acid; a tablespoonful of this, added to a tumbler of water, makes a very pleasant drink. LEMONADE, Delicious Milk. —Pour a pint of boiling water on six or eight ounces of loaf sugar, add a quarter of a pint of lemon juice, and half the quantity of good sherry wine, and a table-spoonful of brandy to keep it. Then add three quarters of a pint of cold milk, and strain the whole, to make it nice and clear. This is an American receipt, and is much valued in that country LEMONADE, like Jelly—Pare two Seville oranges and six lemons thin, and steep them four hours in a quart ofLIN 23b f-F.MT hot water. Boil 1 Jf lb. of loaf sugar In three pints of water, and skim it. Add the two liquors to the juice of six China oranges, and twelve lemons; stir the whole well, and run it through a jelly- bag till clear. Then add a little orange- water, if you like the flavour, and if wanted, more sugar. It will keep well if corked. tt§T Any of the above may be made effervescing by taking nearly half a tumbler of water, and dissolving in it so grains of carbonate of soda, and mixing with it the same quantity of lemonade. LEMONADE POWDERS.— Citric acid 1 oz.; carbonade of soda, 1 % oz.; 4 ozs. of powdered sugar. This fine dry lemonade will keep well. Powdered ginger, nutmeg, or cinnamon may be added, ad libitum.. Put as much as you like into cold water. LEMONADE, Superior.—Pare as many lemons as you are likely to want; on the peels pour hot water, but more juice will be necessary than you need use the peels for. While infusing, boil sugar and water to a good syrup with the white of an egg whipt up; when it boils, pour a little cold water into it; set it on again, and when it boils up take off, and settle. Skim, and pour it clear from the sediment to the infusion, and the lemon juice, stir and taste it, and add as much more water as will make a very rich lemonade. Wet a jelly-bag, and squeeze it dry, then strain the liquor, which will be uncom- monly fine. LENITIVE ELECTUARY. —Senna, finely powdered, 8 ozs.; pow- dered coriander seed, 4 ozs.; tamarinds and prunes, of each, 1 lb; figs, 1 lb; mix the pulps and powders together, and with simple syrup, make into an electuary. A teaspoonful to be taken two or three times a day. It is an agreeable laxative for children, females, and delicate persons.—If a little sulphur be added, it will be a sovereign remedy for PILES. LENT POTATOES.—Beat 4 ozs. of almonds, and 3 ozs. of the bitter; blanch, and add a little orange flower water; butter, 8 ozs.; 4 eggs well t>eaten and strained; half a glass of raisin wine, and sugar to taste; beat all till very smooth, and grate in 3 nice biscuits, (Savoy.) Make into balls with a little flour, the size of a chestnut; threw them into a stewpan of lard, and boil them in it to a yellow brown; drain ; serve with sweet sauce. LIGHTNING STROKE. — Dash cold water over the head and face, apply friction to the spine with strong liniment, and mustard poultices to the feet. LIME LINIMENT.—Linseed or common olive oil and lime-water, equal parts, to be well shaken before using, is good for scrofulous or other sores, and still more for bums and scalds. LIME WATER.—Putunslafted lime into a tub; cover it with pure water; stir often for one day; then strain off the water, and keep for use. It is an anti-acid tonic, kills worms, and frees the bowels from slimy and morbific matter. It promotes digestion; it is valuable in looseness, scrofula, diabetes, and whites. Mixed with a decoction of Peruvian bark, it wonderfully strength- ens the debilitated, and those threaten- ed with atrophy. LINEAL MEASURE. 12 Inches make 1 Foot. 3 Feet, or 36 inches ... 1 Yard. 2 Yards, or six feet ... 1 Fathom. Yards, or i6£ feet ... 1 Rod, Pole or Perch. LINEN, to Preserve.—Secure it from damp when you put it by; and also from insects by putting amongst it bags of lavender, roses, thyme, cedar shavings, &c. LINIMENT, for Burns. — Take equal parts of Florence oil, or fresh drawn linseed oil and lime water ; shake them well together in a wide bottle, so as to form a liniment. This is found to be an exceedingly proper application for recent scalds or burns. It may either be spread upon a cloth, or the parts affected may be anointed with it twice or thrice a day. LINIMENT, for Diseases of the Throat and Tonsils.—Castile soap, oil of sassafras, camphor, spirits of hartshorn, of each, 1 oz. Add cay- enne pepper, 2 drachms ; laudanum, % oz. ; spirit of wine, % oz. LINIMENT VOLATILE.— Spirit of hartshorn, 1 o*.; olive oil.239 LIV LIN t J£ oz.; cayenne pepper, a drs.; lau- danum, a drachms ; a table-spoonful of salt, and two of brandy. Shake well in a bottle. Rub the affected part with it, apply afterwards a rag saturated with it. It removes pains and swellings. It is a magic remedy. LINIMENT, White.—This is made in the same manner as the white ointment, two-thirds of the wax being left out. This liniment may be applied in excoriation, where, on account of the largeness of the surface, the ointments with lead or 'alomel might be improper. LINS'" D, Infusion of.—Take of linseed, two spoonfuls: liquorice root sliced, half an ounce; boiling water, three pints. Infuse by the fire fot some hours, and then strain off the liquor. If an ounce of the leaves of coltsfoot foe added to the ingredients, it will then be the Pectoral Infusion. Both are emollient mucilaginous liquors, and may be taken with advantage as ordinary drink, in difficulty of making water, and in coughs and other complaints of the breast. LINSEED TEA.—Linseed, 1 table-spoonful; liquorice root, oz. ; coltsfoot leaves, 1 oz. ; boiling water, 3 pints. Infuse 3 hours, and strain. Add sugar, and a little lemon juice. Good for coughs, urinary disease, &c. LIP SALVE, Red.—Olive oil, 4 ozs. ; Alkanet root, 1 oz. Macerate with heat until the oil is well coloured ; then add Spermaceti, % oz.; white wax, a ozs.; prepared suet, 3 ozs., and a little sugar. When nearly cold, stir in orange flower water, \ oz. ; oil of lavender, % drachm; otto of roses, 2 or 3 drops. LIP SALVE, White.—Boil a little veal suet in salt and water ; off the fat; mix it with 1 oz. of white wax, and % oz. of spermaceti; add 3 ozs. of olive oil; melt, and when cool, add a few drops of bergamot, or otto of roses. The colour of lips may be deep- ened by dissolving in the mouth a cay- enne lozenge occasionally. LIPS, Chapped.—See page 117. LIQUID BLACKING. Weak vinegar, 1 quart; ivory black and treacle, each 6 ozs.; vitriolic add, and •permaceti, (or oHve oil) each 1% os. Mix the acid and oil first, then add the other ingredients. If it does not dry quick enough on the leather, add a little more vitriol gradually till it dries Snick enough. If you add too much le mixture will give a brown colour. —This is a celebrated blacking. LIQUID JAPAN BLACK- ING.—Ivory black, 4 ozs.; coarse sugar, a ozs. ; sulphuric add, 1 oz. ; muriatic add, 1 oz. ; sweet oil, and lemon add, of each a table-spoonful, and a pint of vinegar. First mix the ivory black and sweet oil; then the lemon and sugar with a little vinegar; then add the acids, and mix well to- gether. LIQUID BLUE.—Dissolve ex- tract of indigo in warm water. LIQUID CHERRIES.—Cher- ries, 1 lb., to % lb. of fine sugar. The cherries must be fine and ripe ; cut the tails about half; put them into the sugar, and simmer five minutes ; stand till next day; then add lb. of sugar to each pound of cherries, prepared as the first, and a little syrups or jelly, or red currants, or rasps. Simmer to- gether till the syrup is glutinous. LIQUID GLUE.—Best glue, 1 lb.; dry white lead, 4 ozs. ; soft water, 1 quart; alcohol, 4 ozs. Stir together when dissolved, and bottle while hot. LIQUORICE PIPES. —Dis- solve gum arabic in water with Spanish liquorice, and with the addition of sugar make into a paste. Drop, and dry them in a slow oven. LIVER COMPLAINT.—Take 4 lbs. of dandelion roots, bruise and press out the juice; run it through a muslin bag, and bottle it. Take 2 table spoonfuls three or four times a day. Drink occasionally the following de- coction :—Take the bruised roots above mentioned, a small handful of agrimony, and two ounces of burdock root, to three quarts of water—boil to two quarts. Of this take four half-pints a day. LIVER, Inflammation of. This disease generally begins with a sense of weight, or pain in the right side, about the false ribs. The pain often extends to the top of the right shoulder. The stomach and bowels are disordered ; the appetite Is impaired ; the patient has sickness, often vomit*uv LTV 240 bilious matter; there is a dry cough, oppressive breathing, a difficulty of lying on the right side; costiveness, emaciation, debility, hard and frequent pulse, and a sallow complexion. The office of the liver is to secrete the bile, the origin of which is this:—the dark venous blood, passing through the liver on its way back to the heart, is there divested of its noxious matter, con- sisting largely of carbon, and so made fit for re-entering into the arterial dr- culation. A portion of the matter so separated from the blood is the bile, which is discharged into the duodenum, and there mixes with the digested food, and performs the important office of fitting it for absorption into the system. The bile thus mixed with the elements of nutrition is also absorbed, and it is probable that it is adapted and designed to support the processes of respiratory combustion. It is the bile that gives the colour to the feces, which indicate a healthy flow of the bile when they are of the colour of rhubarb. When, owing to some functional derangement, the bile mixes with the blood in its circulation, it is indicated by yellowness of com- plexion, in jaundice, and by the symp- toms previously described. The healthy flow of bile is interrupted frequently by high living, obstructed perspiration, the drinking of wines, malt liquors, and especially ardent spirits, and dram drinking. Dr. Graham judiciously observes,— —“ the term liver complaint is now far too indiscriminately used. It is proper- ly applied to designate disease in the texture of the liver ; but the majority of the maladies called by that name are in reality severe disorders of the digestive canal, that is, chronic affection of the stomach and intestines." The symptoms which indicate affec- tions of the liver, are increasing debility and emaciation, the pain and uneasiness &t the right side extending to the shoulder, lossjof appetite, full and hard pulse, &c. But in digestive disease, the loss of flesh is not so great, the breath- ing is not so laborious, and the pain is more in the region of the stomach. Treatment.—The first thing to do is to lessen the undue determination of blood to the part by equalising its cir- culation, and restoring the proper secre- tions. This will be effected by moder- ating the diet, living low, avoiding all stimulants, condiments, &c. Give the Vapour Bath, and the Sudorific Pow- ders, to promote copious perspiration, take gentle aperients ; as senna, manna, cream of tartar, and fennel seed. The bowels should be moved at least once a day. All violent purgatives are to be avoided ; they must be gentle. In weals constitutions, a decoction of tamarinds, sweetened with manna, often answers the purpose; but if not sufficiently strong add a little senna. Mild laxative injections occasionally are of great service. If there should be vomiting, mix super carbonate of potash, 1 drachm, with half a pint of peppermint water; and take a tablespoonful whenever the vomiting returns. If the pain is severe, foment the side with a hot decoction of bitter herbs, as hops, &c.; or the Ano- dyne Fomentation ; or apply the Stimu- lating Liniment. A poultice made of bran, or oatmeal, with a little mustard and cayenne pepper, and mixed with vinegar, and formed into a plaster or poultice, will be found to be invaluable. —A mustard plaster is also applicable, and answers better than a blister plaster, though it may be applied if the pain be obstinate; give also ten grains of the Diaphoretic Powders, for they allay pain, and promote sleep. If the sick- ness and irritation of the stomach con- tinue, give an emetic, and repeat every day, if necessary. Medicines which promote the secre- tion of urine have a very good effect here. (See Diuretic Drops, &c.) Or, take % dr. of purified nitre; or a tea- spoonful of sweet spirits of nitre in gruel or balm tea three or four times a day. Continue this treatment till the symptoms are subdued. Chronic disease of the liver arises chiefly from the induration and torpidity of the liver; therefore the object must be to correct the disordered state of the stomach, and bowels, and to give tone and activity to the liver. This may be effected by the Vapour Bath, Emetics, and sponging the body with the Stimul- ating Liniment; by the use of the Liver Pill, or Dyspeptic Pill, &c., which see. Apply to the painful part the Irritating Plaster,241 LIV LOB LIVER PILL.—One ounce each of powdered blood-root, powdered man- drake, and extract of dandelion, to which add a drachms of powdered senna. Add a few drops of oil of spearmint, or peppermint, and form into pills. Take two or three night and morning. This pill is a sovereign remedy for inflamma- tion of the liver, and for jaundice. LIXIVIUM, of Pearl-ashes.— Steep % oz. of pearl-ashes in clear water 34 hours. Then strain off the water. This infusio is very useful in many colours, e ^.-.jally Brazil wood, which It will render beautiful in lustre. LOBELIA.-An American plant, containing most valuable medical pro- perties. It was first used with great advantage, as an emetic, by the Ameri- can Indians, and was brought into notoriety by Dr. Samuel Thompson. It is emetic and stimulating, and Dr. Beech says, “from its action on the great sympathetic nerve, its effect is felt throughout the whole system. It ex- erts a peculiar action upon the trachea and bronchial vessels, expelling all col- lected mucus." It must therefore be very valuable in asthma, croup, hooping cough, and consumption. The greatest benefit from it has been found in dys- pepsia, coughs, asthma, liver complaints, &c. It has relieved asthmatic subjects when on the point of suffocation by accumulated phlegm, cough, Ac. Also In pneumonia of infants. It is also a valuable sudorific; it relaxes the constricted pores of the skin, and promotes free perspiration. The leaves, seeds, and seed-vessels may be given in powder, and tincture. Dose of rite powder, from a drachm, or a small teaspoonful; of the tincture, a tea- spoonful. LOBELIA, Emetic. — Take lobelia powder, 1 ounce ; boiling water, 1 pint; mix, and make an infusion. Dose : A fluid ounce to be taken every half hour, until vomiting ensues. LOBELIA POULTICE. Linseed meal, oz. ; slippery elm, 1 oz. ; powdered lobelia, I % oz. ; ginger, x oz. ; whiskey sufficient to make it Good for all inflamed parts, as the side In pleurisy, liver complaint, rheumatism, lumbago. LOBELIA TINCTURE. Pot z os. of the powdered plant to z quart of whiskey. Infuse 7 days. Dose, a teaspoonful when the cough is trouble- some. The tincture can now be bought at most Herbal Stores. See page 387. LOBELIA, Acid Tincture of. —Lobelia herb, 1 oz.; cayenne, 3 drs. ; vinegar, half a pint. Boil the vinegar, and put all into a bottle, cork well for 7 or 8 days. Dose for a cough, half a teaspoonful in any pleasant vehicle. Repeat when the cough is troublesome. It will require a larger dose for asthma or croup. LOBELIA WATER.—Lobelia leaves and capsules, or powder 1 oz. ; boiling water % pint; brandy pint. Infuse a week.—Good for sore and in- flamed eyes, erysipelas, ringworm, &c. LOBSTERS, Buttered.—Pick the meat out, cut it, and warm with a little weak brown gravy, nutmeg, salt, pepper, and butter with a little flour. If done white, a little white gravy and cream. LOBSTER, Curry of. — Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream ; rub smooth one or two tea- spoonfuls of curry-powder, a teaspoon- ful of flour, and an ounce of butter: simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. LOBSTER, to Pot.—Half boil them, pick out the meat, cut it into small bits and season with mace, white pepper, nutmeg, and salt; press close into a pot, and cover with butter, bake half an hour; put the spawn in. When cold, take the lobster out, and put it into the pots with a little of the butter. Beat other butter in a mor- tar with some of the spawn; then mix that coloured butter with as much as will be sufficient to cover the pots, and strain it. Cayenne may be added, if approved.—Or, take out the meat as whole as you can ; split the tail and remove the gut; if the inside be not watery add that. Season with mace, nutmeg, white pepper, salt, and a clove or two in the finest powder. Lay a little fine butter at the bottom of a pan, and the lobster smooth over it, with bay- leaves between; cover it with butter, and bake gently. When done, porn- the whole on the bottom of a sieve ; ana with a fork lay tbn pieces into potting.LOB LOG 242 pots, some of each sort, with the sea- soning about it. When cold, pour clarified butter over, but not hot It will be good next day ; or if highly sea- soned, and thickly covered with butter, will keep some time. Potted lobster may be used cold, or as a fricassee, with a cream-sauce; it then looks very nicely, and eats excel- lently, especially if there is spawn. LOBSTER, to Roast.—When you have half boiled the lobster, take it out of the water, and while hot, rub it with butter, and lay it before the fire. Baste it with butter till it has a fine froth. LOBSTER SAUCE.—Cut a lobster into pieces, the size of a dice; pound the spawn, a little butter, and 4 anchovies in a mortar, and rub them through a hair sieve; put the cut lobster Into a stewpan with half a pint of gravy, and a bit of butter rolled in flour ; set over a slow fire, and stir till it boils ; if not thick enough, add a little flour and water, and boil again ; put the spawn in and simmer it; if the spawn boils, it may spoil the colour of the sauce. Add a little lemon pickle. LOCKED JAW, Tetanus.— A disease in which the muscles of the body are in a state of rigidity, with oc- casional spasms, and excruciating pain. The cause of this disease is injury done to the extremities of the nerves, punc- tured or lacerated wounds of the hands or feet, surgical operations, or the use of narcotic poisons. The muscles of the lower jaw become hard and contracted, the mouth is closed and the patient cannot open it; hence the name locked jaw. The rigidity ex- tends to the tongue and throat, causing great difficulty in swallowing. Some- times nearly the whole body is affected with the spasms. There is constriction of the breast, severe spasmodic pain in the stomach, shooting to the spine ; the face is hideously distorted, and the breathing very laborious. It is a danger- ous disease, and requires prompt skilful attention. Treatment.—When the disease is caused by wounds, they should be clean- ed, and the inflammation subdued as soon as possible. If possible foment or steam over with bitter herbs, and steep In hot soap water several times a day. Then apply a poultice of slippery elm mixed with ley or milk, and put on warm. Promote perspiration by means of the vapour bath, or place hot bricks wrapped in vinegar cloths to the feet and sides. Repeat if needful. Pour into the mouth a teaspoonful of the Antispasmodic Tincture every 10 min- utes until the muscles of the jaws relax to enable the patient to swallow. Give a tea made of balm and catnep. These means have often been effectual. Add more cayenne to the Antispasmodic Tincture if the rigidity does not give way. An aperient or injection will also be necessary. The latter may embrace a strong decoction of lobelia, milk, treacle, sweet oil, and a little Antispas- modic Tincture. LOGWOOD, an Antiseptic.— Dr. Desmartis, in a paper to the Acade- my of Sciences, announces that Cam- peachy Logwood (Hcematoxylum Cam- peachianum) possesses the same valuable quality, and in a much higher degree, than coal tar and plaster, or creasote, which have hitherto been esteemed as the best antiseptics. The fact was dis- covered by accident Dr. Desmartis had several cancerous patients under his care, all presenting large ulcerous sores, emitting a most nauseous smell. An as- tringent being considered expedient, a pomatum composed of equal parts of extract of logwood and hog’s lard, was applied to those sores, whereupon, to the Doctor’s surprise, the foetor disap- peared completely, and the emission of pus was considerably attenuated. To complete the evidence, he suspended the use of the pomatum for a few hours only, when the offensive emanations im- mediately recommenced, and the puru- lent secretion became again abundant. Logwood causes gangrene to disappear as if by enchantment, especially that of hospitals. He has also found it efficaci- ous in preventing or stopping erysipelas, which often occurs after amputation, or the infliction of other wounds, and is a source of constant anxiety to the sur- geon. It entirely removes the putridity of ulcerous cancers, emitting character- istic effluvia, and in short, of the most foetid sores. This substance also pos- sesses the advantage of being capable of mixture with haemostatic medicines, (designed to arrest spitting of blood.LUN 243 L.OO Ac.,) such as ergotine, perchloride of Iron, persulphate of iron, Ac. ; it may also be used as a powder and a lotion. The extract of logwood, which is much used in dyeing, and is very cheap, is only soluble in warm water. — See Robinsons Herbal. LOOKING-GLASSES, to Silver.—Take a sheet of tinfoil, and spread it upon a table, then rub mercury upon it with a hare’s foot till the 3 metals incorporate. Lay the plate of glass up- on it, and oad it with weights, which will hav. .^ic effect of pressing out the excess of mercury that was applied to the tin-foil. In a few hours the tin-foil will adhere to the glass and convert it into a mirror. About 3 ozs. of mercury are sufficient for covering 3 square feet of glass. LOOKING-GLASSES, to Clean.—Sweep away the dirt with a soft brush, or silk handkerchief. Then sponge with a lithe spirit of wine, or gin and water, to remove all dust. Then dust with the finest whiting, or powder- blue. Then rub it quickly off with a cloth, and polish lightly with a silk handkerchief. The gilt frame may be cleaned with a lithe cotton wool. LOTION VALUABLE. Camphor, 5 drs., cut into small pieces, and dissolve in half a pint of spirits of wine in a closely corked bottle ; when fully dissolved, add half a pint of oxgall, and 60 drops of laudanum. Shake it well, and bottle for use.—This has been a patent medicine, and is very efficaci- ous in the cure of fresh wounds, cuts, bruises, swellings, sores, and inflamed and pained parts. LOZENGES.—Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in 1 pint of water, for 1 hour, over a slow fire ; when boiled enough, it will snap like glass, by trying it in cold water, then pour it on your stone. When cold, make it into rolls, and cut It with scissors into small lumps, make them round and stamp them with a figure. |4sr Drop a little oil of peppermint in- to the sugar when boiled and poured upon the stone ; it will give it a strong taste and smell of peppermint. LOZEN GES for Fcetid Breath.—Gum kino, } oz,; catechu, X o*. ; white sugar, 3 ozs, ; orris pow- der, oz. Make them into a paste with mucilage, and add a drop of neroli. LUMBAGO.—It is a species of chronic rheumatism, which affects the muscles of the lower part of the back, causing great pain and stiffness. The patient can scarcely stir without having the most piercing pain. It may be con- fined to one side, or affect the loins gen- erally. Its attacks are generally sudden, immediately after or in stooping, or rising from bed. Lumbago is connected with derangement of the stomach, of the bowels, and of the kidneys. Treatment.—Take) gentle aperi- ents of Senna and Epsom Salts, with a little ginger. Drink freely of balm tea and other diluents. Great and some- times immediate relief has been obtained by the Compound Colocynth Pill, com- bined with the Blue Pill. External ap- plications are useful. Dip a flannel in hot water and apply to the affected part frequently. Or dip a flannel in hot wa- ter, and sprinkle with spirits of turpen- tine, and apply to the part as long as it can be endured. Or apply the Stimu- lating Liniment. The tincture of aco- nite is an excellent rubefacient; also the soap and opium liniment, with a few drops of spirits of turpentine. The dia- phoretic powders are very useful. If the urine be deficient and high coloured, give 10 or 12 grains of carbonate of pot- assa with a teaspoonful of sweet nitre in a wine-glassful of water twice a day. Lumbago and Sciatica, Rem- edy for.—Rectified oil of turpen- tine, 35 drops ; vitriolic ether, 1 scruple, mucilage of gum arabic, 3 drs. ; syrup of poppies, 1 dr. ; rose-water, 1K oz. ; make into a draught; take at bed-time. LUNCHEON CAKE.—Flour, 2 lbs. ; sugar, ’A lb. ; currants, % lb. ; butter, % lb. beaten very fine; a few caraway seeds ; nutmeg grated ; milk, $ pint; £ a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda ; 3 or 4 eggs. Stir all together, beat them ten minutes, and bake in a tin. LUNGS, Inflammation of.— Sometimes this disease affects one lobe of the lungs, and sometimes both. Males are more subject to it than females. Frequent colds, wet feet, intemperance, over exertion, and natural debility of the Jungs Induces this complaint.LUN MAC 244 It generally begins with cold shiver- Ings, followed by hot fever, dull pains in the chest or side, cough, and very labori- ous breathing, the pulse is fiill and quick, the bowels are often constipated, the urine deficient, the skin dry and burning, the expectoration scanty, but is gradually increasing, and sometimes it contains blood. It is a very danger- ous disease; may proceed with such violence as to cause an effusion of blood or lymph into the texture of the lungs, as to cause suffocation. Treatment.—Avoid bleeding by the lancet. Dr. Beach says, "All the blood in the body must pass through the lungs, after reaching the heart, be- fore it can be again circulated; but in this disease, they are unable to perform this double duty from the great amount which has been distributed to them. As these organs have become unduly load- ed ; impeding respiration, &c., the ob- vious indication is—instead of abstract- ing, or rather attempting it—to return it to its original channels, and thus re- move the burden under which they la- bour. Bleeding will not affect this, but, on the contrary, it will so weaken or paralyze the heart, which is labouring to accomplish this object, that prostration, and often death, are the consequences." Give sudorific medicines to produce free and copious perspiration ; and for this purpose give a vapour bath, using an infusion of bitter herbs, as hops, camomile flowers, pennyroyal, tansy, catnep ; add vinegar; cover, and infuse a or 3 hours. It should be repeated. If the patient cannot bear the fatigue of the bath, place hot bricks, or bottles, to the sides and feet. Give also Sudorific Powders, which see, until the breathing is relieved and free perspiration induced. As soon as the patient is relieved, the bowels must be regulated by giving a gentle purge, and also an emetic, repeat u necessary ; continue the sudorific powders ; as these means are calculated to unload the chest, and return the blood to its former state. Injections, where the foeces are hard, and the bowels lethargic, are of great importance, and should be given occasionally. If the cough is troublesome, give some of the Cough Remedies, or the Expectorant Syrup, or Cough Pills. The inhalation of the steam of bitter herbs while infus- ing in boiling water serves to decrease the tightness of the lungs, and to pro- mote expectoration. This should be repeated several times a day. Should there be much irritation, or spasmodic affection, use the Pulmonary Syrup. Bathe the feet occasionally in warm water. Mucilaginous drinks should be taken, as linseed, with a little lemon juice. An infusion of horehound, boneset, catnep, with slippery elm, sweetened with the finest sugar, or sugar-candy, is a very proper drink. Great attention'must be paid to diet; it should be simple and easy of digestion; as arrow-root, sago, beef-tea, without or with a little salt. When the inflamma- tion is subdued, and the tongue is clean, give tonics, or the Composition Powder. M MACARONI, Dressed Sweet. —Boil 2 ozs. in a pint of milk, with a bit of lemon peel, and a good bit of cinnamon, till the pipes are swelled to their utmost size without breaking. Lay them on a custard-dish, and pour a custard over them hot. Serve cold. MACARONI, as Usually Served.—Boil it in milk, or a weak veal broth, flavoured with salt. When tender, put it into a dish without the liquor, with bits of butter and grated cheese, and over the top grate more, and a little more butter. Put the dish into a Dutch oven a quarter of an hour, and do not let the top become hard. MACARONI. — Wash it well, and simmer in half milk, and half broth of veal or mutton, till it is tender. To a spoonful of this liquor, put the yolk of an egg beaten in a spoonful of cream; just make it hot to thicken, but not boil: put it over the macaroni, and then grate fine old cheese all over, and bits of butter. Brown. Macaroni.—Wash the macaroni, then simmer it in a little broth, with a little pounded mace and salt. When quite tender, take it out of the liquor, lay it in a dish, grate a good deal of cheese over, then cover that with bread grated fine. Warm some butter with- out oiling, and pour it from a boat through a little earthen colander over the crumbs; put the dish in a Dutch oven, to roost the cheese, and brownMAC -45 MAC the bread of a fine colour. The bread should be in separated crumbs and look light. MACARONI DROPS.—Pound some sweet almonds very fine, and a few bitter ones with them ; add pound- ed sugar, '.and a few drops of orange flower-water, while pounding, to pre- vent oiliness; when done, mix with them their weight of sugar, and some whites of eggs, beaten four to each lb. of almonds and sugar; work well to- gether ; d p it upon white paper in small nc «nd bake in a gentle oven a short time. MACARONI PUDDING. — Simmer 3 ozs. of the pipe sort in a pint of milk, and a bit of lemon and cinna- mon, till tender; put it into a dish, with milk, two or three eggs, only one white, sugar, nutmeg, a spoonful of peach-water, and half a glass of raisin- wine, Bake with a paste round the edges. A layer of orange marmalade, or raspberry jam, in a macaroni pudding, for change, is a great improvement; in which case omit the almond-water, or ratafia, with which you would otherwise flavour it. MACARONI SOUP.—Boil 1 lb. of the best macaroni in a quart of good stock till tender; take out half, and put it into another stew-pot. To the remainder add more stock, and boil it till you can pulp all the macaroni through a fine sieve. To these two liquors put a pint or more of cream boiling hot, the macaroni that was first taken out, and half a pound of grated Parmesan cheese ; make hot but do not boil. Serve with the crust of a French roll cut into bits the size of a shilling, or with nice crisp biscuits. MACAROONS, to Make. — Blanch 4 ozs. of almonds, and pound with four spoonfuls of orange flower- water ; whisk the whites of four eggs to a froth, then mix it, and 1 lb. of sugar, sifted with the almonds to a paste ; and laying a sheet of wafer-paper on a tin, put it on in different little takes, the shape of macaroons. MACAROON PIE, Raised.— Raise, ornament, and bake a crust; have ready some hot macaroons, stewed, and a white fricassee of chickens, in separate stew-pans, and put them alter- nately on the fire ; strew grated Parme- san cheese over it; put a slip of paper round the edge of the pie to prevent its burning. Brown the cheese, and serve it. MACASSAR OIL, to Make. —Take 3 quarts of olive oil, half a pint of spirits of wine, 3 ozs. of cinnamon powder, 3 ozs. of bergamot; put it into a largepipkin, and give it a good heat; take off the fire, and add oz. of alka- net-root, and keep it closely covered for several hours. filter through blotting paper. MACKEREL, to Boil.—Rub them with vinegar; when the water boils, put them in with a little salt, and boil gently 15 minutes. Serve with fennel and parsley chopped, boiled, and put into melted butter, and goose- berry sauce. MACKEREL, to Boil Whole. Wash them clean, cut off their heads, and pull out their roes at the neck end. Boil them in a little water; bruise them with a spoon, beat up the yolk of an egg, a little nutmeg, a little lemon-peel cut fine, some thyme, some parsley boiled and chopped fine, a little salt and pepper, and a few crumbs of bread. Mix well together, fill the dish with them. Flour [well, and broil. Serve with butter, ketchup, and walnut pickles. MACKEREL, to Collar.—Gut and slit the mackerel down the belly; cut off the head ; take out the bones ; lay it on its back; season with mace, nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a handful of parsley shred fine ; strew it over them ; roll tight, and tie them separately in cloths ; boil twenty minutes in vinegar, salt and water ; take out; put them into a pot; pour the liquor upon them ; or the cloth will stick to the1 fish ; when cold take the cloth off; add a little more vinegar to the pickle; keep them for use. When sent to the table, garnish with fennel and parsley, and put some of the liquor under them. ( MACKEREL,to Pickle.—Take six large mackerels, and cut them into round pieces. Take 1 oz. of beaten pepper, three nutmegs, a little mace, and a handful of salt ; mix the salt and beaten spice together. Make two or three holes in each piece, and thrust theMAC 24O MAR whiting, powdered, 1 lb.; soda, 1 oz.; cover well with the syrup, or they will seasoning In the holes In each piece, rub the pieces all over with the season- ing ; fry them brown in oil or butter, and let them cool; put them into vine- gar, and cover them with oil. They are fine eating. MACKEREL, to Pot.—Clean, season, and bake them in a pan with spice, bay leaves, and some butter. When cold, take out the bones ; in pots lay them very close, and cover them with clarified butter. They may be potted like lobsters. See Lobster, p. 241. MACKEREL, Soused.—Put together heads and tails in an earthen dish or pan. Season with chopped onions, black pepper, a pinch of allspice, and salt; add vinegar and water equally to cover the fish. Bake in the oven.— Herrings, sprats, or any other cheap fish, are done in the same manner. MAGENTA DYE.—This splen- did colouring matter may be bought of the chemists. It is first-rate for dyeing silk ribbons, &c. Directions for use are given on each bottle. MAGGOTS IN SKEEP, to Destroy.—Water, 1 quart; spirit of turpentine, a table-spoonful; sublimate of mercury, as much as will lie upon a shilling; cork in a bottle, with a quill through the cork, so that the mixture may come a little at a time. Shake before using. Pour a little of the mix- ture upon the spot where the maggots are, and they will creep upon the top of the wool, and fall off dead. Apply afterwards a little train oil to the place. MAGNUM BONUM PLUMS, to Preserve.—Put the largest in a panful of water over a slow fire; keep putting them down with a spoon, till the skins will come off with a penknife; put them in a fine thin syrup, and give them a gentle boil; take off, and turn them often in the syrup, or the outside will turn brown. When cold, set them over the fire again ; boil six minutes ; then take off, and turn them often in the syrup till nearly cold. Take out and place on a flat china dish ; strain the syrup through muslin ; add the weight of the plums in fine sugar ; boil, and skim well; then put in the plums; boil till they look clear; put them into jars or glasses; lose their colour; put brandy papers and a bladder over them. MAHOGANY COLOUR, to Stain.—1. Take 2 ozs. of dragon’s blood, break it into pieces, and put it into a quart of spirits of wine; to stand in a warm place; shake often; when dissolved, it is ready for use. 2. Linseed oil, 2 pounds; alkanet, 3 ounces. Heat them together and macerate for six hours, then add resin, 2 ounces; bees’ wax, 2 ounces. Boiled oil may be advantageously used instead of linseed oiL 3. Brazil-wood (ground); water suffi- cient ; add a little alum and potash. BoiL 4. Logwood, 1 part; water, 8 parts. Make a decoction and apply it to the wood ; when dry, give it two or three coats of the following varnish : dragon's blood, 1 one part; spirits of wine, 20 parts. Mix. MAHOGANY FURNITURE, to Clean.—Three pennyworth of alkanet root, a pint of Unseed oil; two pennyworth of rose-pink ; to stand in a vessel all night. Rub some of this mix- ture over the table or chairs, and let it stay an hour; then rub it weU off with a linen cloth, and it will leave a beauti- ful gloss. MAHOGANY, to Take Stains Out of.—Mix 6 ozs. of spirits of salts, and % oz. salt of lemons together. Drop a tittle on the stains, and rub it with a cork till the stains disappear. Then wash off immediately with cold Welter. MANDRAKE.—This plant is not so abundant in England as in America. It is a valuable plant, but requires skill and care in its application as a remedy. It is purgative, deob- struent, antibitious, anthelmintic, hy- dragogue, &c. It is a sure purge, superior in some diseases to jalap. It is very useful in scrofula, in bilious, dyspeptic, and venereal affections.—See Robinson's Herbal. * MARBLE, to Clean.—Soap lees mixed with quick time, pretty thick, and applied for a day, then washed off with soap and water.—-Or muriatic acid diluted with water, taking care that it be not too strong.—Or soft soap, 1 lb. ;MAR MAR 247 boil together for 20 minutes ; apply for 94 hours, wash off with clean water, and polish with a piece of felt, or coarse fiannpl—Iron stains on marble are re- moved by a mixture of lemon juice and sulphuric add ; apply for a few minutes and then rub with a soft doth. P. 72. MARBLE, Imitation of.-Make a solution of alum, and of half as much of the best glue as alum. Mix with one part whiting, or rather less, and 3 parts of well-baked plaster of Paris. It may be colour- by first staining the water. It sets nard. MARELE, to Polish.—Mix a quantity of the strongest soap-lees with quick-lime, to the consistence of milk, and lay it on the stone, &c., for 24 hours, clean it afterwards with soap and water, and it will appear as new. MARIGOLDS.—Their virtues have been lost sight of. The juice, or a strong decoction, with (or without) a very small portion of spirits of wine, is a rare application for healing lacerations, bruises, cuts, both pain and bleeding being immediately arrested. By its use In severe wounds Erysipelas is prevented. It seldom leaves a cicatrix, or mark, be- hind it. It has a tendency to contract the mouths of the small arteries, when directly cut across, and where they have been slit longitudinally. The tincture may be purchased of rite Homaepathic Chemists, and largely diluted with water, it is a first-rate remedy. MARIGOLDS, to Cultivate.— Pull up all those plants, whose flowers are less double, as soon as they appear, that they may noj impregnate the others with their farina. Save the seeds from the largest and most double flowers. Sow the seeds in April in places where the plants are to remain. MARIGOLD CHEESE. Pound marigold petals in a mortar, and strain out the juice ; put it into the milk when you put in the rennet, and stir them together ; the milk being set, and the curd come, break it as gently and as equally as possible; put it into the cheese vat, and press it with a gentle weight. Manage the same as other cheeses. MARINE GLUE.—Dissolve | lb. of india rubber in 3 gallons of coal naphtha. The india rubber should be first steeped In hot water, then cut in- to shreds with a pair of scissors, then dried, and put into the naphtha ; stir till it is dissolved, and is as thick as cream. Then take one part of it and add it to two parts by weight of shellac. Melt in an iron vessel. Stir well. It has great tenacity. MARJORAM, to Cultivate.— The common sweet marjoram, so much used in the culinary art, is cultivated by seeds, which are sown on a warm border at the end of March. When the plants are an inch high, transplant them into beds of rich earth; water them daily, till they have taken new root. The plant is aromatic, and warming in cold diseases of the head and stomach. The decoction is good for diseases of the chest, asthma, bronchitis, and it removes obstructions of the liver and spleen. See Robinson's Herbal. Sweet Marjoram is used for culinary purposes. It yields an essential oil, which has been applied to cancer with great benefit; and it obviates the fostor attendant upon that cruel disease. MARKING INK.—Dissolve 2 drs. of lunar caustic in clean rain water; add 1 dr. of gum arabic, and 1K ozs. of common soda, or ammonia. Take the sediment, and grind it with a little citric acid, clear rain water, gum arabic, and a little black ink. It is better to damp the linen a little before writing upon it. MARKETING READY RECKONER. No. 2d. 2j£d. 3d- 3*d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 2 0 4 0 5 0 6 0 7 3 0 6 0 7% 0 9 O IOj£ 4 0 8 0 IO X O x 2 5 0 IO X 0% I 3 1 5M 6 I 0 I 3 I 6 * 9 7 I 2 I S'A I 9 2 0% 8 I 4 I 8 2 O a 4 9 I 6 I 10M 2 3 a 7M IO I 8 2 I 2 b 2 II II I IO 2 3K 2 9 3 12 2 0 2 6 3 O 3 6 13 2 2 2 8M 3 3 3 9Vl *4 2 4 2 II 3 6 4 1 28 4 8 5 IO 7 0 8 a 56 9 4 II 8 14 0 16 4248 MAR MAR MAEKBT KEOKONXK, COHTUrtrKD. No. 4d. 4&d- Sd- 5*d. s. d. s. d. S. d. s. d. a O 8 0 9 O IO 0 11 3 1 0 1 x% I 3 1 4« 4 X 4 1 6 I 8 I IO S I 8 i 10K 2 1 2 3# 6 2 0 3 3 2 6 3 9 7 2 4 3 7% 2 II 3 2K 8 2 8 3 0 3 4 3 8 9 3 O 3 4% 3 9 4 10 3 4 3 9 4 2 4 7 11 3 8 4 4 7 S 12 4 O 4 6 5 O 5 6 13 4 4 4 ioj* 5 5 5 14 4 8 S 3 S IO 6 5 28 9 4 10 6 II 8 12 10 56 18 8 21 O 23 4 25 8 No. 6d. dj*d. 7d. 7%d. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 2 1 0 I I I 2 I 3 3 1 6 I 7Ja I 9 I 10J* 4 2 0 2 2 2 4 2 6 S 2 6 2 s% 2 11 3 1 lA 6 3 O 3 3 3 6 3 9 7 3 6 3 9K 4 I 4 4% 8 4 0 4 4 4 8 5 O 9 4 6 4 10K s 3 5 7K IO 5 0 5 5 5 IO 6 3 11 s 6 5 xx% 6 5 6 IO& 12 6 O 6 6 7 0 7 6 13 6 6 7 0% 7 7 8 iM 14 7 O 7 7 8 2 8 9 28 14 O *5 2 l6 4 17 6 56 28 O 30 4 32 8 35 O No. 8d. pd. rod. nd. s. d. s. d. s. d. s. d. 2 I 4 I 6 I 8 I IO 3 2 O 2 3 2 6 2 9 4 2 8 3 O 3 4 3 8 5 3 4 3 9 4 2 4 7 6 4 O 4 6 5 O 5 6 7 4 8 5 3 5 IO 6 5 8 5 4 6 O 6 8 7 4 9 6 O 6 9 7 6 8 3 IO 6 8 7 6 8 4 9 2 11 7 4 8 3 9 2 IO I 12 8 O 9 O IO O 11 O 13 8 8 9 9 IO IO 11 II 14 9 4 IO 6 II 8 12 IO 28 18 8 21 O 23 4 25 8 JZ. 4 43 O 46 8 51 MARKING INK, Blue.—The following formula is recommended by M. Dorvanlt, an eminent German Chemist. It is suitable for all kinds of white goods. Crystallized nitrate of silver, 1 dr.; water of ammonia, 3 drs,; crystallized carbonate of soda, 1 dr.; powdered gum arabic, x\ drs. ; sulphate of copper, 30 gTS. ; distilled water, 4 grs. Dissolve the silver salt in the am- monia ; dissolve the carbonate of soda, gum arabic, and sulphate of copper in the distilled water, and mix the 2 solu- tions together. MARMALADE CREAM. — Take 2 tablespoonfuls of orange marma- lade ; add to it a quart of cream ; a little, at first, for mincing the marmalade, a wine-glassful of brandy ; 8 ozs. of ground loaf sugar, and the juice of a lemon ; whisk it for half an hour ; and drain. Serve in custard glasses. MARMALADE, Currant. Take white, or red currants ; press out the juice ; add lemon, orange, or rasp- berry juice, and fine sugar, sufficient to sweeten the candy. Boil, and skim, till it becomes a transparent mass. Marmalade may be thus made of any other kind of fruit, and candied. It is a very delicious marmalade. MARMALADE, Orange. Rasp the oranges, cut out the pulp, then boil the rinds very tender, and beat fine in a marble mortar. Boil 3 lbs. of loaf-sugar in a pint of water, skim it, and add a pound of the rind; boil fast till the syrup is very thick, but stir it carefully; then put in a pint of the pulp and juice, the seeds having been removed, and a pint of apple liquor ; boil all gently until well jellied, which it will be in about half an hour. Put it into small pots. Lemon Marmalade can be made in the same way; it is a very good and elegant sweetmeat. MARMALADE, Orange, Transparent. — Weigh the fruit, divide it into quarters, take out the seeds and pips, remove the peek Cut the peel into fine strips, and to every pound of fruit, add 3 pints of cold water, let this mixture stand 24 hours, then boil till the peel is tender, let it remain 24 hours again, lastly to every pound of this mixture, add 1 lb. of hasp augur,M.AR 249 MAR then boll again for about an hour and half until it is transparent. MARMALADE, Quince.— Pare and quarter quinces, weigh an equal quantity of sugar ; to 4 lbs. of the latter put a quart of water, boil and skim, and have ready for 4 lbs. of quinces, when tender, by the following mode : lay them into a stone jar, with a tea-cup of water at the bottom, and pack them with a little sugar strewed between ; cover the jar close, and set it on a stove 'x cool oven, and let them soften til’ colour becomes red : then pom the fruit-syrup and a quart of quince-juice into a preserving pan ; boil all together till the marmalade be com- pleted, breaking the lumps of fruit with the preserving-ladle. This fruit is so hard, that if it be not done as above, it requires a great deal of time. Stewing quinces in a jar, and squeezing them through a cheese-cloth, is the best method of obtaining the juice to add as above: dip the cloth in boiling water first and wring it. MARMALADE, Scotch.-Take 8 lbs. of Seville oranges, pare off the skins very thin so that there shall be little white; then cut the parings into strips, put them into a pan with water to cover them, and boil for 1 hour ; then strain them through a sieve. Next quar- ter the oranges, and scrape out the pulps and juice into a dish ; the white skins, films and seeds must be thrown away; place the whole in a pan with 8 lbs. of sugar ; let the whole boil half an hour, skim, and pot for use. It is not necessary that they should all be Seville oranges, as a few if mixed with the common sorts are sufficient to give the necessary flavour. MARMALADE, Transparent- ly beautiful.—Take 3 lbs. of bitter oranges ; pare them as you would pota- toes ; cut the skin into fine shreds, and put them1 into a muslin bag ; quarter all the oranges ; press out the juice. Boil the pulp and shreds in 3 quarts of water 2J hours, down to 3 pints, strain through a hair sieve. Then put 6 lbs. of sugar to the liquid, the juice, and the shreds, the outside of a lemons grated, and the insides squeezed in; add one-penny- worth of isinglass. Simmer all together slowly for 15 or 20 minutes. JS" The s-weet oranges make good marmalade, if the seeds are pulverised, and well mixed with the rest. MARRIED WOMEN’S PROPERTY ACT, 188a.— 45 & 46 Viet. ch. 75. Came into operation January 1, 1883. GEITEEAL SUMMARY.—The general effect of the Act Is that a married woman is placed in almost the same position as if she were unmarried as regards property and debts. She may sue in her own name without the concurrence of her husband, she may be sued, she may contract debts for which her husband will not be liable. A husband is liable for debts contracted by his wife before her marriage only to the extent of property he may have acquired with his wife. THI ACT. 1. (1.) A married woman shall, in accor- dance with the provisions of this Act, be capable of acquiring, holding, and dispos- ing by will or otherwise, of any real or per- sonal property as her separate property, in the same manner as if she were a feme sole, without the intervention of any trustee. (a.) A married woman shall be capable of entering into and rendering herself liable in respect of and to the extent of her separ- ate property on any contract, and of suing and being sued, either in contract or In tort, or otherwise, in all respects as if she were a feme sole, and her husband need not be joined with her as plaintiff or defendant, or be made a party to any action or other legal proceeding brought by or taken against her; and any damages or costs recovered by her in any such action or pro- ceeding shall be her separate property; and any damages or costs recovered against her in any such action or proceeding shall be payable out of her separate property, and not otherwise. (3.) Every contract entered into by a married woman shall be deemed to be a contract entered into by her with respect to and to bind her separate property, unless the contrary be shown. (4.) Every contract entered into by a married woman with respect to and to bind her separate property shall bind not only the separate property which she Is possess- ed of or entitled to at the date of the con- tract, but also all separate property which she may thereafter acquire.MAR M AK 250 (J.) Every married woman carrying 00 a trade separately from her husband shall, in respect of her separate property, be subject to the bankruptcy laws in the same way aa if she were a feme sole. [NOTE.—This section places a married wo- man on exactly similar footing with a single woman.] 5. Every woman who marries after the commencement of this Act shall be entitled to have and to hold as her separate pro- perty and to dispose of in manner afore- said all real and personal property which shall belong to her at the time of marriage, or shall be acquired by or devolve upon her after marriage, including any wages, earn- ings, money, and property gained or ac- quired by her in any employment, trade, or occupation, in which she is engaged, or which she carries on separately from her husband, or by the exercise of any literary, artistic, or scientific skill. 8. Any money or other estate of the wife lent or entrusted by her to her husband for the purpose of any trade or business carried on by him, or otherwise, shall be treated as assets of her husband’s estate in case of his bankruptcy, under reservation of the wife’s claim to a dividend as a creditor for the amount or value of such money or other estate after, but not before, all claims of the other creditors of the husband for valuable consideration in money or money’s worth have been satisfied. [NOTE.—Thus a married woman may lend her husband money for carrying on his trade, but in case of her husband’s bank- ruptcy she will not be entitled to a dividend until the other creditors have been paid in full.] 4. The execution of a general power by will by a married woman shall nave the effect of making the property appointed liable for her debts and other liabilities in the same manner as her separate estate is made liable under this Act. 6. Every woman married before the com- mencement of this Act 6hall be entitled to have and to hold and to dispose of in man- ner aforesaid as her separate property all real and personal property, her title to which, whether vested or contingent, and whether in possession, reversion, or re- mainder, shall accrue after the commence- ment of this Act, including any wages, earnings, money, and property so gained or acquired by her as aforesaid. [NOTE.—The Act applies to women married before the Act comes into operation who may acquire property after January 1st, 1883, the time when the Act takes effect.] 6. All deposits in any post office or other savings bank, or In any other bank, all annuities granted by the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt or by any other person, and all sums forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable in the books of the Governor and Company of the Bank of England, or of any other bank, which at the commencement of this Act are standing in the sole name of a married woman, and all shares, stock, debentures, debenture stock, or other interests of or in any corporation, company, or public body, municipal, commercial, or otherwise, or of or in any industrial, provident, friendly, benefit, building, or loan society, which at the commencement of this Act are standing in her name, shall be deemed, unless and until the contrary be shown, to be the sepa- rate property of such married woman; and the fact that any such deposit, annuity, sum forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable in the books of the Governor and Company of the Bank of England or of any other bank, share, stock, debenture, debenture stock, or other interest as afore- said, is standing in the sole name of a mar- ried woman, shall be sufficient prima facie evidence that she is beneficially entitled thereto for her separate use, so as to authorise and empower her to receive or transfer the same, and to receive the divi- dends, interest, and profits thereof, without the concurrence of her husband, and to in- demnify the Postmaster General, the Com- missioners for the Reduction of the National Debt, the Governor and Com- pany of the Bank of England, the Gover- nor and Company of the Bank of Ireland, and all directors, managers, and trustees of every such bank, corporation, company, public body, or society as aforesaid, in respect thereof. [N0 TE.—Special attention is called to this one of the most important clauses in the Act. All moneys invested in Post Office Savings’ Banks, Building Societies, Loan Societies, Banks, or any other Corporation, Society, or Club in the wife's name, wmii OXLY BE PAYABLE TO THE WIVE, and not as hitherto to the husband if demanded. Money paid to a husband ixvestkd nr A wipe’s name may BE EECovexed agaix FROM A SOCIETY BY THE WIPE. It will be well for Secretaries and others con- nected with small investments in women’s names to be extremely careful not to pay to the husband without the wife’s writ- ten AUTHORITY.] 7. All sums forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable In the books of the Bank of England or of any other bank, and all such deposits and annuities respectively as are mentioned In the last preceding sec- tion, and all shares, stock, debentures, de- benture stock, and other interests of or in any such corporation, company, public body or society as aforesaid, which after the commencement of this Act shall beMAR 25* MAR allotted to or placed, registered, or trans- ferred in or into or made to stand in the sole name of any married woman shall be deemed, unless and until the contrary be shown, to be her separate property, in respect of which so far as any liability may be incident thereto her separate estate (hall alone be liable, whether the same shall be so expressed in the document whereby her title to the same is created or certified, or in the books or register where- in her title is entered or recorded, or not. Provided always, that nothing in this Act shall require or authorise any corpora- tion or Join* stock company to admit any married wr in to be a holder of any shares or stock ^rein to which any liability may be incident, contrary to the provisions of any Act of Parliament, charter, byelaw, articles of association, or deed of settle- ment regulating such corporation or com- pany. S. All the provisions herein-before con- tained as to deposits in any post office or other savings bank, or in any other bank, annuities granted by the Commissioners for the Reduction of the National Debt or by any other person, sums forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable in the books of the Bank of England or of any other bank, shares, stock, debentures, deben- ture stock, or other interests of or in any such corporation, company, public body, or society as aforesaid respectively, which at the commencement of this Act shall be standing in the sole name of a married woman, or which, after that time, shall be allotted to, or placed, registered, or trans- ferred to or into, or made to stand in, the sole name of a married woman, shall res- pectively extend and apply, so far as relates to the estate, right, title, or interest, of the married woman, to any of the particulars aforesaid which, at the commencement of this Act, or at any time afterwards, shall be standing in or shall be allotted to, placed, registered, or transferred to or into, oi* made to stand in, the name of any mar- ried woman jointly with any persons or person other than her husband. 9. It shall not be necessary for the hus- band of any married woman, in respect of her interest, to join in the transfer of any such annuity or deposit as aforesaid, or any sum forming part of the public stocks or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable as aforesaid, or any share, stock, debenture, debenture stock, or other benefit, right, claim, or other interest of or in any such corporation, company, public bodv, or society as aforesaid, which is now or shall at any time hereafter be standing In the sole name of any married woman, or in the Joint names of such married woman and any other person or persons not being her husband. 10. If any investment in any such deposit or annuity as aforesaid, or In any or tha public stocks or funds, or In any other stocks or funds transferable as aforesaid, or in any share, stock, debenture, or de- benture stock of any corporation, company, or public body, municipal, commercial, or otherwise, or in any share, debenture, benefit, right, or claim whatsoever in, to, or upon the funds of any industrial, pro- vident, friendly, benefit, building, or loan society, shall have been made by a married woman by means of money of her husband, without his consent, the Court may, upon an application under section seventeen of this Act, order such investment, and the dividends thereof, or any part thereof, to be transferred and paid respectively to the husband; and nothing in this Act contain- ed shall give validity as against creditors of the husband to any gift, by a husband to his wife, of any property which, after such gift, shall continue to be in the order and disposition or reputed ownership of the husband, or to any deposit or other invest- ment of moneys of the husband made by or in the name of his wife in fraud of his creditors; but any moneys so deposited or invested may be followed as if this Act had not passed. 11. A married woman may by virtue of the power of making contracts herein- before contained effect a policy upon her own life or the life of her husband for her separate use; and the same and all benefit thereof shall ensue accordingly. A policy of assurance affected by any man on his own life, and expressed to be for the benefit of his wife, or of his child- ren, or of his wife and children, or any of them, or by any woman on her own life, and expressed to be for the benefit of her husband, or of her children, or of her hus- band and children, or any of them, shall create a trust in favour of the objects therein named, and the moneys payable under any such policy shall not, so long as any object of the trust remains unper- formed, form part of the estate of the insured, or be subject to her debts: Pro- vided, that if it shall be proved that the policy was effected and the premiums paid with intent to defraud the creditors of the insured, they shall be entitled to receive, out of the moneys payable under the policy, a sum equal to the premiums so paid. The insured may by the policy, or bv any mem- orandum under bis or lier hand, appoint a trustee or trustees of the moneys payable under the policy, and from time to time appoint a new trustee or trustees thereof, and may make provision for the appoint- ment of a new trustee or new trustees thereof, and for the investment of the moneys payable under any such policy. In default of any such appointment of a trustee, such policy, immediately on its252 MAR MAR being effected, shall vest in the insured Mad his or her legal personal representa- tives, in trust for the purposes aforesaid. If, at any time of the death of the insured, or at any time afterwards, there shall be 00 trustee, or it shall be expedient to ap- point a new trustee or new trustees, a trustee or trustees or a new trustee or new trustees may be appointed by any court having jurisdiction under the provisions of the Trustee Act, 1850, or the Acts amending and extending the same. The receipt of a trustee or trustees duly appointed, or. In default of any such appointment, or in default of notice to the insurance office, the receipt of the legal personal representa- tive of the insured shall be a discharge to the office for the sum secured by the policy, or for the value thereof, in whole or in part. 12. Every woman, whether married be- fore or after this Act, shall have in her own name against all persons whomsoever, in- cluding her husband, the same civil reme- dies, and also (subject, as regards her bus- band, to the proviso herein-after contained) the same remedies and redress by way of criminal proceedings, for the protection and security of her own separate property, as if such property belonged to her as a feme sole, but, except as aforesaid, no hus- band or wife shall be entitled to sue the other for a tort. In any indictment or other proceeding under this section it shall be sufficient to allege such property to be her property; and in any proceeding nuder this section a husband or wife shall be competent to give evidence against each other, any statute or rule of law to the con- trary notwithstanding: Provided always, that no criminal proceeding shall be taken by any wife against her husband by virtue of this Act while they are living together, as to or concerning any property claimed by her, nor while they are living apart, as to or concerning any act done by the hus- band while they were living together, con- cerning property claimed by the wife, un- less such property shall have been wrong- fully taken by the husband when leaving or deserting, or about to leave or desert, his wife. 18. A woman after her marriage shall continue to be liable in respect and to the extent of her separate property for all debts contracted, and all contracts entered into or wrongs committed by her before her marriage, including any sums for which she may be liable as a contributory, either before or after she has been placed on the list of contributories, under and by virtue of the Acts relating to joint stock com- panies; and she may be sued for any such debt and for any liability in damages or otherwise under any such contract, or in respect of any such wrong; and all sums recovered against her in respect thereof, or • for any costs relating thereto, shall be pay- able out of her separate property: and, as between her and her husband, unless there be any contract between them to the con- trary, her separate property shall be deem- ed to be primarily liable for all such debts, contracts, or wrongs, and for all damages and costs recovered in respect thereof: Provided always, that nothing in this Act shall operate to increase or diminish the liability of any woman married before the commencement of this Act for any such debt, contract, or wrong, as aforesaid, ex- cept as to any separate property to which she may become entitled by virtue of this Act, and to which she would not have been entitled for her separate use under the Acts hereby repealed or otherwise, if this Act had not passed. 14. A husband shall be liable for the debts of his wife contracted and for all contracts entered into and wrongs com- mitted by her, before her marriage, in- cluding any liabilities to which she may be so subject under the Acts relating to joint stock companies as aforesaid, to the extent of all property whatsoever belonging to his wife which he shall have acquired or be- come entitled to from or through his wife, after deducting therefrom any payments made by him, and any sums for which judgment may have been bonS fide recover- ed against him in any proceeding at law, in respect of any such debts, contracts, or wrongs for or in respect of which his wife was liable before her marriage as afore- said; but he shall not be liable for the same any further or otherwise; and any court in which a husband shall be sued for any such debt shall have power to direct any inquiry or proceedings which it may think proper for the purpose of ascertaining the nature, amount, or value of such pro- perty : Provided always, that nothing in this Act contained shall operate to increase or diminish the liability of any husband married before the commencement of this Act for or in respect of any such debt or other liability of his wife as aforesaid. 15. A husband and wife may be jointly sued in respect of any such debt or other liability (whether by contract or for any wrong) contracted or incurred by the wife before marriage as aforesaid, if the plaintiff 'n the action shall seek to establish his claim, either wholly or in part, against both of them; and if in any such action, or in any action brought in respect of any such debt or liability against the husband alone, it is not found that the husband is liable in respect of any property of the wife so acquired by him or to which he shall have become so entitled as aforesaid, he shall have judgment for his costs of defence, whatever may be the result of the action against the wtfe if jointly sued with him: and in any such action against husbandMAR MAR 253 nnd wife jointly, If it appears that the hus- band is liable for the debt or damages re- covered, or any part thereof, the judgment to the extent of the amount for which the husband is liable shall be a Joint judgment against the husband personally and against the wife as to her separate pro- perty; and as to the residue, if any, of such debt and damages, the judgment shall be a separate Judgment against the wife as to her separate property only. 18. A wife doing any act with respect to any property of her husband, which, if ie by the husband with respect to pro- of the wife, would make the husband liable to criminal proceedings by the wife under this Act, shall in like manner be liable to criminal proceedings by her husband. 17. In any question between husband and wife as to the title to or possession of property, either party, or any such bank, corporation, company, public body, society, or club, a3 aforesaid in whose books any stocks, funds, or shares of either party are standing, may apply by summons or otherwise in a summary way to any judge of the High Court of Justice in England or in Ireland, according as such property is in England or Ireland, or (at the option of the applicant Irrespectively of the value of the property in the dispute) in England to the judge of the county court of the district, or in Ireland to the chair- man of the civil bill court of the division in which either party resides, and the judge of the High Court of Justice or of the county court, or the chairman of the civil bill court (as the case may be) may make such order with respect to the property in dispute, and as to the costs of and conse- quent on the application as he thinks fit, or may direct such application to stand over from time to time, and any inquiry touching the matters in question to be made in such manner aa he shall think fit: Provided always, that any order of a judge of the High Court of Justice to be made under the provisions of this section shall be subject to appeal in the same way as an order made by the same judge in a suit pending or on an equitable plaint in the said court would be; and any order of a county or civil bill court under the provi- sions of this section shall be subject to appeal in the same way as any other order made by the same court would be, arid all proceedings in a county court or civil bill court under this section in which, by rea- son of the value of the property in dispute, such court would not have had jurisdiction if this Act or the Married Women’s Pro- perty Act, 1870, had not passed, may, at the option of the defendant or respondent to such proceedings, be removed as of right into the High Court of Justice in England or Ireland (aa the case may be), by writ of certiorari or otherwise as may be prescribed by any rule of such High Court 1 but any order made or act done lit the course of such proceedings prior to such removal shall be valid, unless order shall be made to the contrary by such High Court: Provided also, that the judge of the High Court of Justice or of the county court, or the chairman of the civil bill court. If either party so require, may hear any such application in his private room 1 Provided also, that any such bank, corpor- ation, company, public body, or society aa aforesaid, shall, in the matter of any such application for the purposes of cost or otherwise, be treated as a stakeholder only. 18. A married woman who is an execu- trix or administratrix alone or Jointly with any other person or persons of the estate of any deceased person, or a trustee alone or jointly as aforesaid of property subject to any trust, may sue or be sued, and may transfer or join In transferring any such annuity or deposit as aforesaid, or any sum forming part of the public stock or funds, or of any other stocks or funds transferable as aforesaid, or any share, stock, deben- ture, debenture stock, or other benefit, right, claim or other Interest of or in any such corporation, company, public body, or society in that character, without her hus- band, as if she were a feme sole. 19. Nothing in this Act contained shall interfere with or affect any settlement or agreement for a settlement made or to be made, whether before or after marriage, respecting the property of any married woman, or shall interfere with or render inoperative any restriction against anticipa- tion at present attached or to be hereafter attached to the enjoyment of any property or income by a woman under any settle- ment, agreement for a settlement, will, or other instrument; but no restriction against anticipation contained in any set- tlement or agreement for a settlement of a woman’s own property to be made or entered into by herself shall have any validity against debts contracted by her before marriage, and no settlement or agreement for a settlement shall have any greater force or validity against creditors of such woman than a like settlement or agreement for a settlement made or enter- ed into by a man would have against hla creditors. 20. Where in England the husband of any woman having separate property becomes chargeable to any union or parish, the justices having jurisdiction In such union or parish may, in petty sessions assembled, upon application of the guard- ians of the poor, issue a summons against the wife, and make and enforce such orderMAR 254 MAR against her for the maintenance of her husband out of such separate property as by the thirty-third section of the Poor Law Amendment Act, 1868, they may now make and enforce against a husband for the maintenance of his wife If 6he becomes chargeable to any union or parish. Where in Ireland relief is given under the provi- sions of the Acts relating to the relief of the destitute poor to the husband of any woman having separate property, the cost price of such relief is hereby declared to be a loan from the guardians of the union In which the same shall be given, and shall be recoverable from such woman as if she were a feme sole by the same actions and proceedings as money lent. 21. A married woman having separate property shall be subject to all such liabil- ity for the maintenance of her children and grandchildren as the husband is now by law subject to for the maintenance of her children and grandchildren Provided al- ways, that nothing in this Act shall relieve from any liability imposed npon him by law to maintain her children or grand- children. 22. The Married Women’s Property Act, 1870, and the Married Women’s Property Act, 1870, Amendment Act, 1874, are hereby repealed : Provided that such repeal shall not affect any act done or right acquired while either of such Acts was in force, or any right or liability of any hus- band or wife, married before the com- mencement of this Act, to sue or be sued under the provisions of the said repealed Acts or either of them, for or in respect of any debt, contract, wrong, or other matter or thing whatsoever, for or in respect of which any such right or liability shall have accrued to or against such husband or wife before the commencement of this Act. 23. For the purposes of this Act the legal personal representative of any married woman shall in respect of her separate estate have the same rights and liabilities and be subject to the same jurisdiction as she would be if she were living. 24. The word "contract" in this Act shall include the acceptance of any trust, or of the office of executrix or administra- trix, and the provisions of this Act as to liabilities of married Women shall extend to all liabilities by reason of any breach of trust or devastavit committed by any mar- ried woman being a trustee or executrix or administratrix either before or after her marriage, and her husband shall not be subject to such liabilities unless he has acted or Intermeddled in the trust or ad- ministration. The word “property" in this Act includes a thing in action. 26. The date of the commencement of this Act shall be the first o£ January one thousand eight hundred and eighty-three. AMENDED MARRIED WOMEN’S PRO- PERTY ACT. 56 & 57, Viet. Ch. 63, 5th December, 1893. 1. Every contract hereafter entered Into by a married woman, otherwise than aa agent (a) shall be deemed to be a contract! entered into by her with respect to and to bind her separate property whether she is or is not in fact, possessed of or entitled to any separate property at the time when she enters into such contract, (b) shall bind all separate property which she may at that time or thereafter be possessed of or en- titled to, and (e) shall also be enforceable by process of law against all property which she may thereafter while discovert be pos- sessed of or entitled to. Provided that no- thing in this section contained shall render available to satisfy any liability or obliga- tion arising out of such contract, any sep- arate property which at that time or there- after she is restrained from anticipating. a. In any action or proceeding now or hereafter instituted by a woman or by a next friend on her behalf, the court before which such action or proceeding is pending shall have jurisdiction by judgment or order from time to time to order payment of the costs of the opposite party out of property which is subject to a restraint on anticipation, and may enforce such pay- ment by the appointment of a receiver, and the sale of the property or otherwise as may be just. 3. Section 34 of the Wills Act, 1837, shall apply to the will of a married woman made during coverture, whether she is or is not possessed of or entitled to any separate property at the time of making it, and such will shall not require to be re- executed or republished after the death of her husband. 4. Sub sections 3 and 4 of section one of Married Women’s Property Act, 1883, are hereby repealed. The Act does not apply to Scotland. MARROW PUDDING.—Pour a pint of cream boiling hot on the crumbs of a penny loaf, or French roll; cut iB>. of beef marrow very thin; beat 4 eggs wells add a glass of brandy, with sugar and nut- meg to taste, and mix all well together. It may be either boiled or baked, 40 or 50 min- utes ; cut 2 ozs. of citron very thin, and stick them all over it when you dish it up. MARSHMALLOW. —Decoc- tions of this plant are very useful where the natural mucus has been abraided from the coats of the intestines: in catarrhs from a thin rheum. It is emollient and demul- cent. It is good in diseases of the urinary organs, when the urine is hot and defi- cient; and it is of great value in dysentery, bronchitis, &c. Two or three ozs. of the fresh roots may be boiled in a quarts of water, down to 1 quart; strain; add 1 or. of gum arable. It will be more palatable by adding liquorice-root, or raUins and sugar to sweeten it.TvTFA 255 MAR MARSHMALLOW LOZEN- GES.— Pound cleaned marshmal- low roots to a pulp ; boil 1K lb. of loaf sugar, 6 or 8 ors. of rose water to a solid consistence; add 4 ozs. of the marsh- mallow pulp; whisk the whole well; place it over a gentle heat, to dry up the moisture, stirring all the time; and when a good paste has formed, empty it on buttered paper ; roll out and cut into forms. They are excellent for coughs, asthma, .d even consumptions, especially if a little orris root, liquorice, or white poppy seeds powdered be added, with a little gum arabic, or gum tragacanth. MATCHLESS CAKE. — As you whisk right well 5 eggs, very gra- dually add 8 ors. of sifted loaf sugar ; 8 ozs. of flour, dry and sifted ; 6 ozs. of butter, just melted; the rinds'of two small lemons, a little cinnamon, and candied lemon, or citron. Immediately before you mould the cake or cakes, incorporate % oz. of carbonate of soda; bake one hour in a moderate oven. Be sure to keep light by constant whisking. MEAD, to Make.—To 7 gallons of water, put 15 lbs. of honey ; boil and skim it well; take rosemary, thyme, bay-leaves, and sweet-briar, one handful all together ; boil one hour ; put into a tub with a little ground malt; stir till it Is lukewarm ; strain, and pour it into the tub again ; cut a toast, and spread It over with yeast, and put it into the tub; and when the liquor is covered with yeast, put it up in a barrel; take of cloves, mace, and nutmegs, 1 % oz. ; of ginger sliced, 1 oz. ; bruise the spice; tie it in a cloth, hang it in the vessel, stopping it up close for use. Mead is very pleasant if cowslips and lemon are added to the above—using water, &c. in proportion. MEAD WINE.—Soft water, 9 gallons, white currants, 3 quarts ; fer- ment ; mix honey, 15 lbs- I white tartar, powdered, 1J4 oz. ; add balm and sweet briar, each half a handful; white brandy, K a gallon. This will make 9 or 10 gallons. MEASLES, an Eruptive Dis- ease.—It is indicated by chilliness, shivering pain in the head, fever, sneez- ing, discharges from the nose, sickness, and sometimes vomiting, hoarseness, cough, heaviness of the eyes; the eye- lids frequently swell so as to cause blindness, the patient complains of his throat, and a looseness often precedes the eruption. The third or fourth day an eruption, like flea-bites, appears in the face, neck, and breast, and soon after in the body and limbs; the erup- tion does not suppurate. But the spots soon run into one another, and form red streaks, giving to the skin an in- flammatory appearance, and produce a preceptible swelling on the face. The eruption may be distinguished from the small-pox by their scarcely rising above the skin. The fever, cough, and diffi- culty of breathing, instead of being re- moved by the eruption, as in the small pox, are rather increased; but the vomiting generally ceases. About die sixth or seventh day, and sometimes earlier, the eruption begins to fade, and gradually disappears, ac- companied with a separation of the skin in the form of scales. But the other symptoms sometimes remain for a con- siderable time, and require care, warmth, and appropriate medicine. In the malignant measles, the erup- tion appears more early, and all the symptoms, just described, in an aggra- vated form. The mouth and throat assume appearances. The mouth and throat appear as if they were ulcerated, and the fever is of a typhus kind, and symptoms of putrescency appear ; also petichiae, or purple, livid spots, a pain in the head and eyes, difficult respira- tion, no expectoration with the cough, an inflammatory affection of the lungs, feeble, but rapid pulse, delirium, and oft a violent looseness ; these are very unfavourable symptoms. Such as die of the measles, generally expire about the ninth or tenth day from the first attack.—The most favourable symptoms are a moderate looseness, a moist skin, and a plentiful discharge of urine. This disease is very infectious, often prevails epidemically, however; and the constitution that has been once under its influence is seldom, or never liable to a second attack, especially if the first attack was a mild one. Treatment.—At the commence- ment of the disease, no animal food must be taken, the patient must be con- fined to a low spare diet, as gruel, sago,MEA 256 ME A &c., and for common drink, barley- water, acidulated with lemon-juice. The bed-room should be kept moder- ately cool, regulating the temperature thereof by the feelings, guarding against any sudden change, and especially ex- posure to cold draughts. When the attack is of a mild charac- ter, little medicine Is wanted. Perhaps the less we interfere with the efforts of nature the better. It would be ex- treme folly to deplete the system by fccthre treatment. In mild cases, na- ture, a\littU assisted, generally effects a cure. But when the symptoms are of a sterner character, active means must be used. Place the feet in warm water, in which dissolve a little of carbonate of soda, two or three times a day. Give a mild emetic, (as the Emetic Mixture, page 172.) Give also the Aperientfor Children, page ax. Should the fever be very high, give the follow- ing Febrifuge Mixture ;—Subcarbonate of potash, s drachms; purified nitre, 30 grains; camphor mixture, 6 ozs. : mix in a strong infusion of saffron. This mixture is designed to determine the eruption to the surface. Or, the following infusion will be very effective, and it should be given as soon as possi- ble after the emetic;—saffron, two parts; Virginia snake-root, 1 part; infuse rapidly, or make a tea; sweeten and give warm, as much as the stomach will bear. If the eruption is slow in appearance, or only partially appears, or recedes, give the Sudorific Powder, page 383, warm milk sweetened, or strong balm tea with a little saffron infused. A bottle of hot water or a hot brick wrapped in a cloth, saturated with vinegar and water, or a vapour bath made of the decoction of bitter herbs, will be found most efficient. When the eruption is prominent, little more medicine is required. A little of the Composition Powder, page 134. may be given occasionally. Sponge the body from the first, now and then, with warm ley water and a little carbo- nate of soda. Wash the eyes with very weak brandy and water; or with slip- pery elm bark and a solution of borax. If the cough is severe, attended with Impeded breathing, apply a mustard plaster to the chest, and repeat, If necessary; and give the Expectorant Syrup or Tincture, page 175 ; or inhale the steam of warm water, in which 30 or 40 drops of laudanum have been in- troduced. If the head is affected, con- tinue to bathe the feet in warm water. Should there be much restlessness and pain, give the Diaphoretic Powder or Decoction, page 160. From the first attack of the measles, keep the bowels regular. A voluntary looseness indi- cates a favourable crisis;. and, if moder- ate, it should not be checked. When it is very severe, it should be checked by some mild astringent; as, an infu- sion of raspberry leaves ; or an infusion of raspberry leaves, and a few drops of laudanum. Should the system be much debilitated, with a tendency to putrescency, the strength should be supported with cordials, beef tea, calf’s feet jelly, and an infusion of Peruvian bark in port wine. Give also an infu- sion of malt with two tablespoonfuls of yeast to a quart of the former, in order to neutralize the putrescence indicated by purple spots, &c. Patients recovering from the measles should not expose themselves too soon to the cold air. The food ought for some time to be light, and the drink diluting. Cooling lenitive medicines are essentially necessary after this dis- ease, to carry off the remaining dispo- sition to inflammatory affection of the lungs. Through every stage of the disease, the state of the lungs must be carefully regarded, for it is from the effect on them that the danger of the measles in most cases depend. It is necessary also to give tonic bitters for the recovery of the former strength, to breathe a pure air, and if the lungs will bear it, and the weather suitable, to take gentle open air exercise. See page 353. MEAT, Observations on.—In all kinds of provisions, the best of the kind goes the farthest; it cuts out with most advantage, and affords most nourishment. Round of beef, fillet of veal, and leg of mutton, are joints of higher price; but as rtbey have more solid meat, they deserve the preference. But those joints which are inferior may be dressed as palatably. 1 In loins of meat, the long pipe that runs by the bone should be taken out, as It is apt to taint; as also the kernelsMEA MEA 257 of beef. Do not purchase joints bruised by the blows of the drovers. Save shank bones of mutton to enrich gravies or soups. When sirloins of beef, or loins of veal or mutton, come in, part of the suet may be cut off for puddings, or to clarify. Dripping will baste anything as well as butter; except fowls and game ; and for kitchen pies, nothing else should be used. The fat of a neck or loin of mutton makes a lighter pudding than suet. Frosted meat and vegetables should be soaked in |co4f water two or three hours before using. If the weather permit, meat eats much better for hanging two or three days before it is salted. Roast-beef bones, or shank bones of ham, make fine peas-soup ; and should be boiled with the peas the day before eaten, that the fat may be taken off. MEAT, to Keep in Hot Weather, &c.—Place the meat on a wooden support, or suspend it in a close vessel, on the bottom of which some strong acetic vinegar is poured. Meat may be kept sweet a long time by impregnating the atmosphere with acetic acid. Borax is the best preserva- tive of meat. See page 73. A joint of meat may be preserved for several days, even in summer, by wrap- ping it in a clean linen cloth, previously moistened with good vinegar ; hanging it up, and changing the cloth, or wring- ing it out afresh in vinegar, once or twice a day, if the weather be warm. Glacialine is a preservative, it is a new disinfectant and antiseptic. The best meat for keeping is MUT- TON, and the best joint is a leg ; which, with care, if the weather be only moder- ately hot, in summer, will keep about a week ; in winter, if the weather be open, from 2 to 4 weeks. A shoulder is the next best joint. The scrag end of a neck keeps the worst, and in warm weather it will not keep above two days ; if very warm, it is bad the second day. In BEEF, the ribs keep the best, even five or six days in summer, and in win- ter ten. The middle of the loin is the next best, and the rump the next. The round will not keep long unless salted. The brisket Is the worst, and will not keep longer than two days in summer, and six days in winter. LAMB does not keep long, and it is best to eat it soon or even the same day it is killed. The first part that turns bad of a leg of VEAL, is where the udder is skewered back. The skewer should be taken out, and both that and the part under it wiped every day, it will then keep good three or four days in hot weather. Meat dipped into chloride of lime in a liquid state for a second will keep many days without taint; for no flies will touch it if so done. Wash the meat before cooking it. MEAT CAKE.—According to the size, take of beef-steaks, of leg of mutton, of fillet of veal, ham and beef suet; chop all altogether very fine, and season with salt, fine spices, chopped parsley, green shalots, a clove of garlic, 8 yolks of eggs, half a glass of brandy, and a lbs. of fresh bacon, or less, cut in dice. Mix all well together. Take a stewpan, the size you intend to make the cake, and garnish it all over with thick slices of lard ; put in the minced meat, cover close, and put in the oven for four hours. When cold, take out of the stewpan and scrape the lard with a knife to make it white and even. MEAT PIE, of any kind.— First fry the meat brown over a quick fire in a little drip or butter. Season with pepper and salt. Then put into a pie-dish with chopped onions, or shalots, if you like, some slices of half- cooked potatoes, a little gravy, or stock, and enough water to cause the liquid to cover the meat. Cover the dish with crust, made with 2 lbs. of flour, 6 ozs. of butter, or lard, or dripping, and water enough to knead it into a stiff paste. Bake 1% hour. Learned chemists appear to have forgotten the important fact that, if a meat pie is made without a hole in the , crust to let out certain emanations from the meat, colic, vomiting, and other symptoms of slight poisoning will occur. I have known of two instances of large parties being affected in this manner from eating meat pies that had no hole in them.—Correspondent of the Lancet. MEAT and POTATO PUD- PIN Q.—Boll some mealy potatoe*MEN MED 258 till ready to crumble to pieces ; drain ; mash them very smooth. Make them into a thickish batter with an egg or two and milk, placing a layer of steaks or chops well-seasoned with salt and pepper, at the bottom of a baking dish ; cover with a layer of batter, and so al- ternately, till the dish is full, ending with batter at the top. Butter the dish to prevent sticking or burning. Bake of a fine brown colour. MEDICINE, Disagreeable, to Take.—Get your medicine into the mouth, do not swallow, nor open your mouth ; then have a glass of water ready to take immediately after you take the medicine into the mouth. The moment it is swallowed nip the nose. This plan neutralizes the taste of the most nause- ous medicine. Chloroform mixed with medicine, even the most bitter, neutralizes the taste. MEDICINAL TEA. Rose- mary leaves, dried, 3 ozs. ; sage, 4 ozs. ; rose leaves, 4 ozs. ; peach leaves, 3 ozs.; hyssop, 4 oz. ; balm 6 ozs.; male speed- well, 4 oz.; agrimony, 6 ozs. A wine- glass of these mixed herbs is sufficient to make 3 pints of infusion, which is made is the same manner as ordinary tea. All the above herbs may be used, or a selection made, but do not leave out balm and agrimony. If these herbs were imported from a distant region they would fetch a high price, and be held in high estimation. Such tea will strengthen the stomach, and invigorate, instead of debilitating the nervous sys- tem.—See Robinson's Herbal on Tea, page 267. MELANCHOLY.—See Hypo- chondria, page 215. MELTED BUTTER, to Make.—Cut 2 ozs. of butter into small bits, to melt more readily; put Into the stewpan with a dessert-spoonful of flour, and two table-spoonfuls of milk. When thoroughly mixed, add two table-spoonfuls of water; hold it over the fire, and shake it round every minute, ail the time the same way, till it just begins to simmer; then let it stand quietly, and boil up. It should be as thick as good cream. MENSES, Obstructed. Be electrified.—Tried.—Or, take half a pint of strong decoction of pennyroyal every night on going to bed.—Or, boil fivo large heads of hemp in a pint of water to half. Strain it and drink it at going to bed, two or three nights. It seldom fails.—Tried.— Wesley. MENSTRUATION.—Men- struation is a natural secretion, of a red colour, from the womb, so named from its occurring once in a month. This periodical discharge appears to be for the purpose of keeping up sanguification, or the making of blood in the body, and a determination thereof to the womb, for the purpose of gestation. In conse- quence of its not appearing at a proper period of life, of irregularity after it has taken place, and of its being excessive, as well as at the period of its cessation, many derangements in the system occur. The interruption of the menstrual secretion may be considered of two kinds ;—the one when it does not begin to flow at that period of life in which it usually appears, which is termed Chloro- sis, or Green Sickness—and the other when, after it has repeatedly taken place for some time, it does, from other causes than conception, cease to return at the usual periods. Chlorosis, or Green Sickness. —Menstruation begins from the four- teenth to the sixteenth year. But the circumstance of a female having passed the age of sixteen, does not always demand medical aid. The date of puberty varies very widely, and one female may menstruate at 12, and ano- ther at 30 years of age, without the health being impaired. As to its causes, it may arise from im- perfect formation of the organs con- cerned in the function, from the want oi due force in the action of the arteries of the womb, or some preternatural resist- ance in their extremities ; from too full habit of body, from impoverishment of the blood, and from great physical debility. This retention produces many dis- tressing symptoms ; as, headache, flush- ings in the face, pain in the back and stomach, costiveness, furred tongue, failure of appetite, longing to eat chalk, lime, &c. The face loses its vivid colour, and becomes of a yellowish hue ; some- times there is bleeding from the nose and stomach; the skin becomes pale and flaccid; and the feet, and sometimes259 MEN MEN part of the body, Is affected with drop- ical swelling. The breathing is hurried by any quick or laborious motion of the body, which sometimes occasions palpi- tation and fainting. A head-ache often occurs, but more certainly pains in the back, loins, haunches. Treatment.—The strength of the system should be restored by exercise. Iron should be combined with some laxative medicine. If there is much 'j, take the Diaphoretic Powder, page 160. Also infusions of pennyroyal, or of tansy, or blood-root, motherwort, &c. Bathe the feet occasionally in warm water, and rub well with a coarse flannel. If there is constipation, take Aperient Medicines; page si. Pow- dered madder root has been recom- mended, say half a drachm to be taken three or four times a day in treacle or honey, drinking freely of pennyroyal tea. Repeat and increase the dose if necessary. Or it may be administered thus:—Take extract of madder, a drachms, muriated tincture of steel, 40 drops, bitter tincture, 2 drachms, mint- water, 8 ozs. Mix. Three tablespoon- fuls to be taken three times a day. Or, give a vapour bath of a decoction of bitter herbs.—Or in bed apply the hot brick covered with a cloth dipped in vinegar and water. Give bitter tonics. Steaming in a sitz-bath of bitter herbs till perspiration is produced, is very use- ful ; also fomenting the abdomen, and applying herbs as warm poultice. If the stomach is deranged, give an emetic, and a dose of mandrake, and aperients as before stated. When the menstrual flux begins, it should be promoted by the use of the hip or sitz-bath. Take the Dyspeptic Pill, page 168, and the Res- torative Bitters, page 336 Keep the feet always warm and dry ; avoid a cold damp atmosphere; and when the weather permits, take plenty of open air exercise. Let the diet be light and nourishing. Do not use any promotlve medicines in retention of the menses until there is an effort or strug- gle of nature to effect it, which may be known by the periodical pains, pressing down upon the hips. Painful Menstruation. The pains are severe—in some cases ex- tremely severe. The remedial mea- sures are Dearly the same as the pre- ceding. On account of the pain, still- ness, quiet of mind, and soothing reme- dies are rendered indispensable. Adopt the remedies prescribed for the retention of the menses ; and take now and then from 10 to 20 drops of laudanum in a little Hollands gin diluted with penny- royal tea. Let the patient lie in bed. apply hot fomentations to the lower part of the back ; and if the pain is excessive, flannels dipped in hot water, wrung out, and sprinkled with spirits of turpentine. Sponge the body well with tepid salt and water every morning, and apply friction with a flesh brush, or coarse towel. Regulate the bowels, if costive, by one of the Aperients, page 21. Hops boiled in vinegar, and applied to the abdomen, often give relief; so does the tincture of black cohosh, about half a teaspoonful three times a day in a little sweetened water. Profuse Menstruation. — The flow of the menses is considered im- moderate when it recurs more frequent- ly, when it continues longer, or when, during the ordinary continuance, it is more abundant than is usual with the same person at other times. It is not, however, every inequality that is to be considered a disease, but only those deviations, that are excessive in degree, which are permanent, and induce a manifest state of debility. When a large flow of the menses has been preceded by head-ache, giddiness, or difficulty of breathing, and has been ushered in by a cold shivering, with much pain in the back and loins, fre- quent pulse, heat, and thirst, it may then be considered pretematurally large; and the face becomes pale, the pulse weak, an unusual debility is felt on ex- ercise, the breathing hurried by much motion, and the back is pained in an erect posture ; the extremities are fre- quently cold, and in the evening the feet swell. General nervousness, with affections of the stomach, frequent famtings, and a weakness of mind, liable to strong emotion from slight causes, when suddenly presented, are also attendant symptoms. It is produced by a preternatural de- termination of blood to the womb, or a plethoric state of the body, from high living, strong liquors, over-exertion, (particularly dancing,) violent passions260 MEN MEN of the mind, application of cold to the feet, frequent abortions or child-bearing, and whatever will induce great laxity, •as living much in warm chambers, and especially drinking much of warm enervating liquors, such as tea and coffee. Treatment.—Remove immediate- ly all exciting causes of this disease. The flux must not be stopped, but moderated ; avoid an erect posture, and external heat, as warm chambers, and soft beds ; by using a light, cool, and unexciting diet; by obviating costive- ness, as before directed ; or use castor oil and lenitive electuary; the external and internal use of astringents, to con- stringe the vessels of the womb, as the application of cloths sprinkled with vinegar and water over the region of the womb ; and three table-spoonfuls of the following mixture every three or four hours :—red rose-leaves, % oz; Infuse in a pint of boiling water, till cold ; then strain; add elixir of vitriol, 60 drops, tincture of rhatany root, 1 oz. A gentle emetic may be of great service, see page 172. The Diaphoretic Powder page 160, is of great service in this case. An injection of cold water into the rectum may check an immoderate flow. Obstructed Menstruation.—It Is often caused by exposure to cold during the menstrual discharge, to wet feet, cold bathing, great mental fear and anxiety, &c., just before the periodical time of discharge. The obstruction injures the health, if it continues two or three periods. Give the Composition Powder, page 134, or the Diaphoretic Powder, page 160, when the patient is in bed, and place bricks covered with vinegar and water cloths to the feet and sides, or give the Vapour Bath. Take also Peruvian bark infused in port wine. In short, use the same means as pre- scribed under Chlorosis. Take also the Female Pill, page 178. MENTAL CALCULATIONS. RULE I. Find the Amount of the number of yard*, Mj., Cle. at one penny, and multiply it bv price: when there is a farthing with inv given number of pence, (as, aid. 6id. iojA.1 add 1 to what it amonnts to at one venny. When there io a halfpenny with any given pence, add half of the amount of what it comes to at one penny; and when 3 farthings occur, add three quarters of what it amounts to at one penny. 40 lbs. at nd. 40 at id. =33. 4d. xnd.= j£i 16s. 8d. Am. >li Gals, at ?d. per gal. 71 at id.=6a,x7 = d?3. is. Am. A Pipe at iod. per gal. 116 gals. = ios. 6d. x 10=^3 3s. Am. 43 Weeks at 6d. per day. 313 days = 1 6s. 3d. x6=j6'7 17s. 6d. -dm. When i, i, or } occur in the quantity, reckon them with the yards, &c. at the rate of id. per yard, i. e. for a quarter of a yard reckon id. i for a half a yard add id., &c. 3ii yards at 3d. a yard. 314=18. 8id. x 3= 8s. lid. Am, 9<>}ozs. at <d. per oz. 904=78. 6fd.X3 = eS\ 17s. 9jd. Am. 60 lbs. at 8id. per lb. 6oat id.=58.x8i= jtfa is. 3d. Am. in yds. at 3Jd. 111 at id.=9S. 3d. X3jd. =eSl 14s: 8id. Am. nooi yds. at 6id. iaoofd.=^3 os. oid. X 6id.=jtf3i 10s. 3id. Am. RULE II. To ascertain the price of any number of yards, lbs., gallons, &c., at any given shil- lings per lb., &c. Ascertain the amount at one shilling, and multiply it by the price. If 3 pence occur in the price, add one quarter of what it amounts to at a shilling; if 4 pence, add one third; if 6 pence, add half; if 9 pence, add three quarters. If the pence in the price be not an aliqnot part of a shilling, find for the shillings by this rule, and for the pence by the rule for pence, which amounts add together. 80 Gals, at 13s. per gal. 80 at is.=j^4X iSs. =jC6o. Am. With regard to fractional parts of a yard, lb., &c., when the price is shillings per ard, reckon the quarters as 3 pence, the alf as 6 pence, and the three-quarters as 9 pence. 5o4 yards at 6s. per yd. 3oj at is.=j£i 10s. 3d. x 6=^13 is. 6d. Am. 90-i stones at 7s. per st. 904=^4 10s. gi. X7=j#3i iSs. 3d. Am. 100 gallons at 6s. 6d. per gal. 100=^3 x 64 =^31 10s. Am. 130 lbs. 10s. 9d. per lb. 130=1^7 los.Xiof =80 ns. 6d. Am. ' 60 Gallons at 8a. 4d. per gal. 60=^3x84 =e#2 5. Am. S3* Many figures might be saved byMEN 261 MEN multiplying the ntaillings of the price by the number of £ that the quantity amounts to at is., which will produce the answer in £. 150 Tons at job. ijo=j61 ios. x jo=jFz3J. Am. To calculate evsts. qrs. lbs.—Set down the ousts., to the right put the lit. contained in the qrs. and lit. to which add 13 lbs. for each nut., which will give the total number of lbs. If the price per lb. be pence, con- sider them as pence; if shillings, consider them as shillings. j cwts. 3 qrs. 30 lbs. at 6d. per lb. Thus: —j cwts.; place after the 5 the number of the lbs. (3 qrs. and 30 lbs.>=$76 lbs., to which add j 13 lbs.=6o lbs.+576 lbs.=636 lbs. taken as pence=^3 13. x6d.=j£ij 18. A ns. 1S cwts. 3 qrs. 18 lbs. at io^d. per lb. Number of lbs. 1783 lbs. as pence,—£q 8s. 6d. x lojd.—3^77 19s. jd. Ans. In calculating «ru, roods, and perches, reckon the acres as pounds, multiply the roods by J, the product consider as shil- lings, and the perches by i^d. (which is the price of a perch at £1 per acre) which will give the amount of the whole at £1 per acre, which multiply by the number of pounds per acre. 80 acres, 3 roods, 8 perches, at £3 10s. per acre. £. 8. d. 80 3 8 S i* 80 11 ox ji—^381 18s 6d. Am. Troy Wsioht.—The qrs. are to be con- sidered as half-pence, the dusts, as shil- lings, and oxs. as pounds. 13 ozs. 8 dwts. 4 grs. at 6s. 8d. per oz. 6s. 8d.—\£ £12 8 3 £4 3 8} Am. To find the value of an ounce, the price per lb. being given. Take the shillings as farthings, and multiply by 3 for Avoirdupois; for Troy, multiply by 4. Thus i oz. Avoirdupois at 43. per lb. 4x3—13 farthings—3d. Am. The price of a pound of Avoirdupois being known, to find the price of a stone of 14 pounds. For every penny In the price of a pound, take one shilling and twopence for the stone : thus a stone at 3d. per lb. cost 3s. 6d. at 8d. 9s. 4d. For a farthing in the price of a lb. reckon 3$d. in the stone; for a half-penny, 7d.; and, for three farthings, io$d.; as a stone at yid. per lb. comes to 10s. 6d. and 3*d. or ios. qjd. at 4$d., 4s. 8d. and 7d. or 38. 3d. and at 6jd., 7s. iofcd. The price of a pound being given, to find that of a hundred-weight or 113 lbs. For every farthing in the price of a pound,, take twice the number of shillings, and four times the number of pence. Example t 1 cwt. at aid. per lb. agd.—10 farthings. 10 times 3—30, the shillings, 10 times 4— 40, the pence, and these added, make £1 3s. 4d. To find the value of a lb., the price per cwt. being given.—Multiply the shillings in the price by 3, and divide by 7 for the price of a pound in farthings.— Thus, 1 lb. at 14s. per cwt. 14x34-7=6 farthings—lid. Am. From the price of a Cwt., to find that ot a Ton. For every shilling reckon a pound, for threepence, a crown, and for every half- penny over, tenpence. As, at £3 9s. 8d. a cwt., how much a ton ? Am. £bg and 10s. and 3s. 4d. or £bq 133. 4d. By reversing the process, the price of a cwt. may be found from that of a ton, thus, a ton at £34 16s. 8d. how much a cwt? Am. 34shillings, 3 threepences, and 3 half- pence, or £1 14s. iod. When the price of one is known, to find that of 100. For every farthing in the price of one, take twice as many shillings, and once as many pence. Thus, 100 articles at ai each aj—9 far things, 9 times 3— 18s. and gd. give 18s. gd. Am. 100 lbs. at j}d. per lb. 5J—31 farthings, 31 times 3—43 shillings, or £1 33. and aid.— is. gd. then, £3 as. and is. 9d.—£2 38. gd. the price of a hundred at the given rate. To find what any number of pence per day, will amount to in a year. Add together as many pounds, half as many pounds, and as many fi-vepences as there are pence per day, and their sum will be the answer. Examples. What does a boy Who earns 3d. a day gain in a year? Am. £3 and £1 10s. and isd. or £4 ns. jd» What will 8d. a day amount to in a year? £8 and £4 and js. 4d. or £12 3s. ad. Or, take 365 days as pence—£1 ios. Jd. which multiply by the number of pence per day. To find the amount of any number of pence per day, (Sunday excepted) for 2 year. For every penny a day, take so many Guineas, Crowns, and Pence; thus at gd. a day—£g 98. and 9 crowns—£3 js. and’ gd. The sum—j£n 14s. yd. To find the price of a Gross, the price of one article being given.—Take the pence in- the price of one article as shillings, and the number of pence in these shillings will be- the price of a gross in shillings.MEN MTT. 262 Thus, 1 Gross at 6d. each. 6d. as 6s. ■reckoned as pence—71, which consider as 7 as. Ans. INTEREST. At J per cent, multiply the principal by the months; reckon the product in Pounds sterling as pence.—Or, the Interest of £1 per month at 5 per cent, and so proportion- ately for any part of a pound. Find the Interest for one month, and multiply it by the number of months. Thus, Interest of jtf.40 for 3 months at 3 per cent. £40 X 3 months—^iao as pence—10s. Ans. Or, ^40 for 1 month—3s. 4d. X3 months — jos. Ans. INTEREST AT < PER CENT FOR YEARS. lers earth, or finely powdered chalk. Expose it for several hours to the at- mosphere. MILDEW, to Remove. — Mix soft soap with powdered starch, half as much salt, and the juice of a lemon, and lay on with a brush. Let it lay on the grass day and night till the stain is gone. Or, take 3 ozs. of chloride of lime, pour on it a quart of boiling water, then add 3 quarts of cold water; steep the linen 10 or 12 hours, when every spot will be extracted. Mix oxalic acid, citric acid, and milk together ; rub into the linen ; repeat as it dries ; wash, and bleach on the grass. The Interest of £1 per month is id., so the Interest of £1 for a year will be is. Rule.—Multiply the principal by the years; reckon the product in pounds as shillings. Thus, £$o for 3 years at 3 per cent. ^30x3—1303.-^7 10. Ans. The Interest of £igo 78. 6d. for 10 years and 4 months. £12 10s. 4id. for one yearx io%=£u<) 7s. aid. Ans.—73. 6d. being the f of a £ the J of a shilling—4^8. is allowed. Another Rule.—Take the years as shil- lings, the months as pence, then take such part of the principal as those shillings and pence are of a £.—Thus, Interest of ^900 ias. 6d. for 3 years. 3 years as 3s. is i of a £.—Then £goo ias. 6d.-i-4—£12$ 3s. i|d. Ans. METAL, to Clean, all sorts. —Mix % pint of neat’s foot oil with half a gill of spirits of turpentine; scrape a little rotten stone ; wet a woollen rag with the mixture ; dip it into the rotten stone, and rub the metal well; wipe it off with a soft cloth; polish with dry leather, and use more of the rotten stone. As it respects steel, if it be very rusty, use a little pumice powder, or emery powder on a separate woollen rag at the first. METAL TEA-POTS, to Clean.—Put them into a solution of common soda, boiling hot; let it stand 12 hours near the fire, and then rub the inside with a small brush; and, 4f needful, put in a second solution. MICE.—See Rats, page 334 ; the same directions are applicable to Mice. MILDEW, to Remove.—Soap ■the linen previously wetted, and apply salt and lemon juice to both sides ; or apply finely powdered pipe clay, or ful- MILE of the Various Nations. English Yards. 2148 Arabian Bohemian Brabant Chinese illis Danish mile English Do. Geographical 10137 6082 628 8244 1760 2025 Flemish French league French Marine French legal league German (Geo.) Do. mile, long Do. Do. short Hamburgh Hanover Hesse Dutch Hungarian 6869 4860 6075 4263 8100 10126 6859 8244 H5S9 10547 6395 9ii3 Irish Italian ... Lithuanian Oldenburg Poland, short 3038 2025 0784 10820 6993 Do. long ... Portugal leguos Prussian mile ... Roman (ancient) Roman (modem) Russian verst Saxon Scotch ... Silesian Spanish legal leguas Do. Do. common Swedish Swiss Turkey (berries) Westphalian mile 8108 6765 8461 1600 203S 1167 9905 1984 7083 4630 7416 11704 9166 1821 12155MIN MIL 263 MILK, Chalk to Detect in.— Dilute the milk with water ; the chalk if there be any, will settle to the bottom in an hour or two ; put to the sediment an acid, vinegar, &c., and if effervescence takes place, it is chalk. MILK OF ROSES, a Cosme- tic, common.—Mix 4 ozs. of the oil of almonds with half a gallon of rose- water, and add 40 drops of the oil of tartar. Or, take 1 lb. of Jordan almonds, a quarts of rose-water, 1 pint of spirits of wine, K oz. of oil of lavender, 1 oz. of white Windsor soap, and 2 ozs. of cream of roses. Blanch the almonds in boiling water ; dry well, and pound into a paste. Pound in the soap, and mix it well with the almond paste ; then add the cream of roses; mix, and add the rose-water and spirits. Strain, and add the oil of lavender gradually, and stir well. Bottle. French Method.—Mix 4 ozs. of oil of almonds, J oz. of oil of lavender, 3 quarts of spirits of wine, and 10 ozs. of rose-water ; blanch 3 lbs. of Jordan al- monds ; pound them with Jf lb. of Spanish oil soap, % oz. of spermaceti, and J4 oz. of white wax. Put all into a large jar, with 2 ozs. of pearlash dis- solved in 1 oz. of warm , water. Shake well, and bottle. MILK PORRIDGE.—Make a fine gruel of split grits, long boiled, or of Yorkshire oatmeal; strain, if you like, add either cold milk, or warm it with milk, as may be agreeable. Serve with toast.—See Oatmeal Porridge, page 277. MILK PUNCH.—Take 1 quart of water, 3 pints of new milk, and % lb. of sugar, or more ; boil slowly 10 min- utes ; take from the fire, and stir Jn quickly 2 or 3 well beaten eggs, mixed with a pint of cold milk. Add 4 or 5 table-spoonfuls of lemon juice, and a quart of brandy. Run it through a flannel bag. Stir it to a froth, and serve in warm glasses. MILK SOUP.—With cinnamon boil a quart of milk, 2 bay leaves, and moist sugar. Put sippits in a dish ; pour the milk over them ; simmer over the fire till the bread is soft; beat up the 7olks of 2 eggs with a little milk ; Mix nil together, and serve. MILK, to Preserve.—Milk often Corns by an acid developed in the liquid. To prevent It, add to the milk a small portion of bi-carbonate of soda, or a little borax powder. This is not at all injurious to health; but rather aids di- gestion. Many of the great dairies on die continent adopt this method. Or, scald the new milk very gently without boiling. Cream already skim- med may be kept 24 hours, if scalded without sugar ; and by adding to it as much powdered lump sugar as will make it pretty sweet; it will be good 2 days, if kept in a cool place. Or place a piece of newly-hammered iron, or 3 twelve-penny nails, in each bowl, then pour the milk upon them. MILK, for Washing Dishes.— In place of Soap. Fill a dish-pan half full of very hot water, then put in a cup of milk. It softens the hardest water, gives the dishes a clear, bright look, and preserves the hands from roughness and “ chapping” which comes from the use of soap. It cleans the greasiest dishes without leaving the water covered with a greasy scum. Iron pots, saucepans should be first filled with hot water after using, then emptied, and washed in the hot milk and water. MINCED COLLOPS.—Chop beef, and mince it very small, to which add salt and pepper. Put into small jars, and pour on the top some clarified butter. When intended for use, put the clarified butter into a frying-pan, and slice some onions into the pan; fry' them ; add a little water to it, and then put in the mince-meat. Stew it well, and in a few minutes it will be fit to serve. MINCE MEAT.—Good lean beef, 1 lb. ; boil it 50 minutes; then chop it very fine; then take apples, cur- rants, raisins, and suet, 1 lb. each, can- died lemon, candied citron, 2 ozs. of each ; and 4 ozs. of almonds. Chop each extremely fine; mix and add 1 lb. of sugar, and a wine-glassful and a half of brandy. Spices and lemon juice may be added if you like. Let it stand some hours covered before using.—This meat may be put into tartlet pans or dishes. MINCE PIES.—Boil a neat’* tongue 2 hours ; skin it, and chop it ex- tremely small; chop also very fine 3 lbs.MIN MOC 264 of beef suet, 3 lbs. of best baking apples, 4 lbs. of clean currants, picked and well dried before the fire, 1 lb. of good raisins, stoned, and chopped very small, and 1 lb. of powdered sugar ; mix all together with % oz. each of mace and nutmeg grated ; cloves and cinnamon, of each, X oz., and 1 pint of brandy; make a rich puff paste. As you fill the pie, put In a little candied citron and orange, cut small. MINCE PIES.—Clean 7 lbs. of currants, and 3J lbs. of beef suet, chop- ped fine ; 3$ lbs. of the lean of a sirloin of beef, minced raw; 3J lbs. of apples chopped fine; £ lb. each of citron, lemon-peel, and orange peel, cut very small; a lbs. of fine sugar; 1 oz. of spice, cloves, mace, nutmegs, and cinna- mon, pounded together, and sifted, the rind of 4 lemons, and 4 Seville oranges ; rub all together till well mixed ; mix a bottle of brandy, one of sherry, and the juice of the grated lemons and oranges together in a basin ; pour half over, and press it down tight; then add the other half, at the top, to soak in by degrees ; cover it close. It will keep 4 or 5 weeks. When used, sheet the dish, or tins with puff paste, and cover with the same. They will bake in 10 or 12 minutes. MINCE PIES.—Roll out puff paste to the thickness of a penny piece; lightly butter your tartlet tins ; cut out from the paste round pieces, each the size of the tartlet-tins ; with these pieces line the tins ; put in each mince-meat; wet them round, put on the lids, making a small hole in the centre; close well at the edges; egg over lightly, and bake from 15 to 25 minutes. MINCE MEAT, for the above. —Beef without skin and strings, 2 lbs. ; best suet, chopped fine, free from skin, 4 lbs. ; add 6 lbs. of clean dry currants ; 3 lbs. of chopped apples ; the peel and juice of 2 lemons, half a pint of sherry, n nutmeg, X oz. of cloves; ditto, mace; ditto, pimento, in finest powder; press into a deep pan or dish, and keep covered in a cool dry place. When the pies and tarts are made, put in citron, orange, and lemon peeL MINCE PIES, Made of Eggs. —Boil 6 eggs hard, shred them small; shred double the quantity of suet; then put currants washed and picked, x lb., or more, if the eggs are large; the peeA of 1 lemon shred very fine, and the juice, 6 spoonfuls of sweet wine, mace, nutmeg, sugar, a very little salt; orange, lemon, and citron candied. Make a light paste for them. MINCE PIES, Without Meat.—Chop fine 3 lbs. each of suet and apples, when pared and cored; wash and dry 3 lbs. of currants ; stone and chop 1 lb. of raisins ; beat and sift ij lb. of loaf sugar ; 12 ozs. of candied orange peel, and 6 ozs. of citron. Mix all well together with X oz. of nutmeg, half the quantity of cinnamon, 6 or 8 cloves, and half a pint of French brandy; cover close, and keep for use. MINT, to Cultivate.—This is done by parting the roots in spring ; or by planting cuttings in a moist soil dur- ing the summer months, and watering; them several times a day till they have taken root. Plant the cuttings 5 inches apart. MINT SAUCE.—Wash fresh gathered mint; pick the leaves from the stalks; mince them very fine, and put them into a sauceboat with a tea-spoon- ful of sugar, and 4 table-spoonfuls of vinegar. It may also be made with dried mint, or with mint vinegar. MINT VINEGAR.—Dry and pound X oz. of mint seed ; pour upon it a quart of the best vinegar. Infuse 10 days, shaking well. MIR AN GU ES.—Whisk the whites of 9 eggs to a thick froth ; add the rind of 6 lemons grated fine, and a table-spoonful of sifted sugar; then lay a wet sheet of paper on a tin, and with a spoon, drop the mixture in lumps separately upon it; sift sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven, of a nice colour; then put raspberry, apricot, or any kind of jam between two bottoms ; put them together, and lay them in & warm place to dry. MOCK BRAWN.—Boil a pair of neat’s feet very tender; take the meat off, and have ready the belly-piece of pork salted with salt and saltpetre for a week. Boil this almost enough ; take out the bones, and roll the feet and the pork together. Then roll it very tight with a strong cloth and coarse tape. Boil it till very tender, then hang it up in the doth till cold ; after which keep265 MOC MOU Ct In a sousing-liquor, thus made;—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, In a gallons of water, with 4 01s. of salt In it, for half an hour. Strain it and let it get cold. MOCK TURTLE. —Take a calf’s head with the skin on, cut it in half, and clean well; half boil it, take all the meat off in bits, break the bones of the head, and boil them in some real and beef broth. Fry some shalot In butter, and dredge in flour to thicken the gravy ; stir this into the browning, and give it z or 2 boils ; skim it care- fully, and then put in the head ; put in also a pint of Madeira wine, and simmer till the meat is tender. About 10 min- utes before you serve, put in some basil, tarragon, chives, parsley, cayenne, pep- per and salt to your taste ; aJso 2 spoon- fuls of mushroom-ketchup and 1 of soy. Squeeze the juice of a lemon into the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. Forcemeat balls, and small eggs, MOOR GAME, to Pot.—Pick, singe, and wash the birds; dry, and season, inside and out, pretty high, with mace, nutmeg, allspice, and salt. Pack them in as small a pot as will hold them, cover them with butter, and bake in a slow oven. When cold, take off the butter, dry them from the gravy, and put one bird into each pot, which should just fit. Add as much more butter as will cover them, but take care that it does not oil. The best way to melt it is by warming it in a basin set in a bowl of hot water. MORELLA CHERRIES, to Preserve.—Take full ripe cherries; take off the stalks and prick them with a pin; to every 2 lbs. of cherries, put 1K lb. of loaf sugar; beat part of the sugar, and strew it over them; let them stand all night; dissolve the rest of the sugar in half a pint of the juice of currants; set it over a slow fire, and put in the sugared cherries, and give them a gentle scald; let stand all night again ; and then give them another scald; then take them care- fully out, and boil the syrup till it is thick ; pour it upon the cherries; if it be too thin, boil again. MORELLA WINE. — Free from the stalks 60 lbs. of Morelia cher- ries, and bruise them, so that the stones shall be broken. Press out the juice, and mix with 6 gallons of sherry wine, 5 lbs. of fine sugar, and 4 gallons of warm water. Powder 1 oz. each of nutmeg, cinnamon, and mace, hang them separately in small bags in the casks containing the mixture. Bung, and in a few weeks it will be a delici- ously flavoured wine. Add z quart of French brandy. MOTHS, to Preserve Clothes from.—Put a few cuttings of Russia leather in your trunk or wardrobe; or sprinkle a few pepper-corns, pimento- corns, or cloves in the same places. Or, a piece of camphor in a linen bag. Or, sheets smeared with tur- pentine, and well dried. Cedar wood and tobacco leaves are very noxious to moths. It is effectual to wrap clothes in cotton or old linen saturated with a solution of camphor, and dried. Or, mix together Z2 drops of the oil of cloves, and 12 of the oil of caraway, 6 drops of the oil of lavender, a glass of whiskey, and a piece of camphor. Sprinkle with it. -Ot a mixture of powdered borax, dissolved in warm water. MOUNTAIN WINE. —Free Malaga raisins from stalks ; chop them small, and put 5 lbs. to every gallon of cold spring water; infuse a fortnight, or more, stirring it occasionally ; press out the liquor, and torrel it; previously fume the vessel with brimstone. Do not bung till the hissing is over. Put half a pint of French brandy to every gallon of wine. MOUSE TRAP, a Never Failing one.—Take a piece of deal, or any kind of wood, about 6 inches broad, and 9 or zo inches long, and put into the sides, about the middle, 2 pins, or thick pieces of round wire; then take two sticks about two feet long, and lay them on the table, or dresser, &c., with a notch cut at the end of each stick, so that about one half of the board may lie on the table, or place to which the mice resort; let the end projecting from the table be baited with cheese, &c., and when the mice run off the table to the bait, it will tip them into a vessel three fourths full of water, which must be placed directlyMUS MOU 266 under the projection, and they will be drowned. MOUTH WASH.—Take J oz. each of dried mint, thyme, and lemon thyme; cloves, bruised; half a nutmeg grated; pour on these ingredients K oz. of tincture of myrrh, and % oz. of spirits of wine, a cupful of water, and ta drops of oil of peppermint. Keep in a bottle; shake up before using. Use as a gargle; it will purify the mouth from bad odours and tastes. MUFFINS.—Take 14 lbs. of flcur, a ozs. of salt, 4 quarts of water, and % a pint of yeast; beat them 20 minutes, and let them rise to the top of what you mix them in; beat them down a second time, turn them out on a bed of flour, and with a knife and spoon make them up; when the iron is hot, sift a little flour upon it, which if hot, will turn brown; lay the muffins on; when blistered on the top turn them; and when brown on the other side, they will be baked enough. Some persons, when -they are half done dip them in warm milk, and bake to a pale brown. The addition of eggs is an im- provement ; and so is milk, i.e. 1 quart milk, and 1 quart of water, instead of the two quarts of water. MUFFIN PUDDING.—Boil a few coriander seeds, a bit of lemon peel and sugar, in iJ4 pint of milk; braize the milk over four muffins ; when cold, crush them with a wooden spoon ; add nearly a cupful of brandy; J4 lb. of any dried fruit, some grated nutmeg, 3 ozs. of Jordan almonds, blanched and pounded fine, and six eggs well beaten ; mix well together, and boil in a basin, or bake in a dish with paste round it. It may be made plainer by substituting currants for sweet-meats. MULLED ALE.—Boil a quart of good ale with some nutmeg, beat up six eggs and mix them with a little cold ale, then pour the hot ale to it, and return it several times to prevent it curding; warm, and stir it sufficiently thick, add a piece of butter or a glass of brandy, and serve it with dry toast. MULLED WINE.—Boil some spice in a little water till the flavour is gained, then add an equal quantity of port, some sugar and nutmeg; boil together, and serve with toast. MULLED WINE.—Bofl a bit of cinnamon and some grated nutmeg a few minutes, in a large cupful of water; then pour to it a pint of port wine, and add sugar to your taste ; beat it up, and it will be ready. Or it may be made of good British wine. _ MULLET, Red.—It is called the Sea-Woodcock. Clean, but leave the inside, fold in oiled paper, and gently bake in a small dish. Make a sauce of the liquor that comes from the fish, with a piece of butter, a little flour, a little essence of anchovy, and a glass of sherry. Give it a boil and serve in a boat, and the fish in the paper cases. MUMPS.—This is a disease of the salivary glands which are situated on each side of the lower jaw. It generally comes on with cold shiver- ings, sickness, and vomiting, pain in the head, succeeded by swelling of one or both sides of the neck, and some- times becomes very painful, and so large as to impede the breathing, and the swallowing. It generally increases till the fourth day, and then declines. In this complaint, little medicine is required. Give an Aperient, see page 21. Bathe the feet frequently in warm water. At night give the Diaphoretic Powder or Decoction, page 160. Bathe the swelling with warm water and tincture of myrrh, and thirty drops of laudanum ; or apply flannels dipped in the mixture. Cover the swelling with flannel. In extreme cases, give the Vapour Bath and the Composition Pow- der, page 134. Should the swelling break, apply a slippery elm poultice, made with milk and water ; (See Slip* pery Elm, page 36a ;) then apply the. Black Salve for healing, page 65, or the Green Ointment, page 203. MUSSELS, to Detect Poison- ous.—Put a silver spoon into the vessel with the mussels, and let it con- tinue therein while they are over the fire ; when removed take out the spoon, and if it is of a bright colour, there is no poison ; but if it is tinged of a black or dark hue, they are unfit for use. MUSSEL SOUP.— Boil the mussels till they are open ; take them off; put them into another stewpan; then with butter rolled in flour, someMUS MUS 267 parsley, and sweet herbs, with some good gravy, let them simmer till re- duced to one half; add a liaison, and serve it up hot. Before boiling, take out the moss, crabs, &c. MUSSELS, to Stew.—Wash and pick out moss, and boil as before ; put them into a saucepan ; to a quart of mussels, add half a pint of the liquor strained, two blades of mace, a piece of butter rolled in flour; let them stew; toast bread brown, and lay it round the dish; pour in the mussels, and send to table hot. MUSHROOMS. —Every cook should be perfectly acquainted with the different sorts of things called by this name by ignorant people, as the death of many persons has been occasioned by carelessly eating the poisonous kinds. The eatable mushrooms first appear very small, and of a round form, on a little stalk. They grow very fast, and the upper part and stalk are white. As the size increases, the under part gradually opens, and shows a fringy fur of a very fine salmon-colour, which continues more or less till the mush- room has gained some size, and then turns to a dark brown. These marks should be attended to, and likewise whether the skin can be easily parted from the edges and the middle. Those that have white or yellow fur should be carefully avoided, though many of them have the same smell (but not so strong) as the right sort. MUSHROOMS, to Pickle. — Buttons must be rubbed with a bit of flannel and salt; and from the larger, take out the red inside, for when they are black they will not do, being too old. Throw a little salt over, and put them into a stewpan with some mace and pepper; as the liquor comes out, shake them well, and keep them over a gentle fire till all be dried into them again ; then put as much vinegar into the pan as will cover them, give it one warm, and turn all into a glass or stone jar. They will keep two years, and are delicious. MUSHROOMS, to Stew— The large buttons are best, and the small flaps while the fur is still red. Rub the large buttons with salt and a bit of flannd, cut out the fur, and take off the skin from the others. Sprinkle them with salt, and put into a stewpan with some pepper corns ; simmer slowly till done, then put a small bit of butter and flour, and two spoonfuls of cream ; give their: one boil, and serve with' sippets of bread. MUSHROOMS, to Dry. — Wipe them clean, and of the large take out the brown, and peel off the skin. Lay them on paper to dry in a cool oven, and keep them in paper bags in a dry place. When used, simmer them in the gravy, and they will swell to near their former size. To simmer them in their own liquor till it dry up into them, shaking the pan, then drying on tin plates, is a good way, with spice or not, as above, before made into powder. Tie down with bladder, and keep It in a dry place or in paper. MUSHROOMS, to Fricassee. —Peel and scrape the inside of the mush- rooms ; put them into salt and water; if buttons, rub them with flannel; take them out, and boil them with fresh salt and water; when they are tender, put in a little shred parsley, an onion stuck with cloves, (or both separately, and chopped;) toss them up with a good lump of butter rolled in a little flour. You may put in 3 spoonfuls of thick cream, and a little nutmeg cut in pieces ; but mind to take out the nutmeg and onion before serving. MUSHROOMS, to Grow.— They are easily cultivated. Get some stable sweepings and horse-droppings; mix them well together, then add some dry sweepings, they greatly improve the bed. More material you have the bet- ter. When you have got a sufficiency, place them well under cover, dry them as much as possible, leaving only suffi- cient latent moisture to ferment. When the internal heat is not more than 85® break into 8 or 10 pieces mushroom bricks, and insert one piece firmly into each hole, bearing the bed down well. Cover again with yellow loam about 1 % inches thick, making the top smooth, watering carefully. Let the surface dry, then in 8 or 10 dqys cover over with' a layer of dry hay. When the bed has been formed 7 or 8 weeks water it, and after bearing has. commenced water may be given everyMU£» 268 mxts 'week. The temperature of the house should be about 550. Those who have cucumber frames, can easily grow mushrooms by putting some of the spawn 4 or 5 inches deep in the mould, when the plants are nearly done with. Mushroom beds or boxes may be formed and planted at any season but decidedly the best times are the months of September and February; a bed spawned in September will last through the winter months, and ^rill be succeed- ed by the February or March bed, which will in its turn give a supply through the summer and autumn. MUSHROOM KETCHUP.— Take the largest broad mushrooms, break them into an earthen pan, strew salt over, and strew them now and then for 3 days. Then let them stand for 12, till there is a thick scum over ; strain, and boil the liquor with Jamaica and black pepper, mace, ginger, a clove or two, and some mustard seed. When cold, bottle it, and tie a bladder over the cork; in 3 months boil it again with some fresh spice, and it will then keep a twelvemonth. MUSHROOM KETCHUP.— Take a stewpan full of the large-flap y mushrooms, that are not worm-eaten, and the skins and fringe of those you have pickled ; throw a handful of salt among them, a "id set them by a slow fire; they will produce a great deal of liquor, which you must strain, and put to it 4 ors. of shalots, 2 cloves of garlic, a good deal of pepper, ginger, mace, doves, and a few bay-leaves, boil and skim very well. When cold, cork close. In 2 months boil it up again with a little fresh spice and a stick of horse-radish, and it will then keep for a year ; which mushroom ketchup rardy does, if not boiled a second time. MUSHROOM POWDER.— Take the thickest largest buttons ; peel them, cut off the rotten end, but do not Wash them ; spread them separately on pewter dishes, and put in a slow oven to dry ; let the liquor dry into the mush- rooms, for it makes the powder stronger, continue in the oven till they can be powdered ; then beat them up in a mor- tar, and sift them through a fine sieve, with a little cayenne pepper and pound- ed mace ; bottle ; keep in a dry place. MUSK JULAP.—Rub * dr. of musk well together with J or. of sugar ; gradually add simple cinnamon and peppermint water, each 2 ozs., and 2 drs. of volatile aromatic spirit. In the low state of nervous fevers, hiccupping, convulsions, and other spasmodic affections, 2 table-spoonfuls of this julap may be taken every a or 3 hours. MUSLINS, to Keep a Good Colour.—Never wash muslins, or any kind of cotton goods with linen; for the latter discharges a kind of gum, and colouring matter, every time it is washed which discolours the muslin and cotton—wash them by themselves. MUSLINS, Uninflammable.— Mix with starch about the same weight of carbonate of lime, commonly called Spanish white or Spanish chalk. It does not deteriorate the appearance or injure the material of the muslin. MUSTARD.—This plant is both culinary and medicinal. As a condi- ment it is generally used and esteemed. As a cataplasm or poultice, it is made thus ;—powdered mustard seed, 4 ozs.; vinegar, as much as is sufficient to mix it for a plaster; it is stronger by adding horse radish, scraped, 5? ozs. It is em- ployed as a stimulant; it often inflames the part, and raises blisters, but not so perfectly as cantharides. Sometimes they are applied to the soles of the feet, in tiie low state of acute diseases, for raising the pulse, and relieving the head. The white mustard acts not only on the bowels, but also on the skin. It wonderfully strengthens the whole line of the alimentary canal, improves the appetite, the digestion, and promotes sleep, and the health generally. When the seed is used to remove con- stipation, take it an hour before break- fast fasting. A small table-spoonful is sufficient MUSTARD, to Make.—Mix the best Durham flour of mustard by degrees with boiling water to a proper thickness, rubbing it perfectly smooth ; add a little salt, and a little tincture of cayenne, and keep it in a small jar close covered, and put only as much into the glass as will be used soon, which should be wiped daily round the edges.269 MUS MUT MUSTARD WHEY. —Milk and water, of each, 1 pint; bruised mustard seed, oz.; boU together till the curd be separated ; strain. This is a good way of giving mustard. It warms and invigorates file stomach, and motes the secretions ; it is very use- in nervous disorders, chronic rheu- matism, palsy, dropsy, &c. A tea-cup- ful several times a day. MUSTY CASKS, to Sweeten. —Throw in burning coals, and then cold water. Public brewers wash their casks with lime and water, mixed nearly to the consistence of paint; remain till dry, and then wash well with water. MUSTY FLOUR.—It may be restored by mixing with 15 lbs. of flour, 1 oz. of magnesia. Leaven and bake in the usual way. The loaves will rise well, be spongy and light, and whiter than bread made in the usual way, and have an excellent taste. MUTTON, to Choose.-Choose it by the fineness of its grain, good colour, and firm white fat. It is not the better for being young; if of a good breed and well fed, it is better for age ; but this only holds with wether-mutton : the flesh of the ewe is paler, and the texture finer. Ram mutton is very stroDg-flavoured; the flesh is of a deep red, and the fat is spongy. M UTTON, to Grill a Breast of. —Score a breast of mutton in diamonds, and rub it over with the yolk of an egg ; then strew it over with a few bread crumbs, and shred parsley ; put it into a Dutch oven td broil; baste it with fresh butter; pour in the dish good caper sauce, and serve. MUTTON, Breast of.—Cut off the surperfluous fat, and roast and serve the meat with stewed cucumbers; or to eat cold, covered with chopped parsley. Or half boil and then grill it before the fire ; in which case cover it with crumbs and herbs, and serve with caper sauce, or if boned, take off a good deal of the fat, and cover it with bread, herbs, and seasoning; then roll and boil; and serve with chopped walnuts, or with capers and butter. MUTTON, to Collar a Breast of.—Take out the bones and gristle; then take some grated bread, a few cloves, some mace, pepper, salt, and a little lemon-peel, chopped fine ; lay the meat flat; rub it over with egg, and spread the seasoning over it; add 2 or 3 anchovies, washed and boned, then roll the meat as hard as possible ; bind it with coarse tape, and boil it in a cloth. Or it may be skewered, and ths tape omitted, and either roasted or baked. MUTTON, to Dress a Leg of, to Eat like Venison.—Take a large fat leg of mutton, cut out like a haunch of venison, as soon as it is killed; whilst warm, take out the bloody vein ; stick it in several places in the under side with a sharp pointed knife ; pour over it a bottle of port wine ; turn it in the wine 4 or s times a day for 5 days ; dry it well with a clean cloth ; hang it up in the air with the thick end uppermost for 5 days ; dry it night and morning to keep it from being damp or musty. When it is to be roasted cover with paper and paste, as you do venison. Serve with venison sauce. It will take 4 hours roasting. MUTTON, to Dress a Haunch of.—Keep it as long as it can be preserved sweet; wash it with warm milk and water, or vinegar, if necessary; wash it well, lest the outside should have a bad flavour from keeping. Put a paste of coarse flour on strong paper, and fold the haunch in ; set it at a great distance from the fire, and allow propor- tional time for the paste ; don't take It off till about 35 or 40 minutes before serving, and then baste it continually. Bring the haunch nearer to the fire be- fore you take off the paste, and froth It up as you would venison. 1 A gravy must be made of ij lb. of loin of old mutton, simmered in a pint of water to half, and no seasoning but salt; brown it with a little burnt sugar,270 mitt MTJT and send it up in the dish but there should be a good deal ol' gravy in the meat; for though long at the fire, the distance and covering will prevent its roasting out. Serve with currant-jelly sauce. MUTTON, Leg of, Boiled.— Soak well for an hour or two in salt and water; do not use much salt. Wipe well, and boil in a floured cloth. Boil from 3 hours to 2J hours. Serve with caper sauce, potatoes, mashed turnips, greens, oyster sauce, &c. To preserve the gravy in the leg, do not put it in the water till it boils ; for the sudden contact with water causes a slight film over the surface, which pre- vents the escape of the gravy, which is abundant when carved. MUTTON, Leg of, to Force. —Raise the skin, and take out the lean part of the mutton , chop it very fine with one anchovy; shred a bundle of sweet herbs ; gTate a penny loaf, half a lemon, nutmeg, pepper and salt to your taste ; make them into a force-meat, with 3 eggs, and a large glass of port wine; fill up the skin with the force- meat ; but leave the bone and shank in their places, and it will appear like a whole leg ; lay it in an earthen dish, with a pint of port wine under it, and put it in the oven ; it will take 2J hours, when it comes out, take off all die fat; strain the gravy over the mutton ; sur- round it with hard yolks of eggs, and pickled mushrooms. Garnish with pickles. MUTTON, Kebobbed.—Take all the fat out of a loin of mutton, on the outside also if too fat, and remove the skin. J oint it at every one ; mix a small nutmeg grated with a little salt and pepper, crumbs and herbs ; dip the steaks into the yolks of 3 eggs, and sprinkle the above mixture all over them. Then place the steaks together as they were before they were cut asun- der, tie them and fasten them on a small spit. Roast them at a quick fire ; set a dish under, and baste them with a good piece of butter, and the gravy of the meat; but throw some more of the above seasoning over. When enough, take up, and lay it in a dish ; have j a pint of good gravy ready besides that in the dish ; and put into it a spoonfuls of ketchup, and ruh down a tea-spoon- ful of flour with it, give this a boil, and pour it over the mutton, but first skim off the fat well. Mind to keep the meat hot till the gravy is quite ready. $■ MUTTON, Loin of.—Roasted; if cut lengthways as a saddle, some think it cuts better. Or for steaks, pies, or broth. MUTTON, a la Francois.— Take away the fat from loin cutlets; dredge them a little with pepper on both sides, and plentifully with flour; heat in a saucepan 3 table-spoonfuls of water; put the cutlets in one flat layer at the bottom when the water begins to boil; throw in a little salt when they begin to stew, and a bit of butter. Let them simmer as gently as possible, the pan raised above the fire, for 1% hour. Turn the cutlets when half done; and put to them a little gravy, if they do not yield sufficient themselves.—It is a fine relish, very nutritious, and very suitable for invalids. MUTTON, Fillet of, Braised. —Take off the chump end of the loin, butter some paper, and put over it, and then a paste as for venison, roast it two hours. Do not let it be the least brown. Have ready some French beans boiled and drained on a sieve ; and while the mutton is being glazed, give them one heat up in gravy, and lay them on the dish with the meat over them. MUTTON, Rumps and Kid- ney to Dress.—Stew 6 rumps in some good mutton gravy half an hour; take up, and let them stand to cool. Clear the gravy from the fat; and put into it 4 ozs. of boiled rice, an onion stuck with cloves, till the rice is thick. Wash the rumps with yolks of eggs well beaten ; and strew over them crumbs of bread, a little pepper and salt, chopped parsley, and thyme, and grated lemon- peel, fry in butter to a fine brown. While the rump is stewing, lard the kidneys with bacon, and put them to roast in a Dutch oven. When the rumps are fried, the grease must be drained before they are put on the dish, and the pan being cleared likewise from the fat, warm the rice in it. Lay the latter on the dish; the rumps put round on the rice, the narrow ends towards the middle, and the kidneys between. Garnish with hard eggs cut in half, theMUT MUT 271 white being left on; or with different coloured pickles. MUTTON SAUSAGES. — Take a pound of the rawest part of a leg of mutton that has been either roasted or boiled ; chop the same very small, and season it with pepper, salt, mace, and nutmeg; add to it six ounces of beef suet, some sweet herbs, two anchovies, and a pint of oysters, all chopped very small; a quarter of a pound of grated bread, and some of the anchovy liquor, and the yolks and whites of two eggs well beaten. Put it all, when well mixed, into a little pot; and use it by rolling it into balls, or sausage-shape, and frying. If approv- ed, a little shalot may be tdded, or garlic, which is a great improvement. MUTTON, Saddle of, to Roast.—Let it be well kept first. Raise the skin, and then skewer it on again; take it off a quarter of an hour before serving it, sprinkle it with some salt, baste it, and dredge it well with flour. The rump should be split, and skewered back on each side. The joint may be large or small according to the company ; it is the most elegant if the latter. Being broad it requires a high and strong fire. MUTTON, Shoulder of, to Boil with Oysters.—Hang it some days, then salt it well for two days; bone it, and sprinkle it with pepper and a bit of mace pounded : lay some oysters over it, and roll the meat up tight and tie it. Stew it in a quantity of water, with an onion and a few pepper-corns, til) quite tender. Have ready a little good gravy and some oysters stewed in it; thicken this with flour and butter, and pour over the mutton when the tape is taken off. The stewpan should be kept closely covered. MUTTON, to Roll a Loin of. —Hang the mutton till tender: bone it; and lay a seasoning of allspice, mace, nutmeg, and a few cloves, all in fine powder, over it. Next day pre- pare a stuffing as for hare; beat the meat and cover it with the stuffing; roll it up tight, and tie it. Half bake It in 3 slow oven ; let it grow cold ; take off the fat, and put the gravy into a stewpan ; flour the meat, and put it in likewise : stew it till almost ready ; and add a glass of port wine, some ketchup, and anchovy, and a little lemon-pickle, half an hour before serving ; serve it in the gravy, and with jelly-sauce. A few fresh mushrooms are a great improve- ment ; but if to eat like hare do not use these, nor the lemon pickle. MUTTON, Basque of.—Take the caul of a leg of veal; lay it in a copper dish, the size of a small punch bowl; take the lean of a leg of mutton that has been kept a week ; chop it very small; take half its weight in beef marrow, the crumbs of a penny loaf, the yolks of four eggs, two anchovies, half a pint of port wine, the rind of half a lemon grated; mix it like sau- sage meat, and lay it in your caul in the inside of your dish ; close up the caul, and bake in a quick oven; when you take out, turn the dish upside down, and turn the whole out; pour oyer it brown gravy, and send it up with venison sauce. MUTTON, French Steaks of a Neck of.—Cut off most of the fat of a prime neck of mutton ; cut the steaks two inches thick ; make a large hole through the middle of the fleshy part of every steak with a knife, and stuff it with pepper, salt, and nutmeg mixed up with the yolk of an egg. When stuffed, wrap them in writing paper, and put them in a Dutch oven ; set them before the fire to broil; they will take nearly an hour ; put a little brown gravy in the dish, and serve them in the papers. MUTTON, Hotch Potch.— Stew peas, lettuce, and onions, in a very little water, with a beef or ham bone. While these are doing, fry some mutton or lamb steaks seasoned, of a nice brown : three quarters of an hour before dinner put the steaks into a stew- pan, and the vegetables over them ; stew them, and serve all together in a tureen. Mutton and Veal Hotch Potch, —Knuckle of veal, and scrag of mutton^ stewed with vegetables as above ; to both add a bit of butter rolled in flour. MUTTON, to Harrico a Neck of.—Cut the best end of a neck of mutton into chops, in single ribs; flour them, and fry them a light brown ; put them into a large sauce-pan, with twoMTJT 2‘ MUT quarts of water, a large carrot cut In slices, cut at the edge like wheels. When they have stewed 15 minutes, put in two turnips, cut in square slices, the white part of a head of celery, a few heads of asparagus, two cabbage lettuces fried, and cayenne to your taste; boil all together till they are tender. The gravy is not to be thicken- ed. Put into a tureen or soup-dish. MUTTON, to Hash.—Cut thin slices of dressed mutton, fat and lean; flour them; have ready a little onion boiled in two or three spoonfuls of water; add to it a little gravy and the meat seasoned, and make it hot, but not to boil. Serve in a covered dish. Instead of onion, a clove, a spoonful of currant-jelly, and half a glass of port wine, will give an agreeable flavour of venison, if the meat be fine. Pickled cucumber, or walnut, cut small, warm in it for change. MUTTON, to Hash.—Cut the meat into small thin pieces; boil the bones with an onion, a few sweet herbs, a blade of mace, a little whole pepper, salt, and a piece of crust toasted very crisp; boil till there is just enough for sauce; strain it and put into a sauce- pan with a piece of butter rolled in flour; then put in the meat; and when it is hot, it is done enough; season with pepper and salt; have ready some thin bread toasted brown, and cut three-comerways ; lay them in the dish, and pour over the hash ; garnish with pickles and horse radish. MUTTON BROTH. — Take the scrag end of a neck of mutton; chop it into small pieces ; put it into a saucepan, and fill it with water; set it over the fire, and when the scum begins to rise, take it clean off, and put in a blade or two of mace, a little French barley, or a crust of white bread, to thicken it. When the mutton is boiled, so that it will shake to pieces, strain the broth through a hair sieve; skim off the fat, and serve with dry toast. 'MUTTON CHOPS.—Rub the chops with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and a little parsley; roll each chop in white paper well buttered on the inside, and rolled at each end close; have some hog’s lard, or beef drip, boiling in a stewpan ; put in the chops, fry them of a fine brown ; lay them in a dish, and garnish with fried parsley; throw some all over and serve them hot. MUTTON COLLOPS.—Take a loin of mutton that has been well hung ; cut from the part next the leg, some thin collops. Take out the sinew. Season the collops with salt, pepper, and mace ; strew over them shred pars- ley, thyme, and two or three shalots: fry them in butter till half done; add half a pint of gravy, a little juice of lemon, and a piece of butter rubbed in flour; and simmer the whole very gently five minutes. They should b© served instantly, or they will be hard. MUTTON HAM.—Choose a fine-grained leg of wether-mutton of 12 or 14 lbs. weight; cut it ham shape, and hang two days. Then put into a stewpan, % lb. of bay-salt, the same of common salt, 2 o?s. of saltpetre, and % lb. of coarse sugar, all in powder; mix and make it hot; rub well into the ham. Turn it in the liquor every day ; at the end of four days put 2 ozs. more of common salt; in twelve days take it out, dry it, and hang it up in wood- smoke a week. To be used the same way as ordinary ham. MUTTON PUDDING.—Sea- son with salt, pepper, and a bit of onion; lay one layer of steaks at the bottom of the dish ; and pour a batter of potatoes boiled and pressed through a colander, and mixed with milk and an egg, over them ; then put in the rest of the steaks, and batter ; bake it. Batter with flour, instead of potatoes, eats well, but requires more egg, and is not so good. MUTTON STEAKS, to Broil. —Should be cut from the loin or neck that has been hung; if a neck the bones should not be long. They should be broiled on a clear fire, seasoned when half done, and often turned; take them up into a very hot dish, rub a bit of butter on each, and serve hot the moment they are done. MUTTON STEAKS, Main- tenon.—Half-fry, and stew while hot, with herbs, crumbs, and seasoning; put them in paper immediately, and finish on the gridiron. Be careful the paper does not catch; rub a bit of butter on it first to prevent that.273 NER NAI N v NAILS, Growing into the Flesh.—Cut a notch in the middle of the nail every time the nail is pared. The disposition to close the notch draws the nail up from the sides. NAILS, to Whiten. — Wash them with turpentine, then with soap and water, next with a solution of oxalic add, and lastly, wash the hands well in warm water. NANKEEN DYE.—Boil equal parts of anatto and common potash till dissolved. I NARCOTIC S. Medicines abating pain, causing sleep, and calm- ing irritation. NASTURTIUMS, to Pickle. —Get them when very young. Steep in salt and water ; take them out, and put them into boiling salt and water, and boil a minute. Then pour upon them in the jar the best vinegar with what spices are most agreeable. Cover close. They will be ready in a week. NEAT’S TONGUE, to Boil. —“ Neat" is an old Saxon word, mean- ing animals of the ox kind. Soak it during the previous night. Dress it; put it into cold water. It will take 4 or 5 hours. A tongue out of the pickle need not be soaked, but it will require nearly the same time. An hour before it is dished up, take it out and blanch It; boil again till tender. NEAT’S TONGUE, to Fri- cassee.—Boil the tongue till tender; then peel and cut into slices; put them into a fryingpan with butter, and fry them brown. Pour the butter from the pan, and put in some good gravy, with sweet herbs, onion, garlic, pepper, salt, mace, and a wine-glassful of port wine. Simmer half an hour; take out the tongue ; strain the gravy, and put all again into the pan with the yolks of two eggs well beaten, a little grated nutmeg, and some butter rolled in flour ; shake the whole well together, simmer five minutes, and put the tongue into the dish ; pour over it the sauce, and serve hot. NEAT’S TONGUE, to Fry.— Boil till tender; cut it into slices, and season with nutmeg, cinnamon and mgar; beat up the yolk of an egg with a little lemon-juice, and rub It over the sLices ; make seme butter boiling hot in the frying-pan, and put in the slices When done, serve with melted butter, sugar, and sherry' wine, made into a sauce. NECK OF MUTTON, to Taste like Venison.—Perforate the neck all over with little holes, and pout a bottle of port wine over it, and let it lie in the wine two or three days : turn it often ; then hang it three days in the open air, but not in the sun ; often wipe down with a cloth, to prevent it becom- ing musty. When being roasted, baste it with the wine it was steeped in ; put white paper, threefold, to keep in the fat; roast it thoroughly, and then take off the skin', and froth it nicely, and serve. NECK OF PORK, Rolled to Roast.—Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper, and two or three berries of allspice over the inside; then roll the meat as tightly as you can, and roast it slowly. NECTAR.—Chopped raisins, 3 lbs. ; raspberry jelly, 1 lb. ; loaf sugar, 5 lbs. ; two grated nutmegs, boiling water, 3 gallons. When cold, add oil of nutmeg, oil of caraway, and oil of cloves, of each, 10 drops ; add 3 lemons sliced. Infuse 4 days. Strain, and add 1 quart of brandy or rum. Bottle. NECTARINES, to Preserve. —Peel, and cut them in two; simmer them in boiling water till they float; drain; boil in clarified sugar till they cease simmering; let them stay in till next day ; drain them out, and boil the sugar to the second degree, (see Sugar); add the fruit to it to boil a moment, and repeat the next day. Let the sugar and fruit incorporate two days before pot- ting, and keep the pan in a warm place : the proportion of fruit and sugar is in equal quantities. NERVES.—These are contrac- tile bundles of white cords, whose ends arc connected to the brain, and spinal marrow, and thence extending over the whole body, to receive impressions from external objects. They are in the eyes, at the root of the teeth, about the ears, in fact every where in the body, from the crown of the head to the sole of the R274 NET NER foot. Two pairs of nerves proceed out of each side of the spine, and thence ramify to every part of the body. They are so abundant, that we cannot touch any part of the skin with the point of a needle without coming into contact with a nerve, and a blood vessel. The great sympathetic nerve is the most'important of all. It communicates with all the spinal nerves, and several of those of the brain. NERVE POWDER.—Take 1 oz. each of scullcap, and valerian ; cat- nep, 1 oz. ; cayenne, 1 drachm; cori- ander seeds, % oz. Pulverise, and mix. Take a teaspoonful in a cupful of boil- ing water, leaving room for milk and sugar. Repeat according to the symp- toms. This powder tranquilizes the most irritable nerves without debilitating and deadening their sensibility. It greatly strengthens the nerves. NERVOUSNESS. — Sulphate of quinine, 1 to 3 grs.; dissolve it in 6 ounces of camphorated julep; add of the volatile tincture of the valerian, 3 drachms ; tincture of columba, J ounce. Mix. When the nerves are irritable, attended with indigestion, flatulence, and occasional headache, this is often serviceable. Three table-spoonfuls to be taken three times a day. NERVOUS DISORDERS; Rev. John Wesley’s Directions. When the nerves perform the office too languidly a good air is the first requisite. The patient should rise early, and, as soon as the dew is off the ground, walk ; let his breakfast be mother of thyme tea, gathered in June, using half as much as we do of common tea. Or, the common garden thyme, if the former cannot be procured. When the nerves are too sensible, let the person breathe a proper air. Let him eat fresh veal, chickens, or mutton. Vegetables should be eaten sparingly; the most simple is the French bean, and the best root is the turnip. Wine should be avoided ; and all sauces. Sometimes he may break- fast upon a quarter of an ounce of vale- rian root infused in hot water, to which he may add both cream and sugar. Tea is not proper. Whence person finds an uncommon oppression, let him take a large spoonful of tincture of valerian root. This tincture should be made thus :— Cut in pieces six ounces of wild valerian root, gathered in June, and fresh dried. Bruise it in a mortar, that the pieces may be split, but it should not be beat into powder: put this into a quart of strong sherry wine ; cork the bottle and let it stand 3 weeks, shaking it every day, then press it out, and filter through paper. But there is no remedy for nervous disorders of every kind, comparable to the proper and constant use of the elec- trical machine. NERVOUS DROPS—Mix 8 drops of spirits of hartshorn with 4 drops of the oil of lavender, and take in a wineglassful of water. NERVOUS MIXTURE. Liquid carbonate of ammonia, drachm ; compound tincture of carda- mom, % oz. ; oil of lavender, 8 drops ; mint water, 3 ozs.; mix, and take in two or three doses. It is invaluable. NERVOUS PILL—Assafceti- da, extract of hops, carbonate of am- monia, of each 1 oz. ; extract of valerian, 20 grains. Dissolve the first two ingre- dients over the fire, then take off, and add the others; mix well, and with a few drops of the oil of lavender, and a little powdered liquorice, form into pills. Dose, one or two once or twice a day.— Valuable in all nervous and hysterical disorders. NERVOUS TINCTURE— Compound tincture of bark, 2 ozs. ; ammoniated tincture of valerian, 1 £ oz. ; compound tincture of aloes, oz. Mix. Good for general weakness, low spirits, and nervous irritability. Two teaspoonfuls twice a day. NETTLE.—The nettles make a good rubefacient for limbs cold, be- numbed, and torpid. Paralytic parts being beaten and stung with this herb, have regained their vigour, and limbs which have lost their use by rheumatism. The juice is astringent, and is good in gravelly complaints, internal Iwemcrr- hage, and spitting of blood. A decoction is excellent in scurvy. The decoction is valuable in cases of bloody urine. The seeds and flowers of the nettle are as good a tonic as Peru- vian baric in fevers and ague. About a drachm given in wine. A decoctionNIG NET 275 of the root is most valuable in diarrhoea and dysentery, or laxity of the bowels and bloody flux. It should be sweet- ened. Cancers, it has been said, have yielded to the juice of nettles, as much as four ounces having been taken in a day.—See Robinson's Herbal. NETTLE BEER.—Take a peck or more of nettle tops, and 4 lbs. of malt, and boil in two gallons of water, with a ozs. of hops ; 4 ozs. of sarsapa- rilla, 1 % lb. of sugar, and lA ox. of gin- ger ; strain, and when nearly cold, add a little yeast. Bottle while in a state of fermentation. Most valuable— a pleasant beverage—and a wonderful purifier of the blood. NETTLE RASH.—So called from its resemblance to that produced by the stinging of nettles. The skin is raised, and whitish on the top; it is attended with itching and tingling. It is a very mild disease, and seldom requires much medicine. The following remedies have been recommended : An equal proportion of oil, vinegar, and spirit of wine, applied to the skin, will afford temporary relief for the itch. Take, at the same time, 6 grains of magnesia in a glass of lime water three times a day.— Or rub the part well with parsley. But it is best to give the Vapour Balk of bitter decoction, and apply to the part the Stimulating Liniment, page 378 and an Aperient, page 21. Or apply tincture of lobelia and tincture of myrrh, mixed, to the skin. Sponge the body every morning in salt and water. Weak camphorated spirit is a good rubefacient in this disease. An emetic sometimes effectually dislodges the disease. NEURALGIA, or Tic Dol- oureux.—Put half a drachm of sal- ammonia in an ounce of camphor water. Take a teaspoonful at a dose, and repeat the dose several times at intervals of five minutes, if the pain be not re- lieved at once. This medicine has generally cured. Or, take extract of valerian, a ozs. ; henbane, iM oz. ; aconite, K oz. Mix well, and with oil of lavender, form into pills. Take one or two every four hours. It acts like a charm on neuralgia, and all nervous disorders. Or, apply bruised horse radish to the part affected. Chloroform has recently been applied to parts affected with neuralgia. Indeed it is made a patent medicine for ‘‘Tic." A piece of lint should be soaked in it, and applied ; cover it with flannel. NEUTRALIZING MIX- TURE. — Powdered rhubarb, 3 scruples ; saleratus, or crude bicarbon- ate of potash, 3 scruples; powdered peppermint plant, 3 scruples; boiling water, % pint; decoction of aniseeds, M pint. Mix. Strain, sweeten with sugar, and add three table-spoonfuls of brandy. Take one or two table-spoon- fuls as oft as the symptoms require it. For children a less dose. Very valuable in cholera, bowel com- plaints of children, laxity of the bowels, flux, &c. An infallible remedy. NIBBLE CAKES.—Make a good puff paste; roll thick; cut into lozenges about the size of the palm of the hand; brush it over with beaten yelks of eggs and strew macaroni drops powder over them, with a little powder of orange flowers, and lemon peel chopped very fine ; stick bits of scalded sweet almonds in the paste pointed up- wards ; cover them with paper in the oven, to keep them of a palish colour. NIGHTMARE.—The complaint always happens during disturbed sleep. It comes on with a sense of great weight on the chest, and a dreaming of some- thing very frightful and horrible, bad persons, spectres of various shapes, wild beasts, infuriated animals in pur- suit, and which the patient cannot escape, though apparently he makes or tries to make the greatest efforts to escape; he attempts to cry out, but generally in vain. The sensation is very distressing and painful. Sometimes the uneasiness continues after he awakes, so as to prevent his turning or moving in bed for some time. Studious, and nervous people, are most subject to it; it is also caused by heavy suppers. The disease is probably produced by indigestion, and by com- pression of the lungs, and the conse- quent obstruction to the free return of blood from the brain. The disease is dangerous, and, doubtless many have died under the attack ; and their death has been attributed to apoplexy.276 NOR NIG The remedy Is to avoid all exciting causes, as too much abstruse thinking, late and heavy suppers, food difficult of digestion, cold feet, costiveness, and flatulence. To prevent the nightmare, mix together 10 grains of carbonate of soda ; 3 drachms of compound tincture of cardamoms; 1 drachm of simple syrup, and 1 on. of peppermint water. Repeat for several nights in succession ; afterwards take a few drops. of the Aperient Mixture, or the Aperient Tonic Mixture, page ai. Also a little cayenne in scullcap tea will prevent an attack. Those who are habitually subject to nightmare should not sleep in a room alone, but have some person near them, to be awakened by their moans, groans, &c. Dr. Beach says, “It is not improb- able that some of those persons who have been found dead in their beds were destroyed by it.” NIGHTSHADE, Deadly. — See Robinson's Herbal. NIGHTSHADE, Woody. — See Robinson's Herbal. NITRATE OF SODA.—Far- mers find from one to two hundred weight per acre a good dressing for their land ; and therefore this quantity may be regarded, for the present, as a safe proportion for ordinary crops. When used on a smaller scale, we are much in want of information as to its proper proportion if mixed with water. The following, however, seem to be ascertained facts :—Six ounces in four gallons of water suit lettuce and celery; one pound in twelve gallons is a safe quantity for dahlias. Strawberries are much improved by it in the proportion of one ounce to a gallon. In other cases, onions are reported to be much improved by water holding the nitrate of soda in solution in the proportion of one pound to eight gallons. Its effects are extremely active on coniferous plants, applied in a top-dressing at the rate of one hundred pounds per acre. About its action, under favourable circumstances, there can be no doubt. Fir-trees have been changed from yel- low to deep green in about a fortnight from the time of the application. We have seen similar effects upon common shrubs in a worn-out gravelly soil; and the rapidity with which the crops to which it has been applied acquired a deep green healthy colour is generally spoken of. Sometimes, however it is stated to produce no effect. This may have beeif owing to the land on which it has been used already abounding in alkaline matter, so that any further addition has been useless ; or it may have arisen from the nitrate having been used in a bad season of the year.— Gardener1 s Chronicle. NITRE, Sweet Spirits of Nitre.—This is employed as a diu- retic, antispasmodic, diaphoretic, and refrigerant in inflammatory affections. It is a good and useful diuretic in dropsies, especially in some of the mild forms of the complaint, as in dropsy following scarlatina. It is given with squills, acetate or nitrate of potash, freely diluted with barley water. As a carminative and antispasmodic it is combined with the same quantity of spirit of lavender, and is useful in re- lieving flatulency and sickness. As a diaphoretic or sweating draught, in febrile complaints, it should be given with twenty or thirty drops of antimo- nial wine, and a tea-spoonful of liquid acetate of ammonia. The usual dose of spirits of nitre is from half a tea- spoonful to two or three teaspoonfuls diluted with water. NITRE DROPS. — Nitre, 3 ounces ; sugar, 1 pound ; water to mix. Add a few drops of essence of lemon, or oil of cassia. NITRE LOZENGES.—1. Ni- trate of potash (pure,) 4 parts ; white sugar, 26 parts. Powder fine, and mix with mucilage. For sore throat, &c. 2. Nitre, 4 ounces ; sugar, 16 ounces; and essence of lemon, 3 ounces. Mix with mucilage. NOISE IN THE EARS.— Drop in juice of onions. NORFOLK DUMPLINGS.— Milk, half a pint, 2 eggs, salt; make them into a thick batter with flour; roll into balls, aDd drop them into a pan of boiling water; from 15 to 30 minutes will boil them. Eat while hot with a little sugar, butter or treacle. NORFOLK PUDDING PUFFS.—Mix three eggs, three tablespoonfuls of flour, half a pint ofNOS 2 77 OCI cream, and two tablespoonfuls of orange-flower or rose-water; sweeten to taste ; put the batter in large deep custard cups, half full; set them in the oven ; when the puff rises to the top of the cups, they are done. NOSE, Bleeding at the.—See Page 67. NOTTINGHAM PUDDING. —Peel six good apples; take out the cores with the point of a small knife, leaving the apples whole; fill up the place of the core with sugar ; place them in a pie dish, and pour over them a nice light batter, prepared as for batter pudding. Bake an hour. NUTMEG, Essence of.—Dis- solve oz. of the essential oil of nut- meg in % pint of spirits of wine. Bottle and cork welL It is very valuable to cooks and confectioners. NUTRITIOUS DIATETIC. —Pulverize equal quantities of sago and best cocoa ; mix, and stir a tablespoon- ful in a pint of milk, to which add a pint of boiling water. Boil for a few minutes, frequently stirring. Add sugar according to taste. It is very suitable for invalids and children. O OAK, to Stain a Mahogany Colour.—Boil together Brazil wood and Roman alum ; and before using it, add a little potash. A suitable varnish for wood, thus tinged, may be made by dissolving amber in oil of turpentine, mixed with a small portion of linseed oil. OAK WAINSCOT, to Give a Fine Gloss to.—If the wainscot be greasy, wash with warm beer; then boil two quarts of strong beer, bees' wax about the size of a walnut, and a tablespoonful of sugar. Apply it all over with a large brush, and when dry, rub till bright. OATMEAL MILK.—Mix a print of milk and water (two-thirds milk, and one-third water) gradually with a table-spoonful or two of oatmeal. Place in a saucepan upon a clear fire, and when it begins to rise and boil, take it off, and pour it from one basin into another to incorporate it well with the milk ; return it to the pan; put on the fire, and when it is about to boil, take off, and let it stand a little to settle; when settled, pour it off into a basin, add a little salt, and let it cool. This is an excellent milk, very congenial to weak constitutions, affording a good, firry nourishment, and is easy of digestion. OATMEAL PORRIDGE.— Take nearly a quart of water, two small teaspoonfuls of salt, and when the water boils, scatter in very slowly oatmeal, and boil well, stirring all the time. Pour into basins. This is a very wholesome food—a food upon which the stalwart sons of Lancashire and Yorkshire, of the north of England, and of Scotland, lived. They were men and women in those days of oatmeal por- ridge ; they were all tall, stout, hand- some, lively, and captivating. This food is to be eaten chiefly with milk— take one fourth of a spoonful, dip it into the milk, causing the spoon to be full of both—or it may be eaten with butter, or sugar, or treacle. OCTOBER BEER, to Brew the Good Old English Way.— The malt should be old and good, and rather coarsely ground. Take 5 quar- ters of malt, for 3 hogsheads of beer, and 18 lbs. of hops; more if the malt be pale dried. Use soft water. The first liquor is to be -boiled, adding a handful of hops to it; then before you strike it over to the malt, cool in as much liquor as will cause it not to scald the malt. With the next liquor do the same, and so to the end—but do not scald. When the malt is let out of the mash-tub into the under tub, put to it a handful or two of hops ; it will preserve it from blinking or foxing. In boiling, let the first wort boil high and quick ; for the quicker the first wort is boiled, the better it is ; the second boil more than the first; and the third or last more than the second. In cooling, let into the tun leisurely, and leave behind as much sediment as possible, that the fermentation may be mild, and not fierce; for there are in all fermented liquors salt and sulphur, and we must keep those two bodies in due proportion, that the salt may not exalt itself above the sulphur—much depends upon this. At first put but little yeast; let It work by degrees quietly ; if it works too slowly, whip in the yeast several times till it Is well fermented. When you278 OIL ODO cleanse do It by a tap from your tun, placed six inches from the bottom, that most of the sediment may remain, which may be thrown on the malt to mend the small beer. When the beer is tunned, fill your vessel; let it work at the bung-hole, and have a reserve in a small cask to fill it up. Do not put in any of the beer which will be under the yeast, after it has worked over into the vessels ; put it in another cask, for it will not be so good as the other in the cask. When the fermentation ceases, stop it close, and let it stand till the spring ; for brewing ought to be done in October, L that it may settle and digest all winter. In the spring, unstop the vent hole, and see whether the beer ferments or not; for when warm weather comes it will have another fermentation; when it is over, stop well again ; let it stand till September, and then peg it; and if you find it fine, and the hop well rot- ted, and of a pleasant taste for drinking, draw out a gallon of it; put to it 2 ozs. of isinglass, cut very small, to melt, stirring it often, and whisking till the isinglass is melted. Strain and put into the vessel, stirring well together; bung slightly, for this will cause a small fermentation ; when that is over, stop it close, leaving only the vent hole a little stopped. Let it stand, and in about 10 days, it will be transparently fine. It will be a splendid ale for bottling, which may be done when the cask is half or two thirds drawn. ODOURS, Unpleasant, to Re- move.—Burnt coffee is the best dis- infectant, and it is very agreeable.—For water-closets, night chairs, &c. chloride of lime, and even common lime, should be used. Or 1 oz. of sugar of lead, 1 oz. of aquafortis, in nearly 1 quart of water. This is effectual to cleanse utensils from bad odours. Or char- coal powder, camphor dissolved ; the articles well rinsed with the composi- tion. OIL, Sc. Make the Hair Curl.— Olive oil, 1 lb.; oil of origanum, 1 dr.; and oil of rosemary, 1% dr. Mix. OIL, to Extract from Boards. —Make a strong ley of pearl ashes and soft water, and add as much unslaked lime as will take it up; bottle closely. Scour the part with It, using water; do It quickly. Fullers earth, soap, and soda, mixed, form a good application, using with it sand and water. OIL CLOTH, to Clean.—There is much complaint of the poor quality of the oil-cloths of the present time. We imagine we see where the trouble lies in part, though we confess we do not think oil-cloths are as durable as those made 15 or 20 years ago. In “olden times,” whoever did the hard work, the mistress took good care that no soap, no hot water or scrub-brush was ever used on her oil-cloths ; and she also saw to it that v/hen washed they were wiped perfectly dry. If soap or hot water is used, or if they are left wet, they soon crack and the paint peels off. Take a pail of clean, soft, lukewarm water, a clean, soft piece of flannel, wash your oil-cloths, and wipe them very dry, so that no drop of water is left to soak in and rot the fabric ; and you will have little cause to complain that they wear out so much faster than your mother’s—provided you selected cloths of good make. After washing and dry- ing, if a cloth is wrung out of a dish of skim-milk and water, and the oil-cloth is rubbed over with this and again well dried, the freshness and the lustre of the cloth will well repay the extra labour. OIL PAINTINGS,'to Clean. —Wash the picture with flannel and a weak solution of soap, or with warm beer and a little soda. When dry, ap- ply a solution of gum tragacanth, or brown varnish. OIL PAINTINGS, to Clean. —If smoked, or very dirty, take stale urine, in which a little common salt is dissolved; rub them over with a wool- len cloth dipped in the mixture till they are clean; then with a sponge wash them over with clean water; dry, and rub over with a clean cloth. OIL PAINTINGS, Varnish for.—Use white of egg, and sugar- candy dissolved, a tea-spoonful of brandy, all most intimately mixed, first the egg alone. Varnish the pictures with it. It is better than most varnishes, as it can be washed off when the picture wants cleaning again.out 279 OIL OILED PAPER.—Brush sheets of paper over with “boiled oil," in which dissolve a little shellac carefully over a slow fire, and suspend them cn a line until dry. Waterproof. Employed to tie over pots and jars, and to wrap up paste blacking, &c. OIL of Brown Paper.—Dip a piece of thick brown paper into the best salad oil. Set the paper on fire upon a plate and the oil that drops from it is a good remedy for bums. OIL STAINS, to Remove.— Apply benzoin, or magnesia to both sides of the silk, satin, or stuff; apply it moistened for 2 or 3 hours, and then brush off. Repeat if needful. Oil stains may be removed from silks, dresses, leather, paper, &c., by applying pipe- clay, powdered and mixed with water to the thickness of cream ; leave it on for 4 hours. This will not injure the best colours. OINTMENT for BURNS.- Slippery elm, elder bark, scraped, yar- row tops and leaves, plantain leaves, stramonium leaves, of each 1 oz. Lard and bees’ wax, sufficient to make into ointment. It is a good ointment for the Piles also. OINTMENT, Brown.—Extract of henbane, 1 dr.; yellow wax, J oz. ; red precipitate, drs. ; pure zinc pow- dered, 1 kt dr.; fresh butter, 3 ozs. Melt and miz, and add rj dr. of cam- phor dissolved in olive oil. This oint- ment is good for ringworm, all cutane- ous eruptions, for ulcers, sore lips, itch, chronic ophthalmia, &c. OINTMENT, Celandine.— Take garden celandine, bruise, and cover with any kind of spirits ; simmer, then add fresh butter, and let it remain over the fire until the leaves are crisped ; strain. It is useful in cutaneous erup- tions and piles. OINTMENT, for Eruptions. —Simmer ox-marrow over the fire, add a little salt, and a tea-spoonful qf brandy. Strain, When cold, rub the part affected. OINTMENT OF LEAD.— Take of olive oil half a pint; white wax, s ozs. ; sugar of lead, 3 drs. Let the sugar of lead, reduced into a fine pow- der, be robbed with some part of the oil, and added to the other ingredients, previously melted together, stirring them till quite cold. This cooling astringent ointment may be used in all cases where the intention is to dry and skin over the part, in scalding &c. OLD AGE, to Live to.—“I am now an old man. I have seen near a century. Do you want to know how to grow old slowly and happily? I will tell you. Always eat slowly—masticate well. Get as much out-door exercise as you can. Pure air! it has lengthened my life. But avoid exposure to harsh winds, and wet weather. Go to your occupation smiling. Keep a good and kind nature, and a soft temper every where. By being good to others, you get a good name; and the happy in- fluence upon the mind of a good name, extends itself to the body. Cultivate a good memory, and to do this you must be communicative; repeat what you have read ; talk about it. Dr. John- son’s great memory was owing to his communicativeness. If you desire to be old, and comfortable with it, do not swallow a HASP; i. e. ardent spirits, which rasp the constitution to death. Avoid as much as possible venery— that your VITALITY may hold out." Dr. Muerin. - OLDBURY PUDDING. Beat well 4 eggs ; flour and butter a pint basin ; pour in the eggs, and fill up with new milk previously boiled, with 2 laurel leaves, and when cold beat them together ; put a white paper over the basin; cover with a cloth, and boil 20 minutes. Serve with wine and butter sauce. A little rice flour, or arrow-root incorporated with the milk will make it more nutritious ; add the squeeze of a lemon. OLIO OF MEAT.—Take ham, and any cold meat on hand, with a little lard ; add broth, 3 or 4 onions, carrots, celery, and a green cabbage, first scalded in boiling water ; boil on a slow fire till the meat is done, garnish the bottom of the dish with toasted bread, and soak it with some of the broth ; put upon it the ham and meat; add broth to keep it of a thick substance.—Cold fowl, or goose, added, is a great improvement OLIO OF RABBITS.—Cat 2 rabbits into large pieces ; lard them through with large pieces of bacon, sea-280 ONI OLI soned with salt, pepper, and spices; put them Into a stewpan with a good slice of ham, butter, sweet herbs, a cloves, a bay leaf, a little green basil, and half a clove of garlic; simmer a little; put Into a larger stewpan upon slices of fillet of veal; cover with thin slices of lard ; soak about half an horn- over a slow fire, and add a glass of sherry; put the rab- bits into the tureen ; add some good gravy to the liquid ; give them a boiling together; skim and sift the sauce ; add a lemon squeeze, and serve it upon the meat. OLIVE BRONZE DIP. Nitric acid, 1 oz, ; muriatic acid, 2 oz. ; add titanium or palladium ; when the metal is dissolved add 2 gallons of pure soft water to each pint of the solution. OLIVE PIE.—Cut a fillet of veal in thin slices ; rub them over with yolks of eggs; strew over them a few bread crumbs, shred lemon peel, with grated nutmeg, pepper and salt; roll very tight; place in a pewter dish ; pour over them half a pint of good gravy made of bones ; put £ lb. of butter over it, make a light paste, and lay it round the dish ; roll the lid half an inch thick and lay it on. OMELETTE.—Make a batter of eggs and milk, and a very little flour, put to it chopped parsley, green onions, or chives, the latter is best, or a very small quantity of shalot, a little pepper, salt, and a scrape or two of nutmeg. Take some butter boiled in a small fry- ing-pan, and pour the above batter into it; when one side is of a fine yellow brown, turn it and do the other. Double it when served. Some scraped lean ham, or grated tongue, put in at the first, is a very pleasant addition. Four eggs will make a pretty sized omelet; but many cooks will use 8 or 10. A small proportion of flour should be used. If the taste be approved, a little tar- ragon gives a fine flavour. A good deal of parsley should be used. Omelet, though usually served in the course, would be. much better if it was Sent up after, that it might be eaten as hot as possible. OMELETTE of Asparagus.— Take 6 eggs ; beat them up with cream, boil some of the finest asparagus ; when boiled, cut off all the green In small pieces, and mix them with the eggs, pepper, and salt; heat the pan; put in a slice of butter, and serve hot—on but- tered toasts. OMELETTE, Sweet.—Mix ro eggs with a gill of cream, % lb. of but- ter, and syrup of nutmeg, or grated; sweeter; with loaf sugar ; put the whole into a frying-pan, as for a savory ome- lette ; fry, and serve hot, with sifted sugar upon it. ONIONS.—If you want a good crop, dig the ground deep, and manure it highly with the droppings of the hen- house. Roll the surface of the ground smooth, and scratch it with a fine rake before marking off the rows. ONIONS.—A dry, cold, airy loft is best for store onions ; do not let them lie more than 2 or 3 bulbs thick, and often look them over, and pull out bad ones. Do not remove any of the outer rind but what comes off in the hand- ling. They keep well in ropes and hung up; the easiest way to make which is to tie them on to a hay or straw-band, which is better than a stake. This plan is useful where shelf room is scarce, but the points to observe are a cool, airy situation, warmth and moisture being more inimical to their keeping than frost. ONIONS, to Keep.—Let the onions be dry; heat a poker red hot, and with it singe the roots, to prevent all premature growth. Hang them in a dry cold room. ONIONS, to Pickle.—Take 2 quarts of the small white round onions. Scald them in very strong salt and wa- ter. J ust let them boil. Strain ; peel; place in jars ; cover them with the best white wine vinegar. In 2 days pour all the vinegar off, and boil it half an hour with a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper, 1 oz. of ginger, 16 cloves, £ oz. ground mustard, 2 ozs. of mustard seed. When cold, pour upon the onions.—Some per- sons prefer the vinegar boiling hot. ONIONS, to Ragout.—Peel a pint of young onions ; then cut 4 large ones very small; melt some butter in a stewpan ; throw in the onions, and fry them till brown; dust in flour, and shake round till thick, add salt, pepper, good gravy, and mustard; stir allOP1 28l ONI together, when pretty thick, pour into a dish, garnish with toasted bread cut fine. ONIONS, to Roast.—Should be done with all the skins on. They eat well alone, with only salt and cold butter; or with roast potatoes or with beet-roots. ONION SAUCE.—Peel the onions, and boil them tender; squeeze the water from them, then chop them, and add to them butter that has been melted, rich and smooth, as will be hereafter directed, but with a little good milk instead of water; boil it up' once, and serve it for boiled rabbits, par- tridges, scrag, or knuckle of veal, or roast mutton. A turaip boiled with the onions makes them milder. ONION SOUP, Brown.—Skin and cut round ways six large Spanish onions; fry them in butter till tender, and nicely brown ; take out and drain ; boil an hour in five quarts of water, stirring well; add pepper and salt; rub the crumbs of a penny loaf through a colander, and stir it well into the soup ; boil two hours. Ten minutes before it is served, beat the yolks of two eggs with two spoonfuls of vinegar, and a little of the soup, pour in gradually, and stir well. Add cloves, if agreeable. ONION SOUP, White.—Take 30 large onions; boil in five quarts of water, with a knuckle of veal, a blade or two of mace, and pepper; when the onions are quite soft, take up, and nib them through a hair sieve, and work % lb. of butter with flour in them; when the meat is boiled so as to leave the bone, strain the liquor to the onions; boil gently for half an hour ; serve with a cupful of cream and a little salt; stir it well when you put in the flour and butter. ONION STEW.—Choose five or six white onions, skin them, and first parboil them in water for 30 minutes ; then chop them very fine, and boil out in milk, add butter, and gravy, or, if you b'ke, a little cream. Do not boil too quickly. Season with salt, mace, and pepper. Thicken with a little rice flour. This kind of stew is very wholesome, and with the addition of a little chopped tender ham, not over fat, and some lean veal, it becomes a »tew of first rate relish. ONIONS, to Stew. —Peel six large onions, fty gently to a flue brown, but do not blacken them; then put them into a small stewpan with a little weak gravy, pepper and salt; cover and stew two hours gently. They should be lightly floured first. ONIONS, Offensive Breath caused by Eating.—Chew parsley, or orris root, or doves, to neutralize the smell. Or take 4 drops of concen- trated solution of chloride of soda in a ’wine-glassful of water. Use fresh butter. OPHTHALMIA, or Inflamma- tion of the Eye. — See Eye, page 175—5—7- It may be caused by cold, sharp winds, intemperance, venery, dust or particles of matter in the eyes, over- taxing the eye, the result of measles, small pox, scrofula, syphilis. f Particles of iron have been removed from the eye by a magnet. Particles of sand, &c. have been removed by in- troduting the mucilage of slippery elm into the eye, the person' lying on his back, and another injecting it into the corner or part affected, and the patient moving the eye in an-opposite direction ; the mucilage will wash out the particles ; this is very safe, as the slippery elm has a very healing power. A hog’s bristle bent semicircular, is useful to remove particles from the eye. If the inflammatory pains are severe, foment the eye with p. decoction of stramonium'leaves, simmered in spirits. Or use a little weak mixture of laudanum and water.—A very cooling wash is made of powdering a drachm of borax, and dissolving it in a pint of boiling water.—Poultices arc very good for inflammatory affections of the eyes ; but the very best of all is SLIPPERY Elm. It should be mixed with milk and water, and applied direct to the eye, without any cloth between. During the inflam- mation, Aperients should be given, and the Diaphoretic Powders used, page 160. See pages 175, 176, 177, fot remedies for diseased eye. OPIATE, Injection.—Milk of assafoetida, 8 ozs. ; tincture, of opium, 1 drachm. This is useful in disorders of the anus attended with insufferable pain.ORA OFI 282 OPIUM, or LAUDANUM, Antidote to its Poisonous Influ- ence.—Immediately take the juice of lemons ; or the strongest vinegar. Or sulphate of zinc, in 30 grain doses, every fifteen minutes, with plenty of warm water, is the most effectual. Opium produces great drowsiness and stupor, which must be overcome by all means ; ft teaspoonful of sal volatile in strong coffee is the best stimulant; repeat every half hour ; do not let the patient sleep for 12 hours, for if he do, he may wake no more. OPODELDOC.—Dissolve 1 oz. of camphor in a pint of spirit of wine; then dissolve 4 ozs. of hard white Spanish soap, scraped thin in 4 ozs. of oil of rosemary. It may be improved by adding 2 ozs. of ammonia, tincture of aconite, or opium x oz., and a little oil. It is a good application for sprains, lumbago, pained limbs, weakness of joints, &c. Mixed with tincture of can- tharides, or tincture of cayenne, it be- comes more effectively stimulant. ORANGE.—The orange tree is a beautiful ever-green, a native of Asia, and cultivated in the West Indies, Europe, China, &c. The flowers are very fragrant, and have long been used as a perfume. The juice of orange is a grateful acid liquor, consisting of citric acid, syrup extracdve, and mucilage. It is of great use in febrile or inflamma- tory diseases, for allaying heat, quench- ing thirst, and promoting the salutary secretions. It is valuable in scurvy. ORANGE BRANDY.—Pare 8 oranges very thin, and steep the peels in a quart of brandy 48 hours in a close pitcher ; then take water, 3 pints ; loaf sugar, lb. ; boil until reduced to half the quantity; let it cool, and then mix with brandy; let it stand 14 days, and then bottle it. ORANGE OAKES. — Take Seville oranges with good rinds, quarter them, and boil in two or three waters, till tender, and the bitterness gone ; dry them ; take all the seeds and skins out of the pulp with a knife; shred the peels very fine ; put them to the pulp ; weigh them, and put rather more than their weight of fine sugar into a tossing- an, with just sufficient water to dissolve ; boil it till it candies; then put in gradually the orange-peels and pulp; mix well; boil very gently, till it looks clear and thick; tlien put into fiat* bottomed glasses; set them in a slow oven; when they are candied on the top, turn them out upon glasses; cut into shapes. ORANGE CHEESECAKES. —See pages 118—9. ORANGE CHEESECAKES, Crust for.—Dry a pound of the best flour, mix with it three ounces of refined sugar; then work half a pound of butter with your hand till it comes to froth ; put the flour into it by degrees, and work into it, well beaten and strain- ed, the yolks of three and whites of two eggs. If it is too soft, put some flour and sugar to make it fit to roll. Line your patty-pans, and fill. A little above 15 minutes will bake them. Against they come out have ready some refined sugar beat up with the white of an egg, as thick as you can ; ice them all over, set them in the oven to harden, and serve cold. Use fresh butter. ORANGE CHIPS Cut oranges in halves, squeeze the juice through a sieve ; soak the p>eel in water ; next day boil in the same till tender, drain them, and slice the peels, put them to the juice, weigh as much sugar, and put all together in a broad earthen dish, and put over the fire at a moderate distance, often stirring till the chips candy ; then set them in a cool room to dry. They will not be so under three weeks. ORANGE COLOUR, in Silk, Cotton, &c., to Clean. — If silk, clean the garment with a solution of soap; in the second liquor p)earl-ash must be used to stay the colour. For silks the water must be hand-heat. If required to be more scarlet or red, the pearlash must be omitted, and a little used in the rinsing water. Remember that acids heighten the red colour, alkr lies sadden, or make it more buff. ORANGE CREAM.—Take the juice of 4 Seville oranges, and the rind of one p>ared fine; put them into a tossingpan with a pint of water and 3 ozs. of sugar; beat the whites of 5 eggs; set it over the fire ; stir it one way till it is thick and white ; strain through a sieve ; stir it til) it is cold, then bent283 ORA ORA well the yolks of 5 eggs, put It in the toszingpan with cream ; stir over a slow fire till it is ready to boil; put it into n basin to cool, and stir it till it is cold, then put it into jelly glasses : serve with whips and jellies. ORANGE CRUMPETS.-— Cream, one pint; new milk, one pint; warm it, and put in it a little rennet or citric acid ; when broken, stir it gently ; lay it on a cloth to drain all night, and then take the rinds of 3 oranges, boiled, as for preserving, in three different waters ; pound them very fine, and mix them with the curd, and eight eggs in a mortar, a little nutmeg, the juice of lemon or orange, and sugar to your taste ; bake them in buttered tin pans. When baked, put a little wine and sugar over them. ORANGE CUSTARDS.—Boil the rind of half a Seville orange very tender ; beat it very fine in a mortar; add a spoonful of the best brandy, the juice of a Seville orange, 4 02s. of loaf sugar, and the yolks of four eggs ; beat all together ten minutes ; then pour in gradually a pint of boiling cream ; keep beating them till they are cold; put them into custard cups, and set them In an earthen dish of hot water; let them stand till they are set; take out, and stick preserved oranges on the top, and serve them hot and cold. ORANGE FLOUR PASTE, for the Hands.—Blanch 5 or 6 lbs. of bitter almonds by boiling in water ; and then pound them very fine with 2 lbs. of orange flour. If the paste be too oily, add bean flour, finely sifted; but let no water enter the composition. ORANGE FLOWER CAKES.—Put four ounces of the leaves of the flowers into cold water for an hour; drain and put between nap- kins, and roll with a rolling-pin till they are bruised; then have ready boiled one pound of sugar to add to it in a thick syrup, give them a simmer, until the syrup adheres to the sides of the pan, drop in little cakes on a plate, and dry as before directed. ORANGE FLOWER CANDY.—Boil in a pint of water half the white of an egg, and pour it on lbs. of fine loaf sugar. When dissolved, place it over a clear fire; boil a few minutes; take off and let It stand a few minutes until the scum is cleared off; then boil the sugar till it is very thick ; then gradually drop in 3% ozs. of orange petals. Stir the candy till it rises into one white mass in the pan, but mind it does not bum; then pour it upon papers or into a dish. The syrup should be three parts boiled when they are added. They must be gathered on the day they are wanted for use, as they are soon discoloured by keeping. ORANGE FOOL.— Mix the juice of six Seville oranges with six eggs well beaten, a pint of cream, a % lb. of sugar, a little cinnamon and nutmeg; mix, and keep stirring over a slow fire, till it is thick; put in a small bit of butter ; stir till it is cold, and dish it up. ORANGE GINGERBREAD. —Sift 2j< lbs. of fine flour, and add to it % lb. of treacle; 6 ozs. of candied orange peel, cut small; % lb. of sugar; 1 oz. of ground ginger, and 1 oz. of allspice; melt % lb. of butter; mix the whole well together; let it stand 12 hours; roll it out with very little flour half an inch thick; cut into pieces three inches long and two wide ; mark them in the form of chequers with the back of a knife; bake a quarter of an inch apart; egg over with milk and egg ; bake in a cool oven 15 minutes ; when done wash over again slightly; divide the pieces with a knife, as in baking they will run together. ORANGE JELLY.—It may be made the same as Lemon Jelly, which see. Grate the rind of two Seville and of two China oranges, and two lemons; squeeze the juice of three of each, and strain, and add to the juice a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, a quarter of a pint of water, and boil till it almost candies. Have ready a quart of isin- glass jelly made with two ounces ; put to it the syrup, and boil it once up; strain off the jelly, and let it stand to settle as above, before it is put into the mould. ORANGE JUICE, Buttered. —Mix the juice of seven Seville oranges with four spoonfuls of rose-water, and add the whole to the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs, well beaten ; then strain the liquor to half a pound ofORA ORA mwx pounded, stir St over a gentle fire, and when it begins to thicken., put in about the sire of a small walnut of but- ter, keep it over the fire a few minutes longer ; then pour it into a flat dish, •And serve it to eat cold. ORANGE MARMALADE.— See page 248. ORANGE PUDDING.—Grate the rind of a Seville orange, put to it six ounces of fresh butter, six or eight ounces of lump sugar pounded : beat them all in a mortar, and add as you do it the whole of eight eggs well beaten and strained ; scrape a raw apple, and mix with the rest; put a paste at the bottom and sides of the dish, and over the orange mixture put cross bars of paste. Half an hour will bake it. Orange Pudding.—Mix of orange paste two full spoonfuls, with six eggs, four of sugar, four ounces of butter warm, and put into a shallow dish with a paste lining. Bake twenty minutes. Orange Pudding.—Rather more than two tablespoonfuls of, orange paste mixed with six eggs, four ounces of sugar, and four ounces of butter melted, will make a good sized pudding, with a paste at the bottom of the dish. Rake twenty minutes. Orange Pudding.—Boil the rind of a Seville orange very soft; beat it in a marble mortaT with the juice; put to it two good crisp biscuits, Naples, or any other you like, grated very fine, % lb. of butter, lb. of sugar, and the yolks of six eggs; mix well; lay a good paste round the edge of the dish; bake 30 minutes in a gentle oven. ORANGE PUFFS.—Pare off the rind from Seville oranges; then rub them with salt; let them lie 24 hours in water; boil them in 4 changes of water; let the first water be salt; drain, and beat them to a pulp; bruise in the pieces of all that you have pared; sweeten well with loaf sugar, and boil it till thick; cool, and put into the paste.—Lemon puffs may be made in the same way, ORANGE RELISH. — Cut oranges into quarters, removing the rind with a fruit knife, and adding equal quantities of brandy, madeira, i>r sherry, strewing a liberal allowance of finely powdered sugar over the dish. ORANGE. TART. — Squeeze., palp, and boil two Seville oranges tender; weigh them; add double of sugar; beat both together to a paste, and then add the juice and pulp of the fruit, and the size of a walnut of fresh butter, and beat all together. Choose a very shallow dish, line it with a light puff crust, and lay the paste of orange in it You may ice it Orange Tart.—Line a tart-pan with puff paste; put into it orange mar- malade that is made with apple jelly. Lay small shreds of paste on crosswise. Bake in a moderate oven. ORANGE TONIC. — Orange peel, 1 oz.; camomile flowers, 1% oz., and a little ginger. Put in a pint of boiling water. Add half a wine-glassful of brandy. Take a wine-glassful at a time. ORANGE WINE.—To 10 gal- lons of water add 24 lbs. of loaf sugar; beat the whites of six eggs well, and mix when the water is cold; boil an hour; skim well; then take 4 dozens of the roughest and largest Seville oranges; pare very thin; put them into a tub, and pour the liquor on boiling hot; and when cold enough, add three or four spoonfuls of good yeast, with the juice of the oranges, and % oz, of cochineal, beaten fine, and boiled in a pint of wine; stir all together. Ferment four days; put into the casks, and in six weeks bottle for use. Orange Wine.—To five gallons ,of spring-water, put fifteen pounds of loaf sugar, and the whites of three eggs, well beaten; let it boil for a quarter of an hour, and as the scum rises, take it off; when cold, add the juice of sixty Seville oranges and five lemons; pare 10 oranges and 5 lemons as thin as possible ; put them on thread, and sus- pend them in the barrel for two months; then take them out, and put in a pound of loaf sugar, and bung it up. ORANGES, to Preserve, Carved. — Take the best Seville oranges; cut the rinds with a penknife in various forms ; draw out part of the peel as you cut them, and put them into salt and water, to stand three days to take out the bitter; then boil them in a large saucepan of fresh water, with sals in it, but do not cover them, or their285 OX OKA colour will be injured; take out, and boil them ten minutes in a thin syrup, for five days successively; put into a deep jar, to stand two months, and then make a thick syrup, and just give them a boil in it; let them stand till the next day; then jar them, and cover with brandy papers; tie them down with a bladder. Whole oranges may be preserved in the same way; but do not boil so long, and keep in a very thin syrup at first, or it will cause them to shrink and wither. Always put salt in the water for either oranges preserved, or orange chips. ORANGES, to Preserve in Jelly.—The same as lemons pre- served in jelly, page 236. ORANGEADE. — Squeeze the juice; pour boiling water on a little of the peel, and cover close. Boil sugar and water to a thick syrup, and skim it. When all is cold, mix the juice, the infusion, and the syrup, with as much more water as will make a rich sherbet; strain through a jelly-bag. Or, squeeze the juice, and strain it, and add water and capillaire. ORANGEADE, Effervescing. •—Make it the same as the Ginger Beer Powders, page 195, putting orange juice into tartaric mixture, instead of ginger. ORGEAT.—Boil a quart of new milk with a stick of cinnamon, sweeten to your taste, and let it grow cold; then pour it by degrees to three ounces of almonds, and twenty bitter, that have been blanched and beaten, to a paste, with a little water to prevent oil- ing ; boil all together, and stir till cold, then add half a glass of brandy. Orgeat.—Blanch and pound three quarters of a pound of almonds, and thirty bitter, with a spoonful of water. Stir in by degrees two pints of water, and three of milk, and strain the whole through a cloth. Dissolve half a pound of loaf sugar in a pint of water, and skim it well; mix it with the other, as likewise two spoonfuls of orange flower water, and a tea-cupful of the best brandy. ORGEAT, for the Sick.—Beat 3 ozs. of almonds with a tea-spoonful of orange-flower water, and a bitter almond or two; then pour a quart of milk and water to the paste. Sweeten with sugar or capillaire. This is a fine drink for those who have a tender chest; and in the gout it is highly useful, and, with the addition of half an ounce of gum arabic, has been found to allay the pain. Half a glass of brandy may be added if thought too cooling in the latter complaints, and the glass of orgeat may be put into a basin of warm water. OSWEGO PREPARED CORN.—It makes an excellent diet, especially for invalids and children. Simply boiled in milk and sweetened, it is excellent. For Children the above makes the most nutritious of all food, and is in- valuable. For Invalids it is better than the best Arrow Root, and it is prepared in the same way. For Gravy Jelly, boil in water, mix with a little strong meat gravy, and cool in a form. For thickening Soups and Gravies it is unequalled. OX-CHEEK, to Marinate.— Bone the cheek ; stew it with red wine, and white wine vipegar, seasoned with salt, pepper, and sliced nutmeg; stew till tender ; then take them up, and put to the liquor in which you stewed them, a quart of sherry, and sage, parsley, marjoram, thyme, a bunch of rosemary, bay leaves, whole pepper, nutmegs, and sliced ginger ; boil all these together ; put the cheek into the vessel, and pour the liquor upon it; lay on them some slices of lemon, and keep for use. OX-CHEEK, to Pot..—When you stew an ox-cheek, take some of the fleshy part, and season it well with salt and pepper, and beat it very fine in a mortar with a little clear fat skimmed off the gravy ; put it close into the pots, and pour over it clarified butter. OX-CHEEK STEW.— Soak and cleanse a fine cheek the day before-; put it into a stew-pot that will cover close, with 3 quarts of water; simmer it after it has boiled, and been skimmed. In 2 hours put plenty of carrots, leeks, 2 turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper and 4 ozs. of allspice. Skim often ; when the meat Is lender, take it out; cool, take off the fat, and286 ox ox serve the soup separate or with the meat. It should be of a fine brown, which may be done by burnt sugar; or by frying some onions brown with flour and sim- mering them with it. This improves the flavour of all soups and gravies of the brown kind. If vegetables are not approved in the soup, they may be taken out, and a small roll be toasted or bread fried and added. Celery is a great addition, and should always be served. Where it is not to be got, the seed of it gives quite as good a flavour, boiled in and strained off. OX-CHEEK STEW.— Soak half a head 3 hours, and clean it with plenty of water. Take the meat off the bones, and put it into a pan with a large onion, a bunch of sweet herbs, some bruised allspice, pepper, and salt. Lay the bones on the top ; pour on 2 or 3 quarts of water and cover the pan close with brown paper, or a dish that will fit close. Let it stand 8 or 10 hours in a slow oven ; or simmer it by the side of the fire, or on a hot hearth. When done tender, put the meat into a clean pan, and let it get cold. Take the cake of fat off, and warm the head in pieces in the soup. Put what vegetables you choose. OXFORD CAKES.—Flour, 6 lbs.; salt, about a table-spoonful; cin- namon, $ oz. ; nutmeg, oz, ; cloves, i dr.; the same of mace, all finely beaten and sifted with the salt; add % lb. of sugar; gradually work into the flour 1 lb. or more of fresh butter; it will take a long time to work it up. Then add a quart of cream, a pint of ale yeast, a gill of mountain wine, and 3 grains of ambergris, dissolved in the yolks of 8 and whites of 4 eggs, and a gill of rosewater; mix the whole with the flour, and knead them well together. Keep the paste near the fire some time; then add 1 lb. of stoned minced raisins, and 3 lbs. of clean dry currants ; bake the rake in a gentle oven. Frost on the top with Tose-water and the whole of an egg beaten together ; sift over plenty of fine loaf sugar, and put into a slow oven to dry. OXFORD DUMPLINGS.— Take 2 ozs. of grate??, broad ; currants and shred suet, 4 0*8. each ; two large spoonfuls of flour ; a good quantity of grated lemon-peel, a bit of sugar, and a little powdered pimento. Mix with 2 eggs and a little milk into 5 dumplings, and fry of a fine yellow brown. Serve with sweet sauce. OXFORD PUDDING.—Have 4 ozs. of bread crumbs grated, and take 4 ozs. of currants, the same of suet chopped very fine, a large spoonful of sugar, and a little nutmeg : mix all to- gether. Take the yelks of 4 eggs, and make your puddings into balls, and fry them a light brown in butter. Serve with sherry or rum sauce. OXFORD PUNCH.—Rub the rinds of 4 fresh lemons with loaf sugar till you have extracted a portion of the juice. Cut the peel finely off 3 lemons more, and 2 Seville oranges. Use the juice of 10 lemons and 6 Seville oranges. Add 8 glasses of calf s-foot jelly ; put ail into a large jug and stir well together. Put in 3 quarts of water boiling hot, and set the jug upon the hob for an hour. Strain the liquor into a large bowl; pour in a bottle of capillaire, half a pint of sherry, a pint of cognac brandy, a pint and a half of old Jamaica rum, and a quart of orange shrub ; stir well as you pour in the spirit. Add sugar to your taste. OXFORD SAUSAGES.-Take 1 lb. of young pork, fat and lean, with- out gristle; lean veal, 1 lb.; chop all together with 1 lb. of beef suet. Add i ,1b. of grated bread, half the peel of a I lemon shred fine ; a nutmeg grated ; a few sage leaves chopped fine; a tea- spoonful of peppier, and 2 of salt; some savory, thyme, and marjoram. Roll them out the size of common sausages, and fry them in fresh butter, or broil them over the fire, and send them to the table hot. OX GALL, Prepared.—Fresh gall, 1 pint; alum, 1 oz. Boil until the latter is dissolved, then add fresh gall, 1 quart; salt, 1 oz. Boil in like man- ner, keep both solutions in separate bottles for 3 or 3 months ; pxmr off the clear, and mix them together: allow them to settle, and decant the pure gall for use. (i, OXTAIL SOUP.— Joint the tails, and let them soak for some time in warm water. Put into a gallon stew-287 OYS OYS pan 8 doves, 2 or 3 onions ; allspice and black pepper, of each J a dr,; cayenne pepper, 1 dr.; cover with cold water; skim as long as any scum rises ; cover the pan very dose, and simmer till the meat becomes tender, and will easily leave the bones. A table-spoonful of mushroom ketchup and a glass of wine will be a great improvement. OYSTERS, au Citron.—Instead of vinegar and black pepper, squeeze fresh lemon juice over the fish, and use soluble cayenne. OYSTERS, Broiled.—To broil oysters, roll them in flour or oatmeal, and as each oyster is taken from the gridiron, put a bit of butter on it. Keep hot and covered until served. Oysters ought to be eaten where they are broiled. OYSTERS, to Escallop.-Wash them in their own liquor; then strain the liquor, and put it to them again ; put some of them into escallop shells ; strew bread crumbs over them, with a little pepper, and a bit of butter ; then more oysters, bread crumbs, and a bit more butter at the top ; put them in a dutch-oven till they are brown. OYSTERS, to Feed.—Put them into water and wash them with a birch- besom till quite dean; then lay them bottom downwards into a pan, sprinkle with flour or oatmeal and salt, and cover with water. Do the same every day, and they will fatten. The water should be pretty salt. OYSTERS, to Fry,—Make a batter of flour, milk, and eggs, season it a very little, dip the oysters into it, and fry them a fine yellow brown. A little nutmeg should be put into the sea- soning, and a few crumbs of bread into the flour. OYSTERS, to Fry.—Take 2 dozen large oysters ; beat the yolks of a eggs ; add to it a little nutmeg, a blade of mace pounded, a spoonful of flour, and a little salt; dip in the oysters, and fry them in lard a light brown ; if agree- able, a little shred parsley may be added. They are a proper garnish for cod's- hsad, calf’s head, or most made dishes. OYSTER KETCHUP.-Beard the oysters ; boil them up in their liquor; strain, and pound them in a mortar; boil the beards in spring water, and strain it to the first oyster liquor ; boil the pounded oysters in the mixed liquors with beaten mace and pepper. Some add a very little mushroom ketchup, vinegar, or lemon-juice ; but the less the natural flavour is over-powered the bet- ter ; only spice is necessary for its pre- servation. This oyster ketchup will keep perfectly good longer than oysters are ever out of season in England. OYSTER LOAVES. — Open them, and save the liquor ; wash them in it; then strain it through a sieve, and put a little of it into a tosser with a bit of good butter and flour, white pepper, a scrape of nutmeg, and a little cream. Stew them, and cut in dice ; put them into rolls sold for the purpose. OYSTER PATTIES.—Put a fine puff paste into small patty-pans, and cover with paste, with a bit of bread in each; and against they are baked have ready the following to fill with, taking out the bread. Take off the beards of the oysters, cut the other parts in small bits, put them in a small tosser, with a grate of nutmeg, the least white pepper, and salt, a morsel of lemon-peel, cut so small that you can scarcely see it, a little cream, and a little of the oyster liquor. Simmer for a few minutes before you fill. Observe to put a bit of crust into all patties to keep them hollow while baking OYSTERS, to Pickle.—Wash 4 dozen of the largest oysters you can get in their own liquor, wipe them dry, strain the liquor off, adding to it, a des- sert-spoonful of pepper, 2 blades of mace, a table-sp‘oonfiil of salt, if the liquor be not veiy salt, 3 of white wine, and 4 of vinegar.—Simmer the oysters a few minutes in the liquor, then put them in small jars and boil the pickle up, skim it, and when cold, pour over the oysters : cover close. OYSTERS, to Pickle. —Open the number you intend to pickle, put them into a saucepan with their own liquor for 10 minutes, simmer them very gently; then put them into a jar, one by one, that none of the grit may stick to them, and cover them when cold with the pickle thus made. Boil the liquor with a bit of mace, lemon-peel, and black peppers, aud to every too put a spoonfuls of the best vinegar.OYS PA1 288 They should be kept in small jars, and tied close with bladder, or the air will spoil them. * OYSTER SAUCE.—Save the Hquor in opening the oysters; and boil it with the beards, a bit of mace, and lemon-peel. Throw the oysters into cold water, and drain it off. Strain the liquor, and put it into a saucepan with them, and as much butter, mixed with mills, as will make sauce enough; but fust rub a little &our with it. Put on the fire, and stir all the time; and when the butter has boiled once or twice, take them off, and keep the sauce- pan near the fire, but not on it; for if done too much, the oysters will be hard. Squeeze a little lemon-juice, and serve. A little cream is a great improvement. Observe, the oysters will thin the sauce, so put butter accordingly. OYSTER SOUP.—Take two quarts of fish stock, beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, and the hard part of two quarts of oysters, in a mortar, and add this to the stock. Simmer it all for half an hour; then strain it off', and put it and the oysters (cleared of the beards, and nicely washed) into the soup. Simmer five minutes; have ready the yolks of six raw eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup. Stir it all well one way on the side of the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. Serve all together. OYSTER SOUP.—Take 1 lb. of skate, four flounders, or flukes, and a lbs. of eels ; cut them in pieces ; sea- son them with mace, pepper, salt, an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, some parsley and sweet herbs; cover with water; simmer 1 % hour, and strain; beat the yolks of ten hard eggs, with the hard part of a pint of oysters, in a mortar; simmer all together for half an hour; have ready the yolks of six eggs well beaten, and add them to the soup ; stir on the fire till it is thick and smooth, but do not let it boil. OYSTERS, to Stew.—Open and separate the liquor from them, then wash them from the grit; strain the liquor, and put with the oysters a bit of mace and lemon peel, and a few white peppers. Simmer them very gently, and add some cream, and a little flour and butter. Serve with sippets. P PAIN IN THE BACK— Stefip root of water-fern in water, till the water becomes thick and clammy ; then rub the parts therewith morning and evening. Or, apply a plaster, and take, daily, balsam of eapivi. Or, apply garlic and hog’s lard to the feet, PAINS IN THE HEAD AND FACE.—Take half a pint of rose- water, two tea-spoonfuls of white vine- gar, and form a lotion. Apply it to the affected part three times a day. It requires fresh linen and lotion each ap- plication ; this will in two or three days, gradually take the pain away. PAINS IN THE JOINTS— Make a poultice of the young leaves of rag-wort, and put on as hot as can be borne. PAIN IN THE SIDE—At bed-time apply a fresh cabbage-leaf, warmed by the fire, and bind it dghtly round the body for twelve horns, or more. The first application generally gives relief; if not, apply a second leaf. PAIN KILLER, Celebrated. —Alcohol, 1 quart; gum guaiac, 1 oz.; gums myrrh and camphor, and cayenne pulverized, each half an ounce. Mix. Put in a bottle and shake occasionally for about 10 days, filter it or let it settle for use. Apply freely to surface pains, or it may be taken in tea-spoonful doses for internal pains ; repeat as required. PAINTING.—The best time for painting the windows and doors of houses is autumn, or winter, if the weather be fine. Though longer in drying, it becomes harder, and there- fore more durable. PAINT, Cheap. — Tar mixed with yellow-ochre, makes a very good paint for out-door purposes, as rails, iron fencing, &c. PAINT, to Clean.—Brush off the dust, and wash with soap and water, or soda and water, as the case may re- quire, using a sponge or flannel. Soap if not carefully used destroys both paint and varnish. Fullers earth is also a good cleanser. PAINT, to Clean Varnished. —Tea-leaves may be saved for a fewPA1 PAL 289 days, steep them for half an hour In a tin pan ; strain the water off through a sieve, and use this tea to wash all var- nished paint. It removes spots, and gives a fresher, newer appearance than when soap and water is used. For white paint, take up a small quantity of whiting on a damp piece of white flannel, and rub over the surface lightly, and it will leave the paint re- markably bright and new. PAINT, to Remove from Cloth.—Apply spirit of turpentine with a sponge. Grease on cloth may be removed by frequent layers of blotting paper placed over the grease spot, and pressing with a flat iron. PAINT, to Remove Spots of. —Apply spirits of turpentine to the spot, and after a while rub the cloth as if washing, and the paint will crumble off; if not, apply the turpentine again. PAINT, to Take away the Smell of.—Water neutralizes the smell of paint. Vessels of water placed in a newly painted room, will remove the smell, especially if impregnated with a little sulphuric acid.—-Or straw and hay well saturated with water. Or chloride of lime and water. PAINT, for Garden Stands.— It may be composed of mineral green, and turpentine varnish, using a larger quantity of varnish for the second coat, if needful. The colour may be regulat- ed by the addition of white lead, or Prussian blue, ad libitum. PAINTER’S COLIC; see Colie, page 132.—This is a dangerous disease ; it is attended with severe and violent pain, and paralytic symptoms, and sometimes with nausea, vomiting of acid bile, severe pains ; spasmodic pains about the region of the navel, violently shooting to each side ; it is often attend- ed by violent spasms of the bowels with obstinate costiveness. If the disease is not arrested, it may terminate in gan- grene, paralysis of the limbs, &c. It is caused by the absorption of lead into the system chiefly by respiration ; hence painters, plumbers, potters, miners, and white lead workers are most subject to it. Treatment.—To some extent the tyston la impregnated with lead; the great object therefore must be to cause nature to expel the same. The nausea and the vomiting must be arrested by the Neutralising Mixture, page 275; give a table-spoonful every half hour, or as often as vomiting takes place ; when it ceases, give the Aperient Electuary, or the Aperient Tonic Mixture, page, 31, now and then. When the first symp- toms appear, give an injection as fol- lows :—Warm water, one pint, two tea- spoonfuls of salt; antispasmodic tinc- ture, two table-spoonfuls, and a table- spoonful of slippery elm. Apply to the stomach and region of the navel hot fomentations of a strong decoction of hops and poppy heads, a little antispasmodic tincture, and 20 or 30 drops of laudanum to a pint. Give the vapour bath dally ; and after- wards apply friction, and rub the body all over with the Stimulating Liniment. An emetic now and then will be of great, use. The injections must be repeated until evacuations are obtained. Drink at the same time a decoction of the sudorific herbs, as balm, catnep, yarrow, peppermint, camomile, &c. If the disease Abates, discontinue gradually the use of the above reme- dies ; do not cease all at once, for the disease is a very insidious one, and may return. The application of dry hot salt, folded up in a bag, is a most valuable remedy. Keep it heating in the oven, and have two bags ; change as the one cools.—To remove paralysis in any part, apply frequently the Stimulating Lini- ment, page 378. The diet must be low and sparing. PALERMO WINE.—Take to every quart of water 1 lb. of Malaga raisins; rub, and cut the raisins small, and put them to the water, to stand ten days, stirring now and then; boil the water an hour before it is put to the raisins, and let it cool; in ten days strain the liquor, adding a little yeast with a sprig of dried wormwood. . Stop close, and in two or three months bottle it, adding brandy, as much as you please. PALPITATION OF THE HEART.—This is a very strong pulsation of the heart, sometimes only occasional, but often continual It arises flora morbid irritability of the heart; it to often purely nervous, caused,PAX. PAL 2 go In some cases, by the disordered state of the stomach and bowels, by alcoholic drinks, by excessive venery, by Extreme grief, and disappointments preying upon the spirits, all tending to weaken the nervous system. It is sometimes a symptom of other diseases, as indiges- tion, hysteria. The beating is frequent- ly so violent as to be heard at a con- siderable distance, and sometimes the effects of the increased action of the heart may be seen on the outside of the clothes. The pulse at the same time is very irregular, and often intermittent. Palpitation of the heart is not to be neglected, as it may lead to serious consequences. The treatment of this disease is much similar to that for indigestion. The treatment must depend on the state of the body; for palpitation may be the effect of increased vitality, or fulness, or of debility and relaxation, &c. If the system be in a plethoric state, (fulness) aperients and a spare diet must be en- joined. Avoid all stimulants. In case of general debility, 20 drops of aether, with a tea-spoonful of tincture of castor, in a wine-glassful of the infusion of valerian, two or three times a day. When it arises from disease of the heart, or of the large vessels, then avoid ple- thora, much bodily exertion, full meals, and excesses of every kind. The fol- lowing mixture is valuable:— Tincture of henbane, 2 ozs.; tincture of foxglove, 3 drachms ; sweet spirit of nitre, 34 oz.; mix. A tea-spoonful and half to be taken two or three times a day in a glass of water. If the action of the heart is very violent, apply a mustard plaster to the left side, or strong hop and popfy head fomentations. Two grains of hemlock powder may also be taken every seven or eight hours. After the cessation of palpitation, take tonics, sponge the breast with tepid or cold water, and ' take gentle exercise in the open air. PALPITATION OF THE HEART Cured by Soda-Water. —A lady, about forty years of age, had suffered twelve years from periodical attacks of palpitation of the heart, so violent as to shake the bed on which the patient lay. During one attack, feeling thirsty, she expressed a desire for some aoda-wftter. No xoonw hud she swal- lowed the first draught than her palpita- tion left her, and recurred no more until the period of the next attack. As soon as it commenced, she sent for her medi- cal attendant, and told him what had occurred a month previously, and re- quested to be allowed to try the same remedy a second time. He consented, but, wishing to ascertain which of the ingredients of the soda-water had re- lieved the complaint, he gave her a dose of citric add by itself. This had no effect. He then gave her a dose of car- bonate of soda, which also failed. He then mixed the powders, and gave her some ordinary soda-water, placing his hand at the same time upon her heart. The moment she swallowed the first mouthful, the palpitation ceased, and recurred no more for that time. From that period, whenever the palpitation came on, she could always stop it by this simple remedy. It appears, from the experiments made by medical men, that the carbonic acid was the active element in relieving the complaint, be- cause, until the gas was liberated by the mixture of citric acid and the carbonate of soda, no benefit accrued. PALPITATION OF THE HEART. — To 10 drops of the tincture of foxglove, add 10 drs. of camphor mixture, 1 drachm of tincture of columba, and 15 drops of sulphuric ether. Mix, and take a teaspoonful two or three times a day. PALPITATION OF THE HEART.'—Drink a pint of cold water. Or, apply outwardly a rag dipt in vinegar.— Or, be electrified. -Or, take a decoction of mother wort every night. PALSY, or PARALYSIS.— It is a disease of debility, or diminished sensibility of the nerves, sometimes of the whole body. It is indicated by a suspension of motion, frequently of one side, rarely the lower extremities from the loins ; and it is sometimes confined to a muscle or nerve, as of the bladdel and anus, allowing the urine and faeces to pass off involuntarily; sometimes the muscles of the tongue, causing stammering and loss of speech ; some- times of the optic nerves, producing Gntta Serena, or imperfect vision ; andPAN PAL 29I sometimes the nerve of the ear, causing deafness. It is generally preceded by numbness, coldness, paleness, &c. In bad cases, where one half of the body is paralysed, the speech is much impeded, or totally lost, and convulsions often take place on the sound side. The muscles of the affected side of the face being relaxed, give those of the opposite side an ap- pearance of being drawn up or con- tracted. It may be caused by an apoplectic attack, any thing obstructing the flow of nervous influence from the brain into the organs of motion ; hence, tumours, over distension and effusion, distortions of the spine, and thickening of the liga- ments connecting the vertebrae, often give rise to it. The long-continued use of sedatives will likewise produce palsy, such as constant handling of white lead ; poisonous fumes of metals or minerals ; translation of morbid matter to the head ; suppression of accustomed evacu- ations ; pressure on the nerves by laxa- tives ; fractures, wounds, or other ex- ternal injuries, &c. Treatment.—In sudden attacks, the same treatment as in apoplexy. To remove spasmodic symptoms, give the Antispasmodic Tincture, page ax, every hour. Betwixt give the Stimulating Drops, page 378. followed by herb tea. Steam the parts well with a bitter de- coction of herbs; as tansy, hops, worm- wood, camomile, catnep, penny-royal, and betony, or any other bitter herbs. Pour boiling vinegar and water upon them ; cover up, and let it infuse some time. Then rub the part with a stimu- lant, made of salt and cayenne, infused in hot vinegar. Or, made of cayenne, whisky, and salt. Twice a day rub the spine of the back with the Stimulating Ointment, page 378 : or apply mustard plasters ; or sting the place with nettles. Electricity and dry frictions are very good. Once or twice a week give the vapour bath ; and two horns after rub the whole body with the Stimulating Liniment, page 378. Dr. Beach re- commends the following injection :— cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoonful; lobelia, a teaspoonfuls; boiling water. 1 pint. Let it infuse ; stir well, in order to get the strength out as soon as possible ; sweeten with treacle; add half a pint of milk, and a gill of sweet oil. <Sive It warm ; as much as the patient can bear; this will excite action in the bowels, and promote evacuations. Salt and water will make a very good injection. If constipation should prevail, coarse, or brown bread, should be eaten, or Aperients should be taken, page 21, or a dose of castor oil; followed by the continual use of the Restorative Bitters, page 336, introducing the peroxide of iron, say oz. to a pint of the bitters. Also take a Nervous Pill, page 274; and occasionally the Alterative Syrup, page 16. See Cold Water Cure, pages 128, &c. Let the diet be simple, light, and spare. Take abundant exercise in the air, when the weather permits. PALSY, Infusion for.— Take horse radish, mustard seed bruised, of each, 4 ozs. ; outer rind of orange peel, 1 oz.; infuse in two quarts of boiling water in a close vessel for 24 hours. In paralytic affections, a teacupful of this warm stimulant may be taken three or four times a day. PANADA, or Bread, or Bis- cuit Jelly.—Set & little water on the fire ; when it boils, take off, and add a glass of sherry, sugar, a little grated nutmeg and lemon-peel. At the same time grate some crumbs of bread. Put the crumbs in, and let it boil fast; when of a proper thickness to drink, take it off. PANADA. Another Method, —Put to the water a bit of lemon-peel; mix the crumbs in, and when nearly boiled enough, add some lemon or orange syrup. Observe to boil all the ingredients ; for if they be added after- ward, the panada will break, and not jelly. PANCAKES, General Direc- tions for Making.—Clean the pan well before you fry the pancakes ; put a little lard into it, and when hot wipe it out with a clean cloth; then put in more lard or butter, and fry the pan- cakes of a nice light brown, and drain them thoroughly from the fat. They should be eaten hot, and sugar strewed upon them. PANCAKES, to Make.— A quart of milk; beat in 6 or 8 eggs, leaving half the whites out; mix, till batter is of a fine thickness. The flour292 PAP FAN must be first mixed with a little milk; add the rest by degrees, also two spoon- fuls of beaten ginger, a glass of brandy, and a little salt; stir all together ; pour into the pan, (as above directed) a ladleful of batter, sufficient to make a pancake, moving the pan round, that the batter may be all over the pan ; shake the pan, and when one side is enough, toss it over quickly. When both sides are done, put it upon a dish before the fire to keep hot. Sprinkle over it a little sngar. PANCAKES, American.—Mix a pint of cream, five spoonfuls of fine flour, seven yolks and four whites of eggs, and a very little salt; fry them very thin in fresh butter, and between each strew sugar and cinnamon. PANCAKES, Common.— Make a light batter of eggs, flour and milk. Fry in a small pan, in hot drip- ping or lard. Salt, nutmeg, or ginger, may be added. Sugar and lemon should be served to eat with them. If eggs are scarce, make the batter of flour, and small beer, ginger, j&c., or clean snow, with flour, and a little milk. PANCAKES, Cream.—Mix two eggs, well beaten, with a pint of cream, 3 ozs. of sifted sugar, 6 ozs. of flour, a teaspoonful mixed of cinnamon, nut- meg, and mace. Fry the pancakes thin with a piece of butter. PANCAKES, Fine.— Cream, half a pint; sherry, half a pint; the Solks of 18 eggs beaten fine, and a ttle salt; sugar, ^ lb.; a little ground cinnamon, mace, and nutmeg; put in as much flour as will spread thin over the pan, and fry them in fresh butter. This sort of pancakes will not be crisp, but very good. PANCAKES, Fried without Butter.—Beat six fresh eggs very well; mix, when strained, with a pint of cream, 4 ozs. of sugar, a glass of wine, half a nutmeg grated, and as much flour as will make it almost as thick as ordinary pancake batter, but not quite. Heat the frying-pan toler- ably hot, wipe it with a clean cloth; pour in the batter to make thin pan- cakes. PANCAKES, Irish.—Beat eight yolks and fom whites of eggs, strain them into a pint of cream, put a grated nutmeg, and sugar to your taste; set 3 ozs. of fresh butter on the fire; stir it, and as it warms pour it to the cream, which should be warm when the eggs are put to it: then mix smooth almost half a pint of flour. Fry the pancakes very thin; the first with a bit of butter, but not the others. PANCAKES, Pink, &c.—Boil some beet-root till tender, and beat it fine in a mortar ; add the yolks of four eggs, two spoonfuls of flour, and three of cream; sweeten, grate in half a nut- meg, and add a glassful of brandy; mix all well together, and fry the pan- cakes in butter; garnish them with green sweetmeats or sprigs of myrtle. PANCAKES, Rice.—Boil Jib. of rice to a jelly in a little water; when cold, mix it with a pint of cream, eight eggs, a bit of salt and nutmeg grated; stir in 8 ozs. of butter just warmed, and add as much flour as will make the bat- ter thick enough. Fry in as little lard or dripping as possible. PAPER, to Render Fireproof and Waterproof.—Professor Mus- champ, of Wurtemberg, advises the following:— Take 26 ozs. of alum, and 4 ozs. of white soap, and dissolve them in a quart of water; into another vessel dis- solve 2 ozs. of gum arabic, and 1 oz. of glue in the same quantity of water as the former, and add the two solutions together, which is now to be kept warm, and the paper intended to be made waterproof dipped into it, passed be- tween rollers and dried; or without the use of rollers, the paper may be sus- pended until it is perfectly dripped, and then dried. The alum, soap, glue, and gum, form a kind of artificial leather, which protects the surface of the paper from the action of water, and also renders it somewhat fireproof. A second immersion makes it still better. PAPER-HANGINGS to Clean.—Rub them gently down with a crust of bread, or with stiff dough; the flock papers should not be treated this way, but brushed with a soft clothes brush. Or, rub the paper well with a flannel cloth dipped In oat- meal.J PARAFINE, Explosive/. — Mr. W. Herapath, of Bristol, makes the public acquainted with an easy method of proving whether parafine oil is dangerous or not. Let two or three drops be allowed to fall upon a plate or saucer, and apply to them a lighted match ; if the flame spreads over the surface of the drops the oil should on no account be used, as it will under many circumstances prove explosive. The genuine parafine or petroleum will not bum except upon a wick. PARCHMENT GLUE.-Steep I lb. of parchment cuttings in a gallon of water in which has been dissolved i oz. of borax, and a little gum Arabic. Then strain the liquid well. Boil to the thickness required. PARCHMENT, to Prepare for Painting.—Take yard of list- ing, and roll it up very tight in a circu- lar form ; then take some finely pow- dered white pumice stone ; put the list- ing in it, and rub it over the parchment. This simple plan answers the best of any. If you wish it to take water col- ours, without sinking, choose that which is not spongy or soft, and use alum water with the colours, when you mix them for use. PAREGORIC ELIXIR.-Take flowers of benzoin, % oz. ; opium, 2 drs. Infuse in 1 lb. of the volatile aro- matic spirits, 4 or 5 days, frequently shaking the bottle ; afterwards strain the elixir. It eases pain, allays tickling coughs, relieves difficult breathing, and is useful in many disorders of children, particularly the hooping cough. The dose to an adult is from qo to 60 drops. PARMESAN AND CAULI- FLOWER.— Boil a cauliflower, drain it on a sieve, and cut the staiks so that the flower will stand upright about a inches above the dish. Put it into a stew-pan, with a little white sauce, let it stew till done enough, which will be but a few minutes; then dish it with the sauce round and put Parmesan grated over it. Brown it with a salamander. PARKIN, Superb Oatmeal, 3 lbs. ; flour, r lb. ; butter, 1 lb. ; trea- cle, 4 lbs, ; ginger, 1 oz. ; sugar, 1 lb. ; a teaspoonfuls of carbonate of soda in a giU of beer.—The butter to be rubbed into the flour. All the Ingredients to be mixed the previous evening, and baked In a moderate oven the following morn- ing. Do not forget to add a wineglass, or two, of the best rum. This parkin is a luxury. PARSNIPS, to Fricassee.— Boil in milk till they are soft, then cut them lengthways into bits 2 or 3 inches long, and simmer in a white sauce, made of 2 spoonfuls of broth, a bit of mace, half a cupful of cream, a bit of butter, and some flour, and pepper and salt. PARSNIPS, to ^Vlash. —Boil them tender, scrape, then mash them in a stew-pan with a little cream, a good piece of butter, and pepper and salt. ■ PARSNIPS, to Stew.— Boil them tender, scrape, and cut into slices ; put them into a saucepan with cream enough; for sauce, a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little salt; shake the saucepan often; when the cream boils, pour them into the dish. PARTRIDGES, to Choose.— In autumn they are in season. If young, the bill is of a. dark colour, and the legs yellowish ; if fresh the vent will be firm ; but this part will look greenish if stale; if old the bills are white, and the legs blue. PARTRIDGE, to Boil.—Boil quick in a good quantity of water about 15 minutes. For sauce, take a % pint of cream, and a small piece of fresh but- ter ; pour it over the birds. 0 rt PARTRIDGE, to Carve.—The partridge is here presented as just taken from the spit; but before it is served up, the skewers must be withdrawn. It is cut up in the same manner as a fowl. The wings must be taken off in the lines a, b, and the merrythought, in the line c, d. The prime parts of a partridge are the wings, breast and merrythought, but the bird being small, the two latter are not often divided. The wing isPAR 294 FAR considered the best, and the tip of it reckoned the most delicate morsel of all. PARTRIDGE, to Dress a la braise.—Trass the legs into the bodies of 2 brace of partridges; lard, and season with beaten mace, pepper, and salt; lay slices of bacon, beef, and veal, a small carrot, and onion, cut small, sweet herbs, and some whole pepper: put in the partridges with the breasts downwards; lay thin slices of beef and veal over them, and some parsley shred fine; cover, and stew 8 or 10 minutes over a slow fire; shake the pan, and pour into it a pint of boiling water ; cover close, and let it stew half an hour over a quicker fire; turn out the birds ; keep hot; pour into the pan a pint of thin gravy ; boil till reduced to half a pint; strain, and skim off the fat. Cut a veal sweetbread small, small mushrooms, cockscombs, and fowls’ livers, stewed half an hour in a pint of gravy; some artichoke buttons, and asparagus tops, blanched in warm wa- ter ; then add the other gravy to this, and put in the partridges to heat; when hot, pour some sauce over them, and serve. PARTRIDGE, to Hash. — Cut up the partridge as for eating ; slice an onion into rings ; roll a little butter in flour; put them into the tossing pan, and shake it over the fire till it boils, put in the partridge with a little port wine and vinegar; and when it is thoroughly hot, lay it on the dish with sippets round It; strain the sauce over the partridge, and lay on the onion in rings. PARTRIDGE, to Pot—Clean them nicely ; and season with mace, all- spice, white pepper, and salt, in fine powder. Rub every part well; then lay the breast downwards in a pan, and pack the birds as close, as you possibly can. Put a good deal of butter on them ; then cover the pan with a coarse flour paste and a paper over, tie it close, and bake. When cold, put the birds into pots, and cover with butter. PARTRIDGE, to Roast. — Roast them like a turkey, and when a little under roasted, dredge them with flour, and baste them with butter ; let them go to table with a fine froth ; put gravy sauce in the dish, and bread sauce on the table. PARTRIDGE, to Stew.—Truss as for roasting; stuff the craws, and lard them down each side of the breast; roll a lump of butter in pepper, salt, and beaten mace, and put them inside ; sew up the vents; dredge them well, and fry a light brown ; put them into a stew- pan with a quart of good gravy, a spoon- ful of sherry wine, the same of mush- room ketchup, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, and a little mushroom powder, 1 anchovy, 4 a lemon, a sprig of sweet marjoram; cover the pan close, and stew half an hour; take out, and thicken the gravy; boil it a little, and pour it over the partridges, and lay round them artichoke buttons, boiled, and cut in quarters, and the yolks of 4 hard eggs, if agreeable. PARTRIDGE PIE—Pick and singe 4 partridges; cut off the legs at the knee; season with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, thyme, and mush- rooms. Lay a veal steak and a slice of ham, at the bottom of the dish ; put the partridges in, and half a pint of good broth. Put puff paste on the edge of the dish, and cover with the same; brush it over with egg, and bake an hour. PARTRIDGE SOUP. —Take 2 partridges ; skin them ; and cut them into pieces, with 3 or 4 slices of ham, a stick of celery, and 3 large onions cut into slices. Fry them all in butter till brown, but take care not to bum them. Then put them into a stew-pan, with 5 pints of boiling water, a few pepper- corns, a shank or two of mutton, and a little salt. Stew it gently 2 hours, then strain it through a sieve, and put it again into a stew-pan, with some stewed celery and fried bread ; when it is near boiling, skim it, pour it into a tureen, and serve it up hot. PARSLEY, to Crisp.—Wash it, put it into a Dutch oven, at a moderate distance from the fire, and keep turning it till crisp ; lay small pieces of butter upon it, but not to make it greasy. PARSLEY, and other Herbs to Dry—Pick them clean from all decayed leaves. Put in a sieve; cover with blotting paper, and expose to the sun ; or in a very slow oven, and turn them often; the quicker they are dried the better. Aromatic herbs, if not driedPAR ^95 PAS quickly, will lose much of their flavour. They may be dried also in a Dutch oven. Rub them, and pass through a sieve. Parsley thus prepared is very pleasant and useful; it breaks into parts as small as are obtained by chopping. When parsley and butter are wanted, it Is only required to put a small quantity Into the saucepan with the butter. All dried herbs should be kept from the air in paper bags. PARSLEY, to Pickle.—Take a good quantity of curled parsley ; put it into very strong salt and water; let it stand a week ; put it into another strong salt and water, and let it stand another week; drain well; put it in spring water, and change it every day for 3 days ; and scald it in hard water till it becomes green ; take out, and drain dry ; boil a quart of distilled vinegar a few minutes, wi.h mace, sliced nutmeg, and 2 or 3 shalots. When it is cold, pour it on the parsley, with 3 slices of horse radish. Keep for use. PARSLEY PIE.—Lay a fowl or a few bones of the scrag of veal, sea- soned, into a dish; scald a colander- full of picked parsley in milk ; season ; and add to it the fowl or meat, with a tea-cupful of any sort of good broth, or weak gravy. When it is baked, pour into it a quarter of a pint of cream scalded, with the size of a walnut of but- ter, and a little flour. Shake it round to mix with the gravy already in. Lettuces, white mustard leaves, or spinach, may be added to the parsley, and scalded before put in. PARSLEY SAUCE. —Pound a handful of parsley, and put it into a stewpan in good cullis, sufficient for the quantity of sauce wanted ; simmer it 15 minutes, and sift it in a sieve; add some butter rolled in flour; and, lastly, add a lemon squeeze. PASTE.—It is made by beating, say, half a cupful of flour in water, to the consistence of pudding batter, add half a teaspoonful of powdered alum; put it on the fire, and stir till it boils. A little powdered corrosive sublimate will cause it to keep long, and a few drops of any of the essential oils will prevent mouldiness. The addition of a little sugar, or powdered resin, makes it more adhesive. PASTE AND PIES, General Directions. — The most important thing in all kinds of pastry is the proper heat of the oven. Raised pies should have a quick oven, and well closed up, or the pie will fall in at the sides ; it should not have any water put in till the minute it goes to the oven ; it makes the crust sad, and may cause the pie to rub. Light paste requires a moderate oven, but Dot too slow; it will make it sad, and a quick oven will soon bum it, and not give it time to rise. Tarts that are iced require a slow oven, or the icing will brown, and the paste not be nearly baked. This sort of tarts ought to be made of sugar paste, and rolled very thin. PASTE FOR BIRDS.—1 lb. of unsifted flour; 2 ozs. of butter; 4 ozs. of sugar; three hard-boiled eggs, cut up very small. Put them into a saucepan, over a slow fire, and stir till it becomes crumbly. Do not let it be burned. When this is ready, put a pint of cracked hempseed to the mix- ture, and mix well together. When it is baking, add a pennyworth of saffron, and mix it with the rest. If kept in a dry place, it will keep for months, PASTE FOR BIRDS.—Mix well together 3 lbs. of powdered or ground split-peas, 1 % lb. of fine crumbs of bread, and coarse sugar; the yolks of six eggs, and 6 ozs. of unsalted butter. Put one-third of the mixture at a time, in a frying-pan, over a gentle fire, and stir it until it is just browned. When the other two parts are thus done, and all are cold, add to the whole mass, 6 ozs. of maw seed, with 6 ozs. of good bruised hemp seed, separated from the husks. Mix all together. It is an ex- cellent food for all singing birds. PASTE, to Keep a Year.—Dis- solve in cold water, 2 ozs. of glue, and 1 oz. of alum. Mix intimately with flour, and then boil. When nearly cool, stir in two teaspoonfuls of oil of cloves, or lavender. Make it into a pint of paste. Keep in a well covered vessel. PASTE, for Custards.—Put $ lb. of butter in a pan of water ; take a lbs. of flour, with as much water as will make it into a good paste ; work it well; and when cooled a little, raise the cus- tard ; put a paper round the inside of296 PAT PAS them, and when they are half baked, fill them. When you make any kind of dripping paste, boil it four or five times In plenty of water to take off the strength ; when you make a cold crust with suet, shred it fine ; pour part of it into the flour; then make it into a paste, and roll it out as before. PASTE, for Meat, or Savoury Pies.—Sift 2 lbs. of fine flour to 14 lb. of good salt butter, which break into small pieces; rub gently together the flour and butter, and mix up with yolks of three eggs well beat up, adding near- ly a pint of spring water ; roll the paste out and double it in folds three times, and it is ready. PASTE, for Tarts.—Take 1 lb. of fine flour; beat the white of an egg to a strong froth ; mix with it as much water as will make it into a stiff paste ; roll it out very thin; lay 3 ozs. of butter in thin pieces; dredge it with a little flour left for that purpose; roll it up tight; then roll it out again; do so again until all the % lb. of butter and flour is done; cut into square pieces, and make the tarts ; it requires a quicker oven than crisp paste. PASTE, Rich Puff.—Puffs may be made of any sort of fruit, but it should be prepared first with sugar. Weigh an equal quantity of butter with as much fine flour as you judge necessary; mix a little of the former with the latter, and wet it with as little water as will make into a stiff paste. Roll it out, and put all the butter over it in'slices, turn in the ends and roll it thin; do this twice, and touch it no more than can be avoided. The butter may be added at twice; and to those who are not accustomed to make paste it may be better to do so. A quicker oven than for short crust. PASTE, less Rich.—Weigh a pound of flour, and a quarter of a pound of butter, rub them together, and mix into a paste with a little water, and an egg well beaten—of the former as little as will suffice, or the paste will be tough. Roll, and fold it 3 or 4 times. Rub extremely fine in one pound of dried flour six ounces of butter, and a spoonful of white sugar; work up the whole into a stiff paste with as little hot water as possible. PASTE, Without Butter for Family Pies.—Cut some slices of beef suet very thin ; put some flour on the table; lay the suet upon it; roll it with a rolling-pin till it is quite soft; rub it very fine into some flour, and mix it with cold water. It is much better done this way than chopped, and makes a very good crust for any pie that is to be eaten hot, or for fruit puddings. PASTILES, for Perfuming Sick Rooms.—Powder and mix gum benzoin, 8 ozs.; gum storax, 4 ozs.; franJdncense, 8 ozs.; fine charcoal, 1 lb. Add tincture of benzoin, 3 ozs.; essence of ambergris, 1 oz.; essence of musk, % oz. ; 1 oz. of almond oil, and a ozs. of clear syrup; mix into a stiff paste, and form into pastiles of a conical form, dry in the heat of the sun. PATTIES, to Make. —Raise them of an oval form, and bake them as for custards ; cut some long narrow bits of paste, and bake them on a dust- ing box, but not too round as they are for handles ; fill the patties, when quite hot, with the meat; set the handles across the patties; they will look like baskets; if the walls of the patties have been nicely pinched when they were raised, five will be a dish. PATTIES, to make Fine. Slice turkey, lamb, with the fat, chicken, loin of veal, or sirloin cf beef, parsley, thyme, and lemon-peel shred; pound it very fine; season with pepper, and salt; make a fine puff paste ; roll it into thin square sheets ; put the forcemeat in the middle ; cover dose all around, and set the paste even ; just before they go into the oven, wash them over with the yolk of an egg ; bake 20 minutes in a quick oven ; have ready white gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, and shalot, and thick- ened with cream or butter. When baked, make a hole in the top of each, and pour in some gravy, but not so as to run out. PATTIES, Common. — Take the kidney part of a very fat loin of veal; .chop the kidney, veal, and fat, very small all together ; season with mace, pepper, and salt, to your taste; raise little patties the size of a tea-cup ; fill them with the meat; put thin fids on them ; bake very crisp. i*97 PEA PAT PATTIES, Fried.—Cat $ lb. of leg of veal very small, with six oysters ; put the liquor of the oysters to the crumb of a penny loaf; mix with a little salt; put into a tossing-pan with % lb. of butter ; keep stirring for a few minutes over the fire ; make a good puff paste, roll it out, and cut it into little bits the size of a crown piece, various shapes ; put a little of the meat upon them, and a lid to cover; turn up the edges, to keep in the gravy ; fry them in a panful of hog’s lard. PATTIES, like Mince Pies.— Chop the kidney and fat of cold veal, apple, orange, and lemon-peel candied, and fresh currants, a little wine, two or three cloves, a little brandy, and a bit of sugar. Bake as before. PATTIES, Savoury. — Take 1 lb. of the cold loin of veal, or cold fowl, either boiled or roasted, and lb. of beef suet; chop them as small as pos- sible with a little parsley; season well with nutmeg, pepper, and salt; put them in a tossing-pan, with half a pint of veal gravy; thicken the gravy with a little flour and butter, and two spoon- fuls of cream, and shake them over the fire for two minutes ; fill your patties. PATTIES, Sweet. — Take the meat of a boiled calf’s foot, two large apples, and 1 oz. of candied orange; chop them very small; grate half a nut- meg ; mix them with the yolk of an egg, a spoonful of French brandy, and % lb. of currants; make a good puff paste, and roll it in different shapes and fill; they may be baked or fried. PEACH.—Dr. King, of America, says, “The dried peach, boiled or stewed with sugar, is aperient, and very wholesome for persons constipated, especially invalids. The kernels are bitter, but form a most valuable remedy. They are a great tonic for the stomach and bowels, and strengthen the diges- tive organs. Made into a decoction, they give strength to persons recovering from the dysentery, It may be sweet- ened to render it palatable. The leaves and bark are tonic, purgative, and diuretic, and are very useful in leucor- rhoea, or whites, debility, and irritation of the stomach and lungs." The flowers and kernels, say 1 ox. each, boiled, and sweetened, is a remedy for children teething, and for wormt PEACH BLOSSOMS, Syrup of.—Infuse peach blossoms in hot water, sufficient to cover them ; let them stand in a hot water-bath for 34 hours covered close; then strain and put in fresh flowers; infuse as before; again strain; and a third time add fresh peach blossoms to the liquor; then to every lb. of the infusion, add 2 lbs. of double refined sugar, and setting it in a hot water-bath, make a syrup. PEACH COLOUR RIBBON, to Restore when turning Red. Salt of potash dissolved in water; place the ribbon on a clean table, and apply the mixture with a sponge. PEACH LEATHER. This preparation is much relished by invalids, and is thus made;—Squeeze out the pulp of very ripe peaches, add a little sugar; give one boil, and spread it half an inch thick on a plate, and let it dry till quite dry and tough. Roll it in layers, with clean paper between. PEACH MARMALADE. The same as Apricct Marmalade. See page 26. PEACH WINE.—Take 9 gal- lons of cold soft water; refined sugar, 13 lbs.; honey, 3 lbs.; white tartar, in fine powder, 2 ozs.; 30 or 40 peaches; then ferment without the peaches, and add a gallon of brandy. Put into the, vat; and the day after, (before the\ peaches are put in) take the stones from them; break them and the kernels; then put them arid the pulp into the vat, and proceed with the general process. PEACH and APRICOT WINE.—Pare and stone peaches and nectarines ; slice thin, and pour upon them 1 % gallons of water, and a quart of sherry; simmer the whole gently till the fruit becomes soft; pour the liquid into another vessel containing more peaches sliced, to stand ra hours. Strain out the whole of the liquid, and put into a cask to ferment. Add 1 lb. of sugar to each gallon. Boil 1 oz. of cloves in a quart of sherry wine ; add to the whole. To give it a peculiar flavour boil % oz. of mace, and % oz. of nutmegs in a quart of sherry, and pour it into the wine when fermenting ; it should be poured in hot. PEACHES, in Brandy.—See /{'•■ire! in firamiy, page 26.PEA PEA 298 PEACHES, to Dry.—The same as Apricots to Dry, page 26. PEACH JELLY.—The same as Apricot Jelly, page 26. PEACHES, to Preserve.—The same as Apricots to Preserve, page 25. PEARL POWDER.—Dissolve bismuth in nitro muriatic acid, and gradually add cold distilled water, and upon it a beautiful white powder will be precipitated. PEARL WATER, for the Face.—Put £ lb. of the best Windsor soap, scraped very fine, into a gallon of boiling water. Stir it well for some time, and let it cool. Add a pint of rectified spirit of wine, and oz. of oil of rosemary. Stir well. The Italians call this compound Tincture of Pearls. It is a good cosmetic, and will remove freckles. PEARS, Baked.—These need not be of a fine sort; but some taste better than others, and often those that are least fit to eat raw. Wipe, but do ncC pare, and lay them on tin plates, and bake them in a slow oven. When enough to bear it, flatten them with a silver spoon. When done through, put them on a dish. They should be baked very slowly. PEARS, Jargonelle, to Pre- serve.—Pare them very thin, and simmer in thin syrup; let them lie a day or two. Make the syrup richer, and simmer again ; and repeat this till they are clear; then drain, and dry them in the sun or a cool oven a very little time. They may be kept in syrup and dried as wanted, which makes them more moist and rich. PEAR JELLY.—The large stew pears, previously stewed in the oven with a little water make good jelly. Or take jargonelle, or French pears, and boil them to a pulp ; then boil gently over the fire with as much sugar as there is pulp for about 20 minutes, till it is moderately thick. Put in jars, and cover close. PEARS, Stewed.—Pare and halve, or quarter, large pears, accord- ing to their size ; throw them into water, as the skin is taken off before they are divided, to prevent their turning black. Pack them round a stewpan, and sprinkle as much sugar over as will make them sweet, and add lemon peel, a clove or two, and some allspice crack- ed ; cover them with water. Cover them close, and stew three or four horns; when tender, take them out, and pour the liquor over them. The stone pears may be done in the oven with sugar only. PEAS, Green, to Preserve.— Shell, and put them into a kettle of water when it boils ; give them two or three warms only, and pour them in a colander. Drain, and turn them out on a cloth, and then on another to dry perfecdy. When dry, botde them in wide-mouthed bottles; leaving only room to pour clarified mutton suet upon them an inch thick, and for the cork. Rosin it down ; and keep in the cellar, or in the earth, as directed for goose- berries. When they are to be used, boil them till tender, with a bit of butter, a spoonful of sugar, and a bit of mint. PEAS, to Boil.—Peas should not be shelled long before they are wanted, nor boiled in much water; when the water boils, put them in, with a little salt (some add a little loaf sugar, but if they are sweet of them- selves, it is superfluous ;) when the peas begin to dent in the middle, they are boiled enough. Strain, and put a piece of butter in the dish, and stir. A little mint should be boiled with the peas. PEAS MUSH.—Put a quart of green peas, dried mint, and salt, into a quart of water; boil till the peas are tender; add pepper, a bit of butter rolled in flour; stir it altogether, and let it boil a few minutes; add two quarts of milk ; boil 15 minutes ; take out the mint and serve. PEAS PUDDING. — Put a quart of split peas into a clean cloth; allow room for them to swell; boil slowly till they are tender ; if the peas are good, they will be ready in 2§ hours. Rub them through a sieve into a deep dish, adding an egg or two, 1 oz. of butter, pepper, and salt; beat them well together for 10 minutes ; flour a cloth, put the pudding in, tie it tight, and boil an hour longer. PEAS SOUP.—Soak a quart of split peas the night before, and boil them with a little carbonate of soda in sufficient water to allow them to break.299 PEA PEP Add three or four quarts of beef broth, and stew for one hour,; then pass the whole through a sieve, and heat again. Season with salt and pepper. One or two small heads of celery, sliced and stewed in it, will be a great improve- ment. Peas Soup may be made as above with the addition of a little bacon and veal. PEAS SOUP, a la Creme.— Boil with a little salt 5 lbs. of nice lean beef in 6 quarts of water. When it boils, skim, and add two carrots, three whole onions, thyme, two heads of celery, and three quarts of old green peas ; boil till the meat is quite tender ; strain, and rub the pulp through a hair sieve. Split the blanched part of three Cos lettuces into four quarters, and cut them an inch long, with a little mint. Then put £ lb. of butter into a stewpan that will hold the soup. Put the lettuce and mint into the butter, with a leek sliced thin, and a pint of green peas ; stew them fifteen minutes, and shake often ; then put in a litde of the soup, and stew them fifteen minutes longer ; then put in the soup, and as much thick cream as will make it white. Stir till it boils. Put toasted bread or French roll at the bottom of the dish, and pour the soup over it PEAS SOUP, with Meat.— Take a small knuckle of veal, or 4 lbs. of coarse lean beef; chop into pieces; put on the fire in 6 quarts of water. Add x lb. of lean bacon steeped in vinegar an hour, mace, cloves, cayenne, a little white pepper, sweet herbs, and parsley, and a crust of bread, toasted crisp; cover closely, and boil gently over a slow fire, till it is half done. Strain, and put to it a pint of green peas, lettuce, and celery, all cut small; cover closely, and stew very gently over a slow fire for two hours. In the mean- time boil a pint of peas in a pint of water very tender ; strain well through a coarse sieve, and pour all the pulp into the soup ; boil together, and add salt. PEAS SOUP, White.—To 6 quarts of water put a knuckle of veal, a large fowl, 1 lb. of lean bacon, and J lb. of rice, two anchovies, a few pepper- corns, onions, sweet herbs, and 3 heads of celery sliced. Stew all together till the soup is as strong as you like It; then strain through a hair sieve'into a earthen pot; let it stand all night; take off the scum, and pour it off clear ; add £ lb. of Jordan almonds, beaten fine ; boil a little, and then strain. Put in a pint of cream and the yolk of an egg. PENCIL DRAWINGS, to Fix.—Dissolve white resin in spirits of wine ; lay the pencil drawing on its face upon a sheet of clean paper, and brush the back of the drawing with the solution. This penetrates through the paper, and as the spirit evaporates, the resin is deposited as a varnish on the drawing. It does not cockle the paper, which watery solutions will do ; and as the brush only passes over the back of the drawing, none of the pencil marks are in any degree removed. Pencil, or Chalk Drawings, to Fix.—Immerse the drawing in a weak solution of isinglass ; allowing no part of the drawing to remain without the isinglass passing over it, or it will look spotty. Drain it, by holding the drawing up by one end over a plate. PENNYROYAL.—This plant is perennial. It flowers in August and September. It is warm, pungent, aro- matic, stimulating, and diaphoretic; like spearmint, but not so agreeable. It contains a volatile oil which is ob- tained by distillation. The infusion is warming to the stomach, and allays sickness. It relieves spasms, hysterics, flatulency, and colic, and promotes ex- pectoration in dry consumptive coughs. It promotes perspiration, and is most valuable in obstruction of the menses. PENNYROYAL WATER.— Pennyroyal leaves, dry, 1$ lb. ; water, from 1J to 2 gallons. Draw off by dis- tillation, one gallon. It is a specific remedy for female obstructions. It is good for gout, rubbing the parts with it till they are red ; and if salt be added, it is good for the side in liver complaints, It is very warming to the stomach, pro- duces perspiration, and therefore is good for coughs, asthma, &c. An infusion of the herb in hot water is nearly as good. PEPPER POSSET; once so highly esteemed for the cure of colds, &c. Put a dozen pepper-corns, or a dozen allspice, into a pint [of milk, and let it simmer slowly; when it boils,PER PEP 300 pour in a gill of sherry, and let all boll till the curd becomes hard ; strain off the whey, and drink it hot. PEPPER POT.—Into 3 quarts of water, put what vegetables you like ; cut them very small, and stew them with 2 lbs. of neck of mutton, and 1 lb. of pickled pork, till tender. Half an hour before serving, clear a lobster, or crab, from the shell, and put it in. Season with salt and cayenne. Small suet dumplings may be boiled in the same liquid. Instead of mutton, a fowl may be used. Pepper-pot may be made of various things. It is a proper mixture of fish, flesh, fowl, vegetables, and pulse. Boil a small quantity of rice with the whole. PEPPER WATER, Spiritu- ous Jamaica.—Take of Jamaica pepper water, % lb. ; proof spirit, 3 gallons ; water, 2 gallons. Distil off 3 gallons. This is an agreeable cordial, and may supply the use of the Aromatic Water. PEPPERMINT, Candied. — Boil 3 lbs. of raw sugar in a pint of wa- ter, till the sugar begins to candy round the side, then take your pan off the fire, and drop 16 drops of the oil of pepper- mint therein ; pour it out into little round hoops made of tin ; or butter a large piece of paper, and lay it on the stone with a square frame on paper, and pour the sugar on the paper, and it will become all over beautifully spotted, and then with a knife, cut it into what size or shape you please. PEPPERMINT DROPS.— Sift finely powdered loaf sugar into lem- on juice, sufficient to make it of a pro- per consistence ; gently dry it over the fire a few minutes; take off, and add about 20 drops of oil of peppermint for every pound of sugar. Drop them from the point of a knife upon buttered paper. PEPPERMINT DROPS.— Mix 1 lb. of sifted loaf sugar with the whites of 3 eggs ; add 10 or 15 drops of the oil of peppermint, beat, and mix well. Drop as before directed. PEPPERMINT, Mentha Pi- perita.—This plant is perennial. It flowers in August and September. The leaves have a strong and agreeable smell, and a pungent aromatic taste. It Is stimulant, diaphoretic, antispasmodic, and anti-emetic. Its stimulating pro- perty is very volatile, producing, in the mouth a peculiar sensation of coldness. It is very useful in spasms, flatulency, colic, cramps of the stomach. The oil may be taken 2 or 3 drops in a cupful of water, or cold tea. PEPPERMINT LOZEN- GES.—Dissolve J oz. of isinglass, and 1 oz. of gum arabic, in a quart of boiling water, and let it stand till cold. Grate 7 lbs. of loaf sugar, and sift it 'through a fine sieve ; then add 50 drops of t-he oil of peppermint. Mix all toge- ther pretty stiff. Lay part of the sugar on a fine marble stone, roll it thin, and cut it with a tin mould of the size of the lozenges. PEPPERMINT WATER.— Cut full grown peppermint into short lengths ; fill your still with it, and put it half full of water. When it nearly boils, and the still begins to drop, if your fire be too hot, decrease the heat, to keep it from boiling over, or the water will be muddy. The slower the still drops, the water will be the clearer and stronger, but do not spend it too far ; the next day bottle it, let it be uncorked a few days to take off the fire of the still. PERCH, to Boil.—Put them into cold water, boil them carefully and serve with melted butter and soy. Perch is a most delicate fish. They may be either frieii or stewed, but in stewing they do not( preserve so good a flavour. PERCH, to Fry.—Scale, gut, and well wash ; then dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them of a fine colour with fresh dripping ; serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. PERCH, to Fry. — Clean and scale them, and slit the sides in several places ; marinate them about an hour in the juice of a lemon, with pepper, salt, sprigs of parsley, a clove of garlic, and a bay leaf; then drain, and roll them in flour, to fiy off a good brown colour, serve with fried parsley. PERFUME, Against Moths. —One oz. each of cinnamon, cloves, nut- megs, caraway seeds, mace, camphor.PER 301 PIC and 2 ozs. of orris root.—Place in little bags. PERFUME for Gloves and Handkerchiefs.—Ambergris, 1 dr. ; rivet, 1 dr. ; oil of lavender, 3 drs. ; oi of bergamot, 3 drs. ; camphor, # oz. ; spirit of wine, % pint. Cork and shake well for 10 days ; filter, and bottle. PERFUME, to Prevent In- fection.—Take gum benjamin, stor- ax, and galbanum, % oz. each ; powder them with oil of myrrh, and bum them on a hot plate or shovel. PERFUMED POWDER, for Boxes and Drawers.—Mix 1 oz. each of the following:—orris powder, coriander, cloves, cinnamon, rose leaves, lavender flowers, musk, oz. ; cam- phor, 1 oz. Put into small bags for use. , PERMANENT INK, for Marking Linen.—Take half an oz. of vermilion, and a dr. of salt of steel; let them be levigated with linseed oil to the thickness or limpidity required for the occasion. This has not only a very good appearance, but will be found to resist the effects of acids, as well as all alkaline leys. It may be made of other colours by substituting the proper articles instead of vermilion. See pages 247-8. PERRY.—It is made from pears In the same way as cider is made. The best pears for this purpose are such as are adapted for eating, and the redder they are the better. The pears must be quite dry. PERSIAN MEAT CAKES. —Take the fat and sinews from the meat of a leg of mutton; beat in a marble mortar with pepper, salt, and the juice of onions, and sweet herbs. Make them all into flat cakes, and keep them pressed between 2 dishes for 12 hours ; then fry them with butter, and serve them with the same. PERSPIRATION, to Re- strain.—Spring water, 2 ozs.; di- luted sulphuric acid, 40 drops ; com- pound spirits of lavender, a drs.; lake a table-spoonful twice a day. PERUVIAN BARK. —It Is a powerful tonic febrifuge, and antiseptic, very useful in intermittent fevers and in general and nervous debility, typhus fever especially when tending to gan- grene. See Robinson's Herbal on this valuable plant. PEWTER, to Clean.—Scour it with fine Calais sand in a solution of potass, or soda, with a little oil of tar- tar. Dry and polish with whiting. See pages 17 and 18. PHEASANT, to Choose.— The cock bird is accounted best, except when the hen is with egg. If young he has short, blunt, or round spurs; but if old they are long and sharp. PHEASANT, to Roast.— Roast them as turkey; and serve with a fine gravy (into which put a very small bit of garlic), and bread-sauce. When cold, they may be made into excellent patties, but their flavour should not be overpowered by lemon. PHEASANT, to Stew.—Put it into the stewpan, with as much veal stock as will cover it; stew it till there is liquor enough left for sauce; skim, and add artichoke bottoms parboiled, beaten mace, a glass bf wine, pepper and salt; thicken with a piece of butter rolled in flour, and a little lemon-juice; take up the pheasant; pour the sauce over it; put forcemeat balls into the dish, and serve it. PICKLE, Picallillo, or Indian Pickles.—Lay 1 lb. of white ginger in water a night, then scrape, slice, and lay it in salt rill the other ingredients are ready. Peel, slice, and salt 1 lb. of gar- lic 3 days, then put in the sun to dry. Salt and dry long pepper the same way. Prepare various sorts of vegetables thus: Quarter small white cabbages, salt 3 days, squeeze and set in the sun to dry. Cauliflowers cut in their branches; take off the green from the radishes, cut celery in 3 inch lengths; ditto young French beans whole, and the shoots of elder, which will look like bamboo. Apples and cucumbers, the least seedy sort; cut them in slices or quarters. All must be salted, drained, and dried in the sun, except the latter; over which pour boiling vinegar, and in 12 hours drain them, but use no salt. Put the spice, garlic, # lb. of mus- tard-seed, and vinegar enough for the quantity to pickle, into a stone jar, and x os. of turmeric. When the vegetables302 PIG PIC are ready, put some of them into a 2- quart stone jar, and pour over them 1 quart of boiling vinegar. Next day take out those vegetables; and when drained, put them into a large stock jar, and boiling the vinegar, pour it over more of the vegetables; let them lie anight, and do as above. Thus proceed till you have cleansed each set from dust; then to every gallon of vinegar put 2 oz. of flour of mustard, mixing, by degrees, with a little of it boiling hot. The whole of the vinegar should be previously scalded, but left to be cold before it is put to the spice. Stop the jar tight. This pickle will not be ready for a year ; but you may make a small jar for eating in a fortnight, only by giving the cauliflower 1 scald in water, after salt- ing and drying as above, but without the preparative vinegar; then pour the vinegar, that has the spice and garlic boiling hot over. If at any time it be found that the vegetables have not swelled properly, boiling the pickle, and pouring it over them hot, will plump them. PIC-NIC BISCUITS.—Into 1 lb. of flour, work very small 2 ozs. of butter, mix well with half a salt-spoon- ful of the finest carbonate of soda, 2 ozs. of sugar, mix these thoroughly with the flour, and make up the paste with a few spoonfuls of milk, not more than quarter of a pint. Knead it very smooth, and roll it quarter of an inch thick, cut in rounds, 1% inch diameter, roll it thin, prick them well, lay on tins sprinkled with flour, bake in a slow oven till they are crisp. When they are cold, put them into dry canisters. Cream instead of milk will greatly enrich them. Cara- way seeds or ginger can be added at pleasure. The quantity of soda should be so small as not to taste them in the slightest; milk which is slightly sour, may be used with it. PICTURE FRAMES, to Gild. —The size may be made of white of egg diluted with water, or parchment boiled to a strong size; but the cheapest is the Japanner's gold size. Size the frame, and lay on the gold. ■ When perfectly dry, burnish with an agate. Isinglass makes a good varnish. PICTURE VARNISH.—Mas- tic varnish. PIES, Oswego.—Line a deep plate with crust, and bake it in a quick oven; when done, fill with the Custard, (See Custard, boiled, made of Oswego, &c.,) strew the top with powdered sugar, dust it with the com, and set it again in the oven to bake. PIGS, Management of, when Feeding.—It is stated in Wade’s British History, that a gentleman in Norfolk put up six pigs, of nearly equal weight, to feed at the same time, and treated them the same as to food and litter for seven weeks. Three of them were left to shift for themselves as to cleanliness ; the other three were kept as clean as possible, by a man employed for the purpose, with a curry- comb and brush. The last consumed in seven weeks fewer peas by five bushels than the other three, yet weigh- ed more when killed by two stones and four pounds upon the average. PIG, to Bake a.—Lay the pig in a well-buttered dish; flour it all over; rub some butter on it, and send it to the oven ; when done, take it out, mb it over with a buttered cloth, and put it into the oven again till it is dry; lay it in the dish, and cut up. Taka the fat from the dish it was baked in, and some gravy will remain at the bottom ; put this to a little veal gravy, with butter rolled in flour, and boil it up with the sage that comes out of the body. Serve with apple or currant sauce. PIG, to Barbacue.—Dress a pig of ten weeks old, as if for roasting; make a forcemeat of two anchovies, six sage leaves, and the liver of the pig, all chopped very small; put them into a mortar, with the crumbs of half a penny loaf, 4 ozs. of butter, half a tea- spoonful of cayenne, and half a pint of red wine; beat all to a paste; put it into the pig’s belly, and sew it up; place the pig before a brisk fire ; singe it well; put port wine in the dripping pan freely, and baste it well at the time of roasting. When nearly done, take the sauce and bread, and add an an- chovy chopped small, sweet herbs, half a lemon; then draw the pig. Garnish with slices of lemon. It will four “ hours to roost.303 PIG FIG PIG’S CHEEK, to Prepare for Boiling.—Cut off the snout, and clean the head ; divide it, and take out the eyes and the brains ; sprinkle the head with salt, and let it drain 24 hours. Salt it with common salt and saltpetre ; let it lie 9 days if to be dressed without stewing with peas, but less if to be dressed with peas; and it must be washed first, and then simmer till all is tender. PIG’S FEET, and EARS.— Clean carefully, and soak some hours, and then boil them tender ; then take them out; boil some vinegar and a little salt with some of the water, and when cold put it over them. When they are to be dressed, dry them, cut the feet in two, and slice the ears ; fry, and serve with butter, mustard and vinegar. They may be either done in batter, or only floured. PIG’S FEET and EARS, to Ragout.—Boil them ; split the feet down the middle, and cut the ears in narrow slices ; dip them in butter, and fry brown ; take beef gravy, a teaspoon- fid of lemon pickle, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, one of browning, and a little salt; thicken with butter rolled in flour ; put in the feet and ears, and give a gentle boil. Serve, laying the feet in the middle of the dish, and the ears round them. Garnish with curled parsley. PIG’S FEET JELLY.—Clean the feet and ears well, and soak them a few hours ; then boil them in a very small quantity of water till every bone can be taken out; throw in half a hand- ful of chopped sage, the same of parsley, and a seasoning of chopped peppier, salt, and mace, in fine powder ; simmer till the herbs are scalded, then pour all into a melon-form. PIG’S HEAD, to Collar.— Scour the head and ears ; take off the hair and snout; take out the eyes and brain ; lay it into water one night; then drain, salt it well with salt and salt- petre, and let it lie five days. Boil it enough to take out the bones ; then lay It on a dresser, turning the thick end of one side of the head towards the thin end of the other, to make the roll of equal size ; sprinkle it with salt and white pepper, and roll it with tire ears: put the pig's feet round the outside when boned, or the thin parts of two cow heels. Put it in a cloth, bind with a broad tape, and boil it till quite tender; then put a good weight upon it and take off the covering when cold. If you want it more like brawn, salt it longer, and use more saltpetre, and add some pieces of lean pork; then cover with cow-heel, to look like the hom. PIG’S JAW, to Boil.—If the jaw has been dried, soak it a few hours in cold water; if pickled, wash it; make three holes in the thick part of the jaw, and all along the two sides ; fill the holes with herbs ; put into a clean cloth in cold water, heat slowly, and boil gently. With the herbs put salt, pepper, and a few bread crumbs. PIG, to Roast a Sucking Pig. —Get it when just killed; this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded. Put some sago, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly, and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not be crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till dry ; then rub the pig with butter in every part. Dredge flour over it, and do not touch it again till ready to serve ; scrape off the flour with a blunt knife, rub it well with a buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire; then take it up, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop quickly the sage and bread very fine, and mix plenty of fine melted butter and a little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnished with the ears and the two jaws. Many serve a suckling pig whole. Pour the gravy into the sauce ; and garnish with lemon or bread sauce and currants in a basin. PIGEONS, to Boil.—Wash clean; chop some parsley small; mix it with crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, and a bit of butter ; stuff the pigeons, and boil 15 minutes in some mutton broth or gravy. Boil some rice soft in milk; when it begins to thicken, beat the yolks of two or three eggs, with two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a little nutmeg ; mix well with a bit of butter rolled in flour. PIGEONS, to Broil. —After cleaning, split the backs, pepper and304 PIG . PIG salt them, and broil them very nicely ; pour over them either stewed or pickled mushrooms in melted butter, and serve as hot as possible. f PIGEONS, in Disguise.—Sea- son them with pepper and salt; make a dice puff paste; roll each pigeon in a piece of it; close them well; tie them in cloths separately, and mind the paste does not break ; boil them in plenty of water 1 % hour. When they are untied, be careful they* do not break; put them into a dish, and pour a litde good gravy over them. PIGEONS, in Jelly. — Take some of the liquor in which a knuckle of veal has been boiled ; or boil a calf s foot; put the broth into a pan with a blade of mace, sweet herbs, pepper, lemon peel, a slice of lean bacon, and the pigeons. Bake them, and let them stand to be cold. Season to taste before baking. When done, take them out of the liquor, cover them close to preserve the colour ; clear the jelly by boiling it with the whites of two eggs. Strain through a cloth dipped in boiling water. The fat must be perfectly removed be- fore it be cleared. Put the jelly over and round them rough. PIGEONS, to Jug.—Draw the pigeons ; save the livers. Put them in boiling water, and put them on the fire two minutes; take out, mince them small, bruise, and mix with a little pepper, salt, grated nutmeg, and lemon peel, shred very fine, chopped parsley, and yolks of two eggs, hard; bruise them, and put as much suet and bread as liver, pounded fine; work these together with raw eggs, and then roll it in fresh butter. Put a piece into the crops and bellies ; sew up the necks and vents; dip the pigeons in water, and season with pepper, and salt, as for a pie; then put them in a jug with a piece of celery : stop them close ; put the jug into cold water, and boil three hours. Then take out of the jug, and lay them in a dish ; take out the celery, and put in a piece of butter rolled in flour ; shake about till thick, and pour on the pigeons. « PIGEONS, a la Crapandine. —-Take three pigeons, truss the legs within, cut the flesh off the breast by sliding in the knife at the side of the leg, and running It up to the joint of the wing ; turn the breast over, and flatten the body with the handle of a knife ; take a stewpan large enough to contain them in the flattened state; melt a bit of butter in it; add salt and large pepper ; put in the pigeons with their breasts down; turn them, and when three-fourths done, drain them and put them on the grill over a slow fire ; give them a fine colour, and serve them under sauce au pauvre homme. PIGEONS, a la Daube.—Put a layer of bacon in a saucepan, one of veal, one of coarse beef, and then another of veal, about a pound of beef, and a pound of veal cut very thin; a piece of carrot, a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some pepper, a blade or two of mace, and a few cloves. Cover it close, and brown it over a slow fire. Put in a quart of boiling water, and when stewed till the gravy is rich, strain, and skim off the fat. Beat a pound of veal, and one of beef suet, in a mortar ; an equal quantity of crumbs of bread, pepper, salt, nutmeg, beaten mace, lemon-peel, parsley cut small, and thyme. Mix them with the yolks of two eggs, fill the pigeons, and flatten the breasts ; flour, and fry them in fresh butter, a little brown. Pour off the fat, and put the gravy over the pigeons. Strew them, cover close, till done. Dish them, and pour in the sauce. On each pigeon lay a bay leaf, and on the leaf a slice of bacon. Gar- nish with notched lemon, and serve hot. PIGEONS, to Pot.—Let them be quite fresh, clean them carefully, and season them with salt and pepper : lay them close in a small deep pan ; for the smaller the surface, and the closer they are packed, the less butter will be want- ed. Cover them with butter, then with very thick paper, tied down, and bake them. When cold, put them dry into pots that will hold two or three in each; and pour butter over them, using that which was baked as part. Observe that the butter should be pretty thick over them, if they are to be kept. If pigeons were boned, and then put in an oval form into the pot, they would lie closer, and require less butter. They may be stuffed with a fine forcemeat made with veal, bacon, &c., and then they will cat excellently. If a highfik: 305 PIG flavour is approved of, add mace, all- spice, and a little cayenne, before baking. PIGEON, to Pickle. —Bone them; turn the inside out, and lard it. Season with a little allspice, and salt, in fine powder ; turn them again and tie the neck and rump with thread. Put them into boiling water ; let them boil a minute or two to plump ; take them out, and dry them well; then put them boil- ing hot into the pickle, which must be made of equal quantities of white wine and white wine vinegar, with white pep- per and allspice, sliced ginger and nut- meg, and two or three bay leaves. When it boils up, put the pigeons in. If they are small a quarter of an hour will do them ; but they will take twenty minutes if large. Then take them out, wipe them, and let them cool. When the pickle is cold, take the fat off from it, and put them in again. Keep them In a stone jar, tied down with a bladder to keep out the air. PIGEONS, to Roast.—Take a little pepper and salt, a piece of butter, and parsley cut small; mix, and put the mixture into the bellies of the pigeons, tying the necks tight; take another string ; fasten one end of it to their legs and rumps, and the other to a hanging spit, basting them with butter; when done, lay them in a dish, and they will swim with gravy. PIGEON PIE. —Rub the pigeons with pepper and salt, inside and out; in the former put a bit of butter, and if approved, some parsley chopped with the livers, and a little of the same seasoning. Lay a beef steak at the bottom of the dish, and the birds on it; between every two a hard egg. Put a cup of water in the dish ; and if you have any ham in the house, lay a bit on each pigeon; it is a great im- provement to the flavour of the pie. When ham is cut for gravy or pies, take the under part rather than the prime. Season the gizzards and . the two joints of the wings, and put them In the centre of the pie ; and over them a hole made in the crust, three feet nice- ly cleaned, to show what pie it is. PIGEONS, to Stew,—Take care that they are quite fresh, and carefully cropped, drawn, and washed ; then soak them half an hour. In the meantime cut a hard white cabbage in slices (as if for pickling) into water ; drain it, and then boil it in milk and water ; drain it again, and lay some of it at the bottom of a stewpan. Put the pigeons upon it, but first season them well wuh pepper and salt, and cover them with the remainder of the cabbage. Add a little broth, and stew gently till the pigeons are tender; put among them two or three spoonfuls of cream, and a piece of butter and flour for thickening. After a boil or two, serve the birds in the middle, and the cabbage placed round them. Another Way.— Stew the birds ih a good brown gravy, either stuffed or not; and seasoned high with spice and mushrooms fresh, and a little ketchup. PIKE, to Bake.—Scale it, and open as near the throat as you can, then stuff it with the following ; grated bread, herbs, anchovies, oysters, suet, salt, pepper, mace, half a pint of cream, four yolks of eggs ; mix all over the fire till it thickens, then put it into the fish, and sew it up ; butter should be put over it in little bits; bake it. Serve sauce of gravy, butter, and anchovy. If in serving the pike, the back and belly are slit up, and each slice gently drawn downwards, there will be fewer bones given. PIKE, to Fricassee. — Clean; cut into large pieces, and put them into a stewpan, with mushrooms, butter, 12 small onions, half boiled, a little parsley, green shalots, two cloves, thyme, and a bay leaf; soak all together for some time ; add a pint of sherry, some broth, salt, and whole pepper; boil briskly; reduce the same; take out the fagot, and make a combination with cream, eggs, and a little nutmeg ; adding a lemon squeeze, if the wine does not make it tart enough. PIKE, to Roast a.—Gut a large pike, and lard it with eel and bacon ; then take thyme, savory, salt, mace, nutmeg, some crumbs of bread, bee< suet, and parsley, all shred very fine, mix them with raw eggs, and put in the belly of the pike, sew up the belly, dis- solve three anchovies in butter, to baste it with ; put two laths on each side the. pike, and tie it to the spit; melt butter for sauce. Garnish thick, with lemon,PIK P1JL 30b PIKELETS, or CRUMPETS. —See Crumpets, page 149.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, two eggs, and a pint of milk; whisk the milk and the eggs well to- gether ; then add the flour, a little salt, and two table-spoonfuls of new bran; stir them well together, and let them rise; when the bakestone is hot, pour the batter upon it, either in hoops made on purpose or without; when ready to turn they will appear full of holes on the top side; turn them, and bake them a fine brown. PILES.—An enlargement of the veins at the lower termination of the intestines, frequently causing great pain, bleeding, and difficult evacuation. The tumours are seated sometimes external- ly, and sometimes within the verge of the anus, for the most part attended with a discharge of blood; these are called bleeding piles. When no blood is discharged, they are termed blind piles; and, when the discharge is only serum, white piles. It is most frequently caused by cos- tiveness, by pregnancy, and a sedentary life, by strong purgatives, and by dram- drinking. The piles are sometimes the effect of relaxation and debility, and not unfrequently result from an inflamma- tory action in the rectum, and a dimin- ished secretion of mucus from its inner membrane. Treatment. — When piles are caused by constipation, and a debilitated state of thf bowels, it is needful to open them, and keep them so by gentle aperients. Medicines which act moder- ately upon the bowels, are calculated to remove that morbid state of the liver and stomach which often causes the complaint. The patient may take sul- phur, cream of tartar, confection of senna, and the lenitive electuary; but all strong purgatives must be avoided. Mix sulphur, j4 02.; confection of senna, 2 02s. ; saltpetre, 3 drachms; and as much syrup of orange as will give the mixture a proper consistence. About the size of a nutmeg must be taken twice or thrice a day. It is very sootning and healing to steam the parts with a sitz bath made of a strong decoc- tion of bitter herbs ; as hops, catnep, tansy, pennyroyal, and camomile flowers. Pour upon them boiling water and vine- — ! gar. Infuse some time ; boil again, and j let the steam approach the parts. A cold water cloth has been found of great service. Dip a cloth into cold water ; let the cloth be four-fold ; apply it close, and press it to with a dry cloth : as it warms, re-dip into cold water : do this several times ; then convey into the anus some pure tallow or lard, or the Pile Ointment, described at the end of this article. A Slippery Elm Poultice, made with milk and water to a proper consistence, may also be applied, The slippery elm is both cooling and healing. Ten drops of laudanum may be added to the poultice. When there is great constipation, an Emolient Injection is indicated. Take \ pint of water, half a dessert-spoonful of salt, and an ounce of castor-oiL Retain it as long as possible. The following In- jection is recommended by Dr. Sim, mons:—Witch hazel leaves, % oz.; cranesbill, J4 oz. ; meadow fern burrs, 1 oz. ; slippery elm, 2 drachms; mix the powders well together, and pour upon them 1% pint of boiling water. Infuse for 4 hours, and strain it. In the morning use a pint for an injection, and at night not quite so much, and retain it, if possible, all night. Repeat as often as necessary. The marsh- mallow ointment is also very useful.— For blind piles the tincture of lobelia is very good; so also is brandy, a little diluted, applied frequently. It is a good plan to cleanse the anus night and morning with soft soap and water ; then using tallow or the pilewort ointment, or any of the ointments for the piles. It is good to wash the anus after every evacuation. Generally speak- ing, the application of cold water is more effectual than warm water for fomenting, &c. ; but this must be decided by the patient, as warm water in some states of the piles is very soothing. To effect a cure, the bowels must be kept regularly open ; take Epsom salts, % oz; infusion of senna, 6 drachms; tincture of senna, 3 drachms ; decoction of bark, 1 oz. ; spearmint water, 1 oz.; water, 4 ozs.; best manna, 3 drachms. Mix, and take from three to six table- spoonfuls every morning, or every other day. The diet should be chiefly vege- table till the disease is gone. Or, take307 PIL PIL a gentle aperient also every other night, and on the alternate night, the Tonic Pill, which see. Wien the constitution has become habituated to the disease, stimulants, as pepper and ginger, taken with the ali- ment often afford considerable relief.— Elecampane root, 2 ozs.; sweet fennel seed powder, 3 ozs. ; black pepper powder, 1 or.; milk of sulphur, 1 oz. ; purified honey, 2 ozs.; brown sugar, and treacle, of each 1 % oz. Mix the first four ingredients; melt the honey, sugar, and treacle, and then mix all together. About the size of a nutmeg to be taken two or three times a day.— The decoction of oak bark is said to be a good remedy for piles. “Aloes,’’ says Dr. Buchan, “which form a principal part of the advertised pills, are frequently the cause of piles. Therefore persons subject to them should avoid all aloetic purges. An habitual costiveness is much more effectually and safely removed by a spoonful of castor oil taken occasionally in an evening.’’— A weak solution of sugar of lead with a little laudanum is useful when the piles are very painful.—Powdered galls and hog’s lard form a good ointment. —Henbane leaves powdered and mixed with slippery elm and sweet oil, and six drops of laudanum, form a good appli- cation.—The pain is often removed by an emetic, or by taking twice a day 20 or 30 drops of balsam of capivi on loaf sugar, or in a little peppermint water.— The vapour of boiling water over leeks is useful. ’ PILES.—See Lenitive Electuary, page 238. PILES, Bleeding.—Lightly boil the juice of nettles with a little sugar ; take 2 ozs. It seldom needs repeating. PILES, to Cure.—Apply wann treacle. Or, a tobacco-leaf steeped in water twenty-four hours. Or, a poultice of boiled brook-lime. It seldom fails. Or, a bruised onion, skinned, or roasted in ashes. It perfectly cures the dry piles. Or, fumigate with vinegar, wherein red hot flints have been quenched. This softens even schirrous tumours. PILES, Inward.— Swallow a pill of pitch, fasting. One pill usually cures the bleeding piles. Or, cat a large leek, boiled. Or, take twice a- day, as much as lies on a shilling, of the thin skin of walnuts, powdered. PILES, Ointment for.—Take of emolient ointment, 2 ozs. ; liquid laudanum, % an oz. Mix these ingre- dients with the yolk of an egg, and work them well together. PILEWORT OINTMENT, Improved. — The plant Pilewort, (ranunculus jicaria,) flowers in March and April. It should be gathered when in bloom, chopped extremely fine, after the roots and plant have been well washed. Boil in lard, without burning, two hours, stirring all the time. Strain while hot. Add 1 drachm of bella- donna, 1 drachm each of opium and camphor, powdered. Mix, and make an ointment. PILLAU, Egyptian.—Put a large fowl into a pad with chopped ham, % lb. of sausage meat, chopped onion, J-f lb. of butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, a few dried mushrooms, chopped fine, pepper, and salt. Stew the fowl gently until tender, adding a little water now and then to prevent it becoming dry. Pick all the meat from the bones, and cut it into small pieces, removing the skin. Boil dryly 1 lb. of rice; mix it well with the fowl and gravy, and season it to taste. Place it at the side of the fire, or in a slow oven, half an hour before it is served that it may be properly dried. Turkey instead of fowl makes a richer dish. PILLS, Antibilious.—Take of compound extract of colocynth, two scruples ; extract of jalap, one scruple; calomel, one scruple ; extract of scam- mony, one scruple ; oil of cloves, ten drops. Mix and make into twenty pills. One or two is sufficient for a dose. PILLS, Aperient.—Take four drachms of Castile soap, and the same/ quantity of soccotrine aloes, make it into pills with a sufficient quantity of syrup. Two or three may be taken when costive. PILLS, Aperient.—Take four drachms of the extract of jalap, the same quantity of vitriolated tartar, and form it into pills with syrup of ginger; five of these pills is sufficient for a purge, but, to keep the body gentlyPIM 308 PIL open, one may be taken night and morning. PILLS, Useful Aperient. — Take of compound rhubarb pill a drachm and one scruple, of powdered ipecacuanha, six grains, and of extract of hyoscyamus one scruple. Mix and beat into a mass, and divide into twenty-four pills. Take one, two, or if of a very costive habit, three at bed- time. For persons requiring a more powerful purge, the same formula, with ten grains of compound extract of colocynth, will form a good purgative pill. The mass receiving this addition must be divided into 30 instead of 24 pills. PILLS for a Bad Cough.— Compound ipecacuanha powder, half a drachm ; fresh dried squills, ten grains; sulphate of ammoniacum, ten grains; treacle, sufficient quantity to make a mass. Divide into twelve pills ; one to be taken night and morning. PILL, Composing. — Take of purified opium, ten grains; Castile soap, half a drachm. Beat them to- gether, and form the whole into twenty pills. When a quieting draught will not sit on the stomach, one, two, or three of these pills may be taken as occasion requires. PILLS, Female.—Take of aloes, one drachm; calomel, one scruple. Make into twenty pills. One or two is sufficient for a dose. PILL, Foetid.—Assafoetida, half an ounce; simple syrup sufficient to form it into pills. In hysteric com- plaints, three or four pills may be taken twice or thrice a day ; they also keep the body open; a proper quantity of rhubarb, aloes, or jalap, may occasion- ally be added to the above mass. PILLS, for Jaundice.—Take of Castile soap, soccotrine aloes, and rhubarb, of each one drachm. Make them into pills with a sufficient quantity of syrup and mucilage. Three or four may be taken daily ; and now and then a vomit of ipecacuanha. PILL, Purging. — Soccotrine aloes and Castile soap, each a drachms; simple syrup sufficient to make them Into pills. For keeping the body gently open, one may fos taken night and morning. They are deobstraent and stomachic. When aloetic purges are improper, take extract of jalap, and vitriolated tartar, of each 2 drachms; syrup of ginger, sufficient to make them into pills. Take as above. PILLS for Spitting of Blood. —Take of powdered alum five grains; powdered nutmegs, five grains; mix, and divide into two pills. PILLS, Squill.—Take powder of dried squills, a drachm and a half; gum ammoniac and cardamom seeds in powder, of each three drachms ; simple syrup a sufficient quantity. In dropsical and asthmatic com- plaints, two or three of these pills may be taken twice a day, or oftener, if the stomach will bear it. PILLS, Stomachic.—Take ex- tract of gentian, two drachms; powder- ed rhubarb and vitriolated tartar, of each one drachm; oil of mint, thirty drops; simple syrup a sufficient quantity. Three or four of these pills may be taken twice a day for invigorating the stomach, and keeping the body gently open. PILLS, Strengthening.—Take soft extract of bark and salt of steel, each a drachm. Make into pills. In disorders arising from excessive debility or relaxation of the solids, as the chlorosis, or green sickness, two of these pills may be taken three times a day. PILLS, Vegetable Laxative.— Take of extract of jalap, thirty grains ; extract of colocynth, twenty grains; scammony, ten grains ; oil of cloves, ten drops; powdered ginger, twenty grains. Make into 24 pills. Two for a dose. '(■■ PIMPLES. — They generally arise from indigestion, or some internal derangement; therefore the disease should be attacked at the root. Take the following :—tincture of cardamoms, 1 drachm ; ipecacuanha wine, and a teaspoonful of flour of sulphur, with a glass of sherry or ginger wine. Take this on going to bed; repeat it every second or third night, and keep the bowels gently open. It is good to wash the face with warm water. Rub a sponge, over old WindsorPLA PIN, 3®9 soap, and dip In warm water and apply. Glycerine soap is very useful.—A weak solution of sugar of lead, or sulphate of rinc, sometimes, is effectual. PINE APPLE COMPOTE. —Make a syrup with i lb. of sugar ; peel and cut two pine apples into slices ; put them into the syrup, and boil them ia minutes ; take them out, and boil the syrup till it becomes thick ; then pour it over the pine apple ; when cold, it is ready for use. PINE APPLE CREAM. - Take about to ozs. of pine apple jam. Put a quart of cream into another basin, with the juice of a large lemon ; whisk to a strong froth; mix this with the jam, stirring well, Mix with it, at the same time, a little isinglass dissolved in a little warm milk and water. PINE APPLE, Jam and Jelly. —The same as Apple or Apricot Jam and Jelly, see page 25. PINE APPLE, Marmalade.— Pare the pine apples. Grate them upon a dish. Then take the same weight of sugar as the pine apples weigh. Mix, and boil, skimming well. After all the scum is gone, stir the marmalade from an hour to an hour and a half. When it has boiled three quarters of an hour add a little thickly dissolved isinglass, and, if you like, a squeeze of lemon. Put into glasses, and make air-tight with brandy papers. PINE APPLE, Preserved.— May be done the same as Apple Pre- serve, and Apricot Preserve, p. 25-26. j PINK, Indian.—An American plant. The root is anthelmintic, and combined with senna expels worms from the alimentary canal, especially the lumbrid, or round worms. It may be given in powder or infusion; the powder is the most efficacious. The dose for a child 3 or 4 years of age is 12 grains in powder, and 1 scruple in infusion. It has no taste. PIPPING PUDDING. Coddle six pippins in vine leaves cover- ed with water, very gently, that the inside be done without breaking the skins. When soft, skin, and with a teaspoon take the pulp from the core. Press it through a colander ; add two spoonfuls of orange-flower water, three eggs beaten, a glass of raisin wine, a pint of scalded cream, sugar and nut- meg to taste. Lay a thin puff paste at the bottom and sides of the dish: shred very thin lemon-peel as fine as possible, and put it into the ''dish ; like- wise lemon, orange, and citron, in small slices, but not so thin as to dis- solve in the baking. PIPPIN TARTS.—Pare thin two Seville oranges ; boil the peel ten- der, and shred it fine; pare and core twenty appled, put them in a stewpan, and as little water as possible; when half-done add half a pound of sugar, the orange-peel and juice; boil till pretty thick. When cold, put in a shallow dish, or patty-pans lined with paste, to turn out, and be eaten cold. PISMIRES, to Destroy. Throw gas lime upon the ant-hill, dig it well in ; they will breed there no more. Gas tar might also be mixed with it. Dig it well in, and then press it down well. PLAICE. — Sprinkle with salt, and keep 24 hours ; then wash and wipe dry; wet it over with egg, and cover with crumbs of bread ; take some lard, or fine dripping, and two table-spoonfuls of vinegar, boiling hot; lay the fish in, and fry it a fine colour; drain it from the fat, and serve with fried parsley round, and anchovy sauce. PLASTER, Adhesive.— Take of common plaster, half a pound; of Burgundy pitch, a quarter of a pound. Melt them together. This plaster is generally used for keeping on other dressings. PLASTER, Anodyne. See page 20. PLASTER, Blistering.—Take of Venice turpentine, six ounces; yellow wax, two ounces; Spanish flies, in fine powder, three ounces; powdered mus- tard, one ounce. Melt the wax, and while it is warm, add to it the tur- pendne, taking care not to evaporate it by too much heat. After the turpentine and wax are sufficiently incorporated, sprinkle in the powders, continually sdrring the mass till it be cold. PLASTER, Common.—Take of common olive oil, six pints; litharge, reduced to a fine powder, lbs. Boil the litharge and oil together over a gentle fire continually stirring them,310 PLA PLE and keeping always half a gallon of ! water in the vessel; after they • have boiled three hours, a little of the plaster may be put in cold water, to try if it be of a proper consistence; then cool, and press the water well out of it. This water is applied in slight wounds and excoriations of the skin; it keeps the part soft and warm, and defends it from the air, which is all that is neces- sary in such cases. PLASTER FIGURES, to Bronze.—For the ground, after it has been sized and rubbed down, take Persian blue, verditer, and spruce ochre. Grind them separately in water, turpen- tine, or oil, according to the work, and mix them in such proportion as will pro- duce the colour desired. Then grind Dutch metal on a part of the composi- tion; laying it with judgment on the prominent part of the figure, which pro- duces a fine effect. PLASTER, Gum.—Take of the common plaster, four pounds; of gum ammoniac and galbanum, strained, of each, half a pound. Melt them to- gether, and add, of Venice turpentine, six ounces. This plaster is used as a digestive, and likewise for discussing indolent tumours. PLASTER for the Stomach.— Take of gum plaster, half a pound; camphorated oil, an ounce and a half; 10 drops each of the oil of mace, and mint; black pepper, or cayenne, 1 oz. Melt the plaster, and mix with it the oil; then sprinkle in the pepper, re- duced to a fine powder. This, spread upon soft leather, and applied to the region of the stomach, will be of service in flatulencies arising from hysteric and hypochondriac affec- tions. A few drops of oil of mint, may be rubbed upon it before it is applied. PLASTER, Warm.—Take of gum plaster, one ounce; blistering plaster, two drachms; melt them over a gentle fire. This plaster is useful in the sciatica, and also in rheumatic pains. Should it blister, use less of the blister- ing paste. Renew after 8 days. It ought, however, to be worn for some time, and to be renewed at least once a week.' j. PLASTIC " MATERIAL for forming various objects new. | —By Professor Purkins, Five parts of whiting are mixed with a solution of one part of glue. When the whiting is well worked up into a paste with the glue, a proportionate quantity of Venetian tur- pentine is added to it, by which the brittleness of the paste is destroyed. In order to prevent its clinging to the hands whilst the Venetian turpentine is being worked into the paste, a small quantity of linseed oil is added from time to time. The mass may also be coloured by kneading in any colour that may be desired. It may be pressed into shapes, and used for the production of bas re- liefs and other figures, such as animals &c. It may also be worked by hand into models, during which operation the hands must be rubbed with linseed oil; the mass must also be kept warm during the process. When it cools and dries, which takes place in a few hours, it becomes as hard as stone, and may then be employed for the multiplication of these forms. PLATE, to Clean.—Wash well with soap and water; then apply a paste of whiting and sweet oil; apply it, and when dry, rub off, and polish with wash leather and dry fine whiting. PLATE, to make look New. Take 1 lb. each of unslaked lime and alum; a pint each of aqua vita, and vinegar; and two quarts of beer grounds; boil the plate in these, and they will give a beautiful gloss to the articles. See page 18. PLATE, to take Stains out of. —Steep the plate in soap ley for 4 hours ; then cover it over with whiting, wet with vinegar, so that it may stick thick- ly upon it; dry at the fire ; rub off the whiting and pass it over with dry bran ; the spots will disappear, and the plate will be very bright. See page 18. PLEURISY.—Pleurisy is inflam- mation of the membrane termed pleura, which covers the lungs, and lines the internal surface of the chest. It is caused by obstructed perspiration, through exposure to cold bleak winds ; drinking cold liquors when the body is hot; sleeping out-doors, or on the damp ground, wet clothes, exposure to cold air when in a state of perspiration. It may also be caused by drinking strong liquors, by the stopping of the usual evacuations, &c., &c.PEE PLU 3*l The symptoms are shivering, pain in the head, back, stomach ; sickness, and vomiting, despondency, violent pain in one or both sides, difficult breathing, high fever, thirst; the pain is greater when coughing, or when taking in a full breath; the pulse is hard, strong, and frequent. Treatment.—In this disease the temperature of the whole body and its extremities, while the heat in the affect- ed part is greatly augmented, Allo- patbists would recur to bleeding at once; but that system of depletion is not necessary. Common sense says, equalize the circulation of the blood, and this can only be done by restoring that which has been partially lost or diminished, viz., vitality or heat. See Robinson’s Herbal, on Life and Motion, page 388; it is most valuable. The disease has been caused by cold; it must be cured by a wise application of heat. Do this at the very beginning of the disease before the patient is debili- tated. Give a vapour bath; or bathe the feet in warm water and apply hot bricks wrapped in water and vinegar cloths while the patient is in bed. Give also an emetic at the same time, page 172. When the emetic has taken effect, give immediately two tablespoonfuls of the Sudorific Tincture, or half a tea- spoonful of the Sudorific Powders. Continue them to keep up a gentle moisture on the skin. If they cause vomiting, never mind, for it helps to cure. At night bathe the legs up to the knees in warm water, with a little soap or soda ia, for about ten minutes. Let warm herb tea be constantly drunk, as balm, hyssop, catnep, pennyroyal, &c. Apply the Rheumatic Liquid to the chest or sines ; or fomentations of bitter herbs, as hops, tansy, &c., to which add some cayenne tincture. Salt, cayenne, and brandy, well sim- mered, and made strong, form an ex- cellent application for pleuritic pains. These means seldom fail to arrest the dis- ease. 11 may be added, if the bowels are constipated, give a gentle injection, and a gentle aperient. Let the diet be very simple, as sago gruel, arTow-root gruel, common gruel with a squeeze of lemon, &c. During the progress of the disease the Cough Pill, and the Pulmonary Syrup will be of great service. After the pleuritic, symptoms are gone, take the Composition Powder, and any of the tonic bitters. PLEURISY ROOT.' An American plant. It is expectorant, sub- tonic, astringent, diaphoretic, carmina- tive, antispasmodic, diuretic, &c. It promotes perspiration. It is a valuable medicine for the lungs, promoting ex- pectoration, alleviating difficult breath- ing in asthma, and especially in pleurisy; hence its name. It is valuable in all fevers; in colics and griping, acute pains in the stomach, and female com- plaints, as copious menstruation, spasms, and nervous debility. It is a specific in measles. The dose of the root in pow- der is from 15 to 30 grains three times a day. Nearly a cupful of the decoction may be taken nearly as often. PLOVERS, to Choose.-Choose those that feel hard at the vent, which shows they are fat In other respects, choose them by the same marks as other fowls. When stale, the feet are dry. They will keep sweet a long time. There are three sorts ; the grey, green, and bastard plover, or lapwing. PLOVERS’ EGGS are a nice and fashionable dish. Boil them ten minutes, and serve either hot or cold on a napkin. PLOVERS, to Roast.—Roast the green ones in the same way as wood- cocks aud quails, without drawing ; and serve on a toast. Grey plovers may be either roasted or stewed with , gravy, herbs, and spice. PLUM CAKE.—Take fine flour, lb.; butter, 1% lb. ; currants, % lb. ; raisins well stoned and chopped, J4 lb.; sugar, 18 oz., sifted fine; 14 eggs with half the whites. Shred the peel of a large lemon very fine, 3 ozs. each of candied, orange and lemon ; a teaspoon- ful of beaten mace, half a nutmeg grated; a tea-cupful of brandy or sherry, with a little orange flower water. Work the butter with the hand to a cream; beat the sugar well in; whisk the eggs half an hour; mix them with the sugar and butter, and put in the flour and spices. Beat the whole an hour and a half: mix in lightly the bmndy, fruit, and sv/cet meats; put into a hoop, and bake for a >4' hours. Another.—Flour, well dried, *POI PLU 312 lbs.; sugar, sifted, 1 lb.; butter, 1 lb.; nutmegs and mace, oz. each; cur- rants, 2J4 lbs.; 16 eggs; sweet almonds, Vi lb.; the same of candied lemon; half a pint of brandy, and three spoon- fuls of orange flower water. Beat the butter to a cream; put in the butter and sugar. Beat the yolks half an hour, and mix with the whites. Put in the flour just before the oven is ready; mix together lightly the currants, &c. Bake two hours. Another.—Take 4 lbs. each of dried flour, and currants, well cleaned and picked ; sugar, il lb., sifted ; 6 ozs. orange, lemon, and citron peels, sliced, mix all together; then beat 10 eggs, the yolks and whites separately; melt i| lb. of butter in a pint of cream; when nearly cool, add \ pint of ale yeast, and nearly £ pint of sherry, and the eggs; strain the liquor to the diy ingredients ; beat them well, and add \ oz. each of cloves, mace, cinnamon, and nutmeg. Butter the pan and put it into a quid: oven, 2 or 3 hours. PLUM CAKE.—A rich one.— Mix well 1 % lbs. of the best flour well dried, with £ lb. of dry sifted loaf sugar; lb. of well cleaned and dry currants ; H lb. of raisins stoned and chopped, 1 eighth of an oz. each of clove, mace, and cinnamon, a small nutmeg grated, the peel 0/ a lemon cut very fine, and % lb. of almonds. Melt 1 lb. of butter in Yj pint of cream not hot; put to it £ a pint of wine, a little brandy, a little rose- water, and 6 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately, and a jfef pint of yeast. Strain this gradually into the dry ingre- dients, beating them for an hour. But- ter the pan or hoop and bake in a mod- erate oven for 4 hours. In putting in the batter, add plenty of candied orange, lemon, and citron peeL If you ice the cake when nearly cold, pour the iceing over and replace it in the oven, leaving it there all night or until it becomes cold, but if the oven be warm, keep it near the front and the door open, or the colour may be spoiled, or the iceing it may be left until the next day. PLUM CAKE, to make little ones.—Take 1 lb. of flour; rub into it i lb. of butter, and £ lb. of sugar, a little beaten mace ; beat 4 eggs well; leave out £ the whites ; add 3 spoonfuls of 5'east; put to It % pint of warm cream ; strain them into the flour, and make it up light; set it before the fire to rise; before it is sent to the oven, put in Y lb. of currants. PLUM CAKE, a White one. —It is made the same as the 2nd receipt, except beating the whites of the eggs well; and when mixed with the other ingredients, beating the whole for two hours. PLUM, Compote of.—Green- gages are the best to preserve in syrup. They must not be quite ripe. Boil them a little in raw sugar and a little water; skim, when cooling, and reduce the syrup according to the time you intend to keep them. It is the best to prick them in several places, and scald them in boiling water until they rise on the surface; take off the fire, and let them cool in the same water ; cover the pan, and put them on a slow fire, which will bring them back to their proper colour ; drain them in cold water, and boil them a moment in sugar; leave them in it till next day, and boil them a little more. Prepared In this way, they will keep a long time. POACHED EGGS.—Break an egg into a cup, and put it gently into boiling water, and when the white looks quite set, which will be in about 2 or 3 minutes, take it up with an egg slice, and lay it on toast and butter, or spin- ach. Serve them hot; if fresh laid, they will poach well without breaking. POISON, Antidotes to.—The treatment of cases of poisoning must vary with the nature of the poison, the quantity taken, and the peculiarities of the individual. In almost all cases, copious vomiting should be excited as soon as possible by tickling the throat, and by emetics, such especially as sul- phate of zinc, or ipecacuanha with emetic tartar ; the former, however, in io-grain doses dissolved in a little warm water, and repeated every 10 or 15 minutes till it freely operates, is generally most effectual. The use of the stomach- pump should also he resorted to. The vomiting should be kept up, and the stomach washed out with bland albu- minous or mucilaginous fluids, such as milk, flour, and water, or thin paste, &c. ; sometimes sugar and water.POi 353 POL The following is a short summary of the antidotes resorted to in reference to particular poisons. They should, of course, be administered as speedily as possible. Emetic in cases of Poison.— 9 table-spoonfuls of made mustard in a pint of warm water; if taken immedi- ately, this is a certain remedy, instantly producing violent vomiting. Also give large draughts of warm milk or water, mixed with oil, melted butter, or lard. 1 Arsenic. — Lime water, chalk and water, and the hydrated sesqui- oxide of iron, have each been strongly recommended; the last is decidedly the best. 2 For Mineral Acids, or Acetic and Oxalic Acid.—For this form of poison, give quickly large draughts of chalk, whiting, magnesia, soap and water, about as thick as cream, followed by albuminous diluents, such as milk, and white of egg mixed with water. Or, if these cannot be procured at once, warm water ; and promote vomiting by tickling the throat. 3 Alkalies, Soda, Potash, Am- monia, etc.—Vinegar, or any mild acid and water, or even very dilute mineral acids, such as water acidulated by them ; olive oil, almond oil. 4 Corrosive sublimate.—White of egg and water; milk and cream ; decoction of cinchona ; infusion of galls. 5 Sulphate of Copper and other poisons.—Sugar and water; white of egg and water. 6 Antimonial poisons.—Warm milk, gruel, and barley-water; infusion of galls ; decoction of cinchona. 7 Nitrate of Silver. — Copious draughts of warm salt and water. 8 Sulphate of Zinc.—Solution of carbonate of soda in water, with milk, and mucilaginous or farinaceous liquids. 9 Acetate of Lead. — Emetics, solution of sulphate of soda in water, milk, white of egg and water. 10 Opium and its preparations. —Emetics, strong coffee ; dashing cold water upon the face and breast; pre- venting torpor by forced exercise. 11 Prussic Acid. — Aromoniacal stimulants cautiously applied to the nose; ammonia, or sal-volatile in re- peated small doses of solution of chlo- rine in water; small doses of chlo- ride of lime in water. 12 Strychnia and Vegetable Alkaloids.—Infusion of gall nuts; decoction of cinchona; emetics. See Emergencies, page 171. POKE WEED.—An American plant. It is valuable. The root is eme- tic, cathartic, and rather narcotic. The leaves-and roots powdered, may be ap- plied with great advantage, as a poultice in cancerous and malignant ulcer, ring- worm, scrofulous abscesses, &c. POLISHED IRONS, to pre- serve from Rust.—Mix copal var- nish with as much olive oil as will give it a degree of greasiness ; adding there- to nearly as much spirit of turpentine as of varnish. The cast-iron work is best preserved by rubbing it with black lead, and a little turpentine in it. But when rust appears on grates, or fire-irons, apply a mixture of tripoli, with half its quantity of sulphur, intimately mixed on a slab, and applied with a piece of soft leather; or apply emery and oih POLISHING PASTE.—For brass, the best kind is two parts of soft soap mixed with 4 parts of rotten stone in very fine powder. Or, 8 parts of fine rotten stone pow- der, 2 parts of oxalic acid powdered, and turpentine sufficient to make them into a paste. For iron emery powder and lard is used, and for pewter, powdered bath- brick and soft soap. For wood, spirit of turpentine and bees wax made into a soft paste, applied with a brush and woollen rag, and afterwards polished with a dry woollen cloth and soft brush. POLYPODY.—A valuable plant. See Robinson's Herbal.—It is a first-rate remedy for liver complaint, both acute and chronic; for consumption, palpita- tion, indigestion, eruptions, impurity of the blood, &c. When taken for cough, it produces nausea, but this departs as soon as it has caused expectoration. It is valuable in asthma, bronchitis, &c. It may be taken in infusion,—a tea- spoonful to nearly a pint of boiling water, and sweetened Two table- spoonfuls occasionally. Begin with 1 table-spoonful.POLYPUS IN THE NOSE. —Powder a lamp of alum, and snuff it up frequently; then dissolve powdered alum in brandy, dip lint therein and apply it when going to bed. POMADE.—Best lard, 4 ozs.; castor oil, 4 ozs. ; white wax, 3 drs. Melt and mix; when cool, add oil of bergamot and lavender, 15 drops of each. POMADE.—Olive oil, 2$ ozs.; oil of almonds, % dr. ; palm oil, dr.; white wax, % oz. ; lard, % lb.; essence of bergamot, J dr. It is first-rate for preventing baldness, and strengthening the hair. POMADE, Hard. —Melt in a water-bath, 3 ozs. of lard ; 3 ozs. of beef marrow ; 2J ozs. of mutton suet; and 2 ozs. of white wax. Take off the fire; cool a little ; then add a little spirits of wine to cause it to keep, and a few drops of otto of roses. Stir till nearly cold, and tom into moulds. It may become Soft Pomade by leav- ing out half of the wax, the whole of the mutton suet, and doubling the beef marrow. POMADE, Spanish. — Take equal parts of lemon juice and white of eggs. Beat well together, and place on a slow fire. Stir it till it is the thickness of soft pomatum. Perfume with otto of roses. It is a cosmetic that renders the complexion beautiful. POMATUM.—Take 4 ozs. of beef marrow, melt it and strain ; 4 ozs. of white wax; 1 oz. of olive oil; and 20 drops of oil of rosemary. Melt, but do not add the oil of rosemary till nearly cold. It causes the hair to grow. The more of rosemary the better. Oils for the hair may be made by simply stirring in any of the essential oils into olive oil, oil of ben, oil of al- monds, castor oil, &c. The pink and red colours are produced by boding the oils and pouring them upon alkanet root. But it deteriorates the oils. Col- oured hair oils should be avoided. POMATUM, Elder Flower.— Elder flower oil, 4 ozs. ; fine mutton suet, or beef marrow, 2 ozs.; best lard, 2 ozs. Melt the suet and lard together, with as little heat as possible; then add the elder oil, and beat up the mixture till nearly cold. Any other perfume may be added before the pomatum hardens. A little eau-de-cologne makes it veiy agreeable, when intimately mixed. POOR MAN'S SAUCE. Take 5 or 6 shalots; hash them fine with a little parsley; put them into a stewpan with a little gravy and a spoon- ful of good vinegar, a little salt and cayenne; sfrnmer till enough, and serve. POPLAR BARK, Infusion of. —Take a handful of the bark of the stinking poplar, pounded, put into a quart jug, and fill it with boiling water. This will relieve a relax, headache, feintness, bile, and other complaints caused by indigestion, also for affections of the kidneys, and for consumption. PORK, to Choose.— Pinch the lean, and if young, it will break. If the rind is tough, thick, and cannot easily be impressed by the finger, it is old. A tbin rind is a' merit in all pork. When fresh, the flesh will be smooth and cool; if clammy, it is tainted. What is called measley pork is very unwholesome; and may be known by the fet being full of kernels, which in good pork is never thePOR 3*5 POR case. Pork fed at still-houses does not answer for curing any way, the fat being spongy. Dairy-fed pork is the best. PORK, to Barbacue a Leg of. —Put down the leg to a good fire; into the dripping pan, put two bottles of port wine; baste the pork with it all the time of roasting. When enough, take up what is left in the.pan ; put to it two anchovies, the yolks of three eggs, boiled hard, and pounded fine, with a % lb. of butter, and half a lemon, a bunch of sweet herbs, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a spoonful of ketchup, and one of tarragon vinegar; boil them a few minutes; then draw the pork, and cut the skin down from the bottom of the shank in rows an inch broad; raise every other row, and roll it to the shank; strain the sauce, and pour it boiling hot. PORK, Chine of. — Salt three days before cooking. Wash it well; score the skin, and roast with sage and onions finely shred. Serve with apple sauce.—The chine is often sent to the table boiled. PORK, to Collar.—Bone a breast or spring of pork ; season it with plenty of thyme, parsley, and sage; roll it hard; put in a cloth, tie both ends, and boil it; then press it; when cold, take it out of the cloth, and keep it in its own liquor. PORK, as Lamb.—Rill a young pig of four or five months old; cut up the fore-quarter for roasting as you do lamb, and truss the shank close. The other parts will make delicate pickled pork; or steaks, pies, &c. PORK, Leg of, to Boil.—Salt it eight or tea days; when it is to be dressed, weigh it; let it lie half an hour in cold water to make it white ; allow a •quarter of an hour for every pound, and half an hour over, from the time it boils up: skim it frequently. Allow water enough. Save some of it to make peas- soup. Some boil it in a cloth, floured, which gives a very delicate look. It should be small and of a fine grain. 1 Serve peas pudding and turnips with PORK, Leg of, commonly called Mock Goose.—Parboil it, take oflf the skin, and then put it down to roast; baste it with butter, and make a savoury powder of finely-minced, or dried and powdered sage, pepper, salt, and some bread crumbs, rubbed together through a colander; add to this a little finely- minced onion; sprinkle with this when it is almost roasted ; put half a pint of made gravy into the dish, and some goose stuffing under the knuckle skin; or garnish the dish with balls of it fried or broiled. PORK, Loin of.—Score it, and joint it, that the chops may separate easily; and then roast it as a loin of mutton. Or, put it into sufficient water to cover it; simmer till almost enough; then peel off the skin, and coat it with yolk of egg and bread crumbs, and roast for 15 or 20 minutes, till it is enough done. PORK, to Pickle.—Cut the pork in such pieces as will lie in the pickling tub; rub each piece over with saltpetre; then take one part bay salt, and two parts common salt, and rub each piece well; lay them close in the tub, and throw salt over them. Some use a little sal prunella and a little sugar. PORK PIE, to Eat Cold. Raise a common boiled crust into either a round or oval form, which you choose, have ready the trimmings and small bits of pork cut off a sweet bone, when the hog is killed ; beat it with a rolling pin, season with pepper and salt, and keep the fat and lean separate, put it in layers quite close to the top, lay on the lid, cut the edge smooth, round, and pinch it; bake in a slow soaking oven, as the meat is very solid. Observe, put no bone or water in the pork pie; the outside pieces will be hard if they are not cut small and pressed close. PORK, to Roast a Leg of.— Choose a small leg of fine young pork; cut a slit in the knuckle with a sharp knife; and fill the space with sage and onion chopped, and a little pepper and salt. When half done, score the skin in slices, but don’t cut deeper than the outer rind. Apple sauce and potatoes should be served to eat with it. PORK, Rolled Neck of.—Bone it; put a forcemeat of chopped sage, a very few crumbs of bread, salt, pepper,BOS 316 FOR and two or three berries of allspice over the inside; then roll the meat as tight as you can, and roast it slowly, and at a good distance at first. PORK SAUSAGES.—Take 6 ibs. of young pork, free from gristle, or fat; cut small and beat fine in a mortar. Chop 6 lbs. of beef suet very fine; pick off the leaves of a handful of sage, and sbred it fine; spread the meat on a clean dresser, and shake the sage over the meat; shred the rind of a lemon very fine, and throw it, with sweet herbs, on the meat; grate two nutmegs, to which put a spoonful of pepper, and a large spoonful of salt; throw the suet over, and mix all well together. Put it down close in the pot; and when you use it, roll it up with as much egg as will make it roll smooth. Another way.—Chop fat and lean pork together; season with sage, pep- per, and salt, and a little allspice. The hog’s entrails having been well soaked, and made very clean, half fill them with the meat, or the meat may be kept in a very small pan, closely covered, and so rolled, and dusted with a very little flour before it is fried. Another way.—Take 3 lbs. of pork, fat and lean, without skin or gris- tle ; chop as fine as possible: season with pepper, salt, sage, rubbed fine, mix well, and put it into the skins or entrails well cleaned, or make into balls, Mix a little bread with the meat, if agreeable. PORK, Spring or Forehand of. —Cut out the bone; sprinkle salt, pep- per, sage dried, over the inside; but first warm a little butter to baste it, and then flour it; roll the pork tight, and tie it; then roast by a hanging-jack. About two hours will do it. PORK STEAKS.—Cu{ them from a loin or neck, and of/middling thickness; pepper and broil them, tinn- ing them often; when nearly done, put on salt, rub a bit of butter over, and serve the moment they are taken off the fire, a few at a time. PORRIDGE .—See Oatmeal Porridge, page 277. ^ PORTER, Cheap and Good.— Linseed, 1 oz.; the same of Spanish juice and ginger; hops, 1% oz.; malt, 1 lb.; liquorice, yt ox.; sugar and treacle, each, lbs. Boil with 4% gallons of water down to 3^ gallons; also add a little pearl or Iceland moss. When cool, stir yeast into it, and let It ferment. PORTER PLASTER, for Bruises.—This simple remedy is nothing more than 2 quarts of porter simmered, till it is reduced to a salve. PORT WINE.—British grape wine, or good cider, 4 gallons; recent juice of red elder berries, 1 gallon; brandy, 2 quarts; logwood, 4 ozs.; rhatany root, bruised, % lb. First in- fuse the logwood and rhatany root in the brandy, and a gallon of the grape wine or cider, for a week; then strain off the liquor, and mix it with the other ingredients. Keep it in a cask well bunged for a month; then bottle it. PORT WINE, to Detect Adulteration in.—It is often adul- terated with alum to make it astringent. Mix the suspected wine with lime water; to stand a day; if the wine be genuine, a number of crystals will be deposited at the bottom of the vessel. If alum be in the wine, there will be no crystals, but a slimy and muddy precipitate. Or, drop some solution of subcarbonate of potass into the wine; if alum be pre- sent, there will be a violet-coloured pre- cipitate, or cloudiness, which will vanish, if a few drops of caustic potash, or of muriatic acid be added to the mixture. PORTUGAL ONIONS, to Pickle.—Slice tjiem in strong salt and water for 24 hours; drain; put into a jar, and pour upon them vinegar spiced and boiled. Put a small piece of alum in the jar. POSSET OF BARLEY.—Boil % lb. of French barley in 3 pints of milk; boil it till it is done enough; then put in a pint of cream, some mace and cinnamon; sweeten with loaf sugar, and when it is just warm, pour in a pint of sherty wine and froth it up. A less quantity may be made. POSSET of Ale, or Beer. Take % pint of milk ; put it on the fire till it just boils; pour it on cut bread in a basin; then just boil \ pint of beer, and pour into the milk and bread. Sweeten and season as you like. POSSET, Cold.—Take J pint each of cream and white wine; the juice317 PC’S POS ME of half a lemon, and the rind grated into it. Sweeten the cream and wine ; put the latter into a basin, and pour the cream or milk into it, and stir well. POSTAGB.—From all parts of the United Kingdom, the Channel Islands, and the Isle of Man, if prepaid, Is as fol- lows : Not above 2 oz ljd. Above 2 oz., but not above 4 oz. 2d. and so on at the rate of id. for every 2 oz. Double postage if posted unpaid on deliv- ery. No letter may exceed 24x12x12 in. The rates of postage in the Irish Free State differ from those in force in this country. Inland Post Office Orders. - For sums not exceeding £3 .. 4d. Above £i but under £10 .. $d. .. £10 „ „ £20 .. 8d. ,, £20 „ „ £30 .. lOd. &0 .. £40 .. Is. Od. Post Cards.—Inland Id. They are sold, bearing a penny impressed stamp, in packets at 10 lor lid. They can also be had in smaller numbers or singly. Reply cards (2d.) are also sold. Letter-cards are sold at 10 for Is. 6d.; smaller numbers in proportion. Foreign post cards, ljd.; reply, 3d. Book Post.—The prepaid post- age for a packet of Books, paper, printed matter, manuscript,circulars, photographs, including binding and mounting, is Jd. for every 2 cz. or fraction thereof up to 2 lbs. (maximum); prepaid by adhesive stamps, or stamped wrapper. The Packet not to contain anything sealed against inspection, but to be open at each end, and must have no written communication of the nature of a letter. No Packet to exceed 2 feet in length, or 1 foot in width or depth. Beyond the weight of 2 oz. there is no distinction between letters, samples, and books. All go at the rate of ljd. for not exceeding 2 oz. and Jd. for every addi- tional 2 oz. Registration of Letters, etc.— The fee, in addition to the ordinary post- age, is Threepence for a letter, newspaper, book, or other packet to any place within the United Kingdom or the Colonies; to be prepaid by stamps. Letters contain- ing coins or jewels, not registered, will be charged double the Registration fee. Post Office Savings Banks.— Savings Banks are established at all Poet Offices, where sums of not less than one shilling may at any time be deposited. Not more than £500 will be received In any one year. Interest is paid at the rat* of sixpence per £ per annum. Newspapers.—Inland, Id. stamp each copy (not exceeding 6 oz.) For every additional 6 oz, up to 2 lb. (per copy), Jd. Parcel Post.—Parcels, not ex- ceeding 11 lbs. In weight, 3 ft. 6 in. In length, or 6 ft. in length and girth com- bined, are received at any Post Office for transmission between places in the United Kingdom as follows:— For a parcel not above 2 lbs. in weight 6d. Not exeeding 5 lbs 9d. »* I, 8 ,, • • It. Od. H ,, 11 ,, a a a a Is. 3d. Postal Money Orders. — The following are the amounts for which postal orders are issued i— Amount of order. Poundage charged. 6d. to 2s. 6d. Id 3s. Od. to 15s. Cd. ljd] 15s. 6d. to 21s. Od. 2d. The sender of Postal Order may Increase its value by an amonnt not exceeding 5d. by affixing British Postage Stamps not ex- ceeding three in number to the face of the Order. No credit will be given for stamps which are in excess of three or which are affixed elsewhere than in the spaces pro- vided. Stamps perforated with initials or marks, or embossed, or impressed, stamps cut out of envelopes, post-cards, etc., can- not be accepted for this purpose. Telegrams.—The charge for In- land Telegrams is Is. Od. for first 12 words and Id. each additional word. ArUtanaut are charged for. Small Investments in Ckmsta- ment Stocks.—Any depositor ta the Post Office Savings Bank may invest, at any Post Office in the United Kingdow at which there is a Savings Bank, umafi sums in one of the Government stock. The following charges are made lor the purohase or sale of stock:— On stock not exceeding £10 .. It. 0d. Exceeding £10, bat nnder £25 .. la. 63, £25, H £50 ..2a.tr!. , •» z 80, m jfcYS .. 3a. 61. .. dV6, „ £100.. 4». M. with a further charge of one stalling ia respect of every £50 nominal amount of Stock or Bonds, or part of such £50, above £100. The purchase or sale ia at the ourrent prioe of the day on which it ia made, and a certificate thereof is sent to the investor by post. Similar arrange- ments are made for sales of stock; the dividends will be collected by the Post Office and placed to the credit of the Investor. Investments may be made with money already deposited or with money deposited expressly for the purpose. No318 POT POT (single Investment may exceed £1,000 Stock. Investments in the following list of Stocks may be made only through the medium of a Savings Bank Account;— 24 per cent. Cons. Stock, 24 per cent. Annuities, 2£ per cent. Annuities, Local Loans, 3 per cent. Stock, Guaranteed 2>2 per cent. Stock, Guaranteed 3 per cent. Stock, and 34 per cent. War Stock, 1925- 1928. The depositor’s book must in every case fco sent with an application for investment, or sale, of Stock, or for a Stock Certifi- cate. A special green envelope for the purpose may be obtained at any Post Office Savings Bank. Any further information may be ob- tained in the "Post Office Guide," price Is., or on application to H.M. Stationery Office, Adastral House, Kingsway, London, POTAGE, Barley.—Take r lb. of pearl barley; cleanse it well from husks; put it into a quart of milk to Steep, when well boiled, put in a quart of cream, 1 oz. of salt, some mace, and cinnamon; when sufficiently thick, sweeten. POTASH, Bicarbonate. — In Indigestion, attended with acidity, the result of disordered gastric secretion, the bicarbonate of potash is a valuable remedy, neutralizing very effectually the acid. The dose is from 10 to 20 grains given in simple solution in water, or it may be sweetened. POTASH DROPS.—Liquor of potash, 10 drops; infusion of linseed, 1 pint; spirits of sweet nitre, oz. Mix, and take two table spoonfuls every three hours. A sure cure for the gravel. POTASS.® LIQUOR.—This is a solution of potash. It is very good in indigestion, acid eructations, heart- bum, &c. It neutralizes acid, and counteracts the morbid tendency of the stomach to acid secretion. Dose—10 drops, gradually increased to 40. It should be diluted. Take it in a bitter decoction. POTATOES.—Much attention has been recently drawn to the fact, that the produce of potatoes may be much increased by plucking off the blossoms from the plants producing them. This important observation has been completely confirmed by M. Teller, the Director of the Agricultural Society of Darmstadt. In 1839, two fields of the same size, lying side by side, and manured in the same man- ner, were planted with potatoes. When the plants had flowered, the blossoms were removed from those in one field, while those in the other field were left untouched. The former produced forty. seven"bolls, the latter only thirty-seven bolls. POTATOES, to Boil.—Boil in a saucepan without lid, with only suffi- cient water to cover them; more would spoil them, as the potatoes contain much water, and it requires to be ex- pelled. When the water nearly boils, pour it off, and add cold water, with a good portion of salt. The cold water sends the heat from the surface to the centre of the potatoe, and makes it mealy. Boiling with a lid on, often produces cracking. New Potatoes should be cooked soon after having been dug; wash well, and boil. The Irish, who boil potatoes to per- fection, say they should always be boiled in their jackets; as peeling them for boiling is only offering a premium for water to run through the potatoe, and rendering it sad and unpalatable; they should be well washed, and put into cold water. "Stop," says one, “till I immortalize my dear old mother's receipt; — * To dress a potatoe, wash it well, but let there be no scraping. At the thickest end cut off a piece the size of a six- pence.’ This is the safety-valve by which the steam generated i-n the pota- toe, escapes ; and such escape prevents cracking. Pour all the water off and let the skins be thoroughly dry before peeling. POTATOES, to Escalop. — Boil the potatoes ; then beat them fine in a bowl with cream, a lump of butter and salt; put them into escalop shells; smooth the top; score them; lay thin slices of butter on the top of them ; put them into a Dutch oven to brown before the fire.POT 319 POT POTATO FRITTERS. Boil two large potatoes, scrape them fine ; beat four yolks and three whites of eggs, and add to the above one large spoonful of cream, another of sweet wine, a squeeze of lemon, and a little nutmeg. Beat this batter half an hour at least. It will be extremely light. Put a good quantity of fine lard in a stew- pan, and drop a spoonful of the batter at a time into it. Fry them ; and serve as a sauce, a glass of white wine, the juice of a lemon, one dessert spoonful of peach-leaf or almond water, and some white sugar warmed together : not to be served in the dish. Another Way.—Slice potatoes thin, dip them in a fine batter, and fry. Serve with white sugar, sifted over them. Lemon peel, and a spoonful of orange-flower water, should be added to the batter. POTATOES, to Fry. — Cut them into thin slices ; fry them brown, either in butter or beef gravy, or batter. POTATOES, to Mash.—Boil the potatoes, peel them, and break them to paste ; then to 2 lbs. of them add a quarter of a pint of milk, a little salt, and 2 ozs. of butter, and stir it all well over the fire. Either serve them thus, or place them in the dish in a form, and then browit them before the fire. They may be placed in moulds, and browned. They are sometimes coated with white or yolk of egg. POTATO PASTY. — Boil, and peel, and mash potatoes as fine as possible; mix them with salt, pepper, and a good bit of butter. Make a paste; roll it out thin like a large puff, and put in the potatoes; fold over one half, pinching the edges. Bake in a moderate oven. POTATO PIE.—Skin some potatoes, and cut them into slices; season them ; and also some mutton, beef, pork, or veal, and a lump of butter. Put layers of them and of the meat. A few eggs boiled and chopped fine, improve it POTATOES in PLENTY.— A farmer planted four potatoes in April, In two of which he inserted a bean, and a pea in each of the other two. The peas and beans produced a good crop, and the potatoes were free from disease. One of the potatoes produced 58 tubers, the second 30, the third 29. and tho fourth 25. POTATO PUDDING. Take lb. of boiled potatoes, 2 ozs. of butter, the yolks and whites of two eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, one spoonful of white wine, a morsel of salt, the juice and rind of a lemon ; beat all to froth ; sugar to taste. A crust or not, as you like. Bake it. If wanted richer, ;put 3 ozs. more butter, sweet- meats and almonds, and another egg. POTATO PUDDING with MEAT.—Boil till they are fit to mash; rub through a colander, and make into a thick batter with milk, and two eggs. Then lay some seasoned steaks in a dish, then some batter; and over the last layer put the remainder of the batter. Bake a fine brown. POTATO RIBBONS. —Cut the potatoes into slices, rather more than half an inch thick, and then pare round and round in very long ribbons. Place them in a pan of cold water, and a short time before wanted, drain them from the water. Fry them in hot lard, or good dripping, until crisp and browned ; dry them on a soft cloth, pile them on a hot dish, and season with salt and cayenne. POTATOES Roasted under the Meat.—These are very good; they should be nicely browned. Half boil large mealy potatoes; put into a baking dish, under the meat roasting; lade the gravy upon them occasionally. They are best done in an oven. POTATO ROLLS.—Boil three lbs. of potatoes ; crush and work them with two ozs. of butter, and as much milk as will cause them to pass through a colander; take half a pint of yeast and half a pint of warm water ; mix with the potatoes; pour the whole upon 5 lbs. of flour ; add salt; knead it well; if too thick, put to it a little more milk and warm water; to stand before the fire an hour to rise ; work it well, and make it into rolls. Bake half an hour. POTATO ROT. — Take the apples that grow on the potato plant, when fully ripe ; cut them open ; take out the small seeds, and dry them; keep them till the spring; then sow' them In hot beds, like onions ; they willPOT POU 320 be small at first; plant again next season, when they will be large and good, and entirely free from disease. This requires to be done at least every fourth season. This plan has been adopted by several fanners with com- plete success, ever since the potato disease commenced. POTATO YEAST.—Boil, and skin, and mash mealy potatoes. Mix hot water to make them as thin as pud- ding batter. Add to each lb. of potatoes 2 ozs. of treacle. When just warm, stir In for every lb. of potatoes two table- spoonfuls of yeast. Keep it warm till it has done fermenting, and in a day it will be ready for use. POULTICE.—Take 4 ozs. of crumb of bread, a pinch of elder flowers, and camomile: boil them in equal quantities of vinegar and water. Or, take linseed flour, and the dregs of ale or porter barrels, Slightly boiled. It always keeps soft from the oiliness of the linseed, and the yeasty deposit of the malt liquor is both cooling and sweetening. Poultices are designed to soften and relax any swelling, and allay pain and inflammation, to ripen tumours or swell- ings, and to cleanse inflamed and gan- grenous sores, ulcers, &c. Always re- move a poultice when it becomes dry; the place must be well washed in warm ley water, and a fresh poultice applied. The lest poultice for every purpose is the slippery elm bark; it may be made with warm milk and water, or with soap- ley. If tincture of myrrh be added, it Is valuable in boils, ulcers, carbuncles, &c. POULTICE for a FESTER. —Boil bread in lees of strong beer; apply the poultice in a general manner. This has saved many a limb from amputation. POULTRY, to Feed.—“As I suppose you keep poultry, I may tell you that it has been ascertained that if you mix with their food a sufficient quantity of egg-shells or chalk, which they eat greedily, they will then lay, ceeteris paribus, twice or thrice as many eggs as before. A well-fed fowl is dis- posed to Lay a vast number of eggs, but cannot do so without the material for foe shells, however nourishing In other respects her food may be; indeed, a fowl fed on food and water free from carbonate of lime, and not finding any in the soil, or in the shape -of mortar, which thqy often eat off the wall, would lay no eggs at all with the best will in the world to do so.”—Professor Gregory. POUND CAKE.—Take 1 lb. each of flour, sifted loaf sugar, and cur- rants ; the rind of two lemons grated; mix all together by nibbing them be- tween the hands; then put 1 lb. of butter into a wooden bowl; place it often before the fire, if the weather is cold ; when the butter is soft, beat it up with the hand till it is like a cream; break 10 or 12 eggs into a deep pan; whisk till quite frothy; put one third of them to the butter; and beat up till well mixed ; then put in half of what is left, and mix it till it sticks to the bowl; then put in the remainder, and mix it well up ; when it sticks to the bowl, it is well mixed and light; then put in the flour, &c., and mix well together. Have cake hoops, or moulds papered, and put into the oven, the heat of which must be moderate. The rind of a lemon, shred very fine, may be added. POUND CAKE, a Good One. —Beat a pound of butter to a cream, and mix with it the whites and yolks of eight eggs beaten apart. Have ready, warm by the fire, a pound of flour, and the same of sifted sugar, mix them, and a few cloves, a little nutmeg, and cinna- mon, in fine powder together ; then by degrees work the ingredients into the butter and eggs. When well beaten, add a glass of wine and some caraways. It must be beaten a full hour. Butter a pan, and bake it a full hour in a quick oven. The above proportions, leaving out four ounces of the butter, and the same of sugar, make a less luscious cake, and to most tastes a more pleasant one. POUND CAKE, Plain.—Work one pound of butter with cream and one pound of sifted sugar, till it becomes quite smooth; beat up nine eggs and put them by degrees to the butter and beat altogether for twenty minutes. Then mix in lightly one pound of flour; put the whole into a hoop cased with paper, on a baking plate, and bake it for about one hour in a moderate oven,row 32* PRl One ounce of caraway seeds added to the foregoing will make what is termed a rich seed cake. POWDER, Aperient.—Take of the best Turkey rhubarb, cinnamon, and fine sugar, of each two drachms. Let the ingredients be pounded, and after- wards mixed well together. When flatulence is accompanied with costiveness, a tea-spoonful of this pow- der may be taken once or twice a day, according to circumstances. POWDER, Carminative. Take of coriander seeds % an oz. ; gin- ger, i drachm ; nutmegs, % a drachm ; fine sugar, i % drachm ; reduce them into powder for twelve doses. This powder is employed for expelling flatulency, arising from indigestion. It may be given in small quantities to children in their food, when troubled with gripes. POWDER, Saline Laxative.— Take of soluble tartar, and cream of tartar, of each i drachm ; purified nitre, % a drachm. Make them into a powder. In fevers and other inflammatory dis- orders, where it is necessary to keep the body gently open, one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel, and repeated occasionally. POWDER, Steel.—Take filings of steel, and loaf sugar, of each 2 ozs. ; ginger, a drachms. Pound them to- gether. In obstructions of the menses, and other cases where steel is proper, a tea- spoonful of this powder may be taken twice a day, and washed down with wine or water. POWDER, Sudorific. — Take purified nitre and vitriolated tartar, of each % an oz. ; opium and ipecacuanha, of each 1 drachm. Mix the ingredients, and reduce them to a fine powder. This is known by the name of Dover’s powder. It is a powerful sudorific. In obstinate rheumatism and other cases where it is necessary to excite a copious sweat, this powder may be administered tn the dose of a scruple, or £ a drachm accompanied with copious draughts of warm diluting liquor. POWDER. Worm.—Take of tin, reduced Into a fine powder, it os. ; EtbSop's mineral, a drachms. Mix well together, and divide into six doses. One of these powders may be taken in a little syrup, honey, or treacle, twice a day. Then the following anthelmintic purge will be proper :— Powdered rhubarb, a scruple ; scam- mony and calomel, of each 5 grains. Rub them in a mortar for one dose. For children, the above doses must be lessened according to their age. If the powder of tin be given alone, its do3e may be considerably increased. PRAWNS and SHRIMPS.— When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.—Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. PRAWNS and SHRIMPS, to Butter.—Take them out of the shells, and warm them with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two, and serve with sippets: or with a cream sauce. PRAWNS, Curry of.—Take them from the shells, and lay into a pan, with a small piece of mace, three or four spoonfuls of veal gravy, and four of cream; rub smooth one or two tea- spoonfuls of curry-powder, a tea-spoon- ful of flour, and an ounce of butter; simmer an hour; squeeze half a lemon in, and add salt. PREGNANCY, a Good Medi- cine for.—Cinnamon water, 1 oz.; tincture of rhubarb, 2 drachms; com- pound spirits of lavender, a drachm ; syrup of saffron, 1 drachm. Take occasionally in the middle of the day. PRESERVES, to Keep. Apply the white of an egg, with a brush, to a single thickness of white tissue paper, with which cover the jars, lap- ping over an inch or two. It will require no tying, as it will become, when dry, inconceivably tight and strong, and inpervious to the air; tie them up when cold. PRIMROSE VINEGAR. To 15 quarts of water put 6 lbs. of brown sugar; boll ten minutes; take off the scum ; pour it on half a peck of primroses; when nearly cold, add a little fresh yeast, and let it work in a warm place all night; put it in a barrel, and when done working, close the barrel, and keep It In a warm place.PDF 322 PRI PRINTING INK, to Print Linen with Types.—Dissolve one drachm of asphaltum in four drachms of oil of turpentine, then add lamp black or black lead, in fine powder, in suffi- cient quantity to render the ink of a proper consistence for printing with types. PRUNES. — They abate hettt, and gently relax the towels, by lubri- cating the passages and softening the excrements. Hence their great use in constipation, attended with heat and irritation, which other aperients might aggravate. If not sufficiently active, they may be joined with senna, rhubarb, &c., using a little ginger as anti-flatu- lent. They should be stewed. The French prunes are the best. PRUNE PUDDING. —Beat up 6 yolks of eggs and 3 whites. Take 4 spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, and some powdered ginger, in half a cupful of milk, and mix well together; add gradually nearly a quart of milk, and 1 lb. of scalded prunes. Tie it up in a cloth ; toil it an hour, and pour over it melted batter. PRUNE TART.—Give prunes a scald, take out the stones and break them; put the kernels, primes, and sugar into a little cranberry juice ; sim- mer, and when cold make a tart of the sweetmeat. PUDDING, Baked—Three table-spoonfuls of Oswego prepared com to one quart of milk. Prepare, and cook the same as blanc mange. After it is cool, stir up with it thoroughly two or three eggs well beaten, and bake half an hour. It is very good. PUDDING, Boiled.—Three table-spoonfuls of Oswego prepared com to one quart of milk. Dissolve the com In some of the milk, and mix with it two or three eggs, well beaten, and a little salt. Heat the remainder of the milk to near boiling, add the above preparation, and toil four minutes, stirring it briskly. To be eaten warm with a sauce. It is delicious. PUDDINGS, in Haste.—Shred suet, and put with grated bread, a few currants, the yolks of four eggs, and the white of two, some grated lemon peel, ind ginger. Mix, and make into little balls about the size and shape of an egg, with a little flour. Boil 20 minutes. PUDDING, to please.—Mix a quart of new milk with a pint of butter- milk ; drain off the whey, and miy with the cord the crumb of a French roll grated, half a lemon peel grated, quarter of a pint of cream, 3 ozs. of cold melted butter, the yolks of 5 and the whites of 2 eSSs! sweeten the whole to taste, and bake with puff paste for half an hour. Another. — Line a shallow dish with an inch-deep layer of several kinds of good preserves; mix together, and with them mix 3 ozs. of candied citron or orange-rind. Beat well the yolks of 10 eggs, and add to them gradually % lb. of sifted sugar; when well mixed, pour in gradually % lb. of good clarified butter, and a little ratafia, or any other flavour. Fill the dish two-thirds with this mixture, and bake the pudding one hour in a moderate oven. Half the quantity will be sufficient for a small dish. PUDDING, a Wholesome one. —Put into a basin % lb. of rice, 4 ozs. of coarse sugar, or treacle; 2 quarts of milk, and 2 ozs. of dripping or butter; put it cold into the oven. It will take a good while to bake, but it will be very good solid food. PUFF PASTE—To 1 lb. of flour, take % lb. of butter. Rub half the butter very finely into the flour, and mix it into a paste with cold water ; roll out the paste; put in the remainder of the butter; roll it up, and leave it for half an hour ; then roll it out for use. An egg may be beaten very fine, and mixed with the water. PUFF, a Good light one.— Mix 2 spoonfuls of flour, a little grated lemon peel, some nutmeg, $ spoonful of brandy, a little loaf sugar, and 1 egg; then fry it enough, but not brown ; beat it in a mortar with 5 eggs, whites and yolk3 ; put a quantity of lard in a frying- pan, and when quite hot, drop a dessert spoonful of batter at a time; turn as they brown. Serve them immediately, with sweet sauce. PUFF, a Good One.—To a $ oz. of butter, add 3 ozs. of Jordan Al- monds with a ozs. of loaf sugar; pound them with a small quantity of rose water till they form a thick paste; spread theHulk 7. An' cmphatica* repetition, paste on buttered tins, bake In a slow oven. When cold, put a spoonful of any kind of jam in each and cover with whipped cream. PUFF, made of Cheese.-Strain cream curd from the whey, and beat £ a pint basin of it fine in a mortar, jvith a spoonful and a hglf of flour, 3 eggs, but only 1 white, a spoonful of orange flower-water, a # of a nutmeg, and sugar to make pretty sweet. Lay a little of this paste, in small very round cakes on a tin plate. If the oven is hot, a % of an hour will bake them. Serve with pudding sauce. PULMONARY BALSAM.— Horshound, (plant) comfrey-root, blood- root, elecampane-root, wild cherry bark, spikenard-root, pennyroyal, (plant) of each, 4 023. Pour 3 quarts of boiling water upon them; infuse for 3 hours ; then heat the water again ; and pour it upon the plants to infuse 5 or 6 hours. Sweeten with sugar candy.—It is very serviceable in diseases of the lungs, chronic coughs ; it removes constriction of the chest, by promoting expectora- tion. Take half a small tea-cupful 3 or 4 times a day. PULMONARY COM- PLAINTS.—It is said that the ten- der shoots of Scotch fir, peeled and eaten fasting early in the morning in the woods, when the weather is dry, has performed many cures of pulmonary complaints among the Highlanders in Scotland. PULMONARY SYRUP.— Blood-root, boneset, slippery elm bark, coltsfoot, elecampane, of each 2 ozs. ; white root, spikenard root, of each, 4 ozs.; comfrey-root, poplar bark, of each, 1 oz. ; lobelia, horehound, snake-root, of each, % oz. Pour upon them 2 qts. of boiling water ; stir well; add 1 lb. of treacle, and when cool, 1 quart of Hol- lands gin.—It is one of the best re- medics for asthma, coughs, hoarseness, &c. A table-spoonful every hour; or a wine-glassful 3 times a day. PUNCH, to Make.—Take two lemons, and rub some lumps of sugar over them, till all the yellow part of the skin has been taken off. Put these lumps into a bowl, and squeeze as much lemon juice to them as is requisite to Rive sufficient acidity. Then add the proper quantity of sugar; mix the sugar and juice well together, to which add some boiling water, and mix till the whole be cool. Take rum and brandy, equal quantities, and mix with the above ; the quantity of spirits according , to taste. PUNCH, Royal.—Take § a pint of brandy, a bottle of champagne, the juice of 3 lemons, and of 2 Seville oranges, and a Vi pint of Martinique, with nearly a quart of strong infusion of tea, and sweetened according to the taste. PUNCTUATION is the mak- ing of pauses, by points indicative of their length. The Comma is written thus (,) and represents the shortest pauses in read- ing, and the smallest divisions in writ- ing. Rule 1. In general, a simple sen- tence does not admit of any point ex- cept the period; as, True politeness has its seat in the heart. Rule 2. The simple members of a compound sentence are separated by a comma; as, Good men are esteemed, and they are happy. He labours assi- duously, and he is becoming rich. Rule 3. When two or more words —whether nouns, adjectives, pronouns, verbs, or adverbs—are connected with- out the conjunction being expressed, the comma supplies the place of that word ; as, My parents, brothers, and sisters were all present.—But when it'is ex- pressed, the comma is omitted; as, Cicero spoke most forcibly and fluently. Rule 4. Absolute, relative, and generally, all parenthetical and explana- tory clauses, are separated from the other parts of a sentence by commas; as, The commander having been shot, the troops became dispirited. Paul, the chief of sinners, became the chief apostle. Chris- tianity, though strenuously opposed by infidelity, is destined to triumph. In short, he was a great man. Rule s. The modifying words and phrases, nay, however, hence, finally, in short, at least, and the like, are usually separated by commas. Rule 6. Words denoting the per- son, or object addressed, are separated by commas ; as. My son, give me thine heart. John, hear what I say.FUN FUN 324 requires a comma; as, Against thee', thee only, have I sinned. Rule 8. When words are placed in opposition to each other, or with some marked variety, they require to be dis- tinguished by a comma : as, “Tho’ deep, yet clear; tho’ gentle, yet not dull; Strong, without rage: without o’erflowing, foil." "Good men, in this frail imperfect state, are often found, not only in union with, but in opposition to, the views and conduct of one another.” Rule 9. The words of another writer cited, but not formally introduced as a quotation, are separated by a com- ma ; as, “I pity the man who can travel from Dan to Beersheba, and cry, ’Tis all barren." Rule 10. A comma is often inserted where a verb is understood; as, George has acquired much property; his brother, little. Rule ii. A comma is used between the two parts of a sentence that has its natural order inverted ; as, Him that is weak in the faith, receive ye. The Semicolon is written thus (;). It marks a longer pause than the comma, and separates clauses less closely con- nected. Rule i. A sentence consisting of two parts, the one containing a com- plete proposition, and the other added as an inference, or an explanation, the two parts are separated by a semicolon ; as, My mind is sadly dejected; for I am surrounded with enemies. Rule a. A sentence consisting of several members, each constituting a distinct proposition, and having a de- pendence upon each other, or upon some common clause, they are separated by semicolons; as, Remember, weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning ; and to all true Chris- tians, it shall be a morning without clouds ; for the Lord shall be their ever- lasting light; and the days of their mourning shall be ended. The Colon, which is written thus (:) marks a longer pause than the semi- colon, and is used when the sense is complete, but when there is something still behind, which tends to make the sense fuller or clearer. Rule x. A colon r'enerally precedes a quotation; as, The Scriptures show the benevolence of the Deity in the words : “ God is loye.” Rule 2. When a sentence which consists of an enumeration of particulars, each separated from the other by a semi- colon, has its sense suspended till the last clause, that clause is disjoined from the preceding by a colon; as, “If he has not been unfaithful to his king; if he has not proved a traitor to his coun- try; if he has never given cause for such charges as have been preferred against him : why then is he afraid to confront his accusers ?" The Period, or full point, is a dot thus (.), and is used at the end of every complete sentence; that is to say, at the end of every collection of words which makes a full and complete meaning, and is not necessarily connected with other collections of words. Besides being used to mark the com- pletion of a sentence, the period is placed after initials, when used alone, as D. D., for Doctor of Divinity; and after abreviations, as, Lat. for Latin. The following Grammatical signs, or marks, are used in the writing of sen- tences :— Parenthesis () is used to enclose a phrase to assist in elucidating the sub- ject, or to add force to the assertions or arguments; as, ** Know then this truth (enough for man to know). Virtue alone is happiness below.” It ought, however, to be very sparing- ly used. It is necessarily an interrupter; it breaks in upon the regular course of the mind : it 'ends to divert the atten- tion from the main object of the sen- tence. Interrogation is used when a question is asked ; as, How art thou? Exclamation or Admiration, denotes any sudden emotion of the mind; as, Alas 1 I am undone 1 Apostrophe, (’) or mark of elision, in- dicates that a letter is left out; as, lov'd for loved, don’t for do not. It is used properly enough in poetry, but should never be used in prose. “ It ought to be called the mark not of elision, but of lasituss and vulgarity, except when used to denote the possessive case of Noons."pin 325 QUE Hyphen (-) is used to connect words or parts of words; as in tea-pot, water- rat. The Dash marks a break in the sen- tence, or an abrupt turn, though it is occasionally used merely to disjoin a parenthetical clause; as, *' If thou art he—but O how fallen I * ‘ Peter and J ohn—for they were to- gether—stood up before the council." Paragraph Tf is used to denote the beginning of a new subject. Section (§) is sometimes used instead of the word section. PUTTY, to Soften.—Apply fre- quently to the putty diluted sulphuric add, or a little nitric or muriatic acid, and in a short time it will become so soft, as to be easily removed. Q QUAILS, to Fricassee. Having tossed them up in a saucepan with a little melted butter, and mush- rooms, put in a slice of ham, well beaten, with salt, pepper, doves, and savory herbs; add good gravy, and a glass of sherry ; simmer over a slow fire : when almost done, thicken the ragout with a good cullis, (i. e. a good broth, strained, gellatined, &c.) or with two or three eggs, well beaten up in a little gravy. QUAILS, to Roast. — Roast them without drawing, and serve on' toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the fine flavour. The thigh and back are the most esteemed. QUAKING PUDDING. Scald a quart of cream; when almost cold, put to it four eggs well beaten, a spoonful and a half of flour, some nut- megs and sugar; tie it dose in a but- tered doth; boil it an hour, and turn it out with care, lest it should crack. Melted butter, a little wine and sugar. QUASSIA.—This plant derives its name from Quassi, a negro of Sur- inam : by it he cured the malignant fevers peculiar to that country. For gold he disclosed his remedy to Mr. Rolander, a Swede, who introduced it into Europe. It is now chiefly brought from the West Indies. It is much used by the brewers. It is one of the most powerful of the bitter tonics, tending to the narcotic. It is a good remedy for Indigestion, invigorating the digestive organs, with little excitement of the cir- culation, or increase of animal heat: it is very bitter, but it has no smell. It* narcotic prindple, though slight, is proved by its destruction of flies. The infusion of it is made by pouring a pint of boiling water upon 2 scruples of the chips or raspings. Orange peel renders it more grateful to the stomach. QUEEN CAKES.—Mix 1 lb. of dried flour, the same of sifted sugar, and of washed dean currants. Wash 1 lb. of butter in rose water, beat it well, then mix with it eight eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, and put in the dry ingredients by degrees ; beat the whole an hour; butter little tins, teacups, or saucers, and bake the batter in, filling only half. Sift a little fine sugar over just as you put it into the oven. QUEEN CAKES.—Beat 8 ozs. of butter, and mix with two well beaten eggs, strained; mix 8 ozs. of dried flour, and the same of lump sugar, and the grated rind of a lemon ; then add the whole together, and beat full half an hour with a silver spoon. Butter small patty-pans, half fill, and bake twenty minutes in a quick oven. QUEEN CAKES.—Take 1 lb. of flour, seven eggs, and 1 lb. of lump sugar, grated fine; beat your eggs well, then put the sugar to the eggs, beat them well together, take a lb. of butter beat to a cream, whisk up all to- gether, then add the flour, and stir welL Do not whisk the flour in it, it will make them tough. QUEEN’S CULLIS.—Prepare a stewpan with slices from a fillet of veal, a few bits of ham, and roots ; sim- mer it on a slow fire, without catching at the bottom, and add some good broth —good coloured, A fowl may be added to it to increase its strength; simmer it; pound one or two breasts of fowl, with half a handful of sweet almonds, scalded, a few hard yolks of eggs, and bread crumbs soaked in broth; mix altogether in a mortar ; strain, rubbing it hard with a wooden spoon; add a little cream to make it whiter. QUEEN’S DROPS.—Soften, and work with the hand, till like cream, as directed for Queen’s calces, % lb. of fresh butter; put to it 8 ozs. of sifted\ gm 326 qoi ioaf sugar and beat them together for it minute ; break in four eggs, and beat for two minutes; then lightly mix in K lb. of good flour, 4 ozs. of nicely washed currants, and half a teaspoonful of powdered cinnamon. When well mixed, make it into drops the sire of a walnut, upon paper on iron plates, and bake them in a hot oven. QUICK MADE PUDDING. —Flour and suet, % lb. each, four eggs, % pint, of new milk, a little mace and nutmeg. lb. of raisins, ditto of currants; mix well, and boil three quarters of an hour with the cover of the pot on, or it will require longer. QUICKSILVER.—Tallow will take it up;—vinegar kills it. As a medicine it is injurious. It is mercury In a peculiar state. It is poison. QUINCE CAKES.—Mix the syrup of quinces and raspberries to- gether ; boil and clarify them over a clear fire, skimming well; then add 1% lb. of sugar ; cause as much more to be brought to a candy height, and poured in hot; stir the whole till cold; spread it on plates, and cut it into cakes. QUINCE JELLY. — Cut in pieces a sufficient quantity of quinces; draw off the juice by boiling them in water, in which they ought only to swim, no more. When fully done, drain and have ready clarified sugar, to which put one spoonful to two of the juice; bring the sugar to the souffle; add the juice, and finish. When it drops from the skimmer it is enough; take it off, and pot it. QUINCE PUDDING.—Scald the quinces tender; pare thin ; scrape off the pulp; mix with sugar very sweet, and add a little ginger and cin- namon. To a pint of cream, put 3 or 4 yolks of eggs, and stir it into the quinces till they are of a good thick- ness; butter a dish, pour it in, and bake it. QUINCE SEEDS-—Of these bandoline is made—a cement for the hair; see Bandoline, page 40. It is also used as on emollient and sheathing application to cracked lips and nipples. QUINCE WINE. —Wipe off the fur, take out the cores of ripe quinces; bruise them and press them, lidding to every gallon of juice a % lbs. of fine sugar ; stir together till dissolved; put it in the cask, and when it has done fermenting, stop it close; let it stand six months before it is bottled ; keep it two or three years, and it will be the better. QUINCES, Red, to Preserve whole.—Core and scald six fine quinces ; drain ; and when cold, pare them; take their weight in sugar, and a pint of water to every lb. of sugar ; boil it to a syrup, and skim; put in the quinces to stand all night; when red enough, boil them as marmalade with two basinfuls of jelly; when as soft as a straw can be run through them, put them into glasses; let the liquor boil to a jelly, then pour it over the quinces. QUININE.—It is obtained by frequently boiling the yellow Peruvian bark fcinchona) in water, acidulated with sulphuric acid. It retains in a concentrated form the tonic and febri- fuge properties of the Peruvian bark from which it is obtained; and as a remedy is administered to the same cases. It agrees better with an irritable stomach than the bark. The dose is from one to five grains three or four times a day. It is valuable in ague, given during the intermission. It may be made into a pill, made with conserve of roses, or mucilage, or in liquid, as water, if previously dissolved in elixir of vitriol, or diluted sulphuric acid. It is valuable in tic doloursux, St. Vitus's dance, in mortification, bleedings, in discharges attended with great debility, as diarrhoeas, dysentery, obstinate ulcers, scrofula, &c. To stop intermittent fever, take sul- phate of quinine, thirty-two grains; simple syrup, one pound, mixed. A spoonful to be taken every four or six hours. For intermittents and debility, dissolve twelve grains of sulphate of quinine in half a pint of good Madeira wine, or infusion of roses, one ounce three times a day. The tincture con- sists of six grains of sulphate of quinine, and spirits of wine, one ounce; take a teaspoonful twice or thrice a day. From five to ten grains of quinine, taken two or three times daily, has cured tic doloureux. It has also been successful in head and toothache. QUIN’S FISH SAUCE. — Half a pint of mushroom pickle, thegra 3-7 Q™ same of walnut, six long anchovies, pounded, 'six 'cloves of garlic, three of them pounded ; half a spoonful of cay- enne pepper; put them into a bottle, and shake them well before using. It Is also good with beef steaks. QUINSY.—This disease occurs principally in spring and autumn, when vicissitudes of heat and cold are fre- quent. It affects especially the young and sanguine, and a disposition to it is often acquired by frequent attacks. Symptoms.—It commences with an unusual sense of tightness in the throat, particularly on swallowing, which is often effected with difficulty and pain. On inspection, some tume- faction and redness of the fauces may be perceived, which shortly spreads over the tonsils, uvula, and soft palate, at- tended with a troublesome clamminess of the mouth, fever, headache, de- lirium, &c. In desperate cases, the tongue and tonsils are so much swollen as to prevent deglutition and even so as to affect respiration, that the patient is often obliged to be supported in an erect posture, to prevent suffocation. The inflammation generally attacks one tonsil first, which in a day or two it sometimes leaves and affect3 the other, and not unfrequently quits them both suddenly, and flies to the lungs. Causes.—It is generally caused by the external application of cold air, particularly about the neck. Whatever violently stimulates the fauces, in a plethoric habit, especially, as acrid food, poisons, &c., may produce it. Treatment.—As the inflamma- tion, from the delicate structure of the parts, soon advances to suppuration, active means should be speedily employ- ed to disperse it. For this purpose the patient should take a full dose of the Aperient Mixture, and after its opera- tion, the Saline Mixture. One of the most effectual remedies is an emetic. This should be given as soon as the symptoms appear, and re- peated as often as necessary. The throat should be steamed with a strong decoction of tansy, wormwood, hops, and camomile flowers, boiled in vinegar and water. Put these into a large pitcher, over which place a funnel, that the patient may inhale the steam for 15 sainute*, and repeat It every two hours until the urgent symptoms are gone. Afterwards heat the herbs and bind them on the neck. A vapour bath is also of the greatest service, benefiting the whole system, and the throat especially. Gargle the throat with a decoction of lobelia and a litde gum kino. The steam of hemp- seed is said to be valuable in quinsy. If the patient is constipated, give an aperient. When the painful symptoms begin to subside, apply the Rheumatic Liquid warm to the throat, as warm and as long as the patient can bear it. Gargle the throat occasionally with a decoction of sage, hyssop, lobelia, catechu, or kino, with a little borax. Do this frequently. Repeat the aperi- ents when necessary, and the feet bath- ed in warm water and soap. Let the food, if any can be taken, be very simple. Give no spirits, no stimu- lants, and nothing cold. Hydropathy is very useful in quinsy. Dip a piece of cloth, in the form a bandage, in cold water, wring it out, and wrap it round the throat, and over it a dry bandage. Repeat when hot and dry. In sore throat, black currant jelly is of great service; and so is the old plan of wrapping the stocking round the throat on going to bed. A good gargle is made of sage and vinegar, with a little sal ammoniac. A little sal prunel sucked is sometimes of great use. Apply a large white-bread toast half an inch thick, dipped in brandy, to the crown of the head till it dries. Or, swallow slowly white rose water mixed with syrup of mulberries. Or, draw in as hot as you can, for ten or twelve minutes together, the fumes of red rose leaves, or camomile flowers, boiled in water and vinegar, or of a decoction of bruised hemp-seed. This speedily cures the sore throat, peripneumony, and in- flammation of the uvula. QUINSY.—Roast three or four large onions. Peel them quickly, and beat them flat with a rolling-pin. Im- mediately place them in a thin muslin bag that will reach from ear to ear, and about three inches deep. Apply it speedily as warm as possible to the throat. Keep it on day and night, changing it when the strength of the onions appears to be exhausted, and substituting !r«*ih ones- Flannel mustRAB QUi 328 be worn round the neck alter the poul- tice is removed. QUINSY, Vapour for a.—Take powdered pepper, x oz.; mills, i quart, and boil them to i% pint; put the whole into a glass bottle with a small neck ; let the vapour be received as hot as can be borne with the mouth open. This is about the best gargle. R. RABBITS, to Choose.—An old rabbit has very long and rough claws, and gray hairs intermixed with the wool. \i young, the claws and wool are smooth; if stale it will be flexible, and the flesh will be bluish, having a kind of slime upon it; but if fresh, the flesh will be white and dry. RABBIT, an English.—Toast a slice of bread brown on both sides ; then lay it on a plate, pour a glass of port wine over it; then cut some cheese very thin, and lay it thick over the bread; put it into a Dutch oven before the fire to brown. Serve it hot RABBITS, Scotch.—Toast a piece of bread on both sides ; butter it; cut a slice of cheese the size of the bread ; toast it on both sides, and lay it on the bread. RABBITS, Welsh.—Toast a slice of bread on both sides, and butter it; toast a slice of Cheshire cheese on one side, and lay that next the bread, and toast the other with a salamander; rub mustard over, and serve very hot, and covered. RABBITS, en Casserole.—Cut them in quarters, and lard them or not; dredge them well with flour, and fry them ; put them into a pipkin with a quart of common stock, a glass of sherry, pepper, salt, sweet herbs, and butter rolled in flour; cover close, and stew them half an hour, dish, and pour the same over, garnish with Seville oranges, sliced. RABBITS, en Matelote.—Pre- pare two rabbits as for fricassee; put them with as many slices of bacon, as there are of rabbits, into a stewpan with half a pint of stock, 34 small onions, and half a bottle of mushrooms; cover with paper, and set it on a stove, to simmer an hour. Take the rabbit, and lay it or a dish; skim off the fat, and reduce the liquor nearly to a glaze; put cullis to it; give it a boil; take it from the fire, and squeeze half a lemon ; add cayenne pepper, and a little sugar; pour it over the rabbit; garnish with paste. RABBIT, to Blanch.—Set It on the fire in a small quantity of cold water, and let it boil; then take it out, aad put it into cold water for a few minutes. RABBITS, to Boil.—Take out the liver, and dress it separately; and to insure whiteness of flesh, let the rabbits soak for 10 minutes in tepid water. Half an hour's boiling will be sufficient for those of moderate size, more if they are larger. Smother with onion sauce, chop the liver very fine, and serve it in a sauce-boat; if you place the sauce round it, it may prevent those who dis- like the flavour from partaking of the dish. RABBITS, to Fricassee Brown.—Cut the rabbits as for eat- ing ; fry them in butter, a light brown; put them in a tossing-pan with a pint of water, a tea-spoonful of lemon pickle, a large spoonful of mushroom ketchup, the same of browning, one anchovy, a slice of lemon, cayenne pepper, and salt to taste; stew them over a slow fire till they are done enough; thicken the gravy, and strain in; dish up the rabbits, and pour the gravy over them. RABBITS, to Fricassee White.—Cut, and put into a tossing- pan, as before, with a pint of veal gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle, oue an- chovy, a slice of lemon, a little beaten mace, cayenne pepper, and salt; stew them over a slow fire; when they are done enough, thicken with flour and butter; strain it; then add the yolks of two eggs, mixed with a gill of cream, and a little nutmeg grated in. Do no; let it boiL RABBITS, to Florentine. Skin two young rabbits; but leave on the cars ; take ont the bones leaving the head whole; lay them flat; make a forcemeat of a X lb. of bacon, scraped ; add to the bacon the crumbs of a penny loaf, a little lemon, thyme, or lemon- peel, shred fine, parsley chopped small, nutmeg, cayenne, and salt; mix them up together with an egg, and spread it over the rabbits; roll them up to theRAB RAJA 329 head ; skewer them straight; close the ends, to keep the forcemeat in ; skewer the ears back, and tie them in separate cloths, and boil half an hour. Have ready a white sauce, made of veal gravy, a little anchovy, the juice of half a iemon; take a Jf lb. of butter, rolled in Eour, so as to make the sauce pretty thick ; stir while the flour is dissolving ; beat the yolk of an egg; add some thick cream, nutmeg, and salt; mix it with the gravy, and simmer it a little over the fire ; but do not boil. Pour over the rabbits. RABBITS, to Pot.—Cnt np two or throe young, but full grown ones, and take the. leg bones off at the thigh ; pack them as closely as possible in a small pan, after seasoning them with pepper, mace, cayenne, salt, and all- spice, all in very fine powder. Make the top as smooth as you can. Keep out the heads and the carcases, but take off the meat about the neck. Put a good deal of butter, and bake the whole gently. Keep it two days in the pan, then shift it into small pots, adding butter. The livers also should be added, as they eat weiL RABBITS, to Roast. — Baste them with butter, and dredge them with flour; half an hour will do them at a brisk fire ; and if small, twenty minutes. Take the liver with a bunch of parsley, boil them, and chop them very fine to- gether; melt some butter, and put half the liver and parsley into the butter; pour it into the dish, and garnish the dish with the other half; roast them of a fine light brown, RABBIT, to Taste like a Hare. Choose one that ia young, but full grown ; hang It in the skin three or four days ; then skin it, and lay it, without washing, in a seasoning of black pepper and allspice in a very fine powder, a glass of port wine, and the same quan- tity of vinegar. Baste it occasionally for ■,o hours, then stuff it and roast it as a hare, arid with the same sauce. Do not wash off the liquor that it « soaked in. RABBITS, Various Modes ofi Dressing.—Roasted with stuffing and gravy, like hare; or without stuf- fing ; with sauce of the liver and parsley chopped in melted butter, pepper, and salt; or larded. Boiled, and smothered with onion sauce; the butter to be melted with milk instead of water. Fried in joints, with dried or fried parsley. The same liver-sauce, this way also. Fricasseed, as before directed for chickens. In a pie, as chicken, with forcemeat, &c. In this way they are excellent when young. RABBIT, Victoria. Toast bread nicely on both sides, and butter. Have ready the following; nice ham, Cheshire cheese, and half boiled eggs, very finely chopped and intimately mixed together, with a little pepper and mustard; put into a Dutch oven, and place before the fire; spread it on the toast. It is delicious. Onions, if you like, may be substituted for the eggs. RABBIT PIE.—Cut up two young rabbits; season with pepper, salt, a little mace, and nutmeg, all finely powdered, and a little cayenne; put the rabbits, slices of ham, or of bacon, forcemeat balls, and hard eggs, by turns in layers ; if it is to be baked in a dish, put a little water, but none, if in a raised crust. By the time it returns from the oven, have ready a gravy of knuckle of veal, or a bit of the scrag, with some shank bones of mutton, seasoned with herbs, onions, mace, and white pepper; if it is to be eaten hot, mushrooms, &c. may be added; but not, if to be eaten cold. If it be made in a dish, put as much gravy as will fill it; but in raised crust, the gravy must be nicely strained, and then put in as cold as jelly. To make jelly clear, give it a boil with the whites of two eggs, after taking away the meat, and run it through a sieve. RABBIT SKINS, to Cure.— Lay the skin on a smooth board, the fur side undermost, and fasten it down with tinned tacks. Wash, it over first with a solution of salt; then dissolve aJ4 02s. of alum in a pint of warmRAB RAI 330 water, and with a sponge dipped in this solution, moisten the surface all over: repeat this every now and then for three days: when the skin is quite dry, take out the tacks, and rolling it loosely the long way, the hair inside, draw it quick- ly backwards and forwards through a large smooth ring, until it is quite soft, then roll it in the contrary way of the skin, and repeat the operation. Skins prepared thus are useful for many domestic purposes. RABBIT SOUP.—Cut two rabbits into joints, and flour and fry them lightly; add three or four onions fined brown. Pour on these three or four quarts of boiling water, a little salt, and parsley. Add to it also good broth, and butter, or lard, three carrots, three shalots, and a pinch of cayenne; thicken with rice flour, or boiled pearl barley, a little before the soup is done ; boil five hours. Put toasted bread in the tureen, and pour the soup upon it. RADISH PODS, to Pickle.— Make a pickle with cold spring water and bay salt, strong enough to bear an egg; put the pods in, and lay a board upon them to keep them under water; let them stand ten days; drain them in a sieve, and dry them; take as much of the best vinegar as will cover them; boil it, and put the pods in a jar with ginger, mace, cloves, and cayenne pep- per ; pour on the vinegar boiling hot; cover them with a cloth, doubled four times ; let them stand two days; when cold, repeat three or four times. Add as much mustard seed and horse radish as you please. RAISED CRUST, for Meat Pies, Fowls, &c.—Boil water with a little fine lard, and an equal quantity of fresh dripping, or of butter, but not much of either. While hot, mix this with as much flour as you will want, making the paste as stiff as you can to be smooth, which you will make by good kneading and beating it with a rolling pin. When quite smooth, put a lump into a cloth, or under a pan, to soak till nearly cold. Those who have not a good hand at raising crust may do thus: Roll the paste of a proper thickness, and cut out the top and bottom of the pie, then a long piece for the sides. Cement the bottom to the sides with egg, bringing the former rather further out, and pinching both together; put egg b&. tween the edges of the paste, to make it adhere at the sides. Fill your pie and put on the cover, and pinch it and the side crust together. The same mode of uniting the paste is to be observed if the sides are pressed into a tin form, in which the paste must be baked, after it shall be filled and covered ; but in the latter case, the tin should be buttered, and carefully taken off when done enough ; and as the form usually makes the sides of a lighter colour than is pro- per, the paste should be put into the oven again for a quarter of an hour. With a feather put egg over at first. RAISED FRENCH PIE.— Raise a crust 3 inches high; lay in slices of veal, a few mushrooms, a few slices of ham, a cut-up chicken, more mush- rooms, and a sliced sweet-bread; sea- son with pepper, salt, and sweet herbs; cover it in, and put it in the oven ; it will take about a hours in a moderate oven. When done, pour off the fat, and put 6 yolks of eggs boiled hard. RAISED PIES, Seasoning for.—Salt, 3 lbs.; white pepper, 3 ozs. ; cayenne pepper, £ os.; cloves, a ozs.; allspice, 2 ozs.; and 1 oz. each of basil, thyme, marjoram, bay leaf, and nutmeg. Pound the spices and herbs by themselves, sift, and mix with the salt, and put away in a stoppered bottle. RAISED PUFF CAKES.— Make the richest puff paste; roll it pretty thick into 4 or 5 pieces, all one size; lay one piece on a deep baking dish, upon it pour some good prepared cream, or sweetmeat; then another piece of paste, some cream, or marmalade, and so on, as many as you please ; the paste to be the last, in which make a little hole, which must be filled with sweetmeat or jelly, when it is well baked; this must be done in a brisk oven, to raise the paste properly : it is done also by baking ihe paste first upon a baking plate, and adding the cream, jelly, or sweetmeat, when it is cold, and finish- ing after the same manner. RAISIN CAKE.—Take i* lb. of light dough, a tea-cupful of sugar, 1 of butter, 3 eggs, a tea-spoonful of car- bonate of soda, 1 lb. of raisins, nutmeg or cinnamon to the taste ; bake 1 hour. Let it rise- before being baked.HAS RA1 33* RAISIN CAKE.—One cup of Sour, 2 cups of cream, i cup of butter, 4 eggs, x lb. of raisins, cloves, cinna- mon, candied lemon, cut extremely fine, and i tea-spoonful of soda. RAISIN LOAF.—Take 6 lbs. of flour, add lbs. of raisins, J oz. of caraway and a few coriander seeds ground, a little cinnamon or clove pep- per, and half a pint of barm mixed with cold water; cut the paste with a knife very well, to make the loaf appear to be fuller of raisins. For a richer loaf, add more fruit, and rub butter in the flour and sugar; bake it a fine brown. RAISIN WINE. —To every gallon of spring-water put 8 lbs. of fresh Smymas in a large tub; stir it every day for a month ; then press the raisins in a horse-hair bag as dry as possible ; put the liquor into a cask ; and when it has done hissing, pour in a bottle of the best brandy ; stop it close for xa months ; then rack it off, but without the dregs ; filter them through a bag of flannel of 3 or 4 folds ; add the clear to the quantity, and pour 1 or 2 quarts of brandy, ac- cording to the size of the vessel. Stop it up, and at the end of 3 years you may either bottle it or drink it from the cask. Raisin wine would be extremely good if made rich of the fruit, and kept long, which improves the flavour greatly. RAISIN WINE, to Make equal to Sherry.—Wash and pick the raisins ; chop them, and to every lb. add a quart of water which has been boiled and cooled. Keep the whole in a vessel for a month, frequently stirring. Then take the raisins from the cast, and closely stop the liquor in the vessel. In a month rack it into another vessel, leaving the sediment. Repeat till it be- comes fine; than add to every 10 gallons, 6 lbs. of fine sugar, and 12 Seville oranges, the rinds being pared very thin, and infused in 2 quarts of brandy, to be added to the liquor at its last racldng. Let the whole stand 3 months in a cask and it will be fit for bottling. It should remain in bottles 12 months. To give it the flavour of Madeira, put in, when it is in the cask, 2 green citrons, to re- main till the wine is bottled. RANCID BUTTER, to Cure. —Melt it in a water-bath with powdered charcoal, and strain through flannel. RASPBERRY. —Tills plant Is well known. The leaves are astringent, and very useful in lax and flux. A de- coction or infusion has often restrained diarrhoea wjien all other remedies have failed. Besides, the infusion made strong removes canker, or morbific mat- ter from the mouth, throat, stomach, bowels, and other parts of the body. Made into a poultice, i. e. in infusion, with slippery elm, or bread, it is effectual in removing proud flesh, inflammation, &c. The infusion is a good gargle for sore mouth, &c. RASPBERRY BRANDY. — Pick fine dry fruit, put into a stone jar, and the jar into a kettle of water, or on a hot hearth, till the juice will run; strain, and to every pint add half a lb. of sugar; give one boil and skim it; when cold, put equal quantities of juice and brandy; shake well and bottle. Some people prefer it stronger of the brandy. RASPBERRY CAKES.— Pick out the bad raspberries that are among the fruit, weigh and boil what quantity you choose, and when mashed and the liquor is wasted, put to it sugar the weight of the fruit; mix it well off the fire till it is well dissolved, then put it on plates to dry in the sun ; as soon as the top part dries, cut with the cover of a canister into small cakes, turn them on fresh plates ; when dry put them in boxes with layers of paper. RASPBERRY CREAM. Mash the fruit gently, and let it drain; then sprinkle a little sugar over, and that will produce more juice; put it through a hair sieve to take out the seeds ; then put the juice to some cream, and sweeten if; after which, if you choose to lower it with some milk, it will not curdle; which it would if put to the milk before the cream ; but it is best made of rasp- berry-jelly, instead of jam, when the fresh fruit cannot be obtained. RASPBERRY CREAM. Boil 1 oz. of isinglass shavings in 3 pints of cream and new milk mixed, for 15 minutes, or until the former be melted ; strain it through a hair sieve, into a basin ; when cool, put about half a pint of raspberry-juice or syrup to the milk and cream ; stir it till well incorporated, sweeten, and add a glass of brandy;332 HAS RAS whisk It about dll 3 parts cold. Then put it into a mould till quite cold. In summer use the fresh juice ; in winter syrup of raspberries. RASPBERRY DROPS. —Pounded loaf sugar, £ lb. upon a plate, and a quantity of raspberries, which must be passed through a sieve; then add the juice to the sugar, till it makes a thickish paste; dress it on fine cap paper, and place it on the stove to dry. RASPBERRY DUMP- LINGS.—Make a puff paste, and roll it out; spread raspberry jam, and make it into dumplings ; tioil them an hour; pour melted butter into a dish, and strew grated sugar. RASPBERRY FRITTERS. —Grate 2 Naples biscuits; pour over them a glass of boiling cream ; when it is almost cold, beat the yolks of 4 eggs to a strong froth; beat the biscuits a little, then beat both together very much. Add 2 oss. of sugar, and as much rasp- berry juice as will make it a pretty pink colour, and give it a proper sharpness : drop them into a pan of boiling lard, the size of a walnut. When dished up, stick bits of citron in some, and blanch- ed almonds, cut lengthways in others. Lay round them green and yellow sweet- meats. RASPBERRY JAM.—Weigh equal quantities of fruit and sugar, put the former into a preserving pan, boil and break it, stir constantly, and let it boil very quickly; when most of the juice is wasted add the sugar, and sim- mer, skim half an hour. This way the jam is greatly superior in colour and flavour to that which is made by putting the sugar in first—It is best to put the juice of the raspberry through a hair sieve, to keep out the seeds. Some put 1 lb. of sugar to a pint of pulp. RASPBERRY JELLY.—Take 6 quarts of ripe raspberries and 1 of ripe currants, press out the juice and strain it, to a pint of juice add 1 lb. of loaf sugar, and finish as other jellies. RASPBERRY PASTE.—Put any quantity of raspberries into a hair sieve ; press their juice into a preserving paD, put it on the fire, and stir con- stantly till of a thick consistence. To each lb. of pulp, add 1 lb. of loaf sugar, -’arified, and boiled to the Now. Let It boll a minute or two. Poor into glasses, or upon plates. It is a delici- ous confectionery. ' RASPBERRIES, to Preserve. —Take raspberries that are not too ripe, and put them to their weight in sugar, with a little water. Boil softly, and do not break them ; when they are clear, take them up, and boil the syrup till it be thick enough; then put them in again, and when they are cold, put them in glasses or jars. RASPBERRY SANDWICH. —Take % lb. of flour, % lb. of sifted sugar, J lb. of butter, 3 eggs, and 3 ozs. of ground rice ; mix very well first with- out the flour; then add it gradually. Spread it in oblong pieces on buttered paper, about % inch thick ; on the first piece put a layer of raspberry preserve 01 jam ; lay another piece of paste on the top of the preserves; then preserves again, and lastly a layer of paste. Bake in a brisk oven, and when wanted, cut like sandwiches. RASPBERRY TART. — Roll out some thin paste, and lay it in a dish or patty-pan. Put in the raspberries, strew over them fine sugar, cover the dish with a fine crust, and bake it. When done, cut it open, and put in warm half a pint of cream, the yolks of 2 or 3 eggs well beaten, and a little sugar. Replace it in the oven for 5 or 6 minutes and serve it up. RASPBERRY TOURTE.— The difference between tarts and tourtet is, that the first are always covered with paste, whilst the latter are sent to table open, or with a slight network, or trellis of paste over the fruit. Puff paste hav- ing been laid in a proper tin, pour in enough jam to fill the dish, place strings of paste across, let it bake for half an hour, but never serve it hot. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.- Put 1 lb. of fine fruit into a bowl, and pour upon it a pint of the best vinegar; next day strain the liquor on 1 lb. of fresh raspberries; and the following day do the same, but do not squeeze the fruit, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it; the last time pass it through a canvass, previously wet with vinegar, to prevent waste; put it into a stone jar, with 1 lb. of lump sugar to cv«y pint of juice; stir it when melted;333 RAS RAT then put the jar into a saucepan of water. Simmer, and skim it; when cold, bottle it. RASPBERRY VINEGAR.— Press out the juice of 3 pints of rasp- berries through a hair sieve to retain the seeds; put to the ittice a pint of the best vinegar; add 1 lb. of powdered loaf sugar. Let all be in a pipkin, and place it in a pan of water on the fire. Simmer 20 minutes, and filter through fine muslin. Cool, bottle and cork well. It is a very cooling beverage for thirst, colds, fevers, and inflammatory com- plaints. A teaspoonful or two in a tumbler of cold water. It may be made effervescing by using carbonate of soda. RASPBERRY WATER ICE. — Ripe raspberries, 2 quarts; ripe cherries and currants, 1 lb. each; sugar, 4 lbs. ; water, 1 quart, and the juice of two lemons. Crush the fruit, and pass it through a sieve; mix all together, and freeze. RASPBERRY WINE. —To every quart of well picked raspberries put a quart of water; bruise and let them stand two days; strain off the liquor, and to every gallon put 3 lbs. of lump sugar; when dissolved put the liquor into a barrel, and when fine, which will be in about two months, bottle it, and to each bottle put a table spoonful of brandy. RASPBERRY or CURRANT WINE.—To every three pints of fruit carefully cleared from mouldy or bad, put one quart of water; bruise the former. In twenty-four hours strain the liquor, and put to every quart 1 lb. of good sugar. If for white currants, then you must use lump sugar. It is best to put the fruit and sugar in a large pan, and when in three or four days the scum rises, take that off before the liquor be put into the barrel.— Those who make from their own gardens may not have a sufficiency to fill the barrel at once; the wine will not hurt if made in the pan, in the above proportions, and added as the fruit ripens, and can be gathered in dry weather. Keep an account of what is put in each time. RATAFIA.—Blanch 2 ozs. of peach and apricot kernels, bruise and put them irto a bottle, and fill newly up with brandy. Dissolve % lb. oi white sugar-candy in a cup of cold water, and add to it the brandy after it has stood a month on the kernels, and- they are strained off; then filter through paper, and bottle for use. The leaves of peach and nectarines, when the trees are cut in the spring, being distilled, are an excellent substitute for ratafia in puddings. RATAFIA.—Nutmegs 4 ozs.; bitter almonds, 5 lbs.; fine sugar, 4 lbs. ; ambergris, 5 grains. Infuse the whole 3 days in 4 or 5 gallons of proof spirit; then filter for use. The nutmegs and bitter almonds must be bruised, and the ambergris rubbed with the sugar in a mortar, before the spirit is added. RATAFIA CAKES. — Sweet almonds, K lb.; the same of bitter: blanch and beat them fine in orange, rose, or clear water, to keep them from oiling: sift 1 lb. of fine sugar, and mix it with the almonds; have ready the whites of 4 eggs : mix them lightly with the almonds and sugar; put it into a preserving pan ; set it over a moderate fire, and stir it quick one way, till pretty hot; when a little cool, make it into small rolls, and cut it in thin cakes; dip your hands in flour, and shake them on it; give each a slight tap with the finger; put them on sugar papers, and sift fine sugar over them just as you put them into the oven, which should be slow. RATAFIA CREAM. — Boil three or four laurel, peach, or nectarine leaves, in a full pint of cream ; strain it; and when cold, add the yolks of three eggs beaten and strained, sugar, and a large spoonful of brandy stirred quick into it. Scald till thick, stirring it all the time. RATAFIA DROPS. —Blanch and beat in a mortar 4 ozs. of bitter, and 2 ozs. of sweet almonds, with a little of 1 lb. of sugar sifted, and add the remainder of the sugar and the whites of two eggs, making a paste; of which put little balls, the size of a nut- meg, on wafer-paper, and bake gently upon tin plates. RATAFIA of CHERRIES. —Upon 3 lbs. of ripe cherries, put a lb, of rasplxsrrta; bruise them together,334 RAZ RAT and put through a sieve the next day, to mix with as much brandy and i lb. of sugar for each pint of liquor; you may also put the stones and kernels, pounded, into a vessel to infuse in a warm place about six weeks ; strain as usual. Ratafia of currants, &c., may be made in the same manner. RATAFIA PUDDING. Cream, i pint; the same of milk flavoured with bitter almonds, (blanch- ed, and bruised,) cinnamon, lemon peel, and two bay leaves ; sugar to your taste; add a little salt. When boiled, strain it upon the crumb of two French rolls. Butter the mould, and put into it % lb. of ratafia cakes. Beat up 3 eggs, and mix them with the bread and milk. Pour these ingredients into a mould, and boil an hour. Serve with wine sauce. N.B. The ratafia cake may be divided. The above also will make two puddings. RATS, to Destroy.—Mix pow- dered nux vomica, with oatmeal, crumbs of cheese, and a quantity of lard. For a few nights omit the nux vomica till they become familiar with the other food. Or, add, instead of nux vomica, powdered phosphorus. Mix with a piece of wood, that the rats may not scent your hands. Place it beyond the reach of other animals. The addition of a little oil of amber attracts the rats. Or, cut cork into very fine bits, and fry them with lard and cheese crumbs. When cold, add oil of amber to entice them.——Or, take oil of amber, ox-gall, and pow- dered phosphorus, in equal parts, add oatmeal sufficient to form a paste, which 'make into little balls, and lay them near the places visited by rats. Surround the balls with vessels full of water. The smell of the oil attracts the rats ; they greedily devour the balls, which make them thirsty, and they kill themselves with drinking the water. The asphodel is useful in driving away rats and mice, which have such an antipathy to this plant, that if their holes be stopped up with it they will rather die than pass. It is a good thing to put gas tar in the runs and holes of rats. When once daubed with it they will come no more. Feed them well for a week with fresh oatmeal, every day; but never touch it with your hand ; put it into a dish pressed down that you may see what quantity they have eaten. Then mix another lot, v/ith 4 drops of oil of aniseed, or oil of rhodium ; feed with this two or three days more. Then give the following mixture :—To 4 ozs. of dry oatmeal, scented with 6 drops of oil of aniseed, add % oz. of carbonated barytes, or nux vomica in powder, sifted through muslin. Mix this inti- mately with the scented oatmeal; then lay it upon the slate, or, leave it 24 hours for the rats to eat. This kills them. Keep the mixture from dogs, cats, or other animals, and from children. If a stable or house is infested with rats, pull up the floors, and concrete it; so that they cannot make a lodgement, this is effectual. Powdered cayenne blown into rat or mouse holes, will prove a warm recep- tion for them. RAZOR, to Sharpen. — The simplest method of sharpening a razor is to put it for half an hour in water to which has been added one twentieth of its weight of muriatic or sulphuric acid, and after a few hours set it on a hone. The acid acts as a whetstone, by corroding the whole surface uniform- ly, so that nothing further than a smooth polish is necessary. RAZOR, to Smooth.—Pass the razor on the inside of your hand, first wanning it before the fire. Or use the strap of a solder's knapsack, or calf leather, on which some fine black lead has been rubbed and consolidated to a slight surface. RAZOR STROP and Paste. —It may be made of rough calf leather, two or three inches broad, or of the strap of a soldier’s knapsack. Upon it spread powdered oxalic acid and candle snuffs, with a little tallow.- Or spread upon it crocus martis and fine tallow. Or, emery ground as fine as pos- sible, mixed with spermaceti or 6ne tallow. Or, glue, half ounce; treacle, quarter ounce ; steep the glue in water to soften it, and then boil both together for a few minutes, add crocus martis, or fine emery powder, and then spread on the leather. When you use it apply first a drop or two of sweet oil.335 RFC RES RECEIPTS.—Always keep your receipts above six years. It is generally supposed that it is sufficient to keep receipts for six years ; this is not so: the period for bringing an action on a simple contract debt being limited by an Act of Parliament, which is called the Statute of Limitations, to six years from the time the debt is due; and it may happen that the action may be commenced some time previous to the expiration of the six years, without the party who is sued having any know- ledge of it, so that it is unsafe to des- troy receipts immediately at the expira- tion of the six years ; you should keep them for six years and a half. RED CABBAGE, to Pickle. —Slice it into a colander, and sprinkle each layer with salt; let it drain two days, then put it into a jar, with boiling vine- gar enough to cover it, and put in a few slices of beet-root. Observe to choose the purple red-cabbage. Those who like the flavour of the spice will boil some pepper-corns, mustard-seed, or other spice, whole with the vinegar. Cauliflower in branches, and thrown in after being salted, will colour a beauti- ful red. RED FIRE.—Forty parts of dry nitrate of strontian, thirteen parts of finely-powdered sulphur, five parts of chlorate of potash, and four parts of sulphuret of antimony. The chlorate of potash and sulphuret of antimony should be powdered separately in a mortar, then mixed on paper, after which add to the other ingredients previously powdered and mixed. RED HERRINGS, to Dress. —Choose those that are large and' moist; cut them open and pour some boiling small beer over them and soak half an hour ; dram them dry, and make them just hot through before the fire; frub some cold butter over them. Egg sauce, or buttered eggs, or mashed potatoes should be served up with them. REGISTRATION OF BIRTHS.—An infant should be registered within six weeks after birth. No fee is payable; but after 43 days a fee of 7s. 6d. i3 chargeable. REGISTRATION OF DEATHS.—Notice should be given of deaths to the district registrar. Let this be done early, that the undertaker may have a certificate to give the minis- ter who performs the funeral service. RED CEMENT.—Black resin, five p>arts ; yellow wax, one part. Melt, and stir in gradually red ochre, or Venetian red in fine dry powder. This cement must be melted before using, and also the glass, china, &c. must be made hot before it is applied. RED INK.—The finest Brazil wood, 6 ozs. ; cochineal powdered, 1 oz.; alum, % oz.; best vinegar, 1 pint; water, a cupful. Boil slowly in a brass pan for one hour. Put the cochineal in when three-fourths boiled. Add 1 oz. of gum arabic. RENNET, for Curdling Cheese, to Prepare. — Take the stomach of a calf as soon as it is killed, and scour inside and out with salt, after it is cleared of the curd always found in it. Let it drain a few hours ; then sew it up with two good handfuls of salt in it, or stretch it on a stick well salted, or keep it in the salt wet, and soak a bit, which will do over and over again by adding fresh water. RESIN OINTMENT.—Yel- low wax, 3 ozs. ; white resin, 6 ozs. ; hog’s lard, 8 ozs. Melt together slow- ly, stirring it till it is intimately mixed. It is very good for bums and scalds, for dressing blisters, when a discharge must be kept up for a few days ; it has a stimulating influence. RESPIRATION. It is not every person that knows how to breathe. Our artificial modes of living, sedentary habits, cramped attitudes, the constraint of clothing, weaken and compress the respiratory organs, and hinder their development. The breath is shortened, and life is shortened in consequence. Animals breathe with the whole body. Well-developed persons in full health breathe in the same way. The vivifying air goes to the bottom of the lungs, and the entire system seems to swell and undulate, and sink again at the flow and ebb of the atrial tide; but the seam- stress over her sewing, the editor over his desk, the sloth who sits on a curve of his spinal column, the young lady whose waist is compassed by the smallest possible girdle, use only the top of the336 mm RES Jungs in respiration, wearing out that portion of them, while the lower portion is left to decay for want of proper exer- cise. Consumption is most commonly the result of imperfect respiration ; and many other evils point back to the same cause. The throat becomes diseased, and the voice weak and hollow, so that utterance is painful to both speaker and hearer. Let every person who reads this, watch himself, and see whether respiration is deep and full, or shallow and short. If the latter, this is what he must do: correct his atdtudes, always sitting erect; loosen his clothing, so that there will be plenty of play for the lower muscles used in the process of breathing; and regularly each day exer- cise those muscles by filling his lungs and expanding his chest, especially in the depths of it, by muscular discipline of the shoulders and arms, by reading and talking with the lungs well filled, and by making the respiration at all times as long and deep as possible. RESTORATIVE. WINE BITTERS.—Quassia, J oz.; golden seal, 2 drachms ; bitter-root, 2 drachms ; cayenne pepper, 2 drachms ; whitewood bark, 2 drachms. Bruise all, and add 1 pint of Hollands gin, and 2 quarts of wine. A less quantity may be made. Dose, a table-spoonful or two twice a day. Remarkably useful in indigestion. Restorative Wine Bitters, Dr. Thompson's.—Balmony bark, 1 part; poplar bark, 5 parts. Boil in water suffi- cient to strain from 1 lb. 2% gallons of water, to which add—sugar, 3% lbs.; nerve powder, 2% ozs. ; while hot, strain and add—best Malaga wine, 3)4 gallons; tincture of meadow-fern, 1 quart; prickly ash seeds, 1 quart.—A less quantity may be made. Dose, from half to a wine-glassful twice a day.— These bitters are priceless. They are sure to correct the bile, and create an appetite, by giving tone to the digestive powers, and may be freely used, both as a restorative, and as a preventive of disease. RHENISH WINE.—To every gallon of the juice of apple, soon as it comes from the press, add 2 lbs. of loaf sugar ; boil as long as any scum arises ; strain through a sieve, and let it cool. Add some good yeast, aud stir It well. Let it stand in the tub for two or three weeks, till the head begins to flatten; skim off the head, draw it clear off, and tun it. In 10 or 12 months rack it off, and fine it with isinglass. Add a pint of brandy to every three gallons. This wine will be very superior. RHEUMATISM.—This dis- ease commonly occurs in autumn and spring, and seldom in winter or summer, unless the vicissitudes of heat and cold be sudden and frequent. In a plethoric habit, or when attended with fever or super-irritation, it is called acute or *'»- flammatory rheumatism; and when with sub-irritation, chronic rheumatism. Acute Rheumatism.—Its symp- toms are fever, with pain, swellings, and redness of the joints, as the knees, hips, ancles, shoulders, elbows, wrists, &c. The fever rarely continues violent more than fourteen days, although sometimes the pain keeps shifting from one joint to another for some weeks. • The pain and sometimes the fever are much increased in the evening, and the former, during night, is often acute. As the pains become fixed the fever generally abates. It is caused by exposure to cold, when the body is unusually warm, or by its partial application, or from a continue ance of cold, as wet clothes, &c. Treatment.—In the first place, clear the stomach and bowels by aperi- ents and emetics. If the skin is hot and dry, sponge the body all over with warm water and carbonate of soda, or common soda. If the skin is not very hot and dry, give the vapour bath of bitter herbs. Dry well, and apply the Stimulating Liniment. Repeat every day. From ten to thirty drops of col- chicum or meadow saffron may be given two or three times a day, in a wine- glass half full of the camphorated mix- ture. The Diaphoretic Powder is very useful in this disease ; also an aperient of senna, manna, and cream of tartar, in solution. Use the Rheumatic Liquid, except in cases of great debility. In such cases, the Camphorated Spirit, combined with Tincture of Aconite and Oil of Hemlock. This is an excellent rubefacient. Apply it two or three times a day. It always reduces the swelling aud mitigates the pair). The AlterativeRHE RHE 337 Syrup is very effectual in the cure of rheumatism. Chronic Rheumatism. This sometimes succeeds the acute. It is not so painful, but it abides longer. The period of acute rheumatism seldom exceeds 40 days ; after which, if the pain continue, it may be pronounced chronic. The joints most surrounded by muscles, and the parts most required for bodily exertion, as the hip and the loins, are commonly the seats of this complaint. When it affects the hip joint, it is called Sciatica, and when situated in the loins, Lumbago. Treatment. — Keep the evacua- tions and secretions regular, as directed under acute rheumatism. Take the Diaphoretic Powder constantly on going to bed. Apply to the body the Rheu- matic Liquid. Take the following :— The sarsaparilla root, sliced and bruised, 6 ozs. ; sassafras, shavings of guiac wood, liquorice root, of each 1 oz. ; mezereon, 3 drachms; distilled water, 10 pints. Macerate for 6 hours ; then boil down to 5 pints ; adding the mezereon and sassafras a few minutes before taking off. Strain for use. A pint nearly should be taken every day. Alkalies are very useful. Take \ oz. of bicarbonate of soda, and put it into a pint of pure water. Dose,—a table- spoonful two or three times a-day. The vapour bath is also very serviceable, after which rub the body well with the Stimulating Liniment. It is a good thing to envelop the joints in carded cotton, covered with oiled silk, or gutta percha sheeting: this acts as a vapour bath, by excluding the air. White mus- tard seed taken inwardly may be tried ; also a decoction of Peruvian bark, sas- safras, and gum guiac. Bitters and mild purgatives render great benefit. Fricdon by the flesh brush, electricity, or galvanism, should be tried. The warm baths of Buxton and Madock are of essential service. The Miscellaneous remedies are invaluable. RHEUMATISM. To those who dwell in damp districts, or damp houses, and are hence subject to rheu- matism, coughs, colds, &c., the free use of Ltmon Juice, (when strained, and where it does not disagree with the stomach) Is a most effectual prevendve as well as a remedy, I have found the regular use of a wine-glassful or two a day so to strengthen a very delicate constitution, liable to cold on the slight- est occasions, that in a short time it defied not only damp, but every inclem- ency, and all exposure. A Correspondent of the Medical Cir- cular vouches for the relief he has ex- perienced uuthe liberal use of lime (fresh lemon) juice, while labouring under the paroxysms of rheumatism. By repeated indulgence in the above simple acid, for the space of three days, avoiding all stimulating liquids, the most confirmed rheumatism will, he says relax, and the tone of the muscular and nervous system will be restored to its usual character. The fact was first established by the circumstance of the Jews being, as a general body, scarcely ever affected with the above disease, and this particular exemption from the mala- dy under consideration, as affecting the disciples of the Hebrew persuasion, was, and has been attributed to the very free indulgence which the above people ex- ercise in their dietary consumption of lemon juice. When lemon juice disagrees, either of the two following formulae may be sub- stituted :—Lemon juice (strained or fil- tered) and treacle, equal parts; pow- dered sugar candy, sufficient; mix inti- mately,—a table-spoonful 3 or 4 times a day. Or, take powdered rhubarb, 2 drs.; acetate of potash, 1 oz.; guaiacum, 1 dr. ; sulphur, 2 ozs. ; 1 nutmeg, grated very fine ; treacle, 1 lb. Mix, and take 2 tea-spoonfuls night and morning. The seat of rheumatism is in the mus- cles—electro-galvanism must be used ; it is generally the best plan to begin with currents of the weakest power, and gradually to increase their strength so long as the application causes no pain. Dumb bells should be used above all, every day ; they should never exceed in weight 1 lb. for ladies, and 4 lbs. for men. Silk is the best non-conductor of cold we have, and it is affirmed that those of the fair sex who wear tight fitting sleeves to their silk dresses are not subject to rheumatism; males should wear thick silk sleeves to all their waist- coats ; they can be easily taken off, and tacked or sewn on to another vest; be- sides the above precautions, flannel m vRHE 338 RHE be worn summer and winter by day, “ but never by night," next the skin: at night a small flannel spencer or jacket should be worn over the night dress. Tailors and milliners have much to answer for in introducing such modem inventions as the wide sleeves, and in like manner "the apology of a bonnet," this last, the cause of tic doloreux, rheu- matism, &c. RHEUMATISM.—To prevent, wear washed wool under the feet. To cure, use the cold bath with rubbing and sweating. -— Or, apply warm steams. Or, rub in warm treacle, and apply to the part brown paper smeared therewith; change it in 12 ' hours. Or, drink half a pint of tar- water morning and evening. Or, steep 6 or 7 cloves of garlic in half a pint of white wine ; drink it laying down. It sweats, and frequently cures at once. Or, mix flour of brimstone with honey, in equal quantities, take 3 tea- spoonfuls at night, 2 in the morning, and 1 afterwards, morning and evening, till cured. This succeeds oftener than any remedy I have found.— Wesley. RHEUMATISM.—Extract of Sarsaparilla, 1 or. Triturate in a pint of boiling water. Dissolve 2 drs. of Iodine of Potass ; and begin with small doses 2 or 3 times a day. Very valu- able. The application of wheat, bran, or oatmeal poultice, diluted with muriatic acid water, or the tincture of lobelia water, has often been known to give relief. RHEUMATISM.—Take a large handful of buckbean, 4 ozs. of white mustard seeds, and 1 of lignum vitae, or wood of life, to 2 quarts of water; boil to 3 pints. Dose—3 tea-cupfuls a day. Use also the following Liniment. Take of sal volatile, 3 ozs. ; oil, 1 oz., camphor, oz., laudanum, 1 oz. Rub the part affected with this liniment 3 times a day. It is said that boiled celery is good for rheumatism. See page 387. RnEw...ATISM, Embroca- tion for, and for Lumbago or Strains.—Half or. spirits of turpen- tine, % os. of strongest camphorated spirit, 1 raw egg, half pint of best vine- gar. Well mix the whole, and keep It closely corked. To be rubbed in 3 or 4 times a day. For rheumatism in the head, or faceache, rub all over the back of the head and neck, as well as the part which is the immediate seat of pain. RHEUMATISM, Embroca- tion for.—Olive oil, 2 ozs.; water of ammonia, 2 drs.; oil of rosemary, 10 drops ; oil of cloves, 5 drops. Mix, and keep tightly corked. RHEUMATIC DECOC- TION.—Virginian snake root, 1 dr.; sarsaparilla in powder, 6 drs. ; burdock seed, 2 drs. ; poke root, 2 drs. ; cayenne pepper, i dr. Powder them, and add 3 quarts of water. Boil down to 2 quarts. A cupful 2 or 3 times a day. It is most valuable in chronic rheumatism. RHEUMATIC DROPS.—Ex- tract of sarsaparilla, 2 drs. ; gum cam- phor, dr. ; laudanum, 1 scruple; spirits of wine, 1 oz. Mix and macerate 24 hours. Take from 20 to 50 drops 3 times a day. RHEUMATIC GOUT, Draught for. — Camphorated mix- ture, 7 drs.; infusion of rhubarb, 5 drs.; tincture of henbane, I dr. ; sub-carbon- ate of potass, 10 grains. Mix for a draught; take 2 or 3 a day, particularly the last thing at night.—It is a most ex- cellent remedy. RHEUMATIC LINIMENT. —Take sassafras oil, 2 ozs. ; tincture of prickly ash, 1 oz. ; tincture of cayenne, 1 oz.; hemlock oil, 1 oz. Mix, and rub well in. A few applications will relieve, if not cure. RHEUMATIC LINIMENT. —Tincture of cayenne, oil of turpentine, olive oil, hemlock oil, gum camphor, sassafras oil, tincture of prickly ash, of each, 1 oz.; peavdered capsicum, or cay- enne, 1 oz. ; spirit of wine, 2 quarts ; vinegar, 1 quart; ammonia, 1 quart; add 2 ozs. of gum camphor. Mix ; put in a vessel, and stir occasionally till mixed and dissolved. This is a magic j, liniment, soon giving ease in rheumatic pains, gout, neuralgia, sprains, &c., &c. It is worth much gold. It seldom or never fails. RHEUMATIC LIQUID. Sarsaparilla, powdered, 2 ozs. ; cay- enne pepper, 1 oz. ; gum myrrh. J oz.; brandy, or Hollands gin, a quarts. LetRHU 339 RHK it stand a few days. A teaspoonful in tea, or water sweetened. This is excel- lent for rheumatism, gout, &c. RHEUMATIC LIQUID, for External Application. See Rheumatism, Embrocation for. Or Rheumatic Liniment. -Or Rheu- matic Pains, in the bones and joints. RHEUMATIC MIXTURE.— Saltpetre, sulphur, powdered mustard, Turkey rhubarb, sarsaparilla powder, of each, \ oz. ■; powdered gum guiacum, yi oz. Mix. Take a teaspoonful every other night for 3 nights; then omit 3 nights, in a wine-glassful of cold water. RHEUMATIC PAINS, in the Bones and Joints.—Take opodel- doc, 1 oz. ; tincture of cantharides, 3 drs. ; spirits of sal ammoniac, 3 drs.; rectified oil of amber, 3 drs. This forms a liniment, wherewith frequently to nib the painful part. Wrap up in fine, soft flannel, and keep warm. Or, take friar’s balsam and tincture of myrrh, of each, 1 oz ; spirits of turpen- tine, 2 ozs., and good old strong ale dregs, 3 ozs.; mix all of them well toge- ther, and bathe the afflicted part with the same. Or, take a raw egg well beaten, half a pint of brandy; i£ oz. of turpentine ; £ oz. of spirits of wine, and 1 oz. of camphor; and a table-spoonful of salt Put them into a wine bottle, and shake well. This liniment is to be well rubbed on the affected parts 3 or 4 times a day. It has often effected a cure in a few days. RHEUMATIC PILL. —Gum guiacum, J dr.; compound powder of ipecacuanha, % dr. ; confection of opium, 10 grains ; mix, and divide into 20 pills. Take 2 on going to bed. RHEUMATIC POWDER.— Ipecacuanha powder, and purified opi- um, of each, 1 part; sulphate of potass, 8 parts; triturate them together to a fine powder. Be very careful to reduce the opium, and intimately mix with the rest. This powder is recommended by Dr. Dover as an effectual remedy for rheumatism. The dose is from 2 to 5 grains, repeated. Avoid much drinking after taking it, or might act as an emetic. RHUBARB.—It Is a mild pur- gative, operating without violence and irritation. It is a suitable aperient for females and children. It is astringent, and increases the tone of the stomach and intestines, and is very useful in diarrhoea, and disorders proceeding from laxity. It is given chiefly in powder, and operates more powerfully as a pur- gative in this form than any other. The dose for an adult is about a scruple, or rather more. RHUBARB, Compound Pills of.—Rhubarb, in powder, 1 oz.; so- cotrine aloes, 6 drs. ; myrrh, % oz.; oil of peppermint, % a dr. ; make into a mass with syrup of orange peel. This is a gentle aperient. Four may be taken night and morning. RHUBARB POWDER, for Diarrhoea.—Powdered rhubarb, and columba, of each, 3 grains. To be taken every 3 hours. Or, take a bolus of 3 grains of powder ; opiate confection, 6 grains. To be taken every 4 hours. RHUBARB, Tincture of. Rhubarb, 2% ozs. ; lesser cardamon seeds, % oz. ; brandy, 2 pints; digest for a week, and strain. Or, infuse the above ingredients in a pint of Lisbon wine, adding to jt 2 ozs. of proof spirits. If an oz. of gentian root and a dr. of Virginia snake root be added, it will make the bitter tincture of rhubarb. All these tinctures are stomachics and cor- roborants, as well as purgatives. In weakness of the stomach, indigestion, laxity of the intestines, fluxes and colicky complaints, they are of great service. The dose is from half a spoonful to 3 or 4 spoonfuls or more. RHUBARB PIE.—Strip off the skin of the tender stalks of the plant; stew till soft, and sweeten ; add a little ginger, and grated lemon peel; put it into a baking dish, and cover with paste. Clip 2 or 3 holes in the top, to allow evaporation. RHUBARB TARTS. —Take rhubarb stalks which grow in the gar- den, peel them, and cut them into small pieces. Then do in every respect as in making a gooseberry tart. RHUBARB WINE, (Bever- age).—Take the stems of full grown rhubarb, and bruise them in a mortar to a pulp. Put the pulp into a tub, and to every 10 lbs. weight of the stems, add a gallons of cold spring water. Infuse forRIC 340 RHU 4 days, stirring oft. Then press the pulp and strain off the liquor. Put the liquor into a tub, and to every gallon of the liquor add 2 lbs. of fine sugar, stir- ring till the sugar is dissolved. Let it stand 3 or 4 days till the fermentation stops. Skim it well; put it into a cask, but do not stop it, as it will ferment again. When the fermentation ceases, add more loaf sugar to sweeten it, and stop it close. In 2 months it will be fit to bottle. Add a little brandy. It im- proves with age. RHUBARB WINE, (Medici- nal.)—Sliced rhubarb, 2 % ozs.; lesser cardamom seeds, bruised and husked, M oz. ; saffron, 2 drachms; sherry wine, i pint; proof spirit, half a pint. Digest for 10 days, and strain. RICE, Buttered.—Wash and pick some rice, drain, and put it with some new milk, just enough to swell it, over the fire; when tender, pour off the milk, and add a bit of butter, a little sugar, and pounded cinnamon. Shake it, do not burn, and serve. RICE, to eat with Curry. — Wash and strain the rice; just cover it with boiling water ; add salt; stir well, and boil quickly. When sufficiently swelled, drain off [the water, and pour the rice on the shallow end of a sieve. Put it before a fire till it separates and dries. Serve without sauce. RICE CAKE.—Ground rice and sifted white sugar, of each, 8 ozs. ; essence of almonds, 8 drops ; five eggs beaten well; the rind of a lemon grated, a little nutmeg, or cinnamon, and 2 ozs. of butter. Mix all well together. Bake as a whole cake, or drop upon a butter- ed tin. Put upon the top battered white paper. RICE CAUDLE.—When the water boils, pour into it ground rice mixed with a little cold water ; when of a proper consistence, add sugar, lemon- peel, and cinnamon, and a glass of brandy to a quart. Boil all smooth. RICE CAUDLE.—Soak some Carolina rice in water an hour, strain it, and put two spoonfuls of the rice into a pint and a quarter of milk; simmer till it will pulp through a sieve, then put the pulp and milk into a saucepan, with a bruised clove and a bit of white sugar. Simmer ten minutes ; if too thick, add a spoonful or two of milk, and serve with a thin toast. RICE CHEESECAKES. See page 119. RICE CUSTARDS. —Boil 3 pints of new milk with a bit of lemon- peel, cinnamon, and 3 bay leaves; sweeten : then mix a large spoonful of rice flour into a cup of cold milk, very smooth ; mix it with the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. Take a basin of the boil- ing milk, and mix with the cold that has the rice in it; add the remainder of the boiling milk ; stir it one way till it boils; pour immediately into a pan; stir till cool, and add a spoonful of brandy, or orange-flower water. RICE FLUMMERY. — Boil with a pint of new milk, a bit of lemon- peel, and cinnamon; mix with a little cold milk, as much rice-flour as will make the whole of a good consistence, sweeten, and add a spoonful of peach- water, or a bitter almond beaten ; boil it, observing it does not bum; pour it into a shape or pint basin, talcing out the spice. When cold, turn the flum- mery into a dish, and serve with cream, milk, or custard round; or put a tea- cupful of cream into half a pint of new milk, a glass of white wine, half a lemon squeezed, and sugar. RICE-GLUE, or CEMENT. —Mix rice-flour with water, the same as in making paste, (See Paste) and gently simmer over the fire till it boils. It is used in making ornaments, and for join- ing paper and cardboard. RICE MILK.—Put 1 lb. of Carolina rice into a pan with 2 ozs. of butter, two quarts of water, a bit of cinnamon or lemon-peel, and salt; boil very gently until the rice is soft; about one horn and a quarter ; then add three pints of milk and an egg well beaten; stir it over the fire ten minutes longer, and sweeten it with a little honey or sugar, and it will produce an excellent mol for five or six persons. RICE MILK, Ground.— Boil one spoonful of ground-rice, rubbed down smooth, with three half-pints of milk, a bit of cinnamon, lemon-peel, and nutmeg. Sweeten when nearly done. RICE PANCAKES.—Cream, 1 quart; ground rice, 3 or 4 spoonfuls;RIC RIC 341 8tlr It on a slow fire till of a proper t>iirkn<v^ ; stir in 54 lb. of butter and a nutmeg grated; then pour it out into an earthen pan; when cold, stir in four spoonfuls of flour, a little salt, some sugar, nine eggs well beaten, and if you like, the squeeze of a lemon. RICE PASTE, for Fruits, &c. —Boil *4 lb. of ground rice in the smallest quantity of water, strain from It all the moisture ; beat 54 oz. of butter and one egg well, and it will form an excellent paste for tarts, &c. RICE PUDDING, Baked.— Swell the rice with a little milk in the oven or over the fire; then add milk, egg, sugar, allspice, and lemon-peel. Bake in a deep dish. RICE PUDDING, to Boil.— Boil % lb. of rice; take it up, and stir in 54 lb.)of butter, or milk and cream; grate nutmeg and sugar according to taste ; tie it up tight, and boil it another hour; when done, pour melted butter over it. Currants may be added, if you like. RICE PUDDING, Plain.— Wash and pick some rice; throw among it some pimento finely pounded, but not much; tie the rice in a cloth and leave plenty of room for it to swell. When done, eat with butter and sugar, or milk. Put lemon peel if you please. It is very good without spice, and eaten with salt and butter. RICE PUDDING.—Put into a very deep p>an half a pound of rice washed and picked; two ounces of butter, four ounces of sugar, a few all- spice pounded, and two quarts of milk. Less butter will do, or some suet. Bake In a slow oven. RICE PUDDING, a Rich One.—Boil $ lb. of rice in water, with a bit of salt, till quite tender; drain it dry ; mix it with the yolks and whites of four eggs, a quarter of a pint of cream, with 2 ozs. of fresh butter melted in the latter; 4 ozs. of beef suet or marrow, or veal suet taken from a fillet of veal, finely shred, % lb. of cur- rants, two spoonfuls of brandy, one of peach-water, or ratafia, nutmeg, and a grated lemon peeL When well mixed, put a paste round the edge, and fill the dish. Slices of candied orange, lemon and citron, If approved. Bake In » moderate oven. RICE PUDDING, with Fruit. —Swell the rice with a very little milk over the fire; then mix fruit of any kind with it (currants, gooseberries, scalded, pared, and quartered apples, raisins, or black currants): put one egg into the rice to bind it; boil it well and serve with sugar. RICE, SMALL PUDDINGS. —Wash two large spoonfuls of rice, and simmer it with half a pint of milk till thick, then put the size of an egg of butter, and near half a pint of thick cream, and give it one boil. When cold, mix four yolks and two whites of eggs well beaten, sugar and nutmeg to taste; and add grated lemon and a little cinnamon. Butter little cups, and fill three parts full, putting at the bottom some orange or citron. Bake three quarters of an hour in a slowish oven. Serve the moment before to be eaten, with sauce in the dish, or a boat. RICE WHITE POT.—Boil 1 lb. of rice in 2 quarts of new milk, till it is tender and thick; beat it in a mortar with 54 lb. of sweet almonds blanched; then boil two quarts of cream, with a few crumbs of white bread, and a little mace. Mix all to- gether with 8 eggs, a little rose water, and sweeten to your taste. Cut some candied orange, and citron peel, thin, and lay it in when in the oven—a slow oven. RICE and APPLE, Soufle of. —Blanch Carolina rice; strain, and boil it in milk with lemon-peel, and a bit of cinnamon. Boil till the rice is dry. Cool, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish, having egged the dish, where it is put, to make it stick : then egg the rice all over ; fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apples; beat the whites of 4 eggs to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; sift fine sugar over it, and put it in the oven. RICE and WHEAT BREAD. —Simmer 1 lb. of rice in two quarts of water till it becomes perfectly soft; when it is of a proper warmth mix it extremely well with 4 lbs. of flour, and yeast and salt as for other bread ; of yeast about four large spoonfuls; knead342 ROS RJN it extremely well; then set to rise before the fire. Some of the flour should be reserved to make up the loaves. If the rice should require more water, it must be added, as some rice swells more than others. RING GOLD.—Melt together of Spanish copper six pennyweights and twelve grains ; fine silver, three penny- weights and sixteen grains to one ounce, five pennyweights of gold coin. This is worth about £3 per ounce. RING WORMS. — Dissolve borax in water, and apply till it pro- duces redness, and a painful sensation. Discontinue a day or two, and ulti- mately it will effect a cure. RING WORM. — Wash the head with soft soap every morning, and apply this lotion every night; — one drachm of sub-carbonate of soda, dis- solved in half a pint of vinegar. RING WORMS.—Apply rotten apples, or pounded garlic.——Or, rub them with the juice of house-leek. Or, wash them with Hungary-water camphorated. Or twice a day with oil of sweet almonds and oil of tartar mixed. RING WORMS.—To one part of sulphuric acid, add 16 to 20 parts of water. Use a brush or feather, and apply it to the parts night and morning. A few dressings will generally cure. If the solution is too strong, dilute it with more water ; and if the irritation is ex- cessive, rub on a little oil or other softening applicant; but always avoid soap. Dr. Chapelle adopts the following plan:—The hairs are to be cut short, the creamy fluid let out of the pustules, and the crusts removed by linseed poultices. The denuded surface is then to be covered with a thin layer of oil of naphtha, over which a flannel compress is to be placed, the whole being secured by an oil silk cap. The application is to be renewed twice a day ; first well washing the parts with soap and water; the surface of the scalp is to be care- fully searched, in order to detect any small favous pustules that may have appeared. These must be pricked with a pin, the matter removed, and the sur- face covered with the oil. This evolu- tion of pustules is successive, so that the hair roust be kept short in the vicinity, that their advent may be watched. This application secures the rapid abortion of the pustules; but when the scalp is too tender to bear it, it should be mixed with other less irri- tating oils of which empyrheumatic oil of juniper is one of the best. ROLLS, Excellent.—Warm 1 oz. of butter in half a pint, of milk, put it to a spoonful and a half of yeast of small beer, and a little salt. Put 2 lbs. of flour into a pan, and mix in the above. Let it rise an hour; knead it well; make into seven rolls, and bake in a quick oven. If made in cakes three inches thick, sliced and buttered, they resemble Sally Lunns as made at Bath. The foregoing receipt, with the addi- tion of a little saffron boiled in half a tea-cupful of milk, makes them remark- ably good. ROMAN CEMENT.—Roman cement, M. Berthier says, consists of common chalk and clay—one part clay, and two and a half parts of chalk, sets almost instantly. ROMAN CEMENT.—Mix a bushel of slaked lime with 3% lbs. of green copperas, half a bushel of fine gravel sand, and 15 gallons of water. Dissolve the copperas in hot water, and stir frequently. It must be mixed the same day it is used. ROOMS, to Fumigate for Sick Persons.—Put a table-spoonful of salt in a glass cup, and add, at four different times, a dessert-spoonful of vitriolic acid. The vapour will come in contact with the malignant miasmata, and destroy them. ROOMS, to take the Smell of Paint from.—Place vessels of water combined with a little vitriolic acid in a newly painted room ; it will absorb the effluvia in three days. ROSES.—Put some powdered charcoal around the roots of your roses. It will improve their colour. ROSES, Cream of.—Oil of sweet almonds, 1 lb.; spermaceti and white wax, of each 1 oz. ; rose water, 1 pint, Malta rose or neroli essence. Put the oil, spermaceti, and wax into a well- glazed pipkin, over a dear fire, and when melted, pour in the rose water gradually, beating till the compoundROS RUM 343 becomes like pomatum. Add the essences, and pot the mixture; cover well with bladder, ROSES, Infusion of.—Take of red roses dried, % an oz. ; boiling water, a quart; oil of vitriol, £ a drachm ; loaf sugar, i oz. Infuse the roses in the water for 4 hours, In an unglared earthen vessel; then pour in the acid, strain the liquor, and add to it the sugar. In an excessive flow of the menses, vomiting of blood, and other haemor- rhages, a tea-cupful of this gentle astringent infusion may be taken every three or four hours. It likewise makes an exceedingly good gargle. ROSE CAKE.— Boil 2 lbs. of sugar in a tea-cupful of water, over a slow fire, until you perceive it begins to candy on the sides of the pan, or has reached the degree of blown ; take off, and add 12 drops of the oil or otto of roses. Colour with prepared cochineal. Mix all together, and pour into small tin hoops, any shape you like. Or, pour it upon buttered paper in a tin, and dry it in the oven. While rather soft, cut Into shapes. ROSE LOTION for the Eyes. —Vitriolated zinc, 10 grains; distilled vinegar, 2 drachms; rose water, 14 drachms; make into a wash for the eyes, and apply frequently with a rag. When the eyelids are tumefied, this per- forms a cure. Even rose water alone strengthens the eyes, and its smell is fragrant and reviving, ROSE LEAVES, to Preserve. —Gather them when dry; press them into a jar well sprinkled with brandy for future use. Some pack them with com- mon salt only. ROSE LOZENGES. Boil gently 2 lbs. of sugar in a cupful of water until it begins to candy, or till it is blown; take off, and add 2 ozs. of gum arabic dissolved; then add 15 drops of the oil or otto of roses; roll or,‘, and make into lozenges. Colour as you please. A little powdered starch, or olive oil, scented, will prevent them from sticking. Dry well. ROSE WATER.—Damask rose leaves, 6 lbs. ; water sufficient to pre- vent burning; distil off a gallon. These leaves retain their odour if pre- served as above directed, ROSEMARY.—See Robinson's Herbal. The Spirit of Rosemary is a good external application for strains end bruises. It is said to have cured a queen of Hungary of a paralytic affection. For headache, 4 drops of the oil are given in a dessert-spoonful of the spirit in a glass of water. It is good for hysterics. ROSEMARY, to Cultivate.—It is propagated by slips or cuttings in the spring, in a bed of fight earth. When they are rooted, transplant them. The best season is in August, if they are planted later, they seldom five through winter, therefore if not transplanted at this time, they should be left till the following March, which is a very good time for removing them ; if the season be showery, they take root immediately. ROSEMARY POMATUM.— Melt equal parts of beef marrow, sper- maceti, and olive oil. When nearly cool, add 15 drops of oil of rosemary. If not stiff enough, add a little white wax, or beef suet. ROUGE.—Make a decoction of best Brazil wood, powdered, and best vinegar. Boil half an hour, strain, and replace on the fire. Dissolve lb. of alum, in a pint of best vinegar. Mix the two liquids and stir well with a wooden spatula. The scum which arises, on being carefully taken off, and gradually dried, will make a beautiful and harmless rouge, or carmine. ROYAL FRITTERS.—Milk, 1 quart; put it into a saucepan, and as the milk boils up, pour in a pint of shejrry. Boil up and take off for six minutes. Skim off all the curd, and put it into a basin. Beat it well up with six eggs; season with nutiqeg, and beat it up with a whisk; add flour to make it as thick as batter; add fine sugar, and fry quick. RUE, GARDEN.—It is very serviceable for approaching blindness, caused by disease of the optic nerve. It is a great disinfectant. In sprains, injury of the joints, rheumatic paralysis ot the joints, in bed sores even if broken and ulcerated, it is of immense service. It is best to buy the tincture of the homoeopathic chemists. See Robinson's Herbal. RUM SHRUB.— Rum, « pint; orangfc and lemon juice, of each a wine-SAG 344 RUS glassful; orange and lemon peel, oz.; sugar, i oz.; dissolve in i % pint of water, A little tartaric acid may be added to give it acidity. RUSKS.—Beat seven eggs well, and mix with % a pint of new milk, in which have been melted 4 ozs. of butter ; add to it a % lb. of yeast, and 3 ozs. of sugar, and put them by degrees into as much flour as will make a very light paste, like a batter; let it rise before the fire half an hour; then add some more flour, to make it a little stiffer. Work it well, and divide it into small loaves or cakes, about 5 or 6 inches wide, and flatten them. When baked and cold, slice them the thickness of rusks, and put them in the oven to brown a little. Note.—The. cakes, when first baked, eat deliciously buttered for tea; or, with caraways to eat cold. RUST, to Remove from Iron. —Pound glass to a fine powder': having nailed some strong woollen cloth upon a board, lay upon it a strong coat of gum-water, and sift thereon some of the powdered glass : let it dry ; repeat this operation three times, and, when the last covering of powdered glass is dry, you may easily rub ofif the rust from iron with the cloth thus prepared. RUST,- to Prevent.—Lard, free from salt, 1 lb. ; camphor, 1 oz. ; black lead powder, and dragon’s blood, finely powdered, of each, 2 drachms ; melt the same on a slow fire, until it is dis- solved, and let it cool for use. If rusty iron be rubbed with a mixture of boiled oil and red lead, on a warm day, or in a warm room, it will restrain the rusting process. S. SACHETS, Perfumed.—Make ornamented bags, or packets, and insert cotton wool, and the following scents, as you please, viz:—orris root, 2 ozs. ; calamus, 1 oz. ; cloves, a drachms ; dry bergamot, 1 oz.; benzoin, 4 drachms; reduce to impalpable powder, and mix intimately. Or, dried rose leaves, 8 ozs. ; cloves, 4 drachms ; nutmegs, 4 drachms. Or, orris root, 6 ozs. ; dry orange flower, and rose leaves, 16 ozs.; storax, a ozs.; dry bergamot, 1 oz. Powder well, and sieve. Sprinkle over the whole a few drops of oil of bergamot, and otto of roses. Keep close. SACK CREAM.—Boil a pint of raw cream, the yolk of an egg well beaten, two or three spoonfuls of white wine, sugar, and lemon peel; stir it over a gentle fire till it be as thick as rich cream, and afterwards till cold ; then serve it in glasses, with long pieces of dry toast. SACK MEAD.—To every gallon of water put 4 lbs. of honey, and boil it three quarters of an hour, taking care to skim it. To every gallon add 1 oz. of hops ; then boil it half an hour and let it stand till next day; put it into Sour cask, and to thirteen gallons of the quor, add a quart of brandy. Let it be lightly stopped till the fermentation is over, and then stop it very close. If you make a large cask, keep it a year in cask, SAGE CHEESE.—Bruise the tops of young red sage in a mortar, with some leaves of spinach, and squeeze the juice ; mix it with the rennet in the milk, more or less according as you like for colour and taste. When the curd is come, break it gently, and put it in with the skimmer, till it is pressed two inches above the vat. Press it eight or ten hours. Salt it, and turn every day. SAGE and ONION SAUCE. —Chop fine a ozs. of onion, and 1 oz. of green sage leaves; put them into a pan with a small cupful of water; sim- mer gently 10 minutes; then put in a teaspoonful of pepper, and some salt, and 1 oz. of fine bread crumbs ; mix well together; then pour to it a % pint of broth, or melted butter; stir and sim- mer a few minutes longer. SAGO.—To prevent the earthly taste, soak it in cold water an hour; pour that off, and wash it well; then add more, and simmer gently till the •berries are clear, with lemon peel and spice, if approved. Add wine and sugar, and boil all up together. SAGO MILK.—Clean it well, and boil it slowly and wholly with new milk. It swells so much, that a small quantity will be sufficient for a quart, and when done it will be diminished to about a pint. It requires no sugar or flavouring.SAGO PUDDING.—Bofl a pint and 0. half of new milk, with four spoon- fuls of sago nicely washed and picked, lemon-peel, cinnamon, and nutmeg; sweeten to taste; then mix four eggs, put a paste round the dish, and bake slowly. SAGO PUDDING.—Boil 4 ozs. of sago in water a few minutes ; strain, and add milk, and boil till tender. Boil lemon peel and cinnamon in a little milk, and strain it to the sago. Put the whole into a basin ; break 8 eggs ; mix It well together, and sweeten with moist sugar; add a glass of brandy, and some nutmeg ; put puff paste round the rim of the dish, and butter the bottom. Bake three quarters of an hour. SALINE JULEP. Dissolve two drachms of salt of tartar in three ounces of fresh lemon juice, strained; when the effervescence is over, add of mint-water and common water, each '.wo ounces; of simple syrup, one ounce. This removes sickness at the stomach, relieves vomiting, promotes perspiration, and may be of some service in fevers especially of the inflammatory kind. SALINE LAXATIVE POW- DER.—Take of soluble tartar and cream of tartar, each i drachm ; purified nitre, J4 drachm ; make into a powder. In fevers, and other inflammatory dis- orders, where it is necessary to keep the body gently open ; one of these cooling laxative powders may be taken in a little gruel and repeated occasionally. SALINE MIXTURE. —Take of crystallized acid of lemon, one drachm, or fresh lemon juice, an ounce and a half; salt of wormwood, one drachm ; white sugar three drachms ; pure water, twelve ounces; essence of peppermint, thirty drops. Mix. A tea- cupful to be taken often in iinflamma- iory fevers and sore throat. SALISBURY CAKES. To three pounds of flour, add one pound of moist sugar, to be mixed into paste with half a pint of water, and to be baked in an oven. SALLY LUNN’S Tea Cakes. —These cakes are made as follows :— Put into a pan i pint of warm milk and a quarter of a pint of thick small beer yeast, with flour sufficient to make a batter ; cover It, and let It stand about a hours ; then add a ozs. of lump sugar dissolved in a K pint of warm milk (or 4 eggs) and a lb. of butter rubbed in- to the flour ; then make a dough as for French rolls; let it stand half an hour. Then make up the cakes, and put them on tins, and when they have stood to rise, bake them in a quick oven. Care should be taken never to put the yeast to the water or milk too hot or too cold, in summer it should be lukewarm, and in winter a little warmer, and in very cold weather warmer still. SALMAGUNDY is a beautiful small dish, if in nice shape, and if the colour of the ingredients are varied. For this purpose chop separately the white part of cold chicken or veal, yolks of eggs boiled hard, the whites of eggs ; parsley, half a dozen anchovies, beet- root, red pickled cabbage, ham, and grated tongue, or any thing well flavour- ed, and of a good colour. Some people like a small proportion of onion, but it may be better omitted. A saucer, large tea-cup, or any other base, must be put into a small dish; then make rows round it wide at bottom, and growing smaller towards the top ; choosing such of the ingredients for each row as will most vary the colours. At the top a little sprig of curled parsley may be stuck in ; or without any thing on the dish, the salmagundy may be laid in rows, or put inio the half-whites of eggs, which may be made to stand up- right by cutting off a bit at the round end. In the latter case, each half-egg has but one ingredient. Butter and pars- ley may be put as garnish between. SALMON, to Choose.—If new, the flesh is of a fine red (the gills parti- cularly), the scales bright, and the whole fish stiff. When just killed, there is a whiteness between the flakes which gives great firmness; by keeping, this melts I down, and the fish is more rich. The Thames salmon bears the highest price, that caught in the Severn is next in oodness, and is even preferred by some, mall heads, and thick in the neck, axe best. SALMON, to Boil.—Clean it carefully, boil it gently with salt and a little horse radish ; take it out of the water as soon as done, Let the water be warm If Use fish be split. If under-SAJL 34& SAL done It Is very unwholesome. Serve with shrimp, lobster, or anchovy sauce, and fennel and butter. Time from 15 to 20 minutes, according to size. SALMON, to Broil.—Cut slices an inch thick, and season with pepper and salt; lay each slice in half a sheet of white paper well buttered, twist the ends of the paper, and broil the slices over a slow fire 6 or 8 minutes. Serve in the paper with anchovy-sauce. SALMON, Collared.-Split such a part of the fish as may be sufficient to make a handsome roll, wash and wipe it, and having mixed salt, white pepper, pounded mace, and Jamaica pepper, in quantity to season it very high, rub it inside and out well. Then roll it tight and bandage it, put as much water and one third vinegar as will cover it, with bay-leaves, salt, and both sorts of pep- per. Cover close, and simmer till done enough. Drain and boil quick the liquor and put on when cold. Serve with fen- nel. It is an elegant dish, and ex- tremely good. SALMON, Dried.—Pull some Into flakes ; have ready some eggs boil- ed hard, and chopped large; put both Into half a pint of thin cream, and 2 or a ozs. of butter rubbed with a teaspoon- fill of flour ; skim and stir it till boiling / hot; make a wall of mashed potatoes round the inner edge of a dish, and pour the above into it. SALMON, to Dry.—Cut the fish dowu, take out the inside and roe. Rub the whole with common salt after scaling it; let it hang 24 hours to drain. Pound 3 or 4 ozs. of saltpetre, accord- ing to the size of the fish ; 2 ozs. of bay- salt, and 2 ozs. of coarse sugar; rub these, when mixed well, into the sal- mon, and lay it on a large dish or tray 2 days, then rub it with common salt, and in 24 hours more it will be fit to dry ; wipe it well after draining. Hang it either in a wood chimney, or in a dry place ; keeping it open with two small sticks. Dried salmon is eaten broiled in paper, and only just warmed through; egg- sauce and mashed potatoes with it; or it may be boiled, especially the bit next the head. SALMON, to Marinate.—Cut the salmon in slicf* ; take off the skin, and take out the middle bone ; cut each slice asunder ; put into a saucepan and season with salt, pepper, 6 cloves, a sliced onion, some whole chives, a little sweet basil, parsley, and a bay leaf; then squeeze in the juice of 3 lemons, or use vinegar. Let the salmon lie in the marinade for 2 hours ; take it out; dry with a cloth ; dredge with flour, and fry brown in clarified butter; then lay a clean napkin in a dish ; lay the slices upon it; garnish with fried parsley. SALMON, to Pickle.—Boil as before directed, take the fish out, and boil the liquor with bay-leaves, pepper corns, and salt; add vinegar, when cold, and pour it over the fish. SALMON, to Pickle. — Alter scaling and cleaning, split the salmon, and divide into such pieces as you choose; lay it in the kettle to fill the bottom, and as much water as will cover it; to 3 quarts put a pint of vinegar, a handful of salt, 12 bay-leaves, 6 blades of mace, and oz. of black pepper. When the salmon is boiled enough, drain it and put it on a clean doth, then put more salmon into the ketde, and pour the liquor upon it, and so on till all is done. After this, if the pickle be not smartly flavoured with the vinegar and salt, add more, and boil it quick % of an hour. When all is cold, pack the fish in something deep, and let there be enough of pickle to plentifully cover. Preserve it from the air. The liquor must be drained from the fish, and oc- casionally boiled and skimmed. SALMON, to Pot. — Take a large piece, scale and wipe, but do not wash it; salt very well; let it lie till the salt is melted and drained from it, then season with beaten mace, doves, and whole pepper ; lay in a few bay-leaves, put it close into a pan, cover it with but- ter, and bake it; when well done, drain it from the gravy, put it into the pots to keep, and when cold, cover it with clari- fied butter. In this manner you may do any firm fish. SALMON PIE. — Clean and scrape well a piece of fresh salmon, sea- son it with salt, mace, and nutmeg; put a piece of butter at the bottom of the dish, and lay in the salmon; mdt but- ter in proportion to the size of the pie; boil a lobster; pick out all the flesh.SAK SAL 347 and chop !t small; bruise the body, and mix it well with the butter; pour it over the salmon ; make a good crust; put on the lid, and bake it well. SALT, to Prepare for the Table.—Dry it in a Dutch oven be- fore the fire. Then place it upon clean, smooth, stiff paper, and roll it with a rolling-pin. SALT, to save Manure.—Dis- solve common salt in water; sprinkle the same over the manure heap, and the volatile parts of the ammonia will be- come fixed salts, from their having united with the muriatic acid of the com- mon salt, and the soda thus liberated from the salt will quickly absorb car- bonic acid, forming carbonate of soda ; thus you will retain with your manure the ammonia that would otherwise fly away, and you have also a new and im- portant agent introduced, viz., the car- bonate of soda, which Ls a powerful sol- vent of all vegetable fibre. SALT COD, to Dress.—Soak the cod all night in 2 parts water, and 1 part vinegar. Boil, and break into flakes on the dish ; pour over it boiled parsnips, beaten in a mortar, and then boil up with cream, and a large piece of butter rolled in a bit of flour. It may be served with egg-sauce instead of par- snip, or boiled and served without flak- ing with the usual sauce. All Salt Fisk may be done in a simi- lar way. Pour egg-sauce over it, or parsnips, boiled and beaten fine with butter and cream. SALTS OF LEMONS.—Take equal parts of cream of tartar and citric acid, powdered very fine, and mix toge- ther. This forms the salts of lemons as sold at the druggist's shops in small oval boxes at is. each, printed directions for using which may be had of any druggist. SALVE, Family. — Take the root of yellow dock and dandelion, equal parts ; add a good proportion of celan- dine and plaintain. Extract the juices by steeping or pressing. Strain care- fully and simmer the liquid with sweet cream, or fresh butter and mutton tal- low, or you may take sweet oil and mut- ton tallow. Simmer together until no appearance of the liquid remains. Be- fore it ls quite cold, put It into boxes as you may desire. This Is one of the most soothing and healing preparations for burns, scalds, cuts, and sores ci every description that can be produced, SALVE, for all Wounds.— Take 1 lb. of hog's lard, 3 ozs. of white lead, 3 ozs. of red lead, 3 ozs. of bees' wax, 2 ozs. of black rosin, and 4 ozs. of common turpentine; all these ingredi- ents must be put together in a pan, and boil % of an hour ; the turpentine to be put in just before it is done enough, and give it a gentle boil afterwards. This is an excellent cure for bums, sores, or ul- cers, as it first draws, then heals after- ■, ward ; it is excellent for all wounds. SAMPHIRE.—Put green sam- phire in a pan, throw salt over it, and cover with spring water. After laying 24 hours, put into a jar with a handful of salt, and cover it with the best vine- gar. Put over a gentle fire in a sauce- pan till it is just crisp and green; do not let it be soft, for it would then be spoiled. Put into pickling jars, and cover close. SANDARAC VARNISH, for cut-paper works, dressing boxes, &c.—Gum sandarac, 6 ozs.; gum elemi, 4 ozs.; spirits of wine, 2 lbs. The soft resins must be pounded with the dry bodies; the camphor is to be added in pieces. SANDWICH.—Butter and grated cheese, equal portions, with a little mustard ; beat them in a mortar into one mass ; spread this mixture up- on slices of bread ; then put on slices of ham, or any kind of meat; cover with another piece of bread. Salt. Beef and water cress make a nice sandwich. SARAGOSSA WINE, or English Sack.—To every quart of water, put a sprig of me, and to every gallon a handful of fennel root; boil % an hour; strain off, and to every gallon of liquor, put 3 lbs. of honey ; boh it 2 hours, and skim well; pour it into the cask for a year, then bottle it. SARSAPARILLA.—This plant is a native of America. It has a mild, bitterish, and glutinous taste, not at all disagreeable. It Ls healing, pectoral, sudorific, stimulant, diaphoretic, cor- dial. An infusion or decootion is good for all diseases of the blood, for scro- fula, swellings, chronic rheumatism.SAR 34* SALT local pains, and cutaneous affections. As a pectoral, it may be used in syrups, cordials, decoctions, &c., and has been found useful in coughs, catarrhs, lan- guor, debility, &c. For decoction, 3 ozs. of the root should be used for making a quart of the decoction ; bruise the root, and pour upon it 3 pints of boiling water ; let it stand a night, then boil down to a quart and strain. A little liquorice root, or cinnamon, or sassafras, may be added to the decoction before it is taken from the fire ; or, a little cinnamon water may be added after straining. SARSAPARILLA, Decoction of.—Take fresh sarsaparilla root, diced and bruised, 2 ozs.; shavings of guaiacum wood, 1 oz. Boil over a slow fire in 3 quarts of water, to one, adding, towards the end, % an oz. of sassafras wood, and 3 drs. of liquorice. Strain the decoction. Take from half a pint to a quart per day. This decoction strengthens the sto- mach, and restores fresh vigour to habits emaciated by the venereal disease. It may also be taken in the rheumatism, and cutaneous disorders proceeding from foulness of the blood. It may be taken from a $ to 2 quarts in a day. SATIN AND SILKS, to Clean.—French chalk must first be strewed over them, and then well brush- ed off with a hard brush. Should the satin not be sufficiently cleansed by the first dusting, it may be done a second time; it will clean and beautify the satin. The more it is brushed the better. SAUCE, a la Cruster, for Fish. —Thicken a # lb. of butter with flour, and brown it; then put to it a lb. of the best anchovies cut small, 6 blades of pounded mace, 10 cloves, 40 berries of black pepper and allspice, a few small onions, a faggot of sweet herbs, (name- ly—savoury, thyme, basil, and knotted maijoram) and a little parsley and sliced horse-radish ; on these pour half a pint of the best sherry, and n pint and a half of strong gravy. Simmer all gently for 20 minutes, then strain it through a sieve, and bottle it for use : the way of using it is, to boil some of it in the but- ter while melting. SAUCE, a la Maitre’d Hotel. —Put a piece of butter into a saucepan with some hashed parsley, some tarra- gon leaves, 1 or 2 leaves of balm, with salt, lqmou, or a glass of verjuice, see p 409; mix the whole with a wooden spoon, until they are well incorporated. SAUCE, a la Matelote.—Put into a saucepan a ladleful of reduced cull is,* or broth; put in small onions, which have been fried in butter, with some dressed mushrooms, and artichoke bottoms. When ready to serve, put in butter the size of a walnut, shake it well, in order to mix it, without breaking the ingredients. v SAUCE, a la Nonpareille.— Cut some ham into dices, with the same weight of mushrooms or truffles ; put them into a stewpan, with a bit of butter, upon a slow fire, and simmer 15 minutes. If the sauce is to be white, put three skimming spoonfuls of white cullis.* If brown, add half a glass of port wine, and seasoning; put in the whites of hard eggs, and mushrooms, in the same quantity as the ham and truffles, and cut in the same way; also, lobsters’ tails, and spawn, if there be any ; finish with a bit of butter. SAUCE, Excelsior.—Put Into a saucepan a wineglassful of vinegar, some garlic, shalots, a laurel leaf, thyme, and pepper. Put on the fire till reduced to half the quantity. Add to it some gravy or soup. Pass it through a sieve; rub some butter into a little flour, and add it to the sauce, with finely chopped herbs. Excellent for cutlets, or warmed slices of meat, &c. SAUCE, Grande.—Chop two shalots very fine, and a small bunch of parsley. Beat up the yolks of two or three eggs, and add Florence oil till the mixture is pretty thick. Add two tea- spoonfuls of the best vinegar, a small one of salt, and one of soluble cayenne, and then mix all with the shalots and parsley. SAUCE, Italienne.—Cut twelve dices of ham, and put it into a stewpan, with a handful of mushrooms well minced, and a sliced lemon, from which the peel and seeds must be taken; add * Cullis,—A very fine and strong broth of meat strained and made clear for persons in a state of weakness; also, a savonry Jelly. A collander or strainer is sometimes called by this name.349 SAU SAU a spoonful of hashed shalot, washed and dried in a cloth, half a bay-leaf, two cloves, and a gill of oil; put them all upon the fire; when nearly ready, take out the lemon, and put in a spoonful of minced parsley, a spoonful of Espagnolc, a glass of good white wine, without re- ducing it, and a little pepper; reduce, skim, take out the ham, and when it has obtained its point, take it off. SAUCE, Lemon, for Boiled Fowls.—Put the peel of a small lemon, cut very thin, into a pint of sweet rich cream, with a sprig of lemon- thyme, and ten white pepper-corns. Simmer gently, till it tastes well of the lemon; then strain it, and thicken it with a quarter of a pound of butter, and a dessert-spoonful of flour rubbed in it. Boil it up; then pour the juice of the lemon strained into it, stirring it well. * Dish the chickens, and then mix a little white gravy, quite hot, with the cream, but don’t boil them together, and salt to your taste. SAUCE, Menhold.—Put into a stewpan a bit of butter broken in pieces; shake over it a little flour, and add a little milk or cream ; season it with parsley, young onions, a small bay-leaf, mushrooms, and shalots; put It on the fire and stir often; pass it through a sieve; put it on the fire with some parsley and a little pepper. SAUCE, Poivrade.—Cut twelve small dices of ham, and put them into a stewpan, with a little bit of butter, five or six branches of parsley, two or three young onions cut in two, a clove of garlic, a bay-leaf, a little sweet basil, thyme, and two cloves; put them to- gether upon a quick fire; when they are well done, put in a little fine pepper, a large spoonful of vinegar, and four spoonfuls of cullis or broth, not re- duced ; shake and boil it, draw it to the edge of the stove, and let it simmer three quarters of an hour; skim, and pass it through a sieve or colander. SAUCE, Ramolade.—Put into a very nice tin saucepan a pint of port wine, a gill of mountain, half a pint of fine walnut ketchup, 12 anchovies, and the liquor that belongs to them, a gill of walnut pickle, the rind and juice of a large lemon, four or five shalots, some cayenne to taste, 3 ozs, of scraped horse-radish, 3 blades of mace, and a teaspoonfuls of made mustard ; boil it all gently till the rawness goes off; then put it into small bottles for use. Cork them very close, and seal the top. SAUCE, Robart, for Rumps or Steaks.—Put a piece of butter, the size of an egg, into a saucepan, set It over the fire, and when browning throw in a handful of sliced onions, cut small; fry them brown, but don't let them burn; add half a spoonful of flour, shake the onions in it, and give it another fry : then put four spoonfuls of gravy, and some pepper and salt, and boil it gently ten minutes ; slum off the fat; add a teaspoonful of made mustard, a spoonful of vinegar, and juice of half a lemon ; boil it all, and pour it round the steaks. They should be of a fine yellow brown, and gar- nished with fried parsley and lemon. SAUCE, for any kind of Fish. —Take a little of the water that drains from the fish ; add an equal quantity of veal gravy ; boil them together, and put it into a saucepan, with an onion, an anchovy, a spoonful of ketchup, and a glass of sherry; thicken with butter rolled in flour, and a spoonful of cream. SAUCE, for Carp or boiled Turkey.—Rub lb. of butter with a teaspoonful of flour, put to it a little water, melt it, and add near a quarter of a pint of thick cream, and half an anchovy chopped fine, not washed ; set it over the fire, and as it boils up, add a large spoonful of real India soy. If that does not give it a fine colour, add a little more. Turn it into the sauce- tureen, and put some salt and half a lemon ; stir well to hinder from curd- ling. SAUCE, for cold Partridges, and Moor-Game, &c.—Pound four anchovies, and two cloves of garlic, in a mortar: add oil and vinegar to the taste. Mince the meat, and put the sauce to it as wanted. SAUCE, for Ducks.—Serve a rich gravy in the dish ; cut the breast into slices, but don’t take them off; cut a lemon, and put peppier and salt on it; then squeeze it on the breast, and pour a spoonful of gravy over before you help. SAUCE, for Fowl of any sort. —Boll some veal gravy, pepper, salt.SAV SAU 350 the juice of a Seville orange and a lemon, and a quarter as much of port wine, as of gravy : pour it into the dish or a boat. SAUCE, for Hot or Cold Roast Beef.—Grate or scrape very fine, some horse-radish, a little made mustard, some pounded white sugar, and four large spoonfuls of vinegar. Serve in a saucer. SAUCE, for Salmon.—BoD a bunch of fennel and parsley; chop them small, and put into it some good melted butter. Gravy sauce should be served with it:—put a little brown gravy into a saucepan, with one an- chovy, a teaspoonful of lemon-pickle, a tablespoonful of walnut pickle, two spoonfuls of the water in which the fish was boded, a stick of horse-radish, a little browning, and salt; boil them four minutes; thicken with flour and a good lump of butter, and strain through a hair sieve. SAUCE for Savoury Pies.— Take some gravy, one anchovy, a sprig of sweet herbs, an onion, and a little mushroom liquor; boil it a little, and thicken it with burnt butter, or a bit of butter rolled in flour ; add a little port wine, and open the pie, and put it in. It will serve for lamb, mutton, veal, or veal pies. SAUCE, for a Turkey.—Open some oysters into a basiii, and wash them in their own liquor; save the liquor, and as soon as settled, pour into a saucepan ; add a little white gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon pickle; thicken with flour and butter ; boil it three or four minutes ; add a spoonful of thick cream, and then the oysters; shake them over the fire till they are hot, but do not let them boiL SAUCE for WUd Fowl.— Simmer a tea-cupful of port wine, the same quantity of good meat-gravy, a little shalot, a little pepper, salt, a grate of nuUneg, and a bit of mace, for ten minutes ; put in a bit of butter and flour, give it all one boil, and pour it through the birds. In general they are not stuffed as tame, but may be done so tf liked. SAUSAGES, to eat cold.— Season fat and lean pork with some salt, saltpetre, pepper, and allspice, all in fine powder, and rub into the meat; the third day cut it small, and mix with it some shred shalot, or garlic, sage very fine; a little bread, if you like. Fill prepared skins or gut with this stuffing ; tie up the ends, and hang to smoke, like hams ; but first wrap it in a fold or two of old muslin. It must be highly dried. Some eat it without boiling; but it is best boiled. Tie the skin in different places ; each link to be about 8 or 9 inches long. SAUSAGES, Francois, Smok- ed.—Mince what quantity of fresh pork will be necessary; mix with it equal to a quarter of lard, salt, and fine spices ; fill the puddings and tie them ; hang them in the smoke for three days ; then cook them in broth or soup for three hours, with salt, a clove of garlic, thyme, bay, basil, parsley, and young onions ; when cold, serve upon a napkin. SAUSAGE ROLLS. — Take nice pork chops, more lean than fat, but free from gristle ; chop it very fine, and season it well with pepper, salt, and spices, sage, or basil; use a little water, or beer, or port wine, in chop- ping the meat, or a little soaked bread. Roll out some paste in square pieces, lay a roll of meat in the centre length- ways; fold them so as to form long puffs, and wash them with egg before they are baked. SAUSAGES, Spadbury’s Ox- ford.—Chop a pound and a half of pork, and the same of veal, cleared of skin and sinews ; and three quarters of a pound of beef suet; mince and mix them ; steep the crumbs of a penny loaf in water, and mix it with the meat, also a little dried sage, pepper, and salt. SAVINE OINTMENT. Take fresh savine leaves, bruised, % lb.; pure lard, 3 lbs.; yellow wax, 34 lb. BoD the leaves in the lard until they are crisp ; press through a filter; add the wax to the filtered lard, and melt them together. This is an excel- lent issue ointment^ being in many re- spects, preferable to that of cantharides. It is mixed with equal parts of blister- ing ointment in order to keep up a dis- charge. See page 379. SAVOURY JELLY.—Spread some slices of lean veal and ham on theSCA 351 SAV bottom of a stewpan, with a carrot or turnip, or two or three onions ; cover it, and let it simmer on a slow fire till it is sufficiently brown ; put it to a quart of good broth, whole pepper, mace, a very little isinglass, and salt to your taste; boil ten minutes: strain, and skim off all the fat; add the whites of three eggs ; run it through a jelly bag several times. SAVOURY JELLY, for Cold Meats.—Boil beef and mutton to a stiff jelly ; season it with a little pepper and salt, a blade or two of mace, and an onion ; then beat the whites of four eggs ; put them to the jelly, and beat it a little; then run it through a jelly bag, and when dear pour it on your meat or fowls. SAVOURY JELLY, to put over Cold Pies.—Make it of a small bare knuckle of leg or shoulder of veal, or a piece of scrag of that, or mutton ; or if the pie be of fowl or rabbit, the carcases, necks and heads, added to any piece of meat, will be suffidenf, observ- ing to give consistency by jow-hecl or shanks of mutton. Put the meat, a slice of lean ham or bacon, a fagot of differ- ent herbs, two blades of mace, an onion or two, a small bit of lemon peel, and a tea-spoonful of Jamaica pepper bruised, and the same of whole pepper, and three pints of water, in a stew-pot that shuts very close. As soon as it boils skim it well, and let it simmer very slowly till quite strong; strain it, and when cold take off the fat with a spoon first, and then to remove every particle of grease, lay a clean piece of cap or blotting paper on it. When cold, if not clear, boil it a few minutes with the whites of two eggs, (but don’t add the sediment,) and pour it through a nice sieve, with a napkin in it, which has been dipped in boiling water, to prevent waste. SAVOURY RICE.—Wash and pick some rice, stew it very gently in a small quantity of veal, or rich mutton broth, with an onion, a blade of mace, pepper and salt. When swelled, but not boiled to a mash, dry it on the shal- low end of a sieve before the fire, and either serve it up dry, or put In the middle of a dish, and pour the gravy round, having heated it. SCALDS AND BURNS. Bathe the part with heated vinegar by means of a rag, and then cover with a liniment made of one part of oil of tur- pentine, and two parts of yellow basili- con. It will smart at first, but gradually soon abate, and the wound feel com- paratively easy ; the dressing then may be changed for sugar of lead ointment, or the common liniment of lime water and oil, equal parts. The blisters, if any, may be opened with a needle; if the skin has been removed, the treat- ment is the same, since equal relief is experienced. A solution of Epsom salts has been recommended for scalds and bums. Dissolve Epsom salts in a little spirits of wine, and add water. Apply cloths saturated in it.—See Bums, p. 81, 8a. SCALD HEAD.—This affects the heads of children chiefly. The scabby eruption at the roots of the hair is very disagreeable. It is a very ob- stinate and infectious disease. First, cut off all the hair, and wash the head night and morning with warm soap suds, and afterwards bathe with tincture of blood- robt. Then apply the brown ointment, as described in ptage 279, once a day. Give the patient sulphur and cream of tartar in treacle, so as slightly to open the bowels. A poultice of dock roots is very useful SCALD HEAD.—Anoint it with Barbadoes tar. Or, apply daily, white wine vinegar. If wood soot is mixed with fresh butter into an ointment, and the head anointed with it every day, it will generally cure it at the beginning ; but when it is be- come very bad, a plaster should be made of gall dried to the consistence of salve, and spread upon linen. This should be applied all over the parts affected, and continued on four or five days; then it should be taken off and the head dressed with soot ointment as before. After the cure, give two or three gentle purges. If a proper regard was paid to clean- liness in the head and apparel of child- ren, the scald head would be seldom seen. Scalloped COLD CHICKEN. —Mince the meat very small, and set it over the fire, with a scrape rrfSCA SCA 352 nutmeg, a little pepper and salt and a little cream, for a few minutes. Put it into the scallop shells, and fill them with crumbs of bread, over which put some bits of butter, and brown them before the fire. Veal and ham eat well done the same way, and lightly covered with crumbs of bread, or they may be put on in little heaps. SCARLATINA, or Scarlet Fever.—It derives its name from the colour of its eruptions. It is a disease of infancy, and seldom attacks adults. It never attacks the same person twice. It begins with chilliness and shiverings, languor and depression of spirits, a dry skin, and pains in the head; and soon the whole skin becomes covered with specks, or minute inflammations, larger and redder than those of the measles. In two or three days, they disappear, succeeded by scalings of the scarf skin, like bran dispersed over the body, which fall off and appear again two or three times successively. This disease is sometimes of a more malignant type, tending towards putrefaction. It is attended with severe sore throat; the uvula, and all the back part of the throat are very red, painful, and swollen, and the swallowing much impeded, or ren- dered nearly impossible. It is often attended with delirium, the spots be- come black; the disease becomes dan- gerous. Scarlatina is infectious. Treatment.—If the disease is of a mild character, little more is required than to observe a cold diet, and to avoid cold air, and cold drinks. If the body be costive, give an Aperient; see page ai. If the fever be high, give the Saline Mixture, page 345. Take a small cupful at a time. Barley water, acidulated with tamarinds, or lemon- juice affords a good beverage. Give also the Sudorific Powder. Emetics will be useful as soon as the disease begins. The Emetic Powder should not be neglected. Bathe the feet in warm water, and give saffron tea. Drink balm tea frequently. Scarlet fever is caused by some mor- bific matter taken into the circulation by the lungs; and the increased action in the system is a healthy effort of nature to expel such morbific matter. Nature therefore must be assisted; or if her efforts are too great, she must be restrained. It is not always necessary to give the Emetic Powder ; but if there be soreness of the throat, and much phlegm, hindering the breathing, the powder will have a good effect, abating the febrile symptoms, curing the dis- ease, or rendering the attack light Mr, Stephens asserts that he gave the fol- lowing mixture in 400 cases, after they had assumed the most alarming appear- ance, the majority of which it cured; viz.—Cayenne, a table-spoonful; com- mon salt, 114 tea-spoonful. Beat into a paste ; pour upon it a pint of boiling water; to stand an hour; then add half a pint of good vinegar. A table- spoonful of the mixture every hour. Do not neglect to give an aperient that will cleanse the stomach and bowels. Cas- tor oil, and salts and senna, or senna and manna, are appropriate purgatives. It is very good to bathe the surface with warm soft water, to which has been added a little ley. Some have recommended ablutions of cold water; but they should not be adopted except where the heat of the skin is great, and where perspiration is absent. It often moderates the subsequent symptoms.— But no dangerous reaction takes place from tepid as from cold water, nor will any danger whatever result from it, as it is a most valuable auxiliary, and the use of it cannot be too highly recom- mended. If the throat be sore, and the swallowing difficult, foment it with the Rheumatic Liquid. Gargle, as in Sore Throat. The Diaphoretic Powder will have an anodyne influence, and should not be neglected. Should the disease assume the malig- nant type, give immediately the vapour bath of bitter decoction, and emetics, and doses of the cayenne and salt mix- ture, as just mentioned; it may be made a little stronger. If putrid symp- toms appear, give yeast mixed with honey and milk. Also gargle with it; and apply yeast poultices to eruptions run into a sore. Let the room in which the patient is confined be well ventilated, and of a proper temperature ; but keep away cold air from him by all means. In the beginning of this disease, the diet should be light and easy of diges- tion. Diluents should be freely taken, as balm tea, barley gruel, Ac., with a squeeze of lemon In thorn. If there USCO 353 SCA debility, let the food be nutritious, as beef tea, jellies, arrow-root, sago, rice milk, and a little wine. During recovery avoid exposure to cold ; keep the skin dean by tepid ablutions, and occasion- ally bathe the feet in warm water at bed- time. Apply friction to the whole body as much as the patient can bear. Give the tonic bitters, also the Composition Powder. Bella donna has been found to render persons unsusceptible of the fever, in places where it is raging. It is to be given in extract,—the twentieth part of a grain morning and evening. SCARLATINA, AND MEA- SLES.—Dr. Witt states that sesqui- carbonate of ammonia is an antidote to scarlatina and measles. "The dose in these complaints varies from 3 to 10 grains, according to the age of the patient, given at longer or shorter in- tervals, according to the mildness or severity of the attack. The suitable dose dissolved in as small a quantity of cold water as will admit of its being swallow- ed with as many grains of loaf sugar, merely to make it palatable, is all that is required. Any admixture with other medicines, as salines, bark, &c., and all acidulous drinks, are to be avoided. The preliminary treatment is also sim- ple; from half a grain of calomel, for children, to five grains for adults, should be placed on the tongue and swallowed. About an hour after, the first dose of the ammonia is to be given, and repeated every three or four hours, as long as the disorder takes the favourable course. If the disorder increases in violence, the medicine must be given every two hours, or every hour, or sometimes even more frequently, till the graver symptoms are subdued. This medicine has been found to possess similar powers over diphtheria,'’ SCIATICA, a Form of Neural- gia.—It derives its name from the pain taking the course of the sciatic nerve down to the hip and thigh. It is often connected with rheumatism and gout, and most of the remedies for those diseases are applicable to sciatica.—The Vapour Bath is very serviceable. Rub also with the Rheumatic Liquid, or the tincture of aconite. Galvanism applied kt also good. Alac, an embrocation com- posed of one part turpentine, two of soap and opium liniment, and one of tincture of cayenne. A hot bran poultice sprinkled with laudanum often gives ease. Take an aperient, if necessary. Avoid all alcholic drinks, and take light nourishing food. Sciatica often occurs in persons of broken constitution; tonic medicines are appropriate to them, as quinine and iron, or the bitters, which see. SCORBUTIC BLOTCHES. —Put a few handfuls of water cresses bruised, to $ a pint of milk. Simmer over a slow fire until they assume a green colour ; bathe the parts affected with this liquid, and rub it in by the fire. Then rub with simple ointment. SCORBUTIC GUMS.—Take bole ammoniac, a drs. ; myrrh, 1 dr. ; roche alum, $ dr. ; claret, better than j pint. Boil over a gentle fire. Strain. Wash the mouth with it several times a day. SCORBUTIC GUMS.—Wash them daily with the decoction of the Peruvian bark, adding a little tincture of rosemary, with a solution of myrrh. SCOTCH COLLOPS. Cut veal into thin bits about 3 inches over, and rather round ; beat with a rolling- pin, and grate a little nutmeg over them, dip into the yolk of an egg; and fry them in a little butter of a fine brown ; pour the buffer off; and have ready warm to pour upon them half a pint of gravy, a little bit of butter rubbed into a little flour, a yolk of egg, 2 large spoonfuls of cream, and a bit of salt. Don’t boil the sauce but stir it till of a fine thickness to serve with the collops. SCOTCH COLLOPS. Cut slices from a fillet of mutton, or veal Sprinkle with flour, and brown them with butter in the frying-pan. Place in the stew-pan, and cover with gravy, weak broth, or water ; simmer gently 10 or 12 minutes, then add lemon juice, ketchup, mace, pepper, and salt. Put the sauce or liquor in the frying-pan, and thicken with flour, which pour over the collops, and garnish with curled slices of ham or bacon. SCOTCH COLLOPS, Brown. —Brown the butter before the collops are put in ; fry them over a quick fire; turn and keep in a 6nc froth; whenSCO 354 SCR. they are a light brown, put them into the pot, and fry them. Pour sill the gravy into a tossing-pan, with half a pint of gravy made of the bones, and bits from which the collops have been cut, 2 tablespoonfuls of lemon pickle, a table-spoonful of ketchup, the same of browning, half a lemon, a little anchovy, cayenne, and salt to your taste; thicken with flour and butter. Boil $ or 6 min- utes ; then put in the collops, and shake them over the fire. When they have simmered a little, take them out, lay in the dish. Strain the gravy and pour it hot upon them. SCOTCH LEEK SOUP. Put the water that has boiled a leg of mutton into a stew-pot, with a quantity of chopped leeks, and pepper, and salt; simmer them an hour; then mix some oatmeal with a little cold water quite smooth, pour it into the soup, set it on a slow part of the fire, and let it simmer gently; but take care it does not bum to the bottom. SCOTCH MUTTON BROTH —Soak a neck of mutton in water for an hour ; cut off the scrag, and put it into a stew-pot with 2 quarts of water. As soon as it boils, skim it well, and then simmer it an hour and a half; then take the best end of the mutton, cut it into pieces (2 bones in each), take some of the fat off, and put as many as you think proper: skim the moment the fresh meat boils up, and every % of an hour afterwards. Have ready 4 or 5 carrots, the same number of turnips, and 3 onions, all cut, but not small, and put them in soon enough to get quite tender: add 4 large spoonfuls of Scotch barley, first wetted with cold water. The meat should stew 3 hours. Salt to taste, and serve all together. 20 min- utes before serving put in some chopped parsley. It is an excellent winter dish. SCOURING BALLS. -Dry fullers earth moistened with the juice of lemons ; add a small quantity of pearl ashes, and a little soft soap ; knead the whole well together into a thick elastic paste; form it into small balls, and dry them in the sun. When used, moisten the spot on the clothes with water ; then rub it with the ball, and let the spot dry 8n the sun. When washed with pure water the spot will disappear. SCRATCHES.—Do not neglect them. Wash them in cold water; close them as much as you can, and cover with diachylon plaster. If there is in- flammation, apply a bread poultice, or one of slippery elm. SCROFULA.—The Latins termed this disease scrofula, from scrofa, a hog, because it has been observed in swine. It is called the Kings Evil, because Edward the confessor, and other succeeding kings, both of England and France, pretended to cure it by the touch. Queen Anne, in 1807, by pro- clamation invited her scrofulous subjects to the royal touch. The disease is well known, and re- quires little description. It is generally seen in the glands of the neck, in the ligaments of the joints, and even in the substance of the bones. The glands of the mesentery are often tumefied, and accumulation takes place in the sub- stance of the lungs, forming tubercles. Treatment.—This must depend on the state of the constitution, and the structure of the parts affected, &c. When the lungs are the seat of the mis- chief, it produces Pulmonary Consump- tion ; when it exists in the ligament of a joint, it is called Whitt Swelling. The general health should be regarded, and means adopted to establish it. To in- vigorate and strengthen the absorbent system, cold bathing, and the sea air has been very beneficial; and the min- eral waters have not been useless, though they are not a specific. All these means however, do not apply to scrofula in the lungs. Administer the vapour bath of bitter decoction; give tonics, and an emetic occasionally; rub the tumours freely with the stimulating liniment night and morning ; and the body with salt and water every morning. If the tumours are much inflamed, apply a poultice of bran and slippery elm bark. Linseed meal and slippery pin are very good. Apply cold, and re- new when dry. The poultice is almost sovereign when the tumours burst, if it is mixed with the pulverized bark of the root of bay-berry, and a little sweet oiL First, cleanse the tumour well with soap and water; then apply the poultice. The extract of clover is very good for this purP08®- If 1* made by boiliny355 SCR scu down the flour la water, and evaporat- ing the liquid. Iodine has been highly recommended by many English and French physicians, as a specific remedy for scrofula ; and, for the very favourable results I have witnessed, in a great variety of cases, I am disposed to consider it to possess antiscrofulous properties. The best pre- paration is the spirituous solution termed the Tincture of Iodine, which may be administered twice a day, in the dose of 3 to 15 drops, in a wine-glassful of a decoction of marsh-mallow roots, or of Peruvian bark, if the patient be in a debilitated stage. " Devonport’s Syrup of Iodide of Quinine and iron is a ternary compound of marked efficacy, in cases of scrofula, and of bloodlessness, (ancemia.) It is borne well by the stomach, and not pos- sessing the nauseous qualities of its con- stituents, is admirably adapted for chil- dren.”—Dr. Graham. The scrofulous patient must have a nourishing diet, plenty of exercise, and abundance of fresh pure air. SCROFULA, OR KING’S EVIL.—Take as much cream of tartar as lies on a shilling. Or, drink for 6 weeks half a pint of strong decoc- tion of devil’s bit. Or, make a leaf of dried burdock into a pint of tea; take half a pint twice a day for 4 months I have known this cure hundreds.— Wesley. SCURVY.—This disease arises from a depraved state of the blood, which induces general debility, and a corruption of all the fluids. It is char- acterized by extreme diminution of vita- lity, such as a very pale and bloated complexion, spongy gums, livid spots on the skin, offensive breath, swelling of the legs, foul ulcers, foetid urine, weak- ness, &c. This disease arises from the want of fresh provisions, and a due quantity of vegetables; probably assisted by the prevalency of cold and moisture, and also such other causes as depress the ner- vous energy, as indolence, confinement, neglect of cleanliness, much labour and fatigue, sadness, despondency, &c. A preternatural saline state of the fluids is assigned by Dr. Cullen as its proximate cause. The reason that salted meat is so productive of scurvy is, h Is drained of its nutritious juices, which run off in brine, its fibres being at the same time hardened, and rendered more difficult of digestion. Treatment.—Abstain from salt as much as possible. A diet of fresh vege- tables, and a beverage strongly impreg- nated with the juice of lemons, oranges, and the sub-acid fruits, are more effica- cious in the cure of this disease than the most powerful anti-scorbutic medicines. The essences of malt and spruce have likewise been found of great service, pro- bably from the quantity of fixed air they contain. When lemon or orange-juice cannot be obtained, nitre dissolved in vinegar, in the proportion of an oz. of the former to a quart of the latter, has been found to afford the best substitute, water acidulated with the nitric acid, is, perhaps, not less efficacious : from 1 to 2 ozs. or more of the former may be given 3 or 4 times in the course of the day ; and of the latter, a quantity con- taining about 15 or 20 drops of the nitric acid may be taken every 5 or 6 hours. The vitriolic acid, the Peruvian bark, and the red sulphate of iron, are like- wise very valuable remedies in the far advanced stage of this disease. The vapour bath of bitter decoction is very appropriate. A decoction of sassafras and sarsaparilla is very useful —to be taken freely ; add the juice of lemon. Steam affected parts with a decoction of bitter herbs. Let the diet be vegetable, consisting chiefly of milk. Emetics are sometimes necessary; tonics always. SCURVY.—Take 2 ozs. each of field daisies and dandelion roots. Boil in 3 quarts of water down to 1 quart. Take a teacupful night and morning. SCURVY.—John Wesley says, " Live on turnips for a month. Or, take tar-water, morning and even- ing, for three months. Or, 3 spoonfuls of nettle-juice every morning. Or, decoction of burdock. Boil 3 ozs. of the dried root in 2 quarts of water to pints. Take % a pint daily. A decoction of the leaves (boiling 1 leaf 4 minutes in a quart of water,) has the same effect. ,1 Or, take a cupful of the juice of goon- •grass In r. morning, fostln#, for nscu 356 SEE month ; it is frequently called hariff, or cleavers. I have known many persons cured by it Or, pound into a pulp of Seville oranges, sliced, rind and aU, and pow- dered sugar, equal quantities. Take a teaspoonful three or four times a day. Or, squeeze the juice of half a Seville orange into a pint of milk over the fire. Sweeten the whey with loaf sugar, and drink it every morning new mill; warm. To make any whey, milk should be skimmed after it is boiled. Or, pour 3 quarts of boiling water on a quart of ground malt; stir them well, and let the mixture stand close covered for four hours; strain it off, and use this as common drink : in hot weather brew this fresh every day. It will hard- ly fail. Or, take morning and evening a spoonful or two of lemon juice and sugar. It is a precious remedy and well tried. Water and garden cresses, mustard, and juice of scurvy grass help in a cold scurvy. When there is a continual salt taste in the mouth, take a pint of lime-water morning and evening." SCURVY in the Gums.—Make a strong infusion of sage, and dissolve in it a little alum. By means of a cloth apply it to the gums. Burnt alum, mixed with honey, and the juice of celandine, is very good for scorbutic gums, and it whitens the teeth. SEA KALE.—Trim and wash It, and tie it in bundles. Boil it well in equal parts of milk and water. It can scarcely be boiled too much. Drain, and serve on toast. SEALING-WAX.—The base of sealing-wax is the best resin, 3 parts; shellac, 2 parts; Venice turpentine, 1 part. Colour with vermillion for the best. Melt the varnish first, and then add the colouring matter.—For black, use the best lamp; black.—Other colours may be made by varying the pigments, using Venetian red, red lead, or bole; or mixing vermillion with Venetian red. SEALING-WAX, Blue. Shellac, 2 parts ; smalts, 1 part; yellow resin, 3 parts. Powder, and mix care- fully with heat. SEA-SICKNESS.—In all or- '■ffriXTx' oeoMioris, If Sn dread of sick- ness, lie down on the back at least a quarter of an hour before the vessel starts. No other position will do. Let the head, body, and back become, as it were, part of the vessel, participating in its motion without any muscular effort. This precaution is often of itself sufficient. It will be of little use to assume this position after the sick- ness has commenced. It must be be- forehand. At Naples I met a gentle- man about to embark, who said he could not describe the agony he endur- ed in the best weather. I told him to go to his berth while the vessel was still at anchor; to lie on his back and shut his eyes, and on no account to turn on his side. He took my advice, and next morning when we cast anchor at Civita Vecchia, he joyfully told me that, for the first time in his life, he had passed through a voyage without being sick. If the sickness comes on, neither eat food, nor drink soup, &c. The stomach, once it begins to go, will neither be equal to solid or fluid food, and, as the shortest means of getting rid of it, sends it back as it came; but drink plenty of plain water, iced if you can get it: when after some time you begin to feel that you can swallow, then take a little champagne and water, or soup with cayenne peppier, and you will soon feel comfortable. SEA-SICKNESS.—Take cam- ( phorated spirit, sal volatile, and Hoff- man’s ether, a few drops, mixed in a small quantity of water, or upon a small lump of sugar. This often re- lieves when other prescriptions fail. The Neutralizing Mixture is a good preventative. So is a tea-spoonful of bicarbonate of soda in half a pint of water. Take an aperient before a voyage. One of the best means of counteract- ing the tendency to sea-sickness, is the assumption of the horizontal position. A little chloroform has lately been sug- gested as a good remedy,—5 to xo drops on a piece of lump sugar. SEED CAKES.—Mix 8 lbs. of flour with y, lb. of sugar, % oz. of all- spice, and a little ginger. Melt % lb. of butter with % a pint of milk ; when just warm, add of a pint of yeast, and work up to a good dough. Let it stand before the fire a few minuti*?SHK SEE 357 before It goes to the oven, add seeds or currants, and bake an hour and a half. SEED CAKES, Common.— To 6 Ihs. of flour add x lb. of butter, K a lb. of sugar, and i oz. of caraway seeds, mixed up with milk, and baked Ip a pretty hot oven. SEED SOWING.—A corres- pondent of the Gardener's Chronicle says, "all flat seeds should be sown sideways, for if laid flat on the soil they are apt to rot; and if this misfortune does not befall them they never germi- nate so readily as those placed side- ways. This accounts for so many failures amongst gourds, melons, cu- cumbers, &c. SEIDLITZ POWDER, in one paper.—One part of bicarbo- nate of soda, and two parts of bitartrate of soda. Each must be dried before they are mixed. Half a teaspoonful dissolved in a tumbler of spring water, and drunk quickly is an excellent thing tor those who are thirsty in the morning. SENEKA, Decoction of. Take of seneka rattle-snake root, i oz. ; water, pint. Boil down to one pint, and strain. It is very useful in dropsy, pleurisy, rheumatism, and dis- orders of the skin. Take an ounce or two three times a day. SENNA.—The leaves are a very useful purgative, operating mildly yet effectually; yet they are apt to gripe; but this may be prevented by adding to the senna some aromatic substance, as ginger, cinnamon, &c. It is best to in- nise it the night before taking it in warm (not boiling) water. The taste may be neutralized by mixing it with black tea, milk, and sugar. Alexandria senna is the best. It is chiefly given in the form of infusion. Take of senna leaves, i Y oz. ; ginger, i drachm ; warm water, i pint. Pour the water on as above directed. Add % lb. of prunes, stewed separately, if you like. SENNA, another Infusion of. Take of tamarinds, i oz. ; senna, and crystals of tartar, each 2 drachms. Infuse 5 hours in a pint of hot water; strain, and add an oz. or two of the aromatic tincture. Persons easily purged, may leave out the tamarinds or the crystals of tartar. This is an agreeable cooling purge. A teacupful may be given every half hour till it operates. SENNA, Compound Tincture of.—Take of senna, 1 oz.; jalap, coriander seeds, and cream of tartar, of each Yj an oz. Infuse them in a pint and a half of French brandy for a week, then strain the tincture and add to it 4 ozs. of fine sugar. This is an agreeable purge, and answers all the purposes of the Elixir Salutis and of Daffy’s Elixir. The dose is from 1 to 2 or 3 ozs. SENNA, Electuary of.—Senna leaves, finely powdered, 4 ozs.; pulp of French primes, 1 lb. ; pulp of tama- rinds, a ozs.; treacle, 1 % pint; essen- tial oil of caraway, 2 drachms. Boil the pulps in the syrup to the thickness of honey; add the powder, and, when the mixture cools, the oil. Mix all well. SHALOTS, to Pickle.—The same as onions. SHALOT SAUCE.—Peel and cut small 5 or 6 shalots; put them into a saucepan, with 2 spoonfuls of white wine or sherry, 2 of water, and 2 of vinegar. Give them a boil up, and pour them into a dish, with a little pepper and salt. SHAVING OIL.—Soft soap, 3 lbs. ; rectified spirits of wine, 2 quarts. SHEEP-DIPPING WASH. —White arsenic, powdered, K lb.; soft soap, 4 % lbs. Beat these for a quarter of an hour, or until the arsenic is dissolved, in five gallons of water. Add this to the water sufficient to dip 50 sheep. SHELFORD PUDDING. — Mix Y lb. of currants or raisins, 1 lb. of suet, 1 lb. of flour, 6 eggs, a little good milk, some lemon-peel, a little salt. Boil it in a melon shape six hours. S H E R B E T.—A species of negus, without wine. It is good to allay thirst. It is made as under : 1. Take 9 Seville oranges, and 3 lemons ; grate off the yellow rinds, and put the raspings into a gallon of water, and 3 lbs. of the finest sugar; boil to a candy. Take off the fire, and put into the juice the pulp of the above, and stir till it is almost cold. Put into bottles for use. 2. Pare 4 large lemons, and boil tho peels in 6 quarts of water, and a littleSHE 358 SHR bruised ginger. Boil15 minutes; then. add 3 lbs. of sugar; and when it is cold, put in the juice of the lemon, and strain. 3. Take la quarts of water, and 6 lbs. of Malaga raisins; slice 6 lemons Into it, with 1 lb. of fine sugar; put them all together into an earthen pan ; stir three times a day for 3 days. Take them out and drain in a flannel bag. Bottle, but do not fill the bottles too full, lest they burst. It will be ready in a fortnight. SHERBET, Persian. — Loaf sugar, finely powdered, 1 lb. ; tartaric acid, 4 ozs.; carbonate of soda, 4 ozs. ; add 3 teaspoonfuls of essence of lemon, or according to your taste. Mix very well, and then bottle and cork well. When used, put a teaspoonfuls in a glass tumbler of spring water, stir briskly, and drink while in a state of effervescence. SHERRY, British.—Put £ a bushel of good pale malt into a tub, and pour upon it 4 gallons of boiling water; stir well, cover the vessel, and infuse 4 hours. Strain through a hair sieve. Add pure water, 7 gallons ; white sugar, 16 lbs. ; boil together gently for % of an hour, constantly skimming it. Pour it into a clean tub, and dissolve in it 4 lbs. of sugar candy, powdered ; ferment with yeast for 3 or 4 days. When poured off clear into a sweet cask, add 5 lbs. of the best raisins, bruised and stoned. Stir once or twice a day. Slightly bung for 2 days, and add 3 or 4 quarts of French brandy. Bung closely. In 3 months bottle for use. SHINGLES.—Called Herpes, Tetters, Salt Rheum, die.— It is a disease of the skin; an inveterate eruption on different parts of the body, usually the hands, and sometimes it ap- pears in distinct clusters round or near the waist, surrounding one half of the trunk of the body, like a belt, generally towards the right side. It is a species of ringworm or tetter. The eruptions or vesicles which ap- pear break and discharge a thin corro- sive fluid which causes much irritation or itching. Treatment.—Keep the body open by the black draught, and seidlitz pow- der ; administer tonics in the decoction of sarsaparilla. Give also a vapour bath of bitter decoction, and afterwards, rub the body with the stimulating liniment. If there is much fever, give 5 grains of the carbonate and nitrate of potash a or 3 times a day. Celandine ointment is very good; when the itching is very troublesome, apply it to the affected parts. Dr. Beach recommends a wash to be made of celandine and whiskey ; infuse a table-spoonful of the former in the lat- ter ; wash often, and then apply the Brovin Ointment. Should the vesicles form or run into a bone, apply a poul- tice of slippery elm, and a little cream. The tincture of bloodroot, and tincture of myrrh, make a good wash. Apply as before the Brown Ointment. The tepid water cloth is a good application to allay itching. The warm baths should often be taken. SHOES and BOOTS, to make Waterproof.—Melt 5 ozs. of sper- maceti in a pipkin or other earthen ves- sel, over a slow fire; add 2 ozs. of cut india-rubber; add a little wood naph- tha. Dissolve, and add 2 ozs. of hog’s lard, 8 ozs. of tallow, and 4 ozs. of am- ber varnish. Mix. Apply to the shoes or boots a few times. SHORTNESS of BREATH. —Take of vitriolated spirits of ether, 1 oz., and of camphor 12 grains. Make a solution, of which take a teaspoonful during the paroxysm. This is usually found to afford instantaneous relief in difficult breathing, depending on inter- nal disease, and other causes, where the patient, from a quick and very laborious breathing, is obliged to be in an erect posture. Or, take a oz. of powder of elecam- pane root, oz. of powder of liquorice, as much flower of brimstone and pow- der of aniseed, and 2 ozs. of sugar-candy powdered. Make all into pills, with a sufficient quantity of tar ; take 4 large pills when going to rest. This is an in- comparable medicine for an asthma. SHRIMPS, to Choose.—When fresh they have a sweet flavour, are firm and stiff, and the colour is bright.— Shrimps are of the prawn kind, and may be judged by the same rules. SHRIMPS, to Butter. —Take them out of the shells ; and warm themSIL SHR 359 with a little good gravy, a bit of butter and flour, a scrape of nutmeg, salt, and pepper; simmer a minute or two and serve with sippets'; or with a cream sauce instead of brown. SHRIMPS, to Pot.— When boiled, take them out of the skins, and season them with salt, white pepper, and a very little mace and cloves. Press them into a pot, set it in the oven ten minutes, and when cold, cover with butter. SHRIMP PIE.—Pick a quart of shrimps ; if they are very salt, season them with only mace and a clove or two. Mince a or 3 anchovies ; mix these with the spice, and then season the shrimps. Put some butter at the bottom of the dish, and over the shrimps, with a glass of sharp sherry wine. The paste must be light and thin. They do not take long baking. SHRIMP SAUCE.—Pick the shrimps, and put them into a stew-pan with a little gravy. When hot, pour in some melted butter and some anchovy sauce ; add a little lemon pickle, and a trifle of cayenne. SHRUB, Brandy.—Take 8 ozs. of citric add, 1 gallon of porter, 4 gal- lons of raisin wine, a quarts of orange flower water, 5 gallons of good brandy, 6 gallons of water; this will produce 16 gallons. Dissolve the dtric add in the water ; then add the brandy; next, mix the raisin wine, porter, and orange flower water, and in a week or 10 days it will be ready for drinking. SHRUB, Rum.—Leave out of the above the brandy and porter, and add 1 gallon more of raisin wine, 6 lbs. of honey, and 5 or 6 gallons of good rum. Add lemons if you like. Less quantities may be made. SHRUB, Lemonade.—Take the Juice of 10 lemons, 4 ozs. of the juice of barberries, 2 ozs. of loaf sugar, and one fant of sherry wine, a pint of brandy, and a quart of water. Mix with water as you like. SHRUB, White Currant. — Strip the fruit, and prepare in a jar as for jelly ; strain the juice, of which put 3 quarts to 1 gallon of rum, and 2 lbs. of tump sugar ; strain through a jelly- bag. SICK ROOMS, Cautions in Visiting.—Never enter a sick room in a state of perspiration, for as soon as the body becomes cold, it may absorb the infection or disease.—Do not visit a sick person with an empty stomach, as it disposes the system more readily to receive infection.—In a sick room, stand where the air passes from the door or window to the bed of the diseased. When poisonous vapour is much diluted with fresh air, it is not noxious.—The windows of a sick room, small and con- fined, should not be closed ; if the wind is cold, nearly close the curtains of the bed.—Remove all dirty cloths, clothes, and discharges, as soon as possible.— Let the visitor have about His person camphor, &c.—After leaving an infec- tious room, a person should continue in the open air some time before he enters his own dwelling. SILK, to Clean.—Steep first in cold water, and wash in a hot lather made of soft soap. Then to renovate the colours, rinse in clean warm water. For blue and purple, use a little soda or pearlash. For crimson, maroon, scarlet, or bright yellow, add y a tea- spoonful of sulphuric add; but nsver use the add for brown, fawn, or orange. For olive green add a little verdigris; and for light green, Persian berry and indigo. For carnation, pink, or rose, add a little lemon juice. Roll in a coarse cloth and wring. SILK, BLACK, to Clean.— Steep a few hours in cold water. Then put a Jsf of a pint of the Black Reviver in $ a gallon of water, and a cupful of ox-gall. Make hot, and sponge the silk. Dry, and smooth with an iron. (See Black Reviver.) Rusty black silk may be cleaned in the same way. Some persons clean black silk by rubbing it with a flannel dipped in gin. SILK, Stained.—We often find that lemon-juice, vinegar, oil of vitriol, and other sharp corrosives, stain dyed garments. Sometimes by adding a little pearlash to a soap lather, and passing the silks through these, the faded colour will be restored. Pearlash and worm water will sometimes do alone, but it Is the most uifiuadousSEL SKI 36o method to use the soap lather and pearlash together. SILK, to Remove Grease from. —Take French chalk, finely scraped, and put it on the grease-spot, holding it near the fire, or over a warm iron rever- sed, or on a water-plate in which is boiling water. This will cause the grease to melt, and the French chalk will absorb it, and it may then be brushed or rubbed off. If any grease remains, proceed as before, until it is all extracted. The French chalk is a fine soluble powder of a dry absorbent quality, acting upon silks as Fullers earth does upon woollens. SILKS, to Renovate.—Sponge faded silks with warm water, soap, and bran. Then rub them with a dry cloth on a dresser or table; next, iron them on the inside with a smoothing iron. Old black silks may be renovated by sponging with spirits. Iron on the right side, but with thin, paper on the silk. SILVER PLATE, to Clean.— Dissolve alum in a strong ley; skim it carefully, and mix it up with soap, and wash the silver with it, using a linen rag. Then, when dry. rub with wash- leather and impalpable whiting. SKATE, to Choose.—If good they are very white and thick. If too fresh they eat tough, but must not be kept above 2 days. SKATE, to Boil.—Clean well, and cut into long narrow pieces ; put into boiling water with a little salt in it. Boil 15 minutes, and take it out; and after adding a little vinegar to the water, boil again till enough. When taken up, drain. Serve while hot, and pour over It cockle, shrimp, or muscle sauce. Lay over it oyster patties. Garnish with horse-radish. SKATE, to Crimp.—Cut into long strips, crossways. Boil them quickly for about 10 minutes. Drain, and serve hot, with butter and anchovy. SKATE, to Fricassee.—Pre- pare it the same as soles and flounders ; put into a saucepan; to every lb. of fish put a pint of water, a little beaten mace, and a grated nutmeg, sweet herbs, and salt; cover dose, and boil 15 min- utes. Take out the herbs, and put in a pint of cream, a piece of butter rolled In flour, and a glass of sherry. Shake the pan all the time till the fricassee be thick and smooth. Garnish with lemon. SKATE SOUP.—Make it of the stock for fish-soup, with an oz. of ver- micelli boiled in it, a little before it is served. Then add % a pint of cream, beaten with the yolks of two eggs. Stir it near but not on the fire. Serve it with a small French roll made hot in a Dutch oven, and then soaked in the soup an hour. SKIN.—Carbolic soap is an excel- lent cleanser of the skin, a powerful dis- infectant. It takes away irritable spots, suppresses bites from flies, &c. SKIN, to Cleanse from Dark Spots or Flesh Worms.—The best way is to squeeze them out; or wash the skin with milk and flower of sulphur mixed. Apply elder-ficwer ointment at night. An infusion of horse-radish in milk is very useful. SKIN, to Clear a Tanned,— Wash with a solution of carbonate of soda and a little lemon juice; then with fuller’s earth water, or the juice of un- ripe grapes. SKIN, to Dye it Olive. — Mix walnut juice with an infusion of anotta; only a small quantity of the latter. Dip paper in to ascertain the tint. SKIN, to Preserve in Persons Confined to Bed.—Apply the white of an egg, well beaten, and mixed with spirits of wine. SKITTLES. The game of skittle is a favourite amusement in many parts of England, and is too well known to require description is these pages; we shall merely give a few instructions for young players, and the laws by which the game is governed. \ Bowling.—Let the player hold the bowl in his right hand, with the bias side from him, with his left foot advanced before the right, which must be at the mark, his body bending to- wards the frame, but in an easy posi- tion : then with an equal motion, throw the bowl along the board with sufficient strength to reach the frame; he should endeavour to hit with the bowl the left- hand side of the first pin, in accomplish- ing which he trill be tolerably certain of361 SKI SKI bringing down four or five every time the first pin is hit in that manner. He must take care not to aim at the first pin in a straight direction, but cause the bowl to form a curve, by which it will lose something of its force, and strike the pies with a greater certainty of success. Tipping. — When the learner is going to tip he should hold the smaller circumference, or opposite side of the bias in the palm of his hand, grasping it very strong with his fingers, as few can be tipped when the bowl is loosely held ; he must place his left foot quite clear of the frame between the first and ninth pin, and his right foot behind him in an easy position, and in such direction that he may with ease hit his pins in the manner following: He must strike his first or second pin In the middle or largest part, and in the same motion and instant of time, deliver his bowl at the fourth pin. Striking them in this manner gener- ally has the following effect: hitting the first pin not quite full, forces it against the middle or fifth pin from thence to the seventh, and will frequently rebound to the eighth without any roll. The second pin if struck well will knock down the third, and the fourth or bowl pin will strike the sixth, the ninth is often brought down by some of the rolling pins. When the learner is to tip for four upon game he should choose the pins No. 8, 7, and 4, placing his left foot by the side of the frame, with his toe near- ly in a line with the bottom of the seventh pin, and right foot behind him, he must strike the three side pins at one motion, and at the same time throwing the bowl at the pin No. 4. To tip for five, let him place fcis left foot a little to the left of the pin number nine, and his other foot behind; he should strike the ninth pin to hit the seventh, the fifth the fourth, and the bowl must knock down the sixth. When six are wanted, which number Is generally thought most difficult to get, place the left foot in a line with the opposite angle of the frame, and the other foot behind at a good distance; strike the eighth pin full in the middle which will hit the seventh and sixth, and with the same motion, hit the middle pin against the third, and the bowl will hit the fourth, by which means the player will lay the sixth fairly down, and if not struck hard, without danger of rolling, especially if they are tipped down hill, to do which he must make his sixth his first pin. The proper proportion of a skittle is fifteen inches round, in the largest part, and twelve inches high. The bowl should be eighteen inches in circumference; and each angle of the frame for the pins 3 feet 4 inches. Laws and Rules. 1 The bowler must stand at the mark with one foot, and from thence deliver his ball fairly out of his hand, which should run upon the board fixed for that purpose before it arrives at the frame; for if the bowler does not cause his bowl to run along the board, or touch in some part, he loses the benefit of bowling. a If the bowler throws the bowl so as to cause it to run double, as it is com- monly called, and any one of the oppo- site party calls out a foul blow; if it has not reached the pins the player must bowl again ; but if it arrived at the frame, before the opposite party called out foul, whatever number is bowled down must be scored. 3 If a bowl runs clearly through the frame, and knocks down any number of pins, and is stopped in its return back again by one of the opposite party, one additional pin must be allowed the per- son who bowled at the time. 4 If a bowl passes through the frame, and on its return strikes a standing pin, as it is called, runs against the falling pin, that shall be deemed fair, because the live pin hits the other pin last. 5 If a live pin rolls against a standing pin, and the bowl comes on its return against the falling pin before it is down, that is deemed an unfair pin, because the bowl struck it last. 6 If the bowl runs through the frame, and knocks at the head board, though it may have bowled down many pins, none are allowed. 7 If the bowl runs through, or on the outside of the frame, and knocks, and then runs round the other side of the frame, without crossing any part of it or touching any of the live pins, the bowler must stand to take his tip with one footSLI SKY 362 apon the spot where the bowl stopped; and In tipping from such place, he must not strike the ground with the bowl before it hits the pins, if he does he loses all he may knock down. 8 If in tipping the bowl is caught or stopped by one of the opposite party, who in so doing stops or impedes a live pin, he loses one, because he prevented the tipper from receiving the benefit which might have arisen from a live' pin. 9 If an opponent takes up the bowl in order to prevent it running amongst the pins, and it slips out of his hand and hits any of the pins, he loses one. 10 If a person tipping, gives a sweep round with his hand and brings down any pin with his hand or sleeve, it is un- fair ; he loses one. 11 Care should be taken in tipping not to jump into the frame immediately after, as in this case the player is not allowed any of the pins he tips. la If the player bowls and tips for a limited number, at the close of the game, and throws down more than are wanted, he must go for nine. 13 In all grounds where these rules are observed, a disinterested person is generally appointed to score the game; and should any dispute occur where the case varies from any here mentioned, his decision is to be taken, and consider- ed final. SKYROCKETS, Composition for.—1 If under 1 inch bore, nitre, 15 parts ; charcoal, 6 parts ; sulphur, 4 parts; meal powder, 3 parts; steel filings, 5 parts. Mix. 2 If over 1 and under 2 inches, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 8 parts; sulphur, 4 parts ; steel filings, 5 parts. Mix. 3 If three quarter inch or under, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4 parts; sul- phur, 3 parts; cast-iron borings, 4 parts. Mix. 4 If over 1 inch and under 2 inches bore, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 4 parts; sulphur, 4 parts; iron borings, 5 parts. Mix. 5 If under three quarter inch bore, nitre, 16 parts; charcoal, 7 parts; sul- phur, 4 parts; gunpowder, 1 part. Mix. 6 If over three quarters and under one and a half inch bore, nitre, 16 I parts; charcoal, 8 parts; sulphur, 4 parts. Mix. 7 If larger, nitre, 16 parts; Charcoal, 9 parts; sulphur, 4 parts. Mix. SLEEP. Dr. Marshall Hall gives the following observations on sleep:— That early rising may be beneficial, it is necessary that we should retire early, and on rising be properly employed. Every person should be allowed to have his sleep out; otherwise the duties of the day cannot be prop>erly performed, and will be slighted even by the most conscientious. To children, young persons, students, parsons of sedentary occupations, and invalids, the fullest sleep that the sys- tem will take, without artificial means, is the very balm of life. Never wake up children, or the sick and infirm, of a morning—it is barbarity; let them wake of themselves. Do not hurry up the young and healthy; and it is not well even for adults, if they have passed an unusually fatiguing day, to jump out of bed the moment they wake up. It is best to remain in bed, without going to sleep again till the sense of weariness gradually passes away. At ten o’clock at night, when p>ossible, all the year round, the old, the middle- aged, and the young should be in bed; and then the early rising will take care of itself, with the invaluable accompani- ment of a fully rested body and a reno- vated mind. SLEEPLESSNESS.—Avoid previous mental excitement by listening to startling accounts, reading romances, putting yourself in passion, &c.—Avoid heavy suppers. To sleep well all night —let your supper be light.—Go to bed early.—It is a good thing when a person is sleepless, to rise and apply friction to the limbs with a flesh brush, or a coarse towel. SLIPPERY ELM BARK.— This tree, ulmus fulva, is a native of America. The powdered bark is now extensively sold and used in that coun- try. It is used as an article of diet for invalids, on account of its soothing and nutritious prop>erties. Milk thickened with it makes excellent food for infants, for dyspeptic and consumptive patients:SLU 363 SMA. It subdues inflammation, and agreeably calms the system. According to the celebrated Dr. Beach, it is “demulcent, pectoral, diuretic, deobstruent, emollient, and refrigerant, useful in all bowel com- plaints, in scurvy, cutaneous eruptions, &c. In the form of a poultice, it is an admirable remedy (far exceeding any other known production in the world) for ulcers, tumours, swellings, wounds, chilblains, bums, scalds, skin diseases, erysipelas, obstinate ulcers, scabs, &c. ; and in sore mouth, or thrash, &c., used as a wash.” It quickly allays inflam- mation, promotes resolution and supu- rution. The tea is much used by the Indian women to procure easy labour. In point of utility, it is of far more value than its weight in gold. It has rapidly come into use as an invaluable medical agent. As an ingredient in injections, it is most valuable, healing, soothing, and preventing any painful sensations. It may be obtained at the vendors of botanic medicines. SLUGS and SNAILS, to pro- tect trees from.—If the trees are planted against a wall, brush over the wall gas tar. Or, mix common tar and pitch, horse hair, an abundance of salt, and apply it to the wall in a band about 3 to 5 inches wide; and draw a circle round each tree of the same mixture. Small Investments in Government Stocks.—See page 317. SMALL POX.—This dreadful disease is very infectious, attended with inflammatory fever, assuming sometimes a typhoid character, attended with nausea and vomiting, and upon the pressure of the stomach, with much pain. The constitution that has been once really under its influence is rarely liable to a second attack. When the pustules are separate from each other, it is termed distinct; and when they ran together, it is denominated con- fluent. The first symptoms are shivering pains in the head, back, and loins, red- ness of the eyes, fever, thirst, nausea, loss of appetite ; and in some cases, a few hours before the eruption, children are affected with convulsions. The eruption appears about the fourth day of the fever, first on the face, and afterwards on the neck, breast, and body. The pustules gradually enlarge, and proceed to maturation which is completed about the eleventh day after their first appearance, when the in- flammation and swelling abate, the eruption beginning to dry and scale off, and about the fifteenth day it en- tirely disappears. The confluent sort is attended with more violent symp- toms than the distinct, but observes the same period of termination. Dr. Beach says, “The effluvia is very offensive; and I have seen worms, or maggots crawling in the flesh ; and yet the pa- tient has recovered." This disease generally terminates favourably under judicious treatment, unless the subject of it is intemperate, in which case it proves very dangerous, or fatal. Treatment.—The great object is to assist nature to expel the morbific or poisonous matter from the system. If the patient has much vomiting, give 10 or 12 grains of bicarbonate of potash in balm tea twice or thrice a day. The bowels must be opened by gentle aperients, (page 21,) attention must be given to the skin, and medicine given to produce a gentle determina- tion to the surface. Take an infusion of saffron and catnep, or balm and hyssop, with xo drops of elixir of vitriol; this will aid nature to drive out the eruption, by producing a moisture of the skin. It should be repeated several times. Bathe the feet twice a day in warm ley water, and wash the body with the same liquid warm; do not neglect this if the fever is high. If there is pain in the head apply a mustard poultice to the soles of the feet in addition to bathing the feet and legs in warm water. Apply to the head cloths dipped in vinegar and water, or whiskey and warm water. Let the room of the patient be well ventilated, and often sprinkle it with vinegar and water; do not cover him up close. Give warm diluents, as balm, spearmint, pennyroyal, catnep, &c.; any of these will do. If the throat be sore, administer the remedies under Sore Throat. Sage tea, a little vinegar, and a little borax, form a good gargle. The Expectorant Tincture is very useful. If the debilitv is great, and the strength gradually sinking, give tooicR,SMA SMA 364 as quinine dissolved In elixir of vitriol; 10 or x.s drops in balm tea three or four times a day. If there is consider- able irritation, give 8 or 10 drops of laudanum in the Saline Draught, page 345. Or, give from 5 to 10 grains of the Diaphoretic Powder, page 160. Sudorifics are also very serviceable, especially when the pustules are flabby, and not well filled. If the symptoms become unfavour- able, as the striking in of the eruption, great fever, and delirium, black tongue, &c., the danger is very great. In such case, give immediately the vapour bath of bitter decoction, and an emetic ; then give a decoction of saffron and Virginia snakeroot with a teaspoonful or two of sweet spirit of nitre. Give also the Sudorific Powder, and at intervals the Seidlitz Powder. Sponge the surface of the body with warm water. If there is any tendency to putrescency in the fluids, give a wineglassful of yeast several times a day. Dr. Anthony Thompson says, “The sulphuric acid combined with wine is the only remedy on which we can rely in the confluent small pox, when the pustules are filled with a bloody sanies, and the urine is coloured by broken- down particles of blood.” Camphor is valuable in this disease. To prevent the pustules from affecting the eyes, cold water cloths should be continually applied. While the fever continues high, the diet should be mild and rather spare, as barley groel, sago gruel, beef tea without salt. When the pustules begin to maturate, the patient may be permitted gradually to take to his usual diet; and if the crop be considerable, and the strength of the patient much reduced, provided he be free from fever, a little port wine, diluted with water, may likewise be allowed after dinner. SMALL POX.—The Sarracenia Purpurea, or Indian Cup, a native plant of Nova Scotia, the specific used by the Indians against the small pox, bids fair to realize the expectations entertained by medical men of its efficacy. In a letter addressed to the American Medical Times, Dr. Fred- erick W. Morris, president physician of the Halifax Visiting Dispensary, states that this Sarracenia, a papaveraceous plant, will cure small pox in all its forms within twelve hours after the patient has taken the decoction. “ However alarming and numerous the eruptions," he says, “ or confluent and frightful they may be, the peculiar action of the medicine is such that very seldom is a scar left to tell the story of the disease. If ether vaccine or variolous matter is washed with the infusion of the Sarracenia, they are deprived of their contagious properties. So mild is the medicine to the taste that it may be mixed with tea and coffee, and given to connoisseurs in these beverages to drink without being aware of the admixture. The medicine has been successfully tried in the hospi- tals of Nova Scotia, and its use will be continued." “ We are now favoured with the fol- lowing particulars respecting this valu- able plant The Sarracenia Pur- purea, or Indian Cup, a native plant of Nova Scotia, found in swamps and moss-bags, has the wonderful reputa- tion among the Mic-Mac Indians of curing Small Pox; and of being as great a specific in this disease as quinine lor ague. It is supposed to act by neu- tralizing the virus in the blood, render- ing it inert and harmless; and that this is its action may be gathered from the fact that if either vaccine or variol- ous matter may be washed with the in- fusion of the Sarracenia, it is deprived of its contagious property. Moreover the eruption, even if confluent, on its disappearance, leaves no trace behind. The root of the plant is the part em- ployed. The dose, when reduced to powder, is about a dessert-spoonful, simmered in a pint of water down to half a pint; this is usually divided into two doses, to be taken during the day. Sugar should not be used with it." SMALL POX, Prevention of Pitting in.—Mr. Startin, the senior surgeon to the Gurney Hospital for diseases of ' £. skin, has communicated to the Mcausal Times a very important plan, which he has adopted during the last fourteen years, for preventing pit- ting in small pox, and which, he states, has always proved successful. The plan consists in applying the ace turn cantharidis or any vcsiccating fluid, by305 SMA SHE means of a camel-hair brush, to the apex of each spot or pustule of the disease, on all the exposed surfaces of the body, until blistering is evidenced by the whiteness of the skin in the parts subjected to the application, when the fluid producing it is to be washed off with water or arrow-root gruel. The pain attending the application of the vesiccating fluid, is very slight and transient. SMALL POX, to Prevent Pitting in.—The following has been found very effectual:—The application consists of a solution of india-rubber in chloroform, which is painted with a camel hair pencil over the face (and neck in women,) when the eruption has become fully developed. When the Chloroform has evaporated, which it very readily does, there is left a thin elastic film of india-rubber over the face. This the patient feels to be rather comfortable, as it removes itching and all irritation; and what is more important, "pitting," once sc common, is thoroughly prrjented by the applica- tion. In making the solution, the india- rubber must be cut into small pieces, and chloroform added till it is dissolved. Gutta-percha has been tried, but has not answered, on account of its non- elasticity. Should any of the solution, from some cause be tom off, apply the solution as before. SMALL POX, Pitting in.— Dr. George recommends the use of pre- pared calamine, for the exclusion of the atmospheric air. In a very severe case, which occurred in my practice, in which the face and throat were frightfully swollen, I dressed one half of it with calamine powder, and the other half I pencilled over, using a flat hair pencil, with sweet oil and the white of an egg, In equal parts well mixed, 3 or 4 times a day. No solution of india-nibber or *ny other substance, would have an- swered the purpose better ; and its ap- plication was certainly attended with more comfort than that of the use of the powder. But it is not only the pit- ting which is prevented by the calamine, but the rescuing of the patient from a state of suffering bordering upon misery. He reoommends the following treat- ment to the public. Firstly, from tire commencement of the disease I would cover the whole body, face and all, with the calamine, shaken through a common pepper-box, taking care that the powder does not remain in masses. The inflam- mation on each pustule is by these ap- plications much lessened, a point of great consequence. Secondly, sprinkle about 1 02. of powdered camphor every 2 or 3 nights between the under sheet and blanket, the whole length of the body, putting more about the shoulders and neck. The relief obtained by this, few would credit until they had bad experience. Thirdly, in the advanced stage of the disease, should hardened incrustations have formed, they may be removed, and without much pain too ; for in one case I removed every portion of the cuticle from the whole face, forehead, and even eyelids, applied the calamine, and in a few days the cuticle was reformed with- out a blemish. SMALL POX, in Sheep.—The medicines which have been used in the case of the Allington flock have been very simple, consisting chiefly of the nitrate of potass, dissolved in the water which is placed in the troughs until a subsidence of the fever takes place, after which sulphate of iron has been substi- tuted. When diarrhoea has come on— as it not unfrequently does in the latter stage of the malady, more particularly if the disease becomes confluent—opium is resorted to as a valuable agent to arrest the attack, which, if not arrested, speedily becomes fatal. SMELLING BOTTLE. Take an equal quantity of sal-ammoniac and unslaked lime. Pound in a mortar each separately. Mix and put into a bottle, adding 10 drops of liquid am- monia, 6 of oil of bergamot, and 3 of otto of roses. Cork well. SMELTS, to Choose.—If good they have a fine silvery hue, and a re- freshing smell, like cucumbers newly cut. They are caught in the Thames and other large rivers. SMELTS, to Dress with Savoury Jelly.—Clean, and season them with mace and salt, and lay them in a pot with butter over them ; tie down with paper, and bake them J< an hour. Take out, and when cool, lay them366 SN1 SME separately to drain. When quite cold, pour cold jelly over them, and they will look like living fish. SMELTS, to Fry.—They should not be washed more than is necessary to clean them. Dry them in a cloth, then lightly flour them, but shake it off. Dip them into plenty of egg, then into bread- crumbs, grated fine, and plunge them into a good pan of boiling lard; let them continue gently boiling, and a few minutes will make them a bright yellow- brown. Take care not to take off the light roughness of the crumbs, or their beauty mil be lost. SMELTS, to Pickle. — Clean and wash them ; beat very fine, pepper, nutmeg, mace, saltpetre, and salt; put the smelts in a row in a jar ; between every layer of smelts, strew the season- ing with 4 or 5 bay leaves. Then boil some port wine, and pour on a sufficient quantity to cover them. When cold, dose the jar, and keep for use. SMELTS, Eperlans a la Ang- laise.—Put 2 spoonfuls of oil into a stewpan ; salt, and pepper ; the J of a lemon cut in pieces ; having taken off the skin and seeds, with 2 glasses of sherry wine ; let this seasoning boil a Jjf of an hour; put in the smelts ; let them cool; drain, and pour over them the following sauce :—put a small dove of garlic into boiling water to blanch; bruise it with the blade of a knife, and put it into a stewpan with parsley and small onions hashed, and 2 glasses of Champagne ; let it boil 5 minutes ; put in a pat of butter, rubbed in flour; and another pat without flour, salt, and pepper ; thicken the sauce, and add the juice of a lemon. SMOKY CHIMNEYS.—Cer- tain chimneys draw well ordinarly, but are subject to violent fits of smoking in certain winds, and generally in boister- ous weather, blowing both flame and smoke into the room to an intolerable extent. For this particular class of nuisance I have for many years past adopted a very cheap and permanent remedy, which has never failed. In- stead of a common chimney-pot, I fix, in the like manner, a 9-inch drain-pipe, a feet long, socket downwards, which gives it a firm seat; and on this I fix another like drain-pipe, having a 4-lnch double junctions, inserted obliquely into the g-inch pipe. When the wind blows, it rushes into these lateral openings, which, having a turn upwards, direct its blast against the downward current from the top of the pot. The fixing should be in cement, and you have a cheap chimney-top, which will neither perish nor blow off. I use nothing but drain-pipes for chimney-pots, which, as well as being cheaper and stronger than any thing else, admit of a second and third story being added to them if the draught be dull, or the branch pipe top as I have described, if subject to down- ward gusts. For kitchen flues, 12-inch pipes are safer.—T. E. in the Builder. To increase the draught in the chim- ney, some persons make a hole in the hearthstone, providing there is a room below, and cover it with a ventilator to protect it from cinders and ashes. Or, inflate a large ox's bladder, and tie it by the neck to the middle of a stick, and place it across a chimney, 2 feet from the top, or at the foot of the chimney-pot. The buoyancy of the air keeps the bladder continually in a cir- cular motion, and thereby prevents the rush of air into the funnel from descend- ing so low as the fire-place. SNIPES, to Dress in Surtout. —Make a forcemeat of veal and beef suet, pounded with crumbs of bread ; add beaten mace, pepper, salt, parsley, and sweet herbs, mixed with the yolk of an egg; lay some of this round the dish ; put in the birds drawn and half- roasted. Chop the trail, and put it all over the dish. Put some small mush- rooms, a sweetbread, and artichoke bottoms, cut small, into some good gravy ; stew all together, and beat up the yolks of 2 eggs in a spoonful of sherry ; stir all together one way. When thick take it off, and when cold pour it into the surtout. Put the yolk of a few hard eggs here and there. Season with beaten mace, pepper, and salt; cover with the forcemeat; colour with the volks of eggs, and send to the oven for half an hour. SNIPES, to Roast. — Do not draw them. Spit them; flour them, and baste with butter. Toast a slice of bread brown ; place it in the dish under the birds for the trail to drop on. When thcv are cnocurh, take up, and lay them367 SNI SOL on the toast; pnt good gravy in the dish. Serve with butter, and garnish with orange or lemon. SNIPE PIE.—Bone 4 snipes, and truss them. Put in their insides finely chopped bacon, or other force- meat ; put them in the dish with the breast downwards, and put forcemeat balls around them. Add gravy made of butter, and chopped veal and ham, parsley, pepper, and shalots. Cover with nice puff paste ; close it well to keep in the gravy. 'Wien nearly done, pour in more gravy, and a little sherry wine. Bake 2 or 3 hours. SNOWBALLS.—Pare 6baking apples, and take out the cores ; fill the holes with orange marmalade. Make a little good hot paste, and roll the apples in it; make the crust of an equal thick- ness, and put them into a dripping pan, bake in a moderate oven. When you take them out, make icing for them the same way as for plum cake, and ice them a11 over with it, a % of an inch thick. Place them a good distance from the fire till they are hardened, but do not let them brown. Put one in the mid- dle of a china dish, and the other five round it. Garnish with flowers. SNOWBALLS.—Swell rice in milk, and strain it off, and having pared and cored apples, put the rice round them, tying each up in a cloth. Put a bit of lemon-peel, a clove, or cinnamon in each, and boil them well. SNOW RICE CREAM.—Put into a pan 5 ozs. of ground rice, 3 ozs. of loaf sugar, 8 drops of essence of al- monds, 3 ozs. of fresh or salt butter. Add a quart of new milk. Boil 20 min- utes, until smooth. Pour into a mould previously greased with butter. Turn it out when quite cold, and serve with preserves round it. SNUFFLES.—A troublesome complaint, to infants especially. The mucous membrane of the nose, through the taking of cold, being much swollen, the child is no longer able to breathe through its nose, as it was accustomed to do, but is compelled to breathe through the mouth. The difficult breathings are attended by a peculiar snuffling noise, which, in sleep, becomes a regular loud snore. It often interferes with Its sucking at the breast; as soon as it seizes the nipple a threatening suf- focation compels it to desist. While this complaint lasts the child may be partially fed with the spoon; give it a very mild purgative; bathe its legs frequently in warm water. Rub the nose with tallow, and apply a slippery elm poultice mixed with cream. SOAP, Chemical. —Powdered Fullers earth, 1 oz. ; just moisten with spirits of turpentine; add salt of tartar, 1 oz. ; best potass, 1 oz. ; work the whole into a paste with a little soap. It is excellent for removing grease spots. SODA CAKE.—Rub * lb. of good butter into 1 lb. of dry flour, and work it very small. Mix well with these % lb. of sifted sugar ; add a cup- ful of boiling milk, and three eggs well beaten ; also % lb. of currants, grated nutmeg, and fresh lemon rind. Mix all well and lightly together ; and just be- fore you mould it, stir in a teaspoonful of carbonate of soda. Bake an hour or more. SODA WATER POWDERS. —Soda water is prepared from powder just like ginger beer, (see Ginger Beer,) except that instead of the two powders, there mentioned, these two are used, vix.—for one glass, 30 grains of carbo- nate of soda; for the other glass, 25 grains of tartaric or citric acid. SOLDERS, to MAKE:— Solder for Lead.—Tin, 1 part; lead, 2 parts. Its goodness is tried by melting it, and pouring the size of a crown piece upon the table, and, if it be good, there will arise little bright stars in it. Apply resin when this solder is used. Solder for Tin.—Lead, 10 parts; tin, 7 parts. Solder for Pewter.—Tin, 1 part; lead, a parts ; bismuth, 3 parts. Solder for Brazing.—Copper, 3 parts ; zinc, 2 parts; or sheet brass, 3 arts; zinc, 1 part. This is called peltcr, and is used for brass, iron and copper. Solder for Britannia Metal.— Bismuth, of, 1 part; tin, 1 part; lead, 1 part. Solder, Soft.—Tin, 2parts; lead, 1 part. Solder, Hard.—Copper, t parts; tin, x part.368 SOL SOL Zinc and lead are soldered with lead and tin, not quite equal parts, lead pre- ponderating. To use Old Britannia Metal instead of Block Tin in Solder. Take old britannia metal and melt it; and while hot sprinkle sulphur over it and stir a short time. SOLDERING, Hard.—To braise s pieces of iron together, file one side of each piece bright, put on the clean face a paste made of borax and water, tie the two pieces together with several separate coils of brass wire, smearing more borax on these. Hold it over a bright coke fire, and the brass will melt and run into the joint. File oft the superfluous metal. When the brass melts a blue flame will be seen to arise. SOLDERING MIXTURE, for Iron, Steel, Copper, &c.— Take any quantity of muriatic acid, and dissolve as much sine in it as it will take; then dilute it with # as much soft water as of add, and it will be ready for use. This applied to iron, &c., cleanses it, and leaving zinc upon the surface, causes solder readily to adhere to it. SOLES, to Choose.—If good, they are thick and firm, the belly of a fine cream colour : if they incline to a bluish colour, and are flabby, it is evi- dent that they are not fresh. They are in perfection about Midsummer. SOLES, a la Horley.—After cleaning the soles cut them entirely open by the back from head to tail; cut each into four nice fillets, and steep them in lemon juice, salt, parsley, and sliced onions ; shake them in this sea- soning, where they ought to remain nearly an hour; when ready to serve, drain, flour, and fry them; they must be firm and of a good colour; dish, and serve under an lialientu or tomato sauce. SOLES, a la Portugese. — Take one large, or two small; if large, cut the fish in two; if small, they need only be split. The bones being taken out, put the fish Into a pan with a bit of butter and some lemon juice, give a fry, then lay the fish on a dish, and spread a forcemeat over each piece, and roll It round, fastening the roll with a few small skewers. Lay the rolls into a small earthen pan, beat an egg and wet them, then strew crumbs over; and put the remainder of egg, with a little meat gravy, a spoonful of caper sauce, an anchovy chopped fine, and some parsley into the bottom of the pan; cover it close, and bake it till the fish are done enough in a slow oven. Then place the rolls in the dish for serving, and cover it to keep them hot till the gravy baked is skimmed ; if not enough, a little fresh, flavoured as above, must be prepared and added to it. SOLES, to Boil.—Skin and gut two soles ; wash, and lay them in vine- gar, salt and water for two hours ; then put them into a stewpan with a pint of sherry, sweet herbs, onion, and cloves, pepper, and salt. Cover them, and when done enough, put in the dish; strain the liquor, thicken it with butter and flour ; pour the sauce over. Gar- nish with horse radish and with lemon. SOLES, Broiled.—Take two or three soles, divide them from the back bone, and take off the head, fins, and taiL Sprinkle the inside with salt, roll them up tight from the tail end up- wards, and fasten with small skewers. If large or middling, put half a fish in each roll; small do not answer. Dip them into yolks of eggs, and cover them with crumbs. Do the egg over them again, and then put more crumbs; and fry them a beautiful colour in lard, or do them in the oven., SOLES, to Fricassee.—Cut the flesh from the bones ; cut it longways, and then across, so that each fish may make 8 pieces ; put the bones (and head if you like) into a stewpan with a pint of water, sweet herbs, onion, pepper, mace, salt, a crust of bread, and a little lemon peel; cover, and boil till half wasted. Strain, and put it into the stewpan with the fish ; add half a pint of sherry, a little chopped parsley, a few cut mushrooms, grated nutmeg, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. Place over a slow fire, and shake till the fish are enough. SOLES, to Fry.—Take what soles are necessary; gut and skin them ; cut them down tire back; draw the blade of the knife along the fins toSOL 3^9 SOU separate the flesh ; when ready to serve dip them in milk; shake a little flour over, and fry them over a good fire ; when done and of a fine colour drain them upon a clean cloth ; dish upon a napkin; send whole lemons to the table with them. SOLES, to Fry.—Dip them in egg, after having cleaned them, and cover with fine crumbs of bread. Set on a frying-pan that is just large enough, and put into it a quantity of fresh lard or dripping; boil, and im- mediately slip the fish into it; do them of a fine brown. SOLES, Stewed.—Scald and clean, take care of the roe, &c., lay the fish in a stewpan, with a rich beef gravy, an onion, eight cloves, a dessert- spoonful of Jamaica pepper, the same of black, a fourth part of the quantity of gravy or port (cider may do ;) sim- mer close covered : when nearly done add two anchovies chopped fine, a dessert-spoonful of made mustard, and some fine walnut ketchup, a bit of butter rolled in flour, shake it ind let the gravy boil a few minutes. Serve with sippets of fried bread, the roe fried, and a good deal of horse radish and lemon. Carp may be stewed the same way. SOLES, to Souse.—Cut the soles on the white side ; but not too deep; boil them well in sherry wine, and a little water, and vinegar ; season with salt, ginger, cloves, mace ; let the liquid just cover them; when it boils, put in the soles, and winter savory, sweet maTjoram, sage, thyme, sliced onions, or shalots; when they are boiled enough, set them by to cooL SOLE PIE.—Split some soles from the bone, and cut the fins close ; season with a mixture of salt, pepper, a little nutmeg and pounded mace, and put them in layers, with oysters. They eat excellently. A pair of middling sized ones will do, and half a hundred of oysters. Put in the dish the oyster liquor, two or three spoonfuls of broth, and some butter. When the pie comes borne, pour in a cupful of thick cream. SORE THROAT. — The old nurse’s remedy is good, “ Put your stocking round your neck going to bed." But I have found a piece of new flannel quite as beneficial, if put warm round the neck. The following gargle is useful either for ulcerated or common sore throat. Make a strong solution of alum to every pint of which add two table-spoonfuls of port wine; gargle the throat several times a day. In ulcerated sore throats, it is safest to have the ulcers touched with caustic immediately on their appearance. Or, gargle with a mixture of yeast and milk, and take a wine-glassful of good 1 yeast once or twice a day. Sage and vinegar are generally recommended for a gargle. It is best to add a little salt, and from 15 to 30 drops of laudanum. Or, apply a cold water cloth, wrung out, to the throat, covered with a dry flannel. In the first stages of the disease, a mild emetic will be useful. In bed apply to the throat a bag of hops satur- ated with hot vinegar and a little salt, or camomile flowers moistened with hot vinegar, and 20 or 30 drops of lau- danum.—The remedies under Quinsy are appropriate here. Apply to the feet and sides hot bricks covered with vinegar cloths. If constipated, take an aperient, and afterwards the Composi- tion Powder. SORE THROAT.—Five spoon- fiils of the syrup of elderberry, mix with one spoonful of honey, and as much powdered sal prunella as will lie on a shilling. Take a tea-spoonful fre- quently. SORREL, to Stew.—Wash the sorrel, and put it into a silver vessel, or stone jar, with no more water than hangs to the leaves. Simmer it as slow as you can, and when done enough, put a bit of butter, and beat it well. SOUFFLE of Apple and Rice.—Blanch Carolina rice, strain it, and set it to boil in milk, with lemon peel, and a .bit of cinnamon. Let it boil till the rice is dry, then cool it, and raise a rim three inches high round the dish ; haring egged the dish, where it is put to make it stick well. Then egg the rice all over. Fill the dish half way up with a marmalade of apples; have ready the whites of four eggs beaten to a fine froth, and put them over the marmalade; then sift Xsou 370 sou fine sugar over it, and set it in the oven, which should be warm enough to give it a beautiful colour. SOUP, a la Jardiners.—Take some carrots and turnips ; cut them an inch long and thickness of a penny piece, with a little parsley root Boil gently in some good stock, till quite tender, with leeks and two heads of celery tied together; these must be taken out when serving the soup. Boil tender 12 onions whole; season with salt and pepper. SOUP, a la Reine.—Take the breasts of three fowls, skewer them, put over them a thin slice of lard, cover them with paper, and put them upon the spit or into a stewpan, which must be covered with slices of ham, veal, and an onion, with two or three pared carrots and a bunch of seasoned parsley; cover it lightly with thin slices of lard, and afterwards with two or three rounds of buttered paper, that they may not take any colour; put in two or three spoonfuls of consomme; make them boil upon the fire, or put them into an oven; let them cook twenty minutes; take them up and let them cool; strain the soup through a gauze search, make a panade with it, hash the breasts very fine, put them in a mortar, and pound them with twenty sweet and two bitter almonds; pound all together, after- wards take it out and mix it with the consomme made of the carcases of the three fowls from which the breasts were taken; ran it through a search. SOUP, a la Sap.—Boil J lb. of grated potatoes, 1 lb. of beef sliced thin, a pint of grey peas, an onion, and 3 ozs. of rice, in six pints of water to five, strain it through a colander, then pulp the peas to it, and turn it into a sauce- pan again, with two heads of celery sliced. Stew it tender, and add pepper and salt, and when you serve, add also fried bread. SOUP and BOUILLE.—Stew a brisket of beef with some turnips, celery, leeks, and onions, all finely cut. Put the pieces of beef into the pot first, then the roots, and half a pint of beef gravy, with a few cloves. Simmer for an hour. Add more beef gravy, and boil gently for half an hour. SOUP, Consomme. Take a proper tinned pot; heat it lightly and wipe it well; put in a shank and a piece of a buttock of beef, a knuckle of veal, a fowl, an old rabbit, or two old par- tridges, and about six pints Of stock; reduce it upon a quick fire till it becomes a jelly, then add more stock, boil it on a quick fire and skim it; season it with three turnips, three carrots, three onions, one stuck with two or three cloves, a bunch of leeks, and celery; then put it on the side of the grate, and let it sim- mer till it is done enough: when the different meats of which it is composed are sufficiently cooked, they ought to be taken out, as they may be dressed for successive tables; when ready take off the fat, put it through a gauze search or a linen cloth, first wet and wrung. SOUP, Cressy.—According to the season, have all sorts of vegetables picked and washed with care, such as carrots, turnips, celery, onions, &c., in small quantity; boil them a quarter of an hour; put them into a stew-pan with a large piece of butter, and some slices of ham; set them upon a slow fire till they are enough; drain and pound them in a mortar, and add the liquor in which they were boiled; rub them through a search to make a puree ; let it boil, and leave it to cook two hours ; skim well; have ready a mitonnage, as before directed, and serve the cressy upon it. SOUP, Good and Cheap. Lean beef, 1 lb., cut into small pieces ; half a pint of split peas; 2 ozs. of rice or Scotch barley; 5 potatoes, sliced; 3 onions, cut in quarters; pepper and salt to taste. Tie the peppercorns in a bag; put these into a gallon and a pint of water. Put into the oven for 3% hours. It will waste 1 pint in the oven, but more in boiling. SOUP, Grand Bouillon.—To prepare a great dinner, it is necessary that a sufficient quantity of stock for soups and sauces should be ready, for which purpose put into a large pot a piece of the breast or rump of beef, with the dressings of any other sort of meat; veal, mutton, lamb, with the bones, neck and feet of the poultry and game, that may be prepared for removes. Put the pot upon a moderate fire, not quite filled with water, and skim It carefully ;371 sou sou throw Into it a little cold water every time you skim it, till it becomes perfect- ly limpid; for upon this stock depends the beauty of your soups and sauces ; season it with salt, two turnips, six car- rots, six onions, one of which is to be stuck with three cloves and a bunch of leeks, and let the whole simmer slowly. When the piece of meat is cooked, or nearly so, if it is to be served, put it into a stew-pan, and pour over it a little of the top of the stock ; wet and wring a cloth, and run the stock through, which will then be in readiness to make soups, sauces, &c. SOUP, Grand Consomme. Put into a pot two knuckles of veal, a piece of a leg of beef, a fowl, or an old cock, a rabbit or two old partridges; add a ladleful of soup and stir it well; when it comes to a jeliy, put in a sufficient quantity of stock, and see that it is clear ; let it boil, skimming and refreshing it with water; season it as the above ; you may add, if you like, a clove of garlic; let it then boil slowly or simmer four or five hours; put it through a towel, and use it for mixing in sauces, or clear soups. SOUP, Julienne.—Take some carrots and turnips, and turn them riband-like ; a few heads of celery, some leeks and onions, and cut them in lozen- ges, boil them till they are cooked, then put them into clear gravy soup. Brown thickening.—N.B. You may, in summer time, add green peas, asparagus tops, French beans, some lettuce or sorrel. SOUP, Maigre.—Melt £ lb. of butter in a stewpan, shake it round and throw in six middling onions, sliced. Shake the pan well for 2 or 3 minutes, then put in 5 heads of celery, 2 handfuls of spinach, 2 cabbage-lettuces, cut small, and some parsley. Shake the pan well for 10 minutes, then put in 2 quarts of water, some crusts of bread, a tea-spoonful of beaten pepper, 3 or 4 blades of mace; add a large spoonful of white beet leaves, cut small. Boil gently an hour. Just before serving beat in two yolks of eggs, and a spoonful of vinegar. SOUP, Mitonnage. Take a household loaf and rasp it lightly, cut out the crumb without breaking it, which will answer for frying to garnish spinach dishes or soups, or for a char- lotte or a panade; round the crusts handsomely, and let them simmer a few minutes ; before serving put any vege- tables on them, and pour over an em- potage : serve it as hot as possible. SOUP, Portable.—Boil one or two knuckles of veal, one or two shins of beef, and 3 lbs. of beef, in as much water only as will cover them. Take the marrow out of the bones, put any sort of spice you like, and three large onions. When the meat is done to rags strain it off, and put it into a very cold place. When cold, take off the cake of fat (which will make crusts for servants' pies); put the soup into a double- bottomed tin saucepan, and set it on a pretty quick fire, but do not let it bum. It must boil fast and uncovered, and be stirred constantly for eight hours. Put into a pan, and let it stand in a cold place a day, then pour it into a round soup china-dish, and set the dish into a stewpan of boiling water on a stove, and let it boil, and be now and then stirred, till the soup is thick and ropy—then it is enough. Pour it into the little round part at the bottom of cups or basons turned upside-down to form cakes, and when cold turn them out on flannel to dry. Keep them in tin canisters. When they are to be used, melt them in boil- ing water, and if you wish the flavour of herbs, or any thing else, boil it first, strain off the water, and melt the soup in it. This is very convenient in the coun- try, or at sea, where fresh meat is not always at hand, as by this means a basin of soup may be made in five minutes. SOUP, Royal.—Take a scrag or knuckle of veal, slices of undressed gammon of bacon, onions, mace, and a small quantity of water; simmer till very strong, and lower it with a good beef broth made the day before, and stewed till the meat is done to rags. Add cream, vermicelli, almonds, and a roll. SOUPS, Various.—Good soups may be made from fried meats, where the fat and gravy are added to the boiled barley; and for that purpose, fat bee/ steaks, pork steaks, mutton chops, &c. should be preferred, as containing moreSPE 372 sou of the nutritious principle. When near- ly done frying, add a little water, which will produce a gravy to be added to the barley broth ; a little wheat flour should be dredged in also; a quantity of onions, cut small, should also be fried with the fat, which gives the soup a fine flavour, assisted by seasonings, &c. Soups may be made from broiled meats. While the fat beef steak is doing before the fire, or mutton chop, &c., save the drippings on a dish, in which a little flour, oatmeal, with cut onions, &c., are put. SOUP, White Blond de Veau. —Butter the bottom of a saucepan, and put into it some slices of ham, four or five pounds of a leg of veal, two or three carrots, and as many onions; wet them with a ladleful of grand bouillon, make it sweat over a slow fire, and reduce it to jelly; when it is of a fine yellow tint, take it off the fire, prick the meat with the point of a knife to let the juice flow; cover, and let it sweat another quarter of an hour, and then put in a sufficient quantity of grand bouillon: season it with parsley and small onions, a clove of garlic stuck with a clove; boil and skim, and put it to simmer on the edge of the grate, and when enough, skim it, run it through a cloth, and make use of it for empotage, or rice or vermicelli soup, and even sauces. SOUSE, for Brawn.—Boil a quarter of a peck of wheat bran, a sprig of bay, and a sprig of rosemary, in two gallons of water, with 4 ozs. of salt in it, for half an hour. Strain it, and let it get cold. SPANISH CREAM.—Dissolve in pint of rosewater, 1 oz. of isinglass cut small; run it through a hair sieve ; add the yolks of three or four eggs, beaten and mixed with half a pint of cream, and two sorrel leaves. Pour it Into a deep dish, sweeten with loaf sugar powdered. Stir it till cold, and put it into moulds. Lay rings round in different coloured sweetmeats. Add, if you like, a little sherry, and a lump or two of sugar, rubbed well upon the rind of a lemon to extract the flavour. SPANISH FLIES, Tincture of.—Take finely powdered Spanish flies, 2 ozs.; spirits of wine, 1 pint. Infuse for two or three days, and strain. This tincture is an acid stimulant for external use. It is good to apply to chil- blains, for chafed skin, frostbites, &c. SPANISH INFUSION, for Colds, Coughs, &c.—Spanish juice, cut into small pieces, 1 oz.; salts of tartar, 3 drachms. Infuse in a quart of boiling water for a night: to the strained liquor, add iJ4 oz. of the syrup of poppies. Take three or four times a day. SPAR BASKET.—Procure a small common wire basket, and cover the wire with different coloured worsted, the brightest you can'obtain; suspend this in a vessel so that it may not touch the bottom or sides by two or three inches. Then take as much boiling water as will cover it, having previously dissolved as much alum in the water as it will take up. Pour this over the basket, and In twelve hours you may take it out; it will be covered with masses of splendid coloured crystals, glittering with all the colours of the rainbow. SPARE-RIB OF PORK, to Roast.—About 9 lbs. will take 2\ hours roasting. Baste well to prevent the skin burning. SPASMS.—Oil of red lavender, 1 part; sal-volatile, 1 part; oil of pepper- mint, 2 parts. Mix, and take 10 or 12 drops in a wine-glassful of lukewarm or cold water. If the first dose is not efficacious, repeat. SPASMS, Certain cure for.— Take 3-pennyworth of balsam of sul- phur, and the same quantity of the oil of aniseed; put these together, and let them stand in a warm place for 24 hours. Then take 2-pennyworth of the spirits of wine, and 2-pennyworth of spirits of turpentine; put these together, and let them stand as above; then mix the whole well together. Take 7 or 8 drops on a piece of loaf sugar, when the pain is on ; it will give instant relief. SPEARMINT WATER, to Distil.—Take of spearmint leaves, any quantity, and 3 times the quantity of water; distil as long as the liquor which comes over has a considerable taste, or smell of the mint. Or, take spearmint leaves, dried, 1$ lb., and as much water as is sufficient to prevent burning. Distil 1 gallon.373 SPK SFI SPECIFICS.—Medicines curing a disease by an unknown mode of action. SPERMACETI OINTMENT —Take of olive oil, i pint; white wax and spermaceti, of each 3 ozs. Melt them with a gentle heat, and briskly stir together till quite cold. If 2 drs. of camphor previously rubbed with a small quantity of oil, be added to the above, it will make the White Camphorated Ointment. For Ointments, see p. 279. SPICED BEEF.—Take a round of an ox, or young heifer, from 20 to 40 lbs. Cut it neatly, so that the thin flank end can wrap nearly round. Take from 2 Co 4 ozs. of saltpetre, and 1 oz. of coarse sugar, and 2 handfuls of common salt. Mix them well, together; rub it all over. The next day salt it well as for boiling. Let it lie from 2 to 3 weeks turning it every 2 or 3 days. Take out of the pickle, and wipe it dry. Then take cloves, mace, well powdered, a spoonful of gravy, and rub it well into the beef. Roll it up as tightly as possi- ble ; skewer it, and tie it up tight. Pom: In the liquor till the meat is quite satur- ated, in which state it must be kept. To keep the beef a long time, once in 2 months boil the pickle, and clear off the scum. Put in when boiled 2 ozs. of sugar, and 4 oz. of common salt. When taken out of pickle, dry well, and put in paper bags, and hang them in a dry place. SPICE CAKE.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, 2 lbs. of butter, 1 lb. of sugar, 1 lb. of currants, and a few seeds ; mix all together with milk ; observe that the butter and sugar must be rubbed into the flour, and then made into round cakes of any size, and nipped on the edges, then baked in a pretty hot oven, with its door open while you bake. SPICED FIGS.—Fill a large jar with grapes picked from the stem; add a little water; cook slowly; stir occasionally to prevent burning; when tender, strain out the juice through a fine sieve. (The white Muscat grape is the best) To one pint of grape juice add three pounds of sugar, a bag of spice (mace, cinnamon, cloves, to suit taste). Pare seven pounds Ggs very thin, ripe enough to be soft, but not to crack open. Cook the figs In the grape syrup until tender enough to pass a straw through easily. Then dip out carefully, and seal in glass Jars. A spiced jelly can be made from the syrup, if any is left over, after the figs are done. SPINACH, to Dress.—Spinach requires great care in washing and pick- ing it. When that is done, throw it into a sauce-pan that will just hold it, sprinkle it with a little salt, and cover close. The pan must be set on the fire, and well shaken. When done, beat the spinach well with a small bit of butter ; it looks well if pressed into a tin mould in the form of a large leaf, which is sold at the tin shops. A spoonful of cream is an improvement. SPINACH AND EGGS. When the spinach is boiled, it must be squeezed dry, chopped very fine, and put into a stew-pan, with a little butter, cream, pepper, and salt. Dish the spinach, and then put in the eggs to poach; trim the ragged parts of the whites, and put them on the spinach. SPINACH SOUP. —Shred 2 handfuls of spinach, a turnip, 2 onions, a head of celery, 2 carrots, and a little thyme and parsley, put all into a stew- pot, with a bit of butter the size of a walnut, and a pint of broth, or the water in which meat has been boiled; stew till the vegetables are quite tender, work them through a coarse cloth or sieve with a spoon, then to the pulp of the vegetables and liquor, put a quart of fresh water, pepper, and salt, and boil all together. Have ready some suet- dumplings, the size of a walnut; and before you put the soup into the tureen, put them all into it. The suet must not be shred too fine. SPIRITS of MINDERERUS. — Take volatile sal ammoniac, any quantity. Pour on it gradually distilled vinegar till the effervescence ceases. This medicine is useful in promoting a discharge by the skin and urinary pas- sages. It is also a good external appli- cation in strains and bruises. When intended to raise a sweat, half an ounce of it in a cup of warm gruel, may be given to the patient in bed every hour till it has the desired effect.SPX SPI 374 SPITTING OF BLOOD.— In oases of spitting of blood, it is often difficult to determine whether it pro- ceeds from the internal surface of the mouth, from the fauces, from the stom- ach, or from the lungs. When the blood is of a florid or frothy appearance and brought up with more or less cough- ing, preceded by rigours, a short tickling cough, a saltish taste, anxiety, and tight- ness across the chest, its source is the lungs. The blood proceeding from the lungs is usually of a florid colour, and mixed with a little frothy mucous only. It may be distinguished from bleeding from the stomach, by its being raised by hacking or coughing, and by its florid and frothy appearance ; that from the stomach is vomited in considerable quantities, and is of a dark colour. What is strictly meant by spitting of blood, is when the blood is discharged from a ruptured vessel in the lungs, which is technically termed Hcsinoptysis. It occurs generally from the age of 16 to 35. It is often an hereditary disease, which implies a peculiar and faulty con- formation, It happens to persons who discover the smallest capacity of the lungs, by the narrowness of the chest, and by the prominency of their shoulders an evidence of difficult respiration. It occurs in persons of a slender delicate make; to persons of much sensibility and irritability, and whose bodies are of a delicate texture. It arises some- times from the stoppage of the menstrual flux, from plethora, and violent exercise of the lungs. One great cause of haemoptysis is, the deposition of scrofulous matter in the substance of the lungs, forming tubercles. The blood-vessels being partially dis- tended by the pressure of tubercles, are easily ruptured by cough, or bodily exertion. Treatment. — Moderate the dis- charge of blood by avoiding whatever tends to irritate the body and increase the action of the heart. A low diet should be strictly observed, and external heat and bodily exercise avoided; the air of the room should be cool, and the drink (which should consist chiefly of barley-water, acidulated with lemon- juice) taken cold, and the patient not suffered to exert his voice. After the operation of a little gentle aperient medicine, as lenitive electuary, or an In- fusion of senna, with a little cream of tartar dissolved in it, take 10 drops of laudanum, and 10 drops of elixir of vitriol in half a cupful of cold water. If there is no cough, the laudanum may be omitted. A little salt and water given will often check spitting of blood, when it comes on. Put the feet in warm water, and give as above, the elixir of vitriol, &c. Give also ipecacuanha powder in small doses, of from 1 to 2 grains every 4 hours. Emetics have been given in this disease with advantage by Dr, Robinson, and still more lately by Dr. Stoll, of Vienna, who observes, that in discharges of blood from the lungs, ipecacuanha powder often acts like a charm, seeming to close the open vessels sooner and more effec- tually than any other remedy. The good effects of this remedy are probably the consequence of the compression the lungs undergo during vomiting, from the action of the diaphragm and expiratory muscles. The recurrence of haemoptysis should be prevented by invigorating the lungs and purifying the blood, and by the use of cooling and astringent medicines. Keep in the mouth a little alum, or saltpetre. The patient should partici- pate very freely of acidulous fruits ; as, roasted apples, oranges, lemons, &c. Alcoholic drinks should be strictly for- bidden. A decoction of bark with lemon juice or a few drops of elixir of vitriol, is of great service. When the symptoms are severe, give 8 or 10 drops of the tincture of digitalis, or a dr. of nitre dissolved in cold water, and afterwards a compound of ipeca- cuanha and Glauber’s salt. In extreme cases, give from xo to 20 drops of elixir of vitriol every 2 hours ; or give the va- pour bath, and an injection, and place hot bricks to the feet in bed. Sugar of lead, 2 grains ; opium, % of a grain, made into a pill with a little honey, or treacle and liquorice powder, may be given every 5 nours. The temporary application of cloths dipped in cold water to the genitals will check spitting of blood. Ice is still better. Mustard plasters applied to the legs and feet have been recommended, and found beneficial.375 SHR SPI The diet must be light and easy of digestion. The patient must avoid much speaking, and all muscular exer- tion, and all cold and damp. SPITTING OF BLOOD.— Take a tea-cupful of stewed prunes at lying down for a or 3 nights. Or, 2 tea-spoonfuls of nettle-juice every morn- ing, and a large cup of decoction of nettles at night, for a week. Or, 3 spoonfuls of sage-juice in a little honey. Or, £ a tea-spoonful of Barbadoes tar, on a piece of lump sugar at night. It commonly cures at once. Infusion of red roses, 5 ozs. ; syrup of poppy, | oz.; diluted sulphuric acid, 20 drops. Mix, Two tea-spoonfuls 3 or 4 times a day.— Wesley. SPONGE BISCUITS. —Beat the yolks of 10 eggs £ an hour. Add i£ lb. of sugar sifted, and whisk it well till it rises in bubbles. Then beat the whites to a strong froth, and whisk them well with the sugar and yolks. Beat in 14 ozs. of flour, with the rinds of 2 lemons grated. Sprinkle sugar up- on them. Bake in moulds for an hour in a hoi oven, but do not close it. SPONGE CAKE.—Weigh 10 eggs, and their weight in very fine sugar, and that of 6 in flour ; beat the yolks with the flour, and the whites alone, to a very stiff froth ; then by degrees mix the whites and the flour with the other ingredients, and beat them well J4 an hour. Bake an hour. SPONGE CAKE, without Butter.—Dry x lb. of flour, and i£ lb. of sugar; beat 7 eggs, yolks and whites apart; grate a lemon, and, with a spoonful of brandy, beat the whole together with your hand for an hour. Bake in a buttered pan. Sweetmeats may be added. SPONGE CAKE.— Beat 12 eggs to a froth ; dissolve a little volatile salts in half a pint of hot water, and let it cool; mix them together, and beat them for 10 minutes; then add 1 lb. of grated loaf sugar, and nearly x lb. of fine flour ; beat them well together, add a few seeds, and bake in a hot oven. Rub some of the pieces of sugar on the rind of a lemon to give it a flavour. SPRAIN.—Take of camphorated spirit, common vinegar, spirits of tur- pentine, of each, 1 oz. SPRAIN.—Hold the part in very cold water for two hours. Or, apply cloths dipt therein, four times doubled, for two hours, changing them as they grow warm. Or, bathe in good crab verjuice Or, boil bran in wine vine- gar to a poultice. Apply this warm, and renew it once in twelve hours. Or, mix a little turpentine with flour and the yolk of an egg, and apply it as a plaster. This cures in a desperate case. Weakness remaining after a sprain is cured by fomenting the part daily with beef brine. Suppose the ancle sprained : —1st. Foment it with warm vinegar four or five times every four hours. 2nd. Stand, if you can, three or four minutes at a time on both your feet, and fre- quently move the sprained foot. Some- times also while sitting with your foot on a low stool, move it to and fro. 3rd. Let it be gently rubbed with a warm hand at least thrice a-day. 4th. Two hours after every application of the vinegar, let it be just wetted with spirits of wine, and then gently rubbed. SPRAINS.—Take a few globules of Rhus Toxicodendron, and apply to the sprained part this Rhus liniment for about 10 minutes, and repeat twice a day for three days. The Rhus is sold by the Homoeopathic chemists. SPRAINS of the Muscles of the Back.—Take of Canada turpen- tine, y, oz.; soap liniment, 6 ozs., and one-pennyworth of laudanum. Mix, and rub well in before a hot fire. SPRATS, to Broil.—Sprats are very good and nutritious food ; but to be enjoyed they must be eaten in the room in which they are cooked; they admit of few removes, on account of becoming cold so soon. When cleaned, they should be fasten- ed in rows by a skewer run through the head, and then broiled; dredge with flour, and place on a gridiron over a nice clear fire for 4 or 5 minutes. Grease the gridiron. Or, they may be done in a Dutch oven. SPRATS, to Bake.—Rub them with salt and pepper ; put into a deep dish ; cover with vinegar and port wine ; cover and place in the oven all night. Cochineal liquor gives them a rich colour. They keep well.STA SQU 376 SQUILL MIXTURE.—Take of simple cinnamon-water, 5 ozs.; vine- gar of squills, 1 oz.; syrup of marsh- mallows, 1J4 oz. • Mix them. This mixture, by promoting expectoration and the secretion of urine, proves ser- viceable in asthmatic and dropsical habits. A tablespoonful at a time. STAINS AND SPOTS. Stains.—1 Any article stained, either with fruit, wine, ink, or mildew, must first be wet in clear cold water. If it is of material that it is not best to wet all over, lay the place stained on a clean skirt or bosom board, wet a clean towel or sponge in cold water, and gen- tly sponge or wipe the stain till quite wet. After this, apply a lotion made of one tablespoonful lemon-juice, one of the purest cream of tartar, and one tea- spoonful oxalic acid ; put all into a pint of clean rain-water. Shake it often while using it. Apply with a soft cloth till the spot is saturated with the lotion ; then sponge off again in clear cold water. Repeat till the stain disappears. If this lotion is used very soon after the article has been stained, it will at once remove the stain. After it has been dried in, it is more difficult to efface. If the article cannot be washed after using this mixture, white-currant juice is better than the lemon. This prepara- tion can be safely used on the most delicate articles if carefully sponged off as soon as the spots disappear. As oxalic acid is a deadly poison, it is not wise to prepare more than will be used at one time. s Most fruit-stains and coffee-stains, if taken in season, can be easily removed from linen by placing the part stained over a pail, bowl, or pan, and gradually pouring a stream of boiling water on the spot. Hold the kettle as high up oyer the spot as convenient, and the stains will fade out entirely. 3 Pour a moderately strong solution of nitric acid on the stain or on mildew, cover it with salt, and lay where the sun will strike it, and the spots will disap- pear in a few minutes, unless of long standing; in that case it may be neces- sary to repeat the work. But wash and rinse thoroughly as soon as the stains are out, or the acid will injure the cloth. 4 Lemon-juice, thickened with salt. powdered starch, and soft-soap, laid over stains, mildew, or iron-rust, will remove them if the articles are spread on the grass where the sun will strike them. This is sure and does not injure the fabric. 5 Rub soap on mildewed spots, scrap? chalk over it thickly, and lay in the sun. Repeat till the spots disappear. 6 Two parts chloride of lime to four parts water wall remove mildew, iron- rust, and stains, if the part of the cloth that is stained is soaked in it two or three hours. Wash and rinse carefully as soon as the spots are gone. 7 Most stains will disappear if the cloth is held in milk that is boiling over the fire. Stains from Acids can usually be removed from white materials—linen or cotton—by washing in warm chlorine water, and frequently nothing more is needed than soaking and rinsing in pure soft cold water; then wash as usual and boil out Ammonia and Water, diluted in proportion to the delicacy of the goods, will erase acid-stairs, orange or lemon juice, vinegar, etc., from coloured goods and silks. Wet the spots, not the whole garment When the spots disappear, sponge off with alcohol, and then wdth a little clear water. Do not rub, but only pat the spot with a cloth or sponge wet in the mixture. Rubbing coloured silks or woollens leaves a whitish spot quite as unseemly as the original. White Cottons or Linens, stained or defaced by lime, lye, etc., are restored by washing in cold water. Use no soap till the stains are removed. A Weak Preparation of Citric Acid, applied with the tip of the finger, will restore the colour to silks or coloured goods that are defaced by lime or alkalies, but the spot should first be moistened with cold water. Stains on Linen, to Remove. —Apply benzoin ; or salt of wormwood, diluted with water; or hold the article over the flames of brimstone; or wash with soap and potass. When Cottons or Linens are injured by rust, nut-gall, inks, etc., moisten them with a warm solution of oxalic acid, or with diluted muriatic acid, or gnumlatcd tin. When theSTA STE 377 spots disappear, wash In suds; boll and rinse in the usual manner. If the colour is surely fast, coloured cotton and worsted articles can be benefited by dipping the spots several times in weak citric acid, then sponge off. Children’s Clothes, Table- linen, Towels, &c., should be thoroughly examined before wetting, as soapsuds, washing-fluids, etc., will fix almost any stain past removal. Many stains will pass away by being simply washed in pure soft water; or alcohol will remove, before the article has been in soapsuds, many stains. Iron-mould, mildew, or almost any similar spot, can be taken out by dipping in diluted citric acid ; then cover with salt, and lay in the bright sun till the stain disappears. If of long standing, it may be necessary to repeat the wetting and the sunlight Be careful to rinse in several waters as soon as the stain is no longer visible. Ink, fruit, wine, and mildew stains must first be washed in clear cold water, removing as much of the spots as can be; then mix one tablespoonful of lemon-juice, one of pure cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of oxalic acid, and half a pint of rain-water. Dip the stain in this, and wipe off in clear water. Wash at once, if a fabric that will bear washing, A tablespoonful of white- currant juice, if any can be had, is even better than lemon. This preparation may be used on the most delicate arti- cles without injury. Shake it up before using it, and be careful and put out of the reach of meddlers or little folks, as it is poisonous. Grease-Spots.—Grease-spots may be taken from white linen or cotton by soapsuds or weak lye, and from calicoes with warm soapsuds. Grease-spots on woollens can be taken out by soapsuds or ammonia. On silks, use either yolk of egg with water, magnesia, ether, benzine, ammonia, or French chalk. Either is good. These are mostly used by the French, who have great skill in cleansing spotted or stained fabrics. Most of them we have used, and know them to be reliable. Wine or Fruit Stains.—Holding white cotton or linen over the fumes of burning sulphur, and wetting in warm chlorine-water, will take out wine or fruit stains. The sooner the remedy !a applied after any of these spots or stains are discovered, the more effectual the restoration. To Remove Sperm, Stearine, etc.—Spots from sperm candles, stearine, and the like, should be softened and removed by ninety-five per cent, alcohol, then sponged off with a weaker alcohol and a small quantity of am- monia added to it. STALE BEER, to Restore. —To about a quart of stale beer, put % a teaspoonful of salt of wormwood; this will restore the beer, and make it sparkle when poured into a glass like bottled porter. “STAMMERING,” Dr. Tur- ner says, “is caused by attempts to speak with empty lungs. In singing, the lungs are kept well inflated, and there is no stuttering. The method of cure is to require the patient to keep his lungs well filled ; to draw frequent and long breaths, to speak loudly, and to pause on the instant of finding em- barrassment in his speech, taking ajlong inspiration before he goes on again. I cured one of the worst cases I ever knew on this principle.” STAMMERING. —Frequently read aloud with the teeth closed, and tap with the finger at every syllable pronounced. STARCH GLOSS.—Is simply borax, finely powdered. STEAM JOINTS, Red Putty for.—Stiff white lead worked well in red lead powder and litharge. STEEL POWDER. — Take filings of steel and loaf sugar, of each, 2 ozs. ; ginger, 2 drachms. Pound them together. In obstructions of the menses, and for strengthening the con- stitution, this powder is valuable. Take a teaspoonful twice a day. STEEL FORKS, to Clean.— Fill a small oyster barrel with fine gravel, brick-dust, or sand, mixed with a little hay or moss : make it damp, press it well down, and always keep it damp. By running the prongs of the forks a few times into this, they will be cleaned and polished. To polish be- tween the prongs have a small stick shaped like a knife, covered with leather.STE STO 373 and use emery pov/der. Emery powder might be mixed with the sand in the barrel to render it more efficient in knife cleaning. STEEL, to Preserve from Rust.—Rub it well with a little sweet oil and Bath brick ; wipe it very dry; warm the article at the fire, and mb it over with virgin wax. STEW.—In a jar of cold water put a shin of beef; put in salt, a few cloves, pepper, onions, celery, savoury herbs, &c. Put it into a slow oven the night before, and simmer till noon. Serve with toasted bread. STEWED CELERY.—Clean the heads thoroughly, take off the coarse green outer leaves, cut in small pieces, and stew in a little broth. When ten- der, add some rich cream, and a little flour and butter, enough to thicken the cream. Season with pepper, salt, and a little nutmeg, if that is agreeable. STEWED CELERY.—Cut up in small pieces, cover with cold water, cook from twenty-five to thirty minutes. When done pour off what water is not needed into the soup or stock kettle. Rub two tablespoonfuls of flour into three tablespoonfuls of butter; add half a cup of cream or rich milk; boil five minutes, and serve hot. STIMULATING ANO- DYNE.—Sulphate of quinine, 12 grs. ; sulphate of morphine, I gr. ; mix, and divide] into 6 powders. Dose— one powder every hour. Prof. King, of Cincinnati, Ohio, says that from 2 to 4 powders of this anodyne will produce sleep in whisky delirium. STIMULATING FOMENT- ATION.—Cayenne pepper, 3 ozs.; mustard seed, just bruised, 2 ozs. ; whiskey, a quarts. Simmer all to- gether a few minutes. Excellent ex- ternal application in cholera, paralysis, palsy, rheumatism, &c. A less quantity may be made. STIMULATING INJEC- TION. — Take lobelia infiata, 1 drachm, red pepper, # drachm. Make with these an infusion, sweeten, intro- duce from half a pint to a pint. This injection is sometimes employed In very obstinate cases of costiveness, bilious and painters' colic, strangulated or Incarcerated hernia, and similar affections. STIMULATING LINI- MENT.—Cayenne, oz.; salt, I tablespoonful; spirits of wine, 2 ozs.; camphor, J^oz. ; spirits of turpentine, Va, pint. Bottle, and shake now and then during 1 day. Then add a pint of vinegar.—It is excellent for sponging the body in cases of pain, debility, in- flammation, rheumatism, gout, sore throat, numbness, neuralgia, &c. STINGS of BEES.—Rub the place with the newly-pressed juice of the honeysuckle. Or, wet it with ex- tract of lead, (the liquor plumbi of the shops) and keep a rag soaked in the ex- tract on the puncture a short time. Hartshorn, spirits of wine, or a solution of sal-ammoniac, are sometimes effect- ually used. STITCH in the Side.—Apply treacle spread on brown paper. STOCK, for Fish Soups.— Take 1 lb. of skate, 4 or 5 flounders, and 2 lbs. of eels. Clean them well, and cut them into pieces; cover them with water, and season them with mace, pepper, salt, and an onion stuck with cloves, a head of celery, two parsley roots sliced, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Simmer an hour and a half, closely covered, and then strain it off for use. If for brown soup, first fry the fish brown in butter, and then do as above. It will not keep more than two or three days. STOCK, for Gravy Soup. — Take 20 lbs. of coarse lean beef, cut into small pieces, and put into a pot, with water to cover it. Skim well. Add pot herbs to give it the desired flavour. Season with salt and ground pepper ; simmer till the meat becomes tender; skim well, and strain. Or, put a knuckle of veal, 1 lb. of lean beef, and 1 lb. of the lean of gam- mon of bacon, all sliced, into a stewpan, with onions, turnips, celery, and two ■ quarts of water. Stew the meat tender, but do not let it brown. It will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown, put some of the browning in, and boil it a few minutes. STOCK FOR SOUP.—All the liquor that is left from boiling flesh or salt meats should be carefully saved.379 STO STO with water to cover it. Skim well. Add pot herbs to give it the desired flavour. Season with salt and ground pepper ; simmer till the meat becomes tender ; skim well, and strain. Or, put a knuckle of veal, i lb. of lean beef, and i lb. of the lean of gam- mon of bacon, all sliced into a stewpan, with onions, turnips, celery, and two quarts of water. Stew the meat tender, but do not let it brown. It will serve either for soup, or brown or white gravy; if for brown, put some of the browning in, and boil it a few minutes. STOCK FOR SOUP.—All the liquor that is left from boiling fresh or salt meats should be carefully saved. All. the bones from cold meats or the trimmings from uncooked meats should be put aside to boil up in this liquor. Crack the bones thoroughly. They are very essential to a good soup, for they contain much gelatinous matter that enriches the stock. Every bit of meat or fowl of every kind should be carefully preserved. Put all into a large pot or kettle, with water enough to cover them. Let this simmer slowly over a steady fire, but never let it boil. Keep the pot covered closely, stir the contents frequently. Pour in a cup of cold water now and then, and skim off the scum as fast as it rises. For fresh meat, bones, or scraps, commence with cold water; if cooked meats, use hot water. One quart of water to a pound of meat is a fair proportion. After this has simmered from six to eight hours it will be ready for use. Let it stand over night, then skim off all the fat. Keep a large jar, into which put all the stock you can make day by day. Cover closely. A jar of such stock should be kept constantly on hand, as from it almost any kind of soup can be quickly pre- pared. ST O M AC HIC S.—Medicines, stimulating and warming the stomach. STOMACHIC CORDIAL.— Ginger, i drachm; tincture of carda- moms, 2 drachms ; compound tincture of senna, 3 drachms. STOMACHIC WINE.—Pow- dered Peruvian bark, 1 oz. ; cardamom seeds, and orange peel bruised, each, 2 drachms. Infuse in a bottle of Port wine for five or six days. Strain off the wine. This is a good tonic for the stomach and intestines; it is also a pre- ventative of intermittent fever. It gives tone and vigour to the system after re- covering from disease. STOMACHIC DRAUGHT.— Quassia shavings, 2 drachms; boiling water, 1 pint. Let it remain in a close vessel till cold. Strain. Add to the liquor, tincture of cardamom, 2 ozs.; compound spirits of lavender, 4 drs. ; rhubarb in powder, 1 scruple. Take 3 table-spoonfuls an hour before dinner to create an appetite. STOMACHIC ELIXIR, Dr. Stoughton's. — Pare off the thin yellow rinds of 6 large Seville oranges, and put them in a quart bottle with 1 ox. of gen- tian root, scraped and sliced, and 34 a drachm of cochineal. Pour over these ingredients a pint of brandy ; shake the bottle well several times during that and the following day; let it stand two days more to settle, and clear it off into bottles for use. Take one or two tea-spoonfuls morning and afternoon, in a glass of wine or in a cup of tea. This elegant preparation is a most valuable tonic. STOMACHIC ELIXIR. Gentian root, 2 ozs.; bitter oranges sliced, 1 oz.; Virginia snake root, oz. Bruise, and infuse for four days in 1 pint of brandy; then add a pint of water. A wine-glassful to be taken occasionally. Good for flatulency, in- digestion, want of appetite, &c. STOMACHIC TINCTURE. —Gentian root, sliced, 1 oz. ; orange peel, dried, J4 oz. ; cochineal, 15 grs. ; proof brandy, 1 pint; in 3 or 4 days it is fit for use. Dose: 2 or 3 teaspoon- fuls in a glass of water, twice a day. This tincture is useful in all disorders that arise from a relaxed stomach. STONE.—Stone is an accumula- tion of particles of gravel which unite and form a hard mass, or stone ; and they enlarge by successive layers of gravel until they become very large and difficult to remove. The symptoms are itching at the ex- tremity of the glands of the penis, an in- creased desire to make water, with more or less pain in making it; even when the bladder is emptied, the pain con- tinues ; sometimes there is difficulty in retaining the water; and at other times380 STO STR the flow of It is liable to stop suddenly. The irritation caused by the presence of a stone often produces remote symp- toms, as pain in the back and lower limbs. Treatment. — Give the Diuretic medicines described, pages 162—163. See also Gravel, page 200. Drink strong pennyroyal tea ; or a decoction of burdock, dandelion, white carrot, and parsley roots. Drink half a cup- ful several times a day. Flannels dip- ped in the Stimulating Liniment, com- bined with tincture of cayenne, with 30 drops of laudanum, may be applied externally to the region of pain. It is said that a gill oi red onion juice and a pint of horsemint tea, drank morning and evening, (but not together,) wiU cause a change, and probably dissolve the stone. The following pills may be taken with great benefit:—Parsley seeds, powdered, % oz.; castile soap, 1 oz.; oil of juniper, 30 drops; solidified copaiba, 1 oz. Form into pills. Take two per day. Drink at the same time a solution of saleratus. Many persons have been benefited by a decoction of the wild carrot. Injec- tions, and the vapour bath are very use- ful. When the patient finds it difficult to make water, let him lie on his back for a while, by which the stone may be thrown to the posterior part of the body, and enable him to make water by turn- ing on one or the other side. The diuretic pills should be taken frequently. Dr. Morris, of Canada, has found that an injection of castor oil has great effect in relieving sufferings caused by a stone in the bladder, and as the pain and irritation from this cause are often very gTeat, we recommend it to the notice of those labouring under the affliction. Dr. Morris, being afflicted with the stone, tried the experiment on his own person. “ I first rid myself of the contents of my bladder; then with a large syringe I injected through a small leaden tube, reaching to the sphincter, 2 ozs. of cold drawn Castor oil, and I cannot express my feelings caused by the change which took place upon its introduction, for it seemed as if a new lower half had been given me. The relief continuing, I went to bed, and can safely say, that I had not known, for sometime previous, the pleasure of a sound and uninterrupted sleep. Latterly, I never awoke without a wish to make water, and the morning following was the first expectation to it. When I did obey the call, I took care, finding that the oil came last, to leave as much within the bladder as I could. After this the bladder was constantly supplied with 2 or 3 ozs. of castor oil, and under this treatment every symp- tom of irritation vanished, and during two months no one symptom re-appear- ed to remind him of the existence of the calculous concretion. STONE.— Beat onions into a pulp and apply them as a poultice to the back, or to the groin. It gives speedy ease in the most racking pain. Or, take morning and evening a tga-spoon- ful of onions, calcined in a fire shovel into white ashes, in sherry wine. An oz, will often dissolve the stone. Or, drink largely of water impregnated with fixed air. Those who have not a con- venient apparatus, may substitute the following method: Dissolve 16 grains of salt of tartar in 6 spoonluls of water, to which add as much water acidulated with oil of vitriol as will neutralize the salt. They are to be gradually mixed with each other, so as to prevent the effervescence or dissipation of the fixed air as much as possible. Or, boil an oz. of common thistle-root, and 4 drachms of liquorice in a pint of water. Drink of it every morning. Or, take a decoction, or juice, or syrup of ground ivy, morning and evening. STONE-WORK, to Preserve. —Give one coating of a saturated solu- tion of carbonate of potash, and another coat of muriate of lime (or chloride of calcium). STOVES, the Bright Bars of, to Polish.—Clear from dirt, and then dip a piece of hat felt or doth, into a composition of soft soap and emery; polish with fine glass paper, or rotton stone. STRANGUR Y.—A frequent disposition to make water, attended with smarting pain, heat, difficulty in voiding it: and a great sensation of ful- ness in the bladder. Give plentiful draughts of warm liquid, as barley- water, infusion of linseed, or of gum arabic, with a little nitre dissolved in it.STR 381 STU At the same time, apply warm fomenta- tions to the lower part of the belly, and copious emollient and opiate injections are to be administered; as gruel, half a pint, sweet oil, 1 oz., and laudanum, 12 drops. STRAWBERRIES.—They have many valuable medical properties. They are diaphoretic, diuretic, diluent, cooling, pectoral, of great benefit to the lungs. In fever, on account of their refrigerant properties, they are very use- ful. Persons afflicted with gravel, scurvy, gout, and consumption, may be greatly benefited by them. They cure chilblains; the water is used in France as a wash for that purpose. • STRAWBERRIES, to Pre- serve whole.—Take equal weights of the fruit and refined sugar, lay the former in a large dish, and sprinkle half the sugar in fine powder over, give a gentle shake to the dish that the sugar may touch the whole of the fruit; next day make a thin syrup with the remain- der of the sugar, and instead of water allow one pint of red currant juice to every pound of strawberries; in this simmer them until sufficiently jellied. Choose the largest scarlets, or others when not dead ripe. STRAWBERRIES, to Pre- serve in Wine.—Put a quantity of the finest large strawberries into a goose- berry-bottle, and strew in three large spoonfuls of fine sugar; fill up with Madeira wine or fine sherry. STRAWBERRY SHERBET. —Take 1 lb. of fine strawberries, and crush them in a mortar; add to them 3 pints of water. Pour this into a basin with 2 small lemons sliced, and 2 table- spoonfuls of orange-flower water, to remain 4 hours. Put 1% lb. of loaf sugar into another basin; cover it with a cloth, through which pour the straw- berry juice to drain through ; gather up the cloth, and press out all the juice. When the sugar is dissolved, strain again. Put it to be iced, or add a wine- glassful of brandy. STRAW BONNETS, to Clean.—First brush them with soap and water; then with a solution of oxalic acid. Bleaching.—If they want bleach- ing, proceed thus : Get a deep box air- tight, If possible; place at the bottom a stone, on the stone a flat piece of iron red hot, or a pan of charcoal, on which scatter powdered brimstone; close the lid, and let the bonnets remain a night. There should be hooks in the box, on which to hang the bonnets. STRICTURE of the REC- TUM.—It often proceeds from cos- tiveness, and hardened foeces, which lacerate the parts in passing down the rectum; also by drastic purges, piles, &c. The rectum becomes partially or nearly closed by tumours or scirrhus, which renders evacuation very painful, except the foeces are in a very liquid state. Treatment. — Eat chiefly bread made of unsifted flour ; and small doses, twice or thrice a day, of Turkey rhubarb and magnesia; this aperient has no injurious effect; the same may be said of castor oil; they do not tend to con- stipation after promoting evacuation. The rectum may be dilated by the half of a small tallow candle, dipped in sweet oil; or by means of a bougie, sold by chemists. They should be inserted from 10 to 20 minutes. Occasionally take an Injection of slippery elm bark and castor oil; retain it as long as possible. Let the diet be mild, cooling, and easy of digestion ; and, if you value ease and comfort, avoid the use of all intoxi- cating drink—the great creators of piles, strictures, and diseases of the liver and heart. STURGEON, to Boil.—Water, 2 quarts ; vinegar, 1 pint; a stick of horseradish; a little lemon peel, salt, pepper, a bay leaf. In this boil the fish ; when the flesh is ready to leave the bones, take it up; melt % lb. of butter ; add an anchovy, some mace, a few shrimps, good mushroom ketchup, and lemon juice; when it boils, put in the dish; serve with the sauce; garnish with fried oysters, horseradish, and lemon. STURGEON, to Broil. —Cut slices, rub beaten eggs over them, and sprinkle them with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, and salt; wrap them in white paper, and broil gently. Use for sauce, butter, anchovy, and soy. STURGEON, to Dress Fresh. —Cut slices, rub egg over them, thenSTU 382 sue sprinkle with crumbs of bread, parsley, pepper, salt; fold them in paper, and broil gently. Sauce ; butter, anchovy, and soy. STURGEON, to Roast.—Put a piece of butter, rolled in Hour, into a stew-pan with four cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, two onions, some pepper and salt, half a pint of water, and a glass of vinegar. Set it over the fire till hot; then let it become lukewarm, and steep the fish in it an hour or two. Butter a paper well, tie it round, and roast it without letting the spit run through. Serve with sorrel and an- chovy sauce. ST. VITUS’S DANCE.—This is a convulsive disease, principally attacking children from 10 to 16 years of age. It is indicated by a twitching and convulsive action of the muscles of the body, and by lameness or unsteadi- ness of one of the legs, which the patient draws after him like an idiot. Then it affects the hand on the same side; so that if a glass of liquor be put into his hand to drink, before he can get it to his mouth, he uses a great number of odd gestures, on account of the hand being drawn different ways by the con- vulsive action of the muscles, so that he cannot carry it in a straight line. The will of the patient seems often to yield to these convulsive motions as to a pro- pensity. After continuing some weeks, the intellectual operations of the brain are weakened. Females are most sub- ject to this disease. This disease arises from an increased irritability of the nervous system, which is often produced by some derangement of the stomach, bowels, and nerves; sometimes by worms, violent passions, fright, or violent mental emotions, &c. In females, it probably arises from the same causes which produce hysterics. Treatment.—The irritation of the cerebral system (brain and nerves) being generally symptomatic of a disordered state of the digestive organs, or kept up by irritation in the stomach or bowels, the cure must be commenced by a pur- gative. Do not allow the bowels to be constipated. If the stomach is derang- ed, give an emetic. (See page 172.) This will evacuate and cleanse the stomach, give it tone, and benefit the nervous system. Repeat, if necessary. The diet must be very plain. The vapour bath of bitter decoction is of im- mense service. Rub the body frequent- ly with the Stimulating Liniment. When symptoms of improvement are manifest, give Peruvian bark in port wine, adding water if too strong; or give the Restorative Wine Bitters, adding a % oz. of the red oxide of iron. Give the aperients now and then, especially the Dyspeptic Pill, page 168. The subcarbonate of iron, 2 drachms, for a dose, is a most valuable remedy. It may be given in a little syrup, beer, or porter. Dr. Reece says, "When the symp- toms are abated, cold bathing every morning, if it does not alarm the mind, will prove of great advantage; and with the use of the muriated tincture of steel, in the dose of 10 or 15 drops, in a glass of cold valerian and camomile tea, will probably complete the cine: if the patient have not sufficient resolution to go into the cold bath, cold water may be applied every morning to the head. The diet should be regulated accord- ing to the strength of the patient; if plethoric, a low diet should be observed, and wine and stimulants avoided ; on the contrary, if the body be much de- bilitated, a nutritious diet should be employed ; but even in this case, wine and stimulants should be allowed with great caution.” STYE.—It is a small boil which projects from the eyelid, much inflamed, and very painful. Apply a poultice of linseed meal, or bread and milk, and take at the same time an aperient. If the stye is ripe, puncture it, and then apply spermaceti ointment. SUCKING PIG, to Roast.— Get it when just killed : this is of great advantage. Let it be scalded. Put some sage, crumbs of bread, salt, and pepper, into the belly and sew it up. Observe to skewer the legs back, or the under part will not crisp. Lay it to a brisk fire till dry; then rub the pig with butter in every part. Dredge flour over it; scrape off the flour with a blunt knife, rub it well with a buttered cloth, and take off the head while at the fire. Then take it up, cut it down the back and belly, lay it into the dish, and chop quickly the sage and bread very fine.SUG sue 383 and mix plenty of fine melted butter and a little flour. Put the sauce into the dish after the pig has been split down the back, and garnish with the ears and the two jaws. Many now serve a suck- ing pig whole. Pour the gravy into the sauce; and garnish with lemon or bread sauce and currants. SUCKING PIG, Baked.—Pre- pare in the same way as for roasting, and rub it over with white of egg, which has been slightly beaten. Baste it well with butter. SUCCEDANEUM for’Filling Decayed Teeth.—Tinfoil and quick- silver. Melt together in a convenient vessel, and take a small quantity, knead it in the palm of the hand, and apply it directly. SUDORIFICS. Medicines causing much perspiration. SUDORIFIC or Fever Drops. —Of expressed juice of houseleek, 1 pint, strained; loaf sugar, 1 pound. Simmer for 30 minutes to form a syrup. Dose :—One teaspoonful every 2 hours, but not until proper evacuants have been administered. This prepara- tion has never been known to fail in relieving or curing fever. SUDORIFIC, or FEVER POWDER.—Crawley root, 1 oz : lobelia herb, % oz. ; pleurisy root, 1 oz.; skunk cabbage, % oz. Powder, and mix them together. Dose, from a quarter to half a tea-spoonful every one hour and a half till perspiration is pro- duced. It may be given in balm or common tea. In fevers, inflammations, influenza, and colds, this powder is invaluable. It subdues irritation, corrects the pulse, Improves respiration, and promotes sound natural sleep. It is sure, if properly administered, to arrest a fever. Keep it in a bottle, well corked. See also page 321. SUET DUMPLINGS.—Shred 1 lb. of suet; mix with * K lb. of flour. a eggs beaten separately, a little salt, and as little milk as will make it. Make it into two small balls. Boil 20 minutes. The fat of loins or necks of mutton finely shred makes a more delicate dumpling than suet. SUET PUDDING. — Take six spoonfuls of flour, r lb. of suet, shred small, 4 eggs, a spoonful of beaten ginger, a spoonful of salt, and a quart of milk. Mix the eggs and flour with a pint of milk very thick, and with the seasoning, mix in the rest of the milk with the suet. Boil two hours. SUGAR, to Clarify.—Put the whites of two eggs in four pints of water; froth the water by whipping it with a whisk; put into a proper pan 12 or 14 lbs. of loaf sugar, broken in pieces ; wet it, and make it fall by add- ing two-thirds of the water in which the egg has been mixed; set it upon the fire; take care when it rises; throw in a little cold water, aDd take it off, to let it fall and throw up the scum; in five or six minutes put it again on the fire, and continue to skim it as it rises, throwing in a little water sufficient to keep it from flying over: when it is very pure it will rise no more; take it off, and pass it through a wet bag or napkin. The first degree is the short thread; for which it must again be put upon the fire ; let it boil, till dipping the finger into it, and press- ing it against the thumb, which on opening forms a thread and breaks, and runs back into a drop upon the finger. SUGAR, to Clear all kinds of. —Take a little gum arabic, and a little Isinglass dissolved in hot water; pour it when dissolved on vour suenr. when hSWE SUG 384 Is boiling, and it will clear all the sedi- ment to the top of the pan, which you must skim off as soon as it rises.—Loaf sugar may be cleared with the white of an egg, isinglass, or gum arabic. A little of each will do. SUGAR BOILING. When you boil loaf sugar, to about 3 lbs. add a tablespoonful of vinegar; it prevents it from going too hard and glassy while you are making it up. You may make birds, &c., of all kinds, out of a loaf sugar, when boiled and pulled till white as snow. Loaf sugar, also, whai boiled, by pulling it very well, rolling it into long rolls and twisted a little, will make rock, which is commonly called snowy rock, or snow. Sugar when boiled may be made into small balls, called bull’s eyes. You may twist, roll, and cut it into any shape you choose. A marble stone must be provided to make your paste on, also to pour your sugar on when boiled.—In purchasing all your articles, be careful to have them good and genuine. SUGAR CAKE.—Half a lb. of butter, 1 lb. of flour, 3 eggs, milk enough to form a dough. Beat the butter and sugar together. Whisk the eggs light, and add them ; then stir in the milk and flour alternately, so as to form a dough. Cut in cakes, and bake in a moderate oven. SUGAR GINGERBREAD— Butter, 12 ozs. ; sugar, finely powdered, 8 ozs. ; ground ginger, 1 tablespoonful, and a little cinnamon and nutmeg ; beat these up to a foam ; beat well 4 eggs, and mix them with the other. Add a cupful of cream, a tablespoonful of saleratus, or bicarbonate of j potass, dissolved in hot water. Stir in fine flour as long as it can be worked, and knead thoroughly. Roll into thin cakes ; bake in a quick oven. See page 195. SUGAR LOAF, to Make- Take 6 lbs. of raw sugar, a little bul- lock’s blood and water, boil it, and skim till it is clear, and till it comes to a candy round the edges of the pan; then pour it into a mould in the shape of a sugar loaf. Make strong lime water, and when the sugar Ls cold in the mould, pour the water over it. SUGAR PASTE—For 1 lb. of flour, take a % lb. of sugar, as much butter, a little salt, water, and an egg. This paste may serve for any second course dish. SUGAR PUFFS—Beat up the whites of ten eggs, fill they rise to a high froth ; put them into a mortar, with as much double refined sugar as will make it thick; rub it well round the mortar ; add a few caraway seeds, and take a sheet of wafer cake, and lay it on as broad as a sixpence, and high. Put into a moderate oven for 15 minutes, and they will look white. SULPHUR OINTMENT.— Take of hog's lard prepared, four ounces ; flour of sulphur, an ounce and a half; crude sal ammoniac, two drachms; essence of lemon, ten or twelve drops. Make them into an ointmenr. This ointment rubbed upon the parts affected will generally cure the itch. It is both the safest and best ap- plication for that purpose, and when made in this way, has no disagreeable smell. SWEATING DROPS—Take of camphor, saffron, ipecacuanha, opium, Virginian snake root, of each, j oz. ; Hollands gin, pint. Infuse 2 or 3 days. A wonderfully efficacious cure for fever and ague, after suitable evacuants. Dr. Beach says, ‘‘I find this the best medicine for fever and ague of any with which I am acquainted. In two cases this tincture removed the paroxysms where ether remedies failed ; one patient had been under homoeo- pathic treatment for many months. SWEETMEAT PUDDING. —Cover the dish with a plain puff paste; then take candied orange, or lemon peel, and citron, of each 1 oz. ; slice them thin, and lay them all over the bottom of the dish. Beat up 8 yolks of eggs, and 2 whites, and put to them % lb. of sugar, and % lb. of melted butter. Mix all well together; put it on the sweetmeats, and bake it in a moderate oven an hour. SWELLINGS, Poultice for— Take of barley-meal, or oatmeal, 6 ozs,; fresh leaves of hemlock, braised, 2 ozs.; vinegar, a sufficient quantity; boil to- gether a few minutes. It is very useful in reducing swelling of nearly every kind.SWE TEA 385 Swelling of the Body.—Use linseed poultices with plenty of oil in it. Repeat before cold until the pain is abated. SWISS PUDDING.—Batter a basin. Take bread crumbs, add a little sugar; then dissolve 1 oz. of butter; chop a few apples fine, and mix. Bake half an hour. SYLLABUB.—Put a pint and a half of port or white wine into a bowl, nutmeg grated, and a good deal of sugar, then milk into it near two quarts of milk, frothed up. If the wine be not rather sharp, it will require more for the quantity of milk. — In Devonshire, domed cream is put on the top, and pounded cinnamon and sugar. SYLLABUBS, Durable.—Mix a quart of thick raw cream, one pound of refined sugar, a pint and a half of fine raisin wine in a deep pan; put to it the grated ped and the juice of three lemons. Beat, or whisk it one way half an hour ; then put it on a sieve with a bit of thin muslin laid smooth in the shallow end till next day. Put it in glasses. It will keep good, in a cool place, ten days. SYRUP, Simple. — Refined sugar, 15 parts ; water, 8 parts. Dis- solve by a gentle heat Boil a little to form a syrup. Simple syrup should have neither flavour nor colour. Syrup is easily clarified by beating to a froth the white of an egg, with 3 or 4 ozs. of water, mixing it with the syrup, and boiling the mixture for a few seconds, until the albumen coagulates and forms a scum, which may be easily taken off, or separated by filtration. T TAPIOCA JELLY. — Wash well two large spoonfuls of large tapioca; soak it in 1 £ pint of water for four hours ; stew it gently in the same water till it is clear. Let it cool, and use it either with or without a little new milk. TAPIOCA PUDDING.—Put lb. of tapioca into a saucepan of cold water ; when it boils, strain it to a pint of new milk ; boil till it soaks up all the milk, and put it out to cooL Beat the yolks of four eggs, and the whites of two, a table-spoonful of brandy, sugar, nutmeg, and a ora. of butter. Mix all together; put a puff paste round the dish, and send it to the oven. It is very good boiled with melted butter, wine and sugar. f/ TAR.—It is beneficial in bron- chitis and other affections of the chest. Tar -water is made by digesting a ozs. of tar in three pints of water for four days. It is good for hoarseness; it clears the lungs, and facilitates public speaking. • ' TARTAR, to remove from the Teeth.—Brush the teeth often up and down, not horizontally, with soap, then with salt Eating fruit and oat- cake, cleanses the teeth greatly. In using the tooth brush the friction ought never to cause the gums to bleed. TARTS, Paste for. Page 296. TART, Almond.—Bleach some almonds, beat them fine in a mortar, with a little .sherry and sugar in the proportion of 1 lb. to 1 lb. of almonds; add grated bread, nutmeg, cream, and the juice of spinach for a colouring. Bake it gently, and thicken it with can- died orange or citron. TART, Apple. Prepare pufl paste, and put in apple preserves, or apple jelly; add lemon-peel without pith. TART, Orange.—Line a tart pan with thin puff paste; put into it orange marmalade made with apple jelly; lay bars of paste, and bake in a moderate oven. TARTS, Transparent.—Take 1 lb. of flour, beat an egg till thin, then melt % lb. of clarified fresh butter to mix with the egg, and when cool, pour the whole into the flour, and form the paste. Roll it thin, make up the tarts, put in the oven, wet them over with a little water, and grate on sugar. * TARTLETS.— Sheet the tartlet pans with puff paste; put any kind of sweetmeat; cross bar, and put them into the oven to bake ; when done, put them on paper to soak the butter from the paste. TEA and COFFEE, Substi- tute for.—Take a small handful of agrimony, one handful of blackberry leaves, and a few raspberry leaves, and a small quantity of balm or mint, according to taste; put it into a jugTEA 386 TES that will hold three pints, then pour on boiling hot water, infuse five minutes, then sweeten. For a change you may use Avens in the same way as agrimony. TEA CAKES.—Take 3 lbs. of flour, 5 ozs. of sugar, 6 ozs. of butter, rubbed into the flour, and a tea-cupful of new balm ; set them to rise with millc and water; then mix them, to stand half an hour ; make them up, roll them thin, and lay them on tins to rise; bake them a fine brown in a hot oven ; when they are baked, rub a little butter over them. TEA CAKES.—Rub fine 4 ozs. of butter into 8 ozs. of flour; mix 8 ozs. of currants, and six of fine sugar, two yolks and one white of egg, and a spoonful of brandy ; roll what size you like; beat the other white of egg, and wash over them. Dust sugar upon them, if you like. TEA CAKES, Small.—Put a lb. of butter into 1 lb. of flour ; mix lb. of sifted loaf sugar, and wet it with water; when made up divide into two equal parts; put 1 oz. of caraway seeds to one piece, to have two sorts. Rub the paste out very thin, and cut it out with a small round cutter ; butter a baking sheet, and dust it with flour; lay the cakes on, and bake in a slow oven till of a light brown. TEAL.—This delicate bird should be dressed with the utmost care. They should be served up with gravy in them, and put to a quick fire or oven. A few minutes will be sufficient. Serve with a rich gravy, or shalot sauce. TEETH, Decayed to fill,—If it has a cavity, steep a little gutta percha in boiling water ; then place sufficient in the cavity, press it down well, till it is level with the other teeth. Cool it by holding cold water a few minutes on the same side, and it will harden. ggy- Wipe the cavity as dry as pos- sible previous to the insertion. The fluid mastic cement of the shop will fill a cavity, and it allays the tooth- ache immediately.—See Teeth, hollow. TEETH, Hollow, to fill.—See Svccedancutn.—Or, take a drachm of gutta percha, softened by hot water, worked up with catechu powder and tannic acid, of each half a drachm, and with a drop of essential oil. For use, a morsel is to be softened over the flame of a spirit lamp, introduced while warm into the cavity of the tooth, and adapted properly. The mass becomes hard, and after several months exhibits no decom- position. TEETH, Loose, to Fasten.— Dissolve % oz. of myrrh in half a pint of port wine, and a ozs. of oil of almonds. Mix, and wash the mouth every morning.—Chew a little catechu, or kino, or alum occasionally. TEETH, Opiate for.—Honey, 1 pound; laudanum, 8 ounces; oil of almonds, 1 ounce; essence of bergamot, 2 drachms; tincture of pelitory, 4 ounces. Mix well and strain. Apply with a piece of cotton or lint. TENCH, to Fry.—Scale, gut, and well wash. Dry them, and lay them separately on a board before the fire, after dusting some flour over them. Fry them with fresh dripping to a fine colour. Serve with crimp parsley, and plain butter. Tench may be cooked the same as Trout, which see. TESTICLES, Cancer in.—The same treatment as in Cancer, which see. TESTICLES, Inflammation of.—The part is much pained and swollen, the pain extending along the spermatic cord ; there are symptomatic pains in the loins, &c. Adopt a recumbent posture. Suspend the part by means of a bag truss. Foment with refrigerants, washes, and apply poultices, and the stramonium ointment, or ointment made of burnt sponge, which is made by burning sponge in a closed vessel; powder it, mix with lard, and apply it. Poultices of bread and milk, softened with oil may be applied when the patient is in bed. The discutient ointment applied will be of great use. 'The stramonium poultice is highly recommended. The food must be light, and the drink diluting. Wine, spirits, and beer must be avoided. Aperients should be occa- sionally given, and the general health established. Thompson's HOT DROPS.— Gum myrrh, a ozs. ; cayenne pepper, xdrachm; spirit of wine, 1 pint. Put in a bottle, and shake several times a day for a week. Take from a teaspoon- ful in a little warm tea. These drop*387 TIN THR remove pain, and prevent mortification, internally and externally. It is a fine remedy for rheumatism. It will relieve the headache by taking a dose, bathing the head with it and snuffing it up the nose. It is good for bruises, sprains, swollen joints, and old sores, &c., &c. THRUSH.—An affection pecu- liar to young children, during the period of teething. It is an affection of the mucous membrane of the mouth. It appears in small white ulcers upon the tongue, gums, and around the mouth. If not mild it may extend to the whole of the alimentary canal, from the mouth down to the anus, attended with flatu- lency, purgings, &c. In this severe form it often terminates fatally. Some- times the inside of the mouth becomes so raw and sore, as to make it painful to take nourishment. Elderly people, and persons with debilitated constitu- tions, are liable to this complaint. Attention should be paid to the state of the general system, especially to the stomach and bowels. An emetic is often of great service. Give also a gentle aperient. Small doses of mag- nesia, and the use of lime water will be of great service in removing the acid from the stomach and bowels. The Neutralizing Mixture diluted may be given till the bowels are acted upon. Make a decoction of sage and hyssop, add a little borax, and wash the affected parts with it. Let it be sweetened. A solution of burnt alum has been recom- mended ; or apply it pulverised. THUNDER STORMS.— During those storms, avoid trees, and elevated objects of every kind. If the flash is instantly followed by thunder, it indicates that the electric fluid is very near, and then a recumbent position is best. Avoid rivers and ponds, be- cause water is a conductor, and persons in boats are very likely to be struck by the lightning. Avoid the chimney, for the iron about the grate, the soot, and the ratified air are all conductors. Do not sit near an open window, because a draught of humid air is a good conductor. In bed we are com- paratively safe, for the feathers and blankets are ted conductors, and v/e are, to a great extent, insulated in such situations. TIC DOLOUREUX.—Take \ a pint of rose-water, add 3 teaspoonfuls of white vinegar, to form a lotion. Apply it to the part affected 4 or 5 times a day. It requires fresh linen and lotion each application : this will in 2 or 3 days gradually take away the pain. Quinine, either in pills or as a draught, is also efficacious in removing these pains. Quinine Draught. —Sulphate of quinine, 2 grains ; diluted sulphuric acid, 2 drops; spirit of nutmegs, 1 drachm; distilled water, 10 drachms. Mix. A wine-glassful to be taken daily at mid-day. Cleanse the stomach and bowels by an emetic and an aperient. Give the Restorative Wine Bitters, to which add a little of the subcarbonate of iron. If constipated, take the Dyspeptic Pill, Cold water cloths applied form no mean remedy: also the Rheumatit Liquid, which see. If the pain is very severe, apply the Stimulating Liniment, and afterwards a poultice made of hops, powdered valerian, and a little tincture of cayenne. I have found extract of henbane, in the dose of 3 grains, formed into a pill, given three times a day, to afford great relief. Where there is much irritation of the nerves of the face, particular attention must be paid to the state of the diges- tive organs ; for nothing tends more to keep up nervous irritability than indiges- tion. See Page 217. The extract of belladonna is a good preventive taken previous to the attack. Take one grain. Repeat, if necessary. Chloro- form is now used for Tic. It should be advised by a skilful chemist. Or, pour a pint of boiling water on 1 02. of valerian root, and oz. of cassia. Infuse 24 hours. Take a wine-glassful three times a day, between meals, with a tea-spoonful of powdered Peruvian bark in each glass. Take no tea, coffee, ale, porter, or acids, but a light, nour- ishing diet; and keep the bowels regu- lar with a little Turkey rhubarb. TIN COVERS, to Clean. Mix the finest whiting with the least drop of sweet oil; rub well, and wipe clean; then dust some dry whiting over, and rub bright with dry leather. TINCTURE of LOBELIA— See page 241. Take 4 ozs. of the driedTOM 388 TIN plant, water and spirits of wine, of each, 1 pint; sulphuric ether, 1 oz.; spirits of nitric ether, % a pint. Macerate in a dark place one or two weeks. Strain. Begin with one or two drops at a time. It is excellent for asthma, and asthmatic or spasmodic cough. It is good in hooping cough, chronic bronchitis, croup, &c. TINNING.—Plates or vessels of brass or copper, boiled with a solution of stannate of potassa mixed with turn- ings of tin, become, in the course of a few minutes, covered with a firmly attached layer of pure tin. A similar- effect is produced by boiling the articles with tin filings and caustic alkali, or cream of tartar. In the above way, chemical vessels made of copper or brass may be easily and perfectly tinned. Tinning Process.—The articles to be tinned are first covered with diluted sulphuric acid, and when quite cleaned in warm water, are dipped in a solution of muriatic acid, copper, and zinc, and then plunged into a tin bath, to which a small quantity of zinc has been added. When the tinning is finished, the articles are taken out and plunged into boiling water. The operation is completed by placing them in a very warm sand bath. This process softens iron. TINNING COPPER.—First dean the copper with sandstone ; then heat and rub it over with sal-ammoniac. The tin, mixed with powdered resin, is then placed on the copper, which is made so hot as to melt the tin, and to allow of its being spread over the sur- face, with a bit of tow. TOAST AND CHEESE.— Cut a slice of bread half an inch thick ; toast it slightly on both sides, so as just to brown it. Cut a slice of good Cheshire cheese an inch thick; place upon the toasted bread in a cheese toaster to toast. Season with salt, pepper, and mustard. —— Or, the cheese may be mixed with butter, yolk of egg, well mixed, browned in a Dutch oven spread upon toast. TOAST and WATER.—Take a thin slice of bread, and toast it on both sides, until it is browned all over, not burnt; put it into a jug, and pom- water over It from the tea kettle. Let the water be In a boiling state. Cover the jug and let it cooL TOBACCO, British Herb.— This is made of coltsfoot and plantain leaves, with a smaller portion of sage, thyme, eyebright, rosemary, wood be- tony, and yarrow. TOFFY.—Butter, 2J ozs.; sugar, 1 lb.; melt and stir over the fire till it comes to the crackled degree. The addition of a little lemon juice greatly improves it. Some add ginger. A nice toffy may be made as above, not boiled so much, by the addition of well strain- ed jelly, as apricot, currant, raspberry, strawberry, &c. Everton Toffy requires more but- ter. Some mix with the above Toffy blanched Almonds. See page 175. TOFFY.—To 1 lb. of raw sugar add 2 ozs. of butter. When boiled to the crackled degree, grain it, and pom it out in square tins, either oiled or buttered. TOLU LOZENGES.— They are good for Coughs.—Powdered sugar, 5 ozs.; cream of tartar, \ oz. ; tincture of balsam of tolu, 1 £ dr. Mix well, and form into lozenges with 10 drops of laudanum, and a solution of gum 3xa.bic. TOMATO SAUCE.—Take 12 tomatoes, very red and ripe; take off the stalks, take out the seeds, and press out the water. Put the expressed toma- toes into a stewpan with i| oz. of butter, a bay leaf, and a little thyme ; put it up- on a moderate fire; stir it into a pulp; put into it a good cullis, or the top of broth, which will be better. Rub it through a sieve, and put it into a stewpan with 2 spoonfuls of cullis : put in a little salt and cayenne. TOMATO SAUCE.—Proceed as above with the seeds and water. Put them into a stewpan, with salt and cay- enne, and 3 table-spoonfuls of beef gravy. Set them on a slow stove for an horn, or till properly melted. Strain, and add a little good stock, and simmer a few minutes. TOMATOES, Stewed.—Pom boiling water over 12 peeled tomatoes; cut them into a stew-pan, with bread crumbs, salt, pepper, butter, and a cooked onion. Simmer long. Add eggs before done.TON TON 389 TONGUE, to Boil. If the tongue be a dry one, steep in water aU night. Boil it 3 hours. If you prefer it hot, stick it with cloves. Clear off the scum, and add savoury herbs when it has boiled 2 hours ; but this is optional. Rub it over with the yolk of an egg; strew over it bread crumbs; baste it with butter; set it before the fire till it is of a light brown. When you dish it up, pour a little brown gravy, cr port wine sauce mixed the same way as for venison. Lay slices of currant jelly round it. TONGUE, to Eat Cold.—Sea- son with common salt and saltpetre, brown sugar, a little bay-salt, pepper, cloves, mace, and allspice, in fine pow- der, for a fortnight; then take away the pickle, put the tongue into a small pan, and lay some butter on it; cover it with brown crust, and bake slowly till so ten- der that a straw would go through it. The thin part of tongues, when hung up to dry, eats like hung beef, and also makes a fine addition to the flavour of omelets. TONGUE, to Pickle for Boil- ing.—Cut off the root, but leave a little of the kernel and fat. Sprinkle some salt, and let it drain from the slime till next day : then for each tongue mix a large spoonful of common salt, the same of coarse sugar, and about % as much of saltpetre ; rub it well in, and do so every day. In a week add another heaped spoonful of salt. If rubbed every day, a tongue will be ready in a fortnight; but if only turned in the pickle daily, it will keep 4 or 5 weeks without being too salt. When it is to be dressed, boil it till extremely tender ; allow 5 hours ; and if done sooner, it is easily kept hot. The longer kept after drying the better it will be : if hard, it may require soak- ing 3 or 4 hours. TONGUE, to Pickle.—Clean as above : for a tongues allow an ounce of saltpetre, and 1 oz. of salts of prunella; rub them well. In 2 days, after well rubbing, cover them with common salt, tum them every day for 3 weeks, then dry them, and rub over them bran, and smoke them. In 10 days they will be fit to eat. Keep in a cool dry place. TONGUE, to Pot. — Rub the tongue with 1 oz. of saltpetre, and 4 ozs. of brown sugar: let it lie 2 days ; then boil it till it is quite tender. Take off the skin and side bits; then cut the tongue in very thin slices, and beat it well, with 1 lb. of butter, mace, pepper, and salt to taste. Then pot, and pour over it clarified butter. TONGUES, to Salt. — Scrape the tongue, and dry clean with a cloth ; salt with common salt, and £ oz. of salt- petre to every tongue; lay them in a deep pot, and tum them every day for g days. Salt them again, and let them lie 6 days longer. Take up ; dry, flour them, and hang up. TONGUE, to Stew. — Salt a tongue with saltpetre and common salt for a week, turning it every day. Boil it tender enough to peel; when done, stew it in a moderately strong gravy; season with soy, mushroom ketchup, cayenne, pounded cloves, and salt if necessary. Serve with truffles, morels, and mush- rooms. In both this receipt and the last, the roots must be taken off the tongue before salting, but some fat left. TONICS. — Medicines strength- ening the system in general. TONIC BITTERS.—See page 62. The following herbs are for tonic bitters. They may be infused or decoct- ed. They increase the tone or con- tractility of all the muscular fibre, and thereby strengthen the whole body. They drive away fever, increase the ap- petite, expel worms, &c.— White Poplar Bark, Golden Seal, Gum Myrrh, Tansy, Dandelion Root, Balmony, Hops, Cen- taury, Bogbean, Gentian, Barberry Bark, Columba, Unicorn Root, Worm- wood, Quassia, Camomile Flowers. TONIC PILL.—Extract of gen- tian, 2 scruples; sulphate of iron, 16 grains ; sulphate of quinine, 10 grains. Mix, and form into pills. Take 1 pill 3 times a day. TONIC TINCTURE. — Peru- vian bark, bruised, i£ oz.; orange peel, bruised, 1 oz. ; brandy, or proof spirit, 1 pint. Infuse 10 days; shake the bottle every day. Pour off the liquor, and strain. 1 ake a tea-spoonful in a wine-glassful of water twice a day, when you feel languid.TOO TOO 390 TOOTHACHE REMEDIES. —The following are good :— 1. Oil of cloves, % dr.; laudanum, 2 drs.; powdered alum, 1 dr. ; spirits of nitre, 2 drs. ; chloroform, % dr. Mix. Apply with lint. 2. A mixture of 2 parts of the liquid ammonia of commerce, with 1 of some simple tincture, (tincture of Benjamin. &c.) is a good remedy for toothache, A piece of Unt dropped into this mixture and introduced into the carious tooth, when the nerve is immediately cauterised and the pain stopped. 3. Saturate a httle cotton wool with oil of cloves, and put it to the tooth.— The oil of cloves might be kept ready in a bottle. It would be more efficacious if mixed with camphor, and 2 or 3 drops of chloroform.—Or creosote, one part; spirits of wine, 10 parts; mix, and apply. 4. Sometimes diluted ammonia re- lieves the toothache. Also a mixture of camphor, laudanum, oil of cloves, and chloroform. Mix well.—Or keep in the mouth warm water and salt, with one- fourth of laudanum. 5. Take of alum, in powder, 2 drs.; spirits of nitre, 7 drs. Mix, and apply it to the teeth. 6. Take 3 spoonfuls of brandy, add- ing to it 1 dr. of camphor, with 30 or 40 drops of laudanum. Drop a httle on some lint. Apply it to the affected tooth and gum. A httle tincture of cayenne would be an improvement. 7. Be electrified through the teeth. . Or apply to the aching tooth an artificial magnet. Or lay roasted par- ings of turnips, as hot as may be, be- hind the ear. Or lay a clove of garhc on the tooth. Or keep the feet in warm water, and rub them well with bran just before bed time. 8. Alum reduced to an impalpable powder, 3 drs. ; nitrous spirit of ether, 1 scruple ; mix ; and apply to the tooth. Or, take of compound tincture of Benjamin, and Batley’s solution of opi- um, of each, 1 dr. Mix. A httle drop- ped on cotton, and applied to the hol- low, and the gum of a decayed tooth, will afford effectual relief. 9. Take of tincture of cayenne, oil of cloves, and oil of summer savory, equal parts; put into 3 table-spoonfuls of spirit of wine. Add 6 drops of chloro- form. Apply to the affected tooth and gums. Apply to the face at the same time a flannel bag of hops and camomile flowers saturated with hot vinegar, and 30 drops of laudanum. 10. Warm water and salt kept in the mouth for some time, and renewed is a good remedy. TOOTHACHE, to Prevent.— Wash the mouth with cold water every morning, and rince them after every meal. Or, rub the teeth often with tobacco ashes. TOOTHACHE. —The Lancet says toothache can be cured by one drachm of collodion added to two drachms of Calvert’s carbolic acid. A gelatinous mass is precipitated, a small portion of which, inserted in the cavity of an aching tooth, invariably gives Immediate relief. TOOTH POWDERS. —The following are recommended :— 1. Take % oz. of powdered gum myrrh, 1 oz., of powdered bark, 3 drachms of cream of tartar, 1 drachm of bole ammoniac, mix in a mortar. A constant use of this powder will cause the teeth to obtain a beautiful whiteness, and preserve them from decaying, and prevent the toothache. 2. Peruvian bark, charcoal, armenian bole, of each, A oz. : powdered cinna- mon, and bicarbonate of soda, of each, % oz.; oil of cinnamon, 4 drops. Mix. 3. One, to Cure a Bad Breath. —Cream of tartar and chalk, each oz. ; myrrh, powdered charcoal, 2 drachms; powdered orris root, % a drachm; powdered Peruvian bark, 2 drachms. Mix well together.—Rub- bing the gums with salt occasionally destroys the animalcula which probably cause decay and aching of the teeth. 4. Pounded charcoal very fine, 2 ozs.; Peruvian bark, 1 oz. ; camphor, lA oz. 5. Prepared chalk, orris root, and charcoal, powdered, equal parts. 6. Coffee newly ground fine, mixed with charcoal, is a first rate powder. Scent as you like. 7. Powdered cuttle-fish, 8 ozs. ; pow- dered charcoal, 2 ozs. ; burnt alum, 1 oz.; powdered myrrh, 1 oz. Mix.TOO TRJE 39* TOOTH TINCTURE.—Mix 6 ounces of tincture of Peruvian bark with half an ounce of sal-ammoniac, .shake them well a few minutes, every time, before the tincture is used. The method of using it is, to take a teaspoonful and hold it near the teeth ; then, with a finger dipped in, rubbing the gums and teeth, which are afterward to be washed with warm water. This tincture not only cures the toothache, but preserves both the teeth and gums, and makes them adhere to each other. TOOTH WASHES.—Tincture of myrrh, diluted with water, and cam- phorated spirits. Or, a solution of borax and camphorated spirit com- bined. TRACING PAPER.—Use Canada balsam dissolved in spirits of wine, and a little turpentine. Apply with a soft brush, or sponge, and hang up to dry. The best tissue paper should be used. TREACLE BEER.—Take 4 lbs. of treacle, 2 ozs. of hops, and % oz. of ginger bruised. Pour upon the same 4 gallons of boiling water. Fer- ment with a small cupful of yeast. TREACLE PARKIN. —Oat- meal, 4 lbs. ; flour, 1 lb.; butter, 1 lb. ; treacle, 4 lbs. ; sugar, 1 lb.; ginger, oz. ; sweet pepper, 1 oz. ; caraway seeds, r oz.; carbonate of soda, 3 tea- spoonfuls. Add half a cupful of cream, which with the treacle, sugar, and butter, must be well rubbed into the meal and flour. Warm the treacle and sugar in the oven, and mix well.—See Parkin, page 293. TREACLE POSSET.—Boil a small basinful of milk, and put in treacle enough to curdle it. Drink it on retiring to bed. It generally cures a severe cold by producing profuse per- spiration, and dispelling the fever of the patient. TREACLE PUDDING. Make the paste as for other boiled pud- dings, adding treacle, and small raisins, (or without,) according to taste. Boil in a cloth three hours. Serve with sweetened melted butter. TREES AND PLANTS, Longevity of.—It is quite difficult to obtain reliable facts from observation in regard to the age of trees, because some species live hundreds and thou- sands of years, and must therefore be watched by many generations of men in order to ascertain their exact age. It is therefore customary to count the rings that are formed in the growth of trees that attain to great age. On this subject Hufeland writes as follows: “ Plants may all, however, be reduced, according to tneir duration cf life, into three principal classes : annual, or pro- perly only semi-annual, which grow up in spring and die in autumn ; biennial, which die at the end of the second year ; and, lastly, perennial, the duration of which extends from four to a thousand years. “ All plants of a soft, watery constitu- tion, and which have fine, tender organs, have a short life, and last only one or at most two years. Those alone which have stronger organs and tougher juices exist longer, but wood is absolutely necessary in order to attain to the high- est degree of vegetable existence. “Even among those which live only one or two years, a remarkable differ- ence may be observed. Those which are of a cold, insipid nature, and desti- tute of smell, live, under like circum- stances, not so long as the strong- scented balsamic plants, which contain more essential oil and spirits. “ Lettuce, wheat, oats, barley, and all kinds of corn live no more than a year; but, on the other hand, thyme, mint, hyssop, balm, wormwood, marjoram, sage, &c., can live two years, and even longer. Shrubs and small trees can live sixty years, and some even twice that number. “ The vine attains to sixty or a hun- dred years, and continues fruitful at the greatest age. This is the case also with rosemary. The acanthus and ivy, how- ever, can exceed the age of a hundred. Among many such, for example, as the different kinds of rubus (common bram- ble, blackberry, raspberry), it is difficult to determine the age, as the branches creep along the ground and always form new plants, so that it is almost impos- sible to distinguish the new from the old; and by these means they make their existence, as it were, perennial. Those which attain to the highest age are the greatest, strongest, and hardestTRJE TRE 392 trees; such as the oak, the lime-tree, the beech, the chestnut, the elm, the palm-tree, the cedar, the olive, the palm, the mulberry-tree, and the baobab. We may with certainty affirm that some of the cedars of Lebanon, the celebrated chestnut tree, di centi cavalli, in Sicily, and several of the sacred oaks under which the ancient Germans performed their religious ceremonies, may have attained to the age of a thousand years and more. These are the most venerable, the only now existing testi- monies of the ancient world, and inspire us with reverence and awe when the rustling wind plays through their silvery locks, which once served to overshade the Druids and our wild ancestors clothed in their bear-skins.’’ Grindon remarks on the longevity of trees: “How vast are the periods of life allotted to the longaeval trees may be judged from the following list of ages known to have been reached by patri- archs of the respective kinds: •Cercis 300 years. Elm 33S it Ivy ... ... ... 4SO it Maple 516 a Larch... ... ... 576 4i Orange 630 M Cypress 800 14 * Olive 800 te Walnut 900 <4 Oriental Plane ... 1,000 •« Lime 1,100 • 4 Spruce 1,200 44 Oak 1,500 44 Cedar 2,000 44 Schubertia 3-000 44 Yew 3,200 if ‘Four and five thousand years assigned to the Taxodiutn and the Adansonia, and V&n Martius describes locust-trees in the South American forests which he believes to have begun their quasi immortality in the days of Homer. Whether or no, it may safely be asserted that the world possesses at * There are olive-trees in the supposed garden of Gethsemane which have been irjtimattii at 3,000 yean 1 but these are pro- bably mere descendants of those connected with the naratives of the Gospel, put forth originally as suckers from their roots, and to be regarded rather as restorations than as identically the same. this moment living memorials of anti- quity at least as old as the most ancient monuments of human art. How grand and solemn is even the thought of a tree coeval with the pyramids of Egypt and the sculptures of Nineveh, yet still put- ting forth leaves, and inviting the birds to come and ‘ sing among the branches 1’ "Well might the old preacher of Alexandria discern in a tree the terres- trial image of heavenly truth. “The age may be estimated by ascer- taining as nearly as possible the annual rate of increase, then taking the diame- ter of the trunk at about a yard from the ground, and calculating by rule of three. Thus, if in the space of an inch there be an average of five annual layers, a hundred inches will indicate five hun- dred years of life. The latter method requires to be used, however, with ex- treme caution, because of the varying rate of earlier periods of life, trees in- crease much faster than when adult. The oak, for instance, grows most rapidly between its twentieth and thir- tieth years, and when old the annual deposits considerably diminish, so that tke strata are thinner and the rings proportionably closer. Some of the oak become thinner after forty, those of the elm after fifty, those of the yew after sixty. Unless allowance be made for this, and also for the irregular thickness of the layers, which vary with the positions of the tree in regard to the sun, errors are inevitable. There are trees which are altogether destitute of rings. These belong to the class called endogens, of which the noblest and typical form is the palm. Here the sign of age is usually furnished by the scars or stumps of the fallen leaves, which are of prodigious size, few in number, and produced only upon the summit of the lofty, slender, and branch- less trunk. A certain number of new leaves expand every year, and about an equal number of the oldest decay; so that, by taking the total of the scars, and dividing it by the average annual development of new leaves, a tolerable approximation may be come to. But it can rarely be relied upon; it is a method, indeed, by no means universal- ly practicable, the scars of the fallen3 93 TRE TRI leaves being very variable In their de- gree of permanence in different species. Of the potential longevity of a tree or plant, a fair estimate may be arrived at from a variety of circumstances. For example, there are relations be- tween the duration of life and the quality of the fruit which plants produce. Those which give tender and juicy fruit, or at all events such trees as do this, are In general shorter-lived than those which yield hard and dry fruit, and these are shorter-lived than such as produce only little seeds. The apple and the pear live shorter lives than nut-trees, which are out-lived in turn by the birch and the elm, as these are by the major part of the coniferae, in which family there is probably not a species that does not flourish for at least a hundred years. The A IpiTU firs and larches frequently attain five centuries, and even' the com- mon red pine and the Scotch fir reach three to four. With a few exceptions, the seeds of the whole family are notice- ably small, though the containing cones may be of considerable size. One of the greatest trees in the world, the Wellingtonia gigantea of California, a member of this tribe, with an estimated maximum age of 2,000 years, has a beautifully formed but remarkably small cone, and seeds in proportion. Such tre^s as the birch, the elm, and the con- ifers are useful to man for their timber, a service rarely rendered by the fruit- bearers. Trees, again, that yield plea- sant fruit fit for human food ordinarily live for shorter periods than those of which the produce is bitter and austere and unserviceable to man as an edible. Most, if not all of the plants on which man in his civilized state defends for food, are exceedingly short-lived. The cerealia or corn-producing plants, as wheat, rice, barley, and oats, are an- nuals, without exception ; so are nearly all kinds of pulse. The large classes of esculent vegetables, represented by the turnip, carrot, and cabbage, are also either annual or biennial. "How much man has benefited by this wise arrangement, it is impossible to estimate. Did his daily bread grow on longaeval trees, like acorns, asking no care and toil, the most efficient means to his development would have been wanting, as is still evidenced in the lands of the cocoa-nut and the banana ; but depending, as he has been so largely obliged to do, on annual plants de- manding incessant care, they may be gratefully regarded as the prime instru- ment of his rise in intelligence and morals. “It may be taken as an axiom In vegetable physiology, that caetcris pari- bus, no plant dies a natural death until it has ripened seeds. If its life be en- dangered by penury of food or mutila- tion, the entire vital energy of the plant concentrates itself in the production of a flower, it ceases to put forth leaves, and expends its whole force in efforts to secure progeny. "This is strikingly exemplified in hot, dry gardens, and by summer waysides, where, as if conscious of the impending danger, plants ordinarily of considerable stature begin to propagate while scarce- ly an inch high.’ TRIFLE, to Make.—Lay maca- roons and ratafia drops over the bottom of your dish, and pour in as much raisin wine as they will suck up; then pour on them cold rich custard and some rice flour. It must stand two or three inches thick; on that put a layer of raspberry-jam, and cover the whole with a very high whip made the day before, of rich cream, the whites of two well beaten eggs, sugar, lemon peel, and raisin wine. TRIPE, to Fricassee. — Cut into small square pieces. Put them into the stewpan with as much sherry as will cover them, with pepper, ginger, a blade of mace, sweet herbs, and an onion. Stew 15 minutes. Take out the herbs and onion, and put in a little shred parsley, the juice of a small lemon, half an anchovy cut small, a gill of cream, and a little butter, or yolk of an egg. Garnish with lemon. TRIPE, to Fry.—Cut the tripe into small square pieces; dip them in yolks of eggs, and fry them in good dripping, till nicely brown ; take oat, and drain, and serve with plain melted butter. TRIPE STEWED.—Cut tripe into strips, put them in rich gravy, with a lump of butter size of a hen’s egg, rolled in flour ; shake until the butter is melted. Add a tablcspoonful of whiteTRO 394 TOR wine, some chopped parsley, pepper, salt, pickled mushrooms, and the squeeze of a lemon. Shake well together and stir until tender. TROUT, a-la-Genevoise.— Clean the fish well; put it into the stewpan, adding half champagne and half sherry wine. Season it with pep- per, salt, an onion, a few cloves stuck in it, and a small bunch of parsley and thyme; put in it a crust of French bread ; set it on a quick fire. When done, take the bread out, bruise it, and thicken the sauce; add flour and a little butter, and boil up. Lay the fish on the dish, and pour the sauce over it. Serve it with sliced lemon and fried bread. TROUT, to Broil.—Wash, dry, tie it, to cause it to keep its shape; melt butter, add salt, and cover the trout with it. Broil it gradually in a Dutch oven, or in a common oven. Cut small an anchovy, and chop some capers. Melt some butter with a little flour, pepper, salt, nutmeg, and half a spoonful of vinegar. Pour it over the trout, an d serve it hot. TROUT, to Fry. — Do them the same as Graylings. See page 302. TROUT, to Pot.—Take from six to eight trout, from a quarter to half a pound in weight each. Gut, scale, and wipe them dry in a clean cloth. Then dispose of them in a shallow dish, about two and a half inches in depth, contain- ing a very small portion of water at the bottom, enough to supply a sufficiency of steam to pass through them. Add to them a supply of ground mace, ground black pepper, salt, and two or three bay-leaves, covering the dish over with a tin protection, and consign the same to a slow oven, to admit of the fish being steamed through. When the prongs of the fork will pass readily into them, they will be done and may be taken up. When cold, remove the bay- leaves, and let them be well covered with clarified butter. TROUT, Stewed.—Wash two middle-sized trout clean, and wipe them dry, lay them in a stew-pan with half an onion cut in thin slices, a little parsley, two cloves, one blade of mace, two bay leaves, a little thyme, salt and pepper to taste, a pint of stock, and a glass of port wine; simmer gently for thirty minutes, take it out, strain the gravy, thicken with butter and flour, and stir it over a sharp fire for five minutes; pour over the trout and serve. TRUE LOVERS’ KNOTS.— Roll out a piece of puff paste into a thin sheet, cut it into pieces three or four inches square, fold each corner over into the centre, and cut a piece out from each side, leaving it in the form of a true lovers' knot; put them on a tin, and bake them in a moderate oven; when they are done, place some jam or preserve on each point, and some in the centre. TUMOURS, Cure of.—To re- move tumours, Dr. Simpson, of Edin- burgh, introduces a hollow acupuncture kneedle, or very fine trocar, into their tissue, and injects in a few drops of some irritant liquid, such as a solution of chloride of zinc, perchloride of iron, or creosote. The effect has been to destroy the vitality of the tumours so treated, and they have been separated. We have seen a similar plan adopted in Paris by M. Maisonneuve. He had slender stylets, made of a paste com- posed of flour, water, and chloride of zinc. These are baked. A puncture is made in the tumour, the caustic stylet is inserted, broken off, and left We saw several malignant tumours treated in this manner, and some cases in which a healthy granulating surface was left, after the separation of tumours which had been destroyed in this man- ner. TURBOT, Fillets of.—After having skinned and boned the fish, divide into square pieces the remains of cold turbot and lobster sauce; brush them over with egg, sprinkle with bread crumbs mixed with a little minced parsley and seasoning. Lay the fillets in a baking-dish, with sufficient butter to baste with. Bake for % hour, and moisten them well with the butter. Put a little lemon juice and grated nut- meg to the cold lobster sauce ; make it hot, and pour over the fish, which must be well drained from the butter. Gar- nish with parsley and cut lemon. TURBOT, to Boil.—Set the fish in cold water sufficient to cover it completely, throw a handful of salt and a glass of vinegar into it, and let it gradually boil: be very careful that395 TUR TTTR tUere fall no blacks : but skim It well, and preserve the beauty of the colour. Serve it garnished with a complete fringe of curled parsley, lemon and horse-radish. The sauce must be the finest jobster, and anchovy, and plain butter, served plentifully in separate tureens. TURBOT, to Fry.—Cut the turbot across, as if it were ribbed. Flour it, and put it into a large frying- pan, with lard to cover it. Fry tih brown; drain. Clean the pan, and pour Into It sherry wine, almost enough to cover it, anchovy, salt, nutmeg, and a little ginger. Stew the fish in it till half the liquor is wasted. Take out the fish, and put into the pan a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some minced lemon. Simmer till of a proper thick- ness. Lay in a dish rubbed with shalot. Pour the hot sauce over it, and serve. TURKEY.—A good-sized turkey should be roasted two hours and a half, or three hours—very slowly at first. TURKEY, a la Daube.-^-Cut the turkey down the back, just enough to bone it. Stuff it with nice forcemeat, made of bread crumbs, and oysters chopped fine, pepper, salt, shalots, thyme, parsley, and butter. Fill, and sew it up. Tie it in a clean cloth, and boil it very white. Serve it with oyster sauce, made good. Or, take the bones with a piece of veal, mutton, and bacon, and make a rich gravy, seasoned with pepper, salt, mace, and shalots. Strain, and stew the turkey in it, after it has been half boiled half an hour. Dish it up in the gravy, after it is well skimmed, strained, and thickened with a few mushrooms stewed white, or stewed palates, forcemeat balls, and pieces of lemon, fried oysters, &c. TURKEY, to Boil.—Make a Stuffing of bread, herbs, salt, pepper, nutmeg, lemon peel, a few oysters or anchovy, a bit of butter, some suet, and an egg: put this into the crop, fasten up the skin and boil the turkey in a floured cloth to make it very white. Have ready oyster-sauce made with butter, a little cream, and a spoonful of soy, if approved, and pour it over the bird ; or liver and lemon-sauce. Hen- birds are best for boiling, and should be young. TURKEY, to Carve.—A turkey roasted or boiled is trussed and sent to the table like a fowl, and cut up like a pheasant. The best parts are the white ones, the breast, wings, and neck bones. The neck is taken away, and the hollow part under the breast stuffed with forcemeat, which is to be cut into thin slices, from the rump to the neck, and a slice given with each piece of Turkey. TURKEY, to Roast a Boned. —To bone a turkey requires very care- ful manipulation. You must begin with a very sharp knife at the top of the wings and scrape the flesh clear from the bone, and then proceed to the breast-bone, back-bone, and legs. If this is done carefully and dexterously, the whole mass of flesh may be separ- ated from the bone, so that you can take hold of the head and draw out the entire skeleton at once. Then take between two and three pounds of sausage-meat, some truffles, cut up some salt pork into strips with ham, tongue, and veal, and three eggs, and half a glass of ketchup, stuff all in the turkey in layers, and tie it so that it will keep in shape. Bake, according to the weight of the turkey, one or two hours, having a brisk fire—or you may boil it; and when done lay it between very clean flat boards with heavy weights against them to keep it in place, tryingTUR 396 TUR to preserve the natural shape as much its possible. TURKEY, to Hash.—Take off: the legs ; cut the thighs in two pieces; cut off the pinions and breast in large I pieces. Take off the skin, or it will give the gravy a greasy taste. Stew with a pint of gravy, a teaspoonful of lemon-pickle, the end of a lemon, and a little mace; boil the turkey seven minutes. Put it on your dish ; thicken the gravy with flour and butter. Mix the yolks of two eggs with a spoonful of thick cream; put it on the gravy; shake it over the fire till it is hot, but do not let it boil. Strain, and pour it over the turkey. Lay sippets round, and garnish with lemon and parsley. TURKEY, to Roast. —The sinews of the legs should be drawn whichever way it is dressed. The head should be twisted under the wing ; and in drawing it take care not to tear the liver, nor let the gall touch it. Put a stuffing of sausage-meat; or, if sausages are to be served in the dish, a bread stuffing. As this makes a large addition to the size of the bird, observe that the heat of the fire is constantly to that part; for the breast is often not done enough. A little strip of paper should be put on the bone to hinder it from scorching while the other parts roast. Baste well and froth it up. Serve with gravy in the dish, and plenty of bread-sauce in a sauce-tureen. Add a few crumbs, and a beaten egg to the stuffing of sausage-meat. TURKEY PATTIES, to Make.—Mince some of the white part, and, with grated lemon, nutmeg, salt, a very little white pepper, cream, and a bit of butter warmed, fill the patties. TURKEY, Pulled.—Divide the meat of the breast by pulling instead of cutting ; then warm it in a spoonful or two of white gravy, and a little cream, grated nutmeg, salt, and a little flour and butter; don't boil it. The leg should be seasoned, scored and broiled, and put into the dish with the above round it Cold chicken does as well. TURKEY, Stuffing for.—Stale bread is better than rolled crackers for stuffing. Save all bits of bread and dry in a cool oven. When well dried, roll with a rolling-pin on a board kept fos that special purpose, as the dry crumbs make the roller and board too rough for pastry; or the bread can be pounded in a mortar. Take of these fine crumbs enough to fill the body and breast of the turkey quite full; add a teaspoonful of black pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, a teaspoonful of finely-powdered sage, one of parsley, one of summer savory, two eggs well beaten, two tablespoon- fuls of butter, and cold water enough to moisten. Some cooks chop a little sausage and mix with the dressing; in that case use less seasoning. Or mince a dozen oysters and stir into the bread- crumbs, and use the oyster liquor to moisten the whole. Or boil a pint of chestnuts, peel, take off the inside skin, and chop or pound them and mix with the other ingre- dients. When chestnuts are used, very little bread-crumbs are needed. TURKEY, Stuffing for.—Boil, peel, and pound enough chestnuts to fill the turkey; add a little pepper and salt, one egg, and a little flour to bind the chestnuts, and use nothing else. The art of making seasonings or stuffings consists chiefly in so propor- tioning all flavours that none may pre- dominate or hide the taste of others. In stuffing, leave room for swelling, or the stuffing will be hard and heavy. In ducks or geese, onion is much used in the stuffing; but as onion is very injurious to some people, before using it, one should be sure that all the family or guests can eat it without injury. TURKEY or Chicken Stuffing. —Grate three cups of bread, then rub them through a colander; pick out every bit of crust; put a very little water to the crumbs; add a scant cupful of finely-chopped suet; pick out all the stringy parts. Add chopped parsley, if agreeable to all, and, if liked highly seasoned, a little sweet marjoram and summer savory, but not unless it is known to be pleasant to all who are to partake, for these herbs are injurious to many. Grate the rind of one lemon and a very little nutmeg; add pepper and salt. Bind all together with one or two beaten egg a. TURKEY CARPETS, to Clean. — To revive the colour of *xux rwi 3 97 Turkey carpet, beat it well with a stick till the dust is all got out; then, with a lemon or sorrel juice, take out the spots of ink, if the carpet be stained with any ; wash it in cold water, and afterwards shake out all the water from the threads of the carpet. When it is thoroughly dry, rub it all over with the crumb of a hot wheaten loaf; and, if the weather is very fine, hang it out in the open air a night or two. See page 18. TURNIPS, Proper Soil for.— Sandy loams, in good heart, are most favourable to their growth, though they will thrive well on strong loams, if they are not wet; but on clayey, thin, or wet soils, they are not worth cultivating; for though a good crop may be raised on such ground, when well prepared and dunged, more damage is done by taking off the turnips in winter, in poaching the soil, than the value of the crop will repay. TURNIPS, to Mash. — Boil them very tender. Strain till no water is left. Place in a saucepan over a gentle fire, and stir well a few minutes. Do not let them bum. Add a little cream, or milk, or both, salt, butter, and pepper. Add a tablespoonful of fine sugar. Stir and simmer five minutes longer. TURNIP PIE.—Season mutton chops with salt and pepper, reserving the ends of the neck bones to lay over the turnips, which must be cut into small dice, and put on the steaks. Put two or three good spoonfuls of milk in. You may add sliced onion. Cover with a crust. TURNIP SOUP.—Take off a knuckle of veal all the meat that can be made into cutlets, &c., and set the rest on to stew with an onion, a bunch of herbs, a blade of mace, and five pints of water ; close it on a slow fire five hours. Strain It, and set it by till next day; then take the fat and sediment from it, and sim- mer it with turnips ait into small dice till tender ; season with salt and piepper. Before serving, mb down half a spoon- ful of flour with half a pint of good cream, and the size of a walnut of but- ter. Simmer a small roll in the soup till wet through, and serve this with it. It should be as thick as middling cream. TWELFTH CAKE. —Flour, butter, sifted loaf sugar, of each, a lba.; iS eggs; currants, 4 lbs. ; almonds, blanched and chopped, % lb.; citron, lb. ; candied orange and lemon p>eel, cut into thin slices, r lb.; a large nut- meg grated ; ground allspice, % oz.; ground cinnamon, mace, ginger, and coriander, % oz. each, and a gill of brandy. Put the butter into a stewpan, and work it into a smooth cream with the hand, and mix it with the sugar and spice for some time ; break in the eggs by degrees, and beat 20 minutes. Stir in the brandy, then the flour, and work it a little; add the fruit, sweetmeats, and almonds, and mix all together lightly. Have ready a hoop, cased with paper on a baking plate; put in the mixture; smooth it on the top with the hand dipped in milk. Put the plate upon another elevated a little, to prevent the bottom from colouring too much. Bake it in a slow oven four hours or more, and when nearly cold, spread the ice over it. TWIST, to Make.—Put 6 lbs. of loaf sugar into a pan with 1 % pint of Water, boil it gradually for half an hour; when it is boiled enough it will snap like glass, by putting the tube of a pipe into the pan, and then into water; after which pour it out on a smooth stone till cold; then take a part of that, and pull it on a long nail till it becomes very white ; then lap it over the other which is on the stone; and make it up either for twist, or cut it in short lengths. TWIST, Common.—Boa 3 lbs. of raw sugar in a pint of water over a slow fire ; do not skim it; when boiled enough, pour it on a stone; take a part of it and pull it like wax, and it will turn white, twist it over the other, and roll it small; then cut it into lengths of twist. Put a few drops of the oil of peppermint into the sugar when boiled and poured upon the stone, to flavour it. TWIST, Paradise.—Boil 3 lbs. of loaf sugar in half a pint of water, fox half an hour ; put in it a little gumwater to clear it and a tablespoonful of vinegar, which will cause it to give you mors time to make it up ; pull one part of it and lap it over the other; ait it into twist, roll and streak it with red and white.TYP 398 TYP TYPHUS FEVER.—From the Greek tuphos, stupor. It is generally Indicated by certain well-marked symp- toms. It is characterized by great lethargy, prostration of muscular power, and sometimes delirium. It commences with pain in the head, slight shiverings, vomiting, debility, sighing, loss of appetite, oppressive breathing, great mental anxiety and depression, uneasiness in the back ; the pulse is quick and small, dry tongue, with a brown or black crust; urine pale, then high-coloured with a bad smell, evacuations black and offensive, breath hot and offensive. The delirium becomes more constant, and at length changes to a stupor. An eruption of livid spots sometimes appears. Great purging, cold clammy perspiration, and hiccup, precede its fatal termination. The favourable termination of typhus Is indicated by a gradual decrease of those symptoms ; by the disappearance of stupor in the face of the patient, and his increasing attention to things around him ; the pulse becomes moderated, the heat of the skin natural, the tongue be- comes clean, &c. Treatment.—If there is nausea, oppression, and sickness, give an emetic; and if the patient is chilly, give the Vapour Bath, and then the Sudorific Powder to promote perspiration, which will give much ease, and dislodge from the fauces phlegm, and other morbific matter endangering suffocation. Observe an emetic in the first stages of typhus is of the utmost importance, and at any time before prostration commences. It has been known to restrain the disease instantly, and in many cases to mitigate the symptoms. If the patient is constipated, aperients must be given. But if there is a ten- dency to diarrhoea, they must be omit- ted, or be administered sparingly; a small dose of rhubarb and magnesia may act as a corrective, or a single tea- spoonful of castor oil. Dr. Beach says, “ In typhus, the brain and the system generally, are thrown Into an unhealthy state, by an accumula- tion of acrid and vitiated bile, and mat- ter collected in the stomach and first passages, caused by an inactive and tor- pid state of the liver. Delirium, great heat, and prostration of strength, take place from this cause. The sympathy existing between these organs is surpris- ing ; if one is healthy so is another ; if one is in a morbid condition, those that sympathize with it are also diseased. Hence the very great importance of ex- citing a healthy state of the stomach, liver, and the whole alimentary canal. Aperients are admirably calculated to fulfil this indication. They cleanse and stimulate at the same time; and although a patient may be very weak, he will gain strength under the administration of re- peated purgatives. They may be given in moderate doses, in protracted cases, every other day. Persons in a very low or distressed state of typhus fever will soon assume a more healthy appearance after the administration of purgatives. The combination of a tonic, as a solu- tion of quinine, with purgatives, would render them more beneficial. A Scotch physician observes,—“ By oft sponging the surface of the body with cold water and vinegar, and the application of cold to the head, and bathing the feet in warm water, the dis- comfort and headache of the patient may be mitigated. Pain in the belly, or tenderness, in typhoid fever is best met by the use of warm fomentations." Where there is great sensibility and swelling of the abdomen, showing an inflammatory state of the intestines, and where the stomach rejects medicine, the use of injections is indicated. The Saline Mixture should be given in a state of effervescence; or a table- spoonful of yeast twice a day. Fixed air affords as much relief as any medi- cine, and has, in some instances, proved an effectual remedy, not by counteract- ing putrescency, but by cooling the body, abating thirst, and diminishing the morbid irritability of the system. Let the patient drink balm and penny- royal tea, and take the Diaphoretic Powder; for no medicines stand higher than those which produce perspiration; though too much sweating must not be promoted, as debility may follow. A mere moisture of the skin through the disease, must be maintained. In thirst give a teaspoonful of spirits of nitre in a weak decoction of Peruvian bark. The juice of houseleek and sugar is an excel- lent febrifuge. See Houseluk. Fre- quently wash the body with cold or tepid,ULC ULC 3 99 or warm water and vinegar. The salu- tary effects are often soon visible. Rub the body well with the flannel and liquid. Great attention must be paid to clean- liness. The patient’s face, breast, neck, &c., must be often washed, his linen often changed; there, must be good ventilation, and plentiful fumigation. Sprinkle the room with vinegar, cam- phorated spirits, or chloride of lime. Acidulous fruits should be given, as grapes, oranges, lemons, &c. If the throat is sore, give the appropriate gargles. Should the patient sink in the advanced stages, give port wine diluted with the same quantity of wa.ter. Give a wine- glassful several times a day. Or a Sttle weak brandy, ammonia, and water, mixed warm. If the feet are cold, put to them a bottle of hot water, wrapped In a vinegar and water cloth, and rub the surface of the body with the Stimu- lating Liniment. If signs of putres- cency appear, give yeast in a little wine, adding two teaspoonfuls of fresh pow- dered charcoal, and a litde solution of quinine. Bottled porter may also be given. Let the patient'be supported by beef-tea, gruel, &c. Should one pari of the body be heated more than another, apply to the heated part a poultice of hops and vinegar, with a little tincture of cayenne. In diarrhoea, lime water is a suitable remedy ; when more severe, chalk mix- ture with a little laudanum may be sub- stituted ; when blood appears, more decided astringent remedies are needed, as gallic acid, or acetate of lead. In typhus fever, bed sores, by long lying, are formed. Wash the skin with rum or other spirit to prevent this. If broken, apply a healing plaster, or a poultice made of slippery elm and butter. U ULCER.—An ulcer is an injury done to the flesh from which issues matter, or some kind of discharge, with more or less pain and inflammation. The common ulcer should be kept clean and cool, and protected from the atmosphere, especially in frosty or cold weather. It should be washed now and then with warm soap-water. Put upon it a little lint, wet occasionally with salt and water, and put over it the Black Salve. Perhaps the best dressings are the saturnine cerate, described hereafter. Poultices made of the oak bark, sumach bark, may be used alternately. Sometimes ulcers are very irritable, tender, and painful. They discharge a thin acrid fluid. They should be steamed every night with a bitter decoc- tion, and occasionally washed with an infusion of camomile flowers, or a strong decoction of wild cherry bark, with a little spirit. Poultice with slippery elm, mixed with a strong decoction of poplar bark, and a trifle of salt. Repeat, as required. If the ulcer or ulcers are indolent, steam as before, and apply the Cancer Plaster, with only a trifle of the white vitriol mixed with it; or, sprinkle the ulcer with powdered blood-root. Sometimes ulcers become very much inflamed, and assume a livid colour; they are covered with small vesicles or blisters, as in mortification. Wash the ulcer with tincture of myrrh, and apply a poultice made of charcoal, yeast, slippery elm, ginger, and a minute por- tion of tincture of cayenne. Bear it as long as possible. Then apply the saturnine cerate. The following is recommended by Dr. Beach:—Take sweet clover tops and stalks, burdock leaves, and parsley, a handful of each ; get the strength out by boiling; strain, and add i lb. of resin, and % lb. of fresh butter; sim- mer until of a proper consistence. A cold water cloth constantly applied is a good remedy. Put a little cerate on the ulcer previously. Attend to the general health, by cleansing the stomach and bowels, and then giving tonics. Saturnine Cerate. Powdered acetate of lead, a drachms ; white wax, a ozs. ; olive oil, half a pint. Melt the wax in the oil, and add gradually the acetate of lead, separately rubbed down with a portion of the oil reserved for that purpose. ULCER. — Dry and powder a walnut leaf, and strew it on, and lay another walnut leaf on that.—Or, boil walnut-tree leaves in water with a little sugar. Apply a cloth dipped in this, changing it once in two days. This has done wonders. Or, foment morning and evening with « decoctionULC UR1 400 of walnut-tree leaves, and bind the leaves on. This has cured foul bones; yea, and a leprosy. Foment morning and evening with a decoction of mint; then sprinkle on it finely-powdered rue. Or, bum to ashes, but not too long, She stalks on which the red coleworts grow. Make a plaster of this and fresh butter. Change it once a day. Or apply a poultice of boiled parsnips. This will cure even when the bone is foul.— Wesley. ULCERATED GUMS.—Di- lute elixir of vitriol, so as to make it slightly acid, and wash the mouth fre- quently with it. Or wash with diluted tincture of myrrh. ULCERATED SORES.—See Logwood, page 243. URINE, Involuntary.—It pro- ceeds from weakness of the urinary organs caused by the great use of tea and coffee, ardent spirits, &c. It is often an attendant of advanced life, especially when the habits have been irregular. It sometimes results from paralysis. It is a very troublesome complaint. “ If the patient can endure it, use the cold bath. Or, take a teaspoonful of powdered agrimony in a little water morning and evening. Or a quarter of a pint of alum posset every night." Make a decoction of bayberry bark, hemlock bark, wild cherry tree bark. Bruise them. Take a wineglassful at a time. Use at the same time the Diu- retic Drops, page 162. Take occasion- ally 6 or 7 drops of laudanum in a little water. Abstain from tea and coffee, or reduce the quantity taken. Ardent spirits must be abandoned, and all liquids sparingly taken. When it is occasioned by stone or gravel, k requires the same treatment as recommended for the latter disease. When it is the consequence of morbid Irritation of the bladder, prostrate gland, or disease in the urethra, the tincture of Buchu leaves in the dose of two teaspoonfuls, two or three times a-day, in a large wineglassful of the de- coction of Marshmallow Root, is a very valuable remedy. If incontinence of urine proceeds from paralysis, a blister must be applied to tha upper part of the sacrum. Or rub the region of the bladder with tincture of cayenne, or with the Antispasmodic tincture, page 21. Give also an injec- tion of antispasmodic tincture, 1 table- spoonful; warm water, % pint; slip- pery elm, 2 teaspoonfuls. This course of treatment is applicable when the dis- ease arises from nervous debility. Dr. Beach recommends the use of the tinc- ture of cantharides in doses from 10 to 20 drops three times a day in half a cupful of linseed tea. Linseed tea is an appropriate drink; add sometimes 5 or 6 drops of laudanum. If it proceeds from obstructed perspi- ration, the secretion should be restored; use the Sudorific Powder, or the Vapour Bath. Incontinence of urine may be benefited by bathing the body every morning with salt and water; and afterwards rubbing with the Stimulating Liniment. URINE, Hot and Scalding.— It may arise from various causes, from inflammation of the kidneys, uterus, alcoholic drinks, luxurious diet, exces- sive venery, &c. Take the juice of ground-ivy in lin- seed tea, with a little sweet spirits of nitre. Drink cooling and mucilaginous dnnks. Let the diet be light and spare. Buttermilk is very appropriate. Sec Diuretic Drops; for this complaint they are effectual. URINE, Bloody.—“Taketwice a day copious draughts of infusion of yarrow." It generally indicates some other dis- ease. Give small doses of a solution of gum kino, and gum arabic, and alum, to which add from 8 to 16 drops of laudanum. The Diuretic Drops may be given half a teaspoonful at a time two or three times a day. When blood is discharged with the urine in a plethoric habit, the use of an aperient medicine is necessary (See Castor Oil, page 114.) The saline pur- gatives are in this case inadmissible, on account of their rendering the urine more irritating. The diet should be low, unless the patient be much reduced, or the discharge of blood be the conse- quence of ulceration of the kidneys or bladder. In all cases, stimulants, as pepper, salt, &c. should be avoided. When it is occasioned by the mechan- ical action of a stone In the bladder, orURI 401 VAC gravel in the kidneys or ureters, it will require the treatment recommended for those complaints. When ulceration is the cause (which is known from its being attended with a discharge of matter,) the essential oil of turpentine, in the dose of twelve drops, in marsh- mallow root tea, has generally a very happy effect. The buchu leaves with gum-arabic, in these affections, have also proved particularly serviceable, as the following: Take of infusion of the buchu leaves, eight ounces ; tincture of ditto, six drachms; mucilage of gum arabic, 3 ounces. Three tablespoonfuls of this mixture may be taken three times a day. URINE, Suppression of.—It may proceed from gravel. See Gravel, page 2C0. “ Drink largely of warm lemonade.—Or, take a scruple of nitre every two hours.—Or, a spoonful of lemon-juice sweetened with syrups of violets.” Immerse the feet in warm water and soap, and drink parsley root tea. Take half pint of spearmint tea, to which add 3 teaspoonfuls of sweet spirits of nitre, and a wineglassful of Hollands gin. Sweeten it with sugar or honey. Re- peat, if necessary. If the disease is obstinate, steam with the vapour bath, or put the patient into a warm bath. Apply the tincture of cayenne over the bladder; and then a poultice of hops, if there is much pain. Or, give an in- jection of lobelia herb; slippery elm bark, and valerian; balm water, a small cupful. Infuse 15 minutes. Take at the same time the Diuredc Drops in penny-royal tea. An aperient may be useful. Parsley tea, spirits of mint, sweet spirits of nitre, and a little cam- phorated spirit, all combined, have often effected a cure. The Diuretic Drop}, Urinary Decoc- tion, and infusions of spearmint, are very efficient Also decoctions or infu- sions of white poplar bark, dandelion root, linseed, queen of the meadow, cleavers, sweet shrub, juniper berries, uva ursi, commonly railed bearberry coolwort URINARY DECOCTION.— Cleavers, queen of the meadow, marsh- mallows, juniper berries, of each a oes. Boil in 4 quarts of water down to z quant Dose, u small cupful a day. Usefulness of two Common Plants.—Every plant in the corn- field possesses virtues particularly ad- apted to the maladies incident to the condition of the labouring man. The poppy cures the pleurisy, procures sleep, stops haemorrhages, and spitting of blood. Poppy seeds form an emulsion similar to that from almonds in every respect when prepared in the same manner. They also yield, by expres- sion, fine salad oil, like that from Florence. The blue bottle is diuretic, vulnerary, cordial, and cooling; an antidote to the stings of venomous in- sects, and a remedy for inflammation of the eyes. USQUEBAUGH.—This liquor Is in high repute in Ireland. Take best brandy, 1 gallon ; raisins stoned, 1 lb.; cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg, and carda- moms, each, i or., crushed in a mortar.; saffron, yi or.; the rind of a Seville orange, and brown sugar candy, 1 lb. Shake well every day for 14 days. Some add 1 quart of water, and 1 quart of whiskey. UVULA, Relaxation of.—This is the pendulous body which hangs down from the middle of the soft palate, at the top of the throat. It is subject to be relaxed ; to hang down too far ; and by its contact with the epiglottis, and the root of the tongue, it causes cough, retching ; and very much interferes with the voice in speaking, especially pub- licly. Keep a small portion of gum catechu or gum kino in the mouth ; alum also is good. Or, with a camel hair pencil touch the uvula occasionally with a solution of nitrate of silver. If such remedies ultimately fail, then excision must take place. Before that the most astringent gargles should be tried. V. VACCINATION ACT.—It is imperative by law that parents should have every child vaccinated within 3 calendar months after birth, either by the appointed public vaccinator, or by a legally qualified practitioner. If other than the parents are left in charge of the child, the vaccination must then be within 4 months of birth. If the child be not taken in 8 days after vaccination to be examined by the medical practi- 7.VAX. VAS 402 tioner in order to ascertain tbe result of the operation, parties not complying in- cur a penalty not exceeding 20s. The registrars of each district are required to send notices to the parents or guardians of children, whose births they have registered, stating also the names and addresses of the public vaccinators, and the hours of attendance. VALERIAN.—See Robinson's filial. Valerian is a medicine of great use in nervous disorders, hysteria, low- ness of spirits, restlessness, and diseases of the bladder, &c. The common dose is from a scruple to a drachm, in pow- der ; and in infusion from 1 to a drs. Its unpleasant flavour may be neutralized by the addition of mace. VAPOUR BATH.—Sit naked upon a chair; place the legs upon a stool. Place a vessel under the chair. Throw a large blanket around the patient and the chair; pin it under his chin, and make it tight all round. The vessel is to contain the liquid, hot water, or decoction of bitter herbs, or otherwise medicated. Heat a couple of bricks nearly red hot, and put one of them in- to the vessel under tbe chair. Then pour about 3 pints of boiling water into the vessel, with a gill of strong vinegar. Be careful not to pour it upon the brick, but down the sides of the vessel. Close up, and the patient will soon be immersed in vapour. Change the brick when cook If the patient be too hot, lift up the blanket a little to admit the cold air, which will lower the temperature. Dur- ing the bath, drink freely of balm, cat- nep, or pennyroyal tea. When out, dry well, and apply friction, with a flesh brush, or with rough towels dipped in vinegar and water. Tbe benefits arising from the Vapour Bath are immense. VARNISH, for Furniture.— Melt one part of virgin white wax in 8 parts of oil of petroleum, lay a slight coat of this mixture, while warm, on the wood, with a badger's brush, and after a little time polish it with a woollen cloth. VARNISH, for Straw Hats.— Mix the best ivory black, shellac, and spirits of wine, or turpentine. Apply it before the fire with a soft sponge or brush. Some persons Instead of the above dissolve black sealing wax in spirits of wine. VARNISH, SPIRIT.—Strong alcohol, 32 parts ; pure mastic, 4 parts ; sandarach, 3 parts; clear Venice tur- pentine, 2 parts; coarsely powdered glass, 4 parts. Dissolve. VARNISH FOR PAPER- HANGINGS.—The best varnish that can be used for the purpose is oak varnish, which costs from ten to twelve shillings per gallon. The body of this consists chiefly of oil; it is therefore durable, not apt to crack, and presents a smooth glossy surface. In all cases the wall should have two coats of size before the varnish is laid on. See “ Painting for the Million," Price is. VARNISHING PAPER- HANGINGS.—Almost any sort of light bodied varnish may be used for wall-paper, but what is called ‘ ‘ pale carriage varnish," or paper varnish is perhaps the best. When the walls are dry and clean, first apply a coating of glue size, laid lightly on nearly cold with a soft brush, taking care not to disturb the colour. VARNISH, FOR VIOLINS. —Spirits of wine, 1 quart; mastic 3 ozs., and V pint of turpentine ; put together in a vessel, and keep in a very warm place, frequently stirring or shaking it, till all is dissolved. Then strain.—This varnish may be used for furniture. VARNISH, for Wood Pat- terns.— Shellac, ^ lb.; spirits of wine, i| pint. Put into a bottle, and when wanted for use, mix with a little lamp black, the thickness of cream, and varnish the pattern, rubbing it into the grain of the wood, until friction pro- duces a polish. This varnish makes a smooth surface on the pattern, render- ing it easy to draw from the sand, and it fills up all pores in the wood, by which a cleaner and smoother casting is pro- duced. VASELINE .—This popular preparation should be in every house- hold ; it can be used for such a variety of purposes. As a. remedial agent its properties are invaluable, and as an emollient it is without doubt the best yet discovered, being much superior to Glycerine In softness and healing qualities.VEA VAS 403 Vaseline Is now In use In leading Hospitals of America and England, and Is acknowledged to be one of the most Important recent additions to medicine. As a household remedy it is very popu- ar, and its use is extending rapidly. For External Use as a Lini- ment.—It is applicable to burns, cuts, wounds, bruises, sprains, rheumatism, catarrh, ulcers, bites of insects and serpents, eczema, barber’s itch, tetter and all diseases of the skin; also for piles, hemorrhoids, chilblains, bunions, swellings, tumours, nasal and bronchial catarrh, and to every purpose where a liniment is needed. In the case of burns, or contused and Inflamed surfaces, anoint the parts with Vaseline and cover with linen or cotton, for rheumatism, swellings and neuralgia, rub it in with the hand. For Internal Use.—It may be used to great advantage for cough, cold, hoarseness, sore throat, diphtheria, croup, asthma, consumption, and all the affections of the lungs, bronchial tubes, throat and chest. Also, for dysentery in adults and children. It is tasteless, odourless and harmless. Dose.—In the affections of the throat, chest and stomach, a half teaspoonful three or four times a day; for diph- theria, croup, &c., give frequently in smaller or like quantities, and apply externally to the throat. It is also used in the Stable for Horses, Cattle and other beasts. For preserving and lubricating Surgical In- struments, Guns, Pistols, Bicycles, Sewing Machines. Metal oiled with Vaseline cannot rust or corrode. VEAL, to Choose.—The flesh of a bull-calf Is firmest, but not so white. The fillet of the cow-calf is generally preferred for the udder. The whitest Is not the most juicy, having been made so by frequent bleeding, and having had whitening to lick. Choose the meat of which the kidney is well covered with white thick fat. If the bloody vein in the shoulder looks blue, or of a bright red, it is newly killed ; but any other colour shows it stale. The other parts should be dry and white ; if clammy or spotted, the meat is stale and bad. The kidney turns first in the loin, and the suet will not then be firm. VEAL, a la daube.—Cut off the chump end of the loin; take out the edge-bone; stuff the hollow with good forcemeat, tie it up tight, and lay it in a stew-pan with the bone you took out, a little fagot of herbs, an anchovy, two blades of mace, a few white peppers, and a pint of good veal broth. Cover the veal with slices of fat bacon, and lay a sheet of white paper over it. Cover the pan close, simmer it a hours, then take out the bacon, and glaze the veal. —Serve it on mushrooms; or with sorrel-sauce, or what else you please. VEAL BROTH.—Stew a small knuckle in about 3 quarts of water, a ozs. of rice, a little salt, and a blade of mace, till the liquor is half wasted away. VEAL BROTH.—Knuckle of veal, a turnips, a carrots, a heads of celery, and 6 onions; stew them in a gallon of water till reduced to one half; add a lump of butter rolled in flour, with a little cayenne, and salt; strain, and add a gill of cream ; a ozs. of vermicelli may be added with good effect. VEAL CAKE.—Boil 6 or 8 eggs hard ; cut the yolks in two, and lay some of the pieces in the bottom of the pot; shake in a little chopped parsley, some slices of veal and ham, then add eggs again ; shaking in after each some chopped parsley, with pepper and salt, till the pot is full. Then put in water enough to cover it, and lay on it about an oz. of butter ; tie it over with a double paper, and bake it about an hour. Then press it close together with a spoon, and let it stand till cold. It may be put into a small mould; and then it will turn out beautifully for a supper or side dish. VEAL COLLOPS.—Cut long thin oollope ; beat them well; and layVEA 4O4 VEA on them a bit of thin bacon of the same size, and spread forcemeat on that, sea- soned high, and also a little garlic and Cayenne. Roll them up tight, about the size of a fingers, but not more than a or 3 inches long; put a very small skewer to fasten each firmly: rub egg over ; fry them of a fine brown, and pour a rich brown gravy over. VEAL. COLLOPS, to Dress Quick.—Cut them as thin as paper with a very sharp knife, and in small bits. Throw the skin, and any odd bits of veal, into a little water, with a dust of pepper and salt; set them on the fire while you beat the collops ; and dip them into a seasoning of herbs, bread, pepper, salt, and a scrape of nutmeg, but first wet them in egg. Then put a bit of butter into a frying-pan, and give the collops a very quick fry ; for as they are so thin, 2 minutes wifi do them on both sides; put them into a hot dish before the fire ; then strain and thicken the gravy, give it a boil in the frying- pan, and pour it over the collops. A little ketchup is an improvement VEAL CUTLETS, in Crust. —Make a marinade with melted butter or lard, mushrooms, shalots, J a clove of garlic, pepper, and salt; simmer the cutlets in this about % an hour; then wrap them in puff paste, with all the seasoning; put them in a deep dish; bake them in an oven, and baste with yolks of eggs; make a hole in the middle, into which pour a clear sauce, VEAL CUTLETS, Main- tenon.—Cut slices about three quar- ters of an inch thick, beat them with a rolling-pin, ana wet them on both sides with egg ; dip them into a seasoning of bread-crumbs, parsley, thyme, knotted marjoram, pepper, salt, and a little nut- meg grated ; then put them into papers folded over, and broil them ; and serve In a boat of melted-butter, with a little mushroom-ketchup. VEAL CUTLETS.—Another way.—Prepare as above, and fry them ; lay them into a dish, and keep them hot; dredge a little flour, and put a bit of butter into the pan; brown it, then Ur some boiling water into it, and il quick: season with pepper, salt, and ketchup, and pour over them. VEAL CUTLETS. —Prepare as before, and dress the cutlets in a Dutch-oven; pour over them melted batter and mushrooms. VEAL, Fillet of.—Veal requires a good bright fire for roasting. Before cooking, stuff with a forcemeat, com- posed of 2 ozs. of finely-powdered bread crumbs, half a lemon-peel chopped fine, half a teaspoonful of salt, and the same quantity of mixed mace and cayenne pepper, powdered, parsley, and some sweet herbs ; break an egg, and mix all well together. Baste your joint with fresh butter, and send it to table well browned. A nice bit of bacon should be served with the fillet of veal, unless ham is provided. VEAL, Fricandeau of—Cut a large piece from the fat side of the leg, about nine inches long, and half as thick and broad ; beat it with the rolling- pin ; take off the skin, and trim off the rough edges. Lard the top and sides ; and cover it with fat bacon, and then with white paper. Lay it into the stew- pan with any pieces of undressed veal or mutton, four onions, a carrot sliced, a faggot of sweet herbs, four blades of mace, four bay-leaves, a pint of good veal or mutton broth, and four or five ounces of lean ham or gammon. Cover the pan close, and let it stew slowly three hours; then take up the meat, remove all the fat from the gravy, and boil it quick to a glaze. Keep the fricandeau quite hot, and then glaze it; and serve with the remainder of the glaze in the dish, and sorrel-sauce in a sauce-tureen. VEAL, Fricandeau of.—With a sharp knife cut the lean part of a large neck from the best end, scooping it from the bones the length of your hand, and prepare it the same way as in the last receipt: three or four bones only will be necessary, and they will make the gravy; but if the prime part of the leg is cut off, it spoils the whole. VEAL GRAVY.—Put in the stewpan bits of lard, then a few thin slices of ham, a few bits of butter, then slices of fillet of veal, sliced onions, carrots, parsnips, celery, a few cloves, upon die meat, and two spoonfuls of broth; set it on the fire till the veal throws out its juice; then put it on a stronger fire till the meat catches to tbtf405 VKA VEA bottom of the pan, and Is brought to a proper colour; then add a sufficient quantity of light broth, and simmer it upon a slow fire till the meat is well done. A little thyme and mushrooms may be added. Skim and sift it clear for use. VEAL HAM, to Make.—Cut a leg of veal like a ham. Mis a pint of bay salt, 3 ozs. of saltpetre, and 1 lb. of common salt, with 1 oz. of cinnamon and juniper berries, and rub the ham with it. Lay it in a hollow tray with its face downwards; baste it every day with the pickle for a fortnight, and hang it in wood smoke for another fortnight. It may be either boiled or roasted. VEAL, Haricot of.—Take the best end of a small neck; cut the bones short, but leave it whole: then put it into a stewpan just covered with brown gravy ; and when it is nearly done, have ready a pint of boiled peas, three cucum- bers pared and sliced, and two cabbage- lettuces cut into quarters, all stewed in a little good broth: put them to the veal, and let them simmer ten minutes. When the veal is in the dish, pour the sauce and vegetables over it, and lay the latter with forcemeat balls round it VEAL, Knuckle of, to Stew.— As few people are fond of boiled veal, it may be well to leave the knuckle small and take off some cutlets or collops be- fore it is dressed; but as the knuckle will keep longer than the fillet, it is best not to cut off slices till wanted. Break the bones, to make it take less room ; wash it well; and put it into a saucepan with three onions, a blade of mace or two, and a few pepper-corns; cover it with water, and simmer till quite ready. In the meantime some macaroni should be boiled with it if approved, or rice, or a little rice-flour, to give it a small degree of thickness; but don't put too much. Before it is served, add half-a-pint of milk and cream, and let it come up either with or without the meat. Or fry the knuckle with sliced onions and butter to a good brown ; and have ready peas, lettuces, onion, and a cu- cumber or two, stewed in a small quan- tity of water an hour ; then add these to the veal; and stew it till the meat is tender enough to eat, but not overdone. Add pepper, salt and a bit of shred taint, and serve altogether. VEAL, Leg of, to Roast.—Let the fillet be cut large or small as best suits the number of your company. Take out the bone, fill the space with a fine stuffing, and let it be skewered quite round; and send the large side uppermost. When half-roasted, if not before, put a paper over the fat; and take care to allow a sufficient time, and put it a good distance from the fire, as the meat is very solid; serve with melted butter poured over it.—You may pot some of it. VEAL, Neck of.—Cut off the scrag to boil, and cover it with onion- sauce. It should be boiled in milk and water. Parsley and butter may be served with it, instead of onion sauce. Or it may be stewed with whole rice, small onions, and pepper-corns, with a very little water. Or boiled and eaten with bacon and greens. The best end may be either roasted, broiled as steaks, or made into pies. VEAL, Neck of a la Braise.— Lard the best end with bacon rolled in parsley chopped fine, salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; put it into a tosser, and cover it with water. Put to it the scrag end, a little lean bacon or ham, an onion, two carrots, two heads of celery, and about a glass of Madeira wine. Stew it quick two hours, or till it is tender, but not too much. Strain off the liquor ; mix a little flour and butter in a stew-pan till brown, and lay the veal in this, the upper side to the bottom of the pan. Let it be over the fire till it gets coloured ; then lay it into the dish, stir some of the liquor in and boil up, skim it nicely and squeeze orange or lemon-juice into it. VEAL OLIVES. Cut long thin collops, beat them, lay on them thin slices of fat bacon, and over these a layer of forcemeat seasoned high, with some shred shalot and cayenne. Roll them tight, about the size of two fingers, but not more than two or three inches long; fasten them round with a small skewer, rub egg over them, and fry of a light brown. Serve with brown gravy, in which boil some mushrooms, pickled or fresh. Garnish with balls fried. VEAL PATTIES. Mince some veal that la not quite done with aVILA. VKJL 40 e> little parsley, lemon-peel, a scrape of nutmeg, and a bit of salt; add a little cream and gravy just to moisten the meat; and add a little ham. Do not warm it till the patties are baked. VEAL PIE.—Take some of the middle, or scrag, of a small neck ; sea- son it; and either put to it, or not, a few slices of lean bacon or ham. If it is wanted of a high relish, add mace, cayenne, and nutmeg, to the salt and pepper ; and also forcemeat and eggs ; and if you choose, add truffles, morels, mushrooms, sweet-breads, cut into small bits, and cocks’combs blanched, if liked. Have a rich gravy ready, to pour in after baking.—It will be very good without any of the latter additions. VEAL PIE, Common.—Cut a breast of veal into pieces; season with pepper and salt, and lay them in the dish. Boil hard six or eight yolks of eggs, and put them into different places in the pie ; pour in as much water as will nearly fill the dish ; put on the lid, and bake.—Lamb Pie may be done the same way. VEAL PIE, a Rich.—Cut steaks from a neck or breast of veal; season them with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and very little clove in powder. Slice two sweetbreads, and season them in the same manner. Lay a puff paste on the ledge of the dish; then put the meat, yolks of hard eggs, the sweetbreads, and some oysters up to the top of the dish. Lay over the whole some very thin slices of ham, and fill up the dish with water, cover, and when it is taken out of the oven, pour in at the top, through a funnel, a few spoonfuls of good veal gravy, and some cream to fill up; but first boil it up with a teaspoonful of flour. Truffles, &c., if approved. VEAL, or Chicken and Parsley Pie.—Cut some slices from the leg or neck of veal; if the leg, from about the knuckle. Season them with salt; scald some parsley that is picked from the stems, and squeeze it dry; cut a little, and lay it at the bottom of the dish ; then put the meat, and so on, in layers. Fill the dish with new milk, but not so high as to touch the crust. Cover it; and when baked, pour out a little of the milk, and put in half a pint of good scalded cream. Chicken may be cut up skinned, and made in the same way. VEAL SAUSAGES. Chop equal quantities of lean veal and fat bacon, a handful of sage, a little salt, pepper, and a few anchovies. Beat all in a mortar; and when used, roll and fry it, and serve with fried sippets, or on stewed vegetables, or on white collops. VEAL, Shoulder of.—Cut off the knuckle for a stew or gravy. Roast the other part with stuffing; you may lard it. Serve with melted butter. The blade-bone, with a good deal of meat left on, eats extremely well with mushroom or oyster-sauce, or mush- room ketchup in butter. VEAL STOCK.—Boil, in two quarts of water, for four hours, 4 lbs. of veal; knuckle, neck, or breast; the weight of meat to be reckoned without the bones; put into the saucepan an onion and a carrot, with a tea-spoonful of salt; strain, and take the fat off when cold. VEAL, to Mince.—Cut cold veal as fine as possible, but do not chop it. —Put to it a very little lemon-peel shred, two grates of nutmeg, some salt, and four or five spoonfuls of either a little weak broth, milk, or water; simmer tnese gently with the meat, but take care not to let it boil; and add a bit of butter rubbed in flour. Put sippets of thin toasted bread, cut into a three- cornered shape, round the dish. Poach- ed eggs may be served with it. VEAL, to Pot. Cold fillet makes the finest potted veal; or you may do it as follows :— Season a large slice of the fillet before it is dressed, with some mace, pepper- corns, and two or three cloves; lay it close into a potting-pan that will just hold it, fill it up with water, aod bake it three hours, then pound it quite small in a mortar, and add salt to taste ; put a little gravy that was baked to it in pounding, if to be eaten soon otherwise only a little butter just melted. When done, cover it over with butter. VEAL, or CHICKEN, to Pot. —Pound some cold veal or white of chicken, seasoned as directed in the last article, and put layers of it with layers of ham pounded or rather shred ; press each down and cover with butter.407 VILA VILL VEAL, to Stew a Brekst of. —Stew it gently till tender in some stock, a glass of sherry, some sweet herbs, as marjoram, lemon thyme, onions, mace, doves, pepper, salt, and a few mushrooms. When done, strain, and skim the sauce. Garnish with forcemeat balls. VEGETABLE CAUSTIC.— Burn oak or beech wood to ashes. Make a ley from them, and simmer it til) it becomes rather thicker than cream ; the evaporation may be con- tinued in the sun. Spread on leather when used. It is valuable in cancers, fistalas, scrofulous and indolent ulcers, where there is proud flesh. VEGETABLES, to Dress. — Vegetables should be carefully cleaned from insects, and nicely washed. Boil them in plenty of water, and drain them the moment they are done enough. If overboiled, they lose their beauty and crispness. Bad cooks sometimes dress them with meat; which is wrong, ex- cept carrots with boiling beef. VEGETABLES, to Boil Green.—Be sure the water boils when you put them in. Make them boil very fast. Don't cover, but watch them ; and if the water has not slacken- ed, you may be sure they are done when they begin to sink. Then take them out immediately or the colour will change. Hard water, especially if chalybeate, spoils the colour of such vegetables as should be green. To boil them p'ccn in hard water, put a teaspoonful of salt of wormwood into the water when it boils, before the vegetables are put in. VEGETABLE MARROW, to Boil or Stew.—This excellent vegetable may be boiled as asparagus, When boiled, divide it lengthways into two, and serve it upon a toast accom- panied by melted butter; or when nearly boiled, divide it as above, and stew gently in gravy like cucumbers. Care should be taken to choose young ones not exceeding six inches in length. 'VEGETABLE PIE.—Scald and blanch some broad beans: cut young carrots, turnips, artichoke-bot- toms, mushrooms, peas, onions, lettuce, parsley, or any of them you have; make the whole into a nice stew with some good veal gravy. Bake a crust over a dish, with a little lining round the edge, and a cup turned up to keep It from sinking. When baked, open the lid and p>our in the stew. VEGETABLE SOUP.—Pare and slice five or six cucumbers; and add to these as many cos lettuces, a sprig or two of mint, two or three onions, some pepper, and salt, a pint and a half of young peas, and a little parsley. Put these, with J4 lb. of fresh butter, into a saucepan, to stew in their own liquor, near a gentle fire, half an hour ; then pour two quarts of boiling water to the vegetables, and stew them two hours; rub down a little flour into a teacupful of water, boil it with the rest twenty minutes, and serve it. VEILS, Black Lace, to Clean. — Pass through a warm liquor of bullock’s gall and water; after which rinse in cold water, then cleanse for stiffening, and finish as follows :—Take glue, about the size of a bean, pour boiling water upon it, and, when dis- solved, pass the veil through it, then clap it between your hands. Starch and dry. VEILS, White Lace, to Clean. —Boil the veil gently for 15 minutes in a solution of white soap, put into a basin holding warm water and soap, and keep gently squeezing it till it is clean, and then rinse it from the soap. Then take a vessel of cold water, into which put a drop or two of chcmic, or liquid blue; rinse the veil in it, and then starch and dry. VELVET CREAM.—Dissolve 54 os. of isinglass in a cupful of sherry wine, one pint of cream, the juice of a large lemon. Sweeten the cream as you like, and when the isinglass is dis- solved, put in the juice to the cream, then pour the wine to that. Stir it frequently until it begins to thicken, and pour into a mould. VELVET, to Raise the Plush of.—Make, a clean brick hot, place upon It a wet cloth, and hold the velvet over it, and the steam will raise the plush. A basin of boiling water placed underneath will answer the same pur- pose.YEN 408 VEN VENICE TURPENTINE OINTMENT.—Venice turpentine, a ozs.; tar, 1 01.; butter, 4 ozs. Sim- mer until they are well mixed. This is very good for scald head, ringworm, &c. First wash the head well with soap and water, and then apply the ointment. See pages 279, 307, 373,378, 384- VENISON, to Carve.—1. The Haunch. 2. The Neck, 3. The Shoulder. 4. The Breast. VENISON, to Choose.—If the fat be clear, bright, and thick, and the deft part smooth and close, it is young; but if the cleft is wide and tough, it is old. To judge of its sweetness, run a very sharp narrow knife into the shoulder or haunch, and you will know by the scent. Few people like it, when it has much of the haul gout. VENISON, to Dress.—A haunch of buck will take three horns and a half roasting; doc, only three hours and a quarter. Venison should be rather over than underdone. Spread a sheet of white paper with butter, and put it over the fat, first sprinkling it with salt; lay a coarse paste on strong paper, and cover the haunch; fie it with fine packthread, and set it at a distance from the fire. Baste it often; ten minutes before serving take off the paper, put nearer the fire, and baste with butter and flour to make it froth up well. Gravy for it should be put into a boat, and not into the dish; made thus : Cut off the fat from 2 or 3 lbs. of a loin of old mutton, and set in steaks, on a gridiron just to brown one side; put them into a saucepan with a quart of water; for an hour simmer gently ; uncover and stew till the gravy is reduced to a pint. Season with only salt. Currant-jelly must be served in a boat. Formerly pap-sauce was eaten with venison; which, as some still like it, it may be necessary to direct. Grate white bread, and boil it with port ■wine, water, and a large stick of cinnamon ; and when quite smooth, take out the cinnamon, and add sugar. Claret may be used for it. Make the jelly-sauce thus. Beat some currant-jelly and a spoonful or two of port wine, and set it over the fire till melted. Where jelly runs short put more wine, and a few lumps of sugar, to the jelly, and melt as above. Serve with French beans. VENISON, to Fry.—Cut the meat into slices, and make a gravy of the bones ; fry it of a fight brown, and keep it hot before the fire; put butter rolled in flour into the pan, and stir it till thick and brown ; add % lb. of loaf sugar powdered, with the gravy made from the bones, and some port wine. Let it be as thick as cream ; squeeze in a lemon ; warm the venison in it; put it in the dish, and pour the sauce over it. VENISON, Haunch of, to Roast.—The haunch of a doe, will require 15 minutes less than a buck. Venison should always be rather over than underdone. Place the haunch on the spit; lay over it a large sheet of paper, and then a thin common paste, with a paper over that; tie it fast to keep the paper from dropping off. If the haunch be large, it will take four hours to roast it. When done, take off the paper and jxiste ; dredge it well with flour, and baste it 'with butter. When it is of a light brown, dish it with brown gravy, or currant jelly sauce. VENISON, to Hash.—It should be warmed with its own gravy, or some without seasoning, as before:VEN VKR 4<>9 and only warmed through, not boiled. If there la no fat left, cut some slices of mutton-fat, set it on the fire with a little port wine and sugar, simmer till dry, then put to the hash, and it will eat as well as the fat of the venison. Garnish with currant jelly. VENISON, to Stew a Shoulder of.—Let the meat hang till it is fit to dress ; take out the bone, beat the meat with a rolling-pin, lay some slices of mutton-fat, that have lain a few hours in a little port wine, among It, and sprinkle ground pepper and all- spice over it; roll it up tight, and tie it. Set in a stewpan with some mutton or beef gravy not strong, half a pint of port wine; pepper and allspice. Sim- mer it, closely covered, as slowly as you can, for three or four hours. When tender, take off the tape, and set the meat in a dish ; strain the gravy over it; serve with currant-jelly sauce. VENTILATING BED- ROOMS.—It cannot be sufficiently impressed upon every one who values health, the importance of the ventilation of the rooms we sleep in, and the necessity of a constant supply of pure air to sustain the vitality of the body during sleep. On this subject, Sir James Clark has given the following useful hints:— The small size and lowness of bed- rooms render them insalubrious ; and the case is rendered worse by close windows, thick curtains and hangings, with which the beds are often so care- fully surrounded as to prevent the possi- bility of the air being renewed. The consequence is, that we are breathing vitiated air during the greater part of the night: that is, during more than a third part of our lives; and thus the period of repose, which is necessary for the renovation of our mental and bodily vigour, becomes a source of disease. Sleep, under such circumstances, is very often disturbed, and always much less refreshing than when enjoyed in a well-ventilated apartment; it often hap- pens, indeed, that such repose, instead of being followed by renovated strength and activity, is succeeded by a degree of heaviness and languor which is not overcome till the person has been some time in a purer air. Nor Is this the only evil arising from sleeping in ill-ventilated apartments. When it is known that the blood under- goes most important changes in its cir- culation through the lungs, by means of the air which we breathe, and that these vital changes can only be effected by the respiration of pure air, it will be easily understood how the healthy functions of the lungs must be Impeded by inhaling, for many successive hours, the vitiated air of our bedrooms, and how the health must be as effectually destroyed by respiring impure air, as by living bn unwholesome or innutritions food. In the case of children and young persons who are predisposed to con- sumption, it is still of more urgent con- sequence that they should breathe pure air by night as well as by day by secur- ing a continuous renewal of the air in their bed-rooms, nurseries, schools, &c. Let any mother, who has been made anxious by the sickly looks of her children, go from pure air into their bedroom in the morning, before a door or window has been opened, and re- mark the state of the atmosphere, the close, oppressive, and almost foetid odour of the room, and she may cease to wonder at the pale sickly aspect of her children. Let her pay a similar visit, some time after means have been taken, by the chimney ventilator or by other ways, to secure a full supply, and continual renewal, of the air'in the bed- rooms during the night, and she will be able to account for the more healthy appearance of her children, which is sure to be the consequence of supplying them with pure air to breathe. Every chamber, then, should be ar- ranged to have a ventilating process going on at all times, and as there can be no advantage resulting from sleeping in any room colder than foriy degrees above zero, a little fire should be kept burning in the grate or fire-place ; this creates a draft up the chimney, and keeps the atmosphere comparatively pure. VERJUICE.—Is the expressed juice made from green fruits, such a» crab or green apples, nnripc grapes, &c., and is used in cooking. It is made thus :—Having got a sufficient quantity of fruit, remove the seeds, and poundVXN VER 410 the fruit in a mortar, adding a little salt, then press the fruit, and pass through a jelly bag several times until quite bright. Put the liquor into very clean, and dry bottles, which have been previously ex- posed to the fumes of brimstone, then cork as quickly as possible. A kind of vinegar is also made from the above fruits. VERMICELLI CREAM. Boil some vermicelli in milk until it becomes a marmalade ; cool, and then mix it with a pint of cream, macaroni drops, orange flowers, and lemon peel, all chopped fine, with a little ground cinnamon, five eggs well beaten, and sugar to taste. Pour it upon the table dish. Bake it in a slow oven. VERMICELLI PUDDING. —Boil 4 ozs. of vermicelli in a pint of new milk till soft, with a stick or two of cinnamon. Then put in half a pint of thick cream, & lb. of butter, the same of sugaf, and the yolks of 4 eggs. Bake without paste in an earthem dish. VERMICELLI PUDDING. —Simmer 2 ozs. of vermicelli in a cup- ful of milk till tender ; flavour it with a stick or two of cinnamon, or other spice. Beat up £ eggs, 1 oz. of sugar, half a pint of milk and a glass of wine. Add to the vermicelli. Bake in a slow oven. VERMICELLI SOUP.—Boil tender lb. of vermicelli in a quart of rich gravy ; take half of it out, and to it add more gravy; boil till the vermi- celli can be pulped through a sieve. To both put a pint of boiling cream, a little salt, and h' lb. of Parmesan cheese. Serve with lasped bread. Add two or three eggs, if you like. Brown Vermicelli Soup is made In the same manner, leaving out the eggs and cream, and adding one quart of strong beef gravy. VERMIN in Childrens’ heads, to Destroy.—Take 1 oz. each of vinegar and stavesacre, % oz. of honey, oz. of sulphur, and 2 ozs. of sweet oil. Make into a liniment, and rub the head with it. VESSELS, to Purify. All kinds of glass vessels and other utensils may be purified from smells of every kind, by nnsing them out well with charcoal powder after the grosser im- purities have been scoured off by sand and pearl-ash. VIENNA CHOCOLATE. Mix three heaping tablespoonfuls of grated chocolate with enough water to beat it to a smooth paste, taking care that no lumps remain. Put it into a chocolate-pot and set into a kettle of boiling water ; pour in one pint of new milk and one pint of cream, or a quart of new milk with the whites of one or two eggs, well beaten. Stir the choco- late paste to the scalding milk, and let it boil two or three minutes; then stir in the beaten white, and serve it hot. VIENNA COFFEE. —Leach or filter the coffee through a French filterer, or any of the many coffee-pots that filter instead of boiling the coffee. Allow one tablespoonful of ground coffee to each person and “ one extra for the pot.” Pur one quart of cream into a milk-boiler, or, if you have none, into a pitcher, and set the pitcher in a pail of boiling water. Put it where the water will keep boiling. Beat the white of an egg to a froth, add to it three table- spoonfuls of cold milk, and mix thor- oughly together. When hot, remove tne cream from the fire, and add the egg and cold milk. Stir it all together briskly for a minute or two, and then serve. VINEGAR, Balsamic. — Take the best vinegar, a handful of lavender leaves and flowers, some hyssop, balm, thyme, savory, a handful of salt, and two heads of garlic; infuse these in the vinegar three weeks. It is a good remedy for wounds, spasms, sprains, &c. By rubbing the hands and temples with it, and putting a little in the mouth, a person may go into foul air with safety. VINEGAR, from Malt.—For 5 gallons of malt liquor, mix % oz. each of cream of tartar, bay salt, and alum, well powdered, with a gallon of the liquid boiling hot, and poured the instant it is dissolved, and while it is hot, into the cask. Cover the bung- hole with stiff brown paper, and in a few days you will find it a very fine vinegar. Or, to every gallon of water, put 1 lb. of coarse sugar. Boil the mixture and skim. When it is cool as beer whea411 VTN WAF -fermented, put to it a warm toast rubbed over with yeast; let it ferment 24 hours. Put it into a cask in a very warm place, or where the sun may shine upon it. In three months it will be fit for use. VINEGAR OF ROSES. Take of red roses, half a pound ; strong vinegar, half a gallon. Infuse in a close vessel for several weeks, in a gentle heat, afterwards strain off the liquor. Used as an embrocation for head-ache, Ac. VINEGAR, CHILE, or Bird’s Eye.—Nearly fill a bottle with cay- enne peppier pods, then pour in the best white vinegar, cork, and put on the hob for five or six days, then cork tight. It improves with age. It is a first-rate seasoner. VIOLET LOZENGES.—Orris powder, 1 ounce ; gum arabic, r ounce; white sugar, 2 pounds. Make into a thick paste with the following: cochi- neal, 1 drachm ; water, 1 quart. Macer- ate two days. VIRGIN WHITE WAX. White wax, 3 parts; cake stearine, 2 parts; mucilage, z part. Melt and stir well; when nearly cold, form into cakes as before. VOICE, to Improve.—See Tar. Page 385. VOLATILE LINIMENT.— Mix together equal portions of spirit of hartshorn and sweet oil. It is the domestic liniment for sore throat, plain- ed limbs, stiff and aching joints, &c,— The addition of oil of hemlock, or laudanum and tincture of cayenne, will be a great improvement. VOMITING.—It is generally preceded by the sensation of nausea and sickness, and a disposition to faint. Endeavour to ascertain the piarticular condition on which it depends. If it arises from some irritating substance in the stomach, as bile, then the stomach should be thoroughly cleansed. Take a beer-glassful of warm water, and about one hour afterwards an effervescing draught, in which drop a very little tinc- ture of cayenne.—The Neutralising Mixture is an appropriate remedy ; also She Black Draught, or one of the Aperients, page 21.—A mustard poul- tice over the stomach, and ten drops of laudanum In a little brandy and water, tend to settle the stomach. VOMITING BLOOD. The escape of blood by vomiting is carefully to be distinguished from the expectora- tion of blood from the lungs. If from the stomach, the blood will be dark and clotted, and mixed with the contents of the stomach. The blood from the lungs is a bright red, often frothy and mixed with mucus. It is generally preceded by chilliness, nausea, heaviness, and pain at the stomach. It is followed by great weakness, and from that the dan- ger chiefly arises. The patient should be placed in bed immediately, and be perfectly quiet. Place the feet and hands in warm water, and apply mustard plasters to the calves of the legs. The following draught may be very serviceable :— Infusion of roses, 12 drachms ; diluted sulphuric acid, 10 drops; syrup of rose3, 1 drachm ; tincture of opium, 10 drops. Mix. Or, take acetate of lead, 3 grains ; purified opium, 1 grain : extract of hemlock, 10 grains. Make 3 pills, one to be taken twice a day; drink after them iced lemon-juice and water, or vinegar and water. Use the vapour bath, if the person is cold and chilly, and afterwards apply hot bricks satur- ated with vinegar and water to the feet and sides. If there be constipation, give Aperients, page 21; or a mild injection. Sometimes the vomiting of blood pro- ceeds from the retention of the menses. See Menses. Page 258. VULNERARIES Medicines healing wounds. W WAFER CAKES.—Rub 1 lb. of sifted sugar into 3 lbs. of fine dried flour, 1 lb. of butter, and 1 or. of cara- way seeds. Make it into a paste with three quarters of a pint of boiling new milk; roll very thin, and form as you like. Make it full of holes, and bake. WAFFLES, very Good.—Stir half a pound of butter to a cream. Stir half a pound of flour gradually into half a pint of milk till perfectly smooth. Beat the yolks of five eggs thoroughly, then stir into the flour. Then beat the five whites to a very stiff foam, and beat them into theWAL 412 WAG butter till the whole is white and creamy. Mix all thoroughly together and bake. WAGES TABLE. Vr. Pr Month Pr. Week Pr. Day £■ £■ s. d. £■ s. d. s. d. 1 O I 8 O 0 4 v* 0 0x 2 O 3 4 O 0 9X 0 1X 3 O 5 O O I 0 2 4 O 6 8 O I 6* 0 3 X 5 O 8 4 O I II 0 3* 6 O IO O O 2 3J* 0 4 7 O II 8 O 2 8 X 0 iX 8 O 13 4 O 3 0 5X 9 O XS O O 3 5* 0 6 10 O 16 8 O 3 IO 0 6% 11 O 18 4 O 4 2 y* 0 7X 13 I O O O 4 7X 0 8 13 I 1 8 O 4 nX 0 8* 14 I 3 4 O 5 4& 0 9* 15 I 5 O O 3 9 0 IO l6 I 6 8 O 6 i M 0 10K 17 I 8 4 O 6 6* O IIX l3 I IO O O 6 10K O 11 x 19 I II 8 O 7 3% I 0X 20 I 13 4 O 7 8 I *X 30 2 IO O O 11 6 I lX 40 3 6 8 O 15 4 2 aj< 50 4 3 4 O 19 2 2 9 60 5 O O I 3 Ojf 3 3X 70 5 l6 8 I 6 10% 3 IO 80 6 13 4 I IO 8 X 4 4K 90 7 IO O I x4 6K 4 IIJ* IOO 8 6 8 I 18 4^ 5 SX WALLS, to COLOUR, or PAPER.—When a ceiling or wall is to be whitewashed or coloured, the first thing to be done is to wash off the dirt with a brush and clean water, being care- ful to move the brush in one direction, up and down, or the work will look smeary afterwards. When dry, the ceiling is ready for whitewash, which is to be made by mixing whiting and water together till quite smooth, as thick as cream. Dissolve half an ounce of glue in a teacupful of water, and stir it into the whitewash. This sine, as it is called, prevents the white or colour rubbing off the wall, and a teacupful is enough for a gallon of wash. Stone colour is made by mixing a Uttle yellow ochre and blue black with the size, and then stirring it into the whitewash ; yellow or red ochre ore also good colours, and with vermil- llon or Indigo, any shade may be pro, pared, according to taste. If paper is to be used, the wall must; be washed with clean water as before explained, and while wet, the old colour must be scraped off with a knife, or a smooth-edged steel scraper of any sort. It will be best to wet a yard or two at a time, and then scrape. Next wash the wall all over with size, made with half pound of pale glue to a gallon of water; and when this is dry the wall is ready for the paper. This must be cut into- lengths according to the different parts of the room. On one edge the plain strip must be cut off close to the pattern, and the other left with a narrow edge on. If the paper is thick, it should lie a minute ortwo after it is pasted, but if thin, the sooner it is on the wall the better. Begin by placing the close cut edge of the paper at one side of the window, stick it securely to meet the ceiling, let it hang straight, and then press it down lightly and regularly with a clean cloth, or flat whitening brush. The dose cut edge of the next length will cover the narrow edge left on the first one, and so make a neat joining; and in this way you may go all round the room and finish at the other side of the window. See “Painting for the Million," Price is. W Nicholson & Sons, London WALNUT KETCHUP.—Put any quantity of soft green walnuts into jars with cold strong vinegar. Tie them close for a year. Then take them out, and for every gallon of liquor, put two heads of garlic, *4 lb. of anchovies, a quart of port wine, and 1 oz. each of mace, cloves, long, black, and Jamaica pepper, and ginger. Boil altogether till the liquor is reduced to half. Bottle for use. It is good in fish sauce, or stewed beef. The longer it is kept, the better it is. WALNUT KETCHUP, very Fine.—Boil a gallon of the expressed juice of green tender walnuts, and skim it well; then put in 3 lbs. of anchovies, bones and liquor, 2 lbs. shalots, 1 oz. each of cloves, mace, pepper, and one clove of garlic. Let all simmer till the shalots sink; then put the liquor into a pan till cold ; bottle and divide the spice to each. Cork closely, and tie a bladder over. It will keep twenty years, but is not Rood the first. . Be very careful toWAL 413 WAS express the Juice at home ; for it is rarely unadulterated, if bought. WALNUTS, to Pickle.—When a pin will go into them, put a brine of salt and water boiled, and strong enough to bear an egg, being quite cold first. Let them soak six days; then change the brine, let them stand six more; then drain, and pour over them in the jar a pickle of the best vinegar, with plenty of pepper, pimento, ginger, mace, cloves, mustard-seed, and horse rad- dish ; all boiled together, but cold. To every hundred of walnuts put six spoon- fuls of mustard-seed, and two or three heads of garlic or shalot, but the latter is least strong. In this way they will be good for several years, if closely covered. They will not be fit to eat under six months. This pickle makes good ketchup. WARM PLASTER. Gum plaster, 1 oz. ; blistering plaster, a drachms. Melt over a gentle fire. This plaster is useful in sciatica, and in rheumatic pains; renew once a week. Should it blister the part, use less blis- tering plaster, and add a little camphor. WARTS.—These may be cured by daily touching the top of the wart with the pure Tincture of the Rhus Toxicodendron, or Poison Oak, which grows in North America. It is sold by Che Homoeopathic Chemists. The ap- plication should be continued for a few weeks. Or touch them frequently with blue vitriol, or nitric acid, or chloride of zinc. —A bit of impure potass, moistened, should be applied to the warts, a few minutes, so a3 to leave a whitish paste upon them; put over it a sticking plaster for a week. Repeat, if needed. WARTS.—Rub them daily with a radish. Or, with juice of marigold flowers : it will hardly fail Or, water in which sal-ammoniac is dissolved. Or, apply bruised purslain as a poultice, changing it twice a-day. It cures it in 7 or 8 days. Or, steep in vinegar and salt the rind of a iemon, and apply it to the wart, first the outer side, and then the inner; keep on for 2 hours, and change. Or rub the wart now and then with elixir of vitriol; apply with a bit of wood- WASH for Cleansing and Pre- venting the Hair from falling off. —Take 3 handfuls of rosemary leaves, a small lump of common soda, and 1% dr. of camphor. Put in a Jug, with a quart of boiling water, and cover closely, to keep the steam in. Let it stand for ra hours, then strain it, and add a wine- glassful of rum. This will keep good for 6 months in bottles well corked, and a piece of camphor in each. If the hair falls off much, the wash ought to be applied to the roots, with a piece of sponge, every other day. WASH for a Blotched Face. —Rose-water, 3 ozs., sulphate of zinc, x dr. Mix. Wet the face with it, gently dry it, and then touch it over with cold cream, which also dry gently off. WASH, for the Arm-pits after Sweating. — One quart of spring water ; tincture of myrrh, z oz. ; sul- phate of zinc, % oz. Mix, and sponge. WASHING, made Easy.—One of the best bleaching and emolient agents in washing either the person or clothing, is common refined borax. Dissolve in hot water, % a lb. to 10 gallons ; a great saving in soap is effected by its use. The borax should be pulverized first. It may be procured in the form of cry- stals at any druggist's; it will not in- jure the most delicate fabric ; and laces or other fine tissues may be washed in a solution of borax with advantage to colour, &c. See page 72. WASHING, Ready and Effec- tual Mode of.—Dissolve 1 lb. of soap in 3 quarts of boiling water, the night before washing. Beginning to wash, put the soap into the dolly tub, add 8 table-spoonfuls of spirits of turpentine, and 6 ditto of hartshorn. Pour upon the above 8 gallons of boiling water. Have the clothes ready assorted ; begin with the fine ones. Dolly each lot about 5 minutes, wasii them in hot water in another dolly-tub, if you have it, next in blue water.—When the water is getting cool, put it into the boiler to boil kitchen towels, or any greasy things. N.B.—The quicker the washing ti done the better. As *oon as one lot is taken out of the dolly tub, put another la whilst the others are being rinsed. A Uttle pipe-clay dissolved in theWAS WAS 414 water employed in washing linen cleans the dirtiest linen entirely, with about one half the labour, and saving full one half of soap. WASHING LACE CUR- TAINS.—The curtains which are cleaned by French or professional laundresses are usually bleached by the use of bleaching-powders, which will make the lace beautifully clear and white, but usually injure the fabric; and when possible it is much safer to have them done up at home. The pre- vailing impression has been that there was some peculiar mystery in bleaching lace of any kind ; that the process was tedious and very intricate, and if not done by a professed starcher, the lace was in imminent danger of destruction. The work is as simple as any wash- ing. Shake all the dust out of the lace curtains when taken down, but be gentle about it to avoid tearing. The shaking will remove the greater part of the loose dirt. Then spread them across two lines near together in the clothes-yard, and brush them softly with a clean feather duster. When this has been done, put them, one at a time, into a tub half full of milk- warm water and add two tablespoon- fuls of liquid ammonia. Let them re- main ten or fifteen minutes, turning them over carefully every minute or two, and squeezing with the hands. This, together with the ammonia, will loosen all the dirt, after which squeeze out gently but as dry as can be done without breaking the meshes. Have ready another tub of tepid water with some more ammonia, and put the cur- tain into that immediately. Let it soak while the next curtain is taken through the same process as the first, and so on till all the curtains have been taken through at least three waters, or till the water looks clear—squeezing and wash- ing the curtains with the hands as the work goes on. Ammonia in the first two waters is sufficient, and if not very gray and smoky it will only be needed in the first. After taking the curtains through the three waters, many starch and blue them, and, without any soap or scald- ing, prepare to stretch them and pin in shape. But we prefer to put them into a bag, or coarse pillow-case, and scald in clean soapsuds (not very strong) for a few minutes. The suds should be made of very pure soap, and the water, when they are first put in, only tepid; then just bring to a boiling heat. While the curtains are scalding pre- pare two tubs of clean water—one to rinse the curtains when they are taken from the boiler, and the other for the last rinsing. This should be blued; and the starch requires to be blued quite deeply, as, when hung up against the light, lace does not show it. The blued water and starch should be strained, that no mote of bluing may escape to settle on the curtains. Take the curtains from the boiler when slightly scalded, rinse thoroughly, but with a gentle hand, till all the suds are out, then squeeze out, and put through the bluing-water, squeeze from that, and prepare to stretch and pin out smoothly to the original length and width. This must be done when just taken from the wafer, as lace cannot be stretched when dry. The whole pro- cess of washing, scalding, rinsing, and stretching should be done as expedi- tiously as consistent with thorough work, for no other cotton material shrinks so easily. Many pin a clean sheet on to a car- pet, in an unoccupied, airy room, and pin the curtains on to the sheet. Every point and scallop should be pulled out and pinned on to the sheet evenly. But that is a very hard way for any one who finds stooping and bending-over painful; and we don't think the lace looks as clear, because when pinned on to a carpet there can be no free circula- tion of air from underneath. It is easier, and in every way better, to keep on hand four strips of thin boards, about three inches wide, made very similar to quilting-frames, with holes at suitable distances, to increase or diminish the length and breadth to suit the size of the curtains, and strong wooden pins put through the holes to fasten the frames firmly together. Tack, closely, strips of cloth, selvage edge out, or wide tape, the whole length of the bars. Then place them on chairs so that they will stand firm and steady— out-doors, if a still, bright, sunny day —and pin or baste the curtains to the415 WAS WAT tape, pulling out and fastening every point in the lace. WASPS and FLIES to Des- troy.—Dip a feather in a little sweet oil, and touch them with it between their wings ; this renders their breathing impossible. WATERS, Distilling simple. —Tie a piece of muslin, or gauze, over a glazed earthen pot, whose mouth is just large enough to receive the bottom of a warming-pan; on this cloth lay your herb, clipped, whether mint, laven- der, or whatever else you please ; then place upon them the hot warming-pan, with live coals in it, to cause heat just enough to prevent burning, by which means, as the steam issuing out of the herb cannot mount upwards, by reason of the bottom of the pan just fitting the brim of the vessel below it, it must necessarily descend, and collect into water at the bottom of the receiver, and that strongly impregnated with the essential oil and salt of the vegetable thus distilled; which, if you want to make spirituous, or compound water of, is easily done, by simply adding some good spirits, or French brandy to it, which will keep good for a long time, and be much better than if the spirits had passed through a still, which must of necessity waste some of their strength. Care should be taken not to let the fire be too strong, lest it scorch the plants ; and to be made of charcoal, for con- tinuance and better regulation, which must be managed by lifting up and lay- ing down the lid, as you want to increase or decrease the degrees of heat. The deeper the earthen pan, the cooler the season ; and the less fire at first (after- wards to be gradually raised), in the greater perfection will the distilled water be obtained. As the more moveable, or volatile parts of vegetables, are the aqueous, the oily, the gummy, the resinous, and the saline, these are to be expected in the waters of this process; the heat here employed being so great as to burst the vessels of the plants, some of which con- tain so large a quantity of oil, that it may be seen swimming on the surface of the water. Medical waters thus procured will afford 11s nearly all the native virtues of vegetables, and give us a mixture 05 their several principles, whence they in a manner come up to the expressed juice or extract gained therefrom : and if brandy be at the same time added to these distilled waters, so strong of oil and salt, a compound, or spirituous water, may be likewise procured, at a cheip and easy rate. Although a small quantity only of distilled water can be obtained at a time by this confined operation, yet it compensates in strength what is deficient in quantity. Such liquors, if well corked up from the air, will keep good a long time, especially if about a twentieth part of any spirits be added, in order to pre- serve the same more effectually. WATER, Hard to make Soft. —Boil it, and expose it to the atmos- phere. Add a little carbonate of soda. WATER for Low Spirits.— Coriander seeds and aniseeds, of each 1J oz. ; valerian 1 % oz. ; cardamoms, bruised, 2 ozs. ; saffron, 1 oz. ; carra- way seeds, 2 ozs. ; cinnamon, 3 ozs. Simmer half an hour in a quart of water, to which add 4 ozs. of sugar candy. C00L Then add a quart of port wine, and a quart of brandy. Cork well in bottles. Through all the oper- ation cover close. WATER, to Purify.—Put into it powdered charcoal, then filter through a compressed sponge, and it will be- come perfectly sweet, however impure previously. Water may be filtered and purified by means of a deep flowerpot, with a com- pressed sponge in the hole at the bottom. Put over the sponge an inch thick of pebbles, next an inch of coarse sand, next a layer of charcoal, and over again pebbles. The water will filter pure and clear through the hole into another vessel. WATER, to Purify.—A large spoonful of pulverised alum sprinkled into a hogshead of water (the water stirred round at the time) will after the lapse of a few hours, so purify it, that it will be found to possess nearly the fresh- ness and clearness of finest spring water. A pailful containing 4 gallons may be purified by a single spoonful; or41O WAX wax a mixture ol one part chalk and two of alum will be still better. WATER, to Soften.—Wood ashes form a good lye for softening water, but care must be taken that they should be all wood. WATER BRASH.-A discharge of thin watery fluid from the stomach upwards to the mouth. It generally arises from weakness of the stomach, Indigestion, &c. Persons affected with diseases of the chest, and persons of debilitated constitution, are much sub* ject to it. X'ake from 4 to 8 grains of the white oxide of bismuth. Give an aperient pill to keep the bowels open, and give bit- ters freely. Take nourishing diet, and be frequently in the open air. Take now and then some of the Neutralizing Mixture diluted. A little brandy bitters, and effervescing draughts are beneficial. Use friction with the flesh brush. If the patient is consumptive, then most gentle means must be used, and chiefly in reference to the disease which is the cause of water brash. WATER CEMENT. This will harden under water.—Mix 4 parts of grey clay, 6 of oxide of manganese, and 90 of good limestone reduced to fine powder. Caldne the whole to ex- pel the carbonic acid. Work into the consistence of a soft paste with 60 parts of washed sand. If a lump of this ce- ment be thrown into water, it will harden immediately. WATER-CRESSES. — Medi- cinally it acts as a gentle stimulant and diuretic. The expressed juice which contains the peculiar taste and pun- gency of the herb, may be taken in doses of 1 or a ozs. Eat the plant also at meals. It is famous for purifying the blood, and the cure of scurvy. WATER GRUEL, to Make. —Boil a table-spoonful of oatmeal in a quart of water for 1 hour, or till it is fine and smooth. Take off the fire, and let it settle; then pour it into a china bowl and add sugar, sherry, and nut- meg to your taste. WATER MUFFINS.— One quart of flour, half a teacupful of yeast, a tablespoonful of salt, warm water enough to make a thick batter; beat It with a spoon. Let It rise eight hours. Bake in muffin rings half full, and bake them fifteen or twenty minutes, WATER PIPES, to Manage in Winter.—In frost cover the water pipes with hay, or straw bands. WATERPROOF BOOT SOLES.—If hot tar and rosin be applied to boot soles, it will make them waterproof. Apply it with a piece of old flannel, or doth, and dry it in by the fire. The operation may be repeated 2 or 3 times during the winter, if neces- sary. It makes the surface of the leather quite hard, so that it wears longer. Oil or grease softens the sole, and does not keep the water out. WATERPROOFING, for Boots and Shoes.—Linseed oil, 1 pint; oil of turpentine, or naptha, pint; yellow wax, {4 lb. ; burgundy pitch, H lb. Melt together with a gentle heat. For use, rub into the leather before the fire. WATERPROOFING Shoes. —Melt bees* wax and mutton suet, and when you take from the fire, add a tea- spoonful of turpentine. Or, India rubber and gutta percha, dissolved in good naphtha. Or, yellow wax, 4 ozs.; rosin, 4 ozs.; linseed oil, 1 pint; oil of turpentine, of a pint. Melt over a slow fire, and when melted, take from the fire, and add the turpentine, and stir well. Remember that it is very inflammable. When required for use, melt and apply. WATERPROOF CLOTH.— Apply to the calico or linen 2 coats of boiled oil, a little rosin or burgundy pitch, and a small quantity of turpen- tine. Hang up to dry. WATERPROOF CLOTH.— To 1 oz. of melted white wax add 1 quart of spirits of turpentine; when thoroughly mixed and cold, dip the cloth in it and hang it up to dry. WATERPROOF COMPOSI- TION.—Mix gas tar, common oil, and slaked lime, and use as paint, ap- plying 3 or 4 coats. Petroleum oil, and Noway tar might also be employed with advantage. WATERPROOF PAPER.— Brush sheets of paper over with boiled oil, and suspend them on a line until dry. When prepared properly, these417 WHI WAX sheets are useful to tie over pots and jars, and to wrap up fresh blacking, &c. WAX, Black, to Make.—Take 2 ozs. of bees’ wax, K oz- of burgundy pitch, and melt them together, then add 1 % oz. of ivory black, ground very fine and dried. WEAK EYES. —Wash fre- quently in cold water, or in a decoction of the plant, eye-bright. Or, dissolve 4 grains of sugar of lead and crude sal- ammoniac, in 8 ozs. of water, to which add a few drops of laudanum. Bathe the eyes with it 3 or 4 times a day. Or, bathe the eyes frequently in salt and water, or in weak brandy, salt, and water. WEEDS and WORMS, to Destroy.—Sprinkle the walks with Salt, and then water it. Observe not to throw the salt upon the box edging. WEIGHTS, Average.— lbs. I Peck of Potatoes = 20 I II of White Turnips II l6 I ft of Swede Turnips • 1 18 I 1 f of Onions I# l6 I ft of Broad Beans II IO I ft of Kidney Beans II 9 I II of Green Peas ... II 9 I II of Apples II 16 z 11 of Pears 11 18 z II of Gooseberries 11 16 z II of Plums, Damsons, and all Stone Fruit 11 18 WEIGHT of ENGLISH GOLD AND SILVER COINS. Sovereign Half Sovereign Crown Half Crown Florin Shilling Sixpence dwt. gr. 3% 13 'A 4 2 6 IS 19 5 2 18 9 7 3 1 4-11 z-11 6- 11 3-ii 7- 11 WELSH PUDDING.—Melt * lb. of butter gently; beat it with the yolks of eight, and whites of four eggs ; mix in 6 ozs. of loaf sugar, and the rind of a lemon grated. Put a paste into a dish for turning out, and pour the above in, and bake it. WELSH RABBIT, or RARE- BIT.—See page 328. WEN, to Cure.—Take a lime- stone and slake it in soap lees; then mix it with a little soap. Spread it as a plaster, and apply it to the. wen, and often anoint it with the lees in which the lime was slaked. It will sink and destroy the wen. WEN, to Cure a.—Wash it with common salt dissolved in water every day, and it will be removed in a short time. Or make a strong brine of alum-salt; simmer it over the fire. When thus prepared, wet a piece of cloth in it every day, and apply it con- stantly for one month, and the pro- tuberance will disappear. WHIPPED CREAM—To one quart of good cream, put a few drops of bergamot water, a little orange flower water, and £ lb. of sugar. When it is dissolved, whip the cream to a froth, and take it up with a skimmer ; drain on a sieve, and if for icing, let it settle half an hour before you put it into cups or glasses. Use that which drops into the dish under the sieve, to make it froth the better, adding two whites of eggs. Coloured powdered sugar may, if you like, be sprinkled at the top of each. WHIPPED CREAM with COFFEE.—Make the coffee by boiling, simmering, or filtering, as best suits the family taste. While making, for coffee enough for six people, whip half a pint of rich cream to a thick froth. Put into each cup the desired amount of sugar and a tablespoonful of boiled cream, and pour the coffee over it; then pour on top gently a tablespoonful of the whipped cream, or more, if much cream is agreeable, and stir it gently. If cream is not plentiful, use half cream and half milk, or only milk, and add to it the whites of two eggs—for the above quantity—beaten stiff. Put the coid milk into a bowl, and set the bowl into a kettle of boiling water—enough water to reach half way up the side of the bowl or pitcher ; then stir in the beaten whites gently till the milk is scalding, not boiling hot; pour into the cream pitcher and send to the table. This makes delicious coftee. WHIST, SOLO.—1. The points In order of merit are as follows :—418 WHI WHI A. Proposition and Acceptance or General, B. Solo. C. Misere. D. Abondance. E. Misere Ouvert. F. Abondance Declare. Proposition and Acceptance consist of eight tricks made between two of the players. The first player either passes or calls one of the above events ; in case he proposes, i.e., asks for a partner, the second player either passes, accepts, or plays an event higher than a proposal; in case he (the second player) passes, the third player calls, and then the fourth, but should the first player pass, the second can do as the first, and so on to the fourth player. Should the second, third, or fourth player propose (that is if tire first has passed), the first player has the privilege of accepting, notwithstanding he has already passed. Should, however, a proposer not find an acceptor, he is at liberty to make any other declaration in the game; in case he is accepted, either of the players, if they have not already passed, may play an event other than a proposal, but then the proposer in his turn may make a higher declaration, and so on in turn till the play is determined. (See Rule 8.) Solo consists of five tricks made in one hand, the turn-up card being trump; the Solo Player has to contend against the remaining three; the same law as regards over-calling in proposition ap- plies to Solo. Misere. The declarer of Misere plays not to make a trick. In this ver- sion of the game there are no trumps. ! Abondance is nine tricks to be made by thedeclarer without the aid of a partner the player having it at his option to make “trump” any suit he chooses. Abondance in the original trump takes precedence of one in any other suit. Misere Ouvert is played as an ordinary Misere with the exception that after the first trick is played, the player must expose his remaining cards on the table. Abondance Declare. This, the highest point in Solo Whist, is a declara- tion to make the entire thirteen tricks in one hand, the player having the privilege of making any suit trump he chooses. An Abondance Declare in the original trump takes precedence. 2. —When a proposition is played, the rules of ordinary whist apply to the game. 3. —When Soltis played, should one of the opponents play out of turn, the declarer may either call the exposed card when he likes, or claim any suit to be played at once from the rightful player; but in case of a revoke, the Soloist may either claim the game at once or continue claiming three tricks for each revoke; on the other hand, the Soloist may, without any penalty, ex- pose his entire hand. Should he, how- ever, play out of turn, the exposed card may be called at any time during the game by one of his three adversaries. Should the Soloist revoke, he loses three tricks for each revoke, but no matter how many overtricks he makes he can- not win, nevertheless, he can save his stake by making three overtricks fox each revoke. 4. —The Misere player can claim the game if one of the three contending, parties revoke, play out of his turn, or expose a card, the player in fault is penal- ized by paying the stake for his two partners as well as his own. The Misere player may, as in Solo, expose his cards; he may even play out of turn without incurring a penalty, but should he revoke he pays double. 5. —When Abondance is played, the same laws and penalties apply to the Abondance player and his opponents as when Solo is played. 6. —Misere Ouvert—The same condi- tions as Rule 4. 7. —Abondance Declare is subject ta same laws as Rule 5. 8. —Overtricks. In Proposition and Solo all tricks above the requisite are paid for as may be determined at the commencement of the game ; in Abond- ance the player receives double pay for each overtrick ; should the proposer and acceptor make a " March," that is, the whole thirteen tricks, they receive double pay for the overtricks ; the same applies to the player of Solo. If the Abond- ance player makes a “ March,” he re- ceives double the amount of Abondance overtricks, that is, four times the ordin- | ary amount for each overtrick.WHI' 419 WHI 9. — Undertricks. Should the proposer and acceptor make less than eight tricks, they must pay besides the stipulated amount of the proposition, the trick money for every one short; the same applies to undertricks in Solo and Abondance. The player of Abondance Declare pays nothing above the fixed amount if he loses. 10. —Should all four players pass, it is a General; the player taking the last trick pays the Board. 11. —It must be perfectly understood that any player who has not passed is still in the game, and in his turn can play a higher event than a previous declarer. Stakes. Proposition.—Take a fixed sum. Solo.—Twice the amount of Proposi- tion. Misere.—Thrice the amount of Pro- position. Abondance.—Four times the amount of Proposition. Misere Ouvert.—Twice the amount of Misere. Abondance Declare. — Twice the amount of Abondance. WHITE GLOVES, to Dye a good Purple.—Boil 4 ozs. of log- wood, and 2 ozs. of roche alum, in 3 pints of soft water till half wasted. Strain and cool. Then with a brush rub the gloves over, and when dry repeat it. When dry, rub off the loose dye with a coarse cloth ; beat up the white of an egg, and with a sponge rub it over the leather. WHITE SAUCE.—See Sauce, page 348. WHITE SOUP. Take a knuckle of veal, a fowl, and a shank of ham ; put them into a pan with 6 quarts of water; add £ lb. of rice, two an- chovies, some peppercorns, sweet herbs, two onions, and a head of celery ; stew the whole till strong enough, and strain. The next day skim it carefully, and pour it into a stewpan; put in lb. of sweet almonds beaten fine ; boil 15 minutes, and strain. WHITE SOUP.—Take a scrag of mutton, a knuckle of veal after cut- ting off as much meat as will make collops, tw> shank-bones of mutton, and }i lb. of fine lean bacon, sweeS herbs, lemon-peel, three onions, three blades of mace, and a dessert-spoonful of white pepper; boil all in three quarts of water, till the meat falls to pieces. Next day take off the fat, clear the jelly from the sediment, and put it into a saucepan. If macaroni is used, add it soon enough to get tender, after soaking in cold water. Vermi- celli may be added after the thickening, as it requires less time to do. Have ready the following :—Blanch % lb. of sweet almonds, and beat them to a paste, with a spoonful of water to pre- vent their oiling ; mince a large slice of dressed veal or chicken, and beat with it a piece of stale white bread; add a pint of thick cream, a bit of fresh lemon-peel, and a blade of mace, in the finest powder. Boil it a few minutes; add to it a pint of soup, and strain and pulp it through a coarse sieve : put this thickening to the rest, and boil for half an hour. WHITES, or, Leucorrhoea, (Fluor Albus.)—This disease is peculiar to females. It is indicated by a morbid secretion of mucous from the passage leading to the womb, termed vagina. It varies in appearance, con- sistence, and quantity, in different per- sons. Women of delicate constitution, debilitated by hard labours, mis-car- riages, grief, poor living, and of an erysipelatous habit, generally termed scorbutic, are most subject to it, and in them it proves very obstinate. It is the effect both of relaxation and inflammatory excitement. Treatment.—When it arises from relaxation, the Tonic Pills, will general- ly succeed in effecting a cure. Cold bathing or the local application of cold water, is a good remedy for this dis- ease, and should be used every morning, provided the patient be free from cough or difficulty of breathing, and not sub- ject to a determination of blood to the brain. If the discharge continue after the employment of these means, an astrin- gent lotion may be used ; as the follow- ing :—Take of pomegranate-rind, bruis- ed, 3 drachms; boil in a quart of water to a pint and a half ; then strain, and add alum, a drachm and a half. To be injected by means of a female syringe.WHI WH1 420 Give an emetic and a vapour bath occasionally. If the stools are of a pale clay or very dark colour, or the patient be subject to erysipelas, or eruption of the skin, take a little rhubarb and mag- nesia every other night for about ten days. When fiuor albus occurs in a person of a robust and sanguine habit, it may be considered of an inflammatory na- ture; in which case, instead of tonic medicines above recommended, the pa- tient should take every other morning, 2 drachms of Epsom salt, and 10 grains of nitre powder, with 15 of gum-arabic powder, in a glass of barley-water three times a day; which, with a low diet, (free from all kinds of stimulants,) will succeed in curing it. To these reme- dies, the application of cold water, will be a powerful auxiliary. When the discharge is of an ichorous nature, and of a dark or yellowish col- our, and attended with pain in the region of the womb, or with irritation, burning heat, difficulty or heat of urine, troublesome itching, a sense of bearing down, and a frequent inclination to evacuate; pains on the approach, or during the time of menstruation ; and particularly if pieces of coagulated blood (generally termed clots) are discharged; some organic disease of the womb may be suspected, especially if they occur about the time of the cessation of the menstrual discharge. The buchu leaves are a good remedy for this disease, and in many cases of long standing, the tincture, in the dose of two teaspoonfuls in a wine-glass of the decoction of marshmallow root, has succeeded in curing the disease, and improving the general health. In ob- stinate cases it may be given in an in- fusion of the leaves, in lieu of the de- coction of marshmallow root The diet must depend on the general health of the patient. If she be weakly, and of a delicate constitution, it should be nourishing and easy of digestion, such as blanc mange, and the vegetable and animal jellies, with a small portion of meat; a little good port or sherry may also be allowed, but water should be adopted in lieu of malt liquor : but if the complaint be atteuded with much Irritation or pain on making water, it will be advisable to avoid pepper and much salt, but not otherwise. Mr. Wesley recommends the follow- ing :—Live chastely : feed sparingly : use exercise constantly: sleep moder- ately, but never lying on your back. Take eight grains of jalap every eight days. This usually cures in five weeks. Or, make Venice turpentine, flour, and fine sugar, equal quantities, into small pills. Take three or four of these morning and evening. This also cures most pains in the back. Or, take yel- low resin, powdered, 1 or.; conserve of roses, oz.; powdered rhubarb, 3 drms.; syrup, a sufficient quantity to make an electuary. Take a large tea- spoonful of this twice a day, in a cup of comfrey-root tea. WHITE SWELLING.—This is a very painful disease; it more fre- quently affects the knee than any other joint; sometimes the hip, ancle, and elbow. At first a severe pain is felt penetrating the joint, or only one par- ticular part of the joint. The least motion aggravates the pain. It soon begins to swell considerably, and sup- puration takes place. Matter is dis- charged from several openings or ulcers, the bones are affected; and if the dis- ease is not arrested, the life of the patient is endangered. Treatment.—Avoid the old sys- tem of treatment by the allopathic doctors, by mercury, blistering, setons, amputation, &c. Attend to the stomach and bowels, giving an emetic, and an aperient, if needed; to be followed by bitter tonics occasionally, giving the Alterative Syrup, page 16, diluted when first taken; or a decoction of sarsaparilla, sassafras, guiacum, queen’s delight, unicorn root, cleavers, prickly ash berries, of each 1 oz. Simmer in a covered pan with two quarts of water down to three pints. Sweeten. A des- sert spoonful three or four times a day. Steam the part with bitter herbs, and now and then give the vapour bath to the whole body. After steaming the affected part, rub the limb with the Rheumatic Liquid. Dr. Beach recommends the following; —“Oil of hemlock; oil of sassafras, gum camphor, tincture of opium, K oz. each, and a pint of spirit of wine. When\ dissolved and properly mixed.42i WHI AYIL bathe the part with it frequently."— Then apply in oatmeal and bran poul- tice. mixed with a little finely powdered charcoal, salt and cayenne pepper. If the pain is great, sprinkle on the poul- tice, % oi. of laudanum. Keep it on as long as possible, and then steam. WHITE SWELLING.—The pain arising from white swellings, and other similar swellings, may be instantly eased thus :—Take the white of an egg, and beat it up with two tablespoonfuls of spring water; rub the part affected frequendy, but gently with the finger. WHITE SWELLINGS. Hold the part half an hour every morn- ing under a pump or tap. This cures all pains in the joints. It seldom fails. —Tried. Or, pour on it daily a stream of warm water. Or, a stream of cold water one day, and warm the next, and so on by turns. Use these remedies at first, if possible. It is like- wise proper to intermix gentle purges to prevent a relapse. Or, boiled nettles.— Wesley. WHITINGS, to Choose.—The firmness of the body and fins is to be looked to, as in herrings; their high season is during the first three months of the year, but they may be had a great part of it. WHITINGS, to Fry.—Wash and gut; skin them, and turn their tails into their mouths, to lie round. Season with salt and pepper; steep them in vinegar; flour them, and dip them in butter ; then fry them. WHITLOW.—This is an in- flammation of the fingers, thumb, or band, and is very painful. It is often situated at the root of the nail. The pain is attended with throbbings, swell- ing, and inflammation. It gradually progresses to suppuration. Steam the whole hand with bitter herbs for 30 or 40 minutes; bathe it frequently in strong hot ley water. The steaming must not be dispensed with. Apply a poultice of linseed and slippery elm, with a little salt and brandy. The formation of matter is indicated by a small white spot in the centre of the swelling. When this appears, open it with the point of a large needle or probe, that the matter may escape. Repeat if necessary. If proud flesh appeals, apply the vegetable caustic or chloride of potass, diluted. A poultice of powdered hops is very effectual to relieve pain. Attend to the general health, by giving aperients, tonics, and nutritious cooling diet. WHITLOW.—Cut a hole in a lemon, and wear it on the finger like a thimble; the whitlow must be encased in the lemon.—See Felon, page 178 WILD DUCKS, Widgeon, &c. —They should be taken up with the gravy in. Baste them with butter, and sprinkle a little salt before they are taken up; put a good gravy under them, and serve with shalot-sauce. WILD FOWL, to Roast.— The flavour is best preserved without stuffing. Put pepper, salt, and a piece of butter into each. Wild fowl require much less dressing than tame ; they should be served of a fine colour, and well frothed up. A rich brown gravy should be sent in the dish ; and when the breast is cut into slices, before taking off the bone, a squeeze of lemon, pepper and salt, is a great improvement to the flavour. To take off the fishy taste which wild fowl sometimes have, put an onion, salt, and hot water, into the dripping- pan, and baste them for the first ten/ minutes with this ; then take away the pan, and baste constantly with butter, WILD GOOSE.—A wild goose should be cooked rare. One hour's roasting is quite sufficient. A cup of currant jelly and a glass of red wine added to the gravy. Make a good gravy, to which the giblets, finely chopped, and a little flour for thicken- ing, have been added and boiled. Put the gravy into a tureen, and serve with a dish of nice apple or gooseberry sauce. Boil up and serve hot. WILLOW BARK, Decoction of.—Take of willow bark, 1 oz.; water, 1 pint. Boil for ro minutes, and strain. Dose: 4 tablespoonfuls 4 or 5 times a day. Excellent in cases of fever or ague. WILLS.—Every person who has any property, either landed or house- hold should make a will, as to its dis- position, when he or she is in full pos- session of their mental faculties. It is a duty not to be performed at the lastWTL 4 22 WIN moment, as is frequently the case, neg- lect of which has caused many heart- burnings and much distress in families ; property frequently falling to those the testator never intended to have, and those who ought to benefit have been deprived of it. WILLS, How to Make. It is enacted according to 7 Wm. iv. and i Viet. c. 26, s. 9, that no Will shall be valid unless it be in writing, and signed at the foot or end thereof by the testa- tor in the presence of TWO or more wit- nesses, who must be present at the time of signing; and such witnesses must attest and subscribe the Will in the pre- sence of the testator. By a subsequent statute, it is enacted, as regards the posi- tion of the signature, that if the signature to the Will shall be so placed at or after, or following, or under, or beside, or op- posite to the end of the Will, and it be apparent on the face of the Will that the testator intended to give effect by such his signature to the writing signed as his Will, that then it shall be suffi- cient ; but no signature which precedes any part of the Will shall be effective, nor shall it give effect to any disposition or direction inserted after the signature is made, 15 and 16 Viet. c. 24. To prevent disputes and litigation after the death of the testator, he should take care to place his signature at the foot or end of the Will; and in the pre- sence of two or more witnesses, who should sign their names and residences at the time and in the presence of the testator. No seal is now required to a Will. Every thing should be written in words at full length ; abbreviations not being lawful. No Will made by a minor {under 21 years), is now valid. A Will has no operation until the death of the testator. Technical words are not necessary, simpler the language used the better. The person who makes the Will is called the testator, but if made by a female she is called the testatrix. If the testator is wishful to make a change in the disposal of his property in his Will, be can add thereto a codicil; viz. * ‘ A codicil to my Will, the said Will bearing the date,” &c. and must be signed in the presence of two or more witnesses. It is usual to appoint two executors although one is sufficient, the name and residence of each executor should be given in full, viz., “I appoint John Edwards, of Nine, Silver Street, London and Benjamin Moorhouse, of Six, Mil- ton Place, Birmingham, executors of this my Will." An executor may be a legatee under the Will. When it is the intention to leave all the property to one individual, for ex- ample, a wife or child, the Will should read :—“I devise and bequeath all my estate and effects, real and personal, which I die possessed of or entitled to, unto my wife, Elizabeth Martin, absolutely.” The following is a simple form of Will: ‘‘This is the Will of me, James Stewart, of Myrtle Grove, Manchester, in the county of Lancashire. I give and devise all my estate and effects, real and personal, of which I may die possessed or be entitled to, unto my only son, Charles James Stewart, absolutely, and I appoint my said son executor of this my Will, and I hereby revoke all former wills and codicils. Dated this fifth day of June, One Thousand Eight Hundred and Eighty-three. Signed by the testator' (or testatrix) in the joint presence of us who thereupon signed our names in his (or her) and each others presence. John Edwards of Nine, Silver Street, London. E.C. Benjamin Moorhouse of Six, Milton Place, Birmingham. Where the disposition of the property is complicated, it is better to employ some respectable solicitor to draw up the form of Will. WIND in the STOMACH.— See Flatulency, page 181.—Take oil of juniper, tincture of myrrh, lavender water, sweet nitre, equal quantity of each : shake them in a bottle. Dose: —One teaspoon ful in a cup of cold water. The above is a dose for an adult. Or, take a large handful of feverfew, and cummin seeds and ginger, 1 oz. of each to three quarts of water; boil to three pints. Add a little tinc- ture of cayenne. Dose—three or lour wine-glassfuls a day. -James Stewart. [Signature of Testator.]WOO 423 WIN WINDSOR CRULLERS.— Eight heaping spoonfuls of sugar, four eggs, four tablespoonfuls of softened butter—not melted; four tablespoonfuls of milk, two-thirds of a teaspoonful of soda dissolved in a very little vinegar. Fry in hot lard, and dust a little sugar over when hot. WINDSOR CRULLERS.— Six eggs, one coffee-cup of sugar, six tablespoonfuls softened butter, four of new milk, two teaspoonfuls cream of tartar, one teaspoonful of ginger, a little nutmeg and cinnamon, making about sn even teaspoonful of the two com- bined, and only just flour enough to roll out easily, one teaspoonful of soda dis- solved in two teaspoonfuls of cold milk. Sift the cream of tartar with the flour to mix it thoroughly, beat all to a cream, add soda last thing before the flour, and fry in hot lard. WINDSOR PUDDING. — Shred % lb. of suet very fine; grate into it y, lb. of French roll, a little nut- meg, and the rind of a lemon ; add % lb. of chopped apples; K lb. of cur- rants ; % lb. of good raisins, stoned, and chopped, a glass of rich sweet wine, and five eggs beaten, with a little salt. Mix all thoroughly together, and boil it in a basin, or mould for three hours. Sift fine sugar over it when sent to table, and pour wine sauce into the dish. WINDSOR SOAP is merely the best white soap melted, and scented with oil of caraway, and put into moulds. WINE, English Wine.—Boil 40 lbs. of sugar in 14 gallons of water, twenty minutes, taking the scum as it rises. Put it into a tub, and when nearly cold put in 8 lbs. of raisins chopped; and when cold, add two gallons of strong ale, when the ale is ready to tun. Let it stand three days, stirring it well every day. Then put it into the cask with a pint of brandy, a pound of sugar candy, and an ounce of isinglass. It may be bottled in eight months. WINE, to make Astringent.— Mix a little alum with the wine ; or gum kino, catechu, or rhatany. WINE, Rich and Pleasant.— Take new cider from the press, mix It with as much honey as will support an egg, boil gently fifteen minutes, but not in an iron, brass, or copper pot. Skim well; when cool let it be turned, but don't quite fill. In the March following bottle it, and it will be fit to drink in six weeks; but will be less sweet if kept longer in the cask. You will have a rich and strong wine, and it will keep well. This will serve for any culinary purpose for which sack, or sweet wine is directed. Honey is a fine ingredient to assist, and render palatable new crabbed austere cider. WINE BISCUITS.—Take the yolks of 6 eggs, and the whites of 5; beat with orange flower water till they come to a froth ; then add sifted sugar, 1 lb.; rice flour, £ lb.; the raspings and pulp of a lemon, with a few caraway seeds. Dust with sugar. WINE WHEY.—Put half a pint of new milk on the fire ; the mo- ment it boils up, pour in as much sound raisin wine as will completely turn it, and it looks clear ; let it boil up, then set the saucepan aside till the curd subsides, and do not stir it. Pour the whey off, and add to it half a pint of boiling water, and a bit of white sugar. Thus you will have a whey per- fectly cleared of milky particles, and as weak as you choose to make it. WOOD, to Bronze.—Cover with a coating of thin glue. When dry, coat it again with white of egg and water; do not put much on. Then apply the bronze with a hare's foot, or dust from a small fine muslin bag. WOOD, to Coat.—The Germans have recently adopted the following method :—The ingredients are 40 parts of chalk, 40 of rosin, 4 of linseed oil, to be melted together in an iron pot. One part of native oxide of copper, and one of sulphuric acid are then to be added, when the composition is ready for use. It is applied hot to the wood with a brush in the same way as paint, and the varnish becomes as hard as stone when dry. WOOD, to Preserve.—Gas tar, rosin, or pitch, and lime, boiled well together, and applied to wood exposed to the weather, form a good preserva- tive. Apply two or three coats, and onWOR 424 woo the last dash fine sand to give it the appearance of stone, and to make it durable. Gas tar, turpentine, and a little nitric acid make a good paint for iron. WOOD, to Resemble Mahog- any.—Take two ounces of dragon’s blood, (gum tragacanth) break it into pieces, and dissolve in a quart of spirits of wine, to which add a little soda ; let it stand in a warm place and shake it frequently ; fit for use when dissolved. Or take four ounces of logwood, and half a pound of madder; boil in a gal- lon of water, adding a little pearl-ash, and 1 oz. of walnut peeling. Apply hot. WOODCOCK, Snipe, &c. Clean well, and stuff with mealy pota- toes, well washed, and seasoned with butter, salt, pepper, and a little cream, or new milk; cut off the pinions at the first joint; fasten the legs close to the ribs, turn the head backward, between the legs and the body. Do them be- fore a bright fire, or in the oven; dredge them with flour, and baste often with butter melted in hot water. WOODCOCKS, Snipes, and Quails keep good several days. Roast them without drawing, and serve on toast. Butter only should be eaten with them, as gravy takes off the fine flavour. The thigh and back are esteemed the most. WOODWORK, to Preserve.— Boiled oil and finely powdered charcoal, mix to the consistence of a paint, and give the wood two or three coats with this composition. Or, mix 5 lbs. of chloride of zinc with 25 gallons of water. This, if the wood be steeped in it, will prevent the dry rot WOOLLEN CLOTH, to Re- move Oil Spots from. — Apply moistened pipe-clay, or fullers earth. When dry, brush off. If needful, re- peat, heating the place by holding it to the fire, or applying carefully a hot iron. Lemon juice or pearlash, in solution, used to moisten the pipe clay or fullers earth, would render it more effectual. WORMS.—The worms found in Mie human body are mostly the ascar- ides, the thread worm, infesting the lower intestine, causing much itching and irritation about the anus. The tires, or Jong round worm, generally seated in the small intestines, and stomach. The symptoms denoting the existence of worms are common to the different species, viz. indigestion, with a variable appetite : foul tongue ; offensive breath; hard, full, and tense belly, with occa- sional gripings and pains about the navel; heat and itching sensation in the rectum and about the anus; the eyes heavy and dull; itching of the nose ; short dry cough ; grinding of the teeth; and starting during sleep, at- tended often with a slow fever. The indications of cure are, first, to clear the stomach and intestines of re- dundant slime, and afterwards to strengthen the stomach and bowels, so- as to destroy the disposition to their generation. Give an emetic once or twice a week, in order to rid the stomach of impuri- ties, slime and morbific matter, the cause of worms. Attend to the state of the bowels, for they are often irregular through worms. A dose of the Com- position Powder given night and morn- ing, and bitter tonics during the day will be of essential service. This should be continued a week or two. Lime-water being capable of dissolv- ing the mucus in which the worms- breed, may be taken; a teacupful two or three times a day—less for a child. Take with it the Tonic Mixture, or bitters. It is very effectual in relieving children. The following infusion is valuable :— Best senna, Carolina pink-root, manna,, worm-seed, rhubarb; of each \ oz. Bruise them, and infuse for two or three hours in boiling water. Sweeten with treacle. Give to a child six years old from three tablespoonfuls a day. Sweets should be avoided. Salt and water taken in the morning will expel worms, especially the seat worms. It may be made by dissolving a table- spoonful of salt in half a pint of water. It may also form an injection to bring away the ascarides. — Camphor is another remedy. Dissolve 10 grains in a little spirit of wine, and add it now and then to the tonic bitters. Various Remedies for the Cure of Worms:— Take an ounce of tin, finely powder- ed, and two drachms of Ethiop'sWOR wttu 425 •mineral, mixed together ; divide it into six powders, and take one of them, in a little syrup, twice a day: when they are' used work them off with a little rhubarb. Or, Spirits of turpentine, in doses of from 8 drops to a teaspoonful, in gruel sweet- ened. Or, Jalap, # of an oz. ; powdered rhu- barb, H of an oz. ; gamboge, 3 drs. ; syrup of bears-foot, sufficient to make it into a paste ; then make it into ordin- ary sized lozenges. Dose :—For a child 3 years old, £ a lozenge ; 6 years, 1 lozenge ; and so on, according to years. Or, Cowhage mixed with treacle. Give a child a teaspoonful fasting for 3 or 4 mornings successively—an adult a table- spoonful. Then give a purge. Powdered rust of iron is a good vermi- fuge. It expels the worms and strength- ens the constitution. To a child 6 years old from 10 to 40 grains may be given. An adult may take from a yA oz. It may be given in treacle or in beer. Dr. Rush says, " Of all the worm medicines that I have given I know none more safe and certain than this simple pre- paration of iron.!' It should always be followed by an aperient. The common male fem-root is a cer- tain remedy for the tape-worm. Two or 3 drs. of the powdered root to be taken in the morning, no supper having been taken the night before. It generally sickens a little. A brisk purgative is to be given a few hours after, which some- times brings off the worm entire ; if not, the same course must be followed at due intervals. For the success of this remedy, the root should be recently gathered ; as after being kept long in the shops, its activity is diminished or destroyed. WORMS.—Take 2 tea-spoonfuls of brandy, sweetened with loaf sugar, every morning. Or, a spoonful oi the •Juice of lemons. Or, take 2 tea-spoonfuls of worm- seed mixed with treacle, for 6 mornings. Or, 1, 2. or 3 drs. of powdered fem-root boiled in mead. This kills both the flat and round worms. Repeat the medi- cine from time to time.— Wesley. V/ORM FEVER.—Boil a hand- ful of rue and wormwood in water: foment the belly with the decoction, anti apply the boiled herbs as a poultice; repeat the application night and morn- ing. This frequently brings away worms from children who will take no internal medicine, and is likewise serviceable if the fever be of the putrid kind. WORMSEED.—The' seeds of this American plant form a powerful vermifuge. It speedily expels round and other worms from the intestines. The seeds are given in substance from 10 grains, or % a dr., finely powdered, strewed on bread and butter, or made into an electuary with honey or treacle. After using some days, give an aperient, and the tonic bitters. In America they use the oil also. S to 10 drops of the oil mixed with sugar, are a common dose for a child. Or, from 12 drops for an adult. WORM SYRUP. — Senna, Carolina pink, of each 1 oz. ; peach leaves, male fern, of each £ oz.; kousso, oz. Powder, and add a cupful of pure water, near boiling ; shake up in a bottle for a day ; then add a cupful of spirit of wine. Shake up several times a day for a week, keeping the bottle in a warm place. Then add another cup- ful of hot water in which has previously been infused half a tea-spoonful of cay- enne pepper.—This recipe is valuable, it will cause all kinds of worms to flee before it.—Dose, for a child 6 years old a teaspoonful 4 times a day. It may be given in well sweetened coffee. WORMWOOD.-See Robinson's Herbal. It is a valuable plant, but very bitter. It is used in stomach com- plaints, promoting digestion and appe- tite by its stimulating and tonic proper- ties. It strengthens the membranes of the intestines. It is often given in inter- mittent fevers successfully, and it is a powerful expellaut of worms; hence its name. The dose of the powder is from one scruple to a drachm. The infusion is made by adding £ oz. of powder to a pint of water. WOUNDS.—See Bruises, pages 79. 80. WOUNDS. — Apply juice or powder of yarrow. Or, bind leaves of ground-ivy upon it. Or, wood- betony bruised. This quickly healsYEA 426 wou even cut veins and sinews, and draws out thorns or splinters. Or, use Vaseline. WOUNDS, to Prevent from Mortifying.—Sprinkle sugar upon them, or powdered blood-root. WOUNDS, Putrid. —Wash them morning and evening with warm decoction of agrimony. If they heal too soon, and a matter gathers underneath, apply a poultice of the leaves pounded, changing them once a-day till well. Or, apply a carrot poultice ; but if a gangrene comes on, apply a wheat flour poultice (after it has been by the fire till it begins to ferment) nearly cold. It will not fail. WOUNDS, to Staunch the Bleeding of. — Where it can be done, take a bandage, handkerchief, or garter, and put it round the limb betwixt the wound and the heart, and tie it tight. It will answer the purpose of a tourniquet, and stop the bleeding till effectual relief can be given. In many cases, it might save life. Or take a pledget of lint, and form it into a little ball, and press it upon the mouth of any bleeding vein or artery. Apply lint and small compresses satu- rated with salt and water, and bind them on the wound, to suppress the bleeding. In dressing, bring the lips of the wound together, and keep them so by means of adhesive plaster, compresses, and a bandage. Wounds thus dressed may heal without suppuration. Fre- quently wet the dressings with diluted brandy and salt. Let the dressings re- main a or 3 days. If suppuration takes place, remove the adhesive plaster, &c., and apply a bread poultice, or the slip- pery elm bark poultice; afterwards apply the salve or plaster. In case of proud flesh appearing, sprinkle sugar, or powdered bloodroot upon the wound, or apply as a lotion, the diluted solu- tion of chloride of soda, or of chloride of lime—that is, in proportion of 1 oz. of the solution to a pint of water. Or, use a few grains of the vegetable caustic. YANKEE CHOWDER. Slice thin some salt fat pork, season it with pepper, lay it in the bottom of a large iron pot, and let it fry; when done, take out the pork, leaving the liquid fat at the bottom. Next peel and slice some onions and lay them on the fat. Have ready a sufficient quan- tity of fresh cod, haddock, porgie or black fish ; cut the fish in small pieces, and put into the pot with layers of potatoes pared and quartered. Pour over this a pint of water; one pint of milk thickened with a little flour, is to be added the last thing before taking up, and with the milk some crackers split, or some soda biscuit. Cover the pot closely, and let it stew half an hour before adding the milk and crackers. YARROW.—This plant is well known. The infusion taken inwardly, and applied outwardly as a wash, is good for piles, and sores. It is excellent for flux, looseness, and nervous melan- choly. The powder is recommended for colic, ague, whites; and it is very useful in colds. It restrains the invol- untary discharge of urine in children.— See Robinson's Herbal. YEAST, Dry.—Boil a large handful of loose hops, or a heaped tablespoonful of pressed hops, tied in a muslin bag, twenty minutes, in three pints of water; then take out the bag, and stir into the hop-water a pint of raw potatoes (grated.) Add one table- spoonful of salt, one of ginger, half a cupful of sugar, and one pint of flour ; stir the flour in slowly, and pour as much boiling water as is needed to make it a smooth batter, stirring briskly while pouring it on, till all is smoothly combined. Then remove from the fire. When lukewarm add a cupful of good Cist, or one good yeast-cake dissolved. t it stand one day in warm weather, or two in cold, stirring it down as often as it rises and foams. Then stir in good white com meal to make it thick enough to make into thin cakes. Dry these cakes in the shade ; but where the air circulates briskly, turn them over often. The quicker they can be dried, the better they will be. When dried all the way through, put them into a bag, and hang up in a dry, cool place. Cakes should be small; not over two inches across, and half an inch thick. One of these cakes will raise four or five good-sized loaves. YEAST, to Make.—Thicken 2 quarts of water, with fins flour about 3427 YEA YEL I spoonfuls, boil half an hour, sweeten with near \ lb. of brown sugar ; when near cold, put into it 4 spoonfuls of fresh yeast in a jug, shake it well together, and let it stand one day to ferment near the fire, without being covered. There will be a thin liquor on the top, which must be poured off; shake the remain- der and cork it up for use. Take al- ways 4 spoonfuls of the old to ferment the next quantity, keeping it always in succession. A half-peck loaf will require about a gill. YEAST, to Make Another Way.—Boil 1 lb. of potatoes to a mash; when half cold, add a cupful of yeast, and mix it well. It will be ready for use in two or three hours, and keeps well. Use double the quantity of this to what you do of beer-yeast. To take off the bitter of yeast, put bran into a sieve, and pour it through, having first mixed a little warm water with it. YEAST, for Home-made Bread.—Boil a handful of hops £ an hour in 3 pints of water. Pour half, boiling, through a sieve, upon a cup of flour, mix, and add the rest of the hop water ; a spoonful of salt, half a cup of treacle, and when warm, a cup of yeast. YEAST DUMPLINGS.— Make a very light dough with yeast, as for bread ; use milk if you like, instead of water, add salt. Let it rise an hour before the fire; 20 minutes before you are to serve, have ready a pan of boil- ing water. Make the dough into balls; put them in, and boil 20 minutes. Stick a fork into one, and if it come out clear, it is enough. Do not cut them, but tear them apart at the top, or they will become heavy. Eat while hot, with treacle or sugar, preserve, &c. YEAST POULTICE.—Yeast, 1 gill; milk, 1 pint; slippery elm bark sufficient to make a poultice. Sprinkle over with very finely powdered charcoal, and blood-root. Mix, and form a poul- tice. It is cooling and adapted to arrest gangrene or mortification. It is very appropriate to most sores and ulcers, especially offensive sores. YELLOW DOCK.—See Rob- inson's Herbal. — This plant is well known. The leaves are boiled and eaten. It is moderately astringent, and rather purgative. It is very appropriate to scrofulous complaints. In bilious complaints, internal heat, hectic fever, palpitation of the heart, piles, cutaneous eruptions, &c., it is most valuable. The root may be given in decoction. A poultice of it is very good to discuss all indolent swellings. Made into an ointment, it is good for tetter, ring- worm, &c. YELLOW FEVER.—The first stage usually begins with weariness, chilly fits, faintness, giddiness, flushing of the face, redness of the eyes, pain in the eye-balls, forehead, back, great weakness, anxiety, thirst, and lethargy. The urine is high coloured, deficient, and turbid. The tongue is covered with a dark fur; the perspiration is irregular, interrupted, and lessened; the bile is secreted in unusual quantities, and speedily ejected from the stomach. The skin is very dry, hot, and hard. The eyes, face, and breast become yellow. This stage of the disease lasts about 48 hours. The symptoms begin to abate, by which the patient is flattered ; but returning aggravated symptoms soon undeceive him. He becomes very de- bilitated ; putrefaction takes place; large patches of livid spots appear on different parts of the body ; the tongue becomes dry and black ; black fur on the teeth, and oft blood from the mouth, nose, nostrils, &c. The whole body often exhibits a livid yellow. The causes may be contagion, the use of ardent spirits, marbleizing the liver, destroying digestion, &c. It may be caused by cold, wet feet and clothes, obstructed perspiration, &c. Treatment.—The first object must be to excite action in the stomach, bowels, liver, and skin. Give an emetic; clear the bowels by a brisk purgative. Give the diaphoretic pow- der, and place the patient in the vapour bath, regulating the heat according to- the strength of the patient. While in the bath let the patient drink balm, pennyroyal, or catnep tea. When he comes out of the bath, place him in a warm bed. well covered with-blanketsYEL YOR 428 'to produce perspiration. If he per- spires, gradually lessen the covering. If vomiting prevails, give the neutral- izing mixture, a tablespoonful every half hour till the vomiting ceases. If the stomach be very irritable, give with the neutralizing mixture a drachm of Epsom salts to each dose, in a little tea ; if the vomiting does not abate, persevere with the medicine, and apply mustard plasters to the stomach and feet twice a day. Do not neglect aperients; for it is of the highest importance to pro- mote the natural evacuations. Attend also to the skin. If dry, hot, and parched, give an infusion of bone- set, to be drunk freely, to promote perspiration. If this should fail, give the Sudorific Powder, or the Sweating Drops till perspiration shall take place. Should they cause too much sickness, give lemonade or cream of tartar water. In the West Indies they effect a cure by drinking an infusion of boneset, by using the warm or vapour bath, and bathing the body with lemon juice and water, or warm vinegar and water, YELLOW FLUMMERY.— Take 2 ozs. of isinglass ; beat it; put it into a bowl, and pour a pint of boil- ing water upon it; cover it till cold, and add a pint of sherry; the juice of two lemons with the rind of one, and the yolks of 8 eggs. Beat well; sweeten; put it into a pan, and when it boils, strain it through an iron sieve. When nearly cold, put it into cups and moulds. YELLOW INK.—This ink is useful in drawing and making pen and and ink sketches ; it is prepared thus : —Take Persian berry liquor, 1 % oz.; alum, % oz. ; rain-water, as required, gum arabic, % oz. Boil the whole together ten minutes; then strain through fine muslin; when cold, it is fit for use. YELLOW, Naples, to Make. —Take one pound of antimony, one pound and a half of lead, half an ounce of alum, and the same quantity of common salt. The antimony and lead should be calcined together, after- wards the other ingredients added, and then the whole mixture undergoes a second calcination. YELLOW WAX.—Yellow re- sin, 1 lb.; Burgundy pitch, 154 oz.; bees wax, i]4 oz. ; mutton tallow, 114 oz. Melt all together; then add cam- phor, 2 H drachms ; olive oil, a table- spoonful ; sassafras oil, 2 drachms; best rum, 2 tablespoonfuls. Mix well, and pour into a vessel of water, and knead it till it is cold. It acts as a good sticking plaster. It is useful in cuts, ulcers, sores, &c. It is very good for rheumatism ; and would be a sovereign remedy by the addition of i oz. of cay- enne, and £ oz. of opium. YORKSHIRE PUDDING.— Mix five spoonfuls of flour with a quart of milk, and three eggs well beaten. Butter the pan. When brown by baking under the meat, turn the other side upwards, and brown that. It should be made in a square pan, and cut into pieces to come to table. Set it over a chafing-dish, u.d stir it welL “BEGIN WELL AND END BETTER.’*W. NICHOLSON & SON, 14 Paternoster Square, E.C. 4. 63rd Edition, Splendidly Illustrated with 130 Engravings of Various Plants. THE MOST SIMPLE AND PRACTICAL WORK ON BRITISH AND FOREIGN HERBS Robinson’s New Family Herbal ' COMPRISING A Description and the Medical Virtues of British and Foreign Plants, founded on the Works of Eminent and Modern English and American Writers on the Medical Properties of Herbs. Directions for Gathering Leaves, Flowers, Seeds, Roots, Barks, etc. The making of Juices, Syrups, Preserves, Oils, Electuaries, Conserves, Ointments, Poultices, Pills, Decoctions, etc., to which is added the Family Physician, with complete directions for the use of the various Herbs. General Directions for Curing or Preventing Disease. Valuable Medical Receipts, and Remarks on Diet, Bathing, Air, Exercise, etc. Cloth, Plain Plates, 4s. net. Cloth, Red Edges, Coloured Plates, 5s. net. Postage, 4d.W. NICHOLSON & SON, 14 Paternoster Square, E.C 4. Culpeper's British Herbal and family Physician FOR The Cure of Diseases incident to the Human Frame. 18mo. 352 Pages with 140 Coloured Plates. Cloth, Red Edges, 4s. 6d. net. With Plain Plates, 3s. 6d. net. Postage 4d. Cheaper Edition, 2s. net. Postage 3d. How to Write letters A MANUAL OF CORRESPONDENCE SHOWING THE Correct Structure, Composition, Punctuation, Formalities, and the Uses of the various kinds of Letters, Notes, and Cards. BY J. W. WESTLAKE, A.M., Professor of English Literature. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 288 Pages. Price 2s. 6d. net. Postage 4d.. r „ «f' 1 1 ‘ : . ' , ■ ■ '!>•' ‘I'