CAMDEN TOWN BRANCH. 18, CAMDEN STREET, N.W.I. (EUSton 1976). The Lending Library is open from 10 a.m. until 9 p.m. every weekday, except Wednesday, when it closes at 1 p.m. The time allowed for reading each work issued, whether one volume or more, is fourteen days. For any book not returned within that period, a fine of twopence for the first week or portion of a week, and fourpence for each succeeding week or portion of a week, is charged. In cases of infectious disease, books must NOT be returned to the Library, but must be delivered either to the Sanitary Authorities at the time of their call, or to the Disinfecting Station, Public Health Annex, 67-71 Prospect Terrace, Gray’s Inn Road, W.C.l. Ter. 8567—open from 9 a.m. until 5 p.m., Monday to Friday ; Saturday, 9 a.m. until 12 noon. No book can be issued unless the reader’s ticket is presented or a book returned. No book can be exchanged on the day on which it was issued. Changes of address of readers or of their sponsors must be notified within one week of such change. teasing to use the LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections eir tickets to the responsible for all Cookery Camden r\ tN 30106023300600 e books clean, to leaves, or making hem. They must done to the books hey will be heldDigitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 i »2 3 * ct4 https://archive.org/details/b21537409A Point to Remember. The words “ Liebig’s Extract ” carry with them no guarantee of purity—anything can be sold under that name in the British Empire. Only by specifying “ Lemco ” can absolute purity be ensured. The cattle used for “ Lemco ” are the progeny of fine British pedigree stock, and such pre- cautions are taken that any deviation from its uniform purity and goodness is impossible. Think of the economy and convenience of Lemco; what a splendid scope and variety it provides in the kitchen ! Thousands of cooks have made their reputations on it. Lemco 4, Lloyd’s Avenue, London, E.C,' \ When buying CornFlour, Remember this. Brown & Poison’s “Patent” Corn Flour is the product of 50 years of expert manu- facturing, and marks the standard in point of flavour, purity, and concentrated strength. This Corn Flour goes so much farther and serves you so much better than others that, even although it is a trifle higher in cost, it is often cheapest in the end. Remember Brown & Poison’s “ Patent” and refuse substitutes. A Plain Statement. Very light cakes and pastry, pie-crusts, and suet puddings are made by adding one part of “Paisley Flour” (Trade Mark) to eight parts of the household flour. Test its Accuracy. It costs you so little to try. Get from your Grocer a id., 3^d., or 7d. packet of “Paisley Flour.” The id. packet contains enough for a pound of flour. Full directions on packets. “Paisley Flour”—the sure raising powder—is made by Brown & Poison. twmmmmmmmmmmams wm&*A POCKET Dictionary of Foods £r Culinary Encyclopaedia C. H£ Author of#', jasTweii(SeltfiL wrviw -rvj. ^r-hu Gastronomyf' "branch, Menus fj^jkecjt^che Sfde Dishes,” “ Breatkfkei. ahdSupfaer Di^^\^T,he Practical Cookery Manual,” “ Chafipg-dis^'- anfif^asseifole booker y," "The I '■ PopuFar Ce^icery Boolt,'| etc., LAhm?* j e&fw i &t(\*g*wG & LONDON, S.W.: THE FOOD'C-OOKiRY -PUBLISHING AGENCY, WESTMINSTER.THE KING OF COOKERY BOOKS. THE NEW ^7 By C. HERMAN SENN, G.C.A. >\ This voluminous work—dedicated by gracious permission to H.R.H. the Princess of Wales—is the most complete and up-to-date book on Cookery and Gastronomy. It has won for itself a permanent position as one of the best of modern reference works for the culinary ancp' catering' professions. It is ^unsurpassed dn the amount of ' 'mWAation.^ odntains. The con- x.t&stts include hundreds of menus, V>mq recipes (accompanied by? over"400 illustrations). Price 21/- net. Post free 21/9. “ A work of great value and utility not only to professional cooks, but to every housewife and chatelaine. The author is well known as a leading authority on cookery, and he has been indefatigable in his efforts to raise the standard of the art in this country.”—Cour Circular. Illustrated Booklet sent free. THE FOOD & COOKERV PUBLISHING AGENCY, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, Victoria Station, S.W.PREFACE. A few years ago I compiled a Culinary Encyclopaedia for the benefit of Cookery Students. This little book has been found most useful, but it has been out of print for some time, and being assured that there is a great need for a reference book of this kind, I have made a more serious attempt by compiling the present volume, which I hope will serve a practical purpose to Hotel and Restaurant keepers. Stewards, Chefs, Students of Cookery, House- keepers, and others interested in food and cookery matters. The primary object of this book is to show the reader at a glance the meaning of words applied to food, drink, and cooking, with brief descriptive matter which is deemed advisable to furnish in concise form. As its title explains, this book is intended to serve as a dictionary of foods, culinary technical terms, food and cookery auxiliaries, condiments and beverages, which include many foreign names and terms which are in every-day use in connection with menus and recipes, all of which have been translated. In short, every subject connected with the table, cuisine, and gastronomy, has been judiciously treated, and so-called technicalities have been rendered intelligible. Although this small volume is not perfect, nor can it be claimed to be a complete treatise of the multifarious food vocabulary, it is as far as my knowledge goes the most complete work of its kind, and I trust that by its help most of, if not all, the difficult questions will be answered, and that it will form a useful manual of reference. MPCDVIII. C. HERMAN SENN.“ A delicious beverage easily assimilated, worthy of the great reputation it has built up.”— Food and Cookery. VAN HOUTENS is The Finest Cocoa in the World.7 A Dictionary of Foods and Culinary Encyclopaedia. Abatis, f. The head, neck, liver, comb, kernels, and wings of a bird. Giblets. Abuts, f. Liver, lights, etc. Abavo. Name of an Indian pumpkin, from which a delicious soup is prepared. Abelavis. An Egyptian melon. Able, f. A fish of the salmon kind, but somewhat smaller, found on the Swedish coast. Ablette, f. A very small sweet-water fish, of pink colour. Abricot, f. Apricot. Small fruit of the peach order. AbricotS, f. Candied apricot. Masked with apricot marmalade. Acetarious. Denoting plants used in salads. Acetary. An acid pulp found in certain fruits. Acetic Acid. This is an acid used in confectionery, boiled sugar foods, etc., in order to preserve whiteness, to give body or consistency, and to prevent deterioration of delicately coloured sugar work, etc. It is obtained in two forms—by the oxidisation of alcohol, and the distillation of organic matter in hermetically sealed vessels. This acid being inflammable, it must be very cautiously used. Admiral. A hot drink (punch), consisting of claret sweetened with sugar, flavoured with vanilla and cinnamon, and thickened with egg-yolks.8 Adragan (gomme), f. Gum Tragacanth, e. Principal in- gredient used for gum paste. Adschempilavi. Name of a Turkish dish—pickled meat stewed with rice. Aerated Bread. The name given to bread prepared by a special process, known as “ Dr. Dauglish’s Process.” According to this process bread is made without leaven or yeast, carbonic acid gas being mixed or charged in water, which is mixed with flour in an iron vessel and placed under pressure to form the dough. Aerated Waters. These are used as the basis of a large number of effervescing drinks, cups, etc. They are consumed alone or with wines or spirits. The process of manufacture is not difficult; they are made by forcing a certain quantity of carbonic acid into water, which, under pressure, dissolves a quantity of this gas, but gives off the greater part again as soon as the pressure is removed, or, in other words, as soon as the stopper is taken out of the bottle. Soda and potash waters usually contain ten to fifteen grains of bi- carbonate of soda or potash, in addition to the carbonic acid. Seltzer water should contain chlorides of sodium, calcium, and magnesium, with phosphate and sulphate of sodium. Lemonade and other fruit beverages are made by the addition of a certain quantity of fruit essence or syrup to aerated water. There are also numerous natural mineral or aerated waters, which are obtained from springs containing certain salts in addition to carbonic acid gases. Among these may be mentioned Apollinaris, Johannis Seltzers, Rossbach, Vichy waters, etc. Agaric, f. A species of mushroom, of which there are six varieties used as edibles. Agneau, f. Lamb. A young sheep. Agras, f. A Continental drink made of pounded almonds and the juice of unripe grapes, slightly sweetened. It is served in a half-frozen condition. Agro-dolce Sauce. A sweet-sharp sauce, made with vinegar, sugar, pine kernels, almonds, chocolate, and small currants ; served hot. Aiglefin or Aeglefin, f. A kind of fish resembling the codfish ; is caught on the French coast, and cooked in the same manner as a codfish.9 Aigre au C6drat, f. A favourite beverage of Cardinal Richelieu. Orangeade flavoured with the juice of mulberries, acidulated with lemon juice, and sweetened with honey. Aiguillettes, f. Small strips of cooked meat. Breasts of ducks and geese are carved “ en aiguillettes.” Small fillets of fish, as “ Aiguillettes de Sole.” Aiguille-a-Brider. Larding-needle, used for inserting strips of fat bacon into lean meat or birds (breasts of). Ail, f. Garlic—“ un goune d’ail,” a clove of garlic ; “ une pointe d’ail,” a little on the point of a knife. Aile, f. The wing of a bird. Ailerons, Airelle, f. Small wings of birds ; fins of some fish. Sometimes used for garnishing dishes, or served as ragout. Aillade, f. Garlic condiment, sauce, or pickle. Airelle Rouge, f. Red bilberry; dark red berries used for compote, jellies, and marmalade ; cranberry. Airelle, or Myrtille, f. Whortleberry. There are two sorts. One originates from America, and is very savoury, and is f eaten freshly picked with savoury milk or a cream sauce. I The other kind of whortleberry is a small fruit, of dark blue Tcolour ; seasoning certain dishes. Wine merchants use it to colour white wine. Aiselle, f. A species of beetroot; used as vegetable or in salads. Aitchbone of Beef. Culotte, f. An economical joint used as boiled meat or stews. The joint lies immediately under the rump. It is a bone of the rump, which in dressed beef presents itself in view edgewise ; hence it is sometimes called “ edgebone,” the ancient name for aitchbone. AjoutSes, f. To add or mix ; also applied to small garnish or side dishes served with vegetable course. A la, f. X la mode de, denoting the style or fashion of a dish ; a la fra^aise, French style ; a la Reine, Queen style ; alTmperatrice, Empress style; a la Russe, Russian style, etc. In this sense, the feminine singular a la (or a V, before a vowel) is always used as it refers to mode, which is feminine. A la Broche, f. Roasted in front of the fire on spit or skewer. A la Diable, f. Devilled ; seasoned with hot condiment or spices.10 Albrand, or Albrent, f. Name applied in France to young wild ducks ; after the month of October they are called canard eaux, and the month following canards. Albufera, f. A lake near Valencia, in Spain. Title given to Duke of Wellington, 1812. Dishes called after his name, a 1’, served with a sharp brown sauce flavoured with port wine. Roast pork, game, etc. Albumen. A nitrogenous substance contained in white of egg and lean meat, principally beef. Albumine, f. Albumen (white of egg). Alderman’s Walk. The name given to the centre cut (long incision) of a haunch of mutton or venison, where the most delicate slices are to be found. It also denotes the best part of the under-cut (fillet) of a sirloin of beef. The name is supposed to be derived from a City Company’s dinner, at which a City Alderman showed a special liking for this cut. Alisander, e. Sometimes called Alexander. “ Persie de macedoine,” f. Name of a plant belonging to the parsley and celery order. As a culinary plant it is almost forgotten, but may be found in its wild state near the sea coast of Great Britain. Before celery was known this plant was used as a salad ingredient. Allemande (a 1*), f. German style. As a surname to dishes is applied in many cases where the origin of the preparations are in a manner peculiar to Germany. Thus a dish garnished with sauerkraut and pork (pickled and boiled), its style is termed a 1’Allemande. Again, a dish garnished with potato quenelles or smoked sausages may be defined in the same manner. Allemande Sauce, f. A white reduced veloute sauce, made from veal stock, thickened with flour, cream, yolk of egg, and seasoned with nutmeg and lemon juice. Allerei. Name of a German dish, consisting of stewed early spring vegetables. A kind of macedoine of vegetables, principally served at Leipzig. Alliance (a la Ste.), f. Name of a garnish for entrees, consisting of braised carrots, artichoke bottoms, and small onions. Allspice. Piment, epice, f. Also called Jamaica pepper or pimento. The ground, ripe, and dried berries of a pretty evergreen-tree of the myrtle species, which grows plentifullyii in Jamaica. It is called allspice because its flavour and smell resemble very closely that of a combination of three chief spices—cloves, cinnamon, and nutmeg. The berries when ripe and dry are somewhat similar to black pepper, only rather larger and less pungent in taste. Allumette, f. Match, strip. Almavica, it. An Italian sweet dish, similar to semolina pudding. Almond. Amande, f. A greatly appreciated fruit, used for a variety of culinary preparations, more especially sweet dishes and for dessert. The fruit of a tree resembling the peach-tree. It is largely cultivated in. Spain, the south of France, and Italy. There are two kinds, the sweet and the bitter. Malaga and Valentia cultivate the best sweet almonds (called Jordan almonds). Those imported from Malaga are the best. The usefulness of this fruit is valuable for medicinal purposes as well as in the kitchen. There is hardly another fruit which touches the fancy of one’s palate so pleasantly as the almond. Alose, f. Shad, e. A river-fish, highly prized in France. Alouette, f. (See Lark.) A small singing bird. Alouette farcies, f. Stuffed larks (boned). Aloyau, f. Sirloin of beef. Short loin. Loin of beef. (See Sirloin.) Alphenic, f. White barley sugar. Alsacienne (a 1’). Alsatian style. A meat garnish con- sisting of mashed peas, slices of ham, and smoked sausages. Alum. A salt of astringent and acid flavour. It is double sulphate of potash (called ammonia) and alumina. This is often used in the process of sugar-boiling, especially for pulled sugar used for ornamental purposes. A tiny pinch usually suffices for a pound of sugar. Alum Whey. An invalid drink made from milk, \ pint, a tablespoonful wine, a teaspoonful alum, and sugar to taste. Alveole, f. Comb, cell (of honeycomb). Amalgamer, f. Amalgamate. To mix several substances. Amande, f. Almond. (See Almond.)12 Amandes (Pat6 d*), f. Almond paste. A mixture of powdered almonds, sugar, and whites of eggs or water, made into a paste. Used for cake-covering, etc. Amandes douce, sweet almonds. Amandes pralinees, burnt almonds. Amarante, f. Amaranth (a kind of spinach). Ambigu, f. A buffet lunch. A meal where the meat and sweets are served at the same time. Ambrosie, f. Name of a cold drink of milk, Vanilla or Kirsch- wasser; flavouring. Ameaux, f. A kind of pastry made of puff paste and eggs. Amer, Amere, f. Bitter. Americaine (d 1’), f. Applied to game served with a sauce of which black-currant jelly forms a principal ingredient. Amidon, f. Starch. A white farinaceous substance, obtained by a peculiar process from flour or potatoes. It is insoluble in cold water, but soluble in boiling water, and through cooling it becomes a mass similar to jelly, and is then called Empois in French (or stiffened starch). Amiral (a 1*), f. Name of a garnish, principally for fish, consisting of fried oysters, sliced lobster fillets, and brown sauce. Name also adopted for meat dishes and sweet entremets. (Admiral style.) Amontillado, f. Term applied to sherry from its eighth to fourteenth year. Amourettes, Armourettes, f. Marrow cut in strips and crumbed. Lambs’ fry. Ananas, f. Pineapple. A dessert fruit of noble appearance possessing a most delicate and delicious flavour. Anchois, f. Anchovy. Sardellen, g. Literally, galltincturer. A small fish, native to the Mediterranean. Anchovy. Though caught as far as the Black Sea, this fish is also obtained from the coasts of France, Portugal, Spain, and the British Channel. The Gorgona fish are considered the best, while the Dutch, Russian, and Norwegian varieties are distinguished by having no scales. Gorgona anchovies are imported both in brine and in oil, the Dutch in brine only, the Russian in brine and highly spiced vinegar, the Norwegian in spiced brine.13 Ancienne (a 1*), f. Ancient style. A garnish, consisting of kidney beans, hard-boiled eggs, and braised cabbage lettuces. Ancient Wines. Wine was known in the very earliest ages, and as far back as the days of the Patriarch Noah it was undoubtedly of an intoxicating character. Andouille, f. Literally a hog’s pudding; a kind of French sausage. Andouillettes, f. Forcemeat balls. A kind of small sausage. A salpicon of poultry or game wrapped in pigs’ caul and fried. Anesse (lait d’) f. Ass’s milk. Ange, f. Angel; angel fish. Angelica. Angelique, f. The name of a green fruit-rind used in the kitchen, the tender tubular stems of which, after being preserved with sugar, are used for the purpose of decorating and flavouring sweet dishes. Angels on Horseback. Huitres en cheval, f. A savoury. Oysters rolled in bacon slices, grilled, and served on toasted or fried bread croutes. Anglaise (a 1’). English style. Usually implies something plain roast or plain boiled, or that the dish is prepared in a style typical of this country. Angloise, f. A kind of plum tart. Angobert, f. A large cooking pear. Angoumois, f. A variety of apricot. Anguille, f. Eel. A genus of soft-finned fishes. Animelles, f. Lamb’s fry. Anis, f. Anise or Aniseed. Aromatic plant, used for flavour ing sweet puddings, creams, and pastries. In Germany it is used as one of the ingredients in a fancy bread called Anisbrod. The anise plant is a native of Egypt and China. Aniser. To strew over with aniseed, or to mix with aniseed. Anisette. Aniseed cordial, e. A liqueur. Annadas, f. Term applied to young or first year’s sherry. Anon, f. A fish similar to the whiting. Api, f. Name of a small French dessert apple.14 Appareils, f. Culinary term for prepared mixtures. Prepara- tions for an event. Appetissant, f. Appetising ; something to whet the appetite ; relishing. Appetissant, f. A hors d’oeuvre, consisting of stuffed Spanish olives, dressed on little croutes of fried bread. Appetit, f. Appetite. Brillat-Savarin gives the following most elaborate and graphic definition concerning appetite : “ Motion and life create in the living body a constant loss of substance, and the human body, which is a most complicated machinery, would soon be unfit for use if Providence did not provide it with a compensating balance, which marks the very moment when its powers are no longer in equiva- lence with its requirements.” The great Car erne, who was for a time chef to the Prince Regent in England, used to discuss matters of gastronomy daily with his royal master. One day the Prince said, “ Careme, you will make me die of indigestion, for I long to eat of everything you send to table ; everything is so tempting.” “ Sire,” answered Careme, “ my business is to provoke your appetite, it is not for me to regulate it.” Appetite denotes a desire to eat, and is announced in the stomach by a little weakness, combined at times with a little pain, and a slight sensation of lassitude. Meanwhile the mind is occupied with objects bearing upon its wants, whilst memory recalls such things as please the taste, or, in other words, imagination fancies it sees those things for which one longs ; the stomach becomes sensitive, the mouth becomes moistened, and all the digestive powers become ready for action. This is the feeling of one that is hungry, and to have an appetite one must be hungry. Apple. Pomme, f. Apfel, g. The original apple of this country is the crab, which is astringent and bitter. There are about three hundred kinds of apple now cultivated. Apple Fool. A puree of apples (apple pulp), flavoured with cinnamon, clove, and sugar, mixed with new milk or cream, served as cream liquid or half frozen in glass dishes or goblets. Apple Hedgehog. Name of a dish of stewed apples (whole), the centres of which are filled with jam, arranged in the form of a hedgehog, decorated with shreds of almonds, covered with icing sugar, and browned in the oven.15 Apple Meringue. This is similar to apple snow, but is baked in a slow oven after being dressed on the dish. Apple Pupton. A kind of apple pudding made with apple pulp, breadcrumbs, butter, eggs, and sugar, baked in a plain mould, and served with a fruit syrup (hot). Apple Snow. Name of a sweet dish composed of apple pulp or puree, mixed with sugar, etc. This is mingled into some stiffly-whipped and sweetened white of egg. The mixture is piled high in a glass dish, and decorated with fruit jelly. Apple Tansy. This is a kind of apple fritter. The batter is made of cream and eggs, and poured over partially-stewed apples; they are fried in butter, and served very hot. Apprete, f. Sippet; narrow slice of bread. Apprete, f. Prepared, cooked, dressed. Apricot. Abricot, f. Aprikose, g. First introduced in England about 1562. A delicious fruit, most favoured as dessert fruit; also largely used for tarts, jam, marmalade, and jelly. The apricot-tree was introduced into Europe by Alexander the Great. A peculiarity of the tree is that it produces flowers before it bears leaves. Aqua d’Oro, it. A high-class liqueur invented by the Italians in the thirteenth century. It was first introduced into France in 1533 by Catherine de Medici, who became the wife of Henry II. The predominant flavour of this liqueur is rosemary and rossolis. Arachide, f. Earthnut; peanut. Arack, f. Arrack. A spirit distilled from rice, palm juice or sugar-cane ; principally in India and Russia. Arbousse, f. A kind of water-melon ; a native of Astrachan. Argenteuille, f. Name of a county in France, Dep. Seine- Oise, celebrated for asparagus, “ Asperges d’Argenteuille.” Argentine, f. Name of a small fish of the salmon family. Arille, Aril, f. Mace. Ariston (a Greek word). Breakfast bit. A kind of bread dipped in wine. Arles, f. A town in France (Bouche du Rhone), celebrated for its sausages, “ saucissons d’Arles.” Aroma. Arome, f. Aromatic quality.16 Aromates, f. Vegetable herbs as used for flavouring. Aromatic herbs, such as thyme, bayleaves, tarragon, chervil, etc. Aromatiser, f. To flavour with spice or savoury herbs. Aromatic seasoning. Aromatic Seasoning. Epice culinaire, f. A special blend of various herbs and condiments. Aronde, f. Swallow. Pearl oyster. Arracacha, f. An esculent resembling the parsnip. Arroser, f. To baste with gravy, sauce, oil, butter or dripping. Arrowroot. Fegule de Marante, f. A tropical plant used for thickening sauces and other culinary preparations. It is said the Indians extracted a poison for their arrows from this root, hence the name. Artichauts (fonds d’), f. Artichoke bottoms. Artichoke. Artichaut, f. (See Jerusalem and Globe Artichoke.) Artois, f. Old county of France (Pas de Calais). Several dishes are called after this name. D’Artoise-feuilletage, pastry with jam ; also savouries. Arza. An Arabian brandy from mares’ milk. Asparagus. Asperges, f. An esculent plant, originally a wild sea-coast plant of Great Britain. In season from April till end of July. It grows abundantly in the temperate regions of both hemispheres, and is found in the tropics of gigantic size. Asparagine, f. A crystallised extract of asparagus. Aspic, f. Savoury jelly ; a l’aspic, or en aspic, set in aspic, or garnished with aspic jelly. Aspic is clarified stock fortified with meat or fish and vegetable flavourings, rendered gela- tinous with calf’s feet or gelatine. Used for cold entrees, for cold savouries, and for marking and garnishing. Aspiquer, f. A modern Parisian culinarism, meaning to put lemon-juice, or “ reduced vinegar,” into a jelly, a sauce or a gravy (Gouffe) ; the expression is therefore misleading ; the proper verb to use would be acidulating, to acidulate. Assaisonnement, f. Seasoning, condiment, sauce. Assai- sonner, f. To season, to mix. Assiette, f. A plate. Une assiette propre, a clean plate. A French term for hors d’oeuvre, which a plate is large enough to hold. In Scotland the term is used to denote a dish.Assort!, f. Assorted (as gateaux assortis). Astrachan, f. Astracan, e. Russian province. Name of a caviare, the best of its kind, exported from that place. (See also Caviare.) Atelets, f. (Also Hatelettes.) Small silver or wooden skewers used for decorative purposes. AthSnienne (a 1*), f. Athenian style. Larded, braised, and garnished with fried egg-plants, served with Madere sauce. Atherine, f. Sand-smelt, e. A species of fish similar to smelts, distinguishable from the real smelt by the absence of the cucumber smell so peculiar to the latter. Sand-smelts are often passed for real smelts, and though not so fine in flavour and taste they are found to be both delicate and wholesome. Attereaux, f. Small rounds of minced meat (raw), wrapped in pigs’ caul and cooked on skewers. Auberge, f. An inn ; a working-man’s hotel. Aubergine, f. A garden plant. Egg-plant, a melongena, vegetable-marrow. Also called egg-apple, mad-apple, and brinjaul. It is egg-shaped, and either white, yellow, or violet in colour. It is a native of the West Indies. The aubergine is an annual plant, seldom more than two feet in height, and can be cultivated in temperate regions under favourable conditions. Aubergiste, f. An inn-keeper; hotel-keeper. Al’, inn-keeper’s style. Au bleu, f. A culinary term applied to fish boiled in salted water, seasoned with vegetables, herbs, and white wine or vinegar. Auflauf, g. Souffle or puff ; omelet, or baked souffle pudding. Au four, f. Baked or done in the oven. Au gras, f. A French term for meat cooked and dressed with rich gravy or sauce. Au gratin, f. A term applied to certain dishes prepared with sauce, garnish, and breadcrumbs, and baked brown in the oven ; served in the dish on which baked. Au jus, f. A term for dishes of meat dressed with their juice or gravy. Au maigre, f. A French expression used for dishes prepared without meat. Lenten dishes. i B18 Aumelette. Synonym of omelette. Au naturel, f. Applied to food cooked plainly and in very simple fashion. Aurore, f. A yellow colour, e. A culinary expression for dished up high. A garnish consisting of stuffed eggs, quartered, bread croutons, and Aurore sauce. Aurore sauce consists of Allemande or Bechamel and tomato sauce, flavoured with chili vinegar ^and dice of mush- rooms. Aveline, f. Filbert, e. A fine nut of the hazel kind. Avoine, f. Oats, e. Creme d'avoine. Cream of oats. Used for soups and puddings. Avola. Name of Sicilian town renowned for its sweet almonds. Azy, f. Rennet made of skimmed milk and vinegar. B. Baba (from the Polish word babka). A very light yeast cake, usually containing currants. Babka. Name of a Polish-Russian cake. Prepared as a custard, containing fruit, almonds, etc. Bacalao. Name of a Spanish fish speciality, consisting usually of salt cod, with a savoury dressing. Backings. Name of a kind of fritters, best known in America, where they form a highly-esteemed dish for breakfast. Bacon. Petit lard, f. The sides of a pig salted or pickled and smoked. Bacon smoked; du lard fume. Larding bacon, e. ; lard a piquer, f. Badiane. Chinese aniseed-tree. Bael or Bengal Quince. A fruit of the orange tribe. Highly esteemed in India as a preserve, either as jam or as a syrup. Bagration, f. Name applied to certain high-class dishes, notably a soup. Bagration was a Russian count, whose chef was the celebrated A. Careme. Baie de Ronce, f. Blackberry, e. The fruit of the bramble.19 Bain-Marie, f. The culinary water-bath. It is a large open vessel, half-filled with hot water, where sauces, etc., are kept in small saucepans, so that they are nearly at the boiling-point without burning or reducing. Baisers, f. Kisses ; a kind of sweets. Baisure, f. Kissing crust (the soft part where two loaves of bread are attached). Baking. A common form of cooking by means of dry heat. The term “ baking ” is usually applied when articles are cooked in an oven or some other close structure, in which the action of the dry heat is more or less modified by the presence of steam which arises from the food whilst cooking. Bread has been baked from immemorial antiquity. Lot did bake unleavened bread more than three thousand six hundred years ago ; Pharaoh had his baker ; and in the ceremonial law given by Moses to the ancient Jews, they were distinctly directed to bring cakes “ baken in the oven.” Ballotine, f. Small balls or rolls of meat or fowl. Banana, e. Banane, f. Fruit of the plantain-tree. Used as dessert fruit; also for puddings, creams, ices, fritters, etc. This fruit forms one of the principal sources of food in the tropics. It is eaten raw when ripe, when unripe can be boiled and served as a vegetable, or baked and served with orange juice. The banana of to-day differs as widely from its ancestors as does the potato. There are 176 known varieties, and the productive power per acre is pro- digious, the yield being about 300 bunches per acre per annum. Bannocks. A kind of thin, round, flat cake, made with oatmeal, butter, baking powder, and water. They are baked like griddle cakes, or in a hot iron frying-pan. Finally, they are toasted till quite crisp. Banquet, f. A sumptuous feast; an entertainment of eating and drinking. Banqueter, f. To banquet, to feast, to treat oneself with a good feast. Bantam Fowl. A very small fowl, so called because it was originally brought from Bantam, Java. It is now largely bred in this country. Bantam eggs, though small, are of superior quality. Baraquille. A large pie made of rice, chicken, and truffles.20 Barbe, f. Beard ; wattle (of a turkey, etc.) ; fin (of flat fish) ; “ mould ” or “ mold ” on preserves. Barbe de bone. Wild salsify. Barbe de Jupiter. Houseleek. Barbe de Capucin. “ Monk’s Beard.” Barbecue, f. The mode of cooking (roasting) an animal whole ; a social entertainment in the open air; to dress and roast whole. Barbe de Bouc, f. Plant resembling the salsify. Boiled in water or stock, or baked. Barbel. A fish of the carp family. This fish is but seldom eaten in England ; but in some parts of the Continent it is often found and appreciated. Barbel, Barbeau, Barbue, f. A coarse fish, similar in shape to turbot. Barberry. A small fruit resembling the black currant both in size and colour. Largely used for preserves, jellies, and pickles ; the flavour being rather acid it is not eaten raw'. Barbottes en Casserole, f. Stewed eel-pout, e., en casserole also denotes a special process of cooking in fire-proof earthen- ware pan. Barcelonas. Small kiln-dried Spanish nuts. Barder, f. To bard. To cover breasts of game or poultry with thin slices of bacon fat. Barigoule (a la). Style of garnish applied to artichokes, served with a brown sauce and coarsely-minced mushrooms. Barley. Orge, f. Pearl barley, orge monde, f. Barley bread, pain d’orge, f. Barley soup, creme d’orge, f. Barley water, eau d’orge, f. Barley sugar, sucre d’orge, f. Barm. Yeast. Levain, f. The scum of malt liquor. Baron. Double loin of beef. Saddle of mutton or lamb with legs attached. Baron of Beef. A very large joint of the ancient kitchen. It consists of both sides of the back, or a double sirloin, and weighs from 40 to 100 lbs. It is always roasted, but is now rarely prepared, except at some festive occasions of the English Court, or at some great public entertainment. It is generally accompanied by a boar’s head. Barquette, f. A small boat. A boat-shaped piece of pastry, etc. Bars, Bass, f. Sea perch. Bars Noir. Black bars. Barsez. A Polish soup made of beetroot. Bartavelle. French partridge. Red partridge.21 Basil. An aromatic pot herb. Basil vinegar is made by steeping the leaves in vinegar, and is used for flavouring when the fresh plant cannot be procured. Basilic. An aromatic culinary herb, allied to thyme. It is included in the “ sweet ” as well as “ savoury ” herbs, on account of its pleasant aromatic smell and taste. Basler Leckerlis. A kind of dessert biscuits—Bale delicacy— richly flavoured with honey and spice, called after the town of Bale, where they are mostly made. These delicacies are to be found at almost every railway buffet on the Continent. Bass. A fish belonging to the same order as the perch. It is sometimes called white salmon, or salmon-dace. It attains a weight of fifteen pounds, but it is usually much smaller. Baste—to baste. To drip liquified fat on meat during the process of roasting, in order to prevent the outside of joints, birds, etc., from becoming dry. Bath Chaps. The cheek and jaw-bone of the pig, salted and smoked. Thus called because those coming from Bath were first known, and the first to obtain a reputation as being the very finest. Bath still enjoys this honour. Baton. Stick or slice. Batons royaux, f. Small patties of minced chicken and game ; the favourite dish of Charles XII. Batter. Pate a frire, f. A mixture of several ingredients beaten together. Frying batter—pate a frire, f. Batterie de cuisine, f. A complete set of cooking utensils and apparatus. Bavaroise, f. Bavarian cream, e. A kind of cold custard pudding. Bavaroise a l’eau, f. Tea flavoured with syrup of capillaire and orange-flower water. Bavette d’Aloyau. Thin flank of beef or veal. Bayonnaise (a la). Garnished with anchovy, fillets, gherkins, and boiled button onions. Bayleaf. Laurier, f. The leaf of a species of the laurel-tree, known as the cherry laurel. Largely used as flavouring. It is generally included in the bouquet garni. Bayleaf flavour should always be used in moderation. It is exten- sively employed in Sweden and Russia in the preserving of anchovies and other fish.22 Beans, French: Haricots verts, f. French or string beans : Haricots verts. Broad beans : Feves. Green kidney beans : Flageolets. String beans mixed with flageolets : Haricots panaches. Bearnaise, f. Name of a rich white herb sauce with yolk of egg liason. Comes from the word Bearn, birthplace of King Henry IV., who was a great gourmand. Beauvilliers (Antoine). Name of a clever cuisinier, born 1754, died 1817. Created one of the first restaurants in Paris. Palais Royal Restaurant was first opened by him. Author of “ L’Art du Cuisinier,” a standard work of that period. Becasse, f. Woodcock. Becasseau. Sandpiper ; a young woodcock. Becassine or Becasse. Snipe. Bechamel, f. French white sauce. Recognised as one of the four foundation sauces. The name of this sauce is supposed to come from the Marquis de Bechamel, an excellent chef, who acted as steward in the service of King Louis XIV. Beef. Boeuf, f. Boiled beef—boeuf bouilli. Roast beef—boeuf roti. Braised beef—boeuf braise. Beef has from time immemorial been esteemed as the most substantial food. Its mode of cooking is usually of the simplest kind, though an infinite variety of dishes are made from it. Beefsteak Society. Was founded in London by a John Rich in 1735, and lasted till 1867. Beef-tea. The essence of beef, extracted by a slow process of cooking, more or less diluted, as required. Beer. Biere, f. Bier, g. A beverage made of malt and hops. First known by the ancient Egyptians, from whence it was brought to the Greeks, Romans, and Gauls. A Roman historian mentions this beverage as being in daily use under Julius Csesar (about the beginning of the Christian'Era). Beetroot. Betterave, f. A saccharine root. A wholesome and nutritious vegetable largely used pickled for salads and as garnish. In France and Germany it is extensively used for the manufacture of sugar. It forms a delicious salad, and an excellent soup. Behargue, f. A name given to Southdown mutton or mutton raised on the salt marshes of France. Also termed pre-sale. Beignets, f. Fritters. Also a kind of pancake fried in deep fat.23 Bellevue (k la or en), f. Popular title applied to cold entrees (poultry) masked with white chaudfroid sauce, garnished with truffles, tongue, tarragon leaves, and chopped aspic jelly. Benedictine. A liqueur largely used for flavouring purposes. Bergamder, f. A species of duck. Bergamotte, f. (or Bergamot). A species of pears, with a very agreeable flavour. Berle, f. Ache. Old English name for celery, celeriac, or celery-root. Berlinois, f. A kind of light yeast cakes in the shape of balls similar to dough-nuts. Bernard, Emile. Name of a famous chef de cuisine, born 1828, died in 1897. Was chef for over 20 years to the Emperor William I. Co-author of “ Le Cuisine Classique,” a famous standard work on cookery. Betterave, f. Beetroot. (See Beetroot.) Beurre noir (au), f. Anything done in butter which is cooked to a brown colour. Beurre noisette, f. Nut-brown butter, e. Butter melted over the fire until it begins to brown. Beurre fraise. Fresh butter. Beurre fondu. Melted butter. Beurre sale. Salt butter. Beurre (lait de). Buttermilk. Beurr Buttered. Beurre. A kind of pear (butter-pear). Biftek, f. Name given on the Continent to fillet of beefsteak, or beefsteak. Bigarade, f. Bitter or sour orange—Seville orange. Bigarreau, f. White-heart cherry. Bigarure, f. Is the name given to a rich stew made from pheasants, capons, etc. Bigarrufre. Motley, medley. Insertions made in meat and filled with sliced meat of various kinds. Bignon. A famous Parisian restaurateur. Bilberry, Blaeberry, Bleaberry. The best bilberries are found in the Scotch pine forests. In Germany, cold cooked bilberries are sometimes eaten at the commencement of dinner in place of soup. Bill of Fare. Menu, f. Literally, minute details, in a culinary (sense ; a list of dishes intended for a meal. Menu cards were first used at table in 1541.24 Blnd-to. To make a mixture and moisten it with egg, milk or cream, so that it will hold together and not curdle. Bird’s Nest (edible Bird’s Nest). Constructed by a small Indian swallow species, found on the coast of China. There are two kinds, the black and white nests, the latter being much more rare, and consequently more thought of than the former. The Chinese look upon these edible birds’ nests as a great delicacy, and often make them into soup. Biscotin, f., Biscote, Biscotte. A small, hard, sweet biscuit. Brown pulled bread. Biscottes, f. Thin slices of brioche paste, gently baked, buttered, and sugared, generally served with tea. Biscuit, f. Literal meaning, twice baked. The term was originally applied to unfermented dough which had been twice baked [ in order to render it sufficiently dry to keep for a length of time. Biscuits de Reims. Savoy or finger biscuits. Bishop. Drink made of wine, oranges, and sugar. It was very popular in Germany during the Middle Ages. Bisk. An ancient dish made of wild and tame birds, sweet- breads, cocks’ combs, etc. Bisque, f. Is the name given to certain soups usually made with shellfish. Bisquotins, f. A kind of obsolete sweetmeats known since a.d. 241, when they were made by Huns. Bitter, g. An essence or liqueur made from different kinds of aromatic plants, herbs or fruits. Blackberry. Mure de ronce, f. An edible fruit, found growing wild in England. Very much esteemed by country people, and used for puddings, etc., and jam and syrup, which are considered to be very healthy. Black Currant. Groseille noire, f. A small kind of grape fruit. Black Grouse. Black game. Black Jack. Name given to caramel, burnt sugar ; sometimes used for colouring brown soups, brown sauces, and gravies. Black Puddings. Poudings noire, f. Sausages made of pork, oatmeal, breadcrumbs, herbs, etc., enclosed in black skins. They are first boiled, and, when cold, either fried or toasted.25 Blanc, f. A white broth or veal stock gravy. Blanc (au). Cooked in white stock or served in white sauce. Blanchaille, f. Whitebait. Blanching. The meat or vegetable is placed in boiling water for a short time, and then plunged into cold water. The object of blanching is to add firmness in order to facilitate the process of larding, or preserve the colour of white meats, vegetables, etc. Blanchir, f. To blanch, e. To put anything on the fire in cold water until it boils ; then it is drained and plunged into cold water. Blanc-mange, f. A white sweet food. A sweet cream set in a mould, made by boiling farinaceous substances in milk to the consistence of jelly. Originally a maigre soup, made of milk of almonds. It is wrong to add colouring matter to a blanc-mange; hence chocolate blanc-mange is incorrect. Blanquette. A stew usually made of veal or fowl, with a white sauce enriched with cream or egg-yolks. A white grape. A kind of pear. Ble. Wheat, corn. Bleak. Breme, f. A small species of river fish. Bleu (au), f. A name applied to fish cooked in white wine, etc. Blinis. A kind of Russian pancake made with buckwheat flour and served with caviare. Bloaters. Are slightly salted and half-dried herrings, which constitute a common breakfast dish in England. Those from Yarmouth are the best known ; they are dried in smoke, whereas the bloaters cured in Norway are salted and dried, but not smoked. Blond, e. Light coloured, white. Blonde de Veau, f. A very rich veal broth, used for flavouring and enriching white soups and sauces. Boar’s Head. Hure de sanglier, f. An historical Christmas dish in England. That the custom of serving the boar’s head still survives in some of the Inns of Court and Colleges is shown by the following extract from a publication of a comparatively recent date : “At the Queen’s College, Oxford, the ancient ceremony of bringing in the boar’s head is still observed at Christmas time.”26 Boeuf, f. Beef. Bceuf Sale. Corned or salted beef. Boiling. Bouillir, f. A mode of cooking by moist heat. The process is usually effected in water or stock. Bolet, Boletus. A kind of mushroom. Bologna Sausage. A large smoked sausage, made of bacon, veal, and pork suet; an Italian speciality principally manu- factured at Bologna. Bombay Duck. Also called Bummalo, Bumbalo or Bumaloe, and zoologists call it Harpodon. A fish found in the Indian waters. It is very nutritive, and possesses a peculiar yet delicate flavour. For exportation it is salted and cured. In America and some parts of Europe it is considered a delicacy. It is usually served with curry. Bombe, f. An iced pudding filled with a rich custard of fruit cream, shape of a bomb. Bon-bon, f. Sugar confectionery ; generally dainties for children. Bonne-bouche, f. Tit-bit. Name given to small savoury dishes, denoting the hors d’oeuvre or savoury course. Bon-chretien. Name of a kind of winter pear. Bondon. A Neufchatel cheese in the form of a bung. A stopper. Bon Gout, f. Good taste. A much-used expression for highly- flavoured dishes and sauces. Bonite, f. A fish belonging to the class of the mackerel, but larger than the latter. Bonnet de Turquie, f. A kind of ancient pastry made in moulds of the form of a Turkish bonnet. Boquettier. Crab-apple tree. Borage. Bourrache, f. An aromatic plant, excellent for flavouring lettuce salads and iced drinks, claret cups, etc. The plant has spiny leaves and blue flowers. (See also Bourrache.) Bord, Bordure. Border, edge. Bordelaise (a la), f. Name of a French sauce (brown), in which Bordeaux or Burgundy forms one of the ingredients. Also a garnish.27 Borecole, f. A species of cabbage, sometimes called Scotch kale, as it is a well-known vegetable in Scotland. Borecole or Scotch Kale. A coarse kind of green vegetable. Bortsch. A Polish soup made of beetroot. Botte, f. Bunch, bundle. Bouche, f. Mouth. Bonne Bouche. Tit-bit; applied to small savouries and hors d’oeuvre dishes. Bouche, f. Corked, stopped up. Bouchees, f. Small puff paste patties (petits pates), so as to be a traditional mouthful only. Bouchees d la Reine, f. Small puff paste patties filled with chicken ragout, invented by Marie Leczinska, wife of Louis XV. Boudin, f. A kind of small French sausage similar to black pudding, only much smaller. Boudinade, f. A quarter of lamb stuffed with forcemeat. Bouille a-Baisse, f. A celebrated fish stew. A national French dish. Thackeray liked it so much that he wrote a ballad in its praise, beginning : “ This Bouille a-baisse, a noble dish is, A sort of soup, a broth, or stew; A hotch-potch of all sorts of fishes, That Greenwich never could out-do,” etc. Bouilli, f. Boiled. Fresh boiled beef. A national French dish. Bouilloire, Bouillotte. Boiler, kettle. Bouillon, f. A plain clear soup. Unclarified beef broth. Beef or veal broth. Boulanger, f. Baker. Bouquet garni, f. A small bunch of savoury herbs, parsley, thyme, and bayleaves ; a faggot. It is tied up, in order to facilitate its removal after use. Used in stews, stocks, broths, braises, sauces, etc., to impart a rich flavour. Bouquet of Herbs. Green onions, parsley, thyme, marjoram, tarragon, chervil, etc., tied in a bunch ; used for flavouring. Bourcette. Lamb’s lettuce. Bourgeoise (a la), f. A surname given to dishes, which signifies a dish prepared in a simple, homely, but nevertheless tasty and wholesome, manner. It means a modest kind of home cookery.28 Bourgoyne, f. (Vin de Bourgoyne). Burgundy wine. Also the name of a rich brown sauce. Bourgoyne (a la), f. Burgundy style, name, and character given to dishes. Bourguignote, f. A ragout of truffles, usually served with game. Bourguignonne (a la), f. Burgundy fashion, e. Bourguinonne (a la), f. This surname is applied, as a general rule, to dishes, in the preparation of which Burgundy or Bordeaux wine and small braised button onions are introduced. Bouride, f. A dish strongly flavoured with garlic. Bourrache, f. Borage, e. Aromatic kitchen herb ; also called cucumber herb, because it has the peculiar flavour of cucumbers. Braise, f. Braising. Meat cooked in a closely-covered stewpan (braising pan or braisiere) to prevent evaporation, so that the meat thus cooked retains not only its own juices, but also those of the articles added for flavouring, such as bacon, ham, soup vegetables, seasoning, etc., which are put with it. Braisee, or Braiser, f. A mode of cooking known as braising, which is a combination of roasting and stewing. Braisiere, f. A large stewpan with ledges to the lid, used for braising meats, etc. Brandade, f. Name given to a dish o stewed haddocks. A salt cod stew or pudding. Brandy. Cognac, f. The name is derived from the German word “ Brantwein ” (literally translated “ burnt wine ”). French brandy, or, as it is called, Cognac, is most highly esteemed ; Cognac (Department of Charente, France) is celebrated for the excellence of its brandy. Brandy has been defined as an alcoholic liquor, the spirit of which is obtained by the distillation of wine from the grape. Brasserie. A popular type of restaurant in Paris, Vienna, etc Brawn. Moulded cooked boar’s or pig’s head, etc. Brazil Nuts. A hard nut contained in a three-sided shell. Bread. Pain, le, or du, f. Bread was invented either by the Egyptians or the Hebrews. Sarah, the wife of Abraham, made bread more than 3,000 years ago. The Greeks are29 said to have had more than fifty varieties of bread, and it was from them that the Romans learnt the art of making it. The use of yeast is of ancient date, but after the Roman Era leaven for a time banished yeast. It appears to have been again in use in England in 1634, and a little later the bakers in Paris began to use yeast imported from Flanders. For many centuries the use of fermented bread was confined to the upper classes, the bread of the peasantry consisting principally of the flat cakes still seen in remote parts of Norway and Sweden. Breadcrumbs. Chapelure, f. To crumb, from “ paner a la panure,” to coat with breadcrumbs. Bread Fruit. The fruit of the bread-fruit tree (arbre a pain, f.), which is excellent as food. Breakfast. Dejeuner, f. The first meal Jin the day. Break Flour (to). To stir gradually into the flour cold liquid until it becomes a smooth paste. Bream. Byeme, f. Bleak. A small species of river fish. Seasonable September to November. Breast. Poitrine, f. Part of an animal next below the neck. Br6solle. An entree consisting of several kinds of meat. Breteuil (Baron de). Name of a noted epicure of the reign of Louis XVI. Bretonne (a la), f. Brittany style ; garniture, usually consisting of haricot beans, whole or in puree. Brider, f. To truss poultry and game with a needle and thread. Brie. Name of a favourite French cheese. Brie, f. Kneaded paste for biscuits, etc. Brier, f. To beat or flatten paste with a rolling-pin. Brignolles, f. A species of dark-red cooking plums. Brill. A flat fish similar to turbot, called in Scotland “ Bonnet Fleuk,” and in Devonshire and Cornwall “ Kite and Brett.” Brillat-Savarin. A noted writer on culinary matters; author of “La Physiologie du Gout,” etc. Born 1755; died 1826. Brine. Marinade, f. Used for the preservation of meat, etc., and to impart certain aromatic flavours.30 Brinjaul. West Indian egg-plant, known in Bengal as Bangou, which name is supposed to come from the Portuguese “ Bringella.” Brioche, f. A light French yeast cake, similar to Bath buns mixture, only much lighter. The favourite French breakfast bun, eaten hot with coffee or tea. Brisket of Beef. A brisket contains half the breast-bone with the commencement of the rib-bones attached on one side. The flesh consists of alternate layers of lean and fat. Brisotine, f. Name of a light entree of forcemeat, etc. Brisquet, f. The breast of an animal—i.e., the part next to the ribs. Broche, f. French spit for roasting before an open fire. Brochet. Pike, e. Seasonable October to January. A fish to be found in almost all waters ; much liked on account of its delicate flavour. Brochette, f. Skewer, spit. Brocoli. Broccoli, a kind of cauliflower ; a hardy variety of the cauliflower ; one variety is ready for use in the autumn, and the other in early spring. Broiling. Ancient name for grilling. To cook over or in front of a fire by direct heat. Brose. A Scotch dish made by pouring boiling pot-liquor (or boiling water) on oatmeal or barley meal, with small pieces of fat meat. Broth. Bouillon, f. Beef stock or broth. An unclarified gravy soup, with or without garnish. Brouet, f. Broth, liquor. Brouet d'cindouille, tripe liquor. Brouilli, f. Scrambled, mixed, beaten up ; usually applied to eggs. Broussin, f. A mixture of soft cheese, pepper, and vinegar. Brown Meat (to), is to place it in a frying-pan with a small quantity of fat, not turning it till brown. Brown Butter. Beurre noir (au), f. Beurre noisette, nut- brown butter. Brulant, f. Burning, alight, burning hot. Brun. Brown. Brundtre, brownish.31 Brunoise, f. A class of French clear thick soups, with finely- cut vegetable garnish. Brunois is a county in France, Seine-et-Oise Department, celebrated for the growth of fine spring vegetables. Brussels Sprouts. Choux de Bruxelles, f. A kind of small cabbage seasonable from November to March. Bruyere (Coq de). Heath cock. Bucard, Boucarde, Bucardier. Cockle. Bubble-and-Squeak. A well-known old English dish, made of slices of cold meat, fried together with boiled and minced cabbage and potatoes. Buck Rarebit. A Welsh rarebit with the addition of a poached egg placed on the top of the cheese. Buckwheat. A species of Polygonum grown in Germany, Brittany, etc., for feeding horses, cattle, and poultry. In America buckwheat cakes are a common article of diet. Buffet, f. A place for refreshments ; a sideboard. BUisson, f. A cluster or a bunch of shrimps, crayfish, or lobster. Also applied to a method of twisting up pastry to a point. Bullace. The bullace-tree is a native of warm countries, but is now cultivated also in more northern regions ; its fruit is a kind of plum, and very much like the damson. The bullace, however, has not the pleasant roughness of taste so charac- teristic of the damson ; moreover, it is round in form while the damson is oval. Bull’s Eyes. A very old sweetmeat made of boiled sugar, flavoured with peppermint and moulded into irregular round pieces. Bultong. Dried antelope meat. Dried beef. Bumbo. A kind of punch, made of spirits. An American drink. Bummalo. A fish of India, dried and salted. Also called “ Bombay Duck.” Bunion. Earth nut. Also a kind of cheap almond from Italy. Buns. A well-known kind of light and spongy table-bread. The special buns for Good Friday—“ hot-cross buns ”— flavoured with cinnamon, and marked with a +, are particu- larly familiar to English people.32 Burdwan. A savoury dish of re-heated poultry, venison, or meat; of Indian origin. Burgall. The American blue perch. Burgundy. Vin de Bourgoyne, f. A French red wine. Burnt-sugar Colouring. Caramel, f. Burst Rice. Is to put it to boil in cold water ; when boiling, the grains of rice will burst. Bustard. A large game-bird. Butter. Beurre, f. To butter moulds—a beurrer les moules. Saute au beurre—done in butter (tossed). Butter was first used as a food by the Hebrews ; the early Greeks and Romans used it as a medicine or ointment. Butter was discovered at a very early period, and in the first century of the present era Pliny mentions it in terms which imply that it was an article of everyday use. Buttery. A place for keeping butts ; has no direct connection with the word “ butter.” Butter-bean. A variety of Lima bean. Butter-milk. That portion of the cream that is left after the butter has been made from it. Buvette, f. Coffee-house, French bar, or refreshment-room. C. Cabbage. Choux, f. A well-known vegetable ; plants of several species forming a head in growing. Originally it was the wild-growing colewort, still to be found on the cliffs of our sea coast. In its cultivated state it was first brought into this country from Holland, about the time of Henry VIII., when the cultivation of vegetables was here hardly known. Cabillaud, f. Codfish. A sea fish, in season from September till end of April; obtainable all the year. The oil from the liver of the cod is highly beneficial for lung and chest com- plaints. Cabillaud Farci. Stuffed codfish. Cachement. Custard apple.c 33 Cafe, f. Coffee (the berry of a tree). A coffee-house or res- taurant. A beverage prepared from the coffee berries after they have been roasted and ground. Cafe au lait, coffee with milk; cafe double, black coffee of double strength ; cafe noiv, black coffee ; cafe Turc, Turkish coffee ; cafe frappe, iced coffee ; cafe vierge, an infusion of the whole coffee beans. Cafeine. A bitter substance obtained from coffee. Cafetiere. Coffee-pot. Caille, f. Quail. A bird of the grouse kind. Cailles farcies— stuffed quails. Cailles roties, f.—roast quails. In prime condition from September to January. (See Quail.) Caillot-rosat, f. A kind of pear with a rose flavour. Cake. Gateau, f. Generally a mixture of flour, dried fruits, etc., with butter, eggs, or B.P., used to make it light, baked in tins or small patty-pans. Calf. Veal. Veau, f. Calf’s Brains. Cervelles de veau, f. Calf's ears—oreilles de veau, f. Calf’s feet—pieds de veau, f. A good jelly can be obtained from these by boiling. Calf’s head—tete de veau, f. Calf’s kidney—Rognons de veau, f. Calf's liver— foie de veau, f. Calf’s sweetbreads—ris de veau, f. Calf’s tongue—Langue de veau, f. Calf’s tail soup—consomme queue de veau ; potage queue de veau. Callipash. A portion of glutinous meat to be found in the upper shell of the turtle. Callipee. The glutinous meat found in the under part of a turtle’s under shell. Camarine, f. Crowberry, crakeberry. Camembert, f. Camembert cheese. Camerain, f. Name of a costly soup invented by an actor of the 18th century of that name, the price of the soup being £6. The gastronomic work, “ Almanach des Gourmands,” by Grimod de la Reyniere, was dedicated to Camerain. Campine, f. A fat pullet from Campine, Flanders. Canape, f. Much used for hors d’oeuvres and savoury dishes. The word means sofa ; it consists, as a rule, of slices of bread cut into various sizes, used plain, or fried in oil or butter, or else grilled.34 Canard, f. Duck. Canard Roti—roast duck. Canard Sauvage— wild duck. Canard des Bois—wood duck. Canary Wines. Produced in the Canary Islands ; many of them resemble Madeira. Cancale. A place in France famous for its oysters. Candied Peel. Consists of the outer rind of lemon, orange, citron, or lime, encrusted with sugar, and is used as an ingredient of minced meat for mince pies and various sorts of cake. Caneton, f. Duckling. Caneton roti, f. Roast duckling. Caneton de Rouen, f. Rouen duckling. Rouen is celebrated for the superiority of its ducklings ; they do not bleed them as here, but thrust a skewer through the brain, thus keeping the blood in the flesh. Canneberge, f. Cranberry. Cannelons, f., or Canelons. Small rolls of pastry stuffed with minced meat, etc. Cantaloup, f. Hors d’ceuvre of iced Roche (Rock) melon, or iced bananas. Iced fruit; usually a Roche melon or bananas served at the beginning of luncheon or dinner. Cantharelle, f. Cantharellus, a kind of mushroom. Canvas Back Duck is a native of North America, where it owes its popular name to the wavy lines and speckles on its otherwise white feathers. They are more difficult to catch than other ducks, being excellent divers and strong on the wing. It is held in high esteem in the United States. Capercailzie. This bird is a member of the grouse family, and possesses a peculiar flavour. It is usually cooked and served like grouse. The capercailzie is the largest of the gallinacious birds of Europe, and is about the size of a small turkey. It is generally to be found in the north of Europe, but it is now nearly extinct in Great Britain. Capers. Capres, f. The unopened flower-buds of a plant which grows wild among the rocks of Greece and Northern Africa, and now cultivated in the south of Europe. They are imported from Italy, Sicily, and the south of France, after being first pickled in salt and vinegar. The best are exported from Toulon.35 Capillaire. A plant. A syrup flavoured with orange-flowers, etc.—“ sirop de capillaire.” Capilotade. A culinary expression for a mixed hash. Caplan. A fish of the salmon family, resembling smelt, of very delicate flavour. Capon. Chapon, f. The capon is the common cock-bird emasculated to develop its growth, and to improve its flavour. Capron, Caperon. Hautboy, or large kind of strawberry. Capsicum. The capsicum produces the condiment known as red or cayenne pepper. There are various species of Capsicum; the fruit is extremely pungent and stimulating, and is employed in sauces, mixed pickles, etc. Capucin (barbe de), f. Wild chicory. Capucine. Indian cress. Nasturtium. Caramel, f. Name of a favourite sweetmeat. Liquid colouring matter, made by browning sugar to nearly burning-point. Commonly known as “Black Jack.” Also used for coating moulds for a kind of custard pudding, in which case the sugar is cooked to amber colour. Caraway. Cumin, f. The seeds are the dried fruit of the plant on which they grow. In Germany they are used for sweet as well as savoury dishes. This plant has long been valued and cultivated in Europe for the sake of its well-known aromatic “ caraway seeds,” which are, however, strictly not seeds, but the mericarps into which the fruit in this order splits when ripening. They are largely employed in pharmacy as an aromatic stimulant and flavouring ingredi- ent, but their chief use is as a spice by bakers, cooks, and confectioners. Carbonade, f. Stewed or braised meat. Carbonado, f. An ancient dish prepared from a fowl or joint of veal or mutton, roasted, carved, and cut across and across. The pieces were then basted with butter, sprinkled with breadcrumbs, and grilled. Carcasse, f. Carcass. The body of an animal; the bones of poultry or game. Cardamine, f. Wild erers.36 Cardamons. Cardamomes, f. The seeds of a plant which grows abundantly in the mountain forests of the coast of Malabar. They are largely used in Russian and Northern Germany to flavour pastry and confectionery. Carde a la Moelle, f. Pieces of marrow braised with bacon. Served with cardes puree. Cardes, f. A vegetable much esteemed in France. Mostly served as a puree. Cardon, f. Cardoon. A garden plant resembling artichokes in flavour. Carelet or Carrelet, f. Flounder. A small flat fish, in season all the year except in May, June, and July. Careme (A). The name of a celebrated chef, born in Paris in 1784, died 1833 ; author of several culinary works, chef to the Prince Regent, George IV. of England, and the Emperor Alexander I. of Russia. Carmine. Carmin, f. Crimson. Red colouring used in confection- ery, etc. Carottes, f. Carrots. A garden plant in its root (red or yellow- coloured). Carrots were first introduced into England by Flemish gardeners in the time of Elizabeth ; and in the reign of James I. they were still so uncommon that ladies wore bunches of them on their hats and on their sleeves instead of feathers. Carp. A fresh-water fish. Carpentras (a la). A surname to dishes flavoured with, or consisting of, truffles as a garnish. Carpentras, like Perigord, is a district where truffles of excellent flavour and size grow largely. Carre, f. Neck. The rib part of veal, mutton, lamb or pork. Carte du Jour (la), f. The bill of fare for the day ; a list of daily dishes with the prices attached to each dish. Cartouche, f. Cartridge. A culinary term meaning a circular piece of greased paper, used for covering meat, etc., during the process of cooking. Carvi. Caraway seed. Carviol. A vegetable very much the same as cauliflower, best known and cultivated in Austria.37 Casanova (Cazanova). Name of a salad composed of celery and truffles. Cascalope. Same as escalope or scollop. Caseine. The coagulated substance (flesh-forming) of milk and certain leguminous plants. The curd of milk from which cheese is produced. Cheese is therefore an important flesh- forming food in a concentrated form. Casha. An Indian dish of mace and cream. Cassareep. A liquor from cassava. The basis of the West Indian pepper-pot. Cassava. The refined starch of the manioc ; when further refined, cassava is known as tapioca. Casse, f. Case, pan (casse a rot, dripping pan). Casserole, f. A copper stewpan. When used in menus it indicates the form of rice, baked paste crust, or macaroni, filled with minced meat, game puree, etc. (See also Poulet en Casserole.) Cassia. A name given by the ancients to a kind of aromatic bark. It is referred to in the Scriptures and by classical writers. This spice is essentially a cheaper and coarser kind of cinnamon, for which it forms an excellent substitute—its essential oil being chemically similar, although inferior in fragrance and flavour. Cassis, f. The part which is attached to the tail end of a loin of veal; also black-currant syrup or liqueur. Cassolette, f. Small casseroles, to hold one portion. Casson. Broken loaf sugar ; broken cocoa-nibs. Cassonade. Moist sugar, e., i.e., sugar which has not been refined. Castelane. A kind of green plum. Catfish. A fish of the shark family. Catsup. (See Ketchup.) Both these names are derived from a Chinese word, kwaitchap. Caudle. A kind of gruel, with the addition of eggs, and some- times beer, wine or spirits. Caul or Cawl. Crepine, f. A membrane in the shape of a net covering the lower portion of a pig’s bowels, used for wrapping up minced meat, sausages, salpicon, etc.38 Cauliflower. Chou-fleur, F. A delicate and highly-prized vege- table of the cabbage family. In season June to November. Caviar, f. Caviare. The salted roe of sturgeon or sterlet (fish eggs). Caviare contains twice the nutriment of almost all meats, and is almost equal to pork, which contains the highest amount of nutritive elements of any meat. The sterlet is a species of sturgeon not more than two or three feet in length, but possessing very large ova. Cayenne Pepper. Poivre de Guinee, or piment de Guinee, f. An extremely pungent, aromatic condiment ; it consists of the ground seeds of a species of capsicum of a red colour. It is also imported in pods known as chillies. A similar kind of condiment is known as Guinea pepper, which grows in East India, and is even more pungent than the former. Both are grown in England, and are used for pickles, etc. Cecils. An old-fashioned variety of meat ball, flavoured with anchovies and lemon peel Cedrat, f. A kind of citron-tree ; its fruit is used for cakes, puddings, and ice-creams, and a special kind of oil is also prepared from this fruit. Celeriac. A species of the celery plant. A turnip-rooted celery, of which the bulb only is used ; usually served as a vegetable, stewed in broth. Celery. Celeri, f. A salad plant, eaten raw or dressed as salad. Cooked, it is served in various ways as a vegetable or in soups. Celestin. A monk so named after Pope Celestin. A la Celestin e, f., from the Latin coelestis (heavenly). Several dishes are called after this name. Cendre (la), f. Ashes or embers. Cuit sous le cendre, cooked under the ashes. Cepe, f. (Esculent boletus), an edible mushroom of yellowish colour, having an agreeable and nutty flavour, largely cultivated at Bordeaux. Cereelle or Sareelle, f. Teal. A small waterfowl allied to the duck. Cerf, f. Deer, stag, hart. Quadruped kept for venison. Cerfeuil, f. Chervil. An aromatic garden herb plant, the leaves of which form an excellent adjunct to salads, soups, sauces, etc. Its flavour resembles a mixture of fennel and parsley. The root of this herb is poisonous.39 Cerise (la), f. Cherry. A small stone fruit of many varieties. Cherries were known in Asia as far back as the 14th century. Pliny states that Lucullus first brought this fruit to Italy about seventy years before the Christian Era, and records that the Romans afterwards introduced the cherry-tree into Great Britain. The name is derived from Kerasos (Cerasus), a town in Asia Minor. Cerneau, f. The kernel of a green walnut. Usually prepared in salt-water. A red wine is also made from these kernels, called vin de cerneaux, which is to be drunk in the walnut season. Cerneaux Confits, f. Preserved green walnuts. Cervelas, f. A kind of a thick and short smoked sausage made of pork, and seasoned with salt, pepper, and spices. Cervelle, f. Brain. A substance within the skull of an animal. Veal, lamb, pork, and beef brains are used in cookery. Chablis (Vin de Chablis). A famous French white wine, grown in and near Chablis, Burgundy. Chair, f. Flesh. Chair blanche—white meat. Chair noir— dark meat. Chair a saucisse—sausage meat. Chambord. The name of a French nobleman, an authority on oysters. Champagne. Fine champagne, cognac, or brandy. Sparkling wine of the Champagne district. Champignons, f. Mushrooms. A plant of the Fungi. Cham- pignon de prarie, f. Field mushroom. Chanterelle, f. A species of mushroom. Chapelure, f. Dried breadcrumbs passed through a sieve. Chapon. Capon ; also a piece of bread boiled in soups ; a crust of bread rubbed with garlic. Char. A fresh-water fish, mostly found in the English Lake district. It belongs to the same family as the salmon and trout, and has the same pink and oily flesh. Chareuterie, f. The word means roughly slashed ; but in a culinary sense it denotes “ pretty tiny kickshaws ” of pork, which are prepared in many different fashions. Black pudding, pig’s feet truffled, smoked pig’s ear with truffles, Nancy chitterlings, saveloy, pig’s liver, are all items of chareuterie. Charcutier, f. (from chair-cuite). A purveyor of cooked and dressed meats.40 Charlotte, f. A corruption of the old English word Charlyt, which means a dish of custard. Charlotte Russe—Russian Charlotte, a cream encrusted with thin biscuits. Charlotte de Pomme—Apple Charlotte, consists of thin slices of bread, steeped in clarified butter ranged in symmetrical order in plain moulds and filled with apple puree, and baked. Chartreuse. Original meaning, various kinds of vegetables or fruit, dished up in the shape of goblets set in aspic or jelly. In its degenerate form, cooked game, small poultry, etc., are cooked and dressed in Chartreuse style, either hot or cold. In modern cookery also applied to fruit macedoine in jelly shape with cream in centre. Also name of a delicious but rather costly liqueur of a green or yellow colour. First distilled by the monks of Grande Chartreuse, near Grenoble, France; Chasselas. A kind of white raisin. Chataigne, f. Chestnut, e. Used for stuffing and sweet dishes. (See Chestnut.) Chateaubriand. Name of Viscount Francis Auguste, a great French gourmand, born in 1769, died 1848. A favourite dish of fillet steak is called after him. Chaudeau, f. A sweet sauce served with puddings, etc. Chaudfroid, f. Name given to dishes such as chicken, game, cutlets, etc., masked with cold sauce and served cold, usually garnished with savoury jelly and truffles. Chaussons. A kind of French round, flat, light pasties with jam. Cheese. Fromage, f. The curd of milk coagulated and pressed. As a food it possesses very distinct nutritive properties, and forms the principal nitrogenous food of many labouring people. Its principal element is caseine, which is the chemical equivalent of the white of egg, gluten of wheat, and the fibrin of meat. New cheese, although nutritious, is not easy of digestion. Old cheese is said to promote digestion. Cheesecake. Talmouse, f. A pastry ; tartlets of a very light and flaky crust, with a mixture of cheese-curd, or almond, etc., in the centre. Chef-de-Cuisine, f. Chief of the kitchen ; head cook. Chemise, f. Robe, jacket (of potato). Chemise. Lined (a mould with jelly, forcemeat, or paste).41 Cherry. Cerise, f. The fruit of the cherry-tree. Some 300 different varieties of this fruit are now known, of which the black or Morelia (guigne) is the best for cooking purposes. The white-heart cherry (Bigarreau) is the best of dessert cherries. (See also Cerise.) Chervil. Cerfeuil, f. The leaves of this herb are largely used for decorating moulds. Its peculiar flavour, somewhat re- sembling a mixture of fennel and parsley, forms an agreeable adjunct to a salad. Chestnut. Marron or Chataigne, f. Named after the town of Castanea in Thessaly. A nutritious and easily-digestible fruit; used as stuffing for turkeys, poulards, and capons; also as an ingredient in soups, sauces, and purees. As a sweet or dessert it is also used in various ways. Chestnuts were a favourite food among the ancient Greeks. Chevanne, f. Chub. A sweet-water fish. (See Chub.) Cheveuse d’Ange, f. A sweetmeat prepared from young carrots. Chevreuil, f. Roe-buck, roe-deer, e. Chevreuse, f. Small goose-liver tartlets; a distinguished states- man of the latter part of the 17th century—Claude de Lorraine due de Chevreuse, after whom certain dishes are named. Chicken Broth. Usually made by simmering an old hen until all the goodness is extracted. A little vegetable and pearl- barley is sometimes added. Chicoree, f. Succory, endive. Used for salads, and as a vegetable. Chicory. Chicore, f. Also called “ Succory,” or wild endive. The young root is used as a vegetable, and the leaves as a salad. The mature root roasted and ground produces the chicory used to adulterate coffee. Chicory is found grow- ing wild on the borders of our cornfields, but the plant is cultivated in all parts of Europe. Chiffonnade, f. Soup herb leaves, finely shredded. Chine of Pork. The chine, when cut from a small pig, consists of two undivided loins, and corresponds to a saddle of mutton. In a large pig, whose sides are intended for bacon, the name is given to the spinal or back-bone and the meat attached, the amount of which varies considerably according to locality. Chinois, f. A pointed strainer with very fine holes, used for straining soups, sauces, and gravies. A Chinese fruit.42 Chipolata. Small Italian sausages. Originally an Italian ragout. This name is also given to dishes which contain an addition of Italian sausages or a kind of mixed minced meat with which they are served. Chitterlings. Signifies mainly the boiled intestine or gut of ox, also of calf and pig ; and small tripe. The German for tripe is Kutten, Kaldaunen. Chitterlings also stands for sausages. Chives. Ciboulettes, f. A species of small green onion. Chocolate. Chocolat, f. The beans of the Theobroma cocoa- tree infused by process of manufacture, and made into paste, cake, or powder. The cpcoa-tree is a native of the West Indies and South America. The cocoa or cacao bean was held as a symbol of hospitality by the Siamese. In olden times it served as a current coin in Yucatan. Chocolate has been known as a favourite beverage as long as 400 years ago. Introduced into England in 1520 from Mexico, and sold in London coffee-houses in 1650. Chou, f. Cabbage. Chou blanc, f. ; white cabbage, e. Chou vert, f. ; green cabbage, e. Chou rouge, f. ; red cabbage, e. Chou farci, f. ; stuffed cabbage, e. Chou de Bruxelles, f. ; Brussels sprouts, e. Choux-fleur, f. Cauliflower. (See Cauliflower.) Choux-raves, f. Kohl-rabis. A turnip-rooted cabbage. Most excellent as a vegetable, but as yet very little known in this country. It is a favourite vegetable in the United States, Germany and Switzerland. Chow-chow. Name of a kind of pickle consisting of a combina- tion of various vegetables, such as cauliflower buds, button onions, gherkins, French beans, and tiny carrots. These are preserved in a kind of mustard sauce, seasoned with strongly- flavoured aromatic spices. Chowder. A dish of American origin. It consists of boiled pickled pork cut in slices, fried onions, slices of turbot or other fish, and mashed potatoes, all placed alternately in a stewpan, seasoned with spices and herbs, claret and ketchup, and simmered. Chrysanthemum. This is one of the latest plants added to the dietary list. Its taste is somewhat similar to that of cauli- flower, only much more delicate. If shredded finely and mixed with a cream sauce it makes a most delicious salad.43 In Japan these edible flowers are a common article of diet, being abundantly displayed in grocers’ shops during Novem- ber and December. They are eaten as a salad, and almost every variety may be used, but those of a deep yellow are esteemed best for the purpose. The taste for them is, no doubt, an acquired one, as it is for most things. Chub. Chevanne, f. A sweet-water fish, resembling the carp. Very little used for cooking purposes, it being exceedingly bony. Chutney. An Indian condiment made of a variety of fruits, sugar, spices, and vinegar. Ciboule, Ciboulette, f. Chive. A small green onion, chiefly used in salads and soups. Cider. Cidre, f. The juice of apples fermented and used as a drink, principally in the country. Cider is also made in France and Germany. Cimier, f. Saddle, haunch (generally used of venison). Cinnamon. • Cannelle, f. The inner bark of a species of laurel. This shrub grows wild at Java and Ceylon, but is cultivated in the East and West Indies. Cinnamon (cinnamomum) has been in use from the remotest antiquity, is mentioned in the Old Testament by a name which is derived from the Hebrew qinnamon = a reed or cane, almost the same as that which it still bears in most languages. Citric Acid. This acid is used in small quantities for boiled sugar goods; it imparts body, and prevents the sugar from getting moist. It is obtained from the lemon (citrus limonum), but is also obtained from other acid fruits, such as sour cherries, Seville oranges, raspberries, currants, etc. To be obtained in a white powder from chemists, etc. Citron, f. Lemon. The fruit of the lemon-tree (citronier, f.), or citrus limonum ; a native of the North-West Indian Provinces. This fruit had been introduced by the Arabs into Spain, whence it was spread over Europe, and is now cultivated in almost all the tropical and sub-tropical countries. An important culinary condiment. Citronnat, f. Candied lemon-peel. The preserved peel of lemon. Citronne, f. Anything which has the taste or flavour of lemon. Citrouille, f. A kind of vegetable-marrow or pumpkin. Civet or Civette, f. A brown stew of hare, venison, or other game.44 Civettes, F., or Ciboulettes. Chives. Flavouring herb for soups and salads. Clams. A bivalvular shellfish highly prized in the United States. Claret. English name for Bordeaux wines. Clarification. An operation which is so termed when any liquid is clarified. For the clarification of stock for consommes and savoury jellies, finely minced raw meat, eggs, and water are used ; whilst for sweet jellies, whites of egg and lemon juice are used for a similar purpose. Clarifie. Clarified, filtered. Clarify. To render clear. Lean beef is generally used to clear stock, and whites of eggs to clarify jelly. Clear Soup. Consomme, f. Clarified double stock, being a strong broth obtained by boiling meat and vegetables. Clou de girofle, f. Clove. Cloute, f. Studded. To insert nail-shaped pieces of truffle, bacon, or tongue, into fowl, poulards, cushions of veal, and sweetbreads. The holes to receive them are made by means of a skewer. Clove. Girofle, f. An aromatic spice. The plant (a tree) is indigenous to the Molucca Islands ; generally used for flavouring meats and ragouts. The Dutch make a delicious marmalade from green cloves. Clupee, f: A genus of fishes, including herring. Coca. Koka. A stimulating narcotic ; a tonic and restorative i taken along with or after food. Coca wine has of late years come prominently into public use. Cochevis, f. The copped or crested lark. Cochineal. A liquid colouring substance used for colouring creams, sauces, icing, etc. It is obtained from insects known as coccus, indigenous to Mexico and Guatemala. The insects are dried in an oven heated to 150 degrees Fahrenheit. It requires 70,000 insects to produce a pound of dye. Cochon de lait, f. Sucking-pig. Cochonnaille, f. Hog’s pudding. Cock Ale. An ancient dish, made of ale, minced meat of a boiled cock, and other ingredients.45 Cock-a-Leekie. A soup made of leeks and fowls ; a favourite Scotch dish. Cockle. Petoncle, f. A nutritious shellfish, generally found on the seashore. The largest cockles come from the Scilly Islands, the North Devonshire coast, and the Hebrides. Cocks’ Combs. Cretes de coq, f. Used for garnishing rich ragouts. Coco. (See Cocoanut.) Cocoa. (See Chocolate.) Cocoa Nut. The fruit of a palm which grows abundantly in the East Indies. From the fibre of the outer husk matting is made. The nut is grated and added to curries, pastry, and confectionery. Desiccated cocoanut is a useful preparation. Cocotte, f. Small earthenware, fireproof pans, in single portion size or larger; cooking vessel. As cocotte de volaille ; poulet en cocotte ; oeufs en cocotte, etc. Codfish. Cabillaud, f. A sea-fish. The cod grows to a large size, weighing from 14 to 40 lbs., and is principally caught off the coast of Newfoundland. Codling. Name of an excellent kind of cooking apple. Cod Sounds. The sounds (air bladders) are removed as soon as the fish are caught, and are salted and packed in barrels. They are usually either broiled or stewed in milk. Coffee. Cafe, f. The berry of a shrub ; a beverage made from the berries when roasted and ground. Originally grown in Arabia; now cultivated in all tropical countries. Cognac. Brandy. (See Brandy.) Coing, f. Quince. A fruit used for compote and marmalade. Coinguarde. A liquor distilled from quinces. Also marmalade made from quinces and grape fruit. Colbert, f. A French clear soup and other dishes named alter John Baptiste Colbert, a clever statesman in the reign of Louis XIV. of France, 1619-1683. Colcannon. A vegetable pie—i.e., mashed potatoes and boiled cabbage, previously fried in butter or dripping and baked. Originally a Scotch dish, corrupted from Kailcannon. Colewort. A variety of cabbage, originally the name of the wild plantjfrom which all the cultivated varieties of cabbage Lare derived.46 Colin, f. Whiting pollock. A species of cod, very little used as food, somewhat wrongfully neglected. Excellent when fried. Collaring, collared. Meat pickled, tightly rolled, boiled with herbs and spices, and pressed until cold. Collet, f. Scrag-end neck of mutton or veal. Collops. Meat cut into extremely fine dice, fried, and served with thickened gravy. Colombe. Pigeon, dove. Coloquinte. A bitter cucumber. Colza. A variety of cabbage from which oil is extracted. Compiegne, f. A light yeast cake with crystallised fruit. Also name of the French castle built by Louis XIV. of France. Compote, f. Stew of small birds ; fruits stewed in syrup. Concasser, f. Coarsely pounded. Concombre, f. Cucumber, e. This vegetable is largely used for salads and pickles ; known in Europe for about 500 years, having been imported from the East. In Russia children eat cucumbers as children here eat apples and bananas. Conde. Name of an old French family. Prince Louis de Conde (1621-1686) was a famous field-marshal. Several soups and entrees are styled “ a la Conde.” Condiments. Highly-flavoured seasoning, spices, etc. Confit, f. Preserved in sugar. Confiture, f. Fruit jams. Also sweetmeats of sugar and fruits. Fruit pastes. Conger Eel. The conger lives in the seas, and does not enter fresh-water streams like other eels. It often grows to a length of eight feet. It is less oily than eel. Congre, f. Conger eel. Consomme, f. Clear gravy soup. The clarified liquor in which meat or poultry has been boiled, or the liquor from the stock-pot clarified. Contisej, f. To insert small strips or pieces of truffle, ham, bacon, etc., into fillets of fish, poultry or game, the holes to receive them being previously made with the point of a skewer. When small scallops of truffles, smoked tongue, ham, etc., are inlaid as garnish or ornament by incision, in fillets of any kind, they are said to be contises.47 Contre-filet, f. Slices of boned sirloin ; fillet of beef. Copeaux, f. Shavings. As pommes en copeaux—potato shavings. Coq, f. Cock. Coq de Bruyere, f. Woodcock. A bird allied to the snipe. “ Coq-de-bruyere ” is usually accepted as the French equivalent for grouse, and, as it is an exact rendering of “ heath-cock ”— a name once applied to red game in the north of England—it is good enough to pass muster. Coq now. Black game. Coqingnolles, f. A kind of fondant (petits four) of the same composition as croquenbouche. Coquille, f. Scallop, shell. Coquilles {en). Made-up dishes served in shells. Corbeille. Basket. Cordon Bleu. An ancient culinary distinction to very skilful female cooks in France. It consists of a rosette made of dark blue ribbon. The history of its adoption is traced to the time of Charles II. and Louis XV. of France. Cordon Rouge. A gastronomic distinction, granted by an English society of the same title to skilful cooks of both sexes, and to others who are celebrated for the invention of valuable articles of food or drink, and to writers of culinary and gastronomic works. The badge of the Order consists of a modelled white-heart cherry, suspended by a cherry-red ribbon. Core. To core an apple or pear is to remove the heart, which can be done when whole with a corer, and when in quarters with a knife. Corette, f. Jew’s Mallow (an Egyptian herb). Coriander. Coriandre, f. A sweet, aromatic seed originally from the East, much used from very ancient times. The powdered seeds form one of the ingredients of curry-powder. Corlieu or Courlis, f. Curlew. An aquatic fowl, prepared and cooked in the same manner as pheasants. Corme. Shad apple. Service berry. Corne d’abondance, f. Cornucopia. Horn of Plenty. Corned. Applied to salt boiled beef and pork. Derived from acorned (acorn-fed). Corner le Diner, f. To blow the horn or sound the bell for dinner.48 Cornet, f. Kind of thin wafers, usually made of flour, egg, cream, sugar, and honey. Cornflour. A farina-made maize, or Indian corn, first invented by Brown & Poison, in 1856, who define it a refined starch specially prepared for food from Indian corn or maize. Cornichon, f. Very small cucumbers pickled with salt and vinegar ; they are served as hors d’oeuvre and used for salads, sauces, as well as for decorative purposes. Cornish Pasty. The Cornish pasty, like Devonshire cream and Cheshire cheese, has become so popular in London that it can now be had in most cafes and shops who cater for the working classes. A Cornish pasty is a baked, torpedo-shaped pasty, containing pork, rabbit, beef, and kidney, parsley, potatoes, onions, bacon, etc. Well cooked with light pastry, and when filled with finely-cut beef or mutton, it makes a palatable and satisfying lunch or supper dish. Coryphene. A kind of bluefish. Cote, f. A rib slice of beef or veal. The word cotelette is derived from cote, meaning a piece of meat with the portion of the rib attached. Cotelettes, f. Cutlets. Small slices of meat cut from the neck of veal, mutton, lamb, or pork. Name also given to thin slices of lean meat from other parts. Cougloff, f. Kugelhopf, g. A German cake ; a kind of rich dough cake. Coulibiac. Name of a Russian dish—a kind of fish-cake mixture wrapped up in Brioche paste, and baked, Coulis, f. A rich savoury stock sauce ; German foundation sauce, a favourite liquid seasoning used for brown and' white stews, and braise. Coullis, f. A smooth sauce, highly but delicately flavoured, used for soups and entrees. Also the name of a sweet cream. Coupe, f. Cup, drinking vessel, goblet. Coupe St. Jacques. A fruit salad served in glass cups with vanilla ice cream on top. Coupe, f. Cut, broken, loose. Coupe a legumes, f. Vegetable cutter. Coupe a pate, f. Pastry cutter.49 D Courge, f. Squash; vegetable marrow. Courgeon, f. Ordinary vegetable marrow. Couronne, f. Crown. “ En Couronne,” to dish up in the form of a crown. Court-bouillon, f. Name given to a broth in which fish has been boiled ; a highly-seasoned fish stock and stew. Cow-heel. A great many invalid dishes are prepared from the feet of the ox or cow, as they are extremely nutritious. Crab. Crabe, f. A member of the shell-fish tribe. Once a year, the crab, retiring to a hiding-place among the rocks, performs the feat of changing its shell. Crackers are very hard biscuits ; when Soaked used for pies, or when crumbled for making into pudding. Cracknels. Biscuits made of paste which is boiled before it is baked. The biscuits, when boiled, curl up. After boiling, they are put into cold water to harden, dried, and finally baked. Cranberry. Airelle rouge, f. This fruit grows in a cold climate, and on peaty bogs. In Siberia they are used to manufacture wine. They are chiefly imported from Russia and North America, although large quantities may be collected in a few parts of Britain and of Germany. Crapaudine, f. A grating gridiron; hence “ mettre a la crapaudine,” to grill, e.g., pigeons or fowls, usually done “ split ” in spatchcock fashion. Craquelins, f. Cracknels. A kind of milk biscuits. Crawfish. Langouste, f. The crawfish inhabits the sea, and although somewhat like the lobster, only much larger, and closely resembling the crayfish, it can be distinguished from them. Crayfish. Ecrevisses, f. The crayfish live entirely in fresh water, and are like a miniature lobster. They were much esteemed by the ancient Greeks and Romans, and are now considered a great delicacy. Crecy (Potage a la), f. Crecy or carrot soup. A vegetable puree, said to have been invented by Baron Brisse. Dishes named “ a la Crecy ” generally contain carrots in the form of a puree. Creme, f. Cream. The fatty or oily part of milk. Used in butter and cheese making, as well as in the preparation of numerous sauces, soups, custards, puddings, pastry, andother food delicacies. Certain dishes are styled “ a la creme,’ meaning that a quantity of cream has been incorporated into the mixture before or after it is cooked. Meringues a la creme are meringue shells filled with whipped cream. The distinction between single and double cream is that when milk is allowed to stand 12 hours the cream thus obtained is single cream, and if allowed to stand twice as long—viz., 24 hours—it is called double cream. Cremeux. Creamy. Creme Bavaroise, f. A Bavarian cream. Crdme d’Orge, f. Finely ground barley. A white soup made of fine barley; a preparation sold in packets. Crdme de riz, f. Finlly ground rice. A white soup made of powdered rice ; a preparation sold in packets. Creole, f. A name given to certain dishes of which rice forms a part, as Ananas a la creole, or sweets masked with chocolate. Crepes, f. French pancakes. Crepine, f. Caul, crawl or kill. (See Caul.) Crepinette, f. A flat, oblong sausage. .Small portions of game or chicken mixture encased in caul. Cresson, f. Cress. A salad plant. There are several culinary plants belonging to this family. (See Nasturtium and Watercress.) Cretes, f. Giblets of poultry or game. Cretes de coq, f. (See Cocks’ Combs, e.) Crever, f. To burst or crack (generally used for rice). Crevette, f. Shrimp, prawn. Crimping. Recrepi, f. Large fish such as cod are sometimes crimped or slashed across at certain distance apart, to increase the firmness of the flesh. Croissant, f. Half-moon shaped fancy bread. Cromesquis. Kromeskis. Croquette. Shape of chicken or game rolled in thin slices of bacon dipped in batter and fried. Originated in Russia. Croquant, f. Crisp ; crackling. Croquantes, f. A transparent mixture of various kinds of fruit and boiled sugar. 5°Croque-en-bouche, f., is the name given to large set pieces for suppers or dinners, such as nougat, iced cakes, fruits, which are covered with boiled sugar so as to give them a brilliant appearance. The real meaning of the word is “ crackle in the mouth.” Croquettes, f. Cork-shaped forms of minces of fowl, game, meat or fish, prepared with sauce to bind, shaped to fancy ; generally egged, crumbed, and fried crisp. Croquignolles, f. A kind of fondant (petits four) of the same composition as croque-en-bouche. Croustades, f. Shapes of bread fried, or baked paste crusts, used for serving game, minces or meats upon. Croute, f. Cruet. A thick slice or block of fried bread upon which entrees, etc., are mounted. Croutes-au-pot, f. Beef broth. A favourite dish of France, which has been famed for several centuries. Croutons, f. Thin slices of bread cut into shapes and fried, used for garnishing dishes. Crumpet. Name of a tea-cake. In the North they are called “ pikelets.” Cubat, Pierre. Name of a celebrated chef to the Emperor Alexander II. of Russia. His cooking was such a triumph that he received so much a head to prepare the Emperor’s meals, no matter how large the number. Cubeb or Cubeb Pepper. Dried berries of a climbing shrub, known to the Arabs in the middle ages. Used for culinary and medicinal purposes. Cucumber. Concombre, f. A vegetable used in this country for salads, garnishing, and pickles, but in the East it is largely consumed as a staple article of food. It grows abundantly in tropical countries. Cuilleres de Cuisine, f., are wooden spoons. The use of wooden spoons is strongly recommended instead of metal spoons, especially for stirring sauces. The latter often contain certain acids which produce a black colour. Cuisine, f. Kitchen. Cookery. Faire la cuisine, to cook or to dress victuals. Cuisinier, f. A cook who prepares, cooks, and dresses food. Cuisse, f. Leg, e. Cuisse de volaille, leg of chicken or fowl. 5i52 Cuisson, f. A method of slowly cooking meat. It is finished off by cooking in its own juice whilst in an oven. Cuissot, f. The haunch. Cuissot de veau, cuissot de cochon, cuissot de boeuf, etc. Cuit, f. Cooked. Culinaire, f. This is applied to anything in connection with the kitchen or the art of cooking. A good cook is called “ un artiste culinaire.” Cullis, f. A rich white gravy for flavouring and enriching soups and sauces. Culotte, f. Rump, aitchbone (of beef). Cumberland. An English nobleman to whom was dedicated “ Cumberland Sauce,” prepared with currant jelly, orange- juice, English mustard, etc. Served principally with game. Cumin, f. Caraway seed. The powdered seeds of this plant are largely used in the manufacture of curry powder. Cumin or Cuminum is referred to in Scripture (Matt, xxiii. 23). The fruit lobes separate in the way characteristic of the order, and are properly called seeds. Their odour and properties resemble those of caraway, but are stronger. It is often put into bread in Germany, and into cheese in Holland; it is also used in medicine. Curacao, f. A liqueur made of the zest of an aromatic fruit resembling the orange, and cultivated in the island of Curasao ; originally made in the island of that name in the Dutch West Indies. Used for flavouring creams, jellies, ices, etc. Curcuma, f. Turmeric. Curd. That part of the milk which has been coagulated by the aid of rennet, for the purpose of making cheese. Cure. Saler, f. Saurer, f. Curing in culinary language means the drying or smoking of previously salted meat or fish. Currants (dried). The name is derived from the fact that they were first imported from Corinth. The small seedless grapes from which they are made are originally red or blue. They form the principal article of export from Greece, where a very sweet kind of wine is also made from them. Curry, from the Hindu word khura (palatable, eatable). Kari, f. An Indian condiment; a stew of meat, fish or fowl ; a sharp spiced sauce. Curry, as a dish, is of immemorial53 use in India. Its constituents vary much, according to the part of, India. They are not always made with hot spices ; some are quite mild. The word “Curry” is derived from the native term (i.e., Tamil term) Kari, which they use to express the leaf of a plant belonging to the orange tribe, whose botanical name is Murraya Kcenigii, or in another form Murraya Exotica. Custard. A composition of milk and eggs mainly, sweetened and flavoured, parboiled. Custard Apple. It is a native of the West Indies. The inner pulp is yellow and of the consistence of custard. In outward appearance it is netted all over, and is dark-brown or greenish in colour. Cussy, Baron de. A French nobleman and a great gourmet, who occupied an important post under Napoleon I. Born 1765, died 1837. Several dishes are named “ a la Cussy.” Cygne, f. Swan. Cymling. Summer squash. D. Dabchick. A small water-fowl. Dace. A small river fish of a silvery colour. Dainty. Friand or delicieux, f. Pleasing to the palate ; artistically arranged, daintily dressed articles of food. Dampfundeln, g. A typical German dish. It consists of dumplings of bread dough, enriched with butter, sugar, and eggs, which, after being par-cooked in milk, are baked in the oven, and served with custard sauce, stewed fruit, etc. Damson. (Sometimes called damascene, after the name of the town of Damascus). A small black plum, considered the best for cooking. Damson Cheese. A preserve made by boiling damsons to a pulp, and then boiling again with an equal quantity of sugar. When cold it is of the consistence of cheese. Dandelion. A salad plant; as a culinary remedy considered to have a direct effect upon complaints of the kidneys.54 Dariole, f. A kind of small entree pates, composed of a com- pound of forcemeat or mince, baked or steamed in small moulds. Certain small tarts are also so called. The name usually applies to the shape of the moulds. Also some kinds of cheese cakes are called darioles. Kettner asserts that a dariole means something made of milk. Origin of the word unknown. Darne, f. A slice. The middle cut of large fish, salmon or cod. D’Artois, f. A kind of French pastry (puff-paste and jam). Dates. Dattes, f. The fruit of the date-tree (date-palm). The best dates come from Tunis. In Africa they form the basis 6f food. The so-called date wine, prepared in Africa, is made of dates and water, and has a certain analogy with Madere. Daube, f. En daube, name applied to meats or poultry stewed. Daubiere, f. An oval-shaped stewpan in which meats or birds are to be daubed or. stewed. Dauphine, f. A style of garnish ; also name of a kind of dough- nuts, beignets, etc. Known in Germany as Berliner Pfannkuchen. Decanter. A glass bottle; to decant; to pour a liquor which has a sediment gently into another receptacle. Deer. Cerf, f. One of the undomesticated animals which still l form part of our diet. There are several kinds of deer— , red deer, fallow deer, and eland deer ; the latter is found wild only in Scotland and the North of Europe. Degraisser, f. To take off the grease from soups, etc. Dejeuner, f. Breakfast. The first meal of the day. Dejeuner a la Fourchette, f. A meat breakfast or luncheon. Demi-deuil (en), f. A culinary expression. When white meats such as veal, sweetbreads or fowl are larded with truffles, they are called “ en demi-deuil.” The meaning is “ half- mourning.” Demidoff, f. Name of a Russian nobleman. Several dishes are introduced by this name. Demi-glace, f. Name of a brown sauce of rather thinner consis- tency than an ordinary sauce ; also of a cream ice very popular in Paris.55 Demi-tasse, f. Half cup. A current expression for a small cup ' of black coffee or bouillon. Dent-de-lion, f. Dandelion. A spring plant which grows in the fields ; the young leaves are used raw for salads. They are also cooked and prepared like spinach. Depecer, f. Decouper. To carve ; to cut in pieces. D’Eslignac, f. A French nobleman after whom a clear soup is named. Des, f. Discs. Desosser, f. To bone ; to remove the bones from meat, poultry or game. Dessecher, f. To stir a puree, pulp or paste with a wooden spoon whilst it is on the fire, until it becomes loosened from the pan. Dessert, f. The remains of a meal. Now indicating fruits and sweetmeats served after dinner. The ancient Greeks and Romans already knew this course as being the custom of prolonging banquets. Devilled. Diable, f. Generally applied to broiled or grilled fish or meat, with the addition of very hot condiments, and sometimes a highly-seasoned sauce. Dewberry. The creeping blackberry. A species of the French mure des haies. Dholl or Dhall. A kind of pulse much used in India for ked- geree, or as a kind of porridge. In England it is best represented by split peas or lentils. Diable, f. Stands for “devil.” Applied to dishes with sharp, pungent or hot seasoning. Diavolini. Italian name for small devilled rice or farina cakes, fried. Dibs. Arab name for wine juice reduced to a very thick and luscious syrup. Diete, f. Diet. Any specially prescribed food or meals. Digby Chicks. A kind of pilchard or small herring, called by the fishermen who catch them “ Nova Scotia sprats.” They are named after Digby, a seaport in Nova Scotia. Digester. A strong iron cooking-pot, the lid of which fits so tightly that the steam can only escape through a valve on the top.Dill. A hardy biennial plant, possessing powerful flavouring properties, used in salads and soups, Dinde, Dindon. Turkey. Dindonneau. Young turkey. Diner, f. Dinner, e. “ L’heure du diner,” dinner hour, in Henry VIII.’s time was at n a.m. The principal meal of the day, which usually comprises a judicious selection of food in season. The word “dinner” is supposed to be a corruption of “ dix-heures,” indicating the time at which the old Normans partook of their principal meal, which was io a.m. Since then the hour has got gradually later. The working classes dine about mid-day, the middle classes somewhat later, and the aristocracy between the hours of 6 and 9 p.m, Diner d’Andouille, f. The dinner of the chitterlings where the Andouille or chitterling sausage forms the piece-de-resistance. Dinner. Diner, f. (See Diner.) Dolmas. A Turkish dish of chopped meat, etc., wrapped in fig leaves and stewed. Dorade or Daurade, f. A sea-fish, resembling the bleak (breme, f.). It is often called sea-bleak (breme or brame de mer, f.). Its flesh is white and of’good taste. Mostly eaten baked or cooked in white caper or tomato sauce. It is also nice fried. Dore, f. Brushed over with beaten yolks. Dormant or Surtout de table, f. Decorative objects which are left on the table to the end of a meal. Dorure (Dorer), f. Yolks of eggs beaten, used for brushing over pastry, etc. Double Cream. Creme double, f. Cream that has been 24 hours on the milk instead of 12. (See also Cream.) Douce-amere, f. Bittersweet. Doux-ce. Sweet. Doucette, f. Corn salad. Douilles mobiles. Movable tubes, adjusted on forcing or savoy bag, used for the purpose of filling and decorating. Dragees, f. Sugar plum. A kind of sweetmeat made of fruits, small pieces of rinds or aromatic roots, covered with a coating of icing. Drawn Butter. Beurre fondu, f. Melted butter, sometimes served in place of sauce. 5^57 Dress (to). To pare, clean, trim, etc. ; to dish up into good shape. Dressed vegetables indicate vegetables cooked in rich style and dished neatly. Dripping. The fat of meat which exudes while it is being roasted or baked. Du Barry. Name given to a rich cauliflower soup; oysters served in potato cases, and other dishes are also named after Madame du Barry. Dubois, Urbain. Name of a clever chef de cuisine, inventor of numerous dishes, author of “ La Cuisine Classique,” etc. ; for many years chef to the German Emperor William I. Born 1818, died 1901. Duchesse, f. Duchess. A name given to a mashed potato preparation, variously shaped and baked in the oven. Duck. Canard, f. There is a great variety of these birds. Of the domestic ducks, the Aylesbury commands the highest price. The Rouen duck is larger, but its flesh is considered inferior in flavour. Duglere, f. A famous French chef who invented the method of serving soles dressed in a tomato sauce blended with Bechamel and fish essence, finished with fresh butter and chopped parsley. Also “ Pommes Anna.” Dumas. Name of a famous French author, editor of the “ Dictionnaire de Cuisine.” Alexandre Dumas, born 1803, died 1870. Dumplings. Quenelles, f. Knodel, g. Ball shapes of bread dough (Norfolk dumplings), suet paste, or short crust en- closing apples. Also applied to force or forcemeat shapes ; i.e., quenelles. Dunelm. A dish of braised mutton or veal, originating from Durham. Dushab. Name of a favourite drink of the Arab epicure; a mixture of date wine and grape juice reduced to syrup. Dutch Oven. A roasting or toasting utensil provided with hooks to be attached to the bars of the grate. Duxelles or D’Uxelles, f. Name of a French marquis, a great gourmand and gastronomer, who lived at the end of the 17th century. Author of an excellent book on French cookery. A savoury puree or mince and a sauce are known under this name.58 E. Eau, f. Water*. EaU de fieur d'orangey. Orange-flower* water. Eau de vie. Spirits of wine, brandy. Eau de vie prunelle. Sloe gin. Ebarber, f. To remove the exterior parts of a piece of meat or fish. Ebullition, f. A liquid which is on the boiling point. “ Chauffer a l’ebullition ” means heated until boiling. Eehalote, f. Shallot, e. Is a kind of mild onion used for seasoning soups and made dishes ; also for flavouring sauces and salads. Echauder, f. To steep in boiling water. This is often done with fowls or game, as it will facilitate the removing of the feathers or hair. Eclair, f. A French pastry filled with cream. Eelanche, f. Shoulder of mutton. Ecossaise (a 1’), f. Scotch style. Ecrevisse, f. Crayfish, e. An esteemed crustaceous fish of the lobster type. The one which lives in fresh-water is called “ crayfish ” ; the one which inhabits the sea is much larger and is called “ crawfish.” Ecume. Skimmed. Ecumoire. Skimming table. Ecuyer. Equerry. A title given to cooks in olden times Edible Birds’ Nests. These nests are constructed by a species of small Indian swallow, which at certain seasons of the year are found in great multitudes, principally on the coast of China. The nests are built of a glutinous substance they find on the shore. Edible Frogs. Grenouille, f. These frogs are eaten in France and the south of Germany. The hind legs are considered a great delicacy, and in flavour resemble the flesh of a young rabbit. Edible Snails. Escargots, f. These snails have a shell measuring two inches in length and width. Though not much eaten in this country, snails are looked upon as delicacies in China and France.59 Eel. Anguille, f. A nutritious fish whose flesh has a particularly good flavour. There are several kinds of eel, both fresh and salt, but the silver eel is considered the best. When in want of food the common eel will leave its native element and wander about the fields by night in search of snails or other prey, and will often betake itself to isolated ponds for the sake of a change of residence. Egg. GEuf, f. An important article of food. Those from the domestic fowl are the most popular ; other eggs used for cooking are ducks’ eggs, plovers’ eggs, and penguin eggs. Egg-nogg. An American drink. Egg-plant. Aubergine, f. A vegetable. Egg-plum. Also known as “Magnum bonum.’’ There are two kinds, one red, the other white and yellow. Each variety is divided into several kinds bearing different names. The flesh of the fruit is firm, not very juicy, but of a splendid flavour. Ekneck kataif. A Turkish meal porridge. Eland. A large deer. Elderberry. A small black berry found all over Europe, Northern Africa, and Asia ; used for making wine. When drunk hot at night it is considered as a preventative and cure for colds. Elmassia. A Turkish dish, made from calves’ feet. Emince. Finely sliced or shred. Emonder. When almonds are steeped in boiling water in order to peel them the French say “ on les emonde.” En, f. In denoting “served in,” as “ cailles en caisses,” quails in cases—“ en casserole,” etc. En eroute, f. Encrusted, wrapped or enclosed in paste prior to cooking. Endive, f. A species of the genus succory ; used as salads and sometimes as vegetable. A native of China and Japan, but grown in Europe since the beginning of the 16th century. English Bamboo. The name given to a pickle, made from the young shoots of the elder-tree, salted and dried, with a pickle vinegar poured over them.60 Entrecote, f. French name for a steak cut from the middle part of the loin or rib of beef. Entree, f. A course of dishes, or corner dish for the first course ; the conventional term for hot or cold side-dishes. Also defined as dishes generally served with a sauce. Entremets, f. Dainty dishes of vegetables or hot and cold sweets and after-dinner savouries served as second course. Epanada. Spanish and Portuguese term for panada. Epaule, f. Shoulder. Eperlan, f. Smelt. A highly-esteemed sea-fish, Epice, f. Spice, seasoning. Aromatic plants or their seeds. Epicure, f. One addicted to the luxury of eating and drinking. Epigrammes, f. Verbally, a short pointed poem. Used as a culinary term for small fillets of poultry and game, and breast of lamb or mutton, prepared as entrees. Also defined as a dish of alternate cutlets of the neck and breast. Epinard, f. Spinach. Originally a Persian plant. A green, wholesome vegetable, very popular in modern times. Erable, f. Maple-tree. Sirop d’crable—maple syrup ; sucre d’erable—maple sugar. Escabescia. A Spanish dish of partridges highly seasoned. Escalope, f. Thin round steaks of veal called “ collops.” Obsolete cascalope, meaning thin slices of any kind of meat, usually egged, crumbed, and fried. Escargot, f. Edible vineyard snail. (See Edible Snails.) Escarole, f. Name given to broad-leaved endive. Chicory. Eschalote. Echalot, f. Shalot or shallot. (See Echalote.) Espagnole, f. A rich brown sauce ; the foundation of nearly all brown sauces; classified as the main brown grand sauce, or sauce mere. Essence. The virtue extracted from any food substance. Estomac, f. Stomach, breast of chicken (as estomacs de poulet). Estouffade, f., or Etuvee. Expression for a way of cooking meats slowly with very little liquid, in a covered stewpan. Braised, stewed, steamed. Estragon, f. Tarragon (flavouring herb).61 Esturgeon, f. Sturgeon. A very large fish, usually salted and smoked. famine, f. Tammy cloth. l£touffe, Etuve, f. (See Estouffade.) Extra-fin, f. Of the best quality. Denoting the quality of French preserved vegetables ; also surfin, tres fin, fin, etc. F. Fagot. Bouquet garni, f. A small bunch of parsley and savoury herbs; a combination of culinary herbs. Faggots. A savoury preparation of pig’s liver, fat pork, onions, breadcrumbs, herbs, etc., covered with caul, and slowly baked in a tin. The mixture is divided into squares either before or after cooking. Faience, f. Earthenware crockery. Faire Revenir, f. A term often used in French cookery-books; its meaning is to partly fry, meat or vegetables being slightly browned without actually cooking them. Faire Suer, f. To cook meat in a covered stewpan with no liquor except the juices which ooze from the meat. Faisan, f. Pheasant. Fanchonnettes, f. Small custard tartlets covered with meringue froth. Farce, f. Forcemeat or stuffing, from the Latin word farsum, to fill, to stuff. From this is derived the word farcimen, the sausage. A farce need not necessarily contain meat, though the English translation makes the presence of meat essential. Farci. Stuffed. Farine, f. Flour. Crushed or ground grain (wheat, corn, rice, maize, etc.), reduced to fine powder. Farine, f. Powdered or dredged with flour. Fascine. Bundle. Faseole, f. Kidney-bean. Fat. Graisse, f. The oily part of animal bodies.62 Faubonne, f. A vegetable puree soup seasoned with savoury herbs. Faux, Fausse, f. Mock, false, as mock turtle—fausse tortue. Fayol, f. A French kidney-bean. Fecule, f. A very fine flour used for binding soups and sauces. Fecule de pommes de terre—potato flour ; fegule de viz— rice flour. Fendre, f. To split (as “ fendre un poulet pour griller,” to split a chicken for broiling). Fennel. Fenouil, f. An aromatic plant, generally used in fish sauces, blanched, and chopped. There are several species of this plant. That found in India (Foeniculum panmorium) is cultivated for its sweet, warm, and aromatic fruit. Fenouillette, f. A variety of apple. Fenugreek. The ground seeds of this plant form one of the ingredients in curry-powder. Fenugreek is largely cultivated in India as a fodder-plant, and it derives its name from Fcenum Groecum, “ Greek hay,” of which the English name is a corruption. Fermiere (a la), f. Farmhouse style. Feuille, f. With leaf garnishing. Feuillage, f. Leaves. Feuilletage, f. Puff paste. Feves, f. Beans. Fives de marais, broad beans. Fidelini. A kind of straight vermicelli paste. Fieldfare. Thrush. Grive, f. Fig. Figue, f. The fruit of the ficus carica. In the unripe state, figs contain a bitter juice, which is replaced with saccharine matter when they are ripe. In favourable seasons some fig trees near Worthing, said to have been planted by order of Thomas a Becket, yield enormous quantities of fruit. The Smyrna figs are considered the finest. Used fresh for compotes, and dried as dessert or in puddings. Figaro, f. Name of a cold sauce, a mixture of mayonnaise and tomato. Filbert. A fine nut of the hazel kind. A dessert nut largely cultivated in Kent.63 File, f. Spun, stringed, as sucre file. Filet, f. Fillet. The under-cut of a loin of beef, mutton, veal, pork, and game. Also boned breasts of poultry, birds, and the boned sides of fish are called fillets. Filets Mignons. Very small fillets of beef, etc. Filet de Chevreuil. Fillets of roebuck. Filet en Chevreuil. Mutton cooked and served in imitation of roebuck. Fillet of Beef. Filet de boeuf. Fillet of Veal. Filet de veau. Financiere, f. A ragout of truffles, cocks’ combs, cock’s kernel, etc., used as garnish for entrees. Fines-herbes, f. Fine herbs. A combination of finely-chopped fresh herbs, mostly used in omelets and sauces. Firmity, Frumenty. Wheat boiled in milk. An ancient Christmas-Eve supper dish. Flageolet, f. Haricot flageolet. A green bean called by this name. Flamande (a la), f. Flemish style. Flamber, f. To singe poultry or game. Flan, f. A French custard tart; open fruit tarts. Flanc, Flanchet, f. Flank (of beef or codfish). Flancs, f. Name of side dishes at large dinners. Flank of Veal. The flank lies between the breast and the leg. It is generally used for stewing. Flavouring. Seasoning. Certain ingredients consisting princi- pally of spices, herbs, and essences, used in cookery to impart taste or flavour to food in order to render it more palatable. Fletan, grand fletan, f. Halibut, etc. Fleurons, f. Little half-moon shapes of puff paste used for garnishing. Flip. A drink consisting of eggs beaten up with sugar, beer or wine, and some spirit. A favourite drink in cold weather. Flitch. Un quartier de lard, f. A side of pork, salted and cured. Flounder. Carrelet, f. A small flat sea-fish of delicate flavour, found in the North Sea. Flour. Farine, f. Flour consists of crushed or decorticated grain reduced to powder. Wheaten flour is made from wheat, cornflour from maize or Indian corn, rice flour from rice.64 Barley, oats, and maize yield flour deficient in gluten, which, therefore, cannot be made into upright loaves. There is now a prevailing demand for fine white flour, but this is obtained at the cost of losing some of the more valuable parts of the corn, for the darker parts of the wheat contain a large proportion of indispensable nourishing substances. Flummery. Cold sweet dish, mainly of cereals, originally of oatmeal set in a mould and turned out. To be eaten with wine, cider, milk or a compound sauce. Dutch flummery is made with isinglass, yolks, and flavourings ; Spanish flummery of cream, rice flour, cinnamon, and sugar, to be eaten with sweet preserves. Flute, f. A flute or finger-shaped roll. Fogasch or Fogas. Name of a fish of delicate flavour, found in Hungarian lakes. Usually served with paprika or hollandaise sauce. Foie de Veau, f. Calf’s liver. Foie Gras, f. Fat goose liver. Fonce, f. Dark coloured. Lined, bottomed (as a mould with paste lining). Fond, f. Strong gravy, meat stock, bottom, as in “ fond d’artichaut.” Fondant, f. Melting. A kind of icing ; French dessert bon-bons. Fondu, f. Melted. Fondue, f. A preparation of melted cheese, originally made in Switzerland. A savoury. Fontaine, f. Fountain. Spring. (“ Faire une Fontaine.” To make a well or hollow in the flour in the bowl or on the table.) Forcemeat. Farce, f., i.e., powdered or finely minced meat, etc., for stuffing. The word is also applied to veal stuffing, which usually consists of suet, parsley, etc. Fouettee, f. Whipped with the whisk. Four, f. Oven. Four (au). Baked. Fourchette, f. Fork, e. First manufactured in England in 1608 ; its use was ridiculed by men at the time. Fourre, f. Coated with sugar, cream, etc; also applied to filled or stuffed birds, etc.65 E Fraise, F. Strawberry. Also crow; the rhessentery of a caif or lamb ; the fleshy excrescence under the throat of a turkey. Fraiser la pate, f. To plait; to make rough ; to ruffle. Fraisure, f. Haslets. Lights. As “ Fraisure et agneau,” lambs’ lights or haslets. Framboises, f. Raspberries. Francaise (a la), f. This is, generally speaking, applied to a number of dishes of French origin. The term is used for dishes cooked in a simple manner as to those of the most elaborate finish. With the exception of a few grills and soups, the term cannot be taken as signifying anything in particular, because the preparation as well as the garnish varies in almost every case. (See also French Surnames to Dishes.) Francatelli. Name ot an eminent chef (1805-1876), author of the “ Cook’s Guide ” and the “ Modern Cook,” pupil of A. Careme, chef at the Reform Club, and to her late Majesty Queen Victoria. Francatu, f. A russet apple. Frangipane. A substitute for custards made of eggs, milk, some flour, with an addition of lemon-rind, rum, brandy, and vanilla, etc., to flavour. An excellent confectioner’s custard for filling tartlets, etc., is also made in this way and under this name. The French often use it for covering fruit tarts. Frapper, f. Iced (used when cooling champagne). French Beans. Haricot verts. (See Beans.) French Surnames to Dishes.—The French Cuisine has a considerable number of thoroughly descriptive and well- understood surnames given to dishes, all of which come under the title of “a la Fran9aise ” ; many of these are named after some peculiarities favoured in the provinces of France. Surnames derived from French towns, from certain countries, and from past and present patrons of the culinary art under whose influence many dishes have been invented, and in some cases actually prepared, are also very numerous, and, with few exceptions, most significant and expressive. There are many dishes which derive their names merely from sauces with which they are served or dressed, and have no reference66 to the mode of preparation. Thus dishes styled a la Bechamel, a la Bordelaise, a la Demi-glace, a VEspagnole, etc., are, as a rule, names merely derived from these sauces. The old school strictly adheres to all such names ; they are universally adopted by all good chefs, and recognised by connoisseurs and gourmets alike. It must, however, be stated that many of these names are either abused or misused by some chefs, many of them having their own formula of preparation, which are presented under names that differ considerably as regards the external, and sometimes internal, features from the original methods for which these names were intended as symbols of typical preparations. Dishes thus altered are therefore hard to recognise if served under a well-known name, but in a different style ; they lose all the culinary charm or its significance ; they puzzle and fog the diner who is acquainted with the gastronomic law in respect to the names and characteristics of dishes ; and, to say the least, they also confuse cooks who may be called upon to prepare dishes produced and served under wrong titles. Friand, f. An epicure ; a dainty person. Friandines, f. Small round patties containing mince. Friandises. Name given to small dessert dainties, petits fours, etc. Friar’s Omelet. A baked omelet prepared with apples stewed to a pulp, eggs, and sugar. Fricandeau, f. Braised fillet of veal, larded. This dish is supposed to have been invented by Jean de Careme, who was the direct ancestor of the famous Careme. He was cook to Pope Leo X. This Pontiff possessed magnificent tastes ; he fostered the genius of Raphael the painter, and encouraged also the genius which could discover a fricandeau. Fricandelles, f. Small thin braised steaks of veal or game. Fricassee, f. Fricasseed. The word comes from the English freak, brisk, dainty. A white stew of chicken, rabbit or veal. Frise, f. Curled. As “choux frises,” curled Savoy cabbage. Frit, f. Fried. Fritbt. Anything dipped in frying batter, and fried.67 Frittata. An Italian dish ; a kind of rolled pancake crumbed and fried in fat. Fritter. Beignets, f. Anything dipped in batter, crumbed or egged, and fried. Friture, f. This word has two significations ; it applies to the fat, which may be oil, lard or dripping in which articles are fried. Further, it is applied to anything that has been fried, such as egged and crumbed fried fish, fried potatoes, croquettes or rissoles, being pre-eminently popular under this term. Frog. Grenouille, f. (See Edible Frogs.) Froid, f. Cold. “ Service froid,” cold service, etc. Fromage, f. Cheese. Fromage de Cochon. Brawn. Frontage a la Creme. Cream cheese. Fromage glace. An ancient expression for an ice cream or frozen pudding in the form of a cheese. Fromageon. Marshmallow. Frosting. A culinary term ; to make certain dishes appear like frost. It consists of whipped whites of egg spread roughly over the dish, dredged with castor sugar, and baked in a cool oven. Frothing of roast joints, or roasts in general. Dredging the surface with flour, and briskly heating it to a brown colour before the fire, or with a red-hot disc of iron—a so-called salamander. Frumenty. Once a Lord Mayor’s dish, and a staple food of our robust ancestors ; it is wheat or barley boiled. Eaten with honey, sugar, milk or treacle. Frying. Frire, f. A cooking process by immersing articles into boiling fat till done. To cook in hot fat, butter or oil. Fume, f. Smoked. Smoked hams, bacon, fish, etc. Fumet, f. The flavour or essence of game, fish, or any highly- flavoured concentrated substance used to impart a rich flavour to certain dishes. Furcifer is the name under which the fork was introduced into England at the beginning of the 17 th century. Tom Cory at first brought table-forks to England.68 G, Galantine, f. A dish of white meat, rolled, pressed, and glazed, served cold. A fowl or breast of veal, boned and stuffed with forcemeat—i.e., farce, tongue, truffle, etc. Galette, f. A kind of French pastry. A species of light break- fast rolls. Galimafre, f. A kind of ragout made of cold meat. Origin of word unknown, f / * ■ Game. Gibier, f. Under this name are included pheasants, partridges, grouse, blackcock, heath-fowl, moor-fowl, bus- tards, and hares. Snipe, quails, landrails, and rabbits, though not called game, are protected. Garbure, f. A kind of maigre broth made with bread and vegetables. Originally a soup of cabbage and bacon. Gar con, f. Waiter. “ Premier gar<jon ”—head-waiter. “ Gar^n de salle ”—restaurant waiter. Garde manger, f. Larder or meat safe. Also applied to the person in charge of the cold meat room or larder ; larder cook. Gardon, f. A sweet-water fish. Garfish. A fish which resembles mackerel, but is drier. Gargotage, f. Badly dressed victuals. Gargote. Beanery; common or cheap restaurant. Gargotier. Beanery ; keeper of a common cookshop ; a bad cook. Garlic. Ail, f. A root-plant with a pungent taste. Like onions, chives, and shallots, it possesses medicinal virtues, being cooling to the system, increasing saliva and gastric juices, stimulating, and digestive. First imported from Sicily. Garlic, it is said, was cultivated from the earliest ages. It formed part of the rations of the Egyptian pyramid builders, and in this way, perhaps, the Jews acquired their fondness for it. The Roman soldiers were given garlic as an excitant. It is useful in cooking, sauce-making, etc. Garnishing. As a culinary term, it means to decorate a dish with edibles of ornamental appearance. Garni, f. Gar- nished, filled or stuffed. Garniture, f. Garnishing.69 Garum. A Latin word, used for a sauce made of pickled fish. It was much prized by the Romans, who are said to have made it from the gills of various fish. The original recipe is not known. Gasterea. Goddess of Gastronomy, presiding over everything appertaining to the preservation of life. Gastronome, f. A caterer; hotel or restaurant keeper. Gastronomie, f. Gastronomy. The art of good living. Strictly speaking, meaning the science of life, through which we discover what food, under various circumstances, is best suited; and it teaches us the effect it bears upon man in- dividually or a nation. Gateau, f. A round, square or oval-shaped flat cake, generally decorated ; essentially a rich cake made of well-beaten butter dough. Gaufre, f. Wafer ; a light biscuit ; baked or fried in specially- constructed Gaufre moulds. These consist of two opposed plates, and are worked by handles. Gaufrier, f. A waffle iron. Gelant, f. Jellied or freezing. Gelatine, f. A manufactured article, used for giving solidity to liquids. It is prepared from the skin, hoofs, and other tissues of various quadrupeds. Used in the preparation of sweet and savoury jellies. Gelee, f. Jelly. Inspissated juice of fruit or meat. Gelinotte, "f. Hazel-hen ; heath-cock. Genievre, f. Juniper-berry. A blue-black berry, possessing a peculiar aromatic flavour, used as a flavouring condiment in mirepoix, marinades, etc. ; also used in syrups and liqueurs. Genoise, f. Genoese style. Also the name of a kind of sponge cake ; a rich brown fish sauce. Gervais, f. A sweet French cream cheese. Ghee. An Indian word for clarified butter. Gherkin. Cornichon, or petites concombre, f. Term mostly used for pickled cucumbers. Gibelotte, f. Rabbit-stew. Gibier, f. Game ; animals taken in the chase. (See also Game.)70 Giblets. Abatis, f. The trimmings oi poultry (neck, pinions, liver, heart, etc.). Those from geese, turkeys, fowls, and ducks are principally used for pies, stews, and soups. Gigot, f. Gigot de mouton—leg of mutton. Gigot d'agneau— leg of lamb. Gigot a Sept Heures or Gigot a la Cuillere is a leg of mutton which has been cooked for seven hours, when it may be carved with a spoon. Gigot a Vail, f. This is a favourite dish in France. The garlic is sometimes boiled in three separate waters before the cloves are inserted into the leg of mutton : this greatly modifies the strong taste and pene- trating flavour and smell. Gimblettes, f. A kind of French pastry, resembling, and prepared similarly to, Croque-en-bouche. Ginger. Gingembre, f. Ginger is the root of a plant, a native of East and West Indies. This plant grows to the height of about three feet, and when its stalks are withered the roots are gathered, separated, scraped, washed, bleached, and dried ready for use or exportation. It is also ground or preserved whole for various culinary purposes. Ginger was known to the Romans, and is said by Pliny to have been brought from Arabia. Gingerbread. Pain d’epice, f. Gingerbread made of rye-flour, honey, ginger, and other spices, was sold in Paris as early as the 14th century. It was probably introduced into England in the reign of Henry the Fourth, and shortly after- wards treacle was used in making it, instead of honey. Gingerbread made with treacle being darker than that made with honey, it was covered with gold-leaf or gilt paper to disguise its colour ; hence arose our familiar proverb about taking “ the gilt off the gingerbread.” Girofle, f. Clove. A very pungent aromatic spice, vulgarly called “ cloude girofle,” because it has the form of a nail ; native of the island of Ternate. Gitana (a la), f. Gipsy fashion. Glace, f. Ice. Also applied to concentrated stock—i.e., meat glaze. Glace, f. Frozen, iced. Glace de sucre (Glace royale). Icing sugar ; very fine dust sugar ; mixed with white of egg it is called Royal Icing.Glace de Viande, f. Meat extract or glaze; used for glazing purposes, and for enriching soups, gravies, and sauces. Glaced. Glace, f. Anything that is iced or frozen, or anything having a smooth and glossy surface, applied by means of meat glaze, sauce, jelly, or of sugar. Glaciere (timbre a glace). Ice box. Refrigerator. Glaze. Glace de viande, f. Stock or gravy reduced to the thickness of jelly; used for glazing cooked meats, etc., to improve their appearance. Well-made glaze adheres firmly to the meat. Also used for strengthening soups and sauces. Globe Artichoke. Artichaut, f. A plant extensively cultivated for culinary purposes; like a thistle, with large scaly heads similar to the cone of a pine. Glucose. Molasses./ A thick syrupy substance obtained by incompletely hydrolising starch or a starch-containing' substance, decolourising and evaporating the product. It is found in various degrees of concentration, ranging from 41 to 45 degrees Baume. Gluten. A sticky substance in flour. A nitrogenous body present in most cereals ; may be obtained by washing flour in a muslin bag under water, when the starch is removed and the gluten remains. Gluten flour is used mainly for diabetic specialities; it is the albuminous element of the grain, and instrumental as a builder of bodily structures. Gnocchi. A light savoury dough, boiled and served with grated Parmesan cheese (Italian dish). Also applied to pate a choux, which, after being passed through a forcer, cut into short lengths and poached, is served in white sauce, etc. Godard, f. Name given to an entree of chicken by the inventor, Benjamin Godard, a noted French composer. Godiveau, f. Rich veal forcemeat. Quenelles. Used as a garnish almost exclusively. Golden Buck. A Welsh rarebit with a poached egg on top. Golden Syrup. A syrup obtained during the refining of loaf sugar and crystallised “ Demerara.” It is purer and sweeter than treacle, but thinner in consistency. Gombaut, Gombo. Okra. Gumbo. 7i72 Goose. Oie, f. The goose is an aquatic bird which has long been domesticated in nearly all parts of the world. The geese that saved the Roman Capitol by cackling at the critical moment had a worthy successor in the goose that made a Bishop, if we may believe the legend which tells how, when St. Martin was hiding in his desire not to be made Bishop of Tours, one of these birds found and betrayed him. Gooseberry. Groseille, f. The fruit of a prickly shrub indi- genous to Great Britain. The word is taken from the Scotch “ Grosart.” Gooseberry Fool. A half-frozen fruit pulp, served as sweet. The name is a corruption of “ gooseberry foul ” (foule), meaning milled or pressed gooseberries. This dish is very popular, but its name is often puzzling, and may be regarded as an example of the degeneration of a foreign kitchen term, a corruption which has destroyed the descriptive meaning. Originally the qualifying adj ective was written foule because the stewed gooseberries were crushed and pressed before being mixed with the cream. Gorgonzola. An Italian cheese. (See Cheese.) Gosling. Oison, f. A young goose. Goujon, f. Gudgeon. Goulash, Gulyas, Gulias huis. An Austro-Hungarian dish con- sisting of beef or veal cut in dice, potatoes, apples, and bacon, seasoned with paprika pepper, served with brown sauce. Goulu pois, f. Sweet pea. Gourmand, f. An epicure ; a ravenous eater ; a glutton. Gourmet, f. A judge of good living ; one who values and enjoys good eating ; connoisseur in wine. Gout, f. Taste or savour. Relish, to perceive by the tongue; the sense of tasting ; an intellectual relish. Gouter, f. An afternoon meal; a meat tea. To taste ; to relish. Graisse, f. Grease, fat, suet. Granite, f. Gramolata. A kind of half-frozen lemon or other fruit water-ice served in glasses. Grape. Raisin, f. The fruit of the vine. Native of Greece, Asiatic Turkey, and Persia, from whence the vine spread over all countries where the climate allows it.73 Gras, f. Fat, plump. Gras {an). This signifies that the article specified is dressed with rich meat gravy. Gras- double. Tripe. Gratin. Caked with encrusted or browned surface ; bread- crumbs strewed over meat, fish, macaroni - cheese, or similar dishes, and browned. Gratiner. To brown the surface of contents of dish. Gravy. Jus, f. The juice obtained from meat in cooking. Grayling. The grayling belongs to the same family as the salmon and the trout. It is found principally in the rivers in the north of England. Greengage. (See Reine-Claude.) Green Ginger. An excellent fruit preserve which comes to the markets at such reasonable prices that few housekeepers care to preserve their own. Green Goose. During spring a young goose is so called. Grenade, f. Pomegranate. The fruit of the pomegranate-tree (grenadier, f.), largely used for preserves, jellies, and syrup. Grenadine, f., or Grandine Syrop. A syrup made from the expressed juice of the pomegranate, and sugar. Grenadins, f. Small slices of veal larded and braised. Grenouille, f. Frog. {See Edible Frog.) Grianneau, f. A young grouse. Griblette, f. Collop, broiled pork. Gridirons or Grill. A grate placed before or over the fire; used for broiling or grilling purposes. A grill used for broiling over the fire consists of a row of thin steel bars fastened in an iron frame. Gril, f. Gridiron. Grillade, f. Broiled meat; broiler. Grille, f. Grilled. A Mixed Grill consists of a selection of grilled cutlets, bacon slices, tomatoes, and sausages. The whole neatly dressed on a dish and served with mashed potatoes. Grimod de la Regniere. Name of a distinguished culinary author and famous gastronome, born 1758, died 1838, editor, in 1803, of the journal called “ Almanach des Gourmands.” Griotte, f. A dark-red cherry, called Armenian cherry, suitable for compote and jam.74 Griskin of Pork. This joint consists of top of the spare-rib which contains the bones of the spine. In a small pig the griskin and spare-rib are not separated. In some localities it is called “ chine of pork.” Grive, f. Fieldfare. Thrush. Grivelette. A small thrush from San Domingo. Grog. A beverage; a mixture of spirits (mostly rum), hot water, and sugar. Grondins. Name of a small fish. Groseilles, f. Gooseberries or currants. Gros-sel, f. Coarse salt. Grosse-piece, f. A large joint (of meat or poultry). Grouse. Coq du bois, f. Black grouse or American grouse ; neat cock ; cock of the woods. Grouse should be drawn as soon as possible after being killed, for they soon taint, and must be hung as long as possible. There are several varieties of this bird, which vary in size from that of a small domestic fowl to that of a turkey. They are known as the red grouse, the black, the ruffled, the white (or ptarmigan), and the wood grouse (or capercailzie), which is the largest variety. All grouse have short bills, but they are principally distinguished by having feathers growing on their legs and toes, and a broad naked red skin over each eye. Gruau, f. Gruel, oatmeal ; water-gruel. Gruyere, f. Name of a Swiss village and valley celebrated for its cheese, called after that name. Guava. The guava is a native of the East and West Indies, and grows in South America and China. The fruit is about the size of a hen’s egg, yellow or claret in colour, with a thin and brittle rind, which is sometimes stewed in milk, and is also used for making marmalade. The pulp is firm, flesh- coloured, aromatic, sweet, and full of seeds. Gudgeon. A little fresh-water fish found in placid streams and lakes, belonging to the carp genus. Its flesh is firm and well-favoured. By the Romans it was served fried at the beginning of supper. The Greeks also held it in some considerable regard. Guignard, f. A kind of plover. Guimauve, f. Marshmallow.75 Guinea Fowl. Pintade, f. The gumea-fowl is a bird of the turkey species, and is a little larger than the common fowl. The quality of the flesh is between that of the fowl and the pheasant. It has the advantage of being in season when game is not. Guinette, f. Guinea-hen. Guisado. A Spanish dish, mostly prepared with meat and potatoes stewed together. Gulyas. (See Goulash.) Gumbo. The American term for okra soup or other preparations from okra, gumbo being the name by which okra is mostly known in South America. Chicken gumbo is a puree or soup made from okra and chicken. Gurnet or Gurnard. There are many varieties of this fish— the red, the piper, the streaked, the grey, “ Bloches,” the “ Langthorne,” and the little gurnard. The red gurnet or gurnard is caught in trawls on the west coast of England at all seasons of the year. It is usually about a foot long. It is an excellent fish notwithstanding Falstaff’s disparaging allusion to “ soused gurnet ” in one of Shakespeare’s plays. Guyave. (See Guava.) H. Hache, f. Minced meat, finely sliced meat. (See Hash.) Hacher-menu, f. To mince meat finely. Haehis, f. Hash. Hashed meat. A favourite form of re- dressing cooked meat. Haddock. Aigrefin, f., or merluche. Smoked or dried haddock —merluche fume, f. The haddock is a fish measuring ten to twelve inches in length, and seldom weighing more than two or three pounds. It is distinguished by a dark spot on either side of the body, just beyond the gills. There is a super- stition connected with these spots, suggesting that they are marks left by the thumb and forefinger of St. Peter when taking tribute money out of the mouth of a fish of this species. The haddock is found chiefly on the north-east coast; and in winter, migrating in large numbers from these latitudes, it arrives on the coast of Yorkshire.76 Haggis. A kind of liver sausage (Scotch dish), derived from “ Hag,” to chop ; or “ Hachis,” to mince. The modern haggis consists of the liver, lights, and heart of a sheep finely chopped, mixed with oatmeal, and suet, and seasoning. This is inserted in a sheep’s paunch, and boiled for several hours. Robert Burns greatly esteemed this dish, which was, it is said, a favourite dish of the Romans. Hake. A kind of sea-fish allied to the cod. Halaszle. A Hungarian fish stew. Halibut. This is one of the largest of the flat-fish tribe, speci- mens five feet long, and weighing from 80 to ioo pounds, being frequently seen in our markets. Ham. Jambon, f. The hind leg of pork, when it is salted and cured, or smoked. Hanche, f. Haunch. Name applied to leg and loin part of venison, mutton or lamb. Hand of Pork. This joint is the fore leg. They are usually salted, boiled, and sold either hot or cold. In the North they are called “ hamkins.” Hare. Lievre, f. The hare may be found in most of the northern regions. Unlike the rabbit, which burrows, it makes its home on the surface of the ground, assuming in some measure the same colour as this to avoid detection. Thus we find that in the Polar regions it becomes nearly white in winter, while in summer it turns to a brownish- grey. The hare is frequently mentioned by writers of antiquity. Hareng, f. Herring. Hareng fume. f.—Bloater. Havens marine, f.—Pickled herring. (See Herring.) Haricot, f. Bean. Also applied to a thick meat stew, so called from the French word for beans, from which the dish was originally made. Haricots fpanaches, f. French beans or string beans mixed with flageolets (green kidney beans). Harslet. Pigs. The inside organs of a pig ; also their best parts, liver, sweetbread, etc., prepared and spiced, enclosed in caul, roasted and served with a sauce. Hash. To slice or dress in small bits. Its meaning is to re-dress a dish, so as to mystify its origin, by the reappearance in a different form.77 Ha tele t, f. A small silver skewer garnished with cut roots, truffles, mushrooms, aspic, cocks’ combs, etc., used for ornamenting fish and remove dishes. Hatereau, f. A dish of sliced liver. Hateur, f. Formerly an officer in the Royal kitchens, whose duty it was to see that all meat was properly done and correctly dressed. Hativeau. Early pear ; also used for other early fruits. Hautboy. A species of strawberry, perfectly white in colour, and of an especially delicate flavour. Haut gout, f. Fine taste, high flavour, strong seasoning. Hazel-hen. Gelinotte, f. Herring. Hareng, f. The herring is mostly found in high northern latitudes. They are found in abundance in the North Sea, and are caught off almost every part of the coast of Scotland. Immature herrings, known as “matties,” are a great delicacy. Hind quarter of Lamb. (See Quartier d’Agneau.) Hirondelle, f. Swallow. Hock. The English name for German wines from the Rhine and Moselle districts. Hollandaise, f. Dutch style ; also name of a rich white fish sauce. Homard, f. Lobster. A crustaceous fish. Hominy. A farinaceous food made of maize (Indian corn). It is very nourishing. Derivation from the auhuminea, which is the North American Indian term for parched corn. Honey. Miel, f. Sweet juice collected from various flowers by bees. French Narbonne and Swiss honey are both cele- brated. The English and Welsh honey also supply an excellent table delicacy. Honey is said to be one of the most variable of food materials. When pure it is derived solely from the sweet fluid collected from the nectaries of flowers and further elaborated by the honey-bee. Hongroise, f. Hungarian. Hops. The full-grown catkin of a climbing plant employed in the manufacture of beer. It was first introduced into England for cultivation about 1520.78 Hors-d’oeuvre, F. Small side dishes, served cold, generally before the soup, in order to create appetite. They consist of anchovies, caviare, sardines, and other dainty relishes. Horseradish. Raifort, f. A species of scurvey-root of pecu- liarly hot flavour. It forms an excellent relish, stimulating the appetite and promoting digestion. Hotch-potch (Hochepot). A soup very popular in Scotland. It is generally made from neck of mutton, and contains a large quantity of peas or barley, with vegetables and meat cut up into dice. It is sometimes a mixture of many things, hence its name. Huile, f. Oil. The oil used for culinary purposes is obtained from the olive-tree. It is used for salad dressing, sauces, for frying, etc. Provence oil and Lucca oil have the highest reputation ; the former is, however, considered the best. Cotton-seed oil is now much used for cheap cooking purposes, though for really good cookery it cannot be recommended. Huitre, f. Oyster. -A bivalvular testaceous shellfish. (See Oyster.) Hung Beef. The beef is hung till tender, then salted, rolled tightly in a cloth, and hung up for about three weeks, till it becomes dry. If smoke-dried, it will keep for a long time. Hure, f. Boar or pig’s head ; also head and shoulders of some large fish. Hure de Sanglier. Wild boar’s head. I. Ice. Glace, f. (See Glace.) Iceland Moss, freshly gathered, is boiled and eaten with meat as a vegetable. The jelly made of it is a nourishing food for invalids. Ices. Glaces, f. Supposed to have been introduced by Catherine de Medici in the 16th century. Some assert that ice-cream was first invented by a negro, named Jackson, who kept a small confectioner’s shop in Soho in the early part of last century. Icing, e. Glasure, f., or glace. A covering for cakes or pastry, made with fine sugar and white of egg, or sugar and water, flavoured and coloured according to taste.79 Indienne (a la), F. Indian style. Generally applied to dishes containing curry or chutney or both, accompanied with a dish ,of plain, boiled rice. Irish Moss. Carragheen. A seaweed which grows in abundance on the coast of Ireland. When cleaned and dried it is used for making jellies ; it then forms an excellent dish for invalid dietary. Irish Stew. A stew of mutton, potatoes, and onions ; national dish of Ireland. Irlandaise (a 1’). Irish style. This term is applied to dishes containing potatoes in some form ; these are either intro- duced during the process of cooking or else served around a dish to form its garnish. Ische Bone. (See Aitch-bone.) Isinglass. Gelatine, f. The former is prepared from the sound, or swimming bladder, of the sturgeon and other similar fishes. Both isinglass and gelatine are used for giving firmness to liquids, but cannot be regarded as an article of nourishment. Italienne (a 1*), f. Italian style. With a few exceptions the term implies that the dish is made of entirely or part of macaroni or similar paste, and in which Parmesan cheese or tomato, or both, have been introduced. Garnishing known as a la Milanaise, a la Napolitaine, a la Parma, and a la Florentine usually contain one or other of the above-named ingredients. Iudabah. Name of an Arab dish. Rice stewed in chicken fat, and sweetened. J. Jabiru. An aquatic bird of Brazil. Jacane. A genus of wading birds. Jacobins. Nickname of quenelles of custard, which became fashionable during the Revolution ; after the Restoration their name was changed to Royals. Jagger or Jagging-iron. An implement used for cutting pastry into fancy shapes. It consists of a brass wheel, which is fastened to a handle. Jalousies. Name given to small puff-paste cakes.80 Jam. Confiture, F. A confection or conserve of fruit, made by boiling fruit with sugar to a certain consistency. Jambon, f. (See Ham.) Jambonneau. A very small ham. Jardiniere, f. A mixture of spring vegetables; vegetables stewed down in their own sauce. Jarret, f. Shin, knuckle (as “ Jarret de veau,” knuckle of veal). Jaune-mange, f. A kind of egg-jelly made from gelatine, white wine, lemons, sugar, and eggs. It is so called on account of its yellow colour. Jean de Careme (John of Lent). A famous cook under Pope Leo X., who received the nickname of “ John of Lent ” in consequence of a celebrated soupe maigre which he used to prepare for his master the Pope. He is supposed to be the direct ancestor of the celebrated Antoine Careme. Jelly. Gelee, f. Inspissated juice of fruits or meats. Concen- trated essence of any kind of food, having gelatinous sub- stance. It is obtained by boiling to a glutinous consistence. Jerked Beef. Beef cut into thin slices and dried in the sun. The word “ jerked ” is a corruption of the Peruvian word charqui, but does not mean that the meat has been shaken. Jernik-kalwasi. A Russian dish, consisting of semolina, milk, and honey. Jerusalem Artichoke. Topinambour, f. The word “ Jerusa- lem ” has no connection with Palestine ; it is a corruption of the Italian word “girasole,” the plant belonging to the family of sunflowers, which turn their blossoms towards King Sol. The plant grows from six to eight feet in height, has large rough leaves, and yellow flowers. The roots are creeping, and produce in autumn several round yellowish or reddish tubers. Jetee, f. A throw (as “ filer de sucre a la jetee ”—to spin sugar by throwing). John Dory. This fish is found in British seas. Its name is supposed to be derived from the French words “ jaune doree ” (golden yellow), as its body is marked with yellow. The fish has good flesh, which, strange to say, improves much when about 24 hours have elapsed from the time it was caught. Joint. Releves, f. The grosse-piece or piece de resistance of a dinner. On the Continent the joint is usually served after the fish, whilst in this country it is served after the entrees.81 Joinville (Prince de). A French nobleman, third son of Louis Philippe I., after whom several dishes are named. Jolerie, f. A small sweet-water fish similar to perch. Jordan Almonds. Almonds grown in a garden. “ Jordan ” is a corruption of the French word jardin. Jugged. Civet de lievre, f. A brown stew, of hare or some kind of game. Jugging. Name of a form of cooking, by- placing meat in a jar with just sufficient water to cover ; it is then allowed to stew at even temperature in a bain-marie or in the oven. Julep. Ancient Arabian name for a cooling drink containing mucilage and opium, etc. Julienne. Name of a vegetable clear soup, first made in 1785 by a cook named Jean Julien ; vegetable roots cut into very fine shreds. Jumbles. Under this name pass confections of varying degrees of complication, as the name, signifying confused mixture, seems to indicate, etc. Junket. Juncate, from the Latin word juncus. Name of a favourite Devonshire dish, which consists of milk turned with rennet, double cream, sugar, and ground cinnamon or other flavouring. Usually served with fruit, fresh or preserved. Jus. Juice ; broth ; gravy. The juice of cooked meats seasoned, but without any liaison (thickening). K. Kabob. An Indian dish of stewed meat, curried. Kagne. A sort of vermicelli. Kail. Broccoli. Chou frise, f. A species of cauliflower. Kailcannon. Original Scotch name for Colcannon. Kaimak. A Russian sweet, similar to cream custard. Kale. An esculent plant Kari. The translation in French or German of the English word “ curry.” F82 Kebobs (Khubab). Name of a dish served in India and Turkey, consisting of small slices of mutton run on skewers, and grilled or braised. Kedgeree (Kadgiori, Kitchri or Kegeree). An Indian dish of fish and rice curried. The name is taken from Khichri, an Indian dish, consisting of boiled fish or salt fish, eggs, and rice, garnished with hard-boiled eggs, strips of chili, etc. Kelkel. A slice of sole dried and salted. Ketchup (Catchup or Catsup). Name of a much-esteemed sauce. The best known ketchups are made of fresh mushrooms mixed with salt, and flavoured with spices. Tomato ketchup is prepared in a similar way, or walnut ketchup, for which unripe walnuts are used. Kettle of Fish. A kind of fish stew well known in Scotland, locally known as “ fish and sauce.” It is generally made from haddock. Kickshaw. Espece de ragout or charcuterie, f. This is a name used in cookery which may be given to any dish prepared with extraordinary nicety ; but it is usually applied to such things as are regarded luxuries by the rich. Kid. Chevreau, f. A young wild goat. In the time of our forefathers the flesh was esteemed as much as lamb. The meat is sweet and very tender. It is usually cooked whole, like sucking-pig (larded or barded, and sometimes marinaded). Kidney. Rognons, f. Sheep’s, lamb’s, veal, and pork kidneys are alone considered of any account in cookery. They possess a peculiar slightly bitter flavour, which characteristic makes them a favourite dish for breakfast or luncheon. They are best grilled or sauteed. (Somewhat indigestible.) Kipper. Name applied to herrings, salmon, or mackerel, split open, salted (cured), smoked, and dried. (The word is taken from the Dutch kipper, which means to hatch or to spawn.) Kirschwasser, Kirsch. A white liqueur distilled from cherries. Kishri, Kitchery, Kitchris, and Kitcharee. An Indian dish, generally known under the name of Kedgeree or Quitheri. It is a mixture of rice or lentils, cooked with butter and fish, dholl, etc., and flavoured with fennel, shredded or minced onions, a little spice, etc. It is a common dish all over India; mostly served at breakfast. Dholl or dhall is a kind of Indian pulse.83 Kitchener. The ancient name for cook, but now only applied to a kitchen apparatus. Klosse. German dish, composed of small light forcemeat or dough balls boiled in water, milk, or gravy. These are also made of bread, potatoes, rice, and eggs, and are varied with meat, fish, or liver. Knodel, g. Bavarian name for a kind of small dumpling. Knuckle of Veal. Jarret de veau, f. Part below the knee- joint ; mostly used for stews and stock. Kohl-rabi. Kowll-kohl, Choux-rave f. A species of cabbage. There are three varieties—white, green, and purple. The name is derived from two German words which signify “ cabbage-turnip.” When young it is very palatable, and extremely wholesome. Konomoe. Name of a Japanese vegetable. Koofthas. Name of an Indian dish ; a mince of meat or fowl, curried, shaped into balls, and fried. Koumiss. A beverage originally made by the Tartars from mare’s or camel’s milk, fermented. Koumiss has of late years come into prominent notice as a nutritious article of diet, easily assimilated by delicate stomachs, and specially recommended for consumptive invalids. It is made in England by adding yeast to new cow’s milk, which, when partially fermented, is kept closely sealed in bottles. It possesses the properties of a gentle effervescent, with the stimulating characteristics derived from the presence of a small quantity of alcohol, while the nutriment of the casein remains unimpaired. Kromeskis (Kromeskys, Cromeskis or Kromouskys). A Polish word, having the same meaning as croquette in French. Balls or rolls of forcemeat or of minced chicken and ham, wrapped in caul, braised or crumbed, or else dipped in batter, and fried. Krona Pepper. A mild red pepper seasoning of excellent flavour, free from pungency ; for kitchen and table use. Krupnick. Name of a Russian soup. Kummel. A German liqueur distilled from caraway seed and coriander.84 L. Lacteal. Pertaining to milk. Lactean. Milky. Laiteux, f. Lactometer. A glass tube for ascertaining the richness of milk or cream. Ladog, f. Name of a kind of herring found in the Lake of Ladogo, in Russia, from which it got its name ; largely consumed in Russia during Lent. Lafleche, f. A place in France known for its fine quality of capon. Lager Beer. The word “ lager,” as applied to beer, means “ stored.” It has, however, come to be used as a general term for the light beers brewed in Germany, which are for the most part “ aged ” by other means than cold storage. Lait, f. Milk. Lait (au). Prepared with milk, or in milk. Lait d'amande. Almond milk. Petit lait. Whey. Laitance, f. The soft roe of a fish. Those of herrings, carp or mackerel, are considered as a delicacy. Laitue, f. Lettuce. A genus of favourite salad plants ; very wholesome and easily digested. Lamb. Agneau, f. A young sheep. Lamb’s Fry. Animelles, f. Lambstones. Certain parts taken from young rams to convert them into wethers. They are cooked and served like lamb’s sweetbreads, and are considered a delicacy. Lamb’s Stove. A lamb stew that consists of a lamb’s head, the jaws of which are stuffed with a lamb’s lights, spinach, onion, and parsley. It is cooked slowly in good stock. Lamprey. Lamproi, f. A species of eel, also called “ Nine Eye ” on account of having, besides its eyes, seven little holes at the side of its head. Land o’ Cakes. A name sometimes given to Scotland because oatmeal cakes are a common national dish, particularly among the poorer classes.85 Landrail or Corncrake. A bird of fine flavour, and by some preferred to the partridge. As an article of food, its use is almost entirely confined to the country. It arrives at the beginning of April, and after hatching its eggs leaves at the end of October. Langouste, f. Very large lobster ; sea crawfish (spring lobster). Langue, f. Tongue, e. The tongue of most animals is regarded as a delicacy. The meat is generally juicy and tender ; usually cured, boiled or braised. Langues de chat, f. Very small tea or dessert biscuits (wafers). Literally, “ cats’ tongues.” Languier, f. Smoked hog’s or pig’s tongue. Lapereau, f. Young rabbit. Lapin, f. Rabbit. A small, long-eared quadruped ; its flesh is generally considered as inferior to that of the hare. Lard, f. Bacon. Also the fat of swine. Lard a piquer, f. Larding bacon. Bacon specially cured for larding and barding purposes. Larder, f. To lard. A culinary term which means to pass with a larding-pin (lardoire, f.) a small slice of bacon (lardon, f.) through a piece of meat. Larding Bacon. Lard a piquer, f. Bacon specially cured for larding and barding purposes. Lardon. A piece of fat bacon used for larding. Lardoons are strips of bacon which, with the use of a larding needle, are inserted into the meat for the purpose of larding. Lark. Alouette, f. A bird belonging to the finch family. They are caught by means of nets, and are considered a great delicacy. Laurier, f. Laurel, bayleaf. Lavaret, f. Whitefish ; also, sometimes, lake trout. Laver. A marine alga, growing on rocks on the sea coasts. It is cooked like spinach, and is served as an accompaniment with roast meat. There are three varieties : the purple, the green, and the sea lettuce. Purple laver is esteemed the best. All are nutritious articles of food, easily digested, and suitable for invalids. Lax, g. Smoked salmon, preserved in oil. Lazagnes, it. Thin strips of nouille paste.86 Leek. Poireau, f. The national symbol or badge of the Welsh. In Scotland it forms, in connection with a boiled fowl, the favourite dish “ Cock-a-leekie.” It was first cultivated in Egypt, in the time of the Pharoahs, and is still grown extensively in the East. The Romans use it largely in flavouring their dishes. Leg. Gigot, Cuisse, f. Legumes, f. Vegetables. Plants used as food. Le Mans, f. A place in France famous for its poultry, and especially capons. Lemco. (See Liebig Co.’s Extract of Beef.) Lemon. (See Citron, f.) Lemonade. Limonade, f. A refreshing drink is made of the juice of lemons, the essence of the peel, sugar, and water ; sometimes the white of egg and sherry is added, especiallv if intended as an invalid drink. Lentil. Lentille, f. The seed of a plant of the same name. In the East, especially in Egypt, they are a staple article of consumption. Lentils were well known in the ancient world, and are mentioned in the Scriptures as early as the days of Jacob. They are extremely nourishing, but somewhat difficult of digestion. Lettuce. Laitue, f. The lettuce is a cooling, anti-scorbutic, and slightly laxative article of diet. The lettuce has been cultivated in England from a remote age. There are two varieties : the cabbage lettuce, with short open leaves, and the cos lettuce, with longer leaves, which are tied together to blanch. Levain, f. Leaven, ferment. Dough or batter prepared with yeast before mixing it with the rest of the flour. Levain, f. (du pain sans). Unleavened bread. Levure, f. Yeast. A preparation which ferments dough. The froth of beer when it begins to ferment. When pressed and reduced to a dough it preserves a very long time, and is often used in confectionery and as yeast for small bread. Leveret. Leveraut, f. A young hare. Liaison, f. The mixture of yolk of eggs, cream, etc., used for thickening or binding white soups and sauces. Lie, f. Thickened, bound ; applied to creams, soups, and sauces,87 Liebig. Name of a famous chemist who greatly increased the popularity of beef extract. Liebig Company’s Extract of Beef. Now known and sold as “ Lemco.” A perfectly prepared essence of meat. Forty pounds of lean beef are used to make every pound of this extract. Inventor, J. V. Liebig. Lievre, f. Hare. Limande, f. Dab. Small sea-fish, with white and soft flesh ; mostly prepared like fried sole. Limes. Is a species of small lemon ; the tree is a native of Asia. The juice of this fruit is imported into England for the manufacture of citric acid (see Citric Acid). Lime- juice has more agreeable flavour than lemon-juice. Limon. The fruit of a species of lemon trees, which are more round than the ordinary lemon (citron, f.). Limpet. Limpets are found on the sea-shore adhering tightly to the rock. They have only one shell, and are prepared for table like cockles and other bivalves. Ling. Lingue, f. A fish of the same species as hake. It is a native of the northern seas—the Orkneys, the Yorkshire and Cornish coasts, as well as off the Scilly Islands. In form it resembles the cod, but it is more slender. Liqueur, f. Liquor. A liquid cordial, such as Maraschino, Cura£ao, Kumel, Chartreuse, Benedictine, etc. Lit, f. Thin slices of meat spread in layers for culinary purposes. Liver. Foie, f. Lobscouse. A stew of beef or mutton. Potatoes, onions, bones, etc., are boiled until the potatoes are nearly done, then the minced meat is added, and the cooking continued until the meat is ready. Lobster. Homard, f., or langouste, f. The lobster belongs to the crab tribe, the second great division of Crustaceae. It is highly esteemed as an article of food, being very pala- table and supposed to possess great nutritive qualities, yet many people consider it somewhat indigestible. The chief supply comes from Norway, where the fish is very abundant. Nearly all the rocky coasts of Great Britain supply a tolerable quantity of lobsters. A peculiarity of this shell-fish is that88 it seldom strays from the spot where it is hatched; Another peculiarity is that it has the power of reproducing a lost or injured limb. It has also been known to throw off its claws when alarmed. Loin. Longe, f. The back portion nearest the leg of an animal. Longe, f. Loin. “Longe de Veau,” loin of veal. Long Pepper. This spice, very similar in taste and smell to ordinary pepper, is used in making curry-powder and pickles. Lorgnette, f. Fried onion rings ; name also applied to small dessert biscuits and candied fruit. Lotte, f. Eel-pout. Very often taken for the ordinary eel; prepared like eels or lampreys. Lucines, f. Clams. Lucines papillons—soft clams. Lucullus. Name of the famous Roman epicure and field- marshal, Lucius Licinius Lucullus, 114-57 B-c- Lunch. Dejeuner a la fourchette, f. A repast between break- fast and dinner. The word is derived from the Welsh Llwne, lunching or hurrying. Robert Burns, in his “ Holy Friar,” says : “ An’ cheese, an’ bread, frae women’s laps, was dealt about in lunches.” Luncheon is claimed to be derived from the old English word “ luncheon,” meaning a lump, or from the Spanish “ lonja,” a slice ; or else, alas once, at eleven. The modern meal is a very different matter from the original “ lunch,” which was a mere snack between meals. A lunch, in fact, etymologically, was just a lump ; in the 16th century a “ lunch of bacon ” meant merely a slice or hunk of it. Luting. A paste used for fastening lids on pie-dishes in which game is preserved. Luzinzeth, an Arab sweet cake. Almond cakes ; they consist of thin shells of pastry containing a rich almond stuffing and a delicately-flavoured cream ; they are served in sauce of sweet melted butter, and form a delicacy. Lyonnaise (a la), f. Lyonese style. As a garnish it generally signifies that shredded onion (fried) has been introduced as the principal ingredient.89 M. Macaroni. Maccaroni, it. This is a peculiar paste prepared from flour and manufactured into tubes. It is an Italian invention. The name is said to be taken from a Greek derivation, meaning the blessed bread, in allusion to the ancient custom of eating it at feasts for the dead. Macaroons. A kind of sweet biscuit made of almonds, sugar, and the white of eggs. Mace. A spice which grows as a sort of leafy net-work, enveloping the nutmeg—has a more delicate flavour than the nutmeg. The tree is a native of the Molucca Islands (Indian Ocean), but is also successfully cultivated at Sumatra, Mauritius, and Trinidad (West Indies). Macedoine, f. A mixture of various kinds of vegetables or fruits, cut in even-shaped discs. The name is also applied to a collection of ripe fruit imbedded in jelly and set in a mould, or a fruit salad flavoured with liqueurs and syrup. Macere, f. Steeped, macerated. Mache, f. Lamb’s lettuce ; corn or field salad. Mackerel. Maquereau, f. A fish. Name derived from the Latin macularelli (little spots). Mackerel contain a larger proportion of fatty matter than many kinds of fish, and therefore more quickly lose their freshness. They are nutritious, delicate in flavour, but less easily digested than fish possessing less fatty matter. They are a migratory fish. In the winter they retire to deep waters, but during summer they are caught in large numbers near the coast, and the best are caught in the English Channel. Macon. A town in Burgundy, France, renowned for its Burgundy wines. Maeoquer or Calebasse. Fruit of the calabash-tree (calebassier, f.), grown in America. The fruit resembles the melon, and has an agreeable taste. Macreuse, f. Widgeon. A black duck. Madeleine, f. A particular kind of small cakes, well known throughout France.90 Madere, f. Madeira wine. A Spanish wine, very often used in cooking, especially in sauces. Madras. Generally applied to a dish flavoured with curry or chutney. Magira Lalin. The art of cookery. Magny. Name of a noted French chef and restaurateur. Maguez. Name of a Mexican plant used for a beverage called Pulgne. Maigre (au), f. A dish without meat. Applied to Lenten dishes. Maintenon, f. Name of the Marchioness Fran^ise d’Aubigne ; born 1635, died 1719 ; a great patroness of cooks, a born admirer of fine cooking. Several dishes are called “ a la Maintenon.” The dish “ Cotelettes de veau a la Maintenon ” is said to have been invented by this lady, who was Louis XIV.’s favourite, and did all in her power to tempt the failing appetite of the king when he was advanced in age. Mais, f. Corn. Maize. Indian or Turkey corn. (See Maize.) Maitrank, g. (May drink). A delicious beverage, originally consumed in Germany—made of hock or other white wine, which is flavoured with woodruff, lemon, bayleaves, and sugar. Maitre d’Hotel (a la), f. Hotel steward’s fashion. Also the name of a flavouring butter, mixed with chopped parsley and seasoned with lemon-juice, pepper, and salt. Served on grilled meats. Maitre d’Hotel sauce is a white sauce con- taining chopped parsley. Dishes surnamed a la Maitre d’Hotel generally signify quickly and plainly prepared food in which parsley is used as the principal flavouring. Maize. Mais, f. A complete food containing a large proportion of fat in addition to nitrogenous and mineral elements. Malaga. An amber-coloured wine produced in the Malaga district in Spain. Malart. Mallard, the common wild drake. Malmsey. A wine largely consumed in the Middle Ages. It is imported from Sardinia, Sicily, Madeira, and the Canary Islands. Mamaliga. A national dish of Roumania ; a preparation of corn, meal, and sheep cheese. Mammee. The fruit of the mammee-tree.Manaliga. A Roumanian porridge of half-cooked maize meal. Mandarine, f. Mandarin orange. Mange-tout, f. Name of a variety of sweet peas, wax, and butter beans. Mangle. The fruit of the mangrove. Mango. Mangue, f. A fruit about the size of a large pear. It is eaten just as gathered from the tree, or boiled, or as a sweet salad. It is also made into preserve and chutney. The best mangoes are grown in the Bombay districts. Several preparations are produced from this fruit, mango chutney and mango pickle being the best known in this country. Mango jelly is a very favourite table condiment in India, also a kind of a sweetmeat called amont ; the dried shreds of green mangoes are known as am-chool; the latter is a pleasantly flavoured condiment used extensively in the preparation of Indian dishes. Manie, f. Kneaded ; mixed with the hands. Manioc. A tropical plant, from which tapioca is taken. Manna Croup (manna kroup or manna groats). A Russian semolina, much esteemed for making puddings, very little known in England. It is usually obtained from the hard wheats of Odessa and Taganrog. Mansard. Wood-pigeon, ring-dove. Marabout. A very large coffee-pot. Maraschino. Marasquin, f. A delicately flavoured white liqueur prepared from wild cherries, raspberry and cherry leaves, used for flavouring jellies and ices. Marbre, f. Marbled. Word used in connection with certain cake s and gelatine dishes. Marcassin, f. Grice ; a young wild boar; generally cooked whole. Marengo. An Italian village, which gives its name to the dish “ Poulet saute a la Marengo.” The dish is said to have first been served to Napoleon I. by his chef, who hurriedly prepared a fowl in this fashion after a battle. Marennes, f. Place on the south-western coast of France, whence come the famous Marennes oysters. 9i92 Margarine. The name given by Act of Parliament to imitation batters made from animal fat, formerly called butterine. “Margarine” means just pearly, the original “margarin” having been a substance isolated from fats by the great French chemist, Michel Eugene Chevreul, who named it in admiration of the pretty pearl-like crystals in which he obtained it. Thus margarine is a sister etymologically of all the Margarets, their common parent being the Greek word for a pearl, which was of Oriental origin. It is so- called mainly because the law found that “ butterine ” sounded so much like “butter” that customers might be imposed upon. Margot. Magpie. Marguery, f. Name of a famous Paris restaurateur. The inventor of the dish known as “ Filet de sole a la Marguery.” Marie-Louise. Second wife of Napoleon I., born 1791, died 1847. The lady was a great gourmand of her time. Marigold. A flavouring herb, also known as “ Pot Marigold.” It is a native of Spain, and was introduced into England in 1573- Marinade, f. The brine in which fish or meat is soused or pickled, before cooking. Marine, f. Pickled, cured. Mariniere. Mariner style. Marjolaine, f. Marjoram. An excellent kitchen herb of strong flavour, used fresh or dried for game seasoning ; also for flavouring sauces, forcemeat, etc. Marjoram. A pot herb. There are several varieties, but they all have an agreeable aromatic flavour. The sweet or knotted marjoram is a native of Portugal. Marrowbone. The large hollow bones of an animal which contain a fatty substance called marrow. Marsala. A wine in some respects resembling sherry and Madeira, so named after Marsala, in the Island of Sicily, near to which the grapes are grown. Marmelade, f. Marmalade. The term “ marmalade ” originated in Portugal. In that country marmalade was generally made from oranges, but sometimes quinces were used. Extending this view certain dictionaries define marmalade as being made from any kind of sour fruit. Apple and lemon marmalades are well-known table conserves.93 Marmite, f. The stock-pot. A copper, iron or earthenware vessel used for making stock. Petite Marmite, f. A famous French soup served in little earthenware casseroles. Marmite a Vapeur. Steam-kettle. Marquer, f. To prepare, and arrange in a stewpan, a piece of meat ready for cooking. Marrons, f. Large chestnuts. (See Chestnut.) Marrons glaces, f. Candied, glazed or sugar-dipped chestnuts. Martin-sec. A winter pear. Marzipan. Marchpane. Almond paste. Delicate German dessert dainties made from almond paste. Name is said to be derived from Marci Panis, bread of St. Mark. Mask. To cover or coat any kind of cooked meat with rich gravy or savoury jelly. Masquer, f. To sauce a dish which is ready for serving ; also to mask the inside of a mould with savoury jelly or chaudfroid sauce when required for entrees. Mate, f. A Paraguayan tea, commonly called Mate, the real name being Yerba de Mate ; it consists of the powdered leaves and green shoots of plants ; well known to the native Indians of South America. Matelote, f. A marine dish ; a rich fish stew with wine and herb flavouring. Usually prepared from fresh-water fish— carp, tench, pike, eel, etc. Matzoth. Large unleavened biscuits eaten during the Jewish passover. Mauve, f. Gull. Mauviette. Lark. Mavrodaphne. A Greek liqueur. Mayonnaise, f. A kind of salad of fish or poultry, with a thick cold sauce made of yolks of eggs, oil, and vinegar ; a salad sauce or dressing. The sauce is said to have been invented by the chef to the Due de Richelieu, after the victory of Mahon (Mahonnaise). Mazagran. A French term for a glass of black coffee, sugar, and iced water. Mazarin, f. A small almond cake, named after Cardinal Mazarin, the French statesman.94 Mazarines. Turbans. Forcemeat ornaments of fish, poultry or game. Mead. A fermented liquor composed of honey and water ; a sweet drink. The word “ honeymoon ” is derived from the old English custom of drinking mead as the special beverage for thirty days after the wedding feast. Mecque (Pain de la). French pastry, something like cream puffs. Medlar. A fruit about the size of small apples. It is harsh to the taste, even when ripe. The tree on which the medlar grows is a native of Southern Europe and the temperate climes of Asia. It has long been cultivated in this country. Medaillon, f. Medallion. A name applied to round fillets, meat preparations, etc., in a round form. Melaine, f. Melain. A colouring matter. Melange, f. Mixture. Melange. Mixed. Mele. Mixed. Melettes, f. Sprats. Melisse, f. Balm-mint. Melon. Melon, f. A plant and fruit of the same genus as the cucumber. First imported into England from Jamaica. Melons are very extensively cultivated in Egypt and India, and in all the tropical regions. A greatly esteemed dessert fruit. Melted Butter. Beurre foridu, f. The former name stands also for a plain white sauce, described by the French as the one English sauce. Mendicants, f. Name given to four different kinds of dried dessert fruit : almonds, filberts, figs, and dried Malaga grapes. Menthe, f. Mint. Creme de Menthe. A liqueur. Menu, f. The bill of fare. Literally the word means minute detail of courses. A list of the dishes which are to be served at a meal. Menus were first used in 1541. Pronounce “ menu ” as “ mennoo ” so that the second syllable is sounded as something between “ new ” and “ noo.” Menus Droits. Pig’s ears served as an entree. Menu-Gibier, f., small game, such as partridges, grouse, pheasants, etc. Menu Rot, f. Small roast birds. Meringue. Light pastry, made of white of eggs and sugar, filled with cream or ice.95 Merise, Merisier, f. A wild cherry; wild cherry-tree. The Kirschwasser is made of this fruit. Merlan, f. Whiting. A delicate fish allied to the cod. Merle, f. Blackbird. Merluche, f. Haddock. Merluche Fume. Dried haddock. Merry Thought. A forked bone in the breast of a chicken. Probably a corruption of the word “ marry,” from a custom among young people in olden times, when two persons held one fork of the bone each, and then pulling it in half, supposing that, by some oracular influence, the one obtaining the larger half of the bone would be the first to marry. Merveille, f. Name applied to a kind of small cakes. Mesange moustache. Reed bird. Mess. A dish of food. A number of persons who eat together. Meteil, f. Meslin. A mixture of two-thirds wheat and one-third rye flour. Mets, f. The meal, or dish. “ Mets de farine,” farinaceous ; “ entremets de douceur,” sweet; “ de legumes,” vegetable, etc. Metternich (Prince). An Austrian statesman, after whom several dishes are named. Miche, f. Loaf. Miche de pain, loaf of bread, etc. Mie de pain, f. Soft bread ; crumbs. Middlings. The coarser part of flour. A common kind of flour. Miel, f. Honey. (See Honey.) Miette, f. Crumb. Mignardises, f. Small dainty dishes. Mignonette Pepper. Coarsely-ground white peppercorns. A form of comminuted pepper, which resembles mignonette seed when sifted. Mignonne, f. A kind of peach, and a variety of pear. Name also applied to very small portions of fillets, filet mignon, etc. Mignot, f. A cheese made in Normandy. Mijoter, ,f. To cook slowly ; to simmer gently over a small fire. Milanaise, f. A name given to certain dishes which contain macaroni, cheese, and nearly always tomato. Also the name of small dessert biscuits.96 Lait. f, (See Lait.) Millecantons, f. Name of a small fish of the whitebait kind, found in the Lake of Geneva ; cooked in the same manner as whitebait. In season in July and August. Millefeuille, f. Thousand leaves. Milfoil, a cake made of several layers of puff paste, one on top of the other, interlaid with jam, etc. Millet. A plant and its grain ; indigenous to tropical countries ; there are several varieties, of which India provides the best. The flower is white and is much used for cakes, puddings, etc. Mince-meat. Meat chopped very fine. This name is also given to a mixture consisting of finely-minced suet and raisins, sugar, currants, spices, sometimes cooked meat, and brandy. Used for a favourite kind of pastry known as mince-pies. Mince-pies. Small patties filled with mince-meat. This is a traditional English Christmas pie. Minestra. An Italian vegetable soup with rice and cheese. Minnow. A very small fresh-water fish. Mint. Menthe, f. A small aromatic plant believed to be indigenous to Great Britain, where it has been known since Saxon times. Mint Julep. Name of an American drink. Minute, a la, f. A surname given to dishes which are hurriedly prepared ; or anything cooked in the quickest possible style. Omelets and grills come under this heading. Mirabeau, f. A French revolutionist, son of the Marquis de Mirabeau. A rich sauce, and a few dishes, whose garnish includes anchovies and olives, are named after him. Mirabelles, f. A kind of small yellow plum, very sweet and juicy, used for compotes, fresh or dried. Mirepoix, f. The foundation preparation of vegetables, herbs, and lard, for brown soups and sauces ; also for braised meats, etc. Name derived from the Duke de Mirepoix. Mirlitons, f. A kind of French pastry. Tartlets with a basis of puff-paste and filled with a custard mixture. Miroton, f. Thin slices of meat, the size of a five-shilling-piece, braised, stewed, and dished up in a circular form. Mirtilles, f. Blueberries Mitonner, f. To steep and allow to boil during a certain time.97 G Moelle de Boeuf, f. Beef marrow. The fatty substance in the hollow part of bones. Moka. Name of the most valued kind of coffee—creme de moka. Mollet-ette. Soft. As des ceufs mollets, lightly-boiled eggs. Mont d’Or, f. Name of an excellent Swiss white wine ; also a French cheese. Mont-frigoul (Semoule Italienne), the name of a French soup. Montglas, f. A French writer of note, after whom several dishes are named. Montmorency. A bitter cherry. Montpelier, f. Savoury herb butter. A French city renowned for its many culinary specialities. Morel. Morille, f. A fungi found in woods and orchards. It is said to possess great stimulating properties ; used as garniture for fricassees, and for soups and sauces. Morillon, f. A black grape ; also name of a blue-winged duck. Mortadelle, f. A kind of sausage largely manufactured in Bologna (Italy). Mortifie, f. Term applied to meat well hung. Morue, f. Salt cod. Moscovien-ne. Moscovite. Moscow style. Mote or Moti. Name of an Indian fish curry,. Moufle de Bceuf. Ox cheek. Mouille bouche, f. Bergamot pear. Mouiller, f. To add broth, water, or any other suitable juice, during the cooking of meats. Mouillette, f. Toast dipped in liquid. Moule, f. Mussel. Mould. Mousse, f. A light ice-cream. Among the definitions given for the word are : mossy, froth, and foam. Mousse frappee is a dish prepared with whipped cream and flavouring, frozen without working. Hot puddings are also prepared as mousses ; also applied to other dishes made of the souffle type. Mousse—frothy. Mousseline Sauce. A froth-like sauce, usually made of hollandaise (fish stock, butter, egg-yolks, etc.) and whipped cream. Other mousseline sauces are made with tomato or spinach flavouring.Mousseron. A kind of white mushroom, principally used for ragouts. Moutarde, f. Mustard, the seeds of a plant, Sinapisnigre {black) and Sinapis alba {white or yellow). A pungent ground seed, chiefly used as a relish or condiment. English mustard was first manufactured at Durham in 1729. The recipe was kept a secret for many years. Some traditions assert that a lady named Clements, of Durham, first introduced mustard as a condiment in 1720. Mouton, f. Mutton. Sheep. Muffins. A light, spongy cake baked on an iron plate over the fire. Generally toasted and eaten at tea, but in the market-places of many northern towns they are sold slit in halves, with slices of ham inserted, thus forming a very substantial sandwich. Mulberries. The fruit of a tree bearing the same name. They are preserved, and also made into wine. The leaves of the mulberry are the principal food of the silkworm, and for this purpose the tree is largely cultivated in warm climates. Mullet. Rouget, f. A fish. There are two varieties, red and grey, but the first-named is more highly esteemed. The striped red mullet was much esteemed by the ancients, especially the Romans. Mull (to), practically means to heat and spice, particularly wine, sherry or claret, etc., etc. Mulligatawny. An Indian curry soup ; a paste made of curry ; derives its name from two words : Tamil and Molegoo, pepper and tunnee. Derived from an East Indian word meaning pepper-water. Mumbled Hare. Minced cooked hare’s meat, flavoured, spiced, and acidulated, put into a stewpan with beaten eggs and butter, and cooked to consistency by constant stirring. Mure, f. Mulberry. Black and white fruit of a delicate flavour, used for making jellies, syrups, and vinegar. Mure de Ronce, f. Mure Sauvage—blackberry. Muscade (Noix de), f. Nutmeg. Muscadell. Musk pear. Muscat, f. Muscadine, e. A white grape (muscadine grape). Muscovado. Name given to unrefined sugar. 9399 Mushroom. Champignon, f. There are twenty-nine varieties of the edible mushroom, and one of the most beautiful of the British varieties is the red-fleshed mushroom, generally abundant in all woody places, and known by its brown top, white gills, and perfect ring encircling the bulbous stem. The most popular species is the meadow mushroom. In England mushrooms are used principally as a flavouring for made dishes, but in Russia, Poland, and some parts of Germany, they are used more extensively as an article of food. The toadstools, the poisonous varieties, are usually distinguished by their foetid odour. Mussels. Moules, f. A variety of shell-fish. They inhabit two black shells, and should be boiled in them as soon as possible after being caught. When deprived of their beard, as it is called, they may be fried, scalloped or stewed, and eaten without injurious effects unless the mussels have fed on sewage or other contaminating matter. They are very common on all the English coasts, and are especially plentiful at the mouth of the Mersey. Mustard. Moutarde, f. (See Moutarde.) Myrtille. Bilberry. A fruit used for compotes, syrups, and sweet sauces. N Napolitain (a la), f. Naples or Neapolitan style. Often applied to various dishes, notably a 'tri-coloured ice made in brick form. Nappe, f. Table-cloth. Nappe, f. To lightly cover, mask, or coat anything with sauce or jelly; to dip, as in fondants, etc. Nasturtium. Indian cress. A native plant of Peru, lately acclimatised in Great Britain, the seeds of which have a pungent taste, not unlike capers. The leaves and flowers of this plant have valuable dietic properties, and make a pleasant addition to salads. Naturel (au), f. Uncooked, or boiled in water. Plain, simple ; plainly and quickly prepared.100 Navarin, f. A stew of mutton or lamb. A kind of haricot mutton. The name is of ancient origin, being mentioned in one of the plays of Sodelle in the early part of the 17th century. Turnips form the principal garniture of a navarin. Navet, f. Turnip, e. A bulbous root used for soups, as a vegetable, and for flavouring. Navette. Wild turnip. Neat’s Foot. The foot of a calf or ox. Neat's Tongue. The tongue of a calf or ox. Nectarine, f. Nectarine peach. A variety of peach, but, unlike the peach, it has a smooth skin. Nefles, f. Medlars. Small, pear-shaped, delicately-flavoured fruit. Negus. Name of a hot drink composed of port wine, sugar, nutmeg, and lemon-juice ; so called after Colonel Negus (in the reign of Queen Anne). Neige, f. Snow. Whites of egg beaten to snow or a froth. Nepaul Pepper. A red pepper of the same character as cayenne and Guinee pepper, being a species of capsicum of a sweet, pungent flavour. It is largely grown in Hindostan. Neroli. Orange essence. Nesselrode. Name of a pudding, iced, flavoured with chestnuts, invented by Mony, chef to the famous Count Nesselrode. The name “ Nesselrode ” usually indicates the presence of chestnuts. Neufchatel. A soft cream-like kind of Swiss cheese. Newtown Pippins. A variety of apples of excellent flavour, originally from Devonshire, and taken across the Atlantic two centuries ago. In the interval attempts have been made to cultivate the Newtown here for market purposes, but the fruit then loses its rich, aromatic flavour. It is named after Newtown, on Long Island, U.S.A. Nids. Nests. Nids de hirondelles de Chine. Chinese birds’ nests ; edible birds' nests, used for a noted Chinese soup. (See Edible Birds’ Nests.) Niokes, or Niokies. A farinaceous dish, prepared with semolina or Indian maize, flavoured with grated cheese, cream, etc. Of Russian invention. Niverolle, f. Snowbird.Nivette, f. A kind of peach. Noce, f. Wedding. Diner de Noce. Wedding feast. Dejeuner deNoce. Wedding breakfast. Getien de Noce. Wedding-cake. Noisette, f. Hazel-nut. Also name of small round pieces of lean meat, such as lamb or mutton cutlets with bone and fat removed. Noix, f. Walnut. Noix de Bvisit.\ Brazil nuts. Noix de cocoi Cocoanut. Noix de Muscat, f. Nutmeg. The fruit of the nutmeg-tree ; an aromatic spice. Noix de Veau, f. Cushion of veal or kernel of veal. Nonettes, f. Small anis-flavoured cakes. Nonnat, f. A small fish, similar to whitebait. Nonpareilles, f. A French candy. Noques, f. Small dumplings made from flour, milk, or cream, boiled in soup or salt water, and served as garnish. Norfolk Dumplings. Often called drop dumplings or spoon dumplings, because the batter of milk, flour, eggs, etc., is dropped into boiling water from a spoon. Normande (a la), f. Normandy style, with the exception of a dish known as filets de soles a la Normande, and other fish entrees. The application of this name implies that the flavour of apple has in some form or other been introduced into the composition of the dish. Nougat, f. Almond rock candy. A sweetmeat made with sugar, honey, almonds, pistachios, and other nuts. Nouilles, f. Nudeln, g. Noodles. A German paste preparation. It consists Of a stiff dough made with flour and eggs, rolled out very thinly, cut up in thin strips and boiled, and served as garnish ; or fried and served as sweet. Nourrir, f. Culinary meaning, to enrich by adding button cream, oil, etc., to other ingredients. Noyau, f. The stone of a fruit; a liqueur flavoured with peach or nectarine kernels. Nutmeg. Noix de Muscat, f. The nutmeg known in commerce is the seed of the Myristica Moschata, a native of the Molucca Islands, but cultivated in Java, Sumatra, Cayenne, and some of the West Indian Islands. The fruit, when separated, ex- poses the kernel (the nutmeg) enveloped by a network of mace. IOI102 o. Oatmeal. Avoine, f. The grain of the oat dried in a kiln and ground. There are three kinds—coarse, medium, and fine. Oatmeal when cooked is considered the good example of a complete food. Generally eaten in the form of porridge or gruel. CEuf, f. Egg. Blanc d’ceuf. White of egg. Jaune d’ceuf. Yolk of egg. CEufs durs. Hard-boiled eggs. CEufs mollets. Soft-boiled eggs. CEufs brouilles. Scrambled eggs. CEufs frits. Fried eggs. Oie, f. Goose. An aquatic domestic bird ; a favourite dish in the autumn and winter. Oignon, f. Onion. A vegetable plant of the allium family ; a valuable culinary adjunct for flavouring and garnishing purposes. Onion soup (soupe a l’oignon, f.), or onion porridge, is regarded as an excellent restorative in debility of the digestive organs. Oiseau, f. Bird. Oison, f. Gosling ; young goose. Okra. Name of a vegetable extensively used in South America. Okroschka. A Russian national soup. Olive, f. Olive. Fruit of the olive-tree, used as hors d’oeuvres, and as garnish for sauces, stews, salads, etc. The taste for these olives is an acquired one. There are three varieties : Italian, French, and Spanish. Those imported from Spain are the largest and most esteemed. Olive Oil. Huile d’Olive, f. Made from ripe olives, which are dark purple in colour, like a Damson plum. The finest quality of this comes from the fruit that has just begun to ripen, but this does not yield nearly so much oil. The pulp of the fully ripe fruit gives 70 per cent. oil. The finest quality has a pale greenish tint, a pleasant smell, and a faintly pungent taste. It is chiefly exported from Italy and the south of France. Olives (meat). Small rolls of meat enclosing forcemeat, usually braised. 011a Podrida. Spanish national dish, prepared with different sorts of meat, sausages, and vegetables. Oloroso. Term applied to sherry from its 14th to 20th year.103 Omble. Name of an excellent sweet-water fish, from the Lake of Geneva, weighing up to 15 lbs. apiece; in season during the months of January and February. Ombre Chevalier, f. Grayling. A sweet-water fish, similar to the trout. Omelette, f. Omelet. A pancake or fritter of eggs, etc. Its name is supposed to be derived from the word “ ovum,” an egg, meaning “ ceufs meles.” A mixture of eggs. Onion. Oignon, f. A plant of the onion tribe, the leek; shallot, and garlic being of the same species. After salt, the onion is the most valuable seasoning in cookery; it possesses stimulating and digestive properties. Orange. This well-known fruit is principally imported from Sicily, Spain, Portugal, and Malta. The Seville orange is used for making marmalade. So far as history authenti- cally knows the orange originated in India and China, and was carried by the Arabs to Syria, Africa, and Spain. In Sanscrit it has been called “ nagrungo,” in Arabic “ narang,” in Spanish “ naranja,” and in Italian “ arancia.” Our “ orange ” comes from the Proven5al. From Spain the orange came to America, and it was first found in Mexico. In California it was introduced by the Spanish padros, who planted trees near the missions of Southern California. These form the basis of the great Californian orchards of to-day. Orangeade. A drink made of orange-juice. Orangeat, f. Candied orange-peel. Oreille, f. Ear. Oreille de pore, f. Pig’s ear, etc. Orge, f. Barley. Orgeate, Barley water or almond milk ; a favourite summer drink. Orgeat. Originally barley water, but now almond milk or syrup. Origan, f. Wild marjoram. Orloff. The name of a Russian family of high standing. Also the name of a magnificent diamond, owned by the Count Alexis Orloff. A number of dishes and garnitures are styled a 1’Orloff. Orly (a la), f. Also “ Horly.” Name given to dishes prepared in a certain style. Usually slices of fish or meat coated with rich batter, and fried in deep fat.104 Ortolan. A small bird, about the size of a lark, a native of the south of Europe. In Italy and the south of France they are fed on millet seed and other grains. Os a Moelle, f. Marrow-bone. Oseille, f. Sorrel. A sour plant of green colour, used for soups or as a vegetable. Oseymel. Sour honey. Honey and vinegar. Oublie, f. A thin pastry ; a dessert biscuit. Ours, f. Bear. Outarde, f. Bustard. Ovale, f. Oval; egg-shaped. Oxo. A flavoured fluid beef juice combining beef extractives and beef fibrine. Handy for making bouillon, etc. Ox-tail. Queue de bceuf, f. Used for soup, or as entree. Ox-tail Soup. Potage au queue de bceuf. Ox-tail soup is said to have been discovered as follows: During the Reign of Terror in Paris, in 1793, many of the nobility were reduced to starvation and beggary. The abbatoirs sent their hides fresh to the tanneries without removing the tails, and in cleaning them the tails were thrown away. One of these noble beggars asked for a tail, which was willingly given him; he took it to his lodgings and made—what is now famous—the first dish of ox-tail soup. He told others of his good luck, and they annoyed the tanners so much that a price was put on ox-tails. Oyster. Huitre, f. A bivalvular testaceous shellfish, highly esteemed on account of its delicious flavour and nutritive qualities. In season from September to April. Oyster Plant. Salsify (Salsifits), a well-known vegetable plant belonging to the same class as the chicory ; the flavour of the root is said to resemble that of asparagus. P. Pabrica. Pimiento, The fleshy fruit of the green and red mild capsicum grown in the south of Europe, and used as spice for ragouts or salads. Paillasse, f. A grill effected over hot cinders.105 Paille, f* Straw-coloured. Paillettes—Straws (the word Pailles is more commonly used). Pailles, f. Straws. As Pailles au parmesan, cheese straws. Pommes de terre en pailles—straw potatoes. Pain, f. Bread. Also applied to small shapes of forcemeat ; also fruit or cream puree. Pain bis—brown bread. Pain fourre—small stuffing rolls filled as sandwiches. Pain mollet —light bread. Pain de menage—home-made bread. Pain vote—toast. Pain rassis—stale bread. Pain d'epice—a hind of gingerbread which has been in use ever since the 14th century. It was then made and sold only in Paris, according to Monteil (“ Histoire des Frang:ais ”). Gingerbread was introduced into England by the Court of Henry IV. Pain de Volaille, f. Small moulds of finely-pounded chicken, etc. Paisley Flour. A superior raising powder, to be used one part with about eight parts of ordinary flour. Palais de Bceuf, f. Ox-palate. Palma. Term applied to sherry, meaning “ fine and dry.” Palo met. A species of mushroom. Pamplemousse. Grape fruit. Shaddock. Panache, f. Mixed with two or more kinds of vegetables, fruits, etc. ; also creams. Panada. Panade, f. A culinary paste of flour and water or soaked bread, used in the preparation of forcemeat quenelles, and for stuffing. Panais, f. Parsnip. A plant of the carrot family, said to be of English origin. Pancake. Panequets or crepes, f. Thin flat cakes, made of batter and fried in a pan. Pancalier, f. A kind of spring cabbage ; its name is derived from the town of Pancagliere in Italy, from whence it was brought to the royal gardens at Versailles by La Quin tine, first gardener to Louis XIV. Pane, f. Breaded, crumbed, dipped or rolled in breadcrumbs. Panure, f. Breadcrumbs, grated crumbs, or bread raspings. Panurette. A preparation of grated rusks, used for crumbing, for coating the inside of moulds, and for decoration in place of lobster coral.106 Paon, F. Peacock. A fowl of the pheasant kind. In olden times this bird formed a dish of equal importance as the boar’s head in English Christmas fare. Papaw. A South American fruit, green in colour, and very similar to a small melon in appearance and flavour. It is eaten either raw or cooked. The sap of the tree and the juice of the fruit both'possess the unique property of speedily rendering the toughest meat tender, and for this purpose meat and fowls are often hung among the branches of the tree to imbibe its exhalations. Papaye, f. Papay. A South American fruit. Papier dentile, f. Lace paper. Papillotes (en). Paper capsules, cases or envelopes, greased, and fastened round cutlets, etc. Buttered paper answers the same purpose when twisted along the edges. Paprika. Hungarian red pepper. A kind of sweet capsicum of a brilliant scarlet colour ; it is less pungent than the Spanish pepper. Parfait, f. Perfect. A kind of light, rich ice-cream. A mixture of the souffle type of fish, fowl or game, enriched with the essence of its chief ingredient. Parfait-amour. A French liqueur from grated cedrat skins. Parisienne (a la). Parisian style. A surname applied to various kinds of dishes, principally meat dishes, which are dressed in a more or less elaborate style. No particular specification as to garnish or mode of cooking can be given, as these vary in almost every dish thus styled. Parkin. A variety of gingerbread made of oatmeal. Parmentier (Antoine Augustin). Born 1737, died 1813; intro- ducer of the potato into France, in 1786, during the reign of Louis XVI. He also invented twenty different ways of cooking potatoes. Sir W. Raleigh brought the potato from America to England in 1586. Parmesan. Name of an Italian cheese, largely used for culinary purposes. Parsley. Persil, f. A plant used for flavouring and garnishing. Parsnip. Panais, f. The parsnip is a very fattening vegetable. In times of scarcity, when wheat was dear and not easily procured, a very good bread was made from the roots of parsnips ground to powder.107 Parson’s Nose. This name is given to the extreme end portion of the tail of a fowl. This, and the oyster of a fowl, constitute the French sot-l'y-laisse. Partridge. Perdreau, or Perdrix, f. Some variety of this bird is found nearly all over the world. The English bird has a finer flavour than the French partridge, the latter being known by the redness of its legs. Passer. A word much used in cookery. To pass a sauce, soup, vegetable or meat, means to run it through a tammy cloth, sieve, or strainer. In the culinary language, the word “passer” has also the same meaning as “ faire revenir,” i.e., to slightly fry in butter over a quick fire so as to form a crusty surface on meats or vegetables which are intended to be finished by some other process of cooking (usually stewing or braising). Passoire. Colander; strainer. Pasteque. A water-melon. Pastillage, f. Gum paste, for ornamental confectionery, etc. Pate, f. Paste. Pate a foire. Frying batter Pate d’Amande. Almond paste. Pate de Anchois, Anchovy paste, etc. Pate, f. A pie ; pasty; a savoury meat pasty, or a raised pie. Pate, f. Paste; dough. Pate croquante, f. Crisp almond and sugar paste. Pate feuilletee, f. Puff paste. Pate frisee, f. Short paste. Pate pastillage. Gum paste. Pate de Foie Gras, f. A well-known delicacy prepared from the livers of fat geese. Alsace is the most celebrated country where the so-called pates and terrines de foie gras are made. This delicacy was first introduced by a cook named Close. Pate de Perigord. Name of a French pie, which derives its name from Perigueux, a place celebrated for its truffles. Patience. A vegetable similar to spinach. It has a specially mild flavour, with a slight acidity like sorrel leaves. Patisser, f. To make pastry. Patisserie. Pastry; a pastry- cook's business. The word is also applied to a paste made of flour, salt, fat, and water, used to cover pies, etc. Also means all kinds of fancy tartlets. Patissier. Pastrycook. Patisson, f. A kind of squash. Pattes d’Ours, f. Bear’s paws. Paupiettes, f. Slices of meat rolled with forcemeat.108 Pavot, F. Poppy. The seeds of this plant are used in stuffing mixtures and cakes. Paysanne (a la), f. Peasant’s fashion. Prepared in a homely way. Pea. Pois, f. The pea is, perhaps, the oldest known vegetable. It existed in pre-historic times, peas having been found in the Swiss lake dwellings of the Bronze period. The three principal kinds of pea are the common field pea, the garden pea, and the sugar pea (see Sugar Pea). There is a Russian variety, which is sent dried into this country. Peach. Peches, f. There are two kinds of peaches, the cling- stone (or firm-fleshed) peaches, and the melters, which are as soft and juicy as the mellowest apricot. Peaches grow in great abundance in the Channel Islands. The best in the English markets are those “ forced ” by Kentish nursery- men. The peach-tree was originally introduced by the Romans into Italy, from Persia, hence its name “ Persica,” which was ultimately corrupted to Peche. Peacock. Paon, f. The peacock is a fowl of the pheasant kind. The latest instance of peacock eating on record was at a dinner given by the Governor of Grenada to the Duke of Clarence, afterwards King William IV. Pear. Poire, f. This fruit is divided into three classes, namely, dessert pears, pears for making perry, stewing pears. The pear-tree was cultivated by the early Greeks and Romans. Peche, f. Peach. A delicious juicy fruit. (See Peach.) Pemmican. Thoroughly-dried lean meat, powdered and mixed with melted fat or suet ; currants and sugar are sometimes added. An article of food largely employed by all hunting animals for their skins in North America. Penguin. A genus of sea-fowls of Arctic regions. Penguin eggs. Very large eggs imported from the western coast of the Cape Colony. These eggs are somewhat similar in texture and flavour to plovers’ eggs. Pepper. Poivre, f. Both white and black pepper are procured from the seed of a small shrub which grows in various parts of India. The sole difference between the two is that in white pepper the outer husk of the seed is removed. As that can only be done with the best kinds, it forms an additional security that the pepper is good. Pepper was known to109 the ancient Greeks. Sauce Poivrade. Pepper sauce. Poivrc. Peppered. (See also Poivre.) Pepper Pot. A West Indian dish, consisting of stewed aromatic pork or bacon, shellfish, rice, vegetables, and pickled herbs, highly seasoned with cayenne and other peppers. Perch. An excellent fresh-water fish. The flesh of this fish is as firm as that of the sole though not quite so rich. It is found in nearly all the British rivers and lakes. Perdreau, f. Young partridge. Perdrix. Full-grown par- tridge. Perigord or Perigueux (a la), f. Perigord style. This name is applied to dishes wherein a truffle sauce or a garniture consisting of truffles has been used. Perles de Nizam and Perles du Japon. A special kind of large pearl barley. Perry. Name of a beverage made of pears, corresponding to the cider made of apples. It contains but little alcohol, and when preserved in casks or bottles it keeps good for some years. Persil, f. Parsley. Is a native plant of Sardinia, and was first introduced into England in 1548. Parsley is used for sauces, salads, and as a pot-herb, and makes the prettiest garnish for dishes. Persille. Sprinkled with parsley. Persillade, f. A thick white sauce, in which a large quantity of parsley is used. Pet-de-nonne, f. Ancient name for queen fritters. Petit Lait, f. Whey. Petit Pain, f. Bread-roll. Petits pains fourve, f. Very small rolls scooped out and stuffed with various kinds of savoury purees; served as savoury or side dishes. Petit Sale, f. Bacon. Lean salt pork. Petite Marmite, f. A French soup. Petits Fours, f. Is but the generic name for all kinds of very small fancy cakes usually highly decorated with fancy icing, crystallised fruits, and bon-bons. Petits Pois Verts, f. Small green peas. Petoncles, f. Scallops.Pheasant. Faisan, f. The monarch of our game birds. That is, at least, the generally-accepted opinion ; individual taste may urge the claims of other birds. The grouse appeals more forcibly to many, and few men are not more susceptible to the charms of the woodcock. So discriminating a judge of good things as King Edward always, it is said, stipulates for woodcock on the menu while it is in season. The bird derives its name from the river Phasis, in Asia Minor, whence it was introduced into Europe. Philernum. Name of a West Indian liqueur, suitable for cups, punch, and flavouring, or as a liqueur. Picalilli. Mixed pickles, preserved in acidulated mustard sauce. Pichaithly Bannock. Name of a kind of Scotch short-bread, consisting of flat round cakes, the paste being made up with flour, butter, sugar, almonds, peel, and caraway seed. Picholine, f A small olive. Pickle (to). To preserve fruit, vegetables, fish, or meat, in vinegar, brine, or in dissolved salt. Picnic. An outing into the country, or a party outdoors to which each member contributes some article of diet. An al fresco meal. Pie. Pate, f. A quantity of meat or fruit baked in a dish covered with pastry. The most ancient form of pie is the pasty, which is made without a dish. Piece de Resistance, f. The principal joint or other important dish of a dinner. Pieces montees. Centre-pieces ; set pieces ; mounted pieces. Pied, f. Foot. Pied de mouton. Sheep’s feet, or sheep’s trotters. Pieds d’Agneau. Lamb’s feet or lamb’s trotters. Pigeon. The many varieties of this bird are highly esteemed as an article of food. Biset, massart. Wood-pigeon. Pigeon de Bordeaux. Bordeaux pigeon. Pigeonneau. Squab. Pignolis. Small nut kernels frequently usedjn^place of almonds and pistachios. Pig’s Fry. The heart, liver, lights, and other interior parts of a pig. Pig’s pettitoes. The feet of a pig. Pike. Brocket, f. A fish known for its voracity, found in all the European lakes and rivers. Seasonable October to January. i ioPilau (Pilaffe). Turkish national dish, made of rice and onions, etc. Also an Indian dish of meat and rice. Pilaw. A dish common in Egypt and Turkey, made of fish or poultry and rice. Pilchard. A fish which resembles the herring, but is much smaller. Pilet, f. Pintail duck. A common migratory bird found in the north of England, Germany, and Holland. Pimento. Allspice. A condiment possessing the combined flavours of cinnamon, nutmeg, and cloves. Pimiento. Red Spanish pepper-pod of sweet and pungent flavour. Pimprinnelle, f. Salad-Burnet. A herbeous plant. Pincer, f. To pinch. To ornament or decorate pastry. Pineapple. Ananas, f. A much esteemed dessert fruit, native of South America, from whence it was first imported to Europe about the middle of the 17th century. Pineapples are now largely cultivated in England. Pinole. A kind of wheat-corn roasted. Used as a substitute for coffee in the East. Pinson de neige, f. Snow bird. Pintade, f. Guinea-fowl. A bird of the turkey species of bluish-grey plumage, sprinkled with round white spots. Pintadeau. Guinea chick. Pintail. A kind of wild duck. Piping. To decorate or ornament with royal icing, creamed butter, etc., cakes, pastry, hams, galantines, etc. Pippin. A kind of apple. The “ Golden pippin,” “ New- town pippin,” and “ Ribstone pippin ” are all noted varieties. Piquante, f. Sharp of flavour, stimulating, pungent or sour. Piquer (Piquee), f. Larded. To insert narrow strips of fat bacon, truffles, tongue, etc., into lean meat, poultry, game or fish. Pissenlit, f. Dandelion. Pistache, f. Pistachio nut, the kernels of the nut of the tur- pentine-tree, used for flavouring and garnishing galantines, sweets, etc.112 Pithiviers. A city of France, famous for its pastry, especially lark pies and almond tarts. Plaice. Plie, f. A flat sea-fish, seasonable May to November, belonging to the same order as the sole, flounder, and turbot. They are found in abundance on all the English coasts, but the best brought into our market are the Downs or Dover plaice, which are caught on the downs, or flats, between Hastings and Dover. Plantain. The plantain closely resembles the banana in appear- ance and use. In some tropical countries they are baked in their skins, or sliced and fried in butter. Plover. Pluvier, f. A bird whose eggs are esteemed a great delicacy. In season October to February. This bird is supposed to have derived its name from the Latin word pluvia, meaning “ rain,” in consequence of its fondness for being on the wing in rainy weather. Plovers’ eggs are usually served as hors d’oeuvres. Pluvier doree. Golden plover. Pluche, f. A garniture for soups. The leaves of parsley, chervil, tarragon, lettuce, sorrel, cut into fine shreds. The name of a celebrated French writer of the 17th century. Poche, f. Poached. Pocher, f. To poach. To parboil or to boil slightly. Mode of cooking usually applied to eggs and quenelles of fish, meat or game. Poele, f. A cooking pot or pan. Poeler, f. A mode of braising meat, etc., in a fireproof earthenware pan. Poelon. Small skillet. Point (a), f. Cooked to a turn. Points d’asperges, f. Tips or points of small green asparagus. Poire, f. Pear. Poireau, f. Leek. This vegetable is said to be a native of Switzerland. The leek was, and still is, the favourite ingredient for stocks, and especially in the soup known as “ cock-a-leekie,” of which King James I. was so fond that he retained his preference for it, notwithstanding all the dainties of French cookery. Leeks are now served as a vegetable course. National emblem of Wales. Pois, f. Peas. Pois. (See Dried Peas.) Pois casses, split L peas.fi 113 Poisson, f. Fish. The fish course of a dinner. Poissoniere, f. Fish-kettle ; fish pan. Poitrine, f. Breast. Poivre. Pepper, the berry of an Oriental shrub. A pungent aromatic condiment consumed with all kinds of meat and vegetables. Mignonette pepper is obtained from the seeds within the berries; it is not nearly so pungent as the black pepper. The difference between the black and white pepper is that in the latter the outer husk of the seed is removed, whilst the former is ground whole. Poivre de Guinee, f. A kind of cayenne, prepared from the seeds of the ripe chili or capsicum annuum. It is also called “ chili pepper.” Large quantities of this aromatic plant are grown in Cayenne, in South America. The name of Guinee pepper is also given to the ground seeds of dried fruit of certain plants of the same kind as capsicums, all of which have a pungent character and are the products of Western Africa. Poivre de Cayenne, Poivre rouge. Cayenne pepper, red pepper. Polenta. A standard Italian dish made of Indian corn flour ; in appearance and taste it is not unlike semolina. Polio con Arroz. A Spanish dish of chicken and rice. Pollock. Morue, f. A sea-fish of the cod family. Polonaise (a la), f. Polish style. Various dishes are known under this name. Borsch a la Polonaise and ragouts a la Polonaise are types of~dishes to which the peculiar flavour of cream, beetroot, and red cabbage is introduced. Polony. A dry sausage made of meat partly cooked. Polpetti. {See Poulpeton.) Pomegranate. This fruit possesses great thirst-quenching properties in an exceedingly pleasant form. The fruit, when freshly gathered, is much larger than an orange. In its imported condition the pulp has diminished in quantity and deteriorated in quality, by the shrinking of the outer rind. Pomme, f. Apple. Beignets de pomme. Apple fritters. Tarte aux pomme. Apple tart. {See Apple.) Pommes d’Api. Small rosy apples named after the Roman Appius. Pommes nouvelles. New potatoes. Pommes sauvage. Crab-apples.114 Pomme de terre, f. Potato. (See Potato.) Pompadour (Jeanne Antoinette, Marquise de). Born 1721, died 1764. Well known for her extravagance and indulgence in the luxury of pleasure and eating. Pompelmoush. A delicious East Indian fruit; it is fleshy and highly flavoured. Not often seen in this country, although Dutch sailors returning from the East Indies take home large numbers of them. Pont l’eveque. A French cheese of delicate flavour. Pope or Ruffle. A fish which very much resembles the perch in size, appearance, and flavour. Pope’s Eye. The name given to a small circle of fat found in the centre of a leg of mutton or pork. Poppy Seed. The capsule containing poppy is the source whence opium is derived. It is said that there is only a small quantity of opium in the seeds themselves. Pork. Pore, f. Pore frais. Fresh pork. Pore sale. Salted pork. Peau de pore. Crackling. Porridge. A Scotch dish. Oatmeal porridge is an everyday article of diet of the Scottish peasantry. It is both an agreeable as well as a nutritious article of food ; served with milk, butter, salt, and cream ; also with sugar or treacle. Porringer. Name of a small dish used for cooking porridge. Port de Salut. A fine French cheese, of round flat shape. Porterhouse Steak. A thick steak cut from the middle of the ribs of beef. Portugaise, f. Portuguese style, usually some dish of which tomato forms a part. Posset. Hot milk curdled with wine or acid ; from the Welsh Posel, curdled milk. Potage, f. Soup. Potage Parmentier. Potato cream soup, so called because Parmentier introduced potatoes into France. Potager. Soup-pot; cooking-stove ; kitchen garden. Potato. Potatoes were first introduced into Europe in 1584 by Thomas Heriot, and were for a long time after considered a great delicacy, and could only be procured in small quantities at the price of 2s. per pound. *After the middle of the 17th century they became gradually known and more extensively cultivated. As diet it closely resembles rice.Pot-au-feu, f. Is an economical and wholesome beef broth. It is the standard dish of all classes in France, and the origin of beef stock. The pot-au-feu no doubt originated in Spain, where it became the fashion to cook beef with vegetables; and from thence it was brought by Asmad, the chef of King Philip V., to France in 1715. Potiron, f. Pumpkin or pompion. The fruit of an annual plant belonging to the gourd family. It grows in various shapes, the so-called pear-shaped species being most similar to the delicious marrow on English markets. It is used for the preparation of potages, such as a la puree de citrouille. It is also made in the form of a choucroiite, or sauerkraut, au Potiron, for winter use. Potpourri, f. A stew of various kinds of meats and spices ; a favourite dish in Spain. Potrock. Name of a Russian thick soup. Potted. Fish or meat puree preserved in a pot. Pottinger. Ancient popular name of apothecary or spice merchant. Ponding, f. Pudding. Pouding au pain. Bread pudding. Pouding au pain bis. Brown-bread pudding. Pouding de Noel. Christmas pudding, plum pudding. Pougues. A saline mineral water, the spring of which lies in Pougues, in the department of Nievre. Poularde, f. Fat pullet ; a chicken about 7 or 8 months old that has not started to lay eggs. The poularde du Mans is generally preferred for roasting purposes ; for entrees and made dishes the Normandy capon enjoys higher favour. Poule, f. The common hen. The expression is accepted as a culinary term, to imply a bird past the period at which it is tender enough to be roasted. It serves, however, well for invalid broth and for boiling under the name of poule au riz. Poule au pot. Fowl boiled in the stock pot. Poule d'eau. Water-hen, moor-hen. Poule de neige. White grouse. Pouleinte. A kind of meal, the polenta of the Italians and Spanish folk. It is a useful and a nourishing substance. Timbale de pouleinte a la Piedmontaise, Pouleinte a la milanaise, and au poisson, are among the most popular recipes.116 Poulet, f. Young cock chicken. Poulet Dinde, f. Young turkey. Poulet de Grain. Spring chicken. Poulet a la Peine, name given to fine specimens of young chickens. Poulette. A young hen. Poulet en casserole. Chicken fried and basted with butter in an earthenware stewpan. When the chicken is browned in the butter the lid is put on the stewpan and it is allowed to cook slowly until done, being basted occasionally. Poulette (a la), f. A sauce made of stock, butter, flour, egg- yolks, and chopped herbs. Poulpeton. Slices of veal with minced meat. Poupart, f. A kind of crab. Poupelin, f. A cheese cake. Pourpier. (See Purslane.) Poussin, f. A baby chicken. Poutarge, Poutargue, f. Botargo. A kind of dry caviare, pressed and prepared with the roe of haddock and mullet. This somewhat strange dish, looking like a flat cake, is served in thin slices with oil and vinegar or lemon, and provides a useful hors d’ceuvre. Pouter, f. A large-breasted pigeon^ Praline, f. Flavoured with burnt almonds. Pralines. A favourite sweet, made with sweet almonds, which, after removing the skin, are dipped in a preparation of delicately-flavoured syrup, which in the particular manipulation employed forms a rugged and delicious covering. Prawn. The common prawn is only a little larger than the shrimp, being from three to four inches in length, but prawns sent from Ireland are much larger. The best of them are known as Dublin prawns. Pre-sale. Mutton raised on the salt marshes of France. The word means “salt field,” and the sheep to which it applies are mostly bred in the Ardennes and in the Brittany district called Dol. The flesh is darker than that of the ordinary animal, and moderately fat. The name is also applied to prime Southdown mutton. Pressoir, f. An appliance for pressing.Prickly Pear. Also called Indian fig. It is a pleasant, whole- some, juicy fruit, imparting a peculiar cool sensation to the palate, and it is highly esteemed in the tropical countries where it grows. Primeur, f. This always implies edibles forced in order to be enjoyed out of their otherwise usual season. Strawberries, young carrots, onions, parsnips, and other vegetables obtained by hastening their growth, under glass or by any other means, are generally classed under that name. Printemps, f. Spring. Printanier{ere). Wherever this name is applied it always implies that a collection of early spring vegetables, left whole or cut small, is given, either as a garnish or in the form of macedoine. It is mostly used in connection with clear soups, removes, and some ragouts. Profiteroles. A kind of light cake, baked in hot ashes, filled with cream. Provencale (a la), f. A surname given to certain French dishes, which generally implies that garlic or onion and olive oil have been used in its preparation. Prune, f. Plum. Name given to fresh and preserved fruit of the plum-tree. Prunes. This name, derived from the French, is given to preserved plums. Prunes de reine claude. Greengage plum. Pruneau. Dried plum. Prunelle. Sloe ; wild plum. Ptarmigan. White grouse, or ptarmigan, are fond of high places, and are found even as far north as Greenland. Those seen in our markets come mostly from Norwray and Scotland. They feed on the wild herbage of the hills, and this in a measure accounts for the slightly bitter, though not un- pleasant, taste of the flesh. Ptomaines. Name applied to certain poisonous principles found in decayed or tainted food which cause food-poisoning. Scientific authorities inform us the danger consists in the shape of germs, which have attacked or are bred in the food. Puits d’Amour, f. French pastry made of puff paste. Pulled Bread. Term applied to small pieces of bread; the crumb part of a loaf is pulled into pieces while hot, and baked in a moderate oven until they become crisp. Pullet. Poulet, f. A young hen or female fowl. n 7118 Pulque. National beverage of Mexico, made from the juice of the maquez (plant) by means of fermentation, resembling butter-milk ; not nice after 48 hours. Pumpernickel. Westphalian brown bread. Pumpkin. This fruit is largely consumed by the Italian pea- santry. They may be eaten raw, boiled as a vegetable, or made into soup or pies, and the young shoots may be dressed like spinach, which they resemble. The plant is supposed to be a native of the Levant. It grows in all warm climates, and in England it is cultivated in cucumber frames. Punch. A species of hot or cold drink. Punch a la Romaine, f., is a kind of soft white ice, made from lemon-juice, white of egg, sugar, and rum. It is served in goblets, usually after the remove ; and it has the property of assisting considerably the functions of digestion. It forms a sort of interlude between two acts of that grand play— the dinner. Puree, f. A smooth pulp ; mashed vegetables ; thick soups. The name is also given to meat or fish which is cooked, pounded in a mortar, and passed through a sieve. Purslane is an American plant, used in salads, pot herbs, and pickles ; first introduced into England in 1652. This plant is but little known in this country. It appears on most Continental markets, although it is certainly not extensively grown, either in Central or in Northern France. North of the Somme, however, and in Belgium and other parts of Europe, it is often served in the same fashion as sorrel and spinach. Q Quab. A Russian river fish. Quadrille, f. Checkered, thin strips of paste laid across tarts, so as to form a sort of net. Quail. Caille, f. The quail is a small brown bird of the part- ridge tribe, unsocial in its habits, visiting England in the summer. Enormous numbers arrive on the shores of the Mediterranean, from Africa, and are trapped and distributed119 thence throughout Europe, the flesh being delicate and much in demand at a time when game is out of season. It was the quail that supplied the Israelites with food in the desert. Quartier d’Agneau, f. A quarter of lamb. Quartier de devant —forequarter. Quartier de derni'ere—hindquarter. Quass (quas, quaas). A Russian beer made of rye or bread, and also made of apples and pears. Mostly used in the Russian army and navy. Quassia Cup. An infusion of quassia chips, flavoured with orange peel, borage, and spices, sweetened and fortified with alcohol in some form. Quenelles, f. Forcemeat of different kinds, composed of fish, poultry or meat, eggs, etc., shaped in various forms—balls, ovals, etc. They are used as garnishing for soups or entrees, or are served separately as entrees. Queue, f. Tail. Queue de bceuf. Ox-tail. Queues d’Ecrivisses. Crayfish tails. Queues de mouton. Sheep’s tails. Queue de veau. Calf’s tail. Queux. Name given to cooks during the middle ages. Quillet. A small alum cake. Dessert biscuits. Quince. Coing, f. The quince is a yellowish-green, sour astrin- gent fruit, of which some varieties resemble the apple, while others are more like the pear. Although their flavour is too harsh for eating raw, yet tarts, preserves, and marmalade may be made with them, and a little quince added to an apple. Quoorma. Name of a very mild Indian curry preparation. Qutaif. Name of an Arabian dish similar to our pancakes ; they are made as thin and leafy as possible, fried in almond oil, and are served up with a rich syrup, and besprinkled with rose water. R. Rabbit. Lapin, f. Its flesh, though inferior to that of the hare, has a delicate flavour. Rable, f. Back. Used only to designate the back or loin part of rabbit or hare.120 Rable. Rablu, F. Thick-backed. Racahout, Racachou. An Arabian preparation of roasted acorns, sweetened and highly spiced. The name is also applied to a thin gruel given to invalids. Racines, f. Root vegetables usually served as a garnish. Rack. Arrack. A spirit distilled from rice, sugar-cane or palm juice. Radish. Radi, f. A salad plant with a pungent root. Some of the roots are long and tapering, others globular, the latter being commonly known as turnip radishes. Raffinade. Best quality of refined sugar. Raffine. Purified. Rafraichir, f. To refresh ; to cool. Ragout, f. A rich, seasoned stewT of meat. Raie, f. Skate. A flat sea-fish. In season October to April. Raifort, f. Horseradish. A root possessing a very pungent taste. Raisin, f. Grape. The fruit of the vine, used as dessert, for jellies, ices, etc. Raisin de Corinthc, f. Currant. Raisin sec—raisin. Rakia. A Hungarian liqueur from full-flavoured grapes. Rambour. A large, early sour baking apple. Ramequin, f. Ramakin. Cheese fritter; a kind of cheese tartlet or ramakin. Ramereau, f. Young wood-pigeon. Ramier, f. Wild pigeon. Ranhofer, ch. A noted chef of Delmonico’s Restaurant, New York, author of the “ Epicurean,” Franco-American cook book, the standard work in the U.S. Died 1899. Raper, f. To shred or grate. Raspberry. Framboise, f. A fruit allied to the bramble ; there are two kinds, the red and the white ; both are used for compotes, tarts, and dessert. Raspberry Vinegar. Vinegar in which raspberries have been soaked. Ratafia, Ratafie. The essence of bitter almonds, used for flavouring. There is also a liqueur flavoured with the kernels of plums, apricots, and peaches, to which the name is also given.121 Raton, f. A kind of cheesecake. Ratonnet, f. Small skewers of meat, generally of mutton. Ravigote, f. A very richly-flavoured green herb sauce ; served cold. First heard of in 1720. A French writer, Ducereau, mentions it in one of his poems. Ravioles, f. Ravioli. Very small rounds of nouille paste enclosing a preparation of spinach, cheese, etc. ; used as soup garniture or savoury vegetables. Rechaud, f. Warming dish. Chafing dish. Rechauffe, f. To re-heat. Cold meat, etc., re-warmed or re-dressed. Recherche, f. Exquisite ; dainty. Recrepi, f. Crimped. Applied to fish, salmon or turbot. Red Cabbage. Chou rouge, f. A species of the common cab- bage with dark red leaves, chiefly used for pickling. In Germany, France, and Switzerland it is prepared as a vegetable, when it is shredded finely and stewed in rich broth. Red Grouse or Moor Fowl. Perdrix rouge, f. A bird of exquisite flavour, sometimes called ptarmigan. Red Herring. A fish principally eaten by the poorer classes. Red Mullet. Rouget, f. A highly esteemed fish, called the woodcock of the sea. This fish should not be gutted ; the trail is supposed to be eaten when cooked. Reduire, f. To boil down ; to reduce ; to boil liquid gradually to a desired consistency. Reforme (a la), f. Named after the famous Reform Club of London. A garniture consisting of finely-cut strips of cooked carrots, truffle, ham, and hard-boiled white of egg. Also name of a sauce. Refroidi, f. Cooled; chilled. Regal. Banquet; feast. Reims. A district in France famous for its champagnes. Reindeer is a native of the Arctic regions, highly esteemed for its fine flavour. Reindeer tongues are a great delicacy, and now much appreciated in this country.122 Reine-Claude, f. Greengage. A fruit superior in richness and flavour to all other kinds of plums ; name derived from Queen Claude, wife of Francis I. It was introduced into France over 400 years ago. Its English name is derived from the fact that Sir William Gage, of Hengrave Hall, near Bury St. Edmunds, obtained and cultivated cuttings from the P'rench Reine-Claude. Reinette. Russet. Releve, f. The remove. A course of a dinner, consisting of large joints of meat, four-footed game, and sometimes joints of fish. Relever. To remove ; to turn up. Relish. Gout piquante. A pleasing taste ; to give an excellent flavour. Remouillage, f. Second stock. Remoulade, f. A cold sauce, flavoured with savoury herbs and mustard, used as salad-dressing, etc. Renaissance, f. A word applied to dishes, etc., introduced in the 16th century, and later. Renne, f. Reindeer. Rennet, e., is the name given to the prepared inner membrane of a calf’s, pig’s, hare’s, or fowl’s stomach, which is used for curdling milk. The name is also applied to a liquid extract used in the manufacture of cheese. Renverse, f. Turned out on a dish. Also applied to a caramel custard, creme renversee. Repasse, f. Strained repeatedly. Restaurant, f. A high-class eating-house. Originally the name of a soup invented by a Frenchman named Palissy in 1557. The soup consisted of finely-minced fowl, and broth highly spiced with cinnamon, coriander, etc. In 1765 a tavern was opened in Paris, under the title “ Restaurant,” for the purpose of supplying this wonderful soup. Reveillon, f. Name given to a gastronomic festivity which takes place in France at Christmas Eve. It consists of a sumptuous supper, which is provided by the most wealthy and the most generous inhabitants of a town or village.. This meal is served at midnight, and the piece de resistance is usually boudin noir--black pudding.123 Revenir (faire), f. To lightly fry or brown without actually cooking. Rhubarb. A garden plant possessing a peculiar acid flavour, used for puddings, tarts, etc. Rhum. Rum. A spirit distilled from the fluid residuum of cane sugar, from molasses and saccharine by products. Jamaica rum is considered the best, and is used for flavouring sweets, sauces, for omelets, hot drinks, etc. Riblette, f. Collop. Broiled pork. Rice. Riz, f. An esculent grain of wrarm climates, largely used throughout Europe for puddings and soups. Although highly nutritious, it is not a perfect food, being deficient in albuminoids and mineral matters. It is supposed to be of Asiatic origin, but is now cultivated in the tropical regions of both hemispheres. There are many varieties of the plant, the chief being marsh rice, early rice, and mountain rice. Carolina rice is the best for puddings, and Patna for curries. Richelieu (Armand Jean). A celebrated gourmet. French general and cardinal during the reigus of Louis XIII. and XIV. ; born 1585, died 1642. Rillettes, f. A French potted meat preparation, used for hors d’oeuvres and savouries. Ris de Veau, f. Calf’s sweetbread. Ris d’agneau. Lamb’s sweetbread. Risi pisi. An Italian soup of rice and green peas. Risotto, Risot. An Italian dish of rice, cheese, and usually tomato and saffron. Rissole (ee), f. Well browned, fried, or baked ; covered with crumbs. Rissoles, f. A mixture of minced fish or meat, enclosed in paste, half-moon shapes, and fried in fat or butter. Ris- solettes. Similar to rissoles ; thin pancakes are used in place of paste. Riz, f. Rice. (See Rice.) Rizzered Haddie is the name of a Scotch dish, made from had- docks or codfish. Roach. A fresh-water fish, very difficult to catch.124 Roasting. Rotire, f. Roasting is one of the oldest and most favourite methods of cooking meat. It consists in hanging it in front of a bright fire, being suspended by means of a jack or spit. This process of cooking is very often performed in ovens, for which gas stoves are found most useful. Roasting means cooking by radiated heat. Roasting Jack. This useful invention contains a spring which, when wound up, revolves a fly-wheel to which are attached hooks upon which the meat is hung. Rob. From Arab, inspissated fruit juice of the consistency of honey. Robert, f. Name of a brown, spicy sauce, invented by a restaurant keeper of that name in Paris, 1789. Robes de Chambre (en), f. (in dressing-gown). Paper cases filled with light iced cream ; potatoes cooked and served in their jackets. Robine. A kind of pear, also known as “ Royale ” and muscat d’aout. Rocambole. A kind of garlic. Rocket. A salad plant. Rognon. Kidney. Rognons de veau—calf’s kidneys. Rognons de mouton—sheep’s kidneys. Rognon de coq. Cock’s kernel. Rognures. Remnants; parings ; trimmings. Romaine, f. Cos lettuce. Romaine (a la), f. Roman style. Romanoff. The family name of the Russian Imperial family. Romarin, f. Rosemary, an herb from a fragrant and pungent plant. Rompre, f. To break. To work paste or dough two or three times. Rook. The flesh of the rook is dry and somewhat coarse in flavour. They should be stewed, or baked in a pie, never roasted. Roquefort, f. A highly-esteemed French cheese. Roquette, f. Rocket, a kind of salad herb. Rosolio. An Italian liqueur, flavoured with roses, orange flowers, and various spices.125 Rossini. Name of a famous musician. “ Filets a la Rossini ” was his own invention. Roti, f. The roast, indicating the course of a meal which is served before the entremets. Roast meat, poultry, and game. Roti, rdtie. Roasted. Rotissoire. Roasting pan. Rouge de riviere. A kind of wild duck. Rouget, f. Red mullet, a highly-esteemed fish called the wood- cock of the sea. Roulade, f. Meat roll, rolled meat, small galantines. Roular- dines. Small rolls. Route. Rolled. Rousselet. Russet pear. Roussi. Ancient term for roux, applied to browned flour turned into roux. Roux, f. A preparation of butter and flour, used for thickening soups and sauces. There are three kinds of roux, white, fawn, and brown. Royal. Name of an egg custard used for garnishing clear soups. Also the name applied to an icing (glace royale) made with whites of egg and icing-sugar, and used for coating and decorative purposes. Royans, f. A delicately-flavoured small fish similar to sardines. Ruban, f. Ribbon. Rubane. Ribbon-like. Decorated with ribbons. Rumford. An American statesman and inventor of economical soups. Rusks. Thrice baked slices of cake or milk bread, sweet or plain. In making them the batter is baked in a square tin, , and when cold cut into slices and dried in a quick oven. Rusty. The word applied to bacon, is derived from the French word riste, meaning, it has stood too long. Rutabaga. A Swedish turnip. Rye. In appearance this grain is similar to barley. In Russia a drink called “ quass ” is made from it, and the Americans distil whisky from it. Its nutritive value, measured by the amount of gluten it contains, stands next to wheat. Rye Bread. Rye flour is made into bread and cakes similar to the Scotch oatmeal cakes.126 s. Sabayon, f. A light frothv'sweet sauce composed of sherry or white wine, cream or milk, sugar and eggs. Sable, f. A kind of pastry ; sandy cakes, gateau sable. Sabot au sang. A stew prepared in olden times. Saccharine. Saccharine has 300 times more sweetening power than sugar (diabetic and obesity). It has no impure qualities in common with sugar ; the latter is an article of food, supplying nutrition to the human body ; saccharine has no such quality. Its value as a sweetener stops with the palate Saccharometer. An instrument used to test the degrees of syrups, etc. Pesesirop, f. Sugar scale. Sack. A wine used during the middle ages; originally produced in the Canary Islands. Sackposset. A drink made of sack, milk, etc. Saddle of mutton. Selle de mouton, f. Consists of two loins undivided. Safran, f. Saffron. A plant belonging to the species of crocus, native of Asia Minor, but largely cultivated in the south of Europe. It is used for colouring and flavouring in a number of culinary preparations. Sage. Sauge, f. Native of South Europe ; used as a flavouring for goose-stuffing, etc. Sago. Sagou, f. The farina from the sago palm-tree, a native of tropical countries. Sago is obtained from the trunk of this tree when slit open. A single tree will provide food [ enough for a man for a whole year, and ten days’ labour will convert it into a palatable and nourishing article of diet. It forms the chief food of the inhabitants of the Eastern Archipelago and other warm regions. Saignant, f. Underdone. Saindoux, f. Hog’s lard. Used for frying and for modelling purposes. Socles, flowers, etc. Saisir (faire), f. To seize ; to cook meat over a brisk fire to make it retain its juices. Saki. A Japanese rice liquor.127 Salade, f. Salad. Raw herbs, edible plants, raw and cooked vegetables, etc., seasoned with oil and vinegar or other salad dressing. Saladier. Salad dish or bowl. Salamandre, f. This is an utensil which, after being made red- hot, is used for browning any dishes that want colour. Salami. An Italian sausage, chiefly used as hors d’oeuvre. Sandwiches. Sale, f. Salt, salted ; corned. Saler. To salt; to season with salt. Saler de la viande, to cure meat. Saliere, salt cellar. Salicoque. Prawn ; small sea lobster of excellent flavour. Sally Lunn. Name of a kind of tea-cake, slightly sweetened and raised with brewers’ yeast. Sally Lunn was a celebrated personage at Bath who, at the close of the 18th century, used to make and sell a kind of tea-biscuits known as “ Sally Lunns.” She used to sell these in the streets of Bath. Salmagundi. Name of a very old English supper dish. It is a kind of meat-salad, mixed and decorated with hard-boiled eggs, anchovy, pickles, and beetroot. Salmi or Salmis. A brown ragout made of game when par- roasted. The term is also incorrectly applied to a rechauffe of previously cooked game. Salmon. Saumon, f. The salmon, which leaves the sea and ascends the river to spawn, is one of the most delicious and nutritive of the finny tribe, although less easily digested than fish containing less fatty matter. Salmon are found distributed over the north of Europe and Asia, but not in warm latitudes, never having been caught so far south as the Mediterranean. The salmon is said to grow quickly. Izaak Walton says : “ The samlet becomes a salmon in as short time as a gosling becomes a goose.” Salpetre, f. The commercial name for nitre, the nitrate of potash ; used in conjunction with salt, etc., for curing meat. Salpicon, f. A mince of poultry or game with ham or tongue and mushrooms used for croquettes, bouchees, rissoles, etc. Salsify (Salsifits). Oyster plant. The flavour of the root re- sembles somewhat that of the oyster. (See also Oyster Plant. ) Salzgurken. Small salted cucumbers. German pickle served with boiled or roast meats; made of cucumbers soused in salt water.128 Samp. A food composed of coarsely-ground maize, boiled, and eaten with milk (American dish). Samphire. A herb used for salads and pickles. Grows by the sea-shore, generally on the cliffs. Samztah. An Arab dish, consisting of sweet puree or cream, dates, and cornflour. Sanders. May be described as miniature “ Shepherd’s Pies.” Minced beef or mutton with a little onion, gravy, and seasoning is put into saucers or scallops shells, covered with mashed potato, and browned in the oven. Sandre, f. Pike perch ; wall-eyed perch. Sandwich. Tartine, f. Two thin pieces of bread, buttered, with a thin slice of meat or edible paste between them. The name is supposed to be derived from the Earl of Sandwich. Sangaree. The name of an Indian punch drink. It is made with sherry, water, lemon-juice, and sugar. Sangler, f. To prepare the ice mixture ready for freezing. One part of salt to five parts of broken ice is the proper proportion used for freezing. Sanglier, f. Wild boar, e. Santos. A Brazilian coffee. Sapaceau, f. An egg punch. Sapote, f. Sapota. A West Indian fruit. Sarbotiere, f. A pewter freezing-pot or freezing-pan. Sarcelle, f. Teal. Water-fowl similar to wild duck. Seasonable October to February. Sardine, f. A little fish, generally preserved in oil and packed in hermetically-closed tins or glass pots ; served as a hors d’ceuvre, etc. Those caught on the French coast are con- sidered to be the best. This little fish is said to derive its name from having been first preserved in Sardinia. Some of the cheaper kinds are merely sprats. Sarrasin, f. Buckwheat. Sarriette, f. Savoy cabbage. Sarsenage, f. A cheese similar to Roquefort. Sassafras. The name of an agreeable beverage much drunk in North America.129 1 Sauce, f. Sauce. A liquid seasoning served and eaten with food, to improve its relish and to give flavour. The four great sauces in the culinary art are : Espagnole, Bechamel, Veloute, and Allemande. Sauce, f. Sauced. Covered with sauce. Saucer, f. To sauce a dish; to cover with a sauce. Saucier, f. Sauce cook. Sauciere, f. A sauce- boat ; a deep, narrow-shaped dish, in which sauce is served. Saucisse, f. Fresh pork sausages. Saucisson, f. Smoked sausages. Sauerkraut, Choucroute, Sourkrout. A kind of pickled cabbage ; finely-shredded cabbage preserved in brine. A national dish of Germany. Served hot with bacon or sausages. Saugrenee, f. A French process of cooking, implying stewed with a little water, butter, salt, and herbs. “ Des pois a la saugrenee ” are stewed peas cooked as above described. Saumon, f. Salmon. This delicious and most nutritive fish belongs to the finny tribe. It is found in the North of Europe and Asia ; it never has been caught in the Medi- terranean Sea. Seasonable March to August. Saumoneau, f. Salmlet; a very small young salmon. Saumurd, f. Pickled, or marinaded. Saupiquet, f. Spiced vinegar sauce. Saure, f. Dried or cured in smoke. Saurin. A red herring; a freshly-cured herring. Saute-pan. Sautoire, f. A shallow, thin-bottomed copper cooking pan. Sauter (ee), f. A culinary term, indicating a quick cooking process. To toss over the fire, in a saute or frying-pan with little butter or fat anything that requires a sharp fire and quick cooking. Sauterne. A French white wine (white claret) much used in cookery. Savarin (Brillat-). Born 1755. Famous gastronomic writer ; author of the excellent work entitled “ Physiologie du Gout, au Meditations de Gastronomie transcendante,” published after his death. A light spongy yeast cake is named after him. Saveloy. A kind of smoked pork sausage ; it is highly seasoned, and has an addition of saltpetre to give the meat a red colour.130 Savory. An aromatic herb of the same class as mint. Two kinds are cultivated in England, one of which is fit for use in winter and the other in summer ; they are, therefore, called respectively “winter" and “summer" savory. Savoy. The savoy is a hardy variety of the cabbage improved by frost, and in season throughout the winter. Also name of a kind of sponge cake. Scald. To scald milk is to bring it nearly to the boil. Scallops or Escalop. Petoncles, f. A shellfish. This mollusc (mollusk) is similar in appearance to oysters, only much larger. Seasonable from September to March, and at its best during January and February. Only the muscular part or heart of a scallop is eaten. It is white, and when at its best the ova—or tongue, as it is commonly called—is full, and of bright orange colour. Scallops are prepared in niime- rous ways for the table ; as stews in white sauce, scalloped, au gratin, saute, as fritters, and sometimes in salads. Scarlet Runner. A string bean resembling the French beans, the pods of which are eaten in the same way. They come, however, a little later in the season, and are a little coarser in flavour. Schabziger. A Swiss herb-cheese made in timbal-shaped cakes. Schalet, Cholet. A Jewish Sabbath dish of meat, rice, and peas (or barley and peas), set on the fire on Friday and allowed to cook slowly until Saturday. Schenkeli. A kind of pastry; small rolls fried in butter ; very popular in Switzerland. Schiedam Schnapps. A Holland gin liqueur from grains flavoured with juniper berries. Schlesisches Himmelreich. A Silesian speciality of sauerkraut and puree of peas. Schmorbraten. A German dish, consisting of rump of beef braised (a-la-mode fashion), garnished with mushrooms, gherkins, and braised vegetables. Schnitzel. A term much used in Germany and Austria. Equiva- lent to a thin slice. Schwarzbrod. German rye, or brown bread. Scones. A variety of tea cake, originally cooked on a griddle or hot-plate.Score (to). To make incisions crossways on the surface of fish, vegetables or meat. This is done to facilitate the process of cooking, and thus improving the flavour. Seorsconere, f. Scorzonera. A kind of oyster plant, treated and served like parsnips or salsify. Scotch Eggs. Name given to a dish of hard-boiled eggs; the shells having been removed, the}’’ are covered'with a layer of sausage or other forcemeat, after which they are egged and crumbed and fried in deep fat. Scotch Style. A l’Ecossaise, f. Scotch Woodcock. Toast spread with anchovy paste, with scrambled eggs on top. Scots Kail. Name of a thick broth ; a kind of pot-au-feu, served as a standing dish among the middle classes of Scotland. Sea Bream. A fish plentiful on the shores of Cornwall, and on the southern coast, especially near Hastings. When young, this fish is known as the chad. Seakale. Chou de mer, f. A delicious vegetable largely cultivated in Great Britain, but very little known on the Continent; it grows wild in all parts of Europe. It was first grown in England in the middle of the 18th century by a gardener in Stoke Fleming, who cultivated the plants, which he found growing wild. The}’- were so much appre- ciated that the gardener’s master presented some of the roots to his friends at Bath, after which they became popular in all parts of England. Seasoning, e. Assaisonnement, f. That which is used to render food palatable and more relishing. The word is also employed to include forcemeat and stuffing. Sec, Seche, f. Dry. Of champagne (using masculine, sec), meaning that a little liqueur has been added to make it sweeter. Seche, f. Dried. Secheur. A drying apparatus. Sect. A German designation for champagne. From the Latin, vino secco, dry wine. Seigle, f. Rye. Pain de seigle. Rye bread. This plant is indigenous to Southern Russia, but is now extensively grown in Germany, Scandinavia, and North America. Rye beer {see Quass). Rye bread is very nutritious, and keeps fresh for a longer period than wheaten bread ; it is in use throughout the North of Europe.Sel, f. Salt (chloride of sodium). Used for seasoning food, for preserving and freezing purposes. Selin, f. Mountain parsley. Selle, f. Saddle. Seitz (Eau de Seitz), f. Seltzerwasser, g. A well-known mineral water. Semolina. Semoule, f. Made from decorticated wheat, by grinding pressure and heat. In this country it is chiefly used for puddings and thickening soups, but in France it is much esteemed for making the fine, white bread called gruan. Senelle. Haw; fruit of the white thorn. Serviette, f. Table napkin. En Serviette—served in a napkin, or dished up in a napkin. Sevigne, f. A French soup named after the Marchioness Sevigne of Rabutin-Chantal, a French authoress, born 1626, died 1696. Shad. A salt-water fish fond of ascending rivers. Within comparatively recent years was caught near Hampton Court. Shaddock. A smaller variety of pompelmoush, but larger than forbidden fruit. Shallot. Echalotte, f. Possesses medical virtue of stimulating the circulatory system and promote digestion. (See also Echalotte.) Shandy Gaff. A mixture of ale and ginger beer. Shank Jelly. A kind of savoury jelly, lightly seasoned, recom- mended to weak people. Sharks’ Fins. Considered great delicacies by the Chinese, who pay high prices for the dainties. But shark’s flesh as a rule is strong and rank, though firm, boneless, and nourishing. It is said that sharks, and especially the “ dog-fish,” are largely used by London fried-fish shop keepers, as the flesh is economical. Sherbet. A cooling drink consisting of water, lemon-juice, and sugar. The word Sorbet is derived from Sherbet. Sherry Cobbler. An American drink, made with soda-water, sherry, and sugar, a dash of liqueur, and a little ice. Shin of Beef. Chinne de bceuf, f. The fore portion of a leg of beef. Used for stock, for making soups, etc. IS?133 Shot Pepper. This is mignonette pepper, which is made from white peppercorns. It is broken into grains or granulated about the size of mignonette seed. Shred. Is to slice anything so finely with a sharp knife that the shreds curl. Shrimp. Crevette, f. A small sea crustacean. Shrub. A drink. Orange-juice, zest, and rum punch. Sikbaj. Name of an Arab stew made of sheep’s head. Sillsillat. A Swedish dish ; a kind of herring salad. Silver Side of Beef. This joint is cut from the top of the round of beef. It is very good boiled, either salted or fresh. Simnel Cake. A Lenten or Easter cake, with raised crust, coloured with saffron, the inferior being filled with the materials of a very rich plum-pudding. They are made up very stiff, boiled in a cloth for several hours, then brushed over with egg, and baked. Singe (Singeing). To pass a plucked bird over a flame so as to burn off the down which may have, been left on. A spirit lamp is best for this purpose. Singer, f. To dust with flour from the dredging-box. Sippets. Small slices of bread cut into different forms, fried or toasted, served as garnishing with meat entrees, or for borders of savoury dishes. Sirloin. Aloyau, f. The sirloin of beef is said to owe its name to King Charles II., who, dining off a loin of beef, and being well pleased with it, asked the name of the joint. On being told, he said, “ For its merit, then, I will knight it, and hence- forth it shall be called Sir Loin.” In an old ballad this circumstance is thus mentioned : “ Our Second Charles, of fame facete, On loin of beef did dine; He held his sword, pleased, o’er the meat,— ‘ Arise, thou famed Sir Loin ! ’ ” Sirop, f. Syrup. Siroper. To mask with or steep in syrup. Skewers for Joints, etc. Brochettes, f. Hatelets, etc. Skilly. The gruel or porridge given as nutriment to able-bodied paupers in workhouses. Slapjack. Name of a special kind of pancakes.134 SHng. A drink made of rum and water, sweetened. Sloe. Prunelle, f. The fruit of the blackthorn. Smelt. Eperlans, f. A most delicious little fish, its principal characteristic being the cucumber smell, which is most pronounced. The only legitimate way of cooking this fish is frying in deep fat. Usually served with lemon and thinly cut slices of brown bread and butter. Snail (Edible). Escargot, f. Not much eaten in England, but in France it is considered a delicacy. The Romans esteemed it highly also. Snipe. Becasse, f. A small marsh bird whose flesh has a delicate flavour. Snipe are not natives of Britain. They mostly come over at the beginning of winter, and take their flight again in the spring, then passing towards Lapland, Poland, Russia, Iceland, and Sweden. In cold climates they grow very fat, but in warm countries they become positively slender and thin. Socle, f. Base. Pedestal. Used in cookerjr and confectionery. Made of rice, fat, sugar, etc. Soja. The fermented juice of the soya bean. (See also Soy.) Sole. A marine flatfish of most excellent flavour. Its flesh is white, delicate, and nutritive. It abounds on the British coasts, Torbay yielding the finest specimens. Its colour, as well as its flavour, depends in a great measure on its food, which consists mostly of small crabs and other shell-fish, and the characteristics of the ocean bed where it is found. If very light in colour, it is called the white sole ; if muddy, the black sole, the latter being considered the best. Solferino. An Italian village, the scene of two great battles. A clear soup, with tomatoes and vegetables, is so named. Sommelier, f. Wine steward or waiter. Sorbet, f. An iced Turkish drink ; also the name of a water ice with fruit or liqueur flavour, usually served in goblets. Sorbetidre, f. A pewter freezing-pot or freezing-pan. Sorrel. Oseille, f. A plant more or less acidulous from the presence of oxalic acid. Sot-1’y-lalsse. Chicken rump. Oyster of the chicken. Liter- ally translated, “ The fool leaves it.”135 Soubise, f. A smooth onion pulp served with various kinds of meat entrees. The name is supposed to come from Prince Charles Soubise (born 1715, died 1787), who was a celebrated epicure. He served as field-marshal during the reign of Louis XIV. of France. As a surname to dishes a la soubise is generally applied when onions enter largely into the com- position of a dish ; the term implies that strong onion flavour, or a garnish of onion puree. Souchets or Souchies. Probably derived from the word “ souche,” stump or piece. Often used with the prefix “^waTer^.” as water-souchet. It consists of a flat fish, as flounders or soles, cut transversely in slices, boiled in salted water, and served with finely-shredded roots and herbs. Souffle, f. A very light baked or steamed pudding ; an omelet. Also applied to light savoury creams. Souffle glace, f. A very light sweet cream mixture, iced, and served in cases. Soupe, Potage, f. Soup. Souper. Supper; evening meal. Soupiere. Soup-tureen. Souse. A liquid in which meat or fish is soaked. Soy. Soja. This is a preparation added to soups and sauces as a flavouring and colouring ingredient. Soy is the Japanese name of a leguminous plant, “ dolichossoja.” It is said to be produced by fermentation of the soja-bean in salt water. It is shipped to this country as a dark brown treacle-like extract. Cautiously mixed with soups, ragouts, sauces, and gravies, it imparts an agreeable flavour and improves the colour. Spaghetti. A kind of very small macaroni. Spare Rib of Pork. The back of a pig’s neck is peculiarly well- covered with flesh, especially that of a large animal destined for bacon. This portion, including the ribs attached, is called the “ spare rib.” In some localities in the North, the backbone (chine), and the ribs with their lean flesh, is sepa- rated from the side or flitch, and eaten in a fresh condition. The term spare-rib is also applied to this. Sparrowgrass. Ancient name for asparagus. Spatchcock. Originally a fowl, killed and immediately roasted or broiled, for some sudden occasion. The name is said to be a cor- ruption of despatch and cock. The modern dish consists of a chicken slit down the back and grilled. (See Spread Eagle.)136 Spatule, f. Spatula ; a flat knife for spreading icing and other substances. Spice. Epice, f. Condiment used for highly-seasoned food. Spinach. Epinard, f. A favourite green vegetable. As a culinary remedy considered to have a direct effect upon complaints of the kidneys. Spinach is said to have originally hailed from Persia, and was undoubtedly employed for medicinal purposes by the ancient Arabian physicians. Spongada. Italian preparation of water-ice and stiffly-whipped whites of eggs. Sprat. Melettes, f. A small, cheap fish, allied to the herring. Spread Eagle. Poulet a la Crapodine, f. A young fat chicken split down the back, flattened, breast-bone removed, seasoned, oiled or buttered, and grilled or baked. Spring of Pork. The thin flank or breast and belly of the animal. Spruce Beer. Beer to which is added, during fermentation, an extract of the tops of the spruce fir. Squab. A young pigeon ; name used particularly in North America. Squab chicken—a young chicken ; applicable to animals while young, fat, and clumsy. Squab pie is therefore primarily a (young) pigeon pie. Such a pie becomes Devon- shire squab pie by the addition of apples. Squab-pigeons— innocents of French cooks. Stake. Signifies small meal, breakfast, luncheon, lunch, and tiffin. The word is supposed to be derived from “ Steak,” but is now very seldom used. St. Cloud. A city and castle between Paris and Versailles. A number of dishes are so named. Steak means the slice of meat which is to be grilled, roasted or fried. Its Danish equivalent is Steeg, its German, Stuck (piece). Stearin. The chief constituent of solid fats, such as mutton suet, used for moulding socles, etc. Stechi, Stehy. A Russian natural soup, made of oatmeal. Sterlet. A fish belonging to the sturgeon family. St. Germain, f. A kind of pear. Also the name of a green pea-soup. St. Hubert, f. The patron saint of the hunters. Several dishes made with or containing game so named.137 Stilton. A well-known English cheese. Stirabout. Name of an Irish dish similar to Scotch porridge. Stock. Fond, f. The broth in which meat and bones have been boiled, of which soups and sauces are made. Stove (to). To heat or bake in a stove or oven. St. Pierre, f. John Dory, a fish found in British seas. Name derived from the French “ Jaune Doree ” (golden yellow), the body of the fish being thus marked. Strawberry. Fraise, f. The strawberry has been cultivated in England from a very early period. The strawberry is also found in Asia, Africa, Canada, and the more northern parts of the United States. Straw Wine. The pressings of grapes which have been dried on straw. Sturgeon. A fish of very fine flavour. It was formerly con- sidered exclusively royal property. The roe is made into caviar. It is found in the Caspian, Black, Mediterranean, and Baltic Seas, in the Danube, Volga, Don, some of the large rivers of North America, and occasionally in the Thames, Esk, and Eden. Sturgeon are usually large, some measuring three or four feet in length. Succotash. An American dish made of green maize and baked beans. The dish is said to be borrowed from the Narraganset Indians, known to them as susichquatash. Succulent. Juicy. Sucking-pig. Cochon de lait, f. Suedoise (a la). Swedish style. Sugar. Sucre, f. Obtained from various plants, more especially from the sugar-cane and the beetroot; but that obtained from other plants is absolutely identical, and differs in no respect from cane or beet sugars after being refined to the same degree of purity as those made from the latter plants. Science describes sugar to be a substance sweet to the taste, crystallisable and resolvable by fermentation into carbonic acid and alcohol. Dissolved in water and con- centrated by heat we obtain syrups of various degrees according to requirements for culinary purposes. Pounded and sifted it is used for confectionery, pastry, cakes, pud-138 dings, etc. The use of sugar in its various forms covers a very extensive field, and its application, it is said, is still capable of further extension. Sucre. Sweetened. Sugar Candy. Is made by suspending strings in a string solution of sugar, which is left standing in a cool place until the candy is deposited on the strings. Sugar Pea. They are cooked and served in their pods, which are destitute of the tough inner lining found in ordinary peas. Suif, f. Mutton suet; tallow. Suisse (a la). Swiss style. Sultane. A West Indian marsh bird. Also applied to a confectionery dish. Sultanes. Sultanas ; small seedless raisins. Supreme. Best; most delicate. Supreme Sauce. A rich, delicately-flavoured cream sauce, made from chicken, stock, etc. Supreme de Volatile. Breast of chicken. Surard, f. Elderberry vinegar. Sureau, f. Elder. Graines de sureau—elderberries. Vin de sureau—elderberry wine. Surlonge. An ancient name for sirloin. Surtout, f. Epergne ; centre-piece. Suzanne (Alfred). Name of a French chef, an authority on the culinary treatment of eggs. Author of “ Egg Cookery : Over 150 Ways of Cooking and Serving Eggs," and “One Hundred Ways of Cooking Potatoes." Born 1829. Sweetbread. Ris, f. This is the general name for the pancreas of the calf, lamb or any other animal used for food. Sweet Potato. A vegetable from the West Indies and other tropical countries. It is not allied to the common potato, its name being a corruption of the Portuguese word “ batutus." Syllabub. A kind of milk-punch. Syngnathe. Sangnat. A kind of fish. Syrup. Sirop, f. A saturated solution of sugar, generally flavoured with some fruit essence ; used for various culinary purposes.139 T. Table d*Hote. The table at which the principal meals at an hotel or restaurant are served to guests. A common table for guests. It also serves as a general title for a meal of several courses at a fixed price. Table Napkin. Serviette, f. Tafia. A kind of rum. A messenger. A sauce served with brandy made in the West Indies from the sugar-cane. Tagliarini. A kind of macaroni paste cut in fine shreds. Tagliati. Nouille paste cut in irregular, extremely thin pieces. Tailler la Soupe, f. A culinary expression. Thin slices or crusts of bread placed in a soup tureen are called tailler. " Tremper la soupe ” is the French term applied when the broth is poured over the slices. Taillevent. Name of a clever artist in cookery who super- intended the kitchens of Charles VII. of France from 1430 to 1461. Inventor of a sweet soup, called “ potage dore,” the recipe of which is anything but recommendable for the present time. Talleyrand. Several high-class dishes are styled thus. The name comes from an old French ducal family. Talmouses, f. A kind of French pastry, sweet or savoury, made in the shape of parsons’ caps. Tamarind. The name of a tropical tree and its fruit, which is used for condiments, sauces, etc., largely imported from the East and West Indies ; and the pulp is used as a laxative and refrigerant. Tambour, f: A fine sugar sieve. Also name of a small dessert biscuit. Tamis, f. Tammy. Fine sieve. Woollen canvas cloth used for straining soups and sauces. Tamise. Rubbed through a tammy cloth or tammy sieve. Tammy. Woollen canvas cloth which is used for straining soups and sauces. Tanche. Tench. A fresh-water fish. Tansy. A herb with strong aromatic flavour, sometimes used for flavourings in puddings.140 Tapioca. The substance obtained from the roots of the cassava (manioc plant), a native of the tropical parts of Asia, America, and Africa. Brazil exports the most to this country. Tapioca is considered to be one of the most easily digested farinaceous foods, and is therefore recommended for invalids and children. Tari. A liquor obtained from palm trees. Tarragon. Estragon, f. Aromatic plant used for flavouring ; also for flavouring vinegar. Tart. Pie. From the Latin “ torta,” a baked ring of twisted dough, which was laid round and eaten with cooked fruit. The name now includes a great number of cakes of a more or less complicated kind. Tartare, f. A cold sauce, made of yolks of eggs, oil, mustard, capers, gherkins, etc., served with fried fish or cold meats ; also a salad dressing. Tartaric Acid. This is an acid which exists in a great many kinds of fruit, though it is chiefly obtained and extracted from the grape root. It is used for similar purposes as citric acid, and has the same effect on sugar. Tartelette, f. Tartlet. Small, thin paste crust shapes (round or oval), filled with fruit or other sweet or savoury mixtures. Tartine, f. A slice of bread. French name for sandwich. Tartre. Tartar ; tartaric acid. Tassajo. A South American name for dried meat or powdered meat. Tasse. Cup. En tasser—served in cup. Tea. The, f. Tea was introduced into England about the year 1661, when Samuel Pepys writes of drinking it for the first time. In 1663 the East Indian Company presented the king with two pounds of tea, and in 1666 it was sold in London for sixty shillings a pound. The difference between black and green tea is caused by a difference in the method of drying the leaf. Tea is now extensively cultivated in Ceylon, India, and Assam, as well as in China. Teal. Sarcelle or Sercelle, f. Water-fowl, whose flesh is of great delicacy. Tench. Tenche, f. A fresh-water fish, allied to the carp. Season- able December to February.141 Tendron, f. Tendon ; gristle. Piece from the breast of lamb or veal, in which the gristle is found. Tent. A red wine, chiefly used for sacramental purposes. Terrapene, f. Terrapin. A small American turtle, very little known and used in this country. Terrine. China pan or pot, used for pates and for potted meats. Tete, f. Head. Tete de moine. A cheese made in the Jura. Literally, “ monk’s head.” Tete de veau. Calf’s head. Tetragone, f. Tetragonia. New Zealand spinach. Tetras, f. Grouse ; prairie chicken. Therid. An Arab word for a soup. Principal ingredients used are : broth, olive oil, eggs, vinegar, and breadcrumbs. Thermometer. An instrument to ascertain degrees of tempera- ture, oven heat, etc. Thon, f. Tunny fish. A sea-fish of the mackerel family, usually preserved in oil. Thon marine. Pickled tunny fish. Thyme. An aromatic plant used for flavouring. Lemon thyme is a species which has a delicate flavour of the lemon, and is used for culinary purposes when this flavour is desired, Tiburon. Tiburo, a fish of the shark species. Tiffin. The name given by Anglo-Indians to a light repast taken between ten and eleven o’clock in the morning. Timbale, f. Literally “ kettledrum ” or “ drinking-cup.” The term is now applied to thimble-shaped moulds of preparations of meat, etc. Timbale (moule a). Timbale mould. Tire, f. Pulled, as sucre tire, pulled sugar. Toad-in-the-hole. Pieces of meat or sausages baked in batter. Toast. Dried, grilled or scorched slices of bread. Tobasco. Name of a pungent Indian pepper-sauce. Tocane. New juice of grapes. Toddy. An American punch. Toffee. A sweetmeat originally made in Lancashire. Tokay. Tokai, f. A Hungarian wine. It is made from grapes called “ Hungarian Blue,” which are allowed to shrivel in the sun before being gathered. Tokay, when fully matured by keeping, will remain unchanged for a hundred years.142 Tom and Jerry. An egg punch; an American drink. Tomate, f. Tomato. Also called love-apples (pommes d’amour) from the Italian pomi di mori (apples of the moors). The word “tomato” is said to be derived from the Spanish- American name, “ tamata.” The tomato-plant is a native of South America. It was introduced into Europe by the Spaniards in 1583, and into England in 1596 ; but it is only since the year 1880 that the culture of the tomato has developed into a distinct horticultural industry, and very extensive establishments in glass have been erected at Worthing, and other places in England and Scotland, where it is cultivated for the excellent qualities of the fruit as an article of diet. Tomber a Glace, f. To reduce a liquid until it has the appearance of a thick syrup. Tonalchile. Guinea pepper. Tonca. Tonca or Tonquin bean. Topinambour, f. Girasole. Jerusalem artichoke, originally im- ported from Brazil. A tuberous root-plant resembling potatoes, but not so nourishing. The root contains 4 per cent, more water than potatoes. If put with milk it acts like rennet (it curdles the milk). Also called Girasol artichoke, a corruption of the Italian sunflower. Best adapted for the favourite soup called “ Palestine ” ; also served as a vegetable. Torte, g., Tourte, f. Tart. An open tart baked in a round, shallow tin. Tortillas. Thin Mexican bread-cakes prepared from yucca or manioc flour. Tortue, f. Turtle. Also called the sea porpoise. (See Turtle.) Tortue (en). Turtle garnish. Tortue-fausse. Mock turtle. Tot-fait, f. Flap jack; a cake. Toulouse (d la), f. A rich white stew of chicken or veal, mush- rooms, truffles, etc., used for filling paste crusts or for garnishing. Tourn§, f. Shaped, cut, soured, curdled. Tourney. To stir a sauce ; also to pare and cut roots. Toumedos, f. Small, thin fillets of beef served as entrees. First served in Paris in 1855. Tourterelle, f. Turtle dove.143 Tourtiere, f. Tart mould ; pie dish ; baking dish. Tourtlettes, f. Small tartlets. Ancient name for tartelettes. Tout-bonne. Name of a kind of Bartlett pear. Traiteur, f. Caterer. Eating-house keeper. Tranche, f. Slice of meat or fish, melon, bread, cake, etc. Tranche (en). In slices. Trancher. To cut or carve. Troncon. Small slice. Trautmannsdorff. Name of an Austrian Count, born 1749, died 1827. Several sweets are styled after his name. Treacle. A thick, dark-coloured syrup, formed during the manufacture of moist sugar. Treble Palma. The highest grade of quality in sherry. Tremper la Soupe, f. To pour the soup over thin slices or crusts of bread placed in the soup-tureen. Trianon (a la), f. Trianon style, usually a dish or garnishing in three colours. Trifles. A dish of sweetmeats and cake. A second course dish of cakes, biscuits, jams, etc. Trim. To pare ; to cut off portions of meat or vegetables in order to improve their appearance. Tripe. Tripe, f. The stomach of some ruminating animal, principally the bullock. When cooked it is very easily digested, and is said to possess great nourishing properties. Trout. Truite, f. A much esteemed fresh-water fish. During the hot weather this fish retires into deep water, where it remains until about the end of September. It abounded in the lakes of the Roman Empire. Truffe, f. Truffle. A fungus of the same order as the mush- room. They grow in clusters of an irregular globular form under loots of young trees (oak, nut, and a few other trees). There are three kinds : the black, the grey, and the red. The latter is musk-scented, and very rare. The former two are mostly used for garnish and other culinary purposes. The South and West of France produce the best kinds. Trained pigs and dogs are employed to find truffles. Perigueux and Carpentras are the most famous districts in France. Truffe. Truffled ; garnished with truffles. Truffer. To garnish144 a sauce with truffles or to season the interior of poultry or game with truffle-stuffing, such as capons, turkeys, and pheasants. Truite Saumonee, f. Salmon trout. Truitelle. Troutlet, a small trout. Tunny Fish. Is known in this country principally in its preserved form. (See Thon.) Turban. Ornamental entrees of chicken and forcemeat, dressed in the form of a turban ; a hair-dress worn in the East. Turban of Veal. A cold dish composed of cold cut-up fowl, slices of cold veal garnished with tongue and truffle, the whole arranged in the form of a turban. Turbit. A variety of the domestic pigeon. Turbot. Turbot, f. A highly esteemed flat sea-fish. The flesh of the turbot is firm, white, and delicate in flavour. It is one of the few that improve by keeping for a day or two. Our supply comes principally from the English coasts, and from a few places off the Dutch coast. The turbot of the Adriatic was held in great esteem by the Romans. Turbotin. Small turbot. Turbotiere. Turbot-kettle or pan in which turbot is cooked. Turkey. Dinde, f. A large species of domestic fowl. Though called “ turkey,” after the country of that name, it is really a native of North America. It was introduced into England in the reign of Henry VIII. Wild turkeys are still found in America, and their flesh has a finer flavour, although a deeper colour, than the domesticated bird. The flavour of a young bird of moderate size is better than that of a large one. The old birds may be known by the roughness and redness of their legs, which in the younger are black and smooth. Turmeric. Powdered turmeric root is the ingredient to which curry-powder owes its colour. Turmeric tubers yield a deep yellow powder of a resinous character. It is a principal ingredient in some Indian dishes. Turn. Tourner, f. To trim or pare vegetables into neat round or oval shapes. Turn-broche or Turnspit. Formerly joints while being roasted were turned by young persons or trained dogs ; now they are turned by clockwork previously wound up.145 K Turnips. Navets, f. A white bulbous root. They are said to have been introduced into England from Hanover, as late as the reign of George I. The common variety and the Swede are extensively grown in England. A third variety, long in shape, resembling the carrot, yellowish-white in colour and strong in flavour, was formerly grown here, but is now imported from France. Turnip-tops. The young leaves of the turnip, especially the Swede, are excellent cooked as a vegetable, although rather pungent and bitter. Turquet. Maize. Turtle. Tortue, f. (See Tortoise.) Edible marine or sea tortoise. The green turtle is considered the most highly prized as a food delicacy ; in addition to the famous turtle soup, numerous other dishes are made from it. The turtle was first brought to England in the middle of the 17th century. Its first appearance as an edible dish is repulsive. We learn from Sir Hans Sloane that at the beginning of the 18th century turtle was only eaten in Jamaica by the poor. Tutti-frutti. An Italian expression for various kinds of fruits, or a mixture of cooked vegetables. Ice-cream, etc., mixed with different sorts of candied fruits. Twelfth Cake. A large cake, into which a bean, ring or other article was introduced, made for Twelfth Night festivals. The cake being cut up, whosoever got the piece containing the ring or bean was accepted as king for the occasion. U. Ucha. A Russian fish soup. Ude (Louise Eustache). A famous chef, at one time cook to Louis XVI. and the Earl of Sefton. Author of the “ French Cook.” Umble, Umbre, f. Umber ; grayling ; a fish of the salmon variety. Ure. A species of wild ox, now nearly extinct. Usquebagh. The name of an Irish beverage, consisting of a compound spirit made with spices and sugar. Uvaggio. Any Italian wine made from mixed grapes.V, Vachelin, Vacherin. A Jura cheese ; with whipped cream. Valence. Valencia, a section of Spain famous for its vineyards and its oranges. Vandreuil, f. An excellent fish, found principally at the sea- side of the French dept. Provence. Vanille, f. Vanilla. The fruit of a fragrant plant ; the most delicate flavouring known, used for all kinds of sweet dishes. Named from the fruit resembling a Spanish knife, called “ vayna,” or “ vaynilla.” It grows principally in Brazil, Guiana, Mexico, and the West Indies. Vanille (a la). Vanilla-flavoured. Vanneau, f. Plover ; lapwing ; pewit. Vanner, f. To stir a sauce quickly, so as to work it up lightly, in order to make it smooth. Varenkis. A Polish side dish. Vatel. Name of a clever and ingenious chef, who acted in that capacity to Louis XIV. of France. He took his life because the fish for a special banquet did not arrive in time. Dishes “ a la Vatel ” are much appreciated. Born 1714. Veal Tendon. (See Tendon de Veau.) Veau, f. Veal. The flesh of the calf. Veau (tete de). Calf’s head. Vefour, f. A renowned Paris restaurant. Name given to several specialities served there. Vegetable-marrow. Courge, f. It grows best in warm or tropical regions, and is largely cultivated in Persia, whence it was introduced into England. Veloute, f. Velvet-like ; smooth. A rich white sauce made from chicken stock, cream, etc. ; also applied to certain cream soups. Venaison, f. Venison, the flesh of the deer. During the Middle Ages, when wild animals were more plentiful, venison was more popular than it is now. From the following, one must conclude that its popularity is rapidly waning : “ The Earl of Portsmouth, as usual, provided the venison for the buck- feast, which for over a century has been celebrated at 1^6147 Andover. The feast, however, appears to be gradually on the decline, for whereas the proceedings used to be parti- cipated in by hundreds of the most prominent personages in the district, the event this week did not attract more than some twenty or so guests.” Verduresse, f. Green vegetables ; salad herbs ; pot herbs. Verjus, f. Juice of unripe grapes or crab-apples. Vermicelle, f. Vermicelli, it. Very fine strings of paste, threadlike in appearance, made from the dough of wheat flour, and forced through cylinders or pipes till it takes a slender, worm-like form, when it is dried ; used in soups, puddings, and for crumbing. Vermouth. A favourite aromatic wine distilled from worm- wood, sweet wine, and various fruits, herbs, and spices ; said to stimulate appetite. Vert-pre, f. Name of a green herb sauce, or applied to dishes with green garnishing. Viande, f. Meat, viands. Viande de careme. Lenten food. Viande faisandee, hasardee. Meat kept till it is high. Viande (menue). Fowl and game. Vichy, f. A mineral water that takes its name from Vichy, a French watering-place. Villeroi, f. Name of a famous French family. Several dishes are so named. Villeroux. Name of a chef, a friend of the great Careme, who was famous as Count Mirabeau’s chef. It is said that Villeroux went to live among a wild tribe in India, where he practised his art with such success that within a very short time he was proclaimed king. When he died, he left his people as a legacy the recipe for making “ Omelette au Jambon.” If the statement be true, it is the only instance in history of a cook being made a king. Villeroux’s bio- grapher describes him as a worthy prince, who was celebrated, not only as a cook, but also for his wit and love of adventure. This accounts, probably, for his falling into the midst of a wild Indian tribe. Vin, f. Wine. Vin blanc (au). Done in white wine. Vlnaigre, f. Vinegar. Literally sour wine. Vin-aigre—used for pickling, in sauces, and for salads. Vinegar is made from apples, wood, sugar, and from any kind of grain, but148 chiefly from cheap and inferior wines. Malt forms the chief substance from which the ordinary table vinegar is made in England. Vinaigre de framboises. Raspberry vinegar. Vinaigrer. To season with vinegar. Vinaigrette. A salad sauce of vinegar, oil, pepper, and herbs. Vin Dun Anno. Term applied to young or first year’s sherry. Violette, f. Violet. A dark blue flower, of delicate perfume, of a low, herbaceous plant, used crystallised for sweets, etc. Vitelotte. Peachblow potato. Red kidney potato. Vlattero. A Greek liqueur. Voisin. Name of a celebrated Paris restaurateur of former days. Many dishes bear his name. Volaille, f. Poultry. Name given collectively to all domes- ticated birds used as food, including chicken, duck, pigeon, turkey, guinea-fowl, goose, etc. Vol-au-vent, f. Round or oval case made of puff pastry, filled with a rich ragout of cooked meat, game, chicken, sweetbread, and sometimes fruit. Voliere (a la), f. Poultry or game cooked and dished up in their plumage. Vopalliere, f. A dish of small chicken fillets, larded and braised, served with truffle sauce. Name also applied to other dishes. Vraie tortue, f. Real turtle. W. Wafers. Gauffres, f. Waffeln, g. A kind of light and thin paste crust, either baked, fried, or grilled. The meaning of the word, which is of Teutonic origin, is honey-comb. Walnut. Noix, f. Originally imported from Persia, is gene- rally served with fruits as dessert. The unripe fruit is pickled, or made into ketchup. Wastle Cake, Scotch. Wastle bread was baked on a girdle, which is analogous to the English girdle or griddle cake.149 Water. Eau, F. A transparent fluid composed of oxygen and hydrogen. Water cannot be classified as food, for it produces neither heat nor force, though without it all vital action would come to a standstill. Watercress. An aquatic plant, used for salads, etc. Originally it was found growing wild in our own country, but it has been cultivated since 1808. There are three varieties : the green-leaved, small brown-leaved, and the large brown- leaved, the last named being considered the best. Water-souchet. Name derived from the Dutch word “ Water- zootje.” It is a fish stew served in a soup-tureen, or vege- table dish. It is eaten with a spoon. Weever. A fish of the perch family. Welsh Rarebit. Commonly called “ Welsh rabbit.” A slice of toasted bread covered with melted cheese and butter, seasoned with pepper and mustard. Westmorland. An English statesman, after whom certain dishes are named. Wheatear or Clodhopper. This little bird is highly esteemed for the table, especially in the Sussex watering-places. It is also called Fallowchat. Whelk. A shellfish, called the poor man’s delicacy, known to be most indigestible as a food. Whey. Petits lait, f. The uncoagulated portion of milk, used as a cooling beverage. Whiskey. Whisky. A spirit made by the distillation of the fermented extract from malted and unmalted cereals, barley, corn, rye, and potatoes, or any other starch-yielding material, but preferably from malted barley. Whitebait. Blanchailles, f. The smallest known species of the herring genus. When fried they form one of the most appreciated dishes of the “ haute cuisine.” Owing to their great delicacy they ought to be cooked as fresh as possible. Slices of lemon and thinly cut brown bread and butter are always handed round with this fish. Seasonable February to May. Whitepot. An ancient preparation of cream, eggs, pulp of apples, etc., etc., baked in a dish or in a crust. This is a kind of custard fruit puree pie, verging towards a charlotte.150 White Stew. Blanquette, f. Whiting. Merlans, f. Seasonable March to August. This fish is very delicate, and easily digested. It seldom exceeds a pound and a half in weight, or ten or twelve inches in length. In the winter it swarms in large shoals within three miles of the shore for the purpose of depositing its spawn. In the winter time this fish is sometimes sold under the peculiar name of “ buckhorn,” which is simply the ordinary whiting caught in Cornwall, salted and dried. Widgeon. Sarcelle, f. Seasonable October to February. The widgeon belongs to the same family as the wild duck. It is a native of the northern regions of Europe and Asia. Early in March they begin their Polar migration. Wiener Schnitzel, g. A favourite Viennese dish of veal cutlets, garnished with fried yolks of eggs, anchovy fillets, etc., often served with sauerkraut. Wild Boar. Sanglier, f. The flesh of the wild boar is finer than that of the pig. It is found in the forests and marsh lands of the temperate regions of Europe and Asia. The wild boar seeks its food at night, feeding on roots which it digs up with its snout. Where truffles abound, its flesh obtains a peculiarly delicate flavour. Wild Duck. Canard sauvage, f. This bird is also called the mallard, and is highly esteemed for the table. It is distinguished from the tame duck by the colour of its feet being red, while those of the tame duck are yellow. Wild Goose. The flesh of the wild goose has a more gamey flavour than that of the domesticated bird. Woodcock. Coq du bruyere, f. Seasonable October to Decem- ber. This bird is celebrated for the exquisite flavour of its flesh. It should be cooked without being drawn, the trail being considered by epicures a great delicacy. When the spring change of plumage commences, the bird loses its delicacy. The woodcock is a native of the northern latitudes of Europe and Asia. Wood Pigeon. These birds should be hung for a few days. They may be cooked as ordinary pigeons.Work-to. This expression is frequently used as a culinary term, especially so in connection with sauces, mixtures, batters, creams, or pastes. It indicates that it is to be stirred briskly with a spoon, whisk or the hand until smooth. In making ices its meaning conveys vigorous stirring with the spatule during the operation of freezing. Wurst. The German for sausage, fresh or smoked. X. Xanthurus. An East Indian fish, resembling the carp ; known in the Dutch colonies as “ geelstard.” Xavier. Name of a clear soup. Supposed to have been intro- duced by King Louis XVIII. in honour of Count Xavier of Saxony, who died in 1806. Xeres. Spanish strong wine of deep amber colour and aromatic flavour ; so-called from Xeres, a place near Cadiz. Xerophajie. The eating of dry meats. Y. Yaffingali. The green woodpecker. Yak. A species of ox found in Tibet. Yamadon. An oil from the yellow nutmeg. Yams. A tropical vegetable similar to the sweet potato, not much eaten in England. Yapok, Yapock. The South American water opossum. Yapon, Yaupon, Yupon. An evergreen shrub whose leaves yield the “ black drink ” of the Indians. Yeast. Levain ; levure, f. Also called barm. It is added in small quantities to flour for making dough intended to ferment, in order to quicken the process. Yering. A delicate red dry Australian wine. Yokola. A Kamtchatka dish.152 Yorkshire Pudding. A batter made of flour, eggs, milk, and suet, and baked ; generally served with roast beef. Yorkshire Rarebit. A Welsh rarebit (toasted bread and cheese), with a slice of broiled bacon and a poached egg on top. Young Wild Boar. Marcassin, f. Ysard. Chamois of the Pyrenees. Yucker. The American flicker or golden-winged woodpecker. Yvette (creme). A liqueur extracted from violets, etc. Yvorne. An amber sub-acidulous wine ; the most highly-prized of Swiss wines, grown in the Yvorne district. Z. Zabyajone, it. A frothing mixture of wine, yolks of eggs, and sugar, thickened over the fire, and served hot in glasses. Zakuska. The Russian name for hors d’ceuvre. Zambaglione. A kind of richly-flavoured cream, served in glasses, either hot or cold. Zamia. A genus of palm-like trees, some species of which yield an edible starchy pith. Zampone, it. Stuffed and salted pigs’ feet. Zander, Zant, Sander. The European pike perch. Zea. A species of cereal from which maize or Indian corn is produced. Zeltlinger. Name of a’Tavourite German white wine. Largely used for cups. Zephire. Name of small oval-shaped forcemeat dumplings, a kind of quenelles, which are poached and served with a rich sauce. Zeste. (Zest). The outer skin of the orange or lemon, cut thinly; also the skin quartering the kernel of a walnut. Zeste. Flavoured with the outer skin of the orange or lemon. Zingel. A fish of the perch family, found in the Danube. Zizanie. Wild rice. Zedoary. A powerful sudorific; a bitter pungent root grown in India and China.Zein. A proteid found in Indian corn. Zumology. The doctrine of fermentation of liquors. Zumometer. An instrument for measuring the degree of fermentation of liquids. Zuppa al Brodo. A fish broth with toasted bread and cheese. Zwieback, g. Toasted or twice baked milk, bread or cake. Literally, twice baked. Zythogala. Graecified name applied by Sydenham, the English physican, and later by the French doctor, Secquet, to the then popular posset (etc., etc.). Zythos. A kind of beer made by the ancient Egyptians. Zythum. A liquid made from malt and wheat. Words used chiefly in relation to Menus of Meals. French. English. Dejeuner. Dejeuner de Noce. Dejeuner a la Fourchette. Diner. Sou per. Souper de Bal. Breakfast. Wedding Breakfast. Luncheon. Dinner. Supper. Ball Supper. Menu—or Bill of Fare courses. Hors d’CEuvre. Appetisers, or side dishes. Soup. Potage. Poisson. Entrees. Releve. Roti. Fish. Entrees. Remove. Roast. Vegetables. Salad. Sweet dishes. Savouries. Cheese. Dessert. * Ices. Legumes. Salade. Entremets. Bonne bouche. Fromage. Dessert. Glaces. * This includes fruit as well as dessert biscuits and nuts. iS3CULINARY WORDS Used in Relation to Menus. FRENCH—ENGLISH. Abricots, apricots. Agneau, lamb. Alose, shad. Alouettes, larks. Aloyau de boeuf, sirloin of beef. Amandes, almonds. Ananas, pineapple. Anchois, anchovy. Anguilles, eels. Artichaut, artichoke. Asperges, asparagus. Aspic, savoury felly. Barbeau, barbel. Barbue, brill. Becasse, woodcock. Becassine, snipe. Beignets, fritters. Beurre, butter. Blanchailles, whitebait. Bceuf, ox ; beef. Bouilli, boiled beef. Brochet, pike. Cabillaud, cod. Canards, ducks ; canards sauvages, wild ducks. Canetons, ducklings. Cafe, coffee. Capres, capers. Carrelet, flounder. Caviar, caviare. Champignons, mushrooms. Chou, cabbage; choux de Bruxelles, Brussels sprouts ; choux marins, seakale. Citron, lemon. [etc.). Compote, stew (of fruit, pigeons, Concombre, cucumber. Confiture, jam. Consomme, clear soup. Coqs de bruyere, black game ; heath cock. [cutlets. Cotelettes de mouton, mutton Cotes de bceuf, ribs of beef. Courge, vegetable marrow (pumpkin). Creme, cream. Cressons, cresses. Crevettes, prawns, {turkey poult. Dindon, turkey; dindonneau, Ecrivisses, crayfish. Entremet, sweet course, or vegetable dishes. Eperlans, smelts. Epinard, spinach. Esturgeon, sturgeon. Faisans, pheasants. ‘ Farce, force-meat or stuffing. Farci, stuffed. Figues, figs. [veal. Fillet de veau, filleff or loin) of Frais, fresh. Framboises, raspberries. Frit, fried. Fromage, cheese. Gateau, cake. Gelee, jelly. Gibier, game. Gigot de mouton, leg of mutton. Gigot d’agneau, leg of lamb. Glaces, ices. Grille, broiled or grilled. Groseilles, gooseberries. Goujons, gudgeons. [herrings. Harengs marines, pickled iS4155 Harenguets (melettes), sprats. Haricots verts, French beans. Hollandaise, Dutch sauce. Homard, lobster. Huitres, oysters. Jambon, ham. Lait, milk. Laitances, fish roes. Lapin, rabbit ; lapin au kari, curried rabbit. Legumes, vegetables. Lievre, hare. Lingue, ling. Longe, loin. Maquereau, mackerel. Marbre, marbled. Marrons, chestnuts. Matelote, fish stew. Merlan, whiting. Merluche fume, dried haddock. Moules, mussels. Mouton, mutton ; sheep. Nau de morue, cod sounds. Navet, turnip. Nougat, almond sweetmeat. CEufs, eggs ; oeufs a l’lndienne, curried eggs ; oeufs a la neige, snow eggs. Oie, goose ; oison, gosling. Oignons, onions. Orge, barley. Pailles, straws ; Pailles au Parmesan, cheese straws. Pain, bread. Panais, parsnip. P&te de foie gras, goose-liver pie. Patisserie, pastry. Peches, peaches. Perdreaux, partridges. Pintade, guinea fowl. Plie, plaice. Pluviers, plovers. Poireau, leek. Pois, peas; pctits pois verts, green peas ; puree de pois, pea puree or pea soup. Poisson, fish. Pommes, apples; Pommes de terre, potatoes. Potage, soup ; potage de lievre, hare soup ;—de queue de boeuf, ox-tail soup ; — printaniere, spring soup. Puree de pois, pea soup. Queue de boeuf, ox-tail. Ragout, hash or stew. Raie, skate ; raitons, small skate. Raifort, horse-radish. Ramier, wood pigeon. Rechauffe, re-heated. Ris de veau, veal sweetbreads. Rissole, small pasties with minced meat. Rot, roti, roast. Sagou, sago. Salmi de gibier, hashed game. Saucisses, sausages. Saumon, salmon. [mutton. Selle de mouton, saddle of Semoule, semolina. Soupe Indienne, mulligatawny soup ;—mufle de boeuf, ox- cheek soup ;—maigre, soup without meat. Tanche, tench. Tartelettes, tartlets. Tendrons, tendons. Terrine, potted. The, tea. [turtle soup. Tortue, turtle ; tortue claire, clear Tourtes, tarts. Truite, trout. Veau, veal;—veau roti, roast veal. Venaison—venison. Volaille, fowl—chicken.CULINARY WORDS 156 Used in Relation to Menus. ENGLISH—FRENCH. Almonds, amandes; almond cake, gateau d’ amandes. Anchovies, anchois. Angels on horseback, les anges a cheval. Apples, pommes. Apricots, abricots. Artichokes, artichauts. Asparagus, asperges. Bacon, lard. \farci. Baked mackerel, maquereau Barley, orge. Beans, haricots ; French beans. haricots verts. Beef, boeuf. Beetroot, betterave. Black game, coqs de bruyere. Brains, cervelles. Bread, pain. Brill, barbue. Broccoli, brocoli. Broiled, grilled, grille. Brussels sprouts, choux de Bruxelles. Butter, beurre. Cabbage, chou. Calf’s head, tete de veau. Capers, capres. Capon, chapon. Cardoon, cardon. Caviare, caviar. Cauliflower, choufleur. Celery, celeri. Cheese, fromage ; cheese fritters, beignets au fromage; cheese straws, pailles au fromage. Cherries, cerises. Chestnuts, marrons. Chic-chicken, poussin. Chickens, poulets, volaille. Clear soup, consomme ; clear turtle soup, tortue claire. Cod, cabillaud ; cod sounds, nau de morue ; cod (salt), morue. Coffee, cafe. Cos lettuce, romaine. Crayfish, ecrivisses. Cream, creme. Cress, cresson. Crimped, recrepi. Cucumber, concombre. Curries, kari. Cutlets, cotelettes. Ducks, canards; wild ducks, canards sauvages; ducklings, canetons. Dutch sauce, Hollandaise sauce. Eels, anguilles. Eggs, ceufs. Egg plant, aubergine. Endive, chicoree. Figs, figues. Fish, poissons; fish stew, matelote. Forcemeat, farce. Fowl, volaille. French beans, haricots verts. Fresh, frais. Fritters, beignets. Game, gibier. Garlic, ail. Gherkin, cornichon.157 Goose, oie ; gosling, oison ; goose-liver pie, pate de fois gras. Gooseberries, groseilles. Gosling, oison. Gravy, jus Green Dutch sauce, Hollandaise verte ; green peas, petits pois. Grey mullet, mulet. Gudgeons, goujons. Guinea fowl, pintade. Gurnet, gournal. Haddock, aiglefin ; dried had- dock, merluche fume. Halibut, fletan. Ham, jambon. Hare, lievre ; hare soup, puree (or potage) de lievre. Hashed game, salmi de gibier. Herrings, harengs; pickled, marine. Horseradish, raifort. Ices, glaces. Jelly, gelee. Kale, Scotch, chou frise. Kidney, rognon. Lamb, agneau. Lark, mauviette or alouette. Leek, poireau. Lentils, lentilles. Lettuce, laiiue. Leg of mutton, gigot de mouton. Leg of lamb, gigot d'agneau. Lemon, citron. Ling, lingue. Liver, foie. Lobster, homard. Loin of mutton (stuffed), fillet (or longe) de mouton farcie. Mackerel, maquereau. Marbled, marbre. Meat, viande. Milk, lait. Mock turtle soup, potage de tete de veau. Mullet (red), rougets. Mulligatawny soup, potage de VI ndienne. Mushrooms, champignons. Mussels, moules. Mustard, moutarde. Mutton cutlets, cotelettes de mouton. Onions, oignons. Ox-cheek, mufle or palais de bceuf; ox-tail, queue de bceuf. Oysters, huitres. Parsley, persil. Parsnip, panais. Partridges, perdreaux. Peaches, peches. Peas, pois; green peas, petits pois verts; pea soup, potage (or puree) de pois. Pheasant, faisan. Pickled, soused, merine. Pie, pate. Pigeon, pigeon. Pike, brocket. Pineapple, ananas. Plaice, plie. Plover, pluvier. Plum, prune. Pork cutlets, cotelettes de pore. Potatoes, pommes de terre. Potted, en terrine. Poultry, volaille. Prawns, crevettes. Prunes, pruneaux. Puff paste, feuilletage. Puff pie, vol-au-vent. Pullet, poularde. Pumpkin, potiron.Rabbit, lapin. Radish, radis. Raspberries, framboises. Red mullets, rougets. Ribs of beef, cotes de bceuf. Roast, rot or roti. Roes (fish), laitances. Saddle, selle. Saddle of mutton, selle de mouton. Sago, sagou. Salt, sel. Salmon, saumon. Sausages, saucisses. Seakale, choux marins. Semolina, semoule. Shad, alose. Sirloin of beef, aloyau de bceuf. Skate, rale. Smelts, eperlans. Smoked, fume. Snail, escargot. Snipe, becassines. Snow eggs, oeufs d la neige Soft roes, laitances. Sorrel, oseille. Sounds (cod), nau de morue. Soup without meat, soupe (or potage) maigre. Spinach, epinards. Sprats, melettes. Spring soup, potage print anie re'. Stewed, etuvee. Strawberries, fraises. Stuffed, farcie. Sturgeon, e sturgeon. Sucking pig, cochon de lait. Sugar, sucre. Sweetbread, ris de veau. Tarts, tourtes or tartes. Tartlets, tartelettes. Tea, the. Teal, sarcelle. Tench, tanche. Tendons, tendrons. Tongue, langue. Trout, truite. Truffles, truffes. Turkey, dindon ;—poult, dindon- neau. Turnips, navets. Turtle, tortue. Vanilla, vanille. Veal, veau ; roast fillet of veal, filet de veau roti. Vegetables, legumes ; vegetable marrow, courge a la moelle. Venison, venaison. Wafer, gaufre, oublie. Walnuts, noix. Wedding-cake gateau de Noce. Whipped cream, creme fouettee. Whitebait, blanchailles. Whiting, merlan. Widgeon, sarcelle. Wild ducks, canards sauvages. Woodcock, becasse. Wood-pigeon, ramier.THE CULINARY LIBRARY. Standard Books for Cooks and others. By C. HERMAN SENN, G.C.A. THE “NEW CENTURY ” COOKERY BOOK.—Enlarged Edition. Contain- ing over 5,000 recipes of Dishes and Methods of Cooking, with over 400 illustrations. It forms one of the largest and most complete collections of cooking recipes for recherchi dishes ever produced in this country. Every up-to-date Chef and Caterer should possess a copy. Post free, 21/9. (Edition de Luxe, 33/-) .. .. .. .. .. ..21/- PRACTICAL GASTRONOMY: FRENCH MENUS.—A complete Menu Compiler and Register of Dishes. The most useful book for Managers and Chefs ever published. It gives the condensed directions of over 4,000 dishes, and many specimen menus for all occasions. Post free, 5/3 5/- RECHERCHE ENTREES .—This lately published book of over 250 pages contains a collection of the newest Entrees, presenting the latest ideas of the Entree course dishes, being of the highest type of Continental and English cookery. Price 5/-, illustrated. Cheap edition, 3/6. By post 4d. extra .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . . . . 3/6 RECHERCHfc side dishes. —Fifth Enlarged and Revised Edition now ready. A handy book of recipes for dainty Hors-d’CEuvre, Savouries, Salads, and Sandwiches, containing about 600 reliable recipes. Post free, 3/9 .. .. .. 3/6 SAVOURY BREAKFAST, DINNER, AND SUPPER DISHES.—A collection of some 500 useful and novel Recipes of Dishes suitable for breakfast, luncheon, and supper, also after-dinner savouries, etc. Post free, 3/9 3/6 RECHERCHE LUNCHEON AND DINNER SWEETS.—The latest book on Sweet Entremets, hot and cold dishes for all occasions. Beautifully illustrated. Post free, 2/9 .. .. .. .. .. 2 /6 A BOOK OF SALADS; OR, THE ART OF SALAD DRESSING.— By Alfred Suzanne and C. H. S. This little book is unquestionably the best in existence. It contains Recipes for Green Salads, Vegetable Salads, Fish Salads, Poultry and Game Salads, Meat Salads, and Fruit Salads. Salad Dressings and Sauces are also fully treated. Post free, 1/8 .. 1/6 ICES, AND HOW TO MAKE THEM. —A new treatise on Plain and Fancy Ices, Cream and Water Ices, Ice Puddings, Souffles, Sorbets, Mousses, Cooling Cups, Iced Drinks, etc. etc. New 3rd Edition. Post free, 2/3 .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 2 /- EMERGENCY DINNERS, OR THE AMATEUR COOK’S MANUAL.— Practically every day routine of cooking is covered by the 300 Recipes given. A special chapter of useful Invalid Cookery Recipes is given, also Specimen Menus. Post free, 2/3 .. .. .. .. .. 2 /- DICTIONARY OF FOODS AND CULINARY ENCYCLOPAEDIA — A dictionary of technical terms, the names of foods, cooking auxiliaries, condiments, and beverages. Specially adapted for Chefs, Hotel and Restaurant Managers, Cookery Teachers, etc. Post free, 2/2 .. .. 2 /-THE PRACTICAL COOKERY MANUAL. — A Family Cook-Book, compiled on popular lines to meet the present-day requirements. Some 400 Recipes of Plain and Middle-class Cooking. Fourth Edition. Post free, 1J2. (With illustrations and better binding, 2/6) .. .. 1 /- COOKERY FOR INVALIDS AND THE CONVALESCENT.-A collection of valuable recipes, useful in the preparation of tempting dishes and drinks for the sick and convalescent. Post free, 1/8.. .. 1/6 POTATO COOKERY.—By A. Suzanne and C. Herman Senn. 300 ways of cooking and serving potatoes for table. Post free, 1/8.. .. .. 1/6 HORS-D’CEUVRE AND SANDWICHES.—Forming Part III. of Recherche Side Dishes, 102 pp. By C. Herman Senn. Post free, 1/8 .. .. 1 /6 CHAFING-DISH AND CASSEROLE COOKERY.—A neatly got-up little book dealing with the above subjects, which are coming rapidly back to popularity. This manual is full of excellent recipes and practical advice, to suit everyone’s taste and pocket. Post free, 1/8.. . . .. 1/6 EGGS AND OMELETS: HOWTO COOK THEM IN 250 DIFFERENT WAYS.—Every imaginable method of cooking and serving eggs for table is carefully and lucidly treated in this handy volume. Post free, 1/8 .. 1/6 COOKING IN STONEWARE.—A Handbook giving full directions for cooking food in earthenware pans or casseroles. Post free, 7d. .. .. 6d. THE POPULAR COOKERY BOOK: FRENCH AND ENGLISH DISHES FOR SMALL HOUSEHOLDS— Post free, 7£d 6d. THE ART OF CURRY MAKING.—A reliable Manual on the treatment of Curries, containing a number of recipes by the late Charles Francatelli. Post free, 7d. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 6d. HOME-MADE BEVERAGES AND AMERICAN DRINKS —By M. E. Steedman. Contains over 800 formulas for producing all kinds of drinks, alcoholic and temperance drinks, as well as directions for the proper mixing of American drinks. Post free, 1/8 .. .. .. .. 1/6 POPULAR BREAKFAST DISHES AND SAVOURIES.—A handy little Manual of over 180 reliable recipes for up-to-date dishes. Post free, 7d. 6d. Any of the aljove=mentioned Works may be obtained from the FOOD AND COOKERY PUBLISHING AGENCY, 329, Vauxhall Bridge Road, Victoria Station, London, S.W. Remittances must in every case accompany orders. Cheques and Postal Orders should be crossed and made payable to the Manager. Illustrated Booklet of Standard Books for Cooks and Caterers sent post free on application. Botolph Printing Works, 8, Gate Street, Kingsway, W.C.