LIQUID SUNSHINE RUMA D VERTI8EM ENTS. BANCROFT & CO., Lim„ &4§S $$$(IN(E§S, THE OLDEST ESTABLISHED HOUSE IN THE TRADE. 1 BOAR’S HEAD ’ BRAND. We guarantee our Lard to be perfectly free from Water or any other Adulteration. We only make one Quality, viz., PURE LARD. To bo liad from all tbe principal Provision Merchants, wholesale and retail, throughout the United Kingdom. Latest Distinction, Gold Medal, Havre Exhibition, 1887. EDWARDS’ A of Beef and Vegetables. DESICCATED AND WHITE (VEGETABLE) A Vegetarian Preparation. Sold by all Grocers. If T 9 ^ Samples of both per post ^2^ J ^ ^ One Hundred Economical Recipes Tor the Preparation of Soups and Made Dishes with these Soups will be found in Post Free EDWARDS’ ECONOMIC COOKERY, Post Free Simply send your name and address on a post-cnrd, stating where you *”L *hls advertisement, when the book will he sent to you GRATIS and POST FREE. 22101718691 rioN KS L S. .IM., EET, LONDON.O o m W N c3 O Sutherland Brand Preserved Provision Med K9837 cc w z w (X OS < o 03 W J Z < X Q ADVERTISEMENTS. Pi P! PI S3 H O <3 Pa S3 & <3 a o xi § •<1 PCI E>i k CQ sg n <d rt no ri<Dj3 -ftg 2 M<JW Eh ifM g5'| Sw |Wo £5 Q , gwS °3s ° 03 Ro u « -I MCij'+H °W HbS gif Sow rHHLi ill Sow pWw •-Hh-ihCJ “Wfe; 2 w £.2H .O W ctiPI hPl pq H3i T3 MADVERTISEMENTS. IV ASK YOUR IRONMONGER FOR MARTIN’S PATENT Sole Manufacturers : G. KYNOCH & CO., Lim., Lion Works, WITTON, NEAR BIRMINGHAM. Martin’s Patent Lighthouse Lamp. 40-Candle Power.V ADVERTISEMENTS. JOHN S. FITTER. & SON, ENGLISH AND COLONIAL MEAT SALESMEN, GRAND AVENUE, LEADENHALL MARKET. BEST ENGLISH, SCOTCH, AND AMERICAN BEEF. BEST ENGLISH, SCOTCH, AND NEW ZEALAND MUTTON. FREE DELIVERY AT WEST-END DAILY. Country Orders promptly attended to. Parcels delivered by CARTER, PATERSON & CO. at reduced rates. LIST OF PRICES ON APPLICATION. Terms—Cash or Reference.A DVEBTISEMEXTS. VI ‘ Tlie best disinfectant known to science.’—The Times. ‘Altogether it is not wonderful that Condy’s Fluid has been the favourite both with scientific and unscientific men. —The Lancet. ‘ I have myself made experiments, which have convinced me that the statements about the excellent effects of Condy’s Fluid are perfectly correct. I consider it an inestimable means for the preservation of health.’—Baron Liebeg, the eminent chemist. SYMINGTON'S Patent High Pressure OfTii pi A I 9 O Steam Prepared l ELZA b L*%J IJ FX For Soups, etc. In Id., 2cl., id., and 6d. Packets ; and Is., Is. 6d., and 3s. Tins. nr H CAHD Seasoned I IOUUr i and Flavoured. In 1 d. and 2d. Packets ; and 3d., 6d., and Is. Tins. This Article is prepared with our celebrated Pea Flour, Seasoned and Flavoured with the finest Herbs and Seasonings, to which is added Liebig s Extract of Meat. Ready in a few minutes. SOLD BY GROCERS AND DRUGGISTS EVERYWHERE, OR W. SYMINGTON & CO., jBowden Steam mills, market Ilavhorougli.THE HOUSEKEEPER SERIES. VOLUME I.: ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. EDITED BY PERCY LINDLEY. LONDON: 1 2 3-1 25, FLEET STREET; And all Booksellers. f. ' cm-?3;ADVERTISEMENTS. Vlll 'LA BRILLANTINE’ METALLIC POWDER Is the best, cheapest, and most effective Powder for cleaning and polishing Metals and Glass (especially Brass). It is used by the Life, Horse and Dragoon Guards, the Metropolitan and Volunteer Fire Brigades, etc., etc. Sold everywhere in 6d. and Is. Boxes. PROPRIETORS : J. F. BAUMGARTNER & CO., 15, NEWMAN STREET, OXFORD STREET, LONDON, W. Established 1848. fft0LLET?S| fPREVEt SO m Gold Medals. CHOL LET’S JULIENNE. (VEGETABLES AND HERBS FOR SOUPS, STEWS, ETC.) Note the Trade Mark and Beware of Spurious Imitations! Ask for CHOLLET’S Julienne! Sold by all respectable Grocers. Purchasers should see that the Label on every bottle of the original WORCESTERSHIRE SAUCE hears their Signature, thus Sold wholesale by the Proprietors, Worcester; Crosse & Blackwell, London and Export Oilmen generally. RETAIL EVERYWHERE. ASK FOR LEA & PERRINS’ SAUCE.THE HOUSEKEEPER SERIES, I.—ENGLISH AND FLENCH COOKERY. PUBLISHERS’ PREFACE. The present volume is the first of a series intended to embrace subjects of practical interest in connection with dojnestic life, and to be reliable and useful guides to every class of housekeeper in those matters inti- mately associated with the necessities, pleasures, health, happiness, comforts, and enjoyments of families. This, the first of the series, is devoted to food and cookery—English and French. The next volume will deal with Furnishing, Upholstery, Interior Decoration, etc. Each volume will be written and compiled with care, under critical direction, and issued at a price which will place it within the reach of all classes. WELLCOME PJSriTUTE LIBR^Y Cell. welfAOmee Call No. Q.Tadvertisements. X COOKING WITHOUT COAL OR GAS. WRIGHT AND BUTLER’S PATENT OIL COOKERS. FOR BOILING, ‘The Best.’ for BAKING, for ROASTING, for GRILLING, for STEWING, for STEAMING, ‘ The Best.’ for FRYING. No Smoke. No Smell. No Fixing. No Flues. No Danger. These Celebrated Stoves are no new thing, untried and unknown ; they have been before the public for many years. The proof that they are highly appreciated by those who use them is found in the Testi- monials we are continually receiving and in the increasing demand for our make. Every Stove is manufactured on the most improved scientific principles with the object of increasing the efficiency and reducing the cost. All the valuable improvements for which our Stoves are noted are secured by letters patent. Eor Roasting they are specially adapted, as the joint is more evenly cooked than it would be with an ordinary range. For Baking Bread, Pastry, etc., there is no method by which this can be done better ; in fact, many ladies have informed us that they prefer our Stoves for Pastry and Bread because the whole arrange- ment is under control, whilst a coal range oven never is—this is the real secret of Bread Baking and of Good Cooking. Illustrated Catalogues and Price Lists free from most Ironmongers, or direct from the Works. WRIGHT & BUTLER, Limited, Manufacturers, LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM.CONTENTS. I. Common-Sense Cookery. II. Food in Relationship with Nutrition and Digestion. III. Soups and Sauces. IY. Fish-Cookery. Y. Meats : Joints, Steaks, Chops, Entries, etc. VI. Poultry and Game. VII. Vegetables. VIII. Puddings and Pies. IX. Sweets and Savouries. X. Bread, Biscuits, and Cakes. XI. Tinned and Preserved Goods and Extracts. XII. Cooking for Invalids. XIII. Drinks : Tea, Coffee, Wines, Beer, etc. XIV. Kitchen and Domestic Requisites. Index to Contents. Index to Advertisements.Xll A DVERTLSEM ENTS, LUCK’S * WEDDING * CAKES, 8/6 10/6 16/6 21/- 30/- 42/- to 10 gs. Weight about 4J 6J 12 16 22 lb. (Always ready, completely Decorated, at the above Pricei.) Tier Cakes & Cakes Decorated with Natural Flowers PACKED FOR COUNTRY FREE OF CHARGE. Wedge Boxes from Is. doz. CREAMS, JELLIES, ICES, RAISED PIES, GALANTINES, TOTTED MEATS. ROUT SEATS, PLATE, CUTLERY, CLASS, ETC., LENT ON HIRE. Ground Almonds, Is. 3d. lb. Icing Sugar, 7d. lb. Best Genoa Cake, Seed, Sul- tana, and Currant, lOd. It). Large Quantities at Reduced Prices. School Cakes for Treats, etc., 5d. per lb. by the cwt. New Sweet-Meat, ‘American Fruit’ Candy, is. lb. j^xiore, Coofc Confectioner, 117, TOTTENHAM COURT ROAD, W. (OPPOSITE SCHOOLBRED’S.) ESTABLISHED 1S61.INTRODUCTORY. Packed in small compass, the reader will find, it is hoped, in the following pages, a fairly comprehensive guide to every-day economical cookery. Recipes which have been tested and approved are given as plainly and simply as possible. In the preliminary chapters it is explained briefly how and why good cookery and wholesome food preserve health, and often restore it when impaired ; how the natural pleasures of feeding depend on it ; and why wholesome and enjoyable meals are cheaper than the poorly- cooked, monotonous meals still too common in many English homes ; the question being one of selection and cooking rather than cost. They touch also upon the nature and qualities of food in its various forms, and the philosophy of Roasting, Boiling, Frying, Baking, and the several processes of cooking.XIV A D V EKTI8 EM EXTS. CONDENSED «3f MILK i* RECOMMENDED FOB ITS Id. Tin—Lehmann’s Pure Milk. 2d. Tin.-Mother Brand. 4id. Tin-Mother Brand. 5d. Tin—Aventicum (Milkman) Brand. TO BE OBTAINED FI?Oil ANY GOOD GROCER.PAKT I. COMMON-SENSE COOKERY. ‘ Good Plain Living.’ Good plain living is still spoken of by old-fashioned middle-class people as if it consisted of little more than a joint of beef or mutton roasted or boiled, and as if cookery-books were consequently altogether mistakes ; but better-informed people know this is not the case. The prejudice in favour of a joint of meat with a simply made pie or pud- ding and certain vegetables is in fact a fruitful source of indigestion, under the influence of which life loses its enjoyment and health suffers. Without undertaking anything costly or elaborate, a variety of admir- able dishes may be placed upon the table. Yet, to quote a sound authority, how often we see, ‘partly upon the erroneous supposition that plain roast or boiled is the most wholesome species of food, and partly to avoid the trouble of providing anything else, a whole family, however various their constitutions may be, seated at table before a single joint, to take their chance of suffering from the repletion which even a small portion may occasion to a delicate person, who could have partaken of three or four judiciously cooked dishes without sustaining the slightest inconvenience. The stomach, in fact, never performs its duties so effectually as when it acts upon food composed of much variety.’ Indeed, the united testimony of high medical authority proves that a variety of well-dressed food is more easy of digestion than a meal confined to one sort of solid meat. As Dr. Herbert Mayo says, ‘Diet should, be varied' And he adds, ‘A spoonful of soup, a flake of fish, a slice of cold beef, in succession, will often provoke an appetite, and with it digestion, where the nicest mutton cutlet, or the most tempting slice of a haunch of venison, would have gone against the stomach.’ Petroleum Oil Stoves arc the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cook- ing known. In five minutes from time of lighting one of Wright and Butler's ' Acme Combination ’ Oil Cookers is at full power, and requires no further atten- tion. The trimming, filling, and lighting occupy three minutes. Illustrated Cata- logue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 10 English versus French Cookery. Soyer in his ‘ Modern Housewife ’ speaks of the English system of cookery prevailing in his day as one which ‘ creates great waste and makes bad food out of good meat,’ at an increased money cost. He urged that by adopting the French system of cookery, with a little sound knowledge of principles and the exercise of ordinary care and thoughtfulness, families might live well and dine well eveiy day at less cost than serves to provide the majority of English families with unattractive and often very unwholesome fare. He says, very sensibly, as we think, ‘ I shall name all joints of meat which, though numerous, offer but little variation when continually dressed the same way, and observe that everybody has the bad habit of running only upon a few which are considered the best. They are as follows ‘ Those in beef are the sirloin, ribs, round, silver-side, aitchbone. ‘ In mutton—leg, saddle, haunch, loin. ‘ Lamb—fore quarter and leg. ‘ Veal—fillet, loin. ‘ Pork—leg, sparerib, loin. 1 Every one of these joints are of the most expensive parts, because generally used, although many of the other parts are equally as good.’ He then speaks of what can be done in the way of made dishes out of such parts as are rarely used in this country by the middle classes, and adds, ‘ To prove to you that my argument is correct, look carefully over all the joints that are cut from beef, veal, mutton, lamb, pork, and you will find that ten of the prime are in daily use to one of the other, and principally for a want of the knowledge of cookery, leaving the science of cooking our food to a fierce or slow fire, or plunging our expensive provisions into an ocean of boiling water, which is thrown away, after having absorbed a great portion of the succulence of the meat. Try the receipt for the Pot-au-feu ; taste the broth and eat the meat, and tell me which plan you consider the best. Do not think that I object to your plain joints, because, now and then, I am rather partial to them ; but why not manage to make use of the broth, by diminishing the quantity of water, and simmering them, instead of galloping them at a special railway train speed ? Were the middle classes only but slightly acquainted with the domestic cookery of France, they would certainly live better and less expensively than at present; very often, four or five different little made dishes may be made from the remains of a large Sunday’s joint, instead of its ap- pearing on the table of a wealthy tradesman for several days cold, and often unsightly, and backed by a bottle of variegated-coloured pickles, made with pyroligneous acid, which sets my teeth on edge merely in thinking of it.’17 COMMON-SENSE COOKERY. ‘ Vary your Diet.’ The real business of a true cook is to place upon our tables whole- some, palatable and varied food, such as you seldom get from the ‘ good plain cooks ’ of the advertisements, a class of domestic servants who usually become cooks, not because they know anything about cookery, but because they prefer the kitchen fire to work they are better fitted for—scrubbing floors and polishing grates. Such cooks are answerable for creating the greater half of the thousand and one dyspeptic ills to which flesh is heir, and on many a tombstone, if such melancholy facts were recorded thereon, it might be truly written, ‘ Died of a Good Plain Cook.’ But we are changing all this, and the time is fast coming, we hope, when, thanks to schools of cookery and improved public opinion, these ‘ good plain cooks ’ will have to join those Sairey Gamps of the sick- room whom trained nurses have relegated to the limbo of things abandoned. At any rate, philosophic cookery is now recognised by all sensible, well-informed people as an important branch of female education, and even in many of the poorest households wives are able to cook well, adding a new charm and attraction to their homes, in- creasing the health and happiness of their family, and that too with a smaller expenditure of money than is required for the old process of ‘ boiling meat at a gallop, half roasting joints, burning greasy chops, making dumplings of awful tenacity,’ and always abusing vilely an instrument which easily lends itself to abuse, that most dyspeptic- creating of all our culinary utensils, the frying-pan. Sir Henry Thompson has pointed out that drinking habits often arise from a flagging appetite and a failing digestion due to bad cookery and improper food, when ‘ the gratification of acquired tastes usurps the function of that zest which healthy appetites produce ;’ and he adds, ‘ It often comes to pass that at middle age, when man finds him- self in the full current of life’s occupations, struggling for pre-eminence with his fellows, indigestion having become persistent in some of its numerous forms, shortens his “staying power,” or spoils his judgment or temper and ‘ the poor man advancing in years shows signs of damage to his constitution from continuous toil with inadequate food, the supply of which is often diminished by his expenditure for beer.’ From statements made by Dr. Christison, who some years since was employed by the Government to investigate this matter for the benefit of our soldiers in war time, it appears that a man of sedentary life can exist in health on 17 ounces per day of real nutriment, while a man engaged in active work requires about 28 ounces, and a hard, con- tinuous worker 30 ounces or more. He also points out that this food must not be selected without careful reference to due proportions of the flesh-forming and heat producing elements, as already explained.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERV. 18 But, after all, the exact quantity and kind of food required by the individual cannot be definitely determined by any general rules. It must be left to the feeder, whose peculiar constitutional organization should be considered under the guidance of such knowledge of food, feeding, and cookery as we are endeavouring to supply, and by prac- tical experiment. The temperament and habits of the individual and the changeful conditions of the stomach are alone too important in connection with these questions to be safely ignored, and these are complicated with other individual peculiarities known chiefly to their possessors. METHODS OF COOKERY. Turning now to the methods of cooking, viz., Roasting, Roiling, Stewing, Grilling, Broiling, Frying, and Baking, we will devote a few practical remarks to each. Roasting1. The smell and taste of roast meat arise from the slight alteration made in the cooking of its soluble qualities. Roasting is a process which, if well done, implies great care, attention and thoughtfulness on the part of the cook, the method being a difficult and important one, and by no means a thing of rule which can be mechanically performed. In the first place the fire must be in the right condition—clear, bright, and giving out uniform but not too strong heat; and its breadth and depth should be regulated to the size of the joint. The weight of the joint to be roasted, the condition and form of the meat, and its propor- tions of fat and lean, should also be considered. Meat of newly-killed beasts requires longer cooking. In warm weather joints require slightly less roasting than in cold. Thick joints—say sirloins of beef or legs of mutton—will not be well cooked if roasted as long as you would roast thinner ones, such as ribs of beef or shoulders. Boned or stuffed meat will require longer cooking than the same joints would unstuffed, or with the bone in. The meat of young animals and of older ones requires different treatment (as a rule young flesh, containing less fibrine, requires most cooking) ; one kind of meat is best roasted before a brisk fire (pork, veal, and lamb, for instance) ; another should be more slowly cooked. Some flesh requires very little cooking, some much longer ; the flesh of old and full-grown animals—poultry excepted —requiring the shorter time. The cook’s aim should be to preserve the real flavour and nourishing qualities of the meat, and to preserve the juices from being dried out during the roasting process. Attaining this aim depends chiefly upon the roasting being neither too quick nor too slow, and upon the care given to the basting, which should be thorough always. Avoid thrusting forks into roasting meat. It is a good plan to begin with the meat rather close to the fire and then aCOMMON-SENSE COOKERY. 19 little farther from the fire, decreasing the distance between the grate and the joint until (the exterior being hardened) the flesh is heated nearly uniformly all through ; and then bringing it and keeping it near the fire, lest remaining too far from it should destroy its crisp firmness, and make it unpleasantly soft and soddened. If too little cooked or underdone, meat is indigestible. If too much cooked or dried up, it is not less so. Over-cooking expels the fluids and contracts the fibres. It is sometimes absurdly urged that underdone indigestible meat is to be preferred because it is in itself more nutritious than the digestible or better-cooked flesh. But this is not dealing with flesh as food ; for if it were, cooking would be altogether dispensed with, because raw meat contains more of the nutritious elements than underdone meat. ‘ The spit and the stewpan,’ as Dr. Paris says in his book on 1 Diet,’ ‘ spare the stomach the drudgery of loosening the texture and softening the fibres of food and it is the cook’s business not only to send food to table as full of nourishing qualities as it can be, but to see that such qualities are in a fit condition to do their beneficent work of repairing, restoring, and reinvigorating most effectually. The cook should be a more useful, and so far a more important person than the physician ; and very often the depreciation of artists is the chief cause of an art’s degradation. I am sure this is often true of the art of cookery. Boiling1. Well-boiled meat is not so common as it should be, and one of the reasons is the persistence with which the old-fashioned notion of putting the joint into cold water is still clung to by many writers on this subject. Mrs. Glasse is often referred to as the most old-fashioned and unscien- tific of cooks, but she at any rate steered clear of this blunder ; whereas ‘ Murray’s Modem Cookery Book ’ says, ‘ All meat for boiling should be first entirely covered with cold water.’ One of the best authorities and the most scientific (Liebig) says, ‘ If the flesh be introduced into the boiler when the water is in a state of brisk ebullition, and if the boiling be kept up for a few minutes and the pot then placed in a warm place, so that the temperature of the water is kept at 158° to 165°, we have the united conditions for giving to the flesh the qualities which fit it for being eaten.’ If you wish to rob meat of its most nourishing and wholesome properties, put it in cold water, which receives them, leaving the meat quite unfit for eating, even if it does, to quote a writer of ‘ Cookery for the People,’ make the water ‘ a foundation for soup— that is, stock’! What could be more wasteful ? If you want ‘stock,’ make it with cheaper material than joints of meat intended for the table. ‘ When meat is eaten,’ says Dr. Bernay in his ‘ Household Chemis- try,’ ‘ the albumen should be retained in it, for not only does it 2—2ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERT. 20 preserve the fibrin from becoming hard, but it gives to it softness and delicacy. The influence of boiling water upon albumen is well known. The best method of boiling meat intended for food is to introduce it into boiling water ; if the boiling be kept up for five minutes, and then so much cold water be added as to reduce the temperature to 165', and the whole kept at this temperature long enough, all the conditions are united which give to the flesh the quality best adapted for its use as food. When it is introduced into the boiling water, the albumen im- mediately coagulates from the surface inwards, and in this state forms a crust, which no longer permits the external water to penetrate into the interior of the mass of flesh. But the temperature is gradually transmitted to the interior, and there effects the conversion of the raw flesh into the state of boiled. The flesh retains its juiciness, and is quite as agreeable to the taste as it can be made by roasting. When the temperature of the interior of a piece of meat has not reached 144°, it presents a blood-coloured or underdone appearance,’ ‘ The principle of both boiling and roasting,’ says another excellent authority, ‘ is the same, to endeavour as quickly as possible to surround the joint with a hard film of meat, in order to keep the flavour in,’ not to dissolve it out with a cold-water bath. Cold water extracts from the meat two most important elements of the gastric juice—lactic and phosphoric acids. In boiling meat, however, a certain proportion of the nutritious qualities are sure to escape into the water and steam, for which reason the quantity of water should not be moire than suffices to cover the meat, nor the saucepan an inch larger than it must needs be to hold it. Boiled too long or too fast, meat becomes indigestible and hard. Hard water is better than soft water for boiling meat in, more of its tenderness and richness being retained in the former than in the latter. Too rapid boiling tends to overdo the exterior portion of the meat, while the interior remains undone. Bor this reason, after the meat has been in water kept at the boiling-point (which is always of course the same) about five minutes (the time usually required for coagulating the albumen), the temperature should be reduced, aud the rest of the process be more slowly conducted. Salted meat, in particular, should be very slowly cooked, kept simmering, and allowed to grow cool in the pot. The scum which rises to the surface of the water should be care- fully removed while the water is near the boiling-point, as otherwise it sinks, and looks very unsightly attached to the meat. Baking. In the opinion of Sir Henry Thompson, baking is not a desirable form of preparing food. He says, ‘ Baking at best in a half-ventilated oven has long usurped the function of the spit, thanks to the ingenuity of economical range-makers. And the joint, which formerly turned inCOMMON-SENSE COOKERY. 21 a current of fresh air before a well-made fire, is now half stifled in a close atmosphere of its own vapours, very much to the destruction of the characteristic flavour of a roast.’ Recent experiments, however, have done much for the improvement of ovens, and this matter of ven- tilation having been more carefully considered, the chief objection to a very convenient and economical mode of cooking is no longer a necessity of the process. For pastry, bread, cakes, custards, and puddings, for many savoury meat dishes, and for making soups and gravies, the oven will always remain in favour,'and it is well known that meat loses least in weight by baking. The modern oil cooking stoves of Messrs. Wright and Butler, of Birmingham, and the gas-stoves of approved makers, now perform baking to perfection. Frying. Frying is also a process frequently condemned by scientific autho- rities, mainly perhaps because it is in high favour with bad cooks. ‘ Contrast,’ says a good authority, 1 for one moment the discoloured dish, too often met with in private houses, in which, say, a little bit of fish is sent up, and presents what may be called a parti-coloured appear- ance. Some part is burned black as a cinder, another part looks the colour of underdone pie-crust, and again other parts present bald patches, as if the cook had accidentally spilled some boiling water on a cat’s back. Contrast this, I say, with the beautifully rich golden- coloured dish that will make its appearance at the table where the master mind of one like Francatelli has presided, or with a dish that one would meet with in a Parisian cafii, the bright silver dish contrast- ing temptingly with the gold-coloured food and the crisp dark green parsley piled in the centre ’—a work of art which pleases both eye and palate, senses nigher akin in their respective offices than coarse natures and thoughtless cooks can imagine them to be. Who that has tasted a well-fried sweetbread tastefully and prettily dished up in ball or cutlet form has not owned the relish with which he has partaken ? How eat- able well-fried smelts and trout are ! what a relishing dish is fried chicken, and how nice are well-fried potato chips ! The condition of the fire is of importance ; you cannot fry properly over a bad one ; continuous care is another necessary condition. Successful frying, in short, demands both skill and knowledge, and in proportion to their exercise and degree will be the reputation of both frying and the fry. ‘ The art of frying,’ says Sir Henry Thompson, ‘ is little understood, and the omelette is almost entirely neglected by our countrymen. The products of our frying-pan are often greasy, and therefore for many persons indigestible, the shallow form of the pan being unsuited for the process of boiling in oil, that is, at a heat of nearly 500° Fahr. (that of boiling water being 212°). This high temperature produces results22 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. which are equivalent indeed to quick roasting’ (when the article is cooked in boiling fat); but ‘ frying as generally conducted is rather a com- bination of broiling and toasting (or scorching); and the use of the deep pan of boiling oil or dripping which is essential to the right performance of the process, and especially as preventing greasiness, is a rare excep- tion and not the rule in ordinary kitchens. The principle on which success depends is, that at the moment of contact with the almost boiling oil a thin film over every part of the surface of the fish or other object to be fried is coagulated, so that the juices with their flavours, etc., are at once locked up within, and no quality can escape. The bath of oil should therefore be in sufficient quantity, and also hot enough, to effect this result in an instant, after which, and during the few minutes required to cook the interior, the heat may be slightly lowered with advantage.’ Stewing. Stewing meat has this claim to superiority over boiling it: the more nourishing and soluble elements are not separated from, but served up with the meat, the full flavour of which is also thereby preserved. It is sometimes described as a gradual process of simmering. The meat selected for stewing should be lean, and as a rule the better the meat the better it will be for eating ; but it must be remembered that by stewing the coarser and cheaper parts of meat, such as bones, cheeks) feet, tails, shanks, knuckles, trimmings, etc., may be rendered highly palatable and nutritious. A housewife who is thrifty and wise, or one whose income is small and family large, will consequently do well if she bears this in mind. Mr. Buckmaster recommends stewing in a stone jar which will stand the fire as preferable to stewing in metal saucepans, stoneware retaining the heat longer and being more easily cleaned. Care must be exercised in not mistaking a glazed earthen- ware for a stone jar, inasmuch as the former is not only unable to bear the same degree of heat, but the glaze contains poisonous lead, which may be set free by chemical action, such as salt, for instance, would set up. Every pound of meat stewed will require about a quart of water (if it is found too little, warm water can be afterwards added). The heating should be slow and gradual, the scum taken off as it rises, and the stewing continued until the flavour of the meat is entirely ex- tracted. For stewing, the closed range or gas-stove is preferable to the open grate, and if the latter is in use, contact between the stew-pan and the fire should be prevented. Braising. This is a kind of improved stewing process, which Sir Henry Thomp- son thinks we very unwisely neglect. ‘In braising,’ he says, ‘the meat is just covered with a strong liquor of vegetable and animal juicesCOMMON-SENSE COOKERY. 23 (brciiae or mirepoix) in a closely-covered vessel, from which as little evaporation as possible is permitted, and is exposed for a considerable time to a surrounding heat just short of boiling.’ By this treatment tough, fibrous flesh, whether of poultry, or of cattle, or meat unduly fresh, such as can alone be procured during the summer season in towns, is made tender, and is furthermore impregnated with the odours and flavour of fresh vegetables and sweet herbs, while the liquor itself, slowly reduced in the process, furnishes the most appro- priate, fragrant, and delicious sauce with which to surround the portion when served at table. Thus, also, meats which are dry and of little flavour, as veal, become saturated with juices, which render the food succulent and delicious. Small portions sufficing for a single meal, however small the family, can be so dealt with; and a r&chauffie, or cold meat for to-morrow, is not a thing of necessity, but only of choice when preferred. Spices and wine are sometimes used to impart their flavours. The process of cooking a braise is thus spoken of by Jules Gouffe in his ‘ Le Livre de Cuisine ’: The chief operation is one of slow simmering, for, he says, if the meat be exposed to sudden heat the gravy is insipid, colourless, and weak, as it too often is in such preparations by careless or ignorant cooks. The gravy should be highly nutritious, of a rich high colour and flavour, and of gelatinous consistency. 11 advise,’ he says, ‘ that for braising the quantity of meat should be large rather than small, as a long process of cooking is most effective, and you at once obtain two admirable dishes instead of one, for when the braise is cold it is equally good, and affords a pleasant change.’ Broiling. This is a process in general favour with both cooks and physicians, as it retains in the meat the more nutritious qualities and flavour, their evaporation and exhalation being prevented by the sudden closing together of the fibres, or, in other words, the hardening and browning of the surface. The gridiron, kept always in a perfectly clean con- dition, should be made hot and previously rubbed with a piece of clean fat to prevent scorching, and thereby disfiguring the appearance of the food ; and the fire, where coal or coke is used, should be clear and bright. The great art lies in suiting the time of cooking and the number of turns to the size, thickness, and general character of the meat you have to broil—a beef steak, for instance, requiring more frequent turning than a mutton chop, and a pork chop requiring a longer time for its broiling than a steak. Special care must be exer- cised to keep the fat from falling into the fire, as the sudden blaze conveys a smoky flavour to the meat. But above everything, take care not to pinch the meat in turning, or the juices will run out, and much of the flavour be lost. At the first cut from a well-cooked steak orENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKEBT. 2-1 chop, especially a steak, the gravy should burst forth. To avoid spoiling the broil, therefore, it is advisable to use tongs, which can now be had at any ironmonger’s for a trifling sum. Every good cook does so now. ‘ The value of the gridiron,’ says an authority of eminence, ‘ is perhaps nowhere better known than in England, especially in rela- tion to chops, steaks, kidneys, the blade-bone, or even a small shoulder of mutton, all of which may be sent to table in the highest perfection from a clear fire managed by careful and competent hands.’ Although, as he adds, ‘ it is still not so widely appreciated as it deserves to be in the preparation of many a small dish of fish, fowl, and meat or bone, to say nothing of a grilled mushroom, either alone or as an accompani- ment to any of them.’ Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Economy. During periods of depression it behoves every housekeeper to be on the watch, and we certainly think Wright and Butler’s Patent Portable Oil Stoves a great saving on coal, and as to efficiency they leave nothing to be desired. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birming- ham.—See Advertisement.PAET II. FOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION AND DIGESTION. We may broadly classify the food we require as—Carbonaceous foods for supplying us with heat and force, such as sugar, starch, fat, oil, etc. ; flesh-forming substances—which must contain nitrogen—such as gluten, albumen, animal flesh, cheese, etc. ; bone-building material— which must contain lime, phosphorus, silica and other salts, such as potash, iron, common salt, etc. Milk, wheat, and one or two other cereals are the only single articles in which these three exist in anything like proportions suited to our needs ; and as it would be undesirable to leave untouched the great natural provision of fruits, herbs, fish, flesh, and fowl, none of which are alone quite sufficient, we see that a mixed diet becomes a necessity, and of course should be arranged so as to supply a due proportion of heat-givers, flesh-formers, and bone-builders. ‘This has, in fact,’ says an eminent authority, ‘ been practised for ages; for with animal flesh bread has for long been eaten, or, nowadays, more commonly potatoes. So with pork we eat pease-pudding, with bacon greens, bread with our cheese, and the Spaniard bread with his onion. On the same principle we put milk and eggs in our sago, rice, and similar puddings ; so we prepare macaroni with cheese, and numerous other familiar mixtures. Then, again, as bread and vegetables are deficient in the great force-producer, fat, we use butter to our bread, oil to our salad, butter to cauliflower, fat or gravy with our greens, and butter in our pastry. ’ Thus in scores of well-chosen dishes the inquiring mind will discover the existence of that principle which we have here endeavoured to explain, and which should at all times guide us in our selection of the food we need, and in its cookery. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. To get a coal range in cooking form a full hour is required and much care. To get the same results from Wright and Butler’s Oil Cookers five minutes only is necessary. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERV. 20 We have now to deal very briefly, but we hope clearly, with the flesh of wild and domesticated animals, rich in nitrogen, fatty matter, and saline properties, eggs, which consist chiefly of nitrogenous matter, being deficient in the heat-giving element (carbon); fish, deficient in saline properties, but rich in nitrogen ; and vegetables, all more or less rich in carbon. Bearing these things in mind—and remembering that food substances containing nitrogen are those which, when digested, or in a soluble condition, form blood, and those which are without it (carbonaceous) go to preserve that animal heat which keeps it circulat- ing, and that one without the other surely brings disease and death— let us pass under review first butcher’s meats, the chief importance of which as food resides in the fact that their composition is identical with that of our own bodies, and that, therefore, meat is the food most fit for conversion into our own tissues. No other food leaves so little refuse. In summer less meat should be eaten than is necessary in winter. In connection with its use Dr. Edward Smith points out, as worth noting, that the bowels as well as the stomach of flesh-feeding animals are very much less in size than those of vegetable feeders, and says, ‘ When we compare the nutritive qualities of meat with, for example, those of flour, we are liable to doubt either the correctness of the statement of its nutritive elements or its greater superiority as a food, for in their ultimate composition they do not differ very greatly; but the explanation (at least in a great part) is found in the fact that there is much more water in flesh than in flour, and consequently that the really nutritive part of the meat occupies only a small part of the whole.’ To begin with Beef. One ounce of this food, says Hallet, a chemical authority of no small eminence, contains the essence of many pounds of hay, turnips, and other vegetables ; and in consequence of this persons who have a superabundance of animal heat should not partake of it too freely, while those who by hard exhaustive work need a larger supply of vigour-giving nitrogen will find it a very suitable food. Beef is more nourishing and digestible roasted than boiled, and is said to be almost the only species of animal food with which the stomach is not easily surfeited. It is also the food upon which the greatest amount of manual labour can be performed. Mutton. In its'prime condition—say, in its third to sixth year—mutton is the most easily digested of meats, and should be eaten in preference to beef or pork by invalids and children, and by persons whose digestion is im- paired or whose habits of life are sedentary. When full fed and not previously overdriven, it is fairly supplied with fat. The quality ofFOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION AND DIGESTION. 27 0 English mutton, however, varies much with the sheep producing it, that from the fat, coarse-wooled animals being dry and coarse in grain, while famous breeds, such as the Southdown, Cotswold, etc., yield fine-grained, tender, juicy, and deliciously high-flavoured flesh. Veal. When this flesh is very white it indicates a sacrificing of useful qualities for the mere sake of appearance, or, in other words, the still far too common practice of bleeding the calf before slaughtering it— a process which removes the flavouring and nutritious juices, leaving the meat tasteless and dry, so that veal is never eaten without season- ing. In its natural condition it is very nutritious and palatable, less heating than beef, but too indigestible to be recommended to those who have weak stomachs. Veal is often placed upon the dietary of persons who have a tendency to haemorrhage. Persons troubled with phlegm and abdominal complaints should abstain from it. In cases of pectoral and inflammatory diseases veal is often recommended. Most meats are, but veal particularly is, in its least nourishing condi- tion when boiled. The fat of veal is very light, and being slow to show signs of putrescence is often given by physicians to patients of a scorbutic taint, but when boiled it is specially indigestible. Pork. Pork is a hard meat, which requires more masticating than beef, and should be eaten more sparingly than either beef or mutton. Anciently, physicians considered it, when carefully eaten and properly digested, the most nutritious of all meats ; but in this they were undoubtedly mistaken. The mere fact that in rearing pigs the quantity rather than the quality of the flesh is considered in the feeding and rearing is antagonistic to that idea. It should, as a rule, be avoided by persons who suffer from frequent indigestion, or those who lead a sedentary life without sufficient outdoor exercise. Eaters whose fluids are impure, with a tendency to eruptions, and'those who are suffering from wounds or ulcers, will be wise to avoid a dish of pork. Persons afflicted with weak stomachs, coughs, chest disease, or consumption, should also avoid pork. Under other circumstances, and when eaten w»ith moderation, good pork is as wholesome as it is palatable. Even in delicate health this meat may be eaten sparingly; but the notion that a dram is necessary to assist its digestion is erroneous, for spirituous liquors may indeed prevent, but cannot promote, its solution in the stomach. It would be the more advisable not to drink for a short time after eating pork, as it is usually very fat, and its fat is more subtle and soluble than any other. The most proper additions to pork are the acidulated vegetables,28 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. such as gooseberry or apple-sauce, which not only gratify the palate, but correct its properties, neutralise, in a manner, its great proportion of fat, and thus operate beneficially on the alimentary canal. The flesh of the sucking-pig is, in consequence of the thick and strong juice with which it abounds, not very readily dissolved in the stomach, and is not a proper food for weak and sickly people. Venison. Fallow deer are the best providers of venison, and England is their nation, where in olden times no flesh food was more commonly eaten. Buck vension is preferable to that of the doe, and the prime joint is the haunch. It is usually eaten after long hanging when ‘ high,’ and is a very digestible and nourishing kind of food. The lean, when in its best condition for the cook, is dark and close-grained; the fat, white and firm, and should come from a beast not too young. Of all meat the lean of venison is probably the most easy of digestion. Poultry. White chickens are 'said to be best for the table, and those with white or pale-coloured legs to be always the most delicate and best- flavoured ; they should not be too fat, although plump: dark-legged birds are best for roasting. Turkeys must never be eaten too soon after killing, not less than two days in summer or six in winter. The same may be said of ducks and geese. Game. The most eatable and delicious parts of game birds are those in which the muscles have had least to do. For instance, in the woodcock and snipe the legs are juicy and tender, while the wings are dry and hard. Most kinds of game are digestible, but pheasants are perhaps least so. The flesh of game animals is usually wanting in fat. Hare and partridge are, with regal’d to digestion, about what mutton is. Hares may be kept six days in winter or three in summer before cook- ing. A pheasant or a fat young pullet will keep ten days in winter and about four in summer. Other game a longer or shorter time. In any case, to secure the peculiar flavour which is so much prized, game must be hung up for a sufficient time after being killed, care being taken to see that it does not become offensive. Practice will teach the housekeeper the happy mean ; the nose after all being the best test. Game should never be washed before being cooked. Wipe thoroughly with a dry cloth, and preserve the flavour. Fisli. The value of fish as food is not yet so widely recognised as it should be. Its nutritive qualities are large, and it is peculiarly fitted by itsFOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION , AND DIGESTION. 29 variety of kinds to the preparation of a great diversity of tasty dishes. Broiled, fried, or boiled, with its many special sauces and its almost endless additions and variations, it affords the skilful cook a large field of exercise for her ingenuity and knowledge. It must, however, be remembered that the fat of fish is, as a rule, indigestible, and, like that of veal, readily decomposes, for whicli reason sauces of an acid tendency are sometimes recommended for use with fish instead of the old- fashioned melted butter, which has a tendency—especially if ill-made— to render fish indigestible. Spice and salt help to render the coarser kinds of fish-food more wholesome. Dried fish is very digestible when dried in the open air, much less so when salted and smoked, in which condition it affords but little nutriment. Speaking generally, fish de- velops but little heat in the process of digestion ; it nourishes without exciting, and, unlike highly fibrinous aliment, stimulates no function. An exception to this rule, however, must be made where an abundance of oily matter is present. Fish contains fibrin, gelatine, and albumen in nearly equal proportions, but is not sufficiently rich in nitrogen to become a full substitute for meal. The fibrin in fish is most stimu- lating and nourishing, and being easily converted into muscular tissue leaves scarcely any residuum in the digestive tubes. Gelatine, on the other hand, is about the least nutritious of the organic elements of food, and produces much fcecal matter. The third constituent, albumen, is nitrogenous and nourishing. Bread and Farinaceous Foods. Amongst the various corn-plants used for food, wheat claims pre- eminence in all its varieties. ‘ Our daily bread ’ is composed of a larger proportion of the nitrogen (1 to meet the wear and tear of the body’) and carbon (furnishing heat and power), and a smaller pro- portion of water and ashes, than will be found in any other corn-plant. The proportion of the nitrogenous to the carbonaceous elements is as 1 to 4, which, according to Liebig, is for human food about the right proportion. But to secure its full value such food 1 ought to contain all the constituents of the wheat, instead of being made of flour from which most of the mineral elements have been taken. The removal of the darker and rougher portions which belong to the external part of the grain deprives wheaten flour of some of its most nutritious con- stituents. Fineness and whiteness is attained at a certain sacrifice of nourishing quality, and such flour, although equally good for those whose means enable them to obtain other nutriment abundantly, is not desirable for the labourer, in whose dietary bread forms so large a part.’ The materials which supply the nutritious and heat-giving elements to corn are fibrine, albumen, caseine, gluten, starch, sugar, gum, oil,ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 30 or fatty matter, and saline substances, chiefly phosphates. The excel- lence of wheaten flour for making bread is due to the quantity of gluten contained, which is larger than in any other cereaL In cooking flour, success depends upon the proper amount of water being supplied, with sufficient heat to cause the cells in which the starch exists to escape. If the water is not sufficient, these cells will not absorb enough to cause them to burst. Wheaten Bread.—When yeast is used in making bread it con- verts the starch or sugar into alcohol, which is afterwards evaporated by heat. Stale yeast makes the bread heavy and unwholesome. When in its most digestible condition it is uniformly light and porous. The more compact, close, or heavy the bread, the less easily is it acted upon by the digestive fluids. When made with potatoes, as inferior bread not unfrequently is, it quickly turns sour. If bread be eaten too largely or without the right proportion of other foods, it is apt to create viscidity or slime. Brown or Whole-Meal Bread and abundance of milk should be given to growing children ; and they can be brought up well with- out a meat diet, since the outer coating of the wheat contains all the mineral phosphates requisite for the formation of teeth, bones, flesh, and muscle which a growing child requires. Corn-Flour contains rather more water than wheaten-flour, con- siderably less nitrogen, and a larger proportion of heat-giving carbon. It is consequently a fattening food, although apparently very nourishing also, for it is the chief food of some of the healthiest and strongest races in the world. When, some years ago, unusual distress existed in this country, government officials issued a work on cheap and nourishing foods for gratuitous distribution amongst the poor all over the three kingdoms. In this it was pointed out that ‘ in milk or broth corn-flour is a good strong meal, sufficient for a man to work upon.’ It was stated that ‘it takes about 31 pounds of corn-flour to make porridge for 10 persons ; less than half a pound of corn-flour for a meal for 1 man, and a warm, comfortable meal that fills and strengthens the stomach. Three and a half pounds of wheaten-flour would make 4.1 pounds of bread; but it would be dry bread, and bread alone, and not affording half the sustenance or comfort of the porridge.’ Oswego Prepared Corn, another product of the Indian corn, consists entirely of the starchy portion of the grain in the form of in- numerable granules, freed from the oil and nitrogenous elements con- tained in the whole grain, and when carefully prepared should be devoid of cellulose and albuminous compounds. According to Dr. A. H. Hassall, the author of ‘Food and its Adulterations,’ this article is to be regarded both chemically and dietetically as an arrowroot, and should, therefore, especially when given to young children, be used in31 FOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION AND DIGESTION. conjunction with milk or Liebig’s Extract, in order to supply its original deficiency in nitrogen. Indeed, one may go so far as to say that all farinaceous foods—certainly all of the arrowroot class—should be thus administered where any feebleness exists. Semolina, a very fine kind of wheat-flour, naturally occupies a prominent place among farinaceous foods, containing in a light and palatable form the needful constituents of a perfect food. As a pudding, which is its chief function, it may be strongly recommended for the use of children and invalids, being'particularly easy of digestion. Some of the newer and improved forms of semolina leave scarcely any- thing to be desired. Minor Farinaceous Foods,—The grain of the oat in its many admirable forms, whether as oatmeal, oat-flour, rolled or crushed oats, affords an admirable substitute for bread and meat; but its heat- giving, bone and muscle building, and nourishing properties are so widely known and appreciated, that brief mention will here suffice. Oatmeal, it may be said, as sold loose at corn-chandlers’ shops, suffers from notorious gastronomic defects, which enterprising Scotch firms like Gunn and Scott have tried to rectify. To some considerable extent they have succeeded, and without hesitation we may add that the best and most reliable oaten preparations are now to be obtained in bags and packages. Sago and Tapioca, being mainly starches, possess little or no flesh-fcrming qualities, and should be eaten with milk or broth, when they form light, wholesome, and nutritious food— sago, a species of palm-meal, being specially digestible. Arrowroot, the pith of the root Maranta arundinacea, is a fine white powder, which similarly consists chiefly of pure starch. Being extremely light of digestion it is commonly used in cases of sickness, but its nutritive qualities are slight. The best arrowroot comes from Bermuda, and in- ferior kinds from St. Vincent, Natal, and the West Indies. The former is so universally allowed to be superior, that unless it is essential to consider the purse no other should be used, especially in making gruel. Maizkna, as its name implies, is derived from maize or Indian corn, and in the form put up affords a convenient addition to any store- room. Rice forms too staple an article of daily diet to be summarily dismissed. Carolina rice is so pre-eminently nutritious, compared with the commoner sorts, that even at its higher price it is, all things con- sidered, the cheaper article of diet. Java is the next best, containing considerable gluten ; while Patna is most serviceable for curries and where cohesion is not desired. Rangoon rice is little better than a starch, and should never be bought when other qualities are procurable. Among the preparations of rice may be noticed Groult’s Crinie de Biz, and the new article, ‘ Rizine,’ both possessing considerable merit. Italian Paste is a generic name for a whole tribe of South EuropeanENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 32 specialities, including Macaroni, Vermicelli, Cagliari, Genoa, and Italian paste, all of which are, or should be, made from the hard grain of Sicilian wheat, so rich in nitrogenous albumen. The value of macaroni as daily aliment is as yet indifferently appreciated here ; but, in good truth, ‘ a sparghetti,’ which can be prepared from either ordinary pipe-macaroni or paste, should invariably precede dinner when fish is out of season or not to be had. Sparghetti can be made so readily and cheaply in the Italian fashion (see recipes), and is, moreover, so nutri- tious and satisfying, that its regular introduction at table tends largely to economy as well as health. Hominy, or Corn Grits, an American preparation of Indian corn, has been before the public some little time now ; properly cooked in milk, and sweetened with sweet white sauce, it comprises about the proper proportion of the essential food elements. Prepared Groats, Emden Groats, and Prepared Barley, and many similar flours, sold in tins and packets, are chiefly infant’s foods, and are referred to in a later section. Vegetables. Although more serious evil is wrought by excessive meat-eating than by the excessive eating of vegetables food, the general opinion that both these foods, each in its proportion, and neither in excess, are most effective in preserving a high standard of vigorous strength and lasting health is well founded. The great rule, as Dr. Abernethy says, is to adapt the qualities of the food to the indicated requirements of the stomach, therein echoing the sense of Lord Bacon’s observation when he said, what you find good for you ‘ is the best physic to preserve health, and it is a safer conclusion to say, “ This agreeth not well with me, therefore I will discontinue it,” than this, “ I find no offence of this, therefore I may use itfor the strength of nature in youth passes over many excuses which are owing a man till his age.'’ Persons of sedentary habits wisely partake of a larger proportion of vegetable food than more active workers should indulge in ; but those whose digestive powers are impaired must remember that many vegetables are less digestible than meats, and should accordingly be eaten of sparingly. Potatoes, however well cooked, are far from a nourishing food. They are watery, contain a high percentage of starch, and some sugar and mucilage, together with a marked deficiency in flesh and force pro- ducers. Starch and gum sustain the respiratory processes, and are valuable addenda to other foods ; but fibrin and the ‘ plastic material ’ of the analytical chemist are required to build up the muscular and other constituents of living animal organisms. As an addition to more nutritious diet, the potato is inestimable, but by itself has not inaptly been termed ‘a miserable food.’ To retain the highest amount of nutriment in potatoes, they should be boiled or baked in their ‘jacketsFOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION AND DIGESTION. 33 or else cut in strips and immersed in boiling oil or fat. Thus cooked they have been found to retain a far higher proportion of the useful potassa salts. Carrots are fairly nutritious, but require thorough boiling; they should always be washed and brushed—never scraped. Beetroots, of course, rank among the more valuable and fattening of vegetable products, owing to the mucilage and saccharine they contain. Baking beetroots is a gastronomic blunder, as the useful juices are allowed to escape. They require sufficient boiling, care being taken not to break the skin in any preliminary processes. Turnips are di- gestible when fully cooked, and the watery particles pressed out, but, like carrots, contain comparatively little nutritive matter ; less indeed. The best turnips for human foodj run moderate-sized to small, and are finely grained, smooth, and juicy, the larger and coarser kinds being mostly useful for flavouring soups and stews, introduced into which they serve to correct the pungent flavour of the onion. Parsnips should be avoided by the dyspeptic. Owing to the woody fibre—one- twelfth of the whole—contained in them, they are highly indigestible ; beaten up, however, with potatoes and butter, as in Scotland, they constitute a capital and wholesome dish, much approved of by young children. Jerusalem Artichokes also rank amongst sustaining aliments, but, perhaps, in the interesting onion family, embracing a dozen useful varieties, from the stately Spanish, to the shallot and tender 1 spring,’ are to be found the most valuable examples amongst vegetables proper. Beans are very nutritious, but, like all pulse, digest slowly, and are apt to provoke flatulence. Haricots are speci- ally good, and should be partaken of oftener than they are. White haricots are the best, but both kinds are cheap, easily cooked, readily digestible, and afford much nourishment. In France their value as an article of every-day dietary has long been appreciated, but the fashion for them—which deserves all encouragement—has only just struck root here. Peas, although not easily assimilated by some stomachs, are so essentially rich in flesh-forming products, that it has been deemed ad- visable to avoid their separate use, and to mix with less nutritious food. In peas the flesh-forming agent is legumin. When dried they contain more legumen and less saccharine than when green. Beans, peas, hari- cots, and, indeed, all legumes need the addition of fat; hence the prac- tice of adding a lump of butter to a dish of peas. Among'the minor vege- tables, Asparagus is light and nourishing when freshly picked and young, and eaten with butter-oil—the thickened melted butter generally served is a mistake—and when cold, with a seasoning of vinegar, oil, salt, and pepper. Seakale demands much more attention than it attracts. It is extremely wholesome and easily digested, and in many respects is preferable to asparagus itself. Neither Broccoli nor Cauliflower can be considered nourishing, containing only a small quantity of rnuci- 3ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 34 lage ; but the latter is digested with more ease than most vegetables. Cabbage is,similarly innutritious, and fresh from its hot bath is vastly improved, as food, by the addition of a little fat or butter. Brussels Sprouts rank with these. Spinach, again, conveys little strength to the body, but is a light, tasty, and wholesome dish when skilfully cooked in little water, chopped fine, and mixed with butter. Vege- table Marrows need no praise. At all stages they afford a health- giving and excellent light meal.. A good French cook would scorn a marrow or cauliflower cooked a Veau. Artichokes, and much else finding its way into Covent Garden, are delicacies, and may be passed over here. Among the vegetables usually eaten uncooked, or as salad, Cucumbers take the first place ; they are gently aperient, cooling, and act upon the blood; but the presence of wood-fibre in abundance rendering them in- digestible, physicians recommend their being eaten with the rind on. Celery needs no reference. Celeriac, on the other hand, is little known ; it can hardly be distinguished from celery, lends itself more readily to cultivation, and is cooked in a shorter time. Boiled or stewed, and served with white or brown sauce, it forms an admirable and digestible dish. Speaking generally, the chief aliments yielded to the digestive func- tions by the vegetable kingdom are starch, mucilage, and sugar. Starch is furnished by potatoes, chestnuts, and the seeds of leguminosae, by peas, broad beans, kidney beans, and lentils. This aliment is in general more rapidly digested than either the albuminous, as in eggs, the fibrinous, as in meat, or the gelatinous, as from bones, skin, sinews, etc. It is most strengthening of all vegetable substances. Mucilage is found in carrots, beetroots, turnips, parsnips, lettuce, endive, spinach, artichokes, asparagus, peas, French beans, broccoli, cabbage, cauli- flower, and radishes, but always in combination with some saccharine, acid, or bitter substance. ‘ It excites,’ we read, 1 only in a very slight degree, the mucous membrane of the stomach, and its passage through the digestive tube is rapid.’ United, however, to the fibrinous element —cooked, for instance, in strong gravy—it becomes a nutritious and unexciting article of food, well suited to regulate any increased activity of the vital functions. Fruits. Fruits are chiefly valuable for them delicious flavours and cooling quality, possessing, with one or two exceptions, small nutriment. Apples vary in nutritive value with the varying portious of sugar, acid, mucilage, water, and soft woody fibre of which they consist. They arc most wholesome when cooked, and in the form of apple-pie have the reputation of being highly nutritive and digestible. Apples also aid the digestion of other foods. American apples are, as a rule,FOOD IN RELATIONSHIP WITH NUTRITION AND DIGESTION. 35 most abundantly supplied with the mucilage and sugar ; in the harder kinds the woody fibrous elements abound, making them less desirable as food. The dry mealy apples are more valuable as food than the watery kinds, which are generally cold and raw, and, unless cooked, indigestible. The process of cooking renders all apples wholesome. Ripe, sweet, mealy apples act as laxatives. Sedentary persons and those whose digestive powers are feeble should scrupulously avoid the sour astringent kind of fruit. Cherries : Flatulence and sometimes severe attacks of colic are brought on by eating too freely of cherries, especially when they contain much water and sugar, and ferment easily, evil tendencies which appear to be corrected in cherries of the same kind when the acid is in greater proportion, making them slightly stimulating and more wholesome. The best for eating are the pulpy, mucilaginous kind, but none should be eaten unless they are quite ripe. Strawberries are the most wholesome of all fruit, the proportions of mucilage, sugar, and acid which they contain making them admirably fitted for food. They should not, however, be eaten too freely after dinner, nor while freely partaking of wine. Lemon-juice and sugar should at such times be added to the fruit. With cream they are de- licious and nourishing. Gooseberries rank as food next to straw- berries. The skins, however, are astringent, acid, and indigestible. Cooking increases their wholesomeness. Currants follow gooseberries in their food qualities, but are less laxative. Black currants are excel- lent as a laxative, and altogether the most wholesome. Grapes re- semble the above in their properties, but the proportion of supertartrate of potass modifies their influence. When ripe no fruit is more whole- some, nutritious, or palatable. Oranges abound in water, mucilage, acid, and woody fibre, with a variable proportion of sugar. The peel contains a strong oil, and is very indigestible. - As food it is useful as a refrigerant in inflammatory diseases, and an excellent antiseptic in scorbutic and putrid diseases. Lemons resemble oranges ; the juice taken with sugar is remarkable for its wholesome and cooling properties. Pears, being deficient in the acid element, are less wholesome and digestible than some other fruits, although nutritious and wholesome for those whose digestive organs are strong and healthy. They are less acid than apples, but sweeter, and contain a larger proportion of the woody fibrous quality. The softest pears are those which contain the most mucilage, and are apt, if too freely eaten, to set up the process of fermentation in the stomach, and thereby cause great suffering. Pears should always be eaten cautiously, and persons of weak digestion should always avoid the hardest kinds. Peaches and Plums when unripe are very dangerous eating, although when quite ripe they are wholesome and easily digested. Of Nectarines and Apricots the same may be said. Nuts, resembling in their component parts other 3—2ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 36 fruits, are of a farinaceous character, and contain an oil rare in other fruits, which, becoming rancid as the nut grows stale, makes the digestion of such food very difficult. This is the reason why deplor- able results have so often followed partaking to excess of these fruits. Salt should always be used with nuts, and care should be taken to thoroughly masticate them while in the mouth. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. A sumptuous repast for twenty persons can l>e admirably cooked in Wright and Butler’s Patent ‘Acme Combination’ Oil Stove. Cost in using the largest size made one penny per hour. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.PART III. SOUPS AND SAUCES. Soups should be amongst the everyday requisites in the house of every thrifty housewife. Stock Pots considered. How many a mistress in a comfortable home stands aghast with shame and vexation every now and then when she opens the pantry-door. 1 There are found scraps of meat, half-picked bones, crusts of bread, basins of dripping, slices of uneaten pudding, all mouldering away.’ She looks at them piteously, as she thinks of her baker’s and butcher’s bills, and the wickedness of wastefulness. The bones will, she knows, find their way to the marine store, and the few pence they may fetch will not go into her pocket; and in despair she gives an order to have all these remnants cleared away out of sight, and perhaps in her heart resolves to keep a sharper look-out upon the consumption in future. What is true of such a home is true in a lesser degree of those of a more humble description. There is the same cruel waste going on through ignorance of the means of its prevention, and the perplexed, untrained wife, catering perhaps for a large family with a small income, contrives most sadly to waste a very large percentage of the food she buys. At first she wonders why it is, and sighs over the fact; at last she gets used to it, and without a thought or a pang throws bones into the dust-hole, gives scraps of gristle and fat to the dog or cat, and dry crusts into the hands of the first beggar that knocks at the door, who, directly he is out of sight, throws them into the gutter, as she knows he probably will ; yet she gives them still, more with the desire to get rid of them than to afford anyone relief. Now if soup were in request, and its food-value fairly understood, this Petroleum Oil Stoves aro the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. For boiling or stewing, Wright and Butler’s Patent 1 Acme’ Stoves are the ‘ very thing ’ required. They cost per hour from the smallest fraction of a Penny. They do not smoke nor smell, neithor do they make any dirt. Illus- trated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Ad- verlUement.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 38 ‘ waste ’ would at once become a source of nourishing and palatable food to be placed daily upon the table ; while on the hob of every kitchen grate would be found, as in France, a stock-pot, or family digester, such as may be bought at any ironmongers’, varying in price from 3s. 6d., according to size. They are made of iron in the shape of a cauldron, with a swivel handle ; a saucepan handle is in the way. The lid is so contrived that it can be hermetically fixed (generally by a slot and groove, so that a turn of the wrist does it), and it also has a spring safety-valve in the centre to let out the steam, supposing at any time it should accumulate. Among the better kinds of stock-pot is the porcelain-lined. It is more easily cleaned, and is otherwise superior both to earthenware and cast-iron. Thus provided, the thrifty housewife utilises every morsel of flesh and bone, and every atom of nutritive food, solid or liquid ; and with herbs and vegetables to the fore, and even the liquor in which vegetables have been boiled, with condiments and bread, etc., dishes up daily, one by one, a large variety of very cheap, thoroughly appetising and wholesome soups, making the more costly boiled or roasted solids last very much longer, and at the same time benefiting the health of her family. Into the digester let every scrap of bone or gristle or odd ends of animal food be put. In all bones there is a nutritive substance of the highest value, but it wants drawing out; this the digester patiently does. Every morning, therefore, let the bones and scraps be collected together : let the housewife unscrew the lid of her patient friend, remove the bleached bones already sucked dry, and add those which she has been keeping, the pot being well filled always with liquor. No seasoning or salt should ever be put into the digester, and all scraps of fat should be kept out. But the shank bones of the legs of mutton, that the butcher will weigh in, and all similar make-weights, may be utilised. Not a bone should ever find its way to the rag and bone shop until it has passed through the stock-pot. In some places meat is to be bought at a penny or even twopence a pound less than at others, if bone and certain strippings are weighed in. With a digester on the hob at home, these are the places to deal at. The penny or twopence a pound saved becomes doubled, and the fresh uncooked bones give a marvellous stimulant to the contents of the pot. Sometimes on a Saturday night wholesome scraps and bones may be had very cheaply. ‘ The stock-pot of the Continent,’ says Sir Henry Thompson, 1 has another use beside that of preparing a basis for soup. Thus when a boiled fowl is required, it is a common practice to conduct the process in the stock or simmering pot. Any nutritive matter, however small, which might have been lost in the water used for ordinary boiling, is saved for the soup, whileSOUPS AND SAUCES. 39 the fowl boiled in the stock will certainly be preferred to one which has been boiled in water. And so with many other articles; for example, a small and well-cleaned ham may be cooked—and this is an affair of several hours—in a capacious stock-pot, with advantage equally to the soup and the ham,’ provided, of course, that the ham has already been in soak about 24 hours, for removing super- fluous salt. The fire for a stock-pot should be kept at a uniform degree of heat, not be too hot. The bones put into it should be broken and freed from meat ; the water is cold when the materials are first placed in it, and then a little salt is added. When boiling com- mences, and the scum rises, it should be cleared away, and this boiling should be repeated thrice. Then add the vegetables to the bones and meat, and when the boiling point is reached again the pot is put aside on the hob to simmer slowly and continuously. ‘ Care should be taken,’ says Jules Gouffe, ‘ not to salt the broth too highly at first, as it always becomes more salt on being warmed up tRe second day, and still more so when reduced to a sauce. Another essential is that of freeing the soup or broth from grease after the meat is removed, and while the pot is still on the fire. The vegetables,’ he adds, ‘ should be left in the broth until their flavour has been fully extracted, and then removed, as they would otherwise spoil the soup.’ These instructions apply both to stock and bouilli, or boiled flesh. ‘To make good bouillon,’ says our authority, ‘ the water must boil very gently.’ The cook must learn to discriminate in the matter of the strength of her stock. It may happen that it on some occasions may be so strong as to be, when cold, of the consistency of gelatine. This would clearly be too strong. Because one speaks of a quart of stock it must not be inferred that a quart as it comes from the stock-pot is meant. The best guide is to take a little on the lips, and if it causes them slightly to adhere together the stock is of such consistency as to make it fit for general purposes. Calf’s Foot Soup.—Cut a calf’s foot into 3 pieces, and put into a saucepan 3 stalks of celery, some parsley, a small sprig of thyme, an onion with 3 or 4 cloves stuck into it, and one quart of stock. Simmer gently for two hours, and skim. Take out the foot, strain the liquor, return it to the saucepan, and thicken with a desert-spoonful of rice flour. Just before the soup is served, add pepper and salt, and stir gradually into it a small cupful of milk or cream, mixed with the yolk of an egg and a dash of white wine. Stir over the fire for 2 or 3 minutes, but on no account allow it to boil. Serve, with the pieces of calf’s foot, in the tureen. Cabbage Soup.—First boil a piece of bacon in the quantity of water required for soup. Then while boiling put in a whole cabbage which has already been soaked in hot water. With the cabbage put in 2 carrots, turnips, leeks, celery to flavour, a large onion in which a clove has been stuck. Boil all together for four hours ; after then strain the40 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. liquid from the bacon, etc. While the liquid is boiling up again, cut some sippets of bread, put them in a saucepan, cover them with a little stock, and some of the fat that rises on the top of the stock-pot. Boil the sippets in this for five minutes, then place them in the tureen and pour the liquid from the vegetables and bacon on the top. The cabbage and bacon are dished up separately, and eaten after the soup. Celery Soup.—Cut the white part of 2 heads of celery into pieces an inch long, place in a saucepan with \ pint of good white stock, 1 ounce of butter, 2 ounces of lean ham, and a small lump of sugar. Boil for a quarter of an hour, put in with them 2 pints more of stock, a little salt, and a blade of mace. Stew gently for an hour, then press the soup through a coarse sieve. Make it hot again, pour it into a tureen, add J pint of boiling cream or milk, and serve at once with toasted .-ippet-. Chantilly Soup.—Boil a pint of green peas, shelled, 3 spring onions, and a sprig of mint, until the peas are tender. Remove the mint and onions, press the peas through a sieve, and pour 3 pints of boiling stock to them. Serve very hot. Chicken Broth.—Cut up an old fowl, put it into 3 pints of water or stock, add a teaspoonful of rice or barley, and simmer for an hour ; skim and season with pepper and salt. Chollet’s Condensed Soups.—Viz., pea, lentil, haricot-bean, carrot (‘ Cr'ecy ’), Julienne, sorrel, and cheese. These are put up in tins with patent opening keys, each tin containing sufficient for 8 or 9 plates of excellent soup, and will be found a great boon in houses where a quick basin of soup is often called for. These condensed soups are made from the flour of the various vegetables, mixed with refined suet, and are of very superior quality, although moderate priced. In using them : Break up the paste very small into cold water, \ pint for each portion, and allow to boil for 15 minutes, stirring frequently ; add small cubes of toast, salt and pepper to taste. ‘ Cock-a-leekie ’ is an appetising soup, and can be'made without a fowl. It should be ‘ thick of leeks ’ cut in small pieces, the rank tail- ends being dispensed with, the leeks well cleaned, and the roots re- moved. Boil 3 or 4 pounds of leg of beef in as much water as may be necessary till the meat is in rags, a couple of big leeks being boiled with it. Strain off the liquor and place in it, cut up in small portions, half a dozen big leeks, which boil till ready. If you have a fowl, cut off the fleshy parts and cook them till done in the soup, having previously used the carcass in making the stock. The compound, seasoned to taste, ought to be ‘ thick and slab,’ therefore grudge not the leeks. Desiccated Soup.—For producing a quick basin of good soup, ‘ Edwards’ Desiccated Soup ’ is a thoroughly reliable preparation. It consists of beef and vegetables in a dried state. About an ounce, which costs Id., makes \ pint of soup. Mix it with water and boil for 15 minutes, flavour to taste, and add a few drops of Lea and Perrins’ sauce. This soup, which is largely used in the army and navy, re- ceived the highest awards at the International Health Exhibition. Fish. Soup.—Into 3 pints of the liquor in which fish has been boiled put the bones, fins, head, and trimmings of the dressed fish, and stew gently till reduced to 1 quart. Strain and put into the stewpan with an onion, or a leek, a little salt and cayenne, and 2 large potatoes. Boil till these are soft, then rub the soup through a hair sieve. Make it hot again, and add a few drops of Lazenby’s essence of anchovy.41 SOUPS AND SAUCES. Put it into the soup-tureen, and mix in a cupful of boiling milk. Sprinkle a tablespoonful of finely-chopped parsley upon the soup and serve. Fish-Extract Soups.—A variety of soups, excellent as food, cheap, and agreeable, may be made with the Normal Company’s fish- extracts. The process of manufacturing these does for fish exactly what Liebig’s process does for meat, separates the fatty and albu- minous elements, and consequently gives us nourishing and stimulating food in a greatly condensed or strengthening condition. They will keep a long time, have the flavour of fish or are without it, and are used just as the meat extracts, and form an excellent basis for soup. Giblet Soup.—Clean and parboil 2 sets of giblets. Remove the skins from the birds’ feet, cut the gizzards into quarters, and the necks into 3 bits ; add the wings, heads, and livers cut in 2, removing the beaks, and boil in weak stock with an onion. Then take the giblets, previously boiled, and add them with their broth to highly-seasoned brown gravy stock, well seasoned, together with a little chopped parsley. Remove the onion and thicken with flour into which a piece of butter has been kneaded. Gravy Soup.—Take 2 to 3 pounds of bones, break up into small pieces* and put into a saucepan with 3 quarts of cold water. Bring to a boil, skim carefully, and simmer gently but continuously for 6 hours. Strain through a sieve, and leave the soup to cool. Remove the fat, and leave any sediment there may be at the bottom. Then pour the soup gently into a clean saucepan, adding 2 carrots, 1 turnip, 3 onions —all sliced—a head of celery, or \ drachm of pounded celery-seed, tied in muslin, a bundle of sweet herbs, and 8 peppercorns. Bring again to a boil, skim carefully, and add a dessertspoonful of salt, which will assist the scum to rise. Draw to the side of the fire, and simmer gently for 2 hours. Strain 2 or 3 times, and, to clear, stir in when hot the whites of 2 eggs, whisked thoroughly, and mixed with 4 teaspoonfuls of cold water, and afterwards with a little of the soup. Beat this into the soup over the fire, and keep whisking till it boils. Skim carefully till it is quite clear. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of Liebig’s extract. Green Pea Soup.—Put a quart of fully-grown green peas into a saucepan with 3 pints of boiling water (or stock), and a little mint, leave the pan uncovered, and boil quickly till the peas are tender. Remove the scum a3 it rises, press the whole through a coarse sieve, and let it boil up once more. Add a lump of sugar, and salt and pepper. Serve as hot as possible. Fresh. Haddock Soup.—Pick all the flesh from the bones of a large and very fresh haddock. Put the bones, head, etc., into 2 quarts of stock, with an onion, a carrot, and a blade of mace, and let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour or more. Pound the meat in a mortar, and with it the crumb of a French roll, which has been soaked in milk and drained, a pint of picked shrimps, and a table- spoonful of finely-minced parsley. Strain the gravy, mix it gradually with the fish, etc., and boil all together for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, pass the soup through a coarse sieve, thicken it with a little flour and butter, let it warm up once more, and serve. Probable cost, lOd. per quart. Sufficient for 5 or 6 persons. Herb Soup.—Put a piece of butter in a saucepan with sorrel,42 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. lettuce, or any other salad, leeks cut up very fine, a fried onion, a sprig of thyme, a crust of bread, a turnip, which, when boiled, will be mashed with £he bread, pepper and salt. When the above are entirely cooked, beat the yolks of 2 eggs in a soup-tureen ; add to these a cup of milk, then pour the boiling liquid and herbs into the tureen, stirring all the time. The sprig of thyme must be very small, and should be taken out of the saucepan before the rest has done boiling. Haricot Soup.—Soak 1 pint of haricots over night, and boil together with 2 onions, 2 turnips, and 2 carrots cut small, £ teaspoonful of celery seed, in 5 pints of water, hours. Add butter, salt, and pepper to taste, and thicken with 1 ounce of soaked sago or tapioca. Pass the whole through a wire sieve. Hotch. Potch.—A quart of stock (rather thin), 2 onions or leeks, any cold potatoes, any cold cabbage, i teaspoonful of whole pepper, fresh bones (chicken bones are particularly nice) or scraps of meat, a handful of barley, salt to taste, boil till the barley is soft. If there is no fat among the scraps, add about i ounce of mutton dripping. To make this without meat stock take 4 ounces of pearl barley, soak and put them in the saucepan with 4 quarts of boiling water, boil for 2 hours, and add 2 carrots, and as many turnips cut small; add 2 ounces of butter and h pound of bread-crumbs. When the vegetables are soft, add herbs and condiments. The Housekeeper’s own Soup.—To a quart of thin stock add 1 ounce of beef dripping or butter, a lump of loaf sugar, some whole pepper, and salt. Bring it to boiling point, then slice in 3 large mealy potatoes, 2 large onions or leeks, and boil to a pulp. Stir in gently enough tapioca to thicken, or add a little barley already soaked in water ; a turnip or carrot may be added if desired. If this soup is desired as a dinner soup, the potatoes and onions when soft may be taken out and rubbed through a sieve. When put back into the stock boil for 10 minutes. Julienne Soup.—Cut into thin shreds about 1 inch long 3 carrots, 3 turnips, the white part of a head of celery, 3 onions, and 3 leeks. Place in a stewpan with 2 ounces of butter and a small pinch of pounded sugar ; stir over a slow fire until slightly browned. Pour over them 3 quarts of clear stock, and simmer very slowly until the vegetables are tender. Skim, and add 2 lumps of sugar, 2 pinches of salt, and 2 pinches of pepper, if required, 2 cabbage lettuces, 12 leaves of sorrel, and 12 leaves of chervil, cut in the same way as the other vegetables, after being immersed in boiling water for a minute. Boil half an hour longer, skim carefully, and serve. Julienne.—Some 12 different vegetables and seasoning herbs are required to make Julienne soup as served up at the better-class Parisian restaurants. In the ordinary way, ‘ true ’ Julienne is seldom to be had in England, owing to the difficulty involved in procuring the necessary ingredients at certain seasons of the year. By introducing a mixture of 12 kinds of vegetables and herbs, after the famous Soyer recipe, Messrs. Chollet and Cie. have rendered the housekeeper a real service, which deserves appreciation, the preparation in question being of high quality and moderate in price. Steep Chollet’s Julienne in stock for 1 hour—1 ounce of Julienne to every quart of stock—then put on the fire and boil for 45 minutes. Salt and pepper to taste. If you have no stock, do as above directed in water, adding sufficient extract of meat.SOUPS AND SAUCES. 43 Lentil Soup.—Wash 1 pound lentils, and soak in water over night. Boil with 2 onions, 2.turnips, 2 carrots, all chopped fine; a piece of celery or a little celery seed, 1 ounce butter, pepper and salt in 2 quarts water, 1J hours. Thicken with 1 ounce sago previously soaked. Pass the whole through a wire sieve. Mutton Broth.—Put into a pan 2 pounds of the scrag of mutton, freed from fat, and chopped small, with 3 pints of water. Boil, skim, and simmer for an hour. Add lit ounces of washed rice, a small onion and 2 sprigs parsley chopped, turnip and some celery if liked. Simmer for two hours. Strain, skim, season, and serve. Onion Soup.—Peel and mince finely 6 Spanish onions. Fry them in a little fresh butter till tender, without being browned. Pour over them 3 pints of seasoned stock, add a little cayenne, salt, and pepper, and simmer gently for 20 minutes ; then press through a hair-sieve, and return to the saucepan. Grate the crumb of a stale loaf into J pint of boiling milk, stir this into the soup, and serve hot. Ox-Tail Soup.—Cut the tail into joints, put into a stewpan, with i ounce of butter and a slice of ham. Put in \ pint of water, and stir over a sharp fire till the gravy is drawn. Add 3 pints water ; and 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 2 onions, h head celery, 6 peppercorns, 2 cloves, 2 lumps sugar, 1 tablespoonful ketchup, small bunch savoury herbs, 2J tablespoonfuls salt. Simmer gently for 4 hours, or until the tail-joints are tender. Take them out, skim, and strain the soup, thicken with flour, and flavour with h spoonful of ketchup; simmer for 5 minutes, and serve. Mulligatawny Soup (economical).—Take 2 pounds of tinned mutton, or scrag, and soak in 2 quarts of water. Fry 2 apples, 2 onions, 2 turnips, 2 leeks, and a bunch of herbs. Pour on a pint of the liquor in which the meat is soaking; boil for \ hour. Mix 2 table- spoonfuls of flour and 1 of curry powder with cold water. Stir into the liquid, add the rest of the water and the meat. Boil for 3 hours. Press the whole through a sieve, boil again, add salt, and serve with boiled rice. Serve with a dash of lemon. Mulligatawny Soup.—Make 2 large cupfuls of mutton broth. Cut up a chicken, and boil it in the broth for a good h hour or more, first mixing in a tablespoonful of curry-powder or paste. Slice 2 onions, fry brown in 1 ounce of butter, add them to the chicken and broth, and place them for some minutes over a slow fire, and, just before serving, add \ cup of cream or milk and some lemon-juice. Pea Soup (1).—-To 1 pint of split peas put 2 quarts of soft water, a little lean bacon, or roast beef bones, wash 1 head of celery, cut it and put it in with a turnip, boil it till reduced to 1 quart ; then work it through a colander with a wooden spoon, mix a little flour and water, and boil it well in the soup. Add cayenne pepper, dried mint, and salt to taste ; cut a slice of bread in small dices, fry them a light brown, put them in a dish, and pour the soup upon it. The liquor in which beef or any other meat has been boiled may be used instead of water, and will produce a greater quantity of soup. Pea Soup (2).—Another way is to use Messrs. Symington’s well- known pea-flour. In its preparation the deleterious agent of the pea— the fixed air—is displaced, and soup prepared by it is not only nutritious, but its digestibility is greatly increased. It is sold in tins, from which as much is taken as may be necessary. Mix with as much meat stockENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 44 as will make a paste ; stir, and add the broth or soup to the thickness required. Season with pepper, salt, and green or dried mint. A delicious soup may be made instantly with pea-flour, by adding a small quantity of Liebig’s extract of meat flavoured with salt and pepper. 2 ounces of the pea-flour will thicken 1 quart of stock. From the same source may be procured a pea-soup preparation. This contains all the ingredients for a dish of soup, viz., herbs, seasonings, and extract of meat. All that is required is the water and boiling a few minutes. Pot-au-Feu.—Take 3 pounds of fresh beef and about a pound of bones; tie up the meat neatly with tape or string; put all into a saucepan holding 2 quarts, fill it up with enough soft water to cover, and set on the fire. Carefully remove the scum as it rises, and do not let the liquid boil. At intervals add small quantities of cold water. When the scum is all removed, -add \ ounce of salt, 4 saltspoonful of whole pepper and allspice, 1 onion stuck with 3 cloves, 1 leek, 2 carrots cut in 2-inch lengths, 1 turnip cut in 4, and a small bunch of herbs. Skim and simmer gently for 3 or 4 hours. In season : 4 head of celery cut in 2-inch lengths, and a parsnip may be added. When about to serve, strain the broth, add a small teaspoonful of pounded loaf sugar, boil and'pour it into the soup-tureen over small slices of toasted bread, adding some of the vegetables cut into thin slices. Remove the tape or string, and serve the meat, garnishing with mashed potatoes, spinach, or other vegetables. Potage a la Conde.—Soak a cupful of haricot beans in cold water all night. Slice an onion, put it with the beans, and boil in 3 pints of water for 4 hours. Pass through a hair-sieve, and rub the beans through with a wooden spoon. Put back into the saucepan, season with pepper and salt, stir till the soup boils, and serve. Potage a la Crecy.—Slice 12 large carrots and put into a stewpan, with 2 ounces of butter, a large lump of sugar, 3 good-sized onions, 2 turnips, 12 peppercorns, J pound of lean ham, a head of celery, and 4 leeks. Simmer gently over a gentle fire for 10 minutes. Shake the saucepan to prevent burning. Pour over them a quart of cold stock or water, with a teaspoonful of Liebig’s extract, and simmer until the vegetables are quite tender. Strain off the soup, and press the vegetables with a wooden spoon through a sieve. Mix the pulp again with the stock, season with pepper and salt, put back into the stew- pan, and boil. Skim and serve. Send toasted sippets to table in a separate dish. Potato Soup.—Boil a quart of milk with a stalk of celery and an onion. Boil 6 potatoes soft, and mash fine and light. Add the boiling milk, a tablespoonful of butter, and pepper and salt. Rub through a strainer’, and serve immediately. Potato Soup.—Wash, pare, and slice 1 pound of potatoes; skin and chop ^ pound of onions. Place the potatoes, onions, and 2 ounces of butter in 3 pints of water, and boil until the potatoes and onions can be crushed smooth with a fork or spoon. Add a full tea- spoonful of sugar, and let the soup boil up again. If a richer soup is wanted, J pint of milk may be added with the sugar. Season with pepper and salt. Prussian Soup.—Cut 4 heads of celery, 2 carrots, as many onions, turnips, potatoes, and large leeks into little pieces, and fry in a little fat. Tut these with 4 pound of beef or mutton cut into slices into a45 SOUPS AND SAUCES. large saucepan, and simmer slowly for about 1 hour. Then add 2 quarts of water and stew gently about 2 hours. Rice Soup.—Wash 4 ounces of rice, drain and put into a saucepan with 2 ounces of butter, a cupful of stock, seasoned with salt and pepper ; simmer gently until tender. Gut 2 large turnips into small pieces, and fry these in butter a light brown ; drain the fat from them, and stew in a pint of stock. Add the boiled rice, and serve. Send 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan to table with the soup. Tomato Soup.—Put a small onion and 2 tablespoonfuls of dripping into a stewpan, simmer till of a reddish brown, and add 12 tomatoes, peeled and sliced ; stir all up till very hot, and add 1 quart boiling water and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; stew for half an hour and strain. Return to the stewpan, season with pepper, salt, and sugar, and when boiling add a tablespoonful of butter rolled in flour, and a cup of boiled rice ; simmer 15 minutes, and serve. Veal Soup.—Cut 4 pounds of the knuckle of veal into 5 or 6 pieces, sawing through the bones. Place in a stewpan, cover with cold water, and boil. Skim and simmer for an hour. Add 5 or 6 turnips, 2 onions, and a few sticks of celery, and simmer gently for another hour. Mix a tablespoonful of flour or ground rice to a smooth paste with cold water, stir a little of the boiling liquor into it, and add it to the rest. Boil a short time longer. Half an hour before serving add a pinch of powdered mushrooms, 6 or 8 sliced potatoes; and 10 or 15 minutes before it is served put in 6 small dumplings. Pepper and salt to taste. Serve the veal on a dish with the dumplings and vegetables round it. Vegetable Colourings for Soups.—The old practice of burning sugar in a spoon to brown soups and sauces should be discarded. Their flavour is very likely to be spoilt by this means. The better plan is to use one of the prepared brownings, such as ‘ Couleur Parisienne,’ which keeps good any length of time, and is practically flavourless. ‘ Couleur Parisienne ’ is pure sugar caramelised by a special process, and gives both richness of colour and ‘ body ’ to soups, sauces, etc. Green colour- ing may be made by pounding some young spinach or beet-leaves, press- ing out the juice into a cup and placing this cup in a saucepan of boiling water. Let it simmer gently to take off the raw taste of the juice. Before using, mix it with a little finely-sifted sugar. For Red colouring add 2 or 3 drops of cochineal. For White colouring add pounded almonds, arrowroot, or cream. For Yellow, dissolve orange or lemon jelly. For an Opaque, pound the yolks of eggs, and mix it with the liquid ; or, add a little saffron ; or, soak the flowers of the crocus, which will not taste. White (Vegetable) Soup.—Mix 1 ounce Edwards’ White (Vegetable) Soup, which costs Id., with a little tepid water ; cover,and place by the fire about 15 minutes ; put £ pint water in a saucepan, when it boils add the soup ; blend well ; boil 20 minutes, stirring well; add \ pint fresh or skimmed milk, just bring to the boil; strain ; add pepper, salt, etc. ; add the yolk of an egg by beating it up with a little of the soup ; when thoroughly mixed, add the whole. All purely vegetable soups are greatly enriched and improved by the use of bran water. This may be made by adding J pound of bran to 1 quart cold water ; bring slowly to the boil ; then simmer for 2 hours ; strain, and use instead of water as directed above. Edwards’ White Vegetable Soup may be added to all vegetable soups with advantage.46 ENGLISH ANP FBEXCH COOKEKY. SAUCES. Anchovy Sauce.—Add 1J tablespoonfuls of anchovy paste to is pint melted butter, season to taste ; boil up for 1 minute, and serve. Apple Sauce.—Pare, core and slice 4 or 5 apples; place in a sauce- pan with water sufficient to moisten ; simmer for about J an hour till reduced to pulp. Beat them up, adding a teaspoonful of sugar, a squeeze of lemon, and small piece of butter. Bechamel Sauce (White).—To make about J pint, put 2 ounces of butter and 2 ounces of flour into a saucepan, and stir them over the fire briskly with a wooden spoon to a smooth paste. Add gradually f pint of milk, a small onion, 2 or 3 sticks of celery cut up small, half a carrot thinly sliced, half a bay-leaf, a very small sprig of thyme, a bunch of parsley, a little nutmeg, and a pinch of salt. Stir the sauce over a quick fire till it is pleasantly flavoured, and strain it into a basin, and it will be fit for use. Bread Sauce.—Peel and slice an onion, and simmer until tender in a pint of milk ; break a breakfast cupful of stale bread into small pieces, and place in a saucepan ; strain the milk over it, and let it soak for 1 hour, then beat up with a fork and give a seasoning of pounded mace, cayenne and salt, with 1 ounce of butter ; boil up the whole and serve. Bretonne Sauce (for Cold or Hot Beef).—Mix a wine-glassful of vinegar with equal quantities of pounded sugar and mustard, a tea- spoonful of each, and about a tablespoonful of grated horse-radish. Brown Sauce.—Melt 2 ounces of butter in a saucepan, and add 1 ounce flour, stirring until it is a brown colour. Add boiling stock to render it of cream-like consistency, season to taste, and bring to desired colour with a little 1 Couleur Parisienne.’ Chutney Sauce.—Chop 1 pound of raisins, 4 ounces of onions, 6 ounces of garlic, and 2 quarts of green gooseberries. Boil 2 quarts of vinegar, and put the above into it. Boil J an hour, and bottle when cold. Dutch Sauce for Fish.—Work 2 ounces of butter with a small teaspoonful of flour, put it into a stewpan with 2 tablespoonfuls each of water and tarragon vinegar, stir for a minute, and add the beaten yolks of 2 eggs, stirring until the mixture thickens. It must not boil. When ready to serve, pour into it half the juice of a lemon. Make this sauce in a gallipot, placed in a saucepan of boiling water. Egg Sauce.—To melted butter (see recipe) add 2 or 3 hard-boiled eggs cut up very small. When boiling, stir in the eggs. Mint Sauce.—Take a sufficiently large bunch of fresh green young mint to fill, when finely chopped, 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls. Chop the rind of a good-sized lemon very fine, and add to the mint in a sauce-tureen. To 4 ounces of best French vinegar add H ounces of fresh lemon-juice, and dissolve in this as much finely-powdered loaf-sugar as it will absorb. Pour the solution over the mint in the tureen, and let it stand for 1 hour. Mustard Sauce.—Knead 1 teaspoonful of flour of mustard and 1 dessertspoonful of baked flour with 3 ounces of butter ; stir to it a gill of boiling water, let it all boil 5 minutes, add 1 teaspoonful of vinegar, and serve. Melted Butter.—Mix 2 tablespoonfuls of flour with a little smoothSOUPS AND SAUCES. 47 milk to a smooth paste ; boil I a pint of milk and pour on to tlxe paste, the same manner as in making arrowroot. When mixed, boil for 3 minutes. Mayonnaise Sauce.—Break the yolk of a fresh egg into a basin, season with pepper and salt, and beat till thick. Add, drop by drop while beating, 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil and 4 teaspoonfuls of vinegar. When these are thoroughly mixed add 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, stirring it in well. Two points to attend to in mixing a mayonnaise are that the materials and utensils should be as cool as possible, and that in mixing the oil and vinegar not more than a few drops of each should be added at a time. Time and care are required to make a good sauce. Onion Sauce.—Boil 4 or 6 white onions till tender. Mix them with ^ pint melted butter. Salt and pepper to taste, and boil up. Oyster Sauce.—Stew the beards of 12 oysters in their own juice with i a teacupful of good clear gravy ; strain it off, add it to \ pint melted butter, put in the oysters, and simmer gently for 3 minutes. Parsley and Butter.—To 1 pint melted butter add 2 tablespoon- fuls of parsley, chopped very fine. Boil parsley for 5 minutes previously. Some prefer not to boil the parsley. Shrimp Sauce.—Into J pint melted butter put \ pint picked shrimps, add cayenne to taste, and simmer for 2 minutes. A dash of lemon-juice or anchovy sauce may be added. Sweet Sauce.—Take ^ pint melted butter, sweeten, and flavour with cinnamon, nutmeg, or grated almonds. Sauce Flavouring's.—In conveying delicate flavours to sauces, soups, gravies, stews, stuffings, and roast and. broiled meats, the cook will find Langdale’s essences of sage, parsley, garden mint, horseradish, onions, shallots, garlic, basil, marjoram, thyme, lemon thyme, mixed herbs, sweet herbs, savory and tomato, of material assistance. The essences of celery, capsicum, cayenne pepper, eschalot, tarragon, and truffles are also worth keeping in the storeroom. They are very inex- pensive and go a long way. Sauce Tartare.—Put the yolks of 2 eggs, a dessertspoonful of the best vinegar, and a little salt into a small saucepan, whip these up with a whisk quickly into a cream, and add 2 dessertspoonfuls of oil and a teaspoonful of mustard, which must be well mixed previously ; a pinch of parsley minced very fine, and a little cayenne. The oil should be put in drop by drop, to mix perfectly. Wine and Brandy Sauces are made as sweet sauce, without the flavourings. White wines only are used for wine sauce. Worcester Sauce.—Mince 2 cloves of shallot, put into a bottle, and pour over it a pint of wine vinegar. Add 3 tablespoonfuls of essence of anchovy, 3 of walnut ketchup, 2 of soy, and cayenne to taste. Cork the bottle, keep it in a cool place, and shake it well twice a day for a fortnight. Strain the sauce, put it in small bottles, corked closely, for use. (3f course, few cooks would nowadays think of making Worcester, except as an experiment, when such an infinitely better article as Lea and Perrin’s sauce exists. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. A completo Illustrated Catalogue of Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves will be sent post freo from the manufacturers, Wright and Butler, Linjjted, Birmingham.— See Advertisement.PART IV. FISH-COOKERY. Few Englishwomen know how to cook fish properly, and these are fewest among the very poor, to whom an aptitude for preparing fish in economical and appetizing forms is of the greatest moment. In ordinary households how often is the cook or housewife found who can prepare fish properly—who can fry, steam, broil, bake, make a water souchy, a bouille a baisse, or any other economical dish of fish ? When we do find such a lut>us natural it is usually in the person of a cook who has gained her knowledge under the tuition of a foreign chef. The frying-pan used for fish should also be kept for fish only, and the most convenient kind for persons whose space is limited has small handles on either side to lift it by, instead of a straight one sticking out into the room. A long pot or kettle furnished with a steamer is most useful, and if kept scrupulously clean may be used for other things besides fish ; but the steamer is invaluable, and avoids a great deal of waste and trouble. Sea-fish is also as good again if boiled in sea-water ; but the next best thing is to put a handful of salt in the water. Another item to be remembered by all who essay fish-cookery is that their fat, lard, or oil should be very hot, in fact, at boiling point, before the fish is put in. There is a very simple but effective mode of testing whether it is exactly right, and that is by dipping the tail of the fish into the fat. If it instantly becomes crisp and brittle, the fat is just the thing, and the sooner the fish is put in the better. These hints may be con- sidered the outworks of fish cookery, but they are essential to its success. Bouille & Baisse.—All kinds of fish may be used. For 6 pounds of fish, chop 2 onions, and put them with a piece of butter in a stew- pan, and brown them ; then arrange the fish (which has been previ- ously cut into small pieces) in the pan. Add a small quantity of olive- Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. In the cottage or the working-man’s home Wright and Butler's Oil Cook- ing Stoves are an invaluable addition, because they arc cleaner than coal and much more economical. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham. —See Advertisement.49 FISH-COOKERT. oil, a clove of garlic, 2 bay-leaves, a few slices of lemon, 2 or 3 tomatoes, or a little tomato sauce, as much powdered saffron as will go on the point of a table-knife, and, lastly, a glass of white wine or Madeira. Put in sufficient stock to cover the whole, and boil from 10 to 15 minutes, skimming carefully the whole time. When ready to serve, throw in a handful of chopped parsley. It is usually sent to table in 2 separate dishes, the fish in one, and the sauce in a small deep dish. Baked Cod.—Take the middle of a large cod and soak it in cold water with some salt for half an hour. Wipe it dry, and stuff with a forcemeat made with a teacupful of breadcrumbs, to which pepper and salt have been added, some finely-chopped pork, and a very small quantity of minced onion with a tablespoonful of mixed sweet herbs, and a teaspoonful of Brand’s A1 sauce. Place the fish in a baking-dish, and pour over it thin melted butter, seasoned with the juice of half a lemon and a bit of parsley. Bake with moderate heat for about an hour, or longer if required, basting the fish frequently to prevent its browning too rapidly. When done, dish, strain the gravy over it, and serve hot. Crab, Dressed.—Break the claws and remove the meat, mince it, season with grated nutmeg, pepper, salt, and a little vinegar, mix with a few breadcrumbs and a piece of butter, well stirring the mixture over the fire ; and with this fill the shells, previously cleaned, bake, and serve hot. Curried Cod.—Cut some steaks of cod about three-quarters of an inch thick, slice a number of onions, and fry them both a good brown colour ; put the fish in a white gravy, and a tablespoonful of curry- powder and a teaspoonful of cayenne pepper ; thicken with three tea- spoonfuls of cream, or condensed Swiss milk, a little butter, and a little flour, salt to taste. Salmon, soles, and whiting are excellent prepared in the same way. Cod Cutlets.—Take about a pound and a half of the tail of a fine cod, with a sharp knife divide the flesh from the bone lengthways ; cut it into neat pieces, and flatten with a knife. Dip in egg, then in crumbs mixed with a little flour, pepper, and salt. Fry the cutlets in a wire-basket in plenty of fat, or they can be done in a frying-pan ; they should be done quickly~to be crisp. Cod (Scollops of) en bonne Morue.—Work 3 spoonfuls of white fish sauce over the fire with a good bit of butter, seasoned with pepper and salt; then put in some flakes of cold cod, stir them about in the sauce, and then let them remain till cold. Lay some fried bread round the edge of a dish, put the flakes or scallops of cod in the centre, smooth them with a knife, stew breadcrumbs over, and brown it with the salamander. Garnish fancifully with toasted bread. Cod, Salt.—The flesh of good salt cod is very white and the flakes large ; the skin dark, almost back. Soak in milk and water, or water alone, for several hours ; put the fish into a kettle with plenty of cold water ; set it on the fire ; when nearly boiling, skim and let it simmer gently till done. Serve egg sauce, and garnish with parsnips or potatoes. Croquettes of Fish..—-Mix over the fire 1 teaspoonful of flour, 1 ounce of butter, and J gill of cream. Add, off the fire, the yolk of 1 egg, a little seasoning, and \ pound of cold dressed fish beaten to a paste. Let the mixture cool, and form it into balls ; let these be egged and breaded. Fry to a nice brown in hot fat, and serve with gravy, 4ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY'. 50 made by boiling down the bones, fins and tails with an onion. Add an anchovy and seasoning to taste. Eels, Fried.—Clean and cut them into pieces 3 or 4 inches in length, scored across each twice or thrice. Season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with flour, fry in dripping, drain, and dry before the fire ; garnish with parsley, and serve with melted butter and lemon juice. Eel, Spitchcocked.—Cut an eel into pieces about the length of a finger, rub it well with the yolk of an egg; strew over it fine bread- crumbs, pepper, salt, nutmeg, grated lemon-peel, chopped parsley ; rub the gridiron with a bit of suet, and broil it of a nice brown colour. Serve with anchovy sauce. Or you may do it whole, done with the above ingredients turned round and skewered, then broiled, or roasted in a Dutch oven. Eels, Stewed.—Divide 4 large eels into pieces of about \\ inches, and season with pepper, salt, and a little pounded mace. Lay them in a deep dish with a little veal stock, or water, to cover, a bundle of sweet herbs, and a very little chopped parsley sprinkled in layers. Tie down with a paper, first putting some small bits of butter on the top; stew slowly for an hour. It is usual to thicken with flour. Fish. Fritters.—Take the cold remains of any fish, remove the bones, and if necessary the skin, pound in a mortar mixed with a small onion, add salt and pepper, a well-beaten egg, and mashed potato. When solid enough spread the paste out upon your pasteboard and stamp and cut it out into fancy shapes, and fry in boiling fat, dish hot on a napkin garnished with parsley, and serve with sauce. Fish Mayonnaise.—Slices of cold fish are arranged in a salad bowl wiped with onions or a clove or garlic, and minced with a couple of finely-sliced floury potatoes. Scraps of broccoli or cauliflower, slices of beetroot, tops of asparagus, slices of celery, French beans, sliced finely, all boiled tender in salt and water. Lay shredded endive or lettuce round the pile and garnish with anchovies, gherkins, chillies, beet, hard-boiled eggs, etc. Cream the yolks of 4 to 6 eggs, according to quantity, drop in 3 tablespoonfuls of salad oil, 1 tablespoonful thick cream, 3 of vinegar, white pepper and salt to taste, a little dry mustard. Dress the salad thickly with this, and put in a cool or ice safe. Add some curled blanched celery when served. Fish Pie.—Boil 2 pounds of small eels ; having cut the fins quite close, pick the fish off, and throw the bones into the liquor with a little mace, pepper, salt, and slice of onion ; boil till quite rich, and strain it. Make forcemeat of the flesh, an auchovy, parsley, lemon-peel, salt, pepper, and crumbs, and 4 ounces of butter warmed, and lay in at the bottom of the dish. Take the flesh of soles, small cod, or dressed turbot, and lay them on the forcemeat, having rubbed it with salt and pepper, pour the gravy over, and bake. Fish Pie (another recipe).—Remove the skin and bones from a piece of cold boiled or baked fish, being careful to break the fish as little as possible. Season with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and lay several pieces at the bottom of a pie-dish ; sprinkle over these some finely-slired parsley, and repeat the layers of seasoned fish and parsley till the dish is full. A few hard-boiled eggs, sliced, and laid between the pieces of fish, greatly enrich the dish. Cover the whole with good cold melted butter, left from the previous day. Make a dripping crust,51 FISH-COOKERY. roll out thin, cover the pie, and bake half an hour. Note.—A thin crust should always be used for a pie made with second-cooked meat or fish. _ ' Fish. Pudding'.—Pound up the remains of fish cold with a few spoonfuls of stock, add a little piece of butter and some breadcrumbs, the yolks of 4 eggs well beaten. Then rub through a sieve, adding whites of the eggs well whipped, put into a mould and bake. Fish Sausages.—A rich, wholesome, and tasty form of sausage, introduced by the Normal Company, is made, packed in tins, both fresh and smoked. The latter is an agreeable relish, always ready for use.. Herrings, Baked.—Thoroughly clean the herrings ; twist them in a round and put them in a pie-dish with vinegar, whole pepper, and a bay-leaf or two. Bake for three-quarters of an hour. Send them up for breakfast with a little of the liquor round them, and a sprig of parsley in the centre of each rounded fish. Herrings, Boiled.—When cleaned, scaled, washed, and dried, rub in salt and vinegar, then place in boiling water for 10 or 12 minutes, remove, drain, and serve with grated horseradish and horseradish sauce. Herrings, Toasted.—In Yarmouth the following bit of rhyme conveys a useful hint : ‘ There was never a herring spake but one, And he said, Toast my back before yon toast my bone.’ Herrings, Red.—Remove the heads and tails, split, bone, and baste with oil in a dish. Cook on a gridiron, turning them for a minute or two, and serve hot. Haddock, Broiled.—Clean, dry, and put before a brisk fire in a Dutch oven. Remove, when the skin rises, coat with white of egg, sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and dredge with flour. Then place it on the gridiron, turn, and butter the upper surface each time. Serve hot. Haddock, Dried, Broiled.—Heat the haddock slowly before the fire in a hanging gridiron till quite hot. Rub a little butter and pepper over it before sending to table. Haddock, Boiled.—Put 2 ounces of salt into J gallon of water, and when dissolved, put in the fish. Boil quickly, remove the scum, then simmer gently until the eyes of the fish start and the flesh leaves the bone easily. Serve on a napkin, garnish with parsley, and send melted butter and anchovy sauce to table in a tureen. Hake, Baked.—Stuff with veal-stuffing, sew up with a needle and fine packthread. Brush it over with egg, and sprinkle with bread- crumbs, and bake in a hot oven. John Dory.—Cut off the fins, lay in a fish-kettle, cover with cold water, and add \ pound salt. Bring gradually to a boil, simmer gently for £ hour, or longer. Serve on a hot napkin, and garnish with cut- lemon and parsley. Lobster, anchovy, or shrimp sauce, and plain melted butter, should be sent to table with it. Lobster Cutlets.—Take the meat of a lobster out of the shell and cut into small pieces ; 1 ounce of butter, flour, and \ pint of water, milk, or stock made from odds and ends of fish are then placed in a saucepan and stirred until the liquid boils and thickens. Then take off the fire and add the pieces of lobster with the juice of half a lemon, a little cayenne pepper, 2 tablespoonfuls of cream, some anchovy, and whatever coral the lobster had. Set this aside for several hours until 4—2ENGLISH AND FBENCH COOKERY. 52 cool. Then sift some breadcrumbs through a sieve, and coat with egg. Flour a paste-board, knife, and hands, to cut your fish mixture into neat and rather thick little cutlets ; cover them thoroughly with egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in a saucepan. Serve on white paper, garnish with parsley, and stick into each cutlet a piece or two of the lobster’s feelers, or a small bit of curled parsley. Mackerel, Boiled.—Put into a fish-kettle of cold water with a large tablespoonful of salt, bring gradually to a boil, and simmer for about 20 minutes if the fish is large, if small, 15 minutes. Remove the scum as it rises, and when done serve on a napkin with fennel garnish, and send fennel sauce or melted butter. By many mackerel is boiled 2 to 3 hours, which is said to much improve the flavour. Mackerel, Baked with. Vinegar.—Cut off the heads and tails, open and clean the fish, and lay them in a deep pan with a few bay- leaves, whole pepper, J a teaspoonful of cloves, and 1 teaspoonful of allspice, pour over them equal quantities of vinegar and water, bake for 1A hours in a slow oven, and serve when cold. Sprats and herrings are also nice prepared in this way. Mackerel, Rolled.—The fish being cleansed, and the head and backbone removed, split into halves, pepper, salt, and sprinkle with flour, then roll up tightly, tail outward. Others being also prepared, set in a row close together in a deep baking-dish, Eoused in a pickle made of vinegar and water, pepper and salt, in which they are baked. Mackerel, Stewed.—Clean and cut a fresh mackerel into 4 pieces, and take out the bone. Have ready a pint of melted butter, seasoned with a little salt, mace, or cayenne. Throw in the thin rind of ^ a lemon, and the juice also. Stew the fish in the sauce 20 minutes, and, just before serving, add a dessertspoonful of anchovy sauce and a little mustard. Marinade for Fisk.—Fry in butter 6 shallots, 3 middle-sized onions, a couple of carrots, a bunch of parsley, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a clove of garlic. Cut the carrots, shallots, and onions small; pick and mince the herbs. When they have simmered in the butter 5 or 6 minutes, pour in any light wine or cider—about 3 pints—and add a dessertspoonful of peppercorns, the same of allspice, and 2 cloves. When the mixture has simmered for li hours, strain for use. Insipid fish boiled in this marinade will acquire an agreeable flavour. If, after use, the marinade be carefully strained, it null serve several times. Beer or vinegar, with the addition of a glass of soy, and the same of essence of anchovy and ketchup, may be substituted for the wine or cyder, etc. Mussels, Pickled,—Shell and remove the beards with care, put them in their own liquor, with whole pepper, ginger, mace, white pepper, and salt. Boil for 5 minutes, and when cold serve noth a little vinegar. The mussels should be quite fresh. Oyster Fricasse.—Fresh or tinned oysters are put in a china bowl, and placed over steam. For every ounce of butter heat 2 table- spoonfuls of milk or cream, according to size of dish. Add salt, mace, and cayenne to taste, and finally the liquor of the oysters. Beat to cream 2 or more yolks of eggs, add 2 spoonfuls of the oyster gravy (cold), and pour the prepared scalding, but not boiling, sauce to it ; add the heated oysters, and serve with toast sippets. . Oyster Toast.—Chop roughly 12 oysters, and mix them well with 1 anchovy, washed and boned, a little cream or condensed milk, andKISH-COOKERY. 53 thicken with a small piece of butter rolled in flour, season with a grain of cayenne ; boil up, and serve on hot buttered toast. Anchovy paste may be used instead of the anchovies. Scalloped Fish..—Take cold cod, hake, or turbot, flake it and season with salt and pepper, moisten with a little milk, and stir in a good-sized piece of butter. Put this mixture in small scallop-shell tins, and bake a light brown. Skate, Crimped.—Cut into slices, roll and tie round; put into highly salted water, and boil till done. Drain well, remove the string, dish with melted butter, caper, or anchovy sauce poured over. Sole, Fried.—The skinning of soles is for the eye ; when the skin is merely cleaned and scraped the full flavour of the fish is retained. The sole for frying should weigh between \ a pound and a pound. Put in a dish with a tablespoonful of vinegar an hour or so before cooking. Dry thoroughly and cover with breadcrumbs after coating with egg, adding a little salt and pepper. Place in the frying-pan dark side downward with plenty of fat at boiling-point. Fry for 4 minutes, moving the pan gently, then turn, and in 3 minutes re- move by inserting the points of the fork close to the head, and hold up to let the fat drain off, and serve with or without melted butter or sauce. Sole, Fillets of.—Having dried the fillets, divide them into neat pieces 2 or 3 inches long ; dip them in the beaten yolk of egg, and then in seasoned breadcrumbs. Make a little butter hot in the frying-pan, put in the fillets and cook them slowly until brown on one side, then turn and finish on the other. Sole, Fried, Fillets of.—These may either be rolled in one piece or divided into several, as in the foregoing recipe. In either case egg and crumb them thoroughly, place them in the wire-basket as you do them, which immerse in fat hot enough to crisp bread instantly. When done, put the fillets on paper to absorb any grease clinging to them, and serve as hot as possible. All kinds of flat fish can be filleted and cooked by these recipes, and will usually be found more economical than serving the fish whole. It is also economical to fillet the tail-end of cod, salmon, and turbot, and either fry or saut6 as may be pre- ferred. Salmon Cutlets.—Dip slices of salmon into olive oil and season with cayenne pepper and salt ; wrap in oiled paper and fry in boiling fat for 10 minutes over a clear fire, dry on a gridiron and serve hot. Sprats, Fried.—After the sprats are washed, wipe them dry in a cloth ; sprinkle a little salt over, and let them lie for an hour ; then put them on paper with flour, and turn them about until lightly coated with it. Put as many of the sprats into a wire frying-basket as will cover the bottom of it; plunge this into hot fat, and keep gently mov- ing until the fish are crisp. When done, turn the sprats on to a sheet of paper to free them from grease, and serve instantly with cayenne, cut lemon, and brown bread and butter. Salmon, Boiled.—Put as much cold water into the fish-kettle as will entirely cover the fish, and with it 2 ounces of salt to each quart of water. Bring quickly to the boil, and skim; then put in the fish, and simmer gently. Take it up as soon as it is done. To ascertain whether it is done, press the flesh lightly with the finger, and if it leaves the bone easily it is done ; as a general rule, 8 minutes per pound may be allowed for thick salmon, 6 minutes per pound for thinENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 54 salmon. Serve on a folded napkin, garnish with lemon and parsley, horseradish and fennel, or fennel and red currants, and send shrimp, lobster, parsley, anchovy, or Dutch sauce to table with it. A dish of sliced cucumber is usually served with boiled salmon. To Keep Fish Fresh.—If fish is found to be slightly touched or tainted the best thing is to steep it for a short time in dilute Condy’s Fluid, which destroys the tainted particles, and leaves the fish per- fectly sweet and wholesome, and with its natural flavour unimpaired- When restored to freshness, cook it at once. Condy’s Fluid leaves neither taste nor smell of its own, so that its use cannot be detected, while its action is easily verified. Turbot, Boiled.—Four hours before cooking, soak the fish in salt and water ; then cleanse it, and make an incision down the middle of the back with a knife, to prevent the skin of the belly from crack- ing. Lay the fish in a clean kettle, cover with cold salted wrater, salt in the above proportion. Let it gradually boil, skim, and keep gently simmering. When the meat separates easily from the bone, take it out, drain well, and dish, garnish with parsley and cut lemon. Send up with lobster or shrimp sauce. Time, after the water boils, about b hour for a large turbot ; middling size, about 20 minutes. Average cost, large turbot, from 10s. to 21s. ; middling size, from 8s. to 15s. Seasonable at any time. Sufficient, 1 middling-sized turbot for 8 persons. Water Soucby.—Dabs, plaice, flounders, or any freshwater fish, are good for a souchy. Boil the fish in about 2 quarts water; stand aside the largest, and boil down 1 or 2 to rags in the liquor ; boil in it also some parsley. Pulp the fish which is boiled down, and chop the parsley fine. Return them to the liquor, heat the fish in it, and serve it in a deep dish accompanied by thin slices of brown bread and butter. Whiting aux Fines Herbes.—Fasten the fish with its tail in its mouth. Place it on a dish, season with pepper and salt, and sprinkle over it a teaspoonful of mixed sweet herbs in powder. Lay little pieces of butter thickly upon it, cover with another dish, and bake in a moderately-heated oven till done enough. Turn it once or twice that it may be equally cooked, and serve with the sauce poured over it. Time to bake the fish, 20 to 30 minutes. Whiting, Broiled.—Well cleanse the fish with salt and water, wdpe quite dry, dredge with flour, and broil over a clear fire. Serve ■with a piece of cold butter and salt and pepper. Whiting, Fried.—Halve, say, 6 small whiting and place them in equal proportions of vinegar, white wine, and water, with some salt, onion, a few blades of mace, and a little whole pepper, for about 1 hour ; dry, and put them into flour and fry in hot oil over a brisk tire ; serve with a little parsley, and add for sauce a large spoonful of good vinegar, with water, a little salt, some minced parsley, shallot, and a little lemon-juice. Whitebait.—Wash and drain them in a colander, flour them well, and sift fine breadcrumbs over them ; fry them in hot lard for about 1 minute. As soon as they rise, take them out. Sprinkle with salt and serve on a fish-cloth very hot. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Samples of Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves may be seen at all Ironmongers’, through whom orders will be received. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.PART Y. MEATS: JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. Beef a la Mode (1).—Take a rump or piece of beef, bone it, beat it well, and lard it with fat bacon ; put it into a stewpan with some rind of bacon, a calf’s foot, an onion, carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, some cloves, salt, and pepper, pour over the whole a glass of water ; let it stew over a slow fire for 6 hours at least. A clean cloth should be placed over the stewpan before the lid is put on, which must be carefully closed. When it is done, strain the gravy through a sieve, clear off the fat, and serve. Beef El la Mode (2).—Dip some small pieces of shin of beef in vinegar, and place in a stewpan without any water on a very slow fire, to gradually get hot ; the meat will yield sufficient gravy after slowly stewing 3 hours. Add a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of port or claret, and A teaspoonful of brown thickening, or a piece of butter, the size of a walnut, rolled in flour, with a little salt and cayenne. Simmer for a few minutes and serve. Beef, Baked.—Take thin slices of cold roast beef, sprinkle with a little salt and dust of flour ; roll them up with a little fat between each roll, and lay them in the bottom of a pie-dish. For each 2 pounds of beef slice 2 carrots and a turnip, and parboil them ; lay them with thinly-sliced onion and minced herbs over the meat. The vegetables should be next to the paste, and should be dusted over with pepper and salt. Mix a teaspoonful of flour with about i pint of good gravy, free from grease, and 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of ale ; put this into the dish and bake 45 minutes, covered with mashed potatoes or a crust if pre- ferred. Sufficient for 4 or 5 persons. Beef, Boiled.—Put fresh beef into enough boiling water to cover, bring to a boil quickly, draw the pan back, and simmer gently till done, allowing 20 minutes per pound. Put salt beef into lukewarm water. Simmer from the time of boiling till it is served up ; skim carefully all the time. Beef, Brisket of, Stewed.—Put the part which has the hard fat into a stew-pot with a small quantity of water; boil and skim thoroughly ; add carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and a few peppercorns. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves are universally appreci- ated ; by the cook, because they are so clean and easy to manage ; by the lady, because they are economical and tho food is better cooked. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Adverliicment.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Stew till extremely tender ; then take out the flat bones, and remove all the fat from the soup. Either serve that.and the meat in a tureen, or the soup alone, and the meat on a dish, garnished with some vege- tables. Small suet dumplings may be added to the soup. Take J pint of the soup and mix it with a spoonful of ketchup, a glass of port wine, a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little flour, a bit of butter, and salt; boil all together a few minutes, then pour it round the meat. Beef Croquettes.—Mince some cold roast or boiled beef, add one quarter as much potato, a little marjoram, parsley, and thyme, with pepper and salt to taste, and gravy sufficient to moisten, Mix with one beaten egg. Eorm into desired shape, dip each croquette into beaten egg and breadcrumbs. Fry quickly, and serve hot. Beef Curry.—Brown 1 or 2 onions in a frying-pan with butter. Mix equal quantities of curry-powder and paste, about a tablespoonful or rather less, with a teaspoonful of ground rice made smooth with butter. Mix with a little salt, and add a breakfastcupful of good gravy. Add, cut up into pieces, about 1 pound of beef, and allow it to simmer gently for about 40 minutes, stirring frequently. Add cocoa- nut milk or the juice of a lemon. Beef a la Houssard.—Take about 2 pounds of beef, remove all bones, beat it with a rolling-pin, and lard it with ham or bacon. Lay it, with a seasoning of chopped onion, pepper, and salt, into a stewpan with a tight-fitting cover, and put into an oven, or by the side of the fire, and let it steam in its own gravy. Take care that it does not burn. With a strong heat it will be ready in 2 or 3 hours ; serve with the gravy from the meat. Beef, Minced.—Place a spoonful of flour in a pan, and brown it with some butter. Add a pound of cold roast beef finely minced, some gravy, or stock broth, with a glass of wine, or a dash of vinegar or lemon, and season with herbs chopped up, and salt and pepper. When nearly ready, put in a little butter, and mix it with the other materials. This dish may be sent to table either with eggs ranged round the dish, or with pieces of bread fried crisp in butter. Beef, Mirliton of.—Take about 1 pound of cold beef ; cut 4 onions into slices, and fry them in a stewpan with 1 ounce of butter. Add 1 tablespoonful of flour (after the onions are well browned). Mix with £ pint of good brown gravy, water, and ketchup ; season with pepper and salt ; stir over the fire to boil for 10 minutes, then pour them on the slices of cold beef already arranged in a dish that will stand the fire. Strew some raspings of bread over the surface. Bake for J hour, and serve while quite hot. Beef Olives.—Take H pounds of rump steak cut thin, trim and cut in several pieces, beating each to make them flat. Brush over each piece with beaten egg, sprinkle with chopped herbs and seasoning. Boll up the pieces of steak neatly, and skewer or bind with thread, and pack them tightly in a small saucepan. Cover them with 2 or 3 thin rashers of bacon, and barely cover with stock. Cook very slowly for about 2 hours, then dish the meat, first removing the threads or skewers. Thicken and flavour the gravy with roux and some piquant, sauce or ketchup, pour over the olives, and serve. Beef Fritters.—Mix to a smooth batter 4 pound of flour with a teacupful of water ; melt the butter and stir into the batter with the whites of 2 eggs thoroughly whisked. Shred or mince the beef as fine57 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. as possible ; season to taste, and add to the batter. Mix all well together, and pour into a pan of boiling lard or beef dripping. Fry the fritters on both sides a nice brown, and when done, drain off from the fat. Serve on a folded napkin. Beef, Ribs of (k la Marseillaise).—Brown a rib of beef over a quick fire, with 4 tablespoonfuls of good oil. Then draw the stewpan aside, and let it cook gently until tender. Fry some sliced onions in oil until they are brown ; add vinegar, mustard, and a little stock broth. Season with salt and pepper, and pour it over the rib of beef. Beef Rissoles.—Mince very finely some tender cooked lean beef and a small quantity of suet, mince an onion with some parsley ; add grated breadcrumbs, nutmeg, and lemon-peel. Season with pepper and salt, and, if desired, add a little thinly made mustard. Mix thoroughly. Moisten with beaten egg, roll into oval balls, flour and fry them in boiling beef dripping. Serve with or without gravy. Beef, Ribs of.—For roasting, see Sirloin. Beef, Sirloin of.—Hang a sufficient time to render tender, and before cooking dry and flour. Place near a good fire at first, that the heat may prevent the escape of the nourishing juices ; but this done— which it will be in about 10 minutes, more or less according to the heat —draw back and let the joint roast slowly until cooked, with frequent basting, upon which much depends, throughout the operation. As a rule about 20 minutes should be allowed for each pound of meat. Beef, Spiced, or Collared.—Take the thin end of a flank of beef. Lay it in a dish with salt and saltpetre : put it in a cool place, and turn and rub it every day for a week. Remove all bone and gristle, with the skin from the inside part, and spread over it the following season- ing : a large handful of parsley, chopped fine, the same of sage, some thyme, marjoram, and, if liked, a little garlic. Mix all well together, and flavour with pepper, salt, and allspice. When well spread over the meat, in rather a thick layer, roll the meat up tightly, wrap a cloth round it to keep it in proper shape, and bind it round with broad tape or string ; then put the beef on in a saucepan, with plenty of hot water, and let it boil gently 20 minutes for every pound. When done, take it out, place on a dish, and, while hot, put a heavy weight upon it, allowing the cloth to remain. It will when cold be of a good oval shape ; the cloth should then be removed, and the meat glazed on the outside, or it can be sent to table with a clean napkin neatly folded and pinned round, or a paper frill, and garnished with parsley. If spiced beef is bought ready made, the ‘ Sutherland ’ brand is one of the best. Beef, Stewed.—(1) Cut 2 pounds beef into small pieces and pub them in a pan, with pint of water, 2 or 3 onions, a large carrot cut up, and salt and pepper. Stew in the oven for an hour or so. Lay on the top some peeled potatoes, cover up and put back into the oven for 1 ^ hours, or till the potatoes are reduced to a mash. Beef, Stewed.—(2) Take 2 pounds of thick-cut steak. Brown on both sides in fat and cover with broth. Mince a small carrot, 2 shallots, a bay-leaf, a sprig of thyme, and 2 ounces bacon. Fry these for a minute in butter, add a glass of claret, and pour on the steak. Simmer gently for 2 hours. Strain, thicken the sauce with cornflour, and season. Pour over the steak, and serve. Cow Heel.—Cut the heel, after it has been thoroughly cleaned andENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 58 scalded, into pieces about 2 inches long and 1 inch wide ; dip each piece into the yolk of a beaten egg; cover with breadcrumbs mixed with chopped parsley, cayenne, and a little pepper and salt; fry in boiling butter. Ox Ckeek Stewed.—Soak and well wash, the day before, an ox- cheek ; put it into a stewpan with 3 quarts of water, boil up once and well skim, then let it simmer ; in 2 hours add plenty of carrots, leeks, 2 or 3 turnips, a bunch of sweet herbs, some whole pepper, and 4 ounces of allspice, skim often ; when the meat is tender, take it out ; let the soup get cold, take off the fat, and serve the soup either separate or with the meat. It ought to be of a nice brown colour, which may be done by burnt sugar, or by frying some onions quite brown with flour, and simmering them with it. Uissoles.—Put 1 ounce of Edwards’ Desiccated Soup (beef and vegetables) into a basin, pour on it \ pint of boiling water, cover, and keep warm for 15 minutes, then add 1 ounce of breadcrumbs and sea- soning to taste. Mix all well together (and bind it with 1 well-beaten egg) into a thick paste. Form into 6 balls, dip them into egg and breadcrumb, and fry a nice brown. Steak, Dolled.—Take 1 pound of steak cut thin, beat with a rolling-pin. A seasoning of 3 or 4 sprays of parsley, \ a teaspoonful of thyme, dried and rubbed, a pinch of small-chopped lemon-peel, a dash of cayenne pepper, a grate of nutmeg, 1 ounce bacon chopped small, 1 ounce fine breadcrumbs, pepper and salt to taste, all minced and mixed carefully, is spread over the steak, after which it is rolled a3 you would a roley-poley pudding, tie it with tape in 3 places, put it in a saucepan with just sufficient water (or plain stock) to cover, and simmer very gently for 2 hours. Brown the gravy with a pinch of sugar burnt in an iron spoon, thicken with a teaspoonful of flour, and serve hot. Steak, Stewed.—1 pound of buttock steak, pepper, salt, and sprinkle with flour, place in a saucepan with 2 ounces of beef dripping, and constantly turn till nicely browned ; add I pint of good stock, 1 tomato sliced, and let these simmer for 20 minutes ; then take 2 table- spoonfuls of flour, 2 of ketchup, and 1 teaspoonful of anchovy, mix these with ^ a pint of stock smoothly, and add to the ingredient in the saucepan. Let all boil for J of an hour, and serve garnished with parsley and a boiled carrot cut in slices. Time, 35 minutes. Steak, Braised.—(1) Fry 1 pound of lean, tender beefsteak lightly in a little dripping, and with it an onion, 4 ounces weight, cut small. Drain away the fat and put into a baking-dish, or jar, with I pint of water ; add a small carrot grated, pepper and salt, 4 cloves, and 1 tablespoonful of Yorkshire relish, with the same quantity of vinegar and a small lump of sugar. Stew slowly until tender, about II hours ; thicken with browned flour, or, if preferred, a tablespoonful of rice added as soon as the gravy begins to simmer; a few drops of browning or a little browning salt improves it. Steak, Braised.—(2) Take 1 pound of steak, fry in a little butter to a rich brown, then put it into a saucepan well covered with water, and add 1 onion, 2 carrots, 2 turnips, all chopped fine; 1 blade of mace, a touch of nutmeg, 1 clove, pepper and salt to taste ; simmer gently for two hours ; thicken with a tablespoouful of flour, have ready a hot dish, on which strew a little chopped parsley, pour over the steak and serve.MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTRIES, ETC. 59 Steak a la Duchesse.—Trim the steak, cutting oft not less than J pound. Run all that is cut off through a mincing machine twice. Add to the mince an equal amount of breadcrumbs, an uncooked onion chopped very fine, and a small pinch of some herbs, then put into a brazing-pan with a small lump of butter, and let it brown well. Take 1 egg, a tablespoonful of salad oil, a tablespoonful of white wine or tarragon vinegar, a little mustard, or some grated horseradish', and beat up the whole well. Heat, but do not boil, this in a little saucepan. When the steak is broiled sufficiently put into a hot dish, place the mince all round it, and if mashed potatoes are served, put them as an outer wall all round the mince. Just before serving pour the sauce gently on to the centre of the steak. Steak aux Legumes.—Take 1 pound of steak, not too fat, cut thick, insert a sharp-pointed knife in the edge, and divide in two with the exception of a small space round the edge. The steak should now form a sort of bag. Care should be taken to keep the external opening as small as possible. Have ready 2 small onions cut in slices and fried a nice brown; also a fried mushroom minced finely. Put the onions and mushroom, with a little salt and pepper, into the opening made (taking care to preserve the original shape of the steak), and grill over a clear fire for 5 or 7 minutes, turning with tongs, and being careful to catch the gravy. Take a carrot, cut it in slices of 1 inch long, and with a sharp knife cut each of these as if peeling them round and round in a continuous strip, so as to form a ribbon ; cut a turnip in the same way. Boil these carefully, and when the steak is sufficiently cooked put it on a hot dish, pour over it the gravy, and garnish with ribbons of carrot and turnip. Steak, Plain Broiled.—Take rump, buttock, or flank steak, any size, cut thick ; pepper all over, and rub well in ; place on cleaned gridiron, previously greased, over clear fire ; throw on a few dry sticks or small lumps of dripping, and flare both sides of broil until lightly brown. Then lift off until flames have ceased, and finish broiling slowly, turning frequently. Place on a hot dish, and pour over hot mushroom ketchup or Lea and Perrin’s Worcester Sauce. Garnish with a large lump of butter. If care has been taken to avoid pricking the flesh, all the juices will be retained. Steaks, Broiled (French way).—Two rump steaks should be cut about half an inch thick ; take care to have your fire clear, and rub a clean gridiron well with beef suet. When hot, lay on your steaks ; let them broil till the side next the fire is brown ; then turn, and when the other side is brown, lay on a hot dish, with a slice of butter between each ; sprinkle a little pepper and salt over them, and let stand 2 or 3 minutes ; in the meantime, slice a shallot as thin as possible into a spoonful of water ; lay on your steaks again, and keep turning until they are done; then dish, pour over the shallot and water, and send to table. Add for sauce horseradish and pickles. Garnish with scraped horseradish. It is an improvement, on turning the steaks the last time, to dredge them out of a dredger with fine holes, with 3 or 4 tablespoonfuls of Leman’s biscuit or rusk powder, 1 tablespoonful of salt, 1 of pepper, 1 of either eschalot powder or mushroom powder, or finely pulverised salts of celery, well mixed together. The steak to be placed in a very hot dish, with a little mushroom ketchup and a small piece of butter, and served immediately.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. CO Steak, Broiled.—Cut 1 pound of steak off either rump or sirloin of beef (you may leave it whole or divide into nice pieces), dip in olive oil and put aside for a few hours ; then broil over a clear fire, and serve with sauce made as follows : Put a piece of butter, size of a walnut, in a saucepan with some finely-chopped onion and parsley; add a little lemon juice, pepper and salt; stir on the fire for 5 minutes, and serve very hot. Broiled Perfection Steak.—A West End Club Recipe.—Take 2 to 3 pounds of rump steak (good buttock or thick flank will answer) cut an inch thick ; beat well with a rolling-pin—you will not break the rolling-pin. Pepper thickly on both sides and edges, rubbing well in with clean fingers. Place over a very low clear coal, coke, or ember fire until partly cooked, turning occasionally, and taking special care not to prick the ‘broil.’ Continue to put on the fire some previously dried deal sticks—a small piece of fat may be thrown on to start a blaze—and finish cooking in the flames, turning repeatedly. A rever- sible gridiron should be used ; but I have cooked dozens of steaks this way on a single one. By the time the steak is a deep brown, almost black colour, it will be cooked; but the exact moment for removing can be ascertained by the firmness, pressing the meat with a spoon. The flames will destroy all taste of the pepper, and when cut, the hot dish will fill with gravy. Flavour and garnish to fancy. Stewed Tripe.—A pound and a half of tripe, and 6 good-sized onions ; stew gently in | pint of water for 2 hours ; then pour off the greater part of the liquor, and add a dessertspoonful of mustard, the same quantity of flour, and \ pint of milk. Tripe a la Mode de Caen.—Dr. Strauss is responsible for the following recipe, which some of his distinguished confreres partook of, and then one of them, like 1 Hudibras ’ of old, who, in commenting upon the attributes of Presbyterians * true blue,’ verily ‘ blasphemed custard through the nose ’ by declaring, ‘ Why, I am thinking I would as lief forswear tripe altogether as to incur the expense and trouble to make it palatable.’ Many of our readers, however, will find the recipe, when well carried out, worthy of a place at the supper-table of their most honoured guest: ‘ Chop 1 ounce of parsley and of tarragon, 4 ounce of savory and lemon thyme mixed, 2 ounces of mushrooms, 1 tablespoonful of capers, and 2 anchovies boned. Put them in a stew- pan with J pint of French vinegar, 1J pints of water, 1 ounce of salt; add 12 white peppercorns, 12 cloves, a few blades of mace, a nutmeg grated, the peel of a lemon grated, the juice of the lemon, 2 spoonfuls of ketchup, and 2 glasses of white wine. Set the pan over a slow fire, and let the contents simmer about 1 hour. Meanwhile prepare your tripe. This you get ready dressed, and with the coarser part of the fat removed by the tripe-seller. Put 2 pounds of it 10 minutes in boiling water. Cut it into neat small pieces, and fry them a light yellow in 6 ounces of boiling butter. Set them aside in a dish. Fry in the same butter 4 ounces of onions cut in thin slices. Add the tripe, onions, and butter to the stew in the pan, and let it boil another £ of an hour.’ Serve hot.MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. 61 VEAL. Veal a la Bourgeoise.—Take about 3 pounds of the fillet, loin, or neck. Cut into neat pieces, and fry in a little butter till brightly browned. Add 2 slices lean bacon, 3 carrots, 3 onions (each with a clove stuck in it), a large bunch of herbs, blade of mace, pepper and salt. Pour over all boiling stock to cover, and simmer together gently until the meat is done. Take it out, skim the sauce, strain it, and boil quickly to reduce it; then add a spoonful of ‘ Couleur Parisienne to colour it, and a dash of ketchup or tomato sauce. Place the meat in a dish with the carrots round it, and some of the gravy. Serve the rest in a tureen. Braised Veal.—Take about 3 pounds of the loin or the best end of the neck. Lay 2 or 3 thin slices of lean bacon or ham in the bottom of a saucepan, and place the veal on them. Add a carrot, an onion stuck with 2 cloves, a teaspoonful of chopped, tinned, or fresh mush- rooms, a lump of sugar, a small blade of mace, a pinch of grated nut- meg, a little pepper, and salt. Place thin slices of fat bacon upon the veal, and pour on it ^ pint of cold stock or water. Cover closely, and simmer gently till done. Take up the veal, put it on a hot dish, and keep hot. Skim the gravy, and rub it with the ham, vegetables, etc., through a fine hair sieve. Let it boil up, stir in a wineglassful of sherry, pour it on the veal, and serve hot. Cold Veal, Re-cooked.—Cut some cold veal into thin slices, the size of a halfcrown, dip them into the yolk of an egg well beaten, cover with breadcrumbs, sweet herbs, lemon-peel shred fine, and grated nut- meg. Put a little fresh butter into a pan, make it hot, fry the veal in it, and when done, lay it on a dish by the side of the fire ; make a little gravy of a bone of veal, shake a little flour into the pan, stir it round, add the gravy and a little lemon-juice, pour it over the veal, and garnish with lemon. Cold Veal, Hashed.—Cut the meat in slices, flour it, put it into a saucepan with a little good gravy, some grated lemon-peel, pepper, salt, and ketchup. Make it hot, then add a little lemon-juice ; serve fried sippets round the dish. Veal Cutlets.—Take some cutlets from the best end of the neck. Trim them neatly, and flour. Fry in butter or good dripping until cooked through. Pour away the fat, and dissolve a slice of fresh butter in the pan, stir a dessert-spoonful of flour into it, and when quite smooth and brown add very gradually a cupful of boiling gravy which has been made by stewing the trimmings of the veal very gently for an hour or more with a little water, a small roll of lemon- rind, an onion, half a blade of mace, a sprig of parsley and thyme, and a little pepper and salt. This sauce may, if liked, be flavoured with a little lemon-juice or walnut pickle, or with a few mushrooms. Serve the cutlets on a hot dish with the sauce poured over. A few fried forcemeat balls and some fried rashers of bacon may be served with them. Veal and. Ham Pie.—Take to 2 pounds of lean veal. Cut into small pieces. Put a layer at the bottom of a pie-dish, and sprinkle upon the meat a little pepper and salt, a pinch of grated lemon-rind, another of powdered mace, and another of minced savoury herbs. Lay upon these two or three slices of ham or streaky bacon, and repeat the62 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. alternate layers nntil the dish is full with ham at the top. The yolks of three eggs boiled hard and cut into slices may be added. Pour i a pint of stock on the meat. Line the edges of the dish with good pastry, cover with the same, ornament the surface, brush it over with yolk of egg, and bake in a well-heated oven. When done, pour a little boiling gravy into the pie, and serve. Knuckle of Boiled. Veal.—Put a knuckle into a stewpan, cover with cold water, boil, then simmer gently and skim frequently for 21 to 31 hours, or till the gristle is quite tender, but not till the flesh will leave the bone. Plain melted butter or parsley and butter may be both poured over and served with it. Bacon and greens or mashed turnips and potatoes are usually eaten with knuckle of veal, and the dish should be garnished with parsley, lemon-rind, and forcemeat balls. Roast Loin of Veal.—Place a piece of buttered paper round the lean part of the loin, and cover the kidney entirely with its fat. Hang the veal close to a good fire. After 20 minutes draw it back a little, and roast gently, basting frequently until done. Half an hour before it is taken up remove the paper, dredge a little flour on the veal, and sprinkle over it the strained juice of a lemon and a little salt. Continue to baste until brightly browned. Make a little brown sauce. Toast a round of bread. Put it on a hot dish, and place the veal upon it, with the kidney on the toast. Pour a little of the gravy over the meat, serve the rest in a tureen, and send a cut lemon to table on a plate. Bacon, ham, or tongue should be served with this dish. Time to roast the veal, 30 minutes to the pound. Calf’s Liver a PAinericaine.—Wash and dry the liver and cut slits in it, in each of which insert a small finger or strip of fat salt pork. Then flour, pepper, and salt, and bake for J an hour in a hot oven. Pour a little hot water into the pan after the liver has been taken up, and well stir round, so as to get all the gravy from the sides ; add a few drops of Lea and Perrin’s sauce, and a little salt. It makes a rich brown gravy to pour over the liver for table, where it should be carved in slices as thick as mutton is generally cut. Minced Veal.—Cut cold veal fine, but do not chop it. Add a little shred of lemon-peel, nutmeg, salt, and a few spoonfuls of water. Broth or milk may be used instead. Simmer gently, adding % piece of butter rubbed in flour and a squeeze of lemon-juice. PORK, HAM, AND BACON. Bacon, Boiled.—Put the piece of bacon to be boiled into the pot with sufficient cold water to cover. Allow it very gradually to come to a boil, removing all scum as it rises, and dra^v it aside to simmer until thoroughly done ; then pull off the skin and serve with bread- crumbs over. Time to boil 2 pounds, 1-i hours ; h hour for each addi- tional pound. Bacon and Beans.—Put the bacon into a pan with cold water, nearly full. When it has boiled over 1 hour, add the shelled broad beans, and boil till tender. Take off the skin from the bacon, sprinkle breadcrumbs over, and serve with the beans under, and fried parsley as a garnish round the dish. Bacon Toast.—Cut some thin slices of bread 2 or 3 inches long, cut some streaked bacon in small pieces, dip them into a raw egg beaten63 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTREES, ETC. up with shred parsley, green onions or shallots, and pepper ; fry over a slow fire, and serve with clear sauce and a little vinegar in it. Ham, Boiled.—Before boiling, soak for 4 or 5 hours in cold water. When it goes on the fire, put in the saucepan with it a handful of parsley, a dessertspoonful of celery salt, a small bunch of herbs, and an onion of about the size of a peach. Allow 20 minutes for each J pound. After the ham is taken out, the water in which it was boiled should be strained and set aside to make a foundation for soup. Bor mulligatawny, for instance, it is a capital beginning. Boiled Pickled Pork.—Put the pork into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and bring slowly to the boil. Skim, draw the pan to the side, and simmer very gently until done. Time, \ an hour per pound from the time the water boils. Hand of Pork.—Put into cold water, skin uppermost, bring slowly to the boil, skim, and simmer gently until the pork is done. Time, 4 an hour per pound from the time the water boils. Hoast Leg of Pork.—Score the skin across in narrow strips about ^ inch apart. Stuff the knuckle with sage and onions minced fine, and a little grated bread, with pepper, salt, and the yolk of an egg. Do not put the meat too near the fire ; rub a little sweet-oil on the skin with a paste-brush or a goose feather ; this makes the crackling crisper and browner than basting with dripping. A leg of pork of 8 pounds will require about 3 hours. Hoast Loin of Pork.—Score the skin about | of an inch apart. Brush it over with salad-oil, and place at a good distance from the fire. Baste liberally, and when done, serve with brown gravy and apple sauce. If liked, a little sage and onion stuffing may be served in a separate dish. Time, a loin of p'ork about ^ an hour per pound. Sausages can be dished in a variety of quick and tasty ways. The Cambridge sausages, made by Mr. H. Palethorpe of Dudley, and as supplied to the Boyal Household, are excellent in quality, mild in flavour, not too rich, and most carefully made. Stewed. Sausages.—Take a pound of sausages ; prick each one twice with a fork ; put them into a small saucepan with enough water to cover. Let them stew, not boil, gently for an hour. Then put them into a well-heated frying-pan with a shred of onion cut fine ; brown them well. While they are browning mix a teaspoonful of flour with a little water, and thicken the liquor left in the saucepan ; add a tea- spoonful of Lea and Perrin’s Sauce, or a little ketchup. Lay the saus- ages in a dish, build a wall of mashed potatoes round them, and pour in the liquor. Baked Sausages.—Baked are preferred by some to fried sausages. Put them into a pan in a single layer wi,tli a little fat. Bake very gently in a moderately-heated oven. When brown on one side, turn. Drain when done, and serve very hot with a brown sauce. Fried. Sausages, with Apples.—Take \ pound of sausages, and 6 apples. Slice 4 of the apples into pieces as thick as a five- shilling piece, and cut the remaining 2 into quarters. Fry them with the sausages, and lay the sausages in the centre of the dish, and the apples round. Garnish with the quartered apples. Pork Pies are more trouble to make well than it is worth going to, for with all the pains the result cannot compare with any of the first- class ready-made pies in the market. The well-known lioyal MeltonENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Cl pork pies, made at Dudley by the firm of H. Palethorpe, are in shape, quality, and flavour, examples of what a good pie should be, and are sold in sizes varying from j to 10 pounds. The magnitude of the trade done in these delicacies by Mr. Palethorpe is shown by the fact that a special ventilated van runs on the North-Western Railway for the con- veyance of these goods and other specialities, and is attached to the mail train nightly. Sucking-" Pig-.—To be in perfection, it should be killed in the morning to be eaten at dinner ; it requires very careful roasting. Por the stuffing, take 5 ounces of bread and rub through a colander ; mince fine 2 ounces of sage and a large onion ; mix these together with an egg, some pepper and salt, and a bit of butter as big as an egg j fill the belly of the pig with this, and sew it up ; lay it to the fire and baste continu- ity with salad-oil till it is done. Roast it at a clear brisk fire at some distance. A small three weeks’ old pig will be done enough in about an hour and a half. Before taking it from the fire, cut off the head, and part that and the body down the middle ; chop the brains very fine with some boiled sage-leaves, and mix them with good veal gravy, or beef gravy, or what runs from the pig when you cut its head off. Send up a tureenful of Beef gravy sauce besides. MUTTON. Breast of Mutton.—Persons who can afford to purchase any other joint, usually reject the breast, although it may be prepared in several tasty ways. As a side dish it may be scored and boiled, with-plenty of pepper and salt, and served up with gravy ; or it may be devilled in the usual way, and eaten with either hot gravy or lemon-juice. To boil, put a middle-sized breast, not too fat, into a stewpan, with a carrot, a turnip, an onion stuck with two cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs. Add a pint of cold water. Cover the stewpan, and simmer over a slow fire until the bones can be easily separated. If served with green peas, add the peas, previously boiled, just before serving, and boil gently till the peas are done. Baked Breast of Mutton.—Sew the mutton up in a very thin cloth, lay it in a saucepan, nearly cover it with cold water, and stew gently, allowing 10 minutes to each pound. Take it out, unwrap, and lay it in a baking-dish ; brush over with butter or warm dripping, dredge with flour, and set in the oven for £ hour, basting freely with its own broth. A few minutes before taking it up, strew thickly with crumbs, fine and dry, dot bits of butter over it, and brown. -Serve garnished with slices of beetroot. Boiled Neck of Mutton.—Put the scrag end of a middle-sized neck of mutton into a saucepan, with 2 quarts of cold water ; place over the fire, and skim. When it boils add 2 small turnips, a carrot, an onion, I clove of garlic, some pepper and salt. Simmer gently for 4 hours. The broth should be served up with chopped parsley. Mutton Chops, a la Soyer.—Put an ounce of butter or lard into the frying-pan ; when melted, seize the chop at the bone end with a fork, and dip it for i minute into the fat; then turn on one side, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and, if liked, finely-chopped shallot or onion, and savoury herbs. In 3 minutes turn, and serve the other side the same ; give the chop altogether not more than 10 minutes, if65 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTRIES, ETC. thick, but less if thin. A piece of garlic. Serve with plain or maitre d’hStel butter. Mutton Chops, Grilled.—Shred some shallot or onion, and mince some savoury herbs ; put these into a stewpan with a lump of butter. Dip each chop into the dissolved butter, and cover quickly with finely-prepared breadcrumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt. Broil on one side for 3 minutes, then turn. The fire should be slow and even. Serve hot, with a bit of plain butter on the top of each chop. Mutton Cutlets, with Hot Sauce.—Cut as many cutlets from neck of mutton as required, trim and shape by chopping off the super- fluous bone, and beat them flat ; broil them over a clear fire, and dish in the centre of a hot dish. Pour round the cutlets a sauce made with good brown stock, thickened with a dessertspoonful of flour and curry powder ; also chop up and add a little hot piclde, and serve with the cutlets a little boiled rice placed at intervals on the dish as a garnish. Mutton Cutlets, a la Soubise.—Stew some cutlets for 2 hours ; cut into slices 6 or 7 large onions, boil them for ^ hour, pour off the water, add milk, pour round the cutlets, and serve. Mutton Cutlets, h la Valenciennes.—Crumb the cutlets with breadcrumbs and chopped ham ; fry them in butter. Cut a small onion very fine, brown it in butter, then add a handful of rice and some bacon cut in dice, some chopped parsley, and a little tomato sauce ; stew the rice with some good stock. When done, put it in the centre of the cutlets, and serve up with a rich brown sauce. Haricot Mutton.—Cut 3 pounds of neck of mutton into cutlets, and fry them in dripping till browned, and with them 3 carrots, 2 turnips, and an onion, all sliced. Drain them from the fat, and put them into a saucepan. Pour over them a quart of water, which has been boiled in the pan in which the meat, etc., was fried, and thicken with a tablespoonful of flour, mixed smoothly with a little cold water. Skim well, and season with salt, pepper, and ketchup. Simmer for an hour. Serve with the meat in the middle of the dish, the vegetables round, and the gravy over. A few sippets of toasted bread may be placed at the bottom of the dish, or served as a garnish. Mutton, Curry of.—Cut the mutton in thin slices, taking off all the. fat, into dice ; cut some onions also into dice, and fry them ; when nearly done, add the meat and curry powder (in the proportion of a tablespoonful to each pound of meat); fry them all lightly ; when almost brown, pour in 2 cupfuls of water ; put the whole into a stew- pan, cover, and simmer for an hour, or more, according to the quantity. A little pickle may be added. Have some rice, boiled very dry, in a separate dish. Haunch of Mutton, Roast.—Skin the loin, cover the joint with white paper, or with a paste of flour and water. Put it before a good fire for the first ^ hour, basting frequently with dripping. When within J hour of being done, take off the covering, and brown slightly. Dredge the haunch with flour, and baste with butter ; but first pour the dripping from the pan. Make a gravy in the pan with what has dripped from the meat, and a little boiling broth made from the trimmings ; salt and pepper. Serve currant jelly, or currant-jelly sauce. Time, from 10 to 15 minutes per pound. 5ENGLISH AND FBENCH OOOKEBT. 3G Mutton Hashed.—Cut your mutton in slices, put in a pint of gravy or broth into a stewpan, with 1 spoonful of ketchup, and 1 of browning ; slice in an onion, a little pepper and salt; put it over the fire, and thicken with flour and butter. When it boils, put in your mutton, keep shaking it till it is thoroughly hot; put it in a soup-dish, and serve. Mutton k l’Indienne.—Put in a stewpan 1 ounce of butter, and 1 pound of lean mutton (all meat) ; cut in dice, set on the fire ; stir with a wooden spoon till hardly any gravy remains. Add a table- spoonful of curry powder, and the same quantity of flour ; mix well. Add \ pint of water, 2 saltspoonfuls of salt, 3 ditto of sugar; let simmer gently till tender, which depends what part you use. Stir occasionally to prevent burning ; add a little more water if too thick. Cut and put in, just before serving, 3 hard-boiled eggs in large dice ; serve rice, plain boiled, with it. Mutton Irish Stew (1).—2 Spanish onions, 3 carrots, 2 ounces butter, 3 large leeks, 3 turnips, and 6 potatoes. Cut the Spanish onions and carrots in slices, and braise them in a saucepan with the butter and a cup of water for an hour. Then add the leeks, turnips, and potatoes cut in pieces with 1 pint of boiling water. Stew the whole for half an hour, or till tender, stirring frequently. Season to taste with pepper, salt, chopped parsley, and marjoram. Irish Stew (2).—Any kind of cold meat will make Irish stew ; but mutton, either roasted or boiled, is best. Cut it in slices, pepper, salt, and flour it. Peel an onion, put it with the bones (and any gravy that may be left in the house) into a saucepan with a pint of water and a little salt ; set it on the fire to stew for about an hour. When the potatoes are ready, mash, or crush about half of them, which add to the water and onion ; then put in the meat, and let the whole stew very gently for 5 or 10 minutes, and it will be ready for table. Those who prefer the additions of anchovies, mushrooms, ketchups, spices, frying the meat first in butter, etc., etc., can so prepare it; we give both plans. Stew (de la Viande bis Cuite).—As in making Irish stew, any kind of meat will suffice ; but mutton, either boiled or roasted, will be found the best for the purpose. Cut the meat in slices, pepper, salt, and flour them, and lay them in a dish. Strew mixed pickles over the meat. Then take a teacup half full of water; add to it a small quantity of the vinegar belonging to the pickles, a little mushroom ketchup, if approved of, and any gravy that may be set by for use. Stir all together, and pour it over the meat. Set it before the fire in a Dutch oven, or in the oven of the kitchen range, as may be most convenient, for about half an hour before dinner-time. Mutton Kidneys, Broiled or Boasted.—Split the kidneys in two, without separating the halves ; peel off the thin outer skin ; pepper and salt them slightly. Broil them, laying the flat sides first on the gridiron, to keep the gravy in ; or fry them. The halves are placed flat, side by side, and kept so by running a small tinned iron skewer through them, and they are then roasted in a Dutch oven before the fire, with the skewers still sticking in them. If lightly cooked they will be rosy and tender inside. Between putting them to the fire and taking them from it very little time should elapse. Immediately before serving put on each half-kidney a bit of fresh butter as big as a hazel-MEATS! JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTBEES, ETC. 07 nut, and as much finely-chopped parsley as you can pinch between your finger and thumb. Mutton Kidneys, Stewed h la Francaise.—Remove the skins from 6 kidneys ; cut them lengthwise into slices J inch thick. Season each piece with salt and cayenne, and dip into some finely-powdered parsley and thyme, two-thirds of the former and one of the latter; 3 or 4 finely-minced shallots may be added. Melt a good-sized piece of butter in the frying-pan, and put in the kidneys. Let them brown on both sides. When nearly cooked, dredge a little flour quickly over them ; add J pint of boiling stock or water, a tablespoonful of ketchup, and the strained juice of half a lemon. When the gravy is just boiling, lift out the kidneys, put them on a hot dish ; add 2 tablespoonfuls of either port or claret to the sauce. Let it boil for 1 minute, then pour it over the meat. Garnish with fried sippets. Time, 6 minutes to fry the kidneys. Boiled Leg of Mutton.—Cut off the shank-bone, trim the knuckle; plunge it into sufficient boiling water to cover. Let it boil up ; then draw the saucepan to the side of the fire, where it should remain till the finger can be borne in the water. Then place it sufficiently near the fire that the water may gently simmer. If it boils fast, the meat will be hard. Slum well, and add a little salt. Serve with carrots and mashed turnips, which may be boiled with the meat, and send caper sauce to table. A leg of mutton of about 9 pounds takes 2j- hours after the water boils ; one of 12 pounds, 3 hours. Boiled Leg of Mutton, with. Cauliflower and Spinach.— Take a leg of mutton, and boil it in a cloth. Boil 2 fine cauliflowers in milk and water ; pull them into sprigs, and stew them with butter, pepper, salt, and a little milk. Stew some spinach in a saucepan, and put it into a | of a pint of gravy, with a piece of butter, and a little flour. When all is done, put the mutton in the middle of the dish, the spinach round it, and the cauliflower over all. The butter the cauli- flower was stewed in must be poured over it, and it must be made to appear like smooth cream. Minced Mutton.—Take the remains of any cold mutton; mix with a teaspoonful of made mustard, a little pepper and salt, a dash of cayenne, a little flour, a cupful of milk, and a bit of butter the size of a walnut. Put all into a stewpan, keep stirring till it just boils, and then serve very hot poured over small squares of fried bread. Minced Mutton, with Poached Eggs.—Mince some cold mutton or lamb, well season with pepper, salt, and a little mint. Put a cup of gravy into a saucepan, and let it get hot ; then stir in the mince, and let all become very hot, but do not let it boil, thicken with a little browned flour, and pile on a flat dish. Have ready a few slices of buttered toast, cut into neat squares, lay a poached egg on each, place these around or upon the mince, and serve. French Ragout of Mutton.—Take about 2 pounds of the scrag or any other part, with as little fat as possible, cut into pieces about 2 inches square ; put into a pan 2 ounces of butter, or good fat, when melted, add 2 tablespoonfuls of flour, stir with a wooden spoon till forming a brownish roux, add the meat, and stir it round for 20 minutes, add a little water, but not enough to cover, 1 saltspoonful of pepper, 4 ditto of salt, and 4 ditto of sugar, 6 sprigs of parsley, stir till boiling, set it to simmer. Peel a few turnips, cut in large dice of 1 inch squareENGLISH AND FRENCH COOK EE V. G8 about 30 pieces, put some fat in a frying-pan, and fry the turnips until rather brown, take them out, and put them in a stewpan with the meat when it is done, which will be in about an hour from the time it was put on; when ready to serve, take out the meat and turnips, squeeze the parsley, which throw away, skim off the fat, add a little broth or water, or, if too thin, boil it a little more, dish it up by placing the pieces in a circle, and the turnips in the centre, sauce over, and serve very hot. Onions, carrots, peas, etc., may be used in place of turnips. Mutton Saute.—Put a little butter or bacon fat in the frying-pan, sprinkle pepper and salt over slices of cold mutton, and let them get hot very slowly. Turn the mutton frequently, and do not allow it to fry. When turned in the pan for the last time, sprinkle a little chopped parsley on the upper side ; remove the slices carefully on to a hot dish, pour the fat in the pan over, and serve. New Zealand Mutton.—The large amount of this meat which finds its way into the English markets is probably not even suspected by the general public, who purchase, cook, and eat it without the slightest suspicion of its origin. From New Zealand we are receiving steadily increasing supplies. The meat is kept frozen hard as stone the whole voyage, and arrives in England in that state. But when the artificial frost is thawed out the meat is as tender, nutritious, and wholesome as any brought to the English market. Messrs. Fitter and Son, of Leadenhall Market, were the first to introduce these meats to private consumers, and at prices which bring them within reach of practically every household. They have an elaborate system of storage by refrigeration, which keeps the meat in its original frozen condition until the time it is removed for sale. They remind their customers that frozen meat, like English meat, improves by hanging. The hind- quarters will keep quite a week in cool weather ; the forequarters may be cooked sooner. As there is a tendency for the juice to run from the mutton while thawing, in consequence of the fibres being slightly broken by the expansion of the juice in the process of freezing, it should be hung in such a way as to check this. The hindquarter, haunch, and leg should be hung by the flaps, the knuckles hanging down, the loins and saddles also by the flaps, giving them a horizontal position. It should not be soaked in water for the purpose of thawing (as some suppose), but hung in the larder, or other dry, draughty place, and wiped occasionally with a dry cloth in damp weather. Flour should not be used, as it is apt to turn sour. When put down for cooking, the chump part of the leg or loin should be exposed to the fire, or hottest part of the oven for a few minutes, to toast the part cut, and so seal it up, thus keeping the gravy in the joint. LAMB. Note.—A shoulder of lamb requires rather more than 1 hour to roast. A small saddle, 1J hours ; a larger saddle, 2 hours, or longer. A loin of lamb, 1£ to H hours. Ribs of lamb, from 1 to hours. Breast of Lamb, and Peas.—Remove the skin from a breast of lamb, cut away part of the fat, and divide into neat pieces. Dredge with a little flour, put into a stewpan with an ounce of butter, and69 MEATS : JOINTS, STEAKS, CHOPS, ENTRIES, ETC. lightly brown ; then pour over them warm water to cover ; add a bunch of parsley and a small onion, and simmer gently until the meat is three-parts cooked. Slum, take out the onion and parsley ; mince the parsley. Return it to the gravy with 1J pints of green peas. Season and simmer till the peas are tender. Serve on a dish as hot as possible. Lamb Cutlets, Fricasseed.—Cut thin cutlets from a leg of lamb, across the grain, and place in a stewpan. Make sufficient good stock from shank, etc., to cover the cutlets ; put into the stewpan, and cover it with a bundle of sweet herbs, an onion, some clove and mace tied in a muslin bag, and stew gently for 10 minutes. Take out the cutlets, skim off the fat, and take out the herbs and mace. Thicken it with butter rolled in flour, and season ; add a few tinned or fresh mush- rooms, some forcemeat balls, the yolks of 3 eggs beat up in 1 pint of cream or condensed milk, and some grated nutmeg ; keep stirring the same way till it is thick and smooth, and then put in the cutlets. Give them a toss up, take them out with a fork, lay on a dish, and pour the sauce over them ; garnish with beetroot and lemon. Lamb Chops, Broiled.—Place the chops on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, and let them remain until brightly browned on both sides. Season with pepper and salt, and serve hot. Garnish with parsley. Mashed potatoes, asparagus, green peas, or spinach, are usually served. Time, 8 or 9 minutes to broil. Roast Forequarter of Lamb.—Lay the meat down to a quick fire, and baste continually. About 10 minutes before taking up, dredge a little flour over it, and froth and brown it nicely. A slice of fresh butter, a cut lemon, and a little cayenne should be sent to table, so that when the shoulder is separated from the ribs, they may be ready for being laid between the two. Serve the lamb with a cut-paper ruffle on the shankbone, and send a little gravy made from the roast under it. Mint sauce and salad generally accompany this disli. A forequarter of lamb, weighing 10 pounds, will require from 2 to 2tt hours. Forequarter of Lamb, Roasted and Larded.—Lard the upper side of the joint with lean bacon, and sprinkle the other side thick with breadcrumbs ; then cover with paper to prevent the meat from being burnt, and roast it. When nearly done, take it from the fire, and cover the part that has not been larded a second time with breadcrumbs, seasoned with salt, and parsley chopped very fine ; then put the lamb again before a bright fire to brown it. Serve with a little vinegar poured over it. Roast Leg1 of Lamb.—Place the joint at a good distance from the fire at first, and baste continually. When nearly done, draw it near to the fire to brown. Sprinkle a little fine salt over the meat; empty the dripping-pan ; pour in a little boiling water, and strain over the meat. Serve with mint sauce and salad, and send peas, spinach, or cauliflowers to table with it. Lamb (Leg of) Stewed with. Peas.—Stew a leg in some stock. When nicely done, take it out, put it in a slow oven, and glaze it 3 or 4 times ; then have some good young peas, well stewed, with bechamel sauce ; pour them on the dish, and lay the leg on the top ; cut the loin into cutlets, and do them on the fire with some butter and some strong gravy ; when nearly done, shake them well in their glaze, dish round the lamb over the peas, and serve them hot to table.70 from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement. ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKEKY. Sweetbreads, Fried.—After soaking the sweetbreads for an hour, plunge them into boiling water for 5 minutes, and throw them into cold water till cool. Cut them in slices, egg and breadcrumb them, dip in clarified butter, bread them again, and fry in plenty of hot fat till brightly browned. Drain them, and then dish on toast. Efficiency.—Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. The true test of a range is its cooking capabilities. Wright and Butler's Patent Oil Stoves are better than coal fires, because with them {he food is cooked throughout in a thorough manner. Illustrated Catalogue freePAET VI. POULTRY AND GAME. Chicken & la Marengo.—Cut a chicken or fowl into neat joints, season with salt and cayenne, and fry it till done in about A pint of oil or butter. When half cooked, add a clove of garlic, 2 shallots, and a faggot of sweet herbs. Drain the meat from the fat, and mix with the latter a tablespoonful of flour, and, very gradually, sufficient good stock to make the sauce of the consistence of thick cream. Stir it till thick and smooth. Put the chicken on a hot dish, strain the sauce over, and serve. Time, about A hour to fry the chicken. Curried. Chicken.—Cut the remains of a cold fowl into neat joints. Fry a minced apple and an onion sliced, in some hot butter or lard. When lightly browned, press them through a sieve and put the pulp into a saucepan with a pint of good gravy. Thicken this with a dessert- spoonful each of curry-powder, curry-paste, and ground rice; boil gently until smooth and thick. Put in the pieces of chicken and let them remain until quite hot ; squeeze a little lemon-juice over, and just before serving, add a tablespoonful of thick cream. Serve the curry with rice piled round the dish. Devilled Chicken.—Remove the skin from wings or legs, score the flesh deeply in several places, and rub in a mixture of salt, pepper, cayenne, mustard, anchovy, and butter. This should be done over- night. Broil 10 minutes over a clear fire, and serve on a napkin. Chicken Fricassee.— Cut the fowl into 6 pieces, reserving the gib- lets for stock. Pour cold water over, salt and boil. When cooked, take the pieces out of the broth, place in a colander, and wipe dry with a clean cloth. Return them to the saucepan, with some butter, an onion, a large carrot, sweet herbs, and a few peppercorns. When done, place in a colander, but keep hot. Run the broth through a sieve and boil it up, with a few mushrooms. Beat the yolks of 2 eggs, and stir all the time, mixing the broth with them. Dish up Mayonnaise sauce and the juice of a lemon. Chicken Minced.—Cut off the meat from a cold fowl and mince finely. Put a breakfast-cupful of white stock into a saucepan, thicken with a little flour, and boil for 20 minutes, then add 6 mushrooms Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. One of Wright and Butler’s Patont ‘ Acme Combination ’ Oil Cookors will cook a dinner of threo.courses for a family of six persons at a cost of less than ouo penny for fuel. No ashes, no dirt. Illustrated Catalogue froo from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.— Set Advertitement.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 72 chopped small, \ pint cream or milk, a little salt, pepper, and pounded mace, and the minced fowl. When the mushrooms are cooked, serve quickly with toasted sippets round the dish. Boiled Fowl. —Truss and press the legs into the sides. Cover with buttered paper, plunge into hot water lightly salted, and boil gently for about f hour. Serve with ham, tongue, or bacon. Pour a little parsley, lemon, or oyster-sauce over, and serve the remainder in a tureen. Fowl aux Olives.—Cut the fowl into 8 pieces, and place in a fiat saucepan. Chop an onion, fry it brown, sprinkle in a pinch of flour, boil 2 seconds ; add a few spoonfuls of white wine. After the wine has been poured into the saucepan the same quantity of broth should be added, and when the mixture boils it should be allowed to simmer by the fire. Add sweet herbs, or, as a Parisienne says, ‘ a bouquet ’ (parsley, shallot, a bay-leaf, and thyme). Simmer for 20 minutes. Skim and strain the sauce over the pieces which have been put into another saucepan. Warm all up together, and put in 18 olives that have been stoned and scalded. Minced. Fowl and Eggs.—Stewr gently for 1 hour or so the bones, fat, and skin of the remains of cold roast or boiled fowl. Skim, and when nearly boiling, addl teacupful of milk thickened with flour. As soon as it thickens put in the chicken cut into neat squares. Let it get hot, but do not boil. Pour into a dish lined with the stuffing left from the chicken. Strew breadcrumbs over the surface, lay eggs (broken into separate cups) over the surface, and bake again till the whites of the eggs are set. Roast Fowl.—Truss the fowl with the giblets under the wings. Singe it. Roast for f hour, basting often with butter, and sprinkle with flour some minutes before serving. If liked stuffed, use a veal stuffing, or a ham forcemeat. Serve with plenty of rich light-brown gravy, and bread or oyster-sauce. Time, f to 1 horn-. Fowl Sandwiches.—Mince the flesh and season with salt, mix with it a little butter to give consistency, and spread between thinly cut slices of bread. Fowl a la Tartare.—Boil a fowl till very tender, cut it into joints, egg and breadcrumb, and fry in plenty of hot dripping from roasted meat or mutton-fat. Pile the pieces of fowl upon a dish, and serve with Tartare sauce round.—See Sauces. Roast Duck.—Well clean, stuff with breadcrumbs, sage and onion, chopped fine ; butter, salt, and pepper. Lard with butter, and dust on some flour, when before the fire. The time it takes to cook depends much on the fire and the bird. The best test is when the steam draws from the breast to the fire. Then baste well with butter, dust on a little flour, and, as soon as it has a good froth, serve up with a fine gravy. Duck and. Green Peas.—Divide 1 pound lean bacon into pieces of about 2 inches, and fry a light brown with butter. Dredge in a little flour, and after stirring about 3 minutes, add 1 pint of broth, an onion stuck with 2 cloves, a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, and pepper. The duck should be previously fried or roasted for 10 minutes to make it a good colour, then put into the stewpan with the gravy and stew slowly for 1J hours, or till tender. Meanwhile stew the peas with butter. Place the duck and peas on a hot dish, pour over them the gravy strained and thickened, and serve.73 POULTRY AND GAME. Goose, Braised.—Truss as if for boiling. Put into a stewpan with some fat bacon and savoury herbs laid above and under it, and a little stock to moisten it. Thick folds of paper should then be put on it, and the lid wrapped about with a cloth to prevent any of the steam escaping. The bird should be cooked very slowly for about five hours. Hashed Goose.—Cut up a cold goose into small pieces. Put some sliced onions into a stewpan with a piece of butter, and fry until tender. Add enough stock or water to make sauce for the hash, with a little pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs, the bones and skin of the goose, and a glass of port or claret. Boil gently until the gravy is good, then strain, thicken, and put in the pieces of goose to get hot. It must not boil after the goose is added. Place the goose on a hot dish, pour the gravy over it, and garnish with toasted bread. Goose Roasted.—Stuff a goose with sage and onions, chopped small, and mix with pepper and salt; boil the sage and onions in a little water before they are chopped, or mix a few breadcrumbs when chopped. Put the bird first at a distance from the fire, and by degrees draw it nearer. Skewer a slip of paper on the breast-bone. Baste well. When the breast is rising take off the paper, and be careful to serve it before the breast falls. Serve with good gravy and apple-sauce, in boats Time, about 1J hours. Game, to keep Sweet.—Where game is a trifle too ‘ high ’ for the taste-of ordinary people the ‘gaminess’ may be cured without affecting the natural flavour by steeping the game in diluted Condy’s Fluid for a short time before putting it to the fire. This well-known preparation has the property of destroying organic matter which is in process of decomposition, and leaves neither taste nor smell of its own. Giblets with Stewed Potatoes.—Scald and dry the giblets (without the liver), place in a saucepan with butter, 6 onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, and \ pound of bacon cut small. Fry in butter until of a pale yellow colour, sprinkle flour over, and in about 3 minutes moisten with hot water, season with more salt and pepper, and then boil for 1J hours. Add raw potatoes cut in slices ; again put on the saucepan to boil, basting the potatoes now and then with the giblet gravy. The liver (cut in small pieces) should be thrown in the pan for 10 minutes before the ragout is dished. Giblet-Pie.—After cleaning goose or duck giblets, stew with a small quantity of water, onion, black pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs, till nearly done. Let them get cold, and if not enough to fill the dish, lay a beef, veal, or 2 or 3 mutton steaks, at bottom. Put the liquor of the stew to bake with the above. Sliced potatoes may be added. Grouse.—Grouse should be roasted like fowls ; but twist the head under the wing. If at all overdone, they will be spoiled; time about £ hour ; great care must therefore be taken in cooking. Serve with a rich gravy and bread-sauce. Jugged Hare.—Take a large stone jar and place empty into the oven till it becomes very hot. Then take some sticks of cinnamon, a dozen cloves, four or five strips of thin lemon-peel, and bruise these in a pestle and mortar. Take a good-sized tablespoonful of black or red currant jelly, and a glass of port wine. Throw these into the hot jar, and place in the raw hare cut up into joints. Cover the jar with aENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 74 piece of bladder fastened with a piece of string. Let the jar stand until it is cold. Then add some good stock, and let the hare stew gently for two or three hours, taking care that it does not boil. Civet of Hare.—Cut a hare in pieces, or take the remains of one previously roasted ; put it into a stewpan with some fresh butter, a few slices of bacon, sweet herbs, and chopped mushrooms, or champignons ; when they are thoroughly heated, add a little flour beaten up with water, pepper, and ^ pint of white wine; when done, pour over it a thick sauce made of the liver. Partridges aux Choux.—Truss as for roasting, cover the breast with a slice of bacon, and put inside each a bit of butter floured and seasoned with salt, pepper, and lemon thyme rubbed fine ; fry for a short time, put into a stewpan with a little good gravy, a slice of lean ham, a glass of white wine, a little cayenne pepper, a shallot, and an anchovy chopped fine. Just before serving add the hearts of 3 or 4 cabbages previously boiled. Stir all together till the birds are tender, and serve without the bacon. Partridges au Gratin.—Birds roasted and left from a former day may be pleasantly re-dished thus. Melt in a dish that will stand fire a slice of butter, strew in some grated breadcrumbs, a little parsley, and 2 shallots shredded very fine, with salt and pepper. Let this brown over the fire ; cut the birds into pieces, and having warmed them in some stock or gravy, with a little salt, pepper, and a squeeze of lemon- juice, put them on the ‘ gratin,’ and serve with some crumbs of bread browned over them. Roast Partridge.—Cut off the head, and leave enough skin on the neck to skewer securely. Draw the legs close to the breast, pass the trussing-needle and string through the pinions and the middle joints of the thighs, and tie and skewer the legs. If the heads are left on, they should be brought round, and turned under the wing, with the bill laid on the breast. Put the bud down before a clear fire, baste liberally with butter, and a few minutes before taking up flour well, to brown nicely. The bird may be dished upon fried breadcrumbs, or upon a slice of buttered toast, which has been soaked in the gravy in the pan, or may be put on a hot dish, and garnished with watercresses. Brown gravy and bread-sauce should be sent to table ; bacon, tied round the birds before they are put down to the fire, will greatly im- prove their flavour. Time to roast: 30 to 40 minutes. Roast Pheasant.—Truss firmly, and either lard or tie round the breast a slice of fat bacon. Flour well, put before a clear fire, and baste liberally. When done, remove the bacon, serve on a hot dish, and garnish with watercresses. Send good brown gravy and bread-sauce to table. Time, § hour to roast a good-sized pheasant. Roast Plover.—Truss with the legs close to the body, and the feet pressing upon the thighs ; bring the head round under the wing. . Put down to a clear fire. Lay in the pan a slice of toast, first moistening it in gravy, and baste the plover liberally. Cook 15 to 20 minutes. Be- fore it is done dredge a little flour over. Spread the trail which has dropped from the bird evenly upon the toast, and serve the bird upon it. Send up with melted butter. Rabbit Boiled.—Steep the heads for a few minutes in a saucepan of boiling water, to prevent the disagreeable appearance they otherwise have in cutting up; they will take about half an hour boiling, according75 POULTRY AND GAME. to size. If boiled, and smothered with onion sauce, melt the butter with milk instead of water. Rabbit Pie.—Cut 2 rabbits into joints, and lay in a little lukewarm salt and water to cleanse them. Dry in a cloth ; flour and season with cayenne and salt. Arrange these in a pie-dish ; parboil the livers, and beat them in a mortar with their weight of fat bacon, a few bearded oysters, sweet herbs, and parsley chopped fine, a dust of flour, a few breadcrumbs, and with an egg, make this up into small balls, and distribute in the dish ; amongst the rabbit also place 1 pound of. fat pickled pork. Cut into small pieces. Grate over all half a good-sized nutmeg, and then add a glass of port wine and £ pint of water. Cover with a tolerably thick crust, and bake 1 hour in a quick but not violently heated oven ; when nearly done placing over the crust a buttered paper to prevent its becoming too brown. A small piece of tender rumpsteak placed at the bottom of the dish improves the gravy. Rabbit Pudding1.—Cut a rabbit into 12 pieces. Make a little gravy by stewing the head, liver, and a little bacon rind, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Line a buttered basin with good suet crust. Lay in the pieces of rabbit, seasoning each with pepper, salt, and cayenne, and put with them 3 or 4 ounces of bacon cut into strips. Pour over a teacupful of the stock cold. Put the cover on the top, press the edges closely together, and tie in a floured cloth. Put it into fast-boiling water, and boil quickly for 3 hours. Rabbit Stewed.—Divide a rabbit into quarters, lard with pretty large slips of bacon, and fry; then put them into a stewpan with sufficient good broth, a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, a little pepper and salt, and a piece of butter rolled in flour. When done enough, dish up, and pour over the sauce. Garnish with sliced lemon. Snipes Roasted.—Pluck, singe, and draw, remove the gizzards, and preserve the trails. Truss the bird, cover with thin slices of fat bacon, and tie these on securely with twine. Put down before a clear fire, and cook for 20 to 25 minutes. Take a slice of the crumb of bread, and toast and butter it on both sides. Chop the trail, spread it on the toast, and put the slices in a brisk oven. Dish on the slices of toast in a hot dish. Turkey Boiled.—To truss, cut the first joint of the legs off, pass the middle finger into the inside, raise the skin of the legs, and put them under the apron of the bird. Put a skewer into the joint of the wing and the middle joint of the leg, and run it through the body and the other leg and wing. The liver and gizzard must be put in the pinions. Then turn the small end of the pinion on the back, and tie a packthread over the ends of the legs to keep them in their places. Having trussed the turkey for boiling, put it, wrapped in a clean cloth, into sufficient hot water to more than cover it. Bring it gradually to a boil, and carefully remove the scum as it rises, or it will spoil the appearance of the bird. Simmer gently for 1J hours, or a longer time if of a larger size. When done, serve it on a hot dish, with a little celery sauce, oyster sauce, or with parsley and butter; put a small quantity of either over it, and send the other up in a tureen separately. —Mrs. Beeton’s Cookery Book. Turkey Roasted.—Pill the inside with veal stuffing or sausage meat, and either sew the skin of the neck over the back with a trussing- needle, or fasten it with a very small skewer. Then run a long skewer76 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. into the pinion and thigh through the body, passing it through the opposite pinion and thigh. On the other side put a skewer in the small part of the leg, close on the outside of the sidesman, and push it through. Clean the liver and gizzard and tuck them between the pinions, and turn the point of the pinions on the back. Pass a string over the points of the skewers, and tie it securely at the back to keep the bird neat and firmly trussed. Cover the breast with a sheet of nicely buttered white paper. Place the bird on the spit or roasting-jack, and set it at some distance from the fire, which should be a very good and bright one. Keep the heat well to the breast. Put 4 ounces of butter in the dripping- pan, and baste it frequently. Just before it is done, remove the paper, dredge it lightly with flour, and baste with the butter, so as to brown and froth it. Serve with good brown gravy poured over, and garnish with small fried sausages or forcemeat balls. Sauce : bread-sauce. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Wright and Butler’s Patent Portable Petroleum Cooking Stoves are a miracle of convenience, and no English home can be complete without one. They do all cooking required without dirt or trouble, and they are simple and safe in use. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham —See Advertisement.PART VII. VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Cooking Vegetables.—There are a few simple rules in cooking vegetables which should be remembered. Put green vegetables into fast-boiling water, and boil quickly with no lid on the pan. Put old potatoes into cold water. Put dried beans and peas into cold water, and soak before being boiled. Vegetables should be taken up as soon as they are done. Soda should be used only where vegetables are old or tough. A tablespoonful of salt is sufficient for J gallon of water. Artichokes.—Wash in several waters, cut off the stems and leaves at the bottom, and plunge into boiling water, adding \ gallon of water, 1 heaped tablespoonful of salt, and soda to cover a shilling. Boil quickly until tender, with the saucepan lid either raised or removed. When done drain for a minute or two, and serve on a napkin, with a tureen of melted butter. Boiled Jerusalem Artichokes.—After well washing and peel- ing, shape into a round or oval form, and put into a saucepan with just enough water to cover, adding salt as above. Boil gently until tender, and serve as above. Asparagus Boiled.—Cut the stalks of equal lengths, rejecting the woody parts, and gently scrape the white that remains. Throw them into water; then tie in a bunch with muslin or tape, put into boiling water slightly salted. Boil from 20 to 40 minutes according to age, serve with butter on slices of toast. Asparagus and Eggs.—Cut the asparagus into pieces J inch long, and boil for 15 minutes. Have a cupful of melted butter ready in a saucepan, and put in the asparagus when it is drained dry. Heat this until boiling point, and pour into a baking dish. Break 5 or 6 eggs carefully over the surface, put a piece of butter upon each, sprinkle with salt and pepper, and put it into the oven until the eggs have set. Broad Beans.—Put the beans into boiling water with a little salt, boil very quickly for 20 minutes ; drain, and pour parsley sauce over. French. Beans.—Only the ends and stalks require to be taken off when beans are young. Put them as they are prepared into cold water. Petroleum Oil Stoves aro tho cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. The Patent Portable Oil Cooking Stoves of Wright and Butler’s make are the best; they have improvements which render them oasy to manage, and their general efficiency is unequalled, illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.78 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Cut, according to taste lengthwise, into thin strips or obliquely into a lozenge form. The strings should be drawn off with the tops and stalks when they are come to their proper growth. Put them into a large saucepan of boiling water, slightly salted, allow the steam to escape, and keep boiling very fast until tender. Time, 15 minutes if young ; 20 to 25 minutes if old. French. Beans, & la Maitre d’Hotel.—Prepare and boil 1 pound of beans as above. Keep them hot, and when dry put into a stewpan with 2 ounces of melted butter, \ teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little salt, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Shake the pan over a brisk fire, mix well, and serve hot in 8 minutes. Cabbage.—Remove any decayed outer leaves and the stalk, and cut the cabbage into quarters. Wash well in cold salt and water, and plunge into fast-boiling water, adding a little salt and a very small piece of soda. Keep the saucepan uncovered, and stir them down once or twice in the water. Boil until tender. A tasty little dish may be made as follows : Boil cabbage till quite tender, the usual way, and squeeze in a colander until quite dry. Then chop very small, adding a good thick slice of butter, some pepper and salt. Press the whole very closely into an earthenware mould or basin, and bake either in an American oven, or in one beside the fire. When done turn it out on to a flat dish, and garnish with some fried slices of bacon rolled round, with a sprig of parsley between each piece of bacon. Red Cabbage, Stewed.—Cut in slices, put into a stewpan with i ounce of fresh butter, 1 pint of weak stock, a slice of ham cut into small squares, and a gill of vinegar. Cover tightly and stew for an hour. When nearly tender add another 4 pint of stock, a tablespoon- ful of pounded sugar, and pepper and salt to season. Stir well over the fire, until nearly all the liquor has evaporated, and serve. Garnish with fried sausages. Beetroot, Pickled.—When cold, slice, and put into a jar. Pour a pickle of vinegar in which pepper, ginger, and sliced horseradish have been steeped, boiled, and strained therefrom. Capsicums and cayenne may be added to the pickle, which must not be poured over the beet- root until quite cold. Beetroot and Potatoes.—Take 2 young boiled beetroots, which will take from 2 to 3 hours to simmer in plenty of boiling water ; peel when cold, cut in slanting direction, so as to make oval pieces ; peel and cut in small dice 2 middling-sized onions, put in a pan with 2 ounces of butter, fry white, stirring continually with a spoon ; add a spoonful of flour, and enough milk to make a thickish sauce, add 3 saltspoonfuls of salt, 4 of sugar, 1 of pepper, a spoonful of vinegar, and boil a few minutes ; put in the slices to simmer for about 20 minutes, have ready some mashed potatoes, with which make a border in the dish 1 inch high, then put the beetroot and sauce in the centre, and serve. Boiled Broccoli.—Strip off the leaves that are not required, and cut the inner ones level with the flower ; wash in strong salt and water, and plunge into boiling water with a little salt, and cook quickly in an uncovered saucepan. Remove from the water directly they are done. Brussels Sprouts.—Remove any dead leaves, and well wash; plunge into boiling water, with a small piece of soda and salt in the proportion of 1 tablespoonful to 4 gallon of water. Boil over a quick fire until tender, and serve plain or with melted butter.VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 79 Carrots, when young, should be washed and brushed, not scraped, before cooking—and old carrots are better prepared in this way—then rubbed with a clean coarse cloth after boiling. Young carrots require 4 hour, and fully-grown 14 to 2 hours. To ascertain if they are done, stick a fork into them. When they feel soft they are ready for serving. Celery, Stewed.—Cut off any decayed leaves and the outside pieces, and well wash. Cut each head lengthwise into quarters, and boil in sufficient water to cover it till tender. Serve with white sauce poured over. Cauliflower, Boiled.—Cut off the stalk and decayed outer leaves, and well wash. Put into fast-boiling water with a little salt, and boil quickly in an uncovered saucepan until tender. Drain, and serve with melted butter. Cauliflower, Stuffed.—After cleaning, cut a large cauliflower into sprigs, and plunge them for a minute or two in boiling water. Remove and drain. Cover the bottom of the saucepan with thin slices of bacon, and put in the sprigs, packing tightly, head downwards, and filling in the vacant spaces with the following stuffing : 3 tablespoonfuls of finely minced veal, 3 of beef suet, 4 of bread-crumbs, a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a little pepper and salt, a teaspoonful of minced chives or onions, and a dozen mushrooms cut small. Put these upon the cauliflower, and pour over them 3 well-beaten eggs. Pill up the sauce- pan with flavoured stock, and simmer gently until the cauliflower is tender. Green Peas.—Shell, wash in cold water, and drain ; then put them into a saucepan with plenty of fast-boiling water, to which a little salt and moist sugar have been added ; boil quickly over a brisk fire, with the lid of the saucepan uncovered. When tender, pour them into a colander; put them into a hot vegetable-dish, and in the centre place a piece of butter the size of a walnut. A small bunch of mint may be boiled with the peas. Haricot Beans.—After soaking a pint over-night, put them into \ gallon of cold soft water, with 1 ounce of butter ; simmer very slowly for about 3 hours ; drain and put into a stewpan, with a little salt, pepper, chopped parsley, 2 ounces of butter, and the juice of a lemon ; place on the fire for a few minutes, stir well, and serve. Hominy.—To prepare hominy as a vegetable, boil whole in plenty of water 4 hours, and strain it through a colander for the table. Leeks.—Trim off the root, the outer leaves, and the green ends, and cut the stalks into 4-inch lengths. Tie them in bundles, put into boil- ing water, with a dessertspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of vinegar, and boil until quite tender. Drain and serve like asparagus on hot toast, pouring white sauce or melted butter over. Mushrooms au Naturel.—Cut off the stalks and wipe the mush- rooms carefully. To cook enough for one person, put in a large saucer with a piece of fresh butter the size of a walnut, aud a little pepper and salt. Turn another saucer over them, and let them stand on the top of a stove till cooked in their own juice. Mushrooms la Provencals.— Cut the stalks off short, and peel. Lay them in an earthenware vessel with the underside upper- most. Pour in a little oil, salt, pepper, sweet herbs minced very fine, and powdered mace to taste. Cover close, and serve when quite tender.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. so Ragout de Champignons.—Oil a little butter in a Btewpan, and throw the mushrooms, well picked and cleaned, into it, with a tiny bunch of parsley and a morsel of garlic. Sprinkle all with flour, and add equal quantities of white stock, good gravy, and white wine ac- cording to the number of mushrooms. Let them stew for an hour, and thicken with butter into which some flour has been rubbed. Stewed Mushrooms.—Squeeze into a basin of cold water the juice of a lemon. Cut off the ends of the stalks and peel some mush- rooms, and throw into the basin. Take them out with the hands, so as to avoid any sediment, and put into a stewpan with a lump of fresh butter, salt and pepper to taste, and a teaspoonful of lemon-juice. Cover the pan, and stew gently for half an hour, then thicken with a little flour, add a few spoonfuls of cream or milk, a little grated nutmeg, and cayenne pepper. Let all stew till the mushrooms are quite tender, and skim before serving. Onions a la Creme.—Boil 4 Spanish onions in water slightly salted until cooked, about 1 hour. Drain them and put into a stewpan with 3 ounces butter rubbed smoothly with a tablespoonful of flour, and salt and pepper to taste. Shake the pan constantly, and stir in slowly i pint new milk. Serve the onions on toast, with the sauce poured over. Spanish. Onions, Baked.—Put the onions, with their skins on, into a saucepan of boiling water slightly salted, and boil quickly for 1 hour. Take out, wipe thoroughly, wrap each in a separate piece of paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about 2 hours. They may be served in their skins, and eaten with a piece of cold butter and a season- ing of pepper and salt; or be peeled, with a gravy. Parsnips, Boiled.—Wash, scrape, and remove all blemishes from the parsnips, cut them into quarters, and plunge into boiling water that has been slightly salted. Boil quickly until tender, and skim the water once or twice while cooking. Parsnips, Fricasseed.—Boil the parsnips in milk till soft, and cut lengthways into pieces 2 or 3 inches long. Simmer in a white sauce made with two spoonfuls of broth, a piece of mace, half a cupful of milk or cream, and a piece of butter, with flour, pepper, and salt. Fried Parsley for a Garnish,.—Wash, pick, and dry thoroughly, put it into a wire basket, and hold it in boiling beef dripping for two minutes ; take it out of the basket, and dry well before the fire. Boiled Potatoes.—The art of boiling potatoes has still to be learnt by many. The Irish method is good. Wash the potatoes and leave the skin on ; bring the water to a boil and throw them in. As soon as boiled soft enough for a fork to be easily thrust through, put in some cold water ; let the potatoes remain 2 minutes and then pour off. Then half remove the pot-lid, and let the potatoes remain over a slow fire till the steam is evaporated ; peel and serve in an open dish. Good potatoes thus cooked will be sweet, dry, and mealy. Potatoes A la Bonne Bouche.—Boil 12 medium-sized potatoes ; let them get cold, then cut into slices. Chop a blade of shallot and a little parsley very fine, place in a stewpan with 3 ounces butter and a pinch of mixed sweet herbs ; simmer slowly 5 minutes, then put iu the potatoes, sprinkle some seasoning over them, and simmer for 10 minutes, stirring to prevent burning. Just before serving squeeze the juice of a lemon over.81 VEGETABLES AND SALADS. Fried Potatoes.—Half boil the potatoes, cut them into slices, and fry in butter or goose dripping. When brown, drain, strew a little salt over, and serve while hot and crisp. Potatoes may be fried without being parboiled, or after they have been boiled and become cold. Potato Hash.—Put some cold chopped potatoes into a frying-pan with a little fat, stir them about for 5 minutes, then add an equal quantity of cold meat, cut into squares, season with pepper and salt, fry gently, stirring until hot through. Potatoes & la Maitre d’Hotel.—Cut some cold boiled potatoes into rather thick slices. Put a lump of fresh butter into a stewpan, and add a little flour—about a teaspoonful for a middling-sized dish. When the flour has boiled a little while in the butter, add by degrees a cupful of broth or water. Boil up, and put in the potatoes, with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt. Stew a few minutes, then take from the fire, and when quite off the boil add the yolk of an egg beat up with a little lemon-juice and a tablespoonful of cold water. Serve as soon as the sauce has set. Potato Omelette.—Take a mashed potato, 2 ounces of potato flour, and 4 eggs, make thick, season with pepper, salt, a little nutmeg, and fry to a light brown colour. Potato Pastry.—Put 2 ounces of Edwards’ Desiccated Soup into a basin, pour on it \ pint of boiling water, cover, and keep warm for 15 minutes ; add 2 ounces of breadcrumbs, mix well together, place it in a pie-dish, spread over it a thick layer of nicely-mashed potato. Bake in a moderate oven. Potato Puffs.—Take 2 cupfuls of cold mashed potatoes, and stir into them 2 tablespoonfuls of melted butter, and beat to a white cream before adding anything else; then add 2 eggs, beaten, a teacupful of cream or milk, and salt to taste. Beat all together in a deep dish, and bake in a quick oven until nicely browned. Summer Salads.—(1) Dissolve \ teaspoonful of white or brown sugar in a tablespoonful of vinegar, add 3 drops of tarragon vinegar, and cayenne and salt to taste. Break up a lettuce or endive wiped very dry, and add about ^ teaspoonful of chopped chives ; pour over the lettuce a tablespoonful of oil, and well mix it about with a wooden spoon and fork; then sprinkle the vinegar mixture over and turn all well about again. - Garnish with slices of cucumber cut thin, or raw tomatoes cut in quarters. (2) A fresh lettuce washed and wiped dry, chopped tarragon or mint, a few young onions or chives, and | cucum- ber. Put into a salad-bowl 2 tablespoonfuls of oil, a saltspoonful of salt, i teaspoonful of pepper, a dessertspoonful of sugar, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Then add the chopped mint or tarragon and the onions ; lastly, the lettuce broken up into small pieces, and stir all together, turning the lettuce over well. Garnish with slices of cucumber. (3) One raw egg well beaten up, a tablespoonful of oil, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of vinegar. Mix well together ; break up a lettuce, pour the mixture over it, and turn it about thoroughly. (4) Two tablespoonfuls of salad oil; break 3 eggs, drop them into the oil, well beat them up, add a teaspoonful, of tarragon vinegar and a dessertspoonful of cream, mix and pour over the lettuce. This mixture will keep for several weeks if bottled and tightly corked up. (5) Cut up a cucumber into very thin slices, drain off all the water that comes from it by pressing the cut slices between 2 plates ; mix a tablespoon- 6ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERT. 82 ful of oil with a tablespoonful of vinegar, add pepper and salt, and pour over the sliced cucumber.—(6) Take 3 or 4 fine raw tomatoes, cut them up into quarters or halves ; make a dressing of a tablespoonful of oil, another of vinegar, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar, and a dessert- spoonful of sugar ; pour it over the tomatoes ; garnish with watercress. All salads should be made about or £ of an hour before they are to be eaten. Hard-boiled eggs cut in slices may in all cases be used for garnishing.—(7) French beans, when very young, make excellent entremets as salad. Cook them rapidly in salted boiling water without a lid on the saucepan, then plunge into cold water. Carefully drain, sprinkle with salt, pepper, and vinegar, and so allow them to stand for some hours ; then pour the vinegar away, and stir over a dressing of oil and vinegar, with a slight sprinkling over the top of finely-chopped tarragon. Anchovy Salad.—Wash in cold water some salted anchovies, steep them in vinegar, drain them on a cloth, and take out their fillets, which shred likewise ; place them symmetrically on a small plate, or a hors d’oeuvre dish, garnished with groups of hard-boiled eggs, chopped parsley and onion, separately also, with whole small capers. Pour a little oil over the whole, and serve. Sea-kale.—Well wash the kale, and tie into small bunches ; put it into boiling water with a little salt, and boil quickly until tender. Take it out, drain, untie the bunches, and serve with melted butter or white sauce. Spinach.—1 Of all the vegetables grown in our kitchen gardens,’ says an authority, ‘ there is, perhaps, not one so dependent upon judi- cious preparation as spinach.’ After thoroughly washing and draining, put into a clean saucepan without any water, and press tightly down. When the pot is quite full, place sufficiently near the fire to steam the spinach in its own juices ; stir often to prevent burning. When tender, strain, place on a chopping-board, and chop very fine. In this state, with a little salt, it will keep 3 or 4 days, and form the founda- tion of many a delicate little entremet or tasty dish. The spinach may be heated by being tossed and amalgamated with a lump of butter, seasoned with pepper, and dished au naturel, or served with poached eggs on the top. A pretty dish may be made by placing a portion of spinach upon a buttered round of toast, each mound being crowned with a poached egg. Tomato Salad Dressing.—Beat 2 eggs well together, add 1 teaspoonful of sugar, J teaspoonful each of salt and mustard, 1 table- spoonful of sweet cream or condensed milk, and 3 tablespoonfuls of vinegar. Place the bowl containing it in a basin of boiling water, and stir till it attains the thickness of cream. Baked Tomatoes.—Peel and slice the tomatoes, put a layer of tomatoes in a buttered dish, season with salt and pepper, and strew with breadcrumbs. Fill the dish with crumbs at the top, cover closely, and bake for i hour. Remove the cover, brown, and serve. Tomatoes au Gratin.—Scoop out from the top of each a part of the inside ; chop this, add an equal quantity of breadcrumbs, butter, parsley chopped, pepper, salt, nutmeg ; put in a saucepan, stir gently over the fire ; place this in the tomatoes, pile it up, sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, and put a few drops of oil over them. Butter a tin, lay in the tomatoes, and bake about 10 minutes.VEGETABLES AND SALADS. 83 Tomatoes and Rice.—While sufficient rice is being boiled, put into a little saucepan 3 ounces of butter, which should be allowed to brown very slowly—if it has the faintest tinge of 1 burn it is spoiled —put into it a large breakfastcupful of tomato juice, which should be left to simmer for about J hour. When the rice is nicely piled on the dish, throw the contents of the saucepan over it, and then ‘ pop ’ it into the oven for a few minutes, and serve very hot. Vegetable Extracts.—By depriving peas and other vegetables in a superior condition of growth and freshness of all their more soluble elements, the Normal Company of London and Aberdeen have produced a nourishing variety of vegetable extracts, which will be found peculiarly serviceable in soup-making, at once adding to the variety and flavour, and increasing the stimulating and nourishing pro- perties of soups made with them. > Turnip-Tops.—Trim off the decayed leaves and stems, and wash greens in several waters. Drain and throw into a saucepan with plenty of boiling water slightly salted. Keep the saucepan uncovered, and boil quickly till they are quite tender. When done, put into a colander, and squeeze the water gently from them. Turn into a hot vegetable- dish, pepper lightly, and spread a little butter on them ; cut the sur- face across both ways with a knife, and serve. Turnips, Boiled.—Pare and wash ; if very young, a little of the green top may be left on ; if very large, they should be divided into halves or even quarters. Throw into slightly-salted water, and boil gently till tender. Drain and serve. Stewed Turnips 4 la Franchise.—Peel and wash \ dozen turnips, and boil in salted water till tender. Drain them, and in the water they have been boiled in simmer gently a cupful of breadcrumbs for 5 or 6 minutes. Wash the turnips, and put into another saucepan with the boiled bread and a little butter and pepper. Stir over a gentle fire till they are quite hot, an,d mix with them the yolk of an egg beaten up with 2 tablespoonfuls of milk. Stew gently a minute or two longer, and serve very hot. Boiled Vegetable Marrow.—Peel, halve, and if very large, quarter ; remove the seeds, and put them into boiling water. Simmer gently until tender. Take them up with a slice, drain, and serve upon toast, with melted butter in a tureen. Cook young marrows 15 to 20 minutes ; old marrows, § hour. Vegetable Marrow auGratin.—Semi-boil a couple of marrows, quarter them lengthwise, drain thoroughly, and place upon a buttered dish, previously rubbed with a slice of shallot or garlic. Sprinkle over well with grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt to taste, and a little grated nutmeg. Lay small pieces of butter upon them here and there, dust over plentifully with powdered baked breadcrumbs ; bake 20 minutes, and serve hot. Vegetable Marrow Preserve.—Peel the marrows, remove the seeds, cut in pieces the size of large plums, boil with their weight in sugar till transparent. No water is required. Flavour with ginger and lemon, or ginger or lemon, to taste. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. One of Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cookers in a working-man's homo will repay fully the original cost in one month by its saving in fuel alone. Illus- trated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advcr- tuernnt. 6—2PAET VIII. PIES, PUDDINGS, AND TARTS. For making paste and crusts for pies, puddings, and tarts, the general recipes as under may be followed. Suet Crust.—Chop the suet very fine after freeing from skin and shreds, and rub it well into the flour; add sufficient to work the whole to a smooth paste. For this crust allow 5 or 6 ounces of beef suet, and 4 pint of water to each pound of flour. For a richer crust use from \ to f pound of suet to every pound of flour. Short Paste.—Mix with a pound of flour \ a teaspoonful of salt and a tablespoonful of powdered sugar. Rub \ pound butter, or butter and lard, into the flour, and make it into a paste by stirring in rather more than \ pint of water or milk : the yolks of 2 eggs may be added. Roll the paste out once only, and handle it lightly. Puff Paste.—Equal weights of butter and flour may be used, or f pounds butter to each pound of flour. Put a little salt into the flour, and make into a paste by stirring gradually into it with a knife rather less than \ pint water. Roll it out to an inch thick. Break the butter into small pieces, and sprinkle these over the paste. Dredge a little flour over it, and turn it over, then repeat until all the butter is in- corporated with the paste. Let the paste rest for 10 minutes between each 2 rolls. Equal parts of lard and butter may be used, and if the yolk of an egg or the strained juice of ^ a lemon be mixed with the water in the first instance, the paste will be lighter. Apple Dumpling.—Roll thin some puff-paste, and cut into square pieces, roll an apple into each piece, put into a baking-dish, brush with the white of egg beaten stiff, and sift pounded sugar over. Put in a oven and bake f hour. Apple Pudding.—Butter a basin, line it with a thin paste; pare, core, and cut the apples into slices, and fill the basin ; add sugar, lemon-peel, and juice, and cover with crust ; pinch the edges together, flour the cloth, tie the pudding securely, and put it into plenty of fast- boiling water. Boil 1J to 2J hours, according to size. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Two ducks, roast joint of 10 lbs., boiled leg of mutton, boiled fish, two tarts, pudding, potatoes, vegetables of three kinds: the whole cooked in one stove at a cost of twopenco halfpenny. Time, 2J hours. Xo dirt. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Adver- tisement.PIES, PUDDINGS, AND TAETS. 85 Apple Tart.—Pare, quarter, and core the apples, slice them very finely into a deep dish, grate some lemon-peel over, and add sugar and a little water; then place the paste over, covering the edge of the dish, roll out the pieces you cut off, and make a strip to go over the flat edge, all round it. Batter Puddings.—Put 3 teaspoonfuls of flour in a basin with 1 teaspoonful of salt and a £ nutmeg grated ; mix with | pint of new milk ; beat up 3 eggs, and stir well into the batter ; butter a basin or mould well, pour it in, tie it with a cloth, and boil 24 hours ; serve with sauce. This pudding may also be baked, for which £ hour is suf- ficient. Currants or stoned raisins may be added. Barley Puddings.—(1) Prepare 4 pound pearl barley, 1 quart of new milk, and 6 ounces of sugar. Soak the barley in water 12 hours. Pour off the water, add the milk, sugar, a saltspoonful of salt, and bake in a slow oven. To make a richer pudding, take it when nearly done, stir in 2 ounces of butter, 4 well-beaten eggs, a little Langdale’s almond essence, or other flavouring ; return to the oven in a buttered dish, and bake 1 hour.—(2) Put 2 tablespoonfuls of pearl-barley in 1 pint of new milk. Put in a jar, steam for 4 hours, and bake in a dish for about 1^ hours. No sugar or egg need be used. When rightly done the milk turns to cream, and the grains of barley are as soft as the cream. Bachelor’s Pudding.—Mix 1 egg, and 1 small apple minced, with its weight of flour, sugar, currants, breadcrumbs, and suet ; add a little milk ; boil in a basin 1J to 2 hours. Plain Bread Pudding.—Place in a bowl sufficient stale or broken bread, and add as much sweetened milk as the bread will absorb, with 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls of finely-shred suet, and a little salt. Cover until well soaked, then beat the whole smooth, and add 2 well-beaten eggs, a few currants and raisins, and some grated nutmeg. A tablespoonful of rum added is an improvement. Bake in a dish for about 1J hours. Bread-and-Butter Pudding.—Cut sufficient slices of bread and butter, and put into a pie-dish, with currants between and on the top. Sweeten and flavour 1 j pints of milk, with some lemon-peel or a few drops of Langdale’s essence of vanilla ; beat 4 eggs, and stir into the milk. Strain this over the bread and butter, and bake in a moderate oven about 1 hour. College Pudding.—Chop 6 ounces of beef suet finely, and mix with 6 ounces of well-washed currants, 6 ounces of sifted sugar, 4 pound of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a dessertspoon- ful of chopped lemon-rind, £ of a nutmeg grated, 3 eggs well beaten, and 2 tablespoonfuls of brandy. Pour into well-buttered cups, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. Turn the puddings out, and sift a little pounded sugar over. Cabinet Pudding.—Butter a cup or basin ; fill it with layers of raisins, bread and butter without crust, sugar, and a little grated nut- meg. Pour over a pint of milk mixed with 2 well-beaten eggs ; sweeten and flavour. Allow it to soak 4 hour, then place a plate on the top, and steam for 1 hour. Christmas Pudding.—Stone lit pounds of plums, wash 14 pounds of currants, chop very fine 1 pound of beef suet, and mix with them 14 pounds of grated bread ; add £ pound of candied peel cut into shreds, 3 ounces of almonds blanched and minced, and mixed spice and sugarENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 36 to taste. Thoroughly blend and stir well together with 8 well-beaten eggs, 2 glasses of brandy, and \ pint of milk. Tie in a cloth, and boil from 8 to 10 hours. Those who want plum or ‘ Christmas ’ puddings in a hurry, or do not want the trouble of making them, may be glad to know that puddings of1 excellent quality and flavour are made and kept ready by Mr. Luck, the confectioner, of Tottenham Court Road. Dumpling's.—Mix with 1 pound of flour a little salt, and water to make a stiff paste. Divide and roll into dumplings the size of an apple ; put them into boiling water, and boil till done. These dumplings may be varied by mixing with each pound of flour | pound of finely-shred suet. A few currants and a little sugar in addition make another variety to be eaten alone. Dig Pudding.—Chop J pound of suet fine, and 1J pounds of figs ; add 2 ounces of flour, h pound of breadcrumbs, 6 ounces of sugar, a little nutmeg, and 2 eggs well beaten with sufficient milk to mix. Boil in a buttered basin for 4 hours. Fruit Puddings.—Butter a basin and line it with paste-crust, rolled out moderately thick ; put in the fruit, lay a piece of crust rolled out round the top, and turn the side crust over it a little way to keep in the juice ; tie over it a cloth well floured. A quart basin re- quires boiling 2 hours. Fruit Tarts.—Cut some puff-paste the size of the dish, and out of the trimmings cut some strips, which place round the edge of the dish, then put in the fruit, with some sugar and a little water ; roll the paste, and lay over the fruit. Brush some white of egg over the tart, and sift some sugar over it. Bake, and serve. German Open Tart.—Well grease a shallow baking-tin, line it with a light pie-crust; on this place a layer of thinly-sliced apple, fol- lowed by a layer of well-washed and picked currants ; sprinkle with sugar. Repeat the layers until the dish is full. Finish with pipe-paste and a rose or crown in centre. Hasty Pudding.—Stir 3 tablespoonfuls of cornflour into a little cold milk. Put 1 teaspoonful of salt into 1 quart of milk, bring it to boil, and pour it over the cornflour, when well mixed. Return to the saucepan, and boil, stirring frequently, for J hour ; then add 1 table- spoonful of butter. Serve at once, in a deep dish, with sugar or preserves. Jam Tarts. —Butter some patty-pans, and line with pastry rolled out to a i inch thick. Put them into a quick oven; when nearly baked take out, put a little jam in each, then return to the oven and finish. An ornament already baked should be placed upon each, or a little whipped cream. Time to bake, a few minutes. Jam Tart, Open.—Roll out some pastry to J inch thick ; butter a tart-pan, and line with the pastry ; trim the edges, and prick a few holes in the bottom. Bake in a moderate oven until lightly browned, then take out, let it cool a little, spread the jam on it, aud ornament the top with pastry which has been baked separately. Time to bake, about \ hour. Lard in Pastry.—The best quality of lard only should be used. Messrs. Bancroft and Co.’s, of Liverpool, is always of uniform con- sistency, and neither too hard nor too soft. It is of a fine silky texture, very different to the rough harsh quality, wonderfully suggestive of mutton fat, turned out by some makers. When put into the frying- pan it melts into oil without the sputtering so observable in inferiorPIES, PUDDINGS, AND TARTS. 87 makes. This may be accounted for by the fact that Messrs. Bancroft use no water in refining their lard. Cooks troubled in their cooking by sputtering lard should insist upon their tradesmen supplying Bancroft’s. The firm are the best known in the trade, both in this country and on the Continent, large quantities of their product being supplied to every important market in Europe. They were the first to refine lard, for which improvement they patented a process, and to them belongs the credit due to having revolutionized the trade. Lemon Bread Pudding-.—Shred J pound' of beef suet, 6 ounces of finely-grated breadcrumbs, 1 tablespoonful of flour, 3 ounces of moist sugar, the finely-minced rind and strained juice of a lemon, ^ pint of milk, 2 eggs well beaten, and mix. Butter a basin, ornament the inside with raisins, candied fruit, or sliced lemon-rind, pour in the pudding, cover with a floured cloth, plunge into boiling water, and boil quickly for about 3 hours. Turn out on a dish, and send to table this sauce round it: Put the thin rind and juice of a lemon in h pint of water, add 2 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and simmer gently 20 minutes ; add 2 drops of cochineal and a tablespoonful of gin, and serve. Lentil Flour Pudding.—Mix 3 ounces lentil flour with a little cold milk, pour upon it slowly 1 pint boiling milk, stirring well, and add 3 ounces sugar, 1 ounce butter, a little powdered cinnamon, grated nut- meg, and a pinch of salt. Let it cool; add 4 eggs well beaten, pour into a buttered dish, and bake in a moderate oven. Serve with sugar sifted over. Marmalade Pudding.—Put 1 pound breadcrumbs into a basin, and add \ pound of suet, \ pound of Southwell’s marmalade, and J pound sugar ; mix well, add 2 eggs well beaten, and a little milk. Boil for 2 hours. Milk Pudding, An Economic.—Take 1£ pints of milk, and 4 tablespoonfuls of ‘ Panier Brot,’ sugar to taste, boil for 1 minute, keep stirring ; add 2 or 3 eggs, well whisked ; put in a dish and bake for | hour, then serve. Currants, raisins, or other fruits may be added with advantage, also Langdale’s essence of vanilla, lemon, or almond. Oswego Pudding.—One quart of milk, 3 tablespoonfuls of Kings- ford’s Prepared Com, and 4 eggs. Beat the yolks, and mix with a little of the milk and flour ; sweeten and flavour with Langdale’s vanilla. Scald the milk, and add the other ingredients ; boil 3 minutes ; pour into a dish, and put aside to cool. Beat the whites with 4 teaspoonfuls of sugar. Cover the pudding with a layer of currant jelly, and spread the beaten whites over the whole. Plain Plum Pudding.—Chop \ pound suet very fine, and mix with 1 pound flour ; add \ pound of breadcrumbs, 1 pound of raisins stoned, a little nutmeg and grated ginger, and mix all well together with 1 pint of milk and 2 tablespoonfuls of treacle. Put into a basin or floured cloth, and boil 4 to 5 hours. Queen Pudding.—Mix 4 tablespoonfuls of Oswego Prepared Corn in 1 quart of cold milk ; stir until it boils. When cool, stir in 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered white sugar, and 6 eggs, whites and yolks beaten separately.^ Put in a large pudding-dish, place in a pan of water, bake hours. Sauce: One cup of sugar, \ cup of butter, the yolks of 2 eggs, 1 glass of Madeira wine. Rub sugar and butter to a cream, add eggs and half the wine. Put the dish in boiling water, stir 10 minutes, add the rest of the wine, and serve. Ground Rice Pudding.—Mix in a saucepan 8 ounces of groundENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY, 83 rice, 3 pints of milk, 1 ounce of butter, 4 ounces of sugar, a pinch of allspice, and one of salt, stir over the fire until the batter boils. Beat up 2 or 3 eggs and mix well into the batter ; then pour the whole into a well-greased pie-dish, and bake for an hour. Plain Rice Pudding1.—For every quart of milk add 6 ounces of rice, 1 ounce of brown sugar, a pinch of allspice, and one of salt. Put all these in a proper-sized pie-dish, with 1 ounce of butter, and bake for 1J hours. Semolina French. Pudding.—Boil a quart of milk with a little sugar. When boiling stir in from 3 to 4 ounces of Marshall’s semolina, and let it boil for 5 minutes. Beat well 2 eggs, yolks and whites separately. Add these to the semolina, when it has slightly cooled. Melt some sugar with a little water in a pudding-tin over the fire, and smear the sides well with it. Pour the mixture into the tin, and steam for 1-1 hours. It will turn out a delicious pudding, beautifully browned all over. Can be flavoured to taste. Semolina Pudding.—Take 11, pints of milk ; when boiling, drop into it 3 tablespoonfuls of semolina, and stir all together for about 15 minutes ; throw in 2 ounces of butter and 3J ounces of sifted sugar, with the grated rind of a lemon. Whilst the semolina still remains hot, beat gradually and briskly into it 4 eggs. Bake in a moderate oven. Time to bake, J hour. Strawberry and Custard Pudding.—Place 4 tablespoonfuls of Southwell’s strawberry jam in a buttered pie-dish, cover with 4 ounces of breadcrumbs, and add some custard made with a pint of milk, 2 eggs, and a little sugar. Stir the custard over the fire till it begins to thicken, pour it gradually upon the breadcrumbs, and bake in a moderate oven for ^ hour. Rhubarb and Batter Puddings—Fill a buttered pie-dish with rhubarb cut as for a tart. Make a rich batter with 2 or 3 eggs, allow- ing a tablespoonful of flour to each egg, and sufficient milk to form the mixture into a thick cream. Pour it over the rhubarb, and serve with fine white sugar and melted butter. The pudding should be turned out of the dish. Sultana Pudding.—Cornflour may be used, in the proportion of 3J ounces to a quart of milk. After boiling, and briskly stirring for 8 minutes, beat up and’add 2 eggs, with 3 tablespoonfuls of sugar, and add the sultanas. Pour into a pie-dish and bake until brown in a moderate oven. Tapioca Pudding.—Four spoonfuls of tapioca to a pint of milk ; boil till thick, stirring often. When cool add 3 eggs, some butter, nut- meg, and lemon-peel; sweeten to taste. Bake about 1 hour. Vermicelli Pudding.—Take 4 ounces of vermicelli, and boil in a pint of milk till soft, with a stick or two of cinnamon. Then put in 4 pint of cream or condensed milk, J pound of butter, J pound sugar, and the yolks of 4 eggs beaten fine. Bake in a dish. Yorkshire Pudding.—Heat a tin, and rub it well with dripping ; beat up 3 eggs and a teaspoonful of salt. Add a pint of milk, and when well mixed, stir gradually into 4 pound of flour, to make a perfectly smooth batter. Pour into the tin, and bake it for about J hour. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, aud most efficient way of cooking known. Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stove, No. 40, will roast a joint of 7 lbs., boil a fowl, pudding, and vegetables, as well as steam the potatoes, at one time, and at a cost of one penny. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.PAET IX. SWEETS AND SAVOURIES. Apples—Painted Ladies.—Choose firm, sound apples, and remove eyes and stems. Peel carefully, and put in a shallow saucepan large enough to hold them in 1 layer ; dissolve 1 cup of sugar in just enough water to cover them. Add 3 cloves, a bit of stick cinnamon, and some lemon-peel cut fine; cover closely, and stew slowly about | hour, or till done. Lift carefully on to a glass dish, and with a small brush cover each side with melted currant jelly. Strain the syrup, boil it down to \ pint; add a wineglass of sherry or madeira, and the juice of half a lemon, and pour over the apples. Serve cold. Apple Jelly.—Take 12 apples, pare them, core, and cut in pieces. Cover with water in a preserving-pan, and boil for an hour ; then drain off the syrup through a hair-sieve, and to every pint of juice add § pound of sugar. Boil for f hour, and skim all the time. Ornament this jelly with greengages, currants in bunches, or any other preserved fruit. Apple Ploat.—Pare and core 12 large green apples ; boil or bake in as little water as possible, and press through a fine hair-sieve when cold. Sweeten to taste ; add the whites of 2 eggs well beaten, and then beat the whole together until stiff. Grate nutmeg over it. To be eaten with cream. Baking1 Powder.—Sir Henry Thompson gives the following as ‘a simple and excellent formula,’ which has been long used : Tartaric acid, 2 ounces ; bicarbonate of soda, 3 ounces ; arrowroot, 3 ounces. Mix thoroughly; place in a wide-mouthed cork bottle, and keep perfectly dry. Blancmange.—(1) 4 tablespoonfuls, or 3 ounces, of Oswego Pre- pared Corn to 1 quart of milk, 2 eggs. Dissolve the prepared corn in a little milk. Put into the remainder of the milk 4 ounces sugar, a little salt, a piece of lemon-rind or cinnamon stick, and heat to near boiling. Then add the mixed prepared corn, and boil (stirring briskly) 4 minutes ; take out the rind, and pour into a mould or cup, and stand until cold. When turned out, pour round any kind of stewed or pre- served fruits, or a sauce of milk and sugar. Be careful not to use more of the corn than is directed.—(2) Dissolve in a little cold water 1 ounce Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Pastry done in Wright and Butler’s Patent Stoves is much nicer and more digestible than if done in ordinary ranges. One gentleman writes that 1 ho can now eat pastry.’ Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 90 isinglass or Nelson’s gelatine, and pour over same 1 pint boiling milk. Stir till quite dissolved. Simmer 2 ounces sweet and 1 ounce bitter almonds in an additional i pint milk or cream, until pleasantly flavoured. Sweeten to taste ; then mix with the dissolved gelatine. Strain into a mould, and leave till cold, or freeze. Garnish.—(3) Stir | pound of Mashall’s semolina into 1£ pints milk. Add 2 ounces sugar, a small piece of butter, and a little lemon or other flavouring. Boil for 3 minutes, and pour into a mould. Leave to cool. Turn out and serve with jelly or stewed fruit. May be varied by using water instead of milk, with the addition of \ pound red currant jelly for flavouring and to colour the shape. Should be served with milk or cream. Black Currant Jelly.—To each pint of juice obtained, after pressing and straining, from well-ripened fruit, allow 1 pound pre- serving sugar. When the juice has come to the boil, skim well, and add the sugar ; stir steadily till the sugar entirely disappears, and boil, not simmer, for, say, 10 minutes, or until thick enough, which can be ascertained by dropping some on a cold plate. When cold, put into pots for use, and fasten down with adhesive jam-papers. N.B.—The white of egg will make ordinary writing-paper adhere. Cheesecakes, Lemon.—1 pound sifted sugar, the juice of 2 lemons, with the peel finely grated, a small piece of butter about the size of a walnut, and 2 eggs. Beat the whole into a paste ; a little of it put into puff-paste makes a nice side-dish for a supper. Cheesecakes—Richmond Maids of Honour.—The follow- ing, believed to be genuine recipe, is taken from Cassell’s invaluable ‘Dictionary of Cookery’: Beat 2 eggs, and mix them with a quart of new milk ; add the eggs and milk to a quart of boiling water in a saucepan. Pour in lemon-juice, and remove the curd, as it rises, to a sieve to drain. Mix the curd with the yolks of 4 eggs, previously well beaten, a large cupful of clotted cream, the rind of a lemon, rubbed off on sugar, a little pounded cinnamon, J nutmeg, grated, 6 ounces of currants, well washed and dried, and a glass of brandy. Mix well, and bake in patty-pans, buttered and lined with a light French puff-paste. Time, about 20 minutes to bake. Probable cost, 2s. 6d. Sufficient for 24 cheesecakes. Lemon Cheesecakes.—Mix together J pound fresh butter, the yolks of 4 eggs, ^ pound sifted white sugar, the juice of a lemon, and the rind grated. Make a rich crust ; line the dish, and make a delicate edge of the paste round it. Put in the ingredients, and bake. If pre- ferred, it may be baked in small pans. Cornflour Blancmange.—Take 4 ounces cornflour, and mix with a little cold milk. When quite smooth, add 1 quart boiling milk ; put into a saucepan, and keep on the fire about 4 minutes after boiling up. Add sufficient sugar to sweeten, and flavour to taste. Cornflour Jelly.— Into a tumbler put a teaspoonful of cornflour, and mix with a little cold water. Keep stirring well while pouring upon it sufficient boiling water to make into a clear jelly, and add a glass of sherry or madeira. Apple Cream.—Pare and core 8 medium-sized apples ; steam till quite tender, but do not allow them to fall to pieces. Lay in a glass dish, and, when cold, pour over them this cream : to 1 teacup condensed milk or cream add 1 of sifted white sugar, and the whites of 2 eggs ; flavour with lemon. Whisk together for a few minutes, and distribute evenly over the fruit.SWEETS AND SAVOURIES. 91 Lemon Creams.—Pare 2 lemons very thin, and throw the peel into 6 tablespoonfuls of wat»r ; squeeze the juice over 4 ounces finely- powdered sugar. Well beat the yolks of 5 eggs ; then add the peel, water, and juice gradually, and strain through muslin into a stew-pan. Stir one way over a gentle fire till the mixture becomes pretty thick, but do not let it boil. Serve in custard cups. White Lemon Creams are made in the same way, but using the whites instead of the yolks of eggs. Delicious tartlets may also be made by adding to the preparation a little finely-crumbled spongecake, and proceeding as with lemon cheesecakes. Normandy Cream.—Put into a saucepan \ pint cream, 1J pints milk, 1J ounces Nelson’s gelatine, castor sugar to taste, and flavouring; stir well, and allow to boil. Have ready a wetted quart mould; arrange tastily in the bottom some candied fruit of different colours. Pour in a little of the cream, and set away to cool. When firm, but not quite cold, lay in carefully more candied fruit, and add more of the cream ; repeat till the mould is full. Swiss Cream.—Boil 1 pint thick cream with a slice or two of lemon-peel, and pour into a bowl with a little crushed lump sugar. When quite cool, add the juice of 2 lemons ; soak £ pound of macaroons in a glass dish with a little marsala, sherry, or brandy, and pour the cream over. Ice Cream.—Omitting the butter and salt, the preparation for custard will make an excellent ice cream. Oswego Boiled Custard.—2 tablespoonfuls of Kingsford’s Pre- pared Com to 1 quart milk ; mix the corn with a little milk, and flavour to taste with any of Langdale’s flavouring essences. Beat up 2 eggs. Heat the remainder of the milk to near boiling ; then add the mixed corn, the eggs, 4 tablespoonfuls of sugar, a little butter and salt. Boil 2 minutes, stirring briskly. Boiled Custards.—Put into an enamelled saucepan 1 pint milk, 2 ounces crushed sugar, 3 bitter almonds blanched and pounded, and when hot, but not boiling, pour gently in 3 well-beaten eggs (or the yolks of 4). Pour the mixture into a jug; stand same in a deep saucepan of boiling water, and stir till thickened. Serve in custard cups. Eggs, Curried.—Cut 1 apple and 1 onion in thin rings, and fry till brown in boiling butter (about 1 ounce to 1J ounces). Mix on a plate 1 dessertspoonful curry-powder with 1 of flour, and sift into the frying-pan with the onion, etc. Shake about gently, and pour in a cupful of water. Have ready prepared 4 eggs, hard-boiled and shelled, which divide in quarters, and put in the pan until quite hot, and serve them in the centre of the dish with the curry. Surround with a wall of boiled rice. Eggs sur le Plat.—Melt 1 tablespoonful butter in a shallow baking-dish. Break 6 eggs into this ; slightly dust with pepper and salt, and put in a moderate oven until the whites are well set. Serve in the same dish. Poached Eggs.—Into a saucepan of boiling water break a few eggs carefully, and let boil for 3 or 4 minutes ; then take out with a slice, and serve either upon toast, spinach, or whatever you please. Poached Eggs with Gravy.—Into a saucepan three-parts full of boiling water, and in which a little salt and vinegar has been stirred, carefully break 4 or more eggs. When set, take out; drain on a cloth.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 92 Popper, and serve with gravy or Liebig’s extract of meat. Should the eggs chance to be hard, immerse in cold water on removing from pot. Seasoned Egg'S.—Out an onion in dice ; put in a hot pan J ounce butter ; turn on the fire 1 minute. Add a little flour, and 1 gill milk ; boil 5 minutes. Add 4 hard eggs cut in large dice ; season with salt, pepper, and celery salt. Serve hot. Fritters for Batter.—Mix into a smooth batter 8 ounces of fine flour with about ^ pint of water ; dissolve 2 ounces butter over a slow fire, and then stir it by degrees into the flour. Stir lightly in the whites of 2 eggs whisked to a stiff froth. Flavouring Essences form such a valuable adjunct to the rapid production of tasty and appetising savouries, custards, pastry, puddings and jellies, that a few words of counsel as to their use seems worth im- parting, more especially since several deaths have been traced to the too free use of cheap, carelessly-manufactured articles. It cannot be too widely known that the essences of bitter almonds, noyeau, peach kernels, and ratafia, are highly poisonous unless freed from their de- structive properties, as in the ingenious process originated by Mr. G. F. Langdale, of Hatton Garden, whose various preparations are guaranteed absolutely innocuous. The essences most commonly favoured in domestic economy are those named below : For cakes, custards, blancmanges, ices and jellies, the essences of lemon, bitter almonds, vanilla, peach- kernels, cinnamon, nutmeg, and more rarely pineapple. For biscuits, buns, cakes, etc., Jamaica ginger, caraway seeds, allspice, and mixed spices. Essence of cloves is useful for flavouring stewed apples, stewed pears, and confectionery, and for pickling—a teaspoonful to a gallon of vinegar being sufficient. Kaspberry, strawberry, and cherry impart an" exquisite and true flavour to ices, creams, and custards, as also to cooling drinks—the former more particularly. Orange is used in pre- paring orangeade, orange syrup, and flavouring confectionery, and rennet for making curds and whey ; camphor, peppermint, and black currant are mainly therapeutic, while the liquid extract .of cochineal and concentrated Spanish saffron serve as colouring agents. Alto- gether some 120 essences are distilled, so that almost any imaginable culinary want can now be met. Fruit, Stewed.—One secret of good stewed fruit is to avoid over- stewing, a second is to stew in syrup. One pound of sugar to a pint of water makes a good syrup. The sugar and water should be boiled in an enamelled or patent ‘ sanitary ’ seamless steel stew-pan. When the syrup is boiling, the fruit should be added, and removed as soon as soft. A dish of green gooseberries, for instance, stewed in syrup, is incom- parable by the side of gooseberries stewed, as they often are, with nothing but sugar. The pure flavour of the fruit is retained when slightly cooked with syrup. With stewed fruit, we may dispense with pastry, eating it with bread and butter, biscuit, milk, pudding, or blancmange. Gooseberry Fool.—Stew 1 quart of ripe gooseberries in enough water to cover, and when soft and broken, rub through a sieve to remove the skins. While still hot, beat in 1 tablespoonful butter, 1 teacup sugar, and whipped yolks of 4 eggs. Pile in a glass dish, and heap upon the top a miring lie made from the whipped whites and 3 tablespooufuls of pounded white sugar.SWEETS' AND SAVOURIES. 93 Gooseberry Souffle.—Pick the gooseberries, and boil them with sugar until tender. Then press through a coarse sieve, and put into a glass dish. When cold, pour over a good custard. This may be made with the yolks of eggs, and the whites may be beaten till firm, and cooked. The appearance is improved by colouring half the white of egg with a few drops of Langdale’s cochineal. Each quart of gooseberries should take about | hour to boil. Hominy for Breakfast.—Soak 1 pint hominy in 2J pints boiling water over-night, in a vessel with a tight cover ; in the morning add i pint sweet milk and salt to flavour properly. To prevent burning and save attention, the vessel of hominy may be put in a larger saucepan containing water. Place on a brisk fire, and boil for about J hour. The addition of a sweet sauce made of dissolved white sugar adds greatly to the charm of this breakfast dish. Hominy Milk.—Soak \ pound of crushed hominy in water 12 hours, and then boil it in milk over a slow fire 2 hours. It must be about the consistence of rice milk when brought to table. Boiled Macaroni.—Boil 1 pound of macaroni, in milk or water, for about § hour, adding a piece of butter, some salt, and an onion stuck with a few cloves. When done drain the macaroni, and put in an enamelled saucepan, with 2 tablespoonfuls of grated Parmesan cheese, a little nutmeg, some pepper, salt, and as much cream or con- densed milk as will make plenty of sauce. Stew the whole gently for a few minutes, then serve very hot. Macaroni Cheese.—Boil and drain \ poimd macaroni, mix there- with 1 ounce butter and 2 ounces grated cheese : pepper or cayenne and salt to taste. Put the macaroni in a dish and strew over it suffi- cient grated cheese to cover, run a little dissolved butter over the top, and put it in the oven till it is a bright-yellow colour ; serve quickly. Meringues.—Take h pound finely-powdered sugar, mix it lightly and expeditiously with 5 whites of eggs whisked to a firm froth. When the sugar has been all put in, fill a tablespoon with the paste, and smooth with another spoon to the desired egg-like shape, always re- membering that after the sugar has been added to the white of egg, the batter should not be worked over-much, or it will become soft and difficult to mould into meringues. Drop them separately, and about 2 inches apart, on strips of stiff white paper, and keep them well shaped with the spoon. Sift sugar over ; let them lie for about 2 minutes, shake off the loose sugar, place the meringues on baking-boards, and bake in a moderate oven until a light fawn colour is reached ; if baked too much their appearance will be spoiled. When sufficiently coloured and a little cooled, pass a thin knife under each, to slip them from the paper, scoop out a portion of the soft part, and replace in the oven to dry. Before using, fill the hollow with whipped cream, and put two meringues together. To secure variety, finely-chopped almonds or currants may be sprinkled over the top, and the insides filled with Southwell’s excellent jellies or preserves. Meringue shells are sold ready prepared at a small cost, and economize time. Mincemeat.—1 pound beef suet, 1 pound apples, 1 pound currants, 1 pound raisins, \ pound moist sugar, \ pound citron, 2 ounces candied lemon, 2 ounces candied orange peel, 1 nutmeg, \ ounce salt, J ounce ginger, % ounce allspice, \ ounce cloves, juice and peel of 2 lemons, 1 wineglass brandy and of white wine. Chop the suet fine, add theENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 94 apples, pared and minced, the currants washed and picked, the raisins stoned and chopped fine, the moist sugar, citron, orange and lemon peel cut fine, the nutmegs grated, the salt, ginger, allspice, and cloves all ground fine, and the lemon, with the rind grated. Mix all together with the brandy and sherry, or any white wine. Put into a jar and keep in a cool place. Most housekeepers, however, prefer nowadays to purchase ready-made mincemeat, and considering the really excellent article Messrs. Southwell and Co. put up in 1 pound and 2 pound jars, and at a price much below the cost of home-making, this method may be safely recommended to all who have to consider time and expense. Omelette, Cooking an.—Lady Barker says : ‘All it requires is vigilance and knack. Don’t over-beat your eggs, just whisk them up (3 are quite enough for a manageable omelette) lightly and swiftly. Beat in with them a pinch of salt, a little pepper, some finely-chopped parsley, or a spoonful of grated cheese. Almost anything mixes well in an omelette, provided it is cut fine enough. Have the frying-pan ready with butter enough in it to cover its surface when melted. Into the clear liquid butter pour the eggs, gently stirring the mixture with a wooden spoon. The omelette will set almost immediately, and then the stirring should be discontinued, and gentle shaking carried on incessantly ; the edges being turned up with the spoon every now and then. Four minutes should be enough to cook the inside thoroughly, leaving the outside of a rich yellowish-brown colour, but the time re- quired to attain this result entirely depends on the fire. Too fierce a fire may burn the omelette before it has time to set, and yet a clear fire is necessary. As soon as it begins to assume the shape of a small plate and the colour of a golden pippin, double it over with the spoon, and serve it in a hot dish. The only things requisite in an omelette are presence of mind and promptness of action. Timidity and hesitation have ruined many an omelette.’ According to Soyer, the great point is, if in an iron pan, it should be very clean and free from damp, which sometimes comes out of the iron when placed on the fire. The best plan is to put the pan on the fire with a little fat, and let it get quite hot, or until the fat burns ; then remove, and wipe clean with a dry cloth, put in clean butter or oil, and you will make the omelette to per- fection. Omelette aux Fines Herbes.—Beat 4 or 6 eggs lightly, and mix in a small pinch of salt and pepper, a heaped teaspoonful of finely- chopped parsley, and J a teaspoonful of minced onions, cloves, or shallots. Dissolve 2 ounces of fresh butter into a hot frying-pan, over a gentle fire. Pour in the mixture, and proceed as already described. Serve very hot on a round of buttered toast. Some persons fry on both sides like a pancake ; others prefer more parsley. Omelettes may be exten- sively varied. A little minced ham, or cooked vegetables, or fish-sauce, or Southwell’s marmalade, may be put in either with the eggs or placed in their centre when they are partially cooked. Time to fry, 4 to 6 minutes. Omelette, Sweet (1).—To 6 well-whisked eggs add 1?. teaspoon- fuls of milk, a teaspoonful of sugar, a pinch of salt, and beat well together ; put some butter into a frying-pan ; when hot, pour in the omelette mixture and fry carefully. When done, put in the middle any of Southwell’s preserves made hot, double over on a plate, and serve up with sifted sugar over.SWEETS AND SAVOURIES. 95 Omelette, Sweet (3).—Whisk 4 eggs, and mix with them 1 tea- spoonful of moist sugar, a pinch of salt, and 1 tablespoonful of milk. Make an omelette-pan quite hot—see Soyer on cooking an omelette, p, 94—put into it 2 ounces of fat or oil ; and when it begins to bubble, pour in the eggs, etc., and keep stirring until lightly set. Brown slightly on one side, then turn out on a hot dish, spread a little hot jam in the middle, fold the edges over on each side, sift sugar over, and serve instantly. Time, 5 or 6 minutes to fry. Probable cost, 8d. Sufficient for 3 persons. Omelette au Rhum.—To 4 whole eggs add a large tablespoonful of cream, or half the quantity of condensed milk, a little rind of lemon grated, a teaspoonful of Liquid Sunshine rum, and a very small pinch of salt. Whisk the eggs well, and, having melted 1 ounce of fresh butter in an omelette-pan, pour in the eggs, stirring continuously with a wooden spoon until they begin to set. Turn back the sides of the omelette towards the centre, and place on a hot dish. Dust some powdered sugar over it, and, with an iron skewer made red-hot, touch it lightly and quickly, so as to form stripes or other fanciful patterns. Pour over it a wineglassful of Liquid Sunshine rum, and ignite before sending to table. Pancakes.—Beat 3 eggs, and stir them into 1 pint of milk ; add a pinch of salt, and sufficient flour to make into a thick, smooth batter, about the consistency of thick custard. Put aside for an hour or two in a cool place. Pour into a frying-pan containing boiling butter or fat, roll the pancakes over on each side, drain and serve very hot, with lemon and sugar. Compote of Prunes.—Wash the fruit in warm water. To 1 pound of prunes put \ pound of sugar, a pint of cold water, with the thin rind and juice of a lemon. Let them simmer for an hour, or until they will mash when pressed. Strain the fruit and set it aside. Boil the syrup until it is very thick and on the point of returning to sugar ; then pour it over the prunes, turn them about gently, so that they become well coated ; let them lie for 12 hours before serving. Red-Currant Jelly.—Strip the currants, and bake in jars or pans ; strain off the juice through a sieve. Having loaf sugar pounded and dried, in the proportion of 1 pound to 1 pint of juice, set the juice over the fire, and, when boiling, throw in the sugar gradually, stirring the whole time ; this must be done quickly, for by the time all the sugar is stirred in, the juice will be ready to jelly ; and if left too long over the fire will become candied. Pour into small-sized jars. By this method the jelly will be perfectly clear without skimming, which saves waste and trouble. Much time, and, as a rule, more satisfaction is obtained, by buying the ready-made article ; Messrs. Southwell and Co., for example, manufacture a very excellent jelly, which is sold by grocers at 9d. or lOd. per 1 pound jar—a price at which it can hardly be made at home. Rice for Curry.—To boil rice for curry properly, wash the rice very thoroughly in several waters until the water cease to become cloudy or change colour. Throw the rice into sufficient boiling water to more than cover it; boil for about 10 minutes ; then take off the fire, strain, and steam in a very hot place by the side of the fire, occasionally stirring with a fork or spoon. When dry, the grains will not adhere to one another.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKEEV. 96 Riz au Gras.—Wash h pound of best rice, dry well, 3 quarts of good stock broth, and sprinkle in the rice ; cover and boil. As soon as the rice has risen, check the boiling with a small cupful of cold broth. Then let it boil up again. Continue this checking and boiling until the rice cracks. Add seasoning, and boil again. Be careful the rice does not run to pap, as this would be a great defect in riz au gras. Aroce Doce.—This is a delicious Portuguese preparation of nee. Stew gently for J hour 8 ounces of Carolina rice in 2£ pints of milk ; add 8 ounces of white sugar and 2 ounces of almonds, blanched and chopped small. Let the whole boil until nearly dry, stirring frequently. Then turn into pudding plates, shake it smooth in the plates, and sift powdered cinnamon over the surface, which will give the appearance of baked pudding to each plateful. Aroce Doce is eaten cold, and will remain good for a day or two. Rice, Sweet.—(1) To 2 ounces of rice, well washed, in a stew-pan, add i pint of milk, a lump of butter (size of a walnut), a little powdered cinnamon, and a saltspoonful of sugar ; when in rather thick pulp, add yolks of 2 eggs. To be eaten either hot or cold.—(2) Prepare as above, but add a tablespoonful of tapioca and a little more milk ; place half in a dish, then some of Southwell’s apricot marma- lade, or any jam, put the other half over, place in the oven, sugar over, bake 20 minutes. Rice, with. Fruit and. Meringues.— Boil a cupful of rice tender in enough milk to leave it quite stiff when done ; mix with 5 yolks of eggs, and flavour with lemon. Put an inch layer of rice on a dish, edged with puff-paste, and put on another inch layer of Southwell’s preserve, say apple ; repeat several times, each time using another kind of preserve. Give the dish a nice pyramidal shape. Beat the whites of the eggs into a very stiff froth ; mix quickly with as much powdered loaf sugar, flavoured with lemon, as will make it rather stiff. Throw this in rocky lumps all over the pyramid, sprinkle coloured comfits on it, and bake in a very cool oven till the meringues are quite dry. Rice Milk.—Boil J pound of rice in 1 quart of water, with a little cinnamon, till the water evaporates; but take care it does not bum. Add 3 pints of milk, with the yolk of an egg well beaten up, and keep stirring. When it boils, pour out and sweeten to taste. Rice Snowballs.—Boil 1 pint of rice in 2 quarts of water, with a teaspoonful of salt, till quite soft ; rinse out some teacups with cold water, fill each with the boiled rice, and when quite cold, turn out on a glass dish. Make a custard of 3 egg yolks, 1 pint of milk, a teaspoon- ful of cornflour, and white sugar to sweeten; flavour with lemon. Turn it over the rice \ hour before serving. Semolina.—Put li pints of milk over the fire, and, when boiling, stir in \ cupful of semolina, and continue to stir over the fire for 10 minutes ; then mould and place aside to cool; turn out, and serve with sugar or jam round. Souffle, Simple.—Sweeten J pint of milk, and flavour with Lang- dale’s lemon or vanilla essence ; boil, and stir in quickly when boiling a teaspoonful of flour which has been smoothly mixed with another £ pint of milk. Add a good-sized lump of fresh butter, draw the sauce- pan aside, and stir the batter till it thickens, then pour into a basin. When nearly cold, add a dessertspoonful of brandy and the well-beaten yolks of 2 eggs. Butter a cake-tin or deep pie-dish which the batterSWEETS AND SAVOURIES. 97 will only half fill, and heat it in an oven. Whisk or beat the whites of 3 eggs to a firm froth, and stir briskly into the batter. Spread a layer of preserve at the bottom of the dish, pour in the batter, and bake in a moderate oven, moving about occasionally. When the sou tile has risen high, and is nicely browned and firm throughout, it is cooked. Serve instantly, or the dish will be spoiled. So important is this, that good cooks hold a salamander or red-hot shovel over the souffle while carrying from the kitchen to the dining-room. Time to bake about 25 minutes. Potato Souffle.—Take as many well-shaped large potatoes as you expect guests. Wash them well, put in the oven, and when done, cut in half, so that the halves will stand ; scoop out the inside with a spoon, which put in a stewpan with 2 or 3 spoonfuls of thick cream, or reduced-strength-condensed milk, a small bit of butter, a little salt, some sugar, a little lemon-peel rasped on sugar, or a few drops of lemon essence, 3 yolks of eggs, adding off the fire 4 frothed whites. Put this mixture into the hollow potatoes, placing them in rather a hot oven. The taste may sometimes be varied with different flavourings. Apple souffle is prepared in the same way, excepting that the apples are not baked previously to being filled with the ingredients, being merely cored, and the interior scooped out, as above directed. Toasts, Various.—Anchovy.—Bone, clean, and wash a number of anchovies, prepare some slices of toasts, plentifully buttered on one side. Cut these in finger-shaped pieces. Lay 1 or 2 fillets of anchovy on each piece, sprinkle a little pepper and the least bit of cayenne on them ; put in the oven just long enough to get thoroughly hot, and serve immediately. Marrow.—Take h pound of beef marrow, parboil it for 1 minute in salted water. Have ready some slices of slightly - buttered toast sprinkled with pepper, salt, dry mustard, and a few drops of lemon-juice. Drain the marrow, spread quickly on the toast, and serve hot. Mushroom.—Fry some mushrooms in butter, with a sprinkling of pepper and salt. Have some slices of buttered toast, and as soon as the mushrooms are cooked, lay them on the toast, and send to table at once. Salmon.—Cut some smoked salmon in the very thinnest possible slices ; lay these neatly on pieces of buttered toast, sprinkle with pepper, and put into the oven, with a piece of buttered paper over them, just long enough to get quite hot. Sardine. —Take some sardines, carefully skin and bone them, lay them on slices of buttered toast, with a few drops of lemon-juice, and put them into the oven with a buttered paper over to get quite hot; serve at once. 7PAET X. BREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. French Bread.—Into 4 pounds flour flavoured with 3 ounces salt, stir 4 pint of good sweet yeast, the yolks of 2 eggs, the whites of 3 beateii separately, and 1 pint of warm milk. Stir till well mixed into a thin dough, and let it rise for a few minutes. Make the dough into loaves the size required, and bake in a brisk oven with or without tins. Time to bake, from § to 1 hour. Home-made Bread.—Into 1 quartern of flour stir 1 pint of warm milk or water, 4 tablespoonfuls of good yeast, and a little salt. Cover up and set before the fire to rise. If set over-night make up next morning, then add J pint more milk or water, and knead into a dough for 10 minutes. Set it by the fire for 1J hours, then make into loaves, and bake from 11 to 2 hours, according to size. If equal quantities of whole meal and flour be used, an excellent brown bread can be made. Baking powder is now used more frequently than yeast. Pulled Bread.—Take loaf of freshly made bread, and while it is still warm pull the inside out of it in pieces the size of your hand, or smaller. Put these into the oven and bake them a delicate brown. When cooked they are crisp, and of nutty flavour. Bread, Wheat Meal.—Mix 10 ounces wheat-meal, flour, and 1 ounce baking-powder intimately ; then pour on gradually 1 pint cold water ; work quickly into dough with a little salt, kneading as little as possible ; shape into cakes, and bake immediately in a quick oven. Biscuits can be bought cheaper and better than they can be made at home. Freshness is the first point in a good biscuit, and this is where the ordinary bought biscuit, in spite of careful packing, some- times fails. There are a few old-fashioned houses, notably one in the city, and another in the West-end, where biscuits can be had fresh and fresh as they are baked, and both houses have a reputation. Every one who does ‘ shopping ’ in the neighbourhood of Oxford Street knows ‘ Luck’s,’ the old-established confectioner’s of Tottenham Court Road, famous for ‘ a biscuit and a glass of sherry,’ amongst other good things. Here the biscuits are made, not by the ton, but in batches as they are Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, aud most efficient way of cooking known. For roasting, use Wright and Butler’s Patent ‘ Acme Combination ’ Oil Cooking Stoves, which will roast a joint of beef perfectly in the same time as a coal fire oven. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—See AdvertisementBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 99 wanted. The same is true of the cakes, which vary from the plainest school-boy’s plum to the costliest wedding cake. American Tea Cake.—Mixl pound flour, J ounce baking-powder, and i ounce salt; rub in 2 ounces butter ; make an elastic dough with 4 pint milk ; roll out the dough; cut it into round cakes, and bake these on a buttered tin in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. 2 eggs beaten up in the milk make richer cakes, and 3 ounces of sugar may be substituted for salt. Currants or sultana raisins are sometimes introduced. Cheap Cake.—2J pounds flour, f pound sugar, g pound butter, 1 pound currants, or | pound raisins, j pound orange-peel, 2 ounces caraway seeds, 1 ounce ground cinnamon or ginger, 4 teaspoonfuls car- bonate of soda, mixed well, with 1J pints new milk. The butter must be well melted previous to being mixed with the ingredients. Cornflour Sponge Cake.—Add 1 pound sugar to 4 ounces corn- flour and J pound wheaten flour. Make into a mixture, with 7 eggs previously well beaten, put into a buttered tin, and bake in a quick oven for 1 hour. Almond Gingerbread.—Mix 1 ounce ground ginger with pound ground rice, and g pound best flour. Put into a jar 1 pound treacle, i, pound sugar, h pound fresh butter, the thinly-peeled rind of 2 lemons, cut into thin slices, and 6 ounces sweet almonds, with 4 or 5 bitter ones, pounded in a mortar, with a few drops of water, to prevent oiling. Place the jar near the fire, and when the butter is melted, pour all into the flour. Beat till quite light, and bake in a quick oven, on a buttered tin for 30 minutes, if made in small cakes. Where almonds are not to hand, the flavouring essences of almond will do as well. Oswego Cake.—Mix well together 8 ounces of Kingsford’s pre- pared com, 8 ounces sugar, 4 ounces butter, 3 well-beaten eggs, and a teaspoonful of baking-powder. Bake in patty tins. Plum Cake.—5 teacupfuls flour, 1 teacupful melted butter, 1 tea- cupful cream, 1 teacupful treacle, 1 teacupful moist sugar, 2 eggs, 1 ounce powdered ginger, J pound raisins, 1 teaspoonful carbonate of soda, 1 tablespoonful vinegar. Melt the butter, but do not allow it to boil; put the flour into a basin, add to it the sugar, ginger, and raisins, which should be stoned and cut into small pieces. When thoroughly mixed, stir in the butter, cream, treacle, and well-whisked eggs, and beat the mixture for a few minutes. Dissolve the soda in the vinegar, add it to the dough, and be particular that these latter ingredients are well incorporated with the others ; put the cake into a buttered mould or tin, place in a moderate oven immediately, and bake from If to 2| hours. Rich Plum Cake.—To 1 pound of flour add 3 teaspoonfuls of baking powder, and \ teaspoonful of salt ; mix well. Rub into this pound of butter, lard, or beef dripping, or portions of each. Add § pound of washed, dried, and picked currants, \ pound of stoned and chopped raisins, \ pound of moist sugar, 2 ounces of candied peel cut into narrow strips, and a small nutmeg grated. Mix these ingredients thoroughly. Whisk 2 eggs for 5 or 6 minutes. Add 4 drops of Lang- dale’s almond essence and a little milk, tepid heat. Stir this into the flour, adding enough milk to make a light dough. Put into a large buttered tin, or 2 small ones, and bake immediately for 1 or 2 hours, according to size. 7-2100 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Pound Cake.—One pound of fresh butter, 1 pound of fine flour (Hungarian or Vienna if possible), 6 medium-sized eggs, one pound of castor sugar, £ pound of minced almonds, \ pound of currants or sul- tanas, 3 ounces of candied peel, a few drops of essence of ratafia. Whip the butter to a cream. Add the sugar gradually ; next the eggs, which must previously be well whisked ; then sift in the flour ; and, last of all, work in fruit, almonds, and flavouring, and keep stirring one way. This cake takes a good J hour to mix, as all the ingredients must be well worked together. Bake in smallish tins, for about 40 minutes, in a moderate oven. Rice Cake.—One pound of ground rice, 1 pound powdered loaf sugar, h pound of fresh butter whipped into a cream with a fork, 8 eggs, the yolks and whites beaten separately and well, and a few drops ol Langdale’s essence of almonds. Bake in a mould well buttered, or a tin lined with buttered paper. The oven should be moderate. Seed Cake, Rich..—Take 8 eggs, 1| pounds of fine dried flour, 1 pound of butter, 1 pound of castor sugar, 2 ounces caraway seeds, 1 grated nutmeg, and its weight in cinnamon. Whip the butter to a cream, and work in the sugar; beat the whites and yolks of the eggs separately, then mix them with the butter and sugar. A short time before placing in the oven beat in the flour, spice, and seed. Bake in a quick oven. Time, 2 hours to bake. Sponge Cake.—Take 4 eggs and their equal weight of pounded lump sugar, and 3 eggs and their equal weight of flour. Beat the 7 eggs and the sugar together for £ hour ; then add the flour, and beat the whole 5 minutes longer. Put this paste into a buttered mould, and set immediately into a smart oven. Tea Cake.—Rub into a quart of flour J pound of butter, then beat up 2 eggs with 2 teaspoonfuls of sifted sugar, and 2 tablespoonfuls of yeast, or a small portion of baking powder ; pour this mixture into the centre of the flour, and add a pint of warm milk as you mix it; beat up with the hand until the paste comes off without sticking; set to rise before the fire, first covering with a cloth ; after remaining there an hour, make up into good-sized cakes an inch thick ; set these in tin plates to rise before the fire during 10 minutes, then bake in a slow oven. These cakes may be split and buttered hot from the oven, or, when cold, split, toasted, and buttered. Tipsy Cake.—Take 10 sponge-cakes, place 4 close together upon the dish upon which the cake is to be served, spread over them a thick layer of raspberry or cherry jam ; upon this place 3 sponge-cakes close together, spreading over a thick layer of jam ; upon this put 2 sponge- cakes, with a third layer of jam, and complete the pyramid with the 1 cake left. Pour over the whole 3 glasses of sherry or Madeira, but pour only 1 at a time, so that the cakes may absorb the whole of the wine ; when this is done, add 2 glasses of brandy slowly, so that in absorbing the spirit the cakes do not become too moist and break. Make a rich custard, and pour over the whole ; it is then ready for table, and a most delicious Christmas cake it will prove. Yorkshire Cake.—Mix thoroughly 2 pounds of flour with a ij- pound of butter, melted in a pint of milk, 2 beaten eggs, and a wine- glassful of good yeast. Set before the fire to rise. Wien risen, knead well and divide into cakes 6 inches in diameter. Place these in tins before the fire to rise, then bake them in a slow oven. They may beBREAD, BISCUITS, AND CAKES. 101 split open and buttered hot from the oven, or when cold, split open, toasted brown, and buttered. The other variety of these cakes is made without butter. These are a little lighter, but the butter imparts to the former that agreeable quality termed * shortness. ’ Baking powder can be used when yeast is unobtainable.PART XI. Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement. TINNED AND PRESERVED GOODS AND EXTRACTS. The cheapness of most tinned meats, vegetables, fish, and fruit, and the convenient form in which they are now ‘ put up,’ renders them of growing importance as articles of everyday food. There is not a meal at which they cannot find a place. For a breakfast relish, we have rolled ox or sheeps’ tongues ; for an economical dinner, a variety of soups, and the most substantial and, if cleverly dressed, quite satis- factory boiled, roasted, and corned meat; for supper, the meat from dinner will make a capital rissole, or a tinned lobster an excellent salad —to say nothing of the tasty entries now preserved. An objection once raised against tinned goods was the ‘ tinned ’ flavour occasionally met with. Experience has shown, however, that this objectionable flavour was generally due to two causes—either the brand was inferior, or the tin had been allowed to remain open too long. It is as well, more especially in the case of preserved fruit and fish, to buy only the sized tins which can be used up at once. The length of time which sometimes passes between the date when pre- served foods are originally put up and their purchase by the consumer has also, doubtless, some effect upon quality. On account of their absolute freshness and prime quality, many of the preserved provisions tinned in England are now preferred. For meats and soups, the ‘ Sutherland ’ is one of the best English brands before the public. We have been over Mr. Carpenter’s factory in the Walworth Road, and can with confidence affirm that every care is taken to ensure the pro- duction of food articles of high excellence and absolute purity. Cer- tainly no American or Australian make equals the English rolled ox tongues of this brand, which can always be distinguished by being put up as shown in the accompanying illustration. Some very good special recipes and hints are given in Cassell’s ‘ Dictionary of Cookery ’ for preparing tinned provisions, and in a little volume by the writer of ‘ Choice Dishes at Small Cost,’ from which some of the recipes following are adapted. In using preserved goods of all kinds, says the latter writer, there are certain general principles to be observed with regard to all. The Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Wright and Butler’s Patent Oil Cooking Stoves render the kitchen cool and pleasant in the summer, as they are extinguished whenever the cooking is oyer. No dirt. No smell. No ashes. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler,103 TINNED AND PRESERVED GOODS AND EXTRACTS. chief point with regard to the preservation of tinned meat is that it should be kept cool, or at any rate be made cold before it is opened. In the case of «in ordinary piece of meat, such as boiled beef, the meat is surrounded by a bright colourless jelly, which contains almost as much nourishment as the meat itself. Should the meat be required hot, it would be best to heat it in the tin before opening. When hot, the tin can be opened, the meat turned out hot, and the jelly poured round in the shape of gravy. In the case of the vast majority of tinned meats of every description, including rich ones, such as tinned woodcock, tinned snipe, etc., the cook should always bear in mind the importance of letting the tin be perfectly cold before it is opened. In the majority of cases, when opened, the contents of these tins are sur- rounded by a rich fat, somewhat similar to lard, and when truffles are mixed with the contents, this fat is strongly impregnated with the flavour of the truffles. Now, if owing to carelessness, this tin has been kept in a warm place, when it is opened the contents will not turn out neatly on to the plate as they should do, and will have a most dis- agreeable appearance. In every case, therefore, in turning out a tinned woodcock, or woodcock paid, or tinned tongue, etc., let the cook do her utmost to keep the tin perfectly cool. Next, let the contents of the tin be turned out neatly. The appearance of many a tin of preserved meat is entirely ruined owing to impatience, coupled with want of skill in opening the tin. As a rule these tins of meat bear ample directions as to the best method of opening them, and it is important to read these directions with care before attempting the process. Next, let the dish or plate on to which the meat is to be turned be suited to the size of the tin, and let the cook be prepared with some kind of ornament for the dish. The outside of the tinned meat will often present a rough appearance. This is easily rectified by smoothing the outside with a knife or spoon. Next, attention should be paid to ornamenting it. For this purpose there is, perhaps, nothing equal to good, bright, fresh, green parsley. The parsley should be placed round the pat^ when it is turned out. This, again, can be further ornamented with cut lemon, or a little row of parsley finely chopped up can be placed on the top of the pate itself round the edge. If the cook possesses any ingenuity it will be easy to extract, in the case of a tin which contains truffle, a small piece of black truffle, which should be carefully wiped on a cloth and cut into thin slices, so that a little star can be made in the centre of the pat4 on the top, the centre of the star being a little speck of green parsley; or if by chance a tongue should be in the house, ready cut,104 ENGLISH AND FBENCH COOKEKT. a small red centre of tongue may be used. Again, in the case of turning out a tongue, now a popular and standing dish at breakfast-time, how much better does this tongue look when surrounded by a neat paper frill than when placed on the table bare ! Beef Stew, with Tinned Mushrooms.—To 1 pound of beef put a pint of mushrooms, pare them, cut the ends off, and place in cold water. Melt a piece of butter in a stewpan and place the mushrooms in it, with a little pepper, salt, and the juice of a lemon. Simmer until tender; add a cupful of good stock. Cut the beef into small pieces and flour well. Time to stew mushrooms, 25 minutes, and 4 minutes with the meat. Boiled Mutton and Caper Sauce Take the top off the tin and place in a 'saucepan of boiling water. When quite hot through, turn it on to a dish and serve with turnips, onions, potatoes, and caper sauce. Beef or Mutton Curry.—Cut the meat into small squares with a small onion chopped fine, place in a saucepan with a cupful of good stock, and put in a dessertspoonful of mulligatawny paste. Serve with rice very hot. Time, 10 minutes. - Roast Tinned Beef.—Take the meat out of the tin without breaking, remove all gravy and fat, tie it with string tightly, flour well and hang before a brisk fire for l hour, baste it with the gravy and fat taken from it ; make gravy in the usual way. Brawn forms an agreeable change to the breakfast or luncheon table. Tinned brawn possesses one great advantage, that until the tin is opened it will keep good for years. In carving always use an extra sharp knife. Francatelli recommends the following brawn sauce to be used with cold brawn. Mix together 1 tablespoonful of moist sugar, 2 of French vinegar, 3 of salad oil, a teaspoonful of mixed mustard, some pepper and salt, and serve. Probably many persons would prefer less vinegar. A very useful way of using up the remains of brawn is to add it to odds and ends of meats, such as cold fowl, cold ham, mutton, beef, etc., and let it eke out in making rissoles. Brawn sand- wiches also form a capital relish. Among the special brawns which we have tried, Carpenter’s 1 Sutherland ’ brand has given the most general satisfaction, and can always be relied upon. As much cannot be said for imported articles. Potato Pie.—Cut the beef into small pieces, lay them in a pie- dish with some good stock, pepper, salt, and a little onion, parsley and mixed herbs. Boil some potatoes, mash them, and lay them over the meat, about 1J inches thick. Brown in an oven about 20 minutes. Rissoles.—Mince 1 pound of meat very fine, and J pound of bread- crumbs. Mix thoroughly with a little dripping, parsley, mixed herbs, a small onion chopped fine, pepper and salt. Make into small pats, put them in egg and breadcrumb and fry in boiling fat. They may be served with fried parsley or a little thick gravy. Time to fry, 10 minutes. Tinned Tomatoes.—Tinned tomatoes are exceedingly nice served as they are. Open the tin, take the tomatoes out carefully without breaking, put them in the oven, with pepper, salt, and butter, to heat them through, occasionally basting them with their own juice ; then serve.PART XII. COOKING FOR INVALIDS AND THE NURSERY.For Infants and Invalids. NOT FARINACEOUS. Rich in Flesh, Nerve, Brain, and Bone Formers. IT is a fact that farinaceous foods cannot be digested by Infants. This is the only foocl in which the starcli has been wholly changed into soluble substances, which can at once he converted in the body into living blood. This remarkable result is attained outside the body by imitating exactly, in the process of manufacture, the natural conditions of healthy and perfect digestion. MELLIN’S POOD has been examined physiologically by the highest Medical authorities, and tested chemically by the most distinguished Analysts, and has always been classed by them Al. It has gained many awards of the highest merit at Public Exhibitions. No Food in the market can show such a vast collection of bond fide testi- monials, and many of these allude in an emotional yet sincere manner to the fact that ‘ MELLIN’S POOD has saved baby from death.’ USED IN ALL CHILDREN’S HOSPITALS. Prospectus Pamphlet and Sample Post Free on application to the Inventor and Manufacturer, Gk AAHILXiXTT, MARLBORO' WORKS, STAFFORD ST., PECKHAM, LOWDOB, S.E.PART XII. COOKING FOR INVALIDS AND THE NURSERY. By the light of Liebig’s researches and his successors’ invalid and nursery cookery has been revolutionised within recent years, and nearly as much in the cooking as in the materials. From the manner of heating the first food for baby, to the care necessary, as in typhoid, of preventing a single particle of solid food entering the patient’s diet, careful cooking is one of the first things in maintaining health and in recovering it. But general as this improved knowledge is, there may be no harm in repeating one or two of the most common errors, pointed out in ‘Notes on Nursing,’ respecting sick diet. One is the belief that beef-tea is the most nourishing of all articles. ‘ There is a certain nourishing quality in beef-tea—we do not know what—as there is in tea ; it may safely be given in almost any inflam- matory disease, but is little to be depended upon with the healthy or convalescent where much nourishment is required. Again, it is an ever-ready saw that an egg is equivalent to a pound of meat, whereas it is not so at all. Also, it is seldom noticed with how many patients, particularly of nervous or bilious temperament, eggs disagree. All puddings made with eggs are distasteful to them in consequence. An egg whipped up with wine is often the only form in which they can take this kind of nourishment. Arrowroot is another grand dependence of the nurse. To mix the patient’s wine in it is all very well ; but it is nothing but starch and water. Flour is both more nutritive, and less liable to ferment, and is preferable wherever it can be used. ‘ Again, milk and the preparations of milk are a most important article of food for the sick. There is nearly as much nourishment in J pint of milk as in \ lb. of meat. Butter is the lightest kind of animal fat, and though it wants some of the things which there are in milk, yet it is most valuable both in itself and in enabling the patient to eat more bread. Flour, oats, groats, rice, barley, and their kind, are, as we have already said, preferable in all their preparations to all the preparations of arrowroot, sago, tapioca, and their kind. Cream, in Petroleum Oil Stoves arc the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Why buy bakers' bread, with its alum and other adulterations ? Get one of Wright and Butler’s ‘ Little Bakers ’ which anyone can use, and make your own home-made bread. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butlor, Limited, Birmingham.—See Advertisement.ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 108 many long chronic diseases, is quite irreplaceable by any other article whatever. It seems to act in the same manner as beef-tea, and to most people it is much easier of digestion than milk ; in fact, it seldom disagrees. ‘But jelly is another article of diet in great favour with nurses and friends of the sick. Even if it could be eaten solid, it would not nourish ; but it is simply the height of folly to take the eighth of an ounce of gelatine, and make it into a certain bulk by dissolving it in water, and then give it to the sick, as if the mere bulk represented nourishment. It is now known that jelly does not nourish, that it has a tendency to produce diarrhoea, and to trust to it to repair the waste of a diseased constitution is simply to starve the sick under pretence of feeding them. The reason why beef-tea should be nourishing and jelly not so to the sick is a secret yet undiscovered, but it clearly shows that observation of the sick is the only clue to the best dietary.’ ‘ An almost universal error among nurses,’ says Florence Nightingale, 1 is in the bulk of the food, and especially the drinks, they offer to their patients. Suppose a patient were ordered 4 ounces of brandy during the day, how is he to take this if you make it into 4 pints by diluting it ? The same with tea and beef-tea, with arrowroot, milk, etc. You have not increased the nourishment, you have not increased the reno- vating power of these articles by increasing their bulk—you have very likely diminished both by giving the patient’s digestion more to do. It requires very nice observation and care to determine what will be too thick or strong for the patient to take, while giving him no more than the bulk which he is able to swallow. ’ This is true of the nursery as well as the sickroom, for the nicest care is necessary in the preparing as well as the selecting of infants’ foods. Many of the prepared foods before the public are excellent, but many are greatly wanting in the first essentials of infant dietary. As Liebig said, and is almost as true to-day, ‘ It is no mistake, but a fact, that the usual farinaceous foods are the causes of most of the diseases, and of half the cases of death, among all the babes, in the country as well as in all large towns.’ The reason of this being, as pointed out by another equally good authority, 1 that the secretion of saliva in the young child does not become established until the third month after birth, which seems to indicate that before that age farinaceous articles of diet are unsuited to the infant, as saliva is one of the most important agents in the digestion of starchy foods.’ Objection, on the other hand, is made to cow’s milk and condensed milk when used alone, for, as Dr. Routh states, ‘ Human milk is always alkaline ; hence another reason why cow’s milk disagrees with many children. Cow’s milk is acid, unless the animal has been fed exclusively upon grass. It is always acid in stall-fed cows.’ Objection, then, being made both on chemical and physiological grounds to the use of farinaceous foods for very young children, or of milk alone, how is the problem of finding a satisfactory food solved ? Chemistry finds the answer. Infants do not possess for the first year the special ferment ‘ diastase,’ which nature has supplied to adults for the digestion of starchy food. Such a digestive substance is unnecessary, since mother’s milk does not contain starch, while the milk-sugar which it does contain is trans- formed by the acids of the stomach into grape-sugar.109 COOKING FOR INVALIDS AND THE NURSERV. Malt, however, contains the same body—diastase—which exists in the saliva and the pancreatic juice of adults, for the digestion of starchy food. The saliva and pancreatic juice of infants failing naturally to supply this body, the desired result, viz., the conversion of starch into grape-sugar, is attained artificially by bringing malt in contact with wheaten flour, under proper conditions. The action of malt on starchy food being now well recognised, a number of food preparations exist in which malt figures. The most successful preparation of its class, and accepted by medical men as the finest infants’ food on this account, is the one known as Mellin’s Food. Some interesting chemical analyses and medical facts bearing upon this all-important question will be found in a pamphlet, 1 The Care and Feeding of Children,’ by Mr. G. Mellin. As he says, normal human milk is, of course, the best food, on account of the specific property it possesses of being the most easily digestible. When it fails, the best substitute ought to be sought. Such a proper substitute did not exist even in theory until Liebig published his formula, founded upon scien- tific principles, for a food corresponding physiologically with mother’s milk. Mellin’s food for infants and invalids is now universally admitted by doctors to be a soluble, dry extract, prepared after Liebig’s formula, from wheat and malted barley, and consisting of grape-sugar, dextrine, proteids (albuminoids), and soluble phosphates. Analysis shows it to be free from cane-sugar and farinaceous matter, the starch of the flour having been completely transformed into grape-sugar and dextrine by the vegetable diastase of the malt, exactly in the same manner as it would take place naturally in the digestive organs of an adult. When dissolved in hot water and mixed with cow’s milk, Mellin’s food is found not only to supply the grape-sugar and the potash salts which are deficient, but assures the digestion of the milk by the infant. Barley Gruel.—Put 2 ounces of pearl barley, and cinnamon to flavour, into 1 quart of water, and boil till reduced to 1 pint. Then strain through a sieve; add a glass of red wine, and sweeten to taste. Barley Water.—Wash a handful of barley, and simmer gently in 3 pints of water for 1 hour ; a small piece of lemon peel and the juice of a lemon improves the flavour. Beef, Essence of.—Both in illness and convalescence this stimulant is invaluable. The essence involves much trouble in making at home, and the result is not always satisfactory. It is better and cheaper to buy one of the made preparations. Beef Tea.—(1) Take 2 pounds of leg of beef, or blade-bone, cut into small pieces, and put into a jar with 3 pints of water and a pinch of salt; cover it down tightly, and put in a slow oven for 4 or 5 hours. This makes beef-tea much better than boiling in a saucepan.—(2) Two pounds leg of beef or steak. Scrape with a sharp knife until only sinew, skin, and fat remain, which put aside. Place the scraped beef in a jar with 2 pints of cold water (a bladder which should be tightly secured is still better) ; cover down closely, and stand in a saucepan half- full of boiling water, which keep in a state of ebullition. In 2J or even 2 hours the beef-tea can be administered. In cases of severe illness an ounce of isinglass should be added ; and where a stimulant110 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. is required, J pint of port, sherry, Madeira, and a gill of brandy may be stirred in with advantage. When isinglass is added, this beef-tea sets into a firm and wonderfully nutritious jelly. Blanc Mange for Invalids.—Dissolve in 1 quart of warm milk 1 ounce of isinglass, strain it through double muslin, put into a stewpan with £ pound of sugar pounded, and a peel of a lemon cut thin. Let it warm gently, until the flavour is well extracted from the lemon, and then stir in very gradually the yolk3 of six eggs; return to the stewpan, and set it at the side of the fire until it thickens, stirring all the time ; pour into a jug, and stir until nearly cold ; then pour it into a mould dipped into cold water, or oiled, and set in a cold place until cold and firm. ‘ Farola,’ a very fine preparation of wheat, may be used instead of isinglass—3 ounces to 1 quart of milk. Chicken Broth.—Take an old fowl, stew to pieces in 1 quart of cold water, with 2 onions, pepper and salt to taste; skim well and strain. Cup Custard.—Stir 1 dessertspoonful of white pounded sugar into | breakfast-cupful of new milk; add 1 egg well beaten ; pour into a breakfast-cup, and bake till quite set—about \ hour. Turn out on a plate and serve alone, or with stewed fruit. Egyptian Eood.—Lentils have no better form than that now so well known under this name ; it is rich in nourishing properties, and commonly recommended by medical men, as especially suited to in- valids and those whose digestion is impaired. Mix 2 spoonfuls with a little milk or water into a thin paste, and add the paste to a pint of new milk or water; when nearly boiling, add salt and sweeten to taste. It forms a nourishing food for infants, but if under the age of 6, it must be kept in a thin and perfectly liquid condition. It is one of the Messrs. Symington’s now generally adopted preparations. Gruel of Patent Groats.—Mix a tablespoonful of patent groats smoothly with 2 tablespoonfuls of cold water. Pour in 1 pint of boil- ing water, and stir for 10 minutes, or more, over the fire. Sweeten and season, if desired. A small lump of butter may be boiled with the gruel. Isinglass.—One ounce of isinglass, pour a pint of boiling water upon it ; when cold and stiff, add as much as you like to your tea, coffee, or broth. Meat Jelly.—Take 1 pound knuckle of veal, 1 pound of gravy beef, and a calf’s foot; cut the meat from the bones, and chop into pieces ; lay them in the bottom of a stewpan, and put the meat on the top ; add cold water to rather more than cover; simmer gently for 4 hours, and skim off the scum as it rises. Strain through a fine hair sieve, put aside to cool, and take off all fat. Strengthening Jelly.—Put 1 ounce each of sago, ground rice, pearl barley, eryngo-l-oot, and Nelson’s gelatine—previously soaked in cold water—into a saucepan, with 2 quarts of water ; boil gently till reduced one-half. Strain and set aside till wanted. A few spoonfuls of this jelly may be dissolved in broth, tea, or milk. It is nourishing and easily digested. Invalid Pudding.—Mix well together 2 tablespoonfuls of bread- crumbs, 1 egg, nearly 4 pint of milk, a little sugar, flavouring, if liked ; pour into a buttered cup or mould, and boil i hour. This is also a nice pudding for a child.COOKING FOB INVALIDS AND THE NURSERY. Ill Invalid Soup.—Boil 2 pounds of lean veal, or beef, with | pound of pearl barley, in a quart of water very slowly, until it becomes the consistency of good cream ; flavour with a little fresh celery, or celery seed, and salt. Strain when done through a fine hair sieve, and serve. Lemonade for Invalids.—Pare off the rind thinly, and cut 4 lemon into 2 or 3 thick pieces; remove as much as possible of the white outside the pith, and all the pips. Put the slices of lemon, the peel, and lump sugar into a jug; pour over a pint of boiling water ; cover closely for 2 hours. It should be either strained or poured off from the sediment. Mutton Broth.—To 2 pounds of scrag end of mutton, well chopped, add 2h pints of cold water, with onion and parsley, and salt to baste ; simmer for 2 hours, skim frequently. Oatmeal Gruel.—Mis 2 tablespoonfuls of best Scotch oatmeal with a little cold water. Put into l| pints of milk ; boil slowly with frequent stirring. Oatmeal Porridge.—Drop, slowly, 1 ounce of Scotch oatmeal into a pint of water while boiling, stirring all the while. Boil for J hour, stirring again occasionally. A Bice Drink.—To 2 quarts of boiling water add 1 pound of rice, a tablespoonful of barley, 1 of tapioca ; boil slowly 4 hour, drain through a sieve, press the liquid from the rice with a spoon, add a little cinnamon and sugar. To Thicken Beef Tea and other Soups for Invalids.—To 1 pint of beef tea or soup add 2 tablespoonfuls of ‘ Panier Brot ’ ; boil for 1 minute, season to taste, and serve immediately. Pood thus pre- pared is at once palatable and nutritious. Toast and Water.—Toast a thin piece of bread a nice brown, put it into a pint jug of cold water, and cover down for 1 hour. Turtle Soup.—Real turtle soup, says the author of ‘ Choice Dishes at Small Cost,’ is now sold in tins, but by far the greater proportion of these tins contain what is known as ‘ Invalid Turtle.’ This soup is a very delicate form of nourishment, and has been universally approved by medical men. In serving, immerse the tin in boiling water for about 20 minutes; then take out the tin, dry it, open it, and pour the soup into a soup-plate, season to taste; a teaspoonful of sherry or Madeira may be added, if allowed. Veal Broth.—Cut 2 pounds of lean veal into small pieces. Sprinkle a little salt upon these, and put them into a saucepan with a quart of cold water. Boil up, skim, then simmer gently for 3 hours. Strain, let it get cold, and remove the fat. Thicken with a little corn- flour before serving. Note.—For other recipes of other light foods suitable for invalids and the nursery, see ‘ Sweets and Savouries,’ and ‘ Puddings and Pies.’ In cooking for invalids, where broths, etc., are required to be kept at a uniform heat, Wright and Butler’s Oil Stoves will prove invaluable.PART XIII. DRINKS.LIQUID SUNSPE (THE FINEST RUM), Unequalled for the Cuisine, or as a Stimulant. Recommended and used by Mrs. A. B. MARSHALL at her School of Cookery. O. W. D. The Dublin Whisky Distillery Com- pany make the finest IRISH WHISKY, acknowledged to possess special medicinal qualities. WM. WILLIAMS k SONS, ABERDEEN The largest blenders of finest Highland Malt Whiskies. ‘ Perfection of Scotch Whisky.’—Vide the Press. pp- ORDER these from your Wine Merchant. Price 42s. per doz.; 3s. 6d. per bottle.PART XIII. DRINKS. Sir Henry Thompson appears to have gained considerable influence as an authority in matters of eating and drinking, and since the publication of his work on dietetics, it has become more or less a habit with humbler followers in the same path to quote the versatile physician’s opinions as decisions from which there is no appeal. Thus it is frequently asserted even by those who should know, that it is a question whether a well- cooked meal is not more thoroughly appreciated and enjoyed if water only is drunk with it. Now this statement is either true or nonsensical according to the point of view from which it is regarded. And in order to settle from what point of view it is being regarded in any par- ticular case, one would have to first decide respecting a number of important considerations. For example, of whom are we speaking ? A man of coarse palate and voracious appetite, or one of delicate, dis- criminating taste and average capacity in consumption. Does the meal in question consist of a single joint of roast pork or a sequence of artis- tically prepared dishes ? One rule will not apply to all the varying conditions existing between these two extremes ; and one may safely rely that all similarly comprehensive assertions are necessarily more wrong than right. The test of appreciation and enjoyment is obviously dependent on individual taste, which must eventually decide. It would be absurd to tell anyone that they would enjoy their dinner more if they drank only water with it, when experience had clearly pointed out to them that a glass of beer or some other beverage perceptibly in- creased the pleasure afforded by their food. At the same time a person who has had experience of ‘ drinks ’ can no doubt give valuable hints for general guidance ; he may call attention to merits that would otherwise be overlooked ; he may sound a useful note of warning or Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. Economy. During periods of depression it behoves every housekeoper to be on the watch, and we certainly think Wright and Butlor’s Patent Portablo Oil Stoves a great saving on coal, and as to efficiency they leavo nothing to bo desired. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Burning- ham.—See Adverlticnunt. 8—2116 ENGLISH AND FKKNCH COOKEBV. explain some seemingly contradictory phenomena. And this is what it is proposed to do in this chapter—to treat the subject broadly, and leaving readers to accept or reject the information given, according as they may find it useful or superfluous in their own particular cases. Water.—To begin with water, it should of course be filtered ; and be sure to buy a filter that is easily cleansed, otherwise it will soon contaminate rather than purify the water passing through it. If you do not possess a filter, draw all drinking water by allowing the tap to run as slowly as your patience will permit, and catch the water in a jug as far from the tap as possible. This proceeding, which a good old-fashioned housewife would no doubt describe as ‘finikin,’ produces none the less an important chemical change, so that a sample of water thus drawn and a sample drawn in the usual way would give widely differing results if analysed. In technical language the water has been aerated. To test the brilliancy of water fill a well-cleaned high tumbler (what is known as a soda-water glass), and placing it upon a sheet of white note paper, look down through the water. The efficacy of this test is best demonstrated when two different samples are being examined. It frequently happens that it is impossible to distinguish between them when examined in the usual way by looking through the glass, while the more crucial test discovers a marked difference. For drinking at meals, toast and water is a vast improvement on the simple element, from a hygiene point of view. Of tea and coffee, it would be impossible to say too much. What a world of delight ninety-nine persons in a hundred miss by not un- derstanding the beauties of these two beverages. It is astonishing how persons neglect the cheap pleasures within their reach to strain after those which are mostly desirable because they are costly. Who expects a ploughman to appreciate a fine wine? And how did the connoisseur acquire the faculty of appreciation by which he now derives such exquisite enjoyment? It is all a matter of education. Train your palate by paying an intelligent attention to the tea and coffee you drink, and in the end you will have greatly enlarged your sphere of domestic enjoyments. True you will soon introduce reform into the house ; no more rank watery infusions will be permitted to present themselves with impunity at your table, and if by chance you happen to desire a cup of tea or coffee when away from home, you will heap maledictions on the refreshment-house keepers who so outrageously libel both beverages, while professing to make fresh tea for each customer, and supply coffee as on the Continent. But in the long run the balance will be in your favour. Buy good tea, and do not attempt to make coffee ‘economically.’ Learn to drink tea without sugar and coffee without milk. Finally, drink neither as the main accompaniment of ‘ serious ’ meals. The following hints on coffee-making should be hung up in every kitchen : (1) Raw coffee (the unroasted berry) if kept in a dry place improves with age. (2) Those who wish to enjoy coffee in perfection should have it fresh roasted. (3) If the usual rotating cylinders are not available, it is easy to roast coffee over a clear fire in an earthen- ware pipkin, or a small frying-pan ; it must be kept constantly stirred to prevent burning ; the time required is from 15 to 20 minutes. (4) Roasted coffee should be kept in an air-tight vessel; the VienneseDRINKS. 117 prefer a glass bottle to a canister. Coffee is very absorbent, anil, according to good authorities, should at no time come into contact with metal. (5) A fhill, though convenient, is not essential. The Turks do not grind their coffee, but pound it in a mortar with wooden pestles. Brillat-Savarin, the great French epicure, who tried both pounded and ground coffee, preferred the former. (6) 1 ounce of coffee to a pint of water makes poor coffee ; H ounces to a pint makes fairly good coffee ; 2 ounces to a pint make excellent coffee. (7) It is a mistake to suppose that costly and cumbersome machines are necessary for making coffee. The Brazilians insist that coffee-pots should be made of porcelain or earthenware, not metal. Excellent coffee may be made in a common jug provided with a strainer. (8) Warm the jug, put in the coffee, pour boiling water on it, and the thing is done. (9) Coffee must-not be boiled; let it gently simmer; violent ebullition dissipates the aroma. Cocoa.—Cocoa has always been recommended for its light and nourishing properties, and as preferable, in all cases of weak digestion, to coffee and tea. But until a few years ago cocoa promised never to become a satisfactory substitute for tea or coffee. The cocoa of com- merce resembled thin gruel in substance, and ‘ did not go well ’ with meals. The fact is that thick cocoas are simply ‘ preparations ’ of cocoa. The thickening when made, arises from starchy flour and sugar they contain. Pure cocoa, properly manufactured and properly made, is as thin and nearly as clean on the palate as coffee. To prove this it is only necessary to compare a cup of unadulterated cocoa, such as Van Ilouten’s, with a cup of the so-called homoeopathic cocoas which pro- bably contain less than half their weight of cocoa. The Dutch cocoa just named is one of the very few cocoas worth drinking. Nominally its price is twice as much as ‘ prepared ’ cocoas, but it goes three times as far. It is, of course, far more nourishing and stimulating, and is easier to make. It requires no boiling, nor need it be made with milk. A small teaspoonful, upon which boiling water has simply to be poured, gives a refreshing and invigorating cup of cocoa, as rich in flavour as chocolate, but without its sweetness, and as thin in substance as coffee. It is somewhat curious that the finest cocoa made comes from Holland, where cocoa is comparatively little drunk, which ought to be noted, especially by invalids and the dyspeptic. They are so often advised to drink cocoa by their medical advisers, and it is important that they should have the ‘genuine article.’ Beer is beyond question an admirable drink, suited more or less to all occasions, except with fish or salads. To tell good beer, there is only one test—the stomach. No one ever got rheumatism or indi- gestion from genuine ‘ home-brewed.’ Yet every day we meet with persons who say they cannot take the brilliant and apparently perfect beers retailed everywhere. The home-brewed is a simple product, whereas too many of the beers of commerce are but showy imitations. It is not pretended they are adulterated, according to the Act of Parlia- ment ; but many will allow they will not stand the test of the stomach, owing to the materials from which they are produced, and the chemical compounds added to them for one purpose and another. We find people saying they cannot drink beer, when they would be more correct if they were to declare that they cannot drink the beers which they have hitherto tried. All things considered, the modest housekeeper118 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. will do best to obtain a supply in cask from some ‘ family brewer.’ 1 he cask itself should be firmly mounted on the stand, or whatever contrivance is arranged to support it; for should the beer be shaken after any appreciable quantity has been drawn off, the chances are that it will remain permanently cloudy. A wooden tap is best, always sup- posing it to be scrupulously cleansed each time before it is driven into a fresh cask. Whether one has bitter, mild, or black beer, is of course purely a matter of individual taste ; people will do well, however, not to permit themselves to be over influenced by the ‘ fine tonic bitter ’ theory. A pronounced bitter flavour is easily imparted, and beer may be wretched stuff in spite of its striking ‘ tonic.’ Bottled beer is much lighter and with some more digestible than that from a cask. Here again, however, recent improvements (?) and the exigencies of competi- tion have completely altered the former state of things. The old- fashioned bottled ‘ Bass’s 1 and ‘ Guinness’s, ’ so highly prized, and, in fact, the same beers as are still bottled for export, and by a few firms for home consumption, are to all intents and purposes a different article from the popular-priced bottled beers of to-day. The former were carefully selected for bottling, and bottled when the beer was in the particular condition suitable to the purpose. The gas was self-pro- duced, generated by the beer itself during a slight fermentation in the bottle. The result, a magnificent drink, a sort of malt champagne. Nowaday all bottled beer merchants cannot afford to wait this slow pro- cess. Some bottle the beer regardless of condition, and supply the carbonic acid gas artificially from a machine similar to what is used for the manufacture of soda water. At the same time it would be un- reasonable to expect India pale ale at 2s. 6d. or 3s. a dozen imperial pints. Some of the bottled light ‘ dinner ales ’ sold at this price, when carefully bottled, are excellent value. Brandy, alas ! how difficult it is to speak of now ! Do not be tempted by any fine old cognac at 3s. 6d., 4s., or even 4s. 6d. the bottle. If you wish a good imitation of brandy, ‘ British brandy ’ is at least a pure spirit, being simply plain rectified spirit flavoured. Fine cognac is very dear; even good French brandy is now a luxury of price, worth at least 5s. a bottle. Formerly there was only one spirit for illness ; as a tonic or stimulant, nothing could compare with genuine old brandy; but now all we say is, Take care. There is no alcoholic preparation which for exquisite flavour, and bouquet, and valuable medicinal pro- perties will ever approach choice cognac. Messrs. Pownceby and Co. have some of the 1834 vintage still in stock. Rum is a very much neglected spirit, probably because it has been so very difficult to obtain good and old—a most necessary qualification in all spirits. Next to brandy, it is one of the most wholesome, and when fine and matured its flavour and aroma are highly agreeable; and it has the advantage of being cheap. The common kinds of rum (Demerara, and other descriptions than Jamaica) are not unwholesome, but their bouquet, taste, and quality are very decidedly inferior and coarse. This is the article generally offered to the British public, and which has consequently obtained for rum hitherto its somewhat bad repute. The faculty are now alive to the importance and benefit to be derived from this spirit when really genuine, fine, and old. Many cases of chest weakness have been successfully treated by a liberal allowance of rum. It is valuable for flavouring, and in the cuisine. Mrs. A B.DEINKS. 119 Marshall, that benefactress to the world by her valuable lessons on cookery, confirms this opinion. It has hitherto been very difficult to obtain good old rum, but that no longer exists. The ‘Liquid Sunshine’ may be recommended as being indeed ‘ the finest rum ’ we have met with. It is obtainable anywhere at 3s. fid. a bottle. Whisky.—Cheap whisky, either Irish or Scotch, should be shunned. About 3s. 6d. is a fair price for a bottle of wholesome, fairly-matured spirit, and there is no better stimulant for those with gouty or rheu- matic tendencies. The Dublin Distillery Company (D.W.D.) are known for producing one of the finest makes of ‘ Irish, ’ and pride themselves that they can compete with old brandy for medicinal qualities. With regard to ‘ Scotch,’ the reigning favourite of to-day, Highland malt whisky, is prepared, as the world knows, in the far-away glens of the Highlands (purity of water being one of its essential requisites) from the very finest malt procurable. No other than the finest of malt is used ; and to assure its quality, says the Scotsman, the distillers buy only the best barley they can procure, malt it under their own personal supervision, and, as a rule, adopt measures of exceptional care in this important operation. It is at this stage that the peaty flavour so char- acteristic of a pure Highland whisky is obtained, the malt being kiln- dried by Highland peat. The distinguishing property of malted grain is the amount of volatile ethers contained in the whisky produced from it. These ethers are similar to the volatile matter in wine ; improve and develop with age ; possess a bouquet and aroma of their own ; and produce a peculiar dryness and fulness on the palate. No one who has been up the Caledonian Canal in one of the comfortable MacBrayne steamers will forget the brief stay at Fort William, and the wonderful glass of old liqueur, ‘ Dew of Ben Nevis,’ at the famous ‘ Long John ’ Distillery of Mr. D. P. MacDonald. To most ‘ southrons ’ it is a reve- lation of what a really fine Highland whisky becomes with perfect maturity. For those whose taste3 incline towards a blend, the ‘One Star,’ ‘Three Stars,’ and ‘Strathdon ’ blends of Messrs. Wm. Williams and Sons, of Aberdeen, the largest blenders of only Highland whiskies, commend themselves all over the world. Coarse whisky may be im- proved by those who happen to possess it by melting a little barley- sugar and adding the syrup to the spirit. Wines.—At the present time poet and shekky are by far the best value for money to be had, and not the least merit of these two wines is their remaining unspoilt in a decanter. The fashion in port is in favour of a light colour, and consequently the wine is now kept longer in the cask than formerly, and in addition generally allowed to remain for the greater period of its existence in Oporto, as the higher temperature there hastens the process of lightening the colour. It is more than probable this class of port is the most wholesome, and the fact probably also explains how port, once regarded as the arch enemy of all sufferers from gout or rheumatism, is now numbered among their valuable friends. Bottled port should, of course, be kept in an even and rather high temperature ; should, however, it be necessary to use it when it is chilled, the best plan is to add hot water to it, say nearly two wine- glassfuls to the bottle. Experienced port-drinkers have often been led to believe they were drinking another and superior wine by this inno- cent proceeding. Everyone is aware that port makes a capital winter drink with hot water and sugar, without going to the extent of pre-ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKEHT. 120 ( paring ‘ negus but when it is intended to use the wine for this pur- pose, it should be selected accordingly. All wines, though good enough in themselves, do not take kindly to water, and some ports kick at it frightfully. Messrs. Pownceby and Co., of Oxford Street, and the Strand, make a feature of fine old ports matured in the wood, among their stock being wines \Vhieh have attained the extreme age of 40 and 50 years in cask. Sherry.—One would recommend sherry, if only for its universality. It is good alone, with hot water, with cold water, or with aerated waters, and it is frequently welcome in the kitchen. People should not be afraid to buy cheap sherry ; there is plenty of good, sound wine to be had wonderfully cheap, owing to its not being in fashion. Tales concerning the iniquities of plastering and fortifying are distortions of simple processes attendant on the protracted and delicate rearing of this wine. Among the many excellent shippers may be named Messrs. Capdepon, of Xeres, which is one of the very oldest firms there. French Wines.— For regular use the red wines are preferable to the white, for the reason that they contain the tannin of the skins and stalks. White wines act more rapidly ; the red ones have a more durable action. Although it would perhaps be rash to declare that all the injurious statements reflecting on the purity of claret, for instance, are unfounded, it may be accepted as generally true that none of the concoctions of which so much is said are offered for sale in this country. The capital failing of these imitation wines is that they will not keep, consequently no merchant would be rash enough to import them. It is quite another thing where they can be manufactured, sold, and drunk within the month, as is the case on the spot. If anyone is curious enough to wish to taste imitation claret, they should be ‘ smart,’ and get their wine cheap by importing it direct. It is a standing joke with those who understand these matters, to hear some astute indi- vidual relate how he makes sure of getting pure wine by importing it direct from some obscure dealer abroad, when he could buy better of a neighbouring wine merchant, with the additional security of the latter’s commercial reputation. Clabet diluted with water forms an admir- able drink with food, and should not be despised as being thin. It is a first-rate tonic, and easily digested. Red Burgundies do not mix well with water, strangely enough, not so well as the white Burgundies. Among the cheaper white wines is Grave, a wine that would become much more popular if it were more generally known. As Champagne is so universal a favourite, and, though a costly nine, yet finds its way into most households, it would bean omission to pass it over unnoticed. It is essentially a manufactured wine, but none the less it must be ranked among the purest. Its beneficial medicinal properties are un- doubted. The only unfortunate fact is the difficulty of saying where the line should be drawn between the genuine royal wine and that which has no claim to the distinction. If anyone is desirous of pur- chasing champagne at Is. lOd. or 2s. the bottle, they should be strongly persuaded to invest their money in ginger-beer. An economical wine at 3s. would probably be a distinctly unprofitable purchase ; the money would be much better spent on some other wine. Among the cheaper brands, that is among those the prices of which are not altogether regal, there is none better than the first quality of Roper Frferes et Cie. They were awarded the prize medals at the Vienna and London121 DRINKS. Exhibitions, in 1873, for excellence of quality, combined with economy in price. German Wines.—Cheap hocks and moselle wines are not the class of wine one would recommend to the more modest class of house- keeper. They are not generally ‘ good value.’ And the superior wines of this description, such as Johannisberger, Steinberger, Asmann- shausen, are only sold at princely prices. Italian, Australian, Cape Wines, etc.—Good Italian wines are procurable at reasonable rates. There is no lack of wine in Italy, and those imported by Cirio and Co. are genuine and wholesome. Australian wines are no doubt very good ; but with labour in that colony at 10s. a day it is difficult to imagine how they can ever seriously compete with the produce of the older vineyards. Cape wines are being energetically introduced, and some of the cheaper varieties are likely to acquire popularity. No mention has yet been made of a very wholesome sound wine which is, compared to other wines, exceedingly cheap, viz. Marsala. For drinking with water it is indeed a capital wine. Aerated and Table Waters.—Good ‘waters’ are retailed at such reasonable prices that it is unprofitable, as well as unwise, to drink inferior qualities. It would require many pages to explain how it is that so seemingly simple drinks as- soda water, lemonade, ginger beer, etc., vary so widely in quality ; but it may be accepted as a fact that, for example, the difference between a good bottle of soda water and an inferior one is as great as the proverbial distinction between chalk and cheese. In the purity of the water, the scrupulous cleanli- ness of the bottles, the quality of the corks and of the materials em- ployed in the manufacturing process, and in the skill displayed in generating and incorporating the carbonic gas, there is ample room for the exercise of care, or the reverse, and of a proper liberality or a per- nicious economy. Good aerated waters enable many persons to enjoy and profit by ‘ spirits ’ who could not otherwise drink them. They also considerably increase the digestibility of wines. Soda water and milk is a well-known drink. To make it in perfection the milk should be nearly boiling. Ginger beer is good only when put up in stoneware bottles. The following are a few approved recipes : Claret Cup.—Pour a bottle of claret into a large jug, and add 2 glasses of sherry, brandy, or any wine, spirit, or liquor that may be pre- ferred, and I glass of marischino. Put in the thin rind of a lemon and 2 tablespoonfuls of powdered sugar. Let it stand for \ hour till the sugar is dissolved, then put in a sprig of borage, balm, or verbena, or a little sliced cucumber. Just before using, add a bottle of soda or seltzer water and a large piece of ice. Sliced nectarines, peaches, or raspberries may be used instead of lemon-rind. Where a hurried cup is desired, a few drops of Langdale’s essence of claret cup will supply the principal flavouring ingredients. • This article deserves a place in every cup-loving household. _ Mulled Claret.—Put 1 drachm of cinnamon, 1 drachm of ground ginger, and 1 drachm of cloves into a saucepan, with a teacupful of cold water, 3 ounces of loaf sugar, and the thin rind of h orange. Boil allENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 122 to a syrup, removing the scum as it rises ; then add 1 bottle of claret. Take the wine from the fire just before it boils, and serve at once. Curacao.—Take J pound of orange peel, and immerse it in water, to facilitate the separation of the outer yellow rind from the white. Cut the yellow rind into small pieces, which add to the brandy (11 pints) in the bottle. Cork tight, and keep a fortnight near a warm stove, or 3 weeks in the cellar, shaking the contents at least once every day. Then add i pound of light-brown sugar-candy, crushed small, cork tight again, and leave the sugar to dissolve in the brandy, giving the bottle a good shake or two every day. When the sugar is dis- solved, filter through filtering paper, and fill in bottles. Cider Cup.—Put a slice of crumb of bread toasted at the bottom of a large jug ; grate \ small nutmeg over it, and place on it 2 or 3 slices of thin lemon-rind and 6 lumps of sugar. Pour over it 2 wineglassfuls of sherry, 1 of brandy, the juice of a lemon, a bottle of soda-water, and, last of all, a quart of cider. Mix well, put a sprig of borage or balm into it, and add a few lumps of pure rice. Use as soon as made. Lamb’s Wool.—This famous old north-country cure for colds and influenza is also a most refreshing, strengthening, and invigorating beverage when well prepared. A good recipe is as follows : Mix in a saucepan 1 tablespoonful of oatmeal with a pint of fresh milk. Let stand for 10 minutes, place on the fire, and allow to simmer gently, stirring all the while. Add a wineglass of ‘ Liquid Sunshine Rum,’ boil for a few seconds, and drink while hot. Gingered Egg Elip for Four.—Take 1 quart of good mild ale, \ ounce of powdered ginger, h pound of sugar-candy powdered fine, and 4 fresh eggs; break the eggs into a jug, and beat up with the ginger and sugar ; add gradually £ pint of the cold beer, with incessant stirring. Heat the remaining If pints in a warmer, and just when you see the beer rise, pour it quickly into the jug, keeping the whisk going all the time. This is a charming liquor. A drop or two of Langdale’s cinnamon or vanilla essence added greatly enhance the flavour. Milk Punch.—Three fine fresh lemons, h pound of lump sugar, ^ ounce of gunpowder tea, 1 pint of ‘ Liquid Sunshine Rum,’ h pint of pale brandy, 1 wineglassful each of kirschwasser and maraschino, a dash of cura§ao, 1 quart of water, and a good pint of new milk. Pare the lemons very fine, and steep the peel overnight in the rum. Infuse the tea in a cupful of boiling water, let it draw 5 minutes ; then pour over the sugar in a bowl, add J pint of juice of the lemons, and 1 quart of cold water. Stir, and pour in the spirits. Boil the milk, and add it boiling to the contents of the bowl, with constant stirring. Let the punch stand till quite cold ; then pass it through a straining cloth, and fill it in bottles. Moselle Cup.—Put a large slice of pineapple at the bottom of the jug, with a tablespoonful of powdered sugar ; pour over it a bottle of sound Medoc, insert a lump of ice as big as a baby’s head, and just when you want to serve it, add a pint bottle of good sparkling moselle. Iced. Orange Toddy.—Dissolve 1 ounce of powdered sugar in 2 fluid ounces of orange juice ; add 4 ounces of ice in small pieces ; put in a piece of yellow lemon peel, with 2 drops of Langdale’s essence of orange, and pour over the mixture 2 or 3 fluid ounces of old Scotch or Irish whisky. Drink before the ice is quite melted. Morelia Cherry Brandy can be easily made at home by addingDRINKS. 123 Langdale’s essence of cherries, to taste, to a pale brandy. Cherry gin can be similarly prepared. Whisky Cordial.—This cordial should be made when white currants are in season. Take the thin rind of a large fresh lemon en- tirely free from the white bitter part. Put it into a jar with J pint of ripe white currants stripped from the stalks, and a piece of whole ginger, the size of a bean. Pour over the ingredients a quart of whisky, and let them infuse for 24 hours. Strain the liquor, sweeten with i pound of loaf sugar, let it stand 12 hours, and bottle for use.PART XIV. KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES.GOLD MEDAL, INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, 1882. A GRATE instantaneously and brilliantly polished, with but little labour, for less than half a farthing by using the NICKEL SILVER Celebrated BLACELEAD. H Brilliant Set Blacli polish. The large and increasing demand for this article is the best proof of the opinion of the public as to its merits. The finest possible Polish is produced with the smallest possible quantity—this in itself is the test of its purity. No waste, no dust, no dirt, and may be handled without soiling the fingers. ‘ROYAL PALACE BLUE? Used in Her Majesty’s Laundry. The finest, purest, and best Blue yet made. John Johnson & Co. have the greatest confidence in recommending the ROYAL PALACE BLUE, not only for its magnificent colour, but for its permanency, which, owing to a secret chemical property their mode alone possesses, Linens, Laces, and other Fabrics rinsed in a solution of the Royal Palace Blue will retain intense whiteness for at least six months longer than those that have been rinsed with any other square Blues, or, indeed, with any other Laundry Blue whatever. TESTIMONIAL FROM HER MAJESTY’S LAUNDRESS. To Messrs. John Johnson & Co. Gentlemen,—You may Indeed state it as a fact that since I first began to use your Royal Palace Square Blue, now about eleven years ago, I have not used any other for the finest linens and the most delicate fabrics in Laces, and for the best of all reasons, and that is because articles put away in drawers during her Majesty’s absence are taken out again when required as white and as bright as when put away, which no other Blue I ever tried would produce. —Yours truly, MARGARET BROWN. Royal Laundry, Sept. 20th, 1SS6. ‘^oVePeign’ l^nif e polish Purchasers of Knife Polish arc advised to be particular in asking for the ‘SOVEREIGN’ BRAND, that being tko finest Powder yet made. Many inferior qualities are now being offered to the public, which not only do not accomplish the work required, but actually injure the Cutlery they are supposed to clean. JOHN JOHNSON & CO., Sole Manufacturers, Liverpool and London. GOLD MEDAL, INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, LONDON, 1884.PAET XIV. KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. Bbief mention only, if any, is necessary of the many kitchen and domestic appliances which usually figure in books of this nature. Most housekeepers’ know their use, and would spend the ' nimble ninepence ’ in procuring them, did they see their way. Where, however, improve- ments on the ordinary design or regular article in use are introduced, the innovation becomes of great interest, and may deserve short notice. With few exceptions, however, a visit to a good ironmonger’s, such as Benetfink’s, will introduce the housekeeper to the recent novelties among the humbler requisites. Baking Dishes are now made double, with a moveable grating and gravy-well, one corner being enclosed with a perforated cover so as to readily strain the dripping and gravy. There are several patterns, all excellent in their way, and very little more expensive than the old- fashioned single dish used to be. Baking Tins.—In these we have to note a marked improvement. Hitherto great difficulty has been found in propei’ly baking the inside of a loaf or cake without over-cooking the outside. In the new heat- conducting tins a hollow pyramidal-shaped spike rises from the tin’s centre. This arrangement insures the usually heavy part of the cake being thoroughly baked, saves largely in time and firing, while, the hole left in the middle of the cake prevents crumbling and waste in cutting up. Where appearance is studied, the hollow space can be fitted with thickened cream, cream ice, etc. Bread Graters.—Like much else, the old-fashioned grate is giving place to scientific rivals. Phillotts’ Rotary is an appliance of some utility, especially where cooking on a large scale has to be performed. A weighted metal disc, resting on a corrugated and perforated bottom, and revolving on a central spindle, is raised sufficiently high on a tripod stand, as to permit of any deep dish being placed underneath. When the bread, lump sugar, or ‘ Parmesan ’ is inserted, a few turns of the handle spread the crumbs, etc., evenly over the article below. The process is extremely rapid. This grater is made in several sizes, and comes comparatively inexpensive. Petroleum Oil Stoves are the cheapest, safest, and most efficient way of cooking known. To get a coal range in cooking form a full hour is required and much care. To get the same results from Wright and Butlor’s Oil Cookers five minutes only is necessary. Illustrated Catalogue free from Wright and Butler, Limited, Birmingham.—Sec Advertisement.128 ENGLISH ANIJ FRENCH COOKERY. Carving Adjuncts.—The inconvenience and discomfort expe- rienced by everyone who carves on an ordinary dish has brought into the field several notable inventions. First among these is the ‘ Com- mon-Sense ’ carving-dish, having a raised centre fitted with spikes, and surrounded by a bead which, while preventing slipping and splashing, affords the carver easy access to all parts of the joint, thus enabling brawn or rolled ribs of beef to be sliced fine and evenly to the very last. The ‘ Carver’s Friend,’ which has attained a large sale, accomplishes the same purpose. It is a spiked, plated attachment placed over the dish, and which, working by an Archimedean screw, can be made to fit any sized dish. Hill’s spoon-rest, made by Messrs. J. Finder and Co., of Sheffield, clips on to the sides, and by using two pair at once, both carver and fork and gravy-spoon can be accommodated. By an inge- nious arrangement any drippings fall into the dish. Chamois Heathers.—In this instance an imitation is superior to th^ genuine leather. Hothersall’s cloths, while rivalling real chamois in its polishing powers, claims the double advantage of comparative cheapness, and of remaining soft after immersion in water. Cooking Utensils.—Since Mrs. Ellet wrote on the subject of culinary and kitchen requirements, science has marched grandly along, and there is now little need to warn the housekeeper against using lead, brass, or copper utensils, or to advocate cleanliness on the part of the housekeeper and her assistants ; but there are two of her remarks worth reproducing : ‘ Some articles of food, such as quinces, orange- peel, artichokes, etc., are blackened by remaining in iron vessels, which must not therefore be used for them,’ and ‘ the best kind of pottery-ware is Oriental china, because the glazing is a perfect glass which cannot be dissolved, and the whole substance is so compact that liquid cannot penetrate it. Many of our own pottery-wares are badly glazed, and as the glazing is made of lead, it is necessary to avoid putting acids into them. Acids and greasy substances penetrate into unglazed wares— excepting the strong stoneware—or into those of which the glazing is cracked, and hence give a bad flavour to anything they are used for afterwards. They are quite unfit, therefore, for keeping pickles or salted meats. Glass vessels are infinitely preferable to any pottery- ware but Oriental china, and should be used whenever the occasion admits of it.’ Enamelled iron saucepans and saute-pans are rapid]}- usurping the place once occupied by tinned-copper and tinned-iron wares, their most dangerous rivals being the tin-coated ‘ Sanitary Seamless Steel ’ pots and pans, which won such golden eulogiums at the Health Exhibition. Combined with cheapness, these utensils possess all the advantages with few of the drawbacks found in copper or ena- melled goods, the latter of which have an unpleasant habit of cracking when over-heated, or if left on the stove empty. ‘ Seamless Steel ’ is of about the same thickness and weight as copper, is almost equally durable, and is free against all danger from copper contamination, verdigris, arsenic, or brazing. Blocked-tin saucepans are, of course good, but they are not durable, although easily mended. For small omelet and saut^-pans and milk saucepans there is nothing superior to fire-proof porcelain. Another great improvement has been patented by Messrs. T. and C. Clark and Co., of Wolverhampton, who now fit their hollow-ware with fluted instead of plain handles. The corruga- tions at once secure a firmer grip and comparative coolness. The129 KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. ‘Duplex’ lid introduced by the ‘ Cannon ’ Hollow-ware Co., Limited, marks another advance. In the surface of the main lid, which can now be made to fit tight, a small hinged lid is inserted. On opening this the contents of the utensil can be stirred or tasted, and either ingre- dients, water or condiments added without removing the lid. Kettles can be similarly filled. To prevent boiling over, the 1 Duplex ’ lid can be left partially open, while the cook attends to her other duties. Smoked food is simply disgraceful where these lids are used. Among improved tea-kettles, by far the best thing we have seen is the appro- priately-named * Boon,’ manufactured by Mr. T. S. Blood, of Great Hampton Street, Birmingham, which promises to become a welcome friend in thousands of households. The construction is ingenious ; the hinged-lid and spout being on the top at either end, while the solid handle is made by a half-twist to extend lengthwise between the two. Owing to these innovations the housewife can never scald her hand in refilling or pouring out, nor can the handle get over-heated. As another advantage, the spout can neither fur up nor melt off. The kettle, the writer purchased,'is made in block tin, and is a thoroughly strong, well-finished article. The notion of a half-twisted handle appears applicable to a good many articles besides the kitchen kettle. Double-casing, as in the 1 Hygienic ’ Saucepan, invented by Mr. W. Payne, where the jacket is filled with water from the spout, after the manner adopted in Ash’s Kaffee-Kane, is also coming into fashion, espe- cially for soups, porridge, custards, milk, gruel, sauces, etc., as once mixed the food requires next to no attention, cannot burn, and is cooked thoroughly and evenly throughout. In Dolby’s Beef-Tea and Gravy Extractor—a sick-room appliance—hot air is substituted for boiling water, the inner receptacle being made of porcelain, and the external of metal. It is alleged that by the use of this apparatus every particle of nourishment is extracted from the meat, the result being a true, rich and nourishing gravy. Among ‘Steam Cookers’ the ‘International,’ another of Mr. Payne’s inventions—in which the fish, meat, or vegetable is exposed to high steam-pressure, without touching the water—must be allowed a high scientific place, and food cooked this way is doubtless delicious and retentive of all the natural flavour and juices. Hall’s Patent Steamer, having a cone-shaped bottom, is adaptable to sauce- pans of various sizes, a great advantage, and for vegetables answers its purpose exceptionally well. Warren’s pots, the distinctive features of which are that the vegetables, etc., in the upper vessel are steamed, while the joint in the lower and principal vessel is, so to say, stewed by hot air in its own juice, are now too widely known to need praise. For travellers they are, of course, simply inimitable ; but in Hancock’s Patent Combined Cooker and Steamer the climax of invention in this direction has probably been reached. With this apparatus several dishes can be excellently prepared at the same time, while very little attention is needed. Where, however, as in ordinary Fish Kettles, water-boiling has to be relied upon for cooking, let us say a small salmon, or cod’s head and shoulder, nothing as yet surpasses Marston’s ‘fluted strainer,’ which permits the water to circulate freely under the fish. A visit to any first-class ironmongery store will bring to light no end of other useful innovations bearing upon the problem of economic and scientific cookery. Disinfectants.—To prevent the odours of cooking processes from 9ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 130 finding their way out of the kitchen into the fitting-rooms, and without substituting for one unpleasant smell another hardly preferable, the easiest and simplest way is to use a few drops of ‘ Jeyes’ Perfect Purifier,’ We know nothing that is so rapidly and thoroughly effective. A dirty sink is cleansed and sweetened as if by a miracle. It is in many other ways a very desirable kitchen requisite, for a few drops added to the water, with which it at once mixes, and used for scrubbing the kitchen floor, will be a warning to quit to beetles and cock- roaches on which they will lose no time in acting. It is fatal to all kinds of vermin that come in contact with it, and renders harmless decaying refuse of all kinds—is in fact one of the very best disinfectants we know, and has more household uses than there is either space or time to enumerate. Egg-Beater.—By far the best is the one in use at the establish- ments of the * Express ’ and other 1 dairies ’ where egg and milk forms a feature. This contrivance consists of a hollow tube closed at one end, into which the egg is broken and some milk poured. A finely-perfor- ated crusher, which fits the vessel tight, is then passed a few times np and down, when assimilation is complete. The process is practically instantaneous. Egg-Whisk.—For whites of eggs the ‘ Dover ’ egg-beater is about the best, but whatever whisk is used be sure the vessel in which the eggs are broken is quite cold, and no trace of yolk is present, for other- wise the whites will never froth properly. A cold place is best to whisk them in. Food. Preservation.—Noteworthy among improvements aiming in this direction are Johnson’s Patent Food Preservers, which absolutely preserve milk and other perishable articles cool and fresh for several days, and free from all outside contamination. These preservers are made in several sizes and suitable forms, and consist of two vessels, an inner and an outer, with an intervening space -which should be partly filled with water. Into this the lid-rim dips, thus forming a water seal to exclude the air. For ill-ventilated and sick-rooms this preserver is just what is wanted, as used with hot instead of cold water, infants food, etc., can be kept warm for a considerable time. Fruit-stoning.—Stoneless cherry and plum-pie can now be readily had by using a small and uncostly apparatus known as the ‘ Perfect ’ Fruit-stoner, which is made in several convenient sizes. The fruit having been placed in position, stalk upwards, a single pressure of the thumb stones it instantly, without seriously disfiguring its appearance. The appliance is effective in dealing with all stone-fruit. Heat Conductors.—These can now be obtained at any ironmonger for 2s. 6d. a pair, and in cooking before a fire will save Jth in time, Jth in firing, and perhaps 1 pound of meat in every 12 cooked. Kitchen Ranges.—There is no item in the household equal in importance to the kitchen range. A good one means comfort and economy ; a bad one discomfort, waste, and the endless troubles and difficulties which bad cooking and unreliability as regards time cannot fail to produce. When we bear in mind the cost of the extra quantity of coals an imperfect range will burn in the course of 12 months, the folly of tolerating such an appliance is recognised at once, without strengthening the case by referring to any of the other points already- mentioned. Never come to terms with a bad range on any ground.KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 131 Before proceeding to consider in detail the features of a good range, a word in passing on the important matter of setting, and if you and your stove fall out, do not condemn it off-hand, but first make certain it is properly set. It frequently happens, too, in new houses, that the flues have been left partly blocked with cement or other rubbish. All these points should be carefully seen to before condemnation. It is taken for granted that the old-fashioned open range is a thing of the past. Shooting a whole scuttleful of coal into its capacious maw, balancing saucepans on the ‘ knobbley bits,’ and imparting a fine smoky flavour all round, would not be suffered nowadays ; the wonder is they were ever meekly borne. And it is therefore superfluous to dilate on the superi- ority of the close range, as is generally done in all seriousness by books on cookery. There was, perhaps, on the first introduction of the close range, a well-grounded belief that joints baked in the oven were inferior to those roasted before the fire, but the defect was soon dis- covered and made good. Of course the boiler should be self-filling, if possible. The danger attending any neglect to keep a boiler properly full is well-known, and, moreover, it is seldom the water remains clean when an opening into the boiler exists on the top of the range. The duties a range has to perform are briefly, to bake, to heat saucepans, fryingpans, etc., and to furnish a constant supply of hot water. To bake efficiently, i.e., to roast a joint in the oven, or to bake bread, a pie or a pudding, the flues from the fire require to be so regulated that the flames may be directed over or under the oven at will. Meat requires heat to be underneath and around the joint, bread and pastry must be heated from above. Then, again, the oven should be capable of com- plete ventilation. It was from the want of proper ventilation that, formerly, joints baked in the oven had the peculiar flavour so rightly objected to. Bread and pastry do not need the same attention. A good range will, in addition, permit the cook to regulate the degree of heat almost to a nicety. When not circulating round the oven, the flames are directed along the boiler, and thus, as it were, are always kept profitably employed. A consideration which qualifies all is the con- sumption of fuel. Of late years improvements have been introduced which have brought down the amount of coal required to a mere fraction of that burnt in the good old times. The open fire, with a large area in front and underneath constantly receiving a fresh accession of cold air, spent a considerable portion of its heating energy in raising the temperature of this chill draught, and despatched the greater part of what remained straight up the chimney. Now the front is jealously guarded by a swing door, and the approach to the under surface reduced to the narrowest limits ; and in some ranges the air is only admitted through apertures in the swing doors, which are the orifices of air passages, and through these the cold air winds, and is heated before it reaches the fire, thus supplying the oxygen necessary for combustion without entailing any loss of temperature. Where the range supplies hot water to a bath, it is well to see the hot-water cistern is in a sheltered corner, best of all in a warm cupboard, as the chilling of the water in the cistern is to an equivalent extent a demand on the heating power of the stove, and moreover, if the cistern is properly protected the water it holds will remain hot for a surprisingly long time, furnish- ing an ample supply for baths or other purposes before the fire of the range is relit on the following morning. 9-2132 ENGLISH ANI) FRENCH COOKERY. Gas-stoves.—By many housekeepers gas is preferred to coal for cooking purposes, and so far as cleanliness and control as well as time and labour saving are concerned, no comparison exists between the two methods. But where gas is used the selection of a suitable stove becomes a matter of paramount importance. There are good and indifferent gas-stoves, and the latter must be avoided. Even the smallest trace of vapour in the interior of an oven will spoil a joint or poultry, defeating the best efforts of the cleverest cook. Objections raised when gas was originally introduced into the kitchen, still hold good with regard to ranges of obsolete fashion. Nowadays, however, the higher class manufacturers produce stoves which meet every con- ceivable culinary need, combining the several indispensable essentials, namely, efficient ventilation, regular heat distribution, an economized gas consumption and great strength to resist wear and tear. Possibly the acme of scientific construction and durability has been attained in the ‘Eureka ’ Gas Cooker, manufactured by Messrs John Wright and Co., of Birmingham, whose workshops exceed in magnitude any in the world. So popvdar have these cookers become, that the firm now turn out several hundred weekly of different sizes and qualities, adapted to satisfy every want. Those we specially recommend are enamelled, and are practically indestructible, but a very durable and well-made stove is made from galvanised plates. This class comes somewhat less in price, and meets a widespread demand. The enamelled ‘Eureka’is, however, the preferable stove in every sense, being more easily cleaned than any other kind, and from its non-liability to corrosion cheaper in the long run. The oven is double-cased and jacketted on the sides, back and door with a new and efficient non-conducting material which, by preventing loss of heat through radiation, effects a saving to the extent of 50 per cent, in the gas consumed. The top of the oven is formed of fire-brick, over which the waste heat passes, thus adding greatly to its efficiency. The grilling burner is of novel construction, and is claimed to surpass any burner yet introduced for the purpose. Both sides of a piece of bread can be toasted in a minute and a half or less. Every cooker is now fitted, without extra charge, with Wright’s Patent Gate Eittings. By this arrangement the interior fittings can be lifted bodily out, enabling the oven to be kept perfectly clean and sweet, and free from all greasy accumulations. Large joints can also be cooked by similarly removing the shelf supports. Such advantages are not to be found in any other make of stove we have come across. An automatic gas-tap, rendering waste of gas impossible, can be attached to the boiling burners at a slight extra cost, and will soon save its expense and more. The enamelling of these stoves is their principal characteristic. The invention of a truly scientific mind this enamel will neither chip, crack, nor scale, while, at the same time, it produces in the stove an appearance of brightness and elegance, rendering it besides extremely cleanly and almost indestructible. Prejudice against gas is, to say the least, ill-considered. Apart from its many special recommendations, such as absolute cleanliness, convenience, uniformity and control of heat, together with its constant readiness in sickness and for nursery purposes, there is no gainsaying the fact that food cooked in a well-constructed gas stove neither taste differently from food cooked before a coal fire, nor is its quality in anyway deteriorated. For general purposes, therefore, it is equal to coal, while for operationsKITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 1S3 entailing delicate manipulation and nice adjustment of heat, such as the preparation of jellies, preserves or compotes nothing can be more suitable or advantageous. Oil Stoves.—To pass to another method of cooking, to an interest- ing competitor which is rapidly growing in popularity, it is certainly astonishing to what perfection oil cooking stoves have been carried, and to what extent they have overcome an, at first sight, apparently justi- fiable prejudice. Cook a joint by means of an oil lamp ? Why, a few years ago the idea would have been regarded as a rather pointless joke. It would have been deemed bnpossible to so completely subdue the all- pervading and penetrating smell of oil as to cook even anything less susceptible to such influence than meat. And yet the heating lamps have been perfected to a degree which permits the toasting of a slice of bread by holding it directly over the flame, without imparting the slightest tell-tale flavour. Of course, this remark only applies to very first-rate stove lamps, and is not intended to convey the idea that the proceeding described is the proper way to toast bread by the aid of an oil stove. It is merely an illustration of what may be done. The best stoves of this description are those manufactured by Wright and Butler, of Birmingham, to whose particular designs the following remarks more especially apply. An oil stove of sufficient size will satisfactorily com- pete, in time and quality of cooking, with an ordinary kitchen range and at less cost. With regard to the first consideration, it is only possible to support the assertion by stating that the heat, either for baking or surface heating, given out by one of Wright and Butler’s lamps is sufficient to perform either process as rapidly as it may be done to advantage, and this merit exists side by side with another which is wanting in the case of the ordinary kitchen range, viz. : the power to reduce and regulate the degree of heat at will. On the second point —the quality of the cooking—it is possible to speak with confidence. The ovens are perfectly ventilated, and rpasting meat or baking pastry are respectively conducted under the best conditions. In the matter of economy these stoves have obvious advantages : the exceedingly low price of oil, the trifling quantity consumed, and finally, the all-important fact that the consumption of ‘ fuel ’ does not extend except by a few minutes, beyond the actual time occupied in cooking. The convenience of being enabled to cook literally anywhere, from the dining-room to the scullery, are additional attractions which only require to be men- tioned. And finally, in case anyone may be possessed by an unreason- ing dread of complicated parts and possible dangers, it should be pointed out that these stoves are simplicity itself, and are readily manipulated and managed by any ordinary domestic servant. Wicks should be trimmed regularly, and when a new wick is necessary there is no difficulty in fitting, the burner being removable for this purpose. By means of a patent filler and indicator, the supply of oil can be replenished without any risk of spilling or overflowing. These stoves are absolutely safe. With the object of preventing all possibility of the oil becoming heated, and consequently dangerous, a plan has been devised of increasing the distance between the points at which the oil burns and the oil vessel itself. The result of this is that a current of air is constantly passing between these points, and the oil in the vessel is maintained at its normal temperature. There are three points on which Wright and Butler’s stoves maybe strongly recommended : their134 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. absolute safety and their simplicity in working. The third point, though apparently not so serious a one, will, with many persons, carry more weight than all the others. It is, entire freedom from smell, which quality is largely due to the particular kind of stove adopted by this firm. It need hardly be said that all these stoves are manufactured by skilled workmen, and all burners constructed on the most scientific principles, by which the greatest possible heat is obtained at the smallest possible cost, and the heat obtained utilised to the best possible advantage. Knife-Cleaners.—In all households where a machine is not, knife-cleaning is looked upon as unpleasant and painful ; and, in good truth, what can be more irritating and tedious in a small way than rubbing a blade backwards and forwards along a board, especially when, as too often happens, that blade resolutely refuses to become bright ? The larger machines, although efficient enough, exceed the purse of many ; the simpler ones only too frequently sacrifice cleanliness and effectiveness to price. There is, however, an intermediate ‘cleaner,’ called the ‘Sun,’ which, while costing one-third the price of the wooden- box machines, does its work just as quickly and satisfactorily as the most expensive. It is rotary in its action, and consists of two leather discs, pressed together by means of elastic steel springs, between which, while in revolution, the blade is passed in and out. The celerity of the process is scarcely conceivable until witnessed. The absence of parts to get out of order or wear out, adds to the suitability of this machine for domestic use. It is made in three sizes—11 inches, 12 inches, and 14 inches—the two first of which are the most serviceable sizes for small families, and can be purchased for 20s. and 25s. respectively. Mashing, Mincing and Chopping Machines. — Of these there are several new entrants for public esteem, some appealing more directly to the moderate-sized household and the moderately-filled purse, others to the chef and the caterer. The new ‘ Rapid Masher,’ to be had for 2s. 6d., or less, is likely to become a prime favourite, being a strong and durable, yet simple and cleanly, little servant, which will mash either carrots, potatoes or turnips extremely fine, and can be further used for straining fruit and vegetables, preparing beef-tea and making ormamental designs in pastry, butter, etc. For its size and price it is by far the best thing of the kind out Among mincing machines, perhaps the palm goes to the American firms, but all the known makes are good, useful, economic and cheap. From 7s. 6d. to 12s 6d. will buy a fair sized mincer. Chopping machines, the best kind, cost about 21s., but others very good can be had at a less price. Moulds.—The newest and most fashionable shapes include the horseshoe, beehive, princess, crime de volaille, Belgrave and that charm- ing arrangement christened 1 CEufs de pluviers en belle vue,’ the effect of which, following Messrs. Temple and Crook’s directions, is simply magical. Pie Dishes.— The ‘ Lippen,’ i.e. trustworthy, made in semi- porcelain with a deeply-grooved rim to obviate boiling over and bottom studs to prevent the contents burning, approaches to common-sense requirements as nearly as any pie-dish we have yet seen. Scales and Weights.—In treating of domestic requisites it may be said, and said justly, that no kitchen, however admirably appointedKITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 135 in other respects, is complete without its set of Avery’s scales and weights, as shown in the illustration below. Not an hour passes but the housewife feels their want acutely, Quantities, on the exactness of which depend the successful turning out, perhaps the edibility itself, of the dish, have to be guessed at; the joint from the butcher comes in without a ticket, its weight is unknown, and through absence of this knowledge it gets cooked to rags, or else arrives at table, the second cut displaying thenever-to-be-forgotlen appetite-destroying blue tint. If anything, underdone poultry is even more irritating, and we will defy the most expert of guesswork cooks to avoid constant mishaps unless a good set of scales forms part of her kitchen furniture. There is positively no excuse for their not being bought. Those made by Avery only cost at ironmongers from 14s. to 17s. to weigh 7 lb., and from 21s. to 25s. 6d. to weigh 28 lb. ; a 14 lb. set can be had at from 17s. up to 20s. for the very best. A very few weeks service will repay the outlay. Steak Tenderer.—Performs with one movement of a lever what several minutes beating with a heavy knife will scarcely compass. The price —20s.—is, however, against this innovation. Stove Polishing.—One of the saddest eyesores in any home, and one over which the quick-eyed British matron grieves not a trifle, is a rusty-brown, dull-looking firegrate. For this the housemaid or wife gets blamed, but the fault is not always hers. To ensure brilliancy where blacklead is relied upon—and what, let us ask, looks nicer than a brightly-polished fireplace or stove in which one’s resemblance can almost be seen?—an article of undoubted merit must be used. Such is not always to be had, especially at the smaller oilshops and grocers. Com- petition and the eagerness to keep pace with the ‘ stores ’ in price, has brought into the market innumerable inferior black leads, the use of which leads to grumbling and discontent. Perhaps altogether there are half a dozen satisfactory articles. The housekeeper may therefore be glad to know of one that will never fail. We allude to the 1 Nickel Silver ’ make, which amply justifies its name. Washing.—Where starch is used by the housekeeper in preference to any of the modern, and sometimes not very reliable, substitutes, it is essential to procure a sound article, much rubbish being now sold by grocers and oilmen. There are several valuable starches, Kingsford’s Oswego, for example, which has been used at home for years, gives unfailing satisfaction. It is extremely economical—2 ounces dissolved in 1 quart of water will starch a dozen shirts, or two or three dozen smaller articles well—and is free from all injurious adulterations. It can be applied in either of the two following ways: (1) Dissolve thoroughly in a little cold water, and add boiling water to the desired consistency ; (2) dissolve in luke-warm water, and add cold water. In Avery’s Household Coffee-Mill can he obtained at any Co-operative Store, or from any Ironmonger, or of tho manufacturers in London and Hirmingharu. Price packed in cardboard box, 8s. each.ENGLISH AND FBENOH COOKERY. 18G either case it must he used thin, and well rubbed into the fabric. Equal in importance in laundry-work to a good starch is an efficient blue, without which that whiteness and brilliant appearance so discern- able in really well-washed lace and linen can neither be obtained nor preserved. There are at most two or three A 1 blues in the market competing with many execrably bad ones. These latter represent exactly so much irritation and vexation of spirit as most young house- wives have learnt to their cost. All this petty annoyance and grumbling might be saved, however, if laundresses would invariably use one good blue and refuse others. Seemingly the most satisfactory article all round is Johnson’s ‘Royal Palace,’ used in the Queen’s laundry at Balmoral. Those who have tested this make for a long while declare that linen which has been put away in a fit condition will retain its whiteness for many months, and our own experience entirely confirms this view. DOMESTIC REQUISITES. Coffee Mill.—This article is indispensable in household manage- ment—to some housewives is, perhaps, the most indispensable. Nearly everyone values acup of refreshing well-made ‘ Mocha,’ either at breakfast or after dinner, but no one who does not possess a mill can obtain this cheap luxury unless it be away from home. Ideal coffee is the coffee which gourmets relish, and can only be had from the freshly-ground berry ; nor must the pro- duce of one’s labours be allowed to part with aroma and flavour by long exposure to the atmosphere. Coffee, indeed, to be perfect, should be ground almost as often as re- quired. What too often deters the house- keeper from this duty is the tedium entailed by using ineffective, cheap-priced mills, which, like Hodge’s razors, are ‘ made to sell.’ In the Duplex, or Double-cutting Coffee Mill, patented by Messrs. W. and T. Avery, and shown above, we have at once a cheap and really service- able family machine, which, in addition to lasting a lifetime with proj>er care, will grind fine or coarse at pleasure, and in half the time occupied by any ordinary mill, owing to its possessing a double-cutting surface. These capital little servants can be had anywhere for a few shillings. Candles.—Notwithstanding the rivalry of paraffin, kerosene, and gas, the quite unexpected invasion of the ‘ Wenham,’ ‘ Welsback,’ and ‘ Clamond ’ lights, and the thousand and one unsuccessful efforts to establish electricity as a domestic illuminant, candles hold their own, and look like doing so for another half-century longer—perhaps for ever. Indeed, if such a thing as a candle census could be taken, and suitable data existed for drawing just comparisons between the past Avery's best Household Scales and Weights can be obtained at any respectable Co-operative or Ironmonger's Store, or from the manufacturers in Loudon and Birmingham, at the following prices : With tin scales to weigh 7 lb., 14s.; 14 lb., 17s.; 2S lb., 21s. If with enamelled scalo, 2s. extra. Catalogues on application.KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 137 and present, it would, in all probability, appear that more of these con- venient, safe, and portable luminants are now burnt than at any period in recent history. That this should be so is due, primarily, to the cheapness with which candles are now produced, thus placing them within every- one’s reach. Science, as shown in the illustration below, wherein the modem candle-maker is seen at work, each operator turning out from two to three thousand finished candles per hour, has come to the rescue, enabling competition to be kept up with gas, even in the matter of price, while, with regard to ‘ movability ’ and relative absence from sulphurous and destructive fumes, this lux has naught to fear. In a secondary sense, the continued supremacy of the candle is due to the condition of high finish and excellence to which the manufacture has been pushed by Price’s Patent Candle Company, Limited—the leading makers—and others. A visit to a candle factory—say this firm’s works at Battersea—reveals one fact which a dozen visits to West End shops will not. An almost incredible assortment of candles are now produced to meet Society’s ever-varying and growing demands. Price’s Company alone, we believe, manufacture over a thousand distinctive qualities, shapes, and sizes. Now, if the modest housekeeper, who cannot afford to decorate her salons and tables d diner with electric globules, would practise a little industrious research in shops and stores, she would be placed in the way of realizing at a trivial cost effects scarcely excelled by electricity itself. Interspersed amid ferns and flowers, ‘ shaped ’ candles of different lengths, colours, and designs, conduce, when alight, to an almost magical ideal, the light being so subdued and soft. It is not generally known that candles de luxe can now be had transparent, scented, and in any colouring desired, and either ribbed, fluted, spiral, sexagon, octagon, square, and grooved, or even shaped like a Maltese cross, not to mention other fanciful shapes. Another class is orna- mented with charming pictorial designs, reproduced by a new process. All these are within the means of the middle classes : only hand-painted candles are absolute luxuries. To the housekeeper then, we say, 1 Try your ha,nd at candle-decoration, and if you possess taste and talent, disappointment will not be your lot.’ Regarding ordinary parlour candles, there is nothing to beat the Gold Medal ‘ Palmitine,’ which yields a soft, but brilliant, and almost pure light. Belmont Sperm are likewise good, and somewhat cheaper. Together with these, we can recommend Price s Battersea Composites and Pale Wax, and for bed- room purposes, the Belmont Sperm, Sherwood Sperm, and a candle known as the ‘Bropless.’ Self-fitting ends are a great advantage, saving time, grease-splashing, and much needless annoyance; while, forENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERV. 138 nurseries and sick-rooms, Child's night-lights, which burn in a saucer containing water, are still the most popular, although many people are now turning their attention to Price’s New Patent Night-light, which, costing the same, are so contrived as to burn in small glasses. Cutlery.—Celluloid and xylonite are now extensively used as sub- stitutes for ivory in the manufacture of knife-handles. The former material, while one-third the price, closely resembles the true tusk in appearance, texture, durability and hardness, but is, comparatively speaking, impervious to grease, and retains its colour much longer. An ingenious carving-knife for disjointing poultry or game, operating similar to scissors, deserves a word of mention. -^‘g'g'-Cookers.—Mr. W. Mattieu-Williams, F.C.S., and other dietetic scientists, are agreed in the opiuion that to boil eggs spoils their delicacy, since albumen coagulates at 180°. As an alternative improve- ment to dropping the eggs into boiling water and setting the saucepan by the side of the fire for 7 or 8 minutes, the ‘ Infallible ’ egg-cooker has been introduced by Messrs. Temple and Crook. Into this cooker the eggs are stood, large end up, with just enough boiling water to cover them. In 10 minutes they are ready, and may remain in the water, soft, properly cooked and warm, for an hour afterwards. Like the useful little egg-steamer, now so prevalent on middle-class breakfast- tables, the ‘ Infallible 5 forms a handsome table ornament. Floor-polisher.—For parquet floorings aud ball-rooms Dukas’s improved floor-brush is a decided advantage. It is fitted with a mov- able handle and iron top, and is encompassed by an edging of stiff bristles, thus affording protection to walls and furniture when corners, etc., are being polished. Gazogenes.—In country homes, or where difficulty, as frequently happens, is experienced in keeping a stock of aerated waters, one of Favarger’s Gazogenes will be found a most useful adjunct to domestic comfort. With the aid of this machine and a supply of Briets’ Gazo- gene Powders, which are very inexpensive, almost any desired kind of aerated water can be had at short notice, and often of a superior quality to what can be obtained in bottles from the local tradesmen. More- over, the Gazogene possesses all the advantages attaching to the syphon system, as the exact quantity of soda or seltzer required can be drawn off at a time, what remains in the machine being as bright and well gas-charged as at first. The Gazogene, in short, ministers both to comfort and economy, and is a decided advantage in any house. The possession of a few fruit syrups will enable the nimble-fingered house- wife to manufacture any number of delicious cooling summer beverages, such as children and young people are so fond of. Household Linen.—Before purchasing table and kitchen linen, it is as well—unless you have the advantage of residing in a large town, or belong to a ‘ store ’—to apply to one or two leading manufacturers for their price-lists. Money can often be saved, and a better article obtained, by dealing direct with, say, a good Belfast house. Lamps and Petroleum Oils.—Among thousands of families into whose hands this little work will stray, the petroleum oil lamp has doubtless already found a home. A few hints respecting its purchase and management are therefore likely to benefit the housekeeper, who through ignorance or carelessness not unfrequently meets with disap- pointment or worse. Accidents, occasionally of a harrowing nature,KITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. 139 have occurred, and will re-occur, so long as the public persists in false economy, buying cheap and unscientifically-constructed lamps of foreign manufacture, and then using these so imperfectly as to practically court disaster. Dissatisfaction, again, is constantly expressed with the light yielded, but where in nine cases out of ten lies the blame ? With the housekeeper. Either the lamp is defective, the oil is bad, or the management is heedless. How can anyone look for that soft brilliant illumination so greatly admired in West-End lamp shops when oil is procured from a retailer below the wholesale cost in bulk for a decent second-rate article ? Comfort is then sacrificed to mere thoughtlessness or niggardliness. Such oil, as we indicate, must either be insufficiently rectified or adulterated, and its light cannot be other than unsatisfactory. Between good paraffin and good petroleum or kerosene, there is not much to choose. The distinction between the two is as follows. Paraffin is produced from Shale by a process of distilation, the chief seat of the industry being Scotland, while the rival oil is the natural product derived from wells sunk in America and the Baku region in Kussia. Paraffin comes somewhat less expensive than kerosene—if such an expression is permissible with regard to illuminants costing half the price of gas—it ignites more slowly, and flashes at a higher point. The balance of safety is therefore if anything on its side, but the glow from the best-fed paraffin lamp is less white and cheerful than when well-filtered kerosene is used, and in our opinion the latter is preferable. Still, as the consumer is to great extent in the dealer’s hands, perhaps the best advice to give amounts to this: ‘Never be tempted by imagined cheapness, and—when you can—patronize a first- class tradesman.’ Of more consequence still than good oil is a good lamp. As a first golden rule, the reservoir should be made from metal, not of glass or porcelain, since should a spill occur, the main danger of a conflagration is removed, and in the case of wall brackets and pendants the lamp should be made to fit into its stand so as to be readily portable. The burner should be ‘ Argand ’ or circular, and no detriment is experienced if the wick be raised in two sections ; perhaps the reverse as a duplex action facilitates trimming, while the flame can be regulated to a nicety. In Martin’s Patent Lighthouse Lamp— which may be taken as a thoroughly solid article embodying all recent improvements—the air is supplied to the centre by a tube running through the reservoir from its base. To this tube the wick fits tightly, enclosed by a second and removable tube joined to the head of the burner covering it closely from the reservoir to the edge of the flame. An ingenious device in the shape of a perforated cylinder, placed between these two tubes, facilitates the insertion and elevation or depression of the wick by a single winder, further precluding the lighted part from being turned down into the reservoir, thus guarding against explosions from a not uncommon origin. Inside the reservoir, and soldered to it at the top and bottom, is another tube covering the wick, keeping it from the main body of the oil, sufficient only to feed the wick being admitted through small holes at the bottom of the reservoir. In the event then of the lamp being overturned the oil is effectually prevented from escaping. The reservoir is filled from the outside through an aperture provided with a screwed cap, an indicator being attached which admits of the gas escaping when in any quantity, whilst preventing contact from the outside. Moreover the oil is keptENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. MO very cool and cannot percolate through the metal—an unpleasant and dangerous defect in many lamps. These lamps are fitted with an ingenious contrivance which, when placed upon the top of the burner and turned gently round, removes the carbonized portion of wick, cutting it perfectly even and leaving no dirt behind. Such a lamp is both economical and being manufactured of metal throughout absolutely safe, while the light—a pure oil being burnt—is simply intense. But to many a patent lamp, however perfect and reasonable in price, is an impossibility. Thousands of persons have perforce to content themselves with the less expensive but in the end dearer kinds sold at grocers and oil shops. These are dangerous, and require considerable care in management if a decent light is to be obtained. The following rules may be laid down, which apply to most lamps in use. 1. The wick should be thoroughly dried before being placed in the oil, and requires renewal at least once a month, since acting as a filter it absorbs the impurities in the petroleum and becomes clogged; it should fit the tube exactly, neither too tightly, nor too loosely, nor leaving any space at the sides for air to reach the oil-chamber ; it should be cut evenly at the top, only the charred portion being removed. 2. The reservoir should be filled every day to the top and cleaned out once a fortnight regularly. 3. The burner should be kept scrupulously clean in order to keep the air-holes, on which the life of the flame depends, from getting clogged up. If such has been allowed to occur through neglect clean well and boil the burner in strong soda and water for a few minutes. 4. In extinguishing, turn down the wick and blow across the chimney, or, better still, place something light on the top, cutting off the air current when the light will instantly go out. Lamp Filler.—With almost any lamp, Groom’s Oil Lamp Filler is invaluable, saving grease and dirt. One holding 3 pints can be had for less than 3s. at any ironmonger’s shop. Marking Ink.—Having introduced the subject of linen in a former place, the housewife may be thankful for a word of advice in re- gard to marking inks. Too great care cannot be taken in seeing that all table and crumb-cloths, serviettes, etc., are regularly and legibly marked, and with an ink which will resist for a long while the attacks of the modern laundress, with her science and chemicals. Soap, soda, and blue are not the only agents now used to deface markings. In most opinions, the ink which answers its purpose best is Bond’s 1 Oak Tree,’ which produces an almost indellible jet black, and can be used without fear of injury to the most delicate fabric, either with or without the application of heat. Although it has been before the public for over half a century, and has had to compete with many formidable rivals, it still holds its own. Metal Polishing.—For cleaning and polishing all kinds of metal, especially brass, we have found nothing better than Baumgartner’s ‘ La Brillantine,’ which is equally serviceable in brightening chandeliers, mirrors, and other glasswork. This article can also be safely used for cleaning silver and plated goods. Pickle-Fork.—A new competitor, named ‘ The Perfection,’ fills a void combining elegance, utility, and durability. To the bowl of aKITCHEN AND DOMESTIC REQUISITES. « 141 spoon, a claw connected with a knob at the end of the handle, is hinged. On pressing this knob, the claw moves towards the spoon, seizing the longed-for dainty, be -it walnut, gherkin, or apricot, which can be extracted without the least disfigurement. The spoon serves to ladle out the liquor or syrup. Paper Table Decorations—Embossed, Laced, etc.—Under this general heading may be included, dish, plate, and dessert papers, ham and cutlet frills, souffle, ramequin or ice-cases, lace papers for bride and other cakes and a host of other ornamental paper novelties. These are now produced in all sizes, and in various extremely artistic designs, and at prices that not only place them well within the means of the middle-classes, but probably economize even on home washing. A visit to any high-class stationery store, and a request to be shown samples, will almost inevitably induce an interchange of silver into some of these pretty novelties. Latterly, a West End firm have em- barked upon a new venture, to wit, dainty little egg-cup linings, made in both pink and white paper. These are neatly pleated, and formed with a brim which prevents the yolk overflowing. The pink ‘ notion ’ is extremely effective. Scouriug' Soap.—Although of comparatively recent introduction into this country, scouring soap occupies a prominent place in domestic economy. No housewife, indeed, who aspires to deserve the name, or who longs to see her home look constantly bright and cheerful, should ever dream now of letting her kitchen go unrepresented by such an in- valuable cleansing agent. Used as directed as much can be effected in five minutes as in five hours with old-fashioned soap and water, scrub- bing-brush and elbow grease. ‘ Sapolio,’ as we can testify from ex- perience, does all that is claimed for it. For cleansing culinary utensils, greasy saucepans, kitchen tables, painted wood-work, floor cloths, marble mantel, etc. it is simply perfection. Care, however, should al- ways be observed to use it according to the directions on the wrapper. Soup-Plates.—The frequent contretemps at table when soup is being served has led to an attempt to alter the shape, the bowl being now surrounded by a wide and somewhat deeply-grooved rim inclining upwards. Stains.—Several articles adapted to the purpose of removing fruit- stains from tablecloths, etc., are competing for supremacy ; but about the best we have tried is the ‘Anti-stains Bleaching Liquid.’ It will also restore discoloured marble and ivory handles, piano-keys, and such- like. Table Decorations.—Neumann’s self-acting portable fountains, decorated with ferns and flowers, and kept in constant action by insert- ing at intervals a pair of ornamental reservoirs fixed beneath the stand, form the latest attraction in our dining and drawing-rooms. When in play the effect of these fountains is extremely pleasing. Palms and and other hardy-plants have also come much into fashion, especially since Mr. It. C. Gardner, of Stamford Hill, London, conceived the happy idea of forwarding a dozen useful-sized plants to any address in the United Kingdom, on receipt of 20s., or half the number for Us. African everlasting flowers, reeds, and grasses, come in handy during the winter season, as they form bright and beautiful colour combina- tions, and can be used with evergreens in arranging striking con- trasts.142 ENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. Teapots.—Within the last few years the homely teapot ha* seen some strange metamorphoses, the objects being in view, firstly, to pre- vent the lid from breaking off at the hinge or falling off with a splash into the cup ; and, secondly, to obviate the spout from clogging tip, as is the common fault with old-style pots. When ‘ Bowman’s Patent Purity Strainer’ is inserted, even ‘siftings’ may be brewed with im- punity, while the spout cannot fail to run freely. Carpenter's ‘ Slide Teapot ’ fulfils exactly the same purpose by another principle, and, if not quite so simple, has this advantage : the slide can be readily re- moved, cleaned, and replaced. Both these pots are a great improve- ment on old patterns. As regards metal articles, the Hingeless pot made by Mr. Ford, of King’s Lynn, is a decided boon. The lid slides at right angles to the spout and handle, and is caught by a catch, thus avoiding the use of a hinge with its constant readiness to break. As the lid fits closer, better tea can also be had. So many are the new improvements, that one may safely predict that within another decade an old-fashioned pot will be a rariety in any china or ironmonger’s shop. ’Washing' Machines.—Here, again, we are confronted by a multitude of improvements, all claiming to excel. The use of laundry machinery, whether of Bradford’s, Lloyd’s, Twelvetree’s, or any other make, ’cannot be too strongly recommended to the house-wife who aspires to economize time and money. The ‘ Vowel ’ washers and wringers appear to give general satisfaction, although many other firms produce articles of considerable, if not equal merit. But in buying any such labour-saving appliances, the purse and taste are perhaps the truest guides. Anyway, do not be without a washing machine and indiarubber wringer, or wringer and maDgler combined, and patronize a known make. When the washing is done at home, even inferior machinery will accomplish more in an hour than manual labour will in three ; while machines like Bradford’s will effect very much more. Water Purification.—First among matters of sanitation stands the maintenance, pure and undefiled, of the domestic water supply. House-cisterns and water-butts ought all to be emptied and thoroughly scrubbed out once, if not twice, every year, and a little of Condy’s Fluid should be added to the water with which this is done, so as to entirely remove all impurities. It is the only preparation available for this purpose, as it leaves neither taste nor smell after use. Nor need there be any fear in using Condy’s Fluid for this purpose, as it is not a poison. It is extensively used in India for purifying water for drink- ing, and is ordered by the Board of Trade to be carried by ships for the purpose of being added to the water in their tanks when it goes foul, as it is so apt to do in warm latitudes. Full directions for cleaning cisterns, etc., accompany each bottle of the fluid.PART XY. DIET AND COOKERY FOR DOGS. Well-nigh every home now has its dog or dogs, and as with man the health and comfort of his 1 four-footed faithful servitor and friend ’ depends, however little the fact may be recognised, upon regularity in living, and the nature of the food given him. In the domesticated state the digestive organs of the canine, more particularly among the higher and valuable breeds, are far from strong as is popularly supposed. On the contrary, his organization is complex and delicate, as any experienced breeder will at once confirm. Not uncommonly we hear people say, ‘ Oh, a dog’s stomach will digest anything.’ Many, unfortunately, act up to this ignorant belief, the life, and when not the life, the vigour of the animal being cruelly sacrificed. And why this unintentional cruelty ? Because the dog in order to assist a naturally weak digestion delights to gnaw bones, and at time, for some occult reason, displays a morbid appetite for offal, filth, and putrid flesh, from which depravities he should be relentlessly driven seeing how often they engender serious, sometimes fatal diseases. To be in good health, and to retain it, the ‘ canine ’ needs to be judiciously, regularly, and well fed ; his food should be thoroughly cooked and adapted to his individual powers and condi- tions of existence, care being taken to overcome any innate objection to a partly vegetarian diet, without which action will be irregular, and suffering ensue. Animals used in early life to Spratt’s Puppy Pood, or whose mothers were fed on Spratt’s biscuits before whelping, seldom display this troublesome dislike to vegetables. With a 1 dainty feeding ’ puppy, who shows repugnance to diet other than he particularly fancies, it is equally essential to conquer. Perhaps the surest and safest way to accomplish this is to leave an option between broken fibrine cake and enjoying the pangs of hunger. Pup’s decision is certain. Cat’s meat should never be given dogs, although some like it well. Apart from the constant hazard of infection it entails, horseflesh is commonly salted to prevent it turning putrid, especially in summer. It is then injurious, besides causing the breath to smell unpleasantly. Por pet-dogs its use should be absolutely tabooed. In a sense, but only in a sense, the dog is omnivorous. By this we mean that collectively dogs eat almost anything, whereas individual tastes widely differ. Some animals display a predilection for one sort of meat, others for some other sort. Some, again, are disposed towards fish, bread, fruit, pastry and sweets. A pug-dog lying at our feet goes visibly into ecstacies over bread-and-cheese. Similarly, dogs who have been reared upon Spratt’s Puppy Pood and biscuits usually prefer andENGLISH AND FRENCH COOKERY. 144 thrive best on that firm’s patent fibrine cakes, which Mr. Hugh Dalziel —now the chief authority upon dogs—has pronounced, in summing up the merits of the various foods, as the best all-round dietary for the canine race—an opinion our experience fully endorses. In these cakes, beetroot is skilfully blended in scientific proportions with American beef fibrine, oatmeal, wheat flour and dates ; beetroot, alone among vegetables, retaining its properties unimpaired when made into biscuit, thus guarding against irregularity, a common disorder w'ith household pets who so often miss the invigorating matutinal run. In feeding, give a light breakfast of Spratt’s meat biscuits, dry, (for small dogs break up into little pieces) and in the evening a full meal of the same soaked in hot broth, milk, or Swiss milk and water, while to obviate satiety from too constant sameness in diet, either clean paunch, sheep’s heads, fresh bullock’s liver or rich bones may be occasionally boiled with the biscuit, and a little well-cooked cabbage or other vege- table and fat added. Much fat, however, is bad for dogs. Most animals will express their ready agreement with these changes which invariably prove beneficial, nor will they resent a rough bone or two during the mid-day. The main reason for administering the biscuit dry, is that since the quadruped is compelled to masticate it well, a copious flow of saliva gets mixed with the food, and the work thrown upon the digestive organs is thus materially diminished. Gnawing hard substances moreover, preserves the teeth. When feeding on soft food is persisted in decay soon occurs. There is no laying down any fixed law as to the quantity of aliment to be given, but all authorities are agreed that the moment ‘ sniffing ’ and ‘ walking away ’ begins, any food remaining should be removed until next mealtime, or be re-offered when appetite is renewed. Some animals make night hideous by barking and howling. In all such cases try liberal and late feeding, leaving the dog a few bones to amuse him- self with. If hunger is the cause, as is most probable, the nuisance will be stopped. Whilst in pup the mother requires extra food, and for the last week of her time allow her Spratt’s fibrine cakes with beet- root twice a day mashed up with rich broth ; every other day chop up with her principal meal, boiled bullock’s liver. Some hours after whelping, and when sufficiently recovered to accept nourishment, a little puppy food prepared with milk or strong meat-broth thickened with the former, will prove a valuable restorative. Offer about blood- heat. Whilst suckling vary the diet constantly, remembering that the fibrine cakes and puppy food are great milk producers, and that vege- tables are equally needed. After the third week accustom the pups to lapping puppy food in warm milk, increasing the quantities gradually ; a little later on try them with the cakes pulped in broth, and after the fifth or sixth week let them have bits of the latter half softened to nibble at, as it assists teething. From comparatively early infancy throughout life a fish meal, say of cod’s head, once a week will be found an advantage.ADVERTISEMENTS. 145 BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR FOR THE NURSERY. In ordinary cases the only suitable food for young infants is milk. So soon, however, as some solid addition to the liquid food becomes desirable, there is nothing better for the purpose than BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR. Its principal function is to supply heat. It also contributes to the formation of fat, so essential to life at all stages, but especially to the earlier. BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR FOR THE FAMILY TABLE. In the hands of an accomplished cook there is no known limit to the variety of delicate and palatable dishes which may be produced from BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR, It is equally susceptible of plain and simple treatment for ordinary domestic purposes, and one of its chief recommendations is the facility with which it may be prepared. Boiled with milk, and with or without the addition of sugar and flavour- ing, it may be ready for the table within fifteen minutes ; or, poured into a mould and cooled, it becomes in the course of an hour a Blancmange, which, served with fresh or preserved fruit, will be acceptable at any meal. Add sultanas,'raisins, marmalade, or jam of any kind, and in about the same time it is made into an excellent Baked Pudding. To which may be added :— Take care to boil with milk, when so required, for not less than eight minutes. BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR FOR THE SICK-ROOM. The properties of BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR are identical with those of Arrowroot, and it is in every respect equal to the costliest qualities of that article. The uses of Arrowroot in the sick-room are not only matter of tradition, but of everyday experience, and there can be but few persons who are not acquainted with its uses as an important ally to medical treatment. BROWN & POLSON’S CORN FLOUR claims to serve the same purposes with at least equal acceptance and at considerably less cost, and therefore offers the facility of freer use to a larger public. It has received from medical and scientific authorities the highest testi- monials to its purity and scrviceableness ; it is largely used in Hydropathic and other Institutions throughout the Kingdom, and its export to all foreign parts has long given it a world-wide reputation. NOTE.—Unlike many other Corn Flours, this bears the name of its Manufacturers, who over the guarantee of their long-established reputation for its uniformly superior quality. 10INDEX Apple jelly, 89 float, 89 Apples, painted ladies, 89 Aroce doce, 93 Artichokes, 77 boiled Jerusalem, 77 Asparagus, 77 and eggs, 77 Bacon and beans, 62 boiled, 62 toast, 62 Bakiug, 90 dishes, 127 tins, 127 powder, 89 Barley gruel, 109 water, 109 Beans, broad, 77 French, 77 ,, it la Maitre d’Hotel, 77 haricot, 79 Beef, 26 essence of, 109 a la mode, 55 baked, 55 boiled, 55 brisket, stewed, 55 broiled steaks, 59, 60 croquettes, 66 curry, 56, 104 fritters, 56 k la Houssard, 56 minced, 5G" mirliton of, 56 olives, 56 ribs of, 57 rissoles, 57 roast tinned, 104 sirloin of, 57 spiced or collared, 57 steak, braised, 58 ,, broiled, 59, 60 ,, ii la Duchesse, 59 ,, aux legumes, 59 stewed ,, 58 stew, with mush- rooms, 104 steak, rolled, 58 stewed, 57 tea, 109 Beef-tea, to thicken for in- valids, 111 Beer, 117 Beetroot, pickled, 78 and potatoes, 78 Biscuits, 98 Black currant jelly, 90 lead, nickel silver, 135 Blancmange, S9 for invalids, 110 Blue, Boyal Palace, 135 Boiling, 19 Braising, 22 Brandy, US Broiling, 23 Brawn, 104 Bread and farinaceous foods, 29 Bread, brown or whole- meal, 30 French,9S grates, 127 home-made, 98 pulled, 98 wheaten, 30 wheatmeal, 98 Broccoli, boiled, 78 Brussels sprouts, 78 Cabbage, 7S red, to stew, 78 Cakes, cheap, 99 almond gingerbread, 99 corn flour sponge, 99 lemon cheese, 90 Oswego, 99 plum, 99 pound, 99 rice, 100 rich plum, 99 rock, seed, 100 sponge, 100 tea, 100 ,, American, 99 tipsy, 100 Yorkshire, 100 Carrots, 79 Carving adjuncts, 127 Cauliflower, boiled, 79 „ stuffed, 79 Celery, stowed, 79 Chamois leathers, 128 Cheese cakes, lemon, 90 Richmond Maids of Honour, 90 Chicken it la Marengo, 71 broth, 110 curried, 71 devilled, 71 fricassee, 71 minced, 71 Cocoa, 117 Coffee, 116 Candy’s Fluid, 141 Cooking utensils, 128 Corn, Oswego prepared, 30 Cornflour, 30 blancmange, 90 jelly, 90 Cow heel, 57 Creams, apple, 90 ice, 91 lemon, 91 Normandy, 91 Swiss, 91 white lemon, 91 Custard, Oswego boiled, 91 boiled, 91 cup, 110 Disinfectant, household, 129 Duck and peas, 72 roast, 72 Dumpling, apple, 84 Eggs, curried, 91 poached, 91 „ with gravy, 91 seasoned, 92 sur le Plat, 91 Egyptian food, 110 Farinaceous foods, minor, 31 Fish, 2S baked, 51 bouillabaisse, 4S cookery, herring, boiled, 51 cod, baked, 49 ,, curried, 49 ,, cutlets, 49 ,, en bonne Monte, 49INDEX. 147 Fish, cod, salt, 49 cookery, 48 crab, dressed, 49 croquettes of, 49 eels, fried, 50 „ spitchcocked, 50 „ stewed, 50 fritters, 60 haddock boiled, 51 ,, broiled, 51 ,, dried,broiled, 51 bake, 51 herrings, red, 51 John Dory, 51 lobster cutlets, 51 mackerel, boiled, 52 „ baked with vinegar, 52 ,, rolled, 52 „ stewed, 52 marinade for fish, 52 Mayonnaise, 50 mussels, pickled, 52 oyster fricasse, 52 pie, 50 pudding, 51 sausages, 51 ,, toast, 52 salmon, boiled, 53 ,, cutlets, 53 scalloped fish, 53 skate, crimped, 53 sole, fillets of, 53 „ fried, 53 ,, ,, fillets of, 53 sprats, 53 toasted, 51 turbot boiled, 54 water soucby, 54 whitebait, 54 whiting aux fines herbes, 54 whiting, broiled, 54 „ fried, 54 Flavouring essences, 92 Fowl 5 la Tartare, 72 aux olives, 72 boiled, 72 minced and eggs, 72 roast, 72 sandwiches, 72 Fritters for batter, 92 Fruits, 34 stewed, 92 Frying, 21 Game, 28 grouse, 73 hare, jugged, 73 „ civet of, 74 partridge aux choux, 74 partridge au gratin, 74 „ roast, 74 pheasant, roast, 74 plover, roast, 74 rabbit, boiled, 74 „ pie, 75 : i „ pudding, 75 Game, rabbit stewed, 75 snipes, roasted, 75 turkey, boiled, 75 ,, roasted, 75 ,, to keep sweet, 73 Gazogenes, 137 powders, 137 Giblet pie, 78 with stewed potatoes, 73 Goose, braised, 73 hashed, 73 roasted, 73 Gooseberry fool, 92 souffle, 93 Gruel of patent groats, 110 Ham, boiled, 63 Hominy, for breakfast, 93 as a vegetable, 79 milk, 93 Infants-food, 107-109 Invalid soup, 110 Invalids’ food, 107 Isinglass, 110 Jelly, apple, 89 meat, 110 red currant, 90 strengthening, 110 Kitchen requisites, 127 Lamb, breast of, and peas, 68 Lamb cutlets, fricassed, 69 chops, broiled, 69 roast forequarter of, 69 „ leg of, 69 sweetbreads, fried, 70 Lamps, Martin’s, 138 Lard in pastry, 86 Leeks, 79 Lemonade for invalids, 111 Macaroni, boiled, 93 cheese, 93 Meringues, 93 Mincemeat, 93 Mushrooms, various ways, 79, 80 Mutton, 26 boiled, and caper sauce 104 boiled leg of, 67 „ neck of, 64 breast of, 64 „ baked, of, 64 broth, 111 chops, h la Soyer, 64 ,, grilled, 65 curry of, 65 104 5 llndienne, 66 cutlets of, & la Soubise, 65 cutlets of, 5 la Valen- ciennes, 65 French ragout of, 67 haricot, 65 hashed,66 haunch of, 65 Irish stew, 66 Mutton kidneys, broiled or roasted, 66 kidneys, stewed ii la Frangaise, 67 leg of, boiled, 67 minced, 67 ,, with poached eggs, 67 New Zealand, 68 saute, 68 stew, 66 Oatmeal gruel. 111 porridge, 111 Omelette, cooking an, 94 aux fines Herbes, 94 au Ehum, 95 sweet, 94 Onions, ii la creme, 80 Spanish, baked, SO Ox cheek, stewed, 58 Pancakes, 95 Parsley fried for garnish, 80 Parsnips, boiled, 80 fricassed, 80, Paste, puff, 84 Peas, green, 79 Pig, sucking, 64 Pork,27 boiled pickled, 63 hand of, 63 roast leg of, 63 ,, loin of, 63 pies, 63 Potato 5 la Maitre d'Hotel, 81 Potato, boiled, 80 5 la Bonne Bouche, 80 fried, 81 hash, 81 omelette. 81 pastry, 81 pie, 104 puffs, 81 souffld, 97 Potted compote of prunes, 95 Poultry, 28 Pudding, apple, 84 bachelor’s, 85 barley, 85 batter, 85 bread and butter, 85 „ plain, 85 cabinet, 85 Christmas, 85 college, 85 dumplings, 86 fig, 86 fruit, 86 hasty, 86 invalid, 110 lemon bread, 87 lentil flour, 87 marmalade, 87 milk, economic, 87 Oswego, 87 plum, plain, 87INDEX. 148 Pudding, queen, 87 rhubarb and batter, 88 ! rice, ground, 87 ,, plain, 88 semolina, 88 ,, French, 88 strawberry and custard, 88 sultana, 88' tapioca, 88 . vermicelli, 188 Yorkshire, 88 Bed currant jelly, 95 Bice for curry, 95 a, drink, 111 milk, 96 riz au gras, 96 snowballs, 96 sweet, 96 with fruit and merin- gues, 96 Bissoles, 5S, 104 Boasting, 18 Bum, 118 Liquid Sunshine, 119 Salads, summer, 81 anchovy, 82 Sauce, anchovy, 46 apple, 46 bechamel, 46 bread, 46 bretonne, 46 brown, 46 chutney, 46 Dutch, 46 egg, 46 flavourings, 41 mayonnaise, 47 melted butter, 40 mint, 46 mustard, 46 onion,47 oyster, 47 parsley and butter, 47 shrimp, 47 sweet, 47 tartare, 47 ■Worcester, 47 Sausages, 63 baked,63 fried, 63 stewed, 63 Sea-kale, 82 Semolina, 31, 96 Short paste, 84 Souffld, simple, 96 Soup, calf’s foot, 39 cabbage, 39 celery, 40 Chantilly, 40 chicken broth, 40 Chollet’s condensed, 40 cock-a-leekie, 40 desiccated, 40 fish, 40 fish extract, 41 giblet, 41 gravy, 41 green pea, 41 haddock, 41 haricot, 42 herb, 41 hotch-potch, 42 housekeeper’s own, 42 invalid, 110 julienne, 42 julienne, 42 lentil soup, 43 mulligatawny, 43 mutton broth, 43 normal,| onion, 43 ox-tail, 43 pea, 43 pot-au-feu, 44 potage a la Conde, 44 potage k la Crecy, 44 potato, 44 Prussian, 44 rice, 45 tomato, 45 turtle, 111 veal, 45 vegetable colourings for, 45 white (vegetable), 45 Spinach, 82 Starch Oswego, 135 Stewing, 22 Stock-pot, 37 Suet crust, S4 Tart, apple, 85 fruit, 86 German, open, 86 jam, 86, „ open, S6 Tea, 116 Toast-and-water, 111 Toast, various, 97 Tomatoes and rice, 83 au Gratin, 82 baked,82 salad dressing, 82 tinned, 104 Tripe, GO Turnip tops, 83 Turnips, boded, 83 stewed a la Fran^-aise, 83 Turtle soup, 111 Veal, 27 k la Bourgeoise, G1 and ham pie, 01 braised, 61 broth,111 calf’s liver k l’Am4ri- caine, 62 cold, hashed, 61 ,, re-cooked, 61 cutlets, 61 knuckle of boiled, 62 minced, 62 roast loin of, 62 Vegetables, 33 cooking, 77 extracts, 83 marrow, boiled, 83 „ au Gratin, 83 ,, preserve, 83 Venison, 28 Water, 116 aerated and table, 121 Whisky, 119 Wines, 119 cider cup, 122 claret cup, 121 cura^oa, 122 French, 120 German, 121 gingered egg-flip for four, 122 iced orange toddy, 122 Italian, Australian and Cape, 121 lamb’s wool, 122 milk punch, 122 morella cherry brandy, 122 moselle cup, 122 mulled claret, 121 sherry, 120 whisky cordial, 123149 ADVERTISEMENTS. POE HOMEMADE SODA-WATEE, LEMONADE, BRIET'S GAZOGENES, AND POWDERS ARE THE BEST. For Prices & Write to FAVARGER A OO., *76, Turnmill Street, London, E.C. GAZOGENES AND SELTZOGENES REPAIRED. GINGER BEER, ETC., FAVARGER&Co.’s PORE FRUIT SYRUPS ARE THE BEST. Particulars KINGSFORD’S OSWEGO PREPARED CORN. THE ORIGINAL CORNFLOUR. OF THE HIGHEST QUALITY ONLY. i Highly esteemed for Table Delicacies, Blancmanges, Custards, Cakes, etc., etc. KINGSFORD’S OSWEGO STARCH. TllnequaUet) for all Xaunbrg purposes.INDEX TO ADVERTISEMENTS AVERT, W. & T BANCROFT & CO. BAUMGARTNER, J. F BLOOD, T. G BROWN & POLSON CHRISTIAN, J CARPENTER, C CHOLLET, PREVET <fc CO CONDY, MITCHELL & CO. .. FAVAGER & CO. FITTER, JOHN S., & SON .. JEYES’ SANITARY COMPOUNDS CO. JOHNSON, JOHN, & CO KING, F., & CO. (Limited) ,. KINGSFORD & CO •KRANTZ’S PATENT FOOD CO. KYNOCH & CO. (Limited) .. LANGDALE, E. F. LEA & PERRIN LEHMANN, W LICHTENSTEIN & CO. .. Scales and Coffee Mills. .. Lard. .. ‘La Brillantine’ Metallic Powder. .. ‘Boon’Kettle. .. Cornflour. .. ‘ Oak Tree ’ Marking Ink. .. ‘Sutherland Brand’ Preserved Pro- visions. .. Chollet’s Julienne, etc. .. Condy’s Fluids and Powder. .. Gazogenes. .. Best English, Scotch, and American Beef, and New Zealand Mutton. .. Disinfectant Fluids and Powders. .. * Nickel Silver ’ Black Lead and Royal Palace Blue. .. Edwards’ Desiccated Soup. .. Oswego Cornflour, Oswego Starch. .. Krantz's Panier Brot. .. Martin’s Patent Lamps. .. Flavouring Essences. .. Worcestershire Sauce. .. Condensed Milk. .. ‘ Couleur Parisienne ’ for Gravies, etc. LUCK, W. V. McDonald, d. p. MEEK & CO. .. Wedding Cakes, Confectionery, etc. .. Long John’s Highland Malt Whisky. .. Liquid Sunshine Rum, Strathisla Whisky, D. W. D. Irish Whisky, and all Wines and Spirits. MELLIN, P MORGAN, ENOCH, & CO. .. NORMAL CO. (Limited) PALETHORPE, H PARKINGTON, J. R., & CO. .. PRICE’S PATENT CANDLE CO. SPRATT’S PATENT (Limited) SOUTHWELL, CHARLES, & CO. SYMINGTON & CO VAN HOUTEN & ZOON WRIGHT & BUTLER (Limited) WRIGHT, JOHN, & CO. .. Mellin’s Infant Foods. .. .. Sapolio. .. Food Products, Preserved and Fresh. .. Cambridge Sausages, Melton Mow- bray Pies. .. .. Roper Freres' Champagne. (Limited) Candles, Soaps, and Glycerine. .. .. Spratt’s Dog Biscuits, etc. .. .. Preserves, Jams, and Marmalade. .. .. Pea Flour and Pea Soup. .. .. Van Houten’s Cocoa. .. .. Patent Oil Cookers. .. ‘ Eureka ’ Gas Cooking Stoves.ADVERTISEMENTS. 151 CHAS. SOUTHWELL & CO.’S JAMS, JELLIES, ORANGE MARMALADE, BOTTLED FRUITS, Table Jellies, Fruit Syrups,- MINCEMEAT, PLUM PUDDINGS, And General Confectionery, Are all guaranteed to be genuine, and can be obtained of Family Grocers. Works-DOCKHEAD, LONDON, S.E. Makes Rich Soups, Sauces, Gravies, Purees, etc. COULEUR PAR I SI ERNE INDISPENSABLESIN EVERY CUISINE. Used in the chief Hotels and Restaurants throughout the World. SAVES ITS COST MANY TIMES OVER. Sold in bottles at 6d. and Is. eacb, and in tins at Is. 6d. each Order of your Grocer. A Is. 6d. tin sent post free for 18 stamps. LICHTENSTEIN & CO., Silvertown, London, E., Manufacturers of all Confectionery and Culinary Requisites. THE ' BOON ’ I TEA-KETTLE Is made in Block Tin, and is a thoroughly strong, well-finished Kettle. It will not scald the hand. The handle cannot get hot. It will not run over the top when pouring. Cannot hoil over. The spout cannot fur up or melt off. Space is economised through spout being on the top. SOI.E MANUFACTURER : T- G-. BLOOD, 27, CREAT HAMPTON STREET, BIRMINGHAM. Order through any Ironmonger. Important to Ladies. Use the Original & Genuine. H. OAK TREE MARKING INK. THE ONLY RELIABLE INK that can ho freely used with, or without heat. It produces an intense jet black, is indestructible, and incapable of Sold in bott los at (id., 1 s., Is. lid., 2s. Cd., and 5s each. Also the IMPROVED STRETCHER, put up in handsome box (sec Illustration), containing a really useful Strotchcr, large Stoppered Bottlo Ink, and Fancy Penholder, with Two Quill Pons ; price Is. 6d., of all Stationers and Chemists or direct from tho Sole Proprietor. ASK FOR 'OAK trek’ BRAND. J. CHRISTIAN, 46, City Rd., London.152 ADVERTISEMENTS, WRIGHT’S Enamelled ‘EUREKA’ Gas Cooker. fTTTTn >TTT1 Lined with Patent non-conducting materiaL SAVES 50 PEH CENT. IN CAS. May be obtained from every Iron- monger and Gat Company in the United Kingdom. Special prorpeclut on application to JOHN WRIGHT&Co., THIMBLE MILL LANE, BIRMINGHAM; I55A.UP.THAMESST., LONDON, E.C. Teleg. Addretset: EUREKA,BIRMINGHAM INCANDESCENT, LONDON. LONG JOHN’S BEN NEVIS PURE UNBLENDED HIGHLAND MALT WHISKY. A^V^WWLVVVW^WV D. P. MCDONALD, Distiller, Fort William, N.B. NONE BETTER! NONE CHEAPER!! PLEASE BUY A TIN AND PROVE IT. Patent mark a highly nutritious food FOR INFANTS AND DYSPEPTICS. Tins, 8d. ; Special Refined, Is., with Coupon giving a chance for a £350 House. Of Chemists and Grocers.AVDERTISEMENTS. 153 ENOCH MORGAN’S SONS’ SAPOLIO CLEANS PAINT, MARBLE, TINWARE; POLISHES BRASS, COPPER, AND ALL METALS. WHAT IS SAPO LIO? It is a solid, handsome cake of scouring soap, which has no equal for all cleaning purposes except the laundry. To use it is to value it. What will Sapolio do ? Why, it will clean paint, make oil-cloths bright, and give the floors, tables and shelves a new appearance. It will tako the grease off the dishes and off the pots and pans. You can scour the knives and forks with it, and make the tin things shine brightly. The wash-basin, the bath-tub, even the greasy kitchen sink, will be as clean as a new pin, if you use Sapolio. One cake will prove all we say. Be a sensible housekeeper and try it. Many articles pre- tend to do the work of Sapolio. They are good after their kind, but—well, JUST TRY SAPOLIO. A small Bowl of Water, a Cake of SAPOLIO, and a Cloth will do more cleaning than a Pail of Water and three Cakes of ordinary Soap. ENOCH MORGAN’S SONS’ COMPANY, 31, SNOW HILL, LONDON, E.C. Purveyors by Special Warrants to H.M. the Queen and H.R.H. the Prince of Wales. SPRATT’S PATENT MEAT ‘ FIBRINE ’ VEGETABLE DOG CAKES (With BEETROOT). BEWARE OF WORTHLESS IMITATIONS. SEE EACH CAKE IS STAMPED ‘SPRATT’S ZP-A-TZETsTT » -A.2STID AA CX’ FOR LADIES’ P ETS. SPRATT ’ S PA T E N T PET IX x; BISCUITS. Keep the Coat Healthy and the Breath Sweet, and specially prepared for Small Dogs kept in the House. Packed only in Tins. Price, 2s. 3d. per Tin, about 7 lb. ; 4s. Gd. per Tin, about 14 lb. DOG SOAP .—Free from poison, and most effective in the destruction of Lice, Fleas, and Ticks, and keeping the skin free from Scurf. Prico 6d. per tablet, or 8d. post paid, or 3s. per Box of six tablets, or 3s. 5d. per parcel post. Distemper Powders, Worm Powders, Mange, Eczema, and Ear Canker Lotions, Tonic Condition Pills, etc. PAMPHLET ON CANINE DISEASES and Full List of Medicines, Post Free. SPRATT’S PATENT, LIMITED, LONDON, S.E.154 ADVERTISEMENTS. PURESTI BEST I CHEAPEST I The only kinds used by Chefs and Connoisseurs. PURE PRIZE MEDAL FLAVOURING ESSENCES, Distilled from Herbs, Fruits, and Spices, gathered in their Bloom and Freshness, Laboratory and Distillery, 72 & 73, HATTON GARDEN, LONDON, E.C. Bonded Factory—I WAREHOUSE, ST. KATHERINE’S DOCKS, E. ESTABLISHED 17T7. A SPECIAL SCIENTIFIC COMMISSION, from the Editor of The Lancet, after a visit to E. F. Lanodale’s Laboratory, 72, Hatton Garden, thus reports 1 The Essences of Bitter Almonds, Ratafia, Noyeau, and Peach Kernels, in the state in which they are usually found in the shops, contain a deadly poison, and are a very prolific source of death by suicide or accident, and the agreeable qualities of these liquids render them peculiarly dangerous. The unrestricted sale should be absolutely prohibited unless purified by E. F. Lanodale’s process.’ Sold by all Grocery Stores, Chemists, Italian Warehousemen, etc. For f: Specially Awarded. GREAT EXHIBITION, LONDON, 1851 Class 29, No. 55. Medal and Honourable Mention Essential Oils, Substances and Scientific Processes. Specially Awarded. INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION, LONDON, 1862, Class 2, No. 553. Medal and Honourable Mention. Chemical Fruit Essences, etc. The Burning of Langdale's DitliUery on Holborn rr. Ti i,.. T /ivrt fTordon Rfnfurc in 17R(1 flVIfhl'dh miiiuai/ vj •— - * —. . Hill by the Lord Gordon Rioters in 1780, of which an interesting account will be found in Charles Dickens' “ Barnaby Rudgef’—Chaps. 62 & 63. E. F. LANGDALE’S PURE ‘PRIZE MEDAL’ FIUiLTrOTJK.ISTG- 3SSSEXTCELS. LEMON. ALMOND. VANILLA. RATAFIA. CELERY. GINGER. NOYEAU. PEPPERMINT. RASPBERRY. STRAWBERRY. ORANGE. PINEAPPLE. MARASCHINO. CURACOA. PEACH KERNEL. CHERRY, Etc.ADVERTISEMENTS, 155 (THE FINEST RUM), Unequalled for the Cuisine, or as a Stimulant. Recommended and used by Mrs. A. B. MARSHALL at her School of Cookery. D. W« ID. The Dublin Whisky Distillery Com- pany make the finest IRISH V/HISKY, acknowledged to possess special medicinal qualities. WM. WILLIAMS k SONS, ABERDEEN The largest blenders of finest Highland Malt Whiskies. ‘ Perfection of Scotch Whisky.’—Vide the Press. IW ORDER these from your Wine Merchant. Price 42s. per doz.; 3s. 6d. per bottle.156 ADVERTISEMENTS. THE NORMAL COMPANY, Limited, BOTOLPH HOUSE, EASTCHEAP, LONDON, E.C. FACTORIES AT ABERDEEN, BARRA, AND THE FAROE ISLANDS FOOD PRODUCTS. EXTRACTS. FOOD EXTRACT.—This is superior to most, if not all other, Meat Extracts, owing to its richness in stimulating and restorative properties. It contains, as shown by analysis, less ash and water, and more sub- stances soluble in alcohol, and more nitrogenous compounds, than the best-known Extracts. VEGETABLE EXTRACT is a pure Extract of Fresh Vegetables. It imparts an agreeable flavour to Soups, Sauces, Stews, Gravies, Meat Jellies, etc., while its stimulating properties are analogous to those of Meat Extracts, making it a valuable addition to all diets, and all but indispensable to Vegetarians. FISH EXTRACT is similar in flavour, and equal in stimulating properties, to ordinary Meat Extracts. FOOD LOZENGES. — For Sportsmen, Excursionists, and others. These Lozenges will be found very supporting in the absence of proper meals. SOUPS. The Company’s Soups are guaranteed to be manufactured from the very best materials, and besides being most palatable, are of high dietetic value. They are divided into two classes, the UnCOllCCIl- trated and the Highly Concentrated. 1.—The Unconcentrated, in ordinary pound tins, requiring, however, the addition of an equal quantity of water. SCOTCH BROTH. HOTCH POTCH. GRAVY (Thick). MULLIGATAWNY. OYSTER. OX TAIL. MOCK TURTLE. KIDNEY. JULIENNE. STEW (Beef and Vegetables). 2.—The Highly Concentrated, for convenience of Storage and Freight (in Tins and Jars, producing 1 pint and upwards of JULIENNE. PEA. Soup). GRAVY (Thick). GRAVY (Clear). FISH.157 ADVERTISEMENTS. SAUSAGES. Manufactured from the best selected Raw Materials only. FRESH. SMOKED. ‘ YACHT & RACE ’ (Ready for immediate use). ‘EXCELSIOR’ (Ready for ira mediate use). SCOTCH. *FISH (Fresh and Smoked). * This Sausage, particularly the Smoked, is much approved of. OTHER FOOD PRODUCTS. CUTLETS. ANCHOVY PASTE. BLOATER PASTE. SAUCE. PRESERVED FISH. FRESH HERRINGS. KIPPERED HERRINGS. FINDON HADDOCKS. COLLARED COD—In lb. (flat circular) tins 1 A speciality recom- ,, HALIBUT „ ,, >- mended for Cold Lun- ,, LOBSTER ,, ,, J cheons, Suppers, etc. PREPARATIONS FROM FISH. For use during Lent and other Fasts. FISH EXTRACT is similar in flavour and equal in stimulating properties to ordinary Meat Extracts. FISH SOUP. OYSTER SOUP. LENTEN FARE, with or without Truffles. Ready for immediate use. (Suitable for Luncheons, etc.). THE LENTEN SAUSAGE (Fresh). FISH CAKES. No Goods are genuine without the Company’s registered on the Label, which should also hear a fac-simile of the Signature of TH. NORDENFELT across the face in red.158 ADVERTISEMENTS. PRICE’S PATENT CANDLE COMPANY, LIMITED. LONDON AND LIVERPOOL. SPECIALITIES. PRICE'S GOLD MEDAL PALMITINE CANDLES, The Finest Light for Dining and Drawing Rooms. PRICE’S DECORATIVE & COLOURED CANDLES. PRICE’S CHAMBER CANDLES, PRICE’S NIGHT LIGHTS, ‘Childs” and ‘New Patent’.are absolutely safe, and give a subdued and pleasant light. PRICE’S SOLIDIFIED GLYCERINE SOAP, Contains half its weight of Price’s Glycerine. PRICE’S NEW TOILET SOAPS, ‘Regina,’ ‘Princess,’ and ‘English. Rose.’ Absolutely pure, and of the, finest quality. Desiccated, milled and delicately perfumed. PRICE’S SANITARY TOILET SOAPS, ‘CARBOLIC AND GLYCERINE.’ ‘COAL TAR AND GLYCERINE.’ PRICE’S PURE GLYCERINE, Has received the Highest Awards at all the Great ExhibitL ( LIBRARY159 ADVERTISEMENTS. H. PALETHORPE’S Royal Cambridge, MAKER TO THE QUEEN, y Largest Maker in the World. > Royal Melton ORK PIES OXFORD BRAWN. Sold by all loading Grocers and Gamo Dealers throughout the Country. (Offices anb (Jfactorp: <%#' DCDLEY, WORCESTERSHIRE. FOR THE HOUSEHOLD, FARM, STABLE, KENNEL, ETC. JEYES’ ‘PERFECT PURIFIER.’ (Trade Mark.) Supersedes Carbolic and other Disinfectants, being much more efficacious, noil-poisonous, non- corrosive, STAIRLESS IN USE, AND CHEAPER, Prevents contagion by destroying its cause. INSTANTLY REMOVES BAD SMELLS. It is an almost unfailing cure for Eczema and other Skin Diseases ; and is the best-known Insecticide. EXTRACT FROM TESTIMONIAL. From Sir ROBERT RA WLINSON, C.B., C.E., Chief Sanitary Engineer, Local Government Board, Ismdon, S. IF.—‘I have come to the conclusion that it is the best disinfectant in use. All places are sweetened by it, and it is not dangerous as carbolic acid.’ Sold by all respectable Chemists, Grocors, Oilmen, etc., and Wholesale bv JEYE3’ SANITARY COMPOUNDS CQ., Limited, 43, Cannon Street, LONDON.Van Houten’s GUARANTEED PURE AND SOLUBLE. Cocoa is THE BEST and really THE CHEAPESTi n the end. The British Medical Journal says:—‘Van Houtkn’s Cocoa is admirable. In flavour it is perfect, and it is so pure, well prepared, and rich in alkaloid, that it may with great advantage be largely used in public institutions, as well as in private families.’ The Lancet remarks :—... It goes a long way, and is really cheaper to use in the end,’ etc. On account of the great strength of this Cocoa, a cup costs no more than a cup of tea; but being not only a most delicious, but also a highly nutritive beverage, this Cocoa is really much cheaper than tea. Digested with marvellous facility by the most delicate invalids and children. MADE INSTANTLY WITH BOILING HATED. Invaluable in Railway Stations, Hospitals, on hoard, in the Camp, for Workmen (at home and to take to their work), etc., etc. TRY IT ONCE, AND YOU WILL USE IT ALWAYS.