PRr>M thf rni ! FC.TIONMed K10377Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2016 https://archive.org/details/b2813137x■gsy Domestic AND Economical Cookery With Special Hints on Gas Cooking. BY MISS LILLIE RICHMOND, Gold Medallist, First Class Diplomee North Midland School of Cookery. LONDON: Cartwright & Rattray Ltd., 60, Watling Street, E.C., MANCHESTER : 12, Brown Street. Price Two Shillings.No. 6 T { Printers : Cartwright & Rattray Ltd., London, Manchester Hyde. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call •27 S4 wJ) £ w * w In compiling this book on Cookery, I have endeavoured to suit the tastes and requirements of all classes, and earnestly hope it will meet with the approbation of the public generally. Its simplicity should make it a useful volume in every household. PREFACE. LILLIE RICHMOND.f ▲WB have pleasure in acknowledging the courtesy of Messrs. Liebig s Extract of Meat Co. Ltd., in alloiving the repro- duction of several of the illustrations appearing in their Practical Cookery Book.1 teaspoonful Anchovy essence Yolk of hard-boiled-egg WITH SPECIAL* HINTS ON GAS COOKING. HORS-D’(EUVRES AND SAVOURIES. No. 1. PETITES CROUTES, A LA RICHMOND. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. Butter, 2 ozs. Breadcrumbs, Bread Pepper, salt, and cayenne, a little Cochineal, if required Chopped parsley. METHOD. Melt the butter, add to it the bread crumbs, seasoning, essence, and yolk of hard-boiled egg. Mix all into a smooth paste, which should be a pretty salmon tint. If not a good colour add a few drops of cochineal. COOKERY RECIPES,Cut a round of bread about a j of ail inch in thickness, and stamp it out into small rounds. Fry these for 1^ minutes in hot fat. Drain them upon kitchen paper. Place a teaspoonful of the anchovy mixture upon the centre of each round. Upon the top of mixture place two thin strips of the hard-boiled white of egg, crosswise. Upon centre of cross place a tiny sprig of fresh parsley. Sprinkle finely chopped parsley round base of each croute. Put small lace doyleys upon hors-d’oeuvre plates, and serve the croiites upon them. Hors-d’oeuvre and Savouries, so nearly resemble each other, in some instances, that one might very readily be served for the other. No. 2. ANCHOVY CROUTES. INGREDIENTS. Anchovy fillets Pepper, salt, and cayenne Two hard-boiled eggs Coral butter Some small fried croiites of bread METHOD. Cut the croiites of bread into oval shapes a little larger than the slices of hard-boiled eggs, which should be cut thinly lengthwise. Place a slice of egg upon each croitte. Remove the bones from the anchovies, and roll each fillet. Place two rolled fillets upon each croute, then decorate nicely with coral, or anchovy butter, passed through a fancy forcing pipe. No. 3. CAVIAR SUR CROUTES INGREDIENTS. Small rounds of fried or toasted bread Caviar METHOD. Warm the caviar in the oven, spread the bread with it,3 and sprinkle over a little dried and powdered lobster coral, or coraline pepper. Dust with pepper, if using lobster coral, and serve. No. 4. CAVIAR CANASSES. Proceed as in preceding recipe, using cold caviar, and cold fried crofttes of bread. Decorate with coraline pepper, and the hard-boiled yolk and white of an egg, rubbed through a sieve. No. 5. OLIVES FARCIES AUX ANCHOIS. Take some olive farcies (see Garnishes); serve them in little glass dishes, or in the following manner Spread some crohtons of fried bread, the size of a crown piece, with Montpellier butter, put an olive in the centre of each, and border them round with capers. No. 6. FOIES DE VOLAILLE A LA DIABLE. INGREDIENTS. Some chickens’ livers Some rounds of fried bread Some very thin slices of bacon about the size of a crown piece Pepper, salt, and cayenne METHOD. Season the liver with pepper and salt and cayenne. Divide them in two and roll a very thin piece of bacon round each. Place on the fried bread, and cook in a sharp oven.4 No. 7. HADDOCK ON TOAST. INGREDIENTS. 1 Egg Slices of Bread One teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley ^ lb. of smoked haddock 2 ozs. of Butter Pepper and salt METHOD. Scald the haddock, place it on a baking sheet with one ounce of butter spread over it, and cook it in the oven for 10 or 15 minutes. Remove the flesh from the bones and skin; chop it up finely, add the pepper and salt if it requires it; melt the remaining ounce of butter in a stew- pan and fry the fish slightly in it; cut the slices of bread into shapes and fry them ; pile a little of the haddock on each piece of bread, decorate with the egg (boiled hard and chopped) and the chopped parsley. No. 8. ANCHOVY TOAST. INGREDIENTS. 4 boned anchovies I 1 hard-boiled egg 4 pieces toast Dried lobster coral Finely-chopped parsley METHOD. Cut the toast into rounds with a tinted cutter, spread a little butter on each round ; wash the anchovies and wipe dry, fold them round, and place one on each round of toast; chop the white of the egg, rub the yolk through a wire sieve ; next the anchovy place a little of the white of the egg, then a little of the yolk ; sprinkle over all a bit of chopped parsley and lobster coral. Serve cold.5 No. 9. SARDINES ON TOAST. INGREDIENTS. 3 sardines 1 oz. butter 3 pieces toast Salt and pepper. Parsley METHOD. Scrape the skin oft' the sardines, put them on a dripping pan with the butter, salt and pepper, cover with a greased paper, and bake about seven minutes; place on strips of buttered toast, and garnish with fresh green parsley. No. 10. CROQUETTES OF MACARONI CHEESE. INGREDIENTS. Theremainsof macaroni cheese \ pint Milk. § ozs. Flour. 1 oz. Butter. Grated Parmesan to taste 1 Egg- Pepper and salt to taste METHOD. Take the cold remains of macaroni cheese, chop small. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, mix with the chopped macaroni, add grated Parmesan and seasoning to taste, mix in the egg, let it get cold. Make into balls, egg and bread crumb, and fry. Serve piled high in a dish, with a little grated Parmesan scattered over. No. 11. TOMATO CHEESE INGREDIENTS. Grated cheese, 3 tablespoon- Butter 1 oz. fuls Pepper, salt, and cayenne to Tomato sauce, 1 tablespoonful taste METHOD. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the tomato sauce,6 and then the cheese. Mix Avell, and add seasoning. When very hot pour upon croutons, or pieces of toast. Serve at once. No. 12. CAULIFLOWER AU GRATIN. INGREDIENTS. Boiled cauliflower White sauce (see index) Cheese (grated) Bread crumbs Butter, 1 oz. Pepper and salt METHOD. Butter a shallow pie-dish ivell, put in a layer of sauce, then cauliflower, sprinkle the cauliflower thickly with cheese, and season well; then add more sauce, cauliflower, and cheese till the dish is full; the top layer must be of sauce. Sprinkle this well with cheese and a few bread crumbs, and put on plenty of small pieces of butter. Let it brown in the oven or before the fire. No. 13. CHEESE AIGRETTES. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. of butter. 3 oz9. of fine flour. 2 ozs. of grated Parmesan cheese. 2 whole eggs and 1 yolk. Pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. 1 pint of water. METHOD. Put the butter and water in a saucepan on the fire to boil. Rub the flour through a sieve, shake it quickly into the water when boiling. Stir and cook thoroughly. Then add, off the fire, the eggs, beating them in one by one. Add the seasoning and the cheese. Drop teaspoonfuls of the mixture into hot fat (see French frying), and fry a7 o-olden brown. They will take about ten minutes to cook. After they are dropped in the fat the pan must be drawn to the side of the lire, that they do not take a dark colour before they are cooked. Drain on kitchen paper and serve at once, piled high on a folded napkin. No. 14. CHEESE STRAWS. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of butter. 2 ozs. of grated cheese. 3 ozs. of flour. Salt and cayenne. I yolk of egg. METHOD. Rub the butter into the Hour; add the cheese and seasoning; rub the cheese well into the flour, and mix all together with the yolk of egg; roll the pastry out on a well-floured board and cut it into straws and rings ; bake in a very moderate oven on a slightly-greased baking sheet till they are a very light brown. Allow them to cool a little on the baking sheet before removing them. Serve three or four straws in each ring. No. 15. CROQUETTES DE VERMICELLE AU PARMESAN. Boil two ounces of vermicelli in three-quarters of a pint of milk until quite tender. Mix in one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of French mustard, two ounces of grated cheese (Parmesan is the best), cayenne, season to taste. When the mixture has become quite cold, roll it out on a board (using a few bread crumbs) about half an inch thick ; cut into small crescents and any fancy shapes. Dip them into egg and then into crushed vermicelli ; fry a pretty golden colour in hot fat. Dish in a circle. This makes a very pretty savoury.8 No. 16. MACARONI CHEESE. INGREDIENTS. 2 teaspoonful made mustard Cayenne ) , , , Salt i t0 ta8te £ pint milk METHOD. Break the macaroni into small pieces, put it into boiling water (slightly salted), boil till tender, fifteen or twenty minutes. Drain, melt half an ounce of butter, stir in the flour, add milk, boil well, stirring all the time ; add cay- enne, salt, and mustard, also half the cheese, and the macaroni. Butter a pie-dish or French baking dish, put in the macaroni, sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the top, and put also half an ounce of butter in small pieces. Put it in a quick oven or before a good fire. No. 17. CHEESE FINGERS. INGREDIENTS. 2 oz. grated cheese | Puff Pastry Pepper, salt & cayenne to taste METHOD. Roll out half the paste thinly, strew over it nearly all the cheese mixed with the seasoning. Then roll out the remainder of the paste, put it on the cheese, cut into small fingers. Bake in a quick oven ; a few minutes before it is done scatter the remainder of the cheese over the fingers. Serve very hot. J lb. Macaroni 2 oz. flour 3 oz. grated cheese 1 oz. butter9 No 18. ROASTED CHEESE. | lb. cheese Yolks of 2 eggs 4 oz. bread crumbs INGREDIENTS. 2 oz. butter 1 dessert-spoonful mustard Salt and pepper. Toast METHOD Pound all the ingredients together, put on slices of toast, place in a hot oven, and bake for ten minutes. No. 19. KIDNEYS A LA BROCHETTE. Take two sheeps' kidneys, cut them nearly through lengthwise, remove the core ; brush over with oiled butter, cover with bread crumbs, shake off loose crumbs, season with pepper and salt. Place them upon a skewer, and grill for 8 minutes. Serve upon hot buttered toast. No. 20. CHEESE RISSOLES. ^ lb. flour 4 oz. butter 2 eggs A little milk INGREDIENTS. 3 oz. grafed cheese Bread crumbs Salt and pepper Frying fat METHOD. Put flour, salt and pepper into a basin, rub the butter well into it, add the cheese, beat the eggs, add to them the milk, pour to the dry ingredients, and mix into a smooth10 paste, not too stiff. Form into balls, brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat, when nicely browned, remove from the fat, drain on kitchen paper, arrange on a hot dish, sprinkle on them a little grated cheese, and serve hot. No. 21. SCOTCH EGGS 2 hard boiled eggs 4 small rounds toast Bread crumbs INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. sausage meat 1 raw egg Frying fat METHOD. The eggs should be boiled ten minutes, and put into ■water until quite cold, then take off the shells. Divide the sausage meat into two equal portions, and cover each egg with it, being careful that every part of the egg is covered over and without any cracks, brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs and fry in boiling fat, then cut the eggs through the centre, and put each half on a round of toast, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot or cold. No. 22. GERMAN EGGS. INGREDIENTS. 2 eggs 2 small rounds of toast Chopped parsley Salt and pepper METHOD. Grease two dariole moulds with butter, sprinkle the inside with chopped parsley, salt and pepper, put an egg into each mould without breaking the yolk, place in a saucepan containing enough water to reach half-way up the moulds, steam very gently about ten minutes, turn out on to the pieces of toast, serve hot.11 No. 23. STEWED TOMATOES. INGREDIENTS. 4 tomatoes 1 oz. butter 2 tablespoonful vinegar Salt and pepper METHOD. Put the tomatoes in a jar with the butter, salt, pepper and vinegar. Cook in the oven 20 to 25 minutes. Stewed in stock the tomatoes are excellent. No. 24. BUTTERED EGGS. INGREDIENTS. 2 eggs Salt Chopped parsley 2 oz. butter Pepper 4 pieces toast METHOD. Melt the butter in a saucepan, break in the eggs, add the salt and pepper, stir over the stove quickly until it thickens like honey, then pile on the pieces of toast. Sprinkle over them a little chopped parsley.12 No. 25. STEWED KIDNEYS. 4 sheeps’ kidneys 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour pint stock INGREDIENTS. '2 teaspoonful chopped parsley Salt and pepper 4 teaspoonful Worcester sauce METHOD. Halve the kidneys, melt the butter, add the flour and fry brown, pour in the stock, parsley, sauce, salt and pepper, boil up, put in the kidneys, and stew slowly one hour. Arrange kidney on a hot dish and pour the gravy over. No. 26. MUSHROOM SAVOURY. INGREDIENTS. Small rounds of buttered toast | Mushrooms Slices of tomato j Pepper, salt and cayenne METHOD Place a slice of tomato upon each round of toast, then a small mushroom (stalk and peel removed). Put a small piece of butter upon the centre of mushroom, and bake in moderate oven until the mushrooms are tender. Serve hot, with finely chopped parsley sprinkled over. No. 27. BISCUIT SAVOURY. Butter some cheese biscuits upon both sides, sprinkle on one side some grated parmesan cheese, seasoned nicely with pepper, salt, and cayenne. Place in a moderate oven for about five minutes, and then serve.13 No. 28. DEVILLED ROES. The soft roes of fresh herrings, fried in butter, cayenne and salt to taste. Serve very hot on crofitons of fried bread, or small pieces of buttered toast. No. 29. DEVILLED SHRIMPS. Shell the shrimps, make them hot in butter, add cayenne to taste. Serve on croutons or buttered toast.u HIGH-CLASS SOUPS. No. 30. FIRST STOCK FOR CLEAR SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. shin of beef, or 2 lbs. 9> ,, and 2 lbs. knuckle of veal 5 pints of cold water 2 carrots 1 onion £ head of celery The white part of a leek 1 dozen peppercorns 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram 1 bay leaf Pepper and salt METHOD. Cut the meat into small pieces, break up the bone and remove the marrow ; put the bones and meat into the stock-pot with the cold water, add a little salt, and gently simmer the contents for half-an-hour ; then put in the vegetables, herbs, and peppercorns. Simmer for five hours. Strain into a clean pan, and put away until cold. Note.—First stock must not be allowed to boil. Some- times a fowl is used in addition in making this stock. No. 31. WHITE STOCK. This maybe made according to the directions in preceding recipe, using white meat instead of beef, knuckle of veal, a rabbit or fowl make excellent white stock.A good white stock may be made by using bones and no meat; a ham bone with the others flavours this stock nicely. No. 32. SECOND STOCK. Use any scraps of cooked or uncooked meat with any bones. Allow one quart of water to every pound of meat and bones, and use vegetables in the same proportion as for first stock. Boil the meat and bones gently for one hour, then put in the vegetables and boil for four-and-a-half to five hours longer ; strain; bones may be put on again with fresh stock material, as they require long boiling to extract all the gelatine ; when cold, second stock should be a strong jelly. To flavour the stock more fully, the vegetables should be fried in a little dripping before they are added to the meat. No. 33. FISH STOCK. INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. of fish, or fish bones and trimmings 4 quarts of water 2 carrots 2 turnips 2 onions Half a head of celery 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and a bay leaf 1 doz. peppercorns 3 cloves A little salt METHOD. Put the fish, or fish bones, into a saucepan with the water and a little salt, and boil gently for half an hour. Then put in the vegetables, well cleansed and cut up, the herbs, peppercorns, &c., and boil gently for to 5 hours. Strain.16 Tomatoes are a very nice addition to this stock. This stock may serve as a basis for all fish soups. No. 34. CONSOMME, OR CLEAR SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 2 quarts of first stock | The white and shell of 1 egg f lb. gravy beef METHOD. Remove all the fat from the stock. If it is in a jelly, take off as much as possible with an iron spoon, and remove the remainder by washing the top of the stock with a cloth dipped in very hot water. Scrape the beef finely, and soak it in two tablespoonfuls of cold water, to draw out the juices. Put the stock in a stewpan, and add the beef to it, the white and shell of the egg, and a small piece of each kind of vegetable, except turnip, used in making the stock. Whisk over the gas until the stock begins to simmer ; then leave of! stirring, and let it boil up well ; take it off the gas, and put it aside for a crust to form. Tie a clean cloth to a soup-strainer, or to the four legs of a chair turned upside down ; pour some boiling water through it into a basin to ensure it being perfectly clean ; then put a clean basin underneath and pour all the contents of the stew-pan on to the cloth. The first time the soup runs through it will be cloudy, because the filter made by the beef and egg will not settle at the bottom of the cloth. Take the soup away, put a clean basin under the cloth, and pour the soup slowly through a second time. If this is carefully done the soup will be quite brilliant the second time of straining and need not go through the cloth again.Richmond s Cookers have Enamelled Crown Plates.17 No. 35. CONSOMME A LA JULIENNE (Julienne Soup). No. 36. CONSOMME ROYAL. This is a clear soup with a savoury custard in it. (For Custard, see Garnishes ) No. 37. CONSOMME A LA PRINCESSE. Serve small quenelles (see Quenelles of Veal) made in teaspoons, and nicely poached in the clear soup. No. 38. CONSOMME A LA BRUNOISE (Brunoise Soup). This is a clear soup, with Brunoise garnish in it. (See Garnishes.) Use half a pint to two quarts of soup. No. 39. CONSOMME A LA JARDINIERE (Jardiniere Soup.) Trim some turnips and the red part of carrots into the shape of peas. Cook them until tender in a little stock. BCook also some green peas, and some asparagus peas, the white part of a cauliflower cut into sprigs, the white leaves of a cabbage stamped into rounds with a cutter the size of a shilling, and a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil. These must all be cooked with care. To two quarts of soup allow half a pint of these vegetables measui ed together. No. 40. GARNISHES. Savoury Custard.—For Consomme a la Royal. INGREDIENTS. 2 whole eggs | 1 gill stock 2 yolks | Pepper and salt METHOD. Beat the eggs and soup together, and season with pepper and salt. Cover with buttered paper, and steam carefully (see Directions for Custards in Chapter on Puddings). Let it cool before turning it out. Then cut into slices, and stamp these into fancy shapes or cut into diamonds or dice. No. 41. Croutons of Bread. Cut the bread into crescents, kites, heart-shapes, squares, &c., according to the purpose required, and fry them in clarified butter until a golden colour. Drain them on kitchen paper. No. 42. Croutons of Bread for Soup. Cut stale bread into small dice, and fry a golden brown in clarified butter.19 No. 43. Fried Parsley. Wash and dry the parsley and pick off the stalks. Fry it in hot fat (see French Frying) until crisp, then remove it instantly. Drain on kitchen paper and sprinkle with a little salt. Care should be taken not to use parsley that has been frosted, as it will blacken in frying. No. 44. Julienne Garnish. INGREDIENTS. The red part of 2 large carrots The white of half a head of 2 turnips celery 6 leeks METHOD. Cut them into shreds and cook separately until tender, taking care not to over cook them. Shredded lettuce may be cooked and added to the other vegetables when possible. When cooked drain them well. They are sometimes tossed in a little butter. No. 45. BRUNOISE GARNISH. Take the vegetables mentioned in foregoing recipe, and cut into small dice. Cook separately until tender, and finish as for julienne. No. 46. COCKS COMBS Put the combs into cold water and cook until the skin begins to rise, then immediately pour in some cold water, take out the combs and skin them. B 220 If they are allowed to cook after the skins rise they will not whiten. Trim them, and put them in water with a little salt in it for eight hours; then put them in fresh cold water, changing it frequently until they are quite white; put them in a stew-pan, cover with water, add a little butter, lemon juice, pepper and salt, and boil gently until tender. No. 47. QUENELLES. Use for these veal or chicken quenelle meat, shaping it in a teaspoon. Poach according to the directions given under the heading Quenelle Meat. No. 48. HOUSEHOLD AND FAMILY SOUPS. WHITE LENTIL SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 blade mace 1 tablespoonful flour 1 oz. butter or dripping \ pint milk Pepper and salt to taste METHOD. Wash the lentils thoroughly ; put into a saucepan with the water, sliced onion, celery, and parsley ; bring to the boil, a pint lentils 2 pints water 1 onion 2 stalks celery 2 sprigs parsley 4 white peppercorns21 skim well, add peppercorns and mace; simmer till tender; rub through a sieve or colander into a basin. Put butter, milk and flour into the saucepan, stir with a wooden spoon until it boils, pour the soup on to it, make thoroughly hot. Season to taste. No. 49. BROWN LENTIL SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 pint lentils 1 onion 1 carrot 2 stalks celery METHOD. 4 pints stock or water 1 oz. butter or dripping Pepper and salt to taste Wash the lentils well; prepare and slice the vegetables and fry them in the hot dripping; pour over water, add lentils, and simmer till tender—about 1£ hours. Rub through a sieve or colander, boil up, and season to taste. No. 50. BROWN SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. beef dripping 1 small carrot 2 stalks celery 12 peppercorns 1 quart stock 1 tablespoonful catsup Flour to thicken 1 large onion 1 small turnip Bunch of herbs 3 or 4 cloves Pepper and salt to season Browning to colour METHOD. Melt the dripping, and when hot fry the vegetables brown, removing them about well to prevent burning, add the hot stock and simmer till tender. Rub through a sieve, add catsup, browning and seasoning. Thicken with a little Hour, boil up and serve wth toast or fried bread.No. 51. PEA SOUP. INGREDIENTS. i pint split peas 1 carrot 1 turnip 1 onion 3 pints stock or water Pepper and salt to taste 2 teaspoonful dried mint METHOD. Soak the peas all night in cold water ; put into a clean pan with the stock, which must not be salt, and if the water be very hard, add a small piece of soda. Bring to the boil slowly, when boiling add the vegetables sliced ; simmer at least three hours, rub through a sieve or colander, re-heat, add seasoning and dried mint. No. 52. OYSTER SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. knuckle of veal 2 lbs. plaice 1 onion (stuck with 3 cloves) 1 bay leaf \ pint milk $ pint cream 2 oz. butter 2 tablespoonful cornflower 18 oysters 1 teaspoonful Anchovy sauce METHOD. Cut up the veal and put it with the onion, the bay leaf, and a little salt into one quart of cold water; let it simmer for four hours, then strain it, and when cold take off the fat. Put the plaice in one quart of cold water, let it simmer till the flesh is in rags, then strain it and press the plaice through a sieve. When both the fish and veal stock are cold, mix them together and add the liquor from the oysters, the milk and the anchovy sauce; when these have come to the boil, add the thickening of23 Hour and butter, and seasoning of pepper, salt and cayenne; let the soup simmer for two. or three minutes. Cut the oysters in halves, add them to the boiling soup, then draw it off the fire directly ; add the cream and serve. Simmer the oyster beards in a little water, strain them, and add the liquor from them to the soup at the same time that you add the oyster liquor. No. 53. OX TAIL SOUP. 1 ox tail 2 oz. flour 2 onions 1 shalotj 14 peppercorns 1 bunch herbs 2 quarts water 2 oz. butter INGREDIENTS. 1 carrot 1 small turnip i head celery 4 cloves 1 teaspoonful salt 1 teaspoonful Liebig’s Extract of Meat METHOD. Cut the tail in pieces, fry in the butter; when brown, add the vegetables, cleaned and cut in pieces ; add the spice and salt, the water and Extract. Allow the soup to boil for three hours. Put in a clean saucepan two ounces of butter and the two ounces of flour, which should be fried brown ; add this to the soup, boil up and strain. No. 54. KIDNEY SOUP. INGREDIENTS. ! ox kidney. 1 carrot, 1 turnip, 1 onion, oz. butter, 1 oz. flour. 1 piece celery, bunch herbs, cjuait water or second stock. Salt and pepper. METHOD. Cut the kidney in small pieces, and fry it in the butter, when brown remove from the pan, add the flour, the24 vegetables, herbs, the pieces of kidney, water, and seasoning, let all simmer for two hours with the lid on the pan, strain and serve. Some of the kidney may be served in the soup. No. 55. GRAVY SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. cooked or uncooked bones. 2 pints water 1 carrot, turnip, and onion. Bunch of herbs, Salt, & pepper. 1 dessert-spoonful Liebig Company’s Extract. METHOD. Chop the bones and put them into a saucepan with the water; when boiling remove the scum, add the vegetables cut in pieces, the herbs and seasoning to taste, boil two hours. When nearly done add the Extract. Strain and serve. No. 56. POTATO SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. potatoes 2 onions 2 oz. butter or dripping. 2 quarts stock or water. 1 pint milk. 2 sticks celery. 2 tablespoonfuls sago. Seasoning. METHOD. Wash, peel and slice the potatoes and onions, wash and slice the celery, put the butter in a saucepan, add the vegetables, and cook over the gas for five minutes; add the stock, boil up and simmer till tender ; rub through a sieve or colander, put back in the saucepan, add milk and sago, and simmer till clear. Season to taste.25 No.'57. GREEN PEA SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 14 pints green peas (shelled) 2 or 3 lettuces (cut in small pieces) A few leaves spinach A sprig mint 2 oz. butter 4 oz. flour 1 pint water Pepper and salt METHOD. Put one pint of the peas into a stewpan with one ounce of butter, the mint, spinach, and half the lettuces. Stir these about well so that the vegetables may steam in the butter for about ten minutes, but do not let them brown ; then add the cold water and simmer till tender. Pass through a hair sieve, rub through as much as possible of the peas, &c. Melt one ounce of butter in a pan, stir in the flour, add the puree; just boil. Have ready-boiled a quarter of a pint of peas and the remainder of the lettuce ; add these to the boiling soup. Let all boil for five minutes altogether. Serve with croutons of fried bread. If liked thinner more water may be used. Wash the tapioca well in clean waiter ; put the water on to boil, when boiling sprinkle in the tapioca, and put in the cloves; cook for about twenty minutes until the tapioca is quite clear; then add the milk and when the soup again boils stir in the butter, and season. Draw the soup off the gas for a few minutes and then pour it upon the beaten yolk of the egg, stirring carefully all the time to prevent the yolk from curdling. No. 58. VELVET SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1J oz. finely crushed tapioca D oz. fresh butter 1 yolk new laid egg 1 pint water 2 cloves Seasoning of pepper and salt 4 pint milk METHOD.2G No. 59 FISH SOUP INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of fish 2 quarts of water 3 onions 1 bunch of parsley 1 head of celery 3 cloves 1 bay leaf 20 peppercorns 1 blade of mace Salt M ETHOD. Boil the fish in the water with the vegetables until cooked. Then remove it, cut off the fi esh, and put the bones and trimmings back into the saucepan, and simmer gently for 1 \ hours. Strain, and put the fish cut into neat pieces into the soup and make it hot. This soup may be thickened with flour and a wineglass of sherry added. No. 60. MUTTON BROTH. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. neck of mutton 1 carrot ^ turnip 1 teaspoonful salt 2 oz. rice 3 pints water 2 onions h teaspoonful pepper METHOD. Cut the mutton into small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the water and salt, allow it to boil, remove the scum, add the vegetables, cut into small dice, let it simmer forH hours, then add the rice and pepper, and boil for 15 minutes, pour into a tureen and add a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. No. 61. CHICKEN BROTH. INGREDIENTS. 1 fowl I 11b. veal Salt and pepper I 1 onion METHOD. Cut the fowl in pieces, place it in the saucepan with the veal, onion, salt, and pepper, and three pints of water simmer slowly for three hours, strain, and serve. No. 62. HARE SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 hare 2 oz. butter 1 sprig parsley 1 blade mace 1 teaspoonful pepper 1 carrot 1 oz. flour Thyme and mai’joram 8 cloves 1 tablespoonful salt \ pint port wine 1 onion 5 pints water 1 piece celery METHOD. Cut the hare into small pieces, put it into a saucepan with the vegetables cut into pieces, herbs, spice, salt, pepper, and water; simmer these gently, three hours. Pass through a wire sieve, picking out the best pieces of meat. Cut them in small pieces, add to the soup with the wine and flour mixed. Boil five minutes, and serve.■28- No. 63. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. lean ham 1 carrot 1 oz. flour 1 teaspoonful sugar i lb. cold chicken, or mutton 4 apples \ head celery 2 oz. curry powder Juice of half a lemon 3 onions 2 ozs. butter 1 tablespoonful curry paste 2 teaspoonful salt 2 quarts stock METHOD. Clean the vegetables, and cut in pieces, chop the apples, cut the ham into small dice, fry all these in the butter, add the flour, curry powder, paste, and all the ingredients. Stir until it boils, then simmer until the vegetables are quite tender, rub through a fine sieve, serve with boiled rice in a separate dish. N.B.—A quarter of a pint of cream is a great improve- ment to this soup. No. 64. VEGETABLE SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 tablespoonful sago 3 pints stock J pint milk 2 ozs. butter or dripping 1 tablespoonful chopped parsley Pepper and salt to season METHOD. Prepare the vegetables and cut them into small thick pieces ; put the butter into a saucepan, add vegetables, and shake over the fire for ten minutes ; add stock and simmer till tender about 14 hours. Rub through a sieve or colander, put back into the saucepan, add milk, sprinkle in the sago, and cook gently quarter hour Season to taste. Add chopped parsley ; serve with toasted bread, or squares of bread fried in dripping. 2 onions 1 turnip 2 carrots 4 potatoes 2 or 3 stalks celery 2 sprigs parsley29- No. 65. TOMATO SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. fresh tomatoes 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour 2 oz. ham or lean bacon Small piece of carrot Small piece of turnip 1 teaspoonful Liebig 1 onion 4 cloves Small blade of mace 1 teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful pepper 1 quart water Company’s Extract of Beef. METHOD. Put the butter into a saucepan and melt it, add the vegetables, cleaned and cut in pieces, fry about five minutes, add the flour, spice and seasoning, the tomatoes cut in slices, also the ham ; lastly add the extract dissolved in a quart of warm water with the salt and pepper, stir until the soup boib, then allow it to simmer one hour, rub through a wire sieve, boil up again, and serve with fried bread. No. 66. HARICOT BEAN SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 carrot 1 qu^rt cold water. 1 blade mace. 1 pint milk. Seasoning. METHOD. Wash and pick the beans, let them soak all night in cold water, strain and put into a clean pan with the vegetables, mace, cloves, and cold water. Bring to the boil slowly, and simmer very gently till tender for two or three hours ; as the water reduces, add a little more cold water. Rub through a sieve, add milk, seasoning, and chopped parsley. Re-heat and serve. 1 pint haricot beans. 2 onions. 2 cloves. ^ teaspoonful parsley.30 No. 67. CHICKEN SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 2 young chickens. 2 quarts white stock. 3 oz. bread crumbs. \ pint cream I blade mace, 1 teaspoonful salt, ^ ditto pepper 1 sprig parsley, piece of lemon rind METHOD. Wash the chickens well, and cut them in pieces, put them into a saucepan with the stock, salt and pepper, mace, parsley, and lemon rind. Cover the saucepan, and simmer for one hour ; then take all the meat from the bones, put the bones back into the pan, and let them simmer another hour. Take the best pieces of meat and cut into slices, the remainder must be pounded in a mortar with the bread crumbs, which have been soaked with a little of the boiling stock, it must be pounded to a smooth paste. Strain the stock, add to it the paste and the pieces of chicken, allow it to boil up, then add the cream, and serve.31 No. 68. TO BOIL FISH. All white fish should be put into water nearly boiling, and as the water boils remove the scum. To every two quarts of water allow a dessert spoonful of salt and a table spoonful of vinegar. The vinegar makes the fish firmer and whiter. See that the fish is fresh, remove the scales, take out the inside and the eyes, and cut off" the fins. Wash it well, but do not soak it; place it on a drainer and place the drainer in the boiling water. Cook gently. Average time for boiling fish, 7 minutes to the lb., and a little longer if a very thick piece. No. 69. TO STEAM FISH. Wash the fish well, place in a steamer over a saucepan of boiling water, keep the lid on, and steam 10 minutes to the lb., according to the thickness and size of the fish. Steamed food is far preferable to boiled, as it does not lose so much of its goodness; it takes rather longer to cook.No. 70. FRIED FISH. Fish for frying must be carefully prepared, well cleaned, washed, dried, and cut into conveniently sized pieces; dip into batter, Hour, or oatmeal, or brush over with egg and roll in fine bread crumbs. Put at least 3 or 4 oz. of lard or dripping into a saucepan, and when hot enough put in the fish and fry a golden brown, first one side and then the other. Drain on soft paper, which readily absorbs the grease. Put the white side of the fish downwards and brown it first, then the dark side. It is a good plan to have a deep pan which will hold sufficient fat to cover the article cooked. When cool the fat must be strained. It may be used for the same purpose many times. No. 71. BATTER FOR FRYING FISH. Mix four tablespoonsful of flour with \ pint milk, add pepper and salt ; beat well. TO EGG AND CRUMB FISH Beat up the egg on a plate, add salt and pepper ; put the bread crumbs on a sheet of paper. Dip the fish in the egg, being careful to cover every part, then into the crumbs ; when well covered shake off the loose crumbs. No. 73. TO BAKE FISH. Place the fish in a baking tin, greased with butter, sprinkle over a little pepper, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice, then cover with a greased paper. Bake in a moderate oven 10 to 15 minutes, according to the size of the fish.Richmond’s Cookers-the Housewiie’s Delight.Richmond’s Cookers, Best tor Bread Baking1. .' ■> /33 No. 74. FRIED SOLE. Cover the sole with beaten egg, and fine bread crumbs, flatten these on with a knife and fry in a deep frying pan. Moderate the heat when brown, that the sole may cook well in the centre without taking too deep a colour. A sole will take from 3 to 6 minutes to fry. When done, drain well on soft kitchen paper, and dish on a napkin or paper. Garnish with fried parsley. No. 75. SOLE AU GRATIN. INGREDIENTS. 1 sole 1 dessert-spoonful of finely chopped parsley 6 button mushrooms finely chopped A few brown 1 shallot finely chopped Lemon juice Pepper and salt | oz. butter 1 oz. of good glaze sread crumbs METHOD. Butter a gratin-dish, and sprinkle on it half of the parsley, shallot, and mushrooms, with a little lemon juice, pepper, and salt. Lay the sole in the tin, with the white skin downwards, and notched here and there to prevent it contracting while cooking. The dark skin must be removed. Sprinkle the remainder of the parsley, etc., over it, also a few pieces of butter. Bake from 10 to 15 minutes, and serve on the dish in which it was cooked, with the glaze poured over it. The dish should be placed upon another one. No. 76. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA SUPREME. INGREDIENTS. Fillets of 2 or more soles | £ pint of supreme sauce Lemon juice METHOD. Roll or fold the fillets with the side from which the skin was taken inside. C34 Place them on a buttered baking-sheet, sprinkle lemon juice over, and cover with buttered paper. Cook in a moderate oven as directed for sole a la Rouennaise. Dish in a circle, and cover with the sauce. Maitre-d hotel, Italian, Genoese, Cardinal, and many other sauces, may be used with fillets of sole in the same manner, and the sauce will give its name to the dish. No. 77. FILLETED SOLE (A LA ROUEN). INGREDIENTS. I eole 1 tablespoonful mixture as for shrimp cutlets. (See p. 35) 2 dozen picked shrimps Salt, pepper, lemon juice £ oz. flour. 1 oz. butter 4 pint milk METHOD. Fillet the sole by cutting it down the centre of the back, and carefully lifting the fillets with a sharp knife, which must be kept firmly pressed on the bone. When the four fillets are removed, place on each half a little of the shrimp mixture, fold the other half over, place on a buttered tin with a little salt, pepper, and lemon juice on each, cover with buttered paper ; bake six to ten minutes. Put on a hot dish, and pour over the sauce, made by melting the butter. Add the flour and milk ; boil well, stirring to keep it smooth, add salt and pepper. Garnish the dish with the shrimps, which have been warmed in a little butter. No. 78. BOILED SALMON. Put a large fish kettle of water on the stove, allow- ing one tablespoonful of salt to every two quarts of water, and a little vinegar. Wash the salmon well and clean it thoroughly ; lay it on a strainer; stop the35 water boiling, put in the salmon, and let it simmer gently. Allow eight minutes to the pound. W hen done, place on a serviette on a hot dish; garnish with fennel and cut lemon ; serve with parsley, lobster, or tartare sauce. No. 79. 1/. 'j SHRIMP CUTLETS. £ pint picked shrimps \ oz. flour 1 oz. butter INGREDIENTS. h gill of milk, salt, pepper Bread crumbs, frying fat l egg METHOD. Make as for salmon cutlets. No. 80. SOLE A LA COLBERT. Fry the sole according to the directions given for fried sole. When cooked carefully remove the bone without breaking the fish. Put some maitre-d’hotel butter in the cavity, and serve before it melts. Garnish with fried parsley and cut lemon. No. 81. FILLETS OF SOLE A LA ROUENNAISE. 2 or more soles Lemon juice Lobster cutlet mixture Finely chopped truffle INGREDIENTS. A- pint or more of velout6 sauce (prepared if possible with stock made from the bones and trimmings of the soles) METHOD. Remove both skins from the soles and fillet them (see How to fillet fish). Spread some of the lobster cutlet mixture on the one half of each fillet and fold it over. Place them on a greased baking-sheet and sprinkle with lemon juice. Cover with buttered paper, and bake in a C 236 moderate oven from seven to twelve minutes, according to the thickness of the fillet. Dish the fillets in a circle, and pour over the sauce mixed with chopped truffle. Decorate the fillets by placing on them alternately a pinch of chopped truffle and prepared lobster coral. The fillets may be dished, if liked, on a border of lobster cutlet mixture. Note.—In preparing any fillets of sole for cooking, roll or fold them with the side from which the skin was taken inside. There is still on this an under-skin which contracts in cooking, and unless they are folded in this way the fillets will not keep in shape. No. 82. GRILLED SALMON. Cut the salmon in slices about 1 inch in thickness, rub them over with the best salad oil, if very thick wrap in buttered paper and grill gently, turning every few minutes. They will probably take about 15 minutes to cook. When done the fish will easily leave the bone on being pressed. Tartare, caper, horseradish, poivrade, Italian brown, and many other sauces may be served with it. No. 83 CROUSTADES OF FISH. INGREDIENTS. 2 table spoonfuls cream 1 dessertspoonful anchovy sauce . Cayenne and salt to taste Lemon juice. A few drops METHOD. Make 6 or 8 croustades in the following manner: Cut slices about 2 inches thick from a stale loaf of bread, and out of the slices cut rounds about inches in diameter. Scoop out the centre, leaving sides and bottom about ^ of an inch in thickness. 6 or 8 croustades 1 lb. cooked fish 1 oz. butter \ oz. flour | gill milk37 Soak the croustades in thin cream. Drain them, and fry in hot fat, and while quite hot fill them with the fish mixture, made as follows : Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour and milk, boil well. Stir in the fish, cream, seasoning, and last of all, the lemon juice. Fill high in the croustades, and serve while they are hot. No. 84. v. SOUFFLE OF DRIED HADDOCK. INGREDIENTS. 1 gill milk 6 oysters (cut up) 1 oz. butter 3 eggs, whites (beaten stiffly) 1 oz. fine flour 2 eggs, yolks 4 oz. dried haddock (chopped Brown crumbs, finely) METHOD. top and a little butter, minutes in a moderate oven. Make a sauce as follows : Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil the mixture well; stir in the yolks and fish, and season to taste. Lastly, add the whites; mix them in lightly but thoroughly. Bake the mixture in small “ ramakins ” (oiled and dried previously), put a few brown crumbs on the They will take about fifteen No. 85. TIMBALES OF WHITING. INGREDIENTS. 2 whiting 1 oz. butter \ pint milk A few drops of lemon juice 2 eggs 1 oz. flour ^ teaspoonful salt J teaspoonful white pepper METHOD. Take all the fish from the bones, and rub it through a wire sieve. Melt the butter, add it to the flour, stir until38 smooth, add the milk, and cook well; add to it the whiting, the eggs, salt, pepper, and lemon juice, mix all thoroughly (a little cream is a great improvement) ; pour into well- greased d’ariole moulds, cover with greased paper, and steam 20 minutes ; turn out, and serve with white sauce. No. 8G. FRIED WHITING. 2 whiting 1 egg Flour INGREDIENTS. Bread crumbs Frying fat METHOD. The whiting should have their tails put in their mouths, cover with flour to dry them. Brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. No. 87. FISH FRIED IN BATTER. 1 plaice 2 oz. flour Salt 1 oz. butter INGREDIENTS. White of one egg £ gill warm water Frying fat METHOD. Fillet the plaice and cut it into convenient sized pieces. Put the flour and salt into a basin, add the butter melted, and sufficient warm water to make a thick batter, beat until quite smooth, then add the white of the egg beaten to a stiff froth ; mix lightly, cover the pieces of fish with the batter, and fry in the hot fat until a nice golden brown. Drain on soft kitchen paper. Arrange in a circle on a hot dish, and serve with fried parsley in the centre.39 No. 88. KROMESKIES OF FISH. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. cold fish (chopped finely) ^ oz. butter \ oz. flour ^ gill milk 1 tablespoonful cream Squeeze of lemon Cayenne and salt to taste Some thin slices of fat bacon Frying batter METHOD. Chop the fish finely, make a sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, boil it well, add the cream and seasoning and boil again. Remove the sauce from the fire and add the fish, and let the mixture cool. Make it up into cork shapes, roll each piece into a thin slice of bacon, fasten it with a skewer, dip into batter and fry a nice pale colour. Dish up in a pyramid and garnish with fried parsley. Frying Batter. INGREDIENTS. £ lb. flour 2 whites of eggs (beaten stiffly) 1 gill tepid water Seasoning 1 tablespoonful salad oil METHOD. Make a batter in the usual way, beat it well, and just before using stir in the whites of eggs. No. 89. CROUTES OF DRIED HADDOCK. INGREDIENTS. i lb. cooked dried haddock 1 oz. butter 1 tablespoonful tomato sauce 1 hard-boiled egg 8 or 10 croutes of bread Fried parsley Pepper, salt, and cayenne METHOD. Chop the fish finely, add the tomato sauce and the seasoning. Melt the blitter in a saucepan, add the fish mixture, make quite hot. Pile high on fried croutes. Garnish with white and yolk of egg and with fried parsley.40 No. 90. SALMON MAYONNAISE. Boil the salmon according to the directions for Boiling Fish, cool it, and when cold coat it with mayonnaise sauce, to which some liquid aspic jelly has been added, in the proportion of half a gill to every half-pint of mayonnaise. Decorate prettily with any- thing suitable, such as lobster coral, truffle, parsley, cucumber, olives, anchovies, capers, Indian pickles, and gherkins. A border of chopped aspic makes a nice finish to the dish. For mayonnaise of salmon ►Salads. see No. 91. FRIED FILLETS OF MACKEREL. Split the mackere in two, removing all bone, trim into pear-like shapes, egg and bread-crumb them and fry in hot fat (see French Frying). Dish in a circle and serve with brown, caper, browned butter, gooseberry, Hoi land aise, or tartare sauce. A more economical dish may be made by frying the halves of mackerel entire or simply cut in half. The roes should be carefully washed, cooked in the oven, and put in the centre of the dish. No. 92. SALMON CUTLETS. INGREDIENTS. Grated nutmeg ^ teaspoonful pepper 1 egg Bread crumbs Frying fat METHOD. Chop the salmon very finely, melt the butter in a saucepan, 1 lb. cooked salmon 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour 4 pint milk 1 teaspoonful salt41 add the flour, stir until smooth, then add the milk, stir and boil until the panada leaves the bottom and sides of the pan quite clean, then add the salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, mix all together, turn out on to a plate to cool. When cold, form in the shape of cutlets, brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs, fry in boiling fat, drain and serve with a piece of parsley stalk in the end of each to imitate a cutlet bone, or small pieces of macaroni. Lobster may be cooked in the same way. No. 93. TO COOK WHITEBAIT. AVhitebait should be as fresh as possible and firm. They are generally fried in very hot fat 400 degrees Fr., and served with brown bread and butter, and lemons cut lengthwise in quarters. Before frying them, they should be allowed to remain in iced water, until ready for use, then put a handful of flour upon a cloth, throw in a few whitebait, shake them quickly in the cloth to cover them wth flour, shake them slightly in the frying basket, to shake off loose flour, and at once fry them in the hot fat. When properly fried each fish will be quite separate and crisp. No. 94. TO COOK SMELTS. Smelts are generally dipped in beaten egg rolled in bread crumbs and fried; though they may be boiled, broiled, or baked. When quite fresh they should be very silvery, and smell like freshly-cut cucumber. Serve, piquant, anchovy, tomato, Hollandaise, or any suitable sauce. No. 95. TO COOK TROUT. Trout may be either grilled, baked, or fried, and may be served with any of the sauces suitable for smelts. Hol- landaise and tartare are the general favourites, with trout.42 No. 96. PLAICE. This fish may be boiled, baked, or fried. It is, however, very flavourless when boiled, and should be either baked or fried in preference. No. 97. FILLETS OF PLAICE. (A la Mattre-cVHotel.) Trim the fillets neatly, and fold them in a fichu shape, with the flesh outside. Place them on a greased baking-tin and cover them with a buttered paper, and cook them gently in a moderate oven. Dish them in a circle, one leaning on the other, and pour maitre-d:hotel sauce over. Garnish each fillet alternately with a pinch of finely chopped parsley and the yolk of a hard-boiled egg rubbed through a sieve. No. 98. FRIED PLAICE. INGREDIENTS. 1 plaice 1 tablespoonful of flour Sufficient hot fat to cover the fish 1 eger 3 tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs METHOD. Wash the fish and cut off the fillets ; remove the skin from the fillets with a sharp knife, and cut each into two pieces. Poll the fish in the flour, then cover with beaten egg, and roll in bread crumbs. Fry in the hot fat three or four minutes. Drain on kitchen paper. The skin and bones of the fish may be used for fish soup or fish sauce. Before frying the fish see that the fat is hot enough. It should be perfectly still, and a distinct blue smoke should rise from the centre of the pan.43 No. 99. FISH IN MILK. Take a small plaice, clean it, take out the eyes, trim the fins and tail, put into a baking tin, white side uppermost, pour round about f pint of milk, put a few pieces of butter or dripping on the top and bake in a moderate oven about three-quarters of an hour, basting occasionally. When cooked thicken the milk with a large tablespoonful of flour, season and pour over the fish. A tablespoonful of finely chopped parsley may be added to the sauce, if liked. No. IOC. SCALLOPED FISH. INGREDIENTS. Cold fish | Bread crumbs Cold sauce j Seasoning METHOD. Remdve skin and bones, break the fish into flakes, put a layer at the bottom of a well-buttered pie dish, moisten with a little of the sauce and add seasoning; continue this until the dish is full. Finish with a few layers of crumbs, put a few pieces of butter on the top, and heat thoroughly in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. Brown crumbs may be used. No. 101. p. f > . OYSTER CUTLETS. Make as for shrimp cutlets ; instead of the shrimps put one dozen oysters, bearded and blanched, also their liquors. No. 102. FISH SANDWICHES. INGREDIENTS. Remains of cooked fish | Lettuce or mustard and cress Slices of thin bread and butter | A little salt and pepper METHOD. Place on a slice of bread and butter some cold fish (salmon is the best), sprinkle on it a little salt and pepper,44 and some finely cut lettuce or cress, and cover with bread and butter. Served cut in three-cornered pieces, and garnished with parsley. No. 103. KEDGEREE. INGREDIENTS. ^ lb. cold fish 2 eggs 1 teacupful rice 1^ oz. butter Salt, pepper, and cayenne to taste METHOD. Boil one egg hard. Boil the rice till tender. Break the fish into flakes. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the rice, fish, white of hard-boiled egg (cut into dice), the other egg (well beaten), and seasoning. Make all very hot. Dish in a pyramid, and sprinkle over it the hard-boiled yolk of egg (rubbed through a wire sieve). Dried haddock makes excellent kedgeree. Tomato Kedgeree is made in the same manner as the above, with the addition of two tomatoes. The tomatoes are freed from skin and seeds, and put into the saucepan with the fish, rice, &c. No. 104. FISH CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. cold fish fi oz. mashed potatoes Cold sauce to moisten Anchovy sauce, pepper, salt, cayenne, to taste METHOD. Mix well and form into small Hat cakes, egg and bread crumb, and fry. Or, Brush them over with a little milk, roll them in brown crumbs, and bake with a buttered paper over them.45 No. 105. ROLLED HERRINGS. INGREDIENTS. 5 or 6 white herrings ^ r2 oz. Bread crumbs g 1 tablespoonful suet (chopped finely) B ] h tablespoonful parsley 8 1 | tablespoonful thyme o Pepper and salt to taste ^ ^Egg or milk to moisten Brown crumbs METHOD. Wash and scale the fish, take off the fins and head, cut down the front to the tail, remove the inside, being careful to take out the “silver line,” and scrape off’ all the black skin. Place the herring flat on the board (open side down), press all along to loosen the backbone. Take out the back- bone beginning near the head, and any bones you may see. Smooth over with a knife dipped in water. Spread on a little forcemeat, roll up from the head end and fasten with a skewer. Dip into milk, cover with brown crumbs, put into greased tin with a small piece of dripping on each fish, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. No. 106. BAKED STUFFED HADDOCK. INGREDIENTS. 1 fresh haddock 2 oz. forcemeat (see previous Recipe) Brown crumbs METHOD. Wash and clean the fish, take out the eyes and gills, remove the inside, fill with forcemeat, sew up, put the tail through the eyes and fasten with a skewer, brush over with milk and sprinkle with brown crumbs, put a few pieces of dripping on the top and bake in a moderate oven half an hour; baste once or twice. Serve melted butter with it. Use rather more suet than for herring, as this fish contains very little oil.46 No. 107. FISH PUDDING. Prepare a mixture as for Fish Cakes. Put it on a dish that will stand the heat of the oven ; shape it like a fish. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake for half an hour.47 ENTREES. No. 108. CHICKEN CUTLETS. IRGREDIENTS. ' 1 lb. cooked chicken 1^ oz. butter | pint stock \ teaspoonful pepper \ teaspoonful chopped parsley Frying fat 2 lb. cooked ham H oz. Hour 1 teaspoonful salt 1 egg Bread crumbs 2 tablespoonsful cream METHOD. Chop the chicken and ham very finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, stir until smooth, then add the stock; boil until it thickens, add salt, pepper, chopped parsley, and cream, lastly, add the chicken and ham, mix all well together, and turn out on a plate to cool. When cold, shape into cutlets, brush over with beaten egg, cover well with bread crumbs, and fry in boiling fat. Serve with fried parsley. No. 109. QUENELLES DE VOLAILLE SAUCE SUPREME. Quenelles of Chicken, with Supreme Sauce. INGREDIENTS. Chicken quenelle meat ' Some nicely cooked mush- 1 pint supreme sauce rooms, asparagus, peas, or Mashed potatoes l green peas METHOD. Prepare the quantity of quenelle meat mentioned in the the recipe (see quenelle meat); shape and poach them as directed. Dish on a border of mashed potatoes. Pour the sauce over, and put the vegetables in the centre.48 No. 110. GRENADINES DE VEAU A LA MACEDOINE. Grenadines of Veal. INGREDIENTS. *2 lbs. of fillet of veal Some larding bacon Some good second stock 1 piece of carrot, turnip, and onion 1 sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram 2 tomatoes A macedoine METHOD. Cut the fillet into slices, beat them with a wet cutlet-bat, and trim into neat little fillets ; lard them nicely. Put the vegetables, cut in small pieces, at the bottom of a stewpan ; lay the cutlets on these, and pour in sufficient stock to come half-way up the cutlets ; cover them with buttered paper, and put them in a moderate oven till cooked. Then remove the paper and let them brown. Strain the stock and boil it with half a pint more to a strong glaze. Dish the grenadines in two straight lines down the middle of the dish, the one overlapping the other ; pour a little glaze on each, and put a macedoine of vegetables down the middle of the dish. No. 111. COTELETTES DE VEAU A LA TALLEYRAND. Veal Cutlets a la Talleyrand. INGREDIENTS. 7 or 8 veal cutlets D ozs. of clarified butter fi button mushrooms chopped 1 small shallot chopped 1 teaspoonful of finely chopped parsley The yolks of 2 eggs A few drops of lemon juice 1 gill of velout6 sauce Some mashed potatoes Some well-cooked green peas 2 tablespoonsful of cream METHOD. Fry the cutlets in the butter, sprinkling the mushroom, shallot, and parsley over and under them.Are you longing for peace of mind ?Then get a “ Rie '*49 When the cutlets are cooked remove them from the pan and pour in the sauce and cream ; stir briskly over the fire, then add the yolks of the eggs, let them thicken in the sauce, but be careful not to curdle them. Take the pan off the gas, and add lemon juice and seasoning as required. Dish the cutlets on a border of mashed potatoes, pour the sauce over them, and put a few nicely cooked peas or other vegetables in the centre. No. 112. QUENELLE MIXTURE. Take h lb. of finely-minced chicken, or potted beef, pound well, and mix with it a thick sauce, made of 1 oz. of butter, 1 oz. of flour, £ gill of stock, and 1 egg; season to taste, and pass through a sieve. Chicken would require about 1 tablespoonful of cream added to it, being of rather a dry nature. No. 113. LAMBS’ SWEETBREADS. INGREDIENTS. Lambs’ sweetbreads 1^ oz. butter ^ to | pint white stock 3 or 4 tablespoonsful cream A small piece lemon rind A few drops lemon juice A small bunch parsley, thyme, marjoram Pepper and salt to taste 1 dessertspoonful flour METHOD. Blanch the sweetbreads by putting them for two or three minutes into boiling water. Drain them well. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the sweetbreads and let them become a very light golden brown ; be very careful not to overfry them. Add the lemon rind, herbs, and stock (warm), and let the sweetbreads stew very gently till quite tender, about three-quarters of an hour. Take them out and keep them hot. Strain the stock, thicken it with the flour, add the cream, pepper and salt, and lemon juice. Dish the sweetbreads in a circle, pour over the sauce. Garnish with a little truffle, tomato, or parsley. D50 No. 114. DEVILLED DUCK. hot oven about 45 minutes, over it the chutney sauce. INGREDIENTS. 1 duck Chutney sauce Mixture as for devilled chicken METHOD. Cut the duck down the centre of the back, and score it all over, then cover with the mixture. Grill under grilling burner, or roast in a Place on a hot dish and pour No. 115. GALANTINE OF FOWL. INGREDIENTS. 1 fowl 1 hard-boiled egg 1 teaspoonful salt £ teaspoonful grated nutmeg i lb. sausage meat \ pint stock \ teaspoonful pepper £ oz. gelatine ^ lb. ham or lean bacon 1 teaspoonful Liebig Company’s extract of meat METHOD. Bone the fowl. Place it on a board with the skin downwards, cut the ham into dice, the egg into slices, spread half the sausage meat over the fowl, lay on it half the ham and egg, sprinkle over it salt and pepper and a little nutmeg, cover with remainder of the sausage meat, put rest of the ham on the top, also the salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Roll the fowl up tightly, place it in a cloth which must be sewn very securely, tied both ends with string ; put the galantine into the stock-pot and simmer gently for an hour to one-and-a-half hours, take out of the pot, and when slightly cooled, tighten the cloth, place between two tins with heavy weight on top, set aside until quite cold. Glaze.—Put the half-pint of stock, the Liebig Company’s51 extract and gelatine in a saucepan, boil quickly till reduced to one tablespoonful, taking off the scum as it rises. Take the cloth of the galantine and paint it quickly with the glaze. G-arnish with chopped aspic jelly and parsley. No. 116. BOUDINETTES DE BCEUF. Pass three-quarters of a pound of steak through a mincing machine four times, then rub through a wire sieve to remove any skin,. Make a panada with one ounce of butter, one gill of water, and two and a half ounces of fine flour, and a little salt thus :—Let the butter and water boil, then stir in the flour and salt, and boil the mixture well. Pound the meat and panada, thoroughly mixing one ounce of butter (melted) and two eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, and steam or poach them for about twenty minutes. Serve with them a good brown sauce, to which has been added two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato purde. Two or three mushrooms or truffles, chopped finely, and added to the meat mixture, are a great improvement. No. 117 PETITS POULETS A L’ESPANIOL. Little Chickens, with Espaniol Sauce. INGREDIENTS. Some quenelle meat Some well-cooked French beans Espaniol sauce Glase Butter, mushrooms Border of quenelle meat METHOD. Saut6 some little mushrooms. Well butter some chicken moulds, and fill them with quenelle meat, putting in the centre of each a mushroom. Poach them in the usual way, and them brush them over with glase. Dish them upon a poached quenelle border, heap the cooked beans in the centre, and pour espaniol sauce round the base 1)252 No. 118. OYSTER PATTIES. INGREDIENTS. Puff pastry 4 button mushrooms ^ oz. butter 1 dozen oysters i oz. flour 4 tablespoonsful cream ^ teaspoonful salt Grated nutmeg' Pepper and cayenne Lemon juice METHOD. Roll the pastry out half an inch in thickness, cut in rounds with a paste cutter; take a cutter two sizes smaller and press the centre of each round to the depth of a quarter of an inch. Put the rounds on a tin, and bake 7-10 minutes in a hot oven until nicely browned. Then take out the patties, remove the small centre piece, and scoop out a little of the inside. Fry the mushrooms in the butter eight or ten minutes, take them out, put in the hour, cream, oyster liquor, salt, pepper, cayenne, and nutmeg. Stir and boil well, then add the oysters (bearded and cut in halves), also the lemon juice ; mix well. Fill each of the patty cases, and place the little piece of pastry on the top. Pile high on a dish, and serve. Romove the flesh from the lobster, pound it in a mortar with the butter, then pass through a sieve. Pound the coral separately, and pass it through a sieve, and dry it slightly in a very cool oven. Whip the cream, adding a very little lemon juice drop by drop ; let the cream be quite stiff, but take care not to over-beat it; then add the lobster and half the coral. Season with cayenne and salt. Pile the lobster cream in little souffle cases, and decorate with the remainder of the coral. No. 119. LOBSTER CREAMS. INGREDIENTS. 1 lobster (with coral if possible) \ oz butter \ pint cream A few drops Lemon juice Cayenne and salt to taste METHOD.53 No. 120. MUTTON CUTLETS. INGREDIENTS. Neck of mutton, best end l egg Bread crumbs 2 oz. butter METHOD. Saw off the chine bone, and (if the neck is cut in a manner that requires it) the end of the rib-bones. Cut the cutlets, giving a bone to each cutlet. If the appearance of the dish is not of great importance, the cutlets can be cut more economically by forming more cutlets out of two bones of the neck. In this manner two cutlets will have bones, while one will be without. Trim away the greater part of the fat, leaving only a very small piece round the lean part of each cutlet. Scrape the bones. Have ready some bread crumbs. Beat an egg on a plate, add a small saltspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Dip the cutlets into the egg and turn into the bread crumbs, which should lie on a piece of soft paper, so that they may be easily tossed over the cutlet. After taking up the cutlet from the crumbs, toss it lightly from one hand to the other, so that all loose bread crumbs may fall off. Heat the butter in a frying pan, or saute pan. When quite hot, lay in the cutlets and let them cook for about ten minutes, turning them carefully when the underside is brown. Serve round a centre of mashed potatoes, Brussels sprouts, green peas, or round a puree of haricot beans. Brown sauce (p. 90) or tomato sauce (p. 94) may be served round the cutlets. No. 121. MUTTON CUTLETS (a la Russe). INGREDIENTS. 14 lb. best end neck of mutton 4 lb. lard 1 egg Bread crumbs Mashed Potatoes Tinned Peas METHOD. Divide the mutton into cutlets, shape and trim neatly,54 brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs. Make the lard hot in a frying-pan ; fry the cutlets brown ; place the mashed potatoes on a hot dish, stand the cutlets upon the potatoes ; warm the peas in one ounce of butter, with salt and pepper, place in the centre of cutlets. Serve with brown sauce poured round. No. 122. BEEF OLIVES. I NGRE1 1 lb. fillet of beef 2 ozs. bread crumbs 1 oz. suet (chopped) 1 dessertspoonful parsley (chopped) 4 teaspoonful thyme 1 dessertspoonful catsup MET 5IENTS. Lemon rind (grated), a little Egg or milk, to bind Pepper and salt to taste 1 oz. butter | pint stock (warm) 1 dessertspoonful flour HOD. Cut the fillet of beef into strips very thin, 2 inches wide, 4 inches long. Flatten the pieces of meat with the cutlet bat, spread a portion of the forcemeat on each piece, roll up, and tie with string or fasten with a small skewer. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when quite hot put in the olives, fry them a nice brown. Pour over them one pint of good flavoured stock. Let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour. Thicken with the Hour, add catsup, and season with pepper and salt. Serve round a pyramid of mashed potatoes, with the gravy poured round. No. 123. COTELETTES DE VEAU. Veal Cutlets. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of veal cutlet Some mashed potatoes or well- Egg and bread crumbs cooked spinach 3 ozs. of clarified butter Some slices of bacon METHOD. Cut the cutlet into slices, and then beat with a wet cutlet-bat to break the fibre of the meat. Trim into nice55 oval-shaped cutlets, brush with egg and cover them with bread crumbs, flattening this on with the bat or knife. Fry them in the butter. Dish in a circle, the one overlapping the other, on a border of mashed potatoes or spinach, and put nicely cooked little rolls of bacon in the centre of the dish. To cook the bacon, roll thin slices of streaky bacon, run a skewer through them, and either toast or bake them. Tomato, piquant, or any other suitable sauce may be poured round the base of the dish, or handed in a boat. No. 124. VEAL RISSOLES. INGREDIENTS. £ pint of stock or cream Salt and pepper 1 egg Grated nutmeg Bread crumbs. METHOD. Chop the veal and ham very finely, melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, stir until quite smooth, add the stock, and let it boil well for five minutes. Then add the chopped meat, seasoning, and mix well. When quite cold form into balls, brush with beaten egg, cover with bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat. Serve with fried parsley. No. 125. JUGGED HARE. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. lean ham \ pint port wine 3 heaped tablespoonsful of flour 2 tablespoonsful mushroom catsup 2 tablespoonsful Worcester sauce 1 tablespoonful sugar, salt, pepper, and cayenne METHOD. Skin the hare and cut it into neat pieces ; peel the 1 hare 2 large onions 1 carrot. 1 head celery ^ nutmeg 1 blade of mace 16 cloves Bunch of parsley ,, thyme ,, marjoram Stock or water 4 lb. cooked veal 2 ozs. lean ham 1 oz. of butter ^ oz. of flour Frying fat5C onions, stick cloves in one and chop the other finely ; scrape the carrot and chop it, also the celery ; wash the herbs and put in a piece of muslin, with the onion stuck with cloves and the mace, tie these securely with string. Cut the ham into slices. Place some pieces of hare in a stew jar, add a little ham, carrot, onion, celery, salt, pepper, cayenne, and grated nutmeg, put in layers until the jar is full, then cover with stock or water, add catsup, Worcester sauce, and sugar; place the lid on, and stew gently for three hours. Boil the liver from the hare and chop it very finely. Mix the flour with the wine into a smooth batter, add the liver, pour the contents of the stew jar half an-hour before dishing, and let it boil well to cook the flour. No. 126. DEVILLED CHICKED INGREDIENTS. Remains of cold chicken 1 tablespoonful mustard 1 tablespoonful Worcester sauce 1 tablespoonful mushroom catsup £ teaspoonful salt j teaspoonful pepper A little cayenne pepper METHOD. The legs of the chicken are the best to use. They should be scored all over with a knife close to the bone. Make a thick sauce with the above ingredients. If not sufficient moisture use a little water. Cover the legs of chicken with the sauce, pressing it in where it has been cut; place the chicken on a gridiron over a clear fire, or under a gas grill, and cook about ten minutes. No. 127. CALVES BRAINS (a la Francaise). Wash the brains and remove the fibres, put them in a saucepan with water to cover, adding a little salt, boil gently for twenty minutes. Drain quite dry, divide into equal sized pieces and place on rounds of buttered toast; pour over them sauce made as follows :—57 INGREDIENTS. ^ oz. butter, \ oz. flour \ pint stock Salt and pepper J teaspoonful chopped parsley | pint sherry Melt the butter, add the flour, stock, and sherry, boil well, then add the parsley and seasoning. Bone the larks and stuff with sausage meat, tie in a cloth and boil gently in stock pot for twenty minutes, take them up, remove the cloth, and brown the larks in the oven for a few minutes. Make a bed of mashed potatoes on a dish, with a column in the centre, place the larks round the column with the feet upwards. Put the heads in boiling water to loosen the feathers, pick quite clean, cover the heads with a little glaze, and place on the top of each a small round piece of orange peel; place the heads on the top of the larks, and pour a rich brown sauce round the dish. No. 128. LARKS (a la Comtesse). 458 METHODS FOR COOKING VARIOUS JOINTS OF BEEF, MUTTON LAMB, VEAL, ETC. t3^ TO CHOOSE MEAT. Beef should be a deep red colour, nicely marbled with fat and firm to the touch. F Mutton is rather paler and the fat whiter, also firm to the touch. Veal.—The lean should be pale pink, the fat white, the flesh firm. Pork.-—The lean pale red, fat white and clear, and the skin thin. If any kernels are to be seen in the flesh it is not good. No. 129. BOILING MEAT. Boiling is cooking over the fire in deep water, by putting the meat in at boiling point, boiling five or ten minutes, and then simmering until done. Put salt meat into warm and fresh meat into boiling water. N.B.—Fresh meat needs salt in the water. Boil five to ten minutes to close the pores, then simmer. Skim well. Keep on the lid. Time, 20 minutes to 1 lb. and 20 minutes over.59 No. 130. ROASTING AND BAKING MEAT Are practically the same in a gas oven. Light the gas and turn it on full for ten minutes before putting in the joint ; then allow the gas to remain on full for ten minutes after- wards to coagulate the surface albumen of the meat, and keep in the juices. Then lower the gas and cook more slowly until the meat is done, according to the following rules :— Time in a gas oven— Beef and Mutton—Every lb. 10 min. and 15 min. over. If a thick piece ditto 15 ,, 15 ,, Veal and Pork ditto 20 ,, 15 ,, If a thick piece ditto 25 ,, 15 ,, When the meat is cooked, place on a hot dish, pour the dripping out of the tin and some boiling water over the brown sediment left; dredge in a little flour, if liked, cook over the fire a few minutes—add one teaspoonful Liebig Company's extract of meat, season, strain, and pour round meat. No. 131. STEAMING MEAT. Steamed meat is much more economical and much more palatable than boiled meat, and also more nourish- ing. Boiled meat loses a great deal of its goodness in the liquid in which it is cooked, and unless this liquid be afterwards used as stock for soups, etc., it is very wasteful. Meat for steaming should be placed in a steamer over a stewpan of boiling water and steamed according to to the size of the joint, allowing a little over 20 minutes to the lb., and 15 minutes extra for the whole joint.60 No. 132. GRILLING MEAT. Light the grilling burner for three minutes before you wish to use it, with the gas turned on full, then lower the gas a little and allow from three to five minutes for each side of the meat, a little longer if a very thick piece Steaks and chops are most suitable for grilling, and are very delicious when cooked in this manner. No. 133. STEWING MEAT. Meat for stewing should be placed in a stewpan with enough hot water to cover it, and allowed to simmer gently until tender, and as soon as it is tender it should be removed from the pan or the pan drawn off the gas, and the meat re-heated before serving, or it will beccome tough, flavourless, and very indigestible. Time allowed for stewing meat depends upon the kind of meat to be stewed. Very tough meat will sometimes take over four hours before it is tender. No. 134. BRAISING MEAT When a braising pan is not used, meat may be braised in an ordinary stewpan in the following manner :— Place a layer of sliced vegetables, carrots, turnips, onions, tomatoes, and celery, using a small proportion of each, and a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and two bay leaves at the bottom of the stewpan. Over these place the meat, and add sufficient good stock to come half way up the meat, then simmer very gently until the meat is tender. Then place the meat in the oven upon a baking sheet and let it brown nicely. .Strain the stock and reduce it to a glase, by boiling it rapidly. Wine may be added to the stock if liked. Serve the meat upon a hot dish with the glaze poured over.61 BEEF. (Joints of an Ox.) An ox is generally divided into the following joints : 1. Head, or cheeks 2. Neck 3. Clod 4. Shin 5. Leg of mutton piece 6. Chuck rib (3 ribs) 7. Middle rib (4 rib3) 8. Fore rib (5 ribs) 9. Brisket 10. Sirloin 11. Thin Hank 12. Bump 13. Aitch bone 14. Buttock, or round 15. Mouse round 16. Veiny piece 17. Thick flank 18. Leg No. 135. SIRLOIN AND RIBS. The sirloin and ribs are generally roasted and served with Yorkshire pudding and finely grated horse-raddish. No. 136. RUMP OF BEEF. May be cooked and served like sirloin, or it may be salted and boiled and served with carrots, turnips, or parsnips, nicely mashed or plain ; and also suet dumplings. Sometimes it is stewed, and it may also be braised.62 No. 137. AITCH BONE AND ROUND OF BEEF. May be salted and boiled, and served with same accom- paniments as for boiled rump of beef, or they may be roasted. No. 138. BRISKET, SHIN, CLOD, AND SHOULDER OF BEEF. These joints are all most suitable for stewing. No. 139. THICK & THIN FLANK OF BEEF. These are generally salted and boiled, and served with vegetables, etc., as for round and aitch bone. A sheep is usually divided into the following joints : — MUTTON. (Joints of a Sheep.) 1. Leg 2. Best end of loin 3. Chump end of loin 4. Best end of neck 5. Scrag end of neck 6. Shoulder and blade bone 7. Breast 8. Saddle (the two loins undi- vided 9. Chine (two sides of neck undivided)63 No. 140. LEG OF MUTTON. May be roasted, baked, or boiled. When roasted it should be served with red currant jelly, tomato, mushroom, or piquant sauce, also potatoes, and any green vegetables. Sometimes it is served with cooked macaroni, prepared as for macaroni cheese, or plainly boiled with milk. Boiled leg of mutton is served with caper sauce, potatoes, carrots and turnips. The carrots and turnips should be cooked with the meat, and may afterwards be mashed with a little pepper, salt, and butter, or served plainly round the dish. No. 141. HAUNCH, LOIN, & SADDLE OF MUTTON. Should be roasted or baked, and served with the same accompaniments as for roast leg of mutton. No. 142. SHOULDER OF MUTTON. Should be roasted or baked. Serve with onion sauce, and any of the vegetables suitable for roasted leg of mutton. No. 143. BREAST OF MUTTON. May be braised or stewed, or boned and stuffed with veal forcemeat, rolled and tied with broad tape and roasted. * Serve with potatoes and any green vegetables. No. 144. CHINE & BEST END OF NECK OF MUTTON. Cook and serve like roast leg of mutton. No. 145. SCRAG END OF NECK. Should be gently stewed until tender, and may be served in the same manner as boiled leg of mutton. It is very good stewed with a little rice.64 LAMB. (Joints of a Lamb.) A lamb is generally divided as follows :—Hind quarter : 1, leg; 2, 3, 4, loin. Fore quarter : 5, neck ; 6, shoulder; 7, breast. No. 146. SHOULDER OF LAMB. Should be roasted or baked, and served with potatoes, green peas, and spinach, though many other vegetables are very suitable. No. 147. BREAST AND NECK OF LAMB. These are sometimes cooked in one joint, termed a target, and roasted and served with vegetables as for shoulder of lamb. The breast may be braised or stewed with green peas, or other suitable vegetables. No. 148. LEG OF LAMB. May be roasted, baked, or boiled. When roasted serve in same manner as roast shoulder of lamb. When boiled serve with Bechamel, or, maitre-d'hotel sauce. Carrots, turnips, and potatoes are suitable vegetables to serve with it. No. 149. FORE QUARTER AND HIND QUARTER. Are either roasted or baked, and served with same accompaniments as for roast shoulder of lamb. Divide the“A ‘Richmond’ I want!” and65 shoulder from the ribs of the fore quarter, and place between them a little lemon juice, butter, pepper, and salt, just before serving. No. 150. SADDLE AND LOIN OF LAMB. Cook as directed in foregoing recipe. VEAL. (Joints of a Calf. A calf is divided as follows — 1. Loin, best end 2. ,, chump end 3. Fillet 4. Hind knuckle 5. Fore ,, 6. Neck, best end 7. ,, scrag end 9. Breast, best end 10. Blade bone 11. Head No. 151. FILLET OF VEAL. May be either roasted, baked, or boiled. Remove the bone, and fill the space with veal forcemeat, skewer the fillet into a round shape, and cook according to directions for boiling, baking, or roasting meat. Serve with nice thick gravy, made with melted butter instead of water; lemons quartered, lengthwise, potatoes, and any green vegetables. Send boiled ham or bacon to table with it.66 No. 152. LOIN OF VEAL. Is generally roasted, though it may also be either boiled or braised. It is very good stuffed with veal forcemeat, roasted, and served with the accompaniments as directed for roast fillet of veal. No. 153. BREAST OF VEAL. Before roasting breast of veal, fasten the caul over the joint, and about half an hour before the joint is done remove the caul and allow the meat to brown nicely. Serve as directed for fillet of veal. No. 154. NECK OF VEAL. Cook and serve like fillet of veal. No. 155. CALFS HEAD. Clean the calf’s head thoroughly in salt and water, then bone it, and cut the meat neatly into eight pieces. Let it simmer gently for about 4| hours until quite tender, in white stock, if possible. The tongue should also be boiled, skinned, and cut into slices and placed nicely round the dish as a garnish. Serve with brain sauce. Boiled bacon or pickled pork should be sent to table with it. No. 156. CALF’S FEET. They should be scalded and scraped until all the hairs are removed, and blanched before cooking. Then simmer them gently in stock until they are tender, for about three or four hours. Serve with tomato or any nicely flavoured sauce. They are sometimes fried in batter, and are also very good curried.67 No. 157. KNUCKLE OF VEAL. Is generally boiled gently in stock until quite tender, and served with either parsley, or maitre-d’hotel sauce. Boiled ham, or bacon should also be sent to table with it. PORK. (Joints of a Pig'.) The young pig is divided into :— 1. Spare rib | 4. Fore loin 2. Hand j 5. Hind loin 3. Belly | 6. Leg N.B.—All pork should be thoroughly cooked, as the pig is subject to many diseases, which are frequently transmitted to man through eating pork under done. No. 158. CHINE OF PORK. Is generally roasted, or baked, and served with apple, gooseberry, Robert, or tomato sauce. Potatoes and any green vegetables may be served with it. No. 159. LEG OF PORK. Roast and serve as directed for chine of pork. Or, it may be boiled and served with peas pudding, carrots, turnips, or parsnips, and potatoes. The carrots and turnips should be cooked with the leg to flavour it, and afterwards served round the dish as a garnish. K 268 No. 160. HAND OF PORK. May be cooked and served as directed for boiled leg. It should be allowed to soak in cold water for two or three hours before it is cooked. No. 161. SPARE RIB OF PORK. Cook and serve as directed for chine of pork. No. 162. LOIN OF PORK. After the skin has been scored, brush it over with a little oiled butter, and salad oil, and it may be either roasted or baked. Serve with potatoes and green vegetables, and apple and tomato sauce. No. 163. PICKLED PORK. Cook and serve as directed for boiled leg of pork. No. 164. GRISK1N OF PORK. Put it into cold water, and when the water boils remove it from the pan, dry it well, and then roast it. By par- boiling it before roasting the meat is rendered much more tender. It should be well basted while roasting, to prevent it becoming dry and hard.69 No. 165. BACON Should be soaked for an hour or more before cooking, put into lukewarm water, and simmered gently until tender. Allow 25 minutes to the lb. When done allow it to cool a little, then remove the skin and cover with raspings, or brown crumbs. No. 166. ROAST SUCKING PIG. Stuff the belly of the pig with sage and onion force- meat, then truss it like a hare. Brush it over with salad oil, and bake or roast for about two hours, according to the size and age of the pig. Baste very frequently. When done, remove the trussing string, cut the pig down the middle, from head to tail, place back to back upon the dish, with half the head and an ear at each side. Serve bread sauce with currants in it; apple and tomato : or any good flavoured sauce would be suitable. Instead of sage and onion stuffing, chestnut forcemeat mixed with sausage meat is sometimes used in preference. No. 167. HAM Should be allowed to soak for twelve hours, and longer when possible. Put it on in lukewarm water, with a bunch of herbs, and some people add one pint of old ale to the water. Let it simmer very gently until quite tender, allowing a little over 25 minutes to each lb. of ham. Remove the skin, when done, and cover with raspings, as for boiled bacon. Sometimes the ham is removed from the pan when partly cooked, the skin removed, covered with raspings, and finished cooking in a moderate oven.70 No. 168. VENISON. Haunch of Venison. The fat of the haunch should be covered with greased paper, and over that place a cold water paste about half-an- inch in thickness. Then cover the haunch with well greased paper. Roast the haunch, and about 30 minutes before serving remove the paste and paper, dredge it over with flour and return in to the oven to brown nicely. Allow quite 20 minutes to the lb., and if it be a very large haunch it will take nearly five hours to cook. Serve it with brown gravy and red currant jelly. No. 169. Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of Venison. Cook and serve as directed in foregoing recipe.71 Wash and pare the potatoes thinly, put them on in boiling; water with a little salt (proportion of salt to water in boiling potatoes and greens, half an ounce of salt to two quarts of water). Allow the potatoes to boil gently until tender, strain away the water, cover the potatoes with a clean cloth or stiff’ clean paper, return the saucepan to the burner, with the gas out, for a few minutes. Shake the saucepan slightly before turning out the potatoes into a hot vegetable dish. This gives the potatoes a nice white, floury appearance. New Potatoes may be cooked in the same manner, adding a sprig of mint to the water as they are boiling, and omitting the shaking process when turning them out of the saucepan. No. 171. TO BAKE POTATOES. Prepare the potatoes as for boiling, then parboil them, before baking. This prevents them from becoming too hard. Place them upon the bars of the gridiron, in the gas oven, as close as possible to a roasting joint of meat, and bake until they are tender.No. 172. TO ROAST POTATOES. Well scrub the skins of the potatoes, and dry the potatoes upon a clean cloth, then place them upon the bars of the grid, directly underneath a roasting joint. The fat from the joint bastes the potatoes nicely as they are cooking, and prevents the skins from bursting. The gravy from the meat also flavours the potatoes nicely. No. 173. TO MASH POTATOES. After the water has been strained away from well-cooked potatoes, add to them, while in the saucepan, a little butter or dripping, pepper and salt, and beat them up lightly and quickly with a fork. Serve in a pyramid shap’e in a hot veget- able dish. Cream, or milk, may be used in place of butter or dripping, and the potatoes may first be rubbed through a wire sieve or potato masher. No. 174. POTATO BALLS. Form well mashed potatoes into small balls, brush them over with beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs, and fry in deep fat until a nice golden colour. Or, they may be brushed over with beaten egg, and baked in a quick oven until brown. No. 175. POTATO CHIPS. Pare the potatoes thinly, and then cut them into very thin slices. Rinse them in cold water to remove the outside starch ; dry them well in a clean cloth, and plunge in hot fat, and fry until crisp and brown. Drain upon soft kitchen paper, sprinkled over with pepper and salt, and garnish with fried parsley. No. 17G. POTATO RIBBONS. After the potatoes are pared, cut them through into slices about half an inch in thickness, then pare as thinly as pos- sible round and round the slices, twist into knots, throw into cold water, dry, and fry as for potato chips. Potatoes may be cut into straws, crescents, or any fancy shapes, and fried as above. N.B.—As soon as a distinct blue smoke arises from the centre of the pan containing the fat the potatoes should be thrown in, the pan should then be removed to a simmering burner, and the potatoes allowed to cook without dis- colouring for twq_ or three minutes. Then remove them from the pan and allow the fat to get quite hot again, and as soon as the blue smoke again rises plunge in the potatoes and fry them until crisp, and of a golden brown colour. No. 177. POTATO CROQUETTES. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. potatoes \ teaspoonful pepper 1 oz. butter j 1 ,, salt 1 egg. j Bread crumbs, a few METHOD. Mash the potatoes well with the butter, pepper, and salt, and a little of the beaten egg. Flour the hands, and form the mixture into any fancy shapes preferred. Apples, pears, plums, and many kinds of fruit may very easily be imitated. Brush them over with beaten egg, and cover with bread crumbs. They should be re-moulded after the crumbs arc on them, placed in the frying basket, and fried as for potato chips.74 No. 178. TO COOK CAULIFLOWER, BROCOLI, CABBAGE, BRUSSELS SPROUTS, SAVOYS, & LETTUCES. They should be washed well, and allowed to remain in cold water, with a little salt, an hour or so before cooking. The salt helps to draw out the insects, &c. The outside leaves should be removed and the thick stalks cut crossways. Put the vegetables into boiling water, allowing half an ounce of salt to two quarts of water, and boil gently, with the lid off the saucepan, until tender. Cauliflower should be placed in the saucepan with the head downwards, and when served white sauce should be poured over. No. 179. SPINACH Should be well washed in several waters to remove the grit, and placed in a saucepan with no other moisture than that which adheres to the leaves after washing. Cook with the lid off’ the saucepan until tender. It may then be finely chopped, or rubbed through a wire sieve, returned to the saucepan, and re heated with a little pepper, salt, and butter, and served in a hot dish garnished with fried crohtons of bread, or sauteed potatoes. No. 180. GREEN PEAS. Put them into boiling water with a little sugar and a sprig of mint, and cook very gently until tender, lid off the saucepan. Drain through a colander, add a little castor sugar, butter, also pepper and salt. Shake them care- fully, and serve in a hot dish.75 No. 181. FRENCH BEANS. Remove the strings and cut the beans into nice thin slices. Put them into boiling water with salt, and boil gently until tender. Drain well, then return them to the saucepan with a little butter, pepper, and salt. Shake over the gas for a minute or two, and serve in hot dish. No. 182. BROAD BEANS. After the shells are removed put them into boiling water with salt, and cook gently until they are tender. Time allowed depends upon the age and size of the beans. They may be served with parsley sauce poured over, or in the same manner as French beans. No. 183. VEGETABLE MARROWS Are much nicer steamed than boiled, as they retain their flavour so much better. Peel the marrows thinly, remove the seeds, and cut the marrows into convenient sized pieces. Place them in a steamer and steam for 20 minutes, or until the marrows are tender. Pour over white sauce and serve. No. 184. ASPARAGUS. Scrape the white part slightly, and cut the asparagus all the same length. Tie it in a bundle and put it into boiling water, with salt, and half an ounce of butter. Cook gently, lid off the saucepan, until the green part is tender (about half an hour). Dish on a napkin, and hand oiled butter with it. N.B.—In salting water for cooking vegetables, allow the proportion of half an ounce of salt to two quarts of water.76 No. 185. BEETROOT. Wash the roots well, being careful not to scrape them. Put them into quickly boiling water and cook them from one to two hours, according to their age and size. Rub off the skin when cooked, and cut into thin slices. Beetroot may be served with vinegar poured over or mixed with other salad. It retains its flavour much better if baked in a slow oven. No. 186. CARROTS Should be thoroughly scraped, cut lengthways, put into boiling water, with salt, and boiled gently until tender. Old carrots will take about an hour, new ones about 20 minutes. They may be mashed with a little butter, pepper, and salt, or, nicely drained and served with white or parsley sauce poured over. No. 187. TURNIPS Are about the only vegetable which should be thickly pared, the outside part being woody and unwholesome. Cook and serve like carrots. No. 188. PARSNIPS. Cook and serve like carrots. No. 189. SEA-KALE. Tie it in bundles, and put into boiling water with salt. Boil gently, with the lid off the saucepan until tender. Drain well, and hand French or white sauce with it. Sea-kale is very good boiled in milk, the milk afterwards being used for the sauce.No. 190. CELERY. Cook as in above recipe. Brown or white sauce may be poured over when served. No. 191. GLOBE ARTICHOKES. These should be thoroughly washed, the stems and lower leaves cut off, and all the points. Put the artichokes whole into boiling water with a little salt, and cook gently, until the beans will come out readily. Time allowed for cooking depends upon the age and size of the artichokes, from half an hour to two hours. Serve oiled butter, French melted butter, or Hollandaise sauce in a boat. No. 192. BOILED LEEKS. Remove the coarser leaves and tie in bundles, cook and serve like celery. No. 193. JERUSALEM ARTICHOKES. Directly they are peeled put them into cold water, with salt and a little lemon juice to keep them a good colour. Throw7 them into boiling water, with salt, and boil gently for about 20 minutes or half an hour, until they are tender, with the lid on the saucepan. Drain well, and serve at once, as they soon become discoloured. French or vrhite sauce may be poured over them. No. 194. WHITE BEETROOT Should be cooked just like red beetroot.78 No. 195. HARICOT BEANS. Should be soaked over night in cold water. Put them into boiling water with a little salt, fat bacon, or dripping, and a small onion. Boil gently for three or four hours until quite tender. Drain well, and add a little pepper and salt, and a small piece of butter, and shake over the gas for a minute or two. Finely chopped parsley may be sprinkled over before serving. No. 196. STEWED ONIONS. Peel the onions and place them in a stew-jar, pour over them three-quarter pint of stock, made with three-quarter pint of water, and one dessert spoonful of Liebig’s extract of beef. Stew until tender. Before serving, stir in a little butter, pepper, and salt. No. 197. LENTILS. Wash the lentils in several waters, until all the mud is removed. Boil them in plenty of water, and let them cook gently for at least two hours. A little dripping and salt should be put into the water with them. They should be nicely seasoned before serving, and stirred frequently whilst cooking. No. 198. SALSIFY. Wash and scrape the roots thoroughly, and put them into cold water, with a little lemon juice and salt, to preserve their colour. Cook gently for about an hour in boiling water, or second79 stock, adding a little butter, lemon juice, and salt to the boiling water. They should be well drained, and dished upon a serviette, and white or brown sauce handed with it. No. 199. ENDIVE. Prepare, and cook as directed for green vegeables. Dish and serve like spinach. No. 200. CUCUMBER. Should be cooked whole, after being thinly pared, and may be either boiled or steamed. White sauce should be handed with it.80 POULTRY AND GAME. •V'syX/'S.'^'X^ No. 201. TO TRUSS A FOWL FOR ROASTING. It is almost an impossibility to explain the art of trussing; experience teaches more than can be obtained from any book. Anyone desiring to become proficient in the art should take a few practical lessons from a poulterer, or someone equally competent. However, full directions are given below for trussing a fowl for roasting and boiling, and these methods only vary slightly in larger birds and game. After the fowl has been carefully plucked and singed, cut a slit about an inch long three inches below the head, loosen the skins round the neck with the fingers, and with a sharp knife cut off the neck close to the body, then cut the skin, leaving about two inches to fold over the back under the pinions. Take out the crop and loosen the liver, etc., at the breast-end of the bird. Cut a small opening at the vent and draAv out all the interior of the fowl, being careful not to break the gall bladder in the liver. Then wipe the inside of the fowl well with a damp cloth. Scald the scaly part of the legs and feet, skin them and cut off the claws. Place the fowl upon its breast, pull the loose skin from the neck well over the back, and fold the pinions across it. Press the thighs well into the sides of the bird to give it a nice plump appearance. Pass the trussing needle and string through the wing at the second joint, then through the upper part of the thigh, right through the body, securing the wing and thigh in the same manner upon the other side. Pass the string through the skin under the pinions and fasten off where it commenced. Turn the fowl upon its back, and pass the string over one leg through the bottom of the breast-bone, over the other leg and secure it at the back. Choose Fowls with dark legs for Roasting.Richmond’s Cookers, Easy to Clean.Richmond’s Cookers have Loose Fitting's.HI No. 202. TO TRUSS A FOWL FOR BOILING. Cut the skin round the legs at the knee joint, and pull the legs off, bringing with them the sinews. Loosen all the outside skin of the thighs with the fingers, passing them through the hole made for drawing. Then truss as for roasting, except that the thighs are pushed well inside the fowl. The skin must be pulled down well over the breast-bone, and the ends of the legs tucked in. Pass the trussing string through the skin, then underneath at the back and tie it securely. Choose Fowls with white legs for Boiling. No. 203. TO BONE A FOWL. It must be nicely plucked and singed, but not drawn. Then cut off the neck close to the body, leaving sufficient skin to fold nicely over the back. Divide the joints between the wings and the body, and take out the merry- thought. Cut off the legs at the knee joints and draw out the sinews. Then with a sharp knife commence working the flesh off the bones, taking care that the interior of the bird does not break through. The wings are left on to give the fowl a more natural appearance, and are not boned. Care must be taken, whilst boning, not to cut through the skin, it should be drawn literally inside out, and when nicely done the carcase of the bird will look quite clear, with no flesh adhering to the bones. After the boning is done the fowl should be stuffed and replaced in form, to look as natural as possible, the thigh part being left inside. Game and small birds may be boned according to these directions. In boning large turkeys it is better to cut the skin down the back and work the flesh off sideways. F82 No. 204. ROAST FOWL. Truss the fowl nicely, and place a slice of fat bacon over the breast; this must be removed about 10 minutes before the fowl is done, to allow it to brown nicely. A fowl will take from three-quarters to one hour to roast; a chicken about half-an-hour. Yeal forcemeat is seldom used now for stuffing fowls, and the liver and the gizzard are used in making the gravy and not placed in the wings. The fowl should be served with small rolls of bacon placed round the dish. Potatoes and any green vegetables in season are suitable to accompany roast fowl. Bread Sauce should always be handed. Roast Fowl is excellent stuffed with mushrooms and served with mushroom sauce. No. 205. BOILED FOWL. After the fowl is trussed, rub it over with a little lemon juice, and then wrap it in a buttered paper, and boil it gently, according to its age, from half-an-hour to an hour-and-ahalf. Serve with maitre-d’hotel, celery, or white mushroom sauce. Garnish with slices of lemon, and small rolls of fat bacon, and pour over the fowl a little of the sauce, the remainder should be handed in a tureen. For Vegetables, see roast fowl. No. 206. ROAST TURKEY. Fill the breast of the turkey •with veal force- meat and truss it, cover the breast with buttered paper or fat bacon, which must be removed about 20 minutes before it83 is finished. ‘It should be well basted and will take,, according to its size, from 1^ hours to 2^ hours to roast. Garnish with nicely baked sausages, and send boiled ham or tongue to table with it. Oyster, tomato, celery, chestnut, or mushroom sauce may be served with it. Turkeys are most excellent stuffed with chestnut force- meat, or mushrooms. If stuffed with mushrooms, then mushroom sauce should accompany it, and chestnut sauce if chestnut forcemeat be used. In cold weather a turkey may be kept for a fortnight, without becoming tainted. Almost any kind of vegetables may be served. No. 207. BOILED TURKEY. A young turkey may be boiled and served in the same manner as boiled fowl. A boiled ham or tongue should be sent to table with it, and if desired, it may be stuffed with sausage meat. No. 208. ROAST GOOSE. Stuff the breast with sage and onion stuffing, and roast for about 1| to 2 hours. Gooseberry, apple, or tomato F 284 cilice are suitable accompaniments for goose, and tomatoes and almost any vegetable may be served with it. Sometimes cider is used instead of water in making thegravy. No. 209. GREEN GEESE. Cook like geese, but do not stuff them. No. 210. ROAST DUCK. Stuff' with sage and onion forcemeat, and truss it nicely. Allow f to 1^ hours for roasting, according to its size. Serve with same accom- paniments as for roast goose. ^ JJ A glass of port wine may be added to the gravy, which should be nicely thickened. Ducks are much nicer if stuffed over night. __ 4 No. 211.85 No. 212. ROAST HARE. Skin and draw the hare, and wipe the inside thoroughly with a damp cloth. Remove the eyes, and skin the ears and tail carefully. Cut oft' the feet at the first joint, and cut the sinews under the second joint. Fill the body with veal forcemeat and sew it up. Truss the hare “in a sitting position,” by pulling the shoulders backwards and the legs forward, then pass a skewer through the leg and shoulder, right through the centre of the body, and out upon the other side through the other leg and shoulder. The head should be fastened with a skewer between the shoulders. Place a piece of fat bacon over the back of the hare, and baste it well with milk. Roast it from 1 to 1| hours. Make one pint of good brown gravy and add to it a glass of port. Garnish with small fried forcemeat balls, and hand red currant jelly with it. Liver sauce is much liked with hare. No. 213 LEVERETS. Roast and serve like hare.86 No. 214. ROAST RABBIT Should be stuffed and trussed like hare, and served with red currant jelly and good gravy. Time forroast- ing about an hcur; if very large a little longer. No. 215. BOILED RABBIT. Truss as for roasting, except the head, which is fastened at the side instead of between the shoulders. Boil gently, with a little salt in the water and a few slices of carrot, turnip, and onion, for about an hour, according to its size. Pour over the rabbit a little onion or maitre-d’hotel sauce, and garnish with small rolls of fat bacon. Or, cook pickled pork with the rabbit, and send to table with it. No. 216. STEWED RABBIT. Cut the rabbit into neat joints, Hour them, and fry nicely in a little butter or dripping, with two onions sliced and a bunch of herbs. Add about 1| pints of good warm stock or water, and simmer gently about two hours, until tender. Thicken the gravy with Hour, and season it nicely, and add a little catsup or port. Pour the gravy over the rabbit, which should be dished in a pile, and garnish with small rolls of bacon. Savoury balls may be cooked and served with the rabbit, also pickled pork and sliced tomatoes.87 No. 217. JUGGED RABBIT. See “Jugged Hare” in Entrees. No. 218. ROAST PHEASANT Should be hung for some time; in cold weather for three weeks, if liked “ high.” Truss like a fowl, and roast from 30 to 40 minutes, basting frequently. Serve with good gravy, browned crumbs and bread sauce. It may be larded or braised, or garnished with watercress. No. 219. BOILED PHEASANT. Cook and serve like boiled fowl. No. 220. PARTRIDGES. May be either roasted or boiled, according to directions for pheasants. They do not take quite so long to cook as pheasants.88 No. 221. GROUSE. Cook and serve like pheasants. Dish the grouse upon thickly buttered toast or fried croutes of bread, and garnish with watercress. No. 222. PTARMIGAN AND BLACK GAME. Cook and serve like grouse. No. 223. PIGEONS. BREAST. BACK. Roast about 15 or 20 minutes, serve in the same manner as roast fowl. They may be boiled for about 25 minutes. See “ Boiled Fowl.” No. 224. GUINEA FOWLS May be cooked like pheasants, and are a good substitute for game in the late spring. No. 225. ROOKS Should only be used for pies, and then only the breasts, as the flesh upon either side of the spine has a very bitter taste.89 No 226. WOODCOCKS AND SNIPES Should be carefully trussed with their own beaks, but not drawn. Place them upon buttered toast to catch the trail as it drops while they are cooking; this is consi- dered a delicacy. Serve the birds upon the toast, and garnish with water- cress. No. 227. ORTOLANS. Truss, but do not draw them, tie a vine leaf over the breast of each, also a piece of bacon. They will take about 15 minutes to roast, and should be well basted with butter. Dish and serve like Woodcocks. Browned crumbs should always accompany them. No. 228. PLOVERS Are not drawn, and are cooked and served like Woodcock and Snipe. No. 229. QUAILS. Roast and serve like Ortolans. They may be drawn if desired. No. 230. PINTAIL. Cook and serve like roast Pheasant.90 No. 231. ROAST LARKS. Truss them, after the heads, legs, and gizzard have been removed, and pass a long skewer through their bodies. Pour over them a little oiled butter, and roast, basting them frequently. A small piece of fat bacon should be placed over the breasts. Cook them upon small rounds of buttered toast, and serve them upon these, arranged in rows, or a circle, and browned crumbs heaped in the centre. Larks may be egged and rolled in brown crumbs, and fried, if preferred. L91 INGREDIENTS. 1£ ozs. butter ! A few drops of lemon juice J oz. flour | Pepper and salt to taste ^ pint white stock METHOD. Melt the butter, mix in the flour smoothly, add the stock and seasoning : cook gently for 10 minutes, skimming carefully. Strain through a tammy cloth, and before serving, add the lemon juice. N.B.—High-class sauces are simmered for some time after they are made, and the butter in them is skimmed oft as it rises. They are then wrung through a tammy cloth to make them very smooth and creamy. No. 233. ESPANIOL, OR BROWN SAUCE 2 ozs. butter 1 Jjj ozs. flour 2 mushrooms A little lemon juice INGREDIENTS. | 1 pint nicely-flavoured stock 1 slice onion, carrot, & turnip l tomato j Pepper and salt to taste METHOD. Melt the butter and fry the vegetables in it, being carefulnot to burn them. Mix in the flour, and fry that without burning it. Add the stock and seasoning, stir and cook well. Then remove the sauce to a simmering burner and cook gently for 20 minutes. Skim off the butter as it rises. Add the lemon juice and tammy. For ordinary purposes the sauce may be passed through a gravy strainer instead of the tammy. No. 234. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2 raw yolks of eggs, perfectly | 2 tablespoonsful of taragon, freed from the germs j French, or plain vinegar ^ pint of best salad oil Pepper and salt METHOD. Put the yokes into a basin with a little salt, and stir them quickly with a whisk, or wooden spoon, dropping the oil on them drop by drop, until the sauce is as thick as butter in the warm weather, then add the vinegar and remainder of seasoning. Note.—Success in making this sauce will depend on adding the oil very gradually to the yolks. It should also be made in a very cool place to prevent the sauce curdling. If this does occur, put a yoke in another basin and pour the curdled sauce slowly on it. This will bring it smooth again. When the sauce is made it is well to mix a tablespoonful of warm water with it ; this will effectually prevent it curdling. This sauce, when properly made, should be of the con- sistency of very thick cream. When it is intended for coating cold entrees, Ac., mix with it, before using, half a gill of liquid, but quite cold, aspic jelly. Note.—Some people mix oil and vinegar together in making this sauce, using a teaspoonful of vinegar to every seven of oil ; but I think the plan mentioned in this recipe is the best.93 No. 235. TARTARE SAUCE. Make like mayonnaise, adding to every half-pint one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one tablespoonful of chopped capers and gherkins, and a teaspoonful of mixed mustard. No. 236. EGG SAUCE. To one pint of veloutA or Bechamel sauce, add the whites of four hard-boiled eggs, cut into small dice. No. 237. BECHAMEL SAUCE. Make like Veloute, using milk in which a few button mushrooms have been simmered to flavour it. No. 238. ROBERT SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2 small onions l^oz’of butter 1 gill of French white wine i pint of brown sauce 2teaspoonsfulof French mustard 1teaspoonfulofanchovy sauce 4 oz. of glaze METHOD. Cut the onions into small dice, and fry in the butter for fifteen minutes. Add the wine, and boil gentlv for four minutes.94 Add the sauce and glaze. Boil gently for twenty minutes, skimming the butter off as it rises. Just before serving, stir in the mustard. Pepper and salt are added to taste. If liked tarragon or plain vinegar may be substituted for the wine. It makes a sharper-tasting sauce. No. 239. PIQUANT SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of brown sauce | 1 dessertspoonful of very finely 2 tablespoonsful of capers j chopped shallot 2 tablespoonfuls of chopped | ^ pint of vinegar gherkin j Pepper and salt to taste METHOD. Put the capers, shallot, and gherkin in the vinegar, and simmer until the shallot is quite soft. Pour in the sauce and let it boil up. Add pepper and salt to taste. No. 240. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 4 tablespoonfuls of vinegar 4 ozs. of butter 1 tablespoonful of water Pepper and salt 5 eggs, yolks of METHOD. Put the vinegar into a saucepan and reduce it three-fourths. Add the water and yolks, and stir until the sauce thickens. This is best done in a double saucepan. Now add in small pieces (off the fire) the butter. Flavour with pepper and salt. Note.—If allowed to get too hot the sauce will curdle. No. 241. MAITRE-D’HOTEL SAUCE. To one pint of velout6 or supreme sauce, add two tablespoonsful of finely chopped parsley. If used for new potatoes, this sauce should be very thin.95 No. 242. PORT WINE SAUCE INGREDIENTS. 2 wine glasses of port wine | 1 finely-chopped shallot Juice of half a lemon METHOD. Boil together, and strain before serving. No. 243. TOMATO SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. tomatoes (sliced) 1 shallot (sliced) 2 ozs. lean ham or bacon (cut into dice) 16 peppercorns Herbs (a small bunch) 1 tablespoonful vinegar 1 oz. butter 1 blade of mace METHOD. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, put on the lid ; simmer gently until all is quite tender. Rub through a sieve. Add a little cochineal to improve the colour if necessary. Remove any fat from the sauce. Re-heat and it is ready for use. If using tinned tomatoes, the pur4e must be reduced until the right consistency. No. 244. MINT SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2 tablespoonsful of mint j 2 tablespoonsful of castor 4 pint of vinegar j sugar METHOD. Mix together, and let it stand for a little time before serving.No. 245. LOBSTER SAUCE. 1 lobster 1 pint veloute, or Supreme sauce METHOD. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. spawn or coral butter Boil the sauce with the spawn, or coral butter, till it is bright red, and add the best part of the lobster meat cut into small pieces. No. 246. OYSTER SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2^ ozs. of butter | 1 gill of cream 2 ozs. of flour j 2 doz. of oysters J pint of milk or white stock METHOD. Remove the beards and hard white part, and cut each oyster in two pieces. Put the beards in the milk or stock, and simmer to extract the flavour. Melt the butter in a stewpan, mix in the flour smoothly; strain in the stock or milk and oyster liquor, and stir until the sauce boils. Let it stand by the side of the fire until all the butter is thrown up ; remove it carefully as it rises.“ With what are you cooking-, my pretty maid ?”“ I’m using’ a ‘ Richmond, Sir ! she saidRichmond’s Cookers-the Ideal Stove.97 Then tammy, make hot again with the cream, and add the oysters and lemon juice. When for fish, fish stock may be used to make this sauce. When there is much liquor from the oysters, less stock or milk should be used. The sauce should be the consistency of a mayonnaise. No. 247. HORSE RADISH SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. ^ pint of beaten cream | Pepper and salt 2 tablespoonsful of vinegar j 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar 2 teaspoonsful of mixed mus- j 1 stick of horse-radish tard METHOD. Scrape the horse-radish and grate it finely, then mix with the other ingredients. No. 248. SUPREME SAUCE. 2 ozs. butter 1^ ozs. flour A pint chicken stock A pint cream INGREDIENTS. Juice of ^ a lemon 1 doz. white button mushrooms Pepper to taste Salt to taste M ETHOD. Melt the butter and mix in the flour smoothly. Add the stock and mushrooms. Cook the sauce well, then add the cream. The sauce should not boil after the cream is added. Strain, add lemon juice, and season to taste. (t98 No. 249. BEARNAISE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 3 shallots 3 tablespoonsful tarragon vinegar 4 ozs. batter 3 tablespoonsful malt vinegar 1 gill white sauce Yolks of 2 eggs. METHOD. Chop the shallots, and boil them in the vinegar for half an hour, then add the white sauce, put the eggs in one at a time, beating after each until quite smooth ; add the butter in small pieces, and still keep stirring; do not let it boil.99 PLAIN SAUCES. No. 250. ENGLISH MELTED BUTTER. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. batter J ozs. flour ^ pint water pepper and salt METHOD. Melt half the butter, and mix in the flour smoothly, off the gas, add the water gradually and boil the sauce for five minutes, stirring all the time. Just before serving, season and add the remainder of the butter, cut into small pieces, off the gas. Put the butter required into a stewpan and dissolve it very gently, so that it does not lose its creamy appearance. Season with a little pepper and salt. No. 251. MELTED BUTTER. No. 252. FAMILY SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 3 ozs. of flour 1 pint of milk 1 pint of water ozs. of butter METHOD. Mix the flour very smoothly with a little water. Put the rest of the water with the milk into a saucepan on the fire to boil. When it boils put in the flour, stirring until the sauce is cooked. Add pepper and salt to taste ; G 2100 if liked a few drops of lemon juice or vinegar may be added. Just before serving add the butter cut in small pieces. This should be stirred in off the gas. This sauce will form the basis of many other plain sauces. To use with fish, put in a tablespoonful of anchovy sauce. Onion sauce is made by adding cooked and chopped onions when the sauce is ready ; caper sauce by adding capers, or, as a substitute, Chopped gherkin. This sauce may be made still more economically by using water only instead of milk. No. 253. BROWN SAUCE (Plain). 2 ozs. butter 14 ozs. flour Onion, a small piece Carrot, ,, Turnip, INGREDIENTS. 1 mushroom l pint good stock Lemon juice, a few drops Pepper and salt to taste METHOD. Fry the vegetables, cut into small pieces in the butter, then mix in the flour, and fry that without burning it. Add the stock, stir and cook well. Add the seasoning and lemon juice. Strain and serve. No. 254. WHITE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of butter i A few drops of lemon juice 14 ozs. of flour ! Pepper and salt 1 pint of milk METHOD. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk. Stir and cook well. Then add the lemon juice and seasoning. A little cream may be added if desired.101 No. 255. PARSLEY SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2 oz. of butter 1 ^ ozs. of flour 1 pint of milk or water A few drops of lemon juice Pepper and salt 2 dessertspoonsful of finely chopped parsley METHOD. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk; stir and cook well. Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and chopped parsley. No. 250. PLAIN EGG SAUCE. 2 ozs. of butter li ozs. of flour 1 pint of milk INGREDIENTS. Lemon juice Pepper and salt 3 hard-boiled eggs METHOD. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk, and stir and cook well. Then add the lemon juice, seasoning, and the chopped whites of the eggs. Tf a very thick sauce is required, take two oz. of flour. Cream may be added if desired. No. 257. CURRY SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2ozs. of butter or dripping 1 onion 1 apple Juice of half a lemon 2 dessertspoonsful powder 1 pint of stock Salt to taste of curry METHOD. 1 cel and slice the onion and apple, put them in a stew-102 pan with the butter or dripping and curry powder, and fry without discolouring for 20 minutes. $ [Mix in the flour smoothly, and add the stock and salt. Stir until it boils, and let it simmer for 20 minutes before serving. Last of all add the lemon juice. Chutney and red currant jelly may be added if liked. Milk may be used instead of stock, if the sauce is for curried eggs, but stock is better. t- Note.—If the sauce is liked smooth, it may be rubbed through a sieve. No. 258. CUCUMBER SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2 young cucumbers | Pepper and salt 3 ozs. of butter A little flour 1 pint of good vinegar METHOD. Pare and slice the cucumbers and gently stew in the butter for about half an hour. Put in about a teaspoonful of flour. Add the vinegar, bring it to the boil, and the sauce is ready. No. 259. SHRIMP SAUCE. Remove the heads, tails and skin from i pint of shrimps; prepare a sauce as directed for lobster sauce, substituting the shrimps for the lobster. No. 260. ONION SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 4 or 5 fair-sized onions j \ pint of plain white sauce or melted butter (1st recipe) METHOD. First blanch the onions by putting them in cold water and bringing it to the boil. Throw the water away.103 Put the onions in fresh water and boil for an houi oi an hour-and-a-half, until quite tender. Chop them finely and add them to the sauce or melted butter. No. 2G1. BREAD SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. ^ pint milk 1 onion 2 ozs. bread crumbs 2 tablespoonsful cream 3 peppercorns Salt to taste. METHOD. Boil the onion and peppercorns for 20 minutes. Strain over the bread crumbs. Stir over the fire till thickened, add the cream and salt, and serve If no cream can be had, half an ounce of butter may be stirred in at last. No. 262. BROWN GRAVY FOR POULTRY OR GAME. Take the neck, gizzard, heart, and (if not otherwise wanted) the livers of the poultry or game, wash well in salt and water, put them into a saucepan with three- quarters of a pint of cold water or weak stock, three peppercorns, a small piece of onion. Put on the lid and stew gently for at least two hours. Strain away the stock, which should be now about half a pint. Heat one ounce of butter in a pan, when it bubbles put in a very little sliced onion, and when this is brown, but not burnt, one teaspoonful of flour; let “this brown, then add the stock; let it boil. Stir all the time, add pepper, salt, and (if liked) catsup or Harvey’s sauce to taste. Strain and serve in a tureen. This gravy must be slightly thickened, but not thick.104 No. 263. LIVER SAUCE FOR HARES OR RABBITS. INGREDIENTS. \ pint white sauce The liver of one hare or two rabbits METHOD. Wash the liver in salt and water, put it into boiling water and boil it till quite done. Drain it well, then pound it in a mortar and mix it thoroughly with the white sauce. Re-lieat and serve. No. 264. CAPER SAUCE. To half a pint of melted butter sauce (p. 99) add one table- spoonful (or more) of capers. The capers must not be added till the sauce is ready to serve. No. 265. APPLE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. apples 1 Water, if the fruit be dry or Sugar to taste j old METHOD. Reel, core, and slice the apples, put into a clean pan, add sugar, and a little water if needed. Keep on the lid, and cook gently till quite tender. No. 266. FENNEL SAUCE. Pick the fennel from the stalks, put into boiling water and boil till tender. Drain, chop, and add to melted butter sauce, allowing two tablespoonsful of chopped fennel to half-pint of sauce.105 No. 267. ANCHOVY SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. J, pint English melted butter | 1 dessertspoonful anchovy 2 tableepoonsful cream | sauce METHOD. Add the anchovy and cream after the melted butter has boiled. No. 268. GOOSEBERRY SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. green gooseberries | Sugar to taste £ pint melted butter | METHOD. Stew the gooseberries until they are quite tender, but not overdone. Rub them through a sieve, then add them to the melted butter and sugar. This is an old-fashioned sauce, which is sometimes served with mackerel, boiled lamb, and roast goose. No 269. CRAB SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 moderate sized crab 1 oz. butter f oz. flour 2 tablespoonsful cream 1 dessertspoonful anchovy sauce Milk, rather more than b pint Lemon juice, a few drops Cayenne METHOD. This may sometimes be used as a substitute for lobster sauce, and is less expensive. Take the flesh from the body and claw of the crab, cut it into small pieces, stew the shell of the crab in milk till it is reduced to half a pint. Work the flour into the butter, add the milk (strained). Put it into a saucepan and stir over the fire till it has boiled 3 or 4 minutes. Add the cream, crab, anchovy sauce, and cayenne, heat thoroughly, last of all stir in the lemon juice.No. 270. TOMATO SAUCE (for keeping). INGREDIENTS. 1 dozen tomatoes 1 teaspoonful ground ginger ^ oz. salt 1 head garlic 1 tablespoonful vinegar A small quantity cayenne METHOD. Put the tomatoes in a stew jar and stew in the oven (which must not be too hot) until tender; rub through a fine sieve, add the other ingredients (the garlic finely chopped), and boil half an hour. Put into well-sealed bottles, and if put in a dry place will keep for years. No. 271. SALAD DRESSING (very good). INGREDIENTS. 4 pint of thick cream 2 hard-boiled eggs l dessertspoonful salt 1 tablespoonful brown sugar 1 teaspoonful mustard 1 tablespoonful tarragon vinegar 3 table-poonful malt vinegar 1 teaspoonful of pepper A little cayenne pepper METHOD. Put the salt, sugar, mustard, pepper, and cayenne into a mortar, and pound it well, then add the yolks of the eggs, and pound these ; add the cream and the vinegar gradually; mix thoroughly, and strain into a salad bottle. No. 272. CHUTNEY SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 3 tablespoonsful chutney | 1 onion \ pint thick gravy j 1 oz. butter METHOD. Chop the onion finely, and fry it in the butter, add the Chutney and gravy. Boil five minutes.107 ~1 SWEET SAUCES. No. 273. SABAYON SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 2 eggs I 1£ ozs. castor sugar J pint sherry METHOD. Beat the eggs in a stewpan, then beat in the sugar and sherry. Put the sauce upon the simmering burner, and whisk until the eggs are cooked, but not curdled. No. 274. MARMALADE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. \ pint water | 1 wineglassful sherry 2 tablespoonsful marmalade | Sugar to taste 1 teaspoonful lemon juice METHOD. Stir the marmalade, water, and lemon juice in a pan until it boils. Add the sugar and then the sherry. No. 275. MARMALADE SAUCE (No. 2). INGREDIENTS. ^ tablespoonful corn flour 2 tablespoonsful marmalade Is pit,t water Rind of 4 a lemon 1 tablespoonful sugar METHOD. Boil the water and lemon rind together; mix the corn flour with a little cold water, strain to it the boiling water, return to the saucepan with the marmalade and sugar, and let it boil well.108 No. 276. GERMAN SAUCE INGREDIENTS. Yolks of 3 eggs j 1 oz. castor sugar ^ pint sherry METHOD. Put the yolks of the eggs, sugar, and sherry into a saucepan, and whisk over a very cool stove until it thickens. On no account allow it to boil Very good with plum pudding. No. 277. LEMON SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. lump sugar l lemon Water (boiling) rather more than ^ pint 2 tablespoonsful water (cold) Arrowroot, a small dessert- spoonful METHOD. Rub the sugar on the lemon rind, till all the outer rind is removed. Put it into the boiling water. Mix the arrow- root with the cold water, pour in the boiling water, return to the saucepan and boil for one minute, add the lemon juice. If the lemon is a very large one, more sugar will be required. No. 278. WINE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. £ pint water (boiling) 2 tablespoonsful water (cold) £ pint sherry Sugar to taste Arrowroot, a small dessert- spoonful METHOD. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with the cold water. Pour on the boiling water gradually, stirring well. Put it into a saucepan, add the wine, boil one minute, sweeten and serve This sauce may be coloured with a fewr drops of cochineal.109 No. 279. EGG AND WINE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. £ pint milk (boiling) ! 1 wineglassful sherry 1 egg j Sugar to taste. METHOD. Beat the egg well, beat in the sherry. Pour on the milk, which must be almost boiling, and while doing so whisk the sauce quickly till it froths. It must be served immediately. No. 280. JAM SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 3 tablespoonsful jam | 3 tablespoonsful sugar | pint sherry METHOD. Boil quickly for 20 minutes. Strain and serve. No. 281. WHITE SAUCE. 1 oz. butter 1 oz. flour INGREDIENTS. 1 pint milk 2 tablespoonsful sugar METHOD. Melt the butter, add the flour with the saucepan off the gas, stir in the milk gradually, return to the gas, and boil avcII for five minutes. Sweeten with the sugar. O No. 282. BRANDY SAUCE. 1£ ozs. butter 1 oz. flour J pint water INGREDIENTS. | -f pint brandy | 2 tablespoonsful sugar METHOD. Make as in preceding recipe, adding the brandy and sugar last of all.No. 283. ARROWROOT SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. i oz. arrowroot, | \ pint water 1 oz. sugar j A little vanilla essence METHOD. Put the water on to boil, then add the arrowroot, which has been mixed to the consistency of thick cream, with a little cold water. Boil for a few minutes, then add the sugar and flavouring. N.B.—Cornflour sauce may be made in the same manner. No. 284. PLUM PUDDING SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. I A little grated lemon peel | pint thick melted butter A little grated nutmeg METHOD. boil. No. 285. APPLE SAUCE (No. 2.) I gill sherry ^ gill brandy ^ oz. castor sugar Mix altogether and 2 lbs. apples £ lb. brown sugar 1 oz. butter INGREDIENTS. Grated nutmeg 2 tablespoonsful water METHOD. Peel and core the apples, cut in slices, put into a saucepan with all the other ingredients, and boil until the apples are quite soft, then rub through a fine sieve.Ill No. 286. CHOCOLATE SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 3 ozs. grated chocolate Castor sugar to taste Essence ot vanilla to taste \ pint milk 1 well-beaten egg METHOD. Dissolve the chocolate in the milk. Let it boil, then add vanilla and sugar to taste. When quite hot pour it on the egg, whisk all the time. Return to the pan and whisk over the gas till the egg is cooked but not curdled. Serve at once. The egg may be omitted, in which case the sauce should be thickened with a small teaspoonful of cornflour. The cornflour is mixed with a little cold milk, the boiling chocolate is poured on it, it is then stirred over the gas till it has boiled for 2 or 3 minutes. In this case the vanilla must not be added till last of all. To half pint of plain white sauce, add a few drops of vanilla, half a wineglass of brandy, and castor sugar to taste. Almond sauce is made in the same manner, using almond essence instead of vanilla. METHOD. Cream the sugar and butter well together. Add the brandy first, very gradually, stirring all the time, then a No. 287. VANILLA SAUCE. No. 288. FLAKE SAUCE A LA CAMPS. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. castor sugar 2 ozs. butter ^ wineglassful sherry 1 wineglassful brandyThis sauce is very good indeed for Christmas puddings. 112 little sherry. The sherry must be very carefully added or it will curdle the sauce. Sometimes only one tablespoonful of sherry will be necessary. It must at once be poured into the tureen in which it is to be served, and put away in a cool place until required. If disturbed after it has ouce been put into the dish, it will crumble and be quite spoiled.“ A cold bedroom ? ’ “ Thougiit so“•Get a ‘Dragon’ gas tire in your bedroom!” * •113 PASTRY. No. 289. PUFF PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. ^ lb. fine flour ^ lb. butter 1 teaspoonful lemon juice A pinch of salt l.yolk of egg Cold water to mix METHOD. Rub the flour through a sieve to remove any lumps; place the butter in a clean cloth and squeeze out all the moisture. Put the flour into a basin, or upon a marble slab, make a well in the centre, and drop in the salt, lemon juice, and yolk, add the cold water very gradually, and with the fingers work into a soft elastic paste, then knead until quite smooth. Roll out until about quarter of an inch in thickness. The butter should be of the same consistency as the dough, then press it out to half the size of the rolled out pastry, place it upon the pastry about a quarter of an inch from the edge, fold the pastry over it, and press the edges of the pastry lightly together. Roll out, being careful not to allow the butter to work to the surface, fold equally into three, allow it to stand in a cool place for 15 minutes. Place the open edges towards you upon the board, roll out again, fold into three as before, and allow to cool for 15 minutes after the friction of the rolling pin Repeat this until the pastry has been rolled out seven times after the addition of the butter, and it is then ready for use. H114 No. 290. GENOESE PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. 3 ozs. flour 3 eggs 3 ozs. butter 3 ozs. castor sugar. METHOD. Beat the eggs and sugar together for about twenty minutes, until they are of the consistency of cream. Rub the butter lightly into the flour, then stir the flour quickly and very lightly into the beaten eggs. If the flour be beaten in the pastry will be spoiled. Pour the pastry into a shallow cake tin lined with greased paper, and bake in a moderately hot oven about an hour. No. 291. FRENCH PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. 5 ozs. flour 3 eggs 2 ozs. butter \ pint cold water 3 ozs. castor sugar METHOD. Put the butter and water on to boil, when boiling stir in the flour and sugar, and cook over the gas, stirring all the time, until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan clearly. Draw the saucepan off the gas and beat in each egg separately. Dip a knife and two dessert spoons into hot water, and shape the mixture like eggs, place them upon a greased baking sheet, not too near together, and bake for an hour in a moderate oven. The pastry, when done, may be opened at the sides and filled with preserve or whipped cream.115 No. 292. ROUGH PUFF PASTRY INGREDIENTS. ^ lb. flour 5 ozs. butter or lard A pinch of salt ^ teaspoonful of lemon juice Cold water to mix METHOD. Put the flour and salt into a basin, cut the butter or lard into small pieces and add to the flour, squeeze in the lemon juice, and with the cold water mix into a rather stiff paste. Turn out on to a floured board, roll into a long strip, fold equally into three, turn open edges towards you, and roll out as before. Repeat this until the pastry has been rolled out four times, when it is ready for use. N.B.—Instead of using all butter or lard, the quantities may be equally divided, and if the crust be required for meat pies good beef dripping may be used. Put flour, salt, and sugar into a basin, rub the butter into the flour with the tips of the fingers until it has the appearance of fine bread crumbs, then mix into a stiff’ paste with the beaten egg, to which a little cold water has been added. This pastry only requires rolling out once. No. 293. RICH SHORT PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. Coomb’s flour 4 ozs. butter 1 egg, beaten (yolk) 1 teaspoonful castor sugar A pinch of salt A iittle cold water METHOD. H 2116 No. 294. ARTISAN SHORT PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. Coomb’s flour 6 ozs. dripping Cold water to mix A little salt METHOD. Put flour and salt into a basin, and rub in the dripping until it looks like fine bread crumbs. Mix into a stiff paste with the cold water, roll out to required size and it is ready for use. No. 295. ANOTHER SHORT PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. flour ^ lb. lard A pinch of salt 1 teaspoonful baking powder Cold water to mix METHOD. Make according to directions for artisan short pastry. N.B.—Baking powder should be well mixed into the flour just before the cold water is added, and the pastry should be put into the oven as soon as possible afterwards, otherwise the baking powder will lose its effect. All pastry should be placed in a hot oven for the first 10 or 15 minutes to throw it up, and make it nice and light, afterwards it should be cooked more slowly, the gas being lowered until about half full. If the pastry be ever so well prepared, and then placed in a cool oven, it will be spoiled. No. 296. FLAKY PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. fine flour 4 ozs. of butter or lard A pinch of salt Cold water to mix METHOD. Divide the butter or lard into four equal portions, rub4 ozs. butter or lard one portion into the flour and salt as for short pastry. Mix into a stiff but smooth paste with cold Avater. Turn out upon a floured board, roll into a long strip, place one of the three remaining portions of butter or lard in small lumps along the strips, fold the pastry into three, turn the open edges towards you, press them lightly together at each end with the rolling pin, to keep in the air, roll out again into a long strip, and proceed in the same manner until all the butter has been used, and the pastry rolled out altogether four times. If possible, allow the pastry to stand in a cool place for fifteen minutes after each rolling. No. 297. HUGONS PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. flour | A pinch of salt 6 ozs. Hugon’s suet | Cold water to mix METHOD. Chop the suet finely, and rub it lightly into the flour and salt. Mix into a stiff paste with cold water, roll out, and use. N.B.—This pastry is very good indeed for all kinds of boiled fruit, or meat puddings and meat pies. No. 298. RAISED PIE CRUST.—(Hot) INGREDIENTS. | ^ pint hot milk or water f oz. salt METHOD. Put the milk and butter on to boil. Mix the flour and salt together in a basin, and pour upon it "the boiling milk and butter, stir in quickly with a wooden spoon, and as soon as the dough is sufficiently cool, knead it well with the hands until quite smooth and elas- tic. It must be moulded while warm, but allowed to get quite cool afterwards before being filled. 1 lb. household flour118 No. 299. RAISED PIE CRUST—(Cold.) INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. flour -4 ozs. butter l egg Cold water to mix 1 teaspoonful salt METHOD. Rub the butter lightly into the hour and salt, and mix into a smooth, firm, paste with the beaten egg and cold water. The egg may be omitted, and milk used instead of water if desired. This crust must be rather less firm than ordinary short crust, or it will break when moulding. Beat the butter or lard to a cream, stir in the sugar and salt, then add the hour gradually, moistening with the beaten egg and a little cold water until the paste leaves the sides of the basin clearly. Turn out upon a houred board, and roll out to the required size. One teaspoonful of lemon juice may be added to this pastry if desired. N.B.—This is an excellent recipe for pastry during the hot weather of summer, as it requires scarcely any handling. No. 300. BEATEN PASTRY. INGREDIENTS. ^ lb. flour 1 egg, beaten 1 teaspoonful castor sugar A pinch of salt 6 ozs. of butter or lard Cold water to mix METHOD.119 VARIOUS PIES & TARTS. No. 301. RAISED PORK PIE. INGREDIENTS. 1^ lbs. pork | 1| teaspoonsful salt 1 teaspoonful sage | 1 teaspoonful pepper Hot crust (for raised pies). METHOD. Cut the pork up into small pieces, season it nicely with the pepper, salt, and sage. Mould the crust, either with the hands or upon a pie mould, while it is quite warm. Set aside until quite cold, then fill with the meat; the meat should be packed in tightly. Wet round the edges of the pie and put on the lid. A quarter pound of the crust should be weighed oft' for the lid, and kept warm. ' Trim the edges neatly with a pair of scissors, make a hole in the centre of the lid, and decorate the lid as fancy dictates with the trimmings of the paste. Tie a band of paper round the pie, place it upon a baking sheet and bake for about two hours. The oven should be nice and hot for the first ten or fifteen minutes, and then the pie should cook slowly until done. It is most essential that park be thoroughly cooked. Fill the pie when done with good gravy made from the bones.1-20 When cold serve the pie garnished with parsley. The appearance of the pie is very much improved if brushed over with beaten egg about ten minutes before it is done. No. 302. GAME PIE. INGREDIENTS. 1 hare Pepper and salt to taste Aspic jelly to garnish 1 pint good flavoured stock 1 pheasant, fowl, or partridge METHOD. Stew the hare and pheasant, fowl, or partridge until the flesh easily leaves the bones. Remove the meat in as large pieces as possible from the bones, pack it in a game pie dish, and season well. The bones should be stewed in the stock from the game, seasoned, and poured hot over the game. Serve cold, and garnish nicely Avith aspic jelly. No. 303. PIGEON PIE. INGREDIENTS. 4 pigeons 1 ib rump steak 4 yolks of hard boiled eggs ^ pint good stock Pepper and salt to season Puff or flaky pastry. METHOD. Draw the pigeons and cut them in halves. Cut the steak into thin strips, season it and the pigeons nicely. Place half of the steak at the bottom of a pie dish, half of the pigeons and hard boiled yolks, repeat this, and then pour over the stock. Cover with pastry, and finish as directed for steak pie. Bake in a moderate oven about If hours. The legs of two of the pigeons should be washed and cleaned, and placed, claws uppermost, in the hole in the centre of the crust.121 No. 304. VEAL AND HAM PIE. INGREDIENTS. 1^ lbs. of veal 4 lb. of ham £ lb. of pastry 2 teaspoonsful of lemon juice 2 hard boiled eggs 1 tablespoonful of flour 1 teaspoonful of salt l pepper 1 dessertspoonful chopped parsley 4 pint cold water METHOD. Cut the veal into strips, the ham (which should be rather fat) into small pieces ; season and roll the veal as directed for “ Steak and Kidney Pie.” Cut the eggs into quarters, lengthways. Half fill the pie dish with the rolls of veal and ham, then springle over half of the chopped parsley and lemon juice, and put here and there pieces of the hard boiled eggs. Fill the dish with the remainder of the meat, and sprinkle over the rest of the parsley and lemon juice. Place the egg amongst the meat as before, and pour in the water. Cover the pie with either rough puff, flaky, or short pastry in the same manner as directed for steak pie. Bake for about 1^ hours in a moderately hot oven. No. 305. RAISED VEAL AND HAM PIE. Make with the above ingredients, leaving out the flour and water, according to directions for “ Raised Pork Pie.” Small forcemeat balls placed between the layers of veal are a very nice addition to this pie.122 No. 306. BEEF STEAK AND KIDNEY PIE. INGREDIENTS. 1 1^ lbs. best steak 1 lb. ox kidney fib flaky pas i ry 1 tablespoonful of flour 1 teaspoonful Liebig Co.’s Extract teaspoonful of salt J ,, pepper £ pint of cold water (about) METHOD. Beat the steak well to make it nice and tender. Cut it into strips about 1 inch wide and 3 or 4 inches long. Mix the Hour, salt, and pepper together upon a plate, dip each piece of meat into this and roll a small piece of the kidney inside each strip. Place the rolls of meat in a pie dish—they should not be packed in too tightly, pour in the water, and add the Liebig. Wet the edges of the pie dish and cover them with strips of pastry, then put on the lid, decorate this with fancy leaves cut from the pastry trimmings. The edges of the pie should be worked up nicely with the back of a knife. Brush the lid over with beaten egg, but not the edges of the crust. Bake for about one hour. Fill the pie up with good hot gravy, and serve hot, garnished with parsley. No. 307. ROOK PIE. INGREDIENTS. 8 young rooks 1 lb. beef steak £ pint stock 2 ozs. butter 1 lb. good pastry Pepper and salt. METHOD. The rooks should be carefully skinned without plucking. Remove the spines and the flesh upon either side of them, as it has a very bitter taste, and use only the breasts of the the birds. Place the meat, cut into small strips, and the rooks, nicely seasoned, in a pie dish, with small pieces of123 butter placed among them, and proceed as for pigeon pie. Bake about hours. This will be much nicer if the rooks are stewed in good stock for about three-quarters of an hour before being put into the pie. No. 308. RABBIT PIE. INGREDIENTS. 1 rabbit j 2 hard boiled egg3 J lb. salt pork or ham i £ pint of stock or water 1 lb. pastry, short or flaky 1 tablespoonful of flour 1 teaspoonful of salt ! £ teaspoonful of pepper METHOD. Cut the rabbit into small joints, mix the Hour, salt, and pepper upon a plate, and dip the joints into this seasoning. Place the joints, pork, or ham, and eggs, cut into quarters, alternately in the pie dish. Pour in the stock, cover with pastry, and finish as for beef steak pie. This pie will take about an hour to bake, and is very good if i lb. of pork sausages be placed in among the meat. No. 309. RAISED PHEASANT PIE. 1 pheasant 1 pint good gravy | lb. fat bacon INGREDIENTS. I lb. hot or cold raised crust 1 teaspoonful of pepper 1J teaspoonsful of salt Forcemeat for same. lb. veal ^ lb. fat bacon 6 ozs. bread crumbs 2 eggs (nearly) 6 or 7 truffles, or 4 small mushrooms 1 teaspoonful of salt i ,, pepper METHOD FOR FORCEMEAT. Mince the veal and bacon, cut the truffles in small pieces,124 mix all the ingredients well together, and bind with the beaten eggs. METHOD FOR THE PIE. Carefully bone a well hung pheasant, stuff it with half of the forcemeat, and half roast it, basting well with butter. Mould the pastry according to directions for “ liaised Pork Pie.” Lay slices of the bacon at the bottom of the crust, and over these the pheasant, then the remainder of the forcemeat, and above that more slices of fat bacon. Put on the lid, decorate tastefully, finish as for “ Pork Pie.” Bake about three hours. Use the bones for making the gravy to fill the pie with afterwards. N.B.—A fancy raised pie mould is very nice to use for this pie, lined with the pastry. liaised chicken pie may be made in exactly the same manner. No. 310. LOBSTER PATTIES. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. flaky or rough puff pastry | 1 tablespoonful of butter or 1 lb. tinned lobster j cream Tepper, salt, and cayenne to season. METHOD. Chop the lobster finely, season it nicely with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and mix in the butter, oiled, or the cream. Line some patty pans with pastry, fill with the mixture, cover with lids of pastry, make a hole in the centre of the lids, and decorate with small fancy leaves. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes. No. 311. SALMON PATTIES. For these use either tinned or cold cooked salmon, and prepare and cook like “ Lobster Patties.’125 No. 312. MACKEREL PATTIES. Make like “ Lobster Patties,” leaving out the butter or cream, and adding one teaspoonful of anchovy essence. No. 313. SAUSAGE ROLLS. INGREDIENTS. £ lb. flaky or short pastry | 1 egg, beaten J lb. sausage meat or sausages j METHOD. Cut the pastry into six squares, place half of a sausage upon one end of a square, wet the edge of the pastry, roll over carefully, leaving the ends open, and mark across the top three or four times with the back of a knife. Brush over with beaten egg. Place the rolls upon a baking sheet and bake in a quick oven for about twenty minutes. To remove the skins from the sausages, place them in a basin of cold water, cut the skin at one end, take hold of the sausage at the opposite end, and work the meat out at the opening. The meat comes out very easily, leaving the skins quite clean. This method does not destroy the flavour so much as parboiling them to remove the skins. No. 314. CORNISH PASTIES. 4 lb. plain short pastry \ lb. beef steak \ lb. potatoes INGREDIENTS. Small onion, finely chopped 4 teaspoonful of salt l ,, pepper METHOD. Roll out the pastry quarter of an inch in thickness, stamp into rather large rounds with a plain round cutter. Cut the meat and potatoes into small dice, season nicely126 with the pepper and salt, and mix with the finely chopped onion. Place equal quantities of the mixture upon the centre of each round of pastry. Wet round the edges of the pastry, double the pastry, bringing the edges to the top, goffer the edges nicely to form a frill with the fingers. Brush the pasties over with beaten egg, and place them upon a greased baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven about thirty minutes. N.B.—Very nice variations may be made by using chicken and ham, lamb, sausage meat, game, etc., for these pasties, leaving out the vegetables. No. 315. FRUIT TARTS. Half fill a pie dish with fruit, apples, pared and sliced, or any fruit that may be in season, then sprinkle the fruit over with moist sugar, allowing 3 ozs. of sugar to 2 lbs. of fruit. Pour over the fruit about \ pint of water. Cover the fruit with a lid of nice pastry, brush over with white of egg and dust with castor sugar ; or, brush over with sugar and milk, or sugar and water, one teaspoonful of sugar dissolved in two teaspoonfuls of either milk or water. Bake in a quick oven at first for about ten minutes, then lower the gas and bake moderately for another 20 or 30 minutes, according to the nature of the fruit. No. 316. OPEN TARTS. Line a tin plate, or open tart mould, with pastry about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Cover the bottom of the pastry with preserve, or with stoned cherries, or apricots, placed close together. Sprinkle well with sugar, and bake in a quick oven from 20 to 30 minutes. Apples, peeled, cored and sliced may be used in this manner, and almost any fruit is suitable.127 No. 317. MINCE PIES. INGREDIENTS. Puff or other pastry | Mincemeat Castor sugar j White of egg METHOD. Roll out the pastry to a quarter of an inch in thickness, and stamp out into rounds with a fluted cutter. The cutter should be a size larger than the patty pans. Place half of the rounds upon patty-pans, and put a little mincemeat in the centre of each round. Wet round the edges of the pastry, and cover with the remaining rounds, pressing the edges lightly together. Glaze with white of egg, and dust with castor sugar. Bake in a quick oven about twenty minutes. No. 318. MINCEMEAT. IRGREDIENTS. 1 lb. apples, peeled, cored, & chopped 1 lb. raisins, stoned and chopped fib. of currants, washed, dried, & picked \ lb. of suet, very finely chopped 1 lb. of moist sugar £ lb. of candied peel, finely shredded & and chopped 2 lemons, grated rind and juice METHOD. Mix all the pre- pared ingredients well, tie down in jars, and keep in a dry place.128 PUDDINGS & VARIOUS SWEETS. No. 319. THORNTON PUDDINGS. INGREDIENTS. 2 eggs 2 tablespoonsful of strawberry 1| oz. of butter jam 3 ozs. of flour \ teaspoonful of carbonate of soda, dissolved in a little lukewarm milk METHOD. Rub the butter lightly into the flour, add the sugar, beat in the eggs, stir in the jam, and lastly add the dissolved carbonate of soda. Well grease some small dariole moulds with a little of Hugon’s Refined Reef Suet, and three parts fill them with the mixture, allowing plenty of room in the moulds for the puddings to rise. Steam for three-quarters of an hour, and serve with a good pudding sauce. If desired, this pudding may be steamed in a 1 pint pudding mould, and will then take about one hour to steam.Richmond’s Cookers- all wearing parts removable.Richmond’s Cookers, all wearing1 parts renewable.129 No. 320. SHERLOCK, OR MYSTERIOUS PUDDING. May be made as in foregoing recipe, using marmalade instead of jam, and adding H ozs. of dried cherries, cut in halves. Also use “ Coomb’s Flour,” and no soda. No. 321. GENOESE FLOWER BASKETS. INGREDIENTS. Stale sponge or Genoese cake Apricot & raspberry preserve Strips of angelica, 4 ins. long and £ ins. wide | pint whipped cream A few crystallized violets ,, ,, rose leaves METHOD. Stamp the cake into six rounds, about 1£ inches in thick- ness, with a medium-sized plain cutter, then with a cutter three sizes smaller, remove a small portion of the interior from each round, being careful not to allow the small cutter to go right through them. Coat thiee of the rounds with apricot preserve, rubbed through a sieve, and sprinkle with finely-chopped pistachio kernels. Coat the other three with the raspberry preserve and sprinkle with desiccated cocoanut. hill each basket with whipped cream, passed through a vegetable rose forcer. Dip the angelica into boiling water to make it pliable, and then place a small handle upon each basket. Decorate the cream with crys- tallized violets and rose leaves. No. 322. SEA SHELLS. INGREDIENTS. 7 ozs. of icing sugar | A little cochineal 7 ozs. of ground almonds j ,, sap. green 1 egg and 1 white of an egg METHOD. Mix the sugar and almonds well together, and add sufficient egg to form into a stiff paste. Colour half of the I130 mixture a pretty green, and the remainder a pretty pink. Roll out to a \ of an inch in thickness, and then line well oiled small tin shell moulds, with the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven about ten minutes. When quite cold, carefully remove from the moulds, and fill each shell with sliced strawberries, bananas, or any suitable fruit in season, and over the fruit pile a little whipped cream. No. 323. CHANTILLY BASKETS. INGREDIENTS. Some macaroons and caramel. METHOD. Boil 5 ozs. of sugar to caramel, and then line small plain moulds with the biscuits, dipping the sides in the caramel to make them adhere. Remove from the moulds, when set, and fill with whipped cream, decorate the cream with crystallised fruit of various colours; cut into slices. No. 324. RICHMOND GEMS. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of ground almonds | A few drops of cochineal 6 ozs. of castor sugar | ,, sap. green 1 egg I METHOD. Mix the almonds and sugar together, and make into a stiff paste with the egg, slightly beaten. Divide the paste into three equal portions, leave one portion the natural colour, and colour the remaining portions respectively a pretty pink and green. Turn out upon a floured board, and roll to about \ of an inch in thickness. Stamp into all kinds of fancy shapes Avith cutters, and bake in a moderate oven about ten minutes.131 No. 325. LITTLE NOUGAT PAILS. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of sweet almonds, blanched and shredded 6 ozs. of castor sugar, boiled until a golden colour Whipped cream Angelica METHOD. Rake the almonds until a golden brown, then mix them while hot with the boiled sugar. Turn out upon an oiled slab, press the mixture out flat with an oiled lemon, then quickly line six small, plain, dariole moulds, which have been previously well oiled. When set carefully remove from moulds, and fill with whipped cream. Cut small strips of angelica for handles. No. 326. MERINGUES. INGREDIENTS. The whites of 4 eggs | Flavouring essence 8 ozs. of castor sugar ~ I METHOD. Beat the whites to a very firm froth. Sift the sugar, and mix lightly and quickly with them. Add any flavouring essence. * This should be put into it with the sugar. Cover meringue boards with stout paper, and oil it. Put the meringue mixture on it with a spoon, or forcing bag and pipe, in the shape of half an egg. Dust them with sifted sugar. With a small bellows blow off the waste sugar, and bake the meringues in a very moderately heated oven for two or three hours. Do not let them take more than a pale fawn colour. Then detach the meringues from the paper. . With, a spoon scoop out all the soft inside, and put them into the oven for a few minutes to dry the insides. I 2132 They must be filled only just before serving, or they will become soft. The meringues may be filled with preserve or beaten cream sweetened and flavoured, and must be joined two together with white of egg, to take the shape of eggs. No. 327. ITALIAN MERINGUES. INGREDIENTS. 4 eggs (whites) | 3 ozs. of almonds 8 ozs. of castor sugar j Some orange flowers. METHOD. Blanch the almonds and cut them into strips. Mix the sugar and whites of eggs as in foregoing recipe, and mix the almonds and orange flowers with it. Bake in square cases in a gentle oven. No. 328. CROCUS PUDDING, INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of good milk or cream | ^ lb. of small macaroons 6 ozs. of castor sugar j 1 teaspoonful of comfits 2 lemons [ 6 or 8 pistachio kernels 4 teaspoonsful of fine flour METHOD. Put the milk into a saucepan to boil, when boiling add to it the flour which has been mixed with a little cold milk, boil three minutes, move from the stove, add the juice and grated rind of the lemons, also the sugar, allow this to cool; arrange half the macaroons in a deep dish, cover with the cream, put in the remainder of the macaroons, and fill up with the cream. Stand aside to get cold. Blanch the pistachio kernels and cut them in slices. Stick these in the top of the cream and sprinkle over it the comfits.133 No. 329. QUEEN PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. \ pint of bread crumbs 1 pint of milk 1 oz. of butter 2 eggs 1 dessertspoonful of sugar | A little jam I Grated rind of half a lemon METHOD. Put the milk on to boil. Place the bread crumbs in a basin, grate over them the lemon rind, add the butter, then pour over the boiling milk. Allow to stand a few minutes, to cool, beat in the yolks of the eggs, add the sugar, and put the pudding into a greased pie-dish, and bake in a moderate oven until set. .Remove the dish from the oven, spread the jam over the top, and pile the stiffly-beaten whites of the eggs upon the jam. Return the pudding to the oven for a few minutes to set the meringue. Sift over castor sugar, and serve. No. 330. IMPERIAL PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. $ lb. of flour 2 ozs. of butter A teaspoonful of baking powder 2 ozs. of sugar Jam 1 tablespoonful of milk i egg METHOD. lor one nour.134 No. 331. PRINCESS PUDDING A LA CAMPS. \ INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of butter | 6 ozs. of flour 6 ozs. of castor sugar j 6 ozs. of raisins 6 eggs I 0 ozs. of currants 4 ozs. of mixed peel METHOD. Cream the butter and sugar. Separate the eggs, and beat the whites to a stiff froth. Add the yolks, and beat well for 10 minutes, and then the whites. Then add the flour gradually, and stir in lightly. The raisins must be stoned and finely chopped, the currants well washed, dried, and picked, and the lemon peel very finely chopped. Mix all well together. Well butter a mould, and sprinkle it with some of the finely chopped lemon peel, fill with the mixture, allowing plenty of room for the pudding to rise. Steam for four hours. Serve hot with cold flake sauce. (See sauces.) No. 332. SLICE PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. Slices of bread and butter | £ lb. of currants 2 ozs. of sugar ^ pint of milk 1 egg METHOD. Well grease a dish, and place in layers the bread and butter, sugar, and currants, beat the es'g and milk well together and pour over all, bake in moderate gas oven for about an hour.135 No. 333. APPLE AMBER PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 8 apples | Rind and juice of one lemon 2^ ozs. of butter j 3 eggs 3 ozs. of moist sugar j A little pastry METHOD. Wash the apples (they need not be peeled or cored), and cut them into small pieces. Put them into a stewpan with the butter, sugar, lemon rind and juice, and stew until tender. Then rub through a hair-sieve ; the sieve keeps back the peel and pips. Beat the three yolks into the mixture, and put it into a pint pie-dish lined with a little pastry. Bake in a moderate oven until set. Then beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and heap on the top. Put it again into a cool oven until the whites are set. This pudding may be served either hot or cold. No. 334. MANCHESTER PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. \ pint of fine bread crumbs | \ lb. of castor sugar 1 pint of boiling milk j 1 Lemon 2 eggs | A little lemon curd 2 ozs. of butter j METHOD. Pour the boiling milk over the bread crumbs; when cool mix with it the yolks of two eggs, the butter, 1 oz. of simar, and rind of the lemon, and pour into a pie dish. Bake lightly ; let it cool. Whip the whites of the ego-s with 3 ozs. sugar, add gradually the juice of the lemon, spread a layer of lemon curd over the pudding, pour the whip over, and bake lightly. This pudding is best eaten cold.136 No. 335. CHOCOLATE PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of Fry’s cocoa ] 3 ozs. of butter 7 ozs. of bread crumbs j \ pint of milk or cream 3 oz. of sugar | 3 eggs. Vanilla flavouring METHOD. Melt the cocoa in the milk over the stove, then melt the butter ; add the sugar; pour this over the bread crumbs, add the yolks of eggs separately, then mix in the melted cocoa and milk. Beat the whites to a stiff froth, stir them in lightly, and steam in a well-buttered mould for one hour. No. 336. LEICESTER PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 1 gill of milk or cream | 1 tablespoonful of cake crumbs 1 oz. of butter, 2 eggs j 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar 1 oz of flour (Coomb’s aerated) | METHOD. Melt the butter, mix all the ingredients together, the eggs being well beaten, it will make a rich batter. Put into one large greased mould, or several small moulds ; steam until quite set. If in a large mould, when cold, cut in slices, cover with egg and bread crumbs, fry in boiling fat. Serve with jam sauce. (See Sauces.) No. 337. LEMON CREAM PIE. INGREDIENTS. Pastry 1 2 ozs. of butter 6 ozs. of castor sugar | 2 eggs 2 tablespoonsful of cornflour | 2 lemons (Brown & Poison’s) j i pint of cold water METHOD. Put the water into a saucepan to boil, then add the corn- flour which has been mixed with a little cold water, stir137 until it boils and thickens, move from the stove, add the butter, grated rind and juice of the two lemons, lastly the eggs, which have been well beaten. Line a pie-dish with puff paste, decorate the edges ; pour in the mixture, and bake 20 to 30 minutes. No. 338. LEMON PUDDING (Boiled). INGREDIENTS. | lb. of bread crumbs | lb. of finely chopped suet The rind of 2 lemons, juice of 1 2 eggs, well beaten 2 ozs. of flour £ lb. of sifted sugar METHOD. Mix all together, and boil three- quarters of an hour. No. 339. APRICOT PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. Slices of thin bread and butter | 3 eggs Apricot jam | l tablespoonful of sugar 1 pint of milk j 4 drops of essence of almonds METHOD. Spread the jam on one slice of bread and butter, place another slice on the top ; line the inside of a greased basin with the slices of bread and butter and jam, and fill up the basin. Cover with the custard mixture. Serve with sauce made with apricot jam, sherry, and sugar. No. 340. APPLE MERINGUE TART. Rich short paste 1 lb. of apples i lb. of sugar INGREDIENTS. Rind of half a lemon 2 eggs 1 teaspoonful of pink sugar METHOD. Line a tart dish with the pastry, and decorate the edge.138 Peel, core, and cut the apples in slices, boil with the sugar and lemon rind until quite tender, pass through a fine sieve, add the yolks of the eggs, mix thoroughly ; put into the lined dish, bake 20 to 30 minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and mix with it the pink sugar : place this on the top of the apples, put into a hot oven to brown slightly. No. 341. ROSS PUDDING. 4 lb. of castor sugar 3 ozs. of cake crumbs 4 eggs INGREDIENTS. 2 lemons 4 pint of milk or cream Puff pastry METHOD. Line a pie dish with the pastry, and decorate the edge. Put the cake crumbs, sugar, yolks of eggs, cream, and the grated rind and juice of the lemons into a basin ; mix these all together, pour into the lined pie dish, and bake 20 minutes. Whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff' froth ; place on top of the pudding, with a little castor sugar; decorate with pistachio kernels, finely chopped. Serve cold. No. 342. MARMALADE PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of bread crumbs | b ozs. of sugar 6 ozs. of suet | 4 eggs 6 ozs. of marmalade METHOD. Chop the suet finely, and mix with the bread crumbs, sugar, and marmalade. Beat and strain the eggs, and mix them thoroughly with the other ingredients. Boil for two hours. For a plainer pudding use two eggs and a little milk.139 No. 343. BOILED JAM PUDDING. Make like marmalade pudding, using any suitable jam in place of the marmalade. No. 344. CHILDREN S PLUM PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. i lb. of flour | £ lb. of moist sugar | lb. of bread crumbs | A little grated lemon peel \ lb. of currants i A little milk ^ lb. of suet METHOD. Prepare all the ingredients. Then mix with a little milk, and boil for three hours. No. 345. APPLE SNOWBALLS. INGREDIENTS. Large cooking apples | Sugar Rice METHOD. Well wash some rice, and boil it for ten minutes. Well drain it, and spread on small floured pudding cloths. Peel and core the apples and fill the centre with sugar. Place them on the rice and tie them in the cloths. Boil for 20 minutes. No. 346. GRAVESEND PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. Stale sponge cake | Stewed fruit 1 pint of Bird’s custard METHOD. Dip a pudding basin, or mould, into cold water, then line it carefully with sponge cake, about half an inch in thickness. Then fill the mould with hot stewed fruit nicely140 sweetened, and juicy (red fruit is most suitable for this padding). Cover the fruit with a thick round of cake, and put a plate with a heavy weight upon it over the cake. Then let it stand until perfectly cold. Turn out and serve with one pint of Bird’s Custard, or half-pint of whipped cream round it. It is a summer pudding, and should be made the day before it is required. Stale bread may be substituted for the cake. No. 347. CANARY PUDDINGS. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of Coombs’ flour | 2 ozs. of castor sugar 2 ozs. of butter j 2 eggs METHOD. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and flour, beat in each egg separately. Steam for about *20 minutes in well greased dariole moulds. Serve with jam sauce. These little puddings may be also baked in a quick oven about ten minutes. No. 348. COVENTRY PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. Stale cake; or, bread crumbs j Whites of 2 eggs, beaten A few tinned apricots j stiffly; or, 4 pint of whipped ^ pint of custard | cream METHOD. Put a layer of cake crumbs at the bottom of a greased pie-dish, over these place a layer of apricots, cut side down- wards, and continue this until the dish is three parts full. Then make a thick custard with one of Bird’s Custard Powders, and pour over the pudding, place a layer of apricots over the custard, and bake for about 10 minutes in a moderate oven. Remove the pudding from the oven, pile the stiffly beaten whites upon the top, and return to the oven for about five minutes to set the meringue. Serve either hot or cold.141 No. 349. PUNCTUAL PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of butter i 2 ozs. of Coombs’ flour 2 ozs. of castor sugar 2 eggs £ pint of milk A little flavouring METHOD. Beat the batter and sugar to a cream, beat in the eggs. Stir in the flour, and gradually add the milk. Add the flavouring, beat thoroughly, pour into a greased pie-dish, and bake in a quick oven 45 minutes. No. 350. VIENNOISE PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. a ozs. of stale bread cut into dice 3 ozs of sultanas £ lb. of castor sugar 2 ozs. of candied peel Grated rind of a lemon 1 wineglass of sherry V pint of milk 2 whole eggs 1 oz. of lump sugar METHOD. Put the one ounce of lump sugar into an old saucepan, and burn it to a dark brown. Pour in the milk, and stir until it is well-coloured, and the sugar dissolved. Beat the eggs well, strain the coloured milk on to them, and add the sherry. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin, and pour the eggs, milk and sherry over them. Let the pudding soak for half an hour. Then put it into a well-greased pint mould. Cover with buttered paper, and steam for one hour and a half. This pudding is to be served with German sauce.142 No. 351. SIMPLE PLUM PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. £ lb. of finely-chopped suet | lb. of currants £ lb. of raisins, stoned and chopped 6 ozs. of flour 6 ozs. of bread crumbs 6 ozs. of candied peel 3 ozs. of sugar 1 gill of milk 2 eggs \ teaspoonful of baking powder METHOD. Put the dry ingredients into a basin, and mix with the eggs and milk, well-beaten together. Boil in a cloth or basin for four hours, No. 352. CARAMEL PUDDING. 6 ozs. of lump sugar A little lemon juice 1 pint of milk INGREDIENTS. 5 yolks and three whole eggs 1 tablespoonful of castor sugar A little vanilla METHOD. Put the lump sugar, crushed, into a plain round mould with the lemon juice. Let it stand over the fire, stirring carefully until it takes a golden-brown tinge. Then turn the mould round and round until it is well-covered, and dip the outside into cold water to set the caramel. Beat the eggs well. Put the milk on to boil, when nearly boiling, pour on to the eggs, stirring them quickly, add the sugar and vanilla, and strain into the mould. Then steam it for an hour.143 No. 353. ALBANY PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. | oz. of gelatine | lb. of sugar Flavoimng essence Preserved fruit METHOD. ,Wash the rice and boil it in the milk with the sugar and flavouring essence until quite soft. Dissolve the gelatine in hot milk, add it to the rice with the cream whipped to a stiff froth; mix all thoroughly, and pour into a mould. When cold turn out and serve with custard and preserved fruit. 3 tablespoonsful of rice 1 pint of milk ^ pint of rich custard J pint of cream No. 354. SIR WATKIN S PUDDINGS. INGREDIENTS. ^ lb. of Hugon’s suet, chopped finely J lb. of bread crumbs \ lb. of loaf sugar 4 ozs. of ground rice 4 ozs. of orange marmalade 3 eggs METHOD. Put all the ingredients into a basin, and mix together. Pour into a greased mould, and steam four hours. Serve with sweet sauce. No. 355. CREAM SLIPPERS. Puff pastry | pint of thick cream 1 oz. of castor sugar INGREDIENTS. 6 pistachio nuts Apricot or strawberry jam Red sugar. 1 egg METHOD. Roll the pastry out quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut144 into lengths about one inch wide, wet one side of each strip of pastry and carefully fold it round a cornet or slipper mould (that has been well greased), letting the edges join well; brush over with beaten egg; when all the p«stry is used place the slippers on a greased tin and bake about ten minutes. Take out the moulds, and when the pastry is cold half fill each slipper with jam, fill up with the cream whipped and sweetened, and garnish with the red sugar, pistachio kernels, blanched and chopped. No. 356. ECONOMICAL CHRISTMAS PUDDING. \ (A la Camps.) INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of Demerara sugar 1 lb. of raisins 1 lb. of currants 1 lb. of Hugon’s suet 2 nutmegs 2 tablespoonsful of flour 1 tumblerful of old ale 2 lbs. of bread crumbs J lb. of mixed peel 1 oz. of sweet almonds 3 or 4 bitter almonds ^ teaspoonful of salt METHOD. Shred the peel finely, stone the raisins and put them in whole, clean and dry the currants. Blanch and shred the almonds. Chop the suet finely. Put the bread crumbs and flour into a basin, add all the other ingredients, grate in the nutmeg, Stir all well together. Grease the moulds and fill 'hem quite full. Put foolscap paper covers over the moulds, before tying on the cloihs, which must be tightly secured. Boil gently for 7 hours. When done, allow them to cool and dry, without untying the cloths. If hung up in a cool place these puddings will keep beautifully for several years. When required for table, re-boil for 3 hours, and serve with cold flake sauce, k la Camps. (See sauces.)Cookery and Cleanliness are next to Godliness. -• t145 No. 357. PLUM PUDDINGS. INGREDIENTS. | 1 lb. of sultanas 2 lbs. of currants 6 ozs. of almonds 2 lemons | pint of milk i pint of brandy I METHOD. Chop the suet, peel, and almonds, and clean and chop the currants (this darkens the pudding); stone the raisins, and clean the sultanas ; grate the rind of the lemons and squeeze the juice. Put all the dry ingredients together into a basin and mix well with the eggs, brandy, and milk. Add the milk by degrees, because the pudding must not be too wet. Put the mixture into greased basins; cover the top with a little greased paper ; tie a cloth tightly over the top and boil for six hours. No. 358. SWISS ROLL. INGREDIENTS. 3 eggs | 3 tablespoonsful of castor sugar 3 tablespoonsful of Coomb’s j Jam, and half an ounce of fat flour | for greasing paper METHOD. Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream. Add the flour by degrees. Mix lightly— pour into a baking tin lined with well-greased paper, and bake in a rather quick oven for about 10 minutes. Turn it out quickly on to a piece of paper with sugar spiinkled on it; spread the jam and roll it up. 4 lbs. of beef suet 3^ lbs. of flour 1^ lbs. of bread crumbs l| lbs. moist sugar J lb. of mixed peel 1^ dozen eggs 3 lbs. of raisins J146 No. 359. APPLE YORKSHIRE. INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. of flour | 2 eggs 1 pint of milk j ^ teaspoonful of salt METHOD. Put the flour into a basin, mix to a smooth paste with the milk, then add the remainder of milk, and eggs well beaten ; pour this batter into small round tins, well greased, and bake for half-an-hour ; when done, turn out into a dish and spread over the apple, which must previously be stewed with the sugar and a little water ; serve very hot. No. 360. CUP PUDDINGS. INGREDIENTS. ^ lb. of Coomb’s flour | 1 tablespoonful of milk 1 oz. of sugar j 1 egg 1 oz. of butter METHOD. Rub the butter in flour, add the other dry ingredients ; mix the egg and milk together, and add to the other ingredients, mixing all thoroughly. Bake in small cups or fancy moulds, and serve with sweet sauce. No. 361. EASTER TOKENS. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of butter | 6 ozs. of flour 4 ozs. of castor sugar 1 egg 2 ozs. of currants METHOD. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the flour and currants (cleaned) gradually, and the egg; roll it out to one-eighth of an inch in thickness, and cut it with a round cutter ; place the rounds on a well-greased baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven for twenty minutes.147 No. 362. HUNT PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. i i|, G{ flour | 1 teacupful of raspberry jam 3 or 4 ozs. of suet I 1 teaspoonful of carbonate of 1 tablespoonful of sugar | soda 1 teaspoonful of ginger | METHOD. Shred and chop the suet, mix with the flour, add all the dry ingredients, then the jam. Mix well. Stir in the soda dissolved in a little sour milk or buttermilk to form a stiff batter. Steam three hours. STEAMED LEMON PUDDING. No. 363. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of bread crumbs | 4 ozs. of suet 4 ozs. of flour j Rind and juice of a large lemon 4 ozs. of moist sugar | 1 egg 1 teaspoonful of baking powder | Milk or water METHOD. Mix the dry ingredients first, add lemon rind and juice, egg and milk to form a stiff batter. Steam three hours. No. 364. FIVE MINUTES’ PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of Coomb’s flour | 2 eggs ozs. of sugar | Raspberry jam, flavouring METHOD. Put the flour and sugar into a basin, make a hole in the flour, break in the eggs, beat well, add flavouring and pour at once into a tin lined with greased paper, and bake in a hot oven about five minutes. Try with a skewer. Turn on to a sugared board, spread jam on quickly and roll up at once. Sift sugar over. J 2148 . No. 365. BROWN & POLSON’S BLANC MANGE. INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of milk | 2 tablespoonsful of white sugar 2 tablespoonsful of cornflour j 1 inch stick of cinnamon (Brown & Poison’s) | METHOD. Put the milk into a saucepan to boil with the sugar and cinnamon, then add the cornflour, which has been ‘mixed with a little cold milk ; stir and boil for five minutes. Take out the cinnamon and pour into a mould that has been rinsed with cold water, set aside to get cold, turn out and serve with stewed fruit or preserves. No. 366. BLANC MANGE WITH STEWED FRUIT. Place in a mould or dish some Preserved or Baked Fruit, well sweetened, and pour the above preparation over it while hot. Let it stand until quite set, and turn out into a glass dish. Additional Richness.—By gradually stirring into rather less than a pint of milk four dessertspoonsful of Milkmaid Brand Condensed Milk, and perfectly mixing it before it is used, Blanc-Mange almost equal in richness to that made with cream may be produced at the most trifling cost. When thus prepared, only three or four lumps of sugar should be used instead of 2 ozs. If Unsweetened Condensed Milk is used, then the 2 ozs. of sugar must be added.149 No. 367. ANOTHER MINCE MEAT RECIPE. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of chopped suet 2 lbs. of chopped apples 2 lbs. of chopped Valencia raisins 2 lbs. of chopped sultana raisins 2 lbs. of brown sugar 2 lbs of currants 3 lemons \ lb. of citron peel | lb. of candied lemon peel 4 lb. of candied orange peel 1 nutmeg 1 teaspoonful of salt 4 ozs. of sweet almonds 2 teaspoonsful of mixed spice 4 pint of brandy 4 pint of sherry METHOD. Mix well together, and tie down in jars. No. 368. BAKED LEMON PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. of butter Some pastry Yolks of 4 eggs 2 ozs. of castor sugar 1 large lemon METHOD. Cream the butter, and add the sugar and the eggs one by one. Then mix in the grated rind of the lemon and strained juice. Line a small pie-dish with pastry, and pour in the mixture; bake half an hour. No. 369. ROLY POLY. INGREDIENTS. i lb. of Coomb’s aerated flour | \ lb. of jam \ lb. of Hugon’s suet j Pinch of salt METHOD. Put the flour and salt into a basin, add to it the suet finely chopped, mix these together. Add the water gradu- ally and mix into a stiff paste, turn on to the floured board,150 and roll out into a long piece, spread the jam over, not too near the edge, roll it up very carefully, join the ends securely. Take a pudding cloth and sprinkle it with flour, place the pudding in the centre, fasten the ends of the cloth with string and the middle with pins. Place in a saucepan of boiling water and boil two hours. No. 370. GOOSEBERRY PUDDING. ' INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of flour | Cold water i lb. of suet j 1 pint of gooseberries Salt j 3 ozs. of sugar METHOD. Put flour and salt into a basin, add suet finely chopped, mix together, pour in the water, and mix to a stiff paste. Take three parts of the paste and line a greased basin, pick the gooseberries, put into the basin with the sugar and two tablespoonsful water. Roll out the remainder of the paste, place it on the top of the basin, press the edges well together, cover with a floured cloth, place in a sauce- pan of boiling water, and boil two-and a-half hours, keeping the pudding well covered with water. This pudding may be steamed for three hours. No. 371. FIG PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of chopped suet 3 ozs. of chopped figs 3 ozs. of bread crumbs 2 ozs. of sugar 2 ozs. of flour l egg h gill of milk Nutmeg METHOD. Put all the dry ingredients into a basin and mix ; beat the egg in a separate basin, add to it the milk, pour to other ingredients and beat well, put into a greased mould and steam for two hours. Turn out and serve with custard sauce.151 No. 372. ANOTHER FIG PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of dried figs | 2 ozs. of suet 2 ozs. of moist sugar j 3 ozs. of bread crumbs 2 ozs. of flour j 2 eggs. Salt A little milk j Nutmeg METHOD. Chop the figs and suet very finely and put it into a basin with the bread crumbs, sugar, flour, a grate of nutmeg and a pinch of salt. Mix the pudding with the eggs and about a tablespoonful of milk. Pour this into a well-greased basin and steam for three hours. This pudding may be put into small well-greased moulds or very small basins, when they will only take one hour to steam. In steaming them stand them in a saucepan with sufficient water to come half-way up the basin or mould. Place a piece of greased paper over the top, and be careful that the cover of the saucepan fits well. The water must boil all the time. No. 373. GROUND RICE CREAM. INGREDIENTS. 4 tablespoonsful ground rice | 1 pint of new milk Yolks of eggs j 2 ozs. of loaf sugar Whites of eggs j Essence of almonds METHOD. Mix the rice to a smooth paste with a little of the milk, add yolks of eggs well beaten, then the whites and sugar; boil milk and pour over the mixture ; place all again in the pan and boil for three minutes, stirring well all "the time ; when done pour into a mould to cool, and serve with custard or preserve.152 No. 374. LUTTERWORTH PUDDING (For eating cold). Pare, slice, and core four or five good cooking apples, add a little water to them, and cook until they will beat up smoothly ; sweeten well and flavour. Put them into a well buttered pie-dish, and carefully pour on the top half a pint of custard, made from half a packet of custard powder (sweetened); grate a little nutmeg over, and let the pudding stand in a cool place. No. 375. HUGONS SUET PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. Coomb’s /Prated flour | Pinch of salt | lb. Hugon’s suet j Cold water 2 ozs. candied peel METHOD. Put the flour into a basin, add the salt, the suet chopped finely, and the peel cut into small pieces; mix these dry ingredients, add the water gradually, and mix to a smooth paste. Form into a long shape, put into a floured cloth, tie securely. No. 376. FLORADOR PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 1£ pints of milk | 3 ozs. sugar 2| ozs. Florador j 1 oz. butter 2 eggs | METHOD. Boil the milk, and sprinkle in the florador; stir over the fire until the florador is cooked—five to ten minutes ; take it off the fire, add the sugar and the yolks of eggs; whip the whites up stiffly, and lightly stir them to the pudding. Pour the whole into a well-greased pie dish, and bake a light brown. N.B.—A very nice pudding for children.153 No. 377. MILK PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 2 tablespoonsful of rice or sago | Sugar to taste 1 pint of milk METHOD. Wash the rice, put in a greased pie-dish, add milk, sweeter^ to taste, and bake slowly after having first placed the pudding in a hot part of the oven to let the rice swell. Rice requires longer than tapioca. If skimmed milk be used put in half teaspoonful of finely chopped suet. No. 378. CUSTARD WITH CONDENSED MILK. Milkmaid Brand Condensed Milk may be used with great success in place of fresh milk in making custard with Bird’s Custard Powder. To five dessertspoonsful of the Condensed Milk add a good three-quarter point of hot water, which should be gradually stirred in until a complete and perfect mixture is made. The custard should then be prepared in the usual manner,but omitting the sugar. If unsweetened Condensed Milk is used then 2 oz. of sugar must be added. In making Bird’s Custard with Condensed Milk care should be taken to use only the best brands of pure full- cream milk. The Milkmaid Brand may be relied upon to contain all the cream of the original milk, and to be of the finest quality. No. 379. PLAIN CABINET PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. I lb. or 1 pint of bread crusts | A few raisins i pint of milk j 1 egg Sugar to taste METHOD. Crease a basin well, decorate with the stoned raisins, fill with the crusts cut into dice. Beat the egg, add milk and154 sugar to taste. Pour over the bread and let it soak for some time before cooking. Steam half an hour. Serve with sweet sauce, raspberry, or lemon. This pudding may be baked if liked, and a little candied peel added. No. 380. CARAMEL CUSTARD PUDDINGS. INGREDIENTS. For the Caramel :— 2 ozs. of lump sugar | 2 tablespoonsful cold water METHOD. Melt the sugar in a pan, let it brown, then add the water; boil till it is a nice brown, then pour into six small tin dariole moulds. Be careful that the caramel coats every part. Fill them with custard made as follows :— h pint of milk I Essence of vanilla to taste Yolks of 4 eggs (beaten) | Sugar Whites of 2 eggs ,, Boil the milk, add the sugar, flavour with vanilla. When cool pour on to the eggs, then fill the moulds. These little puddings should be steamed for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then turned out. They may be served hot or cold. No. 381. BAKEWELL PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. Puff pastry. I egg. j H ozs. castor sugar 1^ ozs. of butter | ^ lb. of raspberry jam METHOD. Line a tart dish with the paste, decorate the edges, cover the centre of the dish with the jam. Put the egg, which has been well beaten, into a saucepan with the butter and sugar; stir it over the stove until it thickens, and then pour over the jam, and bake about twenty minutes.155 No. 382. PANCAKES. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of flour | 1 pint of milk 2 eggs j Some lard or dripping for frying METHOD. Put the Hour into a basin, add to it a pinch of salt. Make a well in the middle, and put the two eggs into it; mix them smoothly with the flour, and add the milk very gradually. Melt the lard or dripping. Well season a small frying pan, about the size of a cheese plate. Put into it a teaspoonful of the melted fat, and let it run well over the pan. Then pour in enough batter to cover the pan thinly, and fry it brown, shaking the pan occasionally to keep it from burning. Then toss it on to the other side, and when that is fried turn it on to kitchen paper. ^ Sprinkle with sugar and lemon juice and roll it up. Keep it hot while the remainder of the batter is fried in the same way. If the maker cannot toss the pancakes well, they may be turned with a broad-bladed knife. If they are fried in a large pan, more fat must be used. No. 383. FRENCH PANCAKES. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of flour \ pint of milk 2 ozs. of butter j 2 eggs, well beaten 2 ozs. of sugar METHOD. bub the butter into flour, and sugar, beat in the eggs and add the milk. Beat well, and let it stand two hours156 before cooking. Bake for twenty minutes in well greased saucers. Place the puddings one on the top of the other so as to make one pudding. Spread apricot or other jam between, or serve with one of the pudding sauces. Or, serve the pancakes separately, spreading half of each pancake with preserve and folding the other half over, in the shape of an omelet.157 SOUFFLES AND OMELETS. RULES FOR SOUFFLES. The whites and yolks of the eggs must be beaten separately. The whites must be beaten to a firm froth, which will cut with a knife. To do this the whites must be most carefully separated from the yolks—a small portion of yolk left in will prevent the whites becoming stiff. The whites must be put on to a large plate, a pinch of salt should be added, and they should be beaten up with a clean knife in a cool place. Souffles are not to be beaten after the whites are added. Ihey must be baked in a rather hot oven, the door of which is to be kept shut. They must be served directly they are cooked. RULES FOR OMELETS. 'The eggs and butter must be fresh. The omelet pan should be kept very clean and used for omelets only, and must not be too large. The mixture must be put into the pan as soon as the butter bubbles, and before it browns. It must not be allowed to become too brown, nor to stick to the pan. The omelet must be served the moment it is ready.158 No. 384. VANILLA SOUFFLE. INGREDIENTS. 4 pint of milk 4 eggs 1 oz. of butter 1 oz. of flour Vanilla essence 2 tablespoonsful castor sugar METHOD. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, and milk ; boil well, cool a little, then beat in each yolk (3) separately ; mix in the sugar, add the vanilla essence. Beat the four whites of the eggs to a stiff froth and stir lightly but well into the mixture. Have ready, a well buttered souffle tin and tie a band of buttered paper round outside of tin, allowing it to come quite 3 inches above the top. Pour in the souffle, and put a greased paper over the top to prevent the condensed steam from saucepan lid falling into it. Steam for half an hour. Turn out and serve immediately with vanilla sauce poured round, or raspberry. Baked souffles are served in the tin in which they are cooked, with folded napkin round, or the tin may be slipped into silver souffle case. Melt the butter in a saucepan, draw the pan off the gas and stir in the flour ; add the milk gradually, then the coffee and sugar, cook well, stirring all the time. Allow it to cool a little then stir in the yolks of three eggs. Beat the whites of four eggs to a firm froth and stir them in lightly and quickly. Pour into a souffle tin and bake in a rather quick oven for about 25 minutes. Chocolate Souffld may be made in the same manner. No. 385. COFFEE SOUFFLE. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. of butter 1 oz. of flour 4 pint of milk f pint of strong coft'ee 1 oz. castor sugar 4 eggs METHOD. J159 No. 386. LOBSTER SOUFFLE. 2 whitings 1 hen lobster J pint of cream £ pint of milk 3 eggs INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of butter 2 ozs. of flour Juice of half a lemon Pepper, salt, and cayenne METHOD. Pound the flesh of the whitings and the lobster coral together in a mortar, and rub them through a wire sieve Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour and add the milk, stir and cook well. Cut up the lobster finely, and pound it in a mortar with the panada, whiting, eggs, lemon juice, pepper, salt, and a little cayenne. Rub through a hair sieve. Beat the cream stiffly, mix it lightly in and pour into a prepared souffle tin. Covered with buttered paper and steam for half an hour. ►serve with a supreme sauce poured over. The souffle tin should be decorated with lobster coral and truffle. No. 387. SWEET OMELET SOUFFLE. INGREDIENTS. Pinch of salt 1 teaspoonful of rice flour 4 eggs 1 oz. of butter 1 tablespoonful of castor suo-ar METHOD. Put the rice flour and sugar with the yolks of eggs into a basin, and beat till they are stiff; whip the white! on a160 plate with a pinch of salt till they will stand, stir them lightly to the yolks ; melt the butter in a small omelet pan; pour in the eggs, and as soon as the omelet is setting (about three minutes), place it in the oven for three or four minutes to cook the top ; turn it out on a warm plate, put a tablespoonful of hot jam in the centre and fold it over; serve immediately. No. 388. CHICKEN SOUFFLE. INGREDIENTS. ^ pint of milk 2 ozs. of butter 2 ozs. of fine flour 6 ozs. of cold chicken 3 eggs Pounded mace Pepper Salt f to taste METHOD. Mince and pound the chicken well. Season it with pepper, salt and a very little mace. Make a sauce of the butter, fh'iir and milk. After it has boiled add the pounded chicken. Take care that the mixture is suffi- ciently seasoned. When cool add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Whip the whites to a firm froth, stir in lightly last of all. Butter a souflffi tin well, and if liked, ornament it with ham, hard-boiled eggs and truffles. Put in the mixture, steam for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve with well-flavoured Bechamel, mushroom, oyster, or celery sauce. No. 389. APRICOT SOUFFLE. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of castor sugar 2 ozs. of butter 3 ozs. of potato flour ^ pint of milk or cream 6 eggs 10 ripe apricots METHOD. PeePand stone the apricots, and cut them in pieces, putRead the Opinions of Lecturesses on our Stoves.1(51 them with the sugar into a stewpan, stir and cook to a marmalade. Melt the butter in a stewpan. Mix in the flour smoothly. Add the milk or cream, and cook well. Then add the apricots, and, off the fire, the yolks of five eggs, beating them well in. Then stir in lightly the whites, beaten to a firm froth. Pour into the prepared tin and bake in a quick oven (see remarks at the beginning of this Chapter). No. 390. STRAWBERRY SOUFFLE. Cook half a pound of strawberries to a jam, with six ounces of powdered sugar, and finish like apricot souffle. No. 391. APPLE SOUFFLE. Make like apricot souffle, cooking with the apples a little thin lemon rind, which must afterwards be removed. No. 392. SAVOURY OMELET. INGREDIENTS. 2 eggs | £ teaspoonful chopped shallot l oz. butter | ^ ,, of thyme 1 teaspoonful of parsley | A little pepper and salt METHOD. Season the omelet pan, rub it nice and clean with kitchen paper, put in the butter. Beat the eggs lightly in a basin, add the parsley, thyme, and shallot, finely chopped. Add pepper and salt. When the butter bubbles, pour in the egg mixture, stir the butter well with the egg, and as soon as the mixture K162 commences to set at the bottom tilt the pan, let it lightly brown underneath, tilt the pan the opposite way, to set the other side. When done the omelet will be crescent shaped, and if properly done the mixture in the centre will be thick and creamy, but not raw. Ham, mushrooms, tomatoes, chicken, fish, etc., may be used instead of parsley, thyme, etc., in making savoury omelets. Ham, chicken, and fish should be finely minced, and one tablespoonful of either would be right proportion for two eggs. Mushrooms and tomatoes should be also minced, and previously sauted in a ’ little butter. Same proportion as for ham, etc. No. 393. FISH OMELET. Take the remains of any cold fish, free it from skin and bone, chop it, season with cayenne and salt, warm it in butter, and, when quite hot, put it in just before the omelet is folded. No. 394. VEGETABLE OMELET. Almost any cold vegetables except potatoes, artichokes, cabbages, and turnips may be served in an omelet, but they should be warmed in butter and seasoned with pepper and salt before they are added. No. 395. MUSHROOM OMELET. INGREDIENTS. ed and | 1 oz. butter Pepper and salt to taste METHOD. Strew the mushrooms in the butter- till tender, season. The mushrooms may be added to the omelet either before or after it is cooked. \ lb. mushrooms (peel< cut into dice)163 No. 396. CHEESE OMELET. Is made by adding two tablespoonsful of grated cheese to the egg mixture, with pepper and salt to taste. No. 397. KIDNEY OMELET. Skin two sheep’s kidneys, cut them into small dice, fry for five minutes in one ounce of butter. When the omelet is cooked place these pieces of kidney on it, season with pepper and salt, fold the omelet over the kidney, and serve. This is a good way of using up any remains of stewed or fried kidney. No. 398. HAM OR TONGUE OMELET. May be made by adding about two tablespoonsful of grated ham or tongue to the egg mixture, before it is cooked. K2164 JELLIES AND CREAMS. No. 399. CITRON CREAMS. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of loaf sugar | 2 lemons § oz. of gelatine (leaf) | 4 eggs % pint of water METHOD. Rub oft’ the yellow rind of the lemon upon the loaf sugar. Put a quarter of a pint of water, the gelatine, rind and juice of the lemons and the sugar into a large saucepan, Cook slowly over the gas until the gelatine has thoroughly dissolved, but do not let the mixture boil. Add the remainder of the water and the beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir until the mixture thickens. Remove the saucepan from the gas, and stir in well, though lightly and quickly, the stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Pile the mixture high into wet moulds. This quantity will fill two pint moulds. When cold turn them out by dipping the moulds very (juickly into hot water. No. 400. SNOW CREAM. INGREDIENTS. 1 gill of cream ■h pint of custard 1 pint of water METHOD. Line a glass dish with sponge cake, cover with tinned165 apricots, pour over the custard, and then pile up the Avhisked cream, and decorate with fancy pieces of cake dipped in colored sugar. No. 401. APRICOT CREAM. INGREDIENTS. 4 pint of cream 4 pint (or more) apricot puree A gill of water, or syrup from apricots 4 oz. of gelatine Lemon juice to taste Castor sugar ,, METHOD. Decorate the bottom of the mould with a little coloured jelly- Rub the apricots through a hair sieve, whip the cream stiffly, add the apricot puree, sweeten to taste, and add lemon juice. Dissolve leaf gelatine in half gill of water, and when sufficiently cool, but not too cold, add to the cream and stir well, then pour into mould and leave to set in a cool place. N.B.—All Fruit Creams may be made in the same manner. No. 402. RASPBERRY CREAM. INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of fresh raspberries | 4 lb. of castor sugar \ pint of thick cream j f oz gelatine METHOD. Put the raspberries and half the sugar into a basin and let them stand about one hour, then rub through a hair sieve. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water with the remainder of the sugar. Whip the cream until stiff, add the fruit to the gelatine, and allow it to get warm, pour it to the cream through a strainer, mix thoroughly ; pour into a mould and set in a cool place until firm.1G6 No. 403. ORANGE CREAM. INGREDIENTS. (i oranges | 3 ozs. of sugar Yolks of 3 eggs j 1 oz. gelatine 1 gill of milk j i pint of double cream METHOD. Boil the milk with the rind of two oranges and the sugar; when slightly cool add it to the eggs, return to the saucepan, stir over the stove until it thickens, pour into a ' basin, add the juice of the oranges, the cream whipped to a froth, and the gelatine dissolved in a little boiling water. Mix all thoroughly and pour into a wet mould. Serve with slices of orange coloured with cochineal. No. 404. APPLE SNOW. INGREDIENTS. 3 apples i 3 ozs. castor sugar The whites of 3 eggs j 2 tablespoonsful water Kind of 1 lemon METHOD. Peel, core, and cut the apples in slices, put them into a saucepan with the water and lemon rind, boil until tender, beat quite smoothly, and let them cool j whip the eggs to a stiff paste, add to the apple, and continue whipping until the mixture becomes quite stiff. Pile it high on a fancy dish, and garnish with coloured sugar. No. 405. APPLE TRIFLE. INGREDIENTS. 5 good-sized apples | } pint of cream 3 ozs. of castor sugar i 2 eggs | pint of milk j Rind of half a lemon. METHOD. Peel, core, and cut the apple in slices, boil until quite soft, with two tablespoonsful of water and the sugar, rub1G7 through a fine sieve. Make a custard with the eggs and milk, put the apple into a glass dish, pour the custard over. No. 406. RICE CREAM. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of Carolina rice | 3 ozs. of sugar l pint of milk i 4 oz- °f gelatine h pint of thick cream | Flavouring METHOD, Wash the rice well in cold water, put it into a saucepan with the milk, and boil until quite soft. Dissolve the gelatine in a little water, add to it the sugar, pour to the rice, also the cream which has been whipped stiffly, mix all thoroughly, add a few drops of flavouring essence, and pour into a mould. When set turn out and serve with fruit or preserve. No. 407. TAPIOCA CREAM. Make as for Rice Cream. No. 408. TRIFLE INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. of macaroons 4 lb. of ratafias 4 pint of sherry pint of thick cream Apricot jam 3 ozs. of sweet almonds Coloured sugar 2 ozs. pistachio kernels METHOD. Put the macaroons and ratafias into a trifle dish, pour over them the sherry, and let it stand until the liquor is all absorbed, then spread over the biscuits some apricot jam. Whip the cream until stiff and lay it on the top of the jam, garnish with the pistachios, and almonds blanched and cut in strips, and sprinkle over all some red sugar or comfits. A rich custard may, also be used with the cream for this dish, and it may be garnished with jelly or candied fruit.168 No. 409. FRUIT SET IN JELLY. Any fruit may be used ; in the summer fresh fruit, as raspberries, strawberries, currants, Ac. ; in the winter, grapes, dried fruits of any kind, preserved peaches, apricots, together with almonds, Ac. Rinse a mould out in cold water ; stand it in cold water or on ice, or in a cool place, and pour in a tablespoonful of jelly (clear wine jelly) ; place in this a little of the fruit, not too closely, or the clearness of the jelly will not show to advantage. When this layer has set, pour in a little more jelly and some more fruit, and allow that to set, and so on till the mould is full. No. 410. VANILLA CREAM. Boil two gills of milk or cream, sweeten with sugar or saccharin, flavour with extract of vanilla, stir in a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s Leaf or Nelson’s Brilliant Gelatine, and when dissolved take oft the gas. Beat occasionally until on the point of setting, then stir in the white of an egg beaten to a strong froth, and mould the cream. No. 411. PRUNE JELLY. Wash the fruit, and to half a pound of it allow a quarter of a pound of sugar and half a pint of water. Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, then put in the fruit and stew gently until perfectly tender, so that it will break up easily. Drain the syrup from the prunes, and boil it until it becomes thick. Meanwhile take out the stones and rub the prunes through a sieve to a fine pulp, which add to the syrup. When this is on the point of boiling stir in a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s Leaf Gelatine or Nelson’s Brilliant Gelatine, to each half-pint. Cream can be served with this jelly when allowed.169 No. 412. ORANGE JELLY. One gill water, one gill orange juice. Boil a few shreds of the peel in the water, add the orange juice and three saccharin tabloids. When at boiling point stir in a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s Leaf Gelatine, and when thoroughly melted take the saucepan off the stove. Have ready the yolk of an egg well beaten and pour the hot jelly on it by degrees. Pour the mixture back into the saucepan and stir over the gas for five minutes. A teaspoonful of curacjoa gives flavour and richness to this jelly, and if it is desired to make the dish particularly attractive, an orange care- fully peeled, divided into sections, with the pips extracted, and steeped in a little brandy, can be placed round the jelly when turned out. No. 413. WINE JELLY. INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of water | Whites and shells of 2 eggs J pint of sherry or port j Rind of 3 lemons 6 ozs. of loaf sugar j Juice of 3 lemons 1 oz. of French gelatine I 6 cloves H inch stick of cinnamon METHOD. Cut the rind of the lemons very thinly, not taking any of the white skin, squeeze the juice and strain it; whip the egg to a froth, wash and crush the shells. Put all the ingredients into a large saucepan, and whisk until it commences to boil, then take out the whisk and let the jelly boil up thoroughly ; move from the stove, and let it stand about five minutes, or until you see the scum crack on the surface. ||i The jelly should be strained 0 through a fine kitchen cloth, or jelly bag.170 No. 414. PINE APPLE JELLY. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. fresh or tinned pineapple | 4 ozs. of loaf sugar 1 pint of water j 2 lemons 1 oz. of leaf gelatine I Whites and shells of 2 eg^s METHOD. Pound the pine apple, and put it in a saucepan with the liquor, rind and juice of lemons, water, and sugar; simmer for half an hour ; put the gelatine into a saucepan with a little water, and stir over the stove until dissolved. When the pine apple is cool, add the gelatine, whites of the eggs whipped and shells crushed ; whisk over the stove until it boils up, then strain. No. 415. CALVES-FOOT JELLY. INGREDIENTS. 2 calves’ feet | 5 pints of water Clean the feet thoroughly and cut them in pieces ; put in a very clean saucepan with five pints of water, let it come to the boil, then allow it to simmer for five hours, until reduced to one quart. All scum should be taken off as it rises. Strain into a basin, and when quite cold should be a stiff jelly. Take off all the fat, and wipe the top of the jelly with a cloth dipped in hot water. Put it in a saucepan with the following ingredients :— (1 ozs. of loaf sugar ^ pint of sherry Rind and juice of 3 lemons Whites of 3 eggs METHOD. The juice of the lemons must be strained, the rind very thinly peeled, and the whites of the eggs whipped to a171 froth. Whisk all over the stove until it commences to boil, then take out the whisk, and let the jelly boil right to the top of the saucepan, lower the gas, and allow the jelly to simmer for twenty minutes, move it from the stove and let it stand five minutes, and then pour it through the jelly bag two or three times, until quite clear-; pour into a wet mould, and when cold, to turn it out, pass the mould quickly through a basin of hot water ; this loosens the jelly from the sides. No. 416. GINGER JELLY. Boil a little root ginger in half-pint of water of which the jelly is to be made. Having flavoured the water to taste, boil, and sweeten with sugar or saccharin, then stir in a quarter of an ounce of Nelson’s Leaf or Nelson’s Brilliant Gelatine. If liked, small pieces of preserved ginger can be put into the jelly mould, or be placed with a little syrup round the jelly when turned out. No. 417. ASPIC JELLY (Plain). INGREDIENTS. 1 quart of water li ozs. of gelatine 1 teaspoonful Liebig Co.’s Extract 1 onion, carrot, and turnip. 1 sprig of parsley 1 blade of mace 4 cloves Rind and juice of 1 lemon 1 teaspoonful of salt 12 white peppercorns Whites and shells of 2 eggs 2 tablespoonsful of vinegar METHOD. Thoroughly clean all the vegetables and cut them in small pieces, peel the lemon thinly, whip the whites of the eggs, not too stiffly, wash and crush the shells, put all the ingredients into a large saucepan, place on the stove, and whisk until it commences to boil, then take out the whisk and allow the jelly to boil right to the top of the saucepan, draw the pan from stove and let it stand about five minutes, then pour through a kitchen cloth or jelly bag two or three times until quite clear.172 No. 418. ASPIC JELLY (Good). INGREDIENTS. 1 quart of good stock (see p. 14) 4 pint of sherry A small piece of carrot, turnip, and onion 1 sprig of parsley and chervil 4 cloves, small blade of mace 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar 2 tablespoonsful of malt vinegar 1 tablespoonful of chili vinegar 1 teaspoonful salt 12 peppercorns Whites and shells of 3 eggs Peel and juice of 1 lemon METHOD. Making as above, only allow this to boil ten minutes before straining it. This jelly is used for decorating savoury dishes. No. 419. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. INGREDIENTS. Savoy biscuits ^ pint of cream 4 oz. of gelatine 4 tablespoonsful of milk 1 teaspoonful of lemon juice 1 teaspoonful of brand}- Castor sugar to taste Glac6 cherries or lemon jelly coloured red to ornament mould METHOD. Take a plain round tin mould which has stood in cold water ; line it with savoy biscuits, which must be trimmed and placed closely together—they must be long enough to reach quite the depth of the mould. Ornament the bottom of the mould with glace cherries, or jelly, which must be quite set before the cream is put in. Put two tablespoonsful of castor sugar in a basin with the lemon juice and brandy ; on this pour the cream, add more sugar if required, then whisk, and last of all stir in the gelatine, which must be dissolved in the milk. Nearly fill the mould, cover it with sponge cake and set in a cold place till ready to turn out.173 No. 420. LEMON JELLY. INGREDIENTS. Rind of 4 lemons,peeled thinly \ 1J pints of water 4 pint of lemon juice j If: oz. of gelatine (Nelson s) | pint of sherry' | Whites and shells of 2 eggs 4 lb. of lump sugar, or to taste | METHOD. Put the water with the lemon rind and juice, sugar, and gela- tine into a large bright saucepan. Let it cook slowly until the gelatine is dissolved. Add the whites and shells of the eggs beaten together. Bring all slowly to boiling point, and while it is heating whisk and stir it, but do notwhisk or stir after it boils. Let it boil up well for at least five minutes. Set it aside to settle for a few minutes, then strain it through a hot jelly bag once or twice till quite clear. The wine must be added after the jelty has been strained. When cool put the jelly into a mould. No. 421. CLARET JELLY. INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of claret | 1J oz. gelatine 1 pint of water j 2 eggs 2 lemons | Cochineal to colour 4 lb. of lump sugar, or to taste | METHOD. Put the water, with the lemon rind and juice, and the sugar and gelatine into a bright saucepan, and proceed as174 for lemon jelly. A few drops of cochineal are added to colour the jelly, which should be moulded in a china mould to keep it a good colour. No. 422. INVALID JELLY. INGREDIENTS. f oz. of gelatine 1 lemon 1 pint of sherry Yolks of 4 eggs (well beaten) ^ pint of water Lump sugar to taste METHOD. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add to it the juice and thinly peeled rind of the lemon, and sweeten to taste. When the sugar has melted, add the wine. Pour this on the eggs, stirring all the time. Return to the pan and simmer till the eggs are cooked but not curdled, stir all the time. Strain, and when it has cooked, pour it into a mould. Stir often while it is cooling.175 ICES. RULES FOR ICES. Too much sugar will cause the ices not to freeze properly. Too little sugar will cause them to become hard and rocky. If ices are to be moulded freeze them in the freezer until they are of the consistency of thick batter. If served unmoulded, freeze them drier and firmer. Rough ice and salt form a freezing mixture. Allow |lb. of salt to 1 lb. of ice. Dip ices into cold water to turn them out. When dishing ices, place a serviette upon the dish, as that will not conduct the heat to them so quickly as the dish alone would. No. 423. COFFEE ICE. INGREDIENTS. \ oiks of 8 eggs | ^ lb. Mocha coffee (roasted, but 1 pint of cream j not ground) 6 ozs. of castor sugar METHOD. Make a custard of eggs and cream, add the coffee berries and allow it to stand long enough for the berries to well flavour the custard. Strain it, then add the sugar, and when the custard is quite cold, freeze. Dip the mould quickly in cold water and turn out.176 No. 424. LEMON WATER ICE. One pint of boiling water poured upon the peel of 8 lemons. \ lb. of loaf sugar; when cool, mix with the juice of 6 lemons ; add 6 drops of lemon essence, strain through hair sieve and freeze. Orange water ice is made in same manner, using oranges instead of lemons. No. 425. RASPBERRY CREAM ICE. INGREDIENTS. f lb. of raspberries | Juice of half a lemon 1 pint of double cream | A little cochineal S ozs. of castor sugar , METHOD. Pick all stalks from the berries and rub them through a hair sieve with the castor sugar sprinkled over them. Add the raspberry puree to the whipped cream, then the lemon juice. Colour with cochineal and freeze. No. 426. ICE PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. Volks of 6 eggs, 1 white | 4 oz. of pistachio, nuts 4 ozs. of sugar ! 1 pint of milk 0 ozs. of dried or fresh fruit, j ^ pint of thick cream such as apricots, angelica, j 3 ozs. of sweet almonds strawberries, pine apple | 4 pint of brandy or champagne METHOD. Make a custard with the eggs, milk, and sugar, allow it to cool, prepare the fruit by cutting it in pieces not too small. Blanch the almonds and pistachios, whip the cream, add to it the brandy. Freeze the custard until of theRichmond’s Cookers, a Real Necessity.Richmond’s Gas Fires are the Best .1 r* rf 1 i i consistency of butter ; while freezing, decorate the top of an ice mould with some of the fruit. Put the cream and fruit to the custard, and mix it together ; fill the mould, pressing it in well, place the lid on, and cover the join with lard to prevent the salt and water getting inside. Bury the mould in ice and salt for two hours or longer, covering with sawdust or a clean sack. When ready to take out wipe the mould with a warm dish cloth. Turn out and serve at once. No. 427. APRICOT CREAM ICE. INGREDIENTS. r pint of apricot puree | 4 ozs. of castor sugar 7 pint of cream I Juice of 1 lemon METHOD. To make the apricot puree, the apricots must be rubbed through a fine sieve ; whip the cream, add to it the puree, sugar and lemon juice, mix all together. Freeze, and serve in glasses. No. 428. STRAWBERRY CREAM ICE. Make as for Apricot Cream Ice. No. 429. CHOCOLATE CREAM ICE. INGREDIENTS. 1 pint of good custard | 3 ozs. of Cadbury’s cocoa | pint of cream | Essence of vanilla METHOD. Boil the cocoa in the cream, add to it the custard and a few drops of vanilla ; mix well. Freeze and serve in glasses. L178 No. 430. ICE CREAM (Plain). INGREDIENTS. 1 quart of milk 1 oz. of cornflour 2 ozs. of castor sugar Yolks of 2 eggs Flavouring essence .METHOD. Mix the cornflour with a little milk quite smoothly, put the remainder into a saucepan to boil with the sugar, when boiling add the cornflour, stir well, and let it boil two or three minutes; let it cool a little, then add the yolks of the eggs and some flavouring essence; when quite cold freeze in the usual way. A few drops of cochineal may be added. N.B.—When making ices always let the custard, etc. be quite cold before freezing.179 BREAD, CAKES, BUNS, ETC. No. 431. BREAD (Household). INGREDIENTS. 3* lbs. of Hour I 1 teaspoonful sugar 1 oz. of yeast I About if pints of water 2 teaspoonsful of salt METHOD. Beat the yeast to a cream with the sugar, put the hour and salt into a basin. Add a little luke-warm water to the creamed yeast, make a hole in the Hour and pour in the yeast, stir into the yeast sufficient flour from the sides to form a thick batter, sprinkle a little over the top, cover the basin with a clean cloth and let it stand in a warm place for ten minutes “ to sponge.” Add sufficient luke- warm water to make the flour into a smooth elastic dough, knead well, cut a x on the top of dough, and let it “ rise in a warm place for one hour. Divide the dough into three equal portions and put into slightly greased bread tins ; let the loaves “ prove ” on the top of the stove for twenty minutes. Bake for three quarters of an hour, in a hot oven at first, then lower the gas and bake more slowly. Try with a skewer. N.B.—This recipe will also be useful in making whole- meal, or brown bread, with the addition of a little more yeast. To make tepid water for bread, add 1 part boiling to 2 parts cold. No. 432. VIENNA BREAD. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of Vienna flour | 1 pint of lukewarm milk 2 ozs. of butter I 1 teaspoonful of salt 1 oz. of German yeast j METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour, well and lightly, with the tips of the fingers, add the salt. Mix the yeast smoothly L 2180 with the milk, make a well in the centre of the flour, and pour it in. Knead lightly and stand in a warm place for two hours “ to rise.” Then make into fancy twists, dinner, or breakfast rolls. Bake, according to size, for 10 or 20 minutes in a quick oven. Glaze when nearly done with a little milk or white of egg. The dinner or breakfast rolls should he rasped instead of glazed. No. 433. BAKING POWDER BREAD. INGREDIENTS. 2 large teaspoonsful of Bird’s baking powder 1 lb. of flour ; salt, very little Enough cold water to mix into firm dough METHOD. Put the flour in a basin, add the baking powder, a pinch of salt, and mix with the water. Make it quickly into small loaves, and bake in a quick oven about 30 minutes. This bread requires very little kneading, and should be handled as little as possible. No. 434. MILK ROLLS INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour | 2 large teaspoonsful of baking 2 ozs. of butter ! powder About \ pint of milk METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour, add the baking powder and a little salt, and mix into a smooth dough with the milk. Knead as little as possible and form into small rolls. Put them in flour tins and bake in a quick oven about 20 minutes. When nearly done brush them over with a little milk.181 No. 435. STEAMED BREAD. Make the dough in the usual way (see Household Bread). Place the tins in a pan of boiling water, allowing the water only to reach three parts of the way up the tins. Place a greased paper over the loaves to prevent the con- densed steam from the saucepan lid falling upon them. Keep the water boiling gently until the bread is done. Steamed bread is far lighter than baked bread, and, if desired a nice brown, place the loaves in a quick oven for about ten minutes after removing them from the saucepan. No. 436. DOUGH CAKE. Add to 11 lbs. of dough a little salt, 4 ozs. of moist sugar, 4 ozs. of sultanas or currants, and 4 ozs. of good dripping. Work all these ingredients well into the dough and bake in a greased tin for about 1^ hours, in a moderate oven. No. 437. LONDON MUFFINS. INGREDIENTS. 1 b ozs. of German yeast | 1 teaspoonful of salt 1 quart of warm milk j About 21, lbs. of flour METHOD. Mix the yeast with the warm milk and salt, then add sufficient flour to form a soft dough. Cover with a cloth and set in a warm place to “ rise ” for about an hour. Turn out upon a floured board, divide the dough into equal portions, and form into rounds with the hands, slightly floured. Set the board in a warm place and allow the muffins to “ prove’ for half an hour. Bake them in a quick oven until they are lightly coloured, turning them once. When done, pull, do not cut, them open, butter them, place them upon a very hot plate, cut across, and serve at once. Muffins retain their shape better when baked in muffin rings.182 No. 438. ENGLISH CRUMPETS. INGREDIENTS. 14 lbs. of Hour • | \ teaspoonful of salt 1 egg j 1 teaspoonful of white sugar 1 pint of milk and cream | 2 teaspoonsful of baking together j powder METHOD. Mix the flour, salt, sugar, and baking powder well together, add the beaten egg, milk, and cream. Half fill well-greased muffin rings with the batter. The rings should be placed upon greased baking sheet. Bake in hot oven, on one side only. When done, toast upon both sides, butter nicely, and serve very hot. No. 439. SALLY LUNNS. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of fine flour | About £ pint of lukewarm milk 2 ozs. of butter j 1 egg, well beaten 4 oz. or rather more German | 1 teaspoonful of castor sugar yeast j 1 teaspoon ful of salt METHOD. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the milk, put part of this to the creamed yeast and pour into the centre of the flour. Add the salt and make into a smooth dough with the beaten egg and the remainder of the milk. Knead well, then set to rise for one hour in three round greased tins and cover with a cloth. Bake in a moderate oven about 30 miutes, glaze with sugar and milk (one dessert- spoonful of white sugar dissolved in two dessertspoonsful of milk). No. 440. CREAM CAKES (Very Good). INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of flour | 3 ozs. of butter A pinch of salt | Cream to mix METHOD. Put the flour on a paste board, add the salt, cut thebutter into small pieces and mix well with the hour. Use sufficient cream to make a stiff paste, roll out to about quarter of an inch in thickness, cut into small rounds, and bake in a quick oven about 15 minutes. Serve hot for afternoon tea. No. 441. AUCHENCAIRN SCONES. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of Hour | 4 teaspoonful of salt 1 teaspoonful cream of tartar 1 teaspoonful of sugar 4 teaspoonful of carbonate of j 1 oz. of butter or lard soda J A little milk METHOD. M ix all the dry ingredients well together, then make into a stiff paste with the milk. Roll out to about half an inch in thickness, cut into small rounds and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. N.B. In Scotland these are cooked over the fire upon a gridiron. No. 442. BUTTERMILK CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 1 quart of buttermilk | 1 teaspoonful carbonate of soda H ozs. of Hour j A pinch of salt METHOD. Put the flour and salt into a basin, add the soda to the buttermilk and mix into the flour, gradually, beat well, until quite smooth. Fry like pancakes and serve hot, with plenty of butter on them. No. 443. COCOANUT BISCUITS. INGREDIENTS. 10 ozs. of castor sugar | 3 whites of eggs. Desiccated cocoanut. METHOD. Whip the whites to a firm froth, stir in the sugar, and184 sufficient cocoanut to form a stiff paste. Drop in rough heaps upon a well oiled baking tin, and bake in moderate oven about 30 minutes. No. 444. SCOTCH SHORT BREAD. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of hour | 2 ozs. of castor sugar 4 ozs. of butter | A very little lemon pee 2 ozs. of ground rice METHOD. Put all the ingredients into a basin, except the candied peel, and knead into a smooth elastic paste. Roll out to about a quarter of an inch in thickness, and cut into ovals or rounds. Place a small piece of the peel upon each cake, and bake in a slow oven about 20 minutes. No. 445. BRANDY SNAP CREAMS. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of butter j 2 ozs. of hour 2 ozs. of cane sugar | £ teaspoonful of ground ginger 2 ozs. of golden syrup j ^ pint double ci'eam METHOD. Put butter, sugar, and syrup into a saucepan, and allow mixture to cook slowly until the sugar is quite dissolved. Stir in the hour and ginger, cook slowly for five minutes, stirring all the time. Drop teaspoonful of the mixture upon a well oiled baking sheet, and cook in a slow oven until a nice golden brown. While hot, quickly mould them round oiled cornet moulds, or the oiled handle of a wooden spoon. When cool fill with whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured, passed through a vegetable rose forcer. The crinkled side of the brandy snaps should be outside when moulding them.185 No. 446. TENNIS CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of butter 5 ozs. of Coomb's flour 2 ozs. of candied peel 2 ozs. of dried cherries METHOD. 5 ozs. of castor sugar 2 ozs. of cornflour 4 ozs. of sultanas 3 or 4 small eggs Cream the butter, add the sugar, then the flour, gradually- moistening with the yolks and stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Stir in the cornflour, and lastly add the fruit. Pour into a cake tin lined with thick paper, or foolscap, but not greased. Bake in a hot oven for about 10 minutes, then lower the gas and cook slowly until done. Try with a skewer, and as soon as it leaves the cake without any of the mixture adhering to it, the cake may be removed from the oven. The sultanas should be well cleaned and dried, the cherries cut in halves, and the peel finely minced before being added to the cake. When the cake is cool put on a layer of almond iceing, made as follows :—Mix 6 ozs. of ground almonds and 8 ozs. of castor sugar, into a stiff paste, with one whole egg and one tvhite. Also add a few drops of almond essence. Place the cake in a warm oven until the paste has set, then sprinkle over the top a little green sugar, or, 1 oz. of pistachio kernels, very flnely chopped. Decorate with white royal icing, using different fancy forcing pipes. For Royal Iceing, see u Iceing for Cakes.” No. 447. LEICESTER CAKE INGREDIENTS. h lb. of butter j \ lb. of castor sugar 10 ozs. of flour j 4 ozs. of Valencia almonds 5 eggs j 1 or 2 ozs. of candied peel % lb. of sultanas METHOD. Cream the butter, add the sugar. Separate the yolks186 from the whites of the eggs, and beat the whites to a firm froth. Stir in the flour gradually, moistening with the yolks and whites of the eggs. Thoroughly clean and dry the sultanas, blanch and chop the almonds, not too finely, also the peel. Stir the fruit well into the cake, but do not beat the cake after adding fruit. Pour into a cake tin lined Avith thick kitchen paper, but not greased, and bake in a moderate oven 1^ hours. No. 448. BRAZIL CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of preserved ginger, cut | 2 ozs. of castor sugar small i 1 oz. of ground rice 2 ozs. of Brazil nuts, chopped j 2 ozs. of butter 4 ozs. of Coomb’s flour 2 or 3 small eg'crs METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour and sugar, beat in each egg separately, stir in the rice, and lastly add the prepared fruit. Put the mixture into fancy cake tins, greased with Hugon’s suet, and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. No. 449. MORTON SANDWICH. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of ground rice | 2 ozs. of flour 2 ozs. of butter | 2 ozs. castor sugar 2 eggs j A little preserve METHOD. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, stir in the flour, and beat in the eggs, then add the rice. Pour in two round tins, lined with greased paper, and bake about 7 minutes in a quick oven. Spread a little preserve, or lemon curd, over one of the rounds, place the other one over it, sift over castor sugar, and serve. N.B.—If eaten while quite fresh, this sandwich is exceedingly good, made with 4 ozs. of ground rice, and no butter.187 No. 450. HOVIS SCONES INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. of Hovis flour ] 4 oz. of carbonate of soda 3 ozs. of lard | 1 egg 1 oz. of sugar 1 teacupful of milk 4 oz. of cream of tartar METHOD. Mix dry ingredients well together, add the eggs, and sufficient milk to make into firm paste. Roll out upon a floured board to about half an inch in thickness, divide into 3 ecpial parts, and cut each 3 into 4. Brush over with beaten egg, and bake in moderate oven about 10 minutes. No. 451. MOTHER’S CAKE (very good). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour (Coomb's Crated) 2 ozs. of candied peel (i ozs. of lard ! 2 eggs 4 oz. of sugar j Salt 4 oz. of Valencia raisins 4 pint of milk Grated nutmeg. METHOD. Put the flour into a basin with a pinch of salt, rub the lard well into it, add the raisins stoned, the peel cut small, the sugar and grated nutmeg ; stir together, beat the eggs in a separate basin, add the milk, pour to dry ingredients and mix all thoroughly. Bake one and a half hours in a slow oven. No. 452. FATHERS CAKE. 3 lbs. of flour (Coomb’s) 3 lbs. of currants 14 lbs. of sugar 14 lbs. of dripping INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. of mixed peel I f> eggs 1 quart or less of buttermilk Pinch of salt METHOD. Place all the dry ingredients in a large basin or bowl,188 well mix, make a hole in the centre, then add the eggs well beaten with the salt, now pour in the dripping, which must be melted, and last of all add buttermilk ; mix very well indeed, and bake in slow oven three to four hours. No. 453. LILLIE’S CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of flour j 4 lb. sultanas and currants 1 lb. of ground rice 2 ozs. candied peel 1 lb. of sugar j 3 eggs •f lb. of dripping or lard j Nutmeg. | pint of milk METHOD. Put the flour and ground rice into a basin, rub in the dripping, add peel cut up, the fruit well cleaned, and grated nutmeg ; mix these all together, beat the eggs, add the milk to them, pour to the dry ingredients, and mix thoroughly ; pour into a cake-tin lined with greased paper, and bake about two hours in a slow oven. No. 454. BIRTHDAY CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. of Valencia raisins, stoned and cut in quarters 4 lb. of mixed peel, chopped f lb. of sweet almonds, chopped Grated rind of 2 lemons 4 teaspoonful of ground mace .j nutmeg, grated (i es'H's o o METHOD. Cream the butter and sugar together, add the flour and yolks of the eggs, beat the whites to a firm froth, then stir them in lightly with a metal spoon. Add all the other ingredients, mix well. Pour into a cake-tin lined with foolscap, not greased, and bake in a moderate oven nearly two hours. j in. oi coombs Hour 4 lb. of butter 4 lb. of castor sugar 4 lb. of currants, washed, dried, and picked }2 lb. of sultanas, washed, dried, and picked189 No. 455. LEAMINGTON BUNS. 3 ozs. of sugar 3 ozs. of butter 5 ozs. of flour INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of dried cherries 1 oz. of citron peel, chopped 1 oz, of angelica, chopped A few drops of orange essence METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and beat in the eggs. Mix in all the other ingredients and the essence. Bake in small greased tins about 15 minutes, in a moderate oven. No. 456. GOOD SIMNEL CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. sultanas 6 ozs. castor sugar 1 lb. currants 4 nutmeg 1 teaspoonful spiced cinnamon 4 lb. flour 4 lb. candied peel 4 pint milk, lukewarm 4 oz. yeast 4 eggs, yolks 4 lb. butter METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour, add all the dry ingredients, mix well together. Cream the yeast, add to it the milk and yolks, make a well in the centre of the cake, and pour in the milk, etc,, mix into a soft paste, set to rise in a warm place for two hours. Line a good sized round tin with thick paper, pour in half of the cake mixture, place a layer of almond paste in the centre, pour in remainder of cake mixture, bake two hours in a moderate oven. No. 457. ALMOND PASTE FOR SIMNEL CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. ground almonds | 2 eggs, yolks and whites - J- cast°r sugar j Flavouring essence METHOD. Put the sugar and almonds into a basin, add the essence, mix well, then make into a stiff paste with the yolks and white of one egg.190 No. 458. VICTORIA SANDWICH. INGREDIENTS. 3 oz. castor sugar j 2 ozs. ground rice 3 eggs ! 3 ozs. jam 2 ozs. flour METHOD. Beat the eggs and sugar until thick, add the flour and ground rice, mix thoroughly ; pour into two tins of the same size, which have been lined with greased with paper. Bake seven to ten minutes ; turn out on to a piece of paper sprinkled with castor sugar ; when cold, spread the jam on one piece and lay the other on the top. No. 459. WEDDING CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 1A lbs. castor sugar 1 oz. spice (mixed) i nutmeg (grated) 4 pint brandy i pint sherry j Rind of 3 lemons Salt METHOD. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar, eggs, and flour, mix well ; add all the other ingredients, the currants being cleaned, and the peel cut into small pieces, and the almonds blanched and finely chopped. Beat all together for one hour. Line a large cake-tin with double paper, well greased, pour in the mixture, which should not fill the tin, and bake in a moderate oven five or six hours. 3 lbs. flour 3 lbs. butter lbs. mixed peel 3 lbs. currants 1 lb. sweet almonds 1 <i eggs No. 460. SEED CAKE (Rich). INGREDIENTS. £ lb. butter 1 lb. flour 4 eggs 4 lb. candied peel 4 lb. sugar 4 pint cream 14 ozs. carraway seeds METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, carraway191 seeds, and the peel cut in slices, mix all together. Beat the eggs, add to them the cream, pour to the dry ingredients, and mix very thoroughly. Pour into a lined tin and bake one and a half hours in a moderate oven. | lb. flour 4 lb. lard 4 lb. sugar No. 461. SEED CAKE (Plain). INGREDIENTS. 1 teaspoonful carraway seeds 2 eggs ^ pint of milk METHOD. Make as for the previous cake. Bake about one hour. 6 large eggs 6 ozs. flour No. 462. SPONGE CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 10 ozs. castor sugar | 1 rind of lemon METHOD. Put the yolks of the eggs and sugar into a basin and beat until thick, whip the whites to a stiff froth and stir in very lightly with the flour and flavouring. Grease a cake-tin well, and dust it with equal quantities of castor sugar and flour ; the tin should be filled about two-thirds full, and baked in a moderate oven one hour. No. 463. MADEIRA CAKE. \ lb. Coomb’s aerated flour \ lb. castor sugar | lb. butter INGREDIENTS. 3 eggs i pint cream 10 drops essence almond METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar. Beat the eggs well, add to them the cream and flavouring essence,192 pour to the dry ingredients, and mix all thoroughly. Pour into a cake-tin lined with greased paper, and bake one and a quarter hours in a moderate oven. No. 464. CORNFLOUR CAKES INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. butter 2 ozs. Hour (Coomb’s aerated) 2 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. cornflour (Brown and Poison’s) 2 eggs METHOD. Cream the butter and sugar ; add the eggs, flour, and cornflour. Beat all well together. Bake in small greased tins, about fifteen minutes. No. 465. ARROWROOT BISCUITS. INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. sugar 4 ozs. arrowroot 2 ozs. butter 3 ozs. flour (Coomb’s aerated) l egg METHOD. Cream the butter and sugar, add the egg, stir well, add the flour and arrowroot by degrees, roll out very thinly on to a well floured board, cut in rounds, bake on a greased tin, ten to fifteen minutes, in a moderate oven. < No. 466. GENEVA BUNS. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. flour 1 oz. yeast pint milk 3 ozs. sugar 5 ozs. butter 2 ozs. peel. Salt METHOD. Put the flour, salt, sugar, and candied peel, cut up into aCookery and Cleanliness are next to GodlinessRichmond's Cookers are the Best.193 basin, and mix well, put the milk and butter into a sauce- pan and warm it, cream the yeast, add the warm milk to it, pour to the dry ingredients, and mix thoroughly, put in a warm place to rise; form into buns, put on a greased tin, set to prove again quarter of an hour, bake twenty minutes. No. 467. BERLIN PANCAKES. INGREDIENTS. f lb. of flour. 1 egg | lb. of fiorador or ground rice ^ lb. of butter 2 ozs. of castor sugar Jam. Milk. Frying Fat METHOD. Put flour, sugar, and ground rice into a basin, rub in the butter, beat the egg well, pour in a little milk, add to the dry ingredients, and form into a stiff paste. Poll out as thinly as possible on a floured board, cut into rounds, with a fancy cutter, put a little jam upon the centre of a round of paste, wet the edges, put another round on the top ; press the edges well together, and fry in hot fat until a light brown. No. 468. QUEEN CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of flour 4 ozs. of butter 4 ozs. of sugar A pinch of salt METHOD. Cream the butter, add the sugar and flour, beat in the eggs. Add the grated rind, and half fill well-greased Queen cake-tins with the mixture. Sprinkle a few currants upon the top of each little cake. Bake in a quick oven about 10 minutes. 2 eggs A few currants •V grated rind of lemon M194 No. 469. DOROTHY’S CAKE. 8 ozs. of flour 4 ozs. of butter 4 ozs. of castor sugar 1 egg A pinch of salt INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. of candied peel 3 ozs. of currants 4 pint of milk (about) of grated lemon rind METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour as for short pastry. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth. Add the milk to the yolks, which must be well beaten. Add to all the dry ingredients, and mix well together. Line a cake-tin with thick paper, and pour in the mixture. Bake in a moderate oven about one and a half hours. No. 470. ITALIAN FRITTERS. INGREDIENTS. 2 French rolls 1 glass of wine 2 ozs. of butter \ lb. of apricot jam METHOD. Cut the bread into slices quarter of an inch thick, then into rounds, put the butter into a frying pan ; when hot, fry bread a golden brown. Arrange in a circle on a plate, put the jam and wine into a saucepan, and when boiling pour over fritters ; sprinkle over them finely chopped almonds. Serve hot or cold. No. 471. RUSKS. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour (Coomb’s rerated) 2 ozs. of butter 1 egg Pinch of salt. Milk. METHOD. Mix all the ingredients together with enough milk to form a paste, roll out thinly and cut with paste cutters ; put into a hot oven and bake ten to fifteen minutes.195 No. 472. GINGERBREAD BISCUITS. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour l lb. of Syrup | lb. of sugar ^ lb. of butter 2 ozs. candied peel 3 teaspoonsful ground ginger METHOD. Cut the candied peel into small pieces and mix with the other ingredients, roll out very thinly and cut with a round cutter ; put on a well greased tin, and bake in a moderate oven. No. 473. TEA CAKES. INGREDIENTS. I lb. of flour (Ccomb’s asrated) | 1 egg. ^ pint of milk 3 ozs. of lard | 1 teaspoonful of salt METHOD. Put flour and salt into a basin, rub the lard well into it; beat the egg in a separate basin, add to it the milk, pour to the dry ingredients and mix thoroughly. Form into round cakes; bake in a quick oven 10 to 15 minutes. No. 474. ROCK CAKES (plain). 1 lb. of flour ^ lb. of sugar 1 lb. of butter INGREDIENTS. ^ lb. of currants 3 ozs. of candied peel 3 eggs. A little milk Grated nutmeg METHOD. Mix all together as in previous recipe, drop in lumps, on greased tins, and bake about 10 minutes in a hot oven. M 2196 No. 475. POUND CAKE. INGREDIENTS. ]() ozs. of Hour 4 lb. of butter 5 lb. of castor sugar 4 lb. of sultanas 4 eggs METHOD. 1 grated rind of lemon A pinch of salt 3 ozs. of candied peel 4 ozs. currants A few drops of vanilla essence Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and flour gradually, beating in each egg separately. Add flour and eggs in this manner until flour, sugar, and eggs are all well mixed, then add the other ingredients. Pour into a cake- tin lined with paper, and bake about two hours in a moderate oven. No. 476. BESSIE’S CAKE. h lb. of castor sugar 4 lb. of ground rice 4 lb. of Coomb’s flour INGREDIENTS. 4 eggs Lemon rind, to flavour Royal icing, to decorate METHOD. Beat the eggs and sugar together until thick and creamy. Stir in all the flour, add the grated lemon rind. Put the mixture into an oiled and sugared mould, and bake about one hour in a moderate oven. When cold, decorate with crystal- lised fruit, and coloured royal icing. Or, the cake may be plainly coated with lemon water icing, see “ Icing for cakes.” No. 477. POTATO CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of mashed potatoes 1 lb. of Coomb’s flour 4 ozs. of castor sugar 4 ozs. of butter 4 ozs. of sultanas 2 eggs METHOD. Bub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, potatoes,197 and sultanas, well cleaned. Mix together, then beat in the eggs. Turn out upon a floured board and roll to about quarter of an inch in thickness. Cut into round cakes and bake in a quick oven about 15 minutes. Serve hot, well buttered. No. 478. GENOESE CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 6 ozs. of Coomb’s flour 4 ozs. of butter A few drops of flavouring essence 5 ozs. of castor sugar 3 eggs A pinch of salt METHOD. Beat the butter to a cream, add the sugar and flour gradually, moistening with the yolks, and stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Stir in the salt and flavouring. Pour in a cake tin lined with paper, not greased, and bake in a moderate oven about 45 minutes. When cold, coat with chocolate icing, and sprinkle over half an ounce of pistachio nuts, blanched and very finely chopped. No. 479. FRANKS CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 8 ozs. of Coomb’s flour 3 eggs 4 ozs. of butter l grated rind of lemon 6 ozs. of castor sugar METHOD. Rub the butter into the flour add the sugar and lemon rind; beat the eggs separately, add to the dry ingredients and mix well. Bake in a lined cake tin about 45 minutes. When cold, put on a layer of almond icing, and stick sweet almonds, blanched and cut lengthways, over the top. No. 480. ROBIN REDBREAST CAKES. METHOD. Color half the quantity of Genoese cake mixture, with198 cochineal and leave the other its natural colour. Bake in separate tins. When cold, cut into small rounds or fancy shapes, an equal number of shapes in each colour. Spread jam upon the plain pieces, cover with the pink ones. Cover the surface of each little cake with coffee icing. No. 481 BIRDS’ NESTS. METHOD. Cut some rounds of Genoese pastry about two inches high and two inches across. Remove the centre with a small cutter, leaving a narrow rim of cake at the edge. Ice with Royal icing, dip in chopped pistachios, put in the centre some nice jam or stewed fruit, and ornament (through a rose forcer) with whipped cream slightly streaked with carmine ; or, if there is no forcer finish with whipped cream, put in carefully with a spoon. No. 482. PETIT CHOUX. INGREDIENTS. 5 ozs. of flour | 3 ozs. of castor sugar 2 ozs. of butter j 3 eggs. \ pint of water METHOD. Put the butter and water on to boil; when boiling stir in the flour and sugar. Cook well over the gas and stir until the mixture leaves the sides of the saucepan clearly. Remove the saucepan from the gas and beat in the eggs. Pass the mixture through a forcing bag and vegetable rose forcer upon a greased baking sheet, and bake in a moderate oven about one hour. When done, open the cakes at the sides and insert a little preserve or whipped cream. Coat with glace icing.199 No. 483. ECLAIRS. INGREDIENTS. Petit choux mixture I ^ hipped cream Chocolate icing, or caramel | METHOD. Pass the petit choux mixture through a forcing bag and plain vegetable forcer, upon a greased baking sheet in lengths of about three inches and one inch in width. Bake about 45 minutes in a moderate oven. When done coat with chocolate icing. When the icing has set open the eclairs at the sides and fill with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. No. 484. TIPSY CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 1 moulded sponge cake (a few days old if possible) A sufficiency of sherry or raisin wine 4 tablespoonsful of brandy 2 ozs. of white sugar 2 ounces of sweet almonds, blanched 1 packet of Bird’s custard powder 1 pint of cream J pint of new milk METHOD. To make the cake stand firmly in the glass dish, cut the bottom level. Make a small hole in the top and pour into it and over it sufficient wine, mixed with the brandy, to soak it nicely. Let it soak for two hours, and then stick all over with the blanched almonds, cut in strips. Make the custard with the sugar, cream, and milk, and pour when a little cool into the dish round the cake.200 No. 485. HOT CROSS BUNS. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of flour 1 oz. of sugar 2 ozs. of currants 2 ozs. of butter ^ pint of milk A pinch of salt 2 dessertspoonsful o Bird’s baking powder METHOD, Mix the flour, baking powder, currants, and salt. Dissolve the sugar and melt the butter in the milk by the aid of a little gentle heat, lightly mixing the whole, handling as little as possible. Form it into round cakes, place on a greased tin, and at once bake in a hot oven for about half-an-hour. Brush over with the white of an egg, directly after taking the buns out of the oven, in order to give the requisite glaze. When preferred, a few carraway seeds may be substituted for the currants. No. 486. RICE BUNS. INGREDIENTS. i lb. of finely-ground rice | lb. of powdered white sugar \ lb. of butter 3 tablespoonsful of flour A small teacupful of milk Apiled-up teaspoonful of Bird’s concentrated egg powder METHOD Thoroughly mix the ground rice, sugar, flour, and egg powder. Soften the butter and well rub it in. Moisten the whole with the milk, and bake in a moderately quick oven, in well greased small patty pans, not too full, or else tin rings with paper round them. No. 487. YORKSHIRE TEA CAKES. INGREDIENTS. | lb. Coomb’s flour I 1 egg s pint milk I 1 teaspoonful castor sugar 1 oz. lard I h oz. german yeast METHOD. Cream the sugar and yeast, melt the lard in a saucepan,201 pour the milk on to it and make it lukewarm, pour this on to the yeast and sugar. Pour the yeast and milk through a strainer into the flour, add the beaten egg and mix well together. QSAH' Flour a board and turn the dough on to it, beat it and cut it into cakes. This quantity will make 2 cakes. Grease the rings and put in the cakes, and stand to rise for one hour, then bake for 15 minutes. No. 487a.—Glaze for Tea Cakes. 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar | 1 white of egg 1 tablespoonful of milk Method.—Mix together and brush over the cakes. No. 488. RASPBERRY BUNS. ^ lb. of flour 2 ozs. of sugar 1 egg INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of lard A little milk A little preserve METHOD. Rub the lard into the flour, add the dry ingredients, mix well, add the egg well beaten add sufficient milk to form a firm paste. Roll out to about quarter of an inch in thickness, cut into rounds, put a teaspoonful of preserve upon each, wet the edges, join them together in the centre. Turn the joined side downwards on to a greased baking tin, cut across the top, not too deeply, sprinkle over a little crystallised sugar and bake in a quick oven about 10 minutes. No. 489. ECCLES CAKES. METHOD. Melt one ounce of butter in a saucepan, add two ounces of brown sugar, one ounce of mixed peel, shredded finely, a little nutmeg and four ounces of currants. Let the butter and sugar melt, but do not cook them. Roll out some flaky pastry, thinly cut into rounds, put a little of the202 Eccles mixture in the centre of each round, wet the edges, press them together in the centre to form a ball. Turn over and roll round until the currants show through. O Mark the top across several times -with a knife, not to cut right through, sprinkle over with sugar and bake about 10 minutes in quick oven. No. 490. STRAWBERRY CAKES. 1 packet Bird’s strawberry blanc-mange powder 3 ozs. Coomb’s flour 3 ozs. castor sugar INGREDIENTS. A few drops essence 2 or 3 small eggs of strawberry METHOD. Cream the butter add the sugar and Coomb’s flour, gradually moistening with the yolks and stiffly beaten whites of the eggs. Add the flavouring essence, and lastly, stir in lightly the blanc mange powder. Bake in small greased tins for about 10 minutes in a quick oven. N.B —Raspberry, pineapple, apricot, and many other different flavoured cakes may be made in the same manner. No. 491. GINGERBREAD. 1.1 lbs. of flour 1 lb. of treacle 1 lb. of browm sugar 1 lb. of dripping INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. ground ginger 1 good teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little luke-warm milk METHOD. Rub the dripping into the flour, add the sugar and ginger ; then add the treacle, and last of all the carbonate of soda, and sufficient milk to make a rather stiff paste. Bake in a greased Yorkshire pudding tin.203 No. 492. WARRINGTON CAKES. 4 lb. of flour 1 oz. of candied peel 1 egg 2 ozs. of sugar INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of lard 2 ozs. of sultanas 1 teaspoonful of baking powder Milk METHOD. Beat the lard to a cream, or mb in with the fingers, add the other dry ingredients, the egg well beaten, and the milk sufficient to make a stiff: paste. Place in heaps on a greased tin, brush over with egg, and sift sugar on the top. Bake in a quick oven about 15 minutes. No. 493. RICHMOND BUNS 1 lb. of flour 2 ozs. of butter 1 egg 3 ozs. of currants 3 ozs. of sultanas INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of sugar 4 oz. of candied peel 4 pint of milk 4 oz. of German yeast A pinch of salt METHOD. Put the flour into a basin with the currants, sultanas, candied peel, sugar and salt. Dissolve the yeast in three tablespoonsful of water (lukewarm). Melt the butter in the milk in the saucepan ; do not let it get too hot. Beat the egg, add to it the warm butter and milk. Now mix the milk, butter and egg with the flour, then add the yeast. Beat well with a wooden spoon. On the good beating the excellence of the buns chiefly depends. "Let the dough rise for two hours, then make it into buns and let them rise for one hour near the fire. Bake in a moderate oven.204 No. 494. ETHELS RICE CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 3 ozs. of butter 4 ozs. of castor sugar 3 eggs 2 ozs. of flour 4 ozs. of rice flour Essence of lemon METHOD. Beat the butter and sugar to a cream, add one egg and half the hour and rice hour, mix together, add the other two eggs and the remainder of the hour and rice hour; lastly, add flavouring essence; beat thoroughly. Grease some small fancy moulds with dripping or lard, and fill them about half full. Bake from 10 to 15 minutes in a moderate oven. No. 495. RICE BUNS (another way). INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of butter 2 ozs. of flour 2 ozs. of castor sugar 3 ozs. of ground rice. 2 eggs METHOD. Beat butter and sugar together with wooden spoon, add one egg and half the hour and ground rice, stir these together add other egg and remainder of ground rice and hour, mix thoroughly, and bake in small greased moulds about fifteen minutes. N.B.—If the butter is at all hard the basin should be slightly warmed, then the butter and sugar will soon become creamy. No. 496. ORANGE CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 6 eggs. 6 ozs. of flour Rind of 3 oranges 10 ozs. of castor sugar h gill of orange juice METHOD. Put the yolks of the eggs into a basin, and stir with the205 sugar until quite thick, add the grated rind of the oranges, warm the orange juice and put it to the mixture. Whip the whites stiffly, add the flour to the yolks ; lastly, add the whites of the eggs, and mix very lightly. Pour into a well-greased cake-tin, and bake from 20 to 30 minutes. No. 497. APRICOTS EN SURPRISE. INGREDIENTS. Sponge cake 4 tin of apricots A few drops vanilla essence I pint of cream. A little sugar METHOD. Cut the sponge cake into small rounds about half an inch thick. Whip up the cream till stiff, add the essence and sugar; sprinkle each slice of sponge cake with a little of the apricot syrup, place half an apricot on each piece of cake, cut side downwards, and put a ring of the cream round the edge of the fruit. This is to represent a poached egg- No. 498. CHERRY CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of butter 4 ozs. castor sugar 3 eggs Grated rind of ^ a lemon 4 ozs. candied cherries 8 ozs. flour METHOD. Beat butter and sugar to a cream, add the eggs well beaten, also the flour and lemon rind, beat 10 minutes, add the cherries and baking powder, pour into a mould lined with buttered paper, and bake in a slow oven 1| hours. N.B.—The mixture should be sufficiently stiff to prevent the cherries sinking to the bottom in baking. If eggs not enough, add a little milk.206 HOVIS RECIPES. No. 499. BAKING INSTRUCTIONS. INGREDIENTS. 14 lbs. of “ Hovis ” flour 1 gallon of water 4 ozs. French or German yeast Use no salt METHOD. Dissolve the yeast in about 4 oz. of water (which should not exceed 90° Fahr.) and strain through muslin. Take the temperature of the “ Hovis ” flour, and if for example it is 60° Fahr. make the water 120° Fahr. the two added always making 180° Fahr. as per table below. The dough should be from 90J to 95° Fahr., mix about 10 lbs. or say two-thirds of the “ Hovis ” flour with the gallon of water until it is an absolutely smooth batter, stir in the dissolved yeast, then complete the mixing with the remaining 4 lbs. of flour, weigh off and tin immediately. It will require from 20 to 40 minutes proof (according to the temperature of the bakehouse), and should be thoroughly well baked, say 10 minutes more than white bread. N.B.—It is preferable to use a mixing pan or a special small trough for mixing the “ Hovis ” in order to avoid, if possible, all foreign substances being scraped up with the dough, as sometimes happens when mixing is done on the ordinary board. It is also advised that the hands should not be rubbed out into the “ Hovis ” dough. This will prevent the close lumps that are sometimes to be detected when the loaf is cut through. No other flour should be used with the Hovis flour, not even for dusting. If Hovis Flour Hot Water is should be Total. 50° 130° 180° 55° 125° 180° 60° 120° 180° 65° 115° 180° 70° 110° 180° PLEASE GIVE THESE INSTRUCTIONS A TRIAL.207 No. 500. HOVIS SCONES. INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. of Hovis flour 8 ozs. of lard or butter 6 ozs. of sugar j oz. of soda 1 oz. cream of tartar 1 qt. of milk or 1 at. buttermilk No. 501. HOVIS RICE CAKES. 3 lbs. of Hovis flour 1 lb. of sugar £ lb. of butter or lard 5 eggs INGREDIENTS. A oz. of cream of tartar | oz. of soda 1 pint of milk No. 502. HOVIS NEWMARKET SANDWICH. INGREDIENTS. 2£ lbs. of Hovis flour 1 lb. of butter H lb. of sugar 6 eggs A oz. of cream of tartar £ oz. of soda Few drops of essence of lemon METHOD. Cream the butter and sugar, add one egg at a time, and mix with milk. Make a paste with one pound of Hovis flour and half a pound of butter, and line a flat tin with it. Sprinkle currants over, and spread the mixture on. Bake, and decorate with icing sugar on the top. No. 503. HOVIS WELSH BUNS. INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. of Hovis flour 8 ozs. of butter 10 ozs. of sugar 1 oz. of yeast 1 qt. of warm milk METHOD. Make and bake the same as ordinary buns. Wash over and dip in rough sugar. Eggs may be added if desired208 No. 504. 12'eggs 14 ozs. of sugar HOVIS SPONGE CAKE. INGREDIENTS. 16 ozs. of Hovis flour METHOD. This mixture requires to be thoroughly beaten. No. 505. HOVIS ROCK CAKES. 3 lbs. of Hovis flour f lb. of lard * i lb. of sugar 3 eggs INGREDIENTS 1 oz. of cream of tartar ^ oz. of soda Few currants Mix with milk No. 506. HOVIS SHORTBREAD. INGREDIENTS. *24 lbs. of Hovis flour l| lbs. of butter 10 ozs. of sugar 2 eggs 4 oz. of soda oz. of cream of tartar No. 507. HOVIS LUNCH CAKE. 4 lbs. of Hovis flour l-J lbs. of butter 2 lbs. of sugar 6 eggs 1 oz. of cream of tartar INGREDIENTS. £ oz. of soda 4 pints of buttermilk Fruit and peel may be used if desired No. 508. HOVIS MADEIRA CAKE. 1 lb. of butter l lb. of fine sugar INGREDIENTS. 8 eggs 14 lbs. Hovis flour METHOD. Cream the butter and sugar, and add eggs one at a time previously warmed. The success of the cake depends entirely on the amount of work put into it.“Good Wine needs no Bush”They recommend themselvesNo. 509. No. 510. INGREDIENTS. 209 INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of butter METHOD. IS eggs W 10 HO VIS EMPRESS CAKE. 3’lbs. of Hovis flour 2 lbs. of sugar 1 lb. of cherries 1 lb. of sultanas J lb. of ground almonds Mix well together, and bake in a slow oven. HOVIS DIETETIC CAKE. 3 lbs. of Hovis flour 1 lb. of lard 1£ lbs. of sugar lbs. of currants caps peel 5 eggs i oz. of cream of tartar \ oz. of soda 1 qt. of milk (or less) Few drops of essence of lemon No. 511. HOVIS DIGESTIVE CAKE. 1J lbs. of Hovis flour 1 lb. of sugar l lb. of butter 8_eggs INGREDIENTS. Few drops of essence of lemon A little nutmeg Pinch of baking powder No. 512. HOVIS WINE BISCUITS. 4 lbs. of Hovis flour 3 lbs. of sugar 2 lbs. of butter INGREDIENTS. ^ oz. of cream of tartar | oz. of soda 3 eggs. A little milk No. 513 HOVIS TEA BISCUITS. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. of soda 1^ pints of milk 4 lbs. of Hovis flour 6 ozs. of butter ^ oz. of cream of tartar METHOD. Cut in any size, and make thin and crisp. N210 No. 514. HOVIS CREAM CAKES. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of Hovis flour 1 oz. of soda 4 lb. of lard 1 pint of milk ^ oz. of cream of tartar METHOD. Make the same as scones. Bake on an iron plate, and when half cooked turn over. Makes a good tea cake, especially for toasting. No. 515. HOVIS ROUT BISCUITS. INGREDIENTS. 4 lbs. of Hovis flour 2 lbs. of sugar I lb. of butter fl eggs METHOD. Is oz. of cream of tartar ] | oz. of soda A few drops of essence of lemon Mix as for wine biscuits, and decorate with sugar. No. 516. HOVIS DIETETIC GINGERBREAD. 4 lbs. of Hovis Hour- ly lbs. of sugar l| lbs. of butter ^ oz. of ginger ^ oz. of cream of tartar INGREDIENTS. 4 oz. of soda 3 caps of peel H pints of syrup 1 gill of milk. METHOD. Mix well and leave overnight in dough. Bake in blocks. 1No. 518. INGREDIENTS. 211 2 eggs METHOD. No. 517. 8 ozs. of buttei 1 pint of milk 1 lb. of Hovis flour ICdCi HOVIS NURSERY BISCUITS. 1 pint of water 4 lb. of sugar Warm milk and water to 90° Fahr., then add the yeast, eggs, a little of the sugar, and half a pound of flour. Mix well, and ferment. When this is ready, make the dough, and prove for one hour before scaling. Prove and bake as ordinary confectionery, and when cold, cut in two, and dry thoroughly in a slow oven. oo 2 ozs. of yeast 4 to 44 lbs. of Hovis flour HOVIS PARKIN. INGREDIENTS. fl ozs. of butter lb. of brown sugar eggs | pint of milk h lb. of golden syrup 2 ozs. of candied peel 14 teaspoonsful ground ginger 14 teaspoonsful baking powder METHOD. Mix all the ingredients well together. Pour into a greased baking tin, and bake in a slow oven one hour. N 2212 ICING FOR CAKES. No. 519. ROYAL ICING. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of icing sugar | Juice of 2 small lemons Whites of 2 eggs METHOD. Sift the icing sugar, to remove all the lumps. Put the sugar into a basin, and add to it the lemon juice and the whites of the eggs, slightly beaten. Beat it well with a wooden spoon until it is very white and smooth. The more it is beaten the whiter it will become. For decorating cakes, put this icing into a forcing bag with fancy forcing pipe attached. The icing may be coloured with a few drops of cochineal, or any of the numerous vegetable colourings, which may be purchased very cheaply from the grocers, or Italian warehousemen. No. 520. TO COAT A CAKE WITH ROYAL ICING. The cake must be quite level upon the top. If necessary to cut off a small portion, brush the cut part over with white of egg, and place the cake in the oven for a few minutes to set the egg. To cover the cake with the icing, place the whole of the icing upon the top of the cake and with a broad knife dipped into cold water proceed to work the icing gradually down the sides of the cake. Place the cake in a cool oven for the icing to set, and leave it until the next day before decorating it. No. 521. ALMOND ICING. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of ground almonds | lOozs. of castor sugar Yolk of 1 egg | Almond flavouring Whites of 2 eggs METHOD. Mix the almonds and sugar well together, then beat into213 a stiff paste with the yolk and whites of the eggs. Add the flavouring. Dip a broad knife into hot water to make the icing smooth upon the top of the cake. Place the cake in a cool oven until the icing is firm and dry. A layer of almond icing is usually put under the “Royal icing’ for wedding cakes, etc. No. 522, LEMON WATER ICING. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of icing sugar | 1£ tablespoonsful of water Juice of half a lemon j A few drops of saffron METHOD. Put these ingredients into a small saucepan, and stir over the gas until the consistency of thick cream. It must not boil, or it will not have a nice clear appearance when set. It must be poured over the cake directly it is removed from the gas, and the remains that fall from the cake may be re-heated and used again. No. 523. CHOCOLATE ICING. INGREDIENTS. 8 ozs. of icing sugar | 2 tablespoonsful of water 3 ozs. of grated chocolate j A few drops of vanilla essence METHOD. Mix the sugar and chocolate well together and put them into a saucepan with the other ingredients. Stir over the gas until the consistency of thick cream, then pour over the cake. It must not boil. No. 524. ORANGE ICING. INGREDIENTS. h lb. of icing sugar | A little orange colouring 2tablespoonsful of orange juice METHOD. Proceed as for “ Lemon Water Icing.” o214 No. 525. COFFEE ICING. Use one tablespoonful of coffee essence and one table- spoonful of water to dissolve the sugar, and make like Lemon Icing, without the lemon juice. 1*%N.B.—“Lemon Water Icing” may be taken as a standard for almost any water icing, using different colouring and flavouring essences. No. 526. CHOCOLATE ICING (Good). INGREDIENTS. lb. icing sugar, sifted 4 pint of water 3 ozs. grated chocolate flavouring a little METHOD. Boil the chocolate and water together for two minutes, then add the sugar and flavouring. Reheat, but do not boil again, and pour over the cake. No. 527. VIENNA ICING. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of,butter 1 small wineglass of sherry 10 ozs. of icing sugar | or brandv METHOD. Work these ingredients well together with a wooden spoon until quite smooth. The icing is then ready for use. No. 528. MOCHA ICING. Make like “ Vienna Icing,” substituting coffee essence instead of sherry or brandy.215 No. 529. GLACE ICING. Put one pound of loaf sugar into a saucepan, just cover it with water, and boil to the thread. Let it cool, and then work it with a wooden spoon until it becomes creamy and white. Re-heat it and use. This glac6 may be coloured and flavoured as desired. No. 530. PASTRY ICING. INGREDIENTS. Whites of 2 eggs I 2 ozs of castor sugar O O I o METHOD. Whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and stir in lightly the castor sugar. Spread over the pastry and place in a cool oven to set. r'216 TWELVE GOLDEN RULESflN PREPARING FOOD FOR INVALIDS. 1. Let everything for an invalid be made to look as dainty as possible. 2. Use the freshest materials in cooking for them, and the cleanest utensils. 3. Serve food in very small quantities. 4. Do not consult the patient beforehand as to what he will eat. 5. Leave no food about in the sick room. 6. Vary the food as much as possible. 7. Do not cot k anything in the sick room. 8. Make the food as pleasing to the eye as possible. 9. Never season the food too highly. 10. Do not keep patients waiting too long without food. 11. Never wake patients to give food. 12. Obey the doctor’s orders implicitly.217 SIMPLE INVALID COOKERY. 531. BEEF TEA. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of gravy beef | 1 pint of water METHOD. Remove all the fat and skin from the beef and mince it very finely. Place it in a jar with a pinch of salt and the cold water. Allow it to stand for an hour or longer. Then cover the jar closely and place it in a saucepan of boiling water, allowing the water only to come half way up the jar. Let it simmer gently for 1 hour. Beef Tea is not nearly so nourishing when over-cooked. Strain the tea from the meat through a coarse strainer and carefully remove any fat. No. 532. ESSENCE OF BEEF Is prepared by cooking the meat in its own juice, No. 533. RAW BEEF TEA. INGREDIENTS. ^lb. of gravy beef | ^ pint (or less) of cold water METHOD. Take away all skin and fat from the beef and scrape it instead of cutting it up into small pieces. Add the water to it and allow it to stand for two or three hours. Stir well, and strain. Add a pinch of salt. This beef tea should be served in a crimson claret glass, to make it appear more palatable. It is frequently given in cases of extreme exhaustion.218 No. 534. QUICKLY MADE BEEF TEA. Put J-lb. of finely chopped beef into a saucepan with half a pint of cold water. Bring to the boil, add a little salt. Stir well, strain, and serve. N.B.—Beef tea should always be made fresh each day. No. 535. MUTTON BROTH (Strong). 1 lb. scrag end of mutton INGREDIENTS neck of 1 pint of cold water 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley METHOD. Cut the meat into small pieces, break the bones. Put meat and bones into a saucepan with the water. As soon as it boils remove the scum, cover closely, and simmer for nearly three hours. Strain the broth into a basin, place the basin in cold water, which will cause the fat to quickly rise. Remove the fat carefully, re heat the broth, add the parsley and a little salt. Serve immediately. No. 536. MUTTON TEA. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of lean mutton Salt to taste 1 pint of cold water METHOD. Remove all skin and fat, and chop the meat finely. Place it in a jar, pour over the water, and let it stand for quite two hours. Cover closely, place the jar in a sauce- pan of cold water, and bring to the boil. Remove at once, strain the tea, take off all fat, add the salt, and serve.219 No. 537. INVALID MOCK TURTLE SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 calf’s foot | 1 small onion 2 ozs. of lean ham cut up small j 1 quart of cold water i small carrot | Bunch of thyme and parsley i small turnip | 1 clove METHOD. Divide the foot, which must have been previously well cleaned and scalded, and put in a pan with the above ingredients and the water. Bring it to the boil, remove the scum carefully, and let it simmer for four hours. Keep the cover on the pan. Then strain the stock, and lay the foot on a dish. When the stock is quite cold remove the fat. Cut the meat from the foot in small pieces, put it in a pan with the stock, let this now simmer gently for one hour ; then thicken with a dessertspoonful of cornflour, which must be mixed smoothly with two tablespoonsful of cold stock or water. Let it boil up, stirring all the time, then just before serving add half a glass of sherry, and colour it with a few drops of Champion’s browning. Season to taste with pepper and salt. The browning may be omitted. No. 538. INVALID GRAVY SOUP. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of gravy beef 1 oz. of butter 1£ pints of water J tablespoonful of cornflour 1 small onion 1 small carrot A small bunch of parsley and thyme A wineglassful of port METHOD. Cut the beef in small pieces, slice the onion and carrot. Flour the bits of beef, Heat the butter and brown in it the beef and sliced vegetables. Add the water and herbs and simmer gently for two and a half hours. Strain and thicken it with the cornflour, which must be mixed smoothly with three tablespoonsful of cold stock or water. Boil up again, add the port, and serve.220 No. 539. CALVES’ FOOT SAVORY JELLY. INGREDIENTS. 2 calves’ feet $ lb. of veal or the bones of a fowl 1 onion Eggs Water Lemon rind Salt A few peppercorns Liebig Co.’s extract of meat .METHOD. Divide and wash the feet thoroughly and remove all the fat, weigh them with the veal, put them into a pan, allowing one pint cold water to each pound, bring slowly to the boil, skim well, add the onion, peppercorns and salt, simmer slowly six hours, adding a little more water to make up loss, occasionally ; strain, and, when quite cold, remove all the fat. To clear the jelly put the stock into a saucepan, add the whites and shells of eggs, in the pro- portion of three to each quart, and rind of quarter of a lemon ; stir till it boils, cover, draw the pan aside, allow to stand quarter of an hour, then strain through a linen towel or a jelly-bag, now add one teaspoonful Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat to each quart and a little more salt, if necessary. No. 540. STEAMED FISH WITH SAUCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 sole or small plaice | Salt £ pint of milk j h oz- °f butter £ teaspoonful of Liebig C'o.’s ! ^ oz. of flour extract of meat | A few drops of lemon juice METHOD. Fillet the fish and skin it, lay the fillets on a buttered plate, cover with another plate, set over a pan of boiling water, and cook five to fifteen minutes, or until the fillets are white and firm. Break up the bones, put these, with the skin, into a pan, add the milk and simmer ten minutes; melt the butter, add the flour, stir till smooth, add enoughof the liquid from the bones to make a nice thick sauce, a few drops lemon juice, the Liebig Company’s Extract of Meat and the salt ; boil gently two or three minutes, strain over the fillets and serve. No. 541. MILK JELLY. INGREDIENTS. 1 calf’s foot | 1 tablespoonful of white sugar 1 pint of water | The rind of half a lemon thinly 1 pint of milk | pared METHOD. The foot must be thoroughly cleaned and washed, cut it in half and let it simmer in the water for two hours, the cover being kept on the saucepan. Then add the milk and lemon rind, keep the cover on the pan and simmer gently for two hours more. Strain, sweeten, stir, and when it is a little cool pour it into a mould that has been previously wetted with cold water. No. 542. IRISH MOSS. INGREDIENTS. 4 oz. of Irish moss | Sugar to taste 1 pint of new milk METHOD. Soak the moss in cold water for ten or twelve hours, change the water several times to take away any unpleasant taste, then drain the moss and pick away any impurities or discoloured pieces. Put it into a small saucepan with a pint of milk ; let it come to the boil, then simmer it for a quarter of an hour till the moss is quite dissolved in the milk, stirring it all the time. Sweeten it to your taste. This moss may be eaten hot, or it may be put into a mould (which has previously been wetted with cold water) and turned out when it is cold. If you wish to flavour the moss, you may boil a piece of lemon rind with it, which should be taken out when you take the moss off' the gas.No. 543. SAGO PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. of sago | 1 oz. of sugar 4 pint of milk METHOD. Grease a small pudding dish with butter, put in the sago, sugar, and milk ; bake half an hour. Rice may be used in the same way. No. 544. CHOP FOR AN INVALID. Remove the bone, skin, and fat from a loin chop. Mince the meat finely, season it with a little salt and pepper ; make it into a compact little cake. Put into a small pan two tablespoonsful of strong beef tea. #When it boils place in the cake of meat. Cook gently for about ten minutes, turning the cake once or twice. Serve upon a hot plate with the beef tea poured round. No. 545. BEEF TEA PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. r pint of beef tea | 1 tablespoonful bread crumbs 2 eggs I METHOD. Beat the eggs, add to them the beef tea and beat well223 season with salt ; pour it on the bread crumbs and let it stand half an hour. Butter a pie dish, pour in the mixture and bake slowly for half an hour. This mixture may also be steamed in the same manner as steamed custard, but it will require a longer time to cook. No. 546. STRENGTHENING JELLY. INGREDIENTS. i oz. of gelatine | i pint of water 4 pint of sherry j Sugar to taste The yolks of 3 eggs METHOD. Soak the gelatine in the water for two hours, then stir it over the gas till melted ; add the wine and sugar. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and add them to the jelly, stirring all the time. Return the saucepan to the gas, and stir the jelly till it has thickened, but do not let it boil. Strain it into a basin. Stir it occasionally till it is lukewarm, then put it into a mould which has been thoroughly wetted with cold water. Make it at least twelve hours before it is required. No. 547. ARROWROOT SOUFFLEE. INGREDIENTS. 4 pint of milk | 2 eggs 1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot | A small piece of lemon peel METHOD. Boil the milk with the lemon peel. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk till it is as thick as cream. Pour the boiling milk on the arrowroot ; return it to the sauce- pan and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Pour it into a basin ; when it is coo], add the beaten yolks of the eg«s and sugar to taste. Whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it thirty minutes in a moderate oven. J224 No. 548. A CUP OF ARROWROOT. INGREDIENTS. 1 dessertspoonful of arrowroot | 1 dessertspoonful of sherry 2 teaspoonsful of sugar METHOD. Mix the arrowroot in a cup into a smooth paste with the sherry, add the sugar, pour on it boiling water, stirring all the time until the consistency of thick cream. No. 549. CUSTARD PUDDING. INGREDIENTS. ^ pint of milk | 1 oz. of sugar 1 egg 1 ^ oz. of butter METHOD. Pour the milk into a small dish, add the sugar with the egg well beaten and the butter; bake in a slow oven fifteen to twenty minutes. No. 550. LEMON CUSTARDS. INGREDIENTS. \ pint of water | 2 lemons, the peel of one grated 3 eggs | White sugar to taste METHOD. Beat the eggs ; add to them the sugar, water, and grated lemon rind, stir well together, then add the lemon juice gradually. Put the mixture in a pan and stir it over the gas with a wooden spoon till it is as thick as custard. Strain it into glasses or into a glass dish.Richmond’s Cookers, burners removable.225 No. 551. OATMEAL GRUEL. INGREDIENTS. 1 tablespoonful of Keen, | 2 tablespoonsful of cold water Robinson’s medium oatmeal j Sugar or salt 1 pint of boiling water METHOD. Mix the oatmeal smoothly with the cold water, then pour on the boiling water gradually, stirring it all the time ; put it into a small saucepan, bring it to the boil and let it simmer ten minutes till it is a smooth jelly. Stir it very often to make it smooth and to keep it from burning. Strain it into a basin and add sugar or salt. The oatmeal should be as fresh as possible. No. 552. RICE WATER. INGREDIENTS. 1 oz. of rice | 1 pint of cold water \ inch of cinnamon, if liked j White sugar to taste METHOD. Wash the rice well in cold water ; drain away the water and put the rice into a small saucepan with one pint of fresh cold water and the cinnamon ; bring it to the boil and let it simmer for an hour ; strain the rice water into a jug, add sugar to taste and leave it to cool. This drink is often recommended in cases of diarrhoea and must be taken cold. No. 553. BARLEY WATER. INGREDIENTS. 1 tablespoonful of Keen, Robin- | A little lemon juice and sugar son’s patent barley | to taste 1 pint of water METHOD. Put the barley into a saucepan with one pint of cold O226 water, bring it to the boil, then strain it, as this water is unwholesome ; add another pint of cold water to the barley, bring it to the boil, and let it simmer for ten minutes. Strain it into a jug, add a few drops of lemon juice and a little white sugar, but do not make it too sweet. Let it cool before drinking. N.B.—Keen, Robinson’s oatmeal and barley are perfectly cooked in ten minutes. No. 554. CUSTARD CREAM (Very Good). INGREDIENTS. pints of new milk | A small piece of lemon rind, \ oz. of gelatine j cut thin The yolks of 5 eggs White sugar to taste METHOD. Heat the milk with the lemon rind, pour it on the gelatine, let it stand for a short time, then stir it over the fire till dissolved, but it must not boil, add the sugar. Beat the yolks of five eggs, pour to them gradually the milk stirring all the time. Return all to the pan and stir over the gas till it is as thick as good custard. Strain into a jug, stir occasionally, and when nearly cold, but before it sets, pour it into a mould that has been previously wetted with cold water. Turn out next day. No. 555. LEMON WATER DRINK. INGREDIENTS. 2 lemons | 1 pint of boiling water ^ lb. of lump sugar METHOD. Grate the rind of the lemon and squeeze the juice into a jug, add the sugar and the boiling water ; let it stand until cool, then strain off.227 No. 556. SUET AND MILK. Add to half a pint of milk one tablespoonful of finely chopped beef suet. Cook slowly until the suet has become thoroughly dissolved. Skim well. Pour into a warm cup, and serve before it gets cool. No. 557. TREACLE POSSET. INGREDIENTS. \ pint of milk | 2 tablespoonsful of treacle METHOD. Put the milk into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, then add the treacle ; re-heat it, then draw it to the side of the gas and let it stand there for a minute or two, then strain it and serve it very hot. This is an excellent drink for colds and should be taken in bed. 1COLD MEAT COOKERY. No. 558. CURRY. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of cold meat 1 tablespoonfulof curry powder 1 tablespoonful of flour 4 pint of stock 2 ozs. of butter 2 small onions 1 dessertspoonful of cocoanut (unsweetened) A little pepper and salt 4 lb. of rice METHOD. Melt the butter, and fry the onions slightly, add curry powder and flour, then stir in the stock gradually, let it thicken, add seasoning [and cocoanut, let all simmer slowdy for half an hour. Put in the meat, cut into dice, and when it is thoroughly heated (it must not boil) serve upon centre of hot dish, with border of boiled rice. N.B.—The rice for curry should be thrown into plenty of fast boiling water, with a little salt, and boiled fast for 12 or 15 minutes, then strained through a hair sieve, and allowed plenty of time to dry before a fire before serving. No. 559. HOT POT. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of beef and mutton 2 lbs. of potatoes 2 onions \ pint of water 2 teaspoonsful of flour 1 ,, of salt 4 of pepper METHOD. Cut the meat into nice sized pieces, mix the seasoning,229 dip each piece of meat into it. Put half the meat at the bottom of a pie dish, then half the onions sliced, and half the potatoes peeled, parboiled and quartered. Repeat this, pour over the water, cover, as this keeps it moist, and bake in a slow oven 2 or 3 hours. N.B.—If the potatoes be not parboiled, they get very dry and hard No. 560. RISSOLES INGREDIENTS. ^lb. cold meat (chopped finely) | small onion „ £ tablespoonful of parsley (chopped finely) ^ tablespoonful of sauce or catsup METHOD. Melt the dripping in a small saucepan ; when hot put in the onion and fry till tender ; add flour and stock, stirring all time, boil well; add catsup and parsley. Mix well with the meat and spread out to get cold ; divide into small pieces, make into balls (flour the hands). Dip each one into egg and cover with bread crumbs. Fry a nice brown in deep hot fat. Drain on soft paper. Dish in a pile and garnish with parsley. N.B.—Instead of making sauce to bind the rissoles, an egg may be used, and quarter of a pound of mashed potatoes added. ^ gill of stock £ oz. of dripping ^ oz. of flour Seasoning Egg Bread crumbs Sauce to bind No. 561. MINCED VEAL. Minced veal ^ lb. of bacon I small blade of mace 1 teaspoonful of salt INGREDIENTS. | 1 lb. cooked veal 1 pint of stock 1 oz. of flour. 1 oz. of butter j ^ teaspoonful of pepper METHOD. Cut the veal in very small pieces, put the butter into a230 saucepan, add the flour, stock, mace, salt and pepper ; simmer about half an hour, take out the mace, and put in the veal ; let it hot through, but do not allow it to boil; roll the bacon and cook it, pour the veal on to a dish and place the rolls of bacon round it. No. 562. THATCH PIE. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of cooked potatoes 1 lb. cooked veal, with stuffing £ pint of gravy 1 teaspoonful of salt \ teaspoonful of pepper 1 oz. of butter ^ pint of milk METHOD. Mash the potatoes thoroughly, add the butter and milk which has been warmed, mix well. Cut the veal into small pieces, put half the potatoes into a pie dish, then put in the veal, stuffing, salt, pepper, and gravy, place remainder of the potatoes on the top, make them smooth with a knife dipped in hot water, bake in a hot oven thirty minutes. No. 563. MINCE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of cold meat | \ pint of stock or water 1 small onion j Pepper and salt to taste \ tablespoonful of flour METHOD. Mince or cut the meat into dice, fry the onion in a little dripping, add flour, brown it slightly, then add the stock ; let it boil and thicken. Now put in the meat and let it get thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Serve with sippets of toast or a border of mashed potatoes.231 No. 564. HASHED MEAT. INGREDIENTS. | Salt and pepper Small piece of carrot j Nutmeg Water, bones METHOD. Put the bones into a saucepan, cover with cold water, and boil one and a half hours. Take out the bones and remove the fat from the stock. Fry the onion (cut in slices) in the dripping, with the flour, when brown, add the stock from the bones, and the carrot cut in very small pieces, the salt and pepper ; boil these half an hoar, then add. the meat cut in slices. Let it simmer gently for one hour, place on a hot dish, and garnish with sippets of toasted bread. No. 565. COTTAGE PIE. INGREDIENTS. \ lb. of cold meat | Stock or water \ small onion | Sauce or catsup I tablespoonful of parsley | Cold potatoes Seasoning to taste METHOD. Chop the onion finely and fry in a little dripping till tender ; mince the meat and parsley. Mix all well, add seasoning and sauce, put into a pie dish, add water. Cover with a thick layer of mashed potatoes ; smooth over with a knife dipped in hot water, and mark into squares with a fork. Put a few pieces of dripping on the top and put into a moderate oven to get thoroughly hot through— about half an hour. N.B.—This pie looks very pretty if a little of the mashed potatoes be made up into small balls, and the top of the pie nicely decorated with them. Cold meat 1 onion 1 oz. of dripping 1 oz. of flour232 No. 566. POTTED VEAL. INGREDIENTS. 1^ 16. cooked veal,with stuffing | 3 ozs. of butter \ lb. of boiled ham | Grated nutmeg 1 teaspoonful of salt I 2 tablespoonsful of good gravy \ teaspoonful of pepper j Powdered mace METHOD. Put the veal, ham, and stuffing through the mincing machine twice, then add to it two ounces of butter, salt, pepper, and little grated nutmeg and pounded mace, and the gravy. Mix all thoroughly, and press firmly into small pots ; cover with melted butter. No. 567. MEAT PATTIES. INGREDIENTS. $ lb. of cooked meat j 1 tablespoonful of gravy £ teaspoonful of salt ! A little chopped parsley | teaspoonful of pepper j Short pastry METHOD. Chop the meat finely, add to it the parsley, salt, and pepper, and gravy ; mix thoroughly. Roll the pastry out thinly, cut it in rounds having an equal number j on a round of pastry put a spoonful of the meat, wet the edges, place another round of pastry on the top, pressing the edges well together, make a small hole on the top, place on a greased tin, and bake about fifteen minutes. No. 568. A MOULD OF COLD MEAT. May be made with rissole mixture, using an egg instead of the sauce for binding. Line a well greased basin with brown crumbs, fill with the mixture, cover with a greased paper, and bake for about 30 minutes in a moderate oven. Serve with good gravy poured round, also a few sippets of toasted bread.233 No. 569. FRITTERS OF COLD MEAT. Slices of cold meat Kromesky batter Juice of 1 lemon INGREDIENTS. A little parsley A little onion Pepper and salt METHOD. Sprinkle the lemon juice, parsley, onion, pepper and salt over the slices of meat. Allow them to marinade for an hour and a half. Then dip them into Kromesky batter, and fry until a light brown, in hot fat. Serve upon a folded napkin, garnish with fried parsley. Roll the mashed potatoes to about one and a half inches in thickness, stamp out into rounds with a small round cutter. With a cutter three sizes smaller mark the centre of each round, being careful not to cut right through. Egg and bread crumb, and fry in hot fat. Drain on soft paper, then remove the centre carefully from each round, and fill with the meat mixture. Put the soft potato removed from the centres into a forcing bag, with a vegetable rose forcer attached, and force a rose upon the top of each casolette. No. 570. CASOLETTES OF POTATOES. As for ‘ ‘ cottage pie INGREDIENTS. | Hot fat METHOD.234 MARMALADE, JAM, ETC. No. 571. ORANGE MARMALADE. INGREDIENTS. 12 Seville oranges 2 lemons White sugar Water METHOD. Slice the oranges and lemons as finely as possible. To each lb. of fruit add three pints of cold water. Allow it to stand for three days, then boil until the fruit is perfectly tender. Weigh again, and add 1 lb. of sugar to every lb. of fruit. Boil for about an hour, or until the marmalade will set, when a spoonful is tried upon a cold plate. Tie down closely in jars and keep in a cool place. No. 572. LEMON MARMALADE (Very Good). METHOD. To every lb. of lemons allow one pint of water. Boil for two hours. Change the water and add the same quantity of boiling water. Slice the lemons very thinly, extract all the pips. Then allow to every lb. of fruit 2 lbs. of loaf sugar. Put the sugar on to boil with half a pint of water to each lb. When the sugar has thoroughly dissolved add the fruit, and boil for about half an hour, until it is nice and clear. No. 573. ANOTHER ORANGE MARMALADE. INGREDIENTS. 24 Seville oranges | 3 sweet oranges Rind and juice of 6 lemons j Loaf sugar. Water METHOD. Put the Seville oranges in a pan, cover them with water, and boil gently for three hours. Take the oranges out of235 the water, and when a little cool cut in very thin strips, being careful to remove the pips. To every lb. of fruit put 2 lbs. of sugar and half a pint of the water the oranges were boiled in, dissolve the sugar in the water, add the fruit, the rind and juice of the lemons and the juice of the sweet oranges, boil three quarters of an hour until quite clear. No. 574. CARROT JAM. INGREDIENTS. 3 lbs. of carrots | 3 lbs. loaf sugar 6 lemons j 2 ozs. sweet almonds METHOD. Bake the carrots in an earthenware vessel with sufficient water to cover until they are quite tender. Rub them through a sieve, add the sugar, crushed, the lemon juice and rind, grated, and the almonds, cut finely, lengthways. Boil all together for about an hour. This jam will keep a long time. No. 575. APPLE MARMALADE. METHOD. Quarter and remove the cores from one peck of apples of any kind. Do not peel them. Put them into a preserving pan with one gallon of water. Cook gently until the apple pulp is soft enough to be rubbed through a sieve. After the pulp has been sieved, add to every 2 lbs. of pulp 1 lb. of loaf sugar. Boil all together for 45 minutes, stirring frequently. Tie down in large jars, as it keeps much better in large quantities. No. 576. STRAWBERRY JAM. METHOD. To each lb. of fruit allow 1 lb. of white sugar. Boil the236 fruit for 10 minutes in a bright preserving pan. Make the sugar nice and hot in the oven, but be careful not to let it become discoloured. Add it gradually to the fruit, stir well, and boil together for 15 minutes. When cold cover each jar with thin rounds of paper dipped in vinegar or brandy. Cover these over with thick paper and tie securely. No. 577. RASPBERRY JAM. METHOD. Proceed in same manner as for Strawberry Jam. No. 578. GOOSEBERRY JAM. METHOD. Allow three-quarters of a lb. of sugar to each lb. of fruit, and proceed as directed for Strawberry. No. 579. PLUM AND CURRANT JAM. METHOD. These are made like Strawberry, but the fruit should be boiled a little longer before adding the sugar, for about 30 minutes. N.B.—In making preserves be careful that the jars are perfectly dry before being used. The fruit should also be nice and dry when gathered, if not, the jam will not keep. No. 580. APRICOT JAM. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of Apricots | 2 lbs. of best loaf sugar METHOD. Halve the apricots, take out the stones, lay the fruit in a deep dish, cover with the sugar, and let stand all night. Boil very gently for half-an-hour, adding the kernels, blanched and cut small. Pour into dry jars.No. 581. DAMSON JAM. INGREDIENTS. 3 quarts of damsons | 3 lbs. Demerara sugar METHOD. Pat into pan and boil about one hour, not less. Pour into dry jars. No. 582. RHUBARB JAM. INGREDIENTS. 6 lbs. of rhubarb j £ lb. of candied peel 6 lbs. of Demerara sugar j 1 oz. of ginger METHOD. Wipe the rhubarb and peel it, cut into pieces about an inch long, put into the pan with the candied peel (chopped), ginger and sugar. Boil one hour and a half ; take out the ginger and pour into jars. No. 583. GREENGAGE JAM. INGREDIENTS. To every pound of greengages allow 1 j lbs. of sugar. METHOD. Peel and stone the greengages, apd boil them gently together, stirring and skimming until they will set. Add a quarter of the kernels blanched when the jam is ready. No. 584. RED CURRANT JELLY. Take red currants and some white ones (as they improve238 the colour of the jelly), bake in an earthenware jar till all the juice is extracted, strain and to each pint of juice add one pound of lump sugar. Stir till it boils, then when it boils, put in half a cup of cold water. Boil for about 20 minutes, not more, and take off the scum as it rises. Try the jelly from time to time by running a little on a cold plate to see whether it will set. As soon as it is quite clear and will set, put it into small moulds. If jelly is over-boiled it becomes like treacle, and will never set. No. 585. GOOSEBERRY JELLY. INGREDIENTS. I gallon gooseberries (gathered | 2 quarts of water when just beginning to j Lump sugar turn colour) METHOD. Boil the gooseberries in the water to a pulp. Strain through a jelly bag. To every pint of juice put one pound of sugar. Boil till it will set and is quite clear. This is a good substitute for red currant jelly. No. 586. BLACK CURRANT JELLY. Make the same as Red Currant. No. 587. CRAB APPLE JELLY. INGREDIENTS. Apples Water | Loaf sugar METHOD. Fill a preserving pan with crab apples, cover with cold water ; let them boil slowly until soft, and the apples crack. Strain through a jelly bag ; to every pint of juice add one pound of loaf sugar. Boil one hour or until it will thicken on a plate.239 No. 588. APPLE JELLY. Choose bright red apples. Put them in a preserving-pan, cover with water, and cook for an hour or longer. Then strain away the juice. Allow three quarters of a pound of sugar to every pint of juice. Boil until the jelly will set210 A FEW RECIPES FOR PICKLES. No. 589. PICKLED MUSHROOMS. INGREDIENTS. Button mushrooms | Salt, mace, pepper, vinegar (Date) METHOD. Rub the mushrooms with flannel and salt to clean them. Cook them slowly in a saucepan, with a little salt sprinkled over, until the liquor is extracted. Shake them well, and cook again until the liquor is absorbed. Then add sufficient vinegar to cover them, boil up and put away in glass jars. Do not tie the jars down until the mushrooms are cold. No. 590. PICKLED BEETROOT. Slice the cooked beetroot thinly and put it in a jar. Boil one quart of vinegar with a little salt, and one dessert- spoonful of peppercorns. Pour this, when cold over the beetroot. This pickle may be used in three days. White Beetroot may be pickled in the same manner, using white peppercorns.Richmond’s Cookers, a real boon. (p)Prices to suit all purses241 No. 591. PICKLE FOR TONGUES. INGREDIENTS. 1^ ozs. saltpetre | 4 lb. common salt J lb. brown sugar | 4 oz- black pepper 3 ozs. bay salt METHOD. Lay the tongue on a deep dish, and rub it each day with the mixture for three weeks, also turn it; if you wish to keep it longer, hang it up to dry. No. 592. FRENCH PICKLE. INGREDIENTS. 6 cucumbers | 1 wineglassful Indian soy 3 onions j 1 ,, sherry 1 quart vinegar (Date) | J lb. salt ^ teaspoonful cayenne METHOD. Peel and slice the cucumbers about half an inch thick, taking out the seeds. Slice the onions, put these on a dish and sprinkle the salt over them, let them stand twelve hours. Drain them well, and put into a jar with the vinegar, sherry, soy, and cayenne. Tie up with a bladder, and keep a month before using. No. 593. PICKLED WALNUTS. INGREDIENTS. Walnuts | Brine vinegar | Pickling spice METHOD. Wipe the walnuts and put them into an earthen pan, P242 cover with brine that will float a fresh egg, allow them to remain in it five or six days ; take them out, place them in the sun for a day or two until they become black. Put into bottes. Boil the spice with the vinegar, .and when cool, pour over the walnuts, filling the bottles quite full. Cover with parchment, and tie securely with string. Ready for use in three or four months. No. 594. TO PICKLE CAULIFLOWERS. INGREDIENTS. 4 oz. nutmeg 1 oz. ginger | 3 quarts vinegar (Date) Cauliflowers METHOD. Choose the whitest and closest cauliflowers, and they should be cut upon a dry day. Break them into small bunches and scald them in salt and water. Do not allow them to boil, or it will destroy their whiteness. Cover them over and allow them to cool. Strain them in a colander, sprinkle over them a little salt, and allow them to drain for a day and a half. Place the bunches in a jar, pour over them boiling salt and water ; let them stand all night. Drain through a hair sieve and put into glass jars. Boil the vinegar with the mustard, nutmeg, ginger, mace, and coriander seed. When cold, pour over the cauliflowers. Keep them closely covered. They may be used at once, but are much nicer if allowed to stand for a few weeks. No. 595. TO PICKLE BARBERRIES. Take a quantity of unripe barberries. Pick off the leaves and stalks. Put them into jars and cover with strong salt and water. Tie them down with a bladder. When a scum rises upon the barberries, put them into fresh salt and water. Cover closely, and put away for use. 1 oz. mustard seed 3 ozs. coriander seed 4 oz. mace243 No. 596. CHUTNEY. INGREDIENTS. 4 lb. sultana raisins J lb. Valencia raisins 3 lbs. sour apples 1 lb. coarse brown sugar | lb. salt 4 oz. cayenne 3 oz. mustard seed 3 pints vinegar (Date) 3 ozs. garlic METHOD. Peel, core, and cut the apples in slices, boil in half the vinegar (14 pint) until in a pulp. Boil the sugar in the remainder of vinegar until in a clear syrup ; allow all to become quite cold, then mix all together, the garlic being chopped very fine, the valencias stoned and chopped, the sultanas cleaned and picked ; boil twenty minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon. Pour into wide-necked bottles, cover with paper securely tied with string. Ready for use in three weeks, but improves with keeping. No. 597. PICKLED ONIONS. INGREDIENTS. 7 lbs. silver-skinned onions 1 Malt vinegar 4 ozs. pickling spice METHOD. Peel the onions very carefully and throw them into salt and water until all are finished ; drain oft all the water, and put the onions into dry, wide-mouthed bottles. Boil the spice in some vinegar ; when nearly cold, put a little into each bottle, filling the bottles with vinegar, cover with paper, and keep air-tight. Ready for use in one month. No. 598. COLD PICKLE FOR BEEF OR TONGUE. INGREDIENTS. li lbs. common salt | 2 ozs. salprunella 14 ozs- bay salt | 2 ozs. peppercorns 2 ozs. saltpetre METHOD. Mix all together with six quarts cold water. This pickle keeps twelve months. P 2244 No. 599. PICKLED EGGS. INGREDIENTS. 20 eggs 3 pints best vinegar 1 oz. bruised ginger 2 ozs. mustard seed j £ oz. cloves I teaspoonful salt 3 ozs. whole black pepper METHOD. Boil the eggs hard, then remove the shells carefully, not to break the whites. Bring the other ingredients nearly to boiling point, and pour over the eggs. Cover closely, and they will be ready for use in about four weeks. Fillet the herrings, wash and dry the fillets well. Sprinkle them with the fennel, thyme, and parsley, chopped finely, and a little salt. Bake in a pie-dish with a little butter over for about ten minutes. Boil the vinegar, bay leaves, cloves and peppercorns together for about fifteen minutes. Allow the fish and vinegar to stand until cold, then strain the vinegar over the fish. Keep them closely covered for three or four hours, then use. N,B.—Haddocks and mackerel may be pickled in the same manner. No. 600. PICKLED FISH. 6 fresh herrings 1 teaspoonful peppercorns 3 or 4 bay leaves INGREDIENTS. A little parsley, thyme, fennel 1 pint best vinegar (Date) 4 cloves METHOD. No. 601. INDIAN PICKLE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. ginger (raw) 2 ozs. pepper (long) I lb. garlic J lb. mustard seed \ lb. made mustard 1 gallon best vinegar (Date, or Champions) \ oz. cayenne pepper245 I slices. Drain it upon a sieve. Cut the pepper in the same manner. Lay the garlic in strong salt and water for three or four days, then drain it well. Mash it well or slice it thinly. Put all the mustard, tumeric, and cayenne into a mortar, and pound them well together. Put the whole of the prepared ingredients into a large stone jar with the vinegar. Stir it frequently for a fort- night. Tie it over closely. This pickle will keep good for about ten years, but requires replenishing with vinegar. Any kind of vegetables may be put into this pickle, taking care that they are previously well dried. It may be kept filled up with vegetables as they come in season.246 MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. No. 602. TO RENDER FAT. Take pieces of cooked or uncooked fat, beef and mutton mixed, cut into small pieces, put into a saucepan with a little cold water. Boil quickly until all. the water is evaporated and the pieces of fat are quite crisp, strain into a basin, and, when cold, this does for making plain pastry. No. 603. TO CLARIFY DRIPPING. Put the dripping into an old iron saucepan, cover with boiling water and boil fast for 20 minutes with the sauce- pan lid off. Let it cool a little ; pour into a jar or basin. When firm scrape all impurities from the bottom of the cake of fat and pour away the water. No. 604. FAT FOR FRYING. For frying there should be about three pounds of fat, either dripping or lard. There should be sufficient fat to cover whatever is being fried. Dripping answers the purpose just as well as lard, and is more economical. When the fat boils it should be perfectly still, and a247 distinct blue smoke arising from it. It does not bubble like water does when it boils. If the fat is used every day it should be clarified at least once a week by straining it into a basin containing half-a- pint of cold water. When cold the fat will form a cake on the top of water; remove this cake of fat and you will find the sediment at the bottom, scrape this oft, wipe the fat, put it back into the pan. N.B.—Hugon’s Refined Beef Suet is excellent for frying purposes. No. 605. TO CURE TONGUES. INGREDIENTS. \ oz. of saltpetre | 2 teaspoonsful Jamaica pepper | oz. of salt | (pimento) 1 teaspoonful of black pepper METHOD. Trim and clean the tongue, rub it well with salt, let it lie till next day, then clean it thoroughly, and rub it quite dry with a cloth. Then rub on the saltpetre and half of the salt, let it lie for two days, rub on the black pepper, Jamacia pepper, and the remainder of the salt. Turn it and rub it in the brine every day for three weeks, when it will be ready to cook. The same pickle will do for beef. No. 606. TO CURE HAMS. Hams should be cured in cold weather, and should hang a few days before they are salted. For a ham of twelve pounds weight the following are required :— INGREDIENTS. 2 ozs. of saltpetre | ^lb. of very coarse sugar I lb. of bay salt j | oz. Jamaica pepper (pimento) 1 lb. of common salt | £ oz. black pepper METHOD. Rub the ham with the saltpetre, let it lie till next day, then rub in the bay salt and common salt, let it lie for248 three or four days. Mix together the sugar, black pepper and Jamaica pepper, spread this over the ham. When the salt has quite melted and there is plenty of brine, baste the ham two or three times a day, and turn and rub it well in the liquor two or three times a week ; do this for three weeks, then drain the ham well, and hang it in a dry place. Very large hams require the addition of half a pound more salt to the brine after the first ten days, and should lie in the pickle for a month before they are hung up. No. 607. GOOD GLAZE FOR MEAT. INGREDIENTS. 4 teaspoonsful of Liebig Co.’s | £ pint of cold water extract of meat i Pepper and salt 10 sheets Nelson’s leaf gelatine j METHOD. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, then add the meat extract, the pepper and salt. Boil until reduced to a quarter pint ; stir well. No. 608. WHITE ROUX. Clarify 8 ozs. of butter and pour it into a frying-pan. Add very gradually 7 ozs. of flour. Stir over the gas until it forms a thick paste, but do not let it brown. No. 609. BROWN ROUX. As for White Roux, only the flour must be cooked until a light brown colour. N.B.—Roux will keep good for a week. It should be kept in a cool place, and portions cut oft as required. Roux is used for thickening gravies and stocks for sauces.249 No. 610. WALNUT TOFFEE. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of butter ! 1 lb. Demerara sugar 3 ozs. of dried walnuts j £ lb. golden syrup METHOD. Boil the butter, sugar, and syrup together for fifteen minutes, then add the walnuts. As soon as the toffee will set when a teaspoonful is dropped into cold water, it is sufficiently cooked. Dried walnuts may be purchased from the grocers, or from Italian warehousemen. Or, fresh walnuts may be shelled, quartered, and used instead. No. 611. ALMOND TOFFEE. Make like walnut toffee. Blanch the almonds, and cut each almond into four pieces, lengthwise. No. 612. TO CLARIFY BUTTER. Melt the butter slowly in a saucepan. Skim it well as soon as it commences to simmer. Let it stand by the side of the fire until the buttermilk sinks to the bottom of the pan. Pour off the top very carefully, leaving all the sediment below. No. 613. VANILLA TOFFEE. INGREDIENTS. I lb. moist sugar | A few drops of vanilla essence h lb. syrup | j lb. of butter METHOD. Put all into a saucepan and boil twenty minutes, stirring frequently ; pour into a dripping pan greased well with butter.250 No. 614. TOFFEE (Another way). INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of syrup | ^ lb. of butter 1 tablespoonful of vinegar METHOD. Put all into a saucepan and boil very quickly from twenty to thirty minutes ; pour into a dripping pan, greased well with butter. No. 615. WHITE ALMOND TOFFEE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. loaf sugar | 5 tablespoonsful cold water 2 ozs. butter | 2 oz. blanched almonds METHOD. Boil sugar, butter, and water for about 15 minutes, then stir in the blanched almonds. No. 616. EVERTON TOFFEE. INGREDIENTS. 2 lbs. of moist sugar j 10 drops of essence of lemon ^ lb. of butter | A teacupful of cold water METHOD. Put- the sugar, butter, and water into a saucepan, boil well for two hours, not stirring the mixture ; when just done add ten drops of essence of lemon, pour it on to a well-buttered dripping pan to cool. No. 617. TO MAKE BROWNING. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. sugar | 2 tablespoonsful of salt £ pint of boiling water METHOD. Boil the sugar and salt until a nice dark brown, being careful not to let them burn. Add the water, boil all well. When cold, bottle for use.251 No. 618. BAKING POWDER. INGREDIENTS. 4 ozs. of carbonate of soda j 4 ozs. of ground rice 3 ozs. of tartaric acid i METHOD. Mix well together, pass through a sieve, and keep in airtight tin. No. 619. GINGERBEER INGREDIENTS. 2 gallons of boiling water | 2 ozs. of cream of tartar 2 lbs. of sugar. I 4 lemons 1§ ozs. of ground ginger | 2 tablespoonsful of barm METHOD. Put the sugar, ginger, cream of tartar, and the lemons sliced into a large bowl, pour over it the water, when nearly cold add the barm, and let it stand all night, then strain and bottle. Ready for use in two or three days. No. 620. ORANGEADE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lb. of lump sugar | Rind of 1 lemon 1 oz. of tartaric acid | 5 gills of boiling water 1 oz. of tincture of orange METHOD. Sprinkle the acid upon the sugar, pour the boiling water over it, add the rind of the lemons, and when cold add the tincture of orange ; pour into a bottle. Use with water. No. 621. HERB BEER. INGREDIENTS. Bird’s herb beer extract | Good barm or German yeast Moist sugar j Boiling water METHOD. Add two tablespoonsful of this extract to one and a half252 pounds of clean moist sugar, and pour over them a gallon of boiling water ; stir up until perfectly dissolved, and add one gallon of cold water. Ferment for six hours in a warm place, with .three or four tablespoonsful of good barm spread upon a piece of toast, and allowed to float on the surface of the mixture, or else one ounce of German yeast. Strain out any bits from the sugar, and bottle oft, being careful to use good corks previously soaked in water. When tied down, lay the bottles on their sides ; the corks are thus kept moist, and the full strength of the beer retained. Price 6d., sufficient for six gallons. No. 622. LEMONADE. INGREDIENTS. 1 lemon | Sugar to taste \ pint of boiling water METHOD. Rub the lemon with a cloth to make it quite clean, pare it very thinly so as to take none of the white part, which is bitter and unwholesome. Remove the white part and throw it away, cut the remainder of the lemon into slices and put it with the peel into a jug, pour on it the boiling water, add white sugar to taste and cover it till cold. Printers : Cartwright & Rattray Ltd., London, Manchester & Hyde.]. INDEX. A NO. OF RECIPE. Anchovy Croutes " „ Toast 8 Apple Snowballs 340 ,, Yorkshire 345 Apricots en Surprise ^97 Arrowroot, A cup of 548 ,, Souffl6e 547 Artichokes, Globe 191 ,, Jerusalem 193 Asparagus 184 B Barley Water 553 Beans, Broad 182 ,, French 181 ,, Haricot 195 Beef Tea 531 ,, Essence of 532 ,, Pudding 545 ,, Quickly made 534 ,, Raw 533 Beef (Joints of an Ox) page 61 ,, Aitch Bone and Round of 137 ,, Brisket, Shin, Clod and Shoulder of 138 ,, Rump of 136 ,, Thick and Thin Flank of 139 ,, Sirloin and Ribs 135 Beetroot 185 ,, White 194 Biscuit, Savoury 27ii. B (Continued). no. or RECIPE. Blanc Mange (Brown & Poison’s) 365 ,, ,, with Stewed Fruit 36(5 Bread, Buns, etc.— Birds’ Nests 481 Biscuits, Arrowroot 465 ,, Cocoanut 443 ,, Gingerbread 472 Brandy Snap Creams 445 Bread (Baking Powder) 433 ,, Household 431 ,, Steamed 435 ,, Vienna 432 Broccoli 178 Browning, to make 617 Brussels Sprouts 178 Buns, Geneva 466 ,, Hot Cross 485 ,, Leamington 455 ,, Raspberry 488 ,, Rice 486 ,, ,, (another way) 495 ,, Richmond 493 Butter, to Clarify 612 Broth, Chicken 61 ,, Mutton 60 c Cabbage 178 Cakes, etc.— Cake, Bessie’s 476 ,, Birthday 454 ,, Dorothy’s 469 ,, Dough 436111. milkmaid CONDENSED MILK (SWISS & ENGLISH.) EXCELLENT FOR MILK PUDDINGS AND FOR ALL CULINARY PURPOSES. SUPERIOR to FRESH MILK with COFFEE,COCOA, E1C. Avoid low-priced brands from which the Cream has been abstracted. LARGEST SALE IN THE WORLD. USE ROBINSON’S PATENT GROATS, AND FOR Barley "Water ROBINSON’S PATENT BARLEY. See Recipes.IV. C (Continued). Gake, Father’s „ Frank’s ,, Genoese ,, Leicester ,, Lillie’s ,, Madeira ,, Mother’s ,, Orange ,, Pound ,, Seed (Plain) >5 >j (Rich) ,, Simnel (good) ,, ,, Almond Paste for ,, Tennis » Tipsy ,, Wedding Cakes— ,, Brazil ,, Buttermilk ,, Cream (very good) ,, Cherry ,, Cornflour ,, Eccles ,, Ethel’s Rice ,, Potato ,, Robin Redbreast ,, Rock ,, Strawberry ,, ,, Glaze for ,, Warrington ., „ Yorkshire Tea Carrots Cauliflower NO. OK B.KCIPE. ... 452 479 ... 478 ... 447 ... 453 463 ... 451 ... 496 ... 475 461 ... 460 ... 456 ... 457 ... 446 ... 4S4 ... 459 44S 442 440 498 464 489 494 477 480 474 490 473 487 492 487 186 178V. TWO ARTICLES THAT SHOULD BE IN EVERY FAMILY. Brown & Poison’s CORN FLOUR (“Patent” is their best quality), has nearly 40 years’ reputation for Uniformly Superior Quality. Brown & Poison’s PAISLEY FLOUR is not Flour in the accepted sense of the word, but to be used with ordinary Flour as a high-class leavening agent, in the propor- tion of 1 to 6 or 8. Over 40,000 Testimonials received, some of which say they have never found a raising agent to equal it. Makes HOME BAKING A PLEASURE. QVI. C (Continued). NO. OF RECIPE. Cauliflower au Gratin 12 Caviar Canass4s ' 4 ,, Sur Croutes 3 Celery 190 Chantilly Baskets 323 Charlotte Russe 419 Cheese Aigrettes 13 ,, Croquettes, de Vermicelle au Parmesan 15 ,, ,, of Macaroni 10 „ Fingers 17 ,, Macaroni 10 ,, Rissoles '. 20 ,, Roasted 18 ,, Straws 14 ,, Tomato II Chop for an Invalid 544 Creams, Apricot 401 ,, Citron 399 ,, Orange 412 ,, Raspberry 402 ,, Rice 406 ,, Snow 400 ,, Tapioca 407 ,, Vanilla 410 Cream Slippers 355 Crumpets, English 438 Cucumber 200 Curry 558 Custard Cream 554 „ Pudding 549 ,, with Condensed Cream 378Vll.vm. D NO. OP ta „ RECIPE. Devilled Roes 28 ,, Shrimps 29 Dripping, to Clarify 003 Duck, Roast • 210 Ducklings 2H E Easter Tokens 301 Eclairs 433 Eggs, Buttered 24 ,, German 22 ,, Scotch 21 Endive 199 Entrees— ,, Beef Olives 122 ,, Boudinettes de Boeuf 116 ,, Calves’ Brains (k la Francaise) 127 ,, Chicken Cutlets 108 ,, ,, Devilled 126 ,, Cotelettes de Veau 123 j> ,, ,, k la Talleyrand Ill ,, Duck, Devilled 114 ,, Galantine of Fowl 115 ,, Grenadines de Veau a la Macedoine 110 ,, Hare, Jugged 125 ,, Lambs Sweetbreads 113 ,, Larks, k la Comtesse 128 ,, Lobster Creams 119 ,, Mutton Cutlets 120 ,, ,, ,, (a la Russe) 121 ,, Oyster Patties 118 ,, Petits Poulets a l’Espahol 117 ,, Veal Rissoles 124 ,. Quenelle Mixture 112 ,, Quenelles de Volaille Sauce Supreme 109IX Goddards Plate Powder NON-MERCURIAL. Universally admitted to be the Best and Safest article for * Cleaning Silver and Electroplate. Sold everywhere in Boxes, 1/-, 2/6, and 4/6. SIX GOLD MEDALS. INDISPENSABLE IN EVERY HOUSEHOLD! It Supersedes Raw Suet, Lard, and Cooking Butter, for Puddings, Cakes, Pie-Crust, Frying’ and Cooking It is made from best English Beef Suet only! Saves trouble of Chopping 1 Always ready for use I One pound goes as far as two pounds of Raw Suet! It is always sweet! IT IS A BSOL UTELY It is particularly DIGESTIBLE AND WHOLESOME. Dr. G. Bowman. PURE. P. A. ESTCOURT. A nalyst. °F ALL GROCERS AND PROVISION DEALERS. C\ _ _ 1 1 v H Kb it Oa n leceipt o . (stamps) a sample i-lb box will be forwarded, or address of nearest retailer Ull„^ Wl11 be sent 011 application to the Sole Manufacturers- C UGON & CO., Ltd., PENDLETON, MANCHESTER.X. F . NO. OK . RECIPE. Fat, for Frying 604 5) To Render 602 Fish- 9 9 Baked Stuffed Haddock 106 Batter for Frvino- 71 5 9 J o Boiled Salmon 78 9 9 Cakes 104 * „ Croustades of 83 9 9 Croutes of Dried Haddock 89 9 9 Filleted Sole (k la Rouen) 77 9 9 Fillets of Plaice 97 9 5 ,, Sole (;\ la Rouennaise) 81 9 9 ,, ,, (a la Supreme) 76 9 9 Fried 70 5 9 ,, Fillets of Mackerel 91 ) 9 ,, in Batter .. 87 9 5 ,, Plaice 98 9 9 „ Sole 74 9 9 ,, Whiting 86 t 9 9 Frying Batter 88 9 9 Grilled Salmon 82 9 9 in Milk 99 9 9 Kedgeree 103 9 9 Kromeskies of 88 ’* Oyster Cutlets 101 9 9 Plaice 96 9 9 Pudding 107 99 Rolled Herrings 105 9 9 Salmon Cutlets 92 9 9 ,, Mayonnaise 90 9 9 Sandwiches 102 9 9 Scalloped 100 9 9 Shrimp Cutlets 79 9 9 Sole (k la Colbert) 80 >9 ,, (Au Gratin) 75BAD COOKS NEVER USE IT! Good Cooks cannot do without it! fnrm‘- ■ ■* "GOTJTATIAST!m If your Grocer does not keep it, send a Post Card to CHAMPION & CO. Ltd., 115, City Road, LONDON, E.C.Xll. F (Continued). NO. OK Fish— RECIPE. ,, Souffle of Dried Haddock ,, Steamed, with Sauce ,, to Bake ,, ,, Boil ,, ,, Cook Smelts ,, ,, ,, Trout ,, ,, ,, Whitebait 93 ,, ,, Egg and Crumb 72 ,, ,, Steam ,, Timbales of Whiting 85 Foies de Volaille k la Diable 6 Fritters, Italian 470 Fowl, Boiled 205 ,, Roast 204 ,, to Bone a 203 ,, for Boiling, to Truss a 202 ,, ,, Roasting, „ 201 G Garnishes— ., Brunoise 45 ,, Cocks’ Combs 46 ,, Croutons of Bread 41 „ ,, ,, for Soup 42 ,, Fried Parsley 43 ,, Julienne 44 ,, Savoury Custard 40 ,, Quenelles 47 Geese, Green 209 Genoese Flower Baskets 321 Ginger Beer 619 Gingerbread 491Xlll. CHAMPIONS VINEGAR Is made in the old-fashioned way, and thus contains all the delicate aromas and pleasant flavours inherent to well=made vinegar. It is brewed in an open mash tun, entirely and exclusively from Malted Barley, at their Vinegar Ground, City Road, London, E.C., and COMMANDS A PREFERENCE OVER ALL OTHER. For Culinary purposes care should be taken that the Vinegar used is bright and brilliant and in perfect condition. CHAMPION’S BOTTLED VINEGAR IS ALWAYS SO.XIV. G (Continued). Goose, Roast NO. OF RECIPE. 208 Ground Rice Cream 373 Grouse 221 Guinea Fowls 224 H Haddock on Toast 7 Hare, Roast 212 Hams, to Cure 606 Herb Beer 621 Hot Pot 559 Hovis Recipes— ,, Baking Instructions 499 ,, Biscuits, Nursery 517 ,, „ Rout 515 ,, ,, Tea 513 ,, „ Wine 512 ,, Cakes, Cream 514 ,, ,, Dietetic 510 „ ,, Digestive 511 ,, ,, Empress 509 ,, ,, Lunch 507 ,, ,, Madeira 508 ,, ,, Rice 501 ,, ,, Rock 505 ,, Dietetic Gingerbread 516 ,, Newmarket Sandwich 502 ,, Parkin 518 ,, Scones 500 ,, Shortbread ,, Sponge Cake 504 ,, Welsh Buns * 503XVXVI. 1 NO. OF RECIPE. Ice, Apricot Cream 427 ,, Chocolate 429 ,, Coffee 423 ,, Cream 430 ,, Lemon Water .... 424 ,, Pudding 426 ,, Raspberry Cream 425 ,, Strawberry Cream 428 Ices, Rules for •page 175 Icing for Cakes 212 ,, Almond 521 ,, Chocolate 523 » » (good) 526 Coffee 525 ,, Glace 529 ,, Lemon Water 522 ,, Mocha 52S ,, Orange 524 ,, Pastry 530 ,, Royal 519 ,, ,, to coat a Cake with 520 ,, Vienna 527 Invalid Cookery (Simple) •page 217 Invalids, Twelve Golden Rules in preparing food for 5 > 216 Invalid Mock Turtle Soup ,, Gravy Soup 538 J Jam, Apricot 580 ,, Carrot 574 ,, Damson 581 ,, Gooseberry 578 ,, Greengage 583xvu. Huddersfield Daily Examiner, Friday, July 2nd, 1897. THE GAS EXHIBITION AT THE ARMOURY, HUDDERSFIELD. Presentation of Medals.—On Thursday evening a presenta- tion of medals was made in connection with the gas exhibition which is being held in the Armoury, to which reference has twice been made in our columns. The medals were presented to Miss L. Richmond and Mrs. J. J. Middleton, in appre- ciation of cookery lectures which have been given by them at previous exhibitions.—Mr. Richmond presided, and briefly introduced Alderman Glendinning, the Deputy Mayor, in the absence of the Mayor (Alderman J. Lee Walker).—Alderman Glendinning, after remarking on the importance of cooking in the household, said that if the lectures there had improved the cooking in the various homes of Huddersfield, they had done a tremendous amount of good. Their work was like bread cast upon the waters, and would be seen after many days. It would go on improving, and as those present derived benefits from those lectures and demonstrations those benefits would be transmitted to others. He then made the presentation of the first medal to Miss Richmond, and the other to Mrs. Middleton.-The latter, replying for herself and Miss Richmond, said that their lectures in Huddersfield had been rendered very pleasant by the kind attention and regular- attendance of their friends. It was nice to think that during the distribution of medals for the Jubilee they had not been forgotten, and nobody would prize the medals given in honour of the Queen more than they should the Huddersfield medals. (Applause.)—On the proposal of Mr. Richmond, seconded by Mr. J. Pogson, a vote of thanks was accorded to Alderman Glendinning for having made the presentation, and the proceedings concluded.XV11I. J (Continued). NO. OF RKCIPK. Jam, Plum and Currant 579 ,, Raspberry 577 ,, Rhubarb 582 Jelly, Apple 588 ,, ,, Crab 587 ,, Aspic (Good) 418 ,, ,, (Plain) 417 ,, Black Currant 58b ,, Calves’ Foot 415 ,, „ „ (Savoury) 539 ,, Claret 421 ,, Fruit set in 409 ,, Ginger 416 ,, Gooseberry 585 ,, Invalid 422 ,, Lemon 420 ,, Milk 541 ,, Orange 412 ,, Pine Apple 414 ,, Prune 411 ,, Red Currant 584 ,, Strengthening 546 „ Wine 413 K Kidneys a la Brochette 19 L Lamb, Breast Neck of .. 147 ,, Fore Quarter and Hind Quarter of 149 ,, Joints of a 64 ,, Leg of 148 ,, Saddle and Loin of 150 ,, Shoulder of 146XIX. | i I I % Queens will have only the best of everything. Her Majesty the Queen has graciously conferred upon the manufacturers of Sunlight Soap by Special Royal Warrant, the ap- pointment of SOAP MAKERS TO HER MAJESTY. * + * t * t % SUNLIGHT SOAP is so cheap, everybody can afford to use it, in fact, as the “best is the cheapest,” nobody can afford not to use it. Washes clothes, washes everything, with less labour, greater comfort. Used all over the Civilized World.XX. L (Continued). NO. OF RECIPE. Larks, Roast 231 Lentils 197 Lemonade 622 Lemon Cream Pie 337 ,, Custard 550 ,, Water Drink 555 Lettuces 178 Leverets 213 Little Nougat Pails 325 M Marmalade, etc.— Marmalade, Apple 575 ,, Lemon 572 ,, Orange 571 ,, ,, (another) 573 Marrows, Vegetable 183 Meat, A mould of cold 568 ,, Fritters of cold... 569 ,, Hashed 564 ,, Mince 563 ,, Patties 567 ,, Braising 134 ,, Boiling 129 ,, Good Glaze for 607 „ Grilling 132 ,, Roasting and Baking .. 130 ,, Steaming : 131 ,, Stewing 133 ,, To Choose page 58 Meringues 326 ,, Italian 327 Mushroom, Savoury 26xxi. JBE TRogal ^Letters patent. FOR 1st Class JELLIES ALWAYS USE NELSON’S OPAQUE GELATINE. “ Well known and appreciated in almost every household throughout the kingdom.—Lady’s Pictorial.” “NELSON’S HOME COMFORTS “ May be heartily recommended. A Useful Book of Recipes by Mary i Hooper, Author of “Little Dinners, &c.” ■Queen. To be obtained gratis from CEO. NELSON, DALE & CO. Ltd., 14, Dowgate Hill, LONDON, E.C. Hovis Bread fortifies the digestion and enhances the general health. Hovis Flour makes delicious Pastry. Try m Obtainable from all leading Bakers and Grocers in British Isles. Hovis Flour is packed in 3$ & 7 lb. bags. Recipes in each bag. 6d. & 7s. samples of Bread, Biscuits, and Flour sent on receipt of stamps by S. FITTON & SON, Hovis Mills, MACCLESFIELD. RXXII. M (Continued). Mutton, Breast of NO. OP RECIPE. ,, Broth (Strong) ,, Tea .. ,, Chine and Best End of Neck of .... 144 ,, Haunch, Loin and Saddle of ... 141 ,, Joints of a Sheep ,, Leg of ,, Scrag End of Neck ,, Shoulder of Mince-meat .... 317 ,, another Recipe for ,, Pies .... 318 Muffins, London .... 437 0 Oatmeal Gruel .... 551 Olives, Farcies aux Anchois . 5 Omelets, Cheese ,, Fish 393 ,, Ham or Tongue .... 398 Kidney .... 397 ,, Mushroom 395 ,, Rules for page 157 ,, Savoury 392 ,, Sweet .... 387 ,, Vegetable 394 Onions, Stewed 196 Ortolans 227 P Parsnips .... 188 Pastry— ,, Artisan Short : 294 ,, ,, ,, (Another) .... 295XXI11. RICHMOND Sc CO.’S Patent Indestructible Cast Iron and Enamel “MODEL” GAS RANGE. GAS COOKING AND HEATING SPECIALISTS, WARRINGTON, STRATFORD, AND LONDON. RICHMOND & CO. Ltd., A Perfect Stove for ROASTING, GRILLING, BAKING, BOILING, &c. CLEAN, ECONOMICAL AND LABOUR-SAVING. TEN SIZES £3 7s. Od. TO . £13 5s. Od. Over 200,000 in use. R 2XXIV. P (Continued). NO. OK RECIPE. Pastry— Beaten >■ Flaky ,, French Genoese Hugon’s 297 Fuff 289 Raised Pie Crust (Cold) 299 >> 5) (Hot) 298 Rich Short 293 ,, Rough Puff 292 Peas, Green 180 Petit Choux 482 Petites Croutes (a la Richmond) 1 Pickles, a few Recipes for— Chutney 596 Cold Pickle, for Beef or Tongue 598 ,, for Tongues 591 French 592 ,. Indian 601 Pickled Beetroot 590 » Eggs v 599 ,, Fish 600 ,, Mushrooms 589 ,, Walnuts 593 To Pickle Barberries 595 ,, ,, Cauliflowers 594 Pies (Various)— Pasties, Cornish 314 Patties, Lobster 310 ,, Mackerel 312 ,, Salmon 311 Pie, Beef Steak and Kidney 306 ffottacre 565 , , — 0 ,, Game 302XXV. TEN GOLD MEDALS Awarded in Competition with other F oods. V M'M M A J JMJM ^ !#S' aVw«S&SS AT GROCERS & STORES in -ilb. and lib. Packets, and Chemists in Is. Tins. Flora no it is made in Three Sizes of Grain : Large Grained for Porridge, Omelettes, Soups, &c. Medium Grained for Baked or “Boiled Puddings, &c. Fine Grained for Blanc Mange, Cakes, Creams, Infants’ Food, &v. Recipes on Pa.cke'fcs. Miss Ida Cameron, Principal Earl’s Court School of Cookery, writes:— “‘Florador’ cannot be too highly recommended for Puddings, Cakes, Souffles. Biscuits, and many other dainties.” THE FLORADOR FOOD CO., 90, Washington St., Glasgow. London Depot: COWAN & CO., 28 & 29, London Wall, E.C. Enjoyed by Young and Old. BIRD’S CUSTARD POWDER Provides not only delicious Custard, but an endless variety of delightful dainty dishes. NO EGGS! NO TROUBLE!XXVI. P (Continued). NO. OK RECIPE. Pie, Pigeon 303 ., Rabbit 308 ., Raised Pheasant 309 ,, ,, Pork 301 ,, ,, Veal and Ham 304 ,, Rook 307 .. Thatch 562 Pies, Mince 317 Potato Balls 174 ,, Chips 175 ,, Croquettes : 177 ,, Ribbons 176 Potatoes, Casolettes of 570 ,, To Bake 171 ,, ,, Boil Old 170 ,, ,, Mash 173 ,, ,, Roast 172 Poultry and Game— Partridges 220 Pheasant, Boiled 219 ,, Roast 218 Pigeons 223 Pintail 231 Plovers 228 Ptarmigan and Black Game 222 Pork, Bacon 165 ,, Chine of 158 ,, G risk in of 164 ,, Hand of 160 ,, Ham 167 ,, Joints of a Pig ,, Leg of 159 ,, Loin of 162 „ Pickled Pork 163XXV11. 41 £8 /C® >r®) ajS) V®> ■• - i • /* Wi V®> «£9g V> V >S; I u 7&S a® V® V® /* d> v°®' *S: s0® *>'X‘ *3i\ y® •4* A (SI ^S) A® „y® 43*5> a® y® a® V0® 4e*? 'V® v® ■4* I I 1 I THE Vinegar. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR obtained the Gold Medal, Universal Cookery and Food Exhibition, 1896, for Purity (vide analysis) and excellence, and is pronounced by culinary experts to be far superior to Malt and Wine Vinegars for the TABLE, the HOUSEHOLD, and PICKLING. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR is made from DATES, and contains absolutely NO mineral acids whatever. It is NOT A CORDIAL, but a Table Vinegar, PURE as it is strong, FRAGRANT as it is DELICATE, and of a rich, fruity flavour. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR is used exclusively in the largest hotel in London, the “ HOTEL CECIL a number of the well-known Gordon Hotels ; and many other principal Hotels and Restaurants in the Kingdom. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR is also used exclusively in the preparation of PICKLES by several of the most celebrated Manufacturers. VICTORIA DATE VINEGAR is sold by upwards of 5,000 retailers throughout the Kingdom. If your Grocer does not stock it, and will not obtain it for you, orders will have prompt attention if addressed direct to VICTORIA WORKS, 112, BELVEDERE ROAD, LAMBETH, LONDON, S.E. A Free Tasting Sample will be sent post paid on application to the same address.xxvm. P (Continued). NO. OP RECIPE. Pork, Roast Sucking Pig 106 ,, Spare Rib of 101 Puddings, &c.— • Pancakes - 382 ,, French 388 Pudding, Albany 353 ,, Apple Amber 333 ,, Apricot 339 ,, Bakewell 381 ,, Cabinet (Plain) 379 ,, Canary 347 ,, Caramel 352 ,, Custard 380 ,, Children’s Plum 344 ,, Chocolate 335 ,, Christmas (Economical) 350 ,, Coventry 348 ,, Crocus 328 Cup 360 Fig 371 ,, ,, (Another) 372 ,, Five Minutes 304 ,, Florador 3/6 ,, Gooseberry 3/0 .,, Gravesend 346 ,, Hugon’s Suet 375 ,, Hunt 362 ,, Impei'ial 330 ,, Jam (Boiled) 343 ,, Leicester 336 ,, Lemon (Baked) 368 )t ,, (Boiled) 338 ,, ,, (Steamed) 363 Lutterworth 374XXIX. Colman’s Corn-Flour. ft MANUFACTURED ONLY FROM RICE. Colman’s Self-Rising Flour. The Flour used in this Preparation is the product of English and Foreign Wheats, scientifically cleaned and carefully blended in judicious proportions.XXX. P (Continued). NO. OK RECIPE. Pudding, Manchester 334 ,, Marmalade 342 ,, Milk 377 ,, Plum 357 ,, Simple 351 ,, Princess (a la Camps) 331 Punctual 349 ,, Queen 329 ,. Ross 341 Sago 543 ,, Sherlock or Mysterious 320 „ Sir Watkin’s 354 ,, Slice 332 ,, Thornton 319 ,, Viennoise 350 Q Quails 229 R Rabbit, Boiled 215 „ Jugged 217 ,, Roast 214 ,, Stewed 216 Rice Water 552 Richmond Gems 324 Rissoles 560 Rolls, Milk 434 Rolls, Sausage 313 Roly Poly 369 Rooks 225 Roux, Brown 609 ,, White 608 Rusks 439XXXI. “Gas as a Domestic Seruant.” By E. W. T. RICHMOND, Warrington. We are often told that if servants were more careful Gras Stoves would be in greater demand, and it is with a view of dealing with this aspect of Gas Consumption that we are venturing to point out the fallacy of this contention. GOOD SERVANTS are becoming each year more difficult to find and keep, and ladies who are wise will seek for, and adopt, every contrivance which can be shown to be both economical and labour saving. EXTRAVAGANCE AND IGNORANCE are the two standard complaints with which we have to deal, and it is only fair to point out that these faults are at least equally felt in the use of Coal, Wood, Oil, and Provisions, as well as in the use of Gas. THERE IS NO MORE NEED TO KEEP A BOILING OR OVEN BURNER LIGHTED, WHEN NOT IN USE, THAN THERE IS TO KEEP THE GAS BRACKET BURNING IN THE DAYLIGHT. LADIES who, when a Stove is first fixed, will take the trouble to explain to their servants the uses of the various burners, and insist upon the “ Card of Directions ” (which should accompany every Cooker) being hung in a convenient position over the Stove, should have after a week’s superintendence, no cause to complain. Extravagance can also be readily checked by the use of a special meter for the Stove, and, like the Dublin Gas Company, by the use of a special Tap, which can be locked so as to supply only a given quantity of Gas, sufficient, say, for the oven and one boiling burner. This Tap might be used to shut Gas olf altogether, and not delivered to servants until the timexxxu. s NO. OK RECIPE. Salsify 19S Sardines on Toast 9 Sandwich, Morton 449 ,, Victoria 458 Sauces (High-Class)— Sauce, Bearnaise 249 ,, Bechamel 237 Egg 236 ,, Espanol, or Brown 233 ,, Hollandaise 240 ,, Horse Radish 247 ,, Lobster 245 ., Maitre d’Hotel 241 ,, Mayonnaise 234 ,, Mint ' 244 ,, Piquant 239 ,, Port Wine 242 ,, Oyster 246 ,, Robert 238 ,, Supreme 248 ,, Tartare 235 ,, Tomato 243 ,, Veloute 232 Sauces (Plain)— Sauce, Anchovy 267 ,, Apple 265 ,, Bread 261 ,, Brown 253 ,, ,, Gravy for Poultry or Game 262 ,, Caper 264 ,, Chutney 272 ,, Crab 269 ,, Cucumber 258 ,, Curry 257 ,, Family 252XXX111. when breakfast should be prepared, and thus prevent the waste so often caused by the boiling up and away of the kettle, two and sometimes three, times before wanted. ANOTHER distinct advantage gained by the Loose Boiling Burners, is the opportunity afforded for taking away, and locking up, any number of the Boiling Burners which may not be needed, but which the Mistress finds, are being used unnecessarily. This is a simple and certain method of curing extravagance. We do not hear so much of the waste of Coal, Provisions, etc., by servants, because the waste is difficult to trace—these articles being used in other parts of the house and by other inmates ; but let anyone compare the absolute cost of cooking by Gas against Coal, and it will be found that with Gas at, say 3s. 6d. per thousand, and coal at 17s. 6d. per ton, to be 50 per cent, cheaper. This is attained by a Stove being turned out when finished with, whereas a coal range has to be kept burning ready for use. Price for price, Gas at 7s. per thousand and coal at 17s. 6d. per ton are equal. COLLIERS’ STRIKES have also to be reckoned with. The difficulty in obtaining supplies of coal fuel, and the exorbitant advances frequently made during these regrettable strikes, render the use of Gas as a fuel the more reliable and economical. Large stocks of coal are kept at all Gas Works, which prevent any failure of Gas supply. This is but one side of the question : we have not yet touched upon the SAVING OF MEAT, CLEANLINESS, WEAR AND TEAR OF FURNITURE, &c. It was stated by Mr. R. E. Crompton in a paper, read before the Society of Arts, that by using Gas for all purposes in a house, cooking and heating, the total saving under all heads in a house with a rent of L‘40 a year, would be nearly or quite MO a year—an equivalent to "the rent.—(See Gas Journal May 29th, 1888, p. 959.)XXXIV. S (Continued). Sauce, Fennel no. or RECIPE. 266 5 5 Gooseberry 268 5 5 Liver (for Hares or Rabbits) 263 3 3 Melted Butter 251 3 3 Melted Butter, English 250 33 Onion 260 3 3 Parsley 255 3 3 Plain Egg 256 3 3 Salad Dressing 271 3 3 Shrimp 259 33 Tomato 270 3 3 White 254 Sauces (Sweet). Sauce. Apple (No. 2) 285 3 3 Arrowroot 283 3 3 Brandy 282 3 3 Chocolate 286 3 3 Egg and Wine 279 ’3 Flake (& la Camps) 288 3 3 German 276 3 3 Jam 280 3 3 Lemon 277 33 Marmalade 274 3 3 •• (No. 2) 275 3 3 Plum Pudding 284 33 Sabayon 273 3 3 Vanilla 287 3 3 White 281 3 3 Wine 278 Savoys .... 178 Sea-Kale . 1S9 Sea Shells 322 Sausage Rolls 313 Scones, Auchencairn 441 Scotch Short Bread 444XXXV. CONVENIENCE AND SUPERIORITY OF COOKING. The difficulty of the ignorance of servants will also be readily removed by the week’s supervision suggested, for any servant who cannot manage the dampers of an ordinary coal range, can be made to understand and regulate the burners of a Gas Range. GAS COMPANIES AND CORPORATIONS are now so alive to the advance of the Electric Light that they are everywhere seeking to obtain an increased consumption from the use of Gas Stoves. This has been of immense advantage to the general public, having led to the adoption of the system of letting Gas Ranges, etc., on hire in the same manner as Gas Meters. Nearly all Gas Companies and Corporations owning Gas Works now let Cookers on hire, and a large and increasing number let out Gas Fires. By this means Stoves which, to purchase, would cost, say £5 to £7, can be rented at 2s. 6d. per quarter, and are superintended and kept in repair for that charge. Larger and smaller sizes in proportion. LECTURES ON COOKERY AND GAS EXHIBITIONS are becoming so frequent—indeed in some districts of London and the larger provincial towns they are held annually—that any difficulties in the working of a Stove can be at once explained at these Educational Exhibitions. It is not our intention here to deal exhaustively with the whole range of the advantages of Cooking by Gas. This lias already been so well done by Alfred Colson, Esq., C.E. (Engineer to the Leicester Gas Department) in his little standard work, “ Economy and other Advantages of Cooking: by Gas.” We would, however, briefly state that— 1st. Servants will stay longer where Gas Stoves are used. 2nd. Where no Servants are kept the work is much lighter for the ladies of the house. 3rd. Cost of Gas is less than half that of Coal. A family of eight can do all their cooking for 2£d. to 3d. per day.XXXVI. S (Continued). Spinach Souffles, Apple ,, Apricot ,, Chicken ,, Coffee ,, Lobster ,, Rules for ... ,, Strawberry ,, Vanilla Soup, Brown ,, Consomm4, a la Brunoise .. ,, ,, a la Jardiniere ,, ,, a la Julienne .. ,, ,, a la Princesse.. ,, ,, or Clear ,, Gravy ,, Green Pea ,, Hare ,, Haricot Bean . ,, Kidney ,, Lentil (Brown) ,, ,, (White). ,, Mulligatawny . ,, Ox Tail ,, Oyster ,, Pea ,, Potato ,, Royal ,, Tomato ,, V egetable ,, Velvet Stewed Kidneys Suet, with Milk NO. OF KECIPE. 179 391 389 388 385 386 page 157 390 384 50 38 39 35 37 34 59 57 62 66 54 49 48 63 53 52 51 56 36 65 64 58 25 556XXXV11. The following may be taken as the average daily consumption of Gas in a “ Model ” Range for a family of six persons :— Breakfast—consisting of coffee, ham and eggs, or fish, toast, and also including water for washing UP 14J feet. Dinner—consisting of five pounds of joint, pie, and milk pudding, fish and vegetables 24 ,, Hot water for washing up 11£ ,, Tea—consisting of hot water and toast (both done with the same burner 9 Total 59 ,, Reckoning Gas at the rate of 3/6 per 1,000 feet, this would COST UNDER 2d. PER DAY. If our Card of Instructions is properly followed, a family of ten persons can do all their daily cooking at a daily cost of LESS THEN 3d. 4th. Economy in Meat is very considerable. 10 lbs. of meat cooked by Coal weighs 6 lbs. when done. 10 lbs. of meat cooked by Gas weighs 7^-lbs. when done. Taking this l^lbs. of meat at lOd. per lb., a saving of Is. 3d. is effected, and the saving in meat will more than pay for all the Gas consumed and the rental of the Stove. 5th. Cleanliness. A taper or match instead of paper, coal, and wood. No smoke, soot, cinders, ashes or dust. No soiled hands or spoiled dresses. 6th. Wear and Tear of Furniture is reduced to a remarkable degree. 7 th. 8th. ( onvenience. Hie handiness of a Gas Stove is not to be over-estimated. No waiting for fire to burn up. No f <^nP without tasty dishes for any meal. No iiregular heat in the oven “ too fast” or “ too slow.” ' i r o'1 i i (' vT* t ° V( u° K1N (i' “Cookery and Cleanliness nerfeXn tlle Africans say, and the Gas Cooked ^ * are attamed b.v Richmond’s “ Model” SXXXV111. S (Continued). NO. OK RECIPE. Swiss Rolls 359 Stewed Tomatoes ' v. 23 Stock (First for Clear Soup) 30 „ Fish 33 ,, Second : 32 ,, White 31 T Tart, Apple Meringue 340 Tarts, Fruit v 315 ,, Open 316 Turkey, Boiled 207 Turkey, Roast 206 Turnips 187 Treacle Posset 557 Trifle 408 Toffee, Almond 611 ,, ,, . (White) j 615 ,, another way 614 ,, Everton 616 ,, Vanilla : 613 ,, Walnut 610 Tongues, to Cure 605 V Veal, Breast of. 153 „ Calf’s Feet 155 ,, Calf’s Head 156 ,, Fillets of 151 ,, Joints of a Calf Page 05 ,, Knuckle of 157 ,, Loin of 152 ,, Minced 561XXXIX. GAS WASHING AND IRONING are also much easier and more effectually performed bv means of Gas than by Coal. The whole of the weekly family wash of say eight persons can be readily done in two or three hours, at a consumption of from 30 to 50 feet of Gas, which at 3/6 per 1,000 feet; cost from l^d. to 2d. By means of the “ Rapid Washer,” which we have just brought out, a day’s washing is reduced at least one-third. The clothes are more thoroughly cleansed, and are not worn out by constant rubbing. The contents of a medium sized clothes basket can be washed at one time, and merely require well soaking for about an hour and a half in warm water, the gas being lit when the clothes are put in ; then take out and soap all over, put into the drum and turn round slowly for about 15 minutes. The result will be really surprising. The clothes, after being well rinsed, will be found, no matter how dirty when first soaped, to be beautifully clean. They can be dried, if fine, out of doors ; or, if wet, in a special Gas Stove Dryer which we are now making, and put ready for gas ironing. Gas Ironing possesses many distinct advantages over the old process. Our Gas Irons are heated by an atmospheric flame, which plays right inside the iron, and keeps it always ready for use at a uniform temperature, and without the possibility of any dirt collecting on the face of the iron, and thus defacing the linen. They are easily fixed, a special double tap being fixed to the kitchen bracket or pendant, which provides a special tap for the iron, without interfering with the lighting burner. From this tap a length of India-rubber tubing should be run up to the ceiling, and suspended from there direct to the Gas Iron. This arrangement prevents the tubing from kinking, and keeps it out of the way. (We are now supplying a wire coil to prevent kinking with each iron—6d. extra). Gas Heating.—We have now shown how gas can be a most effective domestic servant as a Cooker, Washer, and Ironer • but there still remains one most important field—that of Gas Heating, in which gas fires and stoves save quite as much labour as in these other directions. It is only right, however, to preface our remarks by stating that Gas is not so cheap as coal cost for cost, in living or sitting rooms; in these cases it depends upon its adoption solely on its convenience and cleanliness. S 2xl. V (Continued). NO. OK RECIPE. Veal, Neck of 154 ,, Potted 566 Venison, Haunch of 168 ,, Neck, Breast, and Shoulder of 169 w Woodcocks and Snipes 226xli. Bedrooms are now so generally heated by gas, it does not seem necessary to advocate the advantages of a fire here; but IT IS AS WELL TO REMIND OUR FRIENDS THAT THE LATE SlR W. B. Richardson tells us that more colds are caught by leaving WARM SITTING-ROOMS—FREQUENTLY 70 OR 80 DEGREES, FaHT., FOR COLD BEDROOMS WITH THE THERMOMETER AT 35 TO 48 DEGREES—THAN FROM ANY OTHER CAUSE. A gas fire at the cost of fd. per hour, will prevent all this. Again, it should not be forgotten that the incovenience AND DISCOMFORT OF DRESSING IN A COLD BEDROOM ARE AT ONCE OVERCOME, AS A GAS FIRE LIGHTED 15 MINUTES BEFORE GETTING UP WILL MAKE THE ROOM COMFORTABLE. THIS IS NOT POSSIBLE WITH A COAL FIRE IN A BEDROOM, WHICH HAS TO BF. EITHER KEPT IN ALL NIGHT OR RE-LIT IN THE MORNING. It is frequently urged by doctors and scientists that gas tires give off a dry heat. We have successfully dealt with this complaint, having introduced a water-pan underneath our hot air series of fires, which now deliver a quantity of pure, moist, warmed air into the apartment, and are most agreeable. The makers and varieties of stoves are increasing daily, but we are prouci to say that, in dace of the keenest competition, the merits of our goods are still running up our sales to quiet an unprecedented extent. Our experience, gained with leading manufacturers of the day, has enabled us to offer advantages in design, construction, and duty obtained for gas consumed, which will repay a trial of our manufactures. Sufficient has now been shown to at least prove that this age of invention and development in labour-saving appliances has not overlooked our homes. E. W. T. RICHMOND.xlii. INDEX OF ADVERTISEMENTS. O Anglo Swiss Milk Co iii. Bird’s Custard Powder .. xxv. Brown & Poison r. Champion’s Vinegar and Browning xi. & xiii. Colman’s Corn Flour xxix. Colman’s Starch, Mustard, &c xlvi. Coombe’8 Flour xv. Florador Food Co xxv. Fry’s Cocoa 3rd page of Cover. Goddard’s Plate Powder ix. Horis Bread xxi. Hugon’s Suet ix. Lever Bros xix. Liebig’s Extract of Meat Outside Cover. Maypole Soap vii. Nelson, Dale & Co xxi. Richmond’s Cookers, &c xxiii. Robinson’s Groats, Sec iii. Sunlight Soap xix. Van Houten’s Cocoa vii. Victoria Date Vinegar xxvii. MISCELLANEOUS. Presentations to the Authoress (Miss L. Richmond) and to Mrs. Middleton xvii. Index of Recipes i. to xl. “Gas as a Domestic Servant,” by E. W. T. Richmond ... xxx. to xli.xliii. The “DRAGON,” (REGISTERED NAME AND DESIGN), IN ORNAMENTAL FINISHES.xliv. ALPHABETICAL LIST OF ADVERTISERS. Anglo-Swiss Condensed Milk Co., London. Bird & Son, Alfred, Birmingham. Brown A Polson, London. Champion A Co., London. Colman, J. & J., Norwich and London. Coombf/s Flour Co., Nottingham. Florador Food Co., Glasgow. Fry & Sons Ltd., J. S., Bristol and London. Goddard’s Plate Powder, Leicester. “ Hoyis ” Bread, Macclesfield. Hugon A Co. Ltd., Pendleton. Keen, Robinson, A Co., London. Lever Brothers Ltd., Port Sunlight. Liebig Extract of Meat Co. Ltd., London. Maypole Soap Ltd., London. Nelson, Dale, A Co., London. Richmond A Co. Ltd., Warrington, Stratford, and London Van Houten’s Cocoa, London. Victoria Date Vinegar, London.xlv. Mrs. A. B. MARSHALL, of MORTIMER STREET SCHOOL OF COOKERY, LONDON, V/., has just completed a tour through the Northern Provinces, visiting1 Liverpool, Manchester, Leeds, York, Neweastle-on-Tyne, Edinburgh, Dundee, and Aber- deen, using Richmond’s “ Model ” Range, and has publicly expressed her entire satisfaction with the perfect way in which it has done its work ; and has drawn particular attention to the great improvement the movable burners and enamelled top are. Mrs. A. B. Marshall has recommended this stove, and expressed her wish that she may have the pleasure of using Richmond’s Stove again. Mrs. Marshall would, if it were not against her rule, give a testimonial in favour of this cooker.' (This notice is issued with Mrs. Marshall’s entire approval.) October 1st, 1S92.uDr ANDREW WILSON, F.R.S.E., lecturing on Foods stys " The chief text in the Gospel of Nutritron is that Tea and Coffee are not Foods at all Coc^oa is an admirable and sustaining diet. “ CONCENTRATED COCOA, no better Food product of this nature can be obtained or used. Try also FRY'S MALTED COCOA, a delicious combination of FRY’S PURE COCOA AND MALT EXTRACT. (Allen & Hanbury’s.) OVER 200 GOLD MEDALS AND DIPLOMAS. The Cocoas and Chocolates of this firm are used by Mrs. A. B. Marshall in her Cookery Classes. Kt 99 I health. PURE CONCENTRATED