The University Library Leeds LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Classmark: C00&.1 /\ 3 0106 01 05 9838i f %THE DUDLEY BOOK COOKERY AND HOUSEHOLD RECIPESDry those eyes which are o erjiowing, All your storms are overblowing : While you in this isle are hiding, You shall feast without providing, Every dainty you can think of. Every wine which you would drink of Shall he yours ; all want shall shun you, Ceres blessing so is on you. DrydenKyi' : ■ # 4- .-■ • * ‘‘ ■ # # «LOUDON EDWARD ARNOLD 1909 .THE DUDLEY BOOK OF COOKERY AND HOUSEHOLD RECIPES COLLECTED AND ARRANGED BY GEORGIANA COUNTESS OF DUDLEY “ A feast Dot profuse but elegant— more of refiuemeut than of expeuse.” Montaigne THIRD IMPRESSION LONDON EDWARD ARNOLD 1909 All rights reserved■.fPREFACE rriHE Recipes contained in this Volume are simple ones, and I have much diffidence in publish- ing them—but my object has been to give direc- tions as clearly as possible, for the preparation of the dishes, so that any cook can follow them. I have also incorporated a few household recipes which may be found useful. It is hoped that the quotations with which the recipes are interspersed will be interesting. Many of them are from the best writers from a very early period of history and chiefly relate to Hospitality. G. E. D. March 1909 bf . «• %vii CONTENTS SOUPS How to Make a Good Consomme 5 Consomm^ Colbert 6 Parmesan Biscuits to Serve with Consomme 6 Quenelles Surprise for Serving with Consomm6 7 Plain Quenelles for Consomm^ 7 Profritrolles to Serve with Consomm6 7 Creme Duchesse Soup 8 Cream of Lettuce 8 Crecy Soup 9 Cock-a-Leekie 9 Potage Romaine 10 Mutton Scotch Broth 10 Potage Bonne Femme 10 Potage Brunoise 11 Potage Gratine 11 Croutes au Pot 12 Croutes 12 Cream of Macaroni 13 Cream of Chicken 13 Cream of Barley 14 Veal Broth 14 Clear Beef Tea 14 Beef Tea 15 Raw Beef Juice 15 FISH Kedgeree for Breakfast 21 Fish Pie 21 Souchet of Fish—Sole, Slip or Salmon 22CONTENTS viii Fish {continued) Fillets of Sole k la Venetienne 22 Sole Rothschild 23 Fillets of Sole Monte Carlo 23 Soles au vin Blanc ' 24 Sole de tout Paris 24 Fillets of Sole Portuguese 25 Sole k la Dauvillaise 25 Brill k la Mode de Fecamp 26 Trout or Whitings Meuniere 26 Trout k la Meuniere 27 Trout k la Montagnarde 27 Sea Trout au vin de Champagne 28 River Trout au Bleu 28 Souffle of Lobster 28 Lobster au Gratin 29 Lobster Cutlets—Victoria 29 Souffle of Crab 30 Dressed Crab 30 Matelotte of Eel 31 Fillets of Whiting k la Marsay 31 Salmon Pie 32 Kippered Salmon 32 For Kippering Salmon 32 To Dry Haddocks 33 Oysters in Forcemeat 33 Anges k Cheval 33 Oysters ^ la New Club 34 Oysters Gratin 34 Coquilles of Oysters 35 Fillets of Turbot Hollandaise 35 Bouchees of Shrimps 36 Smoked Haddocks Cooked in Milk 36 SAUCES Cumberland Sauce for Cold Beef or Ham 41 Orange Sauce or Ham Sauce k la Womb well 41 Orange Sauce 42CONTENTS ix Sauces {continued) page German Cream Sauce for Hare or Roedeer 42 Another Sauce for Roedeer or Hare 42 Sauce for Spatchcock 43 Paprica Sauce 43 Sauce Bechamel 43 Sauce Remoulade 44 Sauce Cr^me 44 Sauce Robert 44 Red Wine Sauce 44 Wild Duck Sauce 45 Grill Sauce 45 Celery Sauce for Boiled Pheasant 46 Sauce Bignon 46 Sauce Portugaise 46 Sauce Ravigotte 47 Sauce Bigarade 47 Sauce au Beurre Noir 47 Another Recipe for the Same Sauce 48 Sauce Piquante 48 Sauce Chasseur 48 Fish Sauce k la Rokeby 49 Sauce Vert 49 Italian Sauce 49 Sauce for Grilled Bones 50 Sauce Poivrade 50 Sauce for Perch 51 Sauce Hollandaise 51 Sauce Tartare 51 Sauce Tartare—Another Recipe 52 Maitre D*Hotel Butter 52 How to Make Good Bread Sauce 52 Tomato Sauce for Chaudfroid of Chicken 53 Norwegienne (Horse-radish) Sauce 53 Onion Sauce 53 Sauce Sabayon 54 Iced Sauce for Plum Pudding 54 Senior Wrangler Sauce 54CONTENTS X Sauces {continmd) page Recipe for Salad Dressing 55 Bearnaise Sauce (Cold) 55 How to Make a Good Mayonnaise Sauce 55 Sauce Bearnaise (Hot) 56 CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES Chicken Villeroi 6l Sauce for Chicken Villeroi 6l Chicken a TAllemande 62 Hot Supreme de Volaille 62 Marechale Sauce for Supreme de Volaille 63 Fricassee of Chicken vin Blanc 63 Chicken a FAmericaine 64* Chickens Sainte Menchould 64* Timballe Milanaise 64 Souffle of Chicken Strasbourg 65 Poulardes aux Gourmets 65 Chaudfroid of Chicken 66 Indian Curry 67 Dry Curry 67 Poularde a FAnglaise 68 Chickens a la Paysanne 68 Patties a la Reine 69 Fried Quenelles 69 Puree de Volaile au Riz 70 Norman Pie 70 Cold Mousse of Chicken, Ham or Tongue 70 Devilled Chicken a la Coke 71 Chicken Pie 71 Duck a la Langham 72 Cold Duck in Aspic 73 Devilled Quails 74 Quail Cutlets Bordelaise 74 Souffle of Quails 75 Grouse Pie 75 Grouse or Game Souffle 76 Snipe Pudding 76CONTENTS XI Chicken, &c.. Dishes {continued) A Cold Raised Game Pie 77 Rabbits a la Creme 78 CroAtes k rindienne 78 Bouchees k la Bismarck 78 Stuffed Pheasant 79 Partridges a la Viennoise 80 Chicken or Partridge aux Choux 80 Chicken Chasseur 80 Split Partridges 81 Woodcock a la Rising 81 Potted Meat 81 Potted Meat 82 Potted Rabbit 82 Meat Jelly for Invalids 83 Aspic Jelly 83 Sandwiches of Pounded Ham or Tongue 84 Egg Sandwiches 84 Chicken or Game Sandwiches 84 Sandwich 85 Anchovy Sandwiches 85 Shrimp Sandwiches 85 Mayonnaise Stuffing for Rolls 86 Riz a Rizot 86 Gniocchi 87 Spaghetti a la Napolitaine 87 Risotto a la Milanese 88 Another Recipe a Pltalienne 88 An Italian Dish 89 Crepinettes of Chicken and Veal 89 Cassolettes Rachel 89 Galantine 90 MEAT A Very Good Recipe for Hashed Venison 97 Marinade for Roedeer or Hare 98 Cimier of Roedeer a la Creme Aigre 98 Braised Haunch of Roebuck 99CONTENTS Meat {continued) page How to Make Good Cutlets 100 Cutlets Pompadour 100 Cold Lamb Cutlets 101 Cutlets a la Dupplin Castle 102 Rolled Loin of Lamb or Mutton 102 How to Make a Good Haricot 102 Minced Mutton, Beef, Veal or Lamb 103 Tournedos of Mutton 104 Scotch Collops 104 Leg of Mutton a TEtuve 104 Leg of Mutton of Seven Hours 105 Hot Pot 106 Mutton Pies 106 Sheep’s Trotters MMtre d’Hotel 107 Sheep’s Brains Maitre d’Hotel 107 Hot Cooked Tongue 108 Cherry Sauce for Hot Tongue 108 The Way to Cook a Small Prague Ham 108 For a Good Cold Ham 109 Ham 110 Ox Palates 110 Veal Chops 111 Fillets of Veal Milanese 111 To Make a Brawn 111 Tournedos of Beef 112 Beefsteak Russe 112 Porter-House Steak 113 Spiced Beef 113 Braised Roll of Beef Flamande 114 Long Fillet of Larded Beef 115 Deer s Pudding 115 Black Pudding 116 Scotch Haggis ll6 VEGETABLES AND SALADS Souffle Potatoes in their Skins 121 Iced Potatoes 121 XllCONTENTS xiii Vegetables and Salads {continued) page Potatoes a la Lyonnaise 122 Potatoes Cressac 122 Petits Pois a rAllemande 122 Puree of Green Peas as a Vegetable 123 Choux a rAllemande 123 Another Way of Cooking Cabbage 124 Mushrooms in Cream 124 Stewed Cucumber 125 Souffle of Spinach 125 Spinach in Branch 125 Stuffed Tomatoes 126 Artichokes (Jerusalem) Scolloped 126 Chicorie (Endive) a la Creme 126 Carottes Mode de Vichy 127 Tomato Souffle 127 Ceps k la Bordelaise 128 Souffle of Cauliflower a la Baronne 128 Vegetable Curry 129 Stewed Watercress 129 Salad 130 Tomato Salad 131 Cold Potato Salad 131 Salad Composed of Lettuce^ Endive, Celery and Beetroot 131 Fingask Salad 132 Another Dressing for Salad 132 Sauce for Salad 132 For New Potatoes During Winter 133 PUDDINGS AND SWEETS Gauffres 141 Omelette Souffle 141 Omelette Millefeuille 142 Snow Eggs 142 Creme Seville 143 Creme Souffle Wiesbaden 143 Creme Americaine 143CONTENTS XIV Puddings and Sweets {continued) page Bouilli 144 Louisa Pudding 144 French Tapioca Cream 145 Hominy Pudding 145 Tapioca a la Creme 145 Princes Pudding 146 Barley Pudding 146 Ponding Grimaldi 146 Lemon Pudding 147 Pouding k TAmericaine 147 Creme Brulee 147 Pouding aux Cerises 147 Mousseline Pudding 148 Another Recipe 148 Pudding a la Gotha 148 Almond Pudding (Sir Moses Montefiore) 149 Irlandaise Pudding 149 Frankfort Pudding 150 Wafer Puddings 150 Fruit Pudding 150 Muscovite of Oranges 151 Baba with Rum 151 Genoese Pastry 152 Eclairs 152 Almond Cheesecakes 153 Chocolate Cheesecakes 153 Chocolate Pudding 154 Coffee Cream 154 Austrian Cold Coffee Cream 154 Vanilla Souffle 155 Battlettes a la Neva 155 Pancakes 156 Beignets Souffles Vanilla or Orange Flower 156 Beignets Souffles Parmesan for a Savoury 157 Chestnuts a ITtalienne 157 Chestnuts and Cream 158 Peaches Melba 158CONTENTS XV Puddings and Sweets {continued) pagi? Praline Ice 158 Melba Sauce 159 Pears or Peaches a la Carlton 159 Cherries Alexandra l60 Peaches Parisienne l60 Compote of Black Currant l6l Compote of Prunes with Cream 1^1 Coupe Jaque l6l Macedoine l62 Pears in Syrup l62 Filbert Ice Cream l6S Biscuit Frappe l63 Ice Souffl6 l63 Mousse of Strawberries or Raspberries 164 Oatmeal Cream Ice l64 Strawberry Ice Souffle l65 Lemon Water Ice 165 Sweet Jelly l65 Devonshire Junket l66 Salted Almonds l67 SAVOURIES Gondolas de Camembert 173 Croutes a la Parmesan 173 Cheese Fritters 174 Iced Cheese 174 Iced Cheese—Another Recipe 174 Fondee of Gruyere 175 Petites Cremes au Fromage 175 Toasted Cheese in Cases 176 Boiled Cheese 176 Welsh Rabbit 176 Toasted Cheese 177 Croutes k la Morrison 177 Beignets for Caviare 177 Croutes a la Chantilly 178 Tartelettes Vendome 178CONTENTS XVI Savouries {continued) p^gb Bloater Croutes 178 Cro(ites of Ham 179 Croutes of Tongue 179 Croutes de Foie de Volaille 179 CroAtes k la Belgrave 179 Sardine Cro^ltes 180 Cold Salmon Savoury 180 Anchovy Butter 180 Anchovy Sandwiches with Custard 181 Croutes of Anchovy 181 Eggs and Anchovy k la Bravo 182 Failles d’Anchois 182 Anchovy Toasts 183 Anchovy Sandwich 183 Fried Almonds 183 Oatmeal Cakes for Savoury or for Breakfast 184 Devilled Water Biscuits 184 Devilled Biscuits 184 EGGS AND BREAKFAST DISHES Eggs k TAurore 189 Another Recipe for Eggs Aurore 189 Oeufs k la Suisse 190 Eggs Bechamel 190 Eggs k la Turque 191 Rumbled Eggs for Eight Persons 191 Eggs Gratin 192 Devilled Ham 192 An Excellent Recipe for Devilled Chicken or Game 193 Recipe for Grill 193 Sauted Chicken Livers for Breakfast 194 A Breakfast Dish 194 Scraped Beef 195 Pink Hash 195 BEVERAGES AND SYRUPS Clear Barley Water 201CONTENTS xvn Beverages and Syrups {continued) page Hock or Moselle Cup 201 Claret Cup 201 Tea Cup 202 Chocolate 202 To make Cocoa from the Nibs 203 Hot Chocolate (Austrian Recipe) 203 Iced Coffee 204 Orange Brandy 204 Raspberry Vinegar 204 Currant Syrup 205 Raspberry Syrup 205 Damson Syrup 206 Cowslip Wine 206 White Wine Whey 207 The way to make good Coffee 207 CAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC. Barm Brack 213 Plain Soda Scotch Scones 213 Cream Scones 214 Scones 214 Drop Scones 214 Potato Scones 215 Another Recipe for Potato Scones 215 Pastry Scones 215 Brown Scones 215 Tea Buns 2l6 Austrian Cake 216 Scotch Shortbread 216 Orange Cake 217 Gateau k la Portuguese 217 Gateau k TEcossaise 218 Chocolate Cake 218 Another Recipe for Chocolate Cake 218 Gateau de Nantes 219 Plum Cake for Luncheon or Tea 219 Rich Plum Cake with Almond Paste 220CONTENTS xvni Cakes^ Biscuits, Scones, Etc. (continued) page Sponge Cake 221 Sponge Fingers 221 Petits Fours 221 Tea Biscuits 222 Ginger Wafers 222 Wafer Gingerbread 222 Mountblaisy Ginger Nuts 223 Ginger Nuts 223 Wafer Biscuits 223 Water Biscuits 223 Bread Rusks for Tea 224 Gateau a la Reine 224 Fadge 225 Pulled Bread 225 Petits Choux 225 Langues de Chat 226 Small Rolls for Stuffing 227 HOUSEKEEPER'S AND TOILET RECIPES Orange Marmalade 233 Apple Marmalade 234 Blackberry Jam 235 Apple Jelly 235 Green Gooseberry Jam 235 Hip Jam 236 Crab Apple Jelly 236 Jam Made of Whole Strawberries 236 Red Currant Jelly 237 Cherry Jam 237 Recipe for Brandy Cherries 238 Brandy Peaches 238 Dry Apricots 238 Cornish Cream 239 Devonshire Cream 239 Devonshire Cream—Another Recipe 240 Dry Cream Cheese 240 Another Recipe for Cream Cheese 241CONTENTS xix Housekeeper’s, Etc. Recipes {continued) pace Another Recipe for Cream Cheese to be made of 24 Hours* Cream 241 To Remove the Taste of Turnips from Butter 242 How to Boil Plovers* Eggs 242 Green Tomato Chutney Pickle 243 Chutney 243 Essence of Celery 244 Essence of Mushroom 244 Walnut Ketchup 244 Pickled Walnuts 245 To Keep Eggs Fresh for a Month without pre- serving, and Perfectly Fit for Boiling 246 Recipe for Preserving Eggs 246 Recipe for Preserving Eggs in Water Glass 247 To Salt Small Hams 247 For Curing Bacon 247 Old Fashioned Recipe for Bottling Fruit 248 To Candy Oranges and Lemons 248 For Cleaning Marble 249 To Remove Iron Stains From White Marble Mantlepieces 249 For Sponge Glasses on Writing Tables for Wiping Pens 250 A Recipe to Keep the Hands Smooth and Pre- vent Chapping 250 For a Delicious Bath When Elder Flowers are in Blossom 250 Elder Flower Water 251 Cold Cream 251 To Soften Water for Washing the Face and Hands 251 Ointment for Rough Hands 252 Lip Salve for Chapped Lips 252 To Remove Sunburn 252 Ointment for Sunburn 253 Rosemary Hair Wash 253 Pot Pourri 253CONTENTS Housekeeper’s, Etc. Recipes {continued) Lavender for Linen 254 For Fumigating a Room 254 Lavender Toilet Vinegar 254 FOOD—EVILS OF INSUFFICIENCY 257 EATING A DUTY 260 FRUITS IN ENGLAND IN XIII & XV CENTURIES 262SOUPSNow good digestion wait on appetite and health on both. Shakespeare A hungry man is half mad. From the French A table without subtle refinements. Martial Like mice we always eat the food of other people. Plautus Feasting makes no friendship. Before dinner men meet with great inequality of understanding; and those who are conscious of iheir inferiority^ have the modesty not to talk; when they have drunk wine^ every man feels himself happy^ and loses that modesty^ and grows impudent and vociferous; but he is not improved; he is only not sensible of his defects. JohnstonHunger and cold betray a man to his enemies. From the Spanish The true essentials of a feast are only fun and feed. Holmes Just so much food and drink should be taken as will restore our powers^ not so much as will oppress them. Cicero I never fared worse than when I wished for my supper. Who Slips well^ sleeps well. Italian A simple dinner in the small dwelling of the poor^ without canopy or purple^ has smoothed the wrinkles from the anxious brow. HoracePreserving the health hy too strict a regimen a wearisome malady. La. EochefoucauldSOUPS 5 B HOW TO MAKE A GOOD CONSOMME Take fourteen pounds shin of beef cut up into pieces—four pounds knuckle of veal, one old hen. Place this in a stockpot. Cover the meat with cold water. Let this come to the boil. Skim off the sediment which rises—^then add four leeks, two carrots, four onions, a bunch of parsley and a little salt. Let this boil gently for seven or eight hours. Strain it, and when cold, take off all fat, and again place it on the fire in a large pan. When lukewarm, add to this, four pounds of topside of beef which have been passed through the mincing machine and mixed with about two quarts of water. Mix in with this one large carrot, two leeks, a little parsley, some celery cut into small pieces. Put it on the fire and let it boil, stirring it all the time. When it boils, draw it to the side of the stove and let it simmer gently. Roast an old fowl and put this into the pot. Let it all cook for four or five hours. Then strain it all through a soup cloth which has been wrung through hot water to take away allTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 6 taint of soup. Take care that the consomme is clear and bright. CONSOMME COLBERT r 11HIS is clear consomme with either hens’ eggs or -L pheasants’ eggs lightly poached and served with the soup, handed round in a separate dish; or else eggs can be boiled in their shells for seven minutes, then plunged into cold water for a time, and then the shells carefully picked off, leaving the eggs intact; these should be served with the consomme in a separate dish, with a very little of the consomme to wet them. PARMESAN BISCUITS TO SERVE WITH CONSOMME rilWO ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, two ounces Cheshire cheese, two ounces fresh butter, two ounces of flour, a pinch of cayenne pepper. Work these ingredients on the slab with your hand until all is mixed into a paste. No water. Roll and cut into rounds with a plain cutter about the size of half a crown. Bake a light brown and serve on a napkin with plain clear consomme.SOUPS 7 QUENELLES SURPRISE FOR SERVING WITH CONSOMME Take some small moulds and line them with chicken forcemeat. Make a little hollow in each. Take a fine Printanier of vegetables which is cooked and set in consomme essence. Take a little of this and place it in the hollow of each quenelle, covering the aperture with forcemeat, and poach. Serve with consomme. PLAIN QUENELLES FOR CONSOMME 1\/T AKE some light forcemeat of chicken, rabbit or veal. Mould it into quenelles and poach in ahrwst boiling water. Then drain on a clean cloth. Put them into the souffle cases, and just before serving heat some bright and clear consomme; pour over the quenelles and serve. ¥ PROFRITROLLES TO SERVE WITH CONSOMME ^ I "^HESE are made of a paste called Pate a Choux. Put into a pan one and a half gills of water, three ounces of butter, four ounces of sifted flour, twoTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 8 whole eggs, one yolk of an egg, and a pinch of salt. Let the water, butter and salt come to the boil, then stir in the flour briskly with a wooden spoon. Continue to work this until the paste leaves the sides of the pan. Take it from the stove and let it cool. Then work in one egg at a time. Take a piping bag and a buttered baking sheet. Make the paste into some very small balls. Dip a paste brush into one egg, well beaten and strained, and pass over the balls. Then bake them a light golden brown colour and serve on a napkin, or dessert paper, with clear consomme. ¥ CREME DUCHESSE SOUP rriAKE a good stock of white meat—such as chicken or veal. Make a puree of green peas. Have ready some shredded sorrel and lettuce cooked in a little butter. Make the stock hot, adding the pur^ of peas. Pass all through a tammy and return to the fire. Add one gill of cream and the shreds of sorrel and lettuce. Serve with croutons. ¥ CREAM OF LETTUCE rriAKE some cabbage lettuce, wash them well and -L cut them up. Let them cook in a little butter and a little mixed vegetable—carrot, leek and onion.SOUPS 9 When all is tender pass through a tammy and return to the fire. Add one gill of cream and a few shreds of lettuce. Serve with croutons. CRECY SOUP ^|"^AKE six or eight red carrots. Peel them and cut them into small pieces, with a vegetable mire- poix ’’—carrot, onion and leek. Let them all fry in butter in a covered stewpan. Then wet with a veal and chicken stock. Let all cook until it is tender—pass through tammy and return to the fire, adding seasoning and a gill of cream. Serve with croutons. COCK-A-LEEKIE T> OIL from four to six pounds of knuckle of veal well broken, until the liquor is very good. Strain it and add a good-sized fowl with two or three leeks cut in pieces about an inch long. Put in pepper and salt to taste, boil slowly about an hour, then put in as many more leeks and give it three quarters of an hour longer. A somewhat similar soup may be made of good beef stock and leeks cut up and put in without a fowl, though this cannot properly be called Cock-a- Leekie.”THE DUDLEY RECIPES 10 POTAGE ROMAINE /^UT up a cos lettuce with a handful of chervil and one of tarragon. Pass these over a slow fire in a stewpan with a good piece of butter. Boil some rice until it opens and then mix it with the above. Then add a quart of rich milk and a little white pepper, and make a leason with yolk of egg as you serve. ¥ MUTTON SCOTCH BROTH fl^^AKE three scrags of mutton. Boil in cold water with onion, carrot, turnip, parsley, a stick of celery and a little salt. Take care to take the scum off as it rises. Boil till all the strength is out of the meat, then strain and remove all fat. Place again on the fire with finely cut vegetables— leek, carrot and turnip—and two handfuls of pearl barley. Boil gently till cooked, add a little finely chopped parsley and some cutlets or pieces of boiled mutton. The barley must not be washed. POTAGE BONNE FEMME A HANDFUL of sorrel, two heads of cabbage lettuce, an onion, four leaves of tarragon, the same of chervil. Cut these when washed into very thinSOUPS 11 shreds and then pass them for twenty minutes over a sharp fire with two pats of butter and a little salt. Then add three pints of good stock, let it boil, and then, taking care to skim it frequently, let it simmer, stewing for an hour and a half so that the herbs may be thoroughly done. When about to serve heat it again well, and stir into it, a leason of three yolks of eggs, half a pint of cream and a dessertspoonful of sugar. ¥ POTAGE BRUNOISE rriAKE of carrots the red part only, celery, leeks, onions, cabbage, and chervil. Cut these up very small and thin. Pass them over the fire with a good piece of butter. Place all in a stewpan with a little sugar, and sufficient consomme to wet them. Let this simmer for about one hour and being quite cooked and tender put them into the consomme for serving. Use for this soup five or six times the quantity of vegetables usually put into a potage. UT vegetables in slices—carrots, onions, leeks, and turnips as for a brunoise. The carrots are to predominate, more leeks than turnips, and more turnips than onions. All these are to be fried in butter until they are a full brown. This takes half an hour to POTAGE GRATINETHE DUDLEY RECIPES 12 prevent their burning. Strain off the butter and add a small piece of sugar the size of a hazel nut; and a little stock. Then by a slow fire let this reduce to a glaze, to which add your consomme for serving. Cut rounds of bread the size of a florin. Brown them with a mite of butter in the oven. Then place them in a stewpan and pour the reduction of the fried vegetables upon them. Leave this in the oven for twenty minutes, being careful to turn the rounds of bread that they may be gratined on both sides. This done, empty all your plain con- somme on to them for serving. CROUTES AU POT CUT into pieces about one inch square, two carrots, two turnips, and the whites of four leeks. Place these in a stewpan with a little butter and fry a light brown, then wet with one quart of clear consomme, let them simmer gently until the vegetables are tender— skim off all fat which may arise from the butter. When ready to serve, add a pluck of chervil and serve with the soup (separately on a plate) croutes prepared as follows : ¥ CROUTES Take a French roll and cut it into rounds about the size of a five-shilling piece, fry these in clear butter, until they are a golden brown. Wet them with twoSOUPS c 13 tablespoonfuls of consomme and place on a quick oven until they have absorbed the liquid and are again dry. Then serve with the Croutes au Pot soup. ¥ CREAM OF MACARONI T)LACE in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of thick macaroni, cover this with water, and let it boil for a few minutes. Strain it and cover it with a light Consomm6. Let it boil until it becomes a puree. Pass through the tammy and return it to the stewpan. Whisk it until it is smooth, and season with salt and pepper. Add half a pint of thick cream and some small pieces of thick cut macaroni. Serve with some grated Parmesan, serve it separately. ¥ CREAM OF CHICKEN TI> OIL a fowl and take off all the white meat. Return the bones to the stewpan and let it work well, with one onion, a little carrot and parsley. Strain and use for the foundation of the soup. Pound well the white meat off the fowl and add this to the liquor. Let this boil together with one tablespoonful of potato flour which has been mixed with a little new milk. Pass this all through the tammy and, when making hot for serving, add one gill of thick cream. Serve with fried croutons.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 14 CREAM OF BARLEY X)LACE one quart of light veal and chicken stock on the fire to boil. Mix up two tablespoonsful of cream of barley with a little new milk, add this to the boiling soup, stirring it in whilst it boils, for a few minutes, then add one gill of thick cream, and strain. Serve with some French barley, which has been cooked, and added to the soup. VEAL BROTH T>OIL gently four pounds of knuckle of veal until all the good is out of the meat. Strain it and add one handful of rice. Let this cook in the broth. Add at the last minute a little chopped parsley, which has previously been scalded, season the broth with salt and pepper and serve. ¥ CLEAR BEEF TEA rilWO pounds of best beef steak, chopped fine and put into a stone bottle tightly corked, with a very little water (a tablespoonful). Then place the bottle in a pot of cold water, sufficient to cover it, and let it come gently to the boil and let it simmer three or four hours.SOUPS 15 BEEF TEA Sir William Gull’s Recipe Tj^IVE pounds of lean shin of beef passed through machine. Place in a stewpan with two quarts of cold water. Stir till it boils, then remove it to the side of the stove, or place in oven to cook gently for six hours. Strain through a coarse wire sieve, allowing a sediment of the beef to remain in the broth. ¥ RAW BEEF JUICE Invalid’s Recipe rilAKE half a pound of raw beef, chop it very fine, cover with half a pint of cold water and add a large pinch of salt. Let it stand for two hours and then first strain through a sieve, then through a muslin. Serve in a glass with pepper dusted on top. If liked warm, put in a bottle and stand in boiling water.FISHHere let us feast and to the feast he joined Discourse^ the sweeter banquet of the mind. Pope ¥ Hunger will break through stone walls. Shakespeare Hunger makes hard bones sweet beans. He had rather lose his dinner than his wit. Fletcher Fishes seem to depend entirely on the eye^ if we may judge from the readiness with which they swallow artificial bait. Man's palate^ in shorty was not given him for nothing; but to procure plea- sures for him commensurate with his patrician rank. GrindonIt wasrCt the wine^'" murmured Mr. Snodgrass in a hrohen voice^ “ it was the salrmnP Dickens Their hearts and sentiments were free^ their appetites were hearty. Buchanan Make hunger thy sauce as a medicine for health. Thomas Tusser On the day of the dinner of the Oyster Mongers Company^ what a nohle speech I thought of in the cab. Thackeray Eat and drink measurely and defy the mediciners. Hunger makes dinners^ pastime suppers.For the sake of healthy medicines are taken by weight and measure; so ought food to be^ or by some similar rule. SkeltonFISH E 21 KEDGEREE FOR BREAKFAST A BREAKFAST cup full of rice boiled and strained, four eggs boiled hard. Chop all together with some cold boiled fish. Put a large lump of butter in the stewpan and make the mince very hot. Season it well with salt, pepper, and add a gill of thick cream. Any cold boiled fish will do for the kedgeree, but turbot, cod, or salmon is the best. FISH PIE rriAKE two pounds of cod or turbot or haddock, and skin in nice large pieces. Make a good Bechamel sauce, adding a gill of thick cream. Season with pepper and salt. Place the fish in a fireproof dish in layers putting the sauce over each layer. When the dish is full have ready some potatoes, mashed and mixed with cream and seasoned with salt and a little pepper. Cover the top of the dish with this and take a knife and score across as a finish. Put a little butter on the top of the pie and bake for fifteen minutes until it is a nice golden brown.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 22 SOUCHET OF FISH—SOLE, SLIP OR SALMON O KIN the fish and place in a saute pan, which has been buttered. Season with salt and pepper and a large spoonful of good consomme and some /?arboiled julienne of carrot and turnip. Let this cook gently until tender. Remove the fish and place on dish in which it is to be served. Add to the liquor a little grated parsley and pour over the fish and serve hot. The bones and trimmings of the fish should be boiled down into an essence and added to the consomme. ¥ FILLETS OF SOLE A LA VENETIENNE r 11AKE the fillets of two soles, trim them lengthways A and heat them lightly. Place them in a terrine with salt, pepper, and mashed parsley, a little chopped onion, oil, and a squeeze of lemon, for one hour. Drain the fillets on a cloth, form them into rounds by making the two ends meet. Fill them with a forcemeat com- posed of whiting, parsley and a little curry. Place them in a saute pan buttered, and pour clarified butter on them. Fifteen minutes is enough to cook them. Gar- nish them with oysters, mushrooms, eggs cut in dice.FISH The sauce is made from the fish-bones, a little white wine, hashed parsley and lemon-juice. Take a sole and free it from bone and skin. Take your cutlet bat and flatten the fillets. Place the fillets in a dish, season with salt and a little pepper. Pour thin cream over them and let them remain till evening. When about to fry free them with the hand from the cream, and dip them into flour. Then fry them in clean fat, not too hot. They should be of a golden colour. They should be served immediately on a silver grill or drainer, and dished with fried parsley. They spoil if allowed to stand. Small smelts can be fried in cream in the same way and served with a silver skewer run through them. FILLETS OF SOLE MONTE CARLO INE the bottom of a gratin dish with nicely seasoned spinach, then lay on the top of the spinach as many fillets as you require. Make a thin rich Bechamel sauce with plenty of cream. Sprinkle the fish with a lot of grated cheese (Parmesan). Pour the sauce over it and sprinkle another layer of Parmesan cheese. Put three or four tiny bits of butter on the top and bake a nice brown colour. SOLE ROTHSCHILD 28THE DUDLEY RECIPES 24 SOLES AU VIN BLANC X)ARTLY separate the fillets from the bone, on the upper side of the sole, and slip a piece of butter the size of a walnut under the fillets. Lay the fish in a dish, the bottom of which should be buttered, add chopped onion and a wineglassful of white wine (chablis is the best) also a little of the fish liquor and two or three white mushrooms. Let this poach gently. Lay the fish on its dish to serve. Take the liquid and let it reduce, adding two large spoonfuls^of white veloute sauce and a little thick cream. Strain the sauce through muslin or tammy—season it nicely. If liked some mushrooms cut into thin strips can be served in the sauce. ¥ SOLE DE TOUT PARIS T)LACE some fillets of sole, trimmed and skinned, in a buttered saute pan, to poach in a little fish essence (which is made with the bones and trimmings of the fish). When cooked remove the fillets and place them on a dish. Add to the liquor two tablespoonsful of white veloute sauce, a wineglassful of chablis, a little mushroom essence, or two whole white mushrooms, and three spoonsful of thick cream. Reduce and strain through a muslin. Keep half of this sauce to pour over your fillets—the remainder to be worked up with someFISH 25 lobster butter to a deep pink. The fillets must be laid neatly in the dish, and the yellow sauce poured over them, in the centre, place some shrimps or small pieces of lobster claw—or crayfish—and pour over them the pink sauce. Serve very hot with some of the pink sauce served separately in a sauce-boat. ¥ FILLETS OF SOLE PORTUGUESE rpiAKE the fillets of a very fresh sole. Butter a dish and gratin. Place your fillets in the dish, season with pepper and salt. Add one bay leaf, a little thyme, chopped parsley,chopped onion,and two tomatoes, pulled and crushed, a glass of chablis, and a piece of butter. Let it cook for ten minutes. Take out your fillets and put them on to another dish, reduce the liquid to three quarters of the quantity, add about three-and-a-half ounces of butter and the juice of one lemon. Taste your sauce to see that it is right. Cover your fillets of sole with the sauce, powder them lightly with grated Parmesan cheese, put them into a very hot oven and serve. ¥ SOLE A LA DAUVILLAISE U) UTTER a saute pan and cover the bottom with onion chopped fine and parsley chopped fine, add salt and black pepper. Place the sole in a pan, putTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 26 seasoning on the fish, and add half a glass of French white wine. Cover the pan with buttered paper and cook it in the oven. When done withdraw the liquor in which the sole has cooked, let it reduce on the stove to three-quarters of the original quantity, add a pat of best butter and half a glass of thick cream and pour the sauce over the fish before serving. ¥ BRILL A LA MODE DE FECAMP rr^HE brill being carefully washed, scraped and drawn, place it in a turbot pan with parsley,a sliced onion, pepper, salt, a bottle of chablis and two spoons of water. Cover it with buttered paper and let it simmer until cooked. Serve it with cream sauce mixed with crushed tails of prawns or, if at hand, crushed tails of crayfish. ¥ TROUT OR WHITINGS MEUNIERE X>UTTER a dish and put your trout or whiting in it. Season with salt, pepper and a little lemon. Cover with a buttered paper, cook it in the oven. When sufficiently cooked remove the skin on both sides. Put it back on to the dish in which the fish has been cooked. Add a little meat glaze. Let it boil and take the meat from the fire. Add butter by little bits, stirring theFISH 27 sauce with a spoon. Add a little lemon and chopped parsley, pour this over the fish and serve. MPTY the trout. Dip them in milk, then sprinkle them with flour. Put a piece of butter in a frying-pan, let it melt, then place the trout in it. Season with salt. Let them fry on one side for five minutes, turn them on the other side, seasoning the trout again on this side with salt. Let them fry again four or five minutes according to the size ; then take the trout out and place them on a dish. Put another piece of butter in the pan where the trout were cooked. Let it get brown, then spread it over the trout. Squeeze a little lemon juice and put on a little parsley on the dish, then serve very hot. TROUT A LA MONTAGNARDE LEAN the fish for an hour in cold water. Then boil it on a brisk fire in a pan in which you have poured a bottle of hock or moselle with three onions, a bouquet of herbs, six cloves, a very little eschalot— garlic is the true thing—a few bay leaves and some butter well worked up with flour. Take out the onions and herbs and serve the fish in the remainder of the liquor, adding some scalded parsley. TROUT A LA MEUNIERETHE DUDLEY RECIPES 28 SEA TROUT AU VIN DE CHAMPAGNE OOK the same as soles au vin blanc, only substituting J champagne instead of chablis and two wineglass- fuls of the wine instead of one. This should be served with quenelles of lobster. RIVER TROUT AU BLEU Boil a small onion with ‘‘mirepoix” bouquet, a clove, peppercorns and a little salt in a quart of water. In another saucepan boil a quart of vinegar until reduced by half. Put the trout into a fish kettle and with a spoon put the boiling vinegar all over them. Strain the water in which the “ mirepoix ” and all the other ingredients have been boiled. Put the fish into this and let them boil slowly until done. It is necessary that the fish should be quite covered with the juice of the bouquet. OCT SOUFFLE OF LOBSTER Make a purt^ of lobster (one medium sized lobster is enough for eight persons) and pass it through the finest sieve. While hot mix into it a little melted aspic. Take special care to add only just aspic enough to set the puree. In this consists the success of the dish— that the taste of the aspic should not kill that of theFISH 29 lobster. Add a very few drops of tarragon vinegar, and when nearly cold, add the same bulk as the puree of whipped cream. Then freeze this mixture in small dariole moulds or if preferred in one large mould. For serving dip the mould in warm water. These can be served alone with a centre of Russian salad. They are to be coloured before freezing with the spawn. All depends on not being set too stiffly. It ought to be quite soft and creamy. If set as stiff as a jelly with isinglass it is a failure. _ ♦ LOBSTER AU GRATIN Take one medium sized cooked lobster, cut the shell in half, also the head. Take out the meat, re- serving the four pieces of shell. Chop the lobster very fine. Make a creamy Bechamel sauce, season it with pepper and salt. Add a little live spawn passed through with butter to colour. Stir in the fish. Place over the fire for a few minutes. Add two tablespoonsful of thick cream and when all is well mixed fill in your shells and sprinkle them over with bread crumbs. Add some small pieces of butter on the top and place them in the oven to gratin. Serve with fried parsley very hot for lunch. ^ LOBSTER CUTLETS—VICTORIA T3 EMOVE the meat from a well-cooked lobster. Cut it into small pieces. Make a good lobster sauce with cream. Place the pieces into it and season withTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 30 salt, cayenne, a little cooked chopped mushroom, onion and parsley. Cook it altogether, stirring it well. Turn it out of the pan and let it cool. Make it into rissole cutlets, dip in butter and bread crumbs and fry. Serve the cutlets with fried parsley in the centre. ¥ SOUFFLE OF CRAB npHE crab must be a freshly cooked one. Let it get cold. Pick the meat from the shell and mix it with a little cream and some mayonnaise sauce, a pinch of cayenne and two tablespoonsful of warm aspic. Pass all through a fine sieve and put it into a silver bowl. Take the meat out of the claws of the crab, flake it with a fork and place it over the top of the souffle. Put the bowl into a bed of cut ice to make it very cold and serve for luncheon. ¥ DRESSED CRAB ly/rAKE a thick mayonnaise sauce, using a good quantity of Chili vinegar to make it hot. One teaspoonful of sugar, one teaspoonful of mustard flour, one teaspoonful of salt, a little cayenne pepper, a little black pepper freshly ground into the sauce. To five tablespoonsful of sauce add two of whipped cream. Take the brown part of the crab, pass it through a sieve, mix it, a tablespoonful at a time, with the sauce. When five or six tablespoonsful have been thoroughly mixedFISH 31 with the sauce, stir in all the white of the crab which has been broken down. Replace the whole in the shell of the crab. Sprinkle over the top yolk of hard boiled egg and parsley chopped very fine. Place the claws round the crab and serve with hot dry toast. MATELOTTE OF EEL T3UT into a stewpan some onion, carrot, thyme, bay ^ leaf, parsley and a little garlic. Mix in sufficient butter to parboil. Then add half a pint of white wine. When this is ready to boil put into it the pieces of eel to cook. Make a brown butter sauce, add it to the eel liquor and let it all boil for three or four hours, being careful to skim it well. Just before serving fry golden coloured in butter some very small onions and also some small white mushrooms. The pieces of eel should only cook for fifteen minutes. ¥ FILLETS OF WHITING A LA MARSAY OKIN and cut into neat fillets three or four fresh ^ whitings and place them on a well-buttered silver dish. Have some good brown sauce made from stock and pour it over the fillets ; then sprinkle a few bread crumbs, pepper, salt, and a little Parmesan cheese. Bake in a quick oven for ten minutes—then squeeze a lemon over dish with a little chopped parsley. Serve very hot.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 32 SALMON PIE ri lAKE slices of raw salmon half an inch thick. Put coarse black pepper between them and a pinch of salt. Cover with pie crust—bake and eat cold. KIPPERED SALMON CUT it in slices about half an inch thick and roll each slice in a separate piece of buttered paper. Put it into boiling water and let it remain there for two minutes and then serve hot. To eat it cold: cut it in thin slices and it is ready as it is—raw. FOR KIPPERING SALMON 0ARSE salt and brown sugar in equal proportions, a teaspoonful of ground saltpetre to a fish about sixteen or eighteen pounds weight, a little less or more according to size of fish, and a good lot of black pepper, all mixed together and put on fish in quantities accord- ing to thickness of fish. Fish must be well washed and cleaned and all slime scraped off with knife before cutting up. One must use one’s own judgment very much in putting on the mixture according to size of fish. Let it lie on the fish for two days and two nights at least, then stick fish and hang up to dry, but not before a strong sun.FISH TO DRY HADDOCKS OPLIT the haddocks open and take out the bone ^ carefully. Dry the fish well with a cloth, then hang them out in the air for three days but ru)t in the sun. They are then ready for use. Do them in a grid- iron with pepper and salt and serve very hot. ¥ OYSTERS IN FORCEMEAT T)UT into a stewpan twenty-four oysters, having first removed their beards. Let them come to the boil. With their liquor make some sauce, adding a little cream and seasoning. Pass through a tammy. Then introduce the oysters and set aside to cook. Line your small tartlet moulds with fish forcemeat, place the prepared oysters in the centre and cover them with the forcemeat. Then steam for ten minutes and serve with white sauce essence made from the bones of fish and trimmings and a little cream. Shake over the tops of the moulds a little lobster coral. ¥ ANGES A CHEVAL T3EARD the oysters same as for New Club recipe* Then cut some rashers of bacon very thin and roll each oyster up in bacon. Put the skewer through them and grill rather briskly to preserve the liquor.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 34 Have ready fried some rounds of bread—the same size as the oysters—put one on each and serve very hot as a savoury. OYSTERS A LA NEW CLUB ri^AKE twelve nice sized oysters and beard them, also removing the small round hard substance. Then have some fresh bread crumbs mixed with some fine chopped parsley, roll the oysters well in the crumbs, then take an iron skewer and run the whole of them through the centre, and lightly grill them. Season with a little pepper and salt to taste. Have ready some nice fried croutes cut into the size of a florin. Put one or two—not more—oysters on to each. Dish them with fried parsley in the centre and serve very hot as an entree or as a savoury. ¥ OYSTERS GRATIN ^|"^AKE some oysters and beard them. Put them in a stewpan and allow them just to come to the boil—sufficient to kill any germs—but not enough to allow the oysters to get hard. Strain them and lay two oysters on each of their own shells, which have been well cleaned and scalded in boiling water. Put over the oysters a few gratin bread crumbs which have been fried in butter. Place five or six shells on each plate, and serve one plate to every guest at the com- mencement of dinner,FISH 35 COQUILLES OF OYSTERS T)UT twelve oysters into a stewpan with their liquor. Then put them on the fire just to boil up. Skim this well and then strain and beard the oysters and put them aside. Put into a stewpan a piece of fresh butter about the size of a walnut; mix in a dessertspoonful of flour: when it is well worked, pour in very carefully the liquor from the oysters, adding a very little new milk and the yolks of two eggs. Then put in the oysters and mix all lightly together. Fill your two coquille shells, and over the top put some bread crumbs and two or three very small pats of fresh butter to help the gratin. Put the shells into a rather sharp oven and serve very hot. FILLETS OF TURBOT HOLLANDAISE rpiAKE a large chicken turbot, cut it into neat fillets ■L —cutlet shaped. Butter a deep saute pan, place your fillets in this and season, adding a few drops of lemon juice and a little of the fish essence made from the bones and trimmings of the fish. Poach the fillets with a buttered paper wrapped round them. Remove them when cooked. Reduce the fish liquor to a glaze. Make a good Hollandaise sauce and add the fish liquor to it and coat the fish with this sauce. When serving, place the fillets round the dish, and in the centre pileTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 36 some small new potatoes or boiled potatoes cut the size of marbles; pour the sauce over, and serve the remainder in a sauce boat. ¥ BOUCHEES OF SHRIMPS Line some small patty pans with paste and bake. Make a good Bechamel sauce, add to it the stock of the heads of one pound of shrimps. Season with pepper, salt, and a little anchovy sauce. Add the shrimps to it, fill up the patties, put buttered eggs on the top and serve very hot as a savoury. SMOKED HADDOCKS COOKED IN MILK Take a large smoked haddock and remove the skin and bone. Butter a flat saute pan and lay in the fillets. Cover them with new milk, let them cook gently. Place them on the dish in which they are to be served. Season and place a small piece of butter on the fillets, and put the dish in the oven for a few minutes before serving.SAUCESHunger is the best sauce in the world. Don Quixote To eat^ in the true idea of the act^ requires a far more scientific use of the mouth than is the case with mere feeding. Epicurism is no mere invention of low sensuality; they who practise it do but carry to an unworthy eoctreme one of the most excellent and characteristic powers of human nature. No man is wise who is not an epicure within the legitimate limits: none are more foolish or unkind to themselves than those who regard only quantity and speed. So with the mental palate. If we be not deliberate epicures in our readings half our advantages and privileges are thrown away^ and we are only like quadrupeds^ unintelligently munching grasSy not that we ought to pick out Apician morsels. Geindon. 02: Dinner should be a procession^ not a crowd. Sir William GullA good dinner sharpens wit, while it softens the heart, Doean There is an emanation from the heart in genuine hospitality which cannot be described, but is imme- diately felt, and puts the stranger at once at his ease, Washington Irving ¥ A cheerful hole rnakes a dish a feast, ful wife is the joy of life. A cheer- Seneca Where love has entered as the seasoning of food, I believe that it will please any one, Plautus Appetite does not need sauce. ItalianHunger is the best spice qffood^ thirst of drink. CiceroSAUCES G 41 CUMBERLAND SAUCE FOR COLD BEEF OR HAM Three oranges, one lemon, one tablespoonful of Worcester sauce, one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, two tablespoonsful of red currant jelly, a little Bengal Club chutnee and a wineglassful of claret or port wine. Put the wine and jelly into a small stew- pan to boil for five minutes, then add the chutnee and sauces. Squeeze in the juice of the three oranges and the lemon, then strain and serve cold, adding the rind of two oranges finely cut a la julienne, taking care to cut away the white inside part of the peel. ¥ ORANGE SAUCE OR HAM SAUCE A LA WOMBWELL ONE stick horse radish grated, two ounces red currant jelly melted, one tablespoonful mixed mustard, the grated rind and juice of two oranges and one lemon, one tablespoonful of white vinegar. Mix altogether and serve.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 42 ORANGE SAUCE fTlWO grated oranges, the juice of ditto, one dessert- spoonful of currant jelly, three wineglasses of port, three spoons of mustard and a little black and cayenne pepper. All to be well mixed and beaten over a slow fire to serve up when cold. ¥ GERMAN CREAM SAUCE FOR HARE OR ROEDEER Boil half a pint of good cream, add two ounces of meat glaze, salt, pepper and the juice of a lemon. Pass through a sieve or muslin and serve hot. ¥ ANOTHER SAUCE FOR ROEDEER OR HARE Make a sauce with a little mixed vegetable fried in a stewpan with some small pieces of bacon or ham, two cloves, a few black peppercorns, the usual bouquet of parsley, bay leaf and thyme. Add a wine- glassful of vinegar. When it is all fried a nice brown let this reduce, then add a half-pint of rich Espagnol sauce. I^t all simmer together, strain through muslin and serve with roedeer or hare.SAUCES SAUCE FOR SPATCHCOCK Make a reduction of vinegar with a chopped shalot, two leaves of tarragon and a “ merspoor ” (which consists of thyme, parsley and a bay leaf), also a pinch of salt. Add in equal parts, tomato sauce, half glazed, and glaze of meat. Let it boil for ten minutes, then add butter the size of two nuts. Stir the sauce during two minutes, pass through a sieve and serve. PAPRICA SAUCE PUT in a saucepan some bacon cut in small pieces, put it on the fire and fry it well. Cut an onion in small pieces and fry it brown, add some paprica to taste. Take^ a pint of sour cream and let it boil until it becomes thick. Mix with the bacon and onion and a little flour and salt to taste. Strain and serve hot. ¥ SAUCE BECHAMEL PLACE in a saucepan four ounces of butter, warm it and work into it with a wooden spoon a quarter of a pound of flour. Have ready a quart of boiling milk, pour this on to the flour and butter, stirring it until it becomes a thick creamy consistence. Add a little carrot, celery, parsley and onion to flavour. Let all 48THE DUDLEY RECIPES 44 simtner gently, then strain through a tammy cloth. This may be kept for a few days if put into a basin covered with a buttered paper to keep it from forming a crust on the top of the sauce. ¥ SAUCE REMOULADE f 11HIS is Mayonnaise sauce with fresh cream added, also some capers, chervil, tarragon and a little pickled gherkin. ¥ SAUCE CREME JS Bechamel sauce finished with thick cream. ¥ SAUCE ROBERT TjlRY two large onions, wet them with a wineglassful of vinegar and two lumps of sugar, half a pint of good brown sauce. Let it boil well for fifteen minutes. Strain through tammy cloth and serve with spatchcock, chicken or game. RED WINE SAUCE Half a pint of red wine. Let it boil with a small pinch of pepper and a very small quantity of shalot until there is only about half a cupful left in theSAUCES 45 saucepan. Then add three tablespoonfuls of very rich brown stock. Let it simmer slowly. Add butter and a pinch of salt to taste, stirring it with a spoon. The sauce must then be passed through a cloth. WILD DUCK SAUCE First Life Guards Recipe QUEEZE half a lemon into a soup plate ; add two ^ teaspoonsful of mustard and one of salt, mix them together; add a good deal of red and black pepper with two tablespoonsful of port wine and five or six of the gravy of the duck, or good stock; mix the whole till quite smooth, let it be heated and sent to the table hot. This sauce is also good for any kind of grills. ¥ GRILL SAUCE Half a teaspoonful of mustard, one tablespoonful Harvey sauce, one ounce of glaze, a few drops of salad oil, a small piece of butter about the size of a walnut, a pinch of black pepper, of cayenne and of salt. Mix all up on a plate, put the meat to be grilled in this mixture and broil before a clear fire for a few seconds. Place the remainder of the sauce into a small stewpan to heat but not boil; dish the grill, pour the sauce over and serve.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 46 CELERY SAUCE FOR BOILED PHEASANT LEAN four sticks of celery, only using the heart. Put them in a stewpan with a piece of butter the size of an egg, one onion, one faggot of herbs, and one clove. Cover over with a light consomme. Let it cook gently until the celery is tender, drain it and pound it in a mortar and pass through tammy. Put the puree into a stewpan and thin it with an equal quantity of cream sauce and the reduced celery liquor. For Cold Fish, Salad, or White Meat HOP up very fine two teaspoonsful of chervil, the same of tarragon leaves, if possible, if not half a teaspoonful of vinegar and two teaspoons of chives. Mix with these two tablespoons of the best oil and half a spoon of malt vinegar. Prepare a Sauce Hollandaise, but without tar- ragon. Add a teaspoonful of Moutarde Ravi- gotte, a little essence of anchovy, and a squeeze of lemon with a few drops of Chili vinegar. SAUCE BIGNON SAUCE PORTUGAISESAUCES 47 SAUCE RAVIGOTTE TO half a pint of mayonnaise add one tablespoon of dry mustard, or better still the same quantity of Moutarde Ravigotte. With this add half an ounce of eschalots or of spring onions, mixed very fine with chervil, tarragon and burnett, and a tablespoon of Chili vinegar. ¥ SAUCE BIGARADE STRIP off in bands, as thin as possible, the rind of a bitter orange, but leaving some of the white pulp. Cut these strips into small shreds, and throw them for a minute or two into scalding water, drain the shreds and put them into a bain marie, with a little glaze and some Espagnole sauce and half of the orange, which must also be stripped of the white pulp. Boil this thoroughly and add a little best butter. ¥ SAUCE AU BEURRE NOIR Melt eight ounces of best butter in a saucepan, at the corner of the fire. When the froth falls, skin the liquid butter carefully and then let it brown slightly to the colour of a filbert nut. Take it off and add a little salt and a very little black pepper, and two teaspoons of vinegar, which has been previously boiled.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 48 ANOTHER RECIPE FOR THE SAME SAUCE THROWN two ounces of best butter in a saucepan. Take care not to let it burn. Add a tablespoon of picked parsley leaves previously washed. Turn this out of the saucepan into a bowl. Then having placed the pan again on the stove boil two spoons of French white vinegar. When boiling pour in the butter and parsley. To be served with fish and eggs. SAUCE PIQUANTE PUT a chopped onion in a stewpan with some good Orleans vinegar. Well reduce it, then mix some good Espagnole sauce with it. Season slightly with cayenne pepper, and before sending to table add a few chopped gherkins in the sauce. SAUCE CHASSEUR CHOP two eschalots and cook them well in a little olive oil; then wet the same with some good white wine (sauterne or sherry), which let reduce well ; then add equal quantities of tomato and brown sauce. Mince some mushrooms and put in the sauce, also a smallSAUCES 49 pinch of cayenne pepper, and let these ingredients cook for ten minutes. At the time of serving add a little chopped parsley. ¥ FISH SAUCE A LA ROKEBY Agile of cream, butter the size of a walnut, one teaspoonful of flour, half a teaspoonful of anchovy, a little chili vinegar, tarragon, a little soy, a very little cayenne pepper. SAUCE VERT Make a good mayonnaise sauce. Add to it two tablespoonsful of stiffly whipped cream. Then chop a small onion and pass through a fine sieve a small piece of curry paste. Blanch a good handful of chervil, pound and pass through the sieve. When quite cold add to the mayonnaise. Keep stirring on ice all the time but it must not be frozen. The onion and curry are only put in in very small quantities to bring out the delicate flavour of the chevril. ITALIAN SAUCE PLACE in a stewpan a dessertspoonful of finely chopped shalot, an equal quantity of salad oil, a bay leaf and thyme. Stir this over the fire, fry theTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 50 shalot but do not let it acquire any colour as the shalot would become bitter and spoil the sauce. When the shalot is fried add a good tablespoonful of chopped mushrooms, a glass of sheny, a glass of mushroom catsup, a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, half a pint of hock, one ounce of thickening. Stir over the fire until the sauce boils ; allow it to boil at the side for ten minutes. (A Plymouth recipe.) Tinned mushrooms or trimmings of fresh ones do equally well. ¥ SAUCE FOR GRILLED BONES TW O ounces of butter, one dessertspoonful of mustard, one ditto Worcester sauce, one tea- spoonful of Harvey sauce, a pinch of cayenne, a pinch of pounded sugar, a little white pepper and salt. Spread the mixture over the bones and grill before the fire. SAUCE POIVRADE CUT a carrot, an onion, and a small piece of bacon, in stars. Put a little butter in a pan, let it melt; then place the ingredients in it letting them get brown. After this add a pinch of pepper not pounded, and a bunch, made up of two twigs of parsley, one of thyme, and half a bay leaf. Put half a wineglassful of vinegar in the whole. Let it ‘‘ set (simmer). Put in them aSAUCES little brown sauce in the pan, let it cook for ten or fifteen minutes, taking great care the sauce does not get too thick. Pass it through a strainer. Then put in the sauce boat and serve. ¥ SAUCE FOR PERCH TWO ounces of fresh butter, one dessertspoonful of mustard, one ditto of Harvey sauce, one ditto of Worcester sauce, one ditto of King of Oude sauce, one ditto of mushroom catsup; mix all together and serve SAUCE HOLLANDAISE Make first melted butter, then get one yolk of egg and half a gill of cream, which make hot, keep stirring—it must not boil. When hot add the melted butter. Flavour with tarragon, chili and elder vinegars. This is supposed to be for one person. ¥ SAUCE TARTARE r 110 a good mayonnaise add a tablespoonful of French -L mustard, a few very finely chopped chives, some chopped tarragon and chervil and a small teaspoonful of anchovy paste. 61THE DUDLEY RECIPES 52 SAUCE TARTARE Another Recipe Boil one egg hard, take the yolk when cold and pass through a hair sieve. Mix the raw yolk of another egg with the yolk passed through the sieve; then add salad oil very gently and stir till it becomes thick. Then add tarragon and chili vinegars to taste. Be careful not to stir it too quickly. MAITRE D’HOTEL BUTTER MIX on a plate three ounces of butter, the juice of half a lemon, a little pepper and salt and a little chopped parsley. Mix it all well together, then put it into a saucepan. When it is melted pour it into a sauceboat to be served with boiled fish. HOW TO MAKE GOOD BREAD SAUCE PUT one pint of new milk to boil with one onion and a few white peppercorns. Let it simmer for a while; steam it, and return it to the fire. Add two handfuls of bread crumbs, one gill of cream, pepper and salt and serve hot.SAUCES 53 TOMATO SAUCE FOR CHAUDFROID OF CHICKEN HREE tablespoonsful of mayonnaise sauce, four ripe tomatoes passed through the sieve, one gill of whipped cream, a very little paprica. Mix it all lightly, set on the ice and serve in a sauce boat. NORWEGIENNE (HORSE-RADISH) SAUCE To BE Served with Cold Supreme or Chaudfroid OF Chicken AKE three tablespoonsful of mayonnaise sauce, one gill of whipped cream, a tablespoonful of grated horseradish, a little pepper and salt. Mix all together lightly—set on the ice and serve. AKE three large tablespoonsful of mayonnaise sauce. Add one gill of whipped cream, one large onion, or four small spring onions. Let it stand for two or three hours, then remove the onion and serve cold in a sauce boat with the cutlets. ONION SAUCE To Serve with CutletsTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 54 SAUCE SABAYON fMO be served with pouding mousseline. For two A people quantity as follows:—Put into a saucepan a wineglassful of good Madeira, two teaspoonsful of pounded white sugar, the juice of one lemon, the yolks of four very fresh eggs. Whip all this well together. Put the saucepan into a bain marie for five minutes whipping it well all the time and then serve. ¥ ICED SAUCE FOR PLUM PUDDING TWO ounces of the best fresh butter, three ounces of pounded loaf sugar. Mix them well together and then add one wineglassful of white wine and one wine- glassful of the best pale brandy. This should be all very well mixed^ after which set it on the ice for two or three hours before serving. ¥ SENIOR WRANGLER SAUCE Take a quarter pound of butter and the same of finely powdered white sugar. Beat them together until quite light and white. Then add two tablespoon- fuls of brandy and one of sherry; the brandy and wine to be put in slowly by degrees, and beaten until thoroughly mixed. To be served with puddings.SAUCES 55 RECIPE FOR SALAD DRESSING rpiAKE the yolks of two fresh eggs entirely free from the whites with a dessertspoonful of French mustard, and stir until amalgamated. Gradually to this add drop by drop Lucca salad oil, about a fourth of a wine bottle; to this add a few drops of Worcester sauce, tarragon and vinegar, castor sugar and salts. Finally add half a pint of cream. Placed in a stoppered bottle, this will keep for a month or longer. BEARNAISE SAUCE (COLD) PEEL and slice six shalots, put them in a small stewpan with a wineglassful of malt vinegar. Cook them ten minutes, then add three tablespoonsful of brown sauce, one of mushroom ketchup, one of tomato sauce, pepper and salt. Beat three yolks of eggs in a basin, strain the sauce with the yolks. Serve cold. HOW TO MAKE A GOOD MAYONNAISE SAUCE fTlAKE the yolks of three fresh eggs free from the whites. Put in a basin, with a pinch of pepper salt and mustard. With a wooden spoon work this gently; then add, drop by drop, a pint or more of theTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 56 very best olive oil (virgin oil from Negre Grasse is by far the best); stir this well, then add, drop by drop, a very small quantity of tarragon vinegar. The sauce should be smooth and very thick. SAUCE BEARNAISE (HOT) Sufficient for Twelve People PUT into a stewpan a small wineglassful of vinegar, with some tarragon, chervil and shalots, and a little mushroom essence. Wet all this, parboil for about ten minutes. Take the yolks of three fresh eggs, whip them well and mix with a very little water, and beat them until they become creamy. Mix them with the vinegar and herbs, working in gradually about half to three quarters of a pound of fresh butter; add pepper and salt. Serve hot.CHICKEN, GAME, ETC.New meat begets a new appetite. Appetite comes with eating. Eat at pleasure^ drink by measure. YorCll have no scandal while you dine^ But honest talk and wholesome wine. The Bev. F. D. Maurice By a sparingness in diet and eating as much as Tnay be what is light and easy of digestion^ I shall^ doubtless^ be able to think more clearly^ and shall gain time. First by lengthening out my lije. Secondly^ I shall need less time for digestion after meals. Thirdly^ I shall be able to study more closely without injury to my health. Fourthly^ I shall need less time for sleep. Fifthly, I shall more seldom be troubled with the headache. President EdwardsBirds ready cooked do not fly into your mouth. German Fools make feasts and wise men eat them. Some add: Wise men make jests and fools repeat them.^ From the Dutch Food is sweet from the fact of being hunted for. Cicero ¥ Rest after lunc\ after dinner walk. Maxim of Salerno School of Health The difference between a rich man and a poor man is this—the former eats when he pleases^ and the latter when he can get it. Sir Walter Kaleigh ¥ Diet cures more than the Lancet. CervantesI prefer that the courses at our banquet give pleasure to the guests rather than to the cooJcs. Maetial61 CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES CHICKEN VILLEROI POACH a young white chicken without completely cooking it. Let this cool and cut it into neat joints, then mask it well with the following villeroi sauce. Dip the pieces into some well-beaten egg and bread crumbs and fry in clean fat. This must be served very hot with the white sauce. SAUCE FOR CHICKEN VILLEROI PUT into a stewpan one pint of Allemande sauce, two tablespoonsful of truffle essence; let this reduce to half. When it is very stiff, coat over your pieces of chicken before egging and bread-crumbing them. Fry them a light golden brown, and serve with them a white sauce made of chicken, in a sauce- boat. ITHE DUDLEY RECIPES 62 CHICKEN A L’ALLEMANDE rilAKE a large Surrey fowl trussed for boiling; wrap this in bacon and poach in some good light veal stock. Cut the fowl up into neat pieces and lay them in a dish with hot clear chicken essence poured over them. Take some small button onions, sauted in butter and browned. Put these into a sauce-boat. Take some stewed prunes which have been stoned, put these into another sauce-boat. Make a brown sauce of one pint of Espagnole sauce, one tablespoonful of Lea and Perrin’s Worcester sauce, one tablespoonful of caramel made of sugar and wetted with vinegar. Boil all together for a few minutes, then strain and pour half over the prunes and the other half over the onions. All should be served very hot. The garnishes in the sauce-boats should be handed round with the chicken. HOT SUPREME DE VOLAILLE r n 1AKE two Surrey fowls. Remove the fillets and make them into neat cutlets. Place the fillets in a buttered stewpan. Season and place over them a buttered paper and let them set for a few minutes in a good oven until they are cooked. Then lay them on a chicken forcemeat border and serve with marechale sauce. These can be served cold, cooked in the same way, but chaudfroid sauce is used to them likeCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES the chaudfroid of chicken. If cold, sei^ve with cold boiled rice in centre, which has been braised white and mixed with a little grated horse-radish, and of course served cold, if the supreme is cold. MARECHALE SAUCE FOR SUPREME DE VOLAILLE ONE pound of white French mushrooms. Wash them and peel and cut into fine shreds, cutting the mushrooms lengthways. Place them in a stewpan with an ounce of fresh butter and a little chopped onion. Let it all simmer until it is dry, then add two large tablespoonsful of Bechamel sauce. Let it all cook together, then add one gill of thick cream. Season well, and let it simmer until the mushrooms are tender. Serve in sauce-boat with chicken cutlets or hot mousse of chicken. $ FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. VIN BLANC CUT into neat joints a small Surrey fowl. Fry in a little butter, without allowing it to colour at all. Sprinkle on the pieces about two ounces of flour; let it cook a little, then wet with a light good chicken stock. Let it boil, stirring until it thickens, then add a faggot of herbs, one small onion, a few button mushrooms and some white wine—chablis is the best. Let it simmer gently. When cooked, dish up the chicken and mush- 6STHE DUDI.EY RECIPES 64 rooms, and strain the sauce, which has been seasoned, over the pieces, adding about a gill of cream. Serve very hot. CHICKEN A L’AMERICAINE Take a good Surrey fowl and stuff it with a stuffing of bread crumbs lightly cooked in butter—with pounded sage, some beef suet and seasoning, and the yolk of one egg to bind. Wrap the fowl in slices of bacon and roast it. Serve the fowl with slices of grilled bacon and a good bread sauce made with cream. CHICKENS SAINTE MENCHOULD PLACE the fowls with the legs trussed inside in a stewpan with some butter, a glass of French white wine (chablis) salt, pepper, parsley, thyme, eschalots, two cloves and some sweet basil. Cook them at a small lire and add a leason. Then dip the fowls first in egg and crumbs and then dip them again in melted butter, bread-crumb them again and grill them a rich brown. TIMBALLE MILANAISE Prepare rice as for ‘‘ Riz a la Milanaise but adding three yolks of egg. With this line the sides and bottom of a stewpan that has previously been buttered and egged and bread-crumbed. The coatingCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 65 of rice should be a full half-inch thick. This is to be done two hours before the dish is cooked in order that the rice may set stiflP and firm. Half an hour before serving, the hollow is to be filled with scraps of dressed chicken or game and some Bechamel sauce in which are mushroom peelings and truffles shredded. The sauce must have cream in it. This must be cooked in a sharp oven for half an hour, then turned out. SOUFFLE OF CHICKEN STRASBOURG ~f) RAISE a chicken in some good stock. Take all the meat off* the bones and pound with a little of the essence reduced. Pass through a fine hair sieve and add half a pint of whipped cream and the whites of three eggs well whipped. Mix lightly and freeze in a souffle case for two and a half hours. Take out the centre and fill up with a ragout of rounds of cold chicken, tongue, truffles and foie gras, set in a rich white veloute sauce—not frozen but very cold. Serve in a silver bowl. You can cover the top with the souffle removed from the centre. ¥ POULARDES AUX GOURMETS Take a first-class fowl or small capon—clean it internally very thoroughly. Pound up a piece of glaze (glace de viande) the size of an egg with the likeTHE DUDI.EY RECIPES 66 quantity of the best butter and incorporate with these a few leaves of tarragon; with this you stuff the fowl. Then truss the fowl with the legs inside, tie it round with string so that the openings are closed and insert it into a bladder (pig’s) that has been thoroughly cleansed with hot water. Having tied up the openings, wrap up the bladder in a napkin tied round with string and place it in boiling water, where it must soak for two hours without being removed from the fire. Having removed the fowl from the bladder and drained it, serve it on a hot dish with some of the liquid in which it was dressed. With this should be served a reduced blonde sauce in which are some leaves of blanched tarragon. CHAUDFROID OF CHICKEN Boil a Surrey fowl and let it get cold. Cut it into neat joints. Make a good white veloute sauce, made of the chicken stock, add one gill of whipped cream, a little salt, pepper, nutmeg, two leaves of gelatine and a little warm aspic jelly. Warm it enough to set the same lightly—adding lastly the whipped cream. Mash each piece of chicken with the mixture till it is thickly coated, then run a little aspic jelly over to make it look bright and dish it with aspic jellies. Some cold tomato or Norwegienne (Horse- radish) sauce should be served separately in a sauce- boat.CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 67 INDIAN CURRY An Excellent Recipe Take three large Spanish onions, chop them very fine, put them into a vegetable pan to fry in oil. Let them brown. When cooked add one pint of milk and one pint of cream and a little lemon juice. Cook all together until ready to pass through the wire sieve. When this is done add two tablespoonsful of the best Indian curry powder and half a small teaspoonful of tammeric powder. Mix well and return it into the same pan. Then place your joints or pieces of chicken in the same and let it cook gently, skimming off the oil as it rises. Season to taste and serve with boiled rice in a separate dish. This curry is good, either hot or cold. The rice should be carefully boiled and drained so that each grain is separate. DRY CURRY PEEL and chop finely four onions, also two apples with eight ounces of fresh butter. Let them cook until brown. Add a teaspoonful of Captain White’s curry paste^ one teaspoonful of tamarinds prepared as follows : Put them into a basin, pour half a pint of boiling water on to them, strain through a fine strainer, add a tablespoonful of Captain White’s curry powder. Cut the meat up into small squares, season well with saltTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 68 and lemon. Put it all into a covered stewpan and place in the oven for two and a half hours, occasionally stirring the contents. When served it should not be absolutely dry. Mutton is the best meat. Plain boiled rice should be served with the curry on a separate dish, ¥ POULARDE A L’ANGLAISE STUFF a capon or first-class fowl with a farce of veal mixed with a salpicon of tongue and truffle. The breast bone having been taken out and the skin drawn over from the neck so as to contain the farce, the bird must be tied round and covered with a thin slice of bacon (fat) and put up in a cloth as for a galantine. It is then to be poached for one and a half hours in veal stock which has been well skimmed but not allowing the stock to boil, only to simmer. Let the fowl cool in the stock. When cold serve it masked with a Russian salad of macedoine and cream. Put some minced truffle in the veal farce and glaze with jelly. ¥ CHICKENS A LA PAYSANNE CUT up two fowls as for a fricassee. Pour into a stewpan five tablespoons of the best oil and half a pound of the freshest butter. Cook the fowls in this until they are well coloured. Then take them out and replace them by carrots (two) and two onions cut in slices.CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 69 When these are well coloured take them out and into the saucepan put a roux of one large spoon of flour and half a pint of consomme and a glass of French white wine. Mix well and place back the fowls and vegetables and leave them to simmer for fifteen minutes. They are best served in a deep earthenware fireproof dish. ¥ PATTIES A LA HEINE Make some half-puff paste and line some little cases with it. Fill them with some minced chicken, which has been prepared the day before in some very good white sauce well seasoned, and mixed with a little finely minced tongue. When the paste is cold, fill your tins with the mince and place a paste cover over each. Press the edges well all round and make a small fluting with a knife. Wash them over in egg wash and bake a nice light brown. Serve hot as an entree or cold in a travelling luncheon basket. ¥ FRIED QUENELLES Take some chicken forcemeat and make some quenelles. Poach them in the usual way. When cold dip them in butter and well-beaten egg. Roll them in bread crumbs and fry in clear butter a light brown, and serve hot with garnishing of fried parsley.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 70 PUREE DE VOLAILE AU RIZ 130UND the remains of chicken with a little white J- sauce. Pass it through a sieve. Make it hot with a little cream and serve it in a border of savoury rice. NORMAN PIE rilHE breasts of two boiled fowls sliced, some macaroni boiled tender, two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, some sliced truffles and tongue, a chopped eschalot, pepper and salt, one pint of boiled cream, two tablespoonsful of reduced white sauce to be mixed with the cream. Fill a covered pie dish with layers of the above, cover with a paste and bake one hour in boiling water. When cold remove the paste and cover with aspic jelly. ¥ COLD MOUSSE OF CHICKEN, HAM OR TONGUE Take the breast of a roast fowl—pound it in a mortar with a little veloute sauce and some very good chicken essence. Pass through a wire sieve. Put into a basin and mix in one pint of thick cream. Pour into a silver or china bowl and place on ice until very cold and serve. Ham or tongue can be done in theCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 71 same way. Some delicate sandwiches of chopped cress or slices of cucumber between bread and butter can be served with the mousse. ¥ DEVILLED CHICKEN A LA COKE TTARVEY sauce, three tablespoonsful; Worcester sauce, one tablespoonful; mustard sauce, one tablespoonful; Pratt^’s Club sauce, two tablespoonsful; tarragon, a half-teaspoonful; chutnee, one teaspoonful; pinch of cayenne, very little; butter the size of a pigeon^’s egg. Two baked potatoes, scoop out and mash with butter and add the mustard and chutnee. Mix thoroughly with potatoes. Then add the sauce. (This is for doing a leg of chicken for one person.) Lay the chicken on a plate, and cover well with the mixture; then lay in a frying-pan and heat through. Then place in oven till very hot and serve. N.B.—Should be about the consistency of bread sauce—rather sloppy. CHICKEN PIE nnAKE one Surrey fowl and cut it into neat joints— four hard boiled eggs, six chicken livers, a little chopped parsley and a little chopped fresh mushroom. Take a deep pie dish and line it with thin slices of streaky bacon, then put in, in layers, the chicken and different things until the dish is full, then pour inTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 72 some good chicken stock Lastly, cover it in with slices of bacon, and a crust made of good puff paste. Bake for two hours, run off the gravy and remove the fat, then return the gravy and serve. ¥ DUCK A LA LANGHAM For an Entree Prepare a nice fat Rouen or Aylesbury duck. Garnish a braising pan with sliced onions and carrots and a small bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme and bay leaf), then pour over the duck some clarified butter. Cook in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour until it is a nice brown colour. Strain off the fat and add to the duck one pint of cura^oa, half a pint of port, the juice of one lemon, the juice of one orange and one ounce of glaze. Cover the pan so that it is air-tight and braise for a quarter of an hour. Prepare the following garnishes—half a pound [of stoned Malaga raisins boiled gently for half an hour in port wine— taking care to keep them from falling to pieces—one pound of Seville olives (stoned), parboil these and then refresh in cold water and cook in a little cura^oa for half an hour. Peel and quarter eighteen or more oranges and three lemons and take all the white skin off. Warm in separate stewpan with a little Madeira. Skin the outside peel of the oranges and of two of the lemons and cut into thin julienne strips. Parboil forCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 73 five minutes. Strain and put in your sauce after it has been thickened. Cut a large croiistade of sandwich bread, brown it in clarified butter. The duck having been nicely browned and braised will be ready. Put it to keep hot in another stewpan, pour the gravy through a cloth, well skim off all fat, thicken with a little arrow- root (not too thick), boil for half an hour. Dress the duck on to the croustade, with little heaps of orange lemon, olives and raisins round it. Pour some of the sauce over it and serve the rest in a sauce-boat. If any garnish remains serve in a vegetable-dish. COLD DUCK IN ASPIC Take one or two Aylesbury ducks according to the size of the dish required. Make a strong merepoix ” of vegetables, a bouquet of herbs and a little raw ham or lean bacon. Wet this with about a pint of good consomme and a little Madeira. Let this cook for an hour, then put in the ducks and let them braise. Let all become cold. When cold take out the ducks. Make a light aspic of the liquor—adding a little more vegetable (onion, carrot, &c.), herbs, and a little more Madeira to strengthen it. Cut up the ducks and lay the pieces neatly in a terrine, filling it in with the aspic, which should be a light half-congealed jelly. Some foie gras can be laid in the bottom of the terrine if wished. This dish must be served quite cold.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 74 DEVILLED QUAILS Bone the quails as you would for a galantine of chicken; beat them lightly to flatten them, then saute them one side of their skin for two minutes, then turn them and saute them again for one minute. The quails by this means are almost cooked, and in grilling them they finish cooking. To devil them use melted butter with English mustard and Worcester sauce, and serve them with a sauce brune mixed with vinegar, eschalot, Harvey, Worcester. Pass through a muslin and serve separately. QUAIL CUTLETS BORDELAISE Take six large fat quails. Bone them with the exception of the legs. Cut them in half and coat them with quail and foie gras forcemeat well seasoned. Wrap each half in a thin pig’s caul. Dip them in butter and bread crumbs which have been slightly browned. Place them in a hot oven to cook through. Serve them on a fried force meat border on a silver grid.—GRAPE SAUCE to be served with the quail cutlets. Take some white grapes, skin and stone them and season them with their own juice and a little pepper and salt. Serve them in a sauce-boat with the quail cutlets.CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 75 SOUFFLE OF QUAILS POACH some fat quails for one minute. Make a rich brown sauce with essence of quail bones, truffles, and a little onion. Line a silver bowl or deep dish with chicken forcemeat, place in the quails, then pour in the sauce. Cover all over with a souffle of chicken. Place a band of paper round the souffle dish. Reserve a little of the essence sauce to serve separately in a sauce-boat. GROUSE PIE Take six young grouse and draw them. Cut them in halves and remove the fillets from the bone, reserving the legs. Line a small deep pie dish with slices of streaky bacon—then place in the trails and livers of the grouse and some chopped chicken livers, also six chopped hard-boiled eggs, some minced parsley and some pieces of very good mushrooms which have been cooked in butter. Place the legs and fillets of grouse in this, then add some of the chopped liver, &c., then more grouse until your dish is full. Add a little very good gravy with a very small quantity of Harvey sauce and pepper and salt. Cover the top with thin slices of bacon. Make a cover with puff* paste and, with a paste brush, egg over with one beaten egg. Bake for two hours and serve hot or cold.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 76 GROUSE OR GAME SOUFFLE Take the breasts of two birds or equivalents that have been cooked, pound them in a mortar with two ounces of fresh butter and a very little core of onion. Rub this through a sieve and add four eggs, the white beaten up to a white froth. Season lightly with salt and a little cayenne pepper. Twenty minutes will bake this in a quick oven. To be served as hot as possible. SNIPE PUDDING Larks can be used in same way PICK, singe and draw eight fat snipe—remove the gizzard and sand bags and reserve the trail. Season the snipe, cutting them in half. Boil six eggs for ten minutes. Take the yolk only and a little chopped parsley and onion—also eight chicken livers, a little fresh mushroom and some thinly cut slices of fillet of beef. Make a nice rich suet crust and line the pudding basin with this, then line with the fillets of beef. Put the snipe in in layers and add the chicken livers, which must be well seasoned with pepper and salt. Add the chopped egg, mushroom and onion mixed so that the basin is full. Put in a ladleful of good gravy or stock and lay the suet crust on top. Cover with a pudding cloth and boil for three hours.CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES K 77 A COLD RAISED GAME PIE fMO make the paste, take one pound of flour, four ounces of butter, a teaspoon ful of salt, one gill and a half of hot water. Place the flour on your slab, make a hollow in the centre. Put the butter, water and salt into a stewpan over the fire until it is heated, but not hotter than your hand could bear. Pour this gradually into the flour, and mix it quickly with your hand, taking care to knead the whole firmly into a compact paste, roll in a napkin and keep it in a warm place until ready for use. With this paste you line your raised pie mould, which has been well greased. Place it on a baking sheet with two thicknesses of foolscap paper round the outside of the mould. When the mould is lined with paste, you next line again with slices of fat bacon cut very thin. At the bottom of the mould place some forcemeat, made with veal and fat bacon in equal proportions, some foie gras, slices of truffles, some fillets of hare (or venison) well seasoned, pheasant, partridge, or any game freed from bone or sinew, repeat the foie gras, then again the forcemeat until the pie is full, putting in a little very good essence, sufficient to moisten the meat. Cover the top with the paste, ornamenting it with fancy leaves cut in the paste with a cutter, leaving a hole in the centre to let out the steam. Wash over with egg and bake for about four hours, steadily, then set on one side to cool. Have readyTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 78 about one pint of strong game consomme well seasoned, pour this into the pie by the aid of a small funnel through the hole in the centre. Take the pie out of the mould, and serve cold on side table. RABBITS A LA CREME Truss a pair of young rabbits. Soak them in milk and water to keep them white, drain and dredge them over with flour, pepper and salt. Baste well with butter. When nearly cooked add half a pint of cream to the butter you have basted with. Dredge over with flour till it forms a crust. Dish and pour the hot cream round. ^ CROUTES A LTNDIENNE Fry some rounds of bread cut thin in clear butter. Mince some chicken, or game, or veal. Mix with the meat a little curry sauce, and a little thick cream and season. Pile the compound on to one of the croutes, which should be cut round about the size of a wine-glass. Lay another croute on the top to form a sandwich, and serve very hot—on a silver grill if possible. ¥ BOUCHEES A LA BISMARCK Take fonds d'artichauds, fresh or preserved, boil them in lemon or vinegar and water. Fill the hollow of each with a puree of chicken, or, better stilhCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 79 with a creme de volaille. Serve hot, each one separate on the dish, and covered with a sauce of pistachio nuts. For this pound the pistachio nuts to a very fine pulp with some mushroom peelings. Then add good reduced white sauce to make the whole the consistency of thick cream. One pound of nuts is required for ten persons. This dish can be served either hot or cold as a chaudfroid. Any farce of game or chicken can be used. Care must be taken that the depth or quantity of puree in the bottom of each artichoke should not be too great. It should only slightly curve over the vegetable. STUFFED PHEASANT Lard a well-kept pheasant, which should not have been plucked till wanted for use. Stuff as fol- lows: Bone a woodcock, make two lots of it—first, heart; second, liver and entrails. Make a stuffing of this meat, cutting it up small, with beef marrow, a little lard (rape), pepper, salt, fine herbs, and a sufficient quantity of truffles to fill the inside of the pheasant. You must be careful that the stuffing does not protrude, which is sometimes a difficulty, but can be done with a little skill by attaching a crust of bread. Then take a piece of toast, which must exceed the size of the pheasant two inches each way, then take the liver and entrails of the woodcock and pound them with two large truffles, an anchovy, a little lard, and a suitable piece of freshTHE DUDLEY RECllPES 80 butter. Spread this paste equally over your toast and serve the pheasant upon it, having been left under the pheasant while roasting to soak up all the juice which has issued from it. ¥ PARTRIDGES A LA VIENNOISE T>OUND up into forcemeat, with a very little black A pepper, the partridge liver, scraped bacon (from which all the fibre has been extracted), one truffle, and some chives. Stuff the bird with the forcemeat, sew up the opening, and roast it basted with lard and oiled paper. ¥ CHICKEN OR PARTRIDGE AUX CHOUX Blanch some cabbage, inner leaves only, and stew them thoroughly in stock with salt and pepper. The bird is to be braised separately and served embedded in the cabbage, dressed round with small sausages or boiled bacon in small pieces. ¥ CHICKEN CHASSEUR CUT the raw fowl into neat joints and throw the pieces into a pan with very hot butter. Cook ten minutes, shaking the pan constantly. Then add a glassCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 81 of vin blanc and allow it to reduce. Moisten with stock, some tomato sauce, a little sugar, and some mushrooms. Serve with fried croutons. ¥ SPLIT PARTRIDGES SPLIT the partridge, pepper well, dip in oil (plenty of it), and boil it. Melt a little butter in a plate, rub the partridge well in the butter, and serve between two plates. WOODCOCK A LA RISING Half cook the woodcock. Take off the legs. Put the trail on a croute and lay the legs on the croutes. Make a puree with the fillets off the breasts, with a little foie gras to taste. Boil all the bones into an essence to mix with the puree. Place the puree in the centre of the dish, with the croutes laid round the legs of the woodcock on the croutes. Quails may be treated in the same way, the puree made of pounded quail and foie gras, and the quails split and laid round the puree on croutes. POTTED MEAT r i 1AKE the remains of any sort of roasted game or -L chicken, or beef, ham or tongue. Pound in a mor- tar with a piece of fresh butter about the size of an egg.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 82 Season with pepper, salt and a very little nutmeg, pass it through a wire sieve, and put into a small china dish, covering the top with a little clear butter. If kept in a cool place this will keep good for three days—^it is best fresh. Beef and ham mixed make very good potted meat. POTTED MEAT PUT a piece of fresh butter in a well-tinned stewpan, let it get hot, then put the meat in it. Well season with salt, pepper, mace, cloves and peppercorns. Add some good stock with a small bundle of carrot, onion, thyme, parsley and a small piece of bay leaf. Let it simmer gently for hours, then bone and pound in a mortar, adding stock until it is of a soft paste; then pass through a sieve. If for chicken or rabbit add some cream, well work before potting. If for grouse or hare let it brown in the stewpan before adding the stock. POTTED RABBIT From Jersey CUT up a good well-fed rabbit into pieces (the fresher killed the better). Put into an earthen- ware pot, covered close with a lid and 7io water. Set the pot in a pan containing water in the oven, or the potCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES in a saucepan of water on the fire. Let it stand till quite tender, then take the meat from the bones and pound it very fine with butter, and season with pepper and salt. The gravy in the pot with the rabbit must be added with the meat afterwards, and there will not be more than will moisten it. This is a capital recipe. MEAT JELLY FOR INVALIDS ONE chicken, one pound of lean veal, one pound of shin of beef cut up. Put into a jar without water. Stand the jar in boiling water in a saucepan on the hob until the juice is all drawn out. Season to taste and leave until it becomes a jelly. This is very strengthening. ASPIC JELLY SOAK for half an hour in water a quarter of a pound of leaf gelatine, strain it. Take one pint of good light stock, one tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, a little onion, parsley, carrot, tarragon and chervil—the whites of six eggs, whisked in about two tablespoonsful of water. Put this altogether into a stewpan, stir over the fire until it boils, strain through a soup cloth. The aspic should be bright and clear, and not too stiff*. 88THE DUDLEY RECIPES 84 SANDWICHES OF POUNDED HAM OR TONGUE For Tea or Luncheon Baskets Take some boiled ham—free it from fat and sinew. Pound it in a mortar until tender and smooth— add four ounces of fresh butter, six peppercorns, and a grate of nutmeg. Pass through a wire sieve and make your sandwiches from this. ¥ EGG SANDWICHES For Tea or Travelling Boil hard six new-laid eggs. When cold break away the shells and pound the eggs with four ounces of fresh butter—adding salt and pepper. Pass through a coarse sieve and lay thickly between sand- wiches of bread and butter, $ CHICKEN OR GAME SANDWICHES Take the white meat from a chicken or any kind of game. Pound in a mortar till very fine and smooth. Add four ounces of fresh butter, six whiteCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 85 peppercorns, salt and pepper and a grate of nutmeg, pass through a sieve and use for sandwiches. ¥ SANDWICH rriAKE equal quantities of butter and grated cheese and a little mustard to taste. Beat them in a marble mortar in a uniform mass. Spread this mixture upon slices of white bread, then put on slices of ham ctit as thin as possible (or any other meat), cover with another piece of bread and cut into mouthfuls. The bread of these should be cut very thin. ANCHOVY SANDWICHES Take two ounces of butter and a teaspoonful of anchovy paste. Mix well together and put on bread as for sandwiches. New bread cut very thin. SHRIMP SANDWICHES CUT very thin French bread into diamond-shaped sandwiches and butter. Pound fresh shrimps in a mortar with a little butter, flavour with salt and pepper. Put inside the bread and butter and serve with watercress.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 86 MAYONNAISE STUFFING FOR ROLLS Mince the breast of a chicken and a little tongue or ham into fine dice, also some cress or lettuce finely shredded. Take two tablespoonsful of mayon- naise sauce and three or four tablespoonsful of thick whipped cream. Mix them gently together, adding the minced meat and the cress. Take a spoon and fill the rolls, replacing the piece of the crust on the top as a lid. Rolls can also be stuffed with potted meat of game, chicken, &c., or with foie gras instead of the mayonnaise if preferred. RIZ A RIZOT PUT half a pound of Carolina rice in a saucepan with one ounce of butter and a chopped onion. Stir it continually on the fire until it becomes a very light golden brown. Season it with salt and pepper (and, if liked, a small spoonful of puree of tomato). Moisten the rice with half a pint of consomme. Cook in a covered dish in the oven for thirty-five minutes. Just before serving stir the rice lightly with a fork, adding several small pieces of butter to make it moist and brilliant.CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 87 GNIOCCHI Make a paste of a quarter of a pound of flour, quarter of a pound of butter, four eggs, and sufficient water to make it of the consistency of puff paste. Cut into small pieces the size of olives, then blanch them in boiling water, drain them very dry, place them in a souffle dish and sprinkle them with grated Parmesan cheese. Add sufficient brown sauce to cover them and put them into a gentle oven for twenty minutes. Then serve. SPAGHETTI A LA NAPOLITAINE ONE pound of spaghetti (small macaroni), ten ounces of butter, six ounces of Parmesan cheese, one pound of fresh tomatoes sauted in butter. Boil your macaroni in four gallons of water, in which you have dissolved some salt from sixteen to eighteen minutes. Once the macaroni is cooked be careful to drain it well, then add the butter, cheese, and sauted tomatoes, also a little beef stock, very much reduced, in which some mushrooms have been braised. Season it with salt and pepper, and serve it very hot, adding a little more butter if necessary. This can also be served omitting the tomatoes if preferred.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 88 RISOTTO A LA MILANESE T)REPARE some good veal stock for two persons, chop very finely a small onion, adding some fresh butter. Wash well three and a half ounces of Carolina rice, put into the veal broth and cook it for fifteen minutes. Take it off the fire and add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, two teaspoon sful of grated Parmesan cheese, season with salt and pepper and a very little nutmeg. Mix it all gently together. Butter a plate and put the rice into it, powder a little grated Parmesan over the top, replace in oven not too hot for about ten minutes to brown, and serve. RISOTTO A LTTALIENNE Another Recipe T)L ACE in a stewpan four ounces of best butter and half a pint of milk. Let this come to the boil, and while in ebulition add four ounces of fresh flour, which you keep stirring in for four or five minutes. Take it off the stove, and mix in one by one four eggs, then incorporate three potatoes which have been boiled and passed through a sieve, one ounce of scraped Parmesan or Gruyere cheese and pepper and salt. Of this paste make small quenelles and poach them for ten minutes in scalding water. Drain and serve them with sauce Italienne or beurre a Thuile.CHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 89 AN ITALIAN DISH TWO ounces of butter, two ounces of flour fried together. Then add a quarter of a pint of milk, the yolks of two eggs, and beat up the two whites of the eggs. Let all boil by steaming. Then pass it through a pipe, cutting it the required length. Put into a buttered dish with cheese sauce and a few brown bread crumbs on the top. ¥ CREPINETTES OF CHICKEN AND VEAL r i lAKE the meat and pass it through a mincing- machine twice. Season it and add a little chopped parsley and a tablespoonful of rich brown sauce. Mix well and wrap up in pigs’ cauls—like flat rissoles—dip in butter and bread crumbs. Place on a grill and cook. Serve the crepinettes on a silver grid, with a good brown or white sauce in a sauce-boat. CASSOLETTES RACHEL Take six or eight cassolettes of short crisp pastry, filling them with raw rice. When baked a light brown remove the rice. Line the pastry with light cream of chicken, washing a hollow in each, fill themTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 90 with a cold mixture of chicken-tongue, mushroom, and truffle cut under and mixed in good creamy veloute sauce. Then place more cream of chicken over each cassolette to form a cap. Smooth them round with a knife and sprinkle a little grated tongue over the top of each. Place them in a saute pan to heat thoroughly and serve as an entree. $ GALANTINE Lay out flat upon the board a large white fowl which has been drawn and boned. Season well, make some forcemeat of very tender white veal and twice the quantity of fat fresh pork. Season this meat with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and pass it twice through the machine. Then pound it well in the mortar and pass through a coarse wire sieve. To this add some pieces of cooked tongue, some pieces of truffle and a few pistachios. Spread a thick layer of this forcemeat on the chicken shin about three inches wide, then put on it some strips of tongue and truffle, and then again forcemeat until the body of the fowl is full. Then finally cover and envelop the whole in what remains of the forcemeat. Draw round the skin of the fowl, carefully sewing up the back and edges of the shin. Roll the galantine in a napkin tightly strung at each end and fastened in the middle with a pin so that it is quite firm. Cook this gently for two hours in a goodCHICKEN, GAME AND LIGHT DISHES 91 liquor made as follows: six pounds of shin of veal, one pound of fresh pork, the bones and trimmings of the fowl. Boil this for five hours, then use it for cooking the galantine. When it is cooked let it cool, roll in a clean napkin and tie again very tightly, place under a six pound weight. Trim and glaze, and it is ready for serving cold next day, garnish with aspic jelly.MEATHunger is good kitchen meat. ¥ Of all appeals—although I grant the power of pathos and of gold^ Of beauty^ flattery^ threats^ a shilling—no Methods more sure of moments to take hold Of the best feelings of mankind which grow More tender^ as we every day behold^ Than that all softenings overpowering knell— The tocsin of the soid—the dinner bell, Byeon If an earthquake were to engulf England to- morrow, the English would manage to Tneet and dine somewhere among the rubbishy just to celebrate the event. Douglas JerroldMeat is good but manners are better. ¥ The Hungry Judges soon the sentence sign— And wretches hang^ that Jurymen may dine. Pope, “Rape of the Lock” There'^s no want of meat^ sir^ Tartly and curious viands are prepared, to please all kinds of appetites. Massinger The fat ruddy. was so white and the lean was so The Haunch op Venison God sends meat—the devil sends cooks. J. TaylorIt is not the quantity of the meat but the cheerfulness of the guests which makes the feast, Loed ClarendonMEAT 97 M A VERY GOOD RECIPE FOR HASHED VENISON Make a water paste, and roll in this a piece of haunch of venison raw with plenty of fat. Roast it in the paste in front of the fire for about two hours according to the size of the meat. When cold, take it out of the paste and cut it into small thin slices with plenty of the fat. Place this in a stewpan with cover. The sauce for the hash is made with two tablespoonsful of red currant jelly, one tumbler of port wine, one tumbler of claret, three bay leaves, six black peppercorns, three cloves, one pint of good brown sauce which has been made of the venison essence (the shoulder or sinewy parts serve for this). First melt the jelly, then add the wine and spices and bay leaves. Let it reduce a little, then pour into it the brown sauce and let all simmer for about ten minutes. Then strain through a tammy or muslin. This is poured over the sliced venison, made very hot, but do not allow it to boil again. Serve in a hot water dish with slices of the venison fat cut very thin and laid on the top. If the haunch has little or no fat, thin slices of white beef fat can be substituted.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 98 MARINADE FOR ROEDEER OR HARE UT an onion and a carrot into dice, and fry them a light brown. Put into the same pan a little crushed black pepper, thyme, bay leaf, and parsley. Fry for one minute, and add a large wineglassful of vinegar and about a pint of water. Let it boil till the strength is drawn out of the vegetables—say about ten minutes—pour into a vessel to get cold. Put your joint of roedeer or hare into the same—let it remain from twenty-four to forty hours—take out your joint, free it from moisture, cook it in butter, basting it well until cooked like a braise, and serve with German cream sauce as per recipe given. UT the saddle as long as possible, and cut away the flaps. Skin it very carefully and lard it finely. Roast it in an oven, basting it with butter, and when it is beginning to turn brown (about half an hour before the meat is sufficiently done), pour half a pint of the thickest of sour cream over it, basting it busily till the sauce turns a rich brown. Then add another half-pint of sour cream and let that again turn CIMIER OF ROEDEER A LA CREME AIGREMEAT 99 brown ; if the sauce is not thick enough, dust in a tablespoonful of flour. To flavour the roast, it is better to put into the roasting-pan slices of celery, onion and carrot. You must strain through a sieve before serving. ¥ BRAISED HAUNCH OF ROEBUCK SAW off the shank bone and the spine bone, then having pared away the outer skin from the inner part of the thigh and along the loin, let these bare places be closely larded. Set the haunch in a deep dish and cover it with slices of carrot, thinly sliced onion, celery, parsley, two or three bay leaves and some thyme, two glasses of brandy, and about half a pint of vinegar and the same of water, a few cloves, peppercorns, and half a blade of mace, and a sprinking of salt. Cover the surface with this mixture, and let it steep for a week. When about to cook the haunch, split it and roast it before a clear fire, frequently basting it with the marinade. Garnish it with groups of fried potatoes. Sauce with a poivrade made something like this : Cut up into small square pieces an ounce or so of lean bacon, the same quantities of carrot, celery and onion, half a bay leaf, a sprig of thyme, a few peppercorns, and a small particle of mace. Fry these ingredients in a stewpan with about an ounce of butter until theTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 100 vegetables become browned ; let this boil down to half its quantity, add a few spoonsful of good stock and a pint of brown sauce. Let the sauce boil gently by the side of the fire, then add about a gill of the juice from the braise. Skim and pass through a strainer. If the flavour of wine be liked, add about a wineglassful of good sherry. HOW TO MAKE GOOD CUTLETS Make a nicely-shaped cutlet by taking the meat of two cutlets to one bone—see that they are very tender. Dip them in butter and bread crumb, and grill before a clear open fire. Serve on a silver grid—or failing this, on a napkin. Serve them very hot. ¥ CUTLETS POMPADOUR Trim the cutlets and place them in a saute pan in which some butter has been heated very hot and short of burning. The cutlets must remain in this long enough only to be half browned and only half done. Before doing this prepare a Bechamel sauce and let it thoroughly reduce so as to be thick. Take five or six Portugal onions, peel them, and cut them into thin slices and scald them in salt and water. As soon asMEAT N 101 the water boils take them out and cook them in light- coloured stock for two hours in the oven as over a slow fire. Then pass them through a tammy. Pass the Bechamel also through a tammy, and mix these two in a saute pan, and let this mixture boil until it is quite thick and firm and than add a leason of two or three yolks of egg. When this is ready, cover the cutlets on both sides with the paste and dip them into two whole eggs beaten up. Then bread crumb them and shape the paste to the cutlets and plunge them for two or three minutes into boiling lard. If the lard is not boiling the paste will fall away. When the cutlets are done to a good colour let them strain on a paper, and serve with fried parsley as garnish in the middle of the dish. This must be served very hot. ¥ COLD LAMB CUTLETS Braise two necks of iamb, press them, and cut into neat cutlets—two cutlets to one bone—coat them with a light demi-glaze, serve with aspic in the centre of the dish, and a cold macedoine of vegetables served separately; also in a sauce-boat the following sauce : White sauce for cold cutlets, two tablespoonsful of mayonnaise sauce, one gill of whipped cream ; flavour well with spring onions and season. This sauce should be thick and very light.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 102 CUTLETS A LA DUPPLIN CASTLE HOP a handful of shalots, put them into a stew- pan with a piece of fresh butter, sufficient to fry them without acquiring any colour, pass through a wire sieve. Then take a piece of the shalot and two ounces of fresh melted butter and a good pinch of cayenne pepper. Mix together, dip each cutlet in this, then into bread crumbs. Put them into the gridiron, grill before a brisk fire till they are a nice brown. Dish up with a nice sharp sauce. Bone it and stuff it with the following stuffing, which is made of bread crumbs, suet, chopped parsley, a little thyme, pepper and salt, and one egg. Then roll it, and either braise or roast it. Serve it with a rich brown sauce and some kidneys if liked. HOW TO MAKE A GOOD HARICOT Take a tender neck of mutton, cut it into thick cutlets, trim them, and fry in a little fat on each side. Place them in a flat stewpan and season them well. Fry in the same pan, in a little fat, some carrots. ROLLED LOIN OF LAMB OR MUTTONMEAT 103 small turnips, and small round onions. Cut the vege- tables into neat pieces about one inch in length. When they are lightly browned add to the mutton a little dredge of flour wetted with any light stock you may have at hand. When cooked skim off* the fat and add one tablespoonful of Lea and Perrin’s Worcester Sauce, one tablespoonful of Harvey Sauce. A teaspoonful of flour wetted in the same way as before may be added if the sauce is not quite thick enough. When dishing up lay the cutlets first in the dish, then the vegetables, and sauce over them. MINCED MUTTON, BEEF, VEAL OR LAMB Take some fresh cold meat, free it from fat or sinew, and mince very fine. Take a stewpan with a little butter, one onion chopped very fine, and fry a little. Put the mince into the pan with the onion, wet it with a little light stock. Let it simmer for one hour. When nearly dry add one tablespoonful of Harvey sauce and one of Lea and Perrin’s Worcester sauce, half a teaspoonful of potato flour to make it thick. Let it partially dry, season with pepper and salt. Have ready a border of mashed potatoes nicely browned, place the mince in the centre. Put in the oven with a little good gravy essence run over the top, and when brown serve.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 104 TOURNEDOS OF MUTTON 11 lAKE a tender loin of mutton, cut it into fillets -L about one inch thick, with the fat left on them, flatten them a little with a cutlet bat, trim into a neat round fillet, dip them in warm butter and grill them. Fry some thin rounds of bread and place one of these under each fillet when serving—with some small strips or round balls of potatoes which have been sauted in butter. A sauce Robert should be served with this dish. SCOTCH COLLOPS Take one pound of raw mutton or fillet of beef. Free it from fat and sinew and mince it. Place it in a stewpan with a little butter and onion, and with it a pint of good stock. Let it cook and then remove the onion. Have a border of potatoes mashed with a little butter or cream and nicely browned. Place your mince in the centre and serve. The mince should be thick and well seasoned. ¥ LEG OF MUTTON A L’ETUVE PLACE the leg of mutton in an uncovered saucepan, adding a wine glass of water, on a sharp fire. When the water has completely evaporated and the meat hasMEAT 105 become a good colour moisten it with a wineglass of red wine and sauce of consomme. Season with a bay leaf, onion, parsley, thyme, salt and pepper. Put lid on saucepan and let it cook on a slow fire. A few minutes before serving pass the gravy and replace it on the fire mixing in a tumbler of cream. Allow the same to boil for a second, season it and thicken it with the yolks of eggs if too clear. Pour the sauce over and serve. LEG OF MUTTON OF SEVEN HOURS CHOOSE a leg of mutton which has a short knuckle bone, leave it some days to tender (when killed with the wind in the north it preserves better) then take out the bone of the mutton to the knuckle bone and lard it inside in the way hams are larded with truffles, pepper- corns and two anchovies, seasoning lightly the interior of the leg of mutton with salt, spice, &c. Tie it up with string to give it a round shape. After having cut the end off the knuckle bone you coat it in good braise, cover it with some slices of veal and the carcasses and remains of chickens. Sprinkle the whole with half a glass of dry white wine and an equal quantity of good hanillan. After it is cooked (seven hours), and it ought to take place on a small fire, you untie and dress it on a large dish. Stewed lettuces should be served with it.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 106 HOT POT An Excellent Recipe for a Shooting Lunch Take a neck of mutton, cut it into nice thick cutlets and season. Lay the cutlets into a fire- proof dish. Line the dish with slices of potato and finely cut onion. Then lay in the cutlets and the pota- toes and onions in layers until the dish is full. Add then a pint of good gravy, and for the top of the dish slice again potatoes and onions. Take a paste brush and butter over the top. Place in the oven and let it get cooked and well browned before sending it to table. Run off the fat and add a little rich gravy into the hot pot. ¥ MUTTON PIES Make some half-puff paste and line some cases about the size of a small saucer. Cut some mutton into small dice, add some chopped onion and season highly with pepper and salt, also some chopped mushroom and a little parsley. Use some very good brown essence mixed with a little Harvey sauce. Cook all together. When cold fill your pastry cases and place a cover of the paste over each, fluting round with a knife, and with a paste brush egg over with one beaten egg. Bake a nice brown and serve hot for a shooting or golf lunch.MEAT 107 SHEEP’S TROTTERS MAITRE D’HOTEL fTlAKE six or eight sheep’s feet. Have them very clean and put them into a stewpan with some cold water. Let them boil fifteen or twenty minutes, then take them off, put them in cold water, take the large bone out of each of them, put them back into the stewpan. Cover them with some good stock, two carrots, one large onion, six peppercorns, a faggot of herbs, and a little salt. Let them boil constantly for about three hours and a half, then prepare a sauce:— Mix on a plate two ounces of butter, the juice of half a lemon, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Then melt about three ounces of glaze in a saucepan, add it all together and make very hot but do not let it come to the boil. Then dish the sheep’s trotters and pour the sauce over them. Serve very hot. ¥ SHEEP’S BRAINS MAITRE D’HOTEL Take two sets of brains, put in a saucepan with enough stock to cover them. Take a spoonful of French vinegar, half a spoonful of salt, let just boil and remain in sauce till used. Skin, split, and serve with Bechamel sauce and chopped parsley. This takes twenty minutes to prepare.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 108 HOT COOKED TONGUE f 11AKE a smoked tongue and soak it in cold water for twelve hours—then place it in a pot to boil, cover it with water, adding one carrot, one faggot, two onions, two cloves, and a few peppercorns. Let this boil for three and a half hours, then remove the tongue from the liquor, skin it and trim the root of the tongue. Glaze it, and serve with hot cherry sauce, which should be made as follows : ¥ CHERRY SAUCE FOR HOT TONGUE ONE tablespoonful of red currant jelly—melted —one wineglass of port wine, one of claret, a little whole Lucknow chutnee, two large spoonsful of brown sauce, the juice of three oranges and of one lemon, and a little cayenne pepper—boil all together for half an hour—when reduced to one half the quantity, strain through muslin and add some stoned bottled cherries, put it in a sauce-boat and serve hot with the tongue. THE WAY TO COOK A SMALL PRAGUE HAM To BE Served Hot Take one of these small hams, place it in a braising pan with cover. Cover it with a little light stock and a bottle of chablis. Let it cook very gentlyMEAT 109 say for about two hours. Then if tender, remove it and let it cool. Remove skin and all black part from the sides. Prepare a paste made of water and flour large enough to encase the ham. Sift over the ham some finely powdered sugar, glaze quickly with the salamander, and place the ham in the grate—the under side to be glazed most. Draw the ends of the paste towards each other with the help of a little moisture and so as to seal up the ham. Take a baking sheet and turn the ham over on to the glazed side—the sealed side to be underneath. Take your knife and decorate the paste with scores. Brush over with egg wash and make a little slit on the top to let out the steam. Put the joint in the oven until dry and well coloured. After taking the ham from the oven remove a little of the paste—sufficient to inject a glass of port, sherry or champagne. Put back the paste and make hot. The ham can then be served in the paste or removed entirely iust before serving. FOR A GOOD COLD HAM SOAK a green ham for two days, changing the water twice a day. Put it in a stewpan which is large enough to hold it, adding to the water two handfuls of brown sugar, two carrots, two leeks, and a bunch of herbs. Wrap the ham in a cloth and let it boil slowly for five hours. Take the stewpan off the fire and let the ham get cold in the liquid. When it is cold clean it and pare. Glaze it with sugar and a salamander.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 110 HAM A Chicago Recipe Boil the ham till well cooked. Take it out of the water and drain till cold. When cold remove the outside skin and make slight incisions in the fat on the top of ham with a knife. Sprinkle three or four tablespoonsful of powdered moist sugar over the top of the ham. Roast in oven for twenty minutes, basting about every five minutes with a pint of cooking sherry. Remove from the oven while doing so, using the sherry enough at a time to baste thoroughly with it. OX TALATES Take four palates, soak them for five hours in warm water. Then put them into a stewpan with fresh cold water and cook them slowly for an hour and a half. Take them out, dip them into cold water and scrape off skin, replace them in stewpan and cook till they are perfectly tender, then take them out and press fiat between two plates till cold. Cut them into squares and warm in following sauce : Two ounces of fresh butter, juice of half a lemon, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Melt three ounces of glaze in a saucepan and add altogether. Let the sauce come to the boil, then add palates and serve very hot.MEAT 111 VEAL CHOPS Beat some chops flat. Smash the yolk of a hard- boiled egg and mix with it some sweet herbs, grated bread, salt and pepper. Cover the chops with this and put each chop into a clean, well-buttered paper. Broil them over a clear fire, turning them often; remove the papers, cover the chops with carefull}^ mashed potatoes, bind together with eggs, fry in hot oil to a delicate brown. ¥ FILLETS OF VEAL MILANAISE r 11AKE about two pounds of small fillet of veal, free it -L from sinew, and cut it into small thin fillets, beat them with a cutlet bat to flatten them. Trim them neatly, dip them into well-beaten egg, which has been seasoned, then into bread crumbs in which there is a little very finely chopped ham. Fry them in butter until they are a nice clear brown and serve with spaghetti in a separate dish. ¥ TO MAKE A BRAWN rilAKE a pig’s head which has been pickled, also a -L pig’s shoulder. Put these in a pan large enough to cover the whole of them with cold water. Let it come to the boil, take off the scum which rises, and allow the meat to boil until it is tender. Take it out on to aTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 112 dish and free it from all bone and sinews, then add seasoning, black pepper, a little mace, and a little all- spice. See that it is well seasoned, then place it into a brawn mould or a kind of cullender. Place a plate on the top of the brawn with a weight to press it down. When cold turn it out, and serve with a napkin folded round it. A sharp sauce or Cumberland sauce can be served with it. TOURNEDOS OF BEEF Take about two pounds of veiy good tender fillet of beef. Cut it into round fillets about one inch in thickness, beat them with a cutlet bat to make them tender, trim them and dip them into warm butter and grill quickly for a few minutes on each side. Have ready some round croutes of bread about a quarter of an inch thick, which have been fried in butter. Place one under each fillet of beef, and lay on the top of each fillet a small round piece of beef fat which has been freed from skin. Place a little demi-glaze over them and serve very hot, with bearnaise sauce served separately in sauce-boat. $ BEEFSTEAK RUSSE ONE pound of fresh fillet of beef chopped fine, add three ounces of fresh butter, salt, pepper and chopped parsley. Make up the mince into flat rounds.MEAT 113 Egg and bread-crumb them and fry in butter. The sauce, served separately, is Colbert, made of glaze, parsley, lemon juice and butter—can be served with macaroni. ¥ PORTER-HOUSE STEAK This steak is cut from the middle of the sirloin about two to three inches thick. It must be very tender. Butter and grill it a nice dark brown on each side, and leave it a little underdone in the centre. When cooked, dish it like a steak with some small braised onions and small potatoes, both sauted in butter. Put a very little demi-glaze over the steak, but no other gravy. Serve horse-radish, or horse-radish sauce with it. SPICED BEEF Take a good piece of aitch-bone of beef—rump. Prepare the following pickle, two gallons of water, five pounds of salt, one ounce saltpetre, half a pound of brown sugar, the darkest possible. Boil the water and allow it to cool and skim it. Pour the cold boiled water on to the salt and to make sure that the pickle is strong enough put into it a fresh egg. If the egg floats the pickle is all right, if it sinks you must add some more salt. In a little muslin bag you must put some mixed spice cloves. For the quantity of spice it depends upon the size of the piece of beef and upon the taste of theTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 114 guests. Leave in pickle for about 8 days. The quantity mentioned in this recipe is for a rump of beef of about eight to ten poimds. Naturally you can make half the quantity of pickle for a small piece of beef or more for a larger joint, and the beef should be boiled and served with small suet dumplings and onions, carrots and turnips. ¥ BRAISED ROLL OF BEEF FLAMANDE Take a piece of sirloin of beef, about ten pounds, well covered with fat. Bone it, leaving the fillet adhering to the upper part; lard it with pieces of larding bacon, cut about a quarter of an inch square and four inches long; then roll the beef up closely, fasten it round with strong string so as to secure its shape. Break up the bones, place them with the trimmings at the bottom of the braising-pan, then place the roll of beef on the bones. Garnish with two carrots, four onions, a clove stuck in each, a faggot of parsley, bay leaf, and thyme. When fried a little, wet with one bottle of sherry, two glasses of brandy, one pint of good stock. Place the cover on the pan, and let all cook gently for about three hours, or until it is tender. When done, remove the beef to its dish, strain off the liquor, removing all fat. Reduce this to one half, add two large tablespoonsful of Espagnol sauce, and serve with vegetables. This dish is equally good cold as hot.MEAT 115 LONG FILLET OF LARDED BEEF rilAKE a long fillet of tender beef, free it from fat. Take away the upper skin off one side with a sharp knife, and lard it with strips of larding bacon. Tie it round with some thin string to keep it firm. Place in a long braiser with a little fat, carrot, and onion. Let this fry for a little while, then place it in the oven with about one quart of good stock poured over it. Leave the lid off the pan until the fillet gets nicely browned, basting it often. When sufficiently cooked, remove the fillet and, if it is served hot, use its liquor as gravy, removing all grease and adding two tablespoonsful of Espagnol sauce. Strain this before serving, placing round the fillet some cooked vegetables, nicely trimmed. If served cold, some horse-radish sauce should be sent up in a sauce-boat. DEER’S PUDDING Blair Castle Recipe Take some deer’s skins and wash in water and a very little salt, turning the skins inside out to be thoroughly cleansed, but not removing the fat which adheres to the insides of the skins. Take a large cupful of finely chopped venison or beef suet, a handful of coarse oatmeal and a little finely chopped onion to season, also salt and pepper. Fill the skins and prick well with a needle to prevent bursting. Boil for three-quarters ofTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 116 an hour, then brown in a saute pan with some hot fat, or grill for fifteen minutes and serve very hot. ¥ BLACK PUDDING A Scotch Recipe ONE pint of pigs’ blood, stirred with a little salt until it is quite smooth. Then add some boiled double cream, three-quarters of a pound of fat from the inside of the pig, cut into dice and quite freed from skin : also a quarter of a pound of onions cut into dice and fried in butter without being coloured. Season with pepper, salt, and thyme. Add a little well-boiled rice. Have your skins ready and fill them loosely. Put them into boiling water, prick them well to pre- vent bursting, and let them remain until quite firm. When cold, cut them into long pieces and grill—serve very hot. ^ SCOTCH HAGGIS Boil the heart of a deer and a piece of the liver. When cold, mince it very fine. Grate also a teacupful of the liver and add to this a teacupful of coarse oatmeal and half a pound of deer’s suet finely chopped, one tablespoonful of black pepper, one tablespoonful of salt, and three finely chopped onions. Mix all well together and boil for four hours in a pudding basin, covering the top with paste, the same as for a beefsteak pudding, and serve in the basin very hot.VEGETABLES OAll things are soon prepared in a well-ordered home. Beauty from order springs— Cornwall squab pie^ and Devon white pot brings ; And Leicester beans and bacon Good for Kings. Crowd not your table Let your number be Not more than seven And never less than three. A dinner lubricates business. Boswell’s ** Life of Johnson” A good dinner and company that pleased me mightily^ being all eminent men in their way. Samuel PepysFve done said brave Mr. Bantings And so may each overfed Briton^ If h^d only adopt resolution severe And avoid—if he woidd not grow fatter and Jatter— All breads butter^ sugary milky Haters and beer. Punch (1869) A hungry man is an angry man. Eat to live—but do not live to eat. ¥ CiCEKO He brings out dainties unbought—the produce of his own land. Horace Hunger makes raw beans taste of sugar. ErasmusAfter dinner sit awhile^ after supper walk a mile. Another version being: After dinner sleep awhile ; after shipper go to bed. Feom the Latinp 121 VEGETABLES AND SALADS SOUFFLE POTATOES IN THEIR SKINS Take eight medium-sized good potatoes. Wash well and score a round off the top to form a cover. Bake the potatoes. When cooked remove the interiors, pass through a sieve, mix with a gill of cream and work into a light creamy mash. Season and mix in one whole egg. Stir over the fire for a few minutes. Put the mixture back into the potato-skin, place the cut out cover on each, and return them to the oven for a few minutes before serving. ¥ ICED POTATOES Boil new potatoes in the usual way. When cold slice them into the size and thickness of a shilling —a little thicker is better. Whip up some cream and add to it a very little aspic jelly—see aspic (Souffle of Lobster)—enough only to stiffen the cream. Dip the potatoes in this mixture, and lift each piece outTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 122 separately so that each piece may be covered with cream. Then place the dish in a refrigerator on a block of ice or between two plates in ice for half an hour before serving. POTATOES A LA LYONNAISE USE the most waxy potatoes you can get. Boil them, and when cold cut them into thinnish slices with a cutter and saute them in clarified butter to which you have added a little oil. Then cut up fine an onion previously blanched in boiling water and fry it in butter to a golden brown. Immediately before serving mix the onion with the potatoes, and add a little chopped parsley, salt, and black pepper. To be served scalding hot. ¥ POTATOES CRESSAC Take some potatoes and saute them in butter. Take a good-sized piece of butter and some thick cream, boil this together, and just before serving pour it over the potatoes. PETITS POIS A L’ALLEMANDE Take a quart of small fresh green peas. Put them in a saucepan with two lettuces chopped very fine, a piece of fi'esh butter the size of an egg, a little salt,VEGETABLES AND SALADS 123 pepper, nutmeg, a piece of sugar the size of a nut, a whole onion and a little very good consomme. Boil all these ingredients together for one hour, then take out the onion, and at the moment of serving the dish mix in a teaspoonful of flour and a little fresh butter. Serve very hot. PUREE OF GREEN PEAS AS A VEGETABLE This is a useful recipe for peas which are too large and old to simply boil or stew. Shell a pint of peas, boil them in a little water—with salt, a pinch of carbonate of soda, and a little green mint. When cooked strain them and pass through a fine sieve. Place in a stew-pan with one ounce of butter, season with pepper and salt, and add one tablespoonful of thick cream. Make very hot and serve. Broad beans or carrots can be cooked in the same way and served as a vegetable puree. ¥ CHOUX A L’ALLEMANDE SHRED the leaves of the Savoy cabbage. Then blanch in boiling water for one minute, then strain. Boil the cabbage until sufficiently done. Strain off the liquid and add a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce, a pinch of pepper and salt, and a pinch of ParmesanTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 124 cheese. Dish up with small croutes of puff paste round the cabbage. ANOTHER WAY OF COOKING CABBAGE UT a white cabbage in shreds. Fry gently in butter, and then stew until tender. Season nicely, and finish up with thick cream and a few drops of vinegar to make it taste a little sharp. Boil a pint of cream into which put a few white peppercorns and a blade of mace. Rub a piece of butter the size of a duck’s egg into as much flour as it will take. Put it into the boiling cream, stir it until smooth, boil until the flour has lost its raw taste. Peel and break up the mushrooms, remove the stalks, stew in milk until soft, and then put them into the sauce. Add a little salt and serve hot^ very, very hot. Hand round slices of bread and butter, on which the mush- rooms should be poured. A large sauce-boat is the best thing to serve up in, and the mushrooms should be quite fresh. MUSHROOMS IN CREAMVEGETABLES AND SALADS 125 STEWED CUCUMBER rriAKE a large cucumber and peel it. Take a cutter and cut it into rings about half an inch in thick- ness. Remove the seeds. Parboil in a little salt water and a very small quantity of carbonate of soda. Strain when tender, and add two tablespoonsful of thick cream, the juice of half a lemon, pepper, salt and sugar to taste. Serve either as a garnish or as a vegetable. ¥ SOUFFLE OF SPINACH TWO pounds of spinach blanched and braised in butter for one hour. Then prepare two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour and two ounces of Par- mesan cheese. Put the butter into a stewpan to melt, then add the flour and about half a pint of milk. Let it boil, add the cheese and season to taste. Then add the spinach and the yolks of three eggs (fresh). Whip the whites very stiff and add them very gently. Bake in a good oven and serve immediately. SPINACH IN BRANCH A French Recipe rilAKE one pound of good young spring spinach. Blanch it in water in the usual way. Strain off the water well until it is dry. Lay it in a dish inTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 126 small bunches. Put a little fresh butter over it and serve very hot. ¥ STUFFED TOMATOES /CHOOSE large tomatoes, empty them, wash them in strong salt and water, and let them drain upon a sieve. Cook some rice in salt and water until it is thoroughly done and dry; drain it and incorporate with it some butter, a little onion and fennel mixed up small. With this fill the tomatoes, dress them in a saute pan, pour over them a fair quantity of the freshest olive oil, and cook them in the oven. ARTICHOKES (JERUSALEM) SCOLLOPED CUT the artichokes, cooked or not, into small pieces and stew like oysters. Add a little anchovy sauce and cream, cover with bread crumbs, season and serve in shells. ¥ CHICORIE (ENDIVE) A LA CREME Blanch the endive in boiling salted water. Then mince it quite fine as for spinach. Cover this in a stewpan with stock, and let it stew gently for an hour, stirring frequently, as if it burns the dish is lost.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 127 When about to serve, add one yolk of egg and two or three tablespoons of cream and a very little salt and pepper. ¥ GAROTTES MODE DE VICHY Take young carrots, about an inch long, and if these cannot be had, slices of ordinary carrots trimmed to the size of a shilling, and half an inch thick. Place them for two minutes to blanch in boiling water, then stew them in stock for an hour and a half. When cooked add one tablespoon of potato flour which has been mixed with water to be liquid. Boil quickly, then add one lump of sugar and four tablespoons of cream and a little parsley, with salt to taste. In mixing the flour do not use more water than is necessary to make it liquid. $ TOMATO SOUFFLE 'll yriX four ounces of best butter, four tablespoons of LLL French flour, four ounces of rasped Parmesan, four eggs and six fresh tomatoes. Make it into a paste like a thick puree and with one pint of unskimmed milk, cook it to a good consistency, then add the yolks of the four eggs to the mixture. Put the whole into a souffle dish into a sharp oven for twenty-five minutes.THE DUDIJEY RECIPES 128 CEPS A LA BORDELAISE Having dried the ceps in a napkin, warm them on both sides in the freshest oil. Then in another stewpan heat some oil, into which you have thrown some chopped parsley and a little eschalot. Cook the ceps in this on a moderate fire, taking care to turn them fre- quently. When they are done add a very little cayenne and a little glaze. Any mushrooms can be dressed in this way, and if fresh and new oil is not at hand good butter will do. SOUFFLE OF CAULIFLOWER A LA BARONNE r 11RIM a nice cauliflower, blanch it, then rinse it, and put it into boiling water with a little salt and let it cook until tender, then take up again. Drain and cut in pieces. Place them in a buttered souffle dish with alternate layers of raw sliced tomatoes, season with a very little salt and pepper and fill up the dish with a mixture prepared thus:— Make a white sauce, two ounces of butter, two ounces of flour, half a pint of milk, add the raw yolks of two eggs, a dust of cayenne pepper and a pinch of salt. Stir over the fire until it boils. Add three ounces of grated Parmesan cheese and the whites of three eggs whippedVEGETABLES AND SALADS 129 stiff. Mix all together and pour the mixture into a souffle dish. Bake twenty-five minutes. fTlAKE onions, carrots, potatoes, peas, French beans, cauliflower, vegetable marrow or cucumber (in fact any vegetable in season) and a large apple. Cut all into dice. Put into a stewpan with some butter, fry a light brown. Add good white stock and stew all till tender. Mix on a plate into a paste some curry power, flour, and butter, and stir into the vegetables twenty minutes before serving and add a little chutney sauce. Serve on a separate dish some well-boiled dry rice. The quantity of curry powder depends entirely on the eater. Add a little stock as the curry ought to be soft, but avoid making it too liquid. AY the cress in strong salt and water to clear it from insects. Pick and wash nicely and stew it in water for about ten minutes. Drain and chop, season with pepper and salt, add a little butter and return it to the stewpan until well heated. Add a little vinegar, previously to serving. Put around it sippits of fried VEGETABLE CURRY STEWED WATERCRESS bread.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 130 SALAD rpiHE mixing of salad is an art which it is easy to attain with care. The main point is to incor- porate the several articles required for the salad and to serve it up at table as fresh as possible. The herbs should be morning gathered ” and they will be much refreshed by lying an hour or two in spring water. Careful picking and washing and drying in a cloth in the kitchen are also very important, and the due pro- portion of each herb requires attention. The sauce may be thus prepared. Boil two eggs for ten or twelve minutes so that the yolks may become quite hard when cold. Rub them through a coarse sieve with a wooden spoon and mix them with a tablespoon of water or cream and then add two tablespoons of fine flask oil or melted butter. Mix and add by degrees a teaspoon of salt and the same quantity of mustard, mix till smooth and then incorporate with the other ingredients about three tablespoons of vinegar. Pour this sauce down the side of the salad bowl but do not stir up the salad till wanted to be served. Garnish the top of the salad with the white of the eggs cut in slices or these may be an'anged in such manner as to be ornamental on the table. Some persons may fancy they are able to prepare a salad without previous instructions, but, like every- thing else, a little knowledge in this case is not thrown away.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 131 TOMATO SALAD /^UT the tomatoes into round slices and place them on a plate. Sprinkle some powdered sugar over them, with a little pepper, a spoonful of best oil and a tablespoon of French white vinegar and then turn them over in the plate. V COLD POTATO SALAD r 11AKE some very small cold new potatoes and put them into a deep soup plate or glass bowl. Make a sauce composed of French mustard and cream and cover the potatoes thickly with this and serve as a salad. If you have no new potatoes you can make the salad of slices of cold potato. ¥ SALAD COMPOSED OF LETTUCE, ENDIVE, CELERY AND BEETROOT CHOP a few sprigs of tarragon, chervil and burnett, and a small shalot chopped very fine; put them into a salad bowl, sprinkle some pepper and salt over and a small portion of powdered white sugar. Pour over it three large tablespoonsful of salad oil and a small table- spoonful of French vinegar, tarragon and Harvey sauce. Well mix the salad just before use.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 132 FINGASK SALAD CUT the salad very small, put it into a salad dish. Take some cream and put it in a small basin, add vinegar, mustard and a little salt according to taste. Take the yolk of a hard-boiled egg, bruise it into the cream, take a switch and beat the cream into the con- sistency of a thick custard; then put it over the salad pretty thick and ornament the salad according to taste. ANOTHER DRESSING FOR SALAD TWO tablespoonsful of thick mayonnaise sauce, one teaspoonful of pounded sugar, one teaspoonful of chili vinegar, one teaspoonful of taiTagon vinegar, one gill of double cream. Mix all together in a basin and pour over the lettuce just before serving. The lettuce should be very crisp and fresh, and should be pulled to pieces with the hand and not cut with a knife. SAUCE FOR SALAD Four spoonsful of best oil, one spoonful of herb vinegar, one small salt-spoon of salt, one cayenne- spoon of cayenne pepper, about half a dessertspoonful of pounded sugar at the most^ and some common pepper.VEGETABLES AND SALADS 133 Take first two or three very small onions and bruise them with the salt, pepper, sugar and cayenne into a paste. Then mix them well with the vinegar and finally with the oil and then stir it all well up together. Cut in your lettuce and sprinkle it when cut with chopped chervil and tarragon and stir the salad up well so that the lettuce is mixed with sauce. These are the proportions for salad for eight or ten persons. They will be of course added to or diminished according to the number at dinner. FOR NEW POTATOES DURING WINTER SELECT some large tubers—if possible, good late sorts, such as Up-to-Date or Factor. Lay them out singly in a cellar or shed safe from frost, looking over them about once a fortnight and keeping all growths rubbed off. In the early part of September lay them in beds of leaf mould on the floor of a shed or cellar, or in shallow wooden boxes in any outhouse, covering them lightly with the leaf mould. If planted say the first week in September—by the middle of October you can have new potatoes ready for the dining room. On each tuber will be found a number of new potatoes. Throw away the tubers. In this manner you can have new potatoes all through the winter. At the time of planting the potatoes some cuttings of greenTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 134 mint should be grown in cold frames to cook with the potatoes to flavour them. ¥ All vegetables—such as peas, broad beans, carrots, spring cabbages, &c.—should be served when they are quite young and small. The fault of most English gardeners is to keep back these vegetables until they grow large, when they are not half as good as when they are quite young and fresh.Dry those eyes which are o'erjlowing^ All your storms are overblowing: While you in this isle are biding^ You shall feast without providings Every dainty you can think of Every wine which you would drink of Shall be yours; all want shall shun you^ Ceres'" blessing so is on you. Dryden' a: ■%PUDDINGS AND SWEETSA perpetual feast of nectared sweets Where no crude surfeit reigns. Milton ¥ Feed sparingly and defy the physician. K. ¥ Proud men in their feasts become fools. ¥ Tacitus A feast not profuse but elegant—more of refine- ment than of expense. Montaigne ¥ Lucidlus prided himself upon the luxiiry of his feasts. On one occasion when he happened to sup alone^ the meal being less magnificent than usual^ he rebuked his servants saying: Did you not know that this evening Lucullus sups with Lucullus^'" Plutakch, “Life of Lucullus*'Let not plenty make you dainty Let not poverty part good company. Cold pudding settles cnis love. The whole Emglish nation beyond all other mortal men is most given to banqueting and feasts. Due DE Sully Natures confectioner the bee. Cleveland Full in the midst the polished table shines And the bright goblets^ rich with generous wines; Now each partakes the feasts the wine prepares^ Portions the food^ and each the portion shares. Homer ¥ All things require skill but am appetite.Home made dishes that drive one from Home Home made physic that sickens the sick. HoodPUDDINGS AND SWEETS R 141 GAUFFRES rpiHREE fresh eggs, a quarter pound of flour, a quarter pound fresh butter dissolved, one glass of milk, one glass of cream. Put the yolks of the eggs in a basin with the flour and mix into a batter. Add the cream, milk, and butter, and the whites of the eggs which have been whipped very stiff. Bake in gauffre- irons, which are sold for the purpose, and serve very hot with whipped cream in a sauce-boat. OMELETTE SOUFFLE Break six eggs, separate the whites from the yolks; put three yolks in a basin with three ounces of sugar and half a grated lemon-peel, stir with a wooden spoon for five minutes. Put the six whites in a whip- ping bowl and whip them until they are very firm. Then mix them lightly with the yolks; this should constitute a very solid paste. Butter a round dish slightly, throw in the whole of the paste at once as lightly as possible, smooth it over with a knife and make an incision about one inch deep with the handleTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 142 of a silver spoon all round the side of the omelette. Put it in the oven for ten minutes and serve imme- diately. Should an omelette souffle be kept for a few minutes after it is out of the oven it is spoilt. ¥ OMELETTE MILLEFEUILLE Take the yolks of seven eggs and two whole eggs. Mix them in a basin with a quarter of a pound of sugar and three tablespoonsful of flour. Add one pint of cream and a teacupful of milk. Then add two ounces of butter just warmed, and the whites beaten to a stiff froth. Have a very small omelette pan, and when quite hot cover the pan with the mixture as thin as possible, and when it is just set turn it out, and lay one on the other till all the mixture is used. Flavour with anything preferred. ¥ SNOW EGGS PLACE in a deep saute pan with cover one quart of new milk, four knobs of sugar, and a little cinna- mon stick. Let this simmer and then remove the cover from the pan. Whisk the whites of six eggs very stiffly, mix into this four ounces of finely-sifted sugar. Mould this with a tablespoon into the shapes of an egg, dropping them into the pan in which is the scalding milk. Let them poach gently. Make a custard of the yolks of thePUDDINGS AND SWEETS 143 six eggs, two ounces of sifted sugar, and half a pint of milk. Pour the custard into a deep dish, then place your snow eggs on the custard piled up in the centre. ¥ CREME SEVILLE Dissolve half an ounce of isinglass into a break- fast-cupful of white wine. Then work some sugar on the rind of a lemon and squeeze the juice into the wine. Let the mixture stand until nearly set, then add a pint of stiffly whipped cream, and add three tablespoonsful of orange marmalade. Mix well and mould. ¥ CREME SOUFFLE WIESBADEN STIR over the fire till thick the yolks of five eggs, the grated rind of one lemon, two and a half ounces of butter, castor sugar. Dissolve eight leaves of gela- tine and let stand till nearly set. Then add a pint of whipped cream and the stiffly whipped whites of five eggs. Pour into a prepared souffle case, and when set strew with Ratafia crumbs and chopped pistachio nuts. CREME AMERICAINE Make a custard of yolks of eggs and thick cream. Put a layer of this in your dish, dust well with white sugar, then salamander it until it looks likeTHE DUDLEY RECIPES caramel. Let it cool, then fill your dish up again with the custard, dust again with sugar and salamander again on the top, and repeat until your dish is full. Set on one side to get cold, and serve with a compote of fruit in another dish. rriWO tablespoonsful of flour, one pint of milk. When it boils add salt and sugar and flavouring to taste. Put a little on a baking sheet, and when browned put in the souffle case and pour the mixture over and serve. ASH a cupful of rice and place it in a stewpan with a pint of new milk, a little sugar and rind of lemon. Cook in the oven until the rice is tender, keeping the lid on the stewpan. When sufficiently cooked, remove the lid and take out the lemon rind then stir into the rice the yolks of three eggs. Take a mould which has been oiled, and pour the rice into the mould. Just before serving, spoon out the centre and fill with Devonshire cream or plain iced cream. Replace a little of the rice to cover the hole, and when set turn it out on to a dish. A compote of fruit, or damson or raspberry syrup, should be served separately with this BOUILLI LOUISA PUDDINGPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 145 FRENCH TAPIOCA CREAM Take one quart of new milk, let it come to the boil. Then stir gently into the milk three table- spoonsful of French tapioca. Let this cook, then turn it into a basin to cool—a little sugar may be added if liked. When cool stir in a pint of thick cream. Pour into a glass dish or silver bowl and serve cold. ¥ HOMINY PUDDING For a small Pudding Take one pint of milk. Let it come to the boil, and work in two tablespoonsful of hominy. Stir until it is well mixed. Let it cook for twenty minutes, then add one gill of cream and a little sugar. Put a little more cream over the pudding before baking it in the oven to give it a good brown skin. TAPIOCA A LA CREME r 11AKE half a teacupful of tapioca ; put it into a J- saucepan. Cover it over with some good sweet milk, and let it boil until quite soft. Then beat up half a pint of cream very stiff; mix the tapioca with it and add a little sugar. This can be served either hot or cold.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 146 PRINCES PUDDING rriHREE fresh eggs, and the weight of the eggs in -L butter and in flour. Beat the butter to a cream, add the eggs one a€ a time, then the flour, and a few tablespoonsful of raspberry jam, a little carbonate of soda diluted in a little milk. Work all together for six minutes, put in a mould and steam for two hours. ¥ BARLEY PUDDING Take two handfuls of pearl barley; put in stew- pan with enough water to cover it. Let this partly boil, then add milk to finish cooking. When done add one gill of cream and a little sugar. Place in the oven to brown over. ¥ POUDING GRIMALDI PUT a layer of thick vanilla custard into a glass bowl and cover with any kind of fruit you have prepared in a thick red syrup. Then cover the fruit with whipped cream, and sprinkle grated chocolate on the top. When raspberries are in season this is very good done with vanilla ice and thick compote of rasp- berries.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 147 LEMON PUDDING A QUARTER pound of butter, sugar, six ounces bread crumbs, two eggs, rind and juice of one lemon. Work well the butter and sugar to a cream. Next work in eggs gradually, lastly the bread crumbs and lemon. Steam in plenty of steam for twenty-five minutes POUDING A L’AMERICAINE Line a bombe mould with puff paste. Bake in the oven a nice brown colour. Have ready any kind of iced cream. Fill up the bombe with it and turn it out on a dish. Pour boiling chocolate over the top and serve at once. CREME BRULEE Make a custard of two yolks and two whole eggs, about a pint of milk and cream, with two table- spoonsful of caramel. Steam in oven till just set. When cold pour cream on the top and serve. POUDING AUX CERISES COOK some rice in new milk until nice and soft and pretty stiff, then add the yolks of four eggs and the whites whipped. Steam in a mould with a pipe forTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 148 three-quarters of an hour. Serve with stoned cherries round that have been cooked in syrup and plenty of brandy in syrup. Thicken with arrowroot or potato flour (the syrup), and serve with whipped cream in centre. ^ MOUSSELINE PUDDING The weight of one egg of butter, sugar and flour. Mix the sugar and butter well together. Break in one egg, and add the flour by degrees. Break in a second egg and a pinch of yeast powder and mix well. Put the mixture into a plain mould well buttered and steam for half an hour. ANOTHER RECIPE ONE and a half ounces of butter, one and a half ounces of sugar, the grated rind and juice of one lemon, the yolks and whites of five eggs separately. Stir the butter, sugar, lemon and eggs over the fire till thick. Whip the whites to a stiff froth and mix in. Steam twenty minutes very gently. PUDDING A LA GOTHA Three-quarters of a pound of dry bread crumbs, six ounces of pounded sugar, half a pint of whipped cream, some grated lemon peel, a littlePUDDINGS AND SWEETS 149 cinnamon pounded, one pound morella cherries (or failing these some preserved ones), eight eggs. Mix all the ingredients in a basin, whip the whites of the eggs to stiff froth and add the rest. Thoroughly grease a plain charlotte mould with butter, strew it well with the bread crumbs, fill the mould with alternate layers of the preparation and cherries. Bake in a moderate oven and serve with cherry sauce. ¥ ALMOND PUDDING (SIR MOSES MONTEFIORE) ONE pound of ground almonds, one pound of sifted sugar, twelve eggs (leave out four whites). Beat it up for three-quarters of an hour and bake it in a slow oven. The above quantity will make three puddings. It is equally good cold and will keep several days. ¥ IRLANDAISE PUDDING INFUSE the peel of one lemon or two, according to taste, in about one pint of milk. Remove, and add about a quarter of a pound of butter. When dissolved stir in two ounces of French sago and sugar to taste. Boil for five minutes. When thickened take off the fire to cool, then add two whole eggs well beaten. SteamTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 150 for three-quarters of an hour and serve with apricot or sabayon sauce. FRANKFORT PUDDING A QUARTER of a pound of brown bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of Jordan almonds, chopped fine, a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, a quarter of a pound of butter, four yolks of eggs. Work all the ingredients to a stiff paste, whip the whites, and steam for half an hour; port or sherry sauce. WAFER PUDDINGS TWO ounces of flour, two ounces of butter fried together. Add half a pint of milk and stir all well together until it boils. Then add the yolks of two eggs and the whites well whipped. Put into saucers and bake about twenty minutes. Flavour according to taste. FRUIT PUDDING CUT some thin slices of stale bread and lay them in a bowl or glass dish. Pour over them a compote of either fresh or bottled fruit—raspberries, strawberries, cherries or any small fruit with plenty of juice which has been stewed in syrup. Whip some thick cream and cover the dish thickly with this and serve cold. ThePUDDINGS AND SWEETS 151 bread can be soaked in kirsch or brandy if this is liked. ¥ MUSCOVITE OF ORANGES The rind of eight oranges, six ounces of loaf sugar, a quarter ounce of leaf gelatine. Put in a basin and pour over a pint of boiling water ; stand to cool, then strain. Add the juice of the oranges strained. Flavour with brandy and put in a mould and freeze for about three hours. Serve with whipped cream. ¥ BABA WITH RUM Half a pound of flour, half an ounce of German yeast, four eggs, two ounces of butter, two ounces of raisins, two ounces of currants, two ounces of sultana raisins. Dissolve the yeast in a little warm milk, not too hot, then add to it the flour and the eggs. Knead it all well together and stand it in a warm place for about an hour; then mix the butter and fruit into it with a little pinch of salt and castor sugar. Have the moulds well buttered, put the mixture into them and let it well rise for about an hour and a half, and bake in a quick oven for twenty minutes, then prepare a syrup, dissolve half a pint of loaf sugar into a pint of water; let it boil a few minutes and then take it off the fire and add to it a half-glass of rum, and pour it over the cake or baba and serve cold.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 152 GENOESE PASTRY A QUARTER of a pound of fresh butter, a quarter of a pound of pounded sugar, a quarter of a pound of flour, three eggs. Whip the butter to a cream; then add alternately some sugar, an egg, some flour, working it well the while. Bake on a baking sheet or in a mould, buttered and papered. ECLAIRS Each to be filled with plain whipped cream or the cream flavoured with chocolate or coffee. For twelve persons boil to full boiling one quarter pound of best butter with seven ounces of water. Add a quarter pound of French flour. In two or three minutes when it is a little dry and set, add three entire eggs incorpo- rating them one at atime very thoroughly with the paste. It is then ready for the oven after gilding the pieces with egg. The oven must not be too hot. The pieces or eclairs will rise in baking to three times the size made. To make these pieces the paste must be squeezed through a linen bag into which is fitted a tin nozzle about the size of a shilling or a little less, to be had at any ironmonger’s. Through this press out the paste in pieces two and a half inches long. When risen and baked the pieces are opened lengthways and filled withPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 153 the whipped cream. If plain cream flavour with vanilla. If you glacer ” them with chocolate boil half a pound of sugar and half a pint of water to the consistency of toffee. Rasp fine one-third of an ordinary cake of chocolate and incorporate this with the melted sugar. This must be used quickly hot. To ^‘glacer” with coffee use icing sugar with essence of coffee rather thick. This is to be used cold. ALMOND CHEESECAKES Blanch four ounces of sweet almonds. Pound them in a mortar with four ounces of loaf sugar, four ounces of butter, the outer rind of a lemon grated, a tablespoonful of sherry, have your patty pans ready lined with puff* paste. Then beat up the pounded mixture with the yolks of six and the whites of three eggs. Fill up the patty pans and bake for quarter of an hour. CHOCOLATE CHEESECAKES A QUARTER pound of pounded almonds, a quarter pound of fresh butter, a quarter pound of pounded sugar, three eggs, some grated chocolate. Place in patty pans previously lined with puff* paste and bake in a moderate oven.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 154 CHOCOLATE PUDDING npLACE in a stewpan the chocolate scraped very ^ fine. Add two tablespoons of flour and two or three lumps of sugar. Mix these over the stove with a small cup of milk until it becomes a fine paste. Then add four yolks of eggs, mixing them thoroughly into the paste. Beat up the whites to a stiff froth, put the previous mixture into this froth, and steam it for from half to three-quarters of an hour. Prepare a mould, butter it, and fold a band of paper lightly round the mould. ¥ COFFEE CREAM FTIAKE half a pint of strong fresh made coffee and A keep quite hot in a bain marie. Mix with it three yolks of eggs, three ounces of castor sugar, and half an ounce of French gelatine. Put the gelatine into a stewpan and mix in the contents of the bain marie until the gelatine is dissolved. Then pass through a tammy, and when cold, but not set, add half a pint of whipped cream and chill this on the ice. ^ AUSTRIAN COLD COFFEE CREAM Take some cold strong coffee, sweeten to taste, half fill with this some jelly glasses, whip some rich cream and fill to the top the glasses with this. Serve as a sweet for lunch with some sponge fingers.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 155 VANILLA SOUFFLE X)UT in a two-quart stewpan: Six ounces of flour, four ounces of sugar, two tablespoonfuls of vanilla sugar, one small pinch of salt. Mix these well with one and a half pints of cold milk, put on the fire till boiling, and stir with a wooden spoon till smooth. Then take off the fire. Break six eggs, put the whites in a whipping bowl, and add the six yolks to the batter. Whip the whites very firm and mix with the batter, stirring very lightly. Pour the whole into a buttered dish and put in the oven. Twenty to twenty- five minutes should be sufficient to cook it. When done, sprinkle with pounded sugar and serve. This like the omelette souffl^ must be served the moment it is out of the oven. ¥ BATTLETTES A LA NEVA WORK a quarter of a pound of butter into a cream. Add three ounces of castor sugar. Work this for fifteen minutes, and add by degrees one ounce of cream of rice, two ounces of flour, half an ounce of Ratafia crumbs and three whole eggs. Colour pale pink with Breton cochineal. Sprinkle some moulds with Ratafia crumbs and bake for forty minutes. For lunch or dinner put into a fancy border mould or little quenelle moulds into a circle, and mask with well reduced apricot jam flavoured with maraschino, andTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 156 put iced cream in the centre. Or it makes a nice cake for tea served quite plain. SMALL tablespoonful of flour mixed with a good tablespoonful of milk. Break one egg and beat all together. Add four more tablespoonsful of milk and one and a half of rum. A slice of lemon should be left in the mixture all the time. Melt some good butter in the frying-pan, and pour over the mixture and stir well all the time. Make your pancakes with one tablespoonful for each one, and sprinkle with sugar when finished. Serve directly they are made. The above recipe was taken at Luchon in the Pyrenees. It makes very light pancakes. BEIGNETS SOUFFLES VANILLA OR ORANGE FLOWER PUT in a stewpan one pint of water, a pinch of salt, a piece of butter the size of a nut. Let this boil together, then work in a quarter of a pound of sifted flour. Stir over the fire till it is a smooth paste and leaves the sides of the pan freely. ^ITien remove to a cool place and work in the eggs one at a time, a little PANCAKES Quantity for TwelvePUDDINGS AND SWEETS 157 s sugar, and about thirty drops of essence of vanilla or orange flower. Have ready some piping lard and drop the mixture into it with your hand about the size of small nuts. Let them fry till they rise, then remove, dust them lightly with a little sifted sugar, and serve quickly and very hot. The beignets rise into small hollow balls, light brown on the outside, and should be light and crisp. ¥ BEIGNETS SOUFFLES PARMESAN FOR A SAVOURY These should be made in the same way as the above, only omitting the sugar and essence, and adding instead to the mixture two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese. The beignets, when served, should also be dusted with finely grated Parmesan. ¥ CHESTNUTS A LTTALIENNE r 11AKE some boiled chestnuts, lay them on a napkin, two at a time and press them together so that you make one of the two. Put them into clarified sugar. Boil them gently for a short time and place them in a baking pan. Sprinkle them thickly with sugar and brown them either with a salamander or in the oven. Squeeze a little lemon juice over them. Serve cold.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 158 CHESTNUTS AND CREAM r 11AKE six or eight large Spanish chestnuts. Make a small hole through each. Place them in a stew- pan with enough water to cover them, also three lumps of sugar. Let them simmer gently until cooked. Then remove the skins and pass lightly through a wire sieve. Have ready some plain whipped cream. Lay in a glass or silver bowl a layer of the grated chestnut, then a layer of cream and so on until the dish is full. Serve with this in a separate dish a compote of oranges flavoured with kirsch. PEACHES MELBA r 11AKE some ripe peaches and halve them. Make some cream ice, flavoured with vanilla, place the halves of the peaches round and over the ice, and pour over all a sauce of the raspberry Melba puree, flavoured with kirsch. ¥ PRALINE ICE Blanch one pound of Jordan almonds, free them from their skins and cut them lengthwise into thin shreds and allow them to dry. Mix four ounces of fine white castor sugar and the whites of two eggs with the strips of almond, but be careful not to break them. Place them on a baking sheet in a slow oven toPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 159 allow them to get caked together and to become a golden brown, turning them with a knife to allow them to be browned the same colour all over. They must be crisp and dry and brown. Whip one pint of thick cream and take a plain bombe mould and place in it the cream and the crisp almonds in alternate layers until the mould is full. Then place the cover on the mould and freeze for one hour and turn out for serving, heaping the crisp almonds on the dish round the ice when served. A Melba sauce should be served separately in a sauce-boat. MELBA SAUCE PASS some fresh raspberry jam through a fine sieve to free it from all seeds. To this puree add a large tablespoonful of kirsch and one of maraschino and serve in a sauce-boat. PEARS OR PEACHES A LA CARLTON Take a very rich frangipan with plenty of butter and yolks of eggs. Flavour with vanilla, sugar, and maraschino. It should be very thick. Put this at the bottom of a silver compote bowl or souffle case, then place the pears or peaches, or any other large fruit, on the top of the frangipan. Then thicken the juice of the fruit with a little cornflour and colour it pink with aTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 160 little Breton cochineal. Pour this over the top of the bowl and put it on the ice to cool. Serve whipped cream with this in a sauce-boat. ¥ CHERRIES ALEXANDRA The French Stoned Cherries for this Dish are TO BE HAD IN BoTTLES AT CoBBETt’s IN PaLL MaLL Take a bottle of the cherries and place them in a stewpan. Thicken with half a teaspoonful of potato flour and add a very little Breton cochineal to give the cherries a bright colour, and also a large wine- glassful of brandy. Serve hot in little China pots or silver pans with handles, sold for the purpose. ^ PEACHES PARISIENNE PUT some fresh or tinned peaches which have been halved at the bottom of a souffle case. Pour over them some blackberry jelly which has been dis- solved and mixed with some liqueur or brandy. Then put a layer of peeled walnuts (not too many), then another layer of peaches, and so on until the dish is full. Put the dish into an ice pan without salt for four hours. Whip some thick cream and put it into a charlotte mould and ice this also. Turn out and serve it with the peaches, but in a separate dish.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 161 COMPOTE OF BLACK CURRANT Make a good custard, and when it is cold put it in custard glasses. Stew some black currants in a strong syrup and put on the top of the custard in the glasses. Then put on some more custard and pour over the top a thin caramel syrup. ¥ COMPOTE OF PRUNES WITH CREAM PUT half a pound of prunes into a stewpan and a little lemon peel and some sugar. Add water to cover them and stew till soft, then pass through a wire sieve. Add some gelatine—about six sheets. Put into a mould, and serve whipped cream in the centre. ¥ COUPE JAQUE Make a good compote of fruits, flavour with kirsch and maraschino, and let it soak in this for some hours. Then freeze a lemon water very stiff, also a strawberry cream, or any other pink cream ice would do. Serve in custard glasses, a small piece of lemon ice in the bottom, then some fruit drained from the syrup, strawberry ice on top, and garnish with one cheny and chopped almonds. Serve at once.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 162 MACEDOINE Make of every available fruit—fresh only—pine, peach, nectarine, grapes, cherries and currants. Peel and stir them, and cut them into small pieces. Then take a small flat pan and cover the bottom with powdered sugar, and place the fruit mixed up in layers with sugar between each layer. Let it stand, probably about five or six hours, until all the sugar is dis- solved. Then mix it well, and place the pan in ice and salt to be thoroughly chilled, taking care not to let it freeze completely. When in the ice, stir in two tablespoons of creme de noyau or kirsch. It should stand in the ice for two hours before serving in glass or silver mugs. This is enough for ten or twelve persons. ¥ PEARS IN SYRUP fTlAKE six good dessert pears. Peel them, and put them into a stewpan with sufficient water to cover them. Add two ounces of sugar and the peel off the pears. Let them simmer until tender, then re- move them to cool. Put them into a silver bowl or glass dish and pour over them the syrup in which they were cooked, made clear. A tablespoonful of brandy can be added if liked. This dish to be served cold.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS 163 FILBERT ICE CREAM TO one quart of cream add one pound of filberts, twelve ounces of sugar or one pint of syrup. Break the nuts and roast the kernels in the oven. When done, pound these with a little cream and make a custard. Then mix and finish by freezing. $ BISCUIT FRAPPE Prepare some Genoese or sponge cake and some jelly, but not too stiff. Prepare a mould with a little jelly at the bottom and put the mould into ice During this cut some round slices of cake, seven or eight, and rather smaller than the mould. Spread apricot jam on them and soak them in brandy-jelly and pack the moulds with slices of cake, one on the top of the other, then fill up the mould with the remainder of the jelly, put a cover on and freeze it (with salt) for one hour, according to the size of the mould. Serve with apricot jam and maraschino. ICE SOUFFLE The usual ice souffle is made with a pint of good syrup of the flavour required and twelve yolks of eggs whisked in an egg bowl over hot ashes till quite light inTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 164 appearance like a forni sponge cake batter. This mixture must be put into a prepared souffle dish and placed in a water-tight circular tin box with a well- fitting lid and frozen. Three or four hours should freeze it. ¥ MOUSSE OF STRAWBERRIES OR RASPBERRIES PASS two pounds of the fresh fruit through a silk sieve, add two ounces of castor sugar, half a lemon and one quart of whipped thick cream. Mix lightly and freeze in a souffle bowl. Then make a hollow in the centre and fill in with some of the fruit which has been prepared and tossed in some of the puree. Cover the fruit over with the iced fruit cream and make the top smooth. Do not freeze it again but send it straight to table, otherwise if too much frozen the fruit will become hard. ¥ OATMEAL CREAM ICE Any quantity of whipped cream, flavoured with vanilla and a little sugar. When nearly frozen and just before serving stir in some coarse oatmeal which has been well dried in the oven without becoming brown. Serve enough in a glass dish.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS T 165 STRAWBERRY ICE SOUFFLE ri1WO ounces of sugar, three yolks of eggs, the juice of a pound of fruit. Put the whole into a good sized bain marie pan and whip in a pan of hot water until stiff and frothy. Then whip in the ice until cold. Add three tablespoonsful of whipped cream, then add the last two whites of eggs whipped very stiff. Put into large or small souffle cases and freeze not less than two hours. LEMON WATER ICE Y>UT four lemons into a boiler with a quarter pound of sugar. Let this boil for ten minutes. Squeeze the juice of the lemons into it, leave till cold, strain through a fine cloth. A quarter of an hour will freeze it sufficiently if well set. Orange water ice is made exactly the same. ¥ SWEET JELLY A Useful Recipe for Invalids r 11AKE four calves’ feet and free them from the long bone. Place them in a stewpan and cover them with cold water. Let them come to the boil. They will throw up a dark scum, the stewpan, therefore, must be placed under the cold water tap until the calves’ feetTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 166 are thoroughly washed clean and free from all scum. Then return them to the stove with about three quarts of water. Let this boil gently for eight or nine hours imtil the calves’ feet are quite cooked and the water reduced to half the quantity. Strain through a soup cloth and allow it to stand until next day. Then carefully take off all fat from the surface, cleaning it with a little kitchen paper. Place this in a stewpan with half a pound of loaf sugar, the thin outside rind of four oranges and of fom* lemons, also the juice of eight oranges and of six lemons, a few coriander seeds and the whites of eight eggs. Mix all together and stir over the fire until it boils. Pour through the jelly bag which has been washed in clean hot water. The jelly must be very clear. Add what- ever wine is preferred for flavouring, Madeira being the best. N.B.—Jelly can be made of the French leaf gelatine instead of the calves’ feet. Take half a pound of French leaf gelatine and soak it, adding, after it is well soaked, two quarts of water and the same preparations of ingredients as for the calves’ foot jelly. DEVONSHIRE JUNKET A LARGE wineglassful of best pale brandy, or whiskey, in a glass dish. Add a quart of new milk just warm, a little pounded sugar to taste, and one and a half tablespoonsful of rennet (Stone’s almondPUDDINGS AND SWEETS 167 flavoured is best), stir it altogether and leave it to cool. It must not be moved for twenty minutes. Then fill up the dish with thick cream, and dust a little grated nut- meg over the top. It can be served after it is cool. SALTED ALMONDS T3LANCH some almonds and lay them to soak for five hours in very strong salt and water. Then rub them dry in a cloth and frizzle them over the fire until they are crisp and a light brown. Serve very hot.SAVOURIESSome men are born to feast and not to fights Whose sluggish minds ^en in fair honour"'s field Still on their dinner turn. Joanna Baillie ¥ We may live without poetry^ music and art^ We may live without conscience and live without hearty We may live without friends^ we may live without booJcs^ But civilised man cannot live without cooTcs— He may live without books—what is knowledge but grieving^ He may live without hope—what is hope but deceiving^ He may live without love—what is passion but pining^ But where is the man that can live without dining. The Eaul of Lytton from “Lucille**It is the nature of a dainty appetite to taste many dishes. Seneca ¥ The turnpike road to the Peoples's hearts I find Lies through their mouths^ or I mistake mankind. Dr. Warton After a good dinnei one can forgive anybody^ even one^s own relations. Wilde Even the great Napoleon could not dine twice. Alphonse Karr The feast is good until the reclining come. RaleighA well filled body does not believe in hunger; it is all very well to preach fasting with a fidl stomach.SAVOURIES 173 X GONDOLAS DE CAMEMBERT r 11AKE some little oblong cases of light half-puff paste and bake them. Take a little chicken forcemeat, mix it with cream and a few spots of mixed mustard, and half a Camembert cheese passed through a wire sieve. Season and mix all together lightly. Take a piping bag and fill the cases, and over half the top of each place the yolk of an egg boiled hard and passed through the sieve and over the other half rasped bread crumbs. Place in the oven for a few minutes to set and serve very hot. CROUTES A LA PARMESAN rflAKE some slices of bread about a quarter of an -L inch thick, cut with a small round cutter as many rounds as required, then soak them thoroughly in melted butter, roll them well in grated Parmesan cheese, then place them on a baking sheet. Bake to a nice brown in a hot oven. Have ready some thick white sauce, add a little grated Parmesan, a pinch of cayenne pepper and salt. When the croutes are sufficiently brown, put a little sauce between every two, bake the sandwich and serve very hot.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 174 CHEESE FRITTERS Take two large spoonsful of cornflour and one of ordinary flour and mix in a little cold milk. Then pour on this one pint of boiling milk. Work it all into a creamy mixture, then put it on the fire to boil again for some minutes. Then remove and work in the yolks of three eggs, adding a little cayenne and salt and some grated Parmesan cheese. Pour the mixture into little Dariole moulds to get cold, then turn them out and egg and bread-crumb them and fry. These fritters should be served very hot and a little creamy in the middle. ICED CHEESE ri^WO gills of whipped cream and about a table- spoonful of grated Parmesan cheese, a small pinch of cayenne pepper, and a pinch of salt. Put to freeze either in a small tin with a lid or spread the mixture on a sheet of foolscap paper and put on ice tin frozen. ICED CHEESE Another Recipe TWO ounces of dry American cheese, half a pint of cream, as much cayenne as will cover a thi’eepenny piece, a pinch of salt and a little pepper, also a tea- spoonful of made mustard. Mix the grated cheese withSAVOURIES 175 the yolk of one egg, then add the seasonings and lastly the cream. Mix all very smoothly and pour into a square mould. (A small mustard canister will answer the purpose.) Freeze in the usual manner for three hours, and when about to serve turn it out of the mould. It can be cut into neat small pieces and dished up in a circular form with small pieces of parsley to garnish it. FONDEE OF GRUYERE For six persons take six eggs, two ounces of best butter, and four ounces of gruyere. Beat up the eggs in a stewpan, then add the butter and the cheese, which has been rasped fine. Place the stewpan on a stove or hot plate and stir until the contents are soft and thick, then add a little salt and black pepper, and serve as hot as possible. PETITES CREMES AU FROMAGE Line some croustade moulds or quenelle moulds with thin pastry and bake a light brown colour. Fill with the following mixture: Three or more table- spoonsful of whipped cream, seasoned with mustard, cayenne pepper and salt. Stir in enough Parmesan cheese to make it a stiff consistency. Fill the pastry cases and sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese and cayenne pepper over. The same mixture for Biscuits an Frontage a laTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 176 Creme, Bake the biscuits the size of half a crown, put a little of the cream mixture between and serve. TOASTED CHEESE IN CASES r I lAKE a quarter of a pound of best red American cheese—or best Cheshire—cut up very fine. Place on fire in a stewpan with about one gill of thick cream. Let this melt to a thick creamy substance. Take off* the fire and stir in the yolks of two eggs. Pour into silver cases and pass^ salamander over to give a nice light brown colour on top. % BOILED CHEESE TWO ounces of butter, two eggs, four ounces of good English cheese—this is to be cut in thin slices. Put the cheese in a small pan with one table- spoonful of cream and two ounces of butter. Let it boil over a slow fire, stirring one way all the time, till it boils and is quite smooth. Take the pan off* the fire and break the eggs into it, stir up briskly, put it into a dish, and let it brown before the fire or in the oven, till it is about the consistency of custard pudding. WELSH RABBIT MIX four ounces of double Gloucester cheese or red American with one gill of cream, a spot or two of mixed mustard, and a little cayenne. WhenSAVOURIES 177 mixed over the fire it will become smooth and creamy. Then add two yolks of eggs. Pour this over buttered toast and let it get very hot. Pass the salamander over it and serve in a hot dish. TOASTED CHEESE SLICE the cheese very thin (the newer the better), lay it in a dish, put some butter on top and about two good tablespoonsful of cream. Place in quick oven for ten minutes and serve. ¥ CROUTES A LA MORRISON rilO one gill of cream add two ounces of grated Parmesan cheese, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Mix well together and freeze. Serve on small cheese biscuits, which are composed of a cheese straw mixture, or on croutes, ¥ BEIGNETS FOR CAVIARE rilEN ounces of flour, half a pint of cream, half an ounce of yeast, half a pint of warm water—a little salt, a little whipped white of egg. Set a sponge the same as for bread. When well risen fry in clarified butter like little pancakes. Serve the beignets hot with caviare in jar handed round at the same time.THE dudi:ey recipes 178 CROUTES A LA CHANTILLY /^UT a slice of bread—not too thick—toast crisp and cut into rounds with a cutter. Whip some cream rather stiff, mix with it grated or finely chopped ham or tongue. Spread this high on to the croutes, then shake a little finely grated ham on the top and serve. TARTELETTES VENDOME A QUARTER pound of mushrooms, one ounce of marrow, three hard-boiled eggs, a little parsley and shalots chopped separately very fine. Take a saucepan with a little butter and oil in it. Let it get very hot and brown the shalots, add the mushrooms, which should also be a little fried. Then add the chopped eggs, marrow, and parsley. Add a few drops of extract of beef, a pinch of salt and cayenne. Put a little of the mixture in each tartlet, lay a piece of maiTOw on the top. Bake for ten minutes in a very hot oven and serve very hot. BLOATER CROUTES Bone two bloaters, pound them, add the yolk of one egg, a small piece of butter, a little cayenne, a little Worcestershire sauce, pass through a sieve and place it on fried croutes. Put a little soft roe on top and sprinkle with Parmesan cheese and serve.SAVOURIES 179 CROUTES OF HAM UT some small rounds of bread and fry them a golden brown. Make some good buttered eggs. Place this on the croutes. Sprinkle on the top some finely chopped or grated ham, and serve very hot. Fry some round croutes of bread in clear butter. Remove the centre of the croute, and fill it in with tongue chopped very fine, mixed with a little white sauce and cream. Season with cayenne pepper. Pile the mixture all over the croute and serve very hot. ¥ CROUTES DE FOIE DE VOLAILLE Take three or four sets of chickens'* livers, one tablespoonful of grated or chopped ham, one ditto of chopped mushrooms, a little chopped onion, cayenne pepper and salt to taste. Chop the livers very fine and fry in a little butter with the onion. Then add the ham and mushrooms. Season and bind all together with one teaspoonful of good brown sauce. Pile on croutes of fried bread and serve very hot. Bone and skin one cooked Finnan haddock, six pieces of lax, six capers, one teaspoonful of anchovy essence, one ounce of butter, a little cayenne ¥ CROUTES OF TONGUE ¥ CROUTES A LA BELGRAVETHE DUDLEY RECIPES 180 and black pepper, a little of the gravy the haddock was cooked in. Pound all together and pass through a wire sieve. Spread on fingers of fried bread and garnish with thin strips of red chillies. SARDINE CROUTES SKIN and bone a dozen sardines. Pound them in a mortar with one teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, one teaspoonful of Harvey sauce, a pinch of cayenne pepper, a pinch of salt and of black pepper. Pass through a wire sieve, then add two tablespoonsful of whipped cream. PJace a little of this mixture on small round croutes previously soaked in butter and put them in a hot oven for about five minutes. ¥ COLD SALMON SAVOURY Make a foundation of cold puree of salmon—then cut circles of bread (from one inch to one and a half across) cover each alternately with grated yellow of egg, white of egg, and caviare and a little grated parsley over the whole. ANCHOVY BUTTER Take some anchovies and pound them in a mortar with fresh butter (average two ounces of butter to six ounces of the anchovy fish). Colour with parsley, a handful of which has been boiled and allowed to getSAVOURIES 181 Y cold, pass it all through a sieve and put it on the ice for two hours, serve in small pats, or on rounds of thin toast. ANCHOVY SANDWICHES WITH CUSTARD Take a savoury custard. Break three whole eggs into a basin, add two tablespoonsful of cream, half a gill of strong stock, a little nutmeg, pepper and salt. Beat this up with a fork till well mixed. Strain the mix- ture into a plain mould which has been lightly buttered to prevent its sticking to the mould while it is being gently steamed over a slow fire in a covered stewpan containing a little hot water. When the custard has become firm to the touch, which will take about half an hour, allow it to become cold, and, after having turned it out upon the plate, cut it with a small round cutter. Have ready some anchovy butter to spread upon small rounds of bread cut the same size as your custard; place a round of custard about a fourth of an inch in thickness between two rounds of bread and anchovy butter. Dish up. ¥ CROUTES OF ANCHOVY T11AKE twelve anchovies and soak them. Skin and bone and pound in a mortar with the yolks of three eggs and two ounces of fresh butter. Pass through a hair sieve. Fry some round croutes of bread—pileTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 182 the mixtures on to the croutes and season with a very little cayenne. Cover the tops of the croutes with some grated hard-boiled eggs—using both the yolk and the white mixed. Lay on the top of all some finely cut strips of the anchovy and serve hot. EGGS AND ANCHOVY A LA BRAVO Boil the eggs hard. Cut in half and take out the yolks. Throw the whites into warm water. Put the yolks into a stewpan with three ounces of butter and six anchovies all beaten together and seasoned to taste. Let them get hot through and fill the whites. Make a rich sauce and throw over them and serve either hot or cold according to taste. FAILLES D’ANCHOIS Rub two ounces of flour with three-quarters of an ounce of butter till quite smooth ; then add to a saltspoonful of anchovy essence, about six drops of cochineal, a dust of cayenne pepper and half an egg. Mix all together with a teaspoonful of cold water, and then roll out thin. Cut into fingers about two inches long by one wide. Prick well with a fork and bake in a moderate oven. When cold arrange with anchovy butter like a sandwich. Spread a little more on the top and sprinkle a little chopped parsley and white of hard-boiled egg on half and the yolk on the other half.SAVOURIES 183 ANCHOVY TOASTS UT a slice of tin loaf or French roll about two inches in diameter and fry it in good clarified butter or fat. Spread it with anchovy fish nicely rubbed through a sieve, then place a few strips of anchovy fish. Sprinkle a little Parmesan cheese on top and serve hot. Take the fillets of six sardines, put them into the mortar, adding two ounces of the freshest butter. Pound well together, put it into a small basin, add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce (more or less according to taste) and a little cayenne pepper. If the paste is too hard add a little thick cream and work it with a spoon like a puree. Cut the bread very thin and spread it with the paste. On the top of the sandwich put a very little butter and powder with the yellow of a hard- boiled egg which has been through a hair sieve. The same can be used on squares of toast as an entremet. Blanch half a pound of Jordan almonds, wipe them dry and put two ounces of butter or oil in a frying-pan. When quite hot fry the almonds until brown, but frying them gently. Drain them on a hair sieve and dust them lightly with cayenne. To be served very hot. ¥ ANCHOVY SANDWICH FRIED ALMONDSTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 184 OATMEAL CAKES FOR SAVOURY OR FOR BREAKFAST SOAK four ounces of Scotch oatmeal in half a pint of milk. Add two tablespoonsful of flour, three ounces of beef suet, chopped fine, and a little black pepper and salt. Work this into cakes with the hand and a knife Shape into small round flat cakes, having a little flour on your board, then fry on both sides for a few minutes in hot bacon fat. When cooked through dry them on paper and serve very hot on a napkin like scones. DEVILLED WATER BISCUITS Take six water biscuits, dip them in warm fresh butter and black pepper. Grill them each side until light brown and crisp, basting them with the butter. Then pour a little more butter over them and serve very hot. Some grated Parmesan cheese can be served with the biscuits. ¥ DEVILLED BISCUITS Huntley and Palmer’s water biscuits. Spread each one with a good layer of fresh butter, a little cayenne, and Parmesan cheese. Put in a very hot oven. When taken out put a small piece of butter on each and serve very hot.EGG AND BREAKFAST DISHESIf I were to fast for my life 1 would eat a good breakfast in the morning. Such dainties to them their health it might hurt— Ifs like sending them ruffles^ when wanting a shirty Who mixed reason with pleasure and wisdom with mirth. Ketaliation ¥ Better ill-fed than ill-bred. Highly fed and lowly taught. Shakespeare No one is so laughable as when he is hungry. Plautus / suspect that hunger was my mother. PlautusBreakfast makes good mermry. Eabelais Whatsoever was the father of disease^ an ill diet was the mother. A good honesty wholesome^ hungry breakfast. IZAAK WALTON Yet who can help loving the hand that has taught us six hundred and eighty-five ways to dress eggs ? Moore Meals and Matins hinder no man's journey. From the Latin Eggs badly boiled are good things spoiled.He that would eat a good dinner let him eat a good breakfasUEGGS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 2 A 189 EGGS A L'AURORE For Six Persons Make a good Bechamel sauce—about a pint—and season. Add one gill of thick cream. Boil six eggs for ten minutes, shell them and cut the whites into fine shreds, and mix them in the sauce. When hot and well mixed pour into a fireproof dish—pass the yolks through a coarse hair sieve—shake this over the mixture lightly, add a few bits of butter on the top and place in the oven till hot. ANOTHER RECIPE FOR EGGS AURORE For Three Persons r 11AKE three-quarters of a pint of boiling milk—infuse in it during half an hour one onion, one carrot, one bay leaf, thyme and two bunches of parsley. Melt two ounces of butter and two tablespoonsful of flour— mix well and pour it on the boiling milk until it becomes a creamy sauce, stirring it all the time. Boil six eggs (very fresh) for eight minutes. When yourTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 190 sauce is ready pass it through the muslin and add a good-sized piece of butter. Cut the eggs as fine as possible (suppressing a little of the white), mix the white with the sauce. Put into a well-buttered fire- proof dish, powdering the top of the mixture with some hard-boiled yolk of egg which you have passed through the sieve. Put into the oven for a few minutes to brown, taking care that the oven is not too hot, and serve. ¥ OEUFS A LA SUISSE Break a very fresh egg into a cup (or small pan made for the purpose) sprinkle over it a pinch of salt and pepper. Pour over it enough rich milk or thin cream nearly to cover the egg. Place it in the oven to poach for three or four minutes and serve quickly. A very little Parmesan cheese sprinkled over the egg before the milk is added is considered by some to be an improvement. The cup must be buttered before the egg is broken into it. EGGS BECHAMEL Take six new laid eggs, boil for ten minutes. Remove the shells and cut the eggs into quarters longways. Make a creamy Bechamel sauce with a gill of cream added and a little salt, and grated Parmesan cheese. Place the quarters of eggs in a fireproof dish,EGGS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 191 pour the sauce over them until the dish is full. Lastly sprinkle a very little more grated Parmesan over them and add some pieces of butter. Place the dish in the oven to brown a golden colour and serve very hot. ¥ EGGS A LA TURQUE Take some cocotte pots and place in the bottom of each a little finely chopped chicken liver seasoned. Break into each pot a new-laid egg. Cover the egg with a little good consomme essence, a drop of lemon juice and a leaf of tarragon. Let poach in the oven and serve very hot for lunch. ¥ RUMBLED EGGS FOR EIGHT PERSONS Take four whole eggs and the yolks of two, six ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of water. Put these in a stewpan and season with salt and pepper. Stir over the fire with a whisk till the mixture thickens. Stir in a little more butter if required. Either serve plain or on toast, or mix in half a pint of picked shrimps some grated ham or sauted kidney, which should have been previously cooked, and mixed with a little good essence.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 192 EGGS GRATIN 111AKE six new-laid eggs and boil them for seven minutes. Place them in their shells in cold water for a short time, then break off the shells, being very careful not to break the white of the egg. Have ready some croutes the size and shape of the eggs hollowed in the centres, and fried in butter a golden brown. Soak the croutes with white wine; let this dry, and fry the croutes crisp again. Place an egg on each croute, and cover over with a very good cream sauce made with Bechamel sauce, half a gill of cream, and two table- spoonsful of grated Parmesan cheese. Season, sprinkle a little more Parmesan cheese over the eggs, and lay on them some small pieces of butter. Place this under a grill to get very hot and to gratin, but not to harden the eggs. DEVILLED HAM MIX sufficient plain mustard with salt, black pepper, cayenne pepper, a few drops of Wor- cester sauce, water, and one tablespoonful of mayonnaise to make a paste thicker than ordinary mustard when mixed. Have thin slices of fat cooked ham, and spread the above paste thickly on one side, then place on, or in, a gridiron. Grill the paste side firsts then the plain side, and serve very hot. You will find that the paste side colours very quickly on account of the mayonnaise.EGGS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 193 Sauce to serve separately Take a spoonful of good curry sauce. Add a little Bengal chutney and sufficient mustard paste to taste, and boil all together. A little tomato sauce can be added if liked. AN EXCELLENT RECIPE FOR DEVILLED CHICKEN OR GAME Take about two ounces of butter, half a table- spoonful of mustard, a tablespoonful of flour, pepper, and salt. Mix well together on a plate with a pallet knife, then add one large tablespoonful of Harvey sauce and one of Lea and Perrin’s Worcester sauce. Mix well. Mask over your pieces of chicken or game. Then take each piece and dip it in egg and bread crumb. Butter it well^ and place it under a grill till golden brown. Serve with a few drops of demi-glaze over it. RECIPE FOR GRILL First grill chicken, game, or bones of lamb or mutton in a good quantity of fresh butter. Make following sauce : a small quantity of Worcester, a little mustard, and a small quantity of Bengal Club chutney. Put these ingredients into a saucepan, make them hot,THE DUDLEY RECIPES 194 and pour over the grill and butter. The grill to be turned over once or twice with a fork and served, SAUTED CHICKEN LIVERS FOR BREAKFAST Take six chicken livers and divide them in halves. See that they are very fresh and free from gall. Place in a stewpan a piece of fresh butter and a little onion chopped very fine. Let this fry for one minute, then add the livers and fry them quickly a nice light brown. Add a little meat essence, a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, and serve very hot for break- fast. This dish must be served at once, otherwise the livers become hard, which spoils them. Grouse livers can be substituted for chicken livers, and this dish is equally good as a savoury, ¥ A BREAKFAST DISH Kidneys cooked in their Fat Take three fresh sheep’s kidneys, without removing their fat, cut into rounds about half an inch in thickness. Dip them in cream and season, then dip them into flour, and fry in bacon fat a golden brown on each side. Serve very hot on rounds of toast or fried bread.EGGS AND BREAKFAST DISHES 195 SCRAPED BEEF To BE SERVED FOR BrEAKFAST OR LuNCH Take two pounds of Hamburg hung beef. Boil it gently for about two hours. Take it out of the pan and let it get cold. Remove all skin and out- side.” Scrape it with a meat grater sold for the pur- pose, and serve piled on a napkin or dessert paper. PINK HASH An American Recipe for Breakfast or Lunch Take some very tender raw smoked beef, cut it into very fine pieces like a julienne. Put it into a stewpan with cold water until it boils, then drain off the water, add some cream, and put it back on to the fire. Thicken it with some fresh butter and a little flour worked in at the last moment. The cooking should take fifty minutes. The smoked beef can be obtained from Jackson, grocers in Piccadilly, in glass jars.BEVERAGES AND SYRUPSPlenty is the child of peace. W. Peynne Breaking through the chills of ceremony and selfishness and thawing every heart into a fiow. Washington Ieving No woman should marry a teetotaler or a man who does not smoke. Robeet Louis Stevenson Now stir the fire and close the shutters fast^ Let fall the curtains^ wheel the sofa rounds And while the bubbling a/nd loud hissing um Throws up a steamy column^ and the cups That cheer^ but not inebriate^ wait on each^ So let us welcome peaceful evening in. COWPEEThey eat^ they drrnk^ and m communion sweet Quaff immortality and joy. Milton ¥ Drink makes men hungry or it makes them lie. George Wilkins (17th Century) Kent, sir, everybody knows Kent! Apples, cherries, hops and women. Pickwick Papers Dr. Boteler said of strawberries: Doubtless God could have made a better berry, but doubtless God never did.'"'" IzAAK Walton ¥ The feast of reason and the flow of sold. PopeRare things please us; so there is greater relish for the earliest fruit of the season; and roses in winter command a high price. MartialBEVERAGES AND SYRUPS 2 c 201 CLEAR BARLEY WATER ONE quarter pound of barley, well washed, to half a gallon of boiling water, two lumps of sugar, and the rind of two lemons. Cut very thin, care being taken to pare the yellow rind for the barley water, throwing away the white inside skin. Allow it to get cold, then strain. HOCK OR MOSELLE CUP ONE bottle of hock or moselle, two bottles of soda water, one wineglassful of brandy, one wineglass- ful of dry cura9oa. Break in some lumps of ice, one sprig of borage, and some slices of orange, strawberries, cherries, or other fruit if liked. The soda water should be added just before serving, and it can be iced or not as preferred. Cider cup is prepared in the same way. CLARET CUP POUR into a jug one bottle of light claret. Put in with it a sprig of burrage or cucumber, the peel of half a lemon, and a piece of ice. Let standTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 202 for twenty or thirty minutes. Then add one dessert- spoonful of castor sugar, a liqueur glass of brandy, and two bottles of well-iced seltzer or soda water. Serve at once. ¥ TEA CUP MIX a quart of well-boiled tea, one quarter green and three-quarters black with a bottle of apol- linaris water, a little sugar, some lemon, and bur- rage and ice. Then place this mixture on the ice until thoroughly chilled and add a wineglassful of dry cura^oa. Lemon peel is better than the juice. Take care only to use the thin yellow rind of the lemon. ¥ CHOCOLATE For a breakfast cup take one and a half ounces of chocolate, half vanille is the best. Having broken this up into small pieces put them into the chocolate pot and pour a very little scalding water upon the pieces. When they are soft and melted, but not before, add hot water and set it to boil, stining it briskly all the time, until the whole becomes liquid and frothy. When prepared with milk instead of water only one ounce of chocolate is required for each cup.BEVERAGES AND SYRUPS 203 TO MAKE COCOA FROM THE NIBS PUT into a stewpan four tablespoons of nibs and an egg-shell. Let this with two pints of water simmer gently for four hours. Then pass through a hair sieve into a basin. Put the nibs back into a stew- pan with a quart more cold water and let it simmer for three hours. Then strain through the sieve as before into the first quantity. Next morning set this to boil gently for two hours before serving. Be careful to put the nibs into cold water and let them simmer, not boil. Boiling quickly even for five minutes makes the colour brown and renders the taste bitter. HOT CHOCOLATE (AUSTRIAN RECIPE) Rasp about a quarter of a pound of chocolate and dissolve with a very little boiling water. Then pour on to this gradually two pints of new milk, work- ing it well with a wooden stick with crossed pieces of wood on bottom. The chocolate must be stirred with this stick worked between the hands incessantly whilst it is boiling to make it into a froth. Serve at once and very hot whilst it is frothy. Some whipped cream should be served with it to put on the tops of the cups of chocolate.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 204 ICED COFFEE ^yrAKE about two pints of good strong coffee from -D-L freshly roasted and freshly ground coffee berries. Sweeten a little to taste. Boil one pint of milk and half a pint of cream and add to the coffee when cold. Freeze and serve in glass jugs, with some whipped cream served separately. UT the oranges quite entire into a jar. Pour the brandy over them and leave them to soak for ten days, stirring all the oranges up every day. Make a syrup of fine white sugar and mix with the brandy after the oranges are taken out. Then bottle it. Twelve pounds of oranges are enough for two dozen quarts of brandy, and three pounds of fine white sugar with a pint of water for the syrup. PUT a pound of very fine raspberries in a bowl bruise them well, and pour upon them a quart of the best white wine vinegar. Next day strain the liquor on a pound of fresh ripe raspberries; bruise them also, and on the following day do the same, but ORANGE BRANDY RASPBERRY VINEGARBEVERAGES AND SYRUPS 205 do not squeeze the fruity or it will make it ferment, only drain the liquor as dry as you can from it. Finally, pass it through a canvas bag previously wet with the vinegar to prevent waste. Put the juice into a stone jar with a pound of sugar (broken into lumps) to every pint of juice. Stir, and when settled put the jar into a pan of water. Let it simmer and skim it. Let it cool, then bottle it. When cold it will be fine and thick like strained honey newly prepared. STRIP the currants from the stalks and bruise the fruit a little. Put just enough water in the pan to prevent burning, and let it simmer till all the juice is drawn out. Strain through a sieve or a jelly bag, if wanted very char^ and to each pint of juice add one pound of sugar. Boil quickly till it is nearly a jelly. RUSH the raspberries a little, and put on a clear fire to gently draw out the juice. Let it simmer for about half to three-quarters of an hour, then strain through a hair sieve, and to each pint of juice allow three-quarters of a pound of crushed sugar and CURRANT SYRUP Red and White RASPBERRY SYRUPTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 206 boil up quickly for about half an hour, skimming it well and stirring all the time. This is excellent to serve with ices and puddings, as also is DAMSON SYRUP PUT the damsons in a preserving pan and partly cover with water, and let simmer well for a good two hours; then strain the juice through a sieve, and to each pint of juice add three-quarters of a pound of sugar, stirring constantly and skimming off* the scum. $ COWSLIP WINE PULL the yellow flowers off* the cowslips. To every gallon of water weigh three pounds of lump sugar. Boil the quantity for half an hour, taking off* the scum as it rises. When cool enough, put to it a crust of toasted bread dipped in thick yeast. Let the liquor ferment in the tub for thirty-six hours, then into the tub put for every gallon the juice of two lemons and the rind of one, and both the juice and the rind of one Seville orange. Take one gallon of the cowslip flower tips and pour on them the liquor. This must be carefully stirred every day for a week, then to every five gallons of the liquor put in one bottle of brandy.BEVERAGES AND SYRUPS 207 Let the cask be closely stopped and stand only six weeks before you bottle off. Be careful to use the best corks. P.S.—Boil the rind of the lemon and orange with the sugar, it makes the wine a better colour. This is an excellent old recipe for cowslip wine. WHITE WINE WHEY XT ALE a pint of milk, bring it to the boil. Add three-quarters of a wineglass of dry sherry, stir till it curdles, then strain through two or three pieces of muslin. This is excellent for a cold. ¥ THE WAY TO MAKE GOOD COFFEE COFFEE to be good should be freshly roasted, and it should be ground immediately before using. If coffee is kept when it is ground it loses its flavour. It should be made in a double fire-proof earthenware coffee-pot, and the coffee should be put into the filter on the top of the pot. Boiling water should be poured on to the coffee—little by little, and very gently— allowing it to filter through into the pot two or three times, until the coffee has attained the strength youTHE DUDLEY RECIPES desire. Coffee is really best served in the earthenware pot in which it is made. For breakfast, the hot milk served with coffee is greatly improved by having a little whipped cream whipped into the hot milk so as to give the milk a froth. Coffee should be served very hot.CAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC.Grudge rwt another what ye canna get yoursel. Grumbling makes the loaf no larger^ growling will not make the kettle boil. Upon the question—what is the worst bread which is eaten?—one answered in respect of the coarseness thereof—Bread made of beans.'"'' Another said^ Bread made of acorns.'"'" But the third hit the truth and saUd^ Bread taken out of other merHs mouths^ who are the true proprietors thereof ”—such bread may be sweet in the mouth to taste^ but it is not wholesome to the stomach to digest. Thos. Fuller ¥ If you wish to grow thinner diminish your dinner And take to light claret instead of pale ale^ Look down with an utter contempt upon butter And never touch bread till ifs toasted—or stale.A wife's art is displayed in a table well laid. Dry bread at home is better than roast meat abroad. A little and good fills the trencher. Hebrew Hunger is the mother of impatience and anger. Zimmerman ¥ Digest me no digestions. The Earl op Essex to Sir R. Cecil, 1594 The apples she had gathered smelt most sweety The cakes she kneaded was the savoury meat; But fruits their odour lost and meats their taste If gentle Abra had not decked the feast ; Dishonoured did the sparkling goblet stand Unless received from gentle AbrcCs hand. Matthew PriorAs hungry as hawks. IzAAK WaltonCAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC. 2e 213 BARM BRACK Plum Bread for Breakfast, Lunch, or Tea ONE pound of fine flour, three ounces fresh butter, three ounces sifted sugar, six ounces of currants or sultanas, half an ounce of German yeast, one or two eggs:—Mix part of flour and yeast into a stiff batter and stand in a warm place to rise. With the rest of the flour and the other ingredients, mix well together. When the batter is light make it up into dough and leave it for an hour to rise. Then make into two or three round bracks, according to the size required. Put them on a baking sheet and leave them again for half an hour to rise. Before the bracks are put into the oven beat up the yolk of an egg, and with your paste brush glaze them over and bake in a moderate oven. PLAIN SODA SCOTCH SCONES ONE pound of flour, one quarter ounce of carbonate of soda, one quarter ounce cream of tartar and a little salt. Mix with about a half pint of new milk, rollTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 214 the dough and cut with round cutters. Bake on a hot floured girdle for about ten minutes. CREAM SCONES Half a pound of flour, two ounces of butter, a little salt, one good tablespoonful of baking powder, half a pint of cream. Mix into a nice light paste, brush over with egg and bake in oven. These scones can be rolled out thinner and baked on girdle and made into girdle cakes. SCONES MIX up seven pounds of American flour and two ounces of bicarbonate of soda, and four ounces of cream of tartar. Put it through (all together) a sieve twice and put it in a tin. Take out as much as required when baking and wet it with skim milk, slightly knead and roll out. Cut what shape and size required. Bake either on girdle or in oven, but the oven must be very hot. A little salt should be added to taste just before baking. DROP SCONES The same quantities, with one egg added. Drop on the hot girdle after being well greased, but made the thickness of very thick batter. The quantity should serve several bakings.CAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC. 215 POTATO SCONES POTATOES well mashed with a little bit of butter and flour (no soda in the flour), rolled out, cut and baked on a hot girdle slightly greased. These are best eaten hot. ¥ ANOTHER RECIPE FOR POTATO SCONES Half a pound of flour, a good tablespoonful of baking powder, three baked potatoes, baked and passed through a sieve into the flour, a little salt, two ounces of butter. Mix with half a pint of new milk, roll out thin and bake on girdle. ¥ PASTRY SCONES ONE pound of flour, work it into a quarter pound of salt butter, one dessertspoonful of baking powder, one dessertspoonful of sugar. Mix into a light paste with about three-quarters of a pint of milk. Cut into round cakes and bake in a good oven for ten to fifteen minutes. ¥ BROWN SCONES ONE pound of brown flour, three ounces of butter worked into the flour, add one dessertspoonful of baking powder, one dessertspoonful of sugar and a pinchTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 216 of salt. Mix into a light dough with about three- quarters of a pint of cream and milk mixed. Roll out, cut into scones and bake in a quick oven for about ten to fifteen minutes. ¥ TEA BUNS Half a pound of flour, a quarter pound of sugar, a quarter pound of butter, one tablespoonful of baking powder, a small teacupful of cream, three eggs. Bake in a quick oven. ¥ AUSTRIAN CAKE Ten ounces of potato flour, two ounces of Hungarian flour, six ounces sifted white sugar, twelve ounces of butter, a little salt, the yokes of six eggs, the whites of three eggs, cream the butter and sugar together, then the yolks of eggs. ¥ SCOTCH SHORTBREAD MIX three-quarters of a pound of butter into one poimd of flour. Add one teaspoonful of salt and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, roll out and bake very slowly. Sugared carraway seeds may be sprinkled on top of the cakes if liked, the edges can be gauffred with a knife before baking.CAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC, 217 ORANGE CAKE SIX ounces of Vienna flour, five ounces of castor sugar, the rind of two oranges grated, one tea- spoonful of baking powder, three eggs. Beat the eggs and sugar together to a smooth cream, add the flour and baking powder sifted, and the orange rind. Mix all well together and bake in a quick oven for a quarter of an hour. When cold ice it with French icing, made of half a pound of icing sugar worked well with the juice of the oranges. When well mixed pour this all over the cake. ¥ GATEAU A LA PORTUGUESE Half a pound of ground sweet almonds, two or three bitter almonds also gi’ound. Place in a basin the rinds of two oranges, finely grated, also the juice of the oranges, three-quarters of a pound of fine castor sugar, the yolks of sixteen fresh eggs. Stir all together until it becomes like a creamy sponge. Whisk the whites of ten eggs very stiff, and dredge the same into the mixture slowly and lightly with six ounces of potato flour. Bake very much like a sponge cake in a deep cake tin. Turn out on to a pastry wire, whilst hot, so as to mark the cake with the impression of the wire. Serve with compote of fruit for lunch.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 218 GATEAU A L’ECOSSAISE QIIX ounces of flour, four ounces of butter, two ^ ounces of sugar, half an ounce of ground almonds, the yolk of one egg. Place these ingredients on the pastry slab, work together as for shortbread. Roll out thin and cut with a plain cutter, then bake in a slow oven. When the cakes are cold lay them one upon the other, with a layer of some kind of preserve between each. Fill up the centre with whipped cream. $ CHOCOLATE CAKE Half a pound of fresh butter beaten to seven eggs, yolks and whites beaten separately, four ounces of flour, three ounces of pounded almonds, half a pound of chocolate Menier (grated and heated in the oven), one teaspoonful of salvolatile, added the last thing. This cake must be baked in a slow oven for an hour and a half or two hours at most. ANOTHER RECIPE FOR CHOCOLATE CAKE Italian A HALF-POUND of chocolate, six ounces of castor sugar, half a pound of butter, three ounces of potato flour, and three ounces of best flour, sixCAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC, 219 whites and seven yolks of eggs. Beat butter and sugar together, add yolks, melt chocolate, add with flour alternately, whip whites of eggs, add these last. Bake in a moderate oven. This quantity makes four small cakes. For Icing,—Half a pound of loaf sugar boiled to a syrup, half a pound of chocolate, melt and add to the syrup, to be poured over the cakes when they are cold. ¥ GATEAU DE NANTES /^NE and a half pound of flour, three-quarters pound of sugar, 300 grammes butter (equals three-quarters of a pound). Flavour—orange flower water. Roll on the paste, cut with a nipping tool, fluted, and put it on buttered baking sheets. Bake in a hot oven to a golden colour. In the middle put chopped almond, sugared. ¥ PLUM CAKE FOR LUNCHEON OR TEA rpiO one pound of flour, rub in half a pound of butter, six ounces of sugar, one pound of mixed fruit, a good spoonful of baking powder, and from half to three-THE DUDLEV RECIPES 220 quarters of a pint of new milk, and four eggs well beaten. Bake in a moderate oven from one hour to one hour and a half. RICH PLUM CAKE WITH ALMOND PASTE A Birthday Cake ONE and a quarter pound of butter, one and a quarter pound of sugar, one and a half pound of flour, one and a half pound of currants, one and a half of raisins (stoned and chopped), one and a half of sultanas, one pound of dried cherries, twelve eggs (or fourteen if they are small), one large wineglassful of brandy. Cream the butter and sugar, add the eggs a few at a time, then the fruit and flour. It will take about two and a half to three and a half hours to bake in a moderate oven. Almond Icing for the Cake One and a half pounds of almonds and three pounds of sugar. Mix into a stiff paste, with from six to eight eggs. Spread this on the cake and let it dry. White Sugar Icing for Outside About three pounds of sugar worked into a creamy paste with whites of egg and a little juice of lemon,CAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC. 221 Spread this over the almond and ornament as you please. ONE pound of sugar, three-quarters of a pound of Hungarian flour and twelve eggs. Beat up the sugar and the yolks of the eggs for twenty minutes, then add the flour and the whites of the eggs, beaten to a very stiff froth. Bake in a moderate oven for about three-quarters of an hour to an hour. RE made of the same mixture, but are run into sponge finger tins, and baked for about ten minutes in a moderate oven, and whilst they are hot dusted lightly over with powdered sugar. T)UT in a pan a little more than one pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of butter, four whole eggs. Flavour with vanilla, then mix the whole and bake in a hot oven. SPONGE CAKE SPONGE FINGERS PETITS FOURSTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 222 TEA BISCUITS A QUARTER pound of flour, a quarter pound of butter, one ounce of fine pounded sugar, the yolk of one egg. Rub the butter, flour, and sugar together, add the yolk of the egg and work it to a paste. Roll out very thin and cut out with a plain or fluted cutter, and bake in a gentle oven. GINGER WAFERS Three ounces of fresh butter, two ounces of raw sugar, one tablespoonful black treacle, one tea- spoonful of ground ginger, one teaspoonful of flour. Bake in a quick oven for a few minutes, then cut and roll. Serve with vanilla cream or ice cream. WAFER GINGERBREAD TT ALF a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, half a pound of fresh butter, half a pound of treacle. Rub the butter and flour together, then add the sugar and a teaspoonful of powdered ginger. Put in the treacle and mix to a stiff batter. Roll round the handle of a wooden spoon to make the curled finger shapes for serving.CAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC. 223 MOUNTBLAISY GINGER NUTS /^NE pound flour, half a pound syrup, quarter pound butter, two ounces ground ginger, quarter pound sugar. Moisten with milk, drop them on a baking sheet and bake for twenty minutes. GINGER NUTS ONE pound of flour, half a pound of butter, one ounce of ground ginger, half a pound of sugar. Mix all together into rather a stiff* paste with about three-quarters of a pound of golden syrup, roll into biscuits and bake in a moderate oven. $ WAFER BISCUITS ONE pound of flour and a little salt. Mix into a nice dough with about three-quarters of a pint of thin cream, beat it well, roll out very thin. Cut in large pieces and bake in a hot oven. Keep turning or they soon burn. WATER BISCUITS ONE pound of flour, one teaspoonful of salt, one ounce of butter dissolved in about half a pint of warm miik. Mix into a rather stiff* paste and beatTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 224 it well with rolling-pin. Then roll out very thin, stamp out the biscuit and bake in a hot oven for a few minutes. V BREAD RUSKS FOR TEA STIR with a wooden spoon six ounces of butter into a cream, then add three-quarters of a pound of sifted sugar, and the same quantity of bruised bread crumbs which have been baked, also six eggs (two at a time), and half a gill of double cream. Mix all these in- gredients well together ; then spread the mixture rather thickly on to a baking sheet and bake in a moderate oven. Cut into fingers and make crisp. GATEAU A LA REINE Prepare an eight-egg sponge cake made with French flour in which you have mixed a little vanilla in powder. Bake it in a charlotte mould, and when cold cut it across in slices three-quarters of an inch thick. Pound a quarter of a pound of almonds very dry—sweet almonds—and pass them through a tammy. Then break up with this half a pound of best butter. When firm add a thick syrup with vanilla and cover top and bottom of each layer of cake with this, replacing the layers so as to build up the cake again. ThenCAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC. 225 mask it over with the syrup or with glace ” chocolate or coffee. FADGE Take eleven pounds of wheatmeal and two ounces of butter. Rub the butter with a little salt into the meal. Mix this with warm water until it is the consistency of dough, and while mixing add eight to ten spoons of baking powder. Form the paste into a round cake the size of a breakfast plate and two inches thick. It bakes in a moderate oven on a baking sheet in forty minutes. PULLED BREAD Take from the oven an ordinary loaf when it is about half-bdkedy and with the fingers whilst the bread is still hot dexterously pull the half set dough into pieces of irregular shape about the size of an egg. Do not attempt to smooth or flatten them, the rougher their shapes the better. Set upon tins, place in a very slow oven and bake to a rich brown. This forms a deliciously crisp crust for dinner. PETITS CHOUX Half a pint of milk, four ounces of butter, two ounces of sugar, five ounces of fine flour, three eggs. Put the milk, butter and sugar into a stewpanTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 226 on the stove, and as soon as these begin to boil, with- draw the stewpan from the fire and add the flour. Stir well with a wooden spoon for about three minutes. Then add a little flavouring and one egg, stir well, then add the other two eggs. If the paste should be stiff add yolk of one egg only. The paste should be pressed through a bag into a baking sheet about the size of an egg and baked in a moderate oven. RE made with exactly the same paste as Petits Choux, but without sugar or flavouring. If for soup very much smaller. Half a pound of freshest butter, six ounces of sugar, seven ounces of French flour, the whites of two eggs, a little vanilla in powder and a few drops of rum. Work the butter alone in a bowl until it becomes a soft paste. Hold it for a moment in the oven just to melt slightly the top of the paste, then add the sugar and with a wooden spoon work it well into the paste, adding one by one the whites of the eggs. Then add the flour, the rum and the vanilla and bake at a quick fire. PROFITROLLES LANGUES DE CHATCAKES, BISCUITS, SCONES, ETC. 227 SMALL ROLLS FOR STUFFING For Tea or for Travelling NE pound of flour, one ounce of butter, half an ounce of yeast, a good half-pint of warm milk and a little salt. Rub the butter in the flour and dissolve the yeast in the warm milk. Set it to rise from two to two and a half hours. Make into rolls the size required and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Cut the top off the rolls, reserving it as a lid, remove the crumb from the centre of the roll and fill in with forcemeat or mayonnaise with a spoon, replacing the lid.V.THE HOUSEKEEPERGood housewife provides^ ere a sickness do come^ Of sundry good things^ in her house to have some Good aqua composita^'" and vinegar tart^ Rose-water and trecude^ to comjort thine heart; Cold herbs in her garden for agues that burn^ That over strong heat to good temper may turn; White endive and succory^ with spinach enow^ All such with good pot-herbs^ should follow the plough; Get water of fumitory^ liver to cool^ And others the like^ or else lie like a fool; Ccmserves of barbary^ quinces^ and such With siropSj that easeth the sickly so much; Ask Medicus ” counsel ere medicine ye take And honour that man^for necessitys sake. Though thousands hate physic^ because of the cost^ Yet thousands it helpeth^ that else should be lost; Good broths and good keepings do much now and them Good diet with wisdom^ best comforteth man ; In health to be stirring shall proft thee best. For sickness hate movement; seek quiet and rest. Remember thy soul; let no fancy prevail^ Make ready to God-ward^ let faith never quails The sooner thyself thou submitted to God^ The sooner he ceaseth to scourge with his rod. Thomas TusserEverything is of use to ci Housekeeper. G. H. In her very style of looking There was cognisance of cookings From her very dress were peeping Indications of Housekeeping. Buchanan The many home. make the household but only one the Lowell ¥ Husbands can earn but only wives can save. Muddle at home makes the husband roam. For nothing lovelier can be found in woman than to study household good^ and good works in her husband to promote. MiltonMay my wife he a good housewife and not be over learned; may my nights have pecLceful rest; may my days be without quarrelling. MartialHOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES ORANGE MARMALADE SELECT the largest Seville oranges, as they usually contain the greatest quantity of juice, and take those that have clear skins, as the skins form the largest part of marmalade. Weigh the oranges and weigh also an equal quantity of loaf sugar. Peel the oranges, dividing the peel of each into quarters, and put them into a preserving pan. Cover them well with water and set them on the fire to boil. In the meantime prepare your oranges, divide them into gores, then scrape with a teaspoon all the pulp from the white skin, or instead of peeling the oranges, cut a hole in the orange and scoop out the pulp. Remove care- fully all the pips, of which there are innumerable small ones in the Seville oranges which will escape observation unless they are minutely examined. Have a large basin near you with some cold water in it, to throw the pips and peels into; a pint is suffi- cient for a dozen oranges. Boil these in the water, and having strained off the glutinous matter which comes from them, add it to the other parts. When 2 G 238THE DUDLEY RECIPES 234 the peels have boiled till they are sufficiently tender to admit of a fork being stuck into them, scrape away all the pith from the inside of them. Lay them in folds and cut them into thin slices of about an inch long. Clarify the sugar, then throw the peels and pulp into it, stir it well and let it boil for half an hour. Then remove it from the fire and when it becomes cool put it by in pots, covering the tops with bladder. Marmalade should be made at the end of March or at the beginning of April as Seville oranges are then in their best state. ¥ APPLE MARMALADE PEEL and core two pounds of sub-acid apples (Wellingtons are excellent for the purpose) and put them in an enamelled saucepan with half a pint of white wine and one pound of crushed sugar, or with one pint of sweet cider. Cook them by a gentle heat for three hours or longer until the fruit is very soft, then squeeze it first through a colander and then through a sieve. If not sufficiently sweet add powdered sugar to taste. Put away in jars made air-tight and covered with a piece of wet bladder.HOUSEKEEPER'S AND TOILET RECIPES 235 BLACKBERRY JAM TO six pounds of blackberries add one pound of apples, peeled, cored, and sliced very thin. Use one pound of lump sugar to each pound of the fruit. Boil from three-quarters of an hour to a good hour. Let it get cold, put in pots and cover. ¥ APPLE JELLY Half a bushel of good-looking apples, pare and core. Cover them with cold water and put on to simmer till cooked. Then pass through a jelly bag, and to each pint of juice allow three-quarters of a pound of crushed white sugar. Boil up well from three- quarters of an hour to an hour until it jellies. GREEN GOOSEBERRY JAM SEVEN pounds of green gooseberries, eight pounds of sugar, two good pints of red currant juice. Make this juice by stewing three or four pounds of red currants in about one and a half pint of water. Strain it through a sieve, add it to the gooseberries and sugar and boil it well for about an hour, stirring it well all the time.I'HE DUDLEY RLCILES HIP JAM r 11AKE some hips, split them and take out the seeds, wash the hips in cold water, and put them on a sieve to drain. Take some apple jelly. According to above recipe, allow the jelly to boil until it dissolves, then add a pound of hips to the pound of sugar. If you have ten pounds of apple jelly in your pan add other five pounds of hips, ditto of sugar. Boil for ten minutes and then pot. ¥ CRAB APPLE JELLY WASH the crab apples and drain them (you need not peel or core). Cover with cold water, and let them gently boil until they break, but do not allow them to become pulpy,” then pass the juice through a jelly bag. To each pint of juice allow one pound of sugar. Boil quickly until it jellies. It should be clear and red in colour. This is good for sore throats. ¥ JAM MADE OF WHOLE STRAW- BERRIES PICK the best firm strawberries not over ripe, and make for them a very good syrup by allowing \hree-quarters of a pound of sugar to three- quarters of 2 36HOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES a pound of fruit, and just enough water to cover the sugar. Clear this syrup with white of egg, then drop in the strawberries without crushing them and boil quickly till they are done, so as to leave the berries whole. RED CURRANT JELLY TT^ULL all the stems off the currants and stew them gently so as to draw out all the juice. Strain it, and to each pint of juice allow one pound of sugar. Then boil from three-quarters of an hour to an hour until it jellies. CHERRY JAM STONE twelve pounds of cherries — Morellas are the best — and make a good syrup, allowing three-quarters of a pound of sugar to one pound of cherries. Put the cherries into the syrup and boil up quickly for about three-quarters of an hour. Crack the stones and add the kernels to the jam a few minutes before it is done. 837 ^ ^ ^THE DUDLEY RECIPES 238 RECIPE FOR BRANDY CHERRIES CUT the stalks off the best and largest Morelia cherries. Put them into wide-necked preserving bottles, adding two ounces of candy sugar to about one pint of good brandy. Cork securely and tie over with a bladder skin. Peaches may be treated in the same way. T^ROP them into a weak boiling dye until the skin can be wiped off. Make a thin syi*up to cover them. Boil until they are soft to the finger nail. Make a rich syrup and add—after they come from the fire and while hot—the same quantity of good not fiery brandy as there is of syrup. The fruit must be well covered. This can be put into glass jars and tightly covered with bladder, and kept for use as a dessert. ATHER before ripe. Scald in a jar put into boiling water, pare and stone them. Put into a syrup of half their weight of sugar in the proportion of half a pint of water to two pounds of sugar. Scald and then boil until they are clear. Stand for two days in BRANDY PEACHES DRY APRICOTSHOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 239 the syrup, then put into a thin candy and scald them in it. Keep two days longer in the candy, heating them each day, and then lay them on glasses to dry. ¥ CORNISH CREAM PUT your new milk into rather deep straight-sided pans (enamelled pans are the best). Let the milk stand for twenty-four hours, and then set it over a slow fire. Allow it to heat very slowly and gradually. Test the heat of the milk with a dairy thermometer, and when it shows a temperature of 150 degrees remove the pan from the fire and carry it steadily and without any shaking back to the dairy, where it should stand for another twenty-four hours. Remove the cream with a ladle. ¥ DEVONSHIRE CREAM For this the milk must be allowed to stand at least twelve hours after being drawn from the cow ; in winter it stands twenty-four hours. By this time the cream will have risen to the top of the pan; it is then set in a second pan of boiling water and kept on the stove, where the water is allowed to simmer gently till the cream on the pan becomes thick and yellow, and little air bubbles rise on its surface. When a ring appears on the cream inside the rim of the pan, it is quite time to remove it from the fire. The old way ofTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 240 scalding the cream was to stand the pan of milk itself on the stove with no water under it; but the new plan of scalding in hot water is supposed to be superior. When cold the cream can be taken off with a perforated skimmer, but it is better and richer if left to stand another twelve hours before being removed from the milk. Note.—A pinch of saltpetre put into each basin and strain milk over it to take away the taste of turnips. DEVONSHIRE CREAM Another Recipe r 11AKE a pan of new milk, set it in a cool place for twenty-four hours. Then put another pan half full of water on the stove, and when the water boils stand the pan of milk into this, and when a ring of tiny bubbles forms it is done. Let it stand until cold. It is better the next day. ¥ DRY CREAM CHEESE Take six gills of very thick freshly separated cream, put it into a cloth, and place it on a board. Put another board on the top of the cheese, and put a four- pound weight upon it. Let it remain for an hour—then take it out. Add a little salt to it and put it into a clean cloth. Put it in press again, and keep changing the cloth two or three times more until the cheese becomes quite firm. It will then be ready for use,HOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 241 ANOTHER RECIPE FOR CREAM CHEESE QUART of very thick sweet cream—to be tied in a thick muslin cloth which has been well soaked free of all soap or dressing; hang this up all night for the liquid to drop. In the morning line a very small hair sieve with fresh nettles, and lay a small square of wire-netting on the nettles. Pour in the cream which has been hung in the cloth all night, fold the cloth over the top, lay nettles over it, and set it away in a cold dairy or on the ice. Have a fresh wet muslin and nettles, which put into the sieve? turning the cream over and laying nettles on the top with a half-pound weight on it. Set the cheese on ice, and it will be ready for dinner in the evening. ANOTHER RECIPE FOR CREAM CHEESE TO BE MADE OF 24 HOURS^ CREAM A QUART of cream, which has stood twenty-four hours and is very thick, to be put into a thick cloth which has been thoroughly rinsed, press it with a four-ounce weight, and turn it every hour till it is thick.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 242 Set in a cool place or on ice. It must be put into a fresh cloth every time it is turned. ¥ TO REMOVE THE TASTE OF TURNIPS FROM BUTTER T^ISSOLVE a tablespoonful of saltpetre in a break- fast cup full of boiling water, and put a table- spoonful of this liquid into a ten-pint pail. Milk the cows into this pail and immediately insert it into a copper of boiling water. Allow the pail to remain in the copper for two or three minutes until the milk attains a temperature of 104 degrees. All taste of turnip will have disappeared. It will answer if the milk is not cooled below seventy-three degrees previous to inserting the pail into the boiling water. ^ ^ ^ HOW TO BOIL PLOVERS’ EGGS PUT on your stockpot with a layer of hay, then a layer of eggs. Repeat this till your stockpot is full. Fill to the brim with cold water. Give them three minutes after coming to the boil. This is a very good recipe. ¥ ¥ ^HOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 243 GREEN TOMATO CHUTNEY PICKLE SLICE eighteen pounds of green tomatoes and six pounds of onions. Sprinkle each layer with salt and let it stand twelve hours. Then drain and put in stewpan with four quarts of brown vinegar, two pounds of Demerara sugar, half a pound of crushed spices, con- sisting of peppercorns, allspice, ginger, cloves, mustard seeds, and chillies. Put them in a muslin bag, simmer all together until the tomato-skins are tender, then bottle for use. $ CHUTNEY A PPLES, tomatoes, gooseberries, four pounds; ^ raisins, one pound; coarse brown sugar, three pounds ; salt, three ounces ; ginger, one ounce ; garlic, two ounces ; red pepper, quarter of an ounce; mustard seed, two ounces; vinegar, two pints. Cut the fruit into quarters. Boil in one pint of vinegar till tender. Boil the sugar in the other pint of vinegar. When both are quite cold, add all the other ingredients. After finely chopping the raisins, garlic, &c., mix all well together. Put in a jar and keep in a warm place for two weeks uncovered. Then cover.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 244 ESSENCE OF CELERY rilHIS is prepared by soaking for a fortnight half an oimce of the seeds of celery in a quarter of a pint of brandy. A few drops will flavour a pint of soup or broth equal to a head of celery. ¥ ESSENCE OF MUSHROOM This delicate relish is made by sprinkling a little salt over either flap or button mushrooms. Three hours after wash them. Next day strain off the liquor that will flow from them. Put it into a stewpan and boil it till it is reduced one half. It will not keep long, but it is preferable to any of the ketchups con- taining spice, &c., to preserve them, which overpowers the flavour of the mushrooms. An artificial mushroom bed will supply these all the year round. ¥ WALNUT KETCHUP Take two sieves of green walnut shells. Put them into a tub, mix them up well with from two to three pounds of common salt. Let them stand for six days frequently beating and mashing them. By this time the shells become soft and pulpy—then by banking the mass up on one side of the tub and at the same time raising the tub on that side—the liquor will drainHOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 245 off to the other, then take that liquor out. The mash- ing and banking up may be repeated as often as liquor is found ; the quantity obtained will be about six quarts. When done let it be simmered in an iron boiler as long as any scum arises—then bruise a quarter of a pound of ginger, a quarter of a pound of allspice, two ounces of long pepper and two ounces of cloves. Let it slowly boil for half an hour with the above in- gredients. When bottled, let an equal quantity of the spice go into each bottle. Before corking let the bottles be filled quite up—cork them tight—seal them over and put them into a cool and dry place for one year before they are used. ¥ PICKLED WALNUTS First make a brine of four pounds of salt to one gallon of water and put in the young walnuts. They should be quite soft, so that they can be pierced quite through with a strong darning needle. Let them remain in pickle for nine days, changing the brine every third day, then drain them and put them on trays in the sun till they turn black. Then put them into jars. Boil some vinegar for ten minutes, with spice, allowing two ounces of whole black pepper, one ounce of allspice, one ounce of bruised ginger, to the quart of vinegar. Strain and add it to the walnuts hot. They will keep for two or three years. ^ ¥THE DUDLEY RECIPES 246 TO KEEP EGGS FRESH FOR A MONTH WITHOUT PRESERVING, AND PERFECTLY FIT FOR BOILING TV IP the egg each day in perfectly boiling water and slightly oil. A board is wanted fitted for the pur- pose, with holes to receive one in each. They must be turned every second day. RECIPE FOR PRESERVING EGGS The eggs should be placed direct from the nest into convenient sized jai's, tubs or barrels, and com- pletely immersed in lime water made thus: Mix four quarts of fine slacked lime with one quart of common salt in five gallons of water. Allow this to stand for a day or two, stirring the mixture from time to time until the water has absorbed the lime to saturation. TTien pour off the clear liquid, and to this add one ounce of borsuiic, and this is the pickle. The eggs should not be within two inches of the top of the lime water pickle. If kept a long time add a little more lime from time to time to keep up the strength. If required, eggs can be put in day by day as laid. When taking them out to boil thrust a needle point in one end to prevent cracking. It is essential that the keep- ing place should be cool—the colder the better—short of freezing. In putting in the eggs to preserve be careful to ascertain that none are cracked, or they will spoil the others.HOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 247 RECIPE FOR PRESERVING EGGS IN WATER GLASS PUT a shilling tin of water glass into a quart of boiling water—when dissolved add five quarts of water and let get cold. Put your eggs into a tub and cover them with the mixture. Water glass is sold in shilling and in sixpenny tins, in either case the same quantity of water will dissolve it, and more water can be added to it. I may add that the water glass must be kept stirred while in the boiling water, or it will settle into a solid mass in the bottom of the vessel. It is essen- tial that all eggs to be preserved in the glass are new laid and collected daily. TO SALT SMALL HAMS rilWO ounces of salt prunel, two ounces of saltpetre^ one gill of juniper juice, one quart of beer, a little brown sugar. Mix all these ingredients together and set on the fire to boil. Pour the liquid hot over the hams, and let them soak for three weeks or a month, according to the size of the hams. This is sufficient quantity of liquor for two hams of ten pounds each. The liquid should be tasted every day to see that it is all right. ^ FOR CURING BACON First rub the hams thoroughly with ground nitre^ then mix two or three pounds weight of Demerara sugar with a good quantity of salt, and rub thoroughlyTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 248 with that mixture. Every second and third day rub again slightly. Let them lie for three weeks on clean wheat straw on pavement, and then get them smoked. ¥ OLD FASHIONED RECIPE FOR BOTTLING FRUIT PUT the fruit into wide-necked bottles. Shake it well down and fill three parts with water or thin syrup. Fasten the bottles down tightly, put them into a fish-kettle, with hay between the bottles to prevent them from touching one another. Fill the kettle with cold water nearly to the necks of the bottles, and let simmer from two to three hours, but it must not be allowed to boil. Cork the bottles up tightly and keep in a cool place. TO CANDY ORANGES AND LEMONS Lay half-ripe oranges or lemons in water for three days, changing the water every day. Then put them into boiling water and parboil them until they are bright in colour. Boil until they are tender, and then steep again in cold water for another three days. Divide the fruit into quarters. Weigh them, and make a syrup with their equivalent in weight, allowing half a pint of water to each pound of sugar. When the syrup is cold add the quarters of the fruit and let them steep in the synip for two or three days. Then prepare a thickHOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 2 H 249 syrup, and let it boil until it is nearly candied. Add a little lemon juice, and pour over the fruit. After it is cool, set the quarters of the fruit to dry on waxed paper and lay in boxes. FOR CLEANING MARBLE ONE pound of American potash to half a gallon of boiling water, well stirred and allowed to settle. When clear, strain it off and make it with whiting the thickness of cream. Then lay it on the marble with a brush (a paste brush will do). When dry it may be washed off, using as little water as possible. If the marble is badly stained the mixture may remain on twelve hours. N.B.—It is advisable to wet marble as little as possible. Be careful no one uses this mixture with cracked hands. ¥ TO REMOVE IRON STAINS FROM WHITE MARBLE MANTELPIECES TTEAT a flat iron red hot and hold it within half an AX inch of the yellow stain for fifteen minutes, but not allowing the hot iron to touch the marble. Two irons are necessary, as one gets cool apply another until the marble gets quite hot, this will drive the stain back, and it will fade away. On carved flowers or ornaments in the marble apply a little chloride of lime made into a paste with diluted American potash. Leave it on for a day, wash it carefully off* with cold water, let itTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 250 dry, and then apply the hot iron as to the other stains. These will also disappear after a few days. FOR SPONGE GLASSES ON WRITING TABLES FOR WIPING PENS /^NE ounce of oxalic acid to a pint of hot water. When cold saturate the sponge well and place it in the glass. It must not be put into a metal receptacle. When the sponge becomes dry add cold water only, until the acid gets too weak, then a fresh supply of acid is required. ^ A RECIPE TO KEEP THE HANDS SMOOTH AND PREVENT CHAPPING Take one ounce pure glycerine, five ounces pure spirits of wine, one ounce of any perfume prefen'ed, violet, lavender, mimosa, etc. Mix all well together and put into a bottle with a robinet cork. Sprinkle a little over the hands each time after washing them. FOR A DELICIOUS BATH WHEN ELDER FLOWERS ARE IN BLOSSOM PUT the elder fiowers into a large jug and pour boiling water over them, let them stand for some hours, and strain off the liquid, which, when added to the bath water, softens it and is cool and fragrant.HOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 251 ELDER FLOWER WATER Fill the still with elder flowers and some of the young tendrils. Fill up with soft water (rain water) and put under the still a slow fire, but it must not boil. Put a piece of muslin pver a large jug to catch the drops as they distil, then bottle for use. This will keep a long time. Rose water can be made in the same way, using sweet scented rose leaves instead of elder flowers, also orange flowers. COLD CREAM Eight ounces of oil of almonds, one and three- quarters ounce white wax, a quarter ounce sper- maceti, six ounces of rose water. Warm the three first ingredients in an enamelled pan until melted, then add gently the rose water. The cream must be well worked with a spoon until it is quite smooth and free from all lumps. A few drops of attar of rose greatly improves the cold cream. ¥ TO SOFTEN WATER FOR WASHING THE FACE AND HANDS POWDERED borax should be kept at hand on every toilet table, not only to soften the bath water but for the hands, and for washing the face when the water is hard. Five grains of borax mixed withTHE DUDLEY RECIPES 252 about an ounce of oil of almonds and an ounce of lime water is an excellent wash for the hands and face when the water is hard. ¥ OINTMENT FOR ROUGH HANDS CUT up half an ounce of white wax and half an ounce of beeswax and one ounce of camphor. Place this in a jar and pour over it three-quarters of a pint of almond oil. Gently melt it all together and work smooth. Run into pots for use. LIP SALVE FOR CHAPPED LIPS ONE ounce of oil of sweet almonds, a quarter ounce of white wax, a half-ounce of spermaceti, one drop of cochineal and a few drops of oil of roses. Melt the ingredients gradually and work well so as to make into a smooth stiff cream. Run it into small pots for use. ¥ TO REMOVE SUNBURN SQUEEZE the juice of a lemon into a small teacup- ^ ful of new milk. Allow it to curdle. Apply it to the face and throat with a piece of cotton wool, after having been out in the sun, or the last thing at night. Allow it to remain on the skin for a short time then wash it off with tepid soft water. This will remove all heat and tan from the skin.HOUSEKEEPER’S AND TOILET RECIPES 253 OINTMENT FOR SUNBURN Make a stiff paste with white Fuller’s earth, or good French chalk, and elder flower water. Let it remain on the face for a few minutes, then wash it off with hot rain water and apply a little cold cream. ROSEMARY HAIR WASH STEEP some freshly gathered rosemary twigs in boiling water (soft rain water), cover up and allow them to remain for five or six hours. Strain off the liquid and add a small quantity of rum. This is an excellent hair wash, and very cooling and fragrant. POT POURRI TjIIRST dry in a sunny room rose leaves, lavender A lemon, verbena, and any kind of sweet smelling leaf at hand. Then add half a pound of powdered orris root, quarter of a pound of cloves, two sticks of cinnamon, two ounces of allspice, one ounce of ber- gamotte, one dram of musk. The spice should all be pounded and mixed in with the rose leaves. Sweet- scented roses should be used.THE DUDLEY RECIPES 254 LAVENDER FOR LINEN Gather the lavender flowers when they are full blown. Lay them out on paper in a dry, sunny room. When they are sufficiently dry, rub the flowers off* the stalks, and put the flowers into muslin bags to lay amongst the household linen. ¥ FOR FUMIGATING A ROOM TTEAT in the Are a long-handled scent fumigator. XX When it is red hot put into it some powdered cedar-wood, which can be bought at any stores. This is preferable and far more agreeable than the heavy perfumes which are often used for this purpose. LAVENDER TOILET VINEGAR Take a large jar, and to every pint of white vinegar add three-quarters of an ounce of lavender flowers. Leave them to infuse for twenty-four hours. Put the jar well bedded into a fish-kettle and allow it to sim- mer for six or eight hours without boiling. Strain and bottle for use.There is no great banquet but some fares ill there is no jollity but hath a smack of folly. ¥ Dinner was made for eatirC not for talkin’'. Thackeray We were to do more business after dinner: but after dinner is after dinner^ an old saying and a true^ much drinking little thinking. Letters to Mrs. Johnson (Stella) A dinner warmed up again was never worth anything. Boileau A pin a day will fetch a groat a year. ’'Tis by his cleanliness a cook must please. William Kino, LL.D.Hunger will break through stone walls or any- thing except Suffolk cheese. Cheese is a peevish elf^ it digests all things hut itself. From the German Feasting—the way to the heart. % There is no peace where there is no feaM. Lord Clarendon ¥ '"Twos at the public feast and public day^ Quite full^ right dull^ guests hot and dishes cold ; Great plenty^ much formality^ small cheer^ And everybody out of their own sphere. Byron257 FOOD—EVILS OF INSUFFICIENCY The benefits which accrue to the body from supplying it with a sujficiency of wholesome food^ show in the strongest light the evils which result from insufficiency. Disease is one of the first. Many diseases are induced by it^ many are aggravated. Sanitary movements having reference to the poor cannot possibly effect any lasting amelioration of their condition so long as they go short of proper aliment. It is worthy the attention of philanthropists that epidemic and pestilential diseases in particular are far more widely fatal in their ravages among the ill fed than among the well fed. Certainly there are several such diseases which assail rich and poor alike—as measles^ smallpox and scarlet fever; but even these are much more destructive when they attack persons who have been forced to subsist on too scanty nourishment. Legislators no less than the chari- table may find in this fact a vitally important principle of action. Insufficiency over prolonged^ induces the slow and miserable death of starvation—and no physicalEVILS OF INSUFFICIENCY 258 calamity can he conceived of as more terrible. Yet starvation^ actual killing starvation^ is perhaps the least part of the injury to the human race which comes of privation of needfid sustenance. Actual death from hunger is only an occasional thing; the evils which accrue from customary stint—life still dragging on—are incalculably more eoctended and severe. Even the physical disease which they engender is a slight evil compared with the impeded mental action which must needs follow. A miser- able starving dietary while it weakens the body half paralyses the soul^ and not seldom leads direct to insanity itself. When we remember how entirely the brain depends for its nourishment upon the bloody and that if this pabulum of life and nervous energy be either diminished in quantity or deterio- rated in quality^ no organ of the body can possibly work well^ how easy it is to see that between in- sufficient^ innutritious diet and prostration of mind there is little less than an inevitable connection. Every man has experienced the feeling of debility which attends hunger but a little longer unsatisfied than usual^ and how swift and lively is the revival of every function of the mind as well as body which follows its proper gratification. The diffi- culty of awakening the intelligence of a poorly fed child compared with that of a well-nourished one is known to every observant teacher in schools. In- tellectual productions which are born not as litera-EVILS OF INSUFFICIENCY 259 ture should always and only be of the souTs going to it^ as the hart to the water brooks^ but of the howling of the dogs of hunger^ betray no less plainly their miserable origin. Thinkings like actings requires a good substratum of physical nourishment. Genius^ though it has sometimes turned to vegetarianism^ is rarely found adhering to it—all its greatest works have been achieved on a basis of generous diet. This is not all. Where the body is debilitated by hunger the affections also are necessarily dull and little excit- able to anything better than sensualities. Every man who has been compelled to undergo the hardships of fastings whether by poverty or the exigencies of travel in remote places^ knows the gradual inroad of cross-grained views^ indolence and recklessness^ the crowding and deadly evil which comes of insufficient nourishment is accord- ingly the vitiation of marHs moral nature—and what a lesson is there in this for the home mission- aries, It is no less vain than aggravating to preach faith and loving-kindness where father and mother and children be huddled together in the pains and apathy of hunger. To the starving^ religion may well appear folly and hypocrisy^ nor is it any marvel that it should fail to interest them. Every one knows how unamiable even the best fed are liable to become if kept too long waiting forEATING A DUTY 260 their meals—how inojccessible they are at such times to appeals which after dinner meet most grac%ous response. Is it s^irprising then that religious truth should find more indifference than welcome among the hungry and half nourished ? It is dijfficult for et famished man to believe that there is a Father in Heaven till he feels he has brothers on earth. Grindon Qcr EATING A DUTY^ No one need think ill of eating or of any of its associations^ except the abuse. Good substantial wholesome food^ properly cooked and neatly served upj is one of the highest proofs and privileges of civilization; it is a criterion of every well-conducted household^ and of every true and clever wife; while the legitimate enjoyment of it is one of the most honest and innocent of pleasures. All sensible and good-natured people are fond of eating; and one of the pleasantest things it is possible either to feel in oneself or to witness in another—is a healthy and natural readiness for the bounties of the table. To satisfy nature without surfeiting it^ is one of the foremost of the good works’"'* we are re- quired to enact. Thankful enjoyment of our daily bread is no small part of Christianity.EATING A DUTY 261 If lying Ups be an abomination to the Lord^'" so is the ingratitude of asceticism; and infinitely more so the dyspepsia which disables the intemperate from the great universal duty of all mankind, to have a good appetite.’^'' While all possible forms of intemperance and excess are denounced both in the Old Testament and in the New, the substantial viands, viands gathered from the fields and the vineyards, the firstling of the fiocks and herds, the fig, the olive, and the pure juice of the grape are promised over and over again, as the rewards of virtuous toil— and catalogued with the blessings to be received from this lower world. I have no patience^'" says a wise writer, “ with those who pretend not to care for their dinner, or the ludicrous assumption that ‘ spiritual ’ negations imply superior souls. A man who is careless about his dinner is generally one of flaccid body amd feeble mind^ As old Samuel Johnson authoritatively said. Sir, a man seldom thinks of anything with more earnestness than he thinks of his dinner, and if he cannot get that well dressed, he may be suspected of inaccuracy in other things.'^ When a man is not barely insensible to hunger of soul, the keen intellectual voraoities and intel- lectual desires, he is all the healthier, all the stronger, all the better for a noble capacity for food—a capacity which becomes noble when ifEATING A DUTY ministers to a fine and not merely a gluttonous nature. Even a plain diet is but half good. It cannot be doubted that on the whole^ refinement in board as well as lodgings being a fruit of intelligence^ is honourable alike to health and longevity. There are advantages we little think of in those cidinary ingenuities which^ not significantly adding to the cost of our foodj in fact reducing it by assisting to diminish waste^ at once modify and reduce ill- favours^ and so greatly augment its pleasant sapidity. The pleasure of meal times is one of the prerogatives of human nature; the lower mammalia —the only other animals who appear to enjoy the flavour of their food—are insensible to ‘^haut goutr Granivorous birds and most kinds of fishes not only have cartilaginous tongues—which prevent them from tastings but swallow their food whole^ guided probably to the choice of it by sight rather than by taste or smell. FRUITS IN ENGLAND IN XIII 4- XV CENTURIES The only kinds named are apples and pears; three hundred of the latter were purchased at Canterbury^ probably from the gardens of the S62FRUITS IN ENGLAND 263 monks. It is believed^ however^ that few other sorts were generally grown in England before the latter end of the fifteenth century^ although Matthew Paris^ describing the bad season 1257, observes that apples were scarce^ and pears scarcer^ while quences^ vegetables^ cherries^ plums^ and all shell fruits were entirely destroyed.'*'' These shell fruits were probably the common hazel-nut^ walnuts^ and perhaps chestnuts. In 1256 the Sheriffs of London were ordered to buy two thousand chestnuts for the King'*s use. In the Wardrobe book of the \4^th of Edtmrd the Firsts before quoted^ we find the bill of Nicholas^ the Royal fruiterer^ in which the only fruits men- tioned are pears^ apples^ quencies^ medlars and nuts. The supply of these from Whitsuntide to November cost £^1 14^. l|d!. This apparent scarcity of indigenous fruits naturally leads to the inquiry what foreign, kinds^ besides those included in the term spicery^ such as almonds^ dates^ figs and raisins^ were imported into England in this and the following century ? In the time of John and of Henry the Thirds Rochelle was celebrated for its pears and conger eels; the Sheriffs of London purchased a hundred of the former for Henry in 1223. In the ISth of Edward the Firsts a large Spanish ship came to Portsmoidh^ out of the cargo of which the Queen bought one frail of Seville figs^ one frail of raisins or grapes^ one bale ofFRUITS IN ENGLAND dates^ two hundred and thirty pomegranates^ fifteen citrons and seven oranges. The last item is important^ as Le Grand d" A ussy could not trace the orange in France to an earlier date than 1333 ; here we find it hnown in England in 1290, and it is probable that this was not its first appearance. The marriage of Edward with Eleanor of Castile naturally led to a greater intercourse with Spain^ and consequently to the introductum of other articles of Spanish produce than the leather of Cordova, Olive oil and rice^ which had previously been the principal imports from that fertile country^ through the medium of the merchants of Bayonne and Bordeaux, It is to be regretted that the series of Wardrobe Boohs is incomplete^ as much additional information on this point might have been derived from them. At all events^ it appears certain that Europe is indebted to the Arab conquerors of Spain for the introduction of the orange^ and not to the Portuguese^ who are said to have brought it from China, An English dessert in the thirteenth century must^ it is clear, have been composed chiefiy of dried and preserved fruits, dates, figs, apples, pears, nuts, and the still common dishes of raisins and almonds, J. H. Turner Printed by Ballantyne Co. Limited Tavistock Street, Covent Garden, LondonV