LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden f\_ PlA 111 II III 111 III | III II 3 0 c >6< 323: 33* 339 4MSC London Borough of Camden Swiss Cottage Library . Tel: 01 278 4444 88 Avenue Road /n 1 O ^ Extensions: LONDON Jy \ Book Renewals 3021 NW3 3HA Lending Library 3012 This book is due for return on or before the date stamped below. The period of loan can be extended if the book is not reserved (please ask for details of renewal facilities) Fines are charged on overdue books Lending Library hours Mon-Fri 9.30-8 Sat 9.30-5 ~ •— c r" ry tn CTOCl< j Li j i! oA PLASMON COOKERY BOOK. DAINTY. NUTRITIOUS AND ECONOMICAL DISHES FOR EVERY HOUSEHOLD. INTERNATIONAL PLASMON, LIMITED, 66a, Farringdon Street, London, E.C. Branch Der6t : 56, Duke St., Grosvenor Square, London, W., WHERE FREE DEMONSTRATIONS ARE GIVEN DAILY HOW TO USE PLASMON. [Entered at Stationers’ Hall.JTgS'5131 j APREFACE CONSIDERABLE interest attaches to the collection of the recipes which we now present to the reader. The Plasm on Exhibit, consisting of a large variety of Plasmon dishes, Plasmon pastry, cakes and bread, shown at the Food and Cookery Exhibitions, held at the Royal Albert Hall in April, 1903 and 1904, was awarded the highest certificate of merit {April, I9°4> hors concours). International Plasmon, Limited, 66a, Farringdon Street, LONDON, E.C.Recipes. In issuing this New Edition (1904) we have added a number of Ordinary Household Recipes, ECONOMICAL AND EASY TO MAKE, FOR DAILY USECONTENTS Preface ... PAGE ... 3 Introduction—Should be read ... ... 7 What Plasmon is ... ... 9 Jurors’ Report ... ... n How to Use Plasmon—Important ... ... ... 13 Plasmon Weights and Measures ... • « • ... 16 Soups ... ... ••• ••• ... ... 17 Fish, Meat, and Vegetable Dishes ... 21 Sweets ... ... ... 30 Savouries ... ... 45 Cakes, Biscuits, and Bread ... ... 49 Invalid Cookery and Diabetic Food ... ... 54 Sauces ... ... ... 58 Plasmon Preparations and Prices... ... ... 61 Index ... 63Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b215380867 INTRODUCTION. Report on the Culinary Value and Possibilities of Plasmon in “Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. Edited by C. Herman Senn. SINCE the science of dietetics has become more intimately allied with the art of cookery, it has been recognised that the so-called “rich foods” are not always the most nourishing. That is to say, there are many substances which, while most useful as stimulants and producers of fat, are practically devoid of all flesh-forming and waste-repairing properties. Such foods taken in excess are positively harmful, loading the human system with substances difficult to eliminate and which induce disease. At the other end of the scale are starchy and watery foods, of less nutrient value. Of course, the aim in planning a dietary or cooking a meal must be to properly choose different foods, so as to provide a well- balanced ration. But with the modern exigencies this is not always easy to do, and hence has arisen the necessity for prepared foods. These are, as a rule, associated with the feeding of the young, the aged, and the ailing. There are certain preparations, however, which have a far wider application. Take Plasmon as an instance. Plasmon is a white granulated substance, devoid of scent or flavour; so it can be easily manipulated, and when used in cookery does not alter the taste of any dish. It is, therefore, safe to use. Now let us consider the advisability of using it, Well, Plasmon is the scientifically prepared albumen of pure fresh milk. It is an albumen which is in no way altered, so that it possesses all the nourishing qualities of the albumen of meat, white of egg, or milk, without the bulk of water. Unlike the casein of cheese, the albumen in this preparation is chemically unaltered; consequently it is quite digestible and easily assimilated. As albumen is the chief requisite8 of the human system for the restoration of waste of muscle, nerve, bone, etc., etc., the importance of this substance will be at once recognised. As Plasmon possesses no flavour or scent, it can be safely added to any dish, with the surety that it will add enormously to its nourishing properties, and, moreover, assist in making it light and digestible. In practice it is found that Plasmon can be used in endless ways, and that, if properly handled, it adds to the lightness of cakes, bread, and sweets, and gives a rich, smooth character to savoury and vegetable dishes. As a mere enricher, it can be sprinkled over a dish like salt, but for cookery purposes it requires a little skilled preparation. The following recipes have been compiled to serve as a guide for the numerous ways in which Plasmon can, with profit and advantage, be used in cookery. These dishes, and the directions given to show the best way to prepare them, will amply prove all that is claimed for Plasmon. The hints given will be found useful. This, added to the knowledge gained by experience, should help to make all dishes in which Plasmon is used—and there are but very few indeed where it cannot be employed—more nourishing, and therefore more profitable. Variety in food often offers difficulties. There are not many varieties of meat, but few species of fish, and not too many vegetables. How, then, can one obtain variety ? This is answered by Plasmon, which will prove an excellent aid to bring about variety, by taking the following recipes as a basis for a number of other dishes by merely substituting the chief ingredient for another. Variety, it is often said, not only charms the palate, but frequently it is the means of creating an appetite in those to whom the mere thought of food has been distasteful. Good cooking does not always mean ex- pensive cooking, and, as a rule, the best cooks are the most economical. The use of Plasmon spells interior economy, because when properly blended and treated upon correct culinary lines, food thus prepared fulfils that important mission of making it more wholesome, more varied, more pleasurable, and therefore more profitable in the end. We are indebted to the August and September (1903) numbers of “Food and Cookery,” edited by Mr. C. Herman Senn, for a number of the recipes appearing in this book.9 WHAT PLASMON IS. The name PLASMON distinguishes our preparation of Milk Albumen or Casein from the analogous preparations of all other Manufacturers, and is our Registered Trade Mark. LASMON is the albumen of pure fresh milk in the form of a dry, soluble, granulated cream white powder. Albumen (termed proteid) is the nourishing principle contained, in varying quantities, in all foods—whether animal or vegetable. It is the principal substance in the food which is absorbed by the system for forming and feeding all parts of the human body (blood, muscles, nerve, bone, brain, etc.), and for restoring the waste which is continually taking place in the system. Flesh-forming albumen is present in only very small quantities in most foods; therefore a large bulk of food is usually eaten without perfect nourishment being obtained. The albumen (proteid) in fresh milk is the nutriment provided by Nature itself, and is therefore the most perfect form of food. But the milk albumen (proteid) is liable to speedy changes, which render it insoluble and indigestible. The methods used by casein or proteid manufacturers in the drying of the casein or proteid of milk alter the nature of the albumen, and any addition of a free alkali (carbonate of soda, potash, etc.), however minute in quantity, to the dry casein, renders the proteid worthless as a nutrient, and probably harmful to the digestive system. It has been the aim of science to overcome this difficulty, and to preserve the albumen (proteid) of milk in its naturalIO unaltered condition. Plasmon is the result of prolonged investigations. It is the albumen (proteid) of pure milk, containing its most important original salts, prepared by a process which does not alter its vital and physical properties or in any way lessen its nourishing effects. The albumen (proteid), as it exists in fresh milk, remains absolutely pure, though in a dry granulated form, and retains its properties unchanged for an indefinite period, and is perfectly soluble. Plasmon added to any food—no matter how poor such food may be in albumen (proteid) substance—at once raises the nourishing value of the food, a teaspoonful of the Plasmon powder being equal to the nutriment contained in | lb. of prime fillet of beef. It is flavourless and odourless. Plasmon, owing to its high nutritive qualities, and the perfect way in which it is assimilated, invigorates the digestive system, so that other foods taken with it, or after it, are more easily digested. Although it increases the weight, it does not do so by inducing the accumulation of fat—but owing to the ease and rapidity with which it is absorbed by the system, it gives strength to the digestion, and speedily rectifies all irregularities in the nutrition of the body; so that while semi-starvation from imperfect digestion becomes impossible, so also are the many evils which result from the morbid absorption of fat and the use of non-nourishing foods prevented. A feature which demonstrates the strengthening qualities of Plasmon is, that when it is taken regularly, the craving for alcoholic stimulants—even among confirmed inebriates—is subdued. Plasmon, being free from flavour, and smell, and perfectly soluble, is an ideal food-enricher for all classes of the com- munity, and can therefore be applied to all descriptions of foods.Twelfth Universal Cookery & Food Exhibition, London. REPORT ON THE PLASMON COMPETITION. WE were agreeably surprised by the high order of excellence which characterised the greater number of the dishes sent in by the many competitors. Indeed, so good was the general level of culinary ability that we had some difficulty in coming to a decision as to the order of merit after the first three or four in the two classes had been selected. Thanks to the liberal prize list, however, this difficulty had no practical effect on the task of the jurors. There was a great diversity in the character and style of the dishes exhibited, so that the display afforded practical demonstration of how universally Plasmon may be employed in the preparation of food. Every recipe sent in by the competitors was carefully perused, and it was found that in each case a considerable percentage of Plasmon had been included. Plasmon had in some cases been incorporated in its natural (dry powder) form, in others it was first converted into a jelly or a whipped cream. The high percentage of Plasmon used, and the diversity of the dishes exhibited (some of which were of a most delicate nature), enabled us to verify the claim that Plasmon is without individual flavour or odour. We found that in no case were the characteristic flavours and aromas of meats, vegetables, fruits, or aromatics, altered or masked by the addition of12 Plasmon. This applied to all dishes, from soups to sweets and savouries. The soups submitted for competition were of the purte and mixed vegetable order, both with and without meat foundation. In all cases Plasmon, while not interfering with the flavour, gave a most agreeable impression of strength and velvety softness. High marks were accorded for the gastro- nomical value of the soups. Entrees of various kinds were sent in; the addition of Plasmon had apparently facilitated the work of the cooks, at all events the results were excellent. Cutlets dipped in a kind of batter formed chiefly of Plasmon and egg, then crumbed and fried, proved delicious ; while the croquettes possessed a creamy interior. Plasmon as an addition to the vegetable dishes also proved a success. But we regret to say that the avowedly “ Vegetarian Cookery” dishes did not attain so high a level, either as regards appearance, originality, or flavour. Nevertheless, we think that this was accidental, as we are decidedly of opinion that if Plasmon were judiciously used it would tend con- siderably to enhance the dietetic and gastronomic value of vegetarian cookery.i3 HOW TO USE PLASMON. DIRECTIONS AND RECIPES. 1. Plasmon may be taken either in a dry form or in solution. In a dry form it may be sprinkled over the food at the table (any kind of food—stews, puddings, porridges, etc.), in the same way as sugar or salt, and mixed up with the food. But large numbers of people find it preferable to add Plasmon to foods in the form of Plasmon Stock, which is more universally digestible. It may also be added to the flour and mixed up with it, and then kneaded in the usual way for making bread or pastry—1| oz. of Plasmon to i lb. of flour. MOIST PLASMON. 2. Put 3 teaspoonfuls of dry Plasmon into a large cup, and add gradually | pint (i gill) of tepid (not hot) water, and stir to a thick paste. In this state it may be added to milk, soups, beef-tea, etc., and boiled for 2 minutes. Quantity for each person—one to two teaspoonfuls of this moist Plasmon. (One teaspoonful of moist Plasmon equals half teaspoonful of dry Plasmon.) HOW TO DISSOLVE PLASMON: thus making PLASMON STOCK. 3. Put 1 oz. of Plasmon into a saucepan. Add gradually £ pint of lukewarm water, stirring continuously. Place over the fire, and boil for 2 minutes. When cold this stock should have the appearance of a thin semi-transparent jelly.H Plasmon Stock is the foundation of many dishes, and is referred to in a number of the recipes. If used for whipping into a nourishing cream, it must be quite cold (and is best made overnight for the next day’s use); but for adding to milk, coffee, soups, and certain other dishes, it may be used hot as soon as made. Stock will keep a day or two if treated as milk. Note.—If the saucepan be rinsed with cold water it prevents burning. A WHITE STOCK FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES. 4. To 4 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon Powder add gradually i pint of tepid water, stir till it boils, and while boiling add | saltspoonful of salt to restore the white colour. If used for soups, vegetables, rice, barley, etc., can be added, and any additions of flavouring used. PLASMON COCOA. 5. For each breakfast cup take i to 2 teaspoonfuls of cocoa, mix into a smooth paste with g cup of milk, add § cup of water, and boil for 2 minutes. PLASMON TEA. 6. For each person put 1 teaspoonful of tea into a teapot previously heated, add boiling water, and let stand for 3 minutes to draw. PLASMON CREAM. 7. Is made from Plasmon Stock (No 3) as follows:—Put 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls (not more at a time) of Plasmon Stock into a large cup or one pound jar, whisk briskly a few minutes, when a thick cream will result. Add sifted sugar and vanilla, or other flavouring to taste, whisk quickly again for half a minute. This cream can now be used for tea, coffee, cocoa, stewed fruits, etc., or may be eaten alone. A “ Dover” wheel whisk gives the best results—namely, Plasmon Whipped Cream ; the longer it is whisked the thicker it becomes. Note.—To have this Cream in perfection, it is essential for the Stock to be quite cold.i5 HOW TO PREPARE PLASMON MILK—Hot. 8. i oz. of Plasmon (3 teaspoonfuls), 3 oz. of water (half small teacup), 1 pint of milk. In a clean enamelled saucepan, mix the Plasmon into a smooth paste with 3 oz. of tepid water; then place on the fire, stir in gradually the pint of milk, and boil all together for 2 minutes, stirring continuously. PLASMON MILK—Cold. 9. 1 oz. of Plasmon (3 teaspoonfuls), 8 oz. of water (1 large tea- cup), 1 pint of milk. In a clean enamelled saucepan, mix the Plasmon with enough tepid water to make a smooth paste, add gradually remainder of water, and boil for 2 minutes ; then stir in slowly the pint of milk until all is well mixed, and allow to cool. FOR INFANTS’ FOOD. 10. To 1 teaspoonful of Plasmon Powder add 1 gill of tepid water, mix it thoroughly, and boil for 2 minutes. The above quantity to be divided and given in the food during 24 hours. Dry Plasmon Powder should on no account be given to young children. Hr FREE DEMONSTRATIONS HOW TO USE PLASMON are given daily at 56, Duke Street, Grosvenor Square (near 415, Oxford Street & Bond Street Tube), London, W. LADIES ARE SPECIALLY INVITED; BIT IF ENABLE TO COME, THEY MAY SEND THEIR MAIDS. VlBitors from tho country should not fall to call.16 PLASMON WEIGHTS & MEASURES with Quantities for Daily Use. One Ounce of Plasmon Powder is equal to 3 large or 4 small teaspoonfuls, heaped; or to 1 tablespoonful, heaped; or to 15 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon Stock. 1 teaspoonful of Dry Plasmon is equal to 2 teaspoonfuls of Moist Plasmon. 20 ounces of water equal 1 pint. 1 gill of water equal 4 pint. Quantity of Plasmon which may be eaten daily during 24 hours, with other food:— Minimum amount for adults, 3 teaspoonfuls; Maxi- mum, 6 teaspoonfuls. Children half the above quantities. Infants, 1 teaspoonful during 24 hours. (See page 15, No. 10.)PART I.-SOUPS. 1. PLASMON MEAT STOCK FOR SOUPS AND SAUCES. —In making ordinary or so-called general stock use about a pound of meat and bones, 4 to 6 oz. of soup vegetables (carrot, onion, turnip, and leek or celery) to every quart of water. Do not add the vegetables until the liquor has first boiled up and the scum has been removed. Season with salt and pepper (peppercorns and bay-leaf should be added). Boil gently from 2g to 3 hours, and strain. Stir into 2 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon powder a pint of tepid water, re-heat it whilst stirring it over the fire, and add it to a quart of general stock as soon as it boils. Use the stock as directed. Note.—All stock is better made overnight for use on the following day. In the first-named stock care must be taken to remove all the fat which is on top before it is used. 2. PLASMON STOCK is also produced by mixing an ounce of Plasmon powder with half a pint of tepid, i.e., lukewarm water, which must be stirred over the fire until it boils. Cook for 2 minutes. When cold this stock has the appearance of a thin semi-transparent jelly. This stock will keep good for 1 to 2 days, and is used for making up into cream by thoroughly whisking it, as well a's for a basis for a number of dishes, sweet or savoury7, where liquid or stock is used. 3. PARMENTIER CREAM SOUP.—Ingredients : 1 lb. potatoes; 2 oz. butter; 1 small onion; \ pint Plasmon stock ; | pint milk ; 1 pint zvater; 1 tablespoonful ground rice ; salt, pepper, and nutmeg ; fried bread croutons. Method.—Wash and peel the potatoes, slice them. Peel and slice the onions. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in 2i8 potatoes and onion, and fry a little without browning. Add the water and milk, boil up and skim. Stir in the ground rice, and cook gently till the vegetables are tender. Rub all through a fine sieve. Return to the stewpan, add the Plasmon stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and re-heat. Serve with small croutons of fried bread. This soup may be made still richer by adding, a few minutes before serving, one yolk of egg mixed with half-a tablespoonful of cream. 4. LENTIL SOUP.—Ingredients : i pint lentils rr small onion; x stick of celery; 2 oz. hitter; 1 gill Plasmon stock (recipe No. 2,page 17) ; 2 quarts water; salt andpepper to taste. Method.—Wash the lentils, and soak them in cold water for 3 or 4 hours. Put the butter in a saucepan; add the lentils, onions (peeled and finely sliced), celery (cleaned and chopped small), stir over the fire for about 5 minutes, then add the water, boil up, skim, and cook gently till the lentils are soft. Pass all through a sieve ; add Plasmon, salt, and pepper; re-heat, and serve with bread cut in dice. Note.—Peas, haricots, beans, etc., can be used in the same way as lentils. 5. GAME SOUP. —Ingredients : The remains of one or two small birds (roast partridge or grouse) ; 5 onion ; 2 oz. dripping ; 2 oz. oatmeal; 1 quart Plasmon stock, No. 1, page 17 ; 6-8 preserved mushrooms ; salt and pepper, fried bread croutons. Method.—Remove the nicest pieces of meat from the bird, cut them into dice, and keep them aside for garnish. Chop up the carcase, etc., and put this in a stewpan with the dripping and the onion (peeled and sliced), fry for a few minutes, then add the oatmeal, and fry till it has acquired a light brown colour. Moisten gradually with the stock, and cook the whole for half an hour. Pass through a sieve, and re-heat 5 add the mushrooms, cut into dice, and the game fillets which were placed aside. Season with salt and pepper, and serve with croutons. Note.—This soup is greatly improved by adding a small wineglassful of sherry, port, or Marsala a few minutes before serving. , „ .. We are indebted to “ Food and Cookery (August September, 1903) for above recipes. and19 6. CREME PRINTANIERE.—Ingredients : i pint veal broth; i pint Plasmon stock; yolks of 2 eggs; \ gill cream; carrots, turnips, green peas, aspai'agus; seasonings pepper and salt. Method.—Cut the carrots and turnips into fancy shapes, boil in water sufficient to cover them for half an hour; then add the asparagus and peas, and cook till they are tender. Mix the Plasmon and veal stocks ; season to taste, and boil up; add vegetables; let cool slightly, then add well-stirred yolks of eggs. Heat up. but do not allow to boil, and serve.. 7. HOLLANDAISE SOUP. — Ingredients : 1 pint Plasmon stock; \ oz. butter; \ oz. flour; yolks of 2 eggs; 1 gill cream ; | gill cooked peas ; \ gill cut cooked carrots; h gill cut cooked cucumber; seasotimg. Method.—Trim the carrots and cucumber with a round vegetable scoop to the size and shape of peas, and cook them in boiling water. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour and Plasmon stock, and stir until it boils ; pour it on to the liaison of eggs and cream ; return to the saucepan, and cook slowly without letting it boil; add the vegetables, previously cooked. Season to taste. 8. VEGETABLE SOUP. —Ingredients : 2 carrots; 2 turnips; 1 leek; 1 onion; 1 i oz. butter; 1 teaspoonful celery seed; 2 lumps sugar; 1 bay-leaf; 1 pint Plasmon white stock / 1 oz. flour; 1 gill milk. Method.—Shred the vegetables into thin strips. Melt the butter and steam the vegetables in it for 10 minutes ; add Plasmon stock while it is still boiling. Cook for 20 minutes or until the vegetables are tender. Blend flour and milk smoothly together and mix in gradually. Boil for another 15 minutes, and serve nicely seasoned 9. POTATO SOUP.—Ingredients: i| pints white stock, 5 or 6 potatoes; \ pint Plasmon stock ; 1 o?iion ; g oz. small sago; 2 tablespoonfuls milk ; pepper and salt. Method.—Boil the potatoes and rub them through a sieve; pour both the stocks into a saucepan and bring to the boil;20 mix the potatoes and milk together and pour into a saucepan ; when boiling add the sago ; when this is transparent the soup is ready. (Sufficient quantities for six persons.) 40. POTAGE A LA YOLAILLE.—Ingredients: i| pints white stock; i pint Plasmon stock; I gill cream; i dessertspoonful flour; seasoning—salt, pepper, lemon juice; i tablespoonful water or milk. Method.—Put the chicken and Plasmon stocks into a saucepan and bring them to the boil. Blend the flour and sufficient milk or water to'form a smooth paste. Pour into saucepan with the stocks and stir until thick. Remove the pan from the fire and add cream very carefully. Season to taste, place saucepan on fire and bring to boil, and serve hot. (The above quantities are sufficient for six persons.) 11. BEEF PLASMON SOUP (made with Meat Stock). —Ingredients : i pint meat stock; 2 teaspoonfuls Beef Plasmon. Method.—Pour a pint of ordinary meat stock (in which a few vegetables have been boiled) on to 2 teaspoonfuls of Beef Plasmon. Stir and boil for 2 or 3 minutes. 12. BEEF PLASMON SOUP (made with Vegetable Stock).—Ingredients: 4 onions; 1 carrot; 1 turnip; 1 leek; 3 sticks celery ; a sprig of parsley ; 2 bay-leaves; 1 blade mace; 3 teaspoonfuls Beef Plasmon ; pepper and salt; i| pints water. Method.—Boil all the vegetables in i| pints of water for 45 minutes. Strain this on to 3 teaspoonfuls cf Beef Plasmon ; season with pepper and salt. Stir and boil for 2 or 3 minutes.21 PART II,—FISH, MEAT, AND VEGETABLE DISHES. 13, FISH PUDDING.—Ingredients : f lb. cooked white fish ; 6 os. cooked potatoes; 2 oz. butter; i teaspoonful chopped parsley; i dessertspoonful Plasmon powder; | gill water; i whole egg; 2 yolks of eggs ; salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Butter a plain pudding mould, sprinkle it with brown crumbs, and boil for 2 minutes. Free the fish from skin and bones, and chop up small. Rub the potatoes through a sieve. Melt the butter, put in the fish and potatoes, and let it get hot, then add the liquid and Plasmon, the parsley and the eggs. Mix well and season to taste. Put the mixture into the prepared mould, shake it down well, and bake in a moderately heated oven for 25 minutes. Turn out on a hot dish and serve. Note.—This pudding will be found lighter if the white of egg is whisked stiffly before it is added to the mixture. A tablespoonful of cream will also be found an improvement.— “Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 14. OYSTER OMELET.—Ingredients: 6 large oysters; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon stock, No. 2, page 17; 1 oz. butter; 3 eggs ; salt and pepper. Method.—Cook the oysters in their own liquor, drain them and remove the beards, and cut into small dice; beat up the e»crs, and add the Plasmon stock: season to taste with salt and pepper; then add the oysters. Melt the butter in an omelet-pan, pour in the egg mixture and stir over a quick fire till the eggs begin to set. Fold over and shape neatly (cushion shape), allow the omelet to take colour, and turn out into a hot dish.—“ Food and Cookery,” September, 1903.22 15. FISH PIE.—Ingredients : i lb. cold fish; i| lb. cold potatoes; i oz. dripping or butter; 2 tablespoonfuls ~Plasmon stock. Method.—Mash the potatoes and pass through a sieve; melt the dripping or butter in a saucepan; add the mashed potatoes and Plasmon stock, and mix all well together. Shred up the remains of any cold fish ; season with anchovy sauce or salt and pepper; put into buttered pie dish, and cover with the mashed potatoes ; smooth over, and bake f hour. 16. PLASMON MOULD OF KEDGEREE (Breakfast Dish). —Ingredients: 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; \ pint fish stock; 1 lb. cold boiled fish ; 1 teacupful Carolina rice; 1 oz. butter; 2 hard-boiled eggs ; salt, pepper, and cayenne ; \ pint aspic or savoury jelly, to mask the mould; parsley and hard- boiled egg for decoration. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water and mask it with a little aspic or savoury jelly ; ornament it with sprigs of parsley and pieces of hard-boiled egg; cover the ornamentation with a little more aspic jelly, and allow it to set. Boil the rice as for a curry, and when done place it in a basin and stir into it the butter. Have ready the boiled fish, freed from bones and skin, and the hard-boiled eggs chopped in fairly large pieces; add these to the rice and mix well together with sufficient salt, pepper, and cayenne to season it nicely. Have ready J pint fish stock (tepid), made from the bones and skin of the fish, and pour it gradually upon 2 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon, stir- ring it well to keep it quite smoothj place this in a double saucepan and boil for 4 minutes, keeping it well stirred. Season it nicely with pepper'and salt, and when slightly cooled add to it the rice and fish, etc.; stir it well in, place the mix- ture in the prepared mould, and allow it to set; when quite firm dip the mould in hot water and turn out. Garnish with parsley and hard-boiled egg. 17. PLASMON IRISH STEW. —Ingredients : 1 lb. scrag of mutton ; 1 \ lb. potatoes ; 6 oz. onions; 1 \ gills Plasmon stock, No. 1, page 17/ salt and pepper to taste. Method.—Cut the meat into neat pieces, trim off some of the fat, put it in a saucepan with | pint of cold water, and23 season with salt. When it comes to the boil skim it, and let it simmer gently for f hour 5 then add the potatoes (previously washed, peeled, and cut in halves), the onions (peeled and sliced), salt and pepper, and lastly the Plasmon stock. Cook slowly for 1 hour. Dish up, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve.—“ Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 18. SAYOURY PLASMON BALLS. —Ingredients: ilb. flour; 1 oz. Plasmon; 4 oz. beef suet; 1 egg; 1 teaspoonful chopped parsley and savoury herbs ; salt and pepper. Method.—Sift the flour and mix with the Plasmon. Free the suet from skin and chop it finely. Add this to the flour, etc., together with the parsley and herbs. Season with a good pinch of salt and pepper, and moisten with the egg and a little milk or water. Work this into a fairly stiff paste. Divide it into small portions, and shape each into a ball. Put them into a stewpan with enough stock to cover, and cook gently for about an hour or longer. Serve with the hot liquor or gravy. This is a very nourishing and tasty dish.—“Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 19. MUTTON COLLOPS. —Ingredients: \lb. lean mutton; i oz. butter; 1 dessertspoonful flour; 1 slice of onion; 1 gill Plasmon stock, No. 1, page 17/ salt and pepper; mashed potatoes or fried bread croutons to garnish. Method.—Remove the skin and fat from the meat and cut it into very small dice, or chop it (not too finely). Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion (finely chopped), and fry a little. Put in the flour and fry likewise; then add the meat, and stir the whole over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with the stock and cook gently for | hour. Season to taste, and serve in the centre of a border of mashed potatoes, or garnish with triangular-shaped slices of fried bread.—“Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 20. SHEPHERD’S PIE.—Mince up any kind of cold meat; season with salt and pepper; add a little butter, also 2 tablespoonfuls of gravy. Put it in a pie dish; cover with a thick layer of mashed potatoes mixed with \ gill of Plasmon stock, No. 2, page 17. Bake in a hot oven to brown for | hour.—“ Food and Cookery,” August, 1903.24 21. HAM RELISH (a Dainty Dish for Breakfast).— Ingredients: 2 tecispoonfuls Plasmon powder; 6 oz. cooked ham; 4 preserved mushrooms ; 1 hard-boiled egg; | gill cream ; chopped parsley ; seasoning; 2 slices toasted bread. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in half a gill of tepid water. Chop the ham and mushrooms finely. Chop each separately. Put the yolk of egg into a clean, well-tinned saucepan, rub with a wooden spoon till smooth, and gradually add the Plasmon and the cream; chop the white of egg finely, and add half of it with the ham and mushrooms. Stir over the fire until hot; season with pepper and a pinch of cayenne. If found too consistent add a little white sauce. Spread the mixture on some buttered toast cut into conveniently sized slices; sprinkle over with the remainder of chopped white of egg and chopped parsley. Serve either hot or cold. It is nicest hot.—“Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 22. CREME DE YOLAILLE A LA PLASMON.— Ingredients: 4 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; 1 pint inarm water; | oz. gelatine ; breast of a cooked fowl; pepper atid salt. Method.—Remove the bones from the chicken, pound it well and rub through a fine sieve. Mix the Plasmon with the water, boil it 4 minutes, let the gelatine dissolve in this, and then add the chicken; stir all together smoothly and season to taste. Whip the mixture until nearly set. Pour into a mould and set aside to cool. Turn out the chicken cream carefully and serve. The mould may be decorated if desired. Half a gill of cream may be added to the mixture. 23. CHICKEN SOUFFLE.—Ingredients : 6 oz. minced chicken ; r| oz. flour ; \ pint Plasmon white stock ; 2 oz. butter ; yolks of 3 and whites of 6 eggs ; seasoning to taste. Method.— Melt butter in saucepan, mix flour carefully with some milk, then stir into the saucepan and add the stock and the chicken ; stir over the fire till thickened, then add the yolks of eggs well beaten; stir for 2 minutes, take up and cool. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the mixture with pepper and salt to taste. Pour into a well-buttered souffle dish and bake above | hour. Send to table instantly, or it will spoil.25 25. CHICKEN SET IN PLASMON JELLY. - Ingredients : i pint Plasmon jelly in which k oz. gelatine has been dissolved; i to ij pints chopped chicken ; pepper, salt, and celery for flavouring ; cress for garnish. Method.—Take i pint Plasmon jelly and flavour with celery essence. Pour a small quantity into a mould and let it set. Sprinkle with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of chopped cold boiled or roast chicken; then add a little more cool jelly, and when set again sprinkle with pepper, salt, and chopped chicken. Continue this until the mould is full. When quite firm dip in hot water and turn out. Garnish with small cress. Ham, tongue, lobster, prawns, etc., may be used in the same manner. • 25. TURKISH PILAFF. (The old Maison d’Or recipe.)— Ingredients : x chicken ; \ pint Plasmon stock ; teacupful veal or chicken broth ; | lb. well-washed Caroline rice ; 3 tomatoes ; 3 tablespoonfuls cooked chopped onion; 1 tablespoonful veal suet; 2 oz. butter ; sprig of thyme ; 2 bay- leaves ; nutmeg; salt, pepper, and a pi?ich of cayerine. Method.—Divide the chicken into pieces and saute it very slowly in part of the butter, with the chopped onions, thyme, and bay-leaves. When it is of a deep yellow colour, add the rice, Plasmon stock, seasoning, herbs, and tomatoes (which should be par-boiled and cut in dice). The whole must now stew very gently till the broth is absorbed and the rice thoroughly cooked. This will take about an hour and a half from the time the rice is put in, and during this time the rest of the butter, the veal suet, and the teacupful of stock should be added to the Pilaff, bringing it to a state rieither dry nor moist. To serve, heap the rice upon a hot dish and place the chicken on top. 26. COLD MEAT SHAPE.—Ingredients : | lb. cold veal; \ lb. cooked ham ; 1 tablespoonful parsley ; 1 onion ; k pint Plasmon jelly, in which ^ oz. gelatine has been dissolved ; ~pepper and salt. Method.—Chop finely lb. cold veal, | lb. cooked ham, 1 tablespoonful parsley, and x well-cooked onion; season with pepper and salt. Stir into this \ pint cool (not set) Plasmon jelly. Pour into a mould, and when firm dip in hot water and turn out. Camden P.L26 27. COTELETTES DE MOUTON (froid).—Ingredients : i lb. neck of mutton ; i egg; i tablespoonful Plasmon ; 2 table- spoonfuls breadcrumbs ; fryingfat. Method.—Carefully cut the meat into even-sized cutlets and trim well ; mix the Plasmon and breadcrumbs and beat up the egg ; brush over the cutlet with the egg, dip into the Plasmon, and fry in hot fat. 28. SAVOURY CUTLETS.—Ingredients : \ lb. cooked chicken (or other meat) ; \ pint Plasmon stock ; a little parsley, breadcrumbs, and white of an egg. Method.—Mince finely | lb. of cooked chicken (or any other meat), add a little chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; mix into \ pint of Plasmon stock. Cook well, let it get cold, egg-and-breadcrumb and fry ■ serve for breakfast, etc. 29. PLASMON YORKSHIRE PUDDING. —Ingredients : 6 os. flour; 1 os. Plasmon; 2 eggs; x pint milk; 1 salt- spoonful salt. Method.—Put the flour, Plasmon, and salt into a basin, and mix together. Make a well in the centre, add a little milk, and work all into a smooth, stiff batter ; gradually add the remainder of the milk, also the eggs (well-beaten first), and stir briskly for a few minutes. Pour into a well-greased pan, and bake 20 minutes. 30. PLASMON STEAK AND KIDNEY PUDDING.— Ingredients: i lb. flour ; 2 oz. Plasmon powder ; 6 oz. suet; salt; x | lb. steak ; \ lb. kidney ; seasoning Method.—Put the flour, Plasmon, and salt in a basin, add the suet (finely chopped), and mix all with cold water into a stiff dough. Line the basin with half the paste ; cut the steak and kidney in nice pieces, season to taste, and put in basin till nearly full, adding a little water for gravy. Then cover oyer with remainder of the dough, join the edges round the basin, and trim off neatly. Wring your pudding-cloth out in boiling water, tie it over the basin, allowing room for the dough to swell. Put the pudding in a saucepan of boiling water, and boil 2 hours.27 31. TOAD IN THE HOLE.— Ingredients: 6 oz. flour; i oz. Plasmon; 2 eggs; i| lb. lean meat; 1 pint tnilk ; seasoning. Method.—Mix the flour and Plasmon in a basin, make a well in the centre, and break in the eggs and some milk, mixing all smoothly to a batter, adding gradually the re- mainder of milk. Cut your meat in neat pieces, season, and lay in a greased tin or dish. Pour the batter over it, and bake for an hour. 32. PLASMON TRIPE.—Ingredients: i lb. tripe; 3 onions ; 1 dessertspoonful flour; 1 gill milk ; i| oz. Plasmon. Method.—Blanch the tripe and cut up. Peel and slice the onions. Mix the ig oz. Plasmon gradually with f pint of tepid ■water; then boil it for 2 minutes. While boiling add g salt- spoonful of salt to whiten it. When a little cool add the milk, onions, and tripe, and simmer gently for 2 hours. To thicken the sauce, just before serving mix the flour into a smooth paste with a little cold milk, and add. 33. PLASMON RICE CUTLETS.—Ingredients : 1 pint water ; 5 oz. ground rice ; piece of butter size of a walnut; 4 oz. button mushrooms ; 2 eschalots ; 6 teaspoonf uls Plasmon ; 1 egg ; breadcrumbs ; some plaiji boiled vegetables. Method.—Put into the stewpan 5 oz. of ground rice and 1 pint of water, stir over the fire till it boils, then draw to the side and let it cook for 20 minutes ; add a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and stir frequently to prevent it from burning. When the rice is sufficiently cooked, add 4 oz. of button mushrooms and 2 eschalots (previously fried together in a little butter without discolouring), a dessertspoonful of tomato catsup, a pinch of ground mace, and pepper and salt to taste ; pound together in a mortar and pass through a coarse hair sieve. Next moisten 2 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon with a few teaspoonfuls of warm water and mix well with the other mixture; form into cutlets, dredge over with flour, then dip in a well-beaten egg and breadcrumbs and Plasmon powder; fry in boiling fat to a nice golden colour. Dish en courccnne on a border of mashed potatoes ; serve tomato sauce round, and pile in the centre any vegetables that are in season—peas, beans, or pur£e of spinach.28 35. MUSHROOM CREAM.—Ingredients: | lb. brown mushrooms; 2 oz. butter; pepper, salt; 1 tablespoonful Plus /non stock ; 1 gill cream. Method.—Stew the mushrooms in butter till tender; then stir in the cream, Plasmon, and seasoning, and cook 4 minutes; put all through a coarse hair sieve, make hot again. Spread on small squares of buttered toast, and serve. 35. HOMINY CUTLETS.—Ingredients : 5 pint tomato juice; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon; 1 tablespoonful hominy; 1 tablespoonful milk or cream ; salt and pepper to taste ; egg and breadcrumbs. Method.—Make stock with the juice and Plasmon, then add the hominy, pepper, salt, and milk. Allow it to simmer for 3 hours; make into cutlets, toss in egg and breadcrumbs, and fry in hot fat. 36. PLASMON MASHED POTATOES.—Ingredients : 1 lb. potatoes; 1 oz. hitter; 3 tablespoonfuls Plasmon stock; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Steam or boil the potatoes. When done, strain well to get off all the moisture, mash them, add the butter, salt, pepper, and Plasmon ; beat well with a fork, pass through a sieve (if desired); dish, and brown in the oven. Another Way.—Whip up the Plasmon stock to a thick cream, and then add it to the potatoes, and mix as above. 37. GREEN CORN FRITTERS. —Ingredients : 1 tin green corn ; 2 eggs; 3 tablespoonfuls flour; 1 tablespoonful Plasmon. Method.—Put the flour and Plasmon into a basin and mix well together, beat the eggs, add them and the green corn to the flour and Plasmon and mix well; shape into fritters; fry in boiling oil to a light brown colour ; serve very hot. Note.—Salt and pepper may be added to taste. But these fritters may be served as a sweet; in that case only use a pinch of salt, and serve the fritters with castor sugar.29 38. SAVOURY VEGETABLES. —Ingredients : | lb. cooked spinach ; i pint Plasmon sauce; a little cheese ; 6 eggs. Method.—Take | lb. of spinach, cooked, and pass through the sieve ; cover with Plasmon sauce mixed with cheese. Serve in little cases with a poached egg on top. 39. STUFFED TOMATOES. —Ingredients : 4 or 6 tomatoes; 2 oz. grated cheese ; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; 5 tea- spoonful salt; little pepper ; 1 egg. Method.—Cut the centres out of the tomatoes ; mix all the ingredients together, fill in the tomatoes with the mixture, piling high. Bake in a moderate oven for 10 minutes. 40. POTATO CROQUETTES. —Ingredients : 8 or 10 potatoes (not new); 2 eggs; 1 heaped tablespoonfcl Plasmon ; 2 oz. butter; 1 teaspooiful flour; 1 saltspoonful salt; some fine cracker crumbs. Method.—Boil the potatoes in their skins, peel and grate them, or pass them through a Victoria nut mill; beat the butter to a cream, add the eggs, flour, salt, and Plasmon gradually, beating the mixture all the time. Form into croquettes about three inches long, brush with egg, and boil in fat at a temperature of 380 degrees. 41. LETTUCE WITH PLASMON.—Ingredients : 3 lettuces ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon ; 1 oz. butter; seasoning ; fried crouets of Plasmon bread. Method.—Cook the lettuce with a little water and butter till it is tender; drain it well and pass it through a sieve ; re- heat with some butter, seasoning, and Plasmon. Serve very hot heaped upon the croutes. Garnish with hard-boiled yolk of egg, and croutons of fried bread.30 PART III.—SWEETS. 42. PUFF PASTRY. —Ingredients : 4 oz. hitter; 4 oz. flour; 1 teaspoonful lemon juice; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon powder; cold water. Method.—Sieve flour and Plasmon on to a baking board, make a well in the centre, put in lemon juice and enough water to make a stiff paste. Roll out to a long strip. Place the butter in the centre, fold in three, roll out, fold in three again, set aside for 10 or 15 minutes ; repeat this six times, allowing the pastry to stand between every second rolling. The pastry is then ready for baking. It must be put into a very hot oven. 43. SHORT PASTRY.—Ingredients: \ lb.flour; 2 tea- spoonfuls Plasmon; i teaspoonful baking powder; 5 oz. butter; 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar; 1 egg ; p inch salt. Method.—Put \ lb. flour, 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon, g tea- spoonful baking powder, and a pinch of salt through a sieve. Rub 5 oz. butter lightly in, add dessertspoonful castor sugar, and mix all to a stiff paste with a little beaten-up egg and water. Roll out, and use as required. 44. PLASMON SUET DUMPLING. -Ingredients : 1 lb. flour; 2 oz. Plasmon ; 6 oz. suet; salt. Method.—Put the flour, Plasmon, and salt in a basin; add the suet (finely chopped), and mix with cold water into a stiff dough. Wring out a cloth in boiling water, flour it, tie up the pudding (allowing room for it to swell); boil 2i hours. Note.—Apple or any fruit pudding can be made with dough as above.3i 55. PLASMON COLLEGE PUDDING.—Ingredients : i stale sponge cake or i doz. small cakes ; 2 eggs; 1 gill milk ; 1 gill Plasmon stock ; 1 tablespoonful of any jam. Method.—Break up the cake into crumbs ; mix in the jam ; pour on the milk, warm ; beat up the eggs stiffly, whip the Plasmon to a stiff cream ; mix the eggs and Plasmon together, and stir into the mixture quickly. Steam for 2% hours. 56. RICE PUDDING.—Ingredients : 2 oz. Carolina rice; 2 teaspoo?fuls Plasmon ; 1 pint boiling milk ; sugar to taste ; and pinch salt. Method.—Sprinkle 2 oz. well-washed rice and 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon into 1 pint boiling milk; stir for a few minutes, add a little sugar, and put in a pie dish ; bake in a slow oven until the rice is tender. Semolina and sago may be treated in the same way. 57. PLASMON RICE PUDDING.—Ingredients : 2 Carolina rice; 2 teaspoonful Plasmon powder; 1 pint milk; sifted sugar to taste. Method.—Butter the dish; put in the rice and sugar. Mix the Plasmon with a little of the milk warm, add the remainder gradually, and pour on to the rice. Put in a slow oven, and bake for 4 hours. Tapioca, sago, etc., are made in the same way. Bake 3 hours. 58. PLASMON MOULD (withoutmilk).—Ingredients: 2 teaspoonfuls semolina; 2 teaspoo7ifuls Plasmon powder; 2 pint tepid watar ; 1 pint boiling water ; juice 1 lemon ; sifted sugar to taste. Method.—Mix the semolina and Plasmon; add gradually the tepid water. Have the pint of water boiling in the pan with the lemon juice and sugar; pour into it the mixed semolina and Plasmon, and boil well for 15 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a wetted mould to set. Serve with stewed fruit or jam. Ground rice mould may be made in the same way. If desired, milk may be used instead of water, when vanilla or almond flavouring should be used.32 59. PLASMON ARROWROOT JELLY (without milk).— Ingredients: 6 teaspoo?ifuls Plasmon arrowroot; 2 table- spoonfuls cold water; i pint boiling water; juice i lemon ; sifted sugar to taste. Method.—Mix the Plasmon arrowroot with the cold water. Have the pint of water boiling in a saucepan with the lemon juice and sugar ; then pour the Plasmon arrowroot into it. boil for 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a wetted mould to set. If for an invalid, half the lemon juice may be used, or as desired. If made with milk instead of water, vanilla or almond flavouring should be used. 50. PLASMON GOLDEN PUDDING.—Ingredients: 4 os. breadcrumbs; 1 oz. Plasmon; 4 oz. marmalade; 4 oz. castor sugar; 4 oz. suet; 3 eggs. Method.—Put the breadcrumbs, Plasmon, and finely chopped suet into a basin ; then add the marmalade and sugar; stir all the ingredients together, add the eggs (well whisked), put into a buttered basin, cover down with a cloth, and boil for 2 hours. This dish may be garnished by laying raisins or sultanas evenly round the buttered bowl before pouring in the mixture. When cooked, turn out carefully, and sprinkle with castor sugar. Serve with Plasmon sweet sauce. 51. PLASMON CABINET PUDDING.—Ingredients : 4 oz. stale cake, biscuits, or bread; h pint milk ; | oz. Plasmon ; x egg; 1 oz. castor sugar ; and a grate of nutmeg. Method.—Cut the cake, biscuit, or bread into dice shapes. Sprinkle the Plasmon over it, and put it in a buttered pudding mould. Beat up the egg, add the milk, the sugar, and nutmeg, and beat well. Pour this into the mould, let it stand tor 1 hour to soak, and steam for i| hours. Serve with jam or marmalade sauce.—“hood and Cookery, August, i9°>v 52. PLASMON CREAM.—Take 3 tablespoonfuls of Plasmon stock (No. 2, page 17) and put into a large cup; whisk33 briskly with a wheel whisk until quite thick ■ add sugar and flavouring to taste. The stock should be quite cold ; if made over-night it gives the best results.—“Food and Cookery,” August, 1903. 53. SHREDDED WHEAT BISCUIT PUDDING.— (Excellent pudding for children.) Ingredients : 4 shredded wheat biscuits ; | lb. raspberry jam ; \ pint PI asm on stock ; 1 oz. castor sugar; 12 drops vanilla essence. Method.—Take the shredded wheat biscuits; halve them lengthwise, and spread inside with raspberry jam, or stewed raspberry puree. Lay them in a glass dish; pour over them sufficient raspberry liquor (made by boiling raspberry jam in water, or with juice of fresh raspberry puree) to well soak the biscuits. Beat k pint of Plasmon stock to a stiff snow, add sugar, flavour with 12 drops vanilla essence, heap over the biscuits and serve* 54. QUEEN’S GOOSEBERRY PIE.—Ingredients : 4 sponge cakes; Plasmon custard; steived gooseberries ; Plasmon cream. Put the sponge cakes in the bottom of a glass dish. Mix 4 teaspoonfuls Plasmon powder with g pint warm milk, bring carefully to the boil, stirring continuously; then sweeten with castor sugar, flavour with almond or any other essence. Put the stewed fruit over the cakes, and when the custard is cooling pour that on next. Whip up a gill of Plasmon stock to a stiff cream, and pile high on dish just before serving. Either hot or cold. 55. LIGHT APPLE PUDDING.—Ingredients : 4 or 5 apples; j lb. butter; | lb. sugar; 3 eggs; 1 oz. Plasmon ; grated peel of one lemon. , Method. \\ ipe and quarter some sound ripe apples, boil tnein in a little water till soft, press through a sieve as much as will make \ lb.; add the butter and sugar while still hot; then, after it gets cool, mix with it the eggs beaten to a foam, the 334 Plasmon powder and the grated peel of i lemon. Butter a pudding form, dust it over with powdered sugar, and fill in your mixture. The form must be high enough to allow the rising of the pudding. Try by inserting a straw into the centre ; if nothing attaches to it the baking is done. Serve at once. 56. WHITE OF EGG PUDDING. — Ingredients : 3 whites of eggs ; 1 gill Plasmon stock ; 2 tablespoonfuls apricot marmalade; ig oz. castor sugar. Method.—Beat the whites of eggs and Plasmon stock to a stiff snow separately ; mix in very carefully the apricot marma- lade and the sugar; fill the whole into a buttered china dish, and bake in a slow oven for about \ hour. Serve immediately or it will fall. 57. PLASMON CORNETS.—Ingredients : Flaky pastry; | pint Plasmon stock; \ oz. gel at me ; g oz. sugar ; 10 drops essence of vanilla ; cocoanut and chopped pistachio nuts. Method.—Make the cases on cornet tins; melt the gelatine in a little water and strain into Plasmon stock, and whisk till stiff; add essence and sugar and whisk up again; divide the mixture, and colour one half with coffee essence and the other half with carmine. Fill the cases with some of the mixture ; decorate those filled with the coffee mixture with pistachio nuts, and those with red with the cocoanut. 58. SANDWICH.—Ingredients: 2 eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls sugar; 3 tablespoonfuls flour; 1 oz. pistachio nuts; 3 table- spoonfuls Plasmon stock; 1 teaspoonful baking powder; 1 tablespoonful butter, melted. Method.—Beat the eggs and sugar, then add the flour, butter, and baking powder. Put into two tins and bake for c minutes. Whip 3 tablespoonfuls Plasmon stock to a stiff cream, and spread on 1 sandwich ; sprinkle on the pistachio nuts, chopped, and cover with the other sandwich.35 59. PLASMON MOULD. —Ingredients : 5 (enspoofifuls Plasmon; 2 teaspoonfuls vanilla essence; 1 pint milk ; 2 02. sugar, yolks of 2 eggs; 1 pint lemon jelly ; f oz. cornflour; | oz. gelatine. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in b pint of milk in a double saucepan, and cool for 5 minutes. Boil the cornflour and b pint of milk together for 10 minutes; then add the sugar, yolks of eggs well beated, vanilla, and thicken ; mix in the Plasmon, and lastly the gelatine, previously dissolved in a little warm water very gradually. Turn into a wet, flat tin to set. When set, cut into diamonds, stars, or any fancy shape. Line the bottom of a mould with some of the jelly, let it set; then lay in the custard shapes and more jelly to cover; set, and repeat until the mould is full. Some of the custard may be coloured, if liked, to give variety. 60. ECONOMICAL PLASMON MOULD.—Ingredients : 1 pint milk; 1 b oz. cornflour; b oz. Plasmon; 2 ozs. loaf sugar. Method.—Mix the cornflour and Plasmon to a smooth paste with a little cold milk. Boil milk in an enamelled pan, add sugar and the paste, stir with a wooden spoon until it boils; stir and boil for 8 minutes. Turn into a wet mould. 61. EGG MOULD. — Ingredients : 1 dessertspoonful Plasmon; 1 gill water; 2 eggs; davouritig ; 1 dessertspoonful castor sugar. Method.—Stir the Plasmon smoothly into the water, add the well-beaten eggs, the sugar, and flavouring; cook gently till the mixture thickens ; pour into a prepared mould; when set, turn out and serve. Note.—Milk may be used instead of water. 62. FLORADOR MOULD.—1 pint milk; 1 oz. Plasmon powder; rind of half a lemon pared very thin ; 1 oz. castor sugar ; 1 \ oz. (medium) Florador.36 Method.—Mix the Plasmon and Florador to a smooth paste ; bring the milk almost to the boil with the lemon rind and sugar in it. Add gradually to the paste; return the whole to the saucepan and cook for io minutes, stirring with a wooden spoon. Pick out the lemon rind, and turn the whole into a wet mould to set. 63. PLASMON CHOCOLATE MOULD (without milk). —Ingredients : i tablespoonful cornflour; i tablespoonful Plasmon cocoa; g pint tepid, water; g pint boiling water; 3 oz. sugar; vanilla flavouring to taste. Method.—Put the cornflour and Plasmon cocoa into a basin, mix with the tepid water gradually; have the water boiling with the sugar in it (milk may be used in place of water if preferred). Add the mixed cornflour and Plasmon cocoa and vanilla. Let it boil for 5 minutes, stirring all the time. Pour into a wetted mould to set. Decorate with blanched almonds, and serve with Plasmon cream whipped very stiffly. 64. BOILED CUSTARD. —Ingredients : 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; \ pint milk ; 3 lumps sugar; 1 egg. Method.—Put 3 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon into a saucepan, adding gradually g pint lukewarm milk ; boil for 2 minutes, then add 3 lumps of sugar and 1 well-beaten egg. Stir till custard thickens, but do not allow it to boil. 65. STEAMED CUSTARD. —Ingredients : 4 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; \ pint milk ; 2 eggs; sugar. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in milk as above, then add to it 2 beaten-up eggs, which should be poured into a buttered mould and steamed gently for 20 minutes—till custard is set. This may be put into a pie dish and baked in a slow oven. 66 PLASMON LEMON SNOW.—Ingredients : 1 pint water; i oz. gelatine; g oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. casto? sugar, whites of 2 eggs; rind and juice of 2 lemons. Method.—Put the gelatine, Plasmon, water, and lemon rinds into an enamelled pan; stir over a slow fire until the37 gelatine is dissolved, then strain into a basin. When nearly cold add the sugar, lemon juice, and egg; whisk all to a stiff froth ; pile in a glass dish and serve. This dish must be prepared only just before it is wanted, as, like souffle, it is apt to collapse. 67. PLASMON RASPBERRY CREAM.—Ingredients : | pint milk; 3 teaspoonfuls Plcismon ; | pint raspberry juice (made from fresh fruit or jam) ; 1 oz. gelatine ; about 3 oz. sugar ; 1 lemon rind; 1 tablespoonful brandy; a few drops of cochineal; about 5 pint clear jelly, to mask the mould; a little preserved fruit or fresh raspberries, for decoration ; 4 pint water tepid. Method.—Rinse a mould with cold water, mask it with a little clear jelly, and decorate with the preserved fruits; pour in a little more clear jelly, just sufficient to cover the fruit, and allow it to set. Make | pint of water just lukewarm, and pour it gradually upon 3 teaspoonfuls of Plasmon, keeping it well stirred. Place the saucepan over the fire and boil for 2 minutes, stirring all the time. When cooked pour the Plasmon stock into a basin and allow it to get cold. Tear up the gelatine and put it to soak for a few minutes in | pint of milk, then place it in a saucepan with the thinly peeled rind of lemon, and dissolve it very carefully; strain it into a basin and allow it to cool. If fresh fruit is not in season, take 2 large tablespoonfuls of raspberry jam and 1 dessertspoonful of red currant jelly and boil together with a 5 pint of water and 2 oz. of sugar until it becomes a thick syrup; strain it, and when a little cooled stir it gently into the gelatine and milk. Vv hen the Plasmon stock is quite cold, whisk it until it is thick, then stir it very gently into the other ingredients; add the brandy and enough cochineal to make it a good colour, pour it into the prepared mould and allow it to set. To turn out, immerse the mould in hot water. 68. GINGER CREAM.—Ingredients: Yolks of 3 eggs; 1 oz. sugar; 1 gill milk ; £ gill ginger syrup ; k pint cream ; 2 oz. ginger; | oz. gelatine ; 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon. Method.—Dissolve Plasmon in the milk and boil for 2 minutes, then make into a custard with yolks; add sugar, and set aside to cool; whip the cream; dissolve gelatine in ginger syrup. Stir the dissolved gelatine into the custard,38 add the ginger cut up into dice, and lastly the whipped cream. When commencing to set pour into a mould coated with wine jelly and ornamented. 69. COFFEE CREME.—Ingredients : f pint milk; i oz. Plasmon ; 2 oz. ground Moca ; yolks of 5 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar. Method.—Boil the milk with the Plasmon, stirring all the time, then pour into it the Moca coffee. Cover up and put in a warm place where it will draw, not boil, leave it there for about 10 minutes, then strain and add the yolk of eggs, beaten light beforehand, and the sugar. Beat the whole vigorously, fill into cups and finish in a bain-marie. Note.—For a bain-marie use a shallow pan. Fill with boiling water up to three-quarters the height of the cups you are going to use. Cover the pan with a second one, and leave it where the water keeps boiling moderately. When the surface of the mixture begins to thicken, which will be in about 10 minutes, remove the pan from the fire and take the cups out of the water, for if the water is allowed to boil too rapidly or too long the custards will be spoilt. 70. CHOCOLATE CREME. —Ingredients : 2k oz. Plas- mon chocolate; 1 pint milk ; 4 eggs ; 2 oz. sugar. Method.—Dissolve the chocolate in the hot milk, and proceed exactly as in the foregoing recipe. Both the above are delicious cold sweets. 71. PLASMON ICE CREAM. —Ingredients : 1 table- spoonful Plasmon powder; 1 pint milk or milk and cream, 4 tablespoonfuls castor sugar. Essence of vanilla (for vanilla ice); | pint pineapple puree (for pineapple ice) ; g pint fresh raspberry or strawberry purie, passed through a sieve (for raspberry or strawberry ice). Method.—Mix the Plasmon with the milk and boil it j when cold, stir in the sugar and the fruit or essence, which- ever is used. Freeze in the ordinary way. This ice, being nourishing, is highly recommended tor invalids and in throat troubles. Ices with other flavourings, such as strawberry, raspberry, etc., may be made in the same way.39 72. PLASMON COFFEE ICE.—2 os. (2 heaped table- spoonfuls ) Plasmon to make x pi?it Plasmon milk stock (ses below); 1 pint water; 4 oz. coffee ; 8 oz. sugar; 1 gill cream. The Plasmon Milk Stock is made as follows:—Put 1 pint of milk in a pan to warm, put the 2 oz. of Plasmon in a basin, add enough of the milk whilst it is tepid to mix the Plasmon well; when mixed add it to the rest of the milk in the pan and boil, stirring all the time ; then stand aside to cool. Method.—Make the coffee with the water in the usual way, strain well, and stand aside to cool; add it to the Plasmon milk stock ; add the cream and sugar. Freeze as usual. 73. PLASMON VANILLA ICE CREAM. —Ingredients : 2 oz. (2 heaped tablespoonfuls) Plasmon ; 1 quart milk ; 1 gill cream ; 6 oz. castor sugar ; 1 teaspoonful vanilla essence. Method.—Warm up a pint of the milk in a stewpan. Mix the Plasmon in a basin with enough tepid milk to make a creamy mixture; then add the remainder of the milk in the pan, and boil, stirring all the time; add the sugar and then allow it to cool. This is Plasmon milk stock. When cold add the pint of cold milk, the cream, and the vanilla essence. Mix and freeze in the usual manner.—“ Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 75. PLASMON APRICOT ICE.—The same as above, omitting the vanilla and adding one pint of apricot pulp, which is obtained by passing the cooked fruit through a sieve. Straw- berries, peaches, and other fruits may be used in the same way. When preserved fruits are used less sugar than the above quantity should be taken.—“Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 75. PASTRY BASKET.—Ingredients: \ lb.flour; | lb. butter; yolk of 1 egg; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; | teaspoonful baking powder; 2 oz. chopped burnt almonds ; 1 gill cream ; a few apricots. Method.—Place the flour, Plasmon, and baking powder in a basin; mix well, then rub in butter, and form into a paste with cold water and the yolk. Line a square tin with the pastry,4o also six cornucopia moulds, and bake in quick oven. When cooked and cold, brush over with beaten white of egg and coat with the chopped almonds. Place a layer of apricots in the bottom of pastry case and fill the cornucopia with them cut in pieces ; fill up with whipped cream. 76. QUAINTON BASKETS. —Ingredients : The weight of 2 eggs in butter, sugar, and flour; pinch salt; a few drops vanilla essence ; Plasmon stock ; royal icing; angelica. Method.—Beat butter and sugar to a cream ; add eggs, one at a time, and beat well; sift in the flour, stirring gently. Butter some oval-shaped tins, fill them two-thirds, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. When cold take out the centre neatly ; put some narrow strips of angelica to form handles ; decorate the sides with royal icing, trellis-work pattern. For centre, whip some Plasmon stock, slightly sweeten, add a few drops of vanilla, whip until a nice cream, fill baskets ; if this sweet has to wait any time it is as well to add a little gelatine to the Plasmon stock to give extra stiffness. Sprinkle with chopped pistachio, place on one or two cherries dipped in fondant, and serve daintily. 77. CREAM TARTS. —Ingredients : 3 oz. flour; 1 oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. butter; salt; yolk of egg and water ; -whipped cream ; jam. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour and add the Plasmon and salt, mix to stiff paste with the egg and water, roll out, put into greased tins, and bake in a hot oven for half an hour \ when cold put in cream and jam or Plasmon snow cream. 78. PLASMON MOSS BASKETS .—Ingredients : 2 eggs; 4 tablespoonfuls castor sugar; 3 tablespoonfuls flour; 1 tablespoonful Plasmon ; 1 teaspoonfui baking powder; flavouring to taste. Method.—Beat the eggs and sugar to a cream ; then add the flour, Plasmon, and baking powder ; put into round greased tins, and bake in a slow oven for about 15 minutes. Scoop out the centre, dip in thick Plasmon stock, toss in chopped pistachio nut, and fill with cream.4i 79. MAFEKING PUDDING.—Ingredients : i pint warm 'water; 10 teaspoonfuls Plasmon powder; 4 teaspoonfuls castor sugar; a few drops vanilla or other flavouring essence; 6 bananas ; 4 os. Savoy biscuits ; i os. gelatine ; 1 gill Plasmon stock. Method.—Mix the Plasmon with warm water into a smooth paste, stir over the fire till it boils; add the gelatine till all is well dissolved, strain and sweeten and flavour. When set, turn jelly on to a flat dish, place a thick layer of bananas cut lengthways in slices on top of the jelly; sprinkle lemon juice and sugar on the fruit; take 1 gill cold Plasmon stock, whip into a stiff cream; sweeten, flavour, colour, if desired, and pile high on the dish just before serving. Decorate sides of the dish with Savoy biscuits standing up. 80. PLASMON FANCY SWEET.—Ingredients : 12 sponge fingers ; 2 bananas, or other fruit i7i season ; 1 gill cold Plasmon stock. Method.—Arrange the sponge fingers prettily in a glass dish, peel and slice the fruit, and pile high in the centre of sponges; whip the stock to a stiff cream, sweeten and flavour to taste, and put over the sweet in pieces to give a rocky appearance. Decorate with preserved cherries and angelica. 81. CHARLOTTE OF PLASMON.—Ingredients : 12 Savoy biscuits ; f pint Plasmon stock ; 15 drops essence vanilla ; 1 os. sugar; \ os. gelatine ; violets ; angelica ; 2 teaspoonfuls jelly. Method.—Put into a round tin about 2 teaspoonfuls jelly and allow it to set; line the tin with Savoy biscuits trimmed nicely; put Plasmon stock into a basin, and whisk until stiff; add essence, sugar, and gelatine dissolved in 1 tablespoonful water; fill the centre of the tin and allow to set; turn on to a dish and decorate to taste with violets and angelica. 82. PLASMON CHOCOLATE JELLY.—Ingredients : 2 os. Plasmon cocoa ; 1 £ os. cornflour ; os. sugar; 1 ^ pints water ; vanilla flavouring.42 Method.—Mix the cocoa and cornflour in a smooth batter with a little Plasmon and tepid water, add the sugar, and beat up. Add the remainder of the water and boil for 5 minutes whilst stirring. Remove from the fire and add a few drops of vanilla essence. Pour into a pudding mould previously rinsed with cold water. When quite set turn out on a dish and decorate with whipped cream and angelica.—“ Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 83. PLASMON CALYES-FEET JELLY. —Ingredients : ^ pint sweetened calves-feet jelly; rinds of 2 lemons; 1 pi?it Plasmon jelly ; 11 oz. gelatine. Method.—To \ pint of sweetened calves-feet jelly, in which the rinds of two lemons have been steeped, mix, when cool, 1 pint of Plasmon jelly, in which i| oz. gelatine has been dissolved. Pour into a mould, and when set turn out. 85. CHARTREUSE OF STRAWBERRIES.—Ingre- dients : 1 oz. Plasmon ; \ pint milk ; 1 pint lemon or Plasmon jelly; 2 teaspoonfuls maraschino; 2 teaspoonfuls cream; 1 lb. strawberries. Method.—Line a charlotte mould with lemon jelly (or Plasmon jelly) about ^ inch thick. Have some strawberries, arrange the fruit in the mould, set with a little jelly. Cream for Chartreuse.—Put 1 oz. Plasmon into | pint warm milk, boil up, keep stirring all the time, pour into a basin and let it get cold; mix into this b pint jelly, 2 spoonfuls maraschino, 2 spoonfuls cream, and some of the strawberries cut up into pieces ] set aside to get firm. 85. SOUFFLE OMELET. —Ingredients : 4 eggs; 2 oz. castor sugar ; 1 dessertspoonful flour; 1 b teaspoonfuls Plasmon; 1 dessertspoonful jam. Method.—Cream the yolks of 3 eggs with i| oz. castor sugar together for 10 minutes ) mix 1 dessertspoonful of flout to ig teaspoonfuls of Plasmon ; stir this lightly in, also the whites whipped to a stiff froth) pour into a buttered omelet43 pan, cook over the fire for i minute, and bake in a moderately hot oven from S to io minutes; turn on to a sugared paper. Mix together i dessertspoonful of jam with i teaspoonful of Plasmon; put this in the middle of the omelet, and fold over. 86. STEAMED SOUFFLE. —Ingredients: i oz butter; i ozflour ; i gill Plasmon stock; 3 eggs ; sugar and flavouring. Method.—Melt 1 oz. butter in a saucepan; mix in 1 oz. flour, then add 1 gill Plasmon stock, also a little sugar and flavouring, and stir it until it boils. Remove from the fire, beat in the yolks of 3 eggs, whip the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth ; stir this lightly in. Pour the mixture into a well- greased plain mould with high sides, and steam very slowly for about half an hour. To serve, turn on to a dish and pour round it a custard sauce. 87. LEMON SOUFFLE (Cold). —Ingredients : 10 tea- spoonfuls Plasmon ; 1 pint warm water; 1 lemon, juice and rind ; 3 oz. castor sugar ; 3 eggs ; | oz. gelatine. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in the water, boil 4 minutes, add the gelatine. When slightly cool stir in the yolks of eggs ; cook the eggs and add the sugar, also the lemon rind, grated, and the juice strained. Tie a thick band of paper round a fancy charlotte mould (the paper should stand about two inches above the edge of the mould). Beat the whites of the eggs stiffly, and when the custard mixture is cool stir them in; beat the mixture with a whisk until it is almost set; fill in the prepared mould to the top of the paper. Let the mixture set—it will take about 1 hour ; remove the paper and serve on a folded serviette. The gelatine may be omitted if the souffle is preferred rather soft. 88. COLD CHOCOLATE SOUFFLE. — Ingredients : Yolks of 8 eggs; \ oz. castor sugar; 3 oz. Plasmon chocolate; 1 gill milk; | pint cream ; \ lb. Fre7ich almo?id rock; whites of a, eggs ; 2 teaspoo?ifuls Plasmon ; vanilla ; chopped pistachios ; \ oz. gelatine. Method.—Pound the almond rock, melt chocolate in the milk, then dissolve the Plasmon in it; boil for 2 minutes and44 set aside to cool; whip the cream, whip the whites of eggs stiffly, whisk yolks and sugar in a basin over hot water until very thick; when cool add the vanilla flavouring, stir in the chocolate, almond rock, gelatine dissolved in a little water, cream, and lastly the whipped whites. Pour the mixture into a souffle case with band of paper tied round it, sprinkle the pistachios on the top. This souffle can be frozen • in that case leave out the gelatine. 89. PLASMON MARZIPAN.—Ingredients : io oz. ground almonds; white of i egg; | lb. lump sugar; h gill water; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; a little vanilla ; some colour- ing ; and a?igelica and icing sugar for garnishing. Method.—Boil sugar and water to 245 degrees Fahr.; stir in the beaten white of egg and the almonds; cook gently 3 minutes over a slow fire, stirring all the time. Take off fire; have a board covered with a little icing sugar, turn mixture on to board, add the Plasmon, knead well (like bread) with the hands into a smooth mass, then colour and flavour as pleased. This mixture will make 10 strawberries, coloured with carmine, and 5 or 6 small carrots, coloured with carmine and apricot yellow. Tie carrots in bundles with ribbon. Put strawberries in bon-bon cases. 90. PLASMON FONDANTS (Portable Food for Cyclists).—Ingredients : \ lb. loaf sugar; g gill water ; 1 oz. butter; 1 tablespoonful cream ; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon ; vanilla and Plasmon chocolate. Method.—Boil the sugar and water to 245 degrees Fahr.; wet a bowl with cold water, pour the mixture into it; beat to a cream; add Plasmon, butter, and cream ; beat till well mixed and white ; flavour and colour if liked. Have ready some milled chocolate ; form fondant mixture into little cakes, dip them in the milled chocolate, and drop on greasy proof paper to cool. Put in bon-bon cases.45 PART IV.—SAVOURIES, Although the following recipes are classed as “Savouries,” to serve as a course immediately following sweets, most of the dishes are suitable for hors d’ceuvres. They are also well adapted for buffets at balls, evening parties, “ at homes,” etc. The tomato paste is capable, in competent hands, of being turned to much use in the preparation of quite a variety of savoury toasts, tartlets, etc. 91. PLASMON BUTTERFLIES.—Ingredients : 2 GZ. flour; k teaspoonful Plasmon, for pastry ; i oz. butter; 2 oz. Parmesan cheese; dust cayenne pepper and salt, white pepper, baking powder; i small egg; \ gill cream; f teaspoonfiil Plasmoti; for mixture, a few drops cochineal; parsley stalks. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, add | teaspoonful of Plasmon, cayenne, white pepper, and salt. Rub in the butter, add i oz. grated Parmesan cheese and pinch of baking powder; mix to stiff paste with well-beaten egg; roll out to about g in. in thickness ; stamp out 8 or 9 rounds with a fluted cutter about the size of a crown piece; work up all the remaining pieces into a ball; roll out, cut into crescent shapes (16 or 18); bake on a greased tin in a moderate oven for about 10 minutes. When quite cold smear round the edges of the pastry with cochineal, using the finger for the purpose. Whip up the cream stiffly, add | teaspoonful Plasmon, 1 oz. grated cheese, pepper, and salt. Force this mixture through a large rose pipe on to the rounds; fix 2 crescent shapes in the cream to represent wings, and 2 tiny pieces of parsley stalk to represent feelers. Serve on a dish paper. Cost id. each. 92. PLASMON MOCK EGGS.—Ingredients: 2 filleted white fish ; 1 tablespoonful Bechamel sauce ; f pint Plasmon stock; 1 teaspoonful cream ; 1 egg; cayenne and salt; beef46 Plcismon ; sap green ; and small quantity of truffles, chilli, and pa rsely. Method.—Take two filleted whiting, or the remainder of any cold white fish, pound in a mortar until quite smooth, add i tablespoonful thick Bechamel sauce; add to these, very slowly, 4 tablespoonfuls Plasmon stock, just dissolved, and mix well together • season with cayenne and pinch of salt; stand in a cool place for \ hour to set, then place on a slab in portions about the size of a small egg; press flat, place in centre of each a piece of lobster butter (made as below) to form yolk, close each up into the shape of an egg, and stand on ice for 15 minutes. Make 1 pint of Plasmon jelly, to be used for outside coverings ; divide into three equal portions for the green, brown, and white. For green, add a few drops of sap green; the brown, add a little Beef Plasmon ; the white, 1 teaspoonful of cream ; then coat each egg over three times ; garnish the green with truffles; the brown and white with chopped parsley; add a little finely chopped chilli on the brown. Serve for breakfast dish. Lobster Butter.—Take half the contents of a small jar of lobster paste and mix with \ oz. fresh butter, and use as above. 93. ANCHOVY PATTIES. —Ingredients : \ oz. butter; 1 gill Plasmon stock; \ oz. flour; 1 hard-boiled egg; 1 tea- spoonful anchovy sauce; pepper and salt; a squeeze of lemon juice ; 5 teaspoonful chopped parsley. Method.—Melt the butter, add the flour, then the stock; allow to boil until the panada leaves the sides of the saucepan. Chop parsley and egg, and add together. 95. PLASMON HAM JELLY. —Ingredients : 5 lb. ham ; lpint Plasmon jelly ; 1 tablespoonful aspic jelly. Method.—Take ^ lb. ham, pounded and passed through a sieve ; mix with \ pint Plasmon jelly 1 tablespoonful aspic jelly ; set in any little fancy moulds. Serve for breakfast or luncheon. 95. CHEESE STRAWS.—Ingredients : 4 oz. Parmesan cheese; 4 oz. pastry flour; 1 oz. Plasmonpowder; pepper, salt cayenne of paprika, a little dry mustard; 2 oz. butter; e?iough milk to bind the dough.47 Method.—Mix the flour and Plasmon, rub the butter lightly in, add the cheese, season to taste, mix with a little milk into stiffish dough ; roll out thinly, cut into rings and straws; bake a delicate brown, put straws through rings, and decorate with a little more grated cheese and Plasmon powder mixed together. 96. CHEESE BALLS. —Ingredients : Equal quantities of grated cheese, breadcrumbs, and thick Plasmon stock ; salt a?id pepper to taste. Method.—Mix these ingredients together and bind with thick Plasmon stock; make into balls, dip in stock, and roll in breadcrumbs. Fry in hot fat. 97. TOMATO PASTE FOR SANDWICHES. —Ingre- dients : i tin of tomato puree; £ lb. Cheddar cheese; 3 oz. breadcrumbs; 2 tablespoonfuls Plasmon; pepper and salt to taste. Method.—Open the tin of puree and turn into a saucepan ; grate the Cheddar cheese and mix with the breadcrumbs, pepper and salt; let the puree boil, then add the other ingre- dients; boil all together with the Plasmon for 10 minutes, pour into a basin, and let it get quite cold before using; spread between brown or white bread and butter and cut into sand- wiches. Sufficient for 60 sandwiches. Cost of above quantity, is. 2d. 98. SCRAMBLED EGG PATTIES.—Ingredients: Patty- cases of Plasmon bread, fried; 2 eggs: 1 gill Plasmon stock ; salt and pepper ; chopped parsley. Method.—Beat the eggs up thoroughly, first removing the white speck; add the Plasmon stock and seasoning, and mix them thoroughly; melt the butter in a pan (enamelled for preference), pour in the mixture, and stir carefully until it thickens. Heap this mixture in the patty-cases, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. SAVOURY MOULD. 99. Balls.—Ingredients: 2 eggs, hard-boiled; 2 tablespoon- fuls anchovy paste; 2 tablespoonfuls cheese, grated; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon, dry; 6 capers ; a little cayenne ; a little cucumber or olives.4S Method.—Pound the yolks, anchovy, and capers together; add cheese, cayenne, and Plasmon. Mix well, form into small marbles. Line Dariole moulds with aspic jelly ; decorate with white of egg and olives or cucumbers, fill with balls and jelly in layers. 100. Aspic Jelly.—Ingredients: i oz. gelatine; i bay-leaf; i pint milk; io peppercorns; i tablespoonful vinegar; | tea- spoonful salt; i tablespoonful Tarragona vinegar; rind of \ lemon cut thinly ; juice of \ lemon ; white and shell of i egg. Method.—Place all the ingredients in a saucepan, add the white of egg well beaten, and shell and whisk all in the saucepan ; bring to the boil, and boil 3 minutes slowly ; stand 5 minutes, and strain through towel and sieve. 101. MACARONI FRITTERS. —Ingredients : 4 oz. maca- roni; 2 oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. semolina ; 1 teaspoonful Marmite extract; 2 oz. butter. Seasoning: Thyme,parsley, onion, celery, salt, cayenne. Method.—Boil the macaroni until tender in two pints of water; strain, mix the semolina and Plasmon in the macaroni water (one pint), add the butter, Marmite, and the other sea- soiling, stir over heat till the semolina is smooth, then stir in the macaroni, and set to cool. Next shape into corks 01 cutlets, egg-and-breadcrumb them, and fry in oil, fat, or buttei. “Food and Cookery,” September, 1903. 102. PLASMON CHEESE SOUFFLES (Cold).—Ingre- dients : 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon powder; 1 gill aspic (tawny jelly); -» oz. grated cheese (Gruyere and Parmesan) ; g teaspoon- ful mixed mustard; i£ gills cream; paprika or cayenne pepper. Method.—Dissolve the Plasmon in a little tepid water and stir into a light batter. Dissolve the aspic and add to it the grated cheese ; add the Plasmon and stir or whisk over the ice for a few minutes (till almost cold). Whip the cream and stir this in last with the mustard and seasoning. Fill up some ramikin cases and place them on the ice. . To improve the appearance of this dish, a thin layer of aspi should be run over the surface of the souffles and a sprig o chervil on top.—“Food and Cookery,” September, 1903.49 PART V — CAKES, BISCUITS, AND BREAD. 103. PLASMON SPECIAL ORNAMENTAL CAKE.— Ingredients: i lb. butter; i lb. castor sugar; 6 oz. flour; 2 oz. Plasmon ; 3 eggs ; 5 lb. almond paste. Method.-—Beat i lb. butter into a cream, add i lb. castor sugar and beat again for 10 minutes ; take 6 oz. flour and 1 oz. Plasmon. Well mix together, then slowly work in with butter and sugar; beat up 3 eggs (only 3 required when using Plasmon), add to the other ingredients, and thoroughly mix all together; flavour with a few drops of vanilla essence ; have tin ready, well buttered, and paper well buttered to line it; place the mixture in, and bake in moderate oven about 1 hour. When cold, ice over with pink icing made to a paste of the ordinary consistency with Plasmon stock. Take | lb. almond paste and mix in 1 teaspoonful of Plasmon, add a few drops of sap green to colour; have ready white Royal icing and ornament the top in any fancy design. 105. CHOCOLATE CAKE.—Ingredients : | lb. butter; 5 lb. castor sugar ; \ lb. fine flour; | lb. Plasmon chocolate ; 1 oz. Plasmon powder; a little icing sugar and milk. Method.—Beat | lb. butter to a cream, and 5 lb. castor sugar, then add | lb. fine flour and 1 oz. Plasmon, also | lb. Plasmon chocolate and 2 well-beaten eggs; bake 1 hour. Pour Plasmon chocolate, melted with a little icing sugar and milk, over cake. 105. SPONGE CAKES.—Ingredients : 5 eggs; \ lb flour; | lb. lump sugar; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon ; \ teacup water. Method.—Beat eggs well; boil sugar and water together for 1 minute; dissolve Plasmon in the water and sugar, and 450 pour hot on the eggs, beating all the time ; whisk till thick, then sift in flour; stir very lightly and pour into greased and sugared tins; bake in a moderate oven till done. The above quantities are sufficient to make two nice cakes. 106. LEMON CAKE.—Ingredients: | lb. flour; \ lb. butter; 5 lb. castor sugar; 2 eggs ; 1 oz. Plasmon ; 1 teaspoonful baking powder; rind of 1 lemon ; 1 oz. candied lemon peel; | gill of m ilk. Method.—Put butter and sugar into a basin and beat to a cream, then add the eggs and beat well again ; stir in all the dry ingredients except the baking powder; add the milk and flavourings, and mix well; stir in the baking powder; turn into well-greased tins, and bake in a moderate oven from 20 minutes to 1 hour, according to size. Try the cake with a skewer, if it comes out clean the cake is done. Turn out and place on a sieve to cool. 107. SWISS ROLL.—Ingredients : 3 eSSs >' 4 oz- sugar; 3 oz. flour; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon stock ; | teaspoonful baking powder ; 2 tablespoonfuls jam. Method.—Whisk the sugar and eggs together over hot water (not boiling) until thick and creamy; add Plasmon stock and flour, mix lightly together, and lastly add baking powder. Butter a baking tin and line it with a buttered paper, on to which pour the mixture. Place in a hot oven and bake from 7 to 10 minutes. Heat the jam. When the roll is ready turn out on a piece of white paper which has been dusted with castor sugar. Spread on jam and roll up quickly. Icing for Swiss Roll.—Ingredients: 4 oz. icing sugar; 2 oz. fresh butter; 2 sticks Plasmon chocolate. Method.—Rub sugar through a sieve, mix the butter and sugar together, grate the chocolate and add to mixture which is then ready for use. 108. PEACH CAKES. —Ingredients : 6 oz. flour; pinch salt; 3 oz. castor sugar; 3 oz. butter; 3 eggs ; 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; \ teaspoonful baking powder; a little carmine and sugar.5i Method.—Put butter and sugar in a bowl, beat 10 minutes ; add yolks of eggs, and beat io minutes. Beat whites to stiff froth ; add flour mixed with Plasmon ; next add a little of egg and flour alternately, stirring gently all the time. Lastly, add baking powder; pour mixture into buttered moulds (peach- shaped for preference) ; bake in moderate oven 15 minutes. Colour with carmine and sift sugar over. Garnish with vine leaves. 109. ALMOND CAKES.—Ingredients : 2 oz. flour; 202. castor sugar; 2 oz. butter; 1 egg; pinch salt; g teaspoonful vanilla ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream ; beat the egg and add it alternately with the flour (the salt and Plasmon should be previously mixed with the flour); then add the vanilla. Beat the mixture well. Grease a shallow baking tin and line with paper, spread the mixture over evenly, and bake in a quick oven for 15 minutes. Just before it is done brush over with the white of 1 egg beaten up with 1 oz. sugar; then strew 2 oz. chopped almonds over and return to the oven, and bake till a fawn colour. Turn out and cut into triangle shapes. 110. PLASMON TEA BUNS. —Ingredients : 2 oz. butter; 2 oz. sugar; 5 oz.flour; 1 large teaspoonful Plasmon; 1 egg, divided and beaten separately; 2 oz. dried cherries; 1 oz. angelica, cut up thinly ; a few drops vanilla flavouring; g tea- spoonful baking powder. Method.—Beat the butter and sugar to a cream; add yolk of egg, and beat well; then add flavouring; mix dry ingredients on plate and add them to the ingredients in the basin, and a little milk if required—it must not be mixed too stiffly. Lastly, add the white of egg, beaten to stiff froth; put the mixture into small greased tins, and bake in hot oven for about 15 minutes; or it may be baked in one large tin, when it will take about 1 hour to cook. 111. PLASMON CHEESE CAKES.—Ingredients : lpint milk ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon ; 1 oz. butter; 1 oz. sugar ; 1 oz. flour ; 1 oz. almonds, blanched and chopped ; a few drops essence of almonds ; 1 egg.52 Method.—Put the milk into a saucepan; when warm, sprinkle in i teaspoonful of Plasmon ; bring it to the boil, and let it boil for 2 minutes, stirring well all the time; then pour into a clean basin. Put the butter and flour into the saucepan and stir over the fire for a few minutes; then add the sugar, flavouring, the egg (well-beaten), and the milk with the Plasmon dissolved in it; stir all together, and boil for about 3 minutes ; then stir in the chopped almonds. Line some patty-pans with flaky pastry, put some of the cheese cake mixture in each, and bake in a hot oven for about 15 minutes. 112. CHERRY CAKES.—Ingredients: For Pastry— 3 os. flour; 1 oz. Plasmon; 2 oz. butter; salt; yolk of (jw and water. For Mixture—2 oz. butter; 2 oz. sugar; 1 oz. dried cherries; 1 oz. peel; 1 oz. cake crumbs; %. oz. cornflour; 1 egg. Method.-—To make the mixture, cream the butter and sugar together, and add the rest of the dry ingredients and the eggs gradually until it becomes like a thick cream. Make the pastry by rubbing the butter into the flour and adding the Plasmon, mixing with the egg and water until it becomes a thick paste. Roll out and cut into rounds ; put pastry into greased tins, and add a teaspoonful of the mixture. Bake in a hot oven for 15 minutes. 113. COCOANUT BISCUITS.—Ingredients : | lb. cocoa- nut; 4 lb castor sugar; 1 oz. Plasmon; whites of 3 eggs. Method.—Put castor sugar and eggs into a basin, and whisk to a stiff froth; then lightly stir in cocoanut and Plasmon. Place in little heaps on a buttered paper on a baking-sheet, and bake in a moderate oven about 20 minutes. Dry well, and keep in an air-tight tin. 114. SHORTBREAD.—Ingredients : 6 oz. flour; 2 oz. Plasmon; | lb. butter; 2 oz. castor sugar; flavouring. Method.—Rub the butter into the flour ; add the Plasmon, sugar, and flavouring; knead well until it is quite smooth; roll out, and bake in slow oven about \ hour.53 115. SPONGE FINGERS.—Ingredients : The weight of 2 eggs in sugar, i egg in Plasmon, and 2 inflow. Method.—Beat the eggs and sugar well together ; sprinkle in the Plasmon and flour gradually, stirring all the time. I ut into ceased tins : bake in a very hot oven for 6 minutes. 116. WINE BISCUITS.—Ingredients: 8 oz. pastry flour; 5 oz. butter; 2 oz. Plasmon ; rind of 1 lemon, 2 oz. sugai , 1 oz. cornflour. Method.—Cream the sugar and butter well together ; add flour lightly, mixed with the Plasmon. Knead the mixture into a nice" stiff dough, roll on a well-floured board, cut into fancy shapes, bake 15 minutes a pale colour, decorate with coloured sugars. 117. PLASMON BREAD (Home-made).—Ingredients : 3 lb. flour; 1 teaspoonful salt; | oz. German yeast; 5 oz. Plasmon; 1 teaspoonful sugar; 1 \ pints warm water or milk and water ; salt. Method.—Put flour in basin, make a hole in centre, and sprinkle salt round the sides; dissolve the Plasmon in the warm water, and add to the yeast and sugar \ pour into the centre of flour, then knead well, and set to rise for about 2 hours. Make into loaves, and bake till done. Wholemeal Bread.—The same proportions as white bread, using fine wholemeal.54 PART VI—INVALID COOKERY. The following recipes have been specially prepared for invalids (particularly diabetics), but practically every one of these will be found delicious and quite suitable for ordinary use. If not required for patients suffering from obesity, diabetic affections, gout, and certain forms of skin diseases, sugar should be substituted for saccharin in the sweet dishes. Although saccharin (a preparation from coal-tar) possesses a sweetening power many times greater than cane or beet sugar, it is not a food, and is therefore of no value except medicinally. It is to be noted that Plasmon lightens dishes and greatly facilitates digestion and nutrition. 118. FISH CUSTARD.—Method : Take for a i-pint mould 2 tablespoonfuls Plasmon, dissolve in \ pint tepid milk ; let this come to the boil, turn into a basin to get cold, and keep stirring occasionally. Have a haddock or 2 whitings cut into slices, and boil in milk for about f hour; add to this 1 sliced onion, white and black peppercorns, 2 bay-leaves and a little thyme; simmer for about ^ hour, strain, and when cold add to this the raw yolks of 3 eggs and the prepared Plasmon. Pour into a buttered mould, and steam for 1 hour. 119. BEEF TEA (Diabetic).—Ingredients : b lb. beef steak; \ pint water ; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon ; 1 pinch of salt. Method.—Shred beef finely and place in the water, to which the salt and Plasmon have been added, and let it stand about 1 hour; then put into a jar or saucepan, and cook gently for 20 minutes. Do not let it boil; stir well while cooking. Beef-tea jelly may be made in the same way, using 1 gill water, 1 teaspoonful Plasmon.55 120. MUSHROOM CUTLETS (Diabetic).—Ingredients: l lb. mushrooms ; i oz. butter; i tablespoonful thick Flasmon stock ; I teaspoonful cream ; i egg ; seasoning to taste ; i table- spoonful dry Flasmon ; frying fat. Method.—Prepare mushrooms, melt butter in a saucepan, and stew mushrooms in it till tender ; chop finely or rub through sieve; then add Plasmon stock, cream, and seasoning. When cold and stiff shape into cutlets, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with dry Plasmon; fry in boiling fat. Serve with brown gravy. 121. TOMATO CUTLETS (Diabetic).—Ingredients : i lb. tomatoes; ig tablespoonfuls Plasmon; i oz. butter: x tablespoonful cream ; i egg; seasoning to taste ; frying fat. Method.—Stew the tomatoes in butter until tender ; rub through sieve, return pulp to saucepan, mix in i tablespoonful of Plasmon slowly, add cream and seasoning. Cook gently until quite thick, but do not boil; pour on to a plate; when cold shape into cutlets, brush over with egg, and sprinkle with Plasmon ; fry in boiling fat. Serve with brown gravy. 122. BAKED APPLE PUDDING WITH CUSTARD (Diabetic).—Ingredients: \ lb. apples; 2 eggs; \ gill Plasmon stock; \ oz. butter; 1 teaspoonful Plasmon; saccharin to taste. Method.—Stew or bake apples until they form a pulp; when cool, add yolks of 2 eggs, saccharin to taste, and stock; beat whites up to stiff froth and stir in lightly; pour into a prepared pie dish and bake gently for about 20 minutes. To prepare pie dish, line with butter and shake over it some dry Plasmon. 123. CUSTARD (Diabetic). —Ingredients: i egg; \ gill Plasmon stock; \ gill milk ; saccharin to taste; a small piece of lemon peel. Method.—Well beat egg, add stock and milk, lemon peel, and saccharin to taste; pour into a jug or a double saucepan ; cook gently until thick, but do not allow to boil.56 124. LEMON SPONGE (Diabetic).—Ingredients^ l pint Plasmon stock ; \ oz. gelatine ; a little water; saccharin, lemon peel, and citric acid to taste. Method.—Soak gelatine in about a tablespoonful of water for about 20 minutes, then put it into a saucepan with the stock, a small piece of lemon peel and saccharin ; cook until gelatine is dissolved, but do not boil; pour into a basin, add citric acid to taste, remove lemon peel, and beat mixture to a stiff froth. 125. INVALID JELLY.—Ingredients: 5 oz. gelatine; \ pint Plasmon stock; | pint milk; \ oz. sugar; x egg; flavouring. Method.—Make the stock by mixing 1 teaspoonful Plasmon with 5 pint water; bring to the boil. Dissolve the gelatine in the milk and add to stock, with the sugar, flavouring, and beaten-up egg. Mix well together, and pour into wet mould. 126. BEEF PLASMON (for ordinary Beef Cup).— Ingredients: i teaspoonful Beef Plasmon; pepper, celery salt; 1 ieacupful water. Method.—To 1 teaspoonful Beef Plasmon add 1 teacupful boiling water, and season with pepper and celery salt. This is improved by being boiled for 2 minutes. 127. PLASMON BLANCMANGE OR JELLY (Diabetic). Ingredients : g pint milk; 3 teaspoonfuls Plasmon; saccharin ; rind of 1 lemon ; b oz. gelatine. Method.—Put the Plasmon into a saucepan, add to it part of the milk, mix to a thin paste, add the remainder of the milk and bring to the boil, add the lemon rind and simmer for about 20 minutes. Dissolve the gelatine in 1 tablespoonful warm water, strain it into the Plasmon, add sufficient saccharin to sweeten (about \ teaspoonful), strain and mould the mixture, set in ice and turn out. Plasmon vanilla sauce can be pouied round if liked.57 128. EGG JELLY (Diabetic).-lNGREDiENTs : h/nt liquid (water and juice of x lemon); rind of i lemon ^ gill Plasmon; i egg ;• saccharin (about ? teaspoonful), 4 - gelatine. Method.—Put the gelatine into a saucepan, peel the lemon thinly add the rind to the gelatine, strain the juice and make it up to 4 pint with water; pour this into the saucepan, add the Plasmon jelly, well-beaten egg, and saccharin; then stir ov r very moderate heat until the gelatine is dissolved, strain and mould ; when set turn out. 129. PLASMON AND WINE JELLY.—Ingredients : i pint wine jelly ; i gill Plasmon jelly. Method.—Quarter fill a mould with clear jelly, let it set, then spread on it an equal thickness of Plasmon jelly; leave until firm, then fill the mould with clear jelly ; turn out when set. The Plasmon can be coloured with cochineal or carmine or left the white semi-transparent colour. 130. CHEESE BISCUITS (Diabetic).—Ingredients : 2 os. grated cheese; i oz. butter; 2 tablespoonfuls Plasmon; i egg; salt and cayenne pepper to taste. Method.—Mix Plasmon, cheese, and seasoning ; well beat egg, melt butter; add egg and butter to dry ingredients and \\°e!l knead; sprinkle a pasteboard with Plasmon and roll mixture out thinly ; cut into rounds, and bake in a cool oven. 131. NOURISHING TEA.—For one person put ij tea- spoonfuls Plasmon tea into a warmed teapot, pour on i pint of boiling milk. Let it stand 4 to 5 minutes before pouring out. 132. COOLING DRINK.—On 2 teaspoonfuls Plasmon tea put the very thinly cut rind of i a lemon, and about 10 drops lemon juice or 4 drops of essence; then pour on 1 pint boiling water. Let it stand for some minutes, sweeten to taste and strain. If liked very cold stand on ice.58 PART VII.—SAUCES. 133. WHITE SAUCE.—Ingredients: \ pint milk ; i carrot; ^ turnip; i small onion ; 4 cloves, “ bouquet garni” ; 2 oz. butter; ^ pint white Plasmon stock ; 1 oz. flour. Method.—Put on the milk and stock with the vegetables cut up, and simmer for 20 minutes; melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, mix smoothly ; then strain the milk and stock, and pour on gradually to butter and flour. Stir over fire till of good consistency. 135. SWEET SAUCE.—Ingredients: \ pint milk ; 1 oz. butter ; 1 g oz. sugar or jam ; \ oz. Plasmon, arrowroot, grated lemon rind, or nutmeg. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan ; add the arrow- root, and mix together; then add gradually the milk, and cook about 5 minutes; stir in the sugar or jam and flavouring. Strain before serving. The following six recipes have been specially prepared by Miss Ball, L.C.A., diplomee of the National Training School of Cookery, diplomee of the Cercle Agricole, Paris, and medallist of the Cookery and Food Exhibitions of 1893, 1895, 1S97, 1899, and 1903. It is a well-recognised fact that one of the reasons for the excellence of Continental cookery is the art with which foreign cooks make use of sauces. By this means they make meat and fish palatable, and greatly add to the gastronomic and dietetic value of vegetables. A well-made sauce is a work of art and a help to digestion. In the half-dozen recipes the cook will find special help, as they all contain Plasmon, and are therefore nourishing. So that by using these sauces not only will the dishes be made more tasty, but even such “watery ” vegetables as marrows and turnips will have a nutrient value added to them.59 135 FRENCH WHITE SAUCE (B6chamel).—Ingre- dients : 2 Pints white Plasmon stock; i pint cream ; i table- spoonful Plasmon arrowroot; i small bunch herbs; i small bunch parsley ; 2 cloves; half a bay-leaf.; a few mushrooms or a little grated cheese; salt to flavour; a few peppercorns (not pepper, as that swould spoil the white colour of this sauce). Method.—Put the sweet herbs, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, and peppercorns (tied loosely in a piece of muslin) to boil in the Plasmon stock until the stock has extracted the flavour of the herbs etc. : remove the muslin bag of herbs, and allow the stock’to boil till nearly half is reduced. Now mix the arrow- root smoothly with the cream, pour it to the reduced stock, simmer slowly for io minutes if the sauce be thick; if too thin, stir briskly till it thickens. Always make it thick, as it may be thinned by adding milk, cream, or Plasmon stock. Add grated cheese to this stock, if liked, and served over a cauliflower, turnips, etc. 136. BROWN SAUCE (Espagnole).—Ingredients : 2 slices lean ham; 1 lb. veal; 1 \ pint Plasmon stock; 2 or 3 sprigs parsley; half a bay-leaf; 2 tfr 3 sprigs savoury herbs; 6 small green onions; 3 eschalots; 2 cloves; 1 blade mace; 2 glasses sherry or madeira; 2 oz. butter; 2 oz. flour; 1 or 2 tablespoonf uls sauce ; salt to sauce. Method.—Fry the veal and ham (cut into neat pieces) a good brown, till a nicely coloured glaze is produced in the pan, then add the remainder of the stock and all the herbs, etc., and allow it to simmer for 1 hour. Strain and skim off every particle of fat; fry the flour a nice brown, add the strained stock, cook a few minutes, then add the salt, cayenne, and last of all the wine, and serve. 137. CREAM SAUCE (for Vegetables).—Ingredients : 1 oz. Plasmon arrowroot; 1 pint Plasmon stock; 4 pint cream, salt; any fresh vegetables—carrot, turnip, onion—and bunch sweet herbs. Methods.—Put all the vegetables, nicely cut, into 1 pint water, and cook gently till the flavour of vegetables is extracted ; strain the vegetables away from stock, and use equal parts of cream and vegetable stock or Plasmon stock; thicken with 1 i oz. arrowroot to each pint; season, and add a few drops of lemon juice, if liked. Previous to adding the stock blend6o smoothly the arrowroot with cold milk to a paste. This sauce is excellent for asparagus, artichokes, young carrots and turnips, marrows, and various kinds of beans. 138. TOMATO SAUCE.—Ingredients : 3 doz. tomatoes ; i oz. garlic; i oz. eschalot; 2 oz. salt; 1 green capsicum; g teaspoonful cayenne ; 2 pickled gherkins; 6 pickled onions ; 1 pint vinegar; 1 gill Plasmon stock; juice of 6 lemons. To each 1 lb. of tomato pulp allow x pint chilli vinegar. Method.—Choose the tomatoes when quite ripe and red; put them in a jar with a cover to it and bake them till quite tender ; skin them and rub through a hair sieve. Measure the pulp, and to each 1 lb. pulp add 1 pint vinegar, and then, having previously finely powdered or finely chopped, add all the other ingredients. Boil the whole together till everything is tender, then again rub through a sieve, and add the lemon juice. Now boil the whole again, adding the Plasmon stock till it becomes as thick as cream, and keep continually stirring (with a wooden spoon); bottle when quite cold. If the flavour of the garlic or eschalot is not liked, put very little; also very little chilli vinegar, unless a hot sauce is desired. 139. CHUTNEY SAUCE.—Ingredients : Equal parts of sweet chutney and hot chutney; add 4 tablespoonfuls, ivhen mixed, an equal measure of brown sauce ; 1 teaspoonful French mustard; 1 tablespoonful tomato pulp ; 1 gill Plasmon stock ; x teaspoonful brown colouring; salt to taste. Method.-—Boil together, mix well, and bottle. This sauce is nice with grills, broils, savouries, entrees, cold meat dishes, etc. If liked sweet, mix together more sweet chutney than hot, and vice versa. 150. SWEET SAUCE (for Puddings).—Ingredients : | pint Plasmon stock; 1 oz. butter; g oz. flour ; 1 i oz. sugar ; grated lemonrind, or nutmeg, or cinnamon, or a few bitter almonds. Method.—Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour (away from the gas or fire) till of a smooth consistency, then add the Plasmon stock gradually ; cook a few minutes ; stir in the sugar and grated lemon rind, nutmeg of cinnamon, and serve. If the flavour of bitter almonds is liked the almonds must be left in the milk, to infuse, about 10 minutes before making this sauce.6i PRICES, PLASMON GRANULATED POWDER—The Mainstay of Life— Plasmon is the Proteid (the nourishing sub- stance) of pure, fresh milk, thoroughly sterilised, contain- ing the Organic Salts in their original unaltered condition. It is free from flavour and odour, and can be used without trouble or waste. Added to any food (animal or vege- table) it raises the nutritive value of such food to a high and trustworthy degree, and renders it more easy of digestion. In Packets, about |-lb., |-lb., and i-lb. (Full directions for use in each packet.) PLASMON COCOA—Prepared from the purest and best Cocoa procurable, and pure Plasmon. One cup of Plasmon Cocoa contains more real building up nutriment than ten cups of any plain Cocoa. In Tins, about |-lb., |-lb., and i-lb. PLASMON CHOCOLATE (20% Plasmon) .—For Travellers, Cyclists, Athletes, etc., Plasmon Chocolate is most useful, as it contains a very high percentage of nourishment in a very small bulk, Plasmon Chocolate is satisfying and nourishing. Super Extra Fine Quality, Crisp or Cream Texture. 2-oz. and 4-oz. Tablets, in Boxes of i-lb. Fine Quality, Crisp or Cream Texture, in 2-oz. and 4-oz. Tablets, in Boxes of i-lb. Croquettes, in Fancy Boxes, 1/6, and in Packets. Oblongs (Neapolitan) in Boxes. PLASMON MILK CHOCOLATE (10% Plasmon).—Very delicious and sustaining, nicely wrapped, in bars.62 PLASMON ARROWROOT. - Prepared from the finest Arrowroot, with a suitable proportion of Plasmon added : forms an Ideal Food for Invalids and Children. In Tins, about |-lb. and i-lb. BEEF PLASMON.—A scientifically Perfect Food, being a combination of Beef Extract and Plasmon. In j-oz. and 2-oz. Tins. PLASMON BISCUITS.—Composed of the best Flour or Wholemeal mixed with 20% of Plasmon. They are made in many varieties by Messrs. Peek, Frean & Co., Ltd., and sold by all Grocers and Stores. Also supplied by International Plasmon, Ltd. In Tins, containing about 1-lb. and 2-lb. PLASMON DIABETIC BISCUITS.—Prepared from the most suitable ingredients, and guaranteed to be absolutely free from Starch and Sugar. These Biscuits are palatable and nourishing. Sweet (Sacharine) or Plain in |-lb. and i-lb. Tins. PLASMON LUNCHEON PACKET.—Contains Biscuits and Chocolate, put up in Box to fit the pocket. Invaluable to busy Professional Men, Tourists, Sportsmen, Cyclists, etc. A sufficient meal for three or four hours. In Boxes to fit the pocket. PLASMON TEA.—Pure tea combined with Plasmon, which neutralises the tannin. In packets about 5-lb., |-lb., and i-lb. PLASMON and PLASMON PREPARATIONS may be obtained at all High Class Chemists, Grocers, Stores, etc. Proprietors. INTERNATIONAL PLASMON, LTD., 66a, Farringdon Street, London, E.C. Branch Depot: 56, Duke Street, Grosvenor Square, W.63 INDEX. HOW TO USE PLASMON. Plasmon, Dry ... PAGE ... 13 „ Moist ... 13 „ Sock ... 13 ,, White Stock ... 14 „ Cocoa ... 14 PAG t Plasmon Tea ... ... 14 ,, Cream ... 14 „ Milk Hot . . • • 15 „ Milk Cold ... ... 15 ,, Infants’ Food ... 15 SOUPS. Beef Plasmon Soups ... ... 20 Parmentier Soup ... 17 Creme Printaniere ... 19 Plasmon Stock for Soup ... 17 Game Soup ... 18 Potato Soup ... ... 19 Hollandaise Soup ... 19 Potage a la Volaille ... ... 20 Lentil Soup ... 18 Vegetable Soup ... 19 FISH. MEAT. AND VEGETABLE DISHES. Crfeme de Volaille a la Plasmon 24 Chicken Souffle ... ... 24 Chicken set in Plasmon Jelly 25 Cold Meat Shape ... ... 25 Cdtelettes de Mouton... ... 26 Fish Pudding ... ... ... 21 Fish Pie ... ... ... 22 Green Corn Fritters ... ... 28 Hominy Cutlets ... ... 28 Ham Relish ... ... ... 24 Lettuce with Plasmon ... 29 Mutton Collops ... ... 23 Mushroom Cream ... ... 28 Oyster Omelet... ... ... 21 Plasmon Mould of Kedgerei 22 Plasmon, Irish Stew 22 „ Yorkshire Pudding.. ,, Steak and Kidney 26 Pudding 26 1 t Tripe 27 ,, Rice Cutlets 27 „ Mashed Potatoes ... 28 Potato Croquettes 29 Savoury Plasmon Balls 23 ,, Cutlets 26 ,, Vegetables ... Shepherd’s Pie 29 23 Stuffed Tomatoes 29 Turkish Pilaff ... 25 Toad in the Hole 27 Custard, Boiled „ Steamed Cream, Plasmon ,, Raspberry „ Ginger „ Coffee ... „ Chocolate „ Tarts ... Charlotte of Plasmon... Chartreuse of Strawberries SWEETS. ... 36 Economical Plasmon Mould ... ... 36 Egg Mould ... 32 Florador Mould - 37 Light Apple Pudding... ... 37 Mafeking Pudding ... 38 Plasmon Suet Dumpling ... 38 ,, College Pudding ... 40 „ Rice „ ... 41 ,, Mould ... 42 „ Arrowroot Jelly 35 35 35 33 41 30 31 3i 31 3264 SWEETS—Continued. Plasmon Golden Pudding PAGE ... 32 ,, Cabinet ,, - 32 „ Cornets • •• 34 ,, Mould ••• 35 ,, Chocolate Mould ... 36 „ Lemon Snow ... 36 ,, Ice Cream ... ... 38 „ Coffee Ice • •• 39 „ Vanilla Ice Cream ••• 39 ,, Apricot Ice ... ••• 39 ,, Moss Baskets ... 40 „ Fancy Sweet ... 41 „ Chocolate Jelly ... 41 ,, Calves’-Feet Jelly ... 42 „ Marzipan ... 44 SAVO Anchovy Patties ... 46 Aspic Jelly ... 48 Cheese Straws ... 46 „ Balls ... 47 Macaroni Fritters ... 48 Plasmon Butterflies ... ... 45 PAGE Plasmon Fondants ... ... 44 Pastry, Puff 30 „ Short ... 30 „ Basket ... ... 39 Queen's Gooseberry Pie ... 33 Quainton Baskets ... ... 40 Rice Pudding ... ... ... 31 Shredded Wheat Biscuit Pud- ding 33 Sandwich ... ... ... 34 Souffle, Omelet ... ... 42 „ Steamed ... ... 43 ,, Lemon (Cold) ... 43 ,, Cold Chocolate ... 43 White of Egg Pudding ... 34 RIES. Plasmon Mock Eggs ... ... 45 ,, Ham Jelly ... ... 46 „ Cheese Souffles (Cold) 48 Savoury Mould ... ... 47 Scrambled Egg Patties ... 47 Tomato Paste for Sandwiches 47 CAKES, BISCUITS, AND BREAD. Almond Cakes... ... ••• 51 Chocolate Cake ... ••• 49 Cherry Cakes ... 52 Cocoanut Biscuits ... ... 52 Lemon Cake ... ... ••• 5° Plasmon Special Ornamental Cake ... ... ••• 49 Plasmon Tea Buns ... ... 51 „ Cheese Cakes ... 51 Plasmon Bread ,, Wholemeal Bread Peach Cakes ... Swiss Roll SpongeCakes... Shortbread Sponge Fingers Wine Biscuits Beef Tea „ Plasmon Baked Apple Pudding Custard... Cheese Biscuits Egg Jelly Fish Custard Invalid Jelly Bechamel Sauce Brown Sauce ... Cream Sauce ... Chutney Sauce INVALID COOKERY. 54 56 55 55 57 57 54 56 SAUCES. Sweet (Arrowroot'1 Sweet Sauce ... Tomato Sauce... White Sauce ... 59 59 59 60 53 53 50 5° 49 52 53 53 Lemon Sponge ... 56 Mushroom Cutlets ... 55 Plasmon Blancmange ... 56 „ Wine Jelly ... ... 57 Tomato Cutlets ... 55 Nourishing Tea ... 57 Cooling Drink ... ^ ... 57 5S 60 60 58It.-V■