22101417597Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20386977FRENCH COOKERY roE ENGLISH FAMILIES.FRENCH COOKEEY ADAPTED rOR ENGLISH EAMILIES BY MISS CRAWFORD. LONDON: RICHARD BENTLEY, NEW BURLINGTON STREET. 1853.LONDON : Printed by Schulze and Co., 13, Poland WELLCOME INSTITUTE \ LIBRARY Coll. yvelMOmec Call No.PREFACE. I HAVE compiled with great care and attention, the following Work on French Cookery, for the use of English families. In order to render it more useful, I have made every rule as plain and simple as it was possible. I have given the French names in most cases, because they are more generally known, and will, therefore, be better appre- ciated by the lovers of the gastronomic art. I fearlessly challenge any one to test my receipts by trying them: being quite sure that a first trial will produce a second, and a second, a third. Should any of the re- ceipts be considered too expensive for daily use in small families, the costly additions canPREFACE. VI be dispensed with, and more economical ingredients used. My Book will be foimd useful both to the rich and the more humble. E. Crawford. MARCH, 1853.CONTENTS. SOUPS. PAGE Stock * . 1 Veal Stock . 2 Rabbit Bouillon 3 Bouillon de Perdrix — Bouillon de Gibier ....... — Jelly of Meat 4 Coulis — Bouillon de Poulet. (Pectoret.) .... 5 Bouillon Amer, for sickness at the stomach ... — Bouillon aux Herbes 6 Consomme — Method of Straining Stock or Consomme . . — Boubillasse. (Provencal Potage) .... 7 Another Mode for Mackarel — Consomme Economique 8 Pot-au-Feu a la Bordelaise — Potage a la Puree de Tomates 9 Potage aux Raviolles —viii CONTENTS. PAGE Potage a la Camerani 10 Soupe au Bouillon — Cray-fish Soup 11 Soupe Blanche — Potage Printanier — Potage au Lait 12 Potage de Semoule . . — Potage aux Legumes — Potage au Riz Proven9ale 13 Potage d'Onions — Potage au Fromage. (Swiss) — Soupe aux Pommes de Terre avec Boulettes . . 14 Potage a la Bi^re. (German) — Potage aux Cerises — Potage aux Choux — Potage de Sante 15 Potage aux Pointes d'Asperges — Potages aux Chapon ou Poulards . . . . 16 Potage aux Croutons . — Potage aux Petits Pois — Potage de Fantasie 17 Potage aux Cailles — Potage aux Marrons 18 Potage au Riz. (Gras ou Maigre) .... — Potage Riz a la Puree de Pois Verts .... — Potage a la Julienne — Potage au Panade 19 Potage a FOseille — Panade for Invalids — Potage au Lievre 20 Potage aux Lapins a la Reine , , . , . —CONTENTS. ix PAGE Soupe aux Legumes. (Maigre) ... 21 Potage aux Artichaux — Soupe aux Legumes. (Maigre) .... 22 Soupe et Bouilli . . . . . . . — Potage a la Monaca. (Maigre) .... 23 Potage Maigre — Potage aux Herbes. (Maigre) 24 Potage aux Pommes de Terre et k TOseille ... — White Soup. Soupe a la Heine ... — Crecy Soupe a la Reine . • . . . .25 White Mock Turtle Soup . ... . —- Juhenne Soup 27 Mulligatawny Soup. (Indian) . . . . . — Bouillon a I'Heure, ou a la Minute .... 28 Bouillon de Veau — Another Mode for Pot au Feu. (Economical) . . 29 Consomme ........ — Croutes au Pot 30 Potage au Riz — Potage au Riz, au Maigre — Poule au Lait 31 Stock for Maigre Soup or Sauce — Potage au Choux. (Another mode) .... — Soupe aux Choux. (Maigre) . . . . .32 Potage au Poturon — JUS, OR COULIS. Jus de Bceuf ... .... 33 Jus de Veau ' . . —CONTENTS. X PAGE Another mode. (Economical) 34 Blond de Veau a la Venetienne .... Jus de Poulardes aux Chapons Jus de Jambon 35 Roux — Liaisons 36 Allioli ou Beurre de Provence . . . . • — Essence of Game or Poultry 37 SAUCES. Sauce pour Viande Blanche 37 Sauce au Vin de Bourgogne 38 Sauce au Blanc — Sauce Blanche — Sauce aux Capres et Anchois 39 Sauce au Veloute — Sauce a la Bechamelle — Sauce Robert, 40 Another manner — Sauce Blanche — Sauce Tomate 41 Beurre Noir — Sauce a la HoUandaise — Sauce a la Mayonnaise Blanche .... — Sauce au Blanc 42 Sauce au Civet, for Hares and Rabbits ... — Sauce a la Tartare 43 Sauce de Kari —CONTENTS. xi PAGE Sauce a TEstragon 43 Sauce au Citron 44 Sauce au Pauvre Homme — Sauce aux Truffles — Beurre d'Anchois . . 45 Oyster Sauce — Sauce a la Bonne Femme — Sauce a la Proven9ale — Sauce a THuile — Sauce a la Languedocienne 46 Sauce a la Tartare, for Roasts — Sauce aux Pistaches — Sauce aux Champignons 47 Sauce k la Poivrade Sauce a la Morne, for Roast Meat . . . . — Sauce a la Moutarde — Sauce Piquante 48 Sauce Piquante a I'Eau ...... — Sauce Blonde, for Fish — Sauce Remoulade 49 Sauce k la Matelotte — Sauce Salmis. (Maigre) — Sauce Salmis a la Minute — Sauce aux Fines Herbes 50 Sauce a la Maitre d'Hotel — Maitre d'Hotel —- Sauce aux Beurre d'Anchois — Beurre d'Ail (Garlic) — Sauce Blanquette 51 Sauce a la Creme ....... — Sauce au Braise ou Daube 52Xii CONTEJfTS. PAGE Bechamelle. (Another mode) 52 Another mode — GARNITURES. Garniture de Bouilli. 53 Onions Glacee for Garniture — Garniture d'Entrees 54 Garniture de Celeri — Garniture aux Haricots 55 Garniture de Champignons — Croutons for Garniture — Garniture de Tomates .56 Garniture of Artichoke Bottoms .... — Garniture en Ragout 57 Garniture of Fat Livers — Garniture de Pommes de Terre Frites .... — Truffles au Naturel . — Truffles au Vin de Champagne 58 Truffles a la Minute — Truffles au Jus — Farcies — Farcie Cuite 59 Farcie pour Volailles — Farcie for Game 60 Farcie de Poissons — Farcie pour Gratin — Spices for Ragouts 61 Spices for Entries — Spices for Sausages —CONTENTS. xiii P U R £ E S- PAGE Puree or Lentils . 62 Puree au Choiix ....... — Pur^e de Champignons — Puree de Racines pour Entries 63 Pur^e de Marrons — Puree of Potatoes 64 Puree of Carrots — Puree of White Onions — Puree de Volailles 65 Puree of Oseille — VEGETABLES. Kidney Beans (au Maigre) 66 Haricots a la Maitre d'Hotel — Green Haricots en Salade 67 Harlots Blancs — Haricots Blancs a la Maitre d'Hotel . . . . — Haricots Blancs au Gras 68 Haricots Blancs en Salade — Haricots Blancs au Jus — Haricots Rouges a I'Etuvee ...... — Pur^e of Haricot Beans 69 Puree of Dried Peas — Puree of Green Peas . . . . .. . — Puree of Truffles 70 Green Peas a la Fran9aise —XIV CONTENTS. PAGE Peas with Bacon 71 Beans (very good) — Lentils 72 Choux Farcis — Chou au Lard. (Bacon) . . . . . . — Chou Rouge Pique . . ... . , . 73 Choucroute » . — Choux-Fleurs a la Sauce Blanche .... — Choux-Fleurs a la Sauce Blonde 74 Cauliflowers au Beurre — Choucroute — Artichokes, with Sauce Blanche, a la Sauce Blonde, or with Oil and Vinegar 75 Artichokes Farci — Artichokes a la Barigoule 76 Asparagus 77 Oseille Farcie — Spinach . . — Celery 78 Celery a la Remoulade — Onions — Onions a la Cr^me ....... — Onions a I'Etuvee 79 Concombre a la Poulette — Concombres Farcis — Chicory 80 Lettuces — Another Potage de Pumpkin . . . . . — Turnips a la Poulette — Navets au Sucre . .81 Ragout of Carrots —CONTENTS. XV PAGE Carrots k la Poulette 81 Salsip 82 Beetroot — Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel 83 Pommes de Terre; Sauce Blanche .... — Pommes de Terre k la Creme — Pommes de Terre au Lard — Pomme de Terre Frites 84 Pommes de Terre en Puree — Boulettes de Pommes de Terre 85 Another mode — Yams 86 Truffles — Truffles au Naturel ....... — Truffles au Vin — Mushrooms 87 Champignons en Caisse — Champignons sur le Grille — Croute aux Champignons 88 Mousserons, or Morels — BEEF. Boeuf en Persillade 88 Boeuf au Miroton Boeuf a I'Huile 89 Boeuf en Vinaigrette Boeuf a-la-Mode 90 Sirloin of Beef .CONTENTS. xvi PAGE Filet de Bceuf Roasted 90 Filet aux Champignons 91 Entre C6tes dans son Jus — Kidneys aux Champignons 92 Kidneys Braisee au Vin de Madere . . . . — Langue de Bceuf au Gratin .... . — Langue de Boeuf Piqu^e et Rotie 93 Beef Palates h. la Menagere — Queue de Boeuf Grillde 94 Tripe a la Mode de Caen — Douple Tripe en Fricassee 95 Double Tripe a la Lyonnaise — Beef like Game 96 Saucisses de Boeuf . . ... . . — VEAL. Roasted 97 Loin a la Bourgeoise — Breast of Veal Farcie — Cotelettes de Veau a la Milanaise .... 98 Cotelettes de Veau en Caisses — Ris de Veau en Fricassee 99 Ris de Veau Piquee 100 Foie en Matelotte — Foie de Veau Pique ....... — Bouillets au Foie de Veau 101 Rissoles — Breast of Veal, with Green Peas . . . . 102CONTENTS. Xvii PAGE Tendrons de Veau a la Poulette 102 Cdtelettes au Naturel — Cotelettes de Veau aux Fines Herbes . . . .103 Cotelettes en Papillotes — Fricandeau 104 Blanquette de Veau — Foie de Veau a la Bourgeoise — Foie de Veau Roasted 105 Foie de Veau Saute — Mou de Veau au Blanc — Calf's Brains en Matelotte 106 Brains a la Ravigote — Sweetbreads aux Fines Herbes 107 Sweetbreads en Caisse — Veal Tongues — Calf's Pluck 108 Calf's Feet — Tete de Veau au Naturel — Tete de Veau en Tortus — MUTTON. Gigot Roti a la Provengale 109 Leg of Mutton (Gigot Brais^) 110 Leg of Mutton Stewed in its own Gravy ... — Mouton au Raifort Ill Mouton au Persil — Gigot de Mouton aux Morels 112 Eminces (Minced Mutton) — bxviii CONTENTS. PAGE Mutton with Haricots or other Vegetables . . .112 Breast of Mutton a la Bourgeoise .... Cdtelettes Panee 113 C6telettes Saut^e ....... — Shoulder of Mutton — Haricot de Mouton ....... 114 Mutton Kidneys a la Brochette . . . . . —• Kidneys au Vin de Champagne^ ou Blanc . . 115 Sheeps' Trotters a la Poulette — Sheeps' Tails a la Braise 116 Sheeps' Tails Fried — Sheeps' Tails Grilled — Sheep's Tongue en Papillotte 117 Method of Preparation to give Mutton the Taste of Venison or Fawn — LAMB. Lamb or Kid 117 Quarter of Lamb Roasted 118 Lamb a la Poulette —> Epigramme d'Agneau Lamb's Head and Pluck 119 PORK. Roasted Pig ........ 120 Pork Roasted a la Fran^aise —CONTENTS. xix VAGK Cotelettes 120 Kidneys au Vin Blanc 121 Pigs' Feet a la St. Menehould — Black Puddings ....... — White Pudding . , 122 Sausages — Wild Boar 123 To give Pork the Flavour of Wild Boar ... RAGOUTS. Farce Hachis 124 Boulettes de Hachis Grillades —- POULTRY. Ducks with Turnips 125 Canard en Daube — Ducks with Anchovies 126 Turkey with Truffles Fricassee of Turkey 127 Turkey in Jelly, or with Gravy ..... —- Poulet aux Chataignes (Fowl with Chesnuts) . . 128 Filets of Fowl a la Milanaise ..... — Fricassee of Chicken . . . . . . 129 Fricassee a la Minute . -■— Chicken a la Marengo 130 b2XX CONTENTS. PAGE Fowl (Poulet) a la Tartare 130 Fowl a I'Estragon 131 Fowl or Capon with Rice — Capon Roasted ^ . . 132 Pigeons — Pigeons with Peas — Pigeons a la Crapaudine — Pigeons a FEtuvee 133 Blanquette, Marinade and Salad of Poultry . . — Marinade of Poultry — Chicken Salad 134 GAME. Venison, or Roebuck 134 Cutlets of Venison 135 Hare, Roasted a la Franyaise — Civet of Hare — Au Choudron a la Minute 136 Pate de Lievre — Pheasant 137 Partridge — Perdrix aux Choux — Woodcocks 138 RABBITS. Gibelotte de Lapin (Rabbits) . . . . 138 To Preserve Meat Fresh during Summer . . . 139CONTENTS. XXI FISH. PAGE Saumon au Bleu, or Court Bouillon . . . 139 Salmon with Caper Sauce 140 Salmon a la Maitre d'H6tel — Turbot — Ray au Beurre Noir 141 Ray au Beurre Blanc — Turbot a la Proven9ale — Turbot a la Reine 142 Cod au Blanc 143 Cod a la Maitre d'Hotel — Cod with Capers — Chad au Bleu . , 144 Chad a rOseille — Mackarel a la Maitre d'Hotel — Fillets of Mackarel Fried (Sautes) .... 145 Soles, Bret, Plaice — Sole Normande ....... — Fresh Herrings a la Sauce Blanche . . . .146 Fresh Herrings a la Maitre d'Hotel .... — Herrings a la Moutarde — Herrings a la Tartare . . . . . . 147 Red Herrings — Red Herrings (Marines) — Red Herrings Grilled Whiting au Gratin . . . . . . . 148 Whiting Broiled — Roach and Barbel 149 Smelts — Salad of Anchovies —xxii CONTENTS. PAGE Oysters 149 Mussels a la Poulette . . . . , . 150 Mussels aux Fines Herbes — Crawfish, Lobsters, Crabs — Lobster Salad . 151 FRESH-WATER FISH. Carp, Fried 151 Carp, Broiled 152 Matelotte of Carp, Eels, Pike and Barbel ... — Matelotte a la Mariniere ...... — Pike au Bleu, or Court Bouillon . . . . 153 Perch 154 Tench, aux Fines Herbes — Barbel — Eels a la Tartare — Eels a la Poulette 155 Eels, Marinee, Broiled 156 Lampreys ......... — Crayfish — EGGS. Eggs au Miroir 157 Eggs Mallet — Eggs Fried and Buttered — Eggs aux Fines Herbes —CONTENTS. xxiii PAGE Eggs en Matelotte 158 (Eufs a la Tripe — (Eufs a la Neige — (Eufs au Lait 159 OMELETTES. Omelette au Naturel 160 Omelette aux Fines Herbes — Omelette au Fromage — Omelette au Lard — Omelette au Sucre — Omelette au Rum . . . . . . . 161 Omelette Soufflee — Omelette aux Confitures ...... — Omelettes Diverses — Maccaroni 162 SWEET DISHES. Charlotte de Pommes 163 Charlotte Russe .... . . — Pommes au Beurre — Pets de Nonne .164xxiv CONTENTS. PAGE Pain Perdu .165 Crepes — Gateau de Riz — Croquettes de Riz 166 Genoises — Omelette de Pomraes — Demi Pommes 167 Baba . — Gateau d'Amandes ....... — Another mode 168 Gaufres — Gateau a la Creme ....... — Flan 169 Croquettes du Flan — Croquettes de Riz. (Another mode) .... — Crepes de Pommes 170 CREAMS. Creme Frite 171 Creme a la Fleur d'Orange ..... — Creme au Chocolat 172 Creme au Cafe — Creme au The — Fromage a la Creme — Creams in Moulds 173 Bavaroises 174 Crepes a la Creme —XXV CONTENTS. BEIGNETS. PAGE Beignets Souffles . 175 Soufflets de Dauphine — Beignets de Fraises ou Framboises . . . . 176 Beignets a la Cr^me — Beignets de Tartines — Beignets d'Acacia — Beignets Glacis 177 Beignets of Almonds or Pistaches . . . . — Beignets au Blanc — Beignets de Pommes de Terre 178 Beignets of Rice or Semolina — Beignets de Pommes — Beignets de Poires (Pears) 179 Beignet's d'Orange — Batter for Beignets — PASTRY. French Paste for Tarts, &c. 179 Petits Pates Hot 180 Pate Brisee, Galettes, Gateaux 181 Pate, Raised Paste — Garniture for Cold Pates 182 Pate de Lievre et de Lapin . .... — Terrine de Volailles, Viandes, or Gibier . . .183xxvi CONTENTS. PRESERVES. PAGE Compote de Pommes 183 Compote aux Confitures 184 Prunes — Compote de Peches — Compote de Poires 185 Compote de Marrons — Compote de Coings — Compotes of Pears with Wine . . . . .186 Compote of Apricots ...... — Conserve de Caf^ . . . . . . . — Conserve de Chocolat — Compote of Apricots and Peaches . . . .187 Clarification of Sugar .... . . — Currant Jelly without Boiling — Apricots Candis ou autres Fruits . . . . 188 CONFITURES. Confiture de Coings . . . . . . .188 G^lee de Coings —- Confiture de Prunes, entiere 189 Confiture de Poires — Confiture de Prunes 190 Confiture de Cerises — Confiture de Mirabelles, whole ..... — Confiture de Fraises . . . . . . 191CONTENTS. XXvii PAGE Pears (dried) Sechee 191 Cherries 192 Confitures de Vin - — Confitures au Miel 193 Grape Jelly — SYRUPS. Syrup for Liquors 194 Syrup of Preserved Fruits , — Syrup to Glaze Fruit — Syrop de Groseilles 195 Syrop d'Orgeat , — Syrop de Guimauve . 196 Syrop de Citron — Syrop d'Orange, ou Citron . . . .* . . — Raspberry Vinegar 197 RATAFIAS. Ratafia de Noyaux d'Abricots * . . . ,198 Ratafia de Fleurs d'Orange ..... —- Ratafia de Genievre . — Ratafia de Noix ■—. Ratafia of Currants . , . . . . .199 Ratafia of Quinces ....... — Ratafia d'Angelique — Ratafia of Oranges , 200xxvm CONTENTS. LIQUEURS. PAGE Anisette 200 Eaux de Cerises, Groseilles, ou Framboises . . — Cherries in Brandy 201 Abricots a TEau de Vie — Cassis 202 Muscat — Noyeau — MISCELLANEOUS. Clarification of Sugar 203 Grog — Punch — Lait de Poule 204 To make Poultry Tender — Stock — To Preserve Eggs 205 To Preserve Vegetables — To Preserve Artichokes in Pickle ... . — To Preserve Beans 206 To Preserve Sorrel 207 To Pickle , — To Pickle Gherkins To Preserve Fruits 208 To Clean Plate, Knives, Lamps and the Kitchen Utensils 209FRENCH COOKERY roB, ENGLISH FAMILIES. SOUPS. STOCK. Take six pounds of beef^ or a leg-bone of beef, pour over it six quarts of water, or more, in pro- portion to the quantity of the meat, using to each pound of meat a quart of water; let it stew slowly for an hour to draw out the gravy; let it come to nearly a boil, till the scum rises and is cleared off; then add some carrots, turnips, leeks, a parsnip, celery, and a clove of garlic, an onion, three or four cloves, six whole peppers. The vegetables will cause more scum to rise, which you must skim off, and let the stock stew very gently, keeping it closely covered till done enough, BSOUPS, 2 then strain oflf for use^ and when cold^ before you use it take off any fat that rises. The meat should be stewed to rags to have all the good out of it j the stock should be a jelly. You may make a stock with the meat and vegetables^ put on with some warm water to stew; this will be found very useful in the kitchen to assist in gravies or soups made with vegetables, or the gravies that require stock; but this will not keep beyond a couple of days. The first stock will keep a week^ if required, with a little more seasoning. VEAL STOCK. Take some veal, put it into a stewpan with a slice of bacon, or the knuckle-bone of ham, let both stand by the fire, closely covered, half an hour, till a pale gold colour; then fill your stew- pan with water, and add onions, carrots and half a pound of beef, to improve the consistency; but this is left to taste, as some prefer it without the beef, as being more delicate. Let it stew slowly till done enough; pass it through the tamis. When you want this for invalids leave out the bacon and the beef, and add chervil. You can serve it with rice or vermicelli; and it will be a nice, nourishing soup.3 SOUPS. You can make stock with poultry^ chickens, turkey, or ducks, as follows: Stew gently either of the above fowls in water, allowing a quart of water to each fowl; add a pound of beef, cut in small pieces, with onions, celery, carrots, and sweet herbs; let all stew slowly till quite done, in a closely covered stew- pan ; strain the stock and serve it with rice or maccaroni. Season to taste. EABBIT BOUILLON. Kabbits can also be made use of in the same manner and are very good. The meat may be pounded and rubbed through a tamis, and added to the stock with or without a basin of eggs beaten with cream. BOUILLON DE PEEDRIX. Stew some partridges for three or four hours in water, with a little veal to give it a consistence; add some vegetables, such as carrots, turnips, onions, sweet herbs, cloves, and celery, a few peppercorns, and stew slowly till done enough. Then pound the meat, pass it through a tamis, and serve with rice or vermicelli. BOUILLON DE GIBIER. Take and cut up game, such as snipes, pigeons, woodcocks, quails, larks, partridges, thrushes or B 2SOUPS. 4 pheasants. After preparing them as if for roast- ing-^ put them together into a large stewpan^ with some bacon cut into pieces; add a quart or two of water and let it stew three or four hours. Then take out the game, which you serve with some of the sauce^ which will be rich : and to the remainder add five or six glasses of hot water, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, and in a quarter of an hour you will have a good soup, which you can serve with rice* This is called in Piedmont, Bouillon des Sauvages. JELLY OF MEAT. Any of the stocks will make a good jelly by boiling a little more, and clearing it with white of eggs well beaten; then strain it through a jelly- bag, season it to taste. This is strengthening. You may add isinglass if you will, or knuckles of veal, which makes it clearer though not as salutary, COULIS. Take three pounds of beef, a knuckle of veal, a bit of bacon, or a knuckle-bone of ham, with a glass of wine; when it has browned, add a quart of stock, another glass of wine, a carrot, some spices, a bunch of sweet herbs, and stew till the meat is in rags; then pass it through a tamis,5 SOUPS. and when cold skim off the fat; it ought to be a good brown jelly when cold. BOUILLON DE POULET. (PECTORET.) Take a fowl or chicken^ crush it, and put it into a stewpan, with an ounce of pearl barley, as much rice, and three quarts of water; let it reduce to half; pound the meat and pass it through a tamis for use, season with salt, and a grain of white sugar. Veal can be dressed in the same manner, and is very nourishing for delicate persons. BOUILLON AMER, EOR SICKNESS AT THE STOMACH. Take equal quantities of centary, absynthe, cammomile flowers, thistle leaves, millepied and veronica; add a bit of Seville orange-peel, a root of gentian dried; cut them small and mix well together; keep them in a box. When you want to use this, take about four grains, with a pound of veal, or a chicken; boil slowly together in a quart of water, till it is reduced to half. Then take it off the fire and pass it through a tamis; divide this into two portions. Take some of this in the morning, and again three or four hours after dinner, and continue to do so for a fortnight or three weeks; it will strengthen the stomach.SOUPS. 6 BOUILLON AUX HERBES. Take leaves of sorrel^ leeks^ lettuce, and purs- lain, chervil, about two handsful, wash, pick and chop fine. Add to it salt, fresh butter, and stew all well together in three pints of water till it is reduced to half the quantity; take it off the fire, and pass it through a tamis. It must be seasoned to taste. CONSOMME. Put in a stewpan some onions cut in slices in a layer, and on them put about two pounds of beef in slices, two pounds of veal also sliced, two partridges, a fowl, with a slice of ham; moisten with stock, and put the pan on a quick fire, turning each piece till equally browned on all sides. When the meat begins to stick to the sides of the pan, add three or four quarts of stock, with a bunch of fine herbs, an onion with two cloves; put the pan on a hot hearth and let it stew slowly seven or eight hours. Then strain for use, METHOD OE STRAINING STOCK OR CONSOMMi]. As all stock or consomme from long stewing will have strings of meat or vegetables, if you wish to clear it, after straining, add some whitesSOUPS. 7 of eggs beaten with the shells, and let the stock and it boil up; then pour it through a jelly bag dipped first in cold water and well squeezed; the stock or consomme will then be as clear as crystal. BOUBILLASSE. (PROVENCAL POTAGE.) There are two methods of making this potage. You may as a general rule, use any kind of fish, but the best are whiting, dorey, cod or haddock. Put the whitings, dorey and any small fish you like into a stewpan; put in a fryingpan a sliced onion, a clove of garlic, some parsley chopped as fine as possible, a bit of orange or lemon-peel, some salt, pepper, spice, saffron, and a quart of water, with a little oil; when fried, add your fish, cut in quarters and boned, stir it and put it on a quick fire for a quarter of an hour, till it bubbles, then let it remain five minutes; add a bit of butter mixed with flour, and serve; you may add fennel and bay leaf. ANOTHER MODE FOR MACKAREL. Take mackarel, sardines, herrings, or any other rich fish, bone and cut them in fillets, put in a stewpan some leeks cut fine, add some oil or a little melted butter, then put in your fish, floured well, and let them brown well, turn-SOUPS. 8 ing them during five or six minutes^ then add a glass of water for each person you expect to dinner, with an onion, cloves, lemon-peel, pepper, salt, spice and saffron, dissolved in oil or butter, and let it boil quickly a quarter of an hour, add a roux, and let it remain five minutes at the fire, then serve as before. CONSOMME ECONOMIQUE. Put in a stewpan a knuckle of veal with two calves^ feet or a cow-heel, cut in pieces and scalded well; add any remains of poultry, with the feet, necks, gizzards of fowl, and moisten with water; let it boil, skim clear, season, add a carrot, an onion, two cloves, and let it stew till done enough, then pass it through a tamis. POT-AU-FEU 1 LA BORDELAISE. Take four pounds of the brisket of beef; lard it with bacon and fire or six cloves of garlic and put it in a stewpan with water, an onion, two or three carrots, a turnip, some sweet herbs, celery, a parsnip, a few peppercorns, two cloves, and let it stew slowly four or five hours till quite tender, then take out the meat, which serve on a dish with a sauce piquante, a puree of onions, or a sauce made with some of the stock, a spoonful of9 SOUPS. French mustard^ the same of vinegar, and serve over it, adding a Uttle roux to thicken the same. The soup can be served, after passing it through a tamis, with vegetables cut in fillets, stewed in stock, or a little rice stewed in stock, this is very good; add salt, when done, to taste. POTAGE A LA PUREE DE TOMATES. Take thirty ripe tomatoes, cut them in two, take out the seeds and the juice; mince fine a pound of ham, four large onions and a bunch of parsley; put all, with a quarter of a pound of butter, in a stewpan, let your tomatoes stew gently and till they have the flavour of the ham; then add half a pound of bread-crust soaked in stock, and stew till done; pass it through a tamis into another stewpan, then add sufficient consomme to moisten, put it by the side of the fire to stew for half an hour, then add a little sugar. This puree is served with maccaroni or rice. POTAGE AUX RAVIOLLES. Make a paste with six eggs and two pounds of flour; spread it out thin, and put in it a farce made with the breast of fowls, some grated Par- mesan cheese, some yolks of eggs and someSOUPS. 10 scalded borage^ seasoned with pepper^ salt^ cinna- mon and nutmeg; lay this on half the paste, cover it with the remaining paste and press it well together to join, cut it in square pieces and boil them some minutes in stock; drain and put them in a soup tureen, put layers of raviolles, then a layer of grated Parmesan and butter melted; pour over it some jus very hot, or melted butter. POTAGE A LA CAMEEANI. Take some good maccaroni, some Parmesan cheese and some butter, with a dozen livers of fowls, celery, carrots, parsnips, cabbage, leeks; chop fine the livers and the vegetables and stew them in butter; when stewing, scald the macca- roni; season with salt pepper and spices, and when tender drain; then take a soup tureen that will stand the fire, put a layer of maccaroni, then a layer of the chopped liver and vegetables, then Parmesan; continue till the tureen is full, put it on in a pan of boiling water and stew till done enough. SOUPE AU BOUILLON. To four pounds of beef put four quarts of water; let it stew slowly till the scum rises.SOUPS. 11 skim it and add some salt^ a root of celery, two carrots, two turnips, ten onions; let it stew slowly three hours, add some bread that has been in the oven till crisp, put it in the soup for half an hour, then serve. The beef can be served on another dish with sauce piquante, or a puree of carrots or onions. CRAY-riSH SOUP. Put fifty cray-fish with salt and water, take off the tails and pound the rest in a mortar with some butter, then put the pounded fish into a fryingpan and fry it with butter, then add to it some stock, and press it through a tamis. This is called the jus of cray-fish. Pound the shells fine, and fry; then add that to stock, and put all into a stewpan on a layer of fried bread; add the juice of the cray-fish, and stew till done enough. SOUPE BLANCHE. Cut some celery into thin slices and stew them tender in butter; put them into stock with a young fowl, some salt and spice; when well done and ready to serve, add the yolks of two eggs. POTAGE PEINTANIER. Chop together some lettuces, sorel, chervil and leeks; put them into a stewpan with a quart of green peas; add some stock, and stew two12 SOUPS. hours. Swell some rice in water and butter^ with a little salt; serve in a separate dish^ to eat with the soup. Very good. POTAGE ATI LAIT. Boil in milk a laurel leaf^ a little salt and a bit of sugar; have in another stewpan some melted butter; fry in it some sippets of bread; when a good colour^ drain them and add the yolks of three eggs beaten with some cream; let them warm in the milk, and then pour into your tureen over the sippets. POTAGE DE SEMOULE. Put a quarter of a pound of semolina into some milk or good beef stock, add a slice of fried veal to give it a colour, and let it stew two hours slowly, till the semolina is tender; then serve it. If you swell the semolina in milk, add the yolks of three eggs mixed with orange-flower water and pounded sugar, to taste. POTAGE AUX LEGUMES. Take all sorts of vegetables, such as cabbage, radishes, beetroot, chicory, sorrel, celery, carrots, turnips and some onions; cut them small, and stew in good stock, with a slice of veal fried, to give it a colour; season to taste.13 SOUPS. POTAGE AU RIZ PEOVENCALE. Roast a piece of veal^ about three or four pounds; when well browned^ cut it into three or four pieces and put it into a stewpan^ with rice, and the water in which it was boiled, with some salt, pepper, nutmeg and a bit of salt pork; let it stew two hours, and serve; the meat must be left in. Coarse but savoury. POTAGE D'ONIONS. Take a dozen onions, peel and cut them in slices or dice, put some butter in a pan and fry them, powder flour over them, and moisten with some good stock; season with salt and pepper, and add sippets of bread, fried and drained. POTAGE AU PKOMAGE. (SWISS). Take half a pound of rich cheese ; cut in thin slices half the quantity, and grate the other half with some butter; put the grated cheese on a dish that will go on the fire; then lay on it slices of bread cut very thin, then the slices of cheese, then bread, then the grated cheese and butter; add some stock to moisten it, and stew till the stock is quite reduced; then, before you serve, add the stock to fill the dish, well sea- soned.SOUPS. 14 SOUPE AUX POMMES DE TERRE AVEC BOULETTES. Boil some potatoes in stock; mash them and mix with forcemeat, made of chopped meat, bacon and herbs, spice and eggs; roll the bul- lets the size of an egg, and either fry or warm them in the soup. POTAGE A LA BIERE. (GERMAN.) Fry some bread in butter; drain the slices and put them in a stewpan with some good beer, the same quantity of red wine, some grated lemon- peel, some cloves and cinnamon in powder, with sugar to taste; let it boil some minutes, and then serve, hot. POTAGE AUX CERISES. Take some ripe cherries, cut off the stalks and pound them in a mortar, with the kernels; put them in a stewpan with an equal quantity of wine and water, some lemon-peel; when the fruit is done enough, pass it through the tamis, and add sugar and cinnamon in powder; warm it and serve as a second-course dish, garnished with Naples or Savoy biscuits; the dish must be deep. POTAGE AUX CHOUX. Cut in four parts a good white cabbage, scald it, and then throw it into cold water to refresh it.SOUPS. 15 Put it in a stewpan with water^ a slice of bacon or salt pork, and part of a neck of mutton. When done enough, and slowly, take out the meat and add sippets of fried bread; when you serve, if for maigre, use butter instead of bacon. POTAGE DE SA.m± Put in a stewpan several slices of beef, with an old partridge or fowl; when it is a good colour, pour over some stock, as much as you require, and stew gently two hours. Have ready some vegetables stewed in stock, such as carrots, tur- nips, onions, celery, cabbage, asparagus tops, &c.; add them to your soup, with some more stock and some fried sippets of bread; let it stew slowly on a very gentle fire; then put your vegetables into a soup tureen and pour your soup over it. Serve it very hot* You must not serve the meat. This is a very nourishing soup, POTAGE AUX POINTES D'ASPERGES. Take some good stock, and put it in a stewpan with some lettuces and asparagus tops, and all the green part of the stalk; let them stew till tender enough to rub through a tamis; it should be as thick as green-pea soup; a slice of ham should be added when stewing, and taken out16 SOUPS. before you rub your asparagus through the tamis; have some asparagus tops cut in small pieces^ boiled tender in a little stock; after your soup is strained put it on to warm^ and add your asparagus tops to it; serve. It should be very green; if not a good colour^ add some spinach juice to improve it. POTAGE AUX CHAPONS OU POULARDS. Stew a fowl^ capon, with a little beef in a small quantity of water with salt, pepper and an onion stuck with cloves; when the stock is well done, colour it with a slice of fried veal; serve the soup with rice, vermicelli, or fried sippets of bread. POTAGE AUX CROUTONS. Cut some bread in square slices, like dice; fry them in butter, then put them into a puree of haricots, peas or lentilles. POTAGE AUX PETITS POIS. On a layer of onions put some small slices of veal and different sorts of herbs; put some stock to it, and let it stew gently till a good colour. In a second stewpan fry a little bacon with some parsley; then add some green peas and stew them till tender; then pound them in a mortar and add it to your soup to stew with the veal;17 SOUPS. when thick enough^ take out the veal^ which you can serve with some other sauce; pass your soup through a tamis^ and serve. It ought to be as thick as cream; add a pinch of powdered sugar ; season to taste. POTAGE DE EANTASIE. Put in a stewpan some onions in slices, with two or three carrots, a bit of veal and ham; let them stew slowly, and when the veal begins to brown, moisten it with some hot good stock; let it stew till the veal is done, then put in some crusts of rolls, cut in squares ; pound the white meat of a fowl in a mortar, the yolk of two eggs, and five or six sweet almonds. When all is pounded fine, mix it with your soup, till it has a good consistence; pass it through a tamis if too thick, and serve with sippets of bread. POTAGE AUX CAILLES. Take some young quails and prepare them as if for roasting; put them to stew slowly in stock, with a slice of fried veal, and two or three craw- fish j add some herbs, an onion stuck with a clove, and stew till the quails are done; strain your soup, and serve with fried sippets; season mo- derately. cSOUPS. 18 POTAGE AUX MAURONS. Choose seventy or eighty chesnuts; roast and strain them; put them in a saucepan and boil them in stock; when done enough^ pound them fine and mix them with some stock, and pass them through a tamis; keep out some of those that are perfect, and put in the soup when you serve, and some sippets. POTAGE AU RIZ. (GRAS OU MAIGRE.) Wash and pick some good rice, and put it into a stewpan with some good stock, either gras or maigre; let the rice stew till tender, then season it and let it stew two hours. POTAGE AU RIZ A LA PUEEE DE POIS VERTS. Wash and pick your rice, then add some good stock; let it stew an hour and a half. When the rice is quite tender, then add it to a puree of green peas, or any other vegetable. It must not be too thick, neither too thin. POTAGE A LA JULIENNE. Cut in fillets some carrots and turnips, with onions, celery, leeks, lettuces, sorrel, a little cher- vil ; also cut in fillets, with green peas, or aspa- ragus points; wash and drain them dry on a sieve; add as much stock as you wish soup, and19 SOUPS. stew for an hour^ till the vegetables are tender; season moderately, and serve. POTAGE AU PANADE. Put in a stewpan some thin slices of bread and butter, with as much water as will soak them, and a little salt; let them stew about three quarters of an hour; add a liaison of the yolk of three or four eggs beaten with cream; pour it in when the soup is boiling; take it off the fire, and serve. It will be nourishing for children, and then use sugar in place of salt. POTAGE A L'OSEILLE. Take a handful of sorrel; wash and pick it; put it into a stewpan closely covered, and let it stew, then mash it; add the quantity of water you require for soup, some salt and pepper; let it boil, and add a liaison of eggs. PANADE T'OR INVALIDS. Put two tablespoonsful of good stock in a stewpan, with the crumb of bread about the size of an egg, and let it simmer. Pound the white meat of a fowl in a mortar, mix it with your stock; if too thick, add a little more stock, or some milk; pass it through a tamis. This is delicate and nourishing. c220 SOUPS. POTAGE AU LIEVRE. Cut up a good old hare^ with all the blood you can save from it; put it into a stewpan^ or soup- pot^ with as much beef stock as will cover it; then stew slowly till the hare is tender; boil the liver till tender in stock; rub it through a tamis ; mix it with a little of the soup^ till quite thin and smooth; add this to the soup; season with a clove, a blade of mace, pepper, and salt; let it boil a few^ minutes, and add half a bottle of good red wine : port, in England, is the best. You must serve the best of the meat cut in fillets, with a few small forcemeat balls. Very good. POTAGE AUX LAPINS A LA EEINE. Take a large rabbit, or two small ones, one pound of lean ham, one onion stuck with a clove, one turnip, some celery, a clove of garlic, and two quarts of water; put them into a stewpan, and let the rabbits stew till tender; then strain off the soup through a tamis; then boil a pint of thin cream, and add to it the best part of the meat of the rabbits cut in neat small fillets, and some of it pounded fine; put this in the soup if not thick enough; add a little flour and butter, or two eggs well beaten with a spoonful of milk.SOUPS. 21 Do not let the soup boil after the eggs and cream are added. Before the fillets are added, the pounded meat is rubbed through a tamis with the soup. A few sweet almonds may be blanched, cut in strips, boiled in a little milk, and added to the soup; but this is left to taste. SOUPE AUX LEGUMES. (MAIGEE.) In two quarts of water, stew till tender one white cabbage, two carrots, one onion, four tur- nips, and two heads of celery; when done enough, rub them through a tamis; then add a pint of cream, with some nutmeg, pepper, and salt; serve with sippets of bread dipped in batter. POTAGE AUX AETICHAUX. Take two quarts of good jus de veau, or pale veal stock; pare and quarter some Jerusalem artichokes, let them stew in the stock till quite tender; then rub them through a tamis, and add them to the soup, with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg; boil it up, and then add half a pint of cream, with the yolk of one egg well beaten, but do not let it boil after you add the cream and egg; it must be neither too thick nor too thin. For a maigre day, you may leave outSOUPS. 22 the stock, and use water, with some flour and butter, and add half a pint of milk to the cream. SOUPE AUX LEGUMES. (MAIGRE.) Take two gallons of water, and put it into a soup-pan; fry in butter three large carrots, six onions, a quart of peas, a quarter of a pound of rice, two heads of celery^ and one potato, sliced; then add the fried vegetables to the water, and stew slowly four hours; then strain it through a tamis, rubbing the pulp of the vegetables through as much as possible; let it stand till the next day; when you serve, add half a pint of small green peas, boiled; season to your taste with pepper, salt, and a small lump of sugar. SOUPE ET BOUILLI. Take a piece of the brisket of beef, put it into a stewpan, cover it with water; when it boils, skim it clear; and then put it on the hot hearth to stew slowly for six hours, with three carrots, four turnips, two onions stuck with four cloves, two heads of celery, a clove of garlic, or two shalots, a bunch of sweet herbs; have ready some carrots and turnips cut in fillets, or little dice, and some celery stalks cut the same, boiled till tender in water, with salt; when done enough,23 SOUPS. lay your bouilli on a dish, and strew the vege- tables over it, with a sauce made of a little of the stock, thickened with flour, fried in butter, and a little pepper, to taste; strain your soup, and serve with vegetables or rice, both stew^ed, or the crumbs of bread cut in pieces, toasted, or a French roll, might be put into the tureen, and the boiling soup poured over it, which will soften it. The boulli can be served with a sauce made of some soup, with a large spoonful of French mustard, or with onions, stewed with brown sauce. POTAGE A LA MONACA. (MAIGRE.) Take some thin slices of the crumb of bread, sprinkle each with sugar; fry them a light co- lour in butter; when done enough, put them in a soup tureen, and pour over them some boiling milk, with a pinch of salt; add also, if you like, some yolks of eggs well beaten, and a little nutmeg. POTAGE MAIGRE. Put in a stewpan some carrots, turnips, onions, parsnips, celery, parsley, a head of cabbage, some cloves and salt; add sufficient water for your soup; put a piece of butter into the pan; let the vege- tables stew till quite tender enough to passSOUPS. 24 through a tamis. Serve with bread cut in slices and fried in butter. POTAGE AUX HERBES. (MAIGRE.) Wash a handful of sorrel; add some chervil, a lettuce and some leeks. Chop all fine and stew with salt and butter. When the vegetables are done^ add some water, or some maigre stock. Let it stew again, and before you serve, add a basin of the yolks of eggs beaten with cream. POTAGE AUX POMMES DE TERRE ET A L'OSEILLE. Put in a stewpan a handful of sorrel with some water; when it is done enough, put it into water, with some potatoes that have been cut into dice; add butter, salt, and pepper; let it stew till done enough, then serve. Maigre soup. WHITE SOUP. SOUPE A LA REINE. Have your stock good, made of veal and mut- ton ; blanche and pound a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds; pound a little chicken or veal, some crumbs of bread, a little mace, a little cayenne pepper; put a little of the stock to these ingredients, mix and pass through a hair sieve; then add it to as much of the stock as youSOUPS. 25 may require for the soup; tlien boil it all toge- ther; and before serving, add a little cream. Of course season the stock with herbs, and add mace, cloves and pepper, according to taste. CRECY SOUPE A LA REINE. Procure five or six large carrots, as red as pos- sible, which will scrape; then shave them into thin slices, taking off all the exterior red, but not using the centre; then peel and slice a large onion, a turnip, a quarter of a pound of lean ham, a few sprigs of parsley, and two bay-leaves; put them into a stewpan, with four ounces of butter; fry the whole of a light yellowish colour; then add the carrots, with a pint of water, and let them stew until perfectly tender; mix in two ounces of flour quite smoothly, and add five pints of stock; season with a little salt and sugar, and stir upon the fire until boiling a quarter of an hour, when pass it through a tammy, and finish, and serve. This soup ought to be of a red colour. WHITE MOCK TURTLE SOUP. Procure half a calf s head (scalded, not skinned); bone it, then cut up a knuckle of veal, which put into a stewpan, well buttered at the bottom, with26 SOUPS. half a pound of lean ham^ an ounce of salt, a carrot, a turnip, three onions, a head of celery, a leek, a bunch of parsley, and a bay-leaf; add half a pint of water, set it on the fire, moving it round occasionally, until the butter of the stew- pan is covered with a white glaze; then add six quarts of water, and put in the half head; let it simmer upon the corner of the fire for two hours and a half, or until the head is tender; then take it out, and press it between two dishes, and pass the stock through a hair sieve into a basin; then in another stewpan have a quarter of a pound of butter, with a sprig of thyme, basil, marjoram, and bay-leaf; let the butter get quite hot; then add six ounces of flour to form a roux; stir over a sharp fire a few minutes, keeping it quite white; stand it off the fire to cool; then add the stock; stir over the fire until boiling; then stand it at the corner, skim off all the fat, and pass it through a sieve into another stewpan; cut the head into pieces an inch square, but not too thick, and put them into the soup, which season with a little cayenne pepper; when the pieces are hot, add a gill of cream, and pour it into your tureen.SOUPS. 27 JULIENNE SOUP. A small quantity of every description of vege- tables should be used^ including lettuce, sorrel, and tarragon. Weigh half a pound of the vegetables in fair proportions, that is, carrots, turnips, onions, celery, and leeks, which cut in small fillets; when done, wash, dry, and pass them in butter and sugar; add two quarts of clear soup, adding a little sorrel, celery, cabbage, lettuce and peas, if handy; but it will be good without them. MULLIGATAWNY SOUP. (INDIAN.) Cut up a knuckle of veal, which put into a stewpan with some butter, half a pound of lean ham, a carrot, a turnip, three onions, and six sour apples; add half a pint of water; put the pan on a quick fire, moving the meat round occasionally; let it remain until the bottom of the stewpan is covered with a brownish glaze; then add three tablespoonsful of curry powder, and one of curry paste, and half a pound of flour; stir well in, and fill the stewpan with water, add a spoonful of salt, and a lump of sugar; when boiling, place it at the corner of the fire, and let it simmer two hours and a half, skimming off all the fat as it rises; then pass it through a tammy into a tureen, trim some of theSOUPS. 28 pieces of veal and put it back in the stewpan to boil^ and serve; rice boiled separately. This soup does not properly belong to a French cookery book, but I have given it, as it is a genuine Indian receipt. BOUILLON A L'HEURE, OU A LA MINUTE. Take a piece of beef, cut it into slices, and put it into a stewpan with a little water, a carrot, onion, and a turnip, cut in pieces. When the meat and vegetables are stewed, and begin to stick to the bottom of the stewpan, with a little water, quite boiUng, add some salt; let it boil half an hour, and strain it through a tamis. You may, if you like, chop the meat fine, and put it in the stewpan, with the water and the vegetables at the same time. BOUILLON DE VEAU. Take a piece of veal, or some of the pluck, and stew it an hour in a quart of water with different kinds of sweet herbs, an onion, clove, salt, pepper, some lettuce leaves, and chervil. When the meat is done you may either strain through a tamis, and serve with rice or, not strained, with the vegetables.29 SOUPS. You may use an old fowl in place of the veal if you like it. ANOTHEE MODE FOB, POT AU FEU. (ECONOMICAL.) Take a thick slice of beef^ and put it into a stewpan^ or part of the rump or brisket; fill it up with cold water^ and let it stew slowly till it comes to nearly a boil; the scum will then rise, and must be skimmed clear. When that is done, put in your vegetables, carrots, turnips, parsnips, leeks, celery, a bay-leaf, a clove, a burnt onion, and a clove of garlic. Let it stew slowly five or six hours : the remains and trimmings of poultry, or a piece of the neck of mutton, added to the beef, will make the soup more delicate; when the meat is done, take it out, strain the soup through a tamis, and serve it, either with vegetables cut in dice, toasted bread, or vermi- celli. This will keep several days; but in summer or damp weather you must boil it up daily, to keep. A cabbage added varies the flavour; but it does not keep so well when it is used. CONSOMME. This is made by adding more meat, and stew- ing it till, when cold, it is in jelly. For threeSOUPS. 30 quarts of water, add two pounds and a half of beef, and a fowl, with the same vegetables as in the pot au feu; let it boil, or rather simmer, for nine or ten hours, and it must reduce a third. It will be very fine. You must put three or four cloves, as many whole black peppers, and a little salt, also a bunch of fine herbs. CROUTES AU POT. Fry some slices of bread, or take some dry crusts, and lay them in the bottom of a stewpan with a little stock, place it on a gentle fire; let the stock dry up; when the crumbs begin to stick to the pan, pour some boiling stock over them, and serve in a tureen. POTAGE AU ElZ. Wash half a pound of rice several times in luke warm water. Put it on to swell in a small quantity of stock. When the stock is dried up, add more, till your soup is thick enough, and let it boil half an hour. You must season it with salt and pepper before it boils. POTAGE AU RIZ, AU MAIGRE. After washing your rice, put it on to swell with water, salt and pepper; when done enough, and quite tender, take it off the fire; add a piece of butter, which stir in till well mixed ; and then31 SOUPS. add the yolks of two eggs beaten with a spoonful of cream or milk; set it on a few minutes to warm, but do not let it boil; serve hot. POULE AU LAIT. Put some milk on to boil, with a little salt and sagar; when boiling, add the yolks of two or three eggs; keep turning with a wooden spoon till it thickens and sticks to the spoon; then pour it into a tureen on bread cut in sippets or small slices. This is very nourishing and pleasant. If milk be too heavy, water may be used, but it is then thinner and not so strengthen- ing. STOCK FOE MAIGRE SOUP OR SAUCE. Put in a stewpan, with water, some carrots, turnips, onions, parsnips, celery, cabbage, parsley, cloves and salt; add a large piece of butter; let it stew till the vegetables are done, then strain the stock for use through a tamis. POTAGE AUX CHOUX. (ANOTHER MODE.) Put a neck of mutton into a stewpan, with some bacon; add as much water as you think it requires; when it begins to boil, put in a cab- bage, two turnips, two carrots, two parsnips, celery, onions and some sausages; two or three will be sufficient; let all stew till done enough;SOUPS. 32 an hour before you serve put in some potatoes; if put in the same time as the other vegetables they would breaks and make the soup too thick. It will require three or four hours to stew. The meat and vegetables can be served as a remove to the soup, or used in the servants^ hall. This is a coarse soup, it must be seasoned with pepper to taste. SOUPE AUX CHOUX. (MAIGRE.) Cut a cabbage into slices and scald them, to remove any acidity; drain them; then put the cabbage into a stewpan, with carrots, turnips, parsnips, onions, cloves, salt and pepper, and let all stew, with as much water as you think suffi- cient, till done enough. An hour before you serve, add a piece of butter, and if you like, some potatoes. You may add some milk just before you serve, if you like to vary the soup, but you then must use less water; season to taste. POTAGE AU POTURON. Cut a quarter of a pumpkin into small pieces; put it on to stew with a little water and salt; when it is soft, like marmalade, pour over it some boiling milk, with a little butter and sugar; have some sippets of bread cut and put into your tureen, and pour your soup over it. This isJUS, OR COULIS. 33 pleasant. You may leave out the sugar and milk, and add stock, well seasoned, which is very good. JUS, OR COULIS. JUS DE B(EUr. Put in a stewpan some onions, cut in slices, salt, carrots sliced; add about three pounds of beef; pour in three pints of stock; cover the stew- pan, and stew it slowly three hours; then cut the meat into small pieces; put them back, and stew another hour, with two or three onions and a clove; keep the stewpan closely covered; when the beef is stewed to rags, pass the jus through a strainer for use. It will keep three days. JUS DE VEAU. Put some sliced onions, two or three carrots or parsnips, in a stewpan, with a slice of bacon; cut in pieces two pounds of lean veal; pour over it two glasses of stock, or boiling water; let your pan be closely covered, and put it on a gentle fire to boil; season it moderately, then let it stew gently for two or three hours, and when the veal is done to rags, pass the jus through a tamis, and keep for use. This will be very good. DJUS^ OR COULIS. 34 ANOTHER MODE. (ECONOMICAL.) Put in a stewpan a slice of bacon, with some veal or other meat, and the carcases of any fowls, a carrot and onion cut in slices; let it heat on the fire, and then add a ladleful of stock; cover your stewpan, and let it stew again; add another ladle- ful of stock, and put it on a moderate fire, till it is reduced to a glaze; then put some more stock or water, and let it simmer till done; then strain. BLOND DE VEAU A LA V^NITIENNE. When you have got a good jus, add some flour and butter, and infuse some saffron in it; then let it stew till a good consistency, strain it, and pass it through a tamis. JUS DE POULARDES AUX CHAPONS. Stew slowly a good fowl or capon, in a quart of water; add a piece of veal cut in slices, or mutton, two onions, stuck with a clove, some salt and pepper, with a slice of lemon; when the fowl has stewed three or four hours, take it out, bone it, chop it, crush the meat fine, or pound it; moisten with some spoonsful of stock, and squeeze it through a sieve with a strong spoon, to get all the jus; mix this with the stock of the fowl, &c., and pass it through a tamis. This is useful toJUS, OR COULIS. 35 thicken soups or gravies. You may make a stock, also, from geese and ducks; but this only serves to flavour sauces, or for dishes made of ducks. JUS DE JAMBON. Put in a deep stewpan a piece of fresh butter, some slices of ham, and some small pieces of veal; two or three carrots cut in slices; let this stew slowly, till it yields its gravy, and the ham looks brown; then add some stock, and let it stew an hour, to get out all the gravy, then add a glass of white wine; let it stew a quarter of an hour, take it ofi^, skim it well till all the grease is removed, pass it through a tamis. It will enrich gravies. ROUX. This is made of a piece of butter, which is melted in a stewpan, and to which you add, more or less, a spoonful of flour, according whether you want a sauce thick or thin; when the flour is browned, add whatever you require for the sauce. You must brown it more or less, accord- ing to the colour you wish for your sauce or ragout. This roux will keep. Many cooks have the habit of burning sugar in a frying-pan with butter to colour their sauces or soups. Nothing can be worse; it is quite as P 236 JVS, OR COULIS. easy to brown a slice of meat, and reduce it to glaze, then add this glaze to your sauce or soup, which will be a better colour, and have a nicer flavour than with the burned sugar. LIAISONS. Break some eggs, separate the whites from the yolks, beat the yolks well, and mix them with a spoonful or two of the sauce you add it to. Stir this mixture quite smooth, and add it by degrees to the sauce; it must only warm, not boil, after it is added, or it will curdle. If for white sauce, beat the eggs with a little cream, and add the juice of a lemon. ALLIOLI OU BEURRE DE PROVENCE. Pound in a mortar some cloves of garlic—two for each person is the quantity; when beaten to a fine paste, add some good oil, drop by drop, mixing well till it resembles a soft paste ; then add a few drops of hot water, and the juice of half a lemon; still add some oil, stirring the whole time, as, perhaps, at the moment you think it is finished, it will turn to oil; if so, return it to your mortar, and pound it again, with some cloves of garlic, adding one at a time, till it is quite a soft, smooth, pommade-like cream; add the yolk of a beaten egg, then stir37 JUS^ OR COULIS. it slowly with the pestle or a spoon : the egg is to give it consistency. You may also, if you think your allioli not thick enough, add a few bread crumbs; pound them well with the paste, till mixed thoroughly. This paste, or batter, is added to any dishes you dress a la Proven9ale. A little can be also added to many sauces where garlic is to be used; but in English kitchens very little garlic is used; though when carefully added, it improves much the flavour of made dishes. ESSENCE OF GAME OR POULTEY. Put in a stewpan the remains of any kind of game, such as partridges, hare, or any poultry, with a knuckle of ham, and a calf's foot, a pint of white wine, onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, a clove, thyme, salt and pepper to taste; stew, after adding some stock, till tender; strain through a tamis for use. SAUCES. SAUCE POUR VIANDE BLANCHE. Take the crumb of a stale roll, and some rasp- ings of the crust; put them, with a glass of white wine, into a stewpan; a glass of consomme, aSAUCES. 38 lemon, sliced, a little butter mixed with flour, and a little tarragon ; let it boil half an hour slowly; skim it, and pass it through a tamis. SAUCE AU YIN DE BOURGOGNE. Stew the carcases of partridges in some good stock, with two bay-leaves, a little cinnamon, and add a large glass of Burgundy; reduce it to the consistence of sauce, and pass it through a ta- mis ; then warm it, and add a little roux when you serve. SAUCE AU BLANC. Sprinkle lightly with flour some good fresh butter; add a little salt, and melt it in a stew- pan on a slow fire; put some grated nutmeg, a blade of mace, three slices of lemon, and one or two whole chives; mix with it a little good stock or blond de veau, to give it consistency; and serve it hot over veal, lamb, or mutton. It is also good to serve in a sauce-boat to eat with vegetables, such as cauliflowers, asparagus, arti- chokes, or peas. SAUCE BLANCHE. Take the yolk of an egg, and a little salt, mix it with a wooden spoon; pour into it four or five spoonsful of oil; add the juice of a lemon, or a spoonful of vinegar, with pepper, a blade of mace,SAUCES. 39 to taste; warm it on a hot plate, on which you serve fish or vegetables, as it does not require to be boiled. SAUCE AUX CAPEES ET ANCHOIS. Put in a stewpan about the size of an egg of butter, which you have mixed with flour; add a glass of stock, an anchovy washed and minced, salt, pepper, two or three whole chives, and some capers; let it stew on the fire half an hour; take out the chives, and serve hot. SAUCE VELOUTE. Melt some butter in a stewpan, and put in some mushrooms, morels, with a little ham, and some veal, sliced; when it is a good colour, add some good stock, and let it stew an hour; then pour in a quart of good cream; take out the meat, and stew it a quarter of an hour, stirring it all the time with a spoon till thick enough; strain it through a tamis, and use it with any meat or poultry you wish, excepting game. SAUCE i LA BECHAMELLE. Is made the same as the sauce veloute, excepting that you add parsley, chives, sweet herbs, and a blade of mace; it ought to be quite white, and a liaison of eggs added.40 SAUCES. SAUCE ROBERT. Melt some butter or bacon^ in a stewpan; add a little flour, and some onions cut in slices, till nearly done enough, and a little brown; moisten them with good stock or jus de veau; add salt, pepper, nutmeg, and a lump of sugar; stew till the onions are quite done; pass them through a tamis; add a little French mustard, and serve hot. ANOTHER MANNER. Melt in a stewpan a piece of butter, and add four or five large onions chopped fine; let them fry a good colour; then add a good spoonful of flour, and some good stock, salt and pepper; when your sauce has stewed a quarter of an hour, to have the onions done enough, and to reduce the salt, add a spoonful of French mustard, and serve. SAUCE BLANCHE. Mix a spoonful of flour in a quarter of a pound of butter; add a glass of water, and put it in a stewpan on the fire, stirring it all the time; then take it off, and season it with salt, grated nut- meg, a blade of mace, and a bit of thin lemon- peel ; if too thick, add a little water ; if too thin, some butter mixed with flour, and stir it tillSAUCES, 41 smooth; add the juice of half a lemon^ or a spoonful of vinegar, and a liaison of eggs and cream. The sauce blanche is best when half the quantity of butter is mixed with the flour, and the remaining half at the moment you serve, stirring it quickly into the sauce. SAUCE TOMATE. Put in a stewpan twenty tomatoes; add some stock, with pepper and salt; let it stew for half an hour, till it is the consistence of a puree; pass it through a tamis; if it is not thick enough, stew it more, and add a little flour, with some jus ; before serving, add half a quarter of a pound of butter, and stir it well in. BEUfiRE mm. Melt some butter in a frying pan; add some parsley, and fry it crisp; add a spoonful of vine- gar, salt, and pepper. SAUCE i LA HOLLANDAISE. Scald some parsley, and chop it fine; fry it in butter and flour; add a little stock, lemon-juice, salt, pepper, an anchovy washed and chopped ; stew it together, and serve. SAUCE BLANCHE A LA MAYONNAISE. Put into an earthen pan the yolk of an egg well beaten, pepper, and salt, with some drops of42 SAUCES. vinegar^ and mix well together; add by drops a spoonful of oil; when your sauce is smooth^ add some vinegar; mix it well. This is a very deli- cate sauce, but requires patience, for it will take half an hour to beat it; and the more it is beaten, the better it will be. Use this sauce to make chicken, lobster, shrimp, or sole salads. You can green the sauce by adding the juice of parsley or tarragon, when you beat your egg; by adding mustard, it makes a good sauce tar- tare. SAUCE AU BLANC. Take half a pound of grated bacon, half a pound of butter or suet, a lemon cut in slices, but take off the white skin, a bay-leaf, a clove, two carrots cut in dice, two onions, half a spoon- ful of water; let all stew together, until it is reduced, taking care to stir it the whole time, for fear it should stick to the sides ; when your suet is melted, add some salt; boil it, and skim it well. This answers for meats requiring white sauce. SAUCE AU CIVET, FOR HAEES OE RABBITS. Take the liver of a hare or rabbit; put it in a stewpan, with a little suet; add a glass of good stock or blond de veau, three or four onions, twoSAUCES. 43 bay-leaves^ a glass of red wine; let the sauce stew till done enough, and then rub it through a tamis. SAUCE 1 LA TARTARE. Take three shalots, some chervil and tarragon, a chive; chop all fine, then put them in a sauce- boat, with salt, pepper, two spoonsful of French mustard, one spoonful of vinegar and three of oil, mixing it well together. If this sauce is too piquante, add some more oil. SAUCE DE KARI. Put in a stewpan half a quarter of a pound of butter, a spoonful of turmeric, five peppers pounded, a little cayenne; melt your butter, and when it is very hot, add five spoonsful of stock; stir your sauce well; without straining it, serve, adding some nutmeg. SAUCE A L'ESTRAGON. Put in a stewpan two or three onions cut in slices, also two carrots, a small piece of veal cut in dice, and stew it till it browns; then moisten with some good stock, and stew slowly an hour; then add some tarragon chopped fine, with salt, pepper and nutmeg; stew a quarter of an hour, then serve with roast-meat. It is a good sauce.SAUCES. 44 SAUCE AU CITEON. Boil two glasses of water in a stewpan, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley, a bit of butter and the juice of a lemon; let it warm five or ten minutes, and serve. This is a good sauce for roasts, and piquante. SAUCE AU PAUVRE HOMME. Warm two glasses of consomme; add a slice of lemon and some chopped chives, only use the white part; let it stew half an hour; take out the lemon and serve it. SAUCE AUX TRUEFES. Clean, pare, and cut some truffles in slices; then chop with some parsley, chives, shalot, salt and pepper; shake some bread-crumbs and butter in it; butter a stewpan; then put in a layer of the sliced truffles, then a layer of the butter and bread-crumbs, and so on till all is put in; use two pounds of truffles to one pound of butter; add two spoonsful of oil, and cover your stewpan; let the sauce stew slowly half an hour, then add a little white wine, and a glass of blond de veau, with the juice of a lemon, and serve very hot.SAUCES. 45 BEURRE D'ANCHOIS. Take some anchovies, wash; bone and pound them in a mortar j pass them through a tamis, and mix with butter. OYSTER SAUCE. Mix some flour and butter, and put it into a stewpan, with salt, pepper, two sHces of lemon and a little mace; add some blond de veau or good stock; put in your oysters, and stew them half an hour. Serve with bread grated over them. SAUCE A LA BONNE EEMME. Put in a stewpan a little bacon cut in dice, a pound of veal cut in square bits, two carrots sliced, a little basilic, salt, pepper, an onion, with two bay-leaves ; add a glass of water; cover your stewpan, and let it stew three hours; then pass it through a tamis. SAUCE A LA PROVENCALE. Put in a stewpan half a glass of oil or good butter, parsley, garlic, chives, salt and pepper, with a lemon cut in quarters; let it stew half an hour; stir it well and serve very hot. SAUCE A L'HUILE. Take off the rind of a lemon; cut off the inner white, and cut it in slices; put the lemon in aSAUCES. 46 basin with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, garlic, parsley and tarragon, all chopped fine, with a little allspice in powder. This sauce is good to pour over fried or broiled fish. SAUCE A LA LANGUEDOCIENNE. Melt some butter, with a little flour, a clove of garlic whole, parsley, salt and pepper ; add to it a glass of consomme or blond de veau, or jus de veau, with some lemon juice; when stewed to a proper consistency, serve hot with any kind of meat to taste. Very good. SAUCE 1 LA TARTAEE, EOR ROASTS. Put into a stewpan an onion cut in slices, some veal cut in small pieces, a slice of ham, a clove of garlic, salt, pepper, coriander seeds, oil, and lemon juice; add a glass of stock and half a glass of vinegar; let it stew till the sauce is done; pass it through a tamis and strain it well; serve hot or cold. SAUCE AUX PISTACHES. Put in a stewpan a glass of consomme and an ounce of fresh butter, cut some onions in slices, split a carrot in quarters and about twenty green pistachios, pounded fine; let them stew half an hour j pass it through a tamis and serve hot.SAUCES. 47 SAUCE AUX CHAMPIGJ^ONS. Cut some mushrooms in small pieces, squeeze out the juice and chop them fine; stew them in butter, moisten with stock, add parsley, chives; let them stew half an hour, strain clear, pass through a tamis. SAUCE A LA POIVEADE. Put some vinegar into a stewpan with a little jus, an onion cut in slices, a slice of lemon; season with salt and pepper; when it boils, pass it through a tamis and serve in a sauce-boat with the roast joint. This sauce is good with all sorts of meat. SAUCE A LA MORNE, FOR ROAST MEAT. Chop fine some mushrooms and stew them in butter; add garlic stuck with a clove, a blade of mace; moisten with cream ; add chopped parsley, and stew all well together; pass it through a tamis, or not, as you please. Serve hot. SAUCE 1 LA MOUTARDE. Boil in a stewpan two glasses of stock, salt and pepper, shalots chopped fine; when it has stewed half an hour, add a spoonful of mustard and serve hot.SAUCES. 48 SAUCE PIQUANTE. Chop some shalots very fine; put them into a stewpan^ with salt, pepper, grated nutmeg; add a quarter of a glass of vinegar, and let it stew; when reduced, add a ladleful of coulis, and let your sauce stew slowly twenty minutes on the hot hearth; skim it, and at the moment you serve, add eight or ten pickled gherkins cut in dice, or chopped fine. SAUCE PIQUANTE A L'EAU. Take three shalots, some parsley, and chop fine together. Melt a piece of butter, but do not let it brown; put in your shalots and parsley, stir with a wooden spoon; add a spoonful of flour, then a glass of water, salt, pepper, and a blade of mace; stew gently half an hour, and when you serve, add the juice of a lemon, or a spoonful of vinegar. SAUCE BLONDE, FOR FISH. Put in a stewpan a glass of good stock, with a little melted butter, parsley, onions, and mush- rooms chopped; add a glass of wine, a lemon cut in slices, salt, pepper, and mace; stew all for half an hour, then add the yolks of three eggs; stir on the fire for five minutes, pass it through a tamis, and serve with any fish.49 SAUCES. SAUCE REMOULADE. Take some parsley, chives, capers, anchovies, shalots, two heads of celery, salt and pepper; chop fine together; add some oil, vinegar and mustard; mix well and serve cold. SAUCE A LA MATELOTTE. Boil together a pint of wine and a pint of stock, with two bay-leaves, tarragon, chervil, pepper, salt, and a clove of garlic; reduce to the consistency of sauce. You can dress fish or meat in this, and serve it with the same. SAUCE SALMIS. (MAIGEE.) Melt some butter, and shake some flour in it; chop three or four shalots; put them in the melted butter, add a glass of wine, and one of stock, salt, pepper, a blade of mace, and a bunch of sweet herbs; stew half an hour; add the remains of a roast goose, or some beef; let it stew slowly a quarter of an hour. At the moment of serving, add the juice of a lemon, and a spoonful of oil. SAUCE SALMIS A LA MINUTE. Take the liver of a goose or duck, roasted and cold; crush it with a spoon;, mix with it one or two shalots chopped fine, salt, pepper, three spoonsful of oil, and the juice of a lemon.50 SAUCES. SAUCE AUX FINES HERBES. Melt some fresh butter mixed with flour; chop some parsley fine^ with chives^ shalots, pimpernel^ tarragon_, and any other fine herbs, such as chervil, cresses; boil all together with a glass of bouillon, and serve hot. SAUCE A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter, a little flour, parsley, chives chopped fine, with a glass of water, salt and pepper; put it on the fire for a quarter of an hour, stirring till well mixed; add the juice of a lemon, and serve. MAITEE D'HOTEL. Put on a plate a bit of butter, with some parsley chopped fine, salt and pepper; mix well together, and add some lemon juice or vinegar. SAUCE AU BEURRE D»ANCH0IS. Take some COD somme; add about the^ze of an egg of anchovy butter, and the juice of a lemon; stir this well when you add it to the sauce, to mix the butter with the sauce. BEUREE D'AIL (GAELIC.) Pound two or three cloves of garlic, and mix with butter. For those who like the flavour of garlic, use this in sauce.51 SAUCES. SAUCE BLANQUETTE, Put a large piece of butter into a stewpan ; when it is melted add a spoonful of flour^ and mix well together^ but do not let it brown; then add some boiling water, taking care to stir it well the whole time; then add salt, pepper, parsley and a bunch of sweet herbs. Having mixed your sauce, put into it your pieces of meat, either veal or poultry, and let it boil quickly up; slacken the fire, and let it stew slowly till done enough. You may add a liaison of eggs, if you like, and if it is too thin, add some flour mixed with a little cold water, and some spoonsful of the sauce ; if too thick, add a little butter melted with some water. For poultry, the liaison is absolutely necessary; but for veal, add it or not, according to your taste. SAUCE A LA CEEME. T||s sauce is used with turbot, cod, or young potatoes. To make it, put in a stewpan a quarter of a pound of butter; when melted, add a spoon- ful of flour, some parsley and chives chopped fine, pepper, salt, mitmeg and a glass of milk or cream; let it come to a boil, stirring the whole time, lest it curdle; then serve. The yolk of one egg may be also added. E 2SAUCES. 52 SAUCE AU BRAISE. Put a layer of bacon in a stewpan; add salt, pepper, parsley, chives, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, thyme, cloves, cinnamon and onions; on this seasoning put the meat or poultry you wish to dress; add a little water, some stock, some white wine and a glass of brandy; cover all with a buttered paper, and cover closely your stewpan, to prevent any evaporation, and let it stew several hours till done enough; then serve. SAUCE A LA BECHAMELLE. (ANOTHER MODE.) Melt a piece of butter, which you have first mixed with a spoonful of flour; when melted, add^ gently stirring the whole time, some warm milk; keep stirring till it boils. Put in another stewpan onions, a bunch of sweet herbs, with parsley, carrots, mushrooms, nutmeg, pepper, salt; stew gently with a little milk, and when done enough add both together, stirring gently, and put in your meat to warm. ANOTHER MODE. Put in a stewpan some bacon cut small, a carrot, turnip and onion; add some veal suet; let it stew with a little stock; add salt, pepper, cloves, mace, parsley, bay-leaf and nutmeg; stew gently an hour, and pass through a tamis. Have53 GARNITURES. in another stewpan some butter melted with flour, and two spoonsful of stock; do not let it brown ; add both together, and warm the meat you want in it. GARNITURES. GARNITURE DE BOUILLI. Cut one or two slices of ham, some mushrooms, morels and some artichoke bottoms, all chopped; season with salt, pepper, nutmeg and a spoonful of mustard; let these stew in a little batter for an hour; add a little jus de boeuf, or a glass of blanc de veau de sante; when all is of a good colour, have the dish on which you serve your bouilli very hot, and put your garniture on the dish, and put the bouilli on it. Be careful to serve hot. ONIONS GLACES FOR GARNITURE. Take a dozen large onions; pick them carefully, so as not to break the skin; lay them in a stew- pan side by side, with some melted butter; add half an ounce of sugar, some salt and a glass of stock, and stew gently on a slow fire; when nearly done, the sauce ought to be reduced to a54 GARNITURES. glaze. When done, and a good colour, put them round beef, or any entree you choose; mix the sauce at the bottom of the stewpan with a little stock, and pour over the onions. GARNITURE D'ENTREES. Scald part of a veal kidney, a small slice of ham; cut both in dice, or a bit of bacon; fry all in melted butter; two spoonsful of olive oil, salt, pepper, parsley, basilic and tarragon, with a slice or two of lemon; when the meat has taken a good colour, and has made gravy, serve it round any kind of meat, poultry or game. You can vary the flavour by any addition you like. GARNITURE DE CELERI. Scald the celery for five minutes, and then drain them; cut them in pieces first, then put them in a stewpan, on a slice of bacon; add a small slice of ham, a bay-leaf, two or three slices of lemon ; then cover it with bacon; add also an onion stuck with a clove; moisten with stock till the celery is covered; put your pan on a hot hearth, with hot ashes on the cover; when done enough, place it into a deep dish, strain the sauce through a tamis, and pour over it.GARNITURES. 55 GARNITURE AUX HARICOTS. Wash your haricots^ and boil them in water; change the water when they are half done; season with salt^ an onion stuck with a clove, a carrot and a little celery, which you tie together, and add a bit of bacon. When done enough, strain them through a sieve, and put them in a stew- pan, with some butter and a little Hour; turn them till they brown; then add a little chopped onion, and turn it till the onion is done enough; moisten it with jus; let it boil, and keep con- stantly stirring it; then add your haricots, and stew slowly till done. This is good round roast mutton or beef. GARNITURE DE CHAMPIGNONS. Put your mushrooms in a stewpan, with some butter, parsley and chives; when warm add a little flour, and moisten with stock. When done enough, and the sauce is reduced, add the yolks of three eggs beaten with lemon juice, and a little cream; warm, but do not boil; and serve it garnished with sippets of bread, fried in butter. CROUTONS EOR GARNITURE. Cut some bread in thin slices, any form you please, lozenges, squares or stars, or in rounds;56 GARNITURES. fry them in butter till a nice colour; when fried take them out^ and drain them on a cloth. GARNITURE DE TOMATES. Cut equally in the middle thirty tomatoes; squeeze out the juice and seeds, taking care not to break them; put them on a dish; add some chopped mushrooms, shalots, parsley, a little garlic and some ham; stew all together, and add a little bread crumbled, two yolks of eggs, salt, nutmeg, butter, Jamaica-pepper and ancho- vies ; pound all together, with a little oil, and rub the core through a quenelle sieve; grate some bread and a little Parmesan cheese, with a little oil, and put it into the oven till done. With this, garnish a rump of beef, or other dishes, according to your taste. GARNITURE OF ARTICHOKE BOTTOMS. Clear the artichokes of the leaves and choke; take the bottoms and rub them with lemon juice, and put them in water; scald them in boiling water and vinegar; put them in a stewpan, with two slices of bacon, the juice of two lemons, a quarter of a pound of butter, salt and a bunch of sweet herbs; add some white wine and water; stew your artichokes, put them on a hot hearth, with hot ashes on the cover till done; one hourGARNITURES. 57 and a half will be sufficient. Strain and serve them whole^ as a garnish. GARNITURE EN RAGOUT. Put into a stewpan cockscombs^, gizzards, fat livers, lambs^ sweetbreads, quenelles, truffles and mushrooms; add some stock. If you wish the ragout to be white, add three yolks of eggs, and some veloute. Garnish and serve with meat, or fill a vol-an-vent. GARNITURE OE EAT LIVERS. Take six goose-livers, clean them well, and put them to stew between two slices of bacon; add some stock; let them stew, and garnish the meats you wish. GARNITURE DE POMMES DE TERRE ERITES. Cut your potatoes into what shapes you prefer; wash them and drain them on a cloth; melt a pound of butter, and pour over them. Put them in a stewpan on a quick fire, with fire on the cover. When done, fry them in butter and a little veal glaze, and serve at once. TRUFFLES AU NATUREL. Wash and clean your truffles, then wrap them up in buttered papers; let them roast in hot ashes an hour, then take off the papers, and serve in a napkin.58 GARNITURES. TRUFFLES AU VIN DE CHAMPAGNE. Wasli your truffles in lukewarm water several times^ brush them carefully, put them in a stew- pan on a layer of bacon^ with salt and a bottle of champagne; cover your stewpan^ and let them stew an hour^ and serve in a napkin. TRUFFLES A LA MINUTE. Wash^ pick, and slice as many truffles as you require; put them on a dish that wdll stand the fire; add parsley, chives, shalots, chopped fine, with salt, pepper, and a little oil; cover your dish, let the truffles be well done one side, and then turn them; when done enough, add the juice of a lemon. If you serve with sauce, strain off the oil, and serve with good sauce. TRUFFLES AU JUS. Wash and pick some truffles, and stew them in good stock, with half the quantity of red wine, drain them and boil a quarter of an hour in the jus de veau, or beef, and serve them in a hot dish. FARCES. Take a slice of veal, scald it, cut it into small pieces, cut also some bacon small, and some suet chopped fine, take out the sinews and the skin, pound all together, and add salt, pepper, nutmeg.GARNITURES. 59 shalots and parsley, with some bread crumbs moistened in stock; bind the whole with the yolks of three eggs, and form a forcemeat to stuff the inside of a breast of veal, or any other meat. FARCE CUITE. Cut in slices and put in a stewpan the white meat of dressed poultry, with a little butter, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Put it on the fire for ten minutes, then drain your meat and let it grow cold; add the crumbs of a roll moistened with stock, a little chopped parsley, and stir it with a wooden spoon, let it stew till the bread is in panada; let it get cold, add some butter and pound your meat; pass it through a quenelle tamis and set it aside; then pound your bread and pass it through the same tamis; then pound both together with some butter three quarters of an hour; add then the yolks of five or six eggs, according to your farce, pound it again, adding the eggs by degrees. This farce is good for every kind of meat. FARCE POUR VOLAILLE. Chop and pound fine the meat of poultry, either dressed or raw; add some veal suet and bacon ; pound equally fine and add to the fowl;60 GARNITURES. season with salt, pepper, and spices, and add some bread crumb steeped in cream, bind with the yolks of eggs, and stuff your pullets, capons, or turkeys with this farce. FARCE FOR GAME. Pound some beef suet with bacon, take out the livers of your game, and pound them with the suet and bacon; add some salt, pepper, and spices, and put some yolks of eggs beaten with cream to moisten the farce; if too thin, let it stew in a pan a quarter of an hour on a slow fire, stirring it that it might not burn. FARCE DE POISSONS. Skin and bone carps, eels, barbels, and any other fish that will chop fine and mix together; add to this an omelette, not much done, some mushrooms, truffles, parsley, chives, and bread soaked in milk, a bit of butter, and some yolks of eggs. Chop all together and mix with the fish; season with salt, pepper, and spice, and let it stew, either to serve alone, put into a mould and turned out, then add white sauce; or to stufi" soles, carp, or any other fish. FARCE POUR GRATIN. Soak the crumb of a roll in milk, pound it, and mix it with some grated fat of bacon, withGARNITURES. 61 salt^ pepper, parsley, chives, and sweet herbs, mixed with the yolks of three eggs. This will serve for any gratin you please. SPICES FOR RAGOUTS. Take an ounce of cinnamon, half an ounce of cloves, an ounce of nutmeg, the same of ginger, a pinch of fennel seeds, and a pinch of coriander seeds ; pound all together till fine ; sift them, and keep it in a tin box for use. SPICES FOR ENTREES. Half an ounce of cinnamon, the same of nut- meg and cloves, half an ounce of coriander seeds, some bay-leaves; pound them and sift, and mix with mushrooms, truffles, morels dried in the oven so as to reduce them to powder. Mix together and keep them in a dry place in a tin box. SPICES FOR SAUSAGES. Half an ounce of coriander seeds, the same of aniseed, an ounce of cloves and basilic, half an ounce of sage; pound all in powder; sift, and mix in pigs^ puddings, sausages, fresh roasted pork. Keep in a dry place in a tin box closely covered.PUREES. 62 PUREES. PUREE OP LENTILS. Take some lentils^ wash them, and stew in stock with two carrots, a clove, some bacon, and a little butter. When done enough, pass it through a tamis ; put this puree into some stock, and stir it well, skim it clear of the grease, and serve. All purees are made in the same manner. PUREE AUX CHOUX. Scald two fine cabbages, and put them into a stewpan, with half a dozen onions, as many car- rots, four cloves of garlic, some melted butter, and a spoonful of jus. Fill the pan with some bouillon of peas, and let your cabbage stew in this till done enough ; take out the carrots and onions, and skim it well. Take the crumb of a roll, remove the crust, and steep it in the bouillon aux choux; let it stew a short time, then put the roll on the dish, and put the cabbage round ; moisten with the stock, and serve hot. PUREE DE CHAMPIGNONS. Take some white mushrooms, wash them, and cut off the stalks; fry them in lemon-juice with a little water; drain and chop them, return the63 PUREES. mushrooms into the stewpan with some butter melted^ then add some consomme till it is the consistence of puree, and pass it through a tamis. PUREE DE RACINES POUR ENTREES. Cut some carrots into slices, thirty will be enough for a puree, and put them into a stew- pan with half a pound of butter, seven or eight onions cut in slices; when the butter is melted, put in the vegetables; stir them to prevent their sticking to the pan, and when they are softened, add some good stock, a lump of sugar, and let your puree stew slowly three hours; then, if tender enough to mash, take it off the fire, and pass it through a tamis. When you put your pur'ee on to warm, add a couple of spoonsful of sauce veloute; skim and return it to pour over your meat, which should be thick enough to mash. PUREE DE MARRONS. Skin your chesnuts, and put them on a bit of butter in a pan to take off the second skin, then put them in a stewpan with some con- somme ; let them stew an hour and a half, then pass it through a tamis ; if too thick, add a littlePUREES. 64 cream, and at the moment of serving, add a bit of butter. PUREE OF POTATOES. Take ten or twelve potatoes, skin them, and after washing, chop into small pieces ; put them into a stewpan with a glass of w^ater, a little butter, salt and nutmeg; let them boil on a hot hearth, with a fire on the cover as well as below, for half an hour. Then mash the potatoes with a wooden spoon, and put them on the fire to reduce; then add a piece of butter and a lump of sugar. PUREE OF CARROTS. Cut thirty carrots in slices, and put them in a stewpan with half a pound of butter, and seven or eight onions, quartered; when the vegetables are soft, add some stock and a lump of sugar. Then stew gently three hours, and pass it through a tamis; if the puree is too thin, put it on the fire till sufiiciently reduced; add four spoonsful of veloute, then skim it clear, and let it be thick enough to mask the entree you serve it with. PUREE OF WHITE ONIONS. Scald some onions, and cut them in slices.PUREES. 65 put them to stew with some blond de veau^ salt and pepper; when done enough, pass it through a tamis, and add some sugar, and serve hot with your meat. PUREE DE VOLAILLE. Stew a fowl in stock with the meat of any boiled poultry or game, and pound it in a mortar with three or four yolks of hard eggs; beat it to a paste. Then take a piece of bread, soaked in either stock or milk, and a dozen of sweet al- monds; pound with the meat again until well mixed; then add by degrees some stock with a spoon, and stir it strongly; observe that it is neither too thick, nor yet too thin, but of the consistence of thick cream; pass it through a tamis, alnd put it in a basin to keep hot; place it in a pan of boiling water till you serve. PUREE D'OSEILLE. Wash, pick, and pound some sorrel; then put it in a stewpan w^ith some jus, a piece of butter, a pinch of flour, the yolks of two eggs beaten, salt, grated nutmeg, and a little consomme or stock ; stew it till the consistence of a puree. You can make puree of green peas and dry yellow winter peas, following the same rules;VEGETABLES. 66 also of turnips. Also of mixed vegetables, thus : Carrots, turnips, celery, an onion, parsnips, and salsifi, stewed together as before, and finished the same way. When a puree is served alone, garnish with fried sippets of bread. VEGETABLES. KIDNEY BEANS. (MAIGRE.) Cut your beans; wash and drain them; then put them into boiling water with salt; when done enough, take them off, and to preserve their green colour, throw them into cold water, and then drain them after a few minutes. Then put them in a stewpan with a bit of butter, a pinch of flour, some chives and parsley chopped fine, some salt, a little of the water in which the beans were stewed, or a glass of milk; let them boil a quarter of an hour, and serve with a liaison of eggs, some lemon-juice, or a spoonful of vinegar. The green haricots may be dressed the same manner. HARICOTS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. Pick some green haricot beans; wash them, and put them into boiling water and salt; whenVEGETABLES. 67 they are nearly donC;, put in the pan a piece of butter mixed with parsley and chives^ chopped fine; add salt^ pepper, and lemon-juice, or a spoonful of vinegar. GREEN HARICOTS EN SALADE. After having prepared your haricots as in the last receipt, season them an hour before you serve them, vi^ith salt, pepper and vinegar; cover them closely. When ready to serve, drain them, and add a sauce of vinegar, oil, and mustard, mixed with the yolk of a hard egg, smoothly, as for salad. HARICOTS BLANCS. Put some new white haricot beans into boiling water with salt; let them stew till half done; strain them through a sieve when you take them off the fire, and put them on again to finish in stock, with a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an onion stuck with a clove; serve with what meat you choose, or soup. HARICOTS BLANC A LA MAITBE D'HOTEL. Stew your haricots as before. When done enough, strain them, and put them hot into a stewpan, with butter mixed with chopped chives and parsley; add salt, pepper, and serve either F 268 VEGETABLES. with a spoonful of vinegar or verjuice^ or not, according to your taste, HA.EIC0TS BLANCS AU GEAS. Prepare your haricots as before; put in a stew- pan an onion, sliced; fry it in butter; put some chopped parsley, and add your haricots, with pepper, salt, and a spoonful of vinegar, or the juice of a lemon; moisten them with as much stock as you think they require; let them stew about half an hour, and then serve very hot. HARICOTS BLANCS EN SALADE. After preparing your haricots as before, serve them with sauce made for salad, with oil, vinegar, mustard, and the yolk of an egg well beaten. It requires great care and constant stirring to make it smooth. HARICOTS BLANCS AU JUS. Season and prepare your haricots; mix in a stewpan a spoonful of flour with some butter or suet; then put in your dressed haricots; add some jus, some stocky pepper and salt. Let them boil twenty minutes, and serve. HARICOTS ROUGES A L'JETUVEE. If your red haricots are fresh, put them, like the white haricots, into boiling water; if theyVEGETABLES. 69 are dry, put them into cold water, with bacon and small onions. When they are done enough, put them in a pan with a piece of butter, some fine herbs, and a little flour; add a glass of red wine, some bacon and onions, and let them all stew slowly half an hour, or till quite done and tender; then serve. PUREE OF HARICOT BEANS. After washing and picking your haricots, put them in a stewpan with water, salt, butter, thyme, a bay-leaf; add some stock to them to swell in, and let them stew slowly till done enough; or make it as follows : Steep your haricots in luke- warm water; put them into a stewpan, with stock, onions, carrots, cloves, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, bacon, salt and pepper. When quite done enough, pass them through a tamis, and put it on again in a stewpan, to warm with a little of the stock in which they were stewed. PURE'e or DRIED PEAS. Steep your peas for twelve hours, then scald them; stew them the same way as the haricots; pass them through a tamis, and finish as before. PUREE or GREEN PEAS. Put your green peas into cold water, and stew70 VEGETABLES. them with salt_, parsley and chives; when done enough, pass through the tamis, and moisten them with jus ; season to your taste, and serve. pue:^e or truffles. Take a dozen fine truffles; wash and pick them; then stew them in good stock, with a glass of white wine, till tender enough to pass through a tamis ; season them with pepper and salt, with a bit of butter; warm, and serve. You may first slice your truffles, or chop them fine, which makes them easier to stew tender. This is an excellent puree. GREEN PEAS A LA FRANCAISE. Take two quarts of green peas; put them into a stewpan with some melted butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, chives, the heart of a cos lettice, some small onions, a little salt, a small lump of sugar, and let them boil slowly, stirring from time to time. When done enough, take out the parsley and lettuce, add a piece of butter rolled in flour. You may also dress them as follows: Put a piece of butter into a stewpan; when melted, put in your peas, with salt and a bit of sugar; let them stew till done, stir occasionally.VEGETABLES. 71 In half an hour^ add the yolks of two eggs well beaten; stir till mixed and warm; then serve. PEAS WITH BACON. Cut some bacon into pieces^ and fry them a few minutes in butter. Have your peas ready washed and drained; put them into a stewpan with some butter, and let them heat a few minutes. Then add some stock to moisten them; then add your bacon with some chives, and a bunch of parsley. Taste them before you serve; and if too salt, add a lump of sugar. Take out the chives and parsley when you serve. Or you may prepare them more simply by frying your bacon, and adding the peas at once with a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, and either water or stock: let them stew till done enough, stirring occasionally. Take out the sweet herbs, and serve. BEANS. (VERY GOOD.) Boil your beans till three parts done; then put them into a stewpan, after taking off their skins, with some butter, a bit of flour, sweet herbs, parsley, chives, and savory; let them heat, then moisten with stock; just before you serve, add a liaison of the yolks of eggs well beaten with a72 VEGETABLES. little milk. Take care not to let it boil after adding the egg, or it will curdle. LENTILS Are prepared like haricots; and being a dry vegetable, must be put on in cold water. CHOUX FARCIS. Take a good cabbage ; take off the outer leaves, and cut oflF the stalk, scald it for a few minutes in hot water, to take off the bitterness. Make a hole in the middle by the side of the stalk ; fill the middle with forcemeat, made with meat, bacon, and sausage-meat, seasoned, and between the leaves ; bind it, and let it stew slowly in a stewpan with thyme, bay-leaf, onions, carrots, bacon, and a sausage; moisten with stock as required ; then, when done, serve. CHOUX AU LARD. (BACON.) Take some cabbages well washed; cut them in quarters, and scald them a few minutes with some bacon. Drain them, and put them into a stewpan, with the bacon cut in slices; add some bones of mutton, sausages, or any other meat you please. Add salt, pepper, chives, bunch of sweet herbs, and two or three cloves. When the meat is done enough, take the cabbage out, andVEGETABLES. 73 drain it from the grease; skim the gravy, and serve the cabbage under the pieces of meat; the bacon put on the top. You must add some stock when you put the meat to stew, but not too much. CHOU ROUGE PIQUE. Scald a red cabbage; take out the stalk by scooping it; lard the cabbage with fat bacon; fill the place of the stalk with sausage-meat; then wrap up the cabbage in a pork bladder; put it into a stewpan with the stalk under; add some jus and a bit of butter, then stew gently till done; skim it well; take off the skin, and serve the cabbage with its own sauce. CHOUCROUTE. Take some saurcroute, wash it in several waters; then put it in a stewpan with a large piece of butter, or some suet, or a piece of bacon, with some sausages and white wine. Let it stew gently five or six hours; serve with meat. CHOUX-FLEURS A LA SAUCE BLANCHE. Clean some fine cauliflowers well, put them on to boil in water with a little salt. When done enough, take them off the fire, drain them, and serve with white sauce poured over. Take careVEGETABLES. 74 they do not lose their form^ and are firm ; they ought to be served as soon as possible, or they lose their nice colour. CHOUX-FLEURS A LA SAUCE BLONDE. Cauliflowers can be served with sauce blonde, which is equally good. Also as a salad; after being boiled in water and salt, serve cold with sauce made with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and the yolk of an egg may be added or not at pleasure. CAULIFLOWERS AU BEUERE. After boiling them till done enough, drain them from the water, and fry them with butter, pepper, salt, and nutmeg. CHOUCROUTE. Take some full-grown cabbages, and cut them into thin slices; lay them in a barrel in layers two inches thick, and sprinkle between each layer salt and juniper-berries. Use about four pounds of salt for forty cabbages; when the barrel is full, put on a cover that exactly fits inside; put on the cover a heavy weight, and put the barrel into a warm place. When the cab- bage begins to ferment, which you will know from seeing the pickle rise, remove the barrel toI I VEGETABLES. 75 a cellar, and take care to keep it closely covered; add fresh pickle as it requires. When you use it, wash it in luke-warm water to remove the salt, and stew it with butter or bacon; serve with ham, pork or sausages. ARTICHOKES, with sauce blanche, a la sauce blonde, ok with OIL AND YINEGAE. Cut off the stalk of your artichokes, and re- move the small leaves, and chop the leaves into form; put them on in boiling water with salt, pepper, a bunch of sweet herbs, with an onion or shalot. When done enough take them off and remove the choke, and serve the leaves and bot- toms with white sauce, blonde, or cold with oil and vinegar. AUTICHOKES EAECIS. Prepare your artichokes as above; then boil them ten minutes in water, take out the choke and fill its place with forcemeat, parsley, chives, and mushrooms, chopped fine; then put them in a stewpan with fire above and below; let them stew slowly with a little stock to moisten them; then serve with sauce made of oil, fine herbs chopped, and lemon juice.76 VEGETABLES. ARTICHOKES A LA BAUIGOULE. Prepare your artichokes as before; boil them ten minutes, and remove the choke; put in place of it a farce made with onions, parsley, mush- rooms, some veal or poultry minced fine, and grated bacon ; fry them in butter, and make into forcemeat; then fill your artichokes. Put them on a slow fire in butter to stew slowly, till done enough, then take them out of the butter and serve them either alone or with sauce blanche, or to your taste. In place of butter, you may put strips of bacon below and above them to stew; they are more savoury and rich. Artichokes, as I have said, can be boiled and served with oil and vinegar. Small young arti- chokes may be served raw with oil and vinegar. You may also serve them with sauce made as follows :— Take two hard yolks of eggs; pound them fine and mix them in a sauce-boat, with pepper, salt, shalots, and fine herbs, with or without a clove of garlic, according to your taste; well mix these ingredients with some vinegar, and when quite smooth add some oil, which mix well; then serve with artichokes plainly boiled as before. This sauce is very good; your artichokes may be cold or hot.VEGETABLES. 77 ASPAEAGUS. After cleaning and boiling them in bundles, take ofif tbe string and serve tbem with sauce blanche, or oil and vinegar. Or you may cut the asparagus in pieces about an inch long; boil them, drain them, and serve them with a bit of butter rolled in flour, with pepper and salt, and the yolk of an egg, well beaten, with a spoonful of milk or cream. OSEILLE EAUCI. Prepare your sorrel by cutting off the stalks and washing them clean; take a lettuce and some chervil; scald all in boiling water, and chop fine. Put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter; add a spoonful of flour to your farce with pepper and salt; moisten with milk; add a liaison of eggs, and serve, arranged neatly on your dish, with a garniture of hard eggs cut in quarters, or poached eggs might be used to the dish, neatly trimmed, or with meat. If you serve this farce with cutlets, or a fricandeau, you mix jus or stock in place of milk, or some of the same in which the meat is stewed. SPINACH. Prepare the spinach as you do sorrel, and scald it with a lettuce; then put it into cold water;78 VEGETABLES. drain it and chop it fine^ and stew the spinach with a piece of fresh butter; add some salt, grated nutmeg, a bit of sugar pounded, and a httle flour, about half a tea-spoonful; moisten it with some cream or good milk, and when done enough, serve with sippets of bread fried in butter, or with poached eggs, or as a garnish for lamb cutlets. CELERY. Cut the celery into pieces, and boil in water, salt, and a little flour; stir occasionally till ten- der; drain; then pour white sauce over, and serve. CELERY A LA REMOULADE. Clean your celery and serve in a salad boat, with sauce remoulade, made as follows: chop a shalot, some chervil, chives, a clove of garlic; add salt and pepper; then mix with oil, mustard, and vinegar; stir the same till quite smooth. ONIONS. Onions are seldom served alone, but may be dressed as follows :— ONIONS A LA CREME. Boil the onions in water and salt, changing the water several times to take ofl* the strong taste, then drain them and put them in a stewpan withVEGETABLES. 79 some butter and jSour, salt, pepper, and some cream ; stir them in this sauce till done enough, and serve. ONIONS A L'ETUVEE. Mix some flour and butter in a stewpan, when brown, moisten it with some red wine and stock, and put in your onions that have been first boiled in water, salt, parsley, chives, cloves, thyme, and bay-leaf. Let your onions stew for ten minutes in the sauce, and serve with sippets of bread. CONCOMBRE 1 LA POULETTE. Take some fine cucumbers, prepare them thus; pare ofi* the rind, take out the seeds and cut them in long pieces. Put them in boiling water, with salt and vinegar; when done enough, strain them carefully, and put them into a stewpan, with some butter mixed with flour, and moistened with cream, and a little stock; and before you serve, add a liaison of the yolks of eggs, beaten with a little vinegar. CONCOMBRES FARCIS. Take off the rind, cut off the end, scoop out the middle, and fill it with forcemeat; fasten the end on with skewers; then put them in a stew- pan, with butter, a bunch of sweet herbs, a chive.80 VEGETABLES. and some stock. Let them stew gently an hour; take them out; reduce the stock, and serve. CHICORY. Wash the chicory in several waters; then put it on for half an hour in boiling water; take it out, and strain it quite dry; then stew it with butter, a little flour, salt, pepper, nutmeg grated, some milk, and a liaison of eggs, for maigre; and on other days, add jus or stock in place of milk. LETTUCES. Prepare them in the same manner as spinach or sorrel; and serve in the same mode. ANOTHER POTAGE DE POTURON. Take a large slice of pumpkin; peel and cut it in pieces; boil this to a puree in water; then put it into a stewpan with a piece of butter, some salt, pepper, milk or cream, and a bit of flour. Let it stew slowly. Add a liaison of eggs, and serve. TURNIPS A LA POULETTE. Scrape your turnips, and scald them in boiling water; put some butter into a stewpan, with a pinch of flour; mix well together. Moisten with some pale stock, and then put in your turnips, with a bit of sugar pounded; add the yolks ofVEGETABLES. 81 eggs, with a small piece of butter; warm and serve. NAVETS AU SUCRE. Scrape your turnips, and fry them in butter till a nice colour; sprinkle sugar ligbtly over them, moisten with stock, add a little salt, and stew slowly. RAGOUT OF CARROTS Scrape your carrots, and scald them in boiling water; cut them in long fillets, and put them to stew, with some butter, salt, pepper, and chopped parsley. When the carrots are done, before you serve, add some yolks of eggs. If you wish to make a ragout of carrots in a different mode, put them into a stewpan with small pieces of bacon, salt, pepper, chives, and parsley; moisten with jus and stock; then stew slowly till done enough. CARROTS A LA POULETTE. Scrape your carrots, cut them in neat forms, and scald them in boiling water and salt; drain them, and put them in a stewpan with some butter and a little flour; moisten them with stock. Add your carrots when the sauce is mixed and hot; before you serve, sprinkle them with G82 VEGETABLES. sugar, and add a liaison of eggs beaten with a spoonful of cream. SALSIP. Scrape the rind, and as you finish each, put it in a pan filled with vinegar and water; let them steep half an hour, then put them into boiling water, with salt, pepper, butter, and vinegar; when done enough, serve them with sauce blanche, sauce blonde, or jus. When you wish to fry them, boil them in water, with salt and a spoonful of flour; when done enough, drain them, and steep them in vinegar, with salt and pepper; then have ready a good batter, dip each in it, and fry a nice colour; serve very hot, and garnish with parsley fried in butter and crisped. BEETROOT. When you have either boiled or baked your beetroot, let it get cold; take great care not to break the skin, or it will lose its colour • slice it, and serve as salad, with oil, vinegar, salt and pepper, or with mustard in place of the pepper. To serve it as fricassee, when dressed and cold, cut it in slices, and put them into a stewpan with butter, chives, chopped parsley, a little flour, a83 VEGETABLES. clove of garlic^ salt, pepper, vinegar, and let it warm twenty minutes. POTATOES A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. Take some potatoes boiled and peeled; if not small cut them in slices, and put tliem in a stew- pan with some butter, salt, pepper, chives, chopped parsley, and a spoonful of vinegar; when quite hot, serve with the sauce. POMMES DE TEKRE ; SAUCE BLANCHE. Take some dressed potatoes, cut them in pieces, and serve with white sauce poured over them. POMMES DE TEUUE A LA CREME. Take some boiled potatoes, peel and cut them in slices; put in a stewpan some fresh butter, a little flour, pepper, salt, chives, chopped parsley, grated nutmeg, and a glass of cream; mix well together, and when the sauce begins to boil, throw your potatoes in, let them warm a few minutes, and serve. POMMES DE TEEEE AU LARD. Cut your bacon in small pieces, put it in a stewpan with a bit of butter, and let it brown ; when three parts done, throw in a little flour; add pepper, salt, bunch of sweet herbs and G 284 VEGETABLES. parsley^ a bay-leaf; moisten with some stock, let it boil a few minutes, then put in your potatoes, half done, peeled, and cut in pieces; skim clear, and serve. POMME DE TEERE TRITES. Cut your potatoes in slices, melt some butter in a frying-pan, and then put in your potatoes. Add salt, pepper, and chopped parsley; stir your potatoes occasionally till a good colour and crisp, then serve. You may also fry them in batter for a change; shake a little salt and pepper over them when frying. POMMES DE TEREE EN PUREE. Take some boiled potatoes, peel and mash them, then put them into a stewpan with some butter, salt, pepper, or sugar; stir the mixture gently, adding milk to thin it; let it boil up, and serve. Potatoes can be served as a salad, but is little suited to the English taste in this mode; but I give the receipt as variety. Cut boiled and cold potatoes in slices; make a sauce with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and fine herbs, such as parsley and chives chopped very fine; add some pickled gherkins, anchovies, or capers, and pour this over your potatoes, or you mayVEGETABLES. 85 serve them without either; only plain salad mix- ture. BOULETTES DE POMMES BE TERRE. Take some boiled potatoes, and mash them quite smooth; add the yolks of eggs, cream, butter, salt, fine herbs, and chopped parsley; mix in a strong paste, then make little balls, and roll them in flour, and fry them in butter a nice .golden brown : serve hot. ANOTHER MODE. Mash some boiled potatoes quite smooth with a large piece of butter, some boiled cream, pow- dered sugar, a pinch of salt, and some eggs, with a little grated lemon-peel; do not mix all toge- ther, but add by degrees as you mash the pota- toes ; make it into a firm paste, and put it on a paste-board sprinkled with flour; make little balls, roll them in flour, melt some butter, and when very hot, put in your balls. Turn them so that each side might be a good colour; take care they are not too brown; serve with sugar dusted over them hot. You may give any flavour you like, and if you add a glass or two of wine, or one of brandy, with a little nutmeg, it improves the flavour, but this is left to taste.VEGETABLES. 86 YAMS May be dressed in the same mode as potatoes, or plainly baked. TKUFFLES Are used in several ragouts^ and with roast turkey or capons; and give a delicious flavour to any dish or pie to which they are added. They may also be served alone. TEUFFLES AU NATUREL. Wash and brush your truffles well; then wrap up each in a slice of bacon, and then in several folds of oiled paper; put them in hot ashes; let them remain an hour; take off* the paper and bacon, and serve. You may, if more convenient, bake them in a hot oven, wrapped up in the bacon and paper; but they will require a longer time. TRUFFLES AU VIN. After cleaning and brushing your truffles, put them into a stewpan, with some slices of fat bacon; add a bunch of sweet herbs, salt, bay- leaf and a bottle of white wine, or champagne. Let them boil three quarters of an hour, and serve with the sauce reduced, or without any sauce, if preferred.VEGETABLES. 87 MUSHROOMS. You must be very careful in the selection of good ones^ as it is highly dangerous to eat any that are of the wrong sort^ for many persons have been poisoned from it. And always bear in mind that to be wholesome, mushrooms must be stewed for many hours. CHAMPIGNONS EN CAISSE. Take some good fine mushrooms, peel them, cut off the stalks, and then cut the mushrooms into pieces; make a paper case or little box, butter or oil it well; put your mushrooms in the case, with some butter, chives chopped, and parsley, salt, pepper; then fry them in a pan, or put the case on a gridiron to do very slowly. Serve in the paper hot. If you stew the mush- rooms first with a little butter, before you cut them in pieces, they will be better done, and more wholesome; but this is left to the judgment of the cook. CHAMPIGNONS SUE, LE GRILLE. Take some large mushrooms, pick off the skin, and cut the stalk; put them on the gridiron, with the hollow sides uppermost; fill the inside with some butter, pepper, salt, fine herbs chopped; and when done enough serve.BEEF. 88 CEOUTE AUX CHAMPIGNONS. Take your mushrooms, and clean them as before_, and put them in a stewpan, with a bit of butter, chives and parsley; add a little flour; moisten with stock, and put salt and pepper to taste. When nearly done, add a liaison of eggs, beaten with cream; have some sippets of bread or crusts, fried in butter; put them on the dish, and pour your mushrooms over them, leaving some to garnish the dish. MOUSSEEONS, OR MORELS. After cleaning your small mushrooms, or your morels, wash them in lukewarm water; then scald them, and dress as you do other mushrooms. BEEF. BCEUE EN PEESILLADE. Cut your beef in thin slices, and put them in layers in the bottom of your stewpan, seasoning each layer with salt, pepper and chopped parsley; moisten with jus or stock. Let it stew gently for half an hour, with fire above on the cover, as well as below. Make a sauce v/ith jus, fine herbs chopped, and a spoonful of vinegar. Turn outBEEF. 89 your beef on your dish, and arrange it neatly; pour the sauce over it. This is an excellent way of serving dressed roast beef. B(EUr AU MIBOTON. Cut some onions into slices, and fry them in butter; when nearly done, add a pinch of flour, and stir it till a good brown ; then moisten it with stock, and some white wine; put some salt and pepper, and continue to stew till the onions are well done. Then put in a piece of beef that has been stewed in the pot au feu, either whole or in slices; let it warm in the sauce, to take the flavour of the onion, a short time; add a spoonful of vinegar, stir it in, and then serve. BGEUr A L'HUILE. Cut the beef that remains from a former dinner, either roasted or bouilli, into thin slices, arrange them on a dish, with chopped parsley, chives or shalots, and pickled cucumbers in slices; and add either sauce, remoulade, or sauce made with oil, vinegar and mustard. BGEUF EN VINAIGRETTE. Cut some dressed beef in slices, and arrange them in a salad bowl; garnish with fillets of herrings or anchovies; add chives, chervil, tar- ragon, pimpernel and some lettuce, all chopped90 BEEF. fine; add pepper^ salt^ oil^ vinegar. Do not stir it in the beef, but pour it over. BGEUF A-LA-MODE. Take a piece of the brisket, or a rumpsteak cut thick; lard it well. When you put it into the stewpan, add some pieces of bacon, and season with pepper and salt. Put some cloves, an onion, a carrot, a bunch of sweet herbs, a bay-leaf, thyme, a clove of garlic, half a calf s foot, a little water, a little white wine, half a glass of brandy, and let it stew five or six hours, till you think the meat is tender enough; then strain the sauce through a tamis, and pour it over your beef. When you serve you can garnish with flowers, cut out of carrots and turnips. SIRLOIN OF BEEF. When you have trimmed your sirloin, and taken off" the skin and suet, let it steep ten or twelve hours in oil, with salt, pepper, parsley, bay-leaf, and slices of onion; then roast it. Serve it with gravy, seasoned with salt, pepper, shalot and a little vinegar. FILET DE B(EUF ROASTED. Take a nice fillet of beef, and steep it as you do the sirloin in oil, salt, pepper, parsley, bay-91 BEEF. leaf and onions sliced; then lard it^ and cover it with buttered or oiled paper; roast it at a quick lire. When done enough^ serve with the same sauce as the sirloin^ removing the paper. FILET AUX CHAMPIGNONS. Cut your fillet of beef into slices; put it into a stewpan^ in which you have melted some butter; let it steep in this^ seasoned with pepper and salt; after an hour or two, put them on a quick fire, and turn them till they have taken a good colour; then take them ofi*. Put in the stewpan a spoon- ful of flour, with some jus or stock, and a couple of glasses of good white wine; then add the mush- rooms, half stewed in a little butter. Put in the beef, and let it stew very slowly till done enough. Serve with the sauce thickened, add the juice of a lemon, and pour this over the beef and mush- rooms. ENTRE COTES DANS SON JUS. Put a piece of butter into a stewpan, melt it, and then put in your kidneys, and let them warm slowly. Add a little stock, salt, pepper, bunch of sweet herbs, half a glass of brandy or rum, or a glass of white wine, and stew slowly till done enough.BEEF. 92 KIDNEYS AUX CHAMPIGNONS. Put your kidneys into a stewpaii with some butter. When a good colour on both sides, take them out, put in the pan some flour, and make a roux, then moisten with some stock, or a Httle water, and a glass of rum or Madeira, put back your kidneys, and let them stew three or four hours, then add your mushrooms well stewed. KIDNEYS BRAISES AU VIN DE MADERE. Lard your kidneys, and put them on the fire to brown, then take them out, and make a roux. When this is done, put back your kidneys into the pan with some strips of bacon, salt, pepper, onions, carrots, bunch of sweet herbs, some brandy, rum, or white wine; and in preference use Madeira, as it gives a finer flavour. Let them stew four or five hours till quite tender very slowly, skim the gravy clear, and serve with your kidneys. LANGUE DE B(EUF AU GRATIN. Dress a tongue as you prefer, either plain- boiled in stock or bruised, or roasted; cut it in slices very thin. Lay at the bottom of a dish capers, parsley, chives, chervil, shalots, chopped fine^ with a little vinegar, salt, pepper, and93 BEEF. grated crust of bread. On this seasoning, lay your slices of tongue, season them with a layer of the capers^ and then another layer of toDgue, and again the seasoning. Put this dish on a hot hearth, or in an oven, and moisten with stock to prevent the seasoning burning; when done enough, serve on the sam€ dish placed on another. LANGUE DE BCEUF PIQUEE ET ROTIE. Steep your tongue a day and a night to dis- gorge the blood, changing the water several times, then scald it to take off the skin, lard it with bacon seasoned with salt, pepper, nutmeg, parsley, and shalots chopped fine; stew it with some stock, slices of bacon, bunch of sweet herbs, onions and cloves; when three parts done, take it out, let it get cold, and lard it inside with large pieces of bacon, and outside with small pieces, and roast it till done; serve with a sauce piquante. It will take an hour to roast. BEEP PALATES A LA MENAGERE. Steep your potatoes in boiling water, then scrape them, and wash them several times in cold water, changing it several times. WhenBEEF. 94 you have cleaned the black skin oS, cut them in pieces^ and stew them with bacon^ onions^ car- rots, sweet herbs, cloves, garlic, salt, pepper, thyme, bay-leaf, moisten with stock and a little vinegar. When the potatoes are done enough, drain them through a cloth, arrange them in a crown on your dish, and serve them with either sauce piquante or capers, according to your taste. QUEUE DE B(EUF GRILLEE. Stew an ox-tail in stock ; when it is cold, season it with pepper and salt, then steep it in butter, then baste it again with the seasoning, again baste it with butter, then broil it on the gridiron, and serve it with sauce tartare, or sauce pi- quante. TRIPE A LA MODE DE CAEN. Take the tripe after being well cleaned, scald it, changing the water several times. Put some carrots, onions, bacon, bunch of sweet herbs, garlic, cloves, and a cow^s heel into an earthen- pan. When the tripe is drained, shake some pepper and salt over it, and put it in the earthen- pipkin with a knuckle of ham. When your pan95 BEEF. is well filled, add a little white wine and a little water, and cover it with strips of bacon, then cover your pan closely, and put it in an oven for seven or eight hours, and keep it hot on a chafing-dish with the sauce. DOUBLE TRIPE EN FRICASSEE. When you have your tripe well cleaned, scrape and wash it in several waters boiling hot, then put it into cold water, then stew it with onions, salt, garlic, and cloves for five or six hours. When it is done, put some butter into a stewpan, add some flour, cut your tripe into pieces, and put it into the pan with some stock for a quarter of an hour. Before you serve, add a liaison of eggs well beaten with a little cream and the juice of a lemon ; do not let it boil after you have added it to the sauce. DOUBLE TRIPE A LA LYONNAISE. Prepare your tripe as before, and scald it, then cut it into pieces, put in a stewpan some butter, onion, in thin slices, with salt, pepper, chopped parsley ; when the onion begins to take a nice colour, put in your tripe, fry, stirring it; serve with the juice of a lemon.BEEF. 96 BEEF LIKE GAME. Cut in square pieces some slices of beef, put in each a strip of bacon, shake flour over, bind each with twine, or skewer them into shape like a roll, fry them in butter; when brown, add shalots, a slice of lemon-peel, a spoonful of capers, two bay-leaves, salt, spice, a glass of wine, half a glass of vinegar and a little w^ater, and let them stew till done. SAUCISSES DE B(EUF. Take a piece of beef, cut it into slices half an inch thick, two slices will be enough, beat therri well to flatten them, trim them even and exactly the same size, chop the trimmings with some beef suet, and bacon, fine herbs, shalots, salt, and pepper. Mix this farci with four eggs, the yolks only, and lay it on the slices of beef, and roll them in the shape of sausages, skewer and tie them tight, then stew them slowly in stock, a glass of wine, salt, pepper, an onion stuck with two or three cloves, and a carrot till done enough, then reduce the sauce, add a little butter mixed with flour, and serve with the sauce. It can be also served with vegetables, or eaten cold; in the latter case you let the sausages con- tinue in the sauce until it is reduced, and letVEAL. 97 them cool in the sauce, which ought to be quite thick. VEAL. ROASTED. Take either the loin or the breast, trim the joint, divide the bones between each joint, sprinkle with salt and pepper, tie it into shape and wrap up in buttered paper, then roast till well done, take off the paper some minutes before you serve to take a fine colour. LOIN A LA BOURGEOISE. Lard a loin of veal with bits of bacon seasoned with fine herbs, salt, and pepper; put it into a stewpan, on a layer of bacon sliced, add onions and carrots, moisten with stock and one or two spoonsful of brandy, stew slowly and serve with the sauce, garnish with slices of lemon and force- meat balls or cresses. BREAST OF VEAL FARCIE. Bone the veal and remove also the gristle, flatten the meat with a rolKng-pin, put on it a farce made with the kidney of veal, sausage meat, H \98 VEAL. shalots, salt^ pepper^ parsley, some dressed yolks of eggs boiled hard, all chopped together. Then roll the veal round, and sew it up tight and skewer it also; then put it into a stewpan on slices of bacon, add some stock, salt, pepper, and sweet herbs. When the veal is done enough take out the skewers, skim the sauce, pass it through a tammy, add a little flour, reduce the sauce, and serve round the veal. COTELETTES DE VEAU A LA MILANAISE. Trim some veal cutlets a nice shape, and fry them a nice colour in butter, with a clove of garlic and some shalots; then moderate your fire, cover the stewpan and let the cutlets stew gently half an hour; then take the cutlets out of the pan, add to the sauce they have made a little glaze and some tomato sauce, reduce it, then put the cutlets into the sauce, let them stew gently a quarter of an hour, then serve the cut- lets on stewed maccaroni. COTELETTES DE VEAU EN CAISSES. Lard some veal cutlets, after paring and trim- ming them, stew them gently in stock, then take them out and cover each cutlet with a farce madeVEAL. 99 with eggs, parsley, salt, pepper, shalots, and a little butter; shake bread crumbs over each. Have paper cases made, oil them, and put a cut- let into each case, with the herbs over and under each cutlet, put a bit of butter into each, then put them into the oven till done enough and a nice colour. When you serve put a tea-spoonful of brown gravy, sauce piquante, or sauce poivrade into each case; mushrooms, either pickled or stewed, may be chopped fine and added to the farce. Some add grated lemon-peel, and a little juice in the gravy, the peel is to be mixed with the seasoning. RIS DE VEAU EN FRICASSEE. Scald your sweetbreads till firm, divide, then put half aside; take the other half and cut it into pieces as long as your finger, fry them in butter with a little flour, and pour over them a little stock mixed with water, add an onion stuck with two cloves, a blade of mace, a bunch of parsley, a clove of garlic, and four shalots, stew half an hour; add some artichoke bottoms or morels, then put in the whole sweetbreads, stew till done enough, about half an hour it will take. Just before you serve add the yolks of two eggs, well H 2VEAL. 100 beaten^ with some spoonsful of cream and chopped parsley^ stir in till it thicken, but the sauce must not boil after the eggs are added, or it will curdle. HIS DE VEAU PIQUE. Scald your sweetbreads, and when firm put them in cold water for a few minutes, then cut the sweetbreads into round small pieces, and let them stew in half glaze and butter; when done enough put them into sauce allemande, very hot, with truffles and mushrooms well stewed. At the moment of serving add a bit of butter and some lemon-juice. FOIE EN MATELOTTE. Cut a calf^s liver into thick slices, shake flour over them, then fry them in butter, turning each slice often to brown them; then put into a stew- pan some parsley, shalots, and chives, chopped fine, with some capers, a glass of red wine, salt, pepper, and a clove; let it boil, then add the liver to warm in the sauce. FOIE DE VEAU PIQUE. ♦ Lard a calFs liver, and put it in a stewpan on some slices of bacon; shake a little flour over it,101 VEAL. with some chopped shalots, bay-leaves, pounded cloves, some slices of lemon, pepper and salt; let them stew a quarter of an hour, then add some stock, and a couple of glasses of red wine; stew slowly on a moderate fire till done enough; serve with the sauce. BOULETTES AU FOIE DE VEAU. Chop fine some calf^s liver that has been skinned; add salt, pepper, fine herbs, and bacon ; moisten with some good cream and the yolk of one egg; stew it till firm; make balls the size of an egg, roll them in flour, dip each into the white of an egg well beaten, shake bread crumbs over them, and fry them in butter a nice pale brown. Serve them in a napkin, or on fried parsley, or you may add on the dish the moment you serve poivrade sauce or sauce piquante. RISSOLES. Take some cold veal, mince it very fine, and season with grated lemon-peel, nutmeg and a little pepper; add half the quantity of crumbs of bread that you have meat, some parsley chopped very fine; moisten it with cream beaten with the yolks of one or two eggs, according to the quantity. Roll your rissoles in bread crumbs,VEAL. . 102 then dip them in the beaten yolk of an egg, again shake crumbs over them, and fry them in lard ; serve hot, with brown gravy. BREAST OF VEAL, WITH GREEN PEAS. Cut your breast into pieces, fry these pieces in butter with a little flour, pepper and salt; add a little stock, and a bunch of sweet herbs; let it stew about an hour; then add your green peas, and serve in about a quarter of an hour after. TENDRONS DE VEAU A LA POULETTE. Scald your tendrons of veal, and then put them on to stew with butter, a little flour, some mushrooms, and a bunch of sweet herbs; add some stock to moisten the tendrons, and when done enough, skim the sauce in which the veal was dressed, and just before you serve it, add a liaison of some yolks of eggs well beaten with some cream, and the juice of a lemon; then serve. COTELETTES AU NATUREL. Trim your cutlets, shake salt and pepper over them, and baste them with melted butter; then put them on a gridiron, take care not to smoke your cutlets; turn them, and baste them with103 VEAL. some butter: when done^ serve with sauce piquante. You may shake bread crumbs over the cutlets, and fry them a nice colour; add some lemon-juice to the gravy. COTELETTES DE VEAU AUX FINES HERBES. Put some butter into a stewpan^ melt it, and put in your cutlets with pepper^ salt, spices, and fry them a few minutes; chop some fine herbs with mushrooms, and when the cutlets begin to take a good colour put half the herbs and mush- rooms over the cutlets, then turn them, and put the remainder of the seasoning on the other side; let them stew slowly till done enough; then take them off, add some lemon-juice to the sauce, arrange your cutlets in a crown on the dish, and pour the gravy into the middle. COTELETTES EN PAPILLOTES. Make a farce with bacon, bread crumbs, par- sley, chives, mushrooms, salt, pepper, all chopped fine, and mixed. Put this seasoning on both sides of the cutlets; cover them again with a thin slice of bacon; wrap them in buttered paper, fry them on a slow fire, or broil them; serve in the papers.104 VEAL. FRICANDEAU. Lard a slice of veal^ or a fillet; put in a stew- pan some pieces of bacon, with onions, carrots, bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, and put your fri- candeau on the seasoning; add a little stock, and baste your fricandeau occasionally with a little of the sauce. When it is done enough, and a good colour, take out the fricandeau, keep it hot whilst you skim and reduce the sauce; add a little potato flour to thicken it; then put in the fricandeau to warm; serve with the sauce in which it was stewed, or if you have too much sauce, keep it to season the sorrel, or chicory, you serve with the fricandeau if you like. BLANQUETTE DE VEAU. You make a blanquette of veal with any part that has been roasted, cut in small pieces; put in a stewpan some butter, melt it with a little flour, salt, pepper, parsley, and thyme, and put your veal into this, and moisten with some stock; before you serve, add a liaison of eggs beaten with cream; a little nutmeg or lemon-peel grated is a great improvement. FOIE DE VEAU A LA BOURGEOISE. Take a calf s liver^ and lard it with baconVEAL. 105 seasoned with spices, parsley and chives chopped fine; put it in a stewpan^ lay it on some slices of bacon, with some stock and red wine; add flour browned with butter to thicken it; add a carrot, an onion, with a bay-leaf, salt and pepper; let it stew slowly; strain the sauce clear, and serve over the liver. FOIE DE VEAU ROASTED. Lard your liver; then put it to steep for four or five hours in oil, with salt, bay-leaves, parsley, chives, thyme; then take it out, put it on a spit, wrap buttered paper round it, and let it roast an hour. Take off the paper, and serve it with sauce, made of jus, a little stock, salt, pepper, shalots, and fine herbs chopped very small. FOIE DE VEAU SAUTE. Take your calf s liver and cut it into thin slices; put it in a pan with butter, parsley, shalots, and chives, chopped fine; fry it on a quick fire; throw in a little flour, with some stock, a spoonful of vinegar, and mix it smooth; add salt, pepper, spices; let it stew ten or twelve minutes, and then serve. MOU DE VEAU AU BLANC. Cut your calf s pluck in pieces, scald it, and106 VEAL. then put into cold water; change the water several times. Put it in a stewpan with some butter^ and a little flour; add some stocky salt, pepper^ chives^ thyme and parsley. When the pluck is half done, add some small onions and mushrooms. Before you serve, add the Deaten yolks of eggs with a little cream, and a spoonful of vinegar. CALF'S BRAINS EN MATELOTTE. You must clean and steep the brains in cold water for several hours; you must then scald them for some minutes in boiling water, with some salt and a little vinegar; then again put them into cold water. Put in a stewpan some small onions with butter, fry them, and add some flour; mix well together ; then add a little stock, half a glass of white wine, some mushrooms, and a bunch of fine herbs. Put in your brains, mix with the sauce; finish stewing them till done, then serve. BRAINS A LA RAVIGOTE. When the brains are prepared as before, stew them gently in braise, and when they are done enough serve on a dish with sauce ravigote.VEAL. 107 SWEETBREADS AUX FINES HERBES. Scald your sweetbreads^ and lard tliem; then take some mushrooms^ fine herbs, parsley, garlic, shalots, and chop them fine; add some butter and pepper; put some slices of bacon under the sweetbreads and over them; add some white wine and stock; stew gently till done enough; skim the sauce and serve over the sweetbreads. SWEETBREADS EN CAISSE. Prepare and lard your sweetbreads as before directed. Then take some fine herbs, chop them with mushrooms, salt, pepper, and add one or two spoonsful of oil, pour this mixture over your sweetbreads. Then make several cases of strong paper, oil each, and at the bottom of each case put a few bread-crumbs and the seasoning, then put in your sweetbreads, and again some of the season- ing, put the cases into an oven, or on hot ashes ; when they have taken a good colour, serve on the cases. CALF'S TONGUE. Is prepared and dressed in the same manner as beef-tongues, and is very good.108 VEAL. CALF'S PLUCK. Scald the pluck in boiling water^ then put it into cold fresh water, cut it in pieces and serve, Or drain and serve with salad. CALF'S FEET Are prepared in the same manner, and served hot with white sauce, or cold in salad. TETE DE VEAU AU NATUREL. Have a cauldron full of boiling water, steep the calfs head in it till white, and it has disgorged all the blood. Then put it into fresh cold water, drain it, pluck the skin off the tongue, cut off the muzzle, take out the teeth, rub the head with lemon-juice, wrap the head up in a linen cloth, and let it simmer four or five hours with salt, pepper, bunch of sweet herbs, garlic and vinegar. When you wish to serve it, drain it well, split the head, separate and take out the large bones, cover the brains with the skin, and serve hot, with sauce piquante, or sauce made with salt, pepper, vinegar, shalots, tarragon, chervil and pickled gherkins. TETE DE VEAU EN TORTUE. After preparing and boiling the head as inMUTTON. 109 the former receipt, serve it, and cut it in pieces, scallop the ears to put on the top of your dish, and dress them as you would in the former receipt, adding a little wine; whilst these are boiling, prepare your ragout, make a roux of flour and butter, moisten this with stock, add cockscombs, kidneys, and fowls^ gizzards, mushrooms, forcemeat balls, sweetbreads, livers of fowls, bunch of parsley and thyme, butter, salt, allspice, half a bottle of Madeira, and the yolks of hard eggs, the tongue and brains; the pieces of the head stew gently, then arrange the head in a pyramid, pour your sauce over and the different ingredients, place the ears at the top, and garnish your dish with crawfish and sippets of fried bread. MUTTON. GIGOT ROTI A LA PROVENCALE. Take a fine leg of mutton well hung, beat it with a rolling-pin to make it more tender; let it steep a day or two in oil with onions and parsley. Put a clove of garlic into the handle before youMUTTON. 110 roast it, dress it by a quick fire till nearly done^ then moderate the fire_, baste it often, and serve with its own gravy. As many English palates do not approve of too much flavour of onion, you may dress it with only the clove of garlic put into the handle for a couple of days previous to dressing it. At Mar- quise, which is famous for mutton, it is so dressed, and is excellent. LEG OF MUTTON (GIGOT BRAISE). Loosen the meat round the bone of a leg of mutton, and bone it without cutting or tearing it, lard it with large pieces of bacon seasoned with pepper, thyme and bay-leaf, then close the meat, so that the bacon might not show outside, tie it tightly in the original shape, then put it into a stewpan on slices of fat bacon with car- rots, onions, salt, spices, a bunch of sweet herbs, and a glass of stock. Let it stew slowly with a fire above on the lid as well as below; and when done enough, serve with the gravy of the meat, strained through a tamis; you may add a little pepper. LEG OF MUTTON STEWED IN ITS OWN GRAVY. Prepare your mutton as for a braise, and putIll MUTTON. it into a stewpan with some butter; let it brown, then season it with pepper, salt^ bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, and let it stew slowly, taking care to turn it till done enough; you may serve it with haricots. MOUTON AU RAIFORT. Boil a shoulder or neck of mutton in salt and water, scrape some horse-radish fine, put it into an earthen pan that will stand the fire with salt, stock, a bit of butter, some nutmeg, and a spoonful of vinegar, boil all together, and then pour over the mutton when you serve. MOUTON AU PEKSIL. Boil a breast or neck of mutton in water, add a glass of wine, the juice of a lemon, salt, pepper, bay-leaf, two onions stuck with cloves, some lemon-peel, and a bunch of sweet herbs, and parsley, boil in this very slowly till done enough, put the meat on a dish, add some chopped parsley, a little butter mixed with flour, stir it well till mixed, and pour it over the meat: if you like capers, add half a tea-cup full. You may vary this dish by adding bread crumbs in place of flour.MUTTON. 112 GIGOT DE MOUTON AUX MORELS. Lard your mutton with shalots^ bacon and anchovies, and then roast it; serve with a sauce made of jus, morels, capers and bread crumbs; season it with pepper and salt, and serve under the meat. EMINCES (MINCED MUTTON). Take some cold roast mutton, cut in thin slices, make a roux with a little flour, some stock, salt, pepper. When the sauce is reduced, add some butter, chopped parsley, and sliced gher- kins, then put your meat into it, and let it stew slowly till done enough. MUTTON WITH HARICOTS OR OTHER VEGETABLES. Lard a loin of mutton, season it, and roast on a spit. When done enough, serve with haricots stewed, cauliflowers, or other vegetables. BREAST OF MUTTON A LA BOURGEOISE. Take a breast of mutton, raise the skin, and put it to stew with some chives, parsley, cloves, salt^ pepper, white wine and stock. When done enough, skim the sauce, and reduce it, then pass it through a tamis, add a piece of butter rolled in flour, and some parsley chopped fine, mix itMUTTON. 113 ^smoothly; and before you serve, squeeze the juice of a lemon over the breast of mutton, put the sauce under the meat and round it^ but not over. COTELETTES PANEES. Pare your mutton cutlets, fry them in butter, season them with pepper and salt; dip each in the yolk of an egg well beaten, sprinkle bread crumbs over them; then broil them on a quick fire. COTELETTES SAUTEES. Put your cutlets into the frying-pan with some butter. When quite done enough, drain them from the grease carefully. Pour off the grease, leaving only about half a spoonful; then add some stock, shalots, fine herbs (chopped), salt, pepper, and sliced gherkins; let the same boil. Arrange your cutlets on your dish, and pour the sauce over them, adding a spoonful of vinegar. SHOULDER OF MUTTON Can be bruised or roasted in the same way as the leg. IMUTTON. 114 HARICOT DE MOUTON. Take the loin, the neck, or part of the shoulder, and cut it in pieces. Put the cutlets on in butter to brown in a pan; take them out, and make a roux with some flour in the melted butter. Add some stock, pepper, salt, bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, bay-leaf, clove of garlic, and put your meat into the sauce. Whilst stewing, fry some turnips and haricots in butter till a good colour, then add them to the meat. Let all stew together a short time, skim the sauce, and serve with the meat, garnished with turnip roses. MUTTON KIDNEYS A LA BROCHETTE. Let your kidneys steep five minutes in cold water, to soften the skin; remove it, and split each through the middle; put a wooden or silver skewer, if you have them ; when they are skewered, season them with pepper and salt. Dip each into oil or melted butter, and broil them on a gridiron. Before you serve, remove the skewers, unless they are of silver, and serve them on a dish with butter and fine herbs.115 MUTTON. KIDNEYS AU VIN DE CHAMPAGNE, OU VIN BLANC. Prepare your kidneys as before^ cut them in thin slices, fry them quickly, on a bright fire, in a frying or stewpan, with a little butter; then add a spoonful of flour, a glass of champagne, or a glass of white wine, salt, pepper, parsley and chives, chopped fine, and half a glass of jus. Let them stew slowly till the sauce is reduced and the kidneys done, then serve. SHEEPS' TROTTERS A LA POULETTE. When the feet are cleaned, scalded, and well washed, take out the large bones to the top, and let them stew slowly five hours in a white sauce composed of hog's lard, bacon cut in small pieces, onions, carrots, cloves, garlic, pepper, salt, flour, slices of lemon, vinegar and water. The trotters must be stewed till the bones can be removed easily; then put in a stew-pan a piece of butter with some flour and a little stock, onions, parsley and chives chopped fine, salt and pepper; put in the feet, and let them stew a little. Before you serve, make a liaison with the yolks of eggs beaten with a little cream, a spoonful of vinegar, or the jaice of I 2MUTTON. 116 a lemon. Add this, and let it warm^ but not boil. SHEEPS' TAILS A LA BRAISE, Put in a stewpan some onions, carrots, slices of bacon, or minced ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, cloves; place your sheeps^ tails in, add some stock and a glass of white wine; let them stew slowly; when done enough, skim the sauce and reduce it to a glaze. Serve your tails on sorrel, or a puree of any vegetable you please. Glaze them and serve. SHEEPS' TAILS FRIED. Prepare your sheeps' tails as in the former receipt, but when done, let them cool; then dip them in the yolk of egg, shake bread crumbs over them, and fry. SHEEPS' TAILS GRILLED. After stewing the tails in stock, with bacon, herbs and pepper, take them out, flatten them, and dip them into egg beaten; then sprinkle them with bread crumbs, mixed with pepper and salt; grill them, basting with oil or melted butter. When broiling, shake more crumbs over them, and baste with butter. When done117 LAMB. enough, serve with sauce tart are, or sauce piquante. SHEEP'S TONGUES EN PAPILLOTTE. Scald the tongues and stew them in stock, drain them, and season with fine herbs chopped fine with mushrooms, butter, salt, pepper and spices; then put each tongue with the seasoning into an oiled paper, and broil or fry them. Serve them hot, in the papers. Very good. METHOD OF PREPARATION TO GIVE MUTTON THE TASTE OF VENISON OR FAWN. To give this flavour to mutton, lard a haunch, or a fillet, or leg, and then put it to steep in a dish with juniper and vinegar. Let it remain several days in steep, then drain, and serve with sauce piquante. LAMB. LAMB OR KIU. Lamb or kid can be dressed alike, so that few can know one from the other. Kid must be prepared in the same manner as directed to prepare mutton as venison, and will be found very good.LAMB. 118 QUARTER OF LAMB ROASTED. Lard the lamb underneath, put it on the spit; wrap buttered paper round it, and when nearly done take oflF the paper to give it a good colour. Mix some butter with chopped chives, parsley, and fine herbs, put it under the lamb when you serve. LAMB A LA POULETTE- Scald your lamb, cut it in pieces, and put it into a stewpan, in which you first prepare the sauce thus: melt some butter with a spoonful of flour, add a glass or two of stock hot; when well mixed, add your pieces of lamb, with a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper, salt, onions, bay-leaf, with some mushrooms, and before you serve add the yolks of eggs beaten in a little cream. EPIGRAMME D'AGNEAU. Take a fore-quarter of lamb, raise the shoulder, roast it, and when done prepare it as a blanquette of veal. Braise the breast, and when it is done fliatten it, and cut it in pieces the shape of cutlets; sprinkle bread crumbs over them, and dip them in the beaten yolks of eggs, season them with pepper and salt, then dip them in melted butter, shake bread crumbs over them, and fry a nice brown;119 LAMB. whilst preparing the blanquette and breast^ cut the neck into cutlets, season them with pepper and salt, fry them or broil on a gridiron ; arrange them on a dish in the form of a crown, alter- nately with the breast, serve the blanquette in the middle. This is a very good dish, and has three preparations on the same dish. LAMB'S HEAD AND PLUCK. Scald the pluck, when cold mince it very fine; mix the brains with it, and stew in stock with a bunch of sweet herbs, an onion, pepper, salt, a bit of. lemon-peel, and a little nutmeg; when stewed enough, add a little cream and the yolk of an egg. Put on your dish, with the head laid on it prepared as follows:—Scald your head till nearly done, in water and salt, then take it out, and pour over it the yolk of an egg or two beaten well; then strew bread crumbs thickly over it, again baste with the egg, and again shake bread crumbs over it, put it into the oven till brown, shake pepper and salt over it, and serve it. You may vary this by substituting some jams for the cream and egg. Very good.PORK. 120 PORK. ROASTED PIG. Scald the pig in boiling water, scrape and prepare it as usual, when well cleaned and singed, put it on a spit, baste it with oil, and serve hot, with sauce made of the liver chopped fine with sage, a little shalot, thyme, parsley, cream, pepper, salt, a little butter mixed with flour, and a spoonful of stock. When you serve, your pig should be a nice brown, split it in half, garnish with the feet cut in two, and a little clear plain gravy, serve the same in a sauce boat j serve also, to suit every palate, a sauce made with dried currants, but this sauce is too English to have a place in the receipt book, which is purely French. PORK ROASTED A LA FRANCAISE. Steep it two days in oil, with pepper, salt, parsley, bay-leaf, thyme, onions and cloves; then roast it, and baste with the marinade in which it was steeped, and serve with gravy. When the pork is not steeped, serve with a sauce piquante. COTELETTES. Steep your cutlets in the same marinade as121 PORK. pork for roasting; then either broil or fry them, as you prefer, having cut them a good shape. Serve with either sauce piquante, sauce Robert, ravigotte, or pickled gherkins. KIDNEYS AU VIN BLANC. After washing and steeping your kidneys a few minutes in cold water, cut them in slices, and put them in a stewpan, with butter, parsley, chives and pepper; take care they do not stick to the pan and burn; add a spoonful of flour, and a glass of white wine; stir, but do not let it boil. When done, serve very hot. PIGS' FEET A LA ST. MENEHOULDE. Clean your feet well, and split them in two lengthwise; wrap each in a linen binder, tie each and put them to boil in water, with salt, pepper, bunch of sweet herbs, cloves of garlic, cloves, thyme, bay-leaf, onions, carrots; skim and let them stew five or six hours; then let them cool a little, dip each in oil, shake bread crumbs over them, and fry. Serve with sauce or not. BLACK PUDDINGS. Chop some onions, and put them on to stew with hog^s lard; cut some pork fat in little dice;PORK. 122 add the blood of the pig, seasoned with chopped parsley, pepper, salt and allspice; mix well together. Have the puddings well cleaned, and take care there are no holes; fill them to the length you like, and tie them with strong twine; then boil them twenty minutes. The puddings are done enough when you prick them, and the fat only oozes out. Hang them up, and when you use them, either boil them enough to warm them, or cut in thick slices fried, or cold in slices. WHITE PUDDING. Put in a stewpan some onions cut in small pieces, with some hog^s lard; then chop fine together the pork fat, and some cold roasted chicken or fowl; add some crumb of bread boiled in milk, yolks of eggs, cream, salt, pepper and allspice ; mix these with the onions, and fill your puddings. Let them stew like the black pud- dings, that is, for twenty minutes without boil- ing. SAUSAGES. Take some fresh pork, fat and lean, chop the meat as fine as possible; then season with parsley, chives and pepper, salt, allspice. Fill your pud-RAGOUTS. 123 dings, tie them, and either broil or fry theni when you serve. WILD BOAR. You prepare and dress it in the same manner as pork. Generally, the flesh of the wild boar is cut in fillets or cutlets, or in slices, which you put in a stewpan, with butter, chives, parsley, thyme, basilic. When these slices are half done, take them oflp, and let them steep in their own gravy a day and a night; then fry them, and serve with pickled gherkins. TO GIVE PORK THE FLAVOUR OF WILD BOAR. Put it to steep with cloves, garlic, bay-leaf, shalots, juniper-berries, thyme, mint and vine- gar. EAGOUTS. Take the livers of fowls or any meat of poultry, and put them in a stewpan, with butter; moisten with jus or stock; add a glass of white wine, a bunch of sweet herbs, chives, mushrooms, a clove of garlic, salt, pepper. When done enough, skim and serve, or make first a roux, with flour124 RAGOUTS. and butter; moisten it with stock. Put in your meat^ with the seasoning as before^ and when done enough^ serve with the sauce in which it was stewed. FARCE HACHIS. Take poultry^ game^ or any kind of meat that is convenient; chop it as fine as sausage-meat; season it with pepper^ salt^ spice^ and add two or three eggs well beaten. Let all stew slowly in butter; moisten with stock, and serve hot; or you add jus and white wine^ if the meat minced is beef or mutton. BOULETTES DE HACHIS. Chop your meat^ game, or poultry, with some sausage-meat; make it into balls; roll them in flour or bread crumbs, and fry in butter. Serve on fried parsley, stewed sorrel, or spinach. GRILLADES. Take slices of veal, beef or mutton; to make them a higher flavour, put them to steep in oil, parsley, pepper, salt, shalots and chives, chopped fine. Let them stew till half done, then take them out, wrap each piece in oiled or buttered paper, and finish cooking them on a gridiron, or125 POULTRY. fry them, which you prefer. Before you serve them, squeeze lemon-juice over each. POULTRY. * DUCKS WITH TURNIPS. Put some butter in a pan, with a little sugar, and brown your turnips in it ; when brown enough, take them out, and then put in your duck, after picking, singing and emptying it. When the duck has taken a good colour, take it out also, and make a roux, moisten it with stock, and put the duck back, with salt, pepper, and bunch of sweet herbs. When the duck is three parts done, put in your turnips; let them stew slowly till done enough; skim well, and serve the duck with the turnips round the dish as a gar- nish. CANARD EN DAUBE. Prepare your duck as if for roasting, lard it with bacon, season with salt, pepper, parsley, chives, thyme, bay-leaf, and basilic, chopped fine; tie up the duck tightly, and put it into a stewpan, with slices of bacon, half a calFs foot.POULTRY. 126 pepper^ salt^ onions^ bunch of sweet herbs, carrots^ thyme, cloves, bay-leaf, cloves of garlic; moisten with stock; add a glass of brandy; cover the pan closely, and let it stew very slowly, stirring and turning it occasionally whilst stew- ing, to prevent the duck sticking to the bottom, and that it might take the same colour equally. It will take four or five hours. Skim it carefully^ You serve hot with the sauce, or cold with the sauce, in jelly, as it will be quite stiff. You can dress geese the same way. DUCKS WITH ANCHOVIES. Prepare a duck as if for roasting; fry the liver well with bacon in butter; then take out the liver; moisten with stock, and some wine; add spice, and put in your duck; let it stew slowly two or three hours; add some slices of lemon; pound the liver with some anchovies washed, picked, and boned, with some butter; when well mixed, put it into your sauce, let it warm up for about ten minutes, and serve, TURKEY WITH TRUFFLES. Clean and peel your truffles; take half and chop them fine with bacon; put thp into a stew-POULTRY. 127 pan with the whole truffles, some butter, salt, pepper, spices, and bay-leaf; let them remain on the fire a quarter of an hour; take them off, and let them get cold. Then stuff your turkey with the truffles; you may either roast your turkey or stew it, or dress it en daube like a duck or goose. FRICASSEE OF TURKEY. Cut the remains of a turkey, fry them in butter with a little flour; moisten with stock, add salt, pepper, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Fry also some turnips in the butter ; when a good colour, serve them round the turkey; also add some potatoe chips. TURKEY IN JELLY, OR WITH GRAVY. Bone your turkey, and stuff it with sausage- meat and truffles; then put it into a stewpan; lay slices of fat bacon on the top and in the bottom, with a carrot, onions, cloves, bunch of sweet herbs, and a blade or two of mace ; moisten with good stock; let it stew till done enough, then remove the bacon^ and put it into the oven a quarter of an hour to brown; serve hot, with the sauce reduced, and forcemeat balls, or Portugal onions stewed in brown gravy; add aPOULTRY. 128 glass of white wine just before you serve. If you wish to serve it cold, have some clear jelly put into an oval mould; lay your turkey when cold into the jelly, which must also be cool; take care to raise the turkey with skewers, so as to let the jelly be thick on the breast. When you wish to serve, turn it out very carefully so as not to break the jelly, and garnish with green curled parsley; the jelly should be made very stiff, and isinglass added to render it more firm; this is a very handsome dish for a supper table; it might also be served with long strips of jelly, cut equally, and placed across the breast, and cut in triangular pieces to garnish it. POULET AUX CHATAIGNES (FOWL WITH CHESNUTS). Boil your fowl in milk and water, skim very clear, then put it into a stewpan with some butter mixed with flour, spices, two anchovies, some chesnuts roasted and the skin peeled off, a glass of wine, a little stock, and let all stew slowly till done, then serve with the sauce. FILETS OF FOWL A LA MILANAISE. Cut up a fowl in joints, dip each in stock, shake bread crumbs over them with grated Par-POULTRY. 129 mesan cheese mixed with the breads then dip them in the yolk of an egg well beaten^ again shake bread crumbs over them seasoned with salt and pepper; fry them, and serve with tomato sauce under them. Fillets of rabbits can be dressed the same way, and are very good. FRICASSEE OF CHICKEN. Cut the chickens into pieces, and put them for an hour or two into cold water to make the flesh white, take them out and w4pe them. Put some butter into a stewpan, set your chickens into this with a little floar, moisten with stock, add salt, pepper, bunch of sweet herbs, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, mushrooms, and small onions. Let them stew slowly. When you wish to serve, make a liaison with the yolks of eggs, cream, and the juice of a lemon; add this to warm but not to boil, and serve. Sippets of bread, cockscombs, or crayfish make a pretty garnish for this fricas- see. You may use boiling water in place of stock, if you wish it to be very delicate. FRICASSEE A LA MINUTE. Cut your chicken, without steeping, fry the pieces in butter quickly, then take them out^ K130 POULTRY. throw into the pan some flonr^ stir it in smoothly, add parsley, shalots, salt, pepper, spices, mush- rooms ; moisten with a glass of white wine and half a glass of stock. Put your chicken back, let it stew a few minutes, and then serve with the sauce. CHICKEN A LA MARENGO. Cut your chickens in pieces as before for a fricassee, put it into a stewpan with some oil and fine salt, let it take a good colour in the oil, put in when half done some mushrooms and truffles sliced. When quite done, serve it with sauce Italienne, made as follows:—Put in a stew- pan truffles, parsley, and mushrooms chopped fine, shalots, butter, and let them stew a little, stirring all the time, season it with pepper and salt, a glass of white wine, and a couple of spoonfuls of the oil in which the chickens were dressed. When hot serve under the chickens. FOWL (POULET) A LA TARTARE. Take a fowl, singe and draw it, then split it down the back, open and flatten it. Put it in a pan with chives, parsley, salt and pepper, and some butter ; when nearly done, take it out, shake bread crumbs over it, and finish broiling itPOULTRY. 131 on a gentle fire; let it brown both sides^ and serve it with a good sauce a la tartare. FOWL A L'ESTRAGON. Mix some butter with chopped tarragon, and put it in the body of the fowl, sew it up and truss it as usual. Put some water in a stewpan to reach a third of the fowl, add carrots, salt, pepper, onions, bacon, cloves^ thyme, and a little tarragon. Let it boil, or rather simmer, slowly till done enough : then take it out. Reduce the same to a glaze, having first added a little flour, then add some tarragon-leaves, and serve this sauce under your fowl, putting the leaves of tar- ragon round it. FOWL OR CAPON WITH RICE. Prepare and truss your fowl, put it into a stewpan, and nearly cover it with water, to which add salt, pepper, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves, a blade of mace, onions, carrots, and a small piece of bacon. Let it stew slowly. Take half the liquor in which you boil your fowl, in which boil your rice, if there is too little liquor add some stock; when the rice is done enough, put it to your fowl or capon, if not thick enough add K 2POULTRY. 132 a little flour, and serve the capon or fowl on the rice with the sauce round it. CAPON ROASTED. After you have prepared and trussed your capon, cover the breast with slices of fat bacon; baste with its own gravy and serve with the same, garnished with cresses seasoned with vine- gar or lemon-juice. A fowl or pullet is dressed the same way. PIGEONS. When you roast them^ cover the breast with fat bacon, which you remove before you serve; baste with their own gravy. PIGEONS WITH PEAS. Put some butter and bacon in a stewpan, melt it, and then put in your pigeons, cleaned and trussed, till a good brown, add some peas, and a bunch of sweet herbs. Place it on the fire, and add a little flour, moisten with stock and let the pigeons stew slowly; when the peas are nearly done, add some butter mixed with flour, let it thicken and warm, then serve. PIGEONS A LA CRAPAUDINE. Take the pigeons, and split lengthways, and133 POULTRY. flatten them without breaking the skin; rub them over with oil, and season them with salt, pepper, parsley, and chives chopped fine; shake bread crumbs over them, and broil them on a slow fire; serve with sauce piquante, made with vinegar, shalots, pepper, salt and butter warmed. PIGEONS A L'ETUVEE. Put your pigeons in a stewpan, with butter, salt, pepper and spices; fry them, and then take them out, make a roux of flour and butter, add some small onions, moisten with stock and white wine, put back your pigeons with a bunch of sweet herbs, and cloves, add a spoonful of vine- gar, or the juice of a lemon. BLANQUETTE, MARINADE AND SALAD OF POULTRY. A blanquette of chicken or turkey, is prepared the same way as veal, cut in small pieces, and served the same. MARINADE OF POULTRY. Take a fowl, cut it in joints, and steep it in water. Let it lie in a marinade for three hours, made with vinegar, stock, salt, pepper, parsley, onions, chives, and bay-leaf. When well steepedGAME. 134 in the marinade, dip them into the beaten yolks of eggs and fry ; serve with fried parsley. CHICKEN SALAD. Cut in pieces a cold roasted chicken, slice the meat, and put it in your salad bowl, or dish, with capers, pickled gherkins, anchovies, and lettuces cut small; make a salad sauce with oil, vinegar, salt, pepper, and the yolks of two or three eggs well beaten, mix well together, and the more you do so, the better will be your sauce, pour it over the salad and fowl, which you put in layers, and garnish with lettuces cut in quarters, gherkins, capers, anchovies, and nasturtion- flowers when to be had, and in season. You can use lobsters, or fillets of soles in place of the fowl, or crab, all are equally good, and also shrimps. GAME. VENISON OR ROEBUCK. Lard a haunch or quarter of roebuck, let it steep a day or two in oil, with onions, salt, pepper, spices, thyme, and red wine; then put it on the spit to roast, baste it with the marinade135 GAME. in which it was steeped^ and serve with sauce poivrade. CUTLETS OF VENISON. After paring your fillets or cutlets into a nice shape, lard them, and put them into a stewpan, with some spoonsful of stock, bunch of sweet herbs, carrots, onions, cut in slices. When well done, and glazed in the sauce, serve with a sauce piquante. HARE, ROASTED A LA FRANCAISE. Take the back of a hare, and lard it well; roast it; baste with butter, and when done, serve ^; with sauce made with its own gravy, the blood of the hare, vinegar, salt, chives and shalots chopped fine. CIVET OF HARE. When you have roasted the hinder part of a bare, take the remainder, and make a civet with it, unless game is plentiful, then take a whole hare, if you like: cut in pieces and joints, and save the blood. Fry in a stewpan some pieces of bacon, when done enough, take them out, and put in the pieces of hare, and fry them; then add a little flour, moisten with red wine a little stock, and add a bunch of sweet herbs, pepper.136 GAME. salt, small onions^ and mushrooms. Then put back your bits of bacon, and some minutes before you serve, add the blood which you saved from the hare. AU CHAUDRON A LA MINUTE. Cut up a hare in pieces, collect the blood, and put it into a pan with the pieces of hare; add a quarter of a pound of bacon cut in pieces, a bunch of sweet herbs, onions, salt, pepper-corns, and a bottle at least of good red wine. Put the pan on a dry wood fire; let the wine catch fire, let it burn; when the flame ceases, add a good piece of butter rolled in flour; let the sauce re- duce, and serve. This is very good, and quickly prepared. PATE DE LIEVRE. Bone a hare, and take ofl" all the meat; take a pound of lean pork, the same of veal, parsley, chives, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper and cloves. Pound all together ; take an earthen mould, line it with slices of bacon, put in your meat after seasoning it slightly, pour a glass of brandy over it, put on a cover that fits closely, put a strip of paste round it to close it hermetically, and bakeGAME. 137 it in an oven three or four hours; when cold, turn it out when you wish to serve, and gar- nish with savoury jelly and fresh green par- sley. PHEASANT. To roast a pheasant, heathcock, or guinea hen, cover the breasts with bacon, like a capon or pullet, and serve with gravy and bread sauce. PARTRIDGE. After cleaning and trussing your partridges, lard them finely and roast; you must take care they are not too much done, or they will lose their flavour. PERDRIX AUX CHOUX. After cleaning and trussing your partridge, then put a layer of bacon in a stewpan, add carrots, onions, bunch of sweet herbs, cloves, and a sausage; have a white cabbage scalded in a saucepan with some salt pork, then drain it well, and put your partridges in the stewpan with the seasoning, and put the cabbage with it: moisten it with a little stock, put a fire above and a fire below the stewpan, and let it simmer three hours. Before you serve, drain the cabbage and arrange it on a dish, on that lay the bacon,i38 RABBITS. and on that lay the partridges; cut the sausage in sHces, and garnish the dish round with it. WOODCOCKS Are prepared like partridges, larded in the same way, but not drawn; when they are roasting, put slices of toast under to receive the trail, and serve on the toast. Quails, larks and sparrows are roasted with slices of bacon on the breasts; a bay leaf between the slices of bacon improves the flavour. If you like to fry them, put them in a stewpan with butter and salt; let them take a nice colour, and then add a little flour, a glass of white wine, and some stock, mushrooms, shalots, parsley, thyme, bay leaf, cloves. When done enough serve on fried sippets or crusts of bread. RABBITS. GIBELOTTE DE LAPIN. (RABBITS.) Take a flne rabbit, skin, empty, and cut it in pieces. Put some butter in a pan, and fry some pieces of bacon; when these are fried, take them out, and put in your rabbit; fry the pieces, thenFISH. 139 add a little flour to thicken the sauce; moisten with stocky and some red or white wine; add a bunch of sweet herbs, onions, pepper, salt, mushrooms, and your bits of bacon; let all stew slowly. Take out the sweet herbs, and serve. TO PRESERVE MEAT FRESH DURING SUMMER. Empty your poultry, and let your meat be quite fresh; place it in a dark place, where there is no opening, and wrap it up in cloths closely. In stormy weather, if you fear your meat will not keep, half dress it in butter without salt; then put it into a pan well covered, and you may keep it several hours, or even a day, before you finish dressing the meat. FISH. SAUMON AU BLEU, OR COURT BOUILLON. Wash and clean your salmon, and put it in a fish-kettle; fill the kettle with good wine; add salt, pepper, onions, garlic and cloves, thyme, bay-leaf, parsley and butter. Put your kettle140 FISH. on a quick fire; let the wine take fire^ and let it reduce one half. Take out the fish, drain it, and serve it on an oblong dish covered with a napkin. Serve oil and vinegar in a sauce-boat. The bouillon will serve a second time by adding some more vinegar when you use it. SALMON WITH CAPER SAUCE. Cut several slices of salmon, and steep them in oil with parsley, chives, shalots (chopped fine), pepper and salt; wrap up the slices in buttered paper, with some of the seasoning in which it was steeped. Put it on a gridiron till done enough, take ofi* the paper, and serve with white sauce and capers. SALMON A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. Simply broil the salmon in slices, and serve it with melted butter or sauce piquante. TURBOT. Wash and clean your turbot, rub it over with lemon-juice, put it into a fish-kettle with water and salt. Have a quick fire, for if the fish remains too long in the water it will break. Before the fish is done, when the water is ready to boil, check it by pouring in some cold water;FISH. 141 let it simmer till done enough^ then take it out, drain it, and serve on a napkin garnished with parsley, and a sauce made with capers and anchovy butter, or essence of anchovy mixed with melted butter. RAY AU BEURRE NOIR. After having cleaned and washed your ray, cut the fins^ put the fish into a fish-kettle, with water, parsley, salt, thyme, bay-leaf, pepper, cloves, and a glass of vinegar. Take it off the fire when it comes to a boil. Take ofi" the black skin from the under side, cut off the fins, and put the ray on the dish with salt and pepper. Put in a frying-pan a piece of butter; when boiling hot, put in some parsley, fry it, and garnish your ray; then add a spoonful of vinegar, and pour the sauce over the fish. RAY AU BEURRE BLANC. Prepare your fish as before, and melt on your dish, under the ray, some butter with salt, pepper, and lemon-juice. Serve. You may also serve ray with caper sauce. TURBOT A LA PROVENCALE. Take some turbot that has already been boiled,142 FISH. cut it in slices, and prepare your sauce as follows : Take some truffles, slice them, after picking and washing, stew them with some shalots and a carrot in a little stock, with half a glass of wine till done; add also some mushrooms chopped fine. When done enough, season with pepper, salt and allspice; take out the carrot, thicken with a little flour and butter, mixed with chopped parsley. When the sauce is smooth, put in your fish to warm, and serve very hot, garnished with sippets of bread. TURBOT A LA HEINE. Cut your dressed turbot into slices as before; take some flour mixed with butter, moisten it with a little stock seasoned with pepper, salt, a little nutmeg grated, and lemon-peel. Add a little cream, then put in your fish, add some oysters well stewed. Just before you serve, add a liaison of the yolks of two eggs beaten with a little cream and the juice of a lemon. You can also add some truffles or morels, sliced and stewed. Do not let it boil after you have added the liaison. When done enough, serve garnished with sippets of bread fried in butter.143 FISH. COD AU BLANC. Take a fine cod, sprinkle salt over it for a day or two; put it in a fish-kettle full of cold water; take it off after it boils up, cover the kettle for ten or fifteen minutes, drain it, melt some butter in a stewpan, add a little flour, pepper, and some cream; put your cod quite hot on your dish, and serve with the sauce poured over it. Slices of cod that has been dressed can be served with the same sauce, but in this case the fish must be warmed in the sauce. Nutmeg grated, or a blade of mace is an improvement. COD A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. Dress your cod as before, put on your dish with a piece of butter some pepper, chives, and parsley chopped fine, grated nutmeg, and ver- juice or vinegar. Mix well with butter, and serve your fish on it. COD WITH CAPERS. Dress it as before, and pour over it some white sauce with capers. You may also serve cod with small potatoes boiled in water, with white sauce, with or without capers, and anchovy essence.144 FISH. CHAD AU BLEU. Wash and clean your chad; stew it in court bouillon like salmon, and serve on a napkin gar- nished with parsley. Serve oil and vinegar in a sauce-boat. CHAD A L'OSEILLE. Having cleaned and prepared your chad, put it to steep with oil, salt, pepper, chives, parsley, thyme, and bay-leaf; then fry it, basting it with the marinade in which it was steeped; serve it on stewed sorrel. Or you may serve it with caper sauce. MACKAREL A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. Clean your mackarel, wipe it, and split it down the back. If you wish it to be very good and delicate, steep it an hour in a little oil with pepper, salt, and fennel; fry it, basting it with the marinade in which it was steeped. When it is done, melt some butter mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt; put your mackarel on this seasoning on the dish, and add a spoonful of vinegar to the sauce or the juice of a lemon. You may serve mackarel, after dressing it as be- fore, with oil and vinegar, or tomata sauce, or sauce tartare.FISH. 145 FILLETS OF MACKAREL FRIED (SAUTES). Raise the fillets lengthways, take ofi* the skin, fry them in butter, with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and the juice of a lemon. Turn the fillets with- out breaking them, when done on both sides, in the butter. Serve with either tomato sauce, sauce tart are, or ravigotte. Mackarel is very good dressed with white sauce and chopped fennel added, and a little vinegar or lemon-juice, with the yolk of egg. SOLES, BRET, PLAICE. Clean either of the above fish, then put in a stewpan a piece of butter mixed with fine herbs, chives, mushrooms, chopped parsley, salt, and pepper; put your fish on these ingredients, and the same seasoning over them, add some butter and grated bread, and moisten with some stock and wine. Let it stew slowly till it is done, then serve garnished with parsley, and the sauce poured over the fish. SOLE NORMANDE. After preparing your fish as usual, put them in a fish-kettle on some pieces of butter, or on a copper dish well tinned, with parsley, thyme^ L146 risH. onions, salt, pepper, grated nutmeg, a glass of white wine, the same of stock, a dozen oysters, a dozen mussels opened and boiled in water, some small gudgeons moistened and fried in butter. Cover the pan and stew slowly. When the soles are done, put them on a dish, garnish with the oysters and gudgeons, with the sauce; add mush- rooms sUced, truffles also stewed, and sippets of bread fried in butter with lemon juice. FRESH HERRINGS A LA SAUCE BLANCHE. Put your gridiron on the fire to heat before you put your herrings on. When they are done, serve them with a white sauce and capers. FRESH HERRINGS A LA MAITRE D'HOTEL. Split your herrings down the back, wash and broil them as before, put them on butter with parsley, pepper, and salt, warm the dish till the butter melts, add a spoonful of vinegar, or the juice of a lemon, and serve. HERRINGS A LA MOUTARDE. After preparing the herrings, and broiling them as before, serve them with a sauce in a boat, made as follows : Put in a stewpan a pieceFISH. 147 of butter^ a little stock, some flour, salt, mustard, and a spoonful of vinegar. When mixed well, and hot, serve. HERRINGS A LA TARTARE. Steep your herrings in oil with salt, pepper, and a spoonful of vinegar, raise the fillets, broil them, and serve with a sauce tar- tare. RED HERRINGS. Broil them; when you have split them open, season with oil, vinegar, and mustard, as you would salad. RED HERRINGS (MARINES). Cut off the heads, the skin, and cut the meat into fillets, scald them in boiling water; let them get cold, and put them in oil, vinegar, salt and pepper; serve them in this, adding fine herbs and shalots chopped fine. RED HERRINGS GRILLED. Split your herrings lengthways, take off the heads and tails, and scald them in boiling water, take them out, drain them, and moisten them in melted butter, shake bread crumbs over them, then baste them with butter, and again shake L 2148 FISH. crumbs of bread over them ; add some fine herbs over them, broil them, moisten them with either oil or melted butter, and serve hot, having first seasoned them with pepper, parsley, and fine herbs. WHITING AU GRATIN. After cleaning them, put on a dish some butter with flour, parsley, chives, mushrooms chopped fine with pepper and salt, on this lay your fish, cover them with the same seasoning, and add some butter and grated bread crumbs, moisten with stock; let them stew slowly till they gratiner, that is, begin to stick to the dish, then serve in the dish in which they were baked. Red mullet is very good, dressed in the same manner. Put them in layers with seasoning and bread crumbs between each, and bits of butter, then cover with bread crumbs and bake. WHITING BROILED. After cleaning your whiting, put them to steep with oil, chives, parsley, and shalots chopped fine, salt and pepper ; let them remain in this for a couple of hours, basting them occasionally.149 FISH. Broil them on a quick fire, moistening them with the oil in which they were steeped; serve with melted butter, or a white sauce with capers. ROACH AND BARBEL. Boil them in court bouillon, and serve with a sauce of oil and vinegar and capers. SMELTS. After cleaning them, steep them in milk, then flour, and fry them, or you may dress them au gratin, with fine herbs, pepper, salt, butter, and bread crumbs, then baked in a dish like whiting. SALAD OF ANCHOVIES. Divide your anchovies into fillets, wash and bone them, cut separately the hard yolks and whites of eggs, and slice the salad as usual, arrange all with taste, intermixing the whites and yolks with the lettuces and fillets of an- chovies. Season with oil, vinegar, and the beaten yolk of an egg, and pour over it. OYSTERS. Either serve them with lemon-juice, or a sauce made with shalots, pepper, and vine-150 FISH. gar; or dress them in white sauce^ stewing slowly. MUSSELS A LA POULETTE. Take fresh mussels, wash them, and put them on the fire without water to open. Then take them out of the shells, and put them in a stew- pan with butter, a little flour, chopped parsley, salt and pepper, moisten them with a little of their own liquor, add the yolk of an egg well beaten with a spoonful of vinegar; pour the sauce over the mussels. When you serve, you may sometimes leave them in the under shell, and arrange them on a dish when hot, pouring the sauce over them. MUSSELS AUX FINES HERBES. After preparing your mussels, and opening them as before, put them on a dish, with some butter, fine herbs chopped fine, salt and pepper; bake them half an hour, or fry them with the seasoning. CRAWFISH, LOBSTERS, CRABS. Put them on a good fire, with water, salt, pepper, vinegar, parsley, chives, thyme, bay-leaf, for half an hour. Whilst they are boiling, putFRESH-WATER FISH. 151 into the water the red-hot salamander; let them cool in this liquor, and then drain them. Serve on a napkin, with the claws split lengthways, and with sauce remoulade in a boat, LOBSTER SALAD Is made with the same seasoning as any other salad, with slices of eggs, capers, fillets of ancho- vies interspersed in it, and sauce of oil, vinegar and pepper poured over it. FRESH-WATER FISH. CARP, FRIED. Take a carp, scale and split it lengthways, clean it, save the roe and pea, put the carp to steep in vinegar with salt, pepper, bay-leaf, thyme and nutmeg, flour it, after steeping three hours or more, and fry it in boiling lard or butter; add the roe and pea, to fry also. Serve with fried parsley round it. When carp has been caught in muddy ponds, they frequently have a bad taste; pour down their throats a glass of vinegar; as soon as they have swallowed it, a thick matter is voided, which, when152 FRESH-WATER FISH, you scrape the fish^ you remove with the knife. CARP, BROILED. After cleaning your carp, put it on the grid- iron, broil it, and serve either with a farce of sorrel, or white sauce, with capers; add lemon- juice. MATELOTTE OF CARP, EELS, PIKE, AND BARBEL. Take your carp, eels, or other fish; after cleansing them, cut them in pieces; put in a stewpan thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, cloves, salt, pepper, garlic; put in your fish, and add some red wine and stock; let it boil in this twenty minutes. Put in another stewpan some butter, small onions, and let them brown; then add a little flour, moisten with the liquor in which the fish is boiled; add mushrooms and lemon-juice. When the onions are done, and the fish also, arrange the fish on the dish, with the onions and mushrooms round it, and garnish with sippets of bread fried and crawfish. MATELOTTE A LA MARINIERE. Prepare your fish as before; put in a saucepan thyme, bay-leaf, chives, parsley, bunch of sweetFRESH-WATER FISH. 153 herbs, onions, cloves, garlic, mushrooms, salt and pepper; on this seasoning lay your fish, pour over it some red wine, and hang it on a crook, and let it stew slowly. When the wine is ready to boil, throw into the kettle some bits of butter rolled in flour; stir the sauce; add a glass of brandy, and let it take fire. When the sauce is reduced, serve. Arrange the fish on a dish, with the seasoning round it. Take out the bunch of sweet herbs, and garnish with fried sippets of bread. PIKE AU BLEU, OR COURT BOUILLON. Do not scale the pike, but merely clean and wash it; then dress it in the same sauce as salmon, and serve with oil and vinegar. Pike may be served with caper sauce, after being boiled in court bouillon. You may also serve it with a farce inside, made in the usual way, and bake your fish, basting it with butter occa- sionally, till done. You may grate some bread crumbs, and mix with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley, and about ten minutes before you serve, strew them over the pike.154 PRESH-WATER FISH. PERCH Can be boiled in court bouillon like salmon^ and when it is done, scale it, and serve with oil and vinegar as sauce. TENCH, AUX FINES HERBES. Take your tench, dip them into boiling water, and then scale them, and clean; steep in oil with chives, shalots parsley, chopped fine, thyme, bay- leaf, pepper and salt; then wrap them up in paper with the seasoning, and broil them; serve ■ either with sauce blanche, or sauce poivrade, in a boat: or you may take off the papers, and serve the sauce round them on the dish. BARBEL. Barbel are dressed like carp and gudgeon, and floured after cleaning, and fried. EELS A LA TARTARE. Skin your eels in the usual manner, cut off the heads and tails, and turn them round in a ring. Put them in a stewpan with carrots, onions, garlic, parsley, thyme, bay-leaf, cloves; add salt and pepper, with stock and white wine in equal quantities; cover them with buttered paper, and put them to stew with a fire above*FRESH-WATER FISH. 155 and below the pan. In about an hour^ take out your eels, make a roux with flour and butter, and mix it with the sauce in which the eels were stewed; when well mixed and reduced, add the yolks of two or three eggs according to your sauce, and pass it through a tamis over the eels; let them get cold, shake bread crumbs over them, then moisten them with the sauce, or an egg beaten; again shake bread crumbs over them; then wash with melted butter, and broil them on a slow fire, or bake them in an oven; when done serve with sauce tartare. EELS A LA POULETTE. After skinning your eels and cleaning, cut them in pieces, and boil them in water with two or three spoonsful of vinegar, then drain them. Put in a stewpan a piece of butter mixed with flour; melt without letting it burn, and moisten with a glass of wine, and a glass of boiling water; add salt, pepper, bunch of sweet herbs, mushrooms, lemon-juice, and an onion; let your eels stew in this half an hour; then add the yolks of two eggs beaten with cream; let it warm, but not boil: serve.156 FRESH-WATER FISH. EELS MARINEE, BROILED. Skin^ clean, and cut your eels in pieces, set them in a frying-pan in butter, then put them on a dish to steep three or four hours with pepper, salt, parsley, nutmeg, mushrooms, chives, shalots, fine herbs chopped fine, a little oil, then shake bread crumbs over them ; broil and serve with sauce piquante. LAMPREYS. Dip them for a minute into boiling waters and clean them. Then dress them; either broil and serve with caper sauce or remoulade, or like carp en matelotte, or like eels a la tartare. CRAYFISH. Wash your crayfish, and boil them in water with some white wine, vinegar, onions, carrots, garlic, parsley, bay-leaf, salt, pepper ; let them boil eight or ten minutes, then take off the stew- pan, cover it, and let the crayfish remain in about a quarter of an hour, take them out, drain them, and serve them in a pyramid inter- mixed with green parsley.EGGS. 157 EGGS. EGGS AU MIROIR. Melt some butter in a frying-pan, and break your eggs into it with pepper, salt, and chopped parsley. EGGS MALLET. Put your eggs in boiling water for five mi- nutes, take them out, and put them in cold water. Take ofi* the shells, and serve them with white or caper sauce. EGGS FRIED AND BUTTERED. Break your eggs, and beat them with salt and pepper, melt some butter in a stewpan, pour in your eggs, and stir till done enough; then serve on toast. EGGS AUX FINES HERBES. Chop parsley, shalots and chives fine, put them in a stewpan with pepper, salt, white wine, ^- and flour mixed with butter; let them boil a little, and pour over hard eggs kept hot in boiling water. You may serve poached eggs with the same sauce poured over them.158 EGGS. EGGS EN MATELOTTE. Put a bottle of red wine into a stewpan^ add an onion^ a clove of garlic, pepper, salt, a bunch of sweet herbs; when the seasoning has boiled some little time, take it out with a strainer, poach some eggs in it, breaking them in gently one after another; when done, take them out, and place them on toast. Let the wine boil; add some flour mixed with butter ; let it reduce, and pour it over the poached eggs. (EUFS A LA TRIPE. Cut onions into small thin slices, brown them in butter, add a spoonful of flour, put hard eggs cut in quarters, or thick slices, add pepper, salt, a spoonful of vinegar, and pour it over, or use cream and sugar in place of the vinegar. (EUFS A LA NEIGE. Put in a stewpan half a pint of cream or good milk with some orange-flower water and sugar, or vanille if you prefer the flavour; let it boil. Take six or eight eggs, separate the yolks from the whites, beat the whites to snow, strew sugar over the whites. When the milk boils, put the white in by spopnsful, and turn eachEGGS. 159 round till done on all sides, then take them out, and arrange them on a dish, mix the yolks of the eggs well beaten with the boiling milk, adding sugar to taste, stir it till it thickens, then take it off, still stirring it till it cools, and pour it over the whites of the eggs on the dish; serve it cold. Almonds pounded, or grated lemon-peel might be sometimes added to the custard. (EUFS AU LAIT. Mix your eggs in milk with sugar and a pinch of salt; let them stew or simmer in a bowl, which place in a saucepan of boiling water. When done enough, cut thick, powder sugar over it, and brown with a red-hot salamander. Or you may first boil your milk with sugar, vanille, or some lemon-peel, and a pinch of salt. When it boils, mix the yolks of eggs well beaten, stir the whole, and boil it as before : on the cover, put some hot cinders; when thickened, shake sugar over it, and brown with the sala- mander. You may give it any flavour you like; a hollow round pie dish is the best to put it in; serve in the same.160 OMELETTES. OMELETTES. OMELETTE AU NATUREL. Beat the yolks of eight or ten eggs well^ melt some butter in a frying-pan^ pour the eggs in with pepper and salt_, fry it a nice colour^ double it in two and serve. OMELETTE AUX FINES HERBES. Break your eggs into a dish and beat them with pepper, salt, parsley, and chives chopped fine; fry as before and serve. OMELETTE AU FROMAGE. Grate some Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, and beat with your eggs, season with pepper and salt, and fry as before. OMELETTE AU LARD. Cut some bacon in small pieces and fry them in butter, when the bacon is done pour in your eggs well beaten with pepper and salt, and fry your omelette. OMELETTE AU SUCRE. Beat your eggs, add sugar in powder, lemon- peel grated, and a little salt; fry in butter, sugar it over, turn the omelette and powder sugar againOMELETTES. 161 over it, then pass the salamander red hot over it to colour it. OMELETTE AU RUM. Make the omelette as before, and add rum when it is on the fire to moisten it. OMELETTE SOUEFLEE. Break your eggs and separate the whites from the yolks. Beat the yolks with powdered sugar, lemon-peel, or orange-flower water; whip the whites to a strong froth and mix both together, then put some butter on a dish, when melted, pour in your eggs, cover them and put them into the oven, which must be very hot. Let it remain some minutes, sift sugar over it and serve quickly or it will fall. It ought to be made to the mo- ment you serve it. OMELETTE AUX CONEITUEES. Make a plain omelette with a little sugar, fold it in two, put preserves into it, sift sugar over and brown with a hot salamander. OMELETTES DIVERSES. These omelettes are made w4th different sorts of meat or vegetables, such as onions, truffles, M162 MACCARONI. asparagus-tops, and sweetbreads. These must be made according to taste j but you must re- member that the omelettes must only remain a minute or two on the fire, and the meat or vege- tables must also be done enough before you add them to the omelette. MACCARONI. Boil your maccaroni in water, milk, or stocky when done enough drain it, put it into a deep dish with butter, grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, pepper, and salt; shake your grated cheese over it, put it into the oven, which must be very hot, let it remain twenty minutes, let it be a good brown; serve in the dish in which it was dressed. It is more delicate when boile in milk, and the yolk of an egg or two stirred in after it is seasoned. Let cayenne pepper also be used in place of common pepper, as a better flavour is given.SWEET DISHES. 163 SWEET DISHES. CHARLOTTE DE POMMES. Peel your apples, take out the cores, cut them in quarters, put them in a stewpan with butter, sugar, a little cinnamon, and let them stew to a puree; cut some pieces of bread in hearts and points, soak them in butter, line your mould with them, make them fit close, the points being in the middle, or range all neatly, then fill your mould with the apple marmalade; cover it again with the bread and put it into a hot oven, let it remain in five-and-twenty minutes, then turn it out on a dish, sift sugar over and serve hot. CHARLOTTE RUSSE. The Charlotte Eusse is made in the same man- ner, with this difierence, that in place of the bread, use Savoy biscuits, and put different kinds of preserves in it with layers of apples. Or fill it with a vanilla cream whisked well, and made with isinglass, added after being sweetened and flavoured to taste. POMMES AU BEURRE. Take some good round apples, peel and take out M 2164 SWEET DISHES. the cores, cut in slices some bread the size of the apples. Put your apples on the bread into a tart pan, put sugar and butter in the hole which you have scooped in the apples, put your dish in a quick oven, strew sugar and butter over them, and when done serve hot; a clove in each apple or a bit of lemon-peel improves the flavour. PETS DE NONNE. Put some water or cream into a stewpan with sugar, orange-flower water and a bit of salt, when the water begins to boil or the cream to rise, shake flour in with one hand, and stir with the other, till the paste becomes very thick and well done; then take it off the fire and break an egg into it, turn round and mix, add a second, still turning it round, and go on adding eggs till the paste is soft and thin, always stirring it and beating it. Have some butter in a frying-pan boiling hot, drop the paste by spoonful into it, let each be the size of a walnut; the paste will swell, and you must take them out when a good colour, keep them hot till all are done; sift sugar over them or serve sweet sauce in a boat, made with white wine, butter, sugar, and grated nut- meg.165 SWEET DISHES. PAIN PERDU. Beat some eggs with orange-flower water, sugar, and a little salt, cut some slices of bread, soak them in some boiling milk, then drain them, and dip them in the egg; put some butter in a frying- pan, and when melted, put in your slices of bread successively till all are done; let there be plenty of butter. As fast as you take them out, sift sugar over them, and serve hot with wine sauce in a boat. CREPES. Take some flour, mix it with milk and water, eggs, brandy, salt, and orange-flower water; make your batter two or three hours before you use it. Melt in a frying-pan some butter or lard, about the size of a walnut, pour in some of the batter, and shake the pan so that it spreads all over it. When done on one side, toss it quickly over, to let the other side be done also, then dish it, and keep hot till the others are done, sifting sugar over each. GATEAU DE RIZ. Wash your rice, and put it on to swell in milk, with some lemon-peel, or a stick of vanille, sugar, and a little salt. When it is tender, mix166 SWEET DISHES. some eggs with it well beaten^ keeping out half the whites, which you beat to snow, and then mix with the rice. Butter a mould; put your rice in, sift bread crumbs over the mould first, and again over the rice, then bake it in an oven. CROQUETTES DE RIZ. Wash and prepare your rice as in the former receipt, but in place of putting it in a mould, roll it into balls, dip these balls into eggs beaten with sugar; shake bread crumbs over it, baste them again, again shake crumbs over them, and fry. GENOISES. Beat well in an earthen pan six whole eggs, six ounces of powdered sugar, a quarter of a pound of sweet almonds pounded, a quarter of a pound of flour, a little salt, some orange-flower water, a piece of butter the size of an egg, spread it on a battered plate the thickness of a crown- piece, bake it in a quick oven, when done and a good colour, cut it into genoises round, or any form you please, dry them and serve. OMELETTE DE POMMES. Cut some apples in slices after peeling and taking out the cores, stew them with a few cloves^167 SWEET DISHES. a lemon-peel, a little thyme ; prepare a batter with eggs, cream, sugar, and cinnamon, mix the apples with this, and bake in a tart pan with paste round. DEMI POMMES. Peel apples, take out the core and cut them in halves, roll them in bread crumbs mixed with sugar, butter a tart pan, and lay in the apples, cover the pan and bake in a quick oven. BABA. Take half an ounce of salt, four or five eggs^ a quarter and a half of butter, about the size of a nut of saflFron in powder, a quarter and a half of raisins, half a quarter of currants, a little yeast or leaven, have three quarts of flour, make a hole in the middle, put in all the ingredients, and mix with lukewarm water; put it in a buttered pan, let it rise six hours in winter, and then bake it. GATEAU D'AMANDES. Put on a pasteboard a quart of flour, make a hole in the middle, and put in it about the size of an egg of butter, five eggs, yolks and whites well beaten, a pinch of salt, and a quarter of a pound of fine sugar, six ounces of almonds168 SWEET DISHES. pounded. Mix all together, and make a cake; bake and glaze it with sugar and a hot sala- mander. ANOTHER MODE. Take flour, fresh butter, pounded sugar, almonds peeled; add orange-flower water, and pound all together in a mortar. Make it into a paste; butter a mould, line it with buttered paper, put in your paste, cover it over, and let it bake gently with fire on the top. Glaze with sifted sugar. GAUERES. Put in a bowl some flour, a little salt, a spoonful of brandy, eggs, powdered sugar; moisten by degrees with cream or good milk; heat your gaufre-iron, butter it, and pour in a large spoonful of the batter ; let the two sides be done equally; when done, turn them out. Eat cold. GATEAU A LA CREME. Take a pound of flour, make a hole in the middle, and add a quart of thick cream, with a pinch of salt, mix into a light paste, let it stand half an hour, then add half a pound of butter to the paste, roll it out five times169 SWEET DISHES. like paste, and then cut into shapes the form you please. Egg them over with tl^e beaten yolk of an egg, and bake. FLAN. Mix a spoonful of flour, the same of brandy, or orange-flower water, with the yolks of eight eggs, and a little salt; have a quart of milk, boiling hot, in which you melt a quarter of a pound of sugar; add this to your eggs, stirring the whole time, then put it into a tin pan with a cover, and put it into an oven, with some hot cinders on the cover. Half an hour will bake it. At the moment you serve, sift powdered sugar over it, and let it colour in a hot oven. CROQUETTES DE ELAN. Take a piece of the flan, cut it into pieces the size of a walnut, roll them in flour, and fry them in butter. Drain them, sift sugar over them, and serve in a napkin. CROQUETTES DE RIZ (ANOTHER MODE). Swell a quarter of a pound of rice in a quart of milk, add five or six macaroons to flavour them, chopped fine; a quarter of a pound of sugar, a pinch of salt, some orange-flower water.SWEET DISHES. 170 or orange-flowers pralinee, with about the size of an egg of butter; add four yolks of eggs. Do not boil, but spread this on a dish; when cold, cut it into pieces, make them into balls, dip each into the beaten yolks of eggs, roll them in bread crumbs, and fry them. Just as they are done and a good colour, take them off, drain them, sift sugar over them, and serve hot. CREPES DE POMMES. Make a thick batter with eggs, cream, grated nutmeg, a glass of brandy, a pinch of salt, a little sugar, and a little flour; add some essence of vanille, or steep a stick of vanille in the batter an hour before you mix it with the apples. Pare some good baking apples, take out the cores, and chop them fine; then mix with the batter. Drop a spoonful of the batter in the frying-pan in which you have melted some butter, and which is boiling hot; take the crepes out, and dish them, sifting white sugar over them.171 CREAMS. CREAMS. CREME FRITE. Boil a quart of cream, add two spoonsful of flour, some sugar and lemon-peel, grated; stir it, and let it stew till the raw taste of the flour has gone off. When it is cool, mix three eggs with it; pour this batter on a dish well floured, and when it is cold, cut it in pieces, and fry them in butter. Sift sugar over, and serve with sauce made with wine, sugar, nutmeg and arrow-root, or butter. I prefer the first. CREME A LA FLEUR D'OBANGE. Boil a quart of cream, or good milk; when boiling, add sugar to taste, and some orange- flower water. Beat six or seven eggs, leaving out half the whites, pour them into your cream; then put this into your dish, and bake it, or put it covered into a pan of boiling water, and put hot cinders on the cover; serve in the dish. Vanille may be used in place of the orange-flower water, or lemon-peel may be boiled with the milk in place of the other to flavour it. A good cook will vary this at pleasure.CREAMS. 173 CREME AU CHOCOLAT. Grate some chocolate, or cut it into small pieces, dissolve it in boiling milk, add sugar to taste. Beat some eggs, putting one white to two yolks, then mix it together, and finish like the creme a la fleur d^orange. CREME AU CAFE. Boil your milk, make some strong, clear coflFee—a cup full will be enough—add sugar to taste. Break and beat your eggs, but only put in a couple of the whites, mix these with the boiling milk, put it into a dish, and finish as before. CREME AU THE. Boil your cream, and pour it on some tea, boiling hot; let it infuse till strong enough, then add sugar, pass it through a tamis. Beat your eggs as before, add to the cream, and finish like the other cremes. FROMAGE A LA CREME. Take some very thick sweet cream, put it in an earthen pan, and whisk it till snow, first adding sugar and vanilla, lemon-peel, or orange- flower water. You may add a little wine also.CREAMS. 173 This cream is very delicate, and also served on trifles, wliicli you prepare as follows : Take either spunge-cakes or Savoy biscuits—the first is best —steep them in wine with brandy, one-third of the latter to two-thirds of wine. When well steeped, put them in your trifle-dish in a layer, or steep them in the dish, which is better, then put a layer of macaroons on them, baste them with wine, then put a layer of apricots, raspberry or strawberry-jam, cover this with a rich custard, which should be thick, add some pieces of pre- served citron also, and cover it with the whipped cream, drained first on a sieve. CREAMS IN MOULDS. Boil a quart of cream with a stick of vanille, lemon-peel, or a few bitter almonds, sweeten it to taste. When boiling, add an ounce of isin- glass dissolved and clarified; let it boil a few minutes, pass it through a tamis after allowing it to settle a few minutes to let any sediment fall to the bottom, then pour it into your moulds; and when cold, turn out. These creams will be much lighter, if you whisk them well till set and thick, before you put them into your moulds.CREAMS. 174 BAVAROISES Are made in the same manner, with this diffe- rence, that in place of the vanille or lemon-peel, you use raspberry or strawberry juice in summer, or jelly in winter. You may also make it with water in place of cream, but it is not so rich, though many prefer it. Cream whipped with any essence you please, sweetened to taste, and put in a small cheese-vat on a napkin, or use a sieve for four-and-twenty hours, then turned out is very good. CREPES A LA CREME. Boil a pint of cream for five minutes with a stick of cinnamon, a few coriander-seeds and two ounces of sugar; let it cool, and then mix in it three table-spoonsful of flour and six eggs well beaten, strain it through a tamis. Stir in it two ounces of melted butter, a little grated nutmeg, and a little salt, then put a piece of butter into a frying-pan. When it is hot, put in a tea-cup full of the batter, fry them a nice brown without turning, as they are very delicate, and apt to break; serve with sugar sifted over them.175 BEIGNETS. BEIGNETS. BEIGNETS SOUFFLES. Mix some flour with beer into a thick batter, pour a spoonful into a frying-pan, buttered^ and boiling hot; they will swell at once; put in more till you have enough; sprinkle salt over them, and serve hot. SOUFFLETS DE DaUPHINE. Boil a quart of water with a little salt, some sugar, and the rind of a lemon; mix about a pint of flour with a little water, quite smooth. When the water boils, take out the lemon-peel, and add the flour, taking care to stir it in by degrees, and quite smooth; then let your batter boil till it thickens, and the spoon will stand in it. Take it ofi" the fire, and beat four or five eggs, as if for an omelette; mix this by degrees in your batter, and let it cool. When you want to serve, have some oil in a frying-pan boiling hot; take some of the batter, about the size of a nut, with a spoon, and put it into the frying- pan. Make a dozen the same size. When a good colour, take them out, drain them on a176 BEIGNETS. cloth; serve hot, with sugar sifted over and under. BEIGNETS DE FRAISES OU FRAMBOISES. Pick your raspberries^ or strawberries; steep them in the batter made for beignets de Dau- phine; fry .them^ about half a dozen in each beignet. If you wish them to be still lighter, add some whites of eggs beaten to a froth, with the rind of a lemon, grated. BEIGNETS A LA CREME. Make a vanille or orange-flower cream; add a little flour to make it thicker; pour it on plates to cool, then cut them in lozenges; dip them in the white of an egg well beaten; sift sugar over them, and grated lemon-peel; sift crumbs of stale Savoy or Naples biscuits over each, and fry. Serve hot, with sugar sifted over them. BEIGNETS DE TARTINES. Cut some thin slices of bread and butter, cut- ting off the crusts; steep them in vanille cream, with a little wine or brandy in it; fry them lightly. Serve hot, with sugar sifted over. BEIGNETS D'ACACIA. Make a batter with a little flour and a spoon-BEIGNETS. 177 ful of orange-flower water, two eggs and a little water; let your batter be rather thin. Steep in this some bunches of acacia flowers. When you serve, take them out with a spoon, a bunch in each, and fry them a nice colour. Serve them hot with sugar sifted over them. BEIGNETS GLACES. Take some flour, mix it with cream, the yolks of four eggs, and a bit of curd; let it simmer till the consistency of a thick batter; rub a plate or dish with butter, pour this on it, let it settle and get cold; then cut it into squares, fry them a good colour, sift sugar over them, and glaze them with a hot salamander. BEIGNETS OF ALMONDS OR PISTACHES. They are made the same as the last, with this diflference, that you add almonds or pistachios pounded fine, with milk. Glaze them as be- fore. You may use vanille, cocoa, chocolate, or any kind of fruit, by following the same rule. BEIGNETS AU BLANC. Mix a spoonful of rice-flour with some good milk, let it stew slowly, stirring it constantly, N178 BEIGNETS. and adding some cream, sugar, lemon-peel, grated, and some orange-flower water. When done enough, let it cool; form your paste into bullets the size of a walnut; dip these into batter; fry them, and sift sugar over them. BEIGNETS DE POMMES DE TERRE. Roast some potatoes, and pound them, after skinning, with a little salt, cream, a glass of brandy, and a little butter; add, when pounding, a whole egg, till the paste is thick enough to make into bullets, then let it cool. Shake flour over the balls when you have made them ; fry in butter j sift sugar over when served. BEIGNETS OF RICE OR SEMOULINA. These are made in the same way, and served with sugar sifted over them. BEIGNETS DE POMMES. Take some pippins, peel, and remove the cores, cut them in thin slices or quarters, and steep them in brandy, lemon-juice and sugar till they have a good flavour; fry them a good colour, and glaze them with sugar. Serve them hot.179 PASTRY. BEIGNETS DE POIRES (PEARS) Are made exactly the same as apples; and so are peaches and apricots^ or cherries. BEIGNETS D'ORANGE. Peel and cut oranges in quarters; strew sugar over them; steep in batter, and fry; glaze thin. BATTER FOR BEIGNETS. Put in a basin a pint of flour, a little salt, two spoonsful of oil, and a little water; stir the batter with a wooden spoon; add water to the batter till it is the consistence of thick cream; add two eggs, after beating the whites to snow; mix them well with the batter, make it two hours before you use it, and it will be light. PASTRY. FRENCH PASTE FOR TARTS, &c. This is one of the most diflScult things to make well, and requires care and practice, as the best cooks often fail. The following will be found good: take your flour and put it on the table in a little heap, make a hole in the middle, and N 2180 PASTRY. put in it butter^ salt, yolks of eggs, and a glass of water. Knead and mix it well; when it is neither too soft nor too hard put it in a bowl, and let it stand twenty minutes. After standing twenty minutes, shake a little flour over the paste-board and roll out your paste, flatten half a pound or a pound of butter, according to the quantity of paste you make, let it be half the size of the paste nearly, double it over the butter, roll it out, then fold it in three and again roll it out, do this five or six times, shaking flour over the board, let it stand a quarter of an hour be- tween each time you roll it; after the sixth time the paste is finished. In winter, when the butter is too hard, soften it by putting it in a warm place for a few minutes, or warm a bowl in boil- ing water and put it over your butter, in a few minutes it will be fit for use, and use lukewarm water to mix the paste. In summer, put your butter in cold water to make it firm. PETITS PATES HOT. Having prepared your paste as directed, roll it out very thin, cut it out with a paste-cutter in rounds as large as a crown piece, put two or three rounds one on the other, with a little181 PASTRY. minced meat^ of what kind you please in each, cover it, moisten the edges with beaten yolk of egg, egg them over, and bake in a quiet oven. PATE BRISEE, GALETTES, GATEAUX. Galettes and cakes are made of paste not quite so light or rich as for tarts or pates, made as fol- lows :—Put your flour in a heap on the board, make a hole in the middle, put in this butter, eggs, salt, and water; mix and roll it out, then fold it up and let it stand twenty minutes, roll it out and again fold it in three, do this three or four times; then make your galette the size you wish, egg it over and bake it, butter it when hot, or serve without being buttered. PATE RAISED PASTE. Put your flour on the board as before, and mix with the yolk of one egg, a little butter, salt, and water. Make a firm paste and mix it well, then put it in a bowl to stand; knead it with your hands and flatten it with your hands three or four times ; then again put it in a bowl covered with a damp cloth, and let it stand half an hour. This paste is used without a mould, and requires great care, cut a round for the bottom, cut a182 PASTRY. piece for the sides^ on which you cut ornaments. As this is difficult you may use a mould till ac- customed to it. Put a buttered paper inside the mouldy on this put your paste to take the form, egg the sides and bottom to make them stick firm, put your meat in and bake, having first made a hole in the top of the paste for the steam, orna- ment the top with flowers made of paste; when baked take ofi" the mould, egg it over with a feather, and put it back to colour; it should be a golden colour. GARNITURE FOR COLD PATES. Take pieces of meat, game, and poultry, very fresh and tender; bone, skin, and take out the sinews and fat; lard them with bacon : season with salt, pepper, spices, a clove of garlic, thyme, and bay-leaf. Set them a few minutes in a frying-pan in butter; let them get cold, fill your pie with a layer of bacon at the bot- tom and top; then bake it in raised paste. PATE DE LIEVRE ET DE LAPIN. Skin your hare or rabbit, clean it and take off all the meat, season with pepper and salt, and lard half the meat. Let it stew slowly tillPRESERVES. 183 half done with butter, chop the remainder of the hare or rabbit with the liver and some bacon ^ add shalots, onions, a clove of garlic, thyme, parsley, bay-leaf, salt, and pepper. Mix with a glass of brandy and a little white wine; put the whole into paste as before. TERRINE DE VOLAILLES, VIANDES, OR GIBIER. In an earthen mould, which you use in place of paste, the manner is the same nearly, only as there is no fear of burning the paste, you need not half dress the meat before you use it. Season your poultry, meat, or game with pep- per and salt, and put it on a layer of bacon as before, and round the sides. Put on the earthen cover, and paste bands of paper round to prevent evaporation; then bake till you think your meat is done. A calf s head can be dressed the same way, with forcemeat balls and hard yolks of eggs intermixed. Serve cold. PRESERVES. COMPOTE DE POMMES. Take some fine rennets, cut them in quarters, after having peeled them and removed the 'PRESERVES. 184 pippins; put them into a stewpan with a glass of water, some lemon-peel, or orange-peel, and sugar to taste. When they are well done, put them into the compotier. COMPOTE AUX CONFITURES. Peel some apples, scoop out the cores, stew them with a glass of water and some sugar; take care that they are not broken. Dish them in a compotier, and when cold, fill them with preserved fruit; let the juice reduce to a jelly, pour it in a plate to take the form, let it get quite cold, and when you serve, put this jelly over the fruit. PRUNES. Steep some good prunes two hours in cold water, then put the prunes into a stewpan with a glass of wine, the same of water, some lemon- peel and sugar, and let them stew for three hours. Serve cold. COMPOTE DE PECHES. Before they are too ripe, separate the peaches and take out the kernels; then scald them, boil them again till done in a syrup half sugar and half water; then drain ofi" the syrup, and add four ounces more sugar to each pint of185 PRESERVES, syrup. Put the fruit into this and reboil it in the syrup three or four times, letting the fruit cool between each boil. Put your fruit into pots and cover them with syrup. When cold, cover close. COMPOTE DE POIRES. Peel your pears and take out the cores, scald them, and then put them to stew in a syrup with cinnamon till done enough. Take out your pears, reduce the syrup, and pour over the fruit. You may use lemon-peel also. COMPOTE DE MARRONS. Peel your chesnuts, and then put them into a pan with sugar and a glass of water; let them stew slowly; when they are sweet enough, take them off, put them into a compotier, with some lemon-juice squeezed over them and soft sugar. COMPOTE DE GOINGS. Take five or six ripe quinces, take out the cores, scald them in boiling water, take off the skin, and cut each in half; then stew them in clarified sugar with some lemon-juice. When done enough, place them in a compotier, boilPRESERVES. 186 up your syrup^ adding more sugar and a glass of red wine; pour it over your fruit. COMPOTES OF PEARS WITH WINE. Peel and cut your pears in quarters; put them in a pan with a glass of water^ a quarter of a pound of sugar^ a little cinnamon; when half done, add a glass of wine, take out the pears, reduce the sauce to a syrup, and pour over the pears. Pears can also be stewed with rum instead of using wine. COMPOTE OF APRICOTS. Make a syrup with a glass of water and a quarter of a pound of sugar; take out the kernels and stew them in the syrup. Cherries, plums, strawberries, raspberries, and currants can be prepared in syrup in the same manner. CONSERVE DE CAFE. Make some strong coffee; clarify some sugar, add a cup of coffee, which boil to the great pearl; then pour it out to dry; cut it in lozenges for use. CONSEKVE DE CHOCOLAT. Scrape an ounce of chocolate, mix it with half a pound of sugar that has been boiled to thePRESERVES. 187 great pearly work it well with a spoon ; then put it into a mould made of paper; when cold^ cut it into lozenges. COMPOTE OF APRICOTS AND PEACHES. Boil your ripe fruit in water till it will crush between your fingers; take out the kernels; reduce it to a pulp, and to each pound add three quarters of a pound of sugar; let it boil till it forms a sort of jelly. CLARIFICATION OF SUGAR. To clarify sugar very white, beat two or three whites of eggs, according to the quantity you want; add, by degrees, water to the proportion of a quart for each white of egg; break your sugar, and put it in pieces into the water; boil it, skim it: add, by degrees, all the water; when the skim is very white, your sugar is clarified. CURRANT JELLY WITHOUT BOILING. Take some very ripe currants, squeeze the juice through a tamis; add a pound of sugar in pow- der ; mix well together, pass it through a jelly bag; let it stand, then put the jelly into small pots, and put it into the sun for two days : then paper it as usual.CONFITURES. 188 APRICOTS CANDIS OU AUTRES FRUITS. Peel your apricots^ scald them^ range them in a compotier, make a strong syrup of sugar, pour over tlie fruit, and serve cold. CONFITURES. CONFITURE DE COINGS. Peel and quarter some quinces, take out the cores, weigh them, and boil ihem a quarter of an hour; put your sugar into a basin, a pound of sugar for a pound of fruit; take the quinces out and drain them, put them in a preserving pan on your sugar, and let them simmer slowly three hours on a moderate fire; stir them often, but take care not to break the quinces. GELEE DE COINGS. Take some very ripe quinces, peel them and cut them in slices to preserve in a pan; take care to cover them with water; when quite tender, pour through a tamis, which you have placed over an earthen pan; let the juice drain, weigh it, and add as many pounds of sugar aseONFITURES. 189 you have juice, then boil it to the same con- sistence as currant jelly. CONFITURE DE PRUNES ENTIERE. Scald your plums, either greengage or mussel, when soft, take them up with a strainer, and put them into cold water. Then clarify five pounds of sugar for a hundred plums; put them into a flat pan, one by one, so as not to mash them; pour your syrup over them, a little more than lukewarm, twice a-day for five days, then take up your plums and put them on a sieve to drain; then again boil your syrup and skim it clear; put your plums in the jars you mean to keep them in, and pour the syrup over them, rather warm. CONFITURE DE POIRES. Take three pounds of sugar for six pounds of fruit, peal and quarter the pears, take out the cores; put them into a bowl with the sugar strewed over them, and let them remain twenty- four hours; then put them on to simmer for three hours with the rind of two lemons, let them remain ten minutes, take them off, and add the juice of two lemons.190 CONFITURES. CONFITURE DE PRUNES. Take some Reine Claude, or Mirabelle plums, take out the kernels; put them on the fire in a preserving pan, with three quarters of a pound of sugar for each pound of fruit; stir them till done enough; to try this, put a bit on a plate, press your finger on it, and if in taking it away, it leaves a string on your finger, it is done enough. Break the stones, take out the kernels, put them in hot water to take off the skin, and mix the kernels a few minutes before you take it ofi^. CONFITURE DE CERISES. Take fifteen pounds of ripe cherries, free from defects; take out the stones, and cut off the stalks; take two pounds of currants and one of raspberries, squeeze out the juice, and add the cherries in the preserving pan; boil them on a quick fire; add three quarters of a pound of sugar to each pound of fruit; let it simmer an hour, and then put the jam into small pots. CONFITURE DE MIRABELLES, WHOLE. Melt your sugar in a preserving-pan with a glass of water for each pound of fruit on a very quick fire, clarify the syrup with the whites ofCONriTURES. 191 one or two eggs beaten in a glass of water^ and skim. Put in your plums whole without taking out the stones; they will be done enough when they are tender to touch. In the same manner preserve apricots^ peaches, dividing them to take out the stones, use a pound of sugar to every pound of fruit. CONFITURE DE FRATSES. Take as many pounds of sugar as you have of fruit, make a syrup, then when cool put in your strawberries, let them boil ten minutes, and put them in the pots. You must cut off the stalks first, and take care not to have any bruised fruit. PEARS (DRIED) SECHEE. Peel your pears, and throw them into cold water in a preserving-pan, and let them boil till tender; then take them out with a strainer, and put them in cold water to cool, take them up, drain them, and put for every half a hundred of pears one pound of sugar to two pints of water. When it has melted, put in your pears, and let them remain two hours in the syrup, then put them in cheese-vats, the tail the192 CONFITURES. uppermost, and let them remain in a cool oven all night. The next day put them again in the syrup, and at night put them in the oven, repeat the steeping, and putting in the oven four days, and the last time they will be quite dry; pack them in a box for use between layers of paper. CHERRIES. Take some ripe cherries, and arrange them in cheese-vats, so as not to touch one another. Leave the stalks on, and put them to dry in a cool oven. Leave them in till the oven gets cold, then take them out, and turn them, and again put them into the oven, heating it to the same temperature as at first. When you think them dry enough, take them out, and tie them in bundles to keep dry. Plums are dried in the same manner. Peaches are also dried in the same manner, after splitting them to take out the stones; and when half dry, flatten them on a table. CONFITURES DE VIN. Take pears, apples, or quinces, boil them in water till they soften a little, then peel them and193 CONFITURES. a syrup made of wine and sugar^ or with some cinnamon and a few cloves; let tliem simmer till done enough^ then put them into pots, and when cold, cover them. CONFITURES AU MIEL. Choose some good honey, clarify it by boiling, let it get cold, and then use it for preserves in place of sugar. GRAPE JELLY. Take as many pounds of grapes as you please; squeeze them through a tamis into the preserving- pan ; put the juice on the fire, let it reduce a third, then add about one pound of sugar to four of fruit; let it reduce a little more, then pour it into your pots ; squeeze the juice of two lemons into it just before you take it off the fire. You may put into the jelly, if you like, some quinces, or pears peeled and the cores scooped out, and boiled till tender in thin syrup, or they may be cut in quarters before put in. Leave the pots uncovered five or six days, then paper them. Watch them carefully, and if the paper becomes moist, replace it with another paper, and repeat this till all the moisture evaporates. Turn it out when you serve for dessert. o194 SYRUPS. SYRUPS. SYRUP FOR LIQUORS. Boil two pounds of sugar with a quart of water; strain it^ and add by degrees another quart of water. When finished^ and you have a good syrup, add the white of an egg beaten with the shell; let it boil up; then strain through a jelly-bag for use. Bottle it close. SYRUP OF PRESERVED FRUITS. Take the juice of any preserved fruit you may have left after filling the pots, add some clarified sugar, and boil together. This, mixed with cream, serves in place of jam, or will make a refreshing drink. SYRUP TO GLAZE FRUIT. Boil a wine-glass of fruit, add two pounds of sugar, and let it boil till you find that when you put in your spoon, and take it out of your syrup, you see threads that will break between your fingers. This syrup is used to glaze all kinds of fruit, such as grapes, currants, &c., which you dip in.SYRUPS. 195 and let cool. Also slices of orange^ peeled firsts two fastened together, and when glazed, stuck with the glaze to papers cut in rounds, and scalloped round the edges. This looks well, and is convenient at suppers. SYROP DE GROSEILLES. Take five or six pounds of red currents, pick them, add a quart of cherries, stoned, and the stalks cut off; squeeze the juice out and let the liquor ferment two or three days, then make a strong syrup, boil your juice and mix together, then let it cool and filter it; for one pound of fruit add two pounds of sugar, not counting the cherries. This is a very refreshing drink in summer, or at balls, mixed with water; the bottles must be tightly corked and sealed. SYROP D'ORGEAT. Blanche and pound three-quarters of a pound of sweet almonds, and a few bitter, with some water; squeeze them through a cloth ; make a thin syrup of sugar. When it boils, add your almond milk; let all boil up, and when cold, bottle for use. o 2196 SYRUPS. SYROP DE GUIMAUVE. Take half a pound of marsh-mallow root, scrape and wash it well, then cut it into small pieces, and put them on the fire in four quarts of water; when it has boiled enough, and the water is like glue, strain it through a tamis; if too thick add another quart of boiling water, let it boil up once before you strain ; take four pounds of sugar, pour your decoction over it, then clarify the syrup with the whites of eggs well beaten; let it simmer again; strain, and when cold, bottle it. SYROP DE CITRON. Make four quarts of syrup, with ten glasses of water to each pound of sugar; boil the thin rinds of a dozen lemons in four quarts and a pint of water; when boiled, strain this through a tamis, squeeze the juice of the lemons, and strain it; then add the syrup, or four pounds of sugar, which you please, and boil till a fine syrup; next let it cool, and bottle for use. SYROP D'ORANGE, OU CITRON. Put three pounds of loaf-sugar to one quart of lemon or orange-juice, Seville oranges are theSYRUPS. 197 best, put them into an earthen-jar, and set it into a pan of cold water; let it boil until quite clear, strain it well when done, and bottle for use; cork it close. This syrup is very good for making orange or lemon-jelly, or lemonade. The jelly is made by adding one ounce of isinglass dissolved in a pint of water, and putting the syrup to your taste ; it will make a clear fine jelly. When cold, turn it out. RASPBERRY VINEGAR. Pick two pounds of ripe raspberries, then let them steep four or five days in strong vinegar; strain it off without squeezing it; add two pounds of sugar broken, and clarified to each quart, let it simmer very gently on a slow fire, stirring it to mix the sugar well with the vinegar, when it boils strain through a tamis, and when cold, bottle it for use. You can add half the quantity of vinegar to the raspberries, and let it steep three or four days; then squeeze through a tamis. This will be good, but not as clear, and will answer for present use.KATAFIAS. 198 RATAFIAS. RATAFIA DE NOYAUX D'ABRICOTS. Peel and cut in pieces half a pound or three quarters of the kernels of apricots. Let them steep for fifteen days in six quarts of brandy, shake the jar occasionally, and strain through a tamis placed over a large bowl or eaj-then-pan ; add three or four pounds of sugar melted in two quarts and a pint of water. Strain your ratafia, and bottle it for use. RATAFIA DE FLEURS D'ORANGE. Take four ounces of orange-flowers; let them infuse in two quarts of brandy for four days, add a pound and a half of sugar melted in a quart of water. Strain your ratafia, and filter it before you bottle for use. RATAFIA DE GENIEVRE. Take a quarter of a peck of juniper-berries, infuse them in four large quarts of brandy with a pound and a half of sugar for fifteen days; filter this infusion, and bottle for use. RATAFIA DE NOIX. Take as many green walnuts as you think199 RATAFIAS. enougli_, crush them, and steep them for two months in a jar closely covered with five pints of brandy, a pound of sugar, an ounce of cinnamon, the same of cloves, and nutmegs grated. At the end of two mon1;hs, strain and filter for use before you bottle. RATAFIA OF CURRANTS. Put in a jar two quarts of brandy with two pints of currant-juice and two pounds of sugar, a little cinnamon, and a few cloves; mix well together; let it remain a month, then strain it, and bottle for use. RATAFIA OF QUINCES. Take some ripe quinces, scrape them to the core; let them remain four-and-twenty hours, then squeeze the juice through a cloth, mix the juice with an equal quantity of brandy, add to each quart a quarter of a pound of sugar, and some cinnamon; in two months strain it, and filter for use before you bottle it. RATAFIA D'ANGELIQUE. Strip the leaves ofi* some stalks of angelica, cut them in strips, put these strips into brandy with a fourth of water, add sugar, cloves, and aLIQUEURS. 200 little cinnamon; let it infuse six weeks^ then pour off, filter, and bottle for use. To a pound of angelica add four quarts of brandy, four pounds of sugar and two quarts of water. RATAFIA OF ORANGES. To four quarts of brandy, put the rinds of twelve Portugal oranges, squeeze the juice, and melt in it two pounds of sugar. Shake all together in a jar; let it infuse a month, filter it, and bottle for use. Very good. LIQUEURS. ANISETTE. Infuse half a pound of green aniseed in six pints of brandy, with the peel of two or three lemons and a little cinnamon. Let it infuse a month; strain it, and add three pints of water and three pounds of clarified sugar; filter and bottle. EAUX DE CERISES, GROSEILLES, OU FRAMBOISES. Take either cherries, currants, raspberries, strawberries, or mulberries. For each pound of201 LIQUEURS. fruity add a pint of water; squeeze your fruit, and mix the juice with the water; strain it through a bag, and add sugar to taste, and again strain it. This when mixed with water is very- refreshing in summer, you can cool it by putting the bottle in cold water an hour or two before you use it. This will also answer for ices. CHERRIES IN BRANDY. To a pint of brandy put a quart of the juice of raspberries or mulberries, which you squeeze through a tamis to get the juice clear; add to this juice and brandy a pound and a half of sugar, when it has all melted have your cherries ready with the stalks cut off, arrange them in your jars and pour over the brandy, shake some more sugar in and cover the jars for winter use. ABRICOTS A L'EAU DE VIE. Begin by scalding your apricots in thin syrup, for four or five days ; then, when boiling the last time, add a pint of brandy, let them boil up, take them off and when cold put them into jars, and pour the syrup over them. Cover for use. Plums can be preserved in the same way, and pears can be also preserved in brandy.202 LIQUEURS. CASSIS. Take some black currants^ pick and crush them; put them in ajar with brandy; add cloves and cinnamon. Let them steep two months^ then strain off the juice, and squeeze the currants to extract all the juice; add sugar to taste, filter the w^hole, bottle it, cork close and keep. Blot- ting paper is best to filter it through. MUSCAT. Take some ripe muscatelle grapes, crush them, and strain the juice; add sugar melted, brandy, and cinnamon. Let it infuse for twelve days. Filter, and bottle. NOYEAU, Infuse for several weeks apricot kernels cut in pieces, in brandy; shake the jar from time to time; melt some sugar in water; take out the kernels; mix the sugar and water with the brandy; then filter, and bottle for use.MISCELLANEOUS. 203 MISCELLANEOUS. CLARIFICATION OF SUGAR. Whisk a white of an egg in a quart of water, for five or six pounds of sugar, and in the same proportion, more or less. Boil your sugar up three times, and each time check the boiling by pouring in a little water. Take it ofi" the fire and let it stand a little, then skim it; put it on again with a little more water to check the boil- ing. Skim it once more and strain it through a tamis. GROG. Put a slice of lemon and some sugar into a glass, add a wineglassful of brandy, and fill your tumbler with boiling water. PUNCH. Pour some boiling water on a spoonful of tea and the peel of a lemon, let it infuse, then add some sugar to taste. Mix some brandy and rum with it to the strength you like. Wine punch is made with brandy and wine, with lemon-peel and cloves.204 MISCELLANEOUS. If you have any calf s foot jelly, a little added to your puneli makes it richer and milder. LAIT DE POULE. Boil some water; when boilings pour it in a glass^ with some sugar and orange-flower water. Beat two eggs (the yolks only), put this into a stewpan with the boiling water, stir till it thickens, and drink hot. This is very much used in France^ when persons suffer from a chill, or require something light and nourishing. TO MAKE POULTRY TENDER. If obliged to dress poultry immediately after killing, to make it tender, do as follows : Steep it in boiling water, and feather it in the hot water; or before you kill the poultry, be it turkey or goose^ make it swallow a spoonful of vinegar. These methods will make the poultry as tender as if killed some days previous to being dressed. To make meat tender, beat it with a wooden rolling-pin before you dress it. STOCK. When stock begins to turn sour, or meat to get high, or even fish to spoil, a hot coal thrown205 MISCELLANEOUS. into the stock as it boils will take off the sour taste, and a little bag of charcoal put with the seasoning of the meat or fish, will make them eatable if absolutely required. TO PRESERVE EGGS. Grease them all over, and then put them in a box, in layers, with sand, or ashes, and keep in a dry place; you must close the box each time that you take them out, as the air will spoil them. TO PRESERVE VEGETABLES. You must gather your turnips, carrots, or sal- sifi in dry weather; then make furrows in sand; cut off the leaves, roots, and about an inch of the vegetable, so that they can lie one on the other; only strew sand one or two inches deep between each layer. You must keep them in some place where neither damp or frost can affect them. TO PRESERVE ARTICHOKES IN PICKLE. Choose some fine artichokes and prepare them as if for immediate cooking, that is to say, cut off the tails and the ends of the leaves; then soak them in boiling water till you can remove the choke easily; when you have removed it,206 MISCELLANEOUS. sprinkle the inside with fine salt^ and place them in a stone jar^ which fill with water^ and throw a good handful of salt; let them remain a night. The next day change the water^ put two or three handsful of salt and a glass of vinegar to make a strong pickle. Cover it with melted butter; and when you wish to use them^ steep them in luke- warm water, to take off the taste of the pickle, and boil or stew them. TO PRESERVE BEANS. Gather them when full size, pick them, and scald them a few minutes, but do not let them lose their colour. After having drained them, and let them get cool, put them in a stone jar, that will hold two or three quarts, but do not let them be closely packed, so as to let the pickle be between them ; put a handful of salt into the water; the next day throw off the water, and pour a stronger pickle over them, two parts water and one part vinegar, with two or three handsful of salt, and pour over all some melted butter. The beans will preserve their colour and flavour prepared thus.MISCELLANEOUS. 207 TO PRESERVE SORREL. To sorrel you add leeks^ parsley, chervil, and purslain. Pick all these herbs and chop them fine in a kettle, then let them stew in their own juice, stirring them continually to prevent their burning. When the juice begins to dry, and the sorrel is thick, add salt, and put it into jars; let it cool, and then cover with melted butter. I TO PICKLE Gherkins, capers, and small onions with any other vegetable that is good with vinegar, you can pickle. Let them remain a day or two with salt strewed over them, and then put them into a stone jar with vinegar, and add garlic and tar- ragon. TO PICKLE GHERKINS. Clean and wash your gherkins, cut off the stalks, and put them in a jar with some salt. Stir them occasionally, that all may be equally salted; leave them a day or two in their pickle. Afterwards throw out the pickle they have made, and put them back in the jar, and add salt and vinegar. The next day throw away this pickle, and replace it with vinegar, tarragon, smallMISCELLANEOUS. 208 onions^ garlic^ allspice^ cloves^ and whole pepper- corns. If you wish your gherkins to be perfect at the end of a week^ take away the vinegar, and fill it up with fresh, adding more spices and pepper. Cover your jar closely to exclude the air, which spoils the taste and look of the gher- kins; a few capsicums added improves the flavour, but take care they are red, and fully ripe, as those that are green spoil the flavour and makes them bitter. TO PRESERVE FRUITS. The more firm and hard the fruits are, the better they will preserve ripe fruits. Fruits with seeds preserve easier then those with kernels. The fruit to be preserved should be placed in a close room, which should also be dark. Lay them on planks, so that they cannot touch each other, as that spoils them sooner. If your fruit is very choice and fine, wrap them separately in paper bags and hang them from nails or crooks fixed in the shelves. Bunches of grapes are preserved in the same manner, the stalk at the bottom, or it is still better to put them in close drawers to exclude the air.209 MISCELLANEOUS. TO CLEAN PLATE, KNIVES, LAMPS AND THE KITCHEN UTENSILS. A good housekeeper never should neglect to have everything belonging to the table, clean and in good order. The silver plate ought to be washed from time to time with Spanish soap; without this precaution, it will become black and a bad colour. When the plate is cleaned, rub it with a chamois leather, which will make it bright; occasionally use hartshorn powder mixed with gin, and then polish it off with the chamois. When the plate is cleaned, the knives should be looked to; nothing should be neglected. The lamps should be cleaned every day; wipe the glasses, and cut the wicks. Half an hour before you light them, fill them with oil. The stew and saucepans should be carefully looked to and cleaned, as serious illnesses have been caused by a neglect of this care. When the pans are cleaned they ought not to be exposed to the sun or fire to dry them quicker. Spanish soap and water is the best thing to clean kitchen utensils. THE END.Printed by Schulze and Co., 13, Poland Street.Riley Dunn &. Wilson Ltd