ADVERTISEMENTS. AS SUPPLIED TO MEMBERS OF THE ROYAL FAMILY. ^ MAGGI’S CONSOMME IN GELATINE TUBES. Boxes Containing Ten Tubes, Is. 8cl. FRENCH SOUPS. ) THIRTY THREE VARIETIES. LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY special Collections Lookery Camden 301 0602278 0406 4d. I kinds of MEN, ANDLondon Borough c Swiss Cottage Library 88 Avenue Road LONDON NW3 3HA c r' ..J This booMs due for return on or befor below. The period of loan can be exter reserved (please ask for details of rene\ Fines are charged on oveThe Nutshell Series. UNIFORM WITH THIS VOLUME. 6d. each (postage id.) How to Obtain Strength.—The common sense of exercise. Numerous diagrams. By J. H. Harrison (Professor of Gymnastics) and Ridge King. Nursing.—The rearing and management of children from infancy upwards. A practical instructor for the use of parents and superior nurses. By a Doctor of Medicine Dancing.—A practical handbook for the use of beginners. By Edward Scott, author of “ Dancing as it should be." “ Grace and Folly,” etc. Cycling. — A thoroughly practical handbook for cyclists of both sexes, with chapters on the care and manage- ment of machines. Illustrated. By C. W. Brown. Dressmaking.—This is a most useful book for ladies. By Easton de Barras. Knitting and Fancy Work.—Part I.—Plain and Fancy Knitting Part’ll.—Useful and Ornamental Crochet. Part III.—New and Fashionable Needlework. By Easton de Barras. The Photographic Colourist.—A manual for the use of amateurs. Giving every particular required for painting lantern slides and other transparencies, colouring diagrams, preparing lantern slides without the aid of photo- graphy, blacking out backgrounds, scratching in details, tinting paper prints, colouring paper prints to imitate oil paintings, crystoleum paintings, etc., etc. By J. W. Neville.COOKERY. THE NUTSHELL SERIES. By MARGUERITE NINETY*’ Iliffp. & Son, 3, London: St. Bride Street, Ludgate Circus, E CLondon Iliffe & Son, 3, St. Bride Street, Ludgate Circus, E.C Works; Coventry. -S»i^ T 870783PREFACE 71 N apology is almost necessary for offering yet j* another cookery book to the public, when there are already so many manuals on the subject; but as very few have appeared in this condensed form, I may be forgiven for offering a few remarks on such an ordinary subject. Moreover, as it is impossible to attempt anything exhaustive in such a small space, my readers will soon understand that my intentjon has been merely to provide a little handbook of reference for those who already know something about cookery, and yet would be glad of recipes which, though slightly out of the common, arc nevertheless practical and simple. MARGUERITE NINET. London, October, 1807.CONTENTS INTRODUCTION.. CHAPTER I- Practical and General Hints CHAPTER II.— Kitchen Utensils CHAPTER III.—Stocks and Sauces CHAPTER IV.-Soups CHAPTER V.—Pish CHAPTER VI.—Eggs and Potatoes CHAPTER VII.—Vegetables .. CHAPTER VIII.—Beef CHAPTER IX.—Mutton CHAPTER X.—Veal CHAPTER XI.—Pork CHAPTER XII.-Poultry and Game page 9 11 17 21 43 49 61 67 75 19 83 90 94 CHAPTER XIII.—Puddings and Sweets .. 102 CHAPTER XIV.—Pickling and Preserving .. 109INTRODUCTORY, IT is now some time since English cookery under- went a beneficial change, and this (as no one will deny) was effected when French and Continental recipes generally became more universally known and used in this country. Travel has lately been made possible even for people with the smallest incomes, and although we often grumble about the food obtainable during trips abroad, there is no doubt whatever that the fare provided by hotel and “ pension ” managers is really relished and appreciated. However, the change of which we speak has never been radically established, probably owing to the fact that Continental cookery has been somewhat mis- understood by housewives generally, and particularly by those to whom it would otherwise be most useful. The misunderstanding arises from two principal errors—one is the idea that foreign cookery is extravagant and only suited to those who possess large incomes ; and the other, that if it be carried out in an economical manner, it must necessarily be “messy,” or wanting in nourishment, or otherwise unpalatable to British tastes ; especially to the taste of such English people as have not had the opportunity n10 COOKERY. or the desire to travel, and to become accustomed in some measure to a different cuisine. Authors and compilers of recipes, dainty dinners, etc., have already amply catered for the public, and it would seem that yet another cookery book would hardly be more necessary than the traditional “ carrying of coals to Newcastle”; but there really is a great deal more to be said in order to show our housewives many ways and means of preparing appetising fare on economical principles, with very little more trouble and certainly at no greater expense than is devoted to the plain roast and boiled of which, whatever we may say, we occasionally get so tired. To help the English housewife to provide dainty dinners, to make the most of all good remains, and to cater economically in a varied and commonsense way, is the main object of this little book. Most of the recipes given here represent dishes usually found on Continental tables; many of them I have adapted after many trials, to suit a small party, and all will prove successful if the instructions are carefully followed.11 PRACTICAL AND GENERAL HINTS. CHAPTER I. PRACTICAL AND GENERAL HINTS. Cleanliness, economy, order, and attention to details are the essential characteristics of the good housewife, and therefore of the good cook; the one entails the other, for except in those houses where exceptionally clever cooks at correspondingly high salaries are kept, an inexperienced mistress is very apt to have inefficient servants. Naturally, it is not impelative that the housewife should in every case be capable of carrying out all the duties expected of her personnel, but certainly where she understands the matters relating to housekeeping, she will be more respected and much better served, just as she will herself be more in sympathy with those she employs if die sees difficulties and forestalls them by her tact and experience. And where young servants are employed, as they naturally must be, it is unfair to them and to ourselves to leave all the responsibility on their shoulders, and to be so ready with blame when a little more knowledge on the part of the employer would obviate or remedy the difficulty. ft is important that the cook should be clean in her person, that the cooking utensils should be thoroughly well scoured and absolutely sweet, free from musti- ness, rust, grease, etc.; and this applies to everythingCOOKERY. 12 that is used for the preparation of meals; well- scrubbed table, pastry and meat boards are of course a sine qud non; drawers and cupboards, larders, etc., must be kept closed, so that as little dust as possible may have access to their contents; and in the washing of vegetables, salads, and so forth, it is impossible to be too particular or too thorough. It is in the larder and in the scullery, however, that scrupulous cleanliness is almost of the greatest importance ; in the former the slightest neglect is the means of ruining quantities of good food, whereas in the latter the sink and washing utensils may easily become injurious to health, and are undoubtedly the source of endless danger unless most carefully attended to. The larder walls should be plainly whitewashed, and a fresh coat applied every spring; tiles look better and are equally cool, but it may not always be convenient to have them. The floor must be wiped out every other day or so. A few drops of Condy’s fluid, mixed with the rinsing water, will go far towards keeping the place quite sweet in all weathers. The shelves should be broad and plentiful, and one at least a marble slab, as butter, milk, stock, etc., will keep fresher than if they stood on wood. Have numerous hooks fixed in the ceiling, because raw joints, bacon, hams, etc., should never be allowed to remain either in paper or on a dish ; they should hang till wanted. The larder must be airy; to this effect it is good to have the window entirely removed or13 PRACTICAL AND GENERAL HINTS. fixed partly open, and the whole of the opening closely fitted with perforated zinc, which will let in the air and yet keep out the flies. Have the shelves wiped with a damp cloth every day, and do not allow an indiscriminate collection of half-empty howls, various small remnants on different dishes, etc., to accumulate and crowd the larder, especially after they have become dried up and useless. The most responsible servants need some kind of supervision in tliie matter, for they cannot always realise how easily fresh food becomes contaminated by contact with stale or strong-smelling articles. In this connection it should also be remembered that it is never a good plan to allow game to hang in the same place with other articles of food ; the larder should only contain such things as butcher’s meat, butter, cream, milk, etc., and bread, no groceries of any kind (these being kept in a special cupboard), and no cheese, unless it be in a well-covered pan. Where a regular daily delivery of meat cannot be depended upon, the provisions can be kept fresh for a considerable time (even without the help of ice) if proper precautions be taken. Powdered charcoal, for instance, sprinkled over a fresh joint of meat, will help to preserve it. As to gravy, soup, and stock, they are generally a difficulty in hot weather, but even then they may he kept from turning by boiling them once or twice a day, the latter only in excessive heat. \V hen ice is obtainable, it of course obviates a great deal of trouble and anxiety, only it must neverCOOKERY. 14 be bought in small quantities; that is decidedly false economy, as it melts in so short a time as to be hardly worth the expense. Do not hesitate to invest in as much as half a hundredweight at once, for instance, for if it is sprinkled with sawdust and wrapped up in a flannel, it will last an incredible time. In the refrigerators which have now attained to such perfection, such a block simply placed inside the apparatus without any further treatment should last at least a week. The scullery can be kept absolutely pleasant and wholesome by regular cleaning; the sink should be well rinsed and sluiced after every washing up. All vegetable matter should be kept together in a vessel provided for the purpose, which must be emptied after every meal; nothing is so unwholesome ns decayed matter in the house. The vegetable basket, too, should have a share of attention ; it must be overhauled every day, and any single article, such as an onion, turnip, carrot, etc., that shows the slightest sign of mould should be at once thrown awav; nothing should ever be left in the paper in which it may have been sent from the shop. Dish and kitchen cloths must be washed out regularly, and pending such washing should hang spread out on a horse or rail provided expressly, instead of being thrown together in a corner or in a tub, as is only too fre- quently the case. All the shelves must be carefully scrubbed once or twice a week, and occasionally with Condy’s fluid this is also very useful for purifying15 PRACTICAL AND GENERAL HINTS. the sink every now and then. These, of course, are merely hints, but as such may be a guide to every housewife ; she may improve upon them according to her own experience, remembering that, especially where the rules of health are concerned, domestics cannot be as well informed as more educated people concerning the dangers arising from the neglect of apparent trifles, and should therefore not incur all the blame when things go wrong. Whatever people may say or think to the contrary, cooking must be looked upon as an art, for it is no easy task to prepare the raw material at our disposal so that it may be wholesome, palatable, easily diges- tible, and chosen with a view to maintaining health and strength. ’Tis an old-world adage that “if a thing is worth doing at all, it is worth doing well,” and this applies to the culinary art perhaps more absolutely than to any other. It is carelessness in details, such as neglect of the thorough mixing of ingredients, a waste of butter, insufficient stirring, overboiling, etc., which so often spoils good materials. In these matters the indifferent cook shows an incompetency which should be a timely warning to those engaging the one domestic of the personnel whose greatest responsibility lies in providing for the comfort, health, and good temper of her employers. Finally, punctuality both on the part of the family, and on the part of the cook, is a nine qua non to the enjoyment of food prepared for a special time. It is therefore really incumbent upon everyCOOKERY. 1G housewife to be somewhat versed in matters culinary, so as to be capable of assuring herself that economy without stint, and a proper disposal of the materials at hand, are the order of the day in her establishment.17 KITCHEN UTENSILS. CHAPTER II. KITCHEN UTENSILS. This is a formidable subject, especially in England, where the general reform in culinary matters has not as yet extended very far towards improving the tools used by the ordinary cook. On the contrary, the latter seems to take a positive delight in her old- fashioned black saucepans, and very often cannot be induced to give any others a trial. On an emergency of course all kinds of things may be attempted, and fairly well carried out even with poor utensils. For instance, very tolerable coffee may be made in an ordinary jug if one knows how to do it, but in the natural course of things it is absolutely necessary in order to do justice to good material, and to properly carry out really good recipes, that the best possible utensils be provided. The question that arises, therefore, is this: By what kind of saucepans, etc., can the hideous black pots now in use be replaced ? Either by copper, seamless steel, block tin, or aluminium, or better still by some of each—at any rate, not by one sort to the exclusion of all the others. The labour of cleaning these utensils can be reduced to a minimum by rubbing them over every time they are used, and rinsing them out with proper care.18 COOKERY. For some purposes tinned ironware is quite per- missible, and of course less expensive than copper; the block-tin stewpans are also very useful, and are more conducive to rapid cooking than aluminium. The latter material is wonderfully light and un- corrosive, but it is still expensive in England, is not such a good conductor of heat as steel or copper, and requires some experience to ensure success. As a rule, the tendency among ordinary cooks and kitchenmaids is to neglect the proper scouring of kitchen utensils—indeed, there is no department of the household in which imperfect cleaning is so common, and at the same time so detrimental to health. Nothing but boiling water and soda need be used, with a little sand (or the chain scourer used abroad), Monkey soap, or Sapolio—in short, any good cleansing compound. If the pans be properly rinsed out and rubbed every time they are used, the weekly cleaning will not be a very formidable operation. In choosing kitchen utensils it is a good plan to purchase a few in addition to the strictly necessary number; also it is better to have them too large than too small ; above all, let them be of the best quality. The following list gives some idea of the utensils required by a small family with average tastes. Of course it must be modified according to individual wishes. One stock pot, half-a-dozen graduated stew- pans with lids, a couple of mute pans (one of these should be oval or oblong with lid and strainer, to be used especially for braising, for boiling hams, and forKITCHEN UTENSILS. 1!) preparing fillets of beef in foreign fashion, also for boiling fish), one glazing stewpan, a couple or so of pipkins, a frying basket, one or two gratin dishes, one mould for timbales, one for aspics, creams, etc., and two or three frying pans made of untinned iron, with straight sides, one being kept especially for omelettes. In spite of all prejudices to the contrary, it is indeed a great mistake to wash a frying pan. It should be placed over the fire until all the fat remaining in it is thoroughly melted ; pour it out and rub with clean soft paper (procurable in large quantities at a small cost), screwed up in a bunch and used vigorously—a fresh sheet being constantly taken, until at last the paper remains quite clean. Food cooked in a frying pan treated in this way will never be burnt unless the pan be absolutely worn out. In the country, or wherever jams and preserves are made at home, a few other things will be found necessary, such as a copper preserving pan, a sugar boiler, a copper skimmer, etc. Further, a pestle and mortar, roller, chopper, mincing machine, pastry board or slab, chopping board, ladles, skimmers, a fruit-stoner, strainer, hair and wire sieve, a good sharp carving knife for cutting bacon, etc., a set of small knives for peeling vegetables, salt and pepper boxes, convenient receptacles for the weekly supply of sugar, rice, and flour, a set of dripping basins, odd plates and dishes for keeping remains in the larder (where the dinner set should never be used), and a vegetable basket. Finally, the provision ofCOOKERY. 20 utensils for washing up and scrubbing ought to be plentiful, and they should be large enough to allow of quantities of hot water being used. It is a bad, but very common habit, on the part of young girls especially, to attempt to wash up in a vessel too small for the purpose, with the inevitable result that the plates and dishes remain greasy and smeared. The thrifty housewife will avoid all this by occasional personal supervision, and by providing for her servants articles with which to fulfil theii duties as promptly and as thoroughly as possible.STOCKS AND SAUCES. 21 CHAPTER III. STOCKS AND SAUCES. In this chapter we have the whole secret of good and economical culinary management, and it is just on this one point that the average English cook fails from lack of knowledge. This may seem rather a sweeping assertion, but certainly as far as the stock- pot is concerned, a great deal of experience is still lacking in this country. It is from an economical point of view that the stock-pot is considered to be of such great value abroad, whereas the average house- wife in this country knows little about it, because her notions about so-called economy lead her to think it an extravagant item ; and until she has persuaded herself by personal experience that the stock-pot is not only conducive to economy but imperative for the pur- poses of practical and dainty cooking, there will be something lacking in her productions. It is true that a variety of soups can be made (as we propose to show in a following chapter) without the help of any stock, but for sauces, for gravy, for the preparation of certain vegetables and for many soups, stock is an indispensable item, and there should always be some ready for use. The finality of stock is not to be determined by the quantity of meat used. If badly managed the best22 COOKERY. material and the largest amount of the same will pro- duce nothing worth using. Two pounds of beef (the shin) should give enough stock for ten persons, suppos- ing the whole quantity were needed for soup. In a small family or for ordinary purposes, viz., as the basis of other preparations, one pound would he sufficient, or the former quantity would of course last nearly a week, according to the uses to which it was put. The flavour of the bouillon can be varied by the addition of one or more ingredients at the time of making, as the following recipes will show. Beat the meat thoroughly, put it into the pot with cold watei, slightly salted, and do not place the cover on until the water begins to boil. Meantime keep up a moderate lire, and skim whenever it is necessary. As the water becomes hot add two or three large carrots, two leeks, one turnip, some celery, a sprig or two of parsley, and an onion studded with three or four clo\es. Above all remember that the simmering must be very slow ; nothing spoils stock so much as having to add water after it is partly done ; finally, and tins is the most important point, let it simmer at least five hours. This is what some people consider a draw- back and a waste of time, excuses which are simply the result of inexperience. The stock-pot need inconvenience no one, nor be in the way , half the time it stands slightly off the fire, so that it may not boil too quickly. It can be prepared at leisure during the afternoon, morning, or evening, as most convenient to the cook without interfering with other work, and23 STOCKS AND SAUCES. once made it is ready for all the needs of the week, or at any rate of two or three days. To vary this, use parsnips, for instance, instead of turnips, or half a cabbage, more or less carrots and celery, or more onions. A very little attention to the difference produced by such changes will soon enable the operator to ring the desired changes in the flavour of the stock. All the fat must he removed before making use of the stock ; this can easily be done with a spoon when the liquor has become cold, and any surplus grease that remains on the surface after it has been warmed up again can be taken away with a piece of blotting paper. Or, use some beef bones and a knuckle of veal, and proceed as above. If a bay-leaf is put in with the carrots, onions, et<\, it must be removed after an hour s time. The simmering must be continued from four to six hours, according to the quantity of meat and water used. These should be in the pro- portion of one pound of meat to every full pint and a half of water. If the stock requires colouring it can be done in two ways, either by means of what is called a “caramel,” or with onions. Io make “ caramel ” melt in a copper pipkin half a pound of powdered sugar until it has assumed a hght brown colour, add half a pint of water, and let .. X>1] tlU reduced t0 syrup- When this is cold bottle it, and use it for colouring when required. Or fry some onions till they are very brown, pound them and stir them into the stock. As much seasoning24 COOKERY. can be put in as may be desired, but it is well to add this before each time of serving, instead of fully seasoning the week’s provision. 1 lie use of colouring is not to be recommended (personally, I always avoid it), because it is generally overdone, much to the detriment of the materials used for the particular dish under treatment. The average continental cook hardly knows it. If it is needed in isolated cases, it should be home made, or purchased from reliable makers, and put in in the smallest quantity possible. The only one I have personally tried, and to which there is nothing to object, is the new preparation lately brought out by Champion, whose excellent vinegar is worthy of the warmest recommendation. The fat removed from the stock-pot can be used again if it is obtained in sufficient quantity. It should be clarified by letting it simmer over a slack fire for about an hour; let it slightly cool, strain it, and put it away till wanted. The average quantity of soup or broth required can be roughly reckoned as follows : A pint and a half of liquor is sufficient for four persons, one tablespoonful of rice, tapioca, Italian paste, etc., should be allowed for every bi'eakfastcupful of broth. Where dried material is concerned, such as desic- cated vegetables, etc., it should either be soaked over- night, or, better still, put into a saucepan over the fire with a quarter of a tumblerful of water. The same amount should be thrown in every twenty minutes until the vegetables are quite tender, when they canSTOCKS AND SAUCES. 25 be added to the broth for the soup. This is an excellent plan by which the driest goods can be put to profitable use. Fowl Slock.—This is a useful preparation, especially for children and invalids, and one in which people living in the country can often indulge. Take an old fowl, pluck and clean it, cut it in half, and boil it for two hours with some salt and pepper, a couple of carrots, two leeks, and half a bay-leaf. The result is very light coloured broth, but it is delicate and very nourishing. Before serving add an eggspoonful of Maggi’s essence (see p. 42). This stock does not keep so long as that made from meat. I eal Stock.—This is more nourishing than the former, and also very good for invalids. Take a quarter of a pound of the shin of veal, or a piece of the lean without any fat, cut it into small pieces, and put it over the fire in three pints of water ; let it simmer, skimming carefully the while. Add the necessary amount of salt and pepper, a handful of sorrel, a small lettuce, some chervil, one small onion, and the least pinch of pounded mace. Let the whole boil slowly for two hours, strain and keep for use. Invalid Iieej I'ea.—Cat into small pieces about two pounds of steak, put them into a stone pot, close it up tightly, and boil it an bain-marie ; that is, in a larger vessel containing enough water to cover the jar. Let it boil for six hours ; in this way the very strongest extract of meat is obtained, and is most -beneficial to those suffering from great weakness. _am Jen P.LCOOKERY. 26 The amount of broth obtained from the above quantity of meat should be about one pint. For fast days, or for the use of vegetarians, broth can be made as follows: Boil a ful half pint of dried peas (the yellow ones) in about one pint of water, add half a teacupful of water as the boiling proceeds at intervals of from twenty minutes to half an hour. After a couple of hours add two carrots, one onion, a few cloves, seasoning to taste, some celery, and a small piece of butter. If there are any remains of fish available they will be found a great improvement. Let this boil slowly over a slack fire for five hours, strain and use for soups, etc., as in the case of ordinary meat broth. It is evident (or it should be so to the mind of a practical housewife) that in the matter of stock the great point is to decide the purpose for which it is going to be used, so that it should be made stronger or weaker according as it is destined to be the prin- cipal constituent of a good nourishing soup, or merely to serve as a cooking liquor for vegetables, etc. All the meat used for good stock should be well wiped (not washed) and beaten, and should previously have hung for a day or so in a cool place. And now to turn our attention to sauces—a most important subject, and one of which even many so-called good cooks are painfully ignorant. And let it be said, quite without prejudice, but in all fairness, tbe foreigner has an innate knack for this department in cookery, whereas the average English plain cook27 STOCKS AND SAUCES. understands it not at all. This is not to be wondered at, for the principal “mother” sauces, as they are termed abroad, and which sooner or later must enter into the composition of other varieties, are of foreign origin, and are not always properly explained in the ordinary plain English cookery books. In this depart- ment we reap the benefit of the trouble we may have taken with the stock-pot, for its contents are inevitably and closely linked with the manufacture of good sauces. Both meat and fish stock are needed, as the case may be, and the utensils in which sauces are prepared must be chosen with care ; the idea that ' any saucepan will do ” is quite a mistaken one. The sauces “meres ” then are the equivalent for what are generally called in English “standard” or “grand” sauces, and their names are familiar to every student of cookery books. The “ espagnole,” for instance, helps in the manufacture of various brown sauces, the “ veloute ” makes white sauces, the “ bechamel ” sauces with eggs, “ allemandes,” etc., and so on. Their seasoning is a point which requires much attention- The French custom of keeping together a kind of general mixture (“ quatre-6pices ”) ready for use is practical and worth adopting. The ingredients are white and black pepper, nutmeg, and cinnamon, mixed in the proportion of half an ounce of the two kinds of pepper and cinnamon respectively to one-third of an ounce of nutmeg. Pound them all together very fine, sift them, mix them thoroughly well, and keep them in a tin. They go far towards emphasising the flavour29 COOKERY. of certain dishes which require to he much hotter than others. Herbs, which figure so often in culinary recipes, form a dangerous trap for the unwary, since they mar the best prepared dishes if used indis- criminately. The rough taste noticeable in delicate sauces, gravies, etc., is generally the result of ignorance in this matter. Parsley, probably because it is always at hand, is the principal offender. This requires to bs put in as the well-known “ bouquet,” but it should be removed either before straining or before serving. Garlic must of course be used very sparingly, but not set aside entirely, as it frequently is by the British housewife. If it has proved objectionable to her it is merely because it has been misapplied. For most purposes it is sufficient to slightly rub the dish or saucepan in use at the time. Mushrooms dried, or in powder (preferably both), are very necessary in a great many ordinary dishes. The word “ liaison ” is well known to those who have made any study of cookery, though perhaps its importance is not always realised to a sufficient extent. It represents an approved thickening for sauces, used with the object of bringing them to the required consistency. It is on this final operation that the success of the whole largely depends, there- fore the point should be well mastered by every cook. A perfect sauce has three characteristics: It must contain good butter, judicious seasoning and proper thickening, besides which the fat must all be carefully removed before serving.STOCKS AND SAUCES. 29 For ordinary purposes, then, we will note four principal kinds of thickening, which will be found ample for many more dainty things than are generally included in the term “plain” cooking. First and foremost is the liaison a Vallemande, a delightfully convenient and economical substitute for the real allemancle of high-class cookery. For this we are indebted to M. Gouffe of French fame ; it is given amoDg his excellent suggestions in his chapter of sauces for the use of average households. To make this, dissolve a little flour either in water, milk, or stock, as the case may be, in varying proportions of course, which must be determined by the quantity of sauce needed at the time; strain it through a hair- sieve, and pour it slowly into the sauce for which it is intended, stirring all the while with a wooden ladle. Thickening is the last operation in sauce- making, and must be done very carefully, without haste and with steady and continuous stirring carried on for at least five minutes. E[j<) Thickenin'), or Liaison d V(Enf.—The eggs must be fresh, and cracked with care, so that the yolks may not be broken; separate the latter from the white; stir the yolks with a tablespoonful of cold water ; add a small lump of butter not quite as largo as a walnut, and into this stir two or three table- spoonfuls of the sauce or soup for which the thickening is intended. When the ingredients are all thoroughly incorporated, and the mixture is quite smooth like crearn, pour it (off the lire) into the30 COOKERY. sauce ; then put it over the tire again, stirring all the time, just to allow it to thicken slightly, without actually boiling. Brown Thickening, or Eovx Brun —This can be made at leisure, and put by for use as desired. The principal ingredients are flour and butter; put a piece of the latter into a small saucepan, and when it is hot add the flour and stir over a bright fire with a wooden spoon until the mixture assumes a golden brown colour ; add to this the required quantity of good clear stock, draw it off the fire, and let it simmer at the side for an hour or so, then strain and bottle for further use. Butter Thickening, or Liaison au Beurre.—This is represented by a small quantity of butter which must be added to certain soups, sauces, and * vegetables just before serving, and it is over this apparently simple operation that many cooks go wrong, because they insist on putting in the butter too soon. If this is done, the particular character- istic flavour which the butter is intended to impart is entirely lost. The saucepan should be finally removed from the fire, and then only must the butter be thrown in and promptly stirred, so as to amalgamate quickly with the substance it is to thicken ; to the same species of thickening belongs a cream and butter mixture used for certain sauces and soups to which these ingredients combined lend a peculiarly mellow flavour. These standard and other household sauces shouldSTOCKS AND SAUCES. 31 form part of the reserve material of every careful cook. For some reason or other, however, they often prove a serious stumbling-block to the inex- perienced, to say nothing of the fact that they are not always easy to prepare in small quantities and at a moment’s notice; it can be done, as I will show further on, but before giving the simplest recipes I can suggest, I must bring before my readers a wonderful addition to culinary articles, viz., the foundation sauces of the great French chef and philanthropist, Monsieur Charles Driessens; after many years of study and research, he has succeeded in solidifying the three principal sauces so much used in French cookery, so that they are now within the reach of everybody, and by their means all kinds of entries and dainty dishes can be prepared at slight cost, and even less trouble. They are put up in glass jars, and will keep good a considerable length of time after being opened if they are stored in a dry place. They can be obtained from Messrs. Gosenza and Co., 95, Wigmore Street, W., or ordered through any good grocer. The above firm have secured the monopoly of this article for the United Kingdom and the Colonies. There are three of these sauces—the dark, which represents the well-known Italienne, the brown or espnynole, and the pale or allemande. A small and excellent collection of recipes by Monsieur Driessens himself has been translated, and is presented in the form of a most useful pamphlet with every bottle of32 C00KEEY. sauce. These should prove invaluable in every house- hold where good cooking and variety are appreciated ; they only need mixing with a given quantity of water, and their mode of preparation is so prompt and simple that they are specially adapted for emergency dishes. The above-mentioned sauces can, if desired, still he made at home in this simplified form : Espagnole (Brown).—Put into a saucepan a small piece of butter about the size of a walnut with some lean remains of almost any kind of meat, such as ham, veal, chicken, game, etc., a couple of large onions studded with cloves, one carrot, a turnip, a few sprigs of parsley, pepper and salt to taste; let this all simmer slowly over a moderate fire till the contents begin to colour, which will be in about an hour and a half. At this point add a tablespoonful of Hour, a tumblerful of stock, and some parsley, and let the whole boil gently on the side of the fire for four hours. Remove the fat, strain and put aside till required for adding to other sauces. Allan and e.—Put into a small saucepan the yolks of three or four eggs with a piece of fresh butter. Stir well together, and add the juice of a small lemon or k few drops of vinegar. Pour into this very gradually (and stirring violently all the time) about three- quarters of a pint of boilingvelonte (see below), rather thick than thin; set it over a good fire, stir it briskly, and as soon as it boils pour it into a suitable earthen- ware vessel to keep for future use.STOCKS AND SAUCES. 33 ltulienne,—Pat over the tire about half a table- spoonful of chopped eschalots, one of chopped mushrooms, truffles, and parsley respectively, and about one ounce or a little more of butter; add to this a small tumblerful of white wine, and let it simmer. When nearly boiling add about half a pint of esparjnole sauce or some strong brown coulis (see below). At the first boil the sauce will be ready. It will be seen from this that even these foundation sauces are dependent one upon the other, and that they are constantly intermingled in the manufacture of various dishes. The little I have been able to say on the subject in this short space will, I hope, make the matter, which has often been deemed a mysterious one by inexperienced persons, rather clearer than it has hitherto appeared. Sauce Blonde, or Veloute.—Make a roux as before with equal quantities of butter and flour. When well coloured add a pint to a pint and a half of good veal stock, stir over the fire till it boils, and add a carrot thinly sliced, one moderate-sized onion, half a dozen cloves, and a bouquet of parsley. Let this simmer over a slack fire very slowly till the contents have been reduced to one-third of the original quantity; skim it, and remove the fat whenever it is necessary, strain it, and put it aside. This is very useful for certain kinds of vegetables, and when it is wanted for the purpose it should be thickened before use with the yolks of one or two eggs. For hashed meats, etc., it is also desirable to flavour it with a small tumblerful of white cooking wine or Madeira.34 COOKERY. Coulis. Melt a piece of butter the size of a pigeon s egg in a pipkin, and add to this any available remains of cold meats, game, etc. Put the cover on, and let it remain over the lire till the contents colour; add a couple of carrots, half a dozen small onions (or two or three moderate-sized ones cut in quarters), and a teacupful of water. After one hour’s simmering put in two breakfastcupfuls of stock. Put on the cover, and allow the contents to simmer slowly for at least four hours, after which set aside till wanted. This coitlia is especially useful for soups and sauces. Reserve Sauce.—Make a brown roux with two ounces of butter and two tablespoonfuls of flour, and add a breakfastcupful of stock ; let this simmer slowly for three hours. Skim it when necessary, and occasionally take up a ladleful of the contents, allowing them to drop slowly back into the saucepan. Strain and put the sauce into a gallipot; when cold cover with a layer of butter. It will keep for some time, and is useful as the basis of all kinds of brown sauces, and as a cold garnish for pies, etc. Bechamel.—Slice an onion and a small carrot, and cut into small pieces two or three slices of lean ham ; put them into a saucepan with two or three ounces of butter, stir in two tablespoonfuls of flour (do not give these ingredients time to brown, simply toss them in the pan until they have absorbed the butter); then add the necessary quantity of liquid to allow of its reducing, in the shape of equal quantities of milk and35 STOCKS AND SAUCES. warm stock. Put in a bouquet, and salt and pepper to taste ; stir it, and let it slowly boil for twenty minutes, during which time it will be reduced to the proper consistency. Thicken it with the yolks of two eggs and a small piece of butter. Strain through a fine sieve or tammy, and use as required. Cream Sauce.—Put into a saucepan about three ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of flour, a heaped dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, chives and chervil, a pinch of salt, one of black pepper, some grated nutmeg, and a small tumblerful of cream or good fresh milk ; stir this over the fire and let it boil for a quarter of an hour. It is an excellent adjunct to potatoes, fish, etc. Sauce Blonde.—Put into a small saucepan a small piece of butter (Brand’s marrow fat is equally good for such purposes), in this brown a tablespoonful qf flour, moisten with the necessary quantity of stock, add sufficient pepper, salt, mace, and either chopped eschalots or onions to taste. Thicken with the yolk of one egg, and serve with vegetables and stewed meat. Sauce Blonde (with Wine).—Proceed as before, and . put in equal parts of stock and cooking wine, red or white according to the sort of dish for which it is wanted, the juice of half a lemon, and a chopped gherkin. Red wine would be suitable for game and dark meats generally, whereas white wine would suit chicken, fish, etc. To produce a better flavour add a few drops of Maggi’s essence.36 COOKERY. Sauce Brune (Brown Sauce for Hashes, etc.)—Heat a little butter in a saucepan with some flour. When this is quite brown without being at all burnt, add the necessary quantity of stock, a small tumblerful of red wine, some chopped onions, half an eschalot, a very little garlic, half a bay-leaf, a blade or two of mace, and salt and pepper to taste. Let this boil freely for about twenty minutes, and thicken it a little if necessary. Sauce Paulette.—Stir a piece of butter in a saucepan over the fire, and as soon as it is hot put in a table- spoonful of flour, stirring all the time. Add a cupful of stock, salt and pepper to taste, and a blade of mace. Let it boil over a brisk fire for about twenty minutes. After this, thicken it with a tiny lump of butter, add the yolk of one egg, and finish off with a few drops of lemon juice or white wine vinegar. Sauce Maitre iVHotel.—This is very useful for all sorts of fish and some kinds of meat warmed up, hashed or otherwise. Take a quarter of a pound of butter, a pinch of salt, some pepper, and the juice of half a lemon. Put them over the fire in a saucepan; when the butter is partly melted draw the saucepan aside, stirring all the while until it is entirely dissolved and amalgamated with the other ingredients. With this, if necessary, mix some sauce blanche, which will produce a well-thickened maitre d'hotel sauce according to the approved style. Sauce Blanche (White Sauce).—Put into a small saucepan a tablespoonful of flour with a little water.STOCKS AND SAUCES. 37 When it has been stirred for a few moments put it over the fire, and, stirring still, add gradually a little boiling water, salt, pepper, a small pinch of grated nutmeg, and a piece of butter about the size of a walnut. If this should curdle, add quickly a few drops of cold water, and stir A^ery briskly. Or put into a saucepan one ounce of butter and flour respectively, beat them to a paste, add salt, pepper, and a small tumblerful of hot water. Stir this well over the fire till it thickens, then add about two ounces of butter in small pieces. Draw the saucepan aside when the pieces have all been put in, and continue the stirring until it is completely dissolved. This alone will make an excellent sauce. S'mice Aifjre (Sour Sauce).—Mix two or three eggs in a small tumblerful of cold water, and half that quantity of vinegar. Stir this mixture over the fire until it nearly boils. Put in a piece of butter the size of a walnut, having previously worked it with flour, and stir till it is dissolved. The sauce should then be of the consistency of cream and ready to serve. Sauce Robert.—Melt over the fire some butter or good marrow fat (lard will do as well), put in a couple of good-sized onions sliced, and toss them till they are fairly well coloured and tender. Moisten with the necessary quantity of good stock, add salt and pepper to taste, a pinch of nutmeg, the same quantity of mustard powder, and a few drops of vinegar. Let all this simmer over the fire slowly for nearly an hour, stirring occasionally, and serve as required.38 COOKERY. Sauce an Bear re Noir (Black Butter).—Put a large piece of butter into the frying pan, or any other convenient utensil, and heat it over the fire till it begins to colour; at this moment throw in some sprigs of parsley. Move the pan about all the time, and let the fire be fairly brisk. When the contents are a good dark colour stir in gradually two table- spoonfuls of sharp vinegar. If desired, capers can be added. This is a very good accompaniment to fish, brains, calf’s head, etc. Sauce a la Moutarde (Mustard Sauce).— Brown together a small lump of butter and two tablespoon- fuls of fine dry flour, then add one tablespoonful (heaped) of finely-chopped onions; let these colour too. Into this stir the necessary quantity of stock, salt and pepper, a couple of cloves, a small bay-leaf, and the grated rind of half a lemon ; let this simmer for about half an hour. Before taking it off the fire, add a large tablespoonful of French mustard, and stir the sauce well; strain before serving. Sauce Salmis (for Hashed Game, etc.)—Pound in a mortar the bones of any kind of cold game, also the liver, and any small pieces of the flesh that can be spared after the bird in question has been suitably cut and trimmed for hashing. Add to this the crumb of one milk roll or more. Put this mixture into a saucepan with some good fat or butter and a tablespoonful of chopped onions, toss it over the fire, then sprinkle with a tablespoonful and a half of flour, let this brown, add the necessary quantity of stock,39 STOCKS AND SAUCES. and let it boil with a bay-leaf and plenty of seasoning. Put in a few drops of Maggi, and pour this over the prepared pieces of game or venison, put it all over the fire again in a suitable utensil, add a small tumblerful of red cooking wine, more pepper, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Let it simmer for half an hour, and, just before serving, stir in a couple of tablespoonfuls of sour cream or milk; the latter will do quite as well. This last ingredient, by-tlie-way, is a most useful one for many excellent sauces, hashes, etc. It is easily obtained by allowing a little of either substance to stand for a day or so (according to the state of the weather) in a small jug. Sauce aux Herbes.—Brown some butter over the fire, add equal quantities of finely-chopped onions, eschalots, parsley, chervil, and sorrel, a tablespoonful of flour, and the necessary seasoning. Stir into this enough stock for the required purpose, a sherryglass- ful of wine, the juice of half a lemon or a few drops of vinegar. Sauce Madere (Madeira Sauce). —Put aside any pieces trimmed off some veal cutlets or any other scraps of the same meat, or a few slices of ham, or, better still, equal quantities of both. Put them into a saucepan with a carrot, some parsley, an onion and two eschalots, all well chopped, and toss them in a little butter over a brisk fire; in this case fat bacon does even better than butter. When the ingredients begin to brown, sprinkle over them a couple of tablespoonfuls of flour, stirring the while. Add theCOOKERY. 40 necessary quantity of stock to make the sauce, let it simmer till suitably thick and slightly reduced, add a wineglassful of Madeira wine and the juice of half a lemon, and let it simmer before serving. It should be over the fire for about half an hour. Sauce aux Olives (Olive Sauce).—Put three or four tablespoonfuls of olive oil into a saucepan, and in this brown a heaped tablespoonful of flour, eight small eschalots, a small piece of bacon, a sprig of basil, and the thinly-pared rind of a quarter of a lemon chopped very fine ; stir those ingredients. As the flour begins to colour, add enough stock to make the required quantity of sauce, a slierryglassful of vinegar, pepper, three cloves, and one large bay-leaf, and let this simmer slowly for a quarter of an hour. Stone a dozen olives, put them into a hot sauce bowl, and pour the sauce over them through a fine strainer. This is particularly suitable for game salmis, braised beef, and roast tongue. The principal and most frequently served cold sauce is, of course, the so-called mayonnaise, which is made in a variety of ways that all bring about very much the same result. Stir in a basin or a china mortar the yolks of two eggs, put in salt, pepper, and mustard to taste, then add almost drop by drop enough salad oil to make the required sauce. The stirring must proceed evenly, and always in the same direction; the sauce will then be quite thick. Now add a few drops of tarragon vinegar and the needful quantity of plain vinegar to make it palatable, and41 STOCKS AND SAUCES. serve with any kind of cold meat, fish, etc. Mayon- naise should always he made and kept in as cool a place as possible. A few drops of cream if at hand, put in at the last moment, will produce a pleasant and mellow flavour which greatly improves the mixture, although it is by no means an indispensable ingredient. If the sauce turns in the making, it can often be thickened by the addition of one or two drops of cold water. It is, however, quite as good to eat, although for garnishing purposes it would have lost the smooth appearance which should be one of its chief points. Sauce Piijiiante.—Beat to cream a small lump of fresh butter ; sprinkle into this, stirring the while, a teaspoonful of finely-chopped parsley and chives, add stlong \sbite vinegar to taste, and serve with any kind of grilled meat or fish. The quantity of butter is determined (as in the case of the oil in the mayonnaise) by the amount of sauce required, and, as a rule, the tendency is to make more than is needed. Sauce d la Mon tunic (Cold).—Chop up the yolks of three hard-boiled eggs, stir into them two table- spoonfuls of olive oil, a dozen or so of capers, one dessertspoonful of mustard, and a pinch of pepper, "ken these ingredients have been thoroughly well mixed finish up with vinegar to taste. Sauce Ilemoulude. Chop up some parsley, chives, and a sprig or two of tarragon very finely. Steep this for a few minutes in a tablespoonful of olive oil, and the same quantity of good meat gravy froe from I>42 OOOKEKY. grease. Put it into a basin, add four sardines, skinned, boned, and chopped fine, the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs, and one dessertspoonful of mustard powder. When the ingredients are well amalgamated, stir in a tablespoonful of oil slowly, and then the required quantity of good vinegar. Finally put in some salt and pepper, and strain before serving, or not, as preferred. Sauce Turtarc (excellent with Fried Fish).—Chop up the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs, with one or two eschalots, some parsley and chervil. Pound them in a mortar with a china pestle, moisten them thoroughly with oil. When the mixture attains the consistency of cream finish as usual with vinegar, salt, mustard, and pepper. Sauce llai/qrt (Horseradish).—Peel and scrape a good, firm, white horseradish (if discoloured they arc stale and worthless), put it into a sauce bowl with a dessertspoonful of castor sugar, and let it stand for half an hour or more. Just before sending it in, add a tablespoonful of vinegar, and finally stir in double the quantity of cream, or more if it is available. The Maggi * essence is one of the best pre- parations for flavouring that has been placed upon the market of late years, and I strongly recom- mend it to my readers as a most useful, delicious, and necessary store-room requisite. Its uses, besides imparting an excellent flavour, are manifold, as will be seen. Imported by Messrs. Cosen/a & Co. (See p. 31.)43 SOUPS. CHAPTER IV. SOUPS. A few years ago the necessity for good cookery books and elaborate recipes on this subject was paramount; in England, especially as compared with the Continent, cooks needed much instruction and even wanted pressing to be persuaded of the importance of the subject. Soups should be a strong point in every establishment, and the foreigner has undoubtedly taught us the way to succeed in this matter. There are, and there will of course always be, many ways of making soups, economical, practical, dainty, luxurious, and otherwise ; but at the beginning of this chapter we cannot do better than speak of a Swiss invention which has lately been introduced into England, and which bids fair to do away with all the trouble which some folks think inherent to soup making. I am speaking of the Maggi soups and conxommcx. At the bare mention of such things our readers will say, “ Oh, we know them well, they are the usual desiccated soup, or some other form of the well- worn Liebig, Brand extracts, etc., etc.” But it is not so ; the Maggi preparation is an unique one, and the results are absolutely equal to home-made soupsCOOKERY. 14 iu which fresh materials are used. They have been imported into England within the last couple of years by Messrs. Cosenza and Co., of 95, Wigmore Street, London, W., and are becoming widely known and appreciated as they deserve to be. There are thirty- three varieties. A packet dissolved in a little water, or part stock and water, produces the most delicious soup imaginable for two or three persons. As to the con- somme, it is in away the same sort of thing as the other meat extracts which have been on the market, but with a difference, viz., that one tube, prepared as it is with a gelatine capsule, produces a strengthening and delicious clear soup, such as can only be made at home with trouble and expense. The capsule is put into the water as soon as it boils, and must be stirred until entirely dissolved. Add some cooking sherry, or red wine if desired, and serve with small dice of boiled custard or a handful of chopped chervil and chives. Every kind of soup may be prepared with the help of one of the stocks (see chapter “ Stocks and Sauces”) and any fresh vegetable, macaroni, rice, barley, tapioca, etc., etc. Onion Soup.—Slice some onions, and put them into a saucepan with a little butter. Stand them over a moderate lire, and let them brown slowly, stirring them with a wooden ladle. When they are of a good colour sprinkle over them a couple of tablespoonfuls of dour, or pea-dour as desired, davour to taste, and dually add the required quantity of stock. Strain and serve with fried bread cut into dice. This soup45 soups. can also be made with water, and served with parmesan cheese. Tapioca Soup.—Take the necessary quantity of stock or water; if the latter, ad,d to it an eggspoonful of some good extract of meat for every six persons. When this boils, sprinkle into the saucepan three tablespoonfuls of tapioca. This must be done care- fully, and with the left hand ; with the right stir the soup for a few minutes to ensure perfect smoothness. Let this simmer for twenty minutes, flavour, and serve very hot. Semolina and sago soups are made in the same way. I egetable Soup.—Take a small quantity of any and every kind of vegetable, the best leaves of a cabbage or the heart of a lettuce, some sprigs of cauliflower, a handful of peas, some haricot beans (fresh), two carrots sliced, one or two potatoes, and some finely- chopped onion, chervil, and chives. Put these, after washing and drying them well, into the required quantity of stock, flavour to taste, and let all simmer for three or four hours, slowly and evenly. If the soup proves too thick, add water or more stock. /hunt I'lonr Soup.-- In spite of its name this is an excellent compound, quickly made and always season- able. Put some butter into a saucepan, and when hot stir into it some flour, in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls to every person. When it is richly coloured add slowly either equal quantities of cold water and cold stock, or only the latter. Stir the mixture over the fire until it lui/s attained the right4« COOKERY. consistency, then season it, cover, and let it slowly boil for fifteen minutes. Pearl-barley Soup.—Allow one tablespoonful of pearl-barley to every person, and a dessertspoonful of butter to each portion of barley. Put them into a saucepan, and when they are well heated add the stock, and let it boil once and simmer slowly for two hours at least. About a quarter of an hour before serving flavour the soup to taste, and stir into it a teaspoonful of flour, previously dissolved in half a teacupful of milk or cream. Let the soup boil once more, and serve very hot. L'refy Soup.—Wash some carrots, scrape them well, and chop them fine, without using the hard centre ; put them into a saucepan with a little butter or rou.r, toss them about, let them slightly colour, cover them with stock, add salt, pepper, a bouquet, and an onion, and let them simmer over a slack fire, with no lid on the saucepan, for two hours. Press the mixture through a fine sieve, and put the result back into the saucepan with the required quantity of stock. Let it boil up once, add a small piece of butter, a tiny pinch of sugar, and serve very hot with fried bread. Mutton Broth en Marmite.—Use one of the fireproof earthenware marmite:a both to prepare this and to send it to the table. Put it over the fire with some breast or neck of mutton covered with slightly salted water, let it simmer slowly for two hours, together with carrots, leeks, onions, and celery cut in pieces, and a handful of pearl-barley (all of which should47 ROUPS, have previously been scalded). Skim constantly ; a few minutes before serving remove the meat, bone it, cut the lean part into suitable pieces, put it back into the marmite, and serve very hot. If there is much fat, of course it must be removed. Leel; and Potato Soup.—Cut up some fine leeks in pieces about two inches in length, slightly colour them over the fire in a saucepan containing some butter, moisten them with water, season to taste, and put in half a dozen potatoes well peeled and washed. Let this simmer slowly till the potatoes are soft, mash them in the saucepan, add the required quantity of stock to make the soup of the right consistency, let it boil once, and serve. A few words are necessary as to the use of the Maggi essence which I so strongly recommend. It must be remembered that it is a pure and highly con- centrated vegetable extract, and that it must be used in moderation, or one would weary of the taste just as one does of too rich or too highly seasoned food. This detail being borne in mind, the uses of this wonderful preparation are absolutely endless, as the enterprising cook will find by judicious application. I will only give one or two suggestions that will show how it can be employed. For a basinful of good refreshing and warming soup, for instance, proceed as follows : Heat a basin with some hot water, then put in the yolk of a fresh egg, and a little salt and pepper, gradually fill the cup with quite boiling water, stirring brisklyCOOKERY. Is all the time, finally add an eggspoonful only of the essence, and serve with or without fried bread. Or, failing stock, all kinds of macaroni, vermicelli soups can he quickly made thus—Put into a sauce- pan a little clarified dripping, with salt, pepper, and some sliced onions and carrots. When the latter are beginning to colour, add the necessary quantity of hot water, and (tied in a piece of muslin, an onion studded with cloves, a couple of sprigs of parsley, and some thyme) after this has boiled for a few minutes, have ready some macaroni or other substance of the same kind previously parboiled, and strained in a hot tureen; pour the strained liquor over it, and stir in at the last moment half a teaspoonful of Maggi essence for each person. The result is delicious. •<lll JCllFISH. 49 CHAPTER V. FISH. This article of food must of course be pre-eminentl y fresh; it is not as nourishing as meat, but is generally light and wholesome. In a state of freshness the eye of a fish is bright and the gills decidedly red. To clean it, either split it open (according to the manner in which it is to be prepared) or merely make an opening under the body through which to remove the inside, cut off the gills, rinse plentifully in cold water until the latter remains perfectly clear, but do not let it soak to become sodden, and dry the fish with a soft clean cloth before cooking it. Finally always use a strainer so as to remove the fish from the utensil in which it has cooked without breaking it. The foreign fashion of boiling it in a “ court- bouillon, or stock reserved for the preparation of fish, produces a better result than the use of plain water, and the trouble entailed is not worth con- sidering. Put a small piece of butter into a saucepan, and in this brown a handful of chopped carrots and onions, add a bouquet, then equal parts of water and white wine (a breakfastcupful in all); let this boil up once, after which put in the quantity of water (slightly salted) that will he required for the particular pieceCOOKKTiY. /»o of fish under treatment. Cover the saucepan and let the mixture gently boil until the carrots, etc., are quite tender. Then use the liquor to boil the fish. Or put the latter into the kettle with water enough to cover it, a teacupful of vinegar, salt to taste, two sprigs of thyme, one bay-leaf, a couple of eschalots, and half-a-dozen peppercorns. In spite of these instruc- tions, however, plain water can naturally he used if preferred. Before giving various recipes for preparing fish, it may he useful to set down here instructions for making what in French is called a “ matelote,” which consists of a mixture in which different kinds of fish can be cooked to provide a change from the plain fried or boiled, or fish served in more com- plicated sauces. This matelote can be of two kinds— first the plain, which is made thus: In a saucepan over the fire beat up a piece of butter to a cream with about two tablespoonfuls of Hour ; add to this a cup- ful of stock, and two of white cooking wine (the size of the cup must be determined by the quantity of liquor needed for the particular occasion); add to this some sliced onions, salt, pepper, and one pounded clove; stir and let the mixture boil for about twenty minutes; into this put whatever fish is under treat- ment, cut in suitable pieces; when tender dish it up, keep it hot, and meantime thicken the sauce with yolks of eggs, pour over the fish and serve. Or make it with red wine as follows: Brown in some hot butter a fair number of tiny onions or larger onesFISH. SI thinly sliced, take them out and stir into the fat that remains two tablespoonfuls of Hour ; to this add two cupfuls of red wine and one of stock, let this slowly boil for about half an hour. This will not require any egg thickening. Pike, eels, barbel, in short almost any except such flat fish as sole, turbot, etc., or such rich fish as salmon, can with advantage be cooked and served with the matelotes. Salmon.—This should be carefully scaled, and emptied and washed by the openings made near the gills. The time required varies according to size. A small fish prepared whole should gently simmer for about two hours, but it is perhaps safest to reckon about half an hour’s slow simmering to every pound of this fish. It may be served plain with cucumber, with an accompanying white sauce of almost anv description, or cold with a mayonnaise. Salman (with Mushrooms).—Put the piece of fish into a saucepan with about a dozen, small onions, the same quantity of mushrooms and some butter, sprinkle it with flour, and let it brown on both sides. Add equal quantities of white wine and light stock (enough to cover), season to taste, put on the lid and let it simmer from one to two hours, moistening occasionally with more stock if absolutely necessary. When the fish is done put it on a hot dish, take out the onions, thicken the liquor with the yolk of an egg, throw in a dessertspoonful of very finely-chopped chives and tarragon, and serve very hot. ('«rp (with Wine Sauce). Afterscaling and cleaningCOOKERY. r> 2 the fish, cut it in pieces; put into a saucepan over the file a piece of butter anti some flour. When slightly brown add a breakfastcupful of rich stock, and one of red wine. When the mixture begins to simmer put in three onions, salt and pepper to taste, and a blade of mace; stir thoroughly, and when it boils put in the fish. At this point the fire ought to be brisk, and should remain so for at least ten minutes whilst the fish is cooking. Draw it aside and let it simmer for another ten minutes or so, when it should be tender. Thicken the sauce, and serve it with the fish, and a garniture of fried bread. Turbot.—Hub it over with a cut lemon, and let it boil till the flesh gives way under pressure of the finger. It is an unmistakable feeling which a cook who has once experienced it cannot fail to recognise. Lift it out carefully to strain, serve it with a sauce hollatulaixe and plain boiled potatoes, or send it up with a caper sauce. Turbot mi (Iratin.—Fillet the fish, or use cold remains cut into suitable pieces. Warm them up in a sauce bechamel, season to taste, put all into a shallow fireproof dish, cover with breadcrumbs, lay a little butter on the top, and [nit it into a brisk oven till well coloured all over the top. (All kinds of cold remains of fish can be warmed up in this way.) Shad.—This can be boiled and served with caper sauce, or allowed to get cold, and sent up with a sauce remnulaile. It, is also excellent when carefully grilled. For this purpose it must be well scaled, cleaned,FISH. 5o x 0 dried, and split with the point of a sharp knife here and there. Rub it all over with salt and pepper, turn it over quickly in some good salad oil, grill it thoroughly on both sides, and serve with a wait red.’hotel suuce. "When prepared in this fashion the sauce can be omitted, and some sorrel or spinach sent lip in its place. II luting ait Grntiii.—Scale the fish lightly so as not to break the tiesli, cut off the tail and the gills, wash it and dry it ; butter a fireproof dish, sprinkle over this some pepper and salt, and chopped parsley ; lay the fish down, moisten it with white wine, and season again ; add a few chopped mushrooms, cover with two or three tablespoonfuls of the Dricsmnca expoij 11 ule (or some home-made cspagnole if it is handy) ; over this put a layer of breadcrumbs, and two or three pieces of butter; bake in the oven to a good rich brown, and serve very hot with a final sprinkling of finely-chopped parsley and tarragon, and a squeeze of lemon-juice. II Ititbiii (Grilled). Prepare as above; soak it for an bour in some salad oil with salt and pepper; when the time has come to take it out, roll it in flour, sprinkle it with oil again, grill it on both sides over a moderate fire, and serve very hot either without accompaniment or with a sauce torture. H'hitiipi (Filleted). Parboil the fish; remove the skin carefully, lift tbe bones out gently after having cut the whiting in half, divide the fillets, dip them in beaten-up egg, roll them in flour, and fry a good colour in very hot butter..54 COOKERY. Pike (to Stew).—Choose a moderate-sized fish, or a small one according to requirements, and so as to be able to use it whole, scale and clean it thoroughly, rub it well inside with salt and pepper, sprinkle it with a very little flour and some lemon-juice, and stew it in a covered pan with a little butter; when it is partly done add a small tumblerful of French cooking wine and a lump of butter the size of a large walnut well kneaded with flour, set the pan over a moderate fire or in the oven, and let it cook till quite tender, basting it occasionally; meantime have ready four or five filleted sardines, the same number of chopped eschalots, and brown them in a pan with some butter ; when the fish is done dish it up, stir the sardines, etc., into the liquor in which the fish has stewed, thicken it (if desired), and serve it round the fish. Pike (with Parmesan).— Take the remains of cold pike, or fillet a fresh fish, cut in pieces, trim them tidily, sprinkle them with salt and let them stand ; meanwhile brown a large chopped onion in a little butter, put the fish in the same pan, cover it, and let it steam till tender; put the fish on a board, remove any hones that may be left, and sprinkle the fish with parmesan ; add to the butter in which the fish was cooked one tablespoonful of flour and a couple of tablespoonfuls of sour milk or cream, and stir over the fire without letting it boil ; put the fish in a gratin dish previously spread with butter, pour the thick sauce over it, cover with breadcrumbs and grated choese, and bake in the oven till brown. Any kind of55 FISII. fish can he prepared thus, and seasoned in various ways. Pike (Larded).—Take a moderate-sized fish, or part of a large one; clean as usual and carefully remove the skin from the hack, lard it fairly thickly after rubbing it well over with salt and pepper, and sprinkle a few drops of lemon-juice over it. Heat some butter or good fat, in a suitable utensil, lay the fish in it with a few small onions, some parsley, and some chips of bacon or cold ham; bake this in the oven, and baste frequently, adding a little more fat if necessary. When it is done put it on a hot dish, strain the liquor in which it has cooked, put it into a small saucepan over the fire, add a few tablespoonfuls of cream (sour milk will do just as well, if not better), and after one boil pour it over the fish and serve very hot. Eels. — It is generally preferable to skin this fish in whatever way it may have to be prepared. To do this tie it by the head to a hook in the wall (or to a door handle), slit the skin in one or two places just under the head, dip the fingers in salt, detach the skin and pull, it will come off easily. After the above operation, clean the fish and wash it, dry it, and let it stand for half an hour well covered with salt; rub this off with the hand, cut the eel in suitable pieces, tie a sage-leaf round each piece, and bake it with hutter in the oven ; after having removed the sage, add a sprinkling of lemon-juice, and serve very hot. Ei'l» (Rolled). Prepare as above, split the fish downCOOKERY. 50 one side, remove the principal bones ; chop finely some parsley, tarragon, a little sage and onions, and mix them with the yolks of two or three hard-boiled eggs, liub the fish well with salt and pepper, and fill it with a layer of the mixture ; tie it firmly. Boil it for half an hour or until tender in equal parts of water and vinegar with the addition of a hay-leaf, an onion, two or three cloves, salt to taste, and a few peppercorns. Put the fish, after having untied it. into a stone or earthenware vessel, strain the liquor and pour it over the eel. When cold serve with a vunjoniiuwe or a reinoulude: or if it is to he eaten hot do not trouble about the liquor, but serve it with a nance tartan'. Shale is a very useful fish, and can be deliciously prepared. Skate ait Beurre Noir (Black Butter).—Boil it in the wine court-bouillon (see page 4!)), drain off the water, remove the head, the skin, and the tail, and keep the rest hot; meantime prepare a sauce ait beurre noir, into which put two or three sprigs of parsley, sprinkle the fish with capers (or not), and pour the sauce over it. Skate (Pried).—Boil as above for ten minutes; put it into a basin with some salt and vinegar after it has become cold. After about fifteen minutes drain off the pickling mixture, dip the fish in flour, and fry as usual either whole or cut in pieces. Skate (with Sauce Blonde).—Slightly colour some butter over the fire, moisten with broth in the quantity that will be required for the sauce, stir in a tablespoonful of vinegar, add salt, pepper, a blade ofFTSir. mace, and two chopped eschalots. Let this sauce simmer for about three-quarters of an hour. Have ready the fish, which can be skinned after scalding it with boiling water. Put it into the sauce, boil it till tender over a moderate fire, and serve with a sprinkling of capers and chopped tarragon. It saves time to parboil the fish in a court-bouillon before putting it into the sauce. Mackerel (Grilled).—Clean and wipe the fish, and nlit it down the back ; remove the bone or not. 1 la ve the gridiron fairly hot, lay the fish on the same, partly grill it; have ready a fireproof baking dish well gieased, mix a little butter with pepper, salt, and chopped herbs, spread this inside the fish; put it in a brisk oven and serve when quite tender; it should not take more than ten or fifteen minutes in the oven. Serve with slices of lemon. Mackerel (Fried).—Prepare as above; put a little of the same butter mixture just inside the opening of the gills, roll and tie the fish in buttered paper, and grill or fry it till brown and tender. Mackerel (Filleted).—Prepare as above, and after having removed the skin and the bone, fillet the fish to suitable sizes, dip them in flour, fry a golden brown, and serve with a nance piquunte. Mackerel (in Sauce).—Boil it in a wine ronrt- bouillon, pound in a mortar half a dozen eschalots, two or three mushrooms, the yolks of two eggs (previously hard-boiled), salt, pepper (cayenne), the fillets of two anchovies, and a little piece of butter; stir this58 COOKERY. mixture over the fire in a pipkin, add a little stock if necessary, dish up the mackerel, sprinkle it with finely-chopped herbs, and pour the sauce over it. Soles.—Dip the fingers in salt and remove the black skin, hut only scrape the lighter one without tearing or bruising it; clean the fish well and cut off the head. If the hone has to be removed split the sole down the middle as if to fillet it, lift up the flesh, and take out the bone carefully. The usual ways of preparing this fish are boiling and frying, but the latter is the favourite. The Driessauces are specially suitable for serving fish au gratin, etc. Trout (Plain Boiled).—When the fish is cleaned and washed, pour over it a little boiling vinegar, then put it into a kettle containing sufficient boiling salted water to cover it, put the fish into this with a dozen small onions, a few cloves, and two or three slices of lemon. When tender, serve hot with plain butter melted and a sprinkling of fines herbex, or cold with a rrmoulade, or a mayonnaise, or other sauce piquante. Trout (with Wine Sauce).—To every pound of trout allow a good half-pint of ordinary red wine ; put the fish in the kettle with a small handful of eschalots, salt, pepper, a blade of mace, and a handful of parsley tied in a bunch. Add the wine, and let this boil for at least fifteen minutes ; meantime have ready a piece of fresh butter mixed with a tablespoonful of flour, well heated in another saucepan; into this gradually stir the liquor in which the fish has boiled with all its adjuncts; dish up the fish, and when the59 FISH* sauce has boiled and slightly thickened pour it over the tish through a strainer. Trout (Grilled).—Large fish are the best for this recipe. Make two or three slits with a knife cross- wise on both sides of the body of the trout, rub them over with a little salt, dip them in good salad oil and partly grill them ; dip them again in the oil and grill them a good colour. Serve with fried parsley. Trout (Fried).—Small fish are most suitable for this process. Wash and dry them thoroughly ; dip them in flour and fry them a golden brown. Serve plain, or with a sauce tartare. Cod (with Cream Sauce).—After the fish has been boiled put it on a board, remove the skin and large bones, and keep it very hot. Brown in a saucepan a piece of butter, into which stir two tablespoonfuls of flour ; stir in sufficient seasoning, one sardine skinned and pounded, and a tablespoonful of mustard, and when these ingredients are thoroughly smooth add a cupful of thick sour milk (or a little cream) and pour it boiling over the fish. Sole au Gratin.—Put into a well-buttered fireproof dish of suitable size a thick layer of breadcrumbs, mix together a small tumbler of French white cook- ing wine and stock respectively, season with salt and pepper, and pour half of it over the breadcrumbs ; lay the sole on this, moisten with the remainder of the wine, etc., add two tablespoonfuls of good meat gravy, a slight sprinkling of breadcrumbs, and lay two or three tiny pieces of butter on the top. Bake60 npKEP.v. in the oven for twenty minutes ; or fillet the sole, butter ai dish, sprinkle it with breadcrumbs and put in the fish, prepare a sauce Italienne with the Driessauce (dark) according to the instructions on the jar, pour it over the fish and bake for twenty minutes. Oysters (Baked).—Cboose fairly large ones; when opened loosen them from the shell, put on each a tiny piece of butter, a pinch of finely-chopped herbs, and some salt and pepper with a suspicion of cayenne; bake them in the oven and serve them on a serviett c. All fish that can be filleted, or the cold remains of which can be suitably flaked, can be gratined with Driessauces, and any kind of fish can be prepared with the matelote.61 OGS AND POTATOES. CHAPTER VI. EGGS AND 1> O T ATOE S. Omelet (Plain).—Break some eggs into a basin, season with salt and pepper, put in two or three little pieces of butter, and beat with a fork. Meantime have some butter heating in a clean frying pan over the tire, and as soon as it begins to smoke throw in the contents of the basin, which will immediately spread all over the pan. Hold the handle all the time with the left hand, shaking the pan a little, so that there is no risk of burning, and with the right, b\ means of a fork or palette knife, lift the eggs gently from the pan, working steadily all round the utensil. hen the underneath part is just set, and before the centre becomes stiff, slip the omelet to the edge of the pan to turn it, and quickly reverse it on to the hot dish in which it should at once be sent to table. Ihe great mistake generally made in the manufacture of omelets is that the operator is apt to forget that the eggs really go on setting after they have left the pan, and should therefore be put into the dish whilst they are still almost liquid in the middle of the omelet. This omelet can be varied ad infinitum with the addition of fines herhen, chopped bacon, mushrooms, kidney, sardines, anchovies, etc., etc.COOKERY. 62 Staffed Omelet.—Mix a little Hour with the eggs and seasoning, as this should be rather more like a pan- cake than an omelet pure and simple. Have ready, thoroughly minced, the cold remains of any fish, fowl, or meat, together with finely-chopped herbs and onions, rather hot seasoning moistened with the yolk of an egg, and, if necessary, a spoonful or so of stock. Fry the eggs, etc., in a small pan, spread the mixture over it, fold it, and dish it up ; or if more than one is required, send them in one by one as soon as they are ready, as they should be eaten very hot. Cheese Omelet.—Allow one egg, and one table- spoonful of flour to each person. Beat this together with plenty of seasoning, add a handful of grated Gruyere or parmesan cheese, and fry a good colour. Fold and serve. Ihuneijitim (Plain).—Stir together in a basin throe or four eggs, a quarter of a pound of grated cheese, salt, a pinch of cayenne, and either a gill of cream or a cupful of sour milk. Have ready some hot butter in a gratin dish, put into this a few slices of bread let them slightly brown; then pour over each one a layer of the above mixture; bake in a brisk hot oven till just set, and serve very hot. Scrambled Etjtjs.—Beat up three or four eggs with a teacupful of milk, add salt and pepper to taste ; have ready some hot butter in a small saucepan, pour in the mixture and stir over the fire till it is just beginning to set, and has attained the consistency of cream. Serve on fried or plain toast.113 EGGS AND POTATOES. Eyys in Wine Sauce.—Put into a saucepan over the tire one chopped onion, with a tablespoonful of flour and a small piece of butter. When these ingredients are well mixed, add a small tumblerful of red wine, the same of stock, salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg; stir and let it boil, allowing it to reduce slightly. Have ready some hard-boiled eggs cut in quarters; pour the sauce over them, and serve with fried sippets. F.yya 1,1 Geary.—Make some good strong meat gravy hot; boil some water with a little salt and a teacupful of vinegar; into this break as many eggs as are required, and as will conveniently lie side by side in the saucepan, let them boil for two minutes, lift them out carefully into a shallow hot dish ; pour the gravy over. Fried Eyy-i. Work into a small piece of butter a handful of breadcrumbs, some chopped chives, salt and pepper, butter some petitex cainaea (paper cases), line each with the mixture just made, break an egg in each one, grill them, and just before serving hold a red hot shovel over them for a few seconds. Staffed F.yyx (Savoury).—Boil some eggs hard, cut off a small piece from one end so as to make them stand straight, take out the yolks and pound them in a mortar with filleted anchovies, a little butter, and a sprinkling of tomato and anchovy sauces, put in plenty of pepper ; fill the whites again with the paste and garnish with parsley. The stuffing can bo greatly varied with different ingredients.04 COOKERY, POTATOES. I here are two ways of boiling these useful tubers; either steam them or else put them over the fire in cold water enough to cover them, put on the lid and let them boil till the skin shows signs of bursting. ■•<lter which pour the water away, cover the saucepan, and stand it on the side of the fire to dry a little hefore peeling them or sending them to the table in their jackets ; they can of course be peeled first and treated in the same way. To steam them put about three inches of water into a dee]) saucepan; the potatoes are then placed on a strainer which hooks round the sides of the utensil (and which can be made by any local tinsmith), and the lid is put on ; stand it over the fire, and the potatoes will be done when the water has evaporated. There are a great many kinds of steamers made now, such as the Boilerette, etc., which would obviate the necessity of having the above-mentioned strainer, though it is a useful thing to possess. I’otatoe* (Fried).- These can be made from cold boiled potatoes or raw ones; both ways give an equally delicious result and also make a change. If previously boiled, slice' them fairly thin, or cut them into two or three pieces each, put them into the frying pan with hot lard, moisten them with a few drops of milk, but do this very sparingly, stir them about a little, then cover them with a dish fitting the pan, let them slowh fry a good colour till the underneath part forms almost a crust, then turn over the pan, and if65 EGGS AND POTATOES. the plate is not suitable slip the potatoes on to another hot dish and serve. Or they can he cut when raw into slices or chips, and fried in boiling lard with a sprinkling of salt, either in the pan, or in a deep utensil by means of a frying basket, which, by the way, is an excellent institution. Changes can be made by adding a sprinkling of grated cheese a little time before serving. In this case the basket need not be used. Potatoes |d la Muitre d'Hotel).—Peel and cut the potatoes to a suitable size, boil them in well-salted water till just tender, drain off the water and set them aside for a little while in a warm place, then heat a small piece of butter or lard in a stew pan, and sprinkle with a small handful of chopped herbs after the potatoes have been thoroughly heated. Suitable with boiled fish, boiled rabbit, meat, etc. Potatoes (in Sauce).—Peel and cut them in dice, brown a chopped onion in some butter, put in the potatoes with plenty of salt and pepper, just cover them with water, or part stock and water, boil them till tender, add a couple of tablespoonfuls of good meat gravy and a sprinkling of grated nutmeg, and serve. Potatoes (u la Creme).—Have ready some previously boiled potatoes, cut them into slices, season to taste, fry them in a pan with some butter and a large onion sliced; when tender add a teacupful of sour milk or cream, arid stir till the mixture is smooth. Potatoes (Stuffed). - Peel some large potatoes,66 COOKERY. hollow them out with a potato cutter, or a worn-out kitchen spoon, have ready a mixture of chopped cold remains of veal or fowl, with bacon, seasoning, herbs, one or two eggs, and a tablespoonful of sour milk; fill the potatoes with this stuffing, stand them in a baking dish with a small piece of butter on the top of each, put in a little butter and bake a golden brown. Potatoes (en Caisscs).—Butter some paper caisses, fill them with potatoes mashed with a little fresh or sour milk, season them well, lay on the top a small piece of bacon previously partly fried, and also a piece of mushroom similarly treated ; bake a good colour and serve very hot. Or put a layer of mashed potatoes in caisses, then a piece of mushroom sand- wiched between two small slices of bacon, fill the caisse with another layer of potato, bake and turn out. For this recipe little tin moulds should be used.67 VEGETABLES. CHAPTER VII. VEGETABLES. This is a subject on which the English cook has much to learn. Vegetables, as served in some middle- class households, are often far from being “ a joy for ever,” or even for the time being. Cabbages boiled in water, spinach barely drained, etc., are far too often the order of the day. Cabbage.—Put into a saucepan a piece of rind of bacon, a little lard, salt and pepper, and when the cabbage has been well washed and dried, put it into the saucepan over the lire until the fat has become absorbed; then cover the greens with plain stock, or part stock and water, and let it gradually boil till tender. Drain off all the liquor, and put the cabbage back into the empty saucepan, let it thoroughly heat up again with a small piece of butter or lard, and serve very hot. Or have cabbage for dinner on the day on which some pickled pork has been boiled, and boil it in the liquor which is left ; anything will do better than plain water, and the result will always be a dainty, tasty dish instead of an unappetising green mixture more fit for rabbits than human beings. Spinach. Some people do not put any water at all into the saucepan when the spinach is set over the68 COOKERY. file, and that is by far the best plan ; the vegetable pioduces such a quantity of liquor as soon as the pan is hot that any addition becomes useless ; but if, as is frequently the case, the cook is fearful of the results for her saucepan, she should only throw in a teacupful of water. When the spinach is tender, drain off the water; chop it on a board, add plenty of salt and pepper; then squeeze all the remaining water out with the hand ; put it into a saucepan with a small piece of butter and a few tablespoonfuls of giavy 01 stock, and heat it thoroughly. Serve verv hot either with or without hard-boiled eggs cut in slices. lettuce*.—The long lettuces make a most delicious dish; do not remove the outside leaves ; merely wash the vegetable well, tie each one round with strin« tv put them into a saucepan with a little cooking butter or dripping, salt and pepper to taste; moisten with half a teacupful of stock, and let them simmer over a slack lire just so as to be on the point of boiling for a couple of hours. Drain off the water, remove the string, cut the lettuces across into lengths of about two inches, cut up a slice of bacon into small dice, put them into a saucepan with the lettuces, and a tiny piece of butter ; cover and let them heat through till they begin to frizzle, then serve at once. Endive.—This can be done in the same way, but will need longer treatment, as it is tougher and more bitter; it requires plenty of seasoning, and a pinch of sugar. Or it can be chopped and served like spi*ach.G9 VEGETABLES. Dandelion.—This common field plant makes a delightful dish before it has grown too large. It is prepared like the last-named vegetable, and is much improved by the addition of a couple of table- spoonfuls of good gravy flavoured with two or three drops of Maggi’s essence. Sorrel is cooked in the same manner. Red Cabbage.—Boil the cabbage for one hour in slightly salted water ; drain off the water, and put it into a stewpan with salt, pepper, a piece of bacon rind, and a little pork dripping or lard. Cover, set it over a moderate fire, and simmer gently for three hours. Serve with boiled pork, sausages, boiled beef, etc. Or cut the cabbage in fine slices, boil them in water and stock, let them cook till quite tender and till the liquor has been quite absorbed. Boil some peeled and well-skinned chestnuts, and when ab- solutely tender serve them with the cabbage. Brussels Sprouts.—Trim them and boil them in salted water for about twenty minutes ; drain off the water; put them into a stewpan with a piece of butter, a tablespoonful of flour, two tablespoonfuls of good stock or sour milk, salt and pepper to taste, and let them stew till quite tender. Or after having boiled them as above (this should always be the first part of the operation whatever the recipe adopted), let them simmer till tender in a brown roux, and add at the last moment some good beef or veal gravv. Cooked in this way they are specially good with .partridges.70 COOKERY. Sauerkraut.—Those who like this may be glad to know the best way to prepare it. It may be obtained in many foreign shops in London—for instance, at M. Paul Schiller’s, 29, New Oxford Street, London, W. Wash it well in lukewarm water, until the water remains clear; then drain it; put it into a large saucepan with a bath chap or a smoked sausage, or a piece of pork, a little piece of butter, and a few tablespoonfuls of plain stock ; let it boil gently for an hour or two, drain off the liquor, put it over the fire again with a small piece of butter, and serve very hot. Carrots.—Boil some young well-scraped carrots in some stock; when they are nearly tender, cut them in slices, then saatez (toss) them in hot butter till they assume a deeper colour, sprinkle them with finely- chopped parsley, and serve very hot. When this vegetable becomes rather old, cut the carrots in small pieces, slightly brown them in good hot fat or butter, then sprinkle them plentifully with flour, and draw the saucepan aside, put in a small teacupful of stock, add salt and pepper to taste, cover and let this simmer over a slow fire for fully half an hour ; just before serving add a couple of tablespoonfuls of cream, or some milk, or the yolk of an egg to thicken the sauce. Serve quickly and very hot. Or when carrots have been used for making the regular provision of stock, cut them into slices, prepare a sauce with a little butter, some flour and stock, add a pinch of salt, one of sngar, and pepper to taste; put this over the fire with the carrots, and let them gently boil for a quarter of an hour.71 VEGETA P.LEfi. Peas.—Boil them for about ten minutes in water with a little salt, drain them and put them into a saucepan with some fresh butter, a sprinkling of flour, a pinch of sugar, and salt and pepper to taste ; let them cook slowly, and when they are tender and the liquid is reduced, stir in the yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of cream or sour milk ; stir, cover, and serve, when all the ingredients form a smooth creamy sauce. French Beam.—Boil them first in salted water till tender; when they are quite young this will take about half an hour, if old they must be cooked longer ; drain them and put them into a saucepan or frying pan with a little hot butter, a small onion and some parsley, both finely chopped ; just before serving add a drop or two of vinegar or a squeeze of lemon. Or heat some good pork dripping in a saucepan, put the beans in with enough stock to cover them, and a piece of bacon; cover and let the contents simmer for an hour and a half very slowly. Where canned or bottled vegetables are concerned, they should first be thoroughly well rinsed and strained; then heated in good fat with the necessary seasoning. Cauliflowers.—These can be plain boiled, thoroughly well drained, and served with white sauce (capers are rather an improvement), or they may be treated in various other ways. For instance, after removing the leaves, stalks, etc., cut them into neat sprigs and parboil them, dip them in a batter, fry them, and serve with fried parsley; or again, use up the cold72 cookery. remains of cauliflower by putting them in a buttered fireproof or enamelled gratin dish, sprinkle over them a little hot butter, cover them with grated cheese, and bake in the oven till a golden brown. Salsify, Scrape the roots well, cut them into suit- able pieces, and soak them at once in lukewarm milk and water to keep them from changing colour, parboil them till nearly tender as shown for peas, etc., then have ready in a saucepan a sauce made with some butter, flour, salt, pepper, sufficient stock for the requirements of the occasion, and cook the vegetable (which should in the meantime have been well drained) in the sauce for twenty minutes ; before serving thicken with the yolk of an egg. Salsify can also, after having been boiled as above, be served with some good meat gravy. Mice.—This makes a good substitute for potatoes when a change is needed. A breakfastcupful will make a dish for three or four persons, as it swells a good deal in cooking ; it should be of good quality and freed from all dark and unsightly grains ; put it into a basin and pour some boiling water over it before cooking it, then put it into a saucepan with very little water, salt and pepper to taste, and a small piece of butter; when the liquid is absorbed, add enough stock to cover, and another piece of butter, put on the cover, and let it simmer for about two hours, stir- ring frequently the while. This is particularly suited for serving with boiled fowl. A few ripe tomatoes previously skinned and stirred into the rice a few minutes before serving are a great improvement.VEGETABLES. 73 Egyptian Pilaff.—A. kind of national dish of rice is made thus: Clean and soak as above, then put it into a saucepan with some butter, sliced onions, plenty of seasoning and stock in the proportion of two cups of the latter to one of rice ; let this simmer slow ly for about twenty minutes until the broth has been entirely absorbed ; the rice should then be still quite shapely, not caked together, and yet quite tender, without being in the least pulpy, as, for instance, with the former recipe; add fresh tomatoes, or tomato sauce if desired, or some grated cheese, and serve very hot. Some people put in the smallest pinch of saffron. Maccaroni. This also provides a pleasant change, and goes very well with all kinds of stews, or can be eaten separately as an entree. The maccaroni must be of good quality. Lately an excellent make hailing from Rolle in Switzerland, where it is prepared and dried in patent hot-air ovens, has been imported into Lngland, and can now be procured in London at M. Paul Schiller’s, 29, New Oxford Street, W. It is strongly to be recommended as going further than poorer qualities, and giving better results. There is a secret about the proper preparation of this particular article, namely, rapidity. Boil it in plenty of water over a fierce fire, so that the process may take place almost violently; as soon as it is tender pour it into a colander, and shake out all the liquid promptly ; have ready some butter heated in a suitable saucepan, with or without crushed tomatoes, put in theCOOKERY, 74 maocaroni, stir, and season plentifully; then serve quickly on a very hot dish, and send in grated cheese as an accompaniment. Broad beans, dried beans, peas, lentils, and such things are delicious in the winter when other veget- ables are scarce, but unless they are carefully cooked are heavy and unwholesome. The secret of making them tender and enjoyable lies in cooking them very slowly and for two or three hours ; moreover, as they are rather lacking in flavour, it is advisable to stir in some sliced or chopped onions and parsley slightly browned in hot butter, and if it is convenient to boil some bacon or some smoked sausage with them, it will greatly improve them.BEEF. 75 CHAPTER VIII. BEEF. The flesh of this meat should be neither too red nor too pale, and it is a sign of good quality if the fat is slightly tinted with yellow. The most useful pieces for stock are the buttock and the shin; the sirloin is generally reserved for roasting, though it can also be prepared according to various recipes. It is a mistaken notion that fresh beef when merely boiled is considered unfit for the table ; if it is properly cooked with a view to serving it thus, it can be perfectly tender and wholesome. The great mistake in boiling meats of all kinds, and also in stewing them, is that the process is carried on too rapidly, so that the meat hardens before it has had time to properly expand and become soft. With fresh boiled beef serve carrots, onions, turnips, and small dumplings. In using the sirloin it is a good plan to remove the undercut, so as to serve it in different ways. For instance, it can be cooked whole, either roasted, baked, or slowly stewed in a covered saucepan and in the oven, the time to depend on the size of the joint. Or it may be cut into slices, dipped in oil and fried or grilled, not too long; it may be accompanied with any kind of desirable garnish according to the time of yearCOOKERY. 7fi or to the vegetables in season. The upper cut can be roasted as it is, or removed from the hone and rolled. Entrecote.—Take a suitably-sized piece and turn it about in a frying or saucepan containing a little cut fat; add salt and pepper to taste, cover and leave it over the fire till tender, then put it aside in a warm place ; in the meantime remove the fat from the liquor which was left in the pan, and add to this equal quantities of white wine and water (according to the amount of sauce you require). Put it over the fire in a small saucepan and let it slightly reduce ; thicken with a little brown sauce, add some chopped mushroom, and let it boil; finally stir in an eggspoonf ul of Maggi essence, pour it over the meat, and serve very hot. This can be varied by using olives instead of mushrooms and different kinds of brown sauces, which in every case almost are more suitable to beef than white ones. Ox Tongue.—Scald it and remove the skin; put it into a suitable utensil with some fat, small onions, and a few slices of bacon; set it over the fire until the tongue has become slightly coloured ; remove the fat, season to taste, sprinkle the tongue with flour, cover it up again, and after half an hour add equal quantities of ordinary red wine and water; let this simmer quite slowly, well covered up, and over a slack fire for from two to three hours according to the size of the tongue. Remember that the fire, though slack, must he kept absolutely even, or every time it goes down the contents of the saucepan will run the risk of becoming tough. Take the onions, etc., out of the gravy, and send the latter in either in the dish or in a sauce-boat.77 BEEF. The white and red wines recommended in the foregoing and following recipes are cooking wines which can be had at a very moderate price, and which are intended in many cases to take the place of more extravagant ingredients. 0.r Tongue, To Salt and Smoke.—Wash and wipe a tongue, cut off the roughest parts of the roots, rub it well with salt, pepper, and a little saltpetre all mixed together, and put it into a deep dish with two large handfuls of coarse salt, an onion, and a garlic root. Leave it for a week in this salt in a cold place, and turn it over every day ; then hang it up for a day and night to allow the moisture to drip off, after which it must hang in a wood fire chimney to smoke. If it is intended to be kept for future use it should smoke about eight days, but if it is to be eaten at once from one to three days will be quite sufficient. Thus prepared the tongue may be plainly boiled, and when cold garnished with jelly ; or boil it in some pea- soup, remove the skin while quite hot, cover it with bread raspings, and garnish with jelly. When salted and smoked in this way, the tongue, unless it be exceptionally small, should be allowed to simmer slowly from three to four hours. Rolled Reef. Remove the bone from a large rib, trim the meat carefully, beat it well and lay it in pickle, i.c., vinegar to cover, salt, peppercorns, parsley, and onions. Leave it for four days in the larder or cellar, turning it every day, then let the moisture drain off, lard the meat thickly, roll it upCOOKERY. 78 and tie it round tightly, being careful to give it a very even shape ; boil it for two hours in equal parts of water, stock, and white wine ; then brown in a small saucepan two heaped tablespoonfuls of flour, stir in a little stock, some tiny onions, and chopped capers. Add to this as much of the liquor in which the meat has boiled as you will require, stir it all over the lire till it boils, and serve it just as it is with the meat.79 MUTTON. CHAPTER IX. MUTTON. The best pieces are of course the leg, the loin, the saddle, which generally comprises the loin and the fillet together, and the cutlets, which should be taken from the best end of the neck and the shoulder. The breast and the scrag end of the neck are excellent for many purposes, though they cannot be counted as useful as the other parts. With regard to the leg, the great thing to do is to try and vary the modes of preparing it. Besides being roasted or boiled—and in this state one is apt to get tired of them—there are various other modes which should not be despised, though they may perhaps be a little more trouble. Mutton (Stuffed).—Open the leg’with a sharp knife, and holding the bone in the left hand detach it as neatly as possible from the meat. Chop up some herbs and onions; add to these a handful of breadcrumbs and some rice previously parboiled, season this plentifully, moisten it with the yolk of an egg or a little stock or stock and wine combined, and with it fill the meat in the space left by the removal of the bone; tie the joint round, rub it over with salt and pepper, and, if desired, with a little garlic, and hake it in the oven in the ordinary way; or stew it also in the oven, in a80 COOKERY. covered pan with enough lard to keep it from sticking, and a few vegetables; during this process it must only simmer. Whenever meat is cooked in this way, a teacupful of stock or water should be added just as it is put into the oven. This joint, once boned, can of course be stuffed in a variety of ways according to taste with sausage meat, chestnuts, vegetables, etc., and the shoulder can always be served in the same way. Shoulder.—This can either be plain roasted, or braised in the oven in a covered saucepan as above ; or it may be boned, stuffed and rolled, and baked, roasted in front of the fire, or braised. If it is not desirable to stuff it, it can be simply boned and rolled, then braised in a covered pan with the usual accompaniment of onions, celery, etc., and part stock and red wine by way of sauce; this makes a pleasing change. Cutlets.—There is really no reason why the ordinary chop should not be used as it is abroad for this particular item, which in this country only represents the small chops off the neck and shoulder; they arc employed indiscriminately by the continental cook, but they are very differently trimmed. After cutting them very neatly, if not small, take hold of the bone, and with a sharp knife turn down all the meat and fat which is attached to the same, so that the bone remains absolutely clean. It should not be longer than a couple of inches at the most; the chopper will doMUTTON. 81 away with the surplus length. Nothing is so objection- able as a badly “ dressed” chop or cutlet, whatever it may be called. Cut off the meat, etc., leaving only the really edible part; beat gently, press into shape so that they may all be of about the same size, and prepare them according to taste, either plainly grilled, or fried in breadcrumbs served with tomato sauce, or with a sauce piquante. Any kind of vegetable puree is eminently suitable as an accompaniment. Tongues.—These make a good breakfast or supper dish. Soak them for two or three hours in cold water, changing it in the interval if necessary, then scald them in boiling water, until the skin can be removed ; after this has been done split them length- wise without cutting them in two; serve them thus hot, with a sauce piquante. Or keep them hot and make the following gravy: Put into a saucepan a -mall piece of butter with two tablespoonfuls of flour ; when well coloured add a little stock, two onions, two small carrots, salt, pepper, mace, and a little white wine. Put the tongues into this sauce, cover the saucepan, and let them simmer for at least two hours and a half, gradually adding a little stock to keep the sauce to the right consistency; serve very hot, with a sprinkling of finely-chopped parsley. Curry.—Put into a saucepan some onions sliced, in fairly large quantity, two or three apples, also sliced, with some fat, carrots, turnips, salt, pepper, etc.; fry till quite brown; if the meat has not already been cookrd, put it into the saucepan cut in suitable pieces;82 COOKERY. cover with either stock or water, and thicken with flour and curry powder in equal quantity (the latter according to desire); these two ingredients should be mixed into a paste with a little stock; when the meat is done, draw the saucepan aside, put the rice in cold water, and boil for about twenty minutes; strain it, arrange the rice all around the dish, and put the meat in the middle. If the curry is made from cold remains, they should, of course, only be put in in time to become thoroughly heated.83 VEAL. CHAPTER X. VEAL. This animal yields very line and useful joints, but its meat is certainly less generally wholesome than the foregoing. Continental butchers cut it in a manner which makes it much more profitable, and which en- ables a cook to use much of the fat for preserving for kitchen use. The chops, too, are then available as a matter of course, thus providing another dish for emergencies ; they are easily prepared and excellent eating. More perhaps than any other this meat must be thoroughly well cooked, therefore braising and roast- ing suit it, whilst some parts of the animal are absolutely invaluable for stews. The part near the knuckle bone when cut into suitable pieces, and freed from skin and gristle, is perhaps the most tasty part, and is one of the most economical, too. Of course, the bone makes excellent soup and stock. Always put plenty of onions, carrots, turnips, spice, and two or three potatoes in such a stew, and allow it to cook very slowly for a long time—the result will be delicious. Any part of the fleshy cuts without much fat (whether it really corresponds to the French equivalent or not) will do for a J'rkandeaii, almost the best veal joint served on foreign tables; this can be84 COOKERY. roasted or plainly baked if desired, but tbe correct and most satisfactory method consists in braising it. Have a covered pan of some description that will go into tbe oven, cut up onions, carrots, turnips, small pieces of celery, a few sprigs of parsley, etc., and put them into tbe pan with a tablespoonful or more of good lard, or fresh dripping ; stir them a little until they assume a good colour, then put in tbe meat after having well rubbed it over with a handful of pepper and salt mixed. To this add either a breakfast- cupful of cold water, or half water and white wine, or a lesser quantity of good stock. Put the cover on, place the pan in the oven, and let it slowly simmer (turning the meat over once at half time) for from one and a half to three hours according to the size of the joint. If plainly roasted the fricandeau is greatly improved by being basted. Yeal prepared in this fashion scarcely needs any stuffing, especially when braised, as the vegetables and general mode of cooking add considerably to the flavour. Chicory, lettuces, spinach, sorrel, and all kinds of vegetable purees are suitable accompaniments for veal. The breast makes delightfully tasty stew, or it can be treated in the same manner as indicated for breast of mutton, viz., rolled and stuffed, and either roasted or braised ; it has also the advantage of being a very economical dish. The shoulder can be roasted as it is, or after boning can be cooked in various ways; either with stuffing and grilled after tbe fashion prescribed for tbe breast,85 VEAL. or merely rolled with strips of bacon inside, together with a sprinkling of chopped chives, parsley, and a sprig of tarragon. Prepare onions as vegetables sliced as before, put them into the pan with some pork dripping ; when the onions begin to colour pour off the fat, sprinkle thickly with flour, put in the meat, add water to two-thirds of the thickness of the joint, put in a bouquet, salt, pepper, a blade or two of mace, the grated peel of half a small lemon, and one bay-leaf ; put on the lid and let all simmer gently for about two and a half hours, so that the liquor will be reduced to a semi-glaze. Remove the bouquet, dish up the meat with all the vegetables around, strain the sauce, and serve very hot. The bones, which are well covered with gristle, make a most delicious soup, which can be thickened with barley, rice, etc. It must not be forgotten that calves’ liver makes a delicious and useful dish ; the ordinary way of pre- paring it in this country with slices of bacon is too well known to need repeating here, but as a small joint it has a much more important appearance and an excellent flavour. Take a good-sized liver, remove the thin skin which covers it, lard it thoroughly, or, better still, pierce it through and through in two or three places, and fill up these places with strips of fat bacon, which can easily be pushed in with a broad end of a large wooden skewer; the strips of bacon should previously have been well peppered and rolled in very finely-chopped herbs, as, for instance, parsley and tarragon. RubCOOKERY, 86 the liver over with mixed pepper and salt, put onions mto a braising pan with some fat as before, and proceed generally in the same way. After the flour has been sprinkled in, allow it to slightly colour; then put in the meat with a bouquet and some carrots, put some flour over the meat, and just enough white wine and water (a little more of the former than of the latter) to cover. Put on the lid, stand it in the oven, and let it simmer for about two hours, when the gravy will be in a semi-glaze. Remove the bouquet, and serve with the gravy over the liver. It is also delicious when cut in slices with some bacon, and instead of plainly frying serve it with a white wine sauce. This is very simply prepared; when the liver is don?, stand it on a hot dish to keep hot, put into the pan some white wine, which thicken with a little brown voice, stir the mixture, and let it boil up, then draw the pan off the fire and stir in a small lump of fresh butter and a tablespoonful of chopped parsley and tarragon, squeeze in a few drops of lemon-juice, stir it once again over the fire to get it very hot, pour over the liver, and serve at once. The heart is by no means to be despised, and, treated as follows, makes a very good entree dish ; Wash and trim the heart, cut it into small slices or into dice shape, put it over the fire in a stewing pan, with some good fat bacon or pork dripping, a large handful of small onions, or two or three large ones cut in slices, and plenty of seasoning. Let all these brown over a brisk fire; pour away the greater partVEAL. 87 of the fat, and sprinkle the contents of the pan with flour. Use a wooden spoon for stirring, moisten, and just cover with some red wine, put on the lid, and let the whole simmer slowly for about an hour or a little more over a moderate fire. A quarter of an hour before serving put in a dozen or more dried mush- rooms previously soaked in warm water, xmless it he convenient to add fresh ones. Sei've with squares of fried bread. Sweetbread.—This rather expensive item is greatly appreciated by many people: it is served at its best when larded and roasted, but the braising process is almost equally satisfactory. It is in properly cleaning and preparing the sweetbread that the main difficulty lies, or, rather, it is not a difficult duty, though many cooks overlook it altogether. Remove the outer skin, after having well washed the meat; then scald it thoroughly. To give it an even and convenient shape, put it under a weight for a time, then lard it with tiny strips of bacon previously rolled in pepper and salt; then braise, roast, or saittez in the usual manner, serving with a good thick gravy or semi-glaze. I lenty of seasoning is required, as the meat is in itself a little fade, and such accessories as onions, bay- leaf, etc., must not be forgotten. Calves’ head, too, always requires the same pre- liminary treatment, however it may subsequently be treated; soak it in water for at least twenty-four hours ; then scald it in a suitable vessel over a brisk tire. As soon as the water boils skirn it well, take88 COOKEKY. out the head, and put it into cold water again. Put into a large pot some flour, and a teacupful of vinegar, and to this add enough cold water to cover the head; add plenty of salt, some peppercorns, a bouquet, a hay-leaf, and some onions studded with cloves, stir, and let it boil. Put in the head cut in pieces, with a few carrots and a large tablespoonful of beef dripping, and let it boil for about two hours. When the meat is done it will feel quite soft under pressure of the finger; it can then be served with oil and vinegar, or with a rcmoulade, or it can be heated with a sauce poulette, or white sauce, or finally be cut into small pieces, rolled in egg and breadcrumbs and fried, to be served with a sprinkling of fines lierbes, and with or without a sauce tartare. The tongue of the animal may advantageously be boiled in salted water with onions, a bouquet, etc.; when tender, split it open lengthwise without actually cutting it in two. Serve very hot with a sauce piquante, which should be poured over the tongue while quite boiling. Another part not appreciated by all, but very much sought after by those who do happen to like it, is the brain; it is also a useful dish for invalids, as it is extremely light and nourishing withal. Here again great care must be bestowed on the preliminary operation ; soak the brains in cold water to clean them thoroughly, and carefully remove all the skin ; some tiny clots or veins will still adhere, and these must be entirely cleaned away by soaking in luke- warm water. The handling must be gentle, or the89 VEAL. brains will look “ messy ” and shapeless. Binse repeatedly, taking fresh water every time, and parboil them in salted water with the usual accessories for about half an hour. The brains can then be taken out and served fried with a sauce beurre noir, or rolled in egg and breadcrumbs and made into fritters. Ox and sheep’s brains can be treated in the same way, but calves’ brains are the most delicate of the three. Veal is also excellent for curry.90 COOKERY. CHAPTER XI. PORK. This is really too exhaustive a subject to be treated properly in a short space, for, more than any other, this animal provides a very large supply for larder and storeroom. No other gives us such a variety of provisions, and for those living in the country especially its value is wonderful. Nor is there any more interesting and profitable item in small farming; what with the fresh meat, the quantity of different sausages to be produced, the smoked material which lasts such a long time, etc., it is almost impossible to appreciate the value of the pig too highly. However, sad though it may be to condense the matter, it must be done, and I will endeavour in as short a space as possible to be of use to my readers. The best parts to be eaten fresh as joints are the loin and the leg, and for these there is no better treatment than the roasting process; always trying to avoid the general error which lies in under-cooking the meat. Pork does not bear being underdone ; it then becomes heavy and unwholesome, therefore it ought to be cooked very slowly, evenly, and for a longer period than any other meat. Apple sauce,PORK. 91 plums preserved in vinegar, apple jelly, etc., can be served with the same to great advantage. The meat should be allowed to produce its own gravy with the addition of a little fat; this is accomplished by very slow cooking. The leg makes rather a formidable joint unless there be a large party to provide for ; in the case of a small family, the best plan is to have it cut in half, and to use the fillet end for roasting; the rest may be used in the same way after hanging for a time ; or it may be boiled, or again cut up and made into curry ; those who enjoy this preparation will do well to try it with pork, for there is hardly any meat that lends itself better to this kind of recipe. Only the mixture should be very hot, and plenty of apples should be used. The forelegs, commonly called hands of pork, are generally pickled in salt, and are not very often seen served where daintiness is required ; all the same it is a most useful dish for family dinners, and where pork is not objected to is by no means to be despised. It is not a delicate looking joint, but it can be presented in very acceptable form, and enjoyed accordingly. Greens of some kind are the best accompaniment for this joint, and they should be boiled together, so that the vegetables may be improved in flavour. The meat must be put into cold water, covered, and allowed to boil for three or four hours slowly ; when the meat is nearly tender put in the greens, cover, and keep up the fire very evenly until the latter are quite tender. There is no need to add any salt, andyi2 COOKERY. the vegetables are done more quickly than they otherwise would he owing to the fat produced by the meat. Drain the greens, squeeze the water out with the hands, and put them into a smaller saucepan with a little piece of butter or good lard, plenty of pepper, and, if necessary, salt to taste ; meantime dish up the meat, garnish with parsley, and serve very hot. A couple of sprigs of parsley and an onion studded with two or three cloves will improve the flavour if they are put into the water with the meat and removed before the vegetables are added. All kinds of greens, viz., cabbage, brussels sprouts, turnip-tops, broccoli or curly kale, are suitable for this purpose. Winter is the best time for eating pork. The head, either whole or halved, according to requirements, may be cooked in the same way as the hand ; if a nice looking entree is required, it can (after being boiled till tender) be cut up and served with a sauce ponlette poured over it; but the meat must be kept quite hot until the sauce is ready, or it must be reheated, as the case may be, without allowing it to harden. Again, when the head has been cut into pieces, and well freed from bone, these can be dipped in a frying batter and fried a good colour. Pigs’ feet, thoroughly boiled till tender and then boned, can also be served in either of these two ways, and for those who like them make an inexpensive and delicious breakfast dish. Or they can be split lengthwise after boiling, without, however, cutting93 POliK. them in two, after which remove the bones and fill them with any kind of stuffing; for instance, with a mixture of parboiled rice, breadcrumbs, plenty of seasoning, chopped onion and parsley, one or two chopped mushrooms, etc., all worked together with the yolk of an egg and a tablespoonful of good gravy. Tie the feet securely round, put a little piece of butter over each one, and grill them. Fresh Ham.—This makes a capital joint, and a pleasant change from the ordinary smoked article which is generally eaten cold. Remove the skin very carefully, so as not to disfigure the fleshy part, then soak it for three days in the following pickling mixture: White cooking wine, a little salt, peppercorns, a couple of onions, one studded with cloves, two bay- leaves, a root of garlic, and a little sage; turn the ham over night and morning; drain off all the moisture, and roast it in front of the fire or in the gas oven for at least three hours. Use about half the pickling liquor to baste it frequently the while. The ham thus treated will produce an excellent gravy, to which may be added, if desired, a few drops of vinegar about a quarter of an hour before serving, and a tablespoonful of chopped eschalots and parsley.!)4 COOKERY. CHAPTER XII. POULTRY AND GAME. It may not be altogether superfluous to give a hint or two about roasting fowls ; the fact that the pre- paration of them is so very ordinary may tend to make the operator rather careless. Whether done in front of the fire or in a gas oven, the chicken should always be wrapped in buttered paper ; this should be removed about a quarter of an hour before the bird is done to give it time and opportunity to assume a good colour ; it is also a great improvement and very little additional expense if a couple of slices of bacon be tied round the chicken ; these, too, should be removed like the paper. A moderate-sized fowl takes from forty to sixty minutes ; spring chickens, being much more tender, should be well watched, so as not to overdo them. Fowls done whole in this way can, of course, be varied and improved by using different kinds of stuffing, which impart good flavour—for instance, sausage meat, parsley butter, a mixture of breadcrumbs with finely-chopped herbs, tarragon, etc., a few chopped mushrooms and onions previously parboiled, all considerably help to make a pleasant change. Fricassee can be prepared either with a fresh chicken or with cold remains, the former, of course,POULTRY AND GAME. 95 being the most suitable for any special occasion, and the latter as an entree at a family meal; then in its turn fricasseed chicken can be used up by dipping the pieces covered with the cold sauce into a good batter and frying them; serve with parsley. This makes an excellent dish. Baked Fowl.—Have ready a fowl as if for roasting, soak it in a basin in some good olive oil with two or three sprigs of parsley, a large onion sliced, plenty of salt and pepper, and a bay-leaf. Cover it up and let it stand for two or three hours; take it out of the oil, tie round it some slices of bacon, put the onions out of the oil all around it, dip a large sheet of paper into the liquor, and tie this all around the fowl; grill or bake it, or roast it by a slack fire and rather slowly; when quite tender, remove all the covering, and serve it with a sauce ravigote. Poule en TJaube. — Ii is not important to have a young bird for this dish—in fact, birds suitable for boiling, and rather old than otherwise, are often reserved for this purpose. The length of time given to the process makes it a softening one. The earthen- ware marmites intended to be sent straight to table are convenient for this, and are now easily obtained in London. Stand the utensil over the fire with two or three ounces of fat bacon cut into small pieces, and a piece of Brand’s marrow fat about the size of a walnut; add a pinch of salt and put in the fowl ; cover and let it slightly colour. Draw the utensil aside, put in half a dozen peppercorns arid a tiny9(3 C00KEI1Y. garlic root; this should be tied up in a piece of muslin, and removed after about half an hour’s time; add a small tumblerf ul of white cooking wine, half a bay- leaf, and, if it is available, a veal bone of some sort, knuckle or otherwise. Let this simmer gently with the cover on for nearly an hour over a slack fire or over the gas (turned rather low). After this lapse of time, turn the fowl and baste it; add two or three carrots sliced, and previously parboiled, a dozen or so of small onions, two large ones sliced, a few small thin slices of streaky bacon, an eggspoonful of Maggi essence, and a tablespoonful of brandy ; put on the lid and let the whole cook till quite tender over a rather brisk fire. When done, remove the fat and send in the marmite on a clean napkin. If desired, morels, olives, or mushrooms may be added with advantage. The poulet en casserole is prepared in almost the same way, only the fowl must be a nice young one. This also can be served in the marmite in which it has been cooked, or it can be done in any kind of securely closing utensil that will fit into the oven ; for this, put the fat, the bacon, and the onions, etc., all into the saucepan; first let them heat in the fat over the fire, then put in the chicken, and let it slightly colour on both sides; pour into the utensil a teacupful of stock, or part stock and water, cover, and let it braise in the oven until quite tender. If sent to table in the marmite, tie a clean napkin around it.97 POULTRY AND GAME. Poulet Fricasse.—Remove the skin and principal bones of the remains of cold chicken ; stew the hones, skin, trimmings, etc., with a whole onion, some cloves, and a small piece of mace, and mix the stock produced with an equal quantity of melted butter; add a squeeze of lemon and put in the chicken ; when the latter is quite hot dish it up, and leave the sauce in the pan; thicken it with the yolks of one or two eggs, according to quantity, stirring all the time over the fire, but without allowing it to boil. Pour over the chicken and serve. With the cold remains of chicken, good supper dishes and cold lunch entrees can easily he prepared with the help of a mayonnaise sauce, a little fresh lettuce, etc. The turkey is prepared very much after the fashion of chicken, only more time must be allowed for cook- ing, as the bird is so much larger—one hour and a half and upwards should be reckoned for the roasting of a small turkey. This, too, is stuffed with every possible kind of ingredient, and anyone with culinary taste and imagination can safely experiment on this subject with a fair chance of success. Sausage meat, chest- nuts, etc., are available, and, of course, the most extravagant but delicious French custom of using truffles galore for special occasions is not to be despised by lovers of this tuber. Another delicious stuffing for a change is a chopped mixture of calves’ liver, bacon, mushrooms, parsley, chives, and, if desired, some crumb of two or three stale French rolls98 COOKERY. all worked together with one or two eggs well beaten up, and plentifully seasoned. Goose takes longer to roast even than the foregoing —three hours should be allowed for a large bird. This, too, can be plainly roasted, either in the oven or befoie the fire, stuffed with chestnuts or served with apple sauce, but never with truffles ; the flesh is very rich, and gives excellent dripping, which can be utilised for frying bread and other things to which the rather marked flavour of the goose would be welcome. If cooked in the oven, put it into the baking tin with a few tablespoonfuls of water only, and add a very little more gradually, just to form the gravy ; serve with a puree of chestnuts. Or serve it with sauerkraut thus: After having well washed the latter, scald it over the fire for about a quarter of an hour in boiling water, then put it into cold water, and drain off all the moisture. Put the sauerkraut into a large pan with about three-quarters of a pint of good stock, a pinch of salt, and some pepper ; cover the pan well, and let the contents simmer for about three hours, then have ready a moderate- sized goose prepared for roasting weighing about six pounds, and put it into the saucepan. Let the whole cook for two hours or more till the goose is done, arrange the well-drained sauerkraut on the dish, and serve the goose upon it. Cold remains of fowls, turkeys, geese, and, indeed, every other kind of game can be served again, hashed with a good brown or white sauce, or made into90 POULTRY AND GAME. delicious entires as a chaudfroid; for the latter use a chaudfroid recipe as given in the chapter on sauces. Or they can he warmed up to great advantage with the help of the Driessauces, according to the instruc- tions given to every purchaser by Messrs. Cosenza and Co. The same remarks apply to ducks, which are best roasted and served with green peas or a garniture of olives and watercress, or stuffed with small onions and with a garnish of the same. They can also be stuffed with a preparation consisting of stoned and chopped olives, mushrooms, and morels, onions, spices, salt, pepper, the crumb of a couple of rolls previously squeezed out of some warm milk, and the liver and heart of the bird. Let them always be thoroughly well done ; nothing is more objectionable than undercooked duck. Hare.—Pickle a hare either whole or in suitable pieces according to desire for from four to six days, in sufficient vinegar to cover it, with salt, pepper> sliced onions, a couple of bay-leaves, a small garlic root, and three or four cloves. When preparing it for table, make a roux with a piece of butter, and two tablespoonfuls of flour, add half the pickling liquor with the clotted blood, stir in two small tumberfuls of red wine, the same seasoning, etc., as for the pickling, about two ounces of bacon cut in dice, and a breakfast- cupful of stock. Let this sauce cook for quite half an hour, then only put in the hare, cover the pan, and let it slowly simmer over a moderate lire for about two100 COOKERY. hours. Hare can also be roasted whole, but it dries up easily, and should therefore be carefully watched ; moreover, for the same reason it is advisable to lard it well. When prepared in this way let the hare soak over- night in some vinegar plentifully seasoned, or, better still, in red wine. On pheasants, partridges, plovers, and other birds of the same sort there is not much to say without going into details of fancy dishes for which I have here no available space ; the simplest way, and doubtless the most delicious, because by its means all their natural flavour is retained, is to prepare them by roasting; they all require to be tied round with bacon, or larded so as not to taste too dry ; good gravy and some carefully-prepared vegetable puree is the best accompaniment. Partridges are particularly suited to cabbages and greens of all kinds prepared according to some of the recipes given in the chapter on that subject. Before passing on to sweets, however, here is one more useful recipe. Galantine.—It can be made in two ways : first with a whole fresh fowl, turkey, etc., as the case may be, or with breast of veal as the principal foundation. If prepared in the former manner, choose a good- sized bird, bone it carefully, or have it done for you at the poulterer’s (but the operation is not a difficult one), and fill it completely as follows: Chop up all the trimmings of the fowl, together with a piece of bacon, a little veal, a few mushrooms, morels, truffles (if necessary), a few sprigs of parsley and tarragon, a little calves’ liver (or some sweetbread according asPOULTRY AND GAME. 101 the occasion warrants), any remains of cold ham or tongue that may be available, the crumb of a French roll, plenty of salt and pepper, a pinch of grated nutmeg, etc. Work all this with the yolks of two or three eggs, moisten to the proper consistency with a little stock, and with this stuff the chicken or whatever bird happens to be under treatment as full as possible, always being careful to leave no empty space in the bird. Tie it round with some strips of bacon, and braise it in a well-covered saucepan in the oven, together with a little stock, an onion or two, and some cloves. When quite done, stand it aside to cool under a heavy weight, so as to thoroughly compress and amalgamate all the ingredients. Cover it with aspic jelly or mayonnaise, and serve as a supper dish with a garnish of aspic. Or if a whole fowl, etc., is not required, use up the cold remains of the same. Have a small piece of breast of veal, bone it, remove all the skin ; put aside all • the chicken, game, or turkey available for the purpose. After having taken off the skin, remove the bones, and cut it into even pieces; then make a stuffing as in the former recipe in sufficient quantity to fill the piece of veal. Arrange it in alternate layers with the chicken, then roll it all up and tie it securely into shape. Braise as above, cover with jelly when cold or with glaze, and serve.102 COOKERY. CHAPTER XIII. PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. Plum Pudding.— Mix together in a very large earthenware pan one pound of suet, half a pound of flour, half a pound of breadcrumbs, one pound of raisins, currants, and sultanas respectively, two ounces of orange, lemon, and citron peel and sweet almonds respectively, twelve bitter almonds sliced, one ounce of mixed spice, one teaspoonful of ginger, ten eggs, the juice and chopped rind of one lemon, one teacup- ful of sugar, two full wineglasses of brandy, and a little salt. The suet must of course be chosen as dry as possible, and when carefully skinned be thoroughly chopped, raisins, etc., washed and stoned, peel chopped fine, and the almonds cut up, but not too small; mix all these ingredients, which naturally need not be prepared all on the same day, most thoroughly, and at the last add a little milk to moisten the whole. This is a recipe which should serve for special occasions, as it is by no means a very economical one. The above quantity will make about three good- sized puddings; they should all be boiled for six or seven hours before being stored away, and should hang in a dry place. Before serving, let them boil for eight or ten hours more, they can scarcely ever be overdone.PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. 103 A Simpler Plum Pudding. — Mix together half a pound of suet, the same quantity of currants, three- quarters of a pound of raisins, four tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, three spoonfuls of flour, five ounces of sugar, three eggs, and a little milk to thoroughly mix the ingredients, add three ounces of citron peel, half a nutmeg grated, and a tablespoonful of brandy. Halt-pay Pudding.—Take four ounces each of suet, flour, breadcrumbs, currants, and raisins, add to this half a pint of milk and two tablespoonfuls of treacle ; work xs ell together and boil for three or four hours. Serve with a wine sauce. <linger Pudding.—Mix together half a pound of dried and sifted flour, three tablespoonfuls of finely- chopped suet, two of sugar, one and a half table- spoonfuls of ground ginger, a small teaspoonful of baking powder, and only just enough milk to moisten the whole to the required consistency. Put it into a well-buttered basin, tie a cloth over it, and steam or boil it for three hours. Serve with cornflour or arrowroot sauce, flavoured with wine and sugar. Chocolate Souffle.—Whisk well together three whites of eggs, two ounces of chocolate, two or three drops of essence of vanilla, and sugar to taste. Stir the mixture very lightly, and pour it into a souffle dish. Take in the oven for ten minutes, and serve quickly without a second’s delay or the top will sink in. Plain Custard.—Beat up two whole eggs. Whilst still whisking, pour in gradually one pint of fresh104 COOKERY. milk, sugar to taste, and any kind of desired flavour- ing ; put this into a jug, and stand it over the fire in a saucepan containing boiling water until the contents of the jug thicken, stir all the time, but do not allow it to boil or it will curdle. When cold serve in small glasses with a little nutmeg sprinkled on the top. Almond Custard.—Make some custard as above, and stiffen with gelatine. When properly thickened over the fire, pour it into a glass dish or china punch- bowl, and let it set. When firm, whip the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth with two ounces of vanilla chocolate, and pile it over the custard. Danish Pudding.—Pick over and wash one teacupful of pearl tapioca, and put it into a saucepan with a pint and a half of boiling water. Cook for one hour, or until the tapioca is transparent, stirring frequently. Add one saltspoonful of salt, four ounces of sugar, and half a tumbler of currant or any other jelly. Stir till this is dissolved, then pour it into a glass dish, and stand it on ice. Serve very cold with cream and sugar. Apple Charlotte.—Butter a large mould, line it all round with thin strips of bread and butter, and put a large piece at the bottom; have ready a sufficient quantity of apples rather more than parboiled, but not overdone; half fill the mould with these ; put in a layer of bread and butter. Fill up the mould with apples, cover with a final layer of bread and butter, and bake in the oven to a golden brown colour. Turn out and serve.105 PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. Bread and Butter Pudding.—Fill a well-butterecl pie- clish with alternate layers of slices of bread and buttei and currants ; pour over this a good custard and bake tiLl set. Chestnut Mould.—Boil some large chestnuts after splitting the skins with a knife; when quite tender skin and peel them, pound and press them through a moderately-fine sieve, mix with them some strawberry jelly or fresh cream, the latter very slightly flavoured with vanilla, and press it all into a buttered mould. Turn it out and serve cold with fresh ciearn or any kind of jelly or custard. Caramel Apples.—Peel, core, boil, and press through a sieve the necessary quantity of apples ; then sweeten and flavour them and return them to the saucepan. lien quite hot and rather reduced in quantity, put them into a shallow hot dish ; sprinkle them thickly with sugar and burn this by passing a red hot iron over it. Serve with or without fresh cream or with a junket. Bemon Cream (without Cream).—Squeeze the juice out of three lemons, and pour it on their rind, which must previously have been very thinly pared off; cover it up closely, and allow it to stand three or four hours. Add to this the yolks of two and the whites of four eggs, well beaten ; mix all this well with two teaspoonfuls of orange flour water, then add a pint of clear water. Strain and sweeten to taste, stir it carefully over a slow fire till it becomes as thick as cream, pour it into glasses, and stand on ice till wanted. hCOOKERY. 100 Pearl-barley Pudding.—Put a tablespoonful of pearl- barley to simmer in milk till thoroughly swelled; flavour it with any desired essence, put it into a small pie dish, fill up with milk, sweeten to taste, and bake; serve with or without cream on the top. Pudding without. Eggs.—Peel, core, and slice some good sharp cooking apples, and lay them in a pan with a little water, some lemon-juice, some thinly-prepared lemon rind, and sugar to taste; let them stew till tender, lay them in a pie dish; mix one and a half ounces of oswego with two ounces of sugar and some cold milk, heat over the fire a pint of milk,but do not let it boil; after having put in some lemon rind, strain it and add it to the oswego, or mix it all well together and pour all over the apples. Bake till the custard is of a good golden colour. Children's Pudding.—Cut into four pieces some thin rounds of bread, steep them in well boiled (and boil- ing) milk, previously sweetened and flavoured. When cold dip each piece in beaten-up egg and fry in boiling lard or good dripping; serve very hot with a dust of sugar. Batter Pudding.—Mix a tablespoonful of flour and of sugar respectively with a pint of milk and a pinch of salt, until the ingredients have become thoroughly amalgamated ; pour this into a well-buttered pie dish, and bake it in a slack oven till set; it must not boil. Of course it must not be forgotten that all kinds of seasonable fruits plainly stewed are both useful107 PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. and very wholesome; they are always acceptable, especially when served with a little fresh cream, or some good boiled custard; for emergencies the canned goods or bottled fruits are invaluable. In summer, or for an occasional supper dish, a macedoine fruit salad is most delicious and refresh- ing ; it is very easily made. Cut into slices, or simply stone as the case may require, any kind of fruit that can be obtained—for instance, currants, gooseberries, cherries, grapes, bananas, oranges, apples, plums, etc. Put them all into a large bowl, sprinkle them with sugar, cover, and let them stand for an hour or so ; add some light white wine with or without a little water in sufficient quantity to produce the necessary juice, and serve. To make plain orange salad, peel the fruit, remove all the pith, and cut the orange broadwise, removing the pips carefully, and sprinkling with sugar as the fruit is put into the dish. This is the best way to extract all the juice, and to avoid an unpleasant amount of pith, which is sure to be objectionable if the fruit is cut in quarters or in pieces, instead of slices. A good way to utilise very stale bread is to cut it into even slices, fairly thick ; dip them in either fresh or sour cream, or in plain milk, then dip them in a good egg batter and fry a good colour. Sprinkle with sugar flavoured with vanilla, and serve very hot. Or cut the slices thinner, and make into jam sandwiches with a very thin layer of jam ; dip them as before very carefully so as to keep them well together, and proceed as above.COOKERY. 108 Fruit Blancmauger.—Have ready about half a pound of almonds blanched and pounded, also a few pistachios sliced, and some preserved stoned cherries or any other small fruit; put the almond paste into a copper pan over the fire with half a pint of cream, a little sugar, and the slightest quantity of any desired flavouring essence. Dissolve in a little water about one ounce of gelatine (Marshall’s leaf gelatine is far preferable to most others), add it to the cream, etc., and go on stirring this always in the same direction until it is quite hot, then draw the pan aside, and go on stirring till the mixture is nearly cold. Pour it into a cold basin, still stirring; add the pistachios and the fruit. Dip the mould into which it is to be put into some cold water so that every part of the inside is moistened, then put in the mixture and set it on ice or in a place cold enough for the contents to set. Turn it out and serve with a garnish of preserved fruits or not, as convenient.109 PICKLING AND PRESERVING. CHAPTER XIV. ON PICKLING AND PRESERVING. Nowadays townsfolk do not indulge in this branch of domestic economy to any great extent. The average cook is generally rather inexperienced in the matter, especially if she be not country bred. The mistress, alas ! rarely knows much about it, and in London, at any rate, everything can be had at such moderate prices that there is certainly every excuse for this decrease of a good old practice. Still, where there is the time and the inclination, it is advisable to have some general notions which might serve as a guide in operations of this kind ; and in the country it is hardly possible to over-rate the convenience there is in being experienced in pickling and preserving generally. fruit to Preserve.—This is a simple process. The fruit, such as apples, pears, plums, etc., must be carefully rubbed with a clean cloth. Strawberries and other small kinds can be strewed on a cloth on a Hat surface, and very lightly rubbed with a second cloth. Copper utensils kept exclusively for the one purpose are the best for boiling, and remember that no other eatables may be cooking on the stove at the same time as the preserve is being made. The bottles and jars must be thoroughly cleansed a fewCOOKERY. 110 days before they are required, and well dried in the sun or the open air. If there is the least doubt on this last point a little sulphur should be burnt in the jar by means of a piece of brown paper. The bottles, etc., must not be filled too full, the fruit being just covei-ed by the syrup. A piece of paper cut to the exact size of the jar and soaked in good brandy can be laid over the surface of the fruit for its better preservation. When once sealed the contents can be used after a week, or be kept for almost any length of time, especially when the closing process has been carefully attended to. Hermetically-closing utensils both of metal and glass can now be had almost everywhere for this purpose; though bottles and jars answer equally well. The corks must be firm and new, and will fit very tightly if they are previously soaked in hot water, with a grain of salicylic acid to every pint of water ; this plan, which is also applicable to the home-bottling of wines, etc., insures absolute freedom from a corky taste. After corking, seal the bottles with a thin coat of wax. Jars are usually tied down with bladders softened and soaked in good brandy, and used whilst still quite damp. If there is any difficulty in removing this kind of covering when the contents are wanted a cloth wrung out of boiling water, and held round the mouth of the jar, will enable the operator to loosen the bladder without tearing it. Store the fruit in a cool, dry, airy place; it is advisable not to use tco large utensils, but of the sizePICKLING AND PRESERVING. Ill most convenient to the family requirements; take a wooden or silver spoon to remove the contents, and never put back any quantity that is left over ; once it has been exposed to the air, it would spoil the rest of the preserve if replaced. Cover the remainder with a freshly-saturated paper after having smoothed the jam, etc., down to a level. All fruit to be used for preserving purposes should be barely ripe and gathered in dry weather; this is absolutely imperative to success. Greengages, peaches plums, etc., can, if desired, be preserved whole, but all large fruit is better halved or quartered as the case may be. Peaches, plums, pears, and apples must be boiled in a syrup of 28°; greengages, cherries, etc., in one of 25-’; fill the bottles with the separate kinds of fruit, and when the syrup is nearly cold, pour it in ; cork the bottles, tie them down with thin wire, wrap them round with rags or straw; lay some hay at the bottom of a large pan, fill it with cold water, stand the bottles in it, and let the water boil up; when it has boiled for four minutes remove the pan, and let the contents cool during the night without touchin them ; next day, after unpacking the bottles, wipe them, plunge the neck in warm pitch or sealing wax, twisting round quickly, and store as directed. Fruit in Vinegar.--The general rule to follow is this: Allow four pounds of fruit to every pint and a half of vinegar; to this add three-quarters of a pint o light white wine, some broken cinnamon, and a dozen cloves. Make a syrup of these ingredients, and put the fruit in112 COOKERY. for five minutes whilst the liquor is boiling; take it out, strain, and pack it in jars ; boil the syrup up again, and pour it warm over the fruit. A good treatment for small vegetables and fruits consists in boiling them slightly and quickly for a few minutes, and straining them thoroughly. When all the moisture has drained off, put them into jars, and cover them with vinegar, which must previously have boiled and still be fairly hot. Cherries, plums of all kinds, apricots, pears, and melons, are all well suited to this treatment. Oranges. Boil them till tender, and carefully grate them lightly, going evenly round the fruit until the outer rind is off; remove the core and pips, and let the fruit soak in water for three days, shifting it occasionally; then take for every pound of fruit one pound of sugar, and make it into a syrup with a pint of water ; boil and skim carefully till quite clear ; pour it over the oranges and boil them together for half an hour, when they will be stiff and ready to be potted and tied down. These make an excellent dessert dish. Grapes to Pickle.—Let them he large but not too ripe ; fill a stone jar with alternate layers of grapes and vine leaves ; boil two quarts of water with half a pound of bay salt and common salt respectively for half an hour; skim, draw aside to settle, and when lukewarm, pour it over the grapes ; cover thickly with vine leaves, then with a cloth, and set it on the hearth or in a warm place for two days ; drain thePICKLING AND PRESERVING. 113 grapes oil a cloth, spread them out on a clean cloth, and cover them with flannel to dry; again fill a jar as above, boil one quart of water and one pound of loaf sugar for a quarter of an hour; skim it, add three blades of mace, a large nutmeg sliced, and two quarts of white wine vinegar ; boil all together. When quite cold, pour it over the grapes to cover them ; tie down with a softened bladder, and over this a piece of leather ; keep in a dry place. Almost all vegetables can be preserved for winter use. Beans are treated thus : String them and put them to boil for ten minutes in a large vessel full of water with salt to taste; take them out and put them into fresh cold water ; when they are quite cold, drain off all the moisture, and pack the beans in wide- mouthed bottles; just cover them with fresh brine anti pour clarified butter over them to the thickness of an inch. When the latter has set hard tie the vessels down with parchment, and store in a cool place. Or : String and trim the beans carefully, boil them in water for two minutes, then strain; have ready a small barrel or a large unglazed earthenware jar, if possible well lined with vine leaves. Pack tliebeans into this in layers alternately with a small handful of salt. Having filled the vessel, cover with vine leaves, and put on a wooden lid that will fit inside and work down under the gradual pressure of weights which should be placed upon it; in this way the beans in sinking, as they must do after a day or two, will none114 COOKERY. the less be well covered; they are ready for use after three weeks, and, like all other preserved vegetables, should be washed in fresh water and drained before cooking. The tub should always be closed up as soon as possible when some of the con- tents have been removed, and the cover weighted down again. Should the beans show signs of being dry a fresh brine can be poured over them. Marrows.—Put into a large vessel about forty small marrows with half a pint of salt, just cover with boil- ing water, let them stand for about twenty hours, take them out, wipe them dry, and lay them in large stone jars ; then heat some vinegar, and just before it reaches boiling point add to every quart of vinegar half an ounce of mace, one of whole black pepper and of mustard seed respectively, and a quarter of a large horseradish sliced. When this has boiled together pour it over the marrows at once, let them stand till cold, tie down with parchment, and keep in a cool place. Tomatoes.—As far as my personal experience goes they do not succeed very well when preserved whole ; but for garnishes, flavourings, or for use in soups they can be treated as follows : Choose them ripe, but perfectly sound and firm; remove the green stalk and hard core, cut them in two, put them just as they are into preserving bottles, not too large, and with the ordinary wide mouth. Use bladder instead of corks for closing the bottles, and let this be previously soaked in lukewarm water to soften it. Tie it round115 PICKLING AND PRESERVING. with a piece of fine string, and over the first piece put a second bladder, tying it equally carefully. Heat the bottles in the bain-marie, just in the same way as shown previously for fruit. Before the tomatoes are used some of the juice had better be strained off, or they will be too liquid. Mushrooms.—Be sure these have been gathered in fine dry weather, and treat them on the same day. Wash them briskly, dry them, and put them into a pan over the fire with some butter, a good pinch of salt, a little water, and a few drops of citric acid ; cover them over, and let them boil for three minutes. Take them out with a flat strainer, and after letting the moisture drain off, put them into wide-mouthed bottles, packing them rather closely. Very little of the liquor should be poured into the bottles, though it is well to skim off the butter, and to add it to the mushrooms. Tie the bottles down with a bladder folded double, and after boiling the bottles as above, tie on another bladder, and seal the bottles. Dried Mushrooms are very useful all through the winter for sauces and stews. Boil them for a short time in salted water, strain them, thread them so that they shall not touch each other, and dry them in the shade or in a well-aired place, or in a slack oven, according to convenience. The salt keeps off the insects, but the mushrooms must bo kept in an absolutely dry place, as the salt also tends to absorb the natural moisture. When dried, they can be pounded or ground, and kept in small tins for116 COOKERY. flavouring purposes. This fungus will not keep more than one season. Before using dried mushrooms whole they should be soaked in vinegar and water for half an hour. Gherkins. Choose them rather small, wash them clean, put them into a strong brine for three hours, pour off the liquor, and put the gherkins into the jars m which they are to be pickled with alternate sprink- lings of the following ingredients well mixed together: Capsicums, coriander seeds, cloves, peppercorns, mace, some eschalots, two or three crushed bay-leaves, and a handful of tarragon. Boil the necessary quantity of vinegar to cover all the gherkins in each jar, skim it carefully, and when cold fill the jars. After two days, pour off the vinegar again, boil it a second time, and pour it over the gherkins whilst it is still hot. When quite cold, tie up jars and store them. There is also a good deal to be done with various kinds of meats ; and beef is the easiest to treat and also the one which lasts longest. Spiced IiecJ.—Use the round, buy it fresh and rub in full two ounces of pounded saltpetre; lay the meat in a large pan or wooden tub that will just hold it, and let it stand for two days in a cool place. When you take it out, have ready two pounds of kitchen salt made very hot, and rub it well into the meat, letting the surplus fall into the pan; add to the liquor in which the meat has soaked and the salt fallen, a quarter of a pound of coarse brown sugar; stir well, put the beef in, and let it lie for about three weeks; turn it over117 PICKLING AND PRESERVING. once in three days, keeping it pressed down by a slight weight so as to be well covered by the brine all the time. Before cooking it, tie the meat into a nice even shape, skewer it if necessary, and boil, bake, or braise it in a suitable fireproof utensil, which must not be over large for the joint. Just cover it with water, add two dozen small onions, two or three heads of celery well trimmed, a large faggot of parsley, chervil, mace, and any desirable herbs, a quarter of a nutmeg, the rind of a lemon, and two pounds or more of beef suet, cut very fine ; weight the lid down, so that it may not rise when the water boils. The cooking should be done very slowly, or the meat will be tough ; from six to eight hours will not be found too long; leave the meat in its liquor till it is quite cold, then dish it up, garnish with parsley, beetroot, etc. This will keep for weeks in cold weather, and is useful for supper, breakfast, etc. The next recipe gives excellent salt spiced beef: Make a pickling mixture with good white vinegar, in which kitchen salt, saltpetre, bay-leaves, black pepper, cloves, cinnamon, nutmeg, one lai'ge onion, and a root of garlic should have been allowed to infuse for at least twenty-four hours. Soak the meat in this liquor, and leave it for three weeks in a cold place, turning the joint over from time to time, so that all parts become equally well saturated. Have ready some large bladders, which must previously have been well cleanse 1 in cold water, then in warm water mixed with vinegar and salt; these may then be118 COOKERY. dried, if necessary, but they must be slightly seal led just befoie they are wanted. Take out the meat, rub it over with fresh lard, then pack it into the bladders as tightly as possible, in suitable pieces of course ; tie up the ends very securely, put them in a large pan nearly filled with salted water and with some thyme, fennel, sage, bay-leaves, onions, and chives, and boil them uninterruptedly for two hours at least. To avoid the possible bursting of the skins during this process they may be pricked here and there with a folk. Beef spiced in this manner will keep good much longer than the fresh meat treated as above, and has, moreover, a good flavour. Potted Meatx. This is a very satisfactory provision to fall back upon, especially if the process be carefully carried out. The preliminary operations, whatsoever the meat may be, consist in covering the latter thickly with butter; put it into an earthenware pan, tie it down with strong paper, and bake it well. Drain off all the gravy, of which the smallest quantity, if not eliminated, will soon produce an unpleasant sourness ; pick off all skin, gristle, etc. Beef.—Rub six pounds or more of round of beef with half a pound of brown sugar and one ounce of salt- petre, let it lie for twenty-four hours in a pan, wash it, dry it with a cloth, season with a mixture of pounded mace and pepper and salt to taste, cut it into six or eight pieces, and put it into an earthenware jar with lumps of butter, bake it in a hot oven for three hours, trim off all hard surfaces, etc., mince and119 PICKLING AND PHESERVING. pound it in a mortar, add more mace and general seasoning, heat one pound of butter with some of the drained off gravy and some of the fat, and mix it as required to make the mince of suitable stiffness ; pound all till quite smooth, press it tightly into suit- able jars, cover with clarified butter, and keep in a dry place.INDEX Allemande ,, oysters .. Barley soup Batter pudding. Beans, French Bechamel. Beef potted rolled sirloin of spiced tea Black butter sauce Blancmanger Bread and butter pudding 105 Breast of veal 84 Broth 46 Brown thickening 30 Brussels sprouts 69 Burnt flour soup 45 Butter thickening 30 Cabbage 67 ., red 69 Calves' brains 88 ,, head 87 „ heart 86 PAGE I " 32 I Calves’ liver ,, tongue Caramel PAGE 88 ,, apples. Carp Carrots Cauliflower - - 51 ... 70 - 95 1 • » au gratin .. Cheese omelet .... 72 .. 46 •• 71 1 .. 113 Chestnut mould Children's pudding Chocolate souffle Clarified fat Cod .... 105 .... 103 Colouring 76 1 Consomme .. 118 Coulis Court bouillon • 75 I Cream sauce .116 1 Crecy soup Curry . 58 Custard . !■ 8 ,• almond ... 104 . 64 Cutlets, mutton Dandelions 69 Danish pudding 104 Desiccated vegetables 74 Driessauces 31 Ducks 99 Eels 55 „ rolled 55 Eggs 6t ,, fried 63INDEX. 121 PAGE Eggs in wine sauce 63 ,, scrambled 62 „ stuffed... 63 Egyptian pilaff 73 Endive 68 Entrecote 76 Espagnole 32 Essence (Maggi) 42, 44, 47 I PAGE Ice 13. Invalid beef tea 25. Italienne 33 K Kitchen utensils 17- F Fowls, baked 95 „ en casserole 96 „ en daube 95 „ fricasseed 97 „ roasted 94 Fresh ham g3 Fricandeau 83 Fried potatoes 64 „ skate 56 „ trout 5g Fruit blancmanger 108 -, to preserve 109 „ in vinegar m L Larded pike 55, Larder 12 Leek and potato soup 47 Leg of pork 91 Lemon cream 105 Lettuce 68 Liaison 28 ,, a l'allemande 29. ,, a 1’oeuf 29 Liver, calves' 85 M G Galantine Game Gherkins, to pickle ... Ginger pudding Goose „ with sauerkraut Grapes, to pickle Gratin, cauliflower au. H too 94 116 103 98 98 112 72 Ham, fresh Hand of pork Hare, pickled „ roasted Herbs Herb sauce Hints, practical .... Horseradish sauce 93 9‘ 99 too 28 39 11 42 Maccaroni 73. Macedoine 107 Mackerel, filleted 57 ,, grilled 57 ,, in sauce 57 Madeira sauce 39- Maggi consomme 44 ,, essence 42, 44, 47 ,, soups 43 Maitre d'hotel sauce 36’ Marrows 114 Matelote, plain 50 „ with wine 50 Mayonnaise 40- Mould, chestnut 105. Mushrooms 115 ,, dried 115 Mustard sauce, cold 41 >■ ,, hot 38 Mutton 79. „ broth 46 „ curry bt 1122 COOKERY. PAGE Mutton cutlets 80 ,, shoulder of 80 ,, stuffed 79 O Olive sauce 40 Omelet, cheese .,... 62 ,, plain 6r ,, stuffed 62 Onion soupj 44 Oranges, to preserve 112 Orange salad 107 Oxtongue 76 „ salted and smoked 77 P Pearl barley soup 46 Peas 71 Pickled gherkins 116 ,, grapes 12 „ hare ... gg Pickling and preserving .. log Pig’sjhead 92 ,, feet 92 Pilaff 73 Pike, larded 54 „ with parmesan 54 ,, stewed 54 Piquante sauce ... 41 Pork 90 „ hand of 91 „ leg of 91 Potatoes, boiled 64 ,, en caisses Cn ,, a la creme 65 ,, fried 64 ,, maitre d'hotel ... 65 ,, in sauce 63 stuffed 65 Potied beef 118 Poulette sauce 36 Poultry 94 Practical hints 11 | Preserved beans 113 j ,, fruit 109 J PAGE Preserved marrows 1x4 ,, mushrooms 115 ,, oranges 112 ,, tomatoes 114 Puddings r02 ,, batter , ... 106 ,, bread and butter 105 ,, children's ;o6 ,, custard 103 ,, Danish 104 „ ginger 103 ,, half pay 103 ,, pearl barley 105 ., without eggs ... 106 Q Quatre epices 27 R Ramequins 62 Red cabbage 69 Remoulade sauce 41 Reserve sauce 34 Rice 72 Roast fowl 94 ,, hare ioo Rolled beef 77 S Sago soup 45 Salad, orange 107 Salmon 51 ,, with mushrooms.. 51 uaiauj .................. ...... / .S Salted smoked tongue 77 Sauce, aigre 37 „ black butter 38 ,, blanche 56 ,, blonde 35 „ brune 30 „ cream 35 „ herb 39 „ horse radish 11 Madeira 39INDEX. 123 Sauce maitre d’hotel .... ,, mayonnaise ,, mustard (cold) .... „ „ (hot) .... olive PAGE .. 36 .. 4° .. 41 .. 38 poulette •• 36 remoulade .. 41 reserve • • 34 ,, Robert .. 37 ,, salmis .. 38 tartare .. 41 with wine .. 35 Sauces meres Sauerkraut Scrambled eggs .. 62 Scullery - i+ Semolina soup .. 45 Shad .. 52 Sheep's tongues .. 8r Shoulder of mutton .. 80 .. veal .. 84 Sirloin of beef Skate with black butter . •• 56 ,, ,, sauce blonde fried .. 56 Soles .. 58 ,, au gratin •• 59 Sorrel Souffle chocolate Soups • 43 Crei;y burnt flour ,, Maggi • 43 onion pearl barley . 46 •• -^go • 45 semolina ,, tapioca • 45 ,, vegetable • 45 ,, without stock . 48 Spiced beet Spinach Sproufs, Brussels Stewed pike Stock, fowl ,, veal • 25 PAGE Stock-pot 21 StuBed eggs.. 63 ,, mutton 79 „ omelet 62 „ potatoes 65 Sweetbread 87 T Tartare sauce 42 Tapioca soup 45 Thickening, brown 30 „ butter 30 Tomatoes 114 Tongue, calves' 88 ,, ox 76 ,, sheep’s 81 Trout, boiled 58 „ fried 59 „ grilled 59 ,, with wine sauce ... 58 Turbot 52 ,, au gratin 52 Turkey 96 U Utensils, kitchen 17 V Veal 83 ,, breast of 84 ,, shoulder of 84 Vegetables 67 Vegetable, desiccated 74 „ soup 45 Vegetarian broth 26 Veloute 33 W Whiting, filleted 53 ,, au gratin 53 grilled 53ADVERTISEMENTS. CHAMPIONS — COLOURING. A Browning for Soups, Sauces, Hashes and Gravies. ABSOLUTELY INDISPENSABLE FOR ALL MADE DISHES. Champion’s Vinegar. A CULINARY NECESSARY OF IRREPROACHABLE QUALITY. 115, CITY ROAD, E.C.ILIFFE & SON, 3. St. Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E.C. List of Publications. BOOKS FOR PHOTOGRAPHERS. A Guide to Modern Photography.—By Harold Baker, s. d. Strongly bound in cloth and illustrated (postage ijd.) ... o 6 The Photographic Colourist.—A manual for the use of amateurs. Giving every particular required for painting lantern slides and other transparencies, colouring diagrams, preparing lantern slides without the aid of photography, blacking out backgrounds, scratching in details, tinting paper prints, colouring paper prints to imitate oil paintings, crystoleum paintings, etc., etc. ByJ.W. Neville. Cloth bound, nmo. (postage id.) o 6 Practical Enlarging.—By John A. Hodges, vice-president West London Photo Society. Illustrated. Cloth bound (postage 2id.) 2 o Photography in a Nutshell.—By “The Kernel." Crown 8vo. New edition, revised and enlarged. Attractive paper covers (postage 2d.) 1 o Photographic Pastimes.—Translated from the German by Hermann Schnauss. With numerous diagrams and illus- trations. Gives directions for double-pose, spirit photo- graphs, caricatures, the invisible, portraits without heads, composite and magic pictures, and other curious and interesting experiments. Stout paper covers (postage 3d.) 1 o Photography for All.—An elementary text book and intro- duction to the art of taking photographs. By W. Jerome Harrison, F.G.S., author of “A History of Photography," ■ The Geology of England and Wales," and European Editor of Anthony's International Annual. A thoroughly practical and useful little manual. Crown 8vo. Illustrated (postage 2d.) 1 oADVERTISEMENTS. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E.C The Hand Camera and How to Use it.—By Walter D. ,s. d Welford. Revised edition. With eighteen illustrations in half-tone. Crown 8vo. Neatly bound in paper (postage 3d.) 1 o Ditto ditto cloth bound 2 o Short Lessons in Photography.—By G. Ardaseer, Member of Royal Photographic Society of Great Britain. Dedicated to H.H. The Duke of Tech. An admirable second book for the student. Crown 8vo. Well illustrated and bound in neat paper covers (postage 2jd.) 1 o Military Photography.—By O. E. Wheeler, late Captain the Leicestershire Regiment. Crown 8vo. (postage tjd.)... 1 6 Photogravure.—By W. T. Wilkinson. With illustrations by W. L. Colls. Crown 8vo. Paper covers (postage id.)... 1 6 An Introduction to the Science and Practice of Photography. Third edition. Revised and enlarged. By Chapman Jones, F.I.C., F.C.S. With numerous illustrations. Crown 8vo. Paper cover ... 2 6 Ditto ditto cloth bound (postage 4d. and 3d.) ... 3 6 Photography Annual.—(Published in July.) Edited by Henry Sturmey. A splendidly illustrated compendium of information and statistics of the year. Six hundred pages of reading matter and illustrations. Demy 8vo. Handsome paper covers (postage/Jd.) 2 6 Cloth bound, gilt lettered 3 6 “Far in advance of any competitor.''—Vide Public Press. A Treatise on Photogravure.—In Intaglio, by theTalbot- Klic process. By Herbert Denison, F.R.P.S. A standard work which cannot be too highly commended ; strongly bound in buckram (postage 3d.) 4 6 The Photographic Reference Book. —Hints, information, and methods concerning all kinds of photographic work and recreation. Compiled by W. A. Watts, M.A., under the direction of Henry Sturmey, editor of Photography. A comprehensive work of over 400 pages. Copiously illustrated, and well bound in cloth (postage 4d.) 6 o “ Of infinite value to professional and amateur."ADVERTISEMENTS. ILIFFE & SON, 3, 8t. Bride 8t., Ludgate Circus, E.C The Encyclopaedia of Photography.—By Walter E. Wood- bury. Containing over 1,500 references, and illustrated with above 200 explanatory sketches and diagrams. Cloth bound (postage 6d.) BOOKS FOR CYCLISTS. Cycling in the English Lake District.—By A. W. Rumney, M.A. With sketch map (postage id.) The Nutshell Series —Cycling.—A thoroughly practical handbook for cyclists of both sexes, with chapters on the care and management of machines. By C. W. Brown, Cloth bound, i2mo. (postage ijd.) Principles of Training for Amateur Athletes.—Its ad- vantages and evils, with special regard to bicyclists. By H. L. Cortis, M.D. Tenth thousand. Crown 8vo. (postage id.) The recognised authority for fifteen years. The Cyclist’s Route Book for Great Britain and lre» land, including the Isles of Man and Wight. An original description of upwards of 20,000 miles of road, with index map of England and Wales in five sections, showing at a glance the best routes, dangerous hills, etc., by W. J. Spurrier, author of “The Tourist’s Guide,’’ “The Cyclos Guide Maps and Routes,” “How to Select and Ride a Cycle,” “The Tricycle and Health," etc. Price, paper covers, 1 /- (postage 3d.) Of all booksellers, and obtainable at all Messrs. Smith & Son’s bookstalls Paper “ Invaluable to all who cycle." Rights and Liabilities of Cyclists. — By John A. Williamson. Solicitor, and Chief Consul C.T.C. Northum- berland. Third edition (postage id.) s. d. 7 6 o 4 0 6- 1 o 1 o I 0ADVERTISEMENTS. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E.C. Bicycling for Ladies.—By Miss F. J. Erskine. Every lady s. d. cyclist should possess this handy little book. It gives full information on learning to ride, choice of machine, dress, worries and remedies, care of machine, touring, etc., etc. Paper covers (postage 2jd.) 0 “Cycling primers for the use of ladies are as common as flowers in May, and their frequency gives an idea of the popularity of wheeling with the fair sex. One of the latest additions to the library is Miss F. J. Erskine’s admirably written ‘ Bicycling for Ladies.’ It fulfils the first essentials of such a handbook in being at once thorough, simple, and practical from cover to cover. There is not a superfluous paragraph in it, and it covers the whole field of the recreation; dress, touring, care of the machine, remedies for common mishaps, etc., being all treated in turn. We thoroughly recommend the handbook, which is brightened by cuts."—Dundee Advertiser. Safety Cycling.—By G. D. Leechman. An exhaustive sum- mary of the art of cycling, with chapters on the choice of a machine, riding, touring, racing, construction, housing and care of machines, accessories, maps and road books, dress, institutions, points of law, cycling for ladies. Illustrated. Paper covers (postage 2d.) 1 o “Indispensable to cyclists and to those who are beginning to cycle.”—Vide Press Notices. The Cyclist Year Book for 1897.—Edited by Henry Sturmey. 2nd edition. Well illustrated. Boards (postage 4jd.) 2 0 “ Practically a directory to the cycle trade." SUMMARY OF CONTENTS. Resume of Cycling for 1896—England's Racing Men— Our Professionals—British Path Records, 1896—Road Records—Table of Pace per Hour and per Second—Table of Pace for a Three-lap Track—Results of the Amateur Championships of theN.C.U.—Winners of Irish Champion- ships since 1875 —National Champions — The Cycling Clubs of 1896—List of Cyclist Sections attached to Volunteer Regiments—Show Statistics for 1896—Times for Lamp-lighting—Cycle Company Returns—Cycle Com- panies Registered in 1896—Value of Cycle Exports—NewADVERTISEMENTS. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E.C. Things in Cycle Construction for 1897—Registered Trade s. d. Marks—Patents Applied For—Foreign Tariffs-Trade Map of Coventry—Trade Map of Birmingham-Trade Map of Wolverhampton. Cycling and Health.-By Oscar Jennings, M.D., Paris, M.R.C.S. England, Fellow of the Royal Medico-Chirurgical Society. Revised and enlarged edition. Cloth (postage 3d.) 2 o SUMMARY OF CONTENTS. The Basilisk in Rose Water-Cycling compared with other Exercises—Advice to Beginners —Historical—On Clothing—On the Employment of Cycling in Cases of Yarix, Hernia, and Hemorrhoids—Cycling for the Infirm— Cycling for Women—Cycling in Rheumatism and Gout Cycling in Obesity, Constipation, and Diabetes—Cycling in Nervous Affections—Cycling in Dyspepsia and Liver Disorders—The Cycle and Prejudice—The Consequences of the Abuse of Cycling. Art and Pastime of Cycling.—Third edition. Revised and enlarged. By R. J. Mecredy and A. J. Wilson. Illustrated. Paper covers (postage 3d.) 1 0 Ditto ditto cloth bound 1 6 Hints to Lady Travellers: At Home and Abroad.—By Lillias Campbell Davidson. Crown 8vo. 1 0 A remarkable feature of the work is its excellent summary of holiday resorts of the United Kingdom.” GUIDE BOOKS. The Way-about Series of Gazetteer Guides.—These are the only books in the market which give exhaustive in- formation about each county, and afford full particulars of the accommodation, angling, prettiest views and the best times for photographing them, house agents, cycle repairers, railway and pedestrian routes, dark rooms lor amateur photographers, etc., etc. Excellent Road Maps. Over sixty illustrations.ADVERTISEMENTS. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E.C. i.—Surrey, by H. S. Vaughan 2'—Kent, by H. S. Vaughan 3.—Warwickshire, by W. A. Bettesworth 4 — Derbyshire, by E. Bradbury 6.—Sussex, by H. S. Vaughan 7 — Hertfordshire, by W. A. Bettesworih 8. Middlesex, by H. S. Vaughan 9 —Herefordshire, by C. Caldicott io.—Oxfordshire, by H. Graves, B.A. ... 13. —Hampshire and the Isle of Wight, bv W Bettesworth 1 14. —Somersetshire, by Henry Harbour 15 —Devonshire, by H. S. Vaughan 16.—Northumberland and Durham, by R. T. Lan Paper covers (postage 3d.) The Guide to Llandudno. —By C. Caldicott. With map and illustrations, paper covers (postage ijd.) Hereford City, A Guide to.—By Chas. Caldicott, with illus- trations by the. author and Mr. Arthur E. Caldicott. Paper covers (postage ijd.) Hereford Cathedral, by C. Caldicott Holiday Tramps through Picturesque England and Wales.—By H. H. Warner, author of “Songs of the Spindle," with a prefix and appendix to each chapter. This work embraces the Isle of Wight, Hertfordshire, the English Lake District. Sussex. Hants, South Devon, North Wales, and Norfolk. Well illustrated. Bound in cloth. Handy pocket size. Eight good maps (postage 3d.) “ The carefully-planned routes are all that can be desired. The descriptions are concise and pointed, the illustrations profuse, and the maps numerous and good.” s. d. 1 o 1 o 1 o 1 o 1 o 1 o 1 o 1 o 1 o 1 0 1 o 1 0 1 o 1 0 1 o 1 o MISCELLANEOUS WORKS. The Nutshell Series—How to Obtnin Strength.—The common sense of exercise. By J. H. Harrison (Professor of Gymnastics) and Ridge King. Cloth bound, 121110. (postage 1 Ad.) o 6ADVERTISEMENTS. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E.C The Nutshell Series—Nursing-.—'The rearing and manage- s. d. ment of children from infancy upwards. A practical instructor for the use of parents and superior nurses. By a Doctor of Medicine. Cloth bound, i2mo. (postage iAd.) o 6 The Nutshell Series—Dancing.—A practical handbook for the use of beginners. By Edward Scott, author of “ Dancing as it should be," “ Grace and Folly," etc. Cloth bound, i2mo. (postage ijd.) o 6 The Nutshell Series—Dressmaking.—“ A practical little book." By Easton de Barras. Cloth bound, izmo. (postage id.) o 6 The Nutshell Series—Knitting and Fancy Work.— Part I. Plain and Fancy Knitting. Part II. Useful and Ornamental Crochet. Part III. New and Fashionable Needlework. By Easton de Barras. Cloth bound, izmo. (postage id.) o 6 Strange Clients and other Tales.—By Saumarez de Havil- land, of the Inner Temple (postage ijd.) o 6 “ Each story is better than the preceding one." Across Europe.—An interesting and amusing account of Terront's cycle ride from St. Petersburg to Paris. By H. O. Duncan. Paper (postage iAd.) i o The Speed Secret.—A short cut to rapid work in shorthand and typewriting. Stiff paper covers (postage id.) o 6 Patenting Made Easy.—A concise and up-to-date hand- book for the use of inventors. By a Registered Patent Agent. Illustrated. Stiff paper covers (postage id.) ... o 6 Roughing it on the Stage.—By Leopold Wagner. Cloth bound (postage 2jd.)...' ... i o “ Recalls the playful humour of Albert Smith." The Citizen’s Reference Book for England, Scotland, and Ireland. — Part I.— A complete and clear Citizen’s Guide in connection with Parliamentary Elections, Elementary Education, and Local Government. By Civis. Cloth bound (postage 2d.) i oADVERTISEMENTS, ILIFFE & SON, 3, St, Bride St., Ludgate Circus, E,C. A Handy Book upon Elocution and Dramatic Art.—By Emily McLaughlin. Foolscap 8vo. Cloth (postage 3d.) ... Minw aund 'yrink1les on -Sea Fishing.—By Ichthyosaurus. With an Appendix giving distances, fares, summary of sport hints on boats and bait, etc., and a full list of hotels and boarding houses. V/ell illustrated, and neatly bound in cloth (postage 3d.) w- Q-Grace.—A Biography by W. Methven Brownlee, with a Treatise on Cricket contributed by W G Grace Twenty-first thousand (postage 2jd.) ’ One Thousand Patent Facts. — A collection of useful information relating to the protection of inventions by letters patent, and to the registration of designs and trade marks in all countries. By Robert E. Phillips Memb. Inst. Mech. Engs. Cloth bound (postage 3d.) S. d. 2 o 1 o 1 o 2 6 Indian Clubs, and How to Use Them.—A new and com- plete method for learning to wield light and heavy clubs, graduated from the simplest to the most complicated exer- cises. By E, Ferdinand Lemaire. With 218 illustrations by the author. Followed by an appendix on strength and strong men. Cloth bound (postage 4ad.) PERIODICALS. THE CYCLIST and Bicycling and Tricycling Trades Review.—Edited by Henry Sturmey. Every Wednesday o 1 Binding Case for vol. (postage 3d.) each 2 o PHOTOGRAPHY: The Journal of the Amateur, the Profession, and the Trade.—Every Thursday (post- age Ad.) 1 Binding Case for vol. (postage 3d.) 1 6 THE AUTOCAR.—A journal published in the interests of the mechanically-propelled road carriage. Edited by Henry Sturmey. Every Friday (postage id.) o 3 Binding Case for vol. (postage 3d.) ... * 2 G Subscription Forms upon application. Postages quoted are for the United Kingdom. Foreign postage extra.THE AUTHORITY OF THE CYCLE WORLD. RELIABLE NEWS ON ALL CYCLING EVENTS. Interesting and Comprehensive. ADVICE TO RIDERS. UNBIASED OPINIONS ON MECHANICAL MATTERS. RACING NEWS BY SPECIALISTS. Wednesdays, ONE PENNY. In Town and Country. Through all Bookstalls and Newsagents, or from the Publishers, I LI FEE & SON, 3, ST. BRIDE STREET, LONDON, E.T, AND HERTFORD STREET, COVENTRY.EVERY THURSDAY. ONE PENNY. Editor - - HENRY STURMEY. Editorial Contributors: Capt. VV de W. Aijney, C.B., D.C.L., R.E., F.R.S. C. H. Bothamlev, F.I.C., F.C.S. W. K. Burton, C.E. George Davison. Chapman Jones, F.I.C.,F.C.S. Andrew Pringle, F.R.M.S., F.R.P.S. Frank M. Sutcliffe. Sub-Editor - CHAS. R. ROWE, M.J.I. A journal that is a photographic newspaper, giving a full tecord of photographic progress, accurate, bright, cheerful, and in every sense the popular photographic paper. Editorial communications should be sent to the Editor, Photography, Coventry. Publishing: matter should be addressed to the London Office. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. Bride Street, Ludgate Circus, LONDON, E.C.EVERY SATURDAY — 3d. A journal published in the interests of the mechanically, propelled road carriage. Editor = = HENRY STURMEY. “ The Autocar ” is profusely illustrated, and gives full details of all new motors and cars. Editorial communications should be sent to the Editor. The Autocar, Coventry. Publishing matter should be addressed to the London Office. ILIFFE & SON, 3, St. JSrifce Street, Xu&gate Circus, LONDON E.C.'