LEEDS UNIVERSITY LIBRARY Special Collections Cookery Camden 30106022786254550 400593Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2015 https://archive.org/details/b2153715xAn Important New Book on Housekeeping Thoroughly Up‘to-Date PEARSON’S HOME MANAGEMENT Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. In One Volume. Demy 8vo, cloth, containing 12 Beautifully Produced Coloured Illustrations, 64 Full-page Half-tone Illustrations, and numerous Cuts in the text. Price 10s. 6d. Also in Half Rexine Morocco, Roxburgh style, cloth sides, gilt top. Price 12s. The List of Contributors includes: Mrs. HUMPHRY, “Madge” of Truth. Author of “Manners for Women,” etc., who writes on “The General Manage= ment of the Home.” Mrs. RATTRAY, Diplomee of the National Training School of Cookery. Author of “ Sweetmeat Making at Home,” on Plain Cookery, with Hundreds of Recipes. Mrs. WILSON, Chief Instructress National Training School of Cookery. Author of “ Cheap and Easy Cooking,” etc., on High- Class Cookery, with Hundreds of Recipes. T. F. GARRETT, on Carving, with Practical Diagrams. EDWIN WOOTON, L.M., on the Choice of a House. Miss WHYTE WALTON, on Furnishing and Decorating. A TOILET SPECIALIST, on the Toilet. Miss JOSEPHA CRANE, on Sewing and Embroidery. MARY FERMOR, on Laundry and Dairy Work. F. E. WILSON, on Poultry Keeping. Miss VIOLET BIDDLE, on Gardening and Flowers and Plants for Indoor Decoration. LYDIA LENEY, M.D., Home Doctoring of Children. A BARRISTER-AT-LAW, on Legal Points for House- holders. And many other Experts on the various subjects dealt with, too numerous to specify in detail. jsr A Prospectus with Specimen Pages and Illustrations will be sent on application. At all Booksellers or of C. Arthur Pearson, I.teL, London, IV. C. A1 7 Henrietta Street, London, IV. C. Home Pets HOME PETS FURRED AND FEATHERED HOW TO CHOOSE, TRAIN, AND KEEP THEM IN GOOD CONDITION By M. G. P. FERMOR With Eight Illustrations from Photographs 6$ HOME PETS FURRED & FEATHERED' Crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. Contents DOGS. On Keeping Them—Different Breeds—Their Treat- ment. CATS. On Keeping Them — Their Breeds and Points — Treatment. GOATS AND GUINEA PIGS. RABBITS. SQUIRRELS AND FERRETS. LEMURS, MONKEYS, AND MARMOSETS. TORTOISES, TOADS, AND HEDGEHOGS. RATS AND MICE. CAGE BIRDS. PIGEONS. POULTRY. BEES, SILKWORMS, UNUSUAL AND RARE PETS. At all Booksellers Or post free for 2s. 9d. from C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd.17 Henrietta Street, London, IV. C. A USEFUL BOOK FOR THE HOME Things Every One Wants to Know A Manual of General Information on all Subjects Things Every One Wants to Know 416 pages. Cloth gilt. Price 2s. 6d. The Book contains sections under the following headings : THE DWELLING-HOUSE. MATTERS PERSONAL AND DOMESTIC. COOKING IN ALL ITS BRANCHES. ETIQUETTE, REFINEMENT, MARRIAGE, AND THE HOUSEHOLD. OUR BODIES IN HEALTPI AND SICKNESS. HINTS ON BUSINESS AND MENTAL CUL- TURE. THE GARDEN AND LIVE STOCK. RECREATIONS. U' At all Booksellers Or post free for 2s. 9d. from C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd.Sweet- meat- Making at Home Sweetmeat-Making at Home Contents INTRODUCTION. CHAP. I. SUGAR AND SUGAR BOILING. II. NUTS, FLAVOURINGS, AND COLOURINGS. III. UNCOOKED DESSERT SWEETS. IV. COOKED FONDANT SWEETMEATS. V. MARZIPAN. VI. BON-BONS AND AMERICAN CANDIES. VII. SWEETMEATS FROM SUGAR BOILED TO THE CRACK OR CARAMEL. VIII. MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. Confectionery Utensils for Sweetmeat-Making. At all Booksellers Or post free for is. 9cl. from C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd. 17 Henrietta Street, London, W. C. By Mrs. M. E. RATTRAY First-Class Diplom^e, National Training School of Cookery, London With Coloured. Frontispiece and several Illustrations Cloth, price 2s. 6d.“ No Better Food.” Dr. ANDREW WILSON, F.R.S.E., &c. Wry’# PURE CONCENTRATED '€ococu “ I have never tasted Cocoa that I like so ’well.”—Sir CHAS. CAMERON, C.B., M.D., Ex- President of the Royal College of Surgeons, Ireland. - - ASK FOR - - THE “FIYE BOYS” MILK CHOCOLATE. “ It is a pleasant and pure Food Confection, and can be consumed with advantage and safety by young or old.”—SCIENCE SIFTINGS. rTTv»rvTrrrrT,TTTryryvTTrTTrTTlrTYvyw»*“'ul'Tir'rr»yrv'r»VTYrrTVYTvy'fYVT»TT»> 'rYTMTVYTVVTTfT7YVff17 Henrietta Street, London, IV. C. A GOOD COOKERY BOOK Dinners of the Day Dinners of the Day By A CAREFUL COOK (Mas. Praga) Crown 8vo, cloth. Price 2s. 6d. Some of the Contents are :— A large Collection of Choice Menus and Recipes for Complete Dinners. The stock pot—Thrift in the kitchen—An English v. a French dinner—Economical meals—Fish stocks —Bad management—How to train a cook—The false economist—The store cupboard—The gentle art of shopping—The food and management of servants— Parties and party giving—Dainty dinner tables—Food in furnished lodgings—Emergency meals—Salads and salad making—Fruit as food—Sunday suppers—Sea- side cookery—Macaroni, and how to cook it—Sauces — A dinner without meat — New dishes — Popular puddings. At all Booksellers Or post free for is. 9d. from C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd.HOW TO KEEP HOUSE ON £200 A YEAR17 Henrietta Street, London, IV.C. Books of Interest to Ladies Price 2s. 6d. each. DINNERS OF THE DAY. By A Careful Cook (Mis. Praga). SWEETMEAT-MAKING AT HOME. By Mrs. M. E. Rattrav, First-Class Diplotntfe, National Train- ing School of Cookery, London. With Coloured Frontis- piece and several Illustrations. BASKET MAKING AT HOME. By Mary White. With Twelve Full-page and numerous Illus- trations in the Text. THINGS EVERY ONE WANTS TO KNOW. A Manual of General Information on all Subjects. EVERY WOMAN HER OWN DOCTOR. A Complete Book in plain English concerning the Ailments and Accidents to which Women and Children are liable, and their Cure. By an M.D. HOME PETS, Furred and Feathered. How to J Choose, Train, and keep them in Good Condition. By M. G. P. Fermor. With Eight Illustrations from Photographs. jy* A t all Booksellers Or post free for 2s. gd. from C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd.How to Keep House on ^200 A Year By MRS. PRAGA Author of “Dinners of the Day,” etc. etc. WITHDRAWN FROM CAMDEN PUBLIC LIBRARIES London C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd. Henrietta Street I9°4OETZMANN & Co., HAMPSTEAD ROAD, W. (Continuation North of Tottenham Court Road.) 60 & 61 Grafton Street, Dublin; 75 Union Street, Ryde. Solid Hardwood Bedstead, stained and polished art green, Chippendale mahogany or walnut colour, complete with woven wire mattress. The “Winchester Reversible Art Cretonne. Very Special value. 6Jd. per yard. 3 ft. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long. 3 ft. 6 ins. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long 4 ft. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long. 4 ft. 6 ins. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long £ d. 1 1 O 1 7 6 1 12 6 1 17 6 Solid Fumigated Oak Bedstead, complete with double woven wire mattress. 3 ft. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long 3 ft. 6 ins. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long . 4 ft. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long 4 ft. 6 ins. wide by 6 ft. 6 ins. long . £ i. d. 1 8 9 1 12 6 1 17 6 2 5 0 Solid Walnut or Mahogany, 5/- extra. Polished Walnut or Chip- pendale Mahogany Colour Music Cabinet, fitted with Stone’s patent swing front drawers with bookshelves, &c., below, price £1, 17s. 6d.Contents xi PART i CHOICE AND MANAGEMENT OF A HOME CHAP. PAGE I. How to Start Well 15 II. Choosing the Home 18 III. How to Apportion the Income 22 IV. Some Small Economies 27 V. Catering on Thirty Shillings a Week .... 33 VI. The Art of Cooking 39 VII. Other Breakfast Dishes 45 VIII. How to Cook a Dinner 48 IX. How to Cook Fish 54 X. How to Cook Meat and Poultry 60 XI. Inexpensive Stews and Entrees 64 XII. Some more Simple Entrees 68 XIII. How to Cook Vegetables 71 XIV. Puddings, Pies, Pastry, and Bread 77 XV. Savouries, and how to make them 82 XVI. The Husband’s Lunch 84 PART II HOW TO FURNISH THE HOME I. Furniture for a Six-Roomed Flat ... . . .89 II. The Bedrooms 93 III. The Bath-Room, Kitchen, and Hall .... 96 IV. Linen, Plate, China, and Glass 99 V. Furniture for a Small Country House . . . .104 VI. Bedrooms in the Country 107 VII. The Landing, Hall, and Offices no VIII. The Nurseries 113Contents xii part in HOUSEHOLD DUTIES AND ARRANGEMENTS CHAP. PAGE I. How to Keep a House or Flat Clean—A Week’s Routine 119 II. How to Wash up .125 III. Preparations for Meals 129 IV. A Week’s Routine—(con/inusd) 132 V. Care of the Nursery 136 VI. How to Wash at Home 141 VII. Hospitality 145 VIII. How to Dress 148PART I CHOICE AND MANAGEMENT OF A HOMEHOW TO KEEP HOUSE 15 ON jTzoo A YEAR CHAPTER I How to Start Well How to start well—Knowledge is no burden—Happiness in the home —Method avoids mistakes—A nest-egg—Train for matrimony To manage well upon so limited an income as £200 a year, and also to cater successfully upon so small a sum as 30s. a week, does not at first sight seem a very easy task; nevertheless it can be done, and that without any great difficulty, if only the housewife is blessed with what for want of a better word we may call gumption ; for gumption, backed up by method, will move mountains, where muddle and inca- pacity will be affrighted at the merest molehill. It has been said that the successful housekeeper is born not made ; but with this I cannot altogether agree. True, she may be born with a decided turn and aptitude for things domestic, and under these con- ditions housekeeping will naturally be a less trouble to her than to the woman whose tastes lie in an entirely different direction; but good housekeeping no more “ comes naturally ” to anybody than reading or writing, which must be taught and learnt assiduously before success can be attained. Knowledge is no Burden. It is a favourite axiom of mine that any woman of average ability, no matter how much she may dislike “ the daily round, the common task” of the busy housewife, can, with care and determina- tion, turn herself into a first-class housekeeper and manager, if she will only take the trouble to learn. Happiness in the Home. And in this connection let it always be remembered that a well- ordered household is a great preserver of love and domestic happiness. The time has long since gone by when the little blind god could be satisfied with a diet of kisses. Nowadays a well-cooked joint andMethod Avoids Mistakes vegetables, and a pudding and savoury, are more to his liking, though, alas ! too often he does not get these until the best and rosiest part of love’s young dream has been dispelled by the nightmare of badly- cooked chops, semi-raw potatoes, burnt bacon, and weak coffee. The average girl when she marries is as a rule far too content to “ learn by her mistakes,” indeed she thinks it right and natural that she should do so, but it would be far better, both for herself and for her husband, if she would resolve from the first to make no mistakes, or at any rate as few as possible. Method avoids Mistakes. Mistakes of any sort are not necessary in the education of a house- wife, and though “experience teaches” is a good motto, “ Method” is a better one, and the housewife, no matter how young and inexperi- enced she may be, who makes Method her watchword is sure of ultimate success, and even from the first secures far more encourage- ment and comfort. I shall presently hope to show her how success may be hers from the outset if she so chooses. Now the chief mistake made by the average housewife when she first starts is this. She forgets that expenses are apt to increase, and that the income does not always increase in proportion. The result of this is that instead of added comforts as time goes on, and little mouths come to be filled, there is very frequently an appreciable decrease of available resources and creature comforts. And the average husband can hardly be expected to take these things without grumbling ; such a paragon would be “ a creature much too bright and much too good, for any mortal’s daily food.” A Nest-Egg. To meet this, when the housekeeping allowance comes up for discussion, make arrangements for having a little more than you will require, a little margin beyond what you mean to spend. You will thus be enabled to put by a small nest-egg for the inevitable rainy day, and when the little ones come you will be able to spend your full allowance without any loss of comfort to the head of the household, or to any one concerned. Thus, if the allowance you start with is 30s. a week, make up your mind that at the outside you will spend only a guinea or 25s. The 5s. saved will soon mount up, and when the extra mouths come there will be plenty to fill them with. The difficulty of catering upon small means is very considerably increased if the number to be catered for is large, for children, to be really well and healthy, need the best of food and plenty of it. It need not, indeed it should not be rich in character, the plainer the food the better where children are concerned, but it should be the best procurable, as varied as possible, thoroughly well cooked, and rich in bone-forming constituents. Better by far give a child a dish of porridge than a plate of watery beef-tea ; a well-poached egg, than a piece of tough and inferior meat. Provide strong beef-tea and good English meat in reason, if your means permit; but if not, don’t injure your children with worthless substitutes.Train for Matrimony Train for Matrimony. I should like to make it compulsory for every girl or woman to pass an examination in practical housewifery, and obtain a certificate of efficiency before she could marry, and this whether her future in- come were ^150 or ,£500 a year, for so only would the greatest good accrue to the community. The modern bachelor would not be nearly so shy of matrimony as he now is, if he felt certain that instead of a helpless girl, wholly de- pendent upon a more or less efficient servant, or servants, he was marrying a woman who would bring trained common sense and fore- sight as part of her housewifely dowry, and who would look upon housekeeping and domesticity generally, not as a necessary bore, but as a career in which she hoped to distinguish herself; who would regard her daily expenses and weekly bills as so many investments for which she was anxious to obtain the highest possible return ; and who would yet never degenerate into the mere household drudge. Again, the pursuit of a profession is by no means a bar to good housekeeping. The woman who has most to do can do most, and outside occupations should be no excuse for dirty stair-rods, a badly dusted drawing-room, spoilt meals, or an untidy household. Place your art or profession first, by all means, but make housekeeping second, and see that it is a good second, remembering that a badly nourished brain is not as a rule capable of producing good work. Your copy if you are a journalist, or your pictures if you are an artist, need not suffer in the slightest degree because you can teach your very plain cook how to cook a chop or make a stew, wash and dress your own baby, turn out a room and not forget the corners, or train a raw general servant. And now enough of generalities. Let us come to particulars, and let me show you how even the simplest of schoolgirls may become as sound a housekeeper as the most experienced veteran, if she will but take “method” as her motto.CHAPTER II 18 Choosing the Home Finding a house — Advantages of flats—Rent of flats—Rent in provincial towns—Country rents—Wording an agreement— Drains — Rates and taxes — Summary of advice—The kitchen range. Finding- a House. The two chief things to be considered when about to start house- keeping are the house and the furniture. Before going into the question of ways and means, then, let us speak of these. With regard to the actual house and locality, and the amount to be set aside for house-rent, it is very difficult to lay down any definite rule, or even to offer very practical advice, because so much must depend upon the neighbourhood chosen. If, for example, the exi- gencies of a man’s work oblige him to live in an expensive neighbour- hood, where house-rent is dear, a far larger proportion of income must be spent upon actual rent and taxes than if a cheaper locality could be chosen. Advantag-es of Flats. Some neighbourhoods abound in flats, and for those who have to manage upon very limited means a flat is in many ways better than a house. In a flat everything is under one’s own eye, in a house it is not; and in these days of the servant difficulty—an ever-increasing one, alas !—if one is servantless for a time in a flat it is after all only a minor matter, while in a house it is often a very serious one. Many people with families object to flats on the score that they are not so healthy for children; but here again, to the mother who cannot afford the services of a trained nurse, it is an enormous advantage to have the little ones directly under her own eye both night and day. In a flat, too, there is no danger of falling down stairs, as there is in a house, if the babies are left to themselves for a few minutes ; while as regards fresh air, if the windows are left open night and day as they should be, it is not possible for the rooms to become very stuffy. Againt, here is far less work in a flat than in the average house, so that the maidservant or the mother is free to take the little ones out for the whole afternoon. Briefly, I should say the chief advantages of a flat are these : Less furniture is required. A flat is more easily kept clean. There is a19 What Should be Set Aside for Rent great saving in cleaning materials, no stairs, and no steps. One good servant in a flat is equal to two or three in a house. It is far easier to do without a servant in a flat. Followers are practically an impossibility, or at any rate the opportunities for receiving kitchen visitors are few. Where there is a nursery the little ones are prac- tically under the eye of the mother all day and all night. It is, finally, a great advantage to know exactly the cost of rent, rates, and taxes, a thing impossible with a house in these days of ever-increasing rates. The chief disadvantages I have been able to discover in flats are these, that the greater part of the washing must be put out, and that unless one is careful to select a building with sound-proof floors, one is occasionally disturbed by noisy or quarrelsome neighbours, or persistent piano thumpers. Rents of Flats. Where there are only husband and wife to be considered, it is possible to get a flat of three or four rooms from ios. a week and upwards. I know of some really excellent little flats in Kensington which are to be had from ios. 6d. and 12s. 6d. a week, consisting of three rooms and bath-room, &c. ; and Kensington is one of the dearest neighbourhoods in London. Rent in Provincial Towns. In the great provincial towns of England, I am credibly informed, the rent for flats runs somewhat higher than this on an average. And at least from ^35 to ^40 would have to be paid for similar accommodation. What Should be Set Aside for Rent. This is a very difficult question to answer, but at the very outside, out of an income of £zoo or ^250 I should say not more than ^40, and as much less as can possibly be managed. Houses under £,10 a year rent do not pay rates and taxes, with the exception, of course, of the usual water rate, gas, &c., and I think that whenever circum- stances permit, one of these should be taken. For those whose work lies in a provincial town it is sometimes possible to get a little country cottage a few miles out, at a very moderate rent. I have seen such houses advertised in the columns of the daily papers, from as low as 4s. 6d. a week, or ^10 a year and upwards, and in almost every case there was a good garden. My advice resolves itself into this : save over the house-rent in preference to everything else, whenever you can, short, of course, of living in an insanitary neighbourhood or one with any special dis- advantage. The money thus saved will give you far more solid satis- faction than would a fine house a little, even if it be but a very little, beyond your means. Of course for children a house with a good garden is a great advantage in many ways, but this applies only to those who live in the provinces or the outlying suburbs, since the average town garden is but too often a garden in name only.20 False Economies False Economies. In any case do not economise over the butcher and the baker and the other bills, for the sake of a slightly finer house. Personally, I think that those who are absolutely forced to spend a larger propo- tion of their income upon house-rent are much to be pitied. Here too, however, I am inclined to recommend a flat, or failing this rooms, as the best solution of the difficulty, because it is then possible to tell at a glance what one’s expenses will be, and how much of the income must be reserved. Rooms, or half a house, can generally be had even in neighbour- hoods where flats are as yet unknown ; and by taking one or the other, it is at least possible to escape the ever-present bugbear of the taxes. In dear neighbourhoods these hqve a knack of going up with leaps and bounds, and with alarming suddenness. Those with very limited means should make this their motto : “ Save over rent and dress rather than over food ; ” for too often the saving, if it can be called such, is effected in quite a wrong direction. Country Rents. In the actual country rents vary considerably according to the locality, but it is generally possible to get a very good house and garden, rent and taxes included, for ^25 per annum. The fortunate possessors of a garden can often make a little extra pocket-money by flowers or poultry, but I should like to warn the inexperienced that much is not made in this direction save by those who know the business, and to counsel them not to take a house solely for this purpose, unless they possess practical knowledge of poultry- keeping, &c. &c. Wording’ an Agreement. When there is any doubt about the wording of an agreement, or the lease of a house, it will be found by far the best and safest plan to consult a lawyer. His fee for reporting on the lease will only be some 6s. 8d., and the money will be well spent, as in the long run it may save many pounds. No doubt the majority of landlords are honest men, but there are, in this as in every class, those who prey on the ignorance of the tenant, and a definite legal opinion is the only real safeguard. In the average flat the landlord does all the repairs, but with a house this is not so. It is well therefore to be very careful that a clause is put in the lease or agreement whereby the landlord and not the tenant is responsible for repairs of every kind. The neglect of this simple precaution has absolutely ruined many a man before now. Drains. These should always be carefully inspected by a properly qualified sanitary engineer. The fee for doing this is one guinea, but it is money well spent, and a lease should never be signed until the drains have been certified as being in a proper sanitary condition.21 The. Kitchen Range Rates and Taxes. It may happen in a very expensive neighbourhood, or one where the taxes are very high, that a house is much overrated in proportion to the rent; when this is the case it is always possible to appeal to the assessment authorities. Summary of Advice. When taking a house, be careful to ascertain before the lease is signed that the drains are in good and sanitary condition ; that all sinks, traps, manholes, &c., are in good order; that the roof is in good repair and weather-proof; that all the grates are in active order, that there are no defective flues, and that the bath and the hot and cold water service, if there is one, is in a proper state. The Kitchen Range. This in particular should come in for careful attention, for if it is old and worthless it will be impossible to have either good cooking or a plentiful supply of hot water, an important matter where there are small children. If upon a thorough examination the range is found to be old and defective, insist upon a new range being put in before you sign the lease. This in most cases will speedily bring the land- lord to reason. I have tried many and various ranges, and my opinion, born of practical experience, is that of all I have ever met The Eagle Range is the very best. It is cleanly, quick, fuel-saving, and, as my own cook once put it, “ It will burn anything.” For a flat I think a gas stove is preferable to anything, as it is labour-saving and time-saving, but for a joint recourse should always be had to the ordinary range, as food baked in a gas oven is never so appetising as that cooked in an ordinary oven, or in front of the fire. Of course when hot water is required a gas stove cannot be compared to an ordinary range with a good boiler. I once tried a gas boiler by- way of experiment ; it was not a success. For the young housewife who has her home in a flat, and does most of her own cooking, a small gas stove is a great convenience, and in summer-time a great economy too, but it should not be used in a house if the kitchen is away from the dining-room, as the average maid of all work has no notion of economy.CHAPTER III 22 How to Apportion the Income Economy and social standing—Tables and estimates—A very tight fit —How difficulties may be overcome—Possibilities of saving. Economy and Social Standing-. Assuming that the total amount of income which can be relied upon is £200, the following are suggestions for its better division. I have all through borne in mind that “circumstances alter cases,” and have therefore drawn up several tables applicable to different styles of living. The husband and wife, with one child, who are living in town, and moving in a social set with others whose means are far in excess of their own, must of necessity keep up a certain amount of style, and order their household differently to a couple with three or four children who live in the suburbs or the country, and whose set is a strictly suburban one of the lower middle class. I therefore append tables of expenditure suitable to all classes whose means do not exceed £200 a year. Tables and Estimates. Table I. Income ,£200. Family: Husband, wife, three children. Servant and nursemaid. House in suburbs. Washing done at home. Rent and taxes £30 0 0 Maid of all work 10 0 0 Little nursemaid (2s. week roughly) . 5 0 0 Coal, per annum 10 0 0 Gas bill 5 0 0 Food, 30s. weekly 78 0 0 Insurance 5 0 0 Dress for husband 10 0 0 Dress for wife 10 0 0 Dress for three children ..... 10 0 0 Husband’s pocket-money and fares • 15 0 0 Wine and beer (very little of either possible) . 3 0 0 Wife’s pocket-money 6 0 0 Sundries, paper, stamps, stationery . 3 0 0 £200 o oTables and Estimates 23 If a house at ,£19, 19s. was secured, then a saving of £10 could be effected, as these houses are not taxed. Table II. Income ^200. Husband, wife, three children, maid of all work. Two children to school. House in the country. going Rent and taxes £*S 0 0 Maid of all work 10 0 O Food and cleaning materials .... 78 0 0 School fees and books 12 0 0 Insurance ... .... 5 0 O Coal 10 0 O Oil 3 0 0 Dress for wife ....... 10 0 O Dress for husband 10 0 0 Dress for children (three) .... 10 O 0 Wine and beer 3 0 0 Husband’s pocket-money and fares . 10 0 0 Stationery, paper, extra expenses 5 0 O Wife’s pocket-money ..... 6 0 0 Sundries ........ 3 O O Total ^200 0 0 Table III. Income £200. Washing done at home. By reason of husband’s business forced to live in expensive locality. Four in family. Husband, wife, two children. House-rent and taxes £$° 0 0 Maid of all work .... 10 0 O Food and cleaning materials 78 0 0 Insurance (Both children go to school.) School fees and 5 0 0 books 10 0 0 Coal 8 O O Gas 3 0 0 Dress for wife 10 O 0 Dress for husband .... 10 0 0 Dress for children (two) 10 0 0 Wine and beer .... 3 0 O Sundries and extras, breakages, &c. 2 O 0 Husband’s pocket-money, &c. . 6 0 0 Wife’s pocket-money 5 0 0 Total . . ^200 0 0 The difficulty of making both ends meet is here considerably increased, as where house-rent is dear the cost of food, and as a rule service, increases.Tables and Estimates 24 Table IV. Husband, wife, two children. Flat in town. Washing put out. All kitchen cloths and dusters, socks and stockings done at home. Rent of flat .... Wages for maid of all work Food and cleaning materials Coal and electric light Washing 5 s. weekly Dress for husband Dress for wife .... Dress for two little children Husband’s fares and pocket-money Insurance .... Annual holiday, one week Sundries generally Total ^40 0 0 12 0 0 78 0 0 IO 0 0 12 0 0 IO 0 0 IO 0 0 5 0 0 IO 0 0 5 0 0 5 0 0 3 0 0 ^200 0 0 This too will be a very tight fit indeed, but in a flat many econo- mies are practicable, which are impossible in a house. Thus no doubt expenditure may be saved over both the coal and the electric light bill, and probably over the maid’s wages also, since plenty of untrained girls may still be had for 2s. or 2s. 6d. a week, and a little steady training on the lines I shall indicate soon works wonders. Many good flats in unfashionable localities are to be had for ,£30 or ^35 a year, and thus another small economy may be effected. A very Tight Fit. The hardest case of all is that of a husband and wife who are compelled to keep up appearances. Saving will I fear be out of the question in this instance, but the insurance, and if possible a policy against sickness, should be managed somehow. Table V. Husband and wife, two children. London house flat, or flat in big provincial town. Rent, or rent and taxes .... • £ao 0 0 Maid of all work ..... 12 0 0 Nurse housemaid . . . IO 0 0 Food, cleaning materials, &c. • 78 0 0 Dress for wife IO 0 0 Dress for husband IO 0 0 Coal and electric light or gas . IO 0 0 Washing at 5s. weekly .... 12 0 0 Dress for children and wife’s pocket-money 6 0 0 Insurance 5 0 0 Husband’s pocket-money and sundries 7 0 0 Total .... . £200 0 025 How Difficulties may be Met Twenty-two pounds for wages is a large slice out of so small an income, but it is impossible to dispense with the nurse housemaid if the children are to have necessary air and exercise, as both the mother and the maid of all work have too many imperative duties of their own to spare the time for this in addition to their daily round of housekeeping, home dressmaking, general house work, and all sorts of money-saving occupations. Other means of saving money, so that her wages and keep may not be so heavily felt, will present themselves, and should be taken advantage of; but any saving effected should never be at the expense of good wholesome food and plenty of fresh air, which are essential to health. Table VI. Husband, wife, one child. Income £200. Obliged to keep up appear- ances, and to dress more expensively so far as the wife is con- cerned, and even to entertain occasionally. This it is difficult to accomplish, as a larger sum must be allowed for wine. I assume that the entertaining must be done for strictly business purposes, and not to gratify social ambition. Rent of flat ,£4° 0 O Maid of all work 12 0 O Washing 12 0 0 Food and cleaning materials 78 0 0 Wine, beer, and spirits Wife’s dress .... 5 0 0 12 0 0 Husband’s dress 12 0 0 Coal and electric light or gas . 10 0 0 Stationery and sundries 4 0 0 Insurance 5 10 0 0 Pocket-money for both, chemist, amusements doctor, and O 0 Total • • • £200 0 0 How Difficulties may be Met. It will be seen at a glance that people who are forced to live above their means, if they wish to pay their way, have an uphill fight all the time ; but as so many are in this unsought and difficult position, I have given the two foregoing tables as an attempt to solve the problem of making both ends meet. A holiday I have not allowed for; indeed it is impossible to do so, and I have therefore assumed that any holidays are spent with friends. It is often possible, however, to let a flat even in the month of August, if a very low rent is asked, and with the proceeds a little holiday becomes possible. People, too, are sometimes glad to ex- change a country house for a town flat for August or September, when the exhibitions and theatres are still open, and the sales so dear to the heart of the country cousin are in full swing.26 Possibilities of Saving I have not allowed at all for holidays in Tables I., II., and 111., as when the house is in a healthy suburb or in the country, holidays are not of such vital importance as they are to the dwellers in towns. Possibilities of Saving*. The possibility of saving upon such an income of £200 is but small, and will depend largely upon environment. Thus, in the case of a couple without children, some saving would be comparatively easy, unless special calls upon the purse prevented it. But where there are little mouths to be fed saving is almost out of the question, even with the best management. If possible, sickness should be insured against from the very first; and in many odd ways pence, halfpence, and even farthings may be saved up, and will soon mount to a respectable total. If there are children, each child should have its own money box, and be encouraged to save from its very earliest years. I must not, I suppose, attempt to deprive the head of the house, should he be a smoker, of his pipe, which taken in moderation may be a solace not to be despised. But in every direction, if husband and wife pull well together, small ways of saving will present themselves in special households which it would be impossible to catalogue here. Note.—In a flat, less firing and light are required than in a house, as there are no stairs, &c. I have therefore decreased the estimates for these items. JSCHAPTER IV 27 Some Small Economies Pay your way—Hot nieals—Potatoes— Value of scraps—Remnants of pudding—Remnants of vegetables—How to hash meat—How to buy meat—Allowance of meat—Eating fat—Lean joints—Other economies—Division of a joint—Fish for a change. In catering upon so limited a sum as is at our disposal here, the first thing to be considered is the size of the household. Thus, for a family consisting of husband, wife, and one servant, 50s. a week, which is at the rate of 10s. per head for food and cleaning materials, should suffice in a modest way. Whereas 30s. a week, if it has to supply husband, wife, and two or three children and a servant, means most rigid economy if both ends are to meet. Pay Your Way. Bills, of course, are not to be thought of. Even for such daily necessaries as milk and bread, it will be found by far the best and cheapest plan to pay cash. This does away with the insidious temp- tation to run up a bill, and also allows for occasional variations in the quantities that are required. Make a rule, then, of “ no bills ” at the outset of your housewifely career. If the neighbourhood is new to you, and you do not know the local standard of prices, it is well to go round to the different shops and obtain a price-list from each. Then compare them, and select the lowest compatible with good quality, not forgetting that sugar at 2^d. per lb. is cheaper than that at 2d. if the latter is half sand, and that currants containing a large proportion of gravel are dearer at 3d. than good sound fruit at 4d. or 5d. per lb., and that this will be found true in all departments. The chief trouble, and also the chief item in the catering, is sure to be the butcher’s bill. With our limited means it will not be possible to afford English meat except upon rare occasions ; and poultry, too, in the majority of cases, unless fowls are kept, will be quite out of the question. But in spite of these drawbacks, it should yet be possible to have a good hot dinner every day for the little ones, and a hot supper or dinner for the head of the household. Hot Meals. The question of hot meals is, I know, a very vexed one in small houses with a maid of all work. No doubt they are rather more28 Hot Meals troublesome to prepare, but they are infinitely more appetising, nourishing, and easily digested. With a little time and forethought it is quite possible to prepare the best part of the dinner or supper beforehand. Thus, if the mid- day meal for the little ones is to consist of a stewed breast of mutton with vegetables, this could be halved before it is cooked, and the second half braised with peas, or stuffed with veal stuffing and roasted, so as to avoid monotony of fare. Or, when a steak pudding is the staple at the early dinner, let this be made slightly smaller, and in- stead of the saved and warmed-up portion so often reserved, jug the rest of the beef and serve it as “ Mock Hare,” or braise it slowly with plenty of vegetables and a little macaroni, and serve it as “ Beef Milanaise.” If cold mutton only is available, have nothing to say to hash. Serve a dish of croquettes instead, and earn your husband’s gratitude. If liver and bacon has been the dish at the earlier meal, don’t let this reappear merely warmed up. Place a bit of butter in a clean frying-pan ; as soon as it melts add to it a very large onion, peeled and sliced ; fry for two or three minutes, then add the gravy from the liver and bacon, and a very small teaspoonful of curry powder, more or less, according to whether very hot or mildly hot things are liked. Stir well together, and if there is not quite sufficient gravy dredge in a little flour; add a little stock or water, and stir all well together until it thickens and is of a good brown colour. Then add seasoning to taste and the liver and bacon made hot, dish up on a hot dish, garnish with a border of well-cooked rice, and serve with baked potatoes. If white fish either baked or boiled has been the midday meal, don’t serve it cold at night. Make half a pint of well-flavoured white sauce, add the fish well-flaked and freed from skin and bone to this, season to taste ; add 4 ozs. of fresh-cooked macaroni, mix all well together, and serve with baked potatoes. If brown fish, such as fresh herrings or mackerel, are in question, reserve half of them uncooked until evening, unless the weather is very hot, then split and clean these, place them on a well-greased fireproof china dish, with a bit of butter and a j of a teaspoonful each of finely-minced shalot and parsley in the centre of each herring, and bake in a moderately hot oven until done. Then serve with baked potatoes in a separate dish. If a hock of boiled bacon and peas-pudding and potatoes has formed the chief dish earlier in the day, don’t serve this cold. Go to work like this. Cut a sufficient number of slices from the hock before it is boiled. Reserve these, then grill or fry them at night, and serve them with the boiled green peas and baked potatoes. The contents of half a packet of Farrow’s marrowfat peas, price 3|d. a packet, will be ample for two or three people. These of course are only speci- men suggestions. Potatoes. As another small economy avoid ordinary boiled potatoes except when new, or for a special occasion. Half the potato goes to waste29 Remnants of Pudding when it is peeled, whereas of baked potatoes even the skin may be eaten. If any cold baked potatoes should remain on hand, these can easily be turned into potato rissoles or croquettes, and can then reappear at supper in an entirely new and acceptable form. If any cold curry remains on hand, mix it all together with the rice, then add to it from a pint to a quart of stock or water, make very hot, add seasoning to taste, and serve it as Mulligatawny soup. It will be found excellent on a cold winter night. Value of Scraps. Little insignificant scraps of fish or meat can be turned into a nice savoury for breakfast or dinner as follows :—Chop the meat, poultry, game, or fish very finely. Dust it with pepper and salt. Place a morsel of butter in a small stewpan, and as soon as it melts add a little minced shalot and chopped parsley; then add the meat or fish. Make very hot. Have ready some squares of buttered toast or fried bread, pile the mixture upon this, and send to table. Remnants of Pudding-. Treat the remains of a cold milk pudding thus :—Put a layer of either jam or golden syrup at the bottom of a clean pie dish ; break up the cold pudding and place it on this. Cover with stale bread crumbs, which are better and handier than fresh. Cover with some more jam or golden syrup, and make very hot in the oven. If the pudding seems at all dry, the bread crumbs may be first soaked in a little milk or water, or a little milk may be added to the pudding. Remnants of a cold steamed pudding may be treated in the same way. Cold suet pudding of any sort, if treated as follows, will not be recognised in its new and welcome guise. Cut it into neat slices, grease the bottom of a pie dish, and strew it with sugar. Place a layer of slices on this, and sprinkle with a little more brown sugar and some chopped currants. Repeat until the dish is full. Strew the top with bread crumbs, chopped currants and sugar, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there, and bake in a moderate oven until very hot. Then serve at once. When any jam roly-poly pudding remains, place a little more jam at the bottom of a pie dish. Strew bread crumbs first soaked in sweetened water on top. Put a little more jam over, bake in a moderate oven till very hot, and serve at once. A treacle or golden syrup pudding may be treated successfully in the same way, and so too may the remains of a baked bread pudding. Remnants of Vegetables. If any portions of cold cabbage, cold brussels sprouts, cold braised onions, or cold boiled potatoes remain on hand, add them one and all with a few stale crusts to the soup for the day, not to the stock pot, as this would turn the stock sour. Any cold gravy remainingHow to Hash Meat from a stew, or any cold savoury sauce (with the exception of sauces made with oil, &c., for which no further use can be found), may also be added to improve the soup, but never to the stock. How to Hash Meat. Any cold meat should always be turned into a savoury hash, or into a stew or mince. In fact a portion of cold meat wholly insuffi- cient for three or four people may be made to do duty for six or seven if treated as follows :— Cut off every particle of meat and fat. Reserve it on a plate, and place an oz. or more of clarified beef-dripping in a clean enamelled iron stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it a plentiful supply of sliced onion, carrot, and turnip or parsnip. Fry till of a good golden brown. Then add just enough stock or water to cover the vegetables. Draw the pan to the side of the fire. Cover, and simmer very slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Then thicken with a little flour and butter kneaded together, and stir over the fire until very thick and hot, add pepper and salt to taste, and from 2 to 4 ozs. of freshly-boiled macaroni cut into two-inch lengths. Finally add the meat. Make hot and serve with baked potatoes, and you have a thoroughly good substantial and appetising dinner or supper which should satisfy the most fastidious. Any kind of cold meat may be treated in this manner with excel- lent result. In the case of cold pork a little sage may be added with advantage, and the quantity of onions may be doubled, while the parsnips can be left out. How to Buy Meat. If the larder is a good one, or there is a convenient cool dry corner for a good-sized hanging safe, it will be by far the best plan to buy all joints of a large size, if a big family has to be catered for. This is most economical in the long run, as it enables one to buy meat at a much cheaper rate. Thus, a forequarter of New Zealand mutton weighing 14 or 16 lbs. can always be had for 6d. a lb. at even the best shops, and in a cheap neighbourhood could be had for 4^d. or 5d. at the outside. Allowing the latter as the average, about six shillings will provide a joint that will last for some days. Of course, if the family chance to be small meat eaters, matters for the housewife and manager are eased considerably. On the other hand, when a decided liking for meat is shown, it may be taken as a sign that that particular constitution requires nourishment which only meat can give, a view taken by many medical men. Allowance of Meat. The exact allowance of meat is generally set down as f of a lb. a day, inclusive of bone, which in a family of six people would mean about thirty pounds a week when three of the members are children. I should say that, roughly speaking, from 25 to 26 lbs. per week would be ample. 3°Lean Joints Eating Fat. Much too depends upon whether the family can or cannot eat fat. If fat is eaten, even in moderate quantities, by the whole of the house- hold, less lean meat is likely to be required, and much waste is avoided, since it is impossible to use pieces left upon plates, See., for rendering down, or other purposes. Some people, and children espe- cially, have, however, a positive loathing for fat in any shape or form, and when this is the case it is cruel to attempt to force them to eat it. Coaxing and gentle persuasion may and should be tried, but if the child persists in the dislike, nothing further should be done. Lean Joints. Sometimes this aversion to fat characterises a whole family, and it will be found by far the cheapest and most economical plan to pur- chase joints of the leanest possible description, such as the silverside, top ribs, or flank of beef. The top ribs roast excellently, and silver- side and flank are delicious when braised or stewed. Mutton is more difficult to deal with, since, with the very limited means at our disposal, English mutton is quite out of the question, and New Zealand mutton is apt to be very fat. So too is the New Zealand lamb, but its fat is naturally far more delicate, and many people who cannot eat either beef or mutton fat will like that of lamb or pork, for although rich the latter is delicate also. When cold meat is to be hashed, it will be found the best and most economical plan to cut off first every particle of superfluous fat, which can then be rendered down, and used when clarified for frying, or for a dripping cake, hot tea cakes, See., Sec. In all these small ways money can be saved, for the expense of buying lard, always a costly article, is thus done away with alto- gether, while properly clarified beef dripping is quite its equal as a frying medium. Other Economies. Another way in which the butcher’s bill may be kept down is by buying beef pieces when a steak pudding is needed, instead of beef- steak, or by getting a large piece of silverside and cutting off a slice, which when cut again into pieces of a suitable size will serve perfectly for a pudding if slowly cooked. Then again a very great economy may be effected by the way in which the various joints bought are divided. A large joint need not necessarily be cooked and eaten at once, or served up day after day cold, hashed, or minced, until everybody is heartily sick of the very sight of it. Division of a Joint. If a forequarter of mutton is purchased on the Saturday, it should be divided thus : The shoulder carefully cut out (the butcher will do this for you if you ask him) will do for dinner, roasted on the Sunday. 3iFish for a Change A stew with plenty of vegetables and a little macaroni may be made from the underdone portions, and will serve for the early dinner on Monday. Some 4 ozs. of the leanest part will produce a dish of hot croquettes for Monday night’s dinner, or hot supper, and the bones will produce soup. The trimmings of the scrag may be added to the soup, and the scrag itself together with the trimmings from the cutlet end will make a capital Irish stew for Tuesday’s early dinner. Add barley or rice to this stew, for although it thereby loses its strictly Irish character, it will be much more tasty. If the weather is cool and dry, and the larder a good one, cool and dry also, the cutlets remaining may with advantage be hung until the Wednesday or Thursday, when they should serve for the latter dinner or supper, but in hot or very damp weather it will be safer to use them. In suitable weather a good-sized piece of silverside, flank of beef, and top ribs must be bought, and this, carefully divided, should serve for the rest of the week. A slice cut off as before suggested will serve for a beefsteak pudding, or for a hot beefsteak pie for Tuesday night. A thick slice braised with plenty of vegetables will form a substantial dinner for the Wednesday, and the remainder boiled and served with suet dumplings will supply dinner for Thursday. Fish for a Change. A variety could be introduced in the weekly menu by serving fish on Fridays as a regular thing, and then the rest of the beef could be turned into a mince or a curry or a shepherd’s pie on Saturday for early dinner. If top ribs are bought in place of silverside, they should be roasted, and served rather underdone. This plan is better for the purposes of a rechauffd, but in either case a slice should be cut off first for a steak pie or pudding, or for a dish of beef olives, or mock goose. The cold roast beef might then be served up in any of the fore- going guises, as a hash, or as croquettes, or rissoles, or if very under- done, it could with advantage be served hot again with plenty of gravy, accompanied with golden potatoes and cauliflowers. 3-2CHAPTER V 33 C Catering on Thirty Shillings a Week The grocer—The butterman—The greengrocer—The milkman—The baker—The butcher—The fislwionger—Fish for children—Dried fish— The store cupboard—Cleatiing materials. If thirty shillings a week is the allowance for catering, the following will prove the very best way of dividing it, assuming that the number to be catered for is five or six persons. Father, mother, two or three children, and a maid of all work. The Grocer. 1 lb. tea s. . 1 d. 0 1 lb. coffee “mixture” 0 9 4 lbs. sugar 0 8 1 lb. chocolate powder ..... O 4 1 lb. rice 0 2 1 lb. macaroni 0 3 Currants and raisins 0 6 Salt and mustard ...... 0 2 Dried beans of some sort ..... 0 3 Oatmeal 2 lbs O 4 Sundries, sifted and cooking sugar (2 lbs.) 1 1 Total .... 5 6 Less tea and coffee may be required, in which case part of the money could be spent on something else. An excellent chocolate powder can be bought at the Home and Colonial Stores (they have branches all over England) for 4d. a lb., and this should form the beverage for the servant’s supper. The extra 7d. allowed for sundries will permit of such things as candied peel, spice, sifted sugar, a tin of sardines, &c., being bought occasionally. Two lbs. of cooking sugar and f of a lb. of sifted sugar will cost 6d. So that for the sum of 5s. 6d. the grocer’s bill is disposed of. The allowance of sugar per head is 1 lb. for each grown-up person, and a lb. over for the two or three children. The allowance of tea is £ lb. a head for the adults, and 1 lb. over for entertaining. Coffee the same, and chocolate powder the same. The Home and Colonial Stores keep a really reliable tea mixture at34 The Butterman IS. per lb.; and a tinned “ French” coffee, not of the best certainly, but if well made and hot, thoroughly drinkable, may be had for 9d. a tin at most of the cheap grocers. The Butterman. s. d. 2 lbs. of butter at is. per lb. 2 0 is. worth of eggs ..... . . 1 0 2 lbs. of 6d. cheese ..... . . 1 0 Total 4 0 This allows ^ lb. of butter a head for each adult, and \ lb. for the children. The Home and Colonial Stores keep a really good Danish butter at is. per lb., not a margarine; and I believe have also a butter at iod. The is. worth of eggs will permit of eight cooking eggs and five new-laid ones, at the rate of sixteen a is. for the cooking eggs and ten a is. for the new-laid ones. The same stores also keep a good Canadian Cheddar cheese at 6d. per lb. If cheese is not much eaten, the money thus saved could be spent on eggs, &c. &c. The Greengrocer. 24 lbs. of potatoes at 4 lbs. for 2d Green vegetables of various kinds when in season, such as cauliflower, peas, cabbages, &c. . Apples or other fruit ...... Onions, carrots, and turnips Oranges, apples, or other table fruits, &c., according to season ........ s. d. 1 o 1 o 1 o 0 6 1 o Total 46 The Milkman. It is most difficult to say exactly how much should be spent for milk. It is certain that children should never be stinted. The proper allowance for a grown-up person is | of a pint of milk daily, but for children this would be inadequate. All things considered, if there are children I do not see how the milk bill can be kept to less than 5s. per week, an estimate which will allow of two quarts a day, and an extra quart during the week to permit of a pint being used for a milk pudding twice a week. Unless the children are very small and take a great deal of milk, a quart a day—2s. qd. per week—should be ample to allow for milk. The Baker. Here again it is difficult to strike an average; but if stale bread only is bought, and plenty of oatmeal used for porridge, a loaf a day35 The Butcher would be ample, which at a^d. the half quartern comes to is. 6d a week for bread. If then we put down 2s. for the baker we shall be near the mark. So far then out of our 30s. we have spent 21s. Cleaning’ Materials such as soap, soda, black lead, blacking, hearthstone, globe polish starch, blue, camphor wax, &c. &c., will have to be bought from time to time, and it will not be possible therefore to allow less than is. a week for these. So that the sum of 8s. a week is all, according to the foregoing estimates, that we shall be able to reserve for meat. The Butcher. It is probable that the is. 6d. extra which I have allowed for sundries on the grocer’s bill will not often be required, so that in reality we shall have from gs. 6d. to 10s. each week wherewith to buy meat and fish. Let us see how this sum can best be divided. English meat will be practically out of the question, but if the housewife is fortunate enough to live in a cheap neighbourhood, joints of New Zealand meat of excellent quality may be had at prices which range from 2d. or 2jd. alb., the price asked for breast of New Zealand mutton, up to 4|d. or 5d. for a leg, or 4|d. for the whole forequarters, which is by far the most economical investment. Assuming that the forequarter weighs 14 lbs., 6s. will be a fair price to pay for it, and it can be divided as before directed. A good hock of Canadian bacon may be had for 3^d. or 4d. a lb., so that one of ample size to provide a hot dinner, a hot supper (see page 28 for directions), and to serve as a relish for breakfast through- out the week may be bought for 2s. 6d. Beef pieces and suet to form a pudding may be had for is.; and is. may be spent for fish on Friday. Another week a piece of topside of American beef, at 6d. a lb., 2s. 6d. for the joint of 5 lbs., could form the Sunday dinner, and will serve for Monday also, and perhaps for early dinner on Tuesday as well. On Wednesday a joint of mutton, 6 or 8 lbs. in weight, will cost half-a- crown, or at the outside 3s., and with care should last over Thursday. On Friday fish again, and on Saturday steak pudding made from the pieces, may form the menu. So that, in any case, the butcher’s and fishmonger’s bills together will come to a total of 10s. or 10s. 6d. a week. Of course, if the housekeeping allowance can be by any means stretched to 35s. weekly, it will be possible to buy better meat, and more of it, and now and then it will be possible to purchase a little English meat, which nothing can equal or excel. The Fishmong-er. I have bracketed the fishmonger with the butcher, because, with the limited sum at the housewife’s command, it will only be possible to spend money on fish which would otherwise be spent on meat.36 Dried Fish Of the cheaper kinds of fish which it will be possible from time to time, say once a week, to afford, are fresh herrings, haddock, whiting, hake, and occasionally, when they are in season, and consequently cheap, cod, mackerel, plaice, flounders, and perhaps halibut and chicken turbot. Fiesh herrings are often to be had seven or eight, and sometimes nine, for 6d.; and, if served according to the recipe before given, will form a savoury luncheon, dinner, or supper. Fresh haddock of a fair size maybe had when plentiful from 2d. each, 3d. being about a fair price to pay for those of average size, and three of these are an ample meal for half-a-dozen persons. Whiting, when cheap, can sometimes be had for as little as i|d. or 2d. each, and half-a-dozen, one each, will form a dish. I have known hake as cheap as 4d. a lb., and 2\ lbs. will make a substantial meal for half-a-dozen people, while any that remains can be utilised for fish cakes for the next day’s breakfast. Fish for Children. Slip soles, the most suitable fish of any for quite little ones, are as a rule too dear in London. Whiting, and after them haddock, are the best substitutes, but brown and oily fish, such as fresh herrings and mackerel, should not be given to quite small children. Dried Fish. As it is improbable that the whole of the sum set aside for the grocer’s bill be required every week, the surplus, or part of it, can be devoted to the purchase of dried fish as a relish for breakfast. The price of this varies according to neighbourhood. In the country and some suburbs it is dear. In London and in big seaside towns it is as a rule exceedingly cheap. Excellent kippers may be had for as little as i^d. and 2d. a pair ; bloaters, two for i^d., and three for 2d. and upwards ; while dried haddocks are to be had from i^d. and 2d. each. Dried fish of this sort should not be given to children. When they are of an age to require a relish for breakfast, a little fat bacon, or a lightly boiled egg, is far better for them than salt food. To children over seven years of age good bloaters are of value as a food, as they contain oil, but the highly salted variety should never be bought. The Store Cupboard. Having now apportioned the division of the catering allowance, the next thing to be thought of is the Store Cupboard. If a guinea can by any means be spared, it should be devoted to starting a store cupboard ; for once started, the keeping up will be comparatively easy, as a little can be bought each week to replenish any special article which may be running low. All will not run low together, and if a store cupboard is once started, a much better style of catering will be possible. The following list has been compiled with the aid of the Home and Colonial Stores price-list, but plenty of cheap grocers may be found who keep the same articles at the same prices.37 List of Articles 2 lbs. of tapioca at 2d. per lb. 2 lbs. of sago at 2d. per lb. 2 lbs. of lentils at 2d. per lb. Bag of butter beans . 2 lbs. of rice at ij>d. per lb. 2 lbs. of dried green peas at 2ci Bottle of soy, for colouring Large bottle vanilla essence Four packets table jelly at 3^d Bottle of rennet Jar of anchovy paste Bottle of pickles Bottle of chutney Jar of bloater paste . Jar of jam, 7 lbs. (3d. returned Tin of mustard . Jar of French mustard Jar of marmalade, 7 lbs. . Jar charged 3d. Bottle of salad oil Bottle essence of lemon . 2 lbs. of raisins at 3d. per lb. 2 lbs. of currants at 3d. per lb. Bottle of pickled walnuts . 1^ lbs. of candied peel Large tin of golden syrup Bottle of vinegar Small bottle of tarragon vinegar Small bottle of Chili vinegar Bottle of Harvey sauce . Bottle of mushroom catsup Bottle of olives. 2 lbs. of barley 2 lbs. of macaroni Six packets of desiccated soup Bag of flour Tin of allspice . 2 ozs. cloves Nutmegs .... Powdered cinnamon. Mace .... Pound jar of preserved ginger Small pot of red currant jelly Packet of mint . Packet of sage . Mixed herbs Bay leaves Packet of isinglass 2 ozs. garlic Shalots, 2 ozs. . per each lb. on jar) J. d. o 4 o 4 0 4 1 o ° 3 o 4 o 4i 0 7 1 2 o 6 o 6 o 6 o 6 0 6 1 5 o 3$ 0 4i 1 2 0 3 o 10 0 3i o 6 o 6 o 6 o 6 o 10 o 7 0 4v o 4* o 4? ° 4$ ° 4t o 4 o 6 0 6 1 o o 2 o i\ ° 3 o 2 O 2 o 6 0 3i O I O I O I O I o 6 o o it Total 22 7.\38 Cleaning Materials If the store cupboard is stocked according to the foregoing direc- tions, many savoury stews, hashes, entrees, and ragouts of the simpler kind of French cookery, which is the most economical in the world, will be possible; and when meat chances to be very dear, many ex- ceedingly nice vegetable stews, soups, &c., may be made by means of lentils, dried green peas, butter beans, and other vegetables. Recipes for these will be presently appended. Cleaning- Materials. Cleaning materials should be kept in as clean and dry a place as possible. Soap should be cut into small Jpieces and slowly dried. New soap should never be used, as it lasts only half the time. Hudson’s soap is cheapest bought in the dozen packets, 8^d. per doz. Globe polish is cheapest in the 3-|d. tins, which contain just twice as much as the 2d. one. Camphor wax costs 3d. a tin; and black lead should always be bought in the dozen packets, at 2^d. the dozen. Soda should be bought by 14 lbs. for 6d. For cleaning knives bath-brick does really as well as knife polish, and only costs a ^d. a brick, whilst knife polish is 5d. or 6d. a tin. Buy the cheapest blacking and the cheapest black lead always ; they are just as good if not better than fancy articles, for which a fancy price is asked and paid. For patent boots try camphor wax; it does just as well and gives just as good a polish as boot cream at three times the price. Instead of plate powder, use finely powdered whitening, mixed with a little methylated spirits ; and the silver will look as well. It is in all these small ways that money can be saved, and at the end of the year it will be found that the sum is by no means insignificant. Note.—The approximate average price of the articles mentioned in “ The Store Cupboard ” is given, as prices are constantly varying.CHAPTER VI 39 The Art of Cooking Do not anticipate difficulties—How to prepare breakfast—To poach eggs—Bloaters — Kippers — Dried haddock — Fried sausages— Sausage rissoles—Savoury eggs—Buttered eggs—Eggs i?i Italian fashion—Kidneys — Savoury toast—Savoury fish toast—Baked sprats—Sardines au gratin—Savoury porridge—To make tea— To make coffee—To make cocoa. I have shown you elsewhere how it is possible to turn a raw ignorant girl into a cleanly servant merely by dint of careful and personal supervision. Now I will show you how to teach her to cook. “ But I don’t know how to cook myself,” some reader may urge, “ and I cannot afford to take a course of lessons at a school of cookery ; how then can I possibly teach any one ? ” Do not Anticipate Difficulties. For answer to such let me say that the very best “school of cookery” a housewife can possibly attend is her own kitchen, and the very best instruction she can have (short of serving an actual apprenticeship under a good cook) is the result of personal experi- ment. Given that all-important item a true palate, patience, a practical cookery book, and practice are all that is necessary to enable one to cook, and to cook well. If a reliable recipe is carefully followed out, and all the instructions minutely attended to, there need be no mis- takes, for mistakes merely mean inattention and lack of care in most cases. Thus, if you try to make sauce in a thin enamelled stewpan over a very fierce fire, though you carry out your recipe exactly, your sauce is almost certain to bum. How to Prepare Breakfast. For the sake of argument I will suppose that both mistress and maid are ignorant of the very A.B.C. of Cookery. It is the first morning in the new house, and breakfast has to be prepared. This is how to set about it:— When the fire has quite burnt up put on the kettle. While this is getting ready to boil, cut a slice from a tin loaf, put this on the toasting-fork, and hold it close to the fire for a couple of minutes until it is of a delicate golden brown colour; then turn it and repeat the40 How to Prepare Breakfast process, cut off the crust from each slice, and cut each slice into four strips. Place these in the toast-rack, and they are ready for table. Do not throw away the crusts ; they must be saved for use in the soup for dinner or supper. The next thing to be done is to fry the eggs and bacon. Cut the bacon into very thin delicate slices. Cut off the rind and the under- neath part. Take a perfectly clean frying-pan, put the slices of bacon in it, place the pan on the hottest part of the stove, or on the fire. Turn the bacon with a knife three or four times, cook for four or five minutes. Make a plate hot in the oven, dish the bacon up on this, and it is ready to serve. To boil eggs soft, allow three minutes; well set, four minutes; hard, five minutes ; or better still, use a penny egg-boiler. These can be had everywhere, and then the eggs will always be cooked to a turn. To fry eggs to serve with bacon, break the eggs into a cup, one egg at a time only, then add them to the bacon fat, put them in the pan, after the bacon itself has been taken out. Cook until the white of the egg has become thick and firm, slip the egg-slice under the egg, and put it on a piece of bacon. Don’t let the egg cook more than a couple of minutes. To Poach Egg’s. Put a pint of boiling water in a saucepan, with a teaspoonful of vinegar. Let it boil; break the eggs into a cup, one at a time, and add them to the water. Cook for three minutes. Take out gently with an egg-slice, and serve. If possible use an egg-poacher, price 6^d.; the eggs look neater and far more dainty. Bloaters. Split open the bloaters. Take out the trail and silver cord, leave the roes. Wipe the gridiron with a piece of greased paper ; place it on a clear fire. Put the bloaters on the grid ; cook them on one side for about three minutes, then turn them and cook them on the other side for as long. Put them on a hot dish, and send to table. Kippers. Rub them over on the brown side with a bit of butter; put them on the gridiron, cook for three minutes ; turn and cook for another three minutes. Dish up on a hot dish, and send to table. Dried Haddock. Fill a shallow stewpan not quite half full of absolutely boiling water. Add the haddock and cook from four to eight minutes according to the size of the haddock. If very small and thin, four minutes will be enough.Sausage Rissoles Fried Sausages. Put a bit of butter, lard, or dripping about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying-pan. Put the pan on the fire. Wait until the butter melts. Lay the sausages in the pan, and cook for ten minutes. Turn them constantly, and shake the pan frequently to prevent their sticking and burning. Cook pork sausages in the same manner, but allow from twelve to fifteen minutes, or even a little longer. Sausage Rissoles. Take half a pound of beef sausages, squeeze the meat out of the skins, and shape it into round balls. Crumble some stale bread with a bread-grater on to a plate. Add to it a slice of finely-minced onion, a little pepper and salt, and a well-beaten egg. Mix all to- gether. Dip each rissole into this. Put a bit of butter, lard, or dripping into a frying-pan, and let it melt. Add the rissoles, and cook for ten minutes. Drain on a bit of clean paper. Dish upon a hot dish, and serve. Pork sausage rissoles are made in the same way. Allow a little longer for cooking, say another couple of minutes. Savoury Eggs. Take some hard-boiled eggs, mix some stale bread crumbs, beaten egg, minced parsley and onion or shalot all well together. Add a little pepper and salt; shell the eggs. Dip each egg into the mixture. Roll it round so that it may get well coated. Place a bit of butter, or dripping, or lard, about the size of a large walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it oils add the eggs, and fry until of a light golden brown hue. Take out and drain on clean kitchen paper. Dish upon a hot dish, and send to table at once. Savoury Crusts. Cut a sufficient number of slices of bread from a very stale loaf, a tin loaf for preference. Cut off the crust, then cut each slice into four pieces. Dip each piece of bread for a moment into milk. Mix a tablespoonful of finely-minced shalot or onion with a heaped tea- spoonful of parsley and a beaten egg, add a little pepper, salt, and a dessert-spoonful of bread crumbs. Mix well together. Dip each crust into the mixture. Place half a pound of lard in a deep saucepan. Place it on the fire, and wait until it melts and a thin blue smoke rises from it. Then add the crusts, three at a time, and fry until they are of a light golden hue. Take them out with a fish slice, and drain them on clean kitchen paper. Dish upon a very hot dish, and send to table. I give lard in this recipe because I am assuming that the breakfast is the first one, and therefore there would naturally be no clarified dripping in the house. Directly you have finished frying the crusts 4i42 Eggs in the Italian Fashion strain the lard through a fine gravy strainer into a clean bowl, and put it in the larder. It can be used over and over again if the strain- ing process is repeated each time. Buttered Eggs. Cut a slice from a large loaf; toast it. Cut off the crust. Butter the slice of toast and cut it into four squares. Put half an ounce of butter in a frying-pan. While it is melting break two eggs into a basin, and beat them up quickly with a fork. Add a pinch of salt and a dash of pepper. Pour them into the batter, and stir well until the eggs are quite yellow and set. Put them on the squares of toast in four equal portions, and send to table at once. To Butter Eggs in the German Fashion. Cook them as directed, but before adding them to the melted butter, add a teaspoonful of either minced shalot or onion, and cook all together. Eggs in the Italian Fashion. Take three tomatoes, cut off a small piece from the top of each, scoop out half the inside, put a 1 of a teaspoonful of minced shalot or onion and parsley in each tomato. Dust with pepper and salt, and place a bit of butter about the size of a very small walnut in each. Place the tomatoes on a fireproof baking dish, and cook in the oven until very hot. Then break three eggs into a cup, one at a time, and put them gently into the tomatoes without breaking the yolk. Cook until the eggs are firmly set, but do not let them harden. Have ready three squares of buttered toast; put a tomato on each. Dish upon a very hot dish, and send to table at once. If hot things are liked, add a tiny dash of Cayenne pepper to each egg before serving. Kidneys. Take two New Zealand kidneys. These cost 9d. the half-dozen at most, and can be had for i£d. or id. each. Split them open, and take off the outer skin. Place a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it melts add the kidneys, and fry for five minutes ; turn frequently. Dish upon a hot dish. Add to the butter on which they were cooked half a teaspoonful of finely- minced parsley, and half a teaspoonful of minced shalots ; mix well, and, if needful, add a tiny bit more butter. Put a little of the mixture in the centre of each kidney ; pour the remainder over, and serve at once. Savoury Toast. Take 2 ozs. of lean cooked ham. Chop it finely. Place a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it melts add to it half a teaspoonful of minced shalot and half a tea-43 Savoury Fish Toast spoonful of parsley; cook for half a minute. Then add the ham, and a good dash of pepper. Stir all well together for three or four minutes, or until the mixture is thoroughly hot. Have ready four squares of buttered toast. Pile the mixture up neatly on these, and send to table. Tongue, lean beef, mutton, game, or poultry of any kind may be used in this manner, and will be found equally nice. Savoury Fish Toast. Have ready four squares of thickly-buttered toast. Take 2 ozs. of any sort of white fish, freed from skin and bone, and chop it roughly. Place a bit of butter about the size of a walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it melts add to it half a teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley. Add also the fish, and half a teaspoonful each of Harvey and Wor- cester sauce ; mix well and make very hot. Pepper and salt can be added to taste. Pile upon the squares of toast, and send to table. If a scrap of cold dried previously cooked haddock should remain on hand treat it like this : Free it from the bone and chop it neatly. Place a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying- pan ; as soon as it melts add the haddock, together with a teaspoonful each of essence of anchovy and Worcester sauce. Mix and make very hot. Pile up on the toast, and send to table at once. Not only haddock, but any scraps of cold kipper, bloaters, smoked roe of any kind, or even red herrings may be treated in this way. Baked Sprats. These make just as good a breakfast as they do a supper dish. Wash the sprats well. Dry them carefully. Butter a fireproof baking dish rather thickly, and arrange the sprats in this. Dust them with pepper and salt, and sprinkle with bread crumbs ; place a few bits of butter here and there, and bake in a moderately hot oven for from seven to ten minutes. Take out and serve. As sprats are, when in season, to be had from i^d. to 2d. a lb., this makes a cheap savoury. Sardines au Gratin. These are very good, and this is a nice way of using up the re- mains of a tin of sardines which may have already appeared. Put a tiny bit of butter in a fireproof china dish. Drain the sardines free from oil, if possible on blotting-paper. Arrange them neatly in the dish ; sprinkle over them a quarter of a teaspoonful of finely-minced shalots, half a teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley, a dessert-spoonful of bread crumbs, and, if possible, half a teaspoonful of finely-minced capers. Add just a squeeze of lemon juice to the whole, and place a few tiny bits of butter here and there. Make hot in the oven for six or seven minutes, and then serve at once. If liked, the butter can be omitted, and the oil from the sardines used in its stead, half to grease the bottom of the dish, and the re- mainder poured as evenly as possible over the crumbs. If hot things are liked, a little Cayenne pepper may be used.44 Savoury Porridge Savoury Porridge. This is much more appetising than the ordinary porridge. Use one part oatmeal to two-and-a-quarter parts of boiling salted water. Bring the water to the boil first, then throw in the oatmeal and stir for twenty minutes ; meanwhile place a bit of butter about the size of a small walnut in a clean frying-pan ; as soon as it melts add to it two large onions, peeled and thinly sliced. Fry till of a delicate golden brown. As soon as the porridge is ready dish it up on a hot dish, and put it in the oven to dry a little. Then place the onions on top, and pour over the whole any fat which may remain from the frying. Dust with pepper, and serve at once. To Make Tea. Pour a little quite boiling water into the teapot. Let it stand for a minute or two, then pour it off. Add a teaspoonful of tea for each person, and one for the pot. Fill up with absolutely boiling water, and send to table at once. The water to make good tea must be freshly boiled. To Make Coffee. To make strong coffee use 2 ozs. of coffee to a pint and three- quarters of boiling water. Pour a little boiling water into the coffee-pot and let it stand, then pour it off again. Put the ground coffee into the strainer. Pour the boiling water slowly over it. Stand the coffee-pot on the hottest part of the stove for ten minutes, or on the fire for six minutes, and then send to table at once, with a separate jug of absolutely boiling milk. To Make Cocoa. Allow a dessert-spoonful of cocoa for each person. Mix to a paste with a little cold milk or water. Add a large breakfast-cupful of skim milk, milk and water, or milk for each dessert-spoonful of cocoa. Place in a clean saucepan. Stir over the fire until quite boiling. Pour into a heated jug, and send to table at once. Some cocoas, such as Fry’s, should be stirred until they thicken.CHAPTER VII 45 Other Breakfast Dishes Savoury bacon and rice—Savoury potatoes—Italian criests—Savoury rice—Potato cakes—Egg pie—Sausage and egg pie—Hot break- fast cakes—Haddock with egg sauce. Savoury Rice and Bacon. Take | lb. of well-cooked rice; it should be very dry. Place 2 ozs. of clarified beef dripping in a clean pan. As soon as it melts add to it a heaped tablespoonful of finely-chopped onion or shalot, the latter for preference. Fry for four minutes, and then add the rice, and continue td fry until this is of a pale fawn colour. It must be turned constantly to prevent its burning and to ensure equal colouring. Add pepper and salt to suit your own taste, dish upon a hot dish, garnish with little rolls of fried bacon, and serve at once. This is for half-a-dozen people. When only two have to be catered for, cook the bacon first, then dish it up. Add the chopped onions to the fat remaining in the pan, and fry them for three or four minutes, then add from 2 to 3 ozs. of cooked rice, and fry till it is of golden hue. Add pepper and salt to taste, and finish as directed. The rice can be cooked overnight. Flank of bacon, which can be had as a rule for 6d. a lb., will answer quite as well as streaky at twice the price for this dish. Savoury Potatoes. This forms a good substantial dish for breakfast, luncheon, or supper. Mash from 1 to 2 lbs. of freshly-boiled or cold boiled potatoes with a fork. Melt a piece of butter about the size of a walnut in a clean enamelled iron stewpan, add to it the potatoes and a wine-glass- ful of absolutely boiling milk for each pound of potatoes. Beat up with a fork until quite white and light and very hot. Have ready \ lb. of freshly-fried beef sausages. Free them from their skins, chop them and add them to the potatoes, and beat up for another two or three minutes. Pile them upon a very hot dish, and pull into conical shape with a fork. Place a few morsels of butter here and there, and brown in a hot oven for a minute or two. Then serve at once. Italian Crusts. Take from 2 to 8 ozs. of any sort of cold white fish, boiled or fried. Free it from skin and flake it with a fork. Melt £ an oz. of butterSavoury Rice 46 in a small stewpan, add to it an ounce (or more according to the amount of fish) of finely-grated cheese ; any sort will do. Let the cheese just melt, skimming all the time, then add the fish, and con- tinue to stir until very hot. Have ready some squares of hot buttered toast; arrange the mixture on these. Dust with pepper and salt, and send to table at once. A little made mustard, about half a teaspoonful, may be added to the cheese if hot things are liked. Any pieces of dry cheese may be grated and used for cooking which would otherwise be thrown away. Savoury Rice. Take from 4 to 8 ozs. of any sort of cold boiled or fried white fish; free it from skin and bone, and flake it with a fork. Reserve it. Place 2 ozs. of either butter or clarified beef dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it a finely-minced shalot and half a pound of well-boiled dry rice. Fry all together for ten minutes, stirring all the while with a folk in order to prevent burning. Add the fish and two teaspoonfuls of tomato catsup. Make very hot, still stirring. Then pile up in the centre of a hot dish, garnish with some savoury crusts or with a border of fried potatoes, and send to table at once. By “fried potatoes,” cold potatoes thinly sliced, dusted with a little finely-minced parsley and fried in butter, are meant. Place the butter in the pan first. Let the butter melt. Then add the potatoes, and fry till of a light golden brown hue here and there. Potato Cakes. Take a sufficient number of cold boiled potatoes ; mash them well. Add pepper and salt to taste, a bit of butter about the size of a walnut, and a well-beaten egg. If the mixture is very stiff a little milk may be added. Form into small rounds, and bake in a moderately hot oven until of a light golden brown. If you handle them carefully these cakes may be split and buttered, and are then exceedingly good. For purposes of economy the egg may be omitted and milk only used. Egg- Pie. Boil six eggs till very hard. Throw them into cold water and take off the shells. Put the eggs into slices and reserve on a plate. Mash some cold potatoes with a little butter, pepper, and salt, and a wine- glassful of milk ; skim milk will do. Spread a layer of potato in the bottom of a small pie dish. Have ready a sliced fried onion, drained free from the fat it was fried in. Spread a little of this on the potato, add some of the sliced egg and a little white sauce; cold white sauce which has been left over will do excellently. Repeat the layers until the dish is full, and finish with a layer of potato. Scatter bread crumbs thickly on top, put a few bits of butter here and there, and place in the oven until very hot, by which time the top of the pie should be of a delicate golden brown. Take out and serve.47 Haddock with Egg Sauce Sausage and Egg Pie. This is made in the same way, but add a layer of chopped sliced cold sausages to the other ingredients. This is a good way of using up the remains of any cold sausages. Hot Breakfast Cakes. Add a good pinch of salt to half a pound of self-raising flour. Rub in 2 ozs. of clarified beef dripping, then add very gently and by degrees just enough water to mix to a fairly stiff dough. Shape into rounds about the size of a cheese plate, bake in a rather hot oven for from twenty-five to thirty minutes. Split open, butter, and serve. Haddock with Egg Sauce. Wipe the haddock well with a damp cloth, place it in a saucepan with a half a pint of milk and water or skim milk. Cook slowly for ten minutes. When done take out and place it upon a hot dish. Reserve in the oven. Strain the milk through a gravy strainer into a clean stewpan. Thicken it with \ oz. of flour and 5 oz. of butter kneaded together, and stir till of the consistency of cream. Then add a small teaspoonful of French mustard and a hard-boiled egg chopped into tiny squares. Make hot, and serve separately in a sauce boat. If the sauce is liked very thick, use a whole oz. of flour. Nearly all the foregoing dishes can be wholly or partly prepared the night before, and will be found not only more appetising, but more economical than the wasteful unwholesome practice of serving such things as tinned corned beef or brawn.CHAPTER VIII 48 How to Cook a Dinner The soup—Stock from uncooked bones—Stock from cooked bones— Croute au pot—Potage bonne femme—Pot age a la gudewife— Potage a la Bretonne—Potage a la Flamande—Thick soups and purees—Puree of lentils—Of haricot beans—Of dried greeti peas —Of butter beajis—Of potatoes—Of artichokes—Of turnips or parsnips—Of green peas—Of carrots—Puree a la Reine—Fried crusts—To clarify fat—How to fry in deep fat. The principal meal, whether early or late, requires greater expenditure of time and trouble than any other. Where there are children, they will take their dinner at midday; but if the plan I have already indicated is followed, husband and wife can enjoy a very cosy little dinner together every evening without much extra trouble. The Soup. If you are but just starting to keep house, there will, of course, be no material to hand the first week for stock, and bones must be bought. The second week, however, there should be quite enough meat and poultry bones, &c., saved to furnish the stockpot. Stock from Uncooked Bones. Take three pennyworth of beef and veal bones mixed ; chop them up into small pieces. Put them on a dish and sprinkle them with salt. Place the dish in the oven, and leave it for ten minutes. This will brown the bones and ensure the soup being of a good colour. Next put the bones in the stockpot or in a deep clean saucepan, add a little more than two quarts of water, and bring slowly to the boil. Remove the scum which will have risen to the top, add a turnip peeled and sliced, two large carrots scraped and sliced, two large onions peeled, sliced, and stuck with a clove, a sprig of parsley, and a bit of thyme and marjoram and a bay leaf tied up together. Cover the pan tightly, draw it to the side of the fire. Simmer very slowly for five or six hours ; take care that the stock does not boil away. Strain it through a fine hair sieve into a deep basin, and leave in the larder till next day if possible. Then remove the cake of fat which will be found floating on the top. Reserve this on a plate (we will see how to clarify it presently), and the stock will then be ready to be turned into soup.49 D Stock from Cooked Bones If you want to use a portion of it as soon as it is taken from the fire, wring a serviette out in ice-cold water very tightly. Place it over a hair sieve. Pour as much of the stock as you require through it into a clean saucepan. The ice-cold cloth chills and retains the fat, so that the soup is practically quite free from it, and can be used straight away. Stock from Cooked Bones. Take from 3 to 3^ lbs. of any sort of cooked bones. A mixture of veal and beef, or beef and mutton, are the best, and any poultry bones are a great improvement. Chop the bones into smallish pieces. Place them in the stockpot, or in a deep saucepan. Add two quarts of water and three teaspoonfuls of salt. Bring gently to the boil, re- move any scum that may rise, add a gill of cold water, two large car- rots scraped and sliced, a turnip peeled and cut into small squares, two large onions peeled and stuck with a clove, and a bouquet garni, i.e. a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and a bay leaf all tied together. Put the lid on, draw the saucepan to the side of the fire and sim- mer slowly for five hours and a half, and take care that the contents of the saucepan do not all boil away. “ Soup boiled is soup spoiled ” is an adage that the self-taught cook should always bear in mind. Next strain the soup through a fine hair sieve into a clean basin. If you have not a sieve use a fine old cloth laid over a colander. Put the basin in the coolest corner of the larder and leave till cold. Remove the cake of fat from the top, and the stock will be ready for use. Here are some ways in which the stock may be utilised:— Croute au Pot. Take a sufficient amount of stock, place it in a clean stewpan, add to it a large carrot scraped and thinly sliced, a turnip peeled and cut into tiny squares, and half a cold boiled cabbage, and also a small crust of stale bread for each person. Simmer very slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly cooked. Add pepper and salt to taste, and serve. Potage bonne Femme. Place a quart of the stock in a clean saucepan. Add a carrot scraped and cut into small squares, a turnip peeled and cut into squares, a few leaves of lettuce, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of cold cooked or uncooked peas. Simmer slowly until the vegetables are very tender. Add pepper and salt to taste and an egg beaten up with a gill of milk; skim milk will do. Make very hot, but do not let it boil or the egg will curdle. Add a little minced parsley, and serve. Potage a la Gudewife. Place a quart of the stock in a clean stewpan. Add to it two large onions peeled and sliced, and the half of a cold cooked cabbage.Thick Soups and Purees Simmer very slowly until the onions are quite tender, then add pepper and salt to taste, and serve. If it is desired to make this soup rather more substantial, add also half a teacupful of well-washed barley ; simmer slowly until the barley is thoroughly cooked, and then serve at once. Potage a la Bretonne. Take a quart of the stock and put it into a clean stewpan. Add to it six small or four large onions peeled and thinly sliced, half an oz. of crushed tapioca, or a dessert-spoonful of French tapioca. Cook slowly until the onions are quite tender and the tapioca is clear, but take care that the soup does not boil away. Add salt and pepper to taste, and serve at once. Barley, sago, or rice may be used in place of tapioca. Potage a la Flamande. Put a quart of the stock in a clean stewpan, add to it a peeled and finely-sliced Spanish onion, two carrots scraped and cut into neat squares, and a well-washed leek shred finely. Cook slowly until the vegetables are quite tender. Add salt and pepper to taste, and serve at once. Thick Soups and Purees. These are another very great aid to economy, as many of them can be made with water, or milk and water, when stock is not to hand. To make a successful puree, it is necessary to learn how to use a sieve. This is the method:— Turn the sieve upside down over a basin, or, better still, fit it (still upside down) into a clean saucepan ; pour a little of the soup through the sieve, take a wooden spoon and press the puree through the sieve, using the back of the spoon, and drawing it towards you, pressing as heavily as possible. Reverse the sieve, and with the point of the spoon scrape off the pulp which sticks to the under side. Replace the sieve in its first position, and continue the rubbing process until all the puree is through ; remove the sieve and rinse it well with hot water, afterwards cleaning it as directed upon page 6. During the sieving process hold the sieve firmly in the left hand, and tilt it downwards towards the right. These rules hold good whether the article to be sieved is soup, a vegetable, or fruit, and a very little practice makes perfect. For everyday use a wire sieve may be used in. place of a hair one, but the puree will not in this case be of so creamy a character. It will be well to practise first with a wire sieve, and then to go on to the use of a hair sieve. If time is of consequence, and the best result is desired, put the soup first through a wire sieve, and afterwards through the hair one. Puree of Lentils. Take half a pint of yellow lentils. Soak them for twelve hours. Wash them well. Reserve them. 5°51 Puree of Potatoes Place an ounce of clarified beef dripping in a deep saucepan; as soon as it melts add to it an onion peeled and sliced, a sprig of parsley, thyme, and marjoram, and a bay leaf tied together. Fry for ten minutes, stirring all the time. Add the lentils and a quart of water. Place the lid on, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and simmer slowly for an hour and a half or two hours. As soon as all the vege- tables are thoroughly cooked, rub them through a sieve into a clean saucepan. Return to the fire ; mix an ounce of flour with half an ounce of butter to a smooth paste by means of half a wine-glassful of cold milk (skim milk will do). Place rather less than half a pint of milk, or skim milk, in a clean saucepan ; as soon as it boils add the mixed flour and butter, and stir over the fire until of the consistency of cream. Add this to the soup by degrees, stirring all the time, and continue to stir for five minutes. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen. Serve with fried crusts, handed separately. Puree of Haricot Beans. This is made in the same way. Soak the beans for twenty-four hours. Puree of Dried Green Peas. This is made in the same manner. Soak the peas for twenty-four hours, and add a little dried mint to the flavouring ingredients. If powdered ipint is used, soak this in a very little cold water, and strain off the water before using the mint. Puree of Butter Beans. This is made in the same manner. Puree of Potatoes. Take i lb. of peeled potatoes and 4 ozs. of peeled onions; slice them thinly. Put 1 oz. of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. Directly it melts add the onions and potatoes together, with a bunch of herbs, i.e. thyme, parsley, and a bay leaf all tied together; six peppercorns and a couple of cloves tied up in a bit of muslin. Cook slowly, and stir all the time, for ten or twelve minutes, but do not let the vegetables acquire much colour. Then add a quart of water, or a quart of skim milk or stock ; cover the pan, draw it on to one side of the fire, and cook slowly for an hour and a half. Rub through a sieve into a clean saucepan ; return the pan to the fire. Mix an ounce of flour with half an ounce of butter to a paste with half a wine-glassful of cold milk ; add to it by degrees not quite half a pint of absolutely boiling milk (skim milk will do). Stir oyer the fire until the mixture thickens, then add it to the puree, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Add pepper and salt to taste’ make very hot, strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and serve at once with fried crusts, handed separately52 Puree of Green Peas Puree of Artichokes. This is made in exactly the same way, but in order to ensure a good colour each artichoke as it is peeled should be put into a basin of cold water, to which has been added a tablespoonful of vinegar. Both the sliced potatoes and the sliced artichokes must be thoroughly dried before they are added to the melted fat, or they will not fry properly. Puree of Turnips or Parsnips is made in exactly the same way. Puree of Green Peas. Take the sound pods from half a peck of green peas. They should measure at least a full quart. Wash them very thoroughly. Place an oz. of butter, or clarified dripping, in a clean stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it a finely-minced small onion, a good-sized sprig of parsley, and a sprig of green mint ; fry for a couple of minutes, and then add the pods and fry, turning all the time for five minutes. Add a quart of either stock or skim milk, or milk and water. Cover the pan tightly; draw it to one side of the fire, and simmer slowly until the pods are thoroughly cooked and soft. It is not possible to give the exact time for this, as the pods may be old. When done rub them through a fine wire sieve into a clean sauce- pan placed on the stove. Mix an oz. of flour with half an oz. of butter to a smooth paste with a little cold milk; add to it gradually, and stir- ring all the while, not quite half a pint of skim milk. Place the sauce- pan on the fire, and continue to stir until the mixture thickens. Then add it to the puree, stirring all the time. Put the pan on the fire, and continue to stir for ten minutes. Add pepper and salt to taste; strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and send to table with fried crusts, handed separately. Puree of Carrots. Take six very large carrots, scrape them, slice them very thinly. Place an oz. of dripping or butter in a clean stewpan; as soon as it melts add the carrots, a large onion peeled and thinly sliced, and a bouquet garni. Fry for six or seven minutes, then add to them a quart of the stock described on page 48. Put the lid on and simmer slowly until the carrots are quite soft and tender. Then rub through a fine sieve into a clean saucepan. Mix an oz. of flour and half an oz. of butter to a paste with half a wine-glassful of cold milk. Add to it very gradually not quite half a pint of boiling milk (skim milk will do). Stir over the fire until the mixture thickens. Then add it to the puree by degrees, stirring all the time. Add salt and pepper to taste, and a | of a teaspoonful of sifted sugar. Make very hot ; strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and serve with fried crusts, handed separately. When a thick and substantial soup is required in a hurry, try the following :—53 To Clarify Fat Puree a la Reine. Place a quart of stock in a deep clean saucepan. Make very hot. Mix a heaped tablespoonful of barley flour to a paste with a little cold stock. Add to the soup; stir all one way until it thickens, then con- tinue to stir for five or six minutes. Add pepper and salt to taste. Strain through a heated gravy strainer into a hot soup tureen, and serve with fried crusts. Fried Crusts. Cut a slice of stale bread not quite half an inch thick. Cut off the crust; cut the bread into minute squares. Place half a pound of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. Let the fat melt, and wait until a faint blue smoke rises. Then add the crusts a few at a time, and fry to a light golden hue. Take out with a fish slice, drain on clean paper, and use as directed. To Clarify Fat. I have frequently referred to clarified dripping in the foregoing recipes. This is how to clarify it:— Save the fat until you have a basin half full. Then pour over the basin containing the fat enough absolutely boiling water to fill it. Place it in the larder. When perfectly cold the cake of fat will be found floating on the top of the water. If the fat is still very full of brown specks it is what is technically known as still dirty, and the clarifying process must be repeated again, and iyet again, until it is fit for use. The under side may be lightly scraped with a knife in case any impurities still remain. Fat should be strained through a clear fine gravy strainer directly it has been used, and it can then be used again and again indefinitely so long as it keeps clean. How to Fry in Deep Fat. The absolute novice can fry to perfection at the first attempt if she will follow the directions here given. Take sufficient clarified fat to fill a deep saucepan at least half full when melted. Let the fat melt, and then wait until all bubbling has ceased, and the fat is quite still. By this time a thin blue smoke should be rising from it, and now is the time to fry. Add the articles to be fried, a very few at a time, and fry till of a light golden brown. Then take out quickly, drain carefully on clean kitchen paper, and reserve on a hot dish until all has been fried. Then serve at once. Such things as potatoes and artichoke chips must be well dried or else they will not fry. Fish must be egged and bread-crumbed or floured, and so must cutlets if they are to fry properly.CHAPTER IX 54 How to Cook Fish To fry fish — To boil fish— To grill fish—Hake an gratin—Haddocks with cheese sauce—Fresh herrings stuffed—Herrings a la rnaitre- cChotel—Cod or hake with macaroni—Savoury croutons— Whiting i\ la Portuguese—Fish pudding—Fish sauce—A delicious fish pie—Fish and macaroni pie—Fried bread crumbs. To Fry Fish. To fry fish, put the clarified fat in the saucepan, and let it melt. Wait till the blue smoke rises. See that the fish is very dry. Dip it in flour, and place it in the boiling fat. Fry to a golden brown hue, take out, drain, and serve. If possible, egg and bread-crumb the fish before adding it to the boiling fat; but if the trifling expense of this cannot be afforded, dip the fish first into milk and then into flour, and fry it, and the results will be found nearly as good as if egg was used. To Boil Fish. Use only just enough very hot but not boiling water to cover the fish, and add a little less than i oz. of salt and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to a quart of water. For a large piece of fish allow six minutes to the lb., and ten minutes over. For a small piece of fish allow six minutes to the lb., and five minutes over. Note that the fish must simmer the whole time, as, if the water is allowed actually to boil, the fish will be spoilt and quite tasteless. Mackerel should be put into lukewarm water only. Salmon must be put into the water as soon as it reaches boiling point. To Grill Fish. Mackerel and herrings are nice when grilled. Place a teaspoon- ful of butter in a saucer. Put the saucer in the oven, and let the butter melt; brush the fish over with the melted butter, sprinkle them with salt, and dredge them with flour. Have a very clear red fire. Wipe the bars of the gridiron with a bit of greased paper. Put the fish on the gridiron, and cook first on one side and then on the other. Five minutes either side will be enough for a very thin small fish,55 Hake au Gratin and from eight to ten minutes for larger and thicker ones, such as big mackerel, See. " Neither boiling, frying, nor grilling, nice as they undoubtedly may be, can be called the most economical or the most tasty way of cooking fish. I therefore append a choice of recipes well within the means of the housewife who has to cater upon 30s. weekly. Hake au Gratin. Hake when cheap is often to be had for 3d. and 4d. a lb. Take a pound or a pound and a half of hake or haddock. Place it in a clean deep stewpan. Add just enough skim milk to cover it, an onion notched to allow the juice to escape, and a sprig of parsley. Simmer slowly until the fish is cooked and quite white. Place it on a hot fireproof china dish, and reserve it on the plate-rack. Strain the milk in which it was cooked through a gravy strainer into a clean saucepan ; thicken it with an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter mixed to a paste with a little of the milk in which the fish was cooked. Stir over a slow fire until the sauce is of the consistency of cream, and leaves the sides of the pan ; then add pepper and salt to taste, and strain through a heated gravy strainer on to the fish. Sprinkle the top thickly with bread crumbs ; place a few morsels of butter here and there, and put the dish in a hot oven until the sauce has set, and is just golden brown, then take out and serve at once. To make the dish go further, it may be garnished with savoury croutons, and in any case a dish of baked potatoes should be handed with it. Whiting or cod, or indeed any kind of white fish, will be found equally good when cooked after this recipe. Haddocks with Cheese Sauce. Take two good-sized haddocks and simmer them till tender in salted water. Then drain them carefully, free them from skin and bone, and flake them with a fork into pieces of a suitable size. Mean- while, place rather more than half a pint of skim milk in a clean saucepan, add to it a small onion cut in two, a bit of parsley, and a tiny bit of mace. Cover the pan ; draw it to the side of the fire, and let the contents simmer slowly until they taste strongly of the flavouring, but take care that the milk does not boil at all. Now strain it through a fine strainer into a clean stewpan. Thicken it with an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter, mixed to a paste by means of a little of the milk, and stir over the fire until the sauce leaves the sides of the stewpan. Then add to it an ounce of finely-grated cheese of any sort. Stir until the cheese has quite melted, by which time the sauce should be a deep yellow. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and the flaked haddock ; mix the fish very lightly, yet thoroughly, with the sauce, and take care not to break or mash it in any way. Make it all very hot. Empty it into a hot fireproof china dish ; sprinkle the top thickly withFresh Herrings Stuffed bread crumbs and grated cheese. Place a tiny bit of butter here and there, and put the dish in the oven until the cheese has quite melted. Then take out and serve at once. If the haddocks are very small, add from an ounce to two ounces of previously cooked macaroni, cut into one-inch lengths, to the flaked fish. Mix together and finish as directed. Not only haddock, but cod, hake, brill, and whiting may all be cooked in this way suc- cessfully. Fresh Herring’s Stuffed. Ask the fishmonger when you buy the herrings to split them open, clean them, and take out the backbone for you. See that the roes are left in. Butter a fireproof china dish, place the herrings in this, put a few tiny bits of butter on each, dust with pepper, and bake in a mode- rately hot oven till done. Meanwhile, take just a pound of freshly- boiled floury potatoes, add to them a wine-glassful of absolutely boiling milk, and a bit of butter about the size of a walnut ; mash the potatoes until quite white and light. Then stuff the centre of each herring with potato ; shape this neatly with a knife or fork, and sprinkle with finely-minced parsley. Place a morsel of butter on each, and replace the dish in the oven until the potato is just touched here and there with golden brown. Take out and serve at once. Herrings a la Maitre-d’Hotel. Take six fresh herrings, and get the fishmonger to split them and take out the backbone; the roes must be left in. Butter a fireproof china dish thickly ; arrange the herrings on this. Place on the centre of each a small teaspoonful of finely-minced shalots and parsley ; put a bit of butter on top of each, and dust lightly with salt, pepper, and bread crumbs, and bake in a moderately hot oven for from fifteen to eighteen minutes. If the fish are of extra large size, allow twenty minutes. Take out and serve with mashed or baked potatoes, handed separately. Mackerel are also delicious when cooked like this, but a larger amount of parsley and shalot will be required. When shalot is un- obtainable, very finely-minced onion may be used instead, if liked. Cod or Hake with Macaroni. When a small piece of cold cod or hake has been left over from the previous day’s dinner, it can be turned into a very appetising little dish as follows :— Take the fish, free it from skin and bone, and flake it into pieces of a smallish size ; mix an ounce of flour with an ounce of butter to a thin paste by means of a little cold milk or water in a saucepan. Then add to it, stirring all the time, half a pint of absolutely boiling milk; skim milk will do. Place the pan on the fire, and stir until the sauce is of the consistency of cream, and leaves the side of the saucepan. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and a tiny grate of nutmeg. Add57 Fish Pudding also the fish and make very hot, stirring all the time in order to avoid burning. Then add from one to two ounces of freshly-cooked maca- roni, previously cut into inch lengths. Make very hot, dish up on a hot dish, garnish with savoury croutons, and serve at once. Savoury Croutons. Take slices of stale bread—those from a tin loaf are best—and divide each slice into four. Cut off the crust. Dip first into milk and then into finely-minced onion and parsley. Have ready a saucepan half full of clarified beef dripping ; wait until the blue smoke rises freely. Then add the croutons a few at a time only, and fry to a light golden brown. Take out quickly, drain on clean paper, and use as directed. Whiting- a la Portuguese. Place three medium-sized whitings in a clean stewpan, and add just enough stock to cover them ; if stock cannot be spared use water, and add an onion stuck with a clove. Simmer till tender and quite white, and do not let them over-cook ; they should be just cooked and no more. Strain carefully and place them in a hot fireproof china dish. Pour over them half a bottle of tomato catsup ; sprinkle thickly with finely-minced shalots and parsley. Place a few morsels of butter here and there, and make very hot in the oven, and allow the sauce just to set. Then serve at once. Haddock can be cooked in the same way, but the quantity of sauce must be increased if the fish are of large size. Fish Pudding. This is a very economical, appetising, and substantial dish. Take any sort of cold boiled white fish, weighing half a pound when freed from skin and bone. Add to it half a pound of cooked rice, which must be very dry. Mix well together, and add enough milk or cold sauce to make a stiff batter. Season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little lemon juice. Then add the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, and finally the whites whisked to a stiff froth. Mix all together lightly yet thoroughly. Grease a plain tin mould, and fill it three parts full with the mixture. Tie it down with buttered paper, and steam it for an hour. If you have not a proper steamer, place a dinner plate upside down in a clean saucepan ; place the tin containing the fish pudding upon this. Pour in just sufficient boiling water to reach not quite half- way up the side of the tin. Put the lid on the saucepan, and keep the water boiling for an hour. Should the water reduce, the quantity must be made up with more boiling water. Next takeoff the buttered paper. Take the tin in your hands with a cloth, turn it upside down over a hot dish ; give it a gentle shake, and the pudding will fall out. Have ready half a pint of well-made white sauce. Pour this around the pudding, and send to table at once.Fish Sauce The Sauce is made as follows. Mix i oz. of flour and i oz. of butter to a paste in a saucepan with a little skim milk. Have ready rather less than half a pint of absolutely boiling skim milk. Add this by degrees to the paste, stirring all the time. Place the saucepan on the fire, and continue to stir until the sauce is of the consistency of cream and leaves the sides of the saucepan ; then add pepper and salt and lemon juice. Add also a little essence of anchovy, or a little Harvey sauce, whichever is best liked. Make very hot. Pour around the pudding as directed, and send to table at once. If milk or skim milk cannot be spared for the sauce, the water in which the fish was cooked may be used instead. It should be first strained through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan and then made hot. If rice is not at hand, half a pound of freshly-boiled mashed potatoes may be used instead, but they should be allowed to cool before they are added to the fish. When there is only a very small quantity of fish, say 4 ozs., the amount may be made up by using cooked macaroni, cut into one or two inch lengths. In this case add a dessert-spoonful of essence of anchovy to the other ingredients, as without it the pudding will lack its decided fish flavour. Almost any kind of white fish may be used for this pudding; but when no white or fresh fish is obtainable, a very nice pudding can be made from dried haddock. Soak the haddock in tepid water for at least an hour, then cook it as directed upon page 40. Free it from skin and bone, and flake it into pieces of suitable size ; then finish the pudding in all other respects as I have directed in the recipe. The addition of two hard- boiled eggs finely chopped will be found a very great improvement. A Delicious Fish Pie. Free from 8 to 10 ozs. of any sort of cold boiled white fish from skin and bone, and flake it into pieces of a suitable size. Make half a pint of white sauce, as before directed, for fish pudding. Take a pound of freshly-boiled potatoes and mash them with a fork, with a bit of butter about the size of a large walnut, and a wine-glassful of absolutely boiling milk ; skim milk will do. Place a little of the sauce at the bottom of a pie dish, then put in a layer of the mashed potatoes. Arrange a layer of fish on this, and pour over a little of the sauce. Repeat the layers until the dish is quite full. The last layer should be potato. Smooth this over with the back of a spoon, sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs, and add just a very little grated cheese. Put a few morsels of butter here and there, and make hot in the oven. The pie should be golden brown here and there when finished. Take out, and serve at once. Fish and Macaroni Pie. This is very economical and easily made. Throw half a pound of macaroni into a saucepan half full of absolutely boiling salted water. Cook until quite soft, by which time 5359 Fried Bread Crumbs • the water will be all absorbed. Take out and drain. Cut into two- inch lengths, and make half a pint of sauce as directed for fish pudding. Next free 8 ozs. of any sort of cold boiled white fish from skin and bone. Flake it into pieces of a suitable size. Pour a little of the sauce into a pie dish, then put in a layer of the cooked macaroni, and next a layer of fish. Sprinkle with freshly-fried bread crumbs,' and repeat the layers of sauce, macaroni, and fish until the dish is quite full. The top layer must be one of macaroni. Sprinkle thickly with the bread crumbs, place a few bits of butter here and there, and make hot in the oven. It should be just golden brown when done. Take out and serve at once. Fried Bread Crumbs. Place a bit of butter about the size of a very small walnut in a clean frying-pan. Directly it melts add to it two tablespoonfuls of stale bread crumbs, and turn with a knife until of a light golden brown. Then take out and use as directed.CHAPTER X 60 How to Cook Meat and Poultry Hozu to roast—Time requiredfor beef, mutton, veal, pork, lamb, frozen meat—How to prepare frozen meat, frozen lamb—To roast poultry, ducks, geese, a?id turkeys— To boil meat— Time to allow for beef, underdone beef mutton, veal, pork. To Roast. WIPE the joint well with a damp cloth, and then with a dry one lightly. Rub a couple of heaped tablespoonfuls of dripping in the baking dish; sprinkle the joint with a little salt. Place it in the baking tin, and put two or three pieces of dripping each about the size of a very large walnut on the top of the joint. Put the baking tin in the hottest part of the oven, shut the door, and leave it for ten minutes. Then draw it to a cooler part, or else put it on a lower shelf, baste it thoroughly, and continue to baste it every ten minutes. If the joint is a very small and lean one, baste it once every six or eight minutes. As soon as the joint is done, take it out of the baking tin and dish it up on a very hot dish. Pour off the fat from the gravy into a dripping bowl. The residue of the gravy will stay behind. Add a little water to this, and a tiny pinch of salt. Then work it about with the point of a knife over the fire until it boils. Pour it over the joint and send to table. If the joint is to be baked in a Dutch oven in front of the fire, place the oven close to the fire for the first ten minutes, then draw it back a little way, and baste as directed. Time Required. To roast a joint to perfection, weigh it carefully first, and then reckon out the time necessary for cooking it as follows :— Beef. Allow fifteen minutes to the lb., and fifteen minutes over, if it is liked underdone. If to be well done, allow twenty minutes to the lb., and twenty minutes over. Mutton. This should always be well done. Allow twenty minutes to the lb., and twenty minutes over. If liked extra well done, a minute or so longer may be allowed.61 Frozen Meat for Roasting Veal. This, too, should always be well done, as, if underdone, it is extremely indigestible. Allow twenty-five minutes to the lb., and twenty-five minutes over. Pork. Allow twenty-five minutes to the lb., and twenty-five minutes at least over. In the case of a very thin piece of either mutton or veal, less time will be required, say fifteen minutes to the lb., and fifteen minutes over. Lamb. As a general rule, eighteen minutes to the lb., and eighteen minutes over, will be ample. Frozen Meat. Frozen meat or mutton will require a little longer time for cooking and should receive slightly more basting than English meat. To Prepare Frozen Meat for Roasting-. First trim the joint neatly, and cut off all pieces of discoloured, dirty, or superfluous fat, which latter should be reserved, rendered down, and then clarified for use in frying. Place the joint in a large deep bowl, and cover it with hot but not boiling water for from fifteen to twenty minutes. Then take out, dry very thoroughly, dust with flour, and sprinkle the flour with salt, and roast in the usual way, basting frequently. Frozen Lamb. This will not require to be soaked so long as mutton or beef; from ten to twenty minutes is ample. To Roast Poultry. Wipe the inside out very thoroughly with a cloth wrung out of very hot water. Place some dripping or butter in the baking tin, and, if possible, put a slice of fat bacon on the breast; failing this, butter it well. Allow fifteen minutes over. Ducks, Geese, and Turkeys. Allow twenty minutes to the lb., and twenty minutes over. In the case of ducks and geese the bacon is not required. Baste frequently, every ten minutes for large birds, and every five or six minutes for small ones. To Boil Meat. To boil successfully, see first that the water is absolutely boiling. Add to it two tablespoonfuls of salt to each gallon of water. Then put in the meat, and bring the water to boiling point again. Allow itBraising 62 to boil for just five minutes, then cover the pan, draw it to one side of the fire, and simmer very slowly until the joint is thoroughly cooked. Note that the water must not be allowed to boil again, as should it do so the meat will toughen and be spoilt. All vegetables and flavouring herbs must be added when the pan is drawn to one side of the fire. Slightly more time should be allowed for boiling than for roasting. For Beef. Allow twenty minutes to the lb., and twenty minutes over. For Underdone Beef. Allow eighteen minutes to the lb., and fifteen minutes over. For Mutton. Allow twenty minutes to the lb., and a full twenty minutes over. For Veal. Allow twenty-five minutes to the lb., and twenty-five minutes over. For Pork. Allow twenty-five or thirty minutes to the lb., and at least thirty minutes over, and note that in all cases the water must be absolutely boiling before the meat is put in. Braising-. Place from an ounce to two ounces of clarified beef dripping in a clean deep stewpan. Directly it boils add to it a couple of carrots scraped and sliced, two turnips peeled and cut into neat squares, a bouquet garni, i.e. thyme, marjoram, bay leaf, parsley, all tied up to- gether, and four large onions peeled and thinly sliced. Fry all together for three or four minutes ; then add the meat, and fry for another ten or twelve minutes, turning it frequently in order that it may become equally browned all over. Then lift it with a fork, and with another fork rake all the vegetables underneath in such a manner that they form a bed for the meat. Add just sufficient stock or water to come half-way up the meat. Cover the pan tightly, draw it to one side of the fire, and braise it, i.e. simmer it very slowly until done, basting it very frequently. The time this will take varies, of course, with the size of the dish. For Beef or Mutton. Allow at least from twenty-five to thirty minutes to the lb. For Veal, especially if it is at all tough, allow from thirty to thirty-five minutes. For Lamb. From twenty to twenty-five minutes to the lb. ought to be ample. When done, dish up the meat on a hot dish, and reserve it in the oven. Remove the bunch of herbs. Thicken the sauce with anBraising 63 ounce of butter and an ounce of flour, mixed to a paste by means of a little cold stock or water. Stir until the sauce is thick and creamy, and leaves the side of the saucepan. Add pepper and salt to taste. Arrange the vegetables in neat little groups around the meat, and serve at once, accompanied by baked potatoes. An Old Fowl. A bird, no matter how tough, may be made as tender as a spring chicken if cooked in the foregoing fashion. Tough New Zealand mutton, too, may be transformed into a very good imitation of tender English lamb by cooking it in the foregoing- fashion. A piece of tough flank of American chilled beef when braised will prove quite as tender, if not quite of so fine a flavour, as English meat. Very often small rounds of beef, weighing some 4 or 5 lbs., are to be had for as little as 43d. or 5d. a lb. at the stores. They are useless for roasting, but may be turned into a very dainty dish indeed if braised as directed. A tough piece of veal, when braised with plenty of onions and a little parsley and a bit of mace, is also quite a dainty dish. Mutton, Beef, Lamb, or Braised Veal may be much improved by the addition of from 4 to 8 ozs. of rice, which should be well washed, tied up in a muslin bag, and cooked with the meat. American butter beans, or flageolets, or dried haricot beans are also excellent with braised meat. The butter beans and haricots will require soaking for at least twenty-four hours before they are cooked ; but, for the flageolets, a couple of hours’ soaking is all that is needful. All these additions help to make the meat go considerably further.CHAPTER XI Inexpensive Stews and Entrees Odds and ends of meat—American stew—Beef a la mode—Giblet stew —Apple sauce—Giblet pies—Irish stew with mutton pieces— Italia?i stew—Veal in Milanaise fashion—Blanquette of veal— Salt pork, American fashion—To fry cabbage. Odds and Ends of Meat. Pieces, fresh and good, though necessarily only either trimmings or from the coarser parts of the beef or mutton, may be had at most butchers’ shops at prices ranging from 4d. to 7d. a lb. In what is known as cheap neighbourhoods, 4d. or 5d. would be a fair price to pay. Three pounds of meat at 5d. comes to is. 3d., and as with these pieces there is no bone, they are very economical. This is how to treat them:— American Stew. Cut off all the superfluous fat from two or more pounds of beet pieces. Place an ounce and a half of clarified beef dripping in a clean stewpan ; directly it boils add the beef, two large onions peeled and thinly sliced, and two or three sliced pickled walnuts. Fry all together for ten minutes. Then add sufficient stock or water just to cover the meat. Draw the pan to one side of the fire, put the lid on, and simmer very slowly until the meat is quite tender. If the pieces are very tough, allow two hours and a half; if young and tender, from an hour to an hour and a half will be ample. When done, add salt and pepper to taste. Then dish up the beef on a very hot dish. Thicken the gravy with an ounce of flour and half an ounce of butter, mixed to a paste in a little cold water ; stir all one way until the sauce is of the consistency of cream. Add more pepper and salt, and a tablespoonful of the pickle from the walnuts, and a teaspoonful of mushroom catsup. Make hot and serve at once, with baked potatoes. Mutton pieces may also be cooked according to the above recipe, and will be found almost as good. Beef a la Mode. Take two or three pounds of beef pieces. Cut off any superfluous fat, and trim them neatly. Place two ounces of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it three carrots scraped and thinly sliced, four or five onions peeled and cut into quarters, three turnips peeled and sliced and cut into neat squares,E 65 Giblet Stew and if possible a little celery, cut into inch lengths. Add the beef and fry all together for ten minutes, then add enough stock or water just to cover the meat. Put the lid on, and simmer very slowly for two and a half or three hours. Add salt and pepper to taste. Dish up the meat on a hot dish ; arrange the vegetables round it in neat groups. Thicken the gravy with an ounce of flour, mixed to a paste with a little cold water, and stir all one way until it is of the consistency of cream. A few drops of colouring may be added, if it is not a good brown colour, and a little more pepper and salt if thought needful. Pour over the meat, and serve with baked potatoes and any other vegetables liked. Giblet Stew. This is very good, and especially light and nice for children. Giblets cost from 4d. to 6d. per lb. according to locality. Take two lbs. of fresh giblets and wash them very thoroughly. Then dry them carefully. Place an oz. of butter or dripping in a clean stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it the giblets, with a small onion peeled and sliced, a small carrot scraped and sliced, and if possible a bit of celery first well washed and dried, and cut into one-inch lengths. Fry all together for six or eight minutes, and stir continuously in order to avoid burning. Take out the giblets and reserve them. Then add half a pint of stock or water, and half a pint of dried or fresh green peas, which, if dried, should first be soaked according to the directions given upon each packet. Place the lid on tightly, and simmer very slowly until the vegetables are thoroughly soft and tender. Then return the giblets to the stew, and continue to simmer until they too are quite cooked. Thicken the sauce with an oz. of flour and half an oz. of butter kneaded together, and stir till quite thick. Then add pepper and salt to taste, dish up on a hot dish, with a border of hot wel!-mashed potatoes, and send to table at once. Either fowl or turkey giblets may be used for this dish, but a mixture of the two is perhaps best. For duck or goose giblets place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it the giblets, which must first be well washed and thoroughly dried, three large onions peeled and finely chopped, and a teaspoonful of finely-powdered sage. Fry’all well together for ten minutes, turning frequently, then add half a pint of previously cooked peas, either fresh or dried, and half a pint of water. Draw the pan to one side of the fire, and simmer very slowly until the onions, &c., are quite cooked, then thicken with an oz. of flour and half an oz. of butter kneaded together. Stir till thick ; add pepper and salt to taste, make very hot, dish up on a hot dish, and serve, accompanied by baked potatoes and apple sauce. Apple Sauce. Take three large apples. Peel and core them, slice them thinly. Place them in a clean stewpan, or, better still, in a deep jam jar. Add just enough water to cover them, and ^ oz. of brown sugar. Stew till very tender, then beat them up with a fork until quite light. Add a little more sugar if required, make hot, dish up in a sauce tureen, and serve,66 Irish Stew made with Mutton Pieces Giblet Pies. Giblets cooked in either of the foregoing ways, if covered with a plain short crust, will make delicious meat pies. Note that in all cases when making meat pies a vent must be cut in the top of the pie to allow the steam to escape. Irish Stew made with Mutton Pieces. Take half a pound of mutton pieces, two pounds of peeled pota- toes. Slice half of them thinly, and cut the other pound into neat quarters. Peel and slice thinly three or four very large onions. Place a layer of these at the bottom of a deep stewpan. Sprinkle over them a little salt and pepper, then put a layer of the meat cut into neat smallish pieces. Repeat the layers of potato, onions, and meat until all are used up, and let the top layer be of quartered potatoes. Add half a pint of cold stock or water, cover the pan tightly, and simmer very gently for an hour and a half. Every now and then the stew should be stirred gently in order to avoid burning. Then dish up on a hot dish and send to table at once. To the above quantity of meat, potatoes, &c., allow one teaspoonful of white pepper and a teaspoonful of salt. This stew may be made more substantial by the addition of four ozs. of well-washed rice or barley. Italian Stew.' Take 2 lbs. of mutton pieces, wash and dry them well. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it an onion peeled and sliced, half a pound of tomatoes thinly sliced, the mutton, and as much garlic as will go on the point of a knife. Fry all well together for ten minutes. Then add four ozs. of rice and half a pint of water. Cover the pan tightly. Draw it to one side of the fire, and simmer very slowly until the meat is thoroughly cooked and tender. Then thicken with an oz. of flour and 5 oz. of butter kneaded together. Add pepper and salt to taste, and stir till of the consistency of cream. Make very hot, and serve with baked potatoes, handed separately. When tomatoes are 2d. and 3d. a lb. this is one of the daintiest stews it is possible to make. Veal in Milanaise Fashion. Take 2 lbs. of veal pieces, wash and dry them well. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it the veal, a large onion peeled and thinly sliced, as much garlic as will go on the point of a small knife, and a heaped tea- spoonful of chopped parsley. Fry all together for six or seven minutes. Then add just enough stock or water to cover the meat, place the lid on, and stew till tender. Then add pepper and salt to taste, thicken with an oz. of flour, and stir till of the consistency of cream. Add from 2 to 4 ozs. of freshly-cooked macaroni cut into one-inch lengths. Dish up on a hot dish and serve at once, accom- panied by baked potatoes.67 Blanquette of Veal Blanquette of Veal. Take a piece of veal from 2 to 4 lbs., dust it lightly with salt and pepper. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean deep stewpan. As soon as it melts add to it the veal, and half-a-dozen onions peeled and cut into quarters. Fry for ten minutes, then add a little butter ; then half a pint of skim milk or milk and water, a blade of mace, and a sprig of parsley. Draw the pan to one side of the fire ; cover tightly, and stew gently for from one and a half to two and a half hours, according to the size of the joint. Dish up on a hot dish, and arrange the onions in little groups round it. Take out the mace, &c. Thicken the liquor in which it was cooked with an oz. of flour and J oz. of butter, stir till of the consistency of cream, add pepper and salt to taste ; pour over the veal. Send to table at once, accompanied by baked potatoes and any other vegetables best liked. Salt Pork American Fashion. Buy 1 lb. or ij lb. of salt pork, and get the butcher to slice it for you into rashers, just as if it were bacon, but do not have them cut quite through. Then boil it until very tender. Leave it to get cold in the water in which it has been cooked. When quite cold, take it out and divide the slices. Place a bit of dripping about the size of a small walnut in a stewpan ; as soon as it melts add to it a very large onion peeled and finely chopped, and a very little powdered sage. Then add the pork and fry all together, turning frequently until it is very hot. Dish up on a hot dish, garnish with fried cabbage, and send to table accompanied by baked or boiled potatoes and apple sauce. To Fry Cabbage. Take a freshly-boiled, or a cold boiled cabbage ; chop it finely. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan; directly it melts add the cabbage. Dust with pepper and salt, and fry till very hot, turning frequently. Then use as above directed. Cold boiled pork or cold roast pork may be treated in the fore- going fashion. If a portion of sage and onion stuffing remains on hand, it should be used instead of the chopped onion and powdered sage, and is far superior to it. It is as well, therefore, to make rather more stuffing than will be required in the first instance, if any cold pork is likely to be left. A little extra apple sauce should also be made at the same time.CHAPTER XII Some More Simple Entrees Muttofi cutlets a la Delphine—Ptarmigan e?i Casserole—Poulet a la bonne femme— Veal a la Bettine—Cold mutton—Beef au gratin —Lamb au gratin. Of dishes other than roasts, braises, or stews, the housewife who has to cater on small means has not a great variety. I append one or two, however, which will serve as fair examples. Mutton Cutlets a la Delphine. When a whole neck of New Zealand mutton has been bought, cut off half-a-dozen cutlets; trim these neatly, egg and bread-crumb them ; place sufficient clarified dripping in a clean saucepan to half fill it when melted. Let it melt till the blue smoke rises. Then add the cutlets, fry to a golden brown, take out, drain on kitchen paper, arrange round the following puree, and send to table. For the purde :—Boil a couple of pounds of potatoes and a small cauliflower until cooked. Drain. Rub through a fine wire sieve, mix well together, season highly with pepper and salt and a tiny grate of nutmeg. Then make into a stiffish purde with about a wine-glassful of milk ; make hot in a saucepan, and whisk all the time. Pile up lightly on a hot dish, and use as directed. Cabbage may take the place of cauliflower, if liked, or six large onions to the pound of potatoes. In this case cook the onions and potatoes together. A bit of butter about the size of a walnut added while whisking is an improvement to the puree. Ptarmigan en Casserole. Ptarmigan are cheap—iod. each. One of these fonns a nice little hot dinner or late supper, cooked as follows :—Take a ptarmigan trussed for roasting. Place an ounce of clarified dripping in a clean stewpan ; when it melts add the ptarmigan and as much minced garlic as will go on the point of a small knife, and a bunch of herbs, thyme, marjoram, parsley, and bay leaf all tied together. Fry for ten minutes, turning frequently until of a nice light golden brown all over, then draw the pan to the side for thirty-five or forty minutes, basting all the time. Dish up on a hot dish. Remove the herbs. Drain off the superfluous grease, and add a gill of stock to the gravy remaining;69 Poulet a la Bonne Femme thicken it with a little flour. Add pepper and salt to taste, and stir till the gravy is of a nice rich hue. Pour it over the bird, and serve with chipped potatoes. (See page 71.) Poulet a la Bonne Femme. Poultry, which is always a more or less costly thing to buy, is practically beyond the means of our housewife, but tough old fowls are often to be had of large size for is. 6d. or is. 9d. each, and if treated as follows will be found delicious. Take an old fowl trussed as if for boiling. Wipe it out carefully with a cloth wrung out in very hot water, and put an onion stuck with a clove inside it. Place it in a stewpan. Add just sufficient water to come half-way up it, and then simmer very slowly at the side of the stove for two hours and a half. Take out and cut the fowl into neat joints. Place an ounce of cooking butter and salt butter in a deep pie dish, or a fireproof china saucepan with a handle. Add to it a finely-minced shalot, and as much finely-minced garlic as will go on the point of a small knife. Let the butter melt. Then add the joints of fowl. Place the dish in the oven, and cook from fifteen to twenty minutes, basting well every now and then. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked, and send chipped potatoes and a salad to table with it. This forms a nice little dish ; and if a guest has to be entertained at dinner or supper, a tough turkey poult, if cooked thus, will be found equally good. Veal a la Bettine. Take some slices of cold roast or boiled veal. If underdone, so much the better. Dust each slice with pepper and salt. Place half an ounce of cooking butter in a clean small stewpan. Add to it a heaped teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley and a dessert-spoonful of minced shalot or onions. Fry for a couple of minutes, then add the veal. Make very hot, dish up on a hot dish, garnish with a border of mashed potatoes, and send it to table at once. If there is a good deal of veal, increase the butter to 1 oz. Cold Mutton. This is good, treated as follows :—Cut the cold mutton into neat slices. Dust each slice with flour, and with a little pepper and salt. Place an oz. of clarified dripping in a stewpan. Add to it a finely- minced onion, and fry for three minutes. Then add a gill of stock or water, a little Harvey sauce, and a large spoonful of red currant jelly ; if this cannot be spared, use plum jam without the stones. Then add the mutton and make very hot. Dish up on a hot dish with a border of mashed potatoes, and send to table at once. Mushroom catsup may be used in place of Harvey sauce, if liked. Beef au Gratin. Take some slices of cold roast beef, arrange them neatly on a fire- proof dish, season with minced parsley, minced onion or shalot, pepper70 Lamb au Gratin and salt, and a very little flour. Pour over a gill of stock or gravy, or failing this, a gill of water mixed with a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup, i.e. it must be a gill altogether. Sprinkle thickly with bread crumbs, put a few bits of butter dripping here and there, place in a hot oven for ten or fifteen minutes, and send to table with baked potatoes. Lamb au Gratin. Take some slices, or neat cutlets, or pieces of cold roast lamb; arrange them neatly on a dish. Sprinkle thickly with finely- minced shalot or onion, minced parsley, pepper and salt, and a minced pickled walnut. Mix a tablespoonful of walnut pickle with a tea- spoonful of mushroom catsup, and make up rather more than a gill with either stock or water. Pour over the meat. Sprinkle bread crumbs thickly on top. Place a few bits of butter or clarified dripping here and there. Make hot in the oven for ten or fifteen minutes, and serve at once with baked or boiled potatoes.CHAPTER XIII How to Cook Vegetables Baked potatoes—To boil potatoes—New potatoes—Boiled cabbage— Cauliflowers—Turnip tops—Brussels sprouts—French beans— Peas—Braised Spanish onions—Parsnips—Turnips—Carrots— Vegetable marrow—To make a salad—Beetroot salad—Cucumber salad— Vegetable entrees. Baked Potatoes. Select very large potatoes. Wash and scrub them thoroughly in plenty of tepid water. Then rinse in cold water. Dry them. Place in a moderately hot oven and bake for two hours, turning them fre- quently ; send to table at once. To Boil Potatoes. Wash them thoroughly in cold water. Peel very thinly. Take out all discoloured and dirty parts ; wash and leave in cold water until time to cook. Allow a quart of cold water to every dozen potatoes. Place them in a saucepan. Add the cold water and a tablespoonful of salt. Allow a full twenty minutes for cooking after the water boils, or, if the potatoes are of a very large size, thirty minutes. Drain, allow time to dry, and then dish up and serve. To Boil New Potatoes. Wash them thoroughly, rub oft the skins with a coarse cloth, or else scrape carefully; do not peel with a knife. Cook in boiling water, and allow a tablespoonful of salt to every quart of water. Add also a sprig of fresh mint. Cook for from eighteen to thirty minutes, accord- ing to size. Drain oft the water carefully. Leave the saucepan on the stove with the lid oft for two or three minutes, in order that the potatoes may dry. Dish up on a hot dish. Add a little butter, and send to table at once. Chipped Potatoes or Artichokes. Wash and peel the potatoes. Slice them into rounds about the size of a shilling or two-shilling piece, and the thickness of a worn sixpence. Wash and dry them very thoroughly. Put enough clari- fied dripping into a deep stewpun to half fill it when melted. Let it 7i72 Boiled Cabbage melt. Wait until the blue smoke rises freely. Then add the potatoes a few at a time, and fry to a golden brown. Take out, drain on clean paper. Place in a hot dish on the top of the stove, and when all the potatoes are cooked, dust lightly with salt, and send to table. Boiled Cabbage. Pick off all the outside or discoloured leaves. Cut the stalk off. Cut the cabbage into quarters. Wash very thoroughly, and leave in cold water until ready to cook. Add a heaped tablespoonful of salt and a bit of soda about the size of a small walnut to each two quarts of water. Wait until the water actually boils. Add the cabbage, and cook from thirty to forty-five minutes. Leave the lid off while cook- ing, and press the cabbages down with a wooden spoon every now and then. Cauliflowers. Allow from twelve to fifteen minutes. Cook in boiling water, a heaped tablespoonful of salt for each two quarts of water. Leave the lid off, and skim every now and then. Allow twenty-five minutes for a large cauliflower, and from fourteen to fifteen minutes for a small one. Drain very carefully, dish up on a hot dish, with the flower upwards, pour some white sauce (see page 58) over, and serve. Turnip Tops. Wash well in half-a-dozen waters ; remove all discoloured leaves. Cook in boiling water with the lid off for from eighteen to twenty minutes, and allow a tablespoonful of salt and a bit of soda about the size of a very small walnut for each quart of water. Drain and press thoroughly. Dish upon a hot dish, and serve. Brussels Sprouts. Clean and wash the sprouts very thoroughly; remove all discoloured leaves first. Cook in boiling water with the lid off for twelve minutes, and add a tablespoonful of salt, and a tiny bit of soda to every two quarts of water. Drain carefully and serve at once. French Beans. String the beans carefully. Cut each bean into half-a-dozen very thin pieces slantwise, and directly they are cut place them in cold water to which has been added a little salt. Cook in boiling water with the lid off for from fifteen to twenty minutes, with a large table- spoonful of salt and a tiny bit of soda to every two quarts of boiling water. They are done when they sink to the bottom of the saucepan. For very young beans, from ten to twelve minutes will suffice. Peas. Shell, wash well in cold water. Cook in boiling water for from fifteen to twenty minutes, according to whether the peas are large or73 Braised Spanish Onions small. For old peas allow at least thirty minutes. Add a lump of sugar, a heaped teaspoonful of salt, and a little fresh mint to every two quarts of water ; a tiny bit of soda may be added, if liked. Old peas are better stewed. Spanish Onions. Peel thinly, and cook slowly in salted water for from two hours to two and a half. Braised Spanish Onions. Peel thinly. Place them in a deep dish. Add enough stock nearly to cover them. Dust with pepper and salt, and simmer in the oven for two hours and a half. Serve in the dish in which they were cooked. If liked, they may also be baked in the oven in a well- greased pie dish, and with a large piece of butter placed on top of each ; this mode, though, is not so economical. Parsnips. Scrape carefully. If very large, quarter them. Cook in boiling salted water for from an hour to an hour and a half. Allow a heaped tablespoonful of salt to each two quarts of water. Small parsnips require less time for cooking. Drain carefully, dish up, and send to table. Turnips. Peel carefully ; if very large they should be quartered. Wash well, and cook in boiling salted water for from an hour to an hour and a quarter. Young turnips only require about twenty minutes cooking. Allow a heaped tablespoonful of salt to every two quarts of water. When done drain carefully. Mash well with a fork, add a tiny bit of butter and a little pepper. Dish up on a hot dish, and send to table at once. Carrots. Scrape the carrots ; if very large, quarter them lengthwise. Wash well, cook in boiling salted water from to z\ hours. Young carrots only require thirty to thirty-five minutes. Allow a heaped table- spoonful of salt to every two quarts of water. Take out, drain, and use as required. Vegetable Marrow. Peel and halve the marrow; cut the seeds out. Cook in boiling salted water for from half-an-hour to forty-five minutes. Young marrows only require from fifteen to twenty minutes, and are best with the seeds left in. Take out with an egg-slice. Drain, dish up on a hot dish. Put a piece of butter on top, and send to table. Allow a tablespoonful of salt to every two quarts of water.74 Cabbage a la Creme To Make a Salad. Wash the lettuces or endive well. Dry carefully on a clean cloth. Tear into pieces of a suitable size. Rub a salad bowl with a split clove of garlic. Dust the lettuce well with salt and a little pepper. Use oil and vinegar in the proportion of two spoonfuls of oil to one of vinegar. Add a little finely-minced onion. Mix all well together, and serve at once. The garlic and onion may be omitted if the flavour is not liked. Beetroot Salad. Peel the beetroot, slice it very thinly. Place in a shallow dish or salad bowl. Dust with pepper and salt; use a dressing composed of oil and vinegar in equal proportions. Mix well, and serve. Cucumber Salad is made in precisely the same way. Vegetable Entrees. A very great economy as regards the butcher’s bill could be easily effected if the foreign custom of serving a separate vegetable course at luncheon or dinner, or both, were to be adopted by the English housewife. Innumerable dainty and very appetising dishes may be made from vegetables alone, at the cost of veritably only a few pence. And in proof thereof witness the following recipes. We will begin with our homely old friend the common or garden cabbage. In its new guise, though but few would recognise it, all will, I am sure, like it. Cabbage a la Creme. Take a large white-heart cabbage and boil it in salted water, together with an onion stuck with a clove. When it is thoroughly done take it out. Drain it carefully, chop it roughly, and then rub it through a very fine wire sieve. Use the back of a wooden spoon for the rubbing process, and every now and then reverse the sieve and scrape off the pulp adhering to the under side. When all the cabbage is through, place the pulp thus obtained in a small clean saucepan ; add to it a bit of butter about the size of a large walnut, as much finely-chopped garlic as will go on the point of a very small knife, pepper and salt to taste, and a pennyworth of cream or a tablespoonful of milk. Stir all well together until very hot, then dish up, conical- wise, on a very hot dish, garnish with finger croutons, and serve at once. Finger Croutons. Cut a slice of bread from a stale loaf—a tin loaf if possible ; then free this from crust, and cut it into long strips about the breadth and75 Brussels Sprouts with White Sauce length of a finger. Have ready a saucepan half full of absolutely boiling fat—clarified beef-dripping for preference—from which the blue smoke is rising. Add the croutons, a few at a time only, and fry till of a bright golden-brown hue. Take out, drain carefully, and use as directed. Brussels Sprouts with White Sauce. Take lb. of Brussels sprouts, and cook them in salted water; while they are cooking proceed as follows : Place rather more than half a pint of milk in a clean enamelled iron stewpan. Add to it a bunch of herbs, i.e. parsley, thyme, and bay leaf, all tied together, a tiny bit of mace, a slice of onion, a slice of carrot, a slice of turnip, and, if it can be had, a bit of celery. Cover the pan and simmer gently at one side of the stove for fifteen minutes, or until the milk tastes strongly of the flavouring herbs, but do not let it boil away even in the slightest degree. Then strain it through a hair sieve into a clean saucepan. Thicken it with i oz. of flour and I oz. of butter to a paste by means of a little cold milk, and stir until of the con- sistency of thick cream. Add pepper and salt to taste, and a few drops of lemon juice. Make very hot. By this time the Brussels sprouts should be quite cooked and tender. Drain them very care- fully and thoroughly ; add them to the sauce ; toss until very hot. Dish up on a hot dish. Garnish with finger croutons, and serve at once. Leeks with Cheese Sauce. Wash a bundle of leeks very thoroughly in at least half-a-dozen waters ; then drain them and cook them slowly in salted water, or, if it can be afforded, in milk. Place half a pint of milk in a clean enamelled iron stewpan. While it is coming to the boil, mix i oz. of flour with i oz. of butter to a paste by means of a wine-glassful of cold milk. Add this to the hot milk by degrees, stirring all the time in order to avoid burning, until it is of the consistency of cream. Then add pepper and salt to taste, and finally 2 ozs. of finely-grated cheese. Any kind most convenient will do, from Dutch to Cheddar, but a mixture of Parmesan and Gruyere gives by far the best results. Stir until the sauce is of a deep yellow colour. Make very hot. By this time the leeks should be thoroughly cooked and tender. Drain them carefully, arrange them neatly on a hot dish, pour the sauce over and around. Garnish with finger croutons and serve at once. Artichokes in the Lyonnaise Fashion. Peel 2^ lbs. of white artichokes, and as each is peeled throw it into water to which has been added a little vinegar ; this is to ensure their being of a good colour. Then parboil them for six minutes. Take out, drain, and dry them carefully on a clean cloth. Add salt to taste and a gill and a half of oil. Place the artichokes in a white china (fireproof) dish. Pour the oil over them, and sprinkle with a teaspoonful of finely-minced garlic and with breadcrumbs. Note— use the latter thickly. Place in a moderately hot oven, and bake till quite tender. Then take out and serve at once.76 Carrots with Gravy Cauliflower in the Polish Fashion. This is a cheap and delicious way of preparing cauliflower. Boil a large cauliflower in salted water till tender, but take care that it does not break, or the appearance of the dish will be spoilt. When done drain it very carefully, and place in a hot oven for a couple of minutes in order that the moisture may dry off. Meanwhile, place from i oz. to 2 ozs. (according to the size of the cauliflower) of butter in a clean deep stewpan. Directly it oils add to it as much finely-minced garlic as will go on the top of a small knife, and a teaspoonful of bread crumbs. Then add the cauliflower very carefully in order that it may not break. Turn it gently in the butter for five or six minutes, and let it get coated well with the bread crumbs, &c. Then dish up on a hot dish. Pour over it the butter, &c., remaining, garnish with finger croutons, and send to table at once. If the flavour of garlic is not liked, finely-minced shalot may be substituted for it. Carrots with Gravy. This is another nice and very cheaply-made dish. Take i lb. of young French carrots. Scrape them very thinly, wash them well, place them in a deep fireproof china dish, and add just enough well- flavoured stock to cover them. Add also an onion stuck with a clove. Place in a slow oven, and cook very gently until the carrots are quite tender. The time for this varies from three-quarters of an hour to an hour and a half. When done, strain off the liquor in which the carrots were cooked into a clean stewpan. There should be about half a pint of it. Thicken with i oz. of butter and i oz. of flour kneaded together and mixed to a paste with a little cold stock or water, and stir till of the consistency of cream. Make very hot ; add pepper and salt to taste, and a tiny pinch of sifted sugar. Pour over the carrots. Return to the oven for a few minutes in order to allow the sauce to just set. Then take out and serve as quickly as possible. Old carrots may also be cooked in this fashion, but they should be split and divided in fours, and considerably longer time must be allowed for the cooking process.CHAPTER XIV 77 Puddings, Pies, Pastry, and Bread Short cnist—Dripping crust—Suet crust—Puddings—Cabinet pud- ding—Jam sauce—Rice pudding cl la Mirette—Munich pudding— Princess pudding—Sponge pudding—Nursery pudditig—Jajn crusts—Golden custard—Jam or treacle tart—Brown Betty— Banana custard—How to make bread—How to knead— The oven —Spice loaf. Puddings and pies of all kinds are apt to be very perplexing to the housewife with small means. Milk puddings and suet puddings, stock dishes so beloved of the British housewife, are not by any means the cheapest, and after a time they are apt to grow mono- tonous. I append one or two recipes more varied in character, which will afford some solution of the difficulty. The very' first thing that in this department the self-trained house- wife should set about mastering is how to make a simple crust. Short Crust. Here is the recipe for the cheapest good crust :— Take I lb. of flour. Add to it a good pinch of salt, and 3 ozs. of either butter or clarified beef-dripping, or lard. Work the butter into the flour until it crumbles well. Then add to it 2 ozs. of sifted sugar, and half a pint of absolutely boiling skim milk, or milk and water. Water alone may be used, but the crust will not be so nice. The milk must be added by degrees, and the paste kneaded and worked until it becomes quite smooth. Then roll out thinly. Cover the pie, and bake in a moderately hot oven until of a light golden hue. Serve. This is an excellent crust for fruit pies and jam tarts. Dripping’ Crust. Take 1 lb. of flour. Add to it a good pinch of salt, and by degrees half a pint of cold water. Mix the flour into a smooth paste with the water. It is best to use a knife for the mixing process. Flour the pastry board, and roll out the crust thinly. Place on it 2 ozs. of clarified beef-dripping broken up into tiny pieces. Then double it over, pinch the edges together, and roll out the paste again thinly. Place another 2 ozs. of clarified beef-dripping broken up in small pieces upon the crust. Double it over, pinch the edges, and roll out a second time. Then place 2 more ozs. of clarified dripping on the crust, double, pinch the edges, and roll out twice. The paste will now be ready for use. This is a nice cheap crust for meat pies, &c.Cabinet Pudding Suet Crust. Take I lb. of flour. Add to it a good pinch of salt and 4 ozs. of finely-minced beef suet. Rub the suet well into the flour, then add by degrees, and kneading the crust all the time, half a pint of cold water. Continue to knead until it becomes a smooth paste, then roll out and use. This is the proper crust for apple puddings, beef-steak puddings, and jam roly-poly. For plain suet pudding use 6 ozs. of suet instead of four. Puff paste is expensive, and therefore I do not give the recipe. It can, however, be found in my book “ Easy French Sweets for English Cooks.” Pudding’s. Steamed puddings will be found nicer and more economical than baked or boiled ones for the late dinner or supper ; whilst for the children, apple or fruit puddings, jam roly-poly, treacle pudding, or currant pudding will be better and more wholesome. All these are made with a crust as just described, and the addition of either jam, treacle, fruit, currants, or sultanas. Cabinet Pudding1. Take sufficient stale bread crumbs, or bits of stale bread cut into small squares, to fill three parts of an ordinary pudding basin of medium size. Add to these 2 ozs. of sugar and half a pint of warm milk ; skim milk will do. Leave in soak for half-an-hour, then whisk up with a fork until quite light. Add 1 oz. of chopped sultanas and a few drops of any essence. Finally add a well-beaten egg, and mix very thoroughly. Tie down with a buttered paper. Steam for one hour ; turn out carefully. Pour a little jam sauce over and around, and serve. Jam Sauce. Place two heaped tablespoonfuls of jam in a clean stewpan. Add to it three tablespoonfuls of water. Make hot. Rub through a gravy strainer on to the pudding. Note.—This sauce can be used for a variety of different puddings. Rice Pudding* a la Mirette. Wash a teacupful of rice well. Place it in a saucepan. Add just enough water to cover it, and a pinch of salt. Simmer slowly until thoroughly cooked, by which time all the water should be absorbed. Place it in a saucepan, add to it a few drops of essence of vanilla, sifted sugar to taste, $nd the well-beaten yolks of two eggs, then by degrees a pint of absolutely boiling skim milk. Mix thoroughly, and finally add the whites of the eggs whisked to a firm froth, with a pinch of salt. Mix again, fill a greased mould with the mixture, tie down tightly, and steam for an hour. Turn out carefully, and serve with jam sauce poured over and around it.79 Munich Pudding Munich Pudding’. Take some slices of stale bread, toast them to a crisp brown, spread them first with butter and then with golden syrup. Place a layer of golden syrup at the bottom of a pie dish, sprinkle it with chopped currants and a little chopped candied peel. Add a little allspice, then put a layer of the toasted bread, and then more currants, candied peel, and spice. Repeat until the dish is full. Make a custard with the well-beaten yolk of an egg, a tablespoonful of sugar, and half a pint of skim milk. Pour over the whole, and leave for fifteen minutes. Meanwhile, whip the white of the egg to a stiff froth, with a few drops of lemon ; add to it a little sifted sugar, and pile high on the top of the pudding. Bake to a golden brown, and serve. If in a hurry, use the whole egg for the custard. Bake the pudding till browned, dust sifted sugar over, and serve. Princess Pudding-. Take 4 ozs. of fine bread crumbs. Add to them five tablespoon- fuls of sieved jam ; whisk well together. Then pour over the whole a custard made with one well-beaten egg and half a pint of warm skim milk, and mix well. Finally, add the white of an egg whisked to a firm froth ; use to fill a souffld mould, bake for twenty-five minutes, and serve directly it is taken from the oven, before it can fall. Spong-e Pudding*. Take a teacupful of self-raising flour, add to it a pinch of salt, half a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, and a tablespoonful of butter. Mix thoroughly. Then add a well-beaten egg, half a teacupful of milk, and a little strained lemon juice. Mix well together, and beat for at least ten minutes. Then fill a well-greased mould with the mixture, tie down tightly, and steam for forty-five minutes. Turn out care- fully, and serve with jam sauce. Nursery Pudding-. Take a pound of stewed apples, rub them through a wire sieve, place them in the bottom of a pie dish. Take two dessert-spoonfuls of com flour in a saucepan. Add to it a pinch of salt and a spoonful of sugar. Mix it to a smooth paste with a little cold milk or water, then add to it by degrees a pint of boiling skim milk. Stir over a slow fire for eight minutes, pour it over the apples, and bake in a moderately hot oven for twenty minutes. Jam Crusts. Stamp out a sufficient number of rounds from a large slice of stale bread. Dip in milk. Fry these in boiling fat from which the blue smoke is rising until of a golden brown. Take out, drain, spread thickly with jam, and serve at once.80 How to Make Bread Golden Custard. Take a sufficient number of slices from a loaf of stale bread, free them from crust, and cut them into long narrow fingers. Fry these, a few at a time, in boiling fat. Take out, drain, arrange neatly in a pie dish. Pour over them just enough golden syrup to cover them. Make a custard thus : whisk up an egg with a spoonful of sugar ; add to it half a pint of nearly boiling skim milk, whisk well, and pour over the pudding. Bake in a moderate oven until set. Then serve at once. Jam or Treacle Tart. Roll out sufficient paste to cover a tartlet tin. Bake in a mode- rately hot oven until just done. Then fill the centre with jam or treacle. Return the tart to the oven, and bake for another six or eight minutes. Serve. Brown Betty. Add half an ounce of stale bread crumbs and the juice of half a lemon to the golden syrup used to fill the tart. Note that lemon juice should always be first carefully strained. Banana Custard. Peel and slice six bananas thinly. Beat up an egg in a deep jug with half a pint of skim milk. Add sifted sugar to taste. Place the jug in a deep saucepan half full of boiling water. Stir the contents of the jug until they thicken and are of the consistency of cream, then pour them over the sliced bananas. Leave till cold, and then serve. This is a nice sweet for Sunday suppers. How to Make Bread. If the housewife is strong enough, or possesses a servant willing to be taught, a very great economy can be effected by making bread at home—a twofold economy, for not only will the bread go further, but it is better for health and digestion. Take a stone of flour and well mix with it two ounces of fine salt free from lumps. Make a deep hole in the middle of the flour. Take four pennyworth of German yeast, put it in a basin, add to it a teaspoonful of sifted sugar, mix well together with a spoon, and add rather better than a pint of tepid water. Mix well, pour the mixture into the hole in the middle of the flour, and add to it a little flour from the sides, just enough to make to a creamy batter. Let the chair on which the mixing bowl is placed stand in a warm corner for from ten to fifteen minutes. Then mix in vigorously the rest of the flour, adding by degrees more tepid water as it is required. Some flour will take up more water than others ; from four to four and a half pints, inclusive of what is used to mix the yeast, is, however, generally sufficient. Enough should be used to mix the flour to a fairly soft paste.How to Knead Continue to knead until the paste ceases to adhere to the sides or the basin and to the hands. If it does not do this after prolonged kneading too much water has been used, and a little more flour should be added with the hands and worked in. How to Knead. The best way to knead the dough is this. Take up a handful simultaneously from either side, bring this to the middle, then knead with the fists doubled, and your whole weight thrown upon them. The kneading must be continued until the entire dough can be taken out in a firm clean lump. When this is done, the basin must be floured, and the dough replaced. Make a couple of deep cuts, length- wise and across the paste. Cover the bowl with a clean blanket and let it stand in a warm corner of the kitchen until it has risen to the top of the bowl, or to twice its usual size ; the time needful for this varies, as in hot w'eather the dough rises far more quickly than in cold. From to hours is an average. In winter I have known the dough left to rise all night. When risen sufficiently, the dough should be placed in greased tins : only cut just sufficient dough to half fill the tins. Leave the tins in a warm, not a hot, place for from twelve to fifteen minutes before placing them in the oven. The Oven. The oven for baking should be hot to commence with, and then the oven damper should be altered, in order that the heat may be diminished, otherwise the loaves will be burnt on the outside and raw in the inside. Allow sixty minutes for all 2 lb. loaves in a moderately hot oven. Thin flat caked-shaped rolls require less time. The best thing to make bread in is one of the deep red earthen- ware bread pans of large size. Wash the hands first in very hot, and then in cold water, when about to make bread. Spice Loaf. This, which is so excellent for children, can be made at the same time as the bread is baked. To 2 lbs. of the dough allow 4 ozs. of clarified dripping, 4 ozs. of currants, 4 ozs. of stoned and chopped raisins, 4 ozs. coarse sugar and r oz. of chopped candied peel ; mix and knead well, and bake for an hour in a moderately hot oven. 8, KCHAPTER XV 82 Savouries, and How to Make Them Savouries — Sardmes on toast— Toast d la Yarmouth—Anchovy croutons—Sardine croutons—Croutes aux crevettes—Herring roes on toast—Hard roes on toast. Savouries. It sometimes happens that the head of the house does not care for sweet things; it is therefore well that the housewife should know how to turn out the daintiest possible savouries at the least possible cost. I append a few examples; others will doubtless suggest themselves as required. Sardines on Toast. Toast and butter a slice of bread. Cut off the crust; cut the bread into finger lengths ; place a sardine on each strip ; dust with salt and pepper ; make hot in the oven, and serve. Toast a la Yarmouth. Make some buttered toast; cut off the crust. Cut the toast into fingers ; spread these with bloater paste ; dust with cayenne ; make hot, and serve. Anchovy Croutons. Stamp some rounds out of a slice of stale bread with a pastry cutter. Fry in boiling fat from which the blue smoke is rising. Take out, drain, spread with anchovy paste ; dust with pepper ; make hot in the oven, and serve. Sardine Croutons are prepared in the same way. Croutes aux Crevettes. Make a pennyworth of picked shrimps hot in a little butter. Fry some rounds of stale bread to a golden hue in boiling fat; take out, drain, put the picked shrimps on top. Squeeze a little lemon juice ; dust with cayenne, and serve.83 Herring Roes on Toast Herring' Roes on Toast. Reserve the soft roes. Cook them on a saucer in the oven, with a morsel of butter. Make some buttered toast. Cut off the crusts. Cut the toast into strips big enough to accommodate a roe each. Place the roes on the toast ; dust with cayenne ; make hot in the oven, and serve. Hard Roes on Toast. Take the hard roe from a cooked bloater. Pound it in a mortar with a morsel of butter, a good dash of cayenne, and a little grated nutmeg till it becomes a paste. Have ready some rounds of stale bread which have been fried to a bright golden hue in boiling fat from which the blue smoke was rising. Spread the mixture on this, make very hot in the oven, and serve.CHAPTER XVI 84 The Husband’s Lunch A decided economy—A handy case—Daily provision. A Decided Economy. A very great saving, not only in pocket but in health, can be effected if a good substantial lunch is provided for the husband to take to town with him ; for with the small sum which is all that can be afforded for fares and pocket-money at his disposal, a hot lunch costing, say, a shilling every day, is almost an impossibility. If, however, a good hot substantial breakfast is provided, and a dainty yet substantial lunch put up, the average man, with the aid of tea and a scone or tea- cake at five o’clock, should be able to wait till dinner. A Handy Luncheon Case. It is a good plan to have a special little case made with a handle for carrying. Any stationer or saddler will make one of these for a trifling sum, and the lunch can then be packed away securely. Here are some menus suitable for this special purpose. Daily Provision. Monday—Cornish pasty. This can be made on Sunday when dinner is being cooked. Slices of underdone beef or mutton seasoned, hard-boiled egg, sliced cooked potato enclosed in dripping or good short crust. Apricot jam and cream sandwiches. Flask of whisky and water. Tuesday—Small mayonnaise of fish put into hollowed breakfast rolls. Apple turnover for sweet. Claret and seltzer in flask. Wednesday—Stuffed eggs. Hard-boiled eggs, halved, the yolks taken out and pounded with a bit of butter and a little anchovy or bloater paste, and put back. Buttered roll stuffed with water-cress. Jam puff for sweet. Whisky and soda in flask. Thursday—Home-made pork pie. Halved oranges filled with orange jelly. Claret and water in flask. Friday—Small fish salad, sardines, water-cress, hard-boiled eggs, put into hollowed rolls. Substantial jam turnover. Whisky and water in flask.Daily Provision * A man who fares daily like this, and has a good hot dinner every night, will not have much to complain of. Note.—These lunches are by far the cheapest substantial meal it is possible to provide at a small cost. A penny bottle of ginger beer could, if wished, be substituted for the claret or whisky indi- cated, and the cause of economy still further served. «5'PART II HOW TO FURNISH THE HOMECHAPTER I 89 Furniture for a Six-Roomed Flat Decorating and furnishing—Some colour sche7nes—Paint and wall paper—Floor covering—Carpets— The dining-room—The draw- ing-room. Decorating and Furnishing. When the means are very limited, furnishing and the choosing of furniture is apt to be a difficult and wearisome task. In the hope, then, that they will be of practical use, I have compiled the following schemes for furnishing respectively a six-roomed flat and an eight- roomed house, at prices which are the very lowest possible consistent with durability and fair quality. Some Colour Schemes. If you can possibly persuade your landlord to give it, have ivory paint throughout the house. Nothing looks so nice, nor does it require more washing than that which is darker in tone, if both are kept in clean condition. Ivory paint, too, is wonderfully cheerful in appearance, and tends to make a small room appear larger. Here are some useful colour schemes. Paint and Wall-Paper. For the drawing-room choose ivory paint ; sunset-yellow paper, plain, or empire striped, with a frieze of tulips and green leaves, or daffodils and green leaves of conventional design. For the dining-room, ivory paint, rose red paper, either floral or empire striped. For the best bedroom, ivory paint, sea-green paper, or if the room has a cold north aspect, a sunshiny yellow paper. For the spare room, ivory paint, almond blossom paper on a pale blue ground. For the servant’s room, deep cream paint, and a cheerful yellow or a pink paper. For the kitchen and bath-room, deep cream paint, and blue tiled sanitary washing paper. For the hall, ivory paint, and rose red plain paper.90 Carpets Floor Covering1. Cover the whole of the flat right through with cork carpet; it is easily kept clean, wears wonderfully, and lies well under another carpet when this is desired. Moreover, it will not be necessary to have carpets in any of the bedrooms with it. A rug by each bed will be all that is required. The price of a first-rate quality is two shillings per square yard, or in squares as follows :— To cover a floor space of 3 yds. by 2 yds. . „ „ 3 yds. by 3 yds. . „ „ 3^ yds. by 3 yds. „ „ 4 yds. by 3 yds. . „ „ 4? yds. by 3 yds. „ „ 4 yds. by 3^ yds. £° 11 9 0180 1 1 o I 4 o I 7 o 1 8 o ^699 So that for the sum of about £y the whole flat could be covered. The colour I recommend is a dull sage green, as it accords with everything, and wears admirably. Carpets. Choose for the dining-room a Romanhurst carpet in two shades of dull sage green and art blue, size 10 ft. 6 in. by 9 ft.; it costs £1, 16s. 9d. For the drawing-room also I advise a Romanhurst; a dull and a lighter shade of art blue will harmonise with the walls. In bedrooms carpets are unnecessary. A rug beside each bed, and, if liked, a rug in front of the fireplace, will be all that is necessary. A Deccan rug, size 6 ft. 6 in. by 4 ft., costs but 6s. 9d., or a Kurd rug 7s. 6d.; either are equally suitable. A good warm rug can be had, price 2s. nd. or 3s. 1 id., which will serve for the servant’s bedside. A long narrow Kurd rug will be best for the hall, or if it is square, a broad carpet-like rug ; either will cost ys. 6d. Outside the various doors and in the lavatory and bath-room place the useful little “ Tan- giers mats,” which can be had in a variety of colours, price is. nd. each ; us. 6d. the set of half-a-dozen. Thus the total cost for floor covering, if we include a rug for kitchen use after cooking operations are over for the day, will be just about ,£10, 10s. The Dining’-room. An antique suite of six rush-seated chairs, high- backed, in fumed oak, two arm-chairs to match, and a quaint settee . . . . £y o o An overmantel to match . . . . . 1150 A dinner wagon to match 25091 The Drawing-Room A good strong dining-table, 3 ft. 6 in. by 5 ft. long, £1 with an extending screw .... 9 b Plushette for curtains for two windows (this saves expense of washing) 0 10 0 Pair of blue and white Jap vases for mantelpiece 0 4 0 8-day clock, fumed oak, to match the suite 1 1 0 Tablecloth tapestry 0 8 11 Set of 4 photogravures, framed complete . 0 10 0 Block iron fender, dogs and irons complete 0 14 9 Gipsy coal cauldron 0 3 11 Total 2 1 The room will thus be in excellent taste, though absolutely simple. If a sideboard is preferred in place of the dinner wagon, another ^5 must be put on to the cost. Beware of cheap and useless ornaments; “ few and as choice as means will permit ” should be your motto. A big copper or brass bowl to serve for flowers will improve the wagon, and is appropriate. The Drawing-room. A dainty little drawing-room suite, covered in tapestry of two shades of art blue, with touches of dull orange. This suite, which consists of a settee, two arm-chairs, and four small chairs, will cost ,£3, 15s. It is polished a good rich mahogany colour, and the tapestry is also good, and will wear well, despite the extraordinarily low price. A better suite, though scarcely prettier, can be had for ^5, and a really exquisite one of first-class quality for ^8. A thoroughly comfortable sofa is a necessity in every house. I specially recommend for the drawing-room “ The Walmer,” which is soft and luxurious, and of artistic shape, while the price, £3, 7s. 6d., is exceedingly moderate. An extra arm-chair to match costs £1, 15s. Both are upholstered in rich-hued tapestry, and finished with large oxidised nails, and would harmonise with either of the suites before mentioned. An overmantel could be dispensed with, and its place taken by a photogravure or a quaint hanging cabinet ; but if my readers think differently, a pretty mirror in a solid carved mahogany frame may be had for £z, 18s. 6d., or a stained and polished mahogany overmantel may be had for as little as £1, 9s. 6d. A writing-table of some sort is needed, and a pretty one to go with the suite can be had for £z, 7s. 6d. If there is a piano a music seat will be required, and one of these upholstered to match the suite costs 13s. 6d. For a tea-table I should recommend “The Sutherland,” with folding flaps, price 17s. 6d. An occasional table to match may be had for 15s. 6d. A pretty screen to accord with the suite will cost 15s. 6d., and as some flats are very draughty, this is a wise investment. For the sum of one guinea a charming set of six or eight photo- gravures can be had, framed complete, and suitable for a drawing-92 Study Simplicity room. A standard floor lamp, if required, rising seven feet high, with shade complete, in beaten iron and copper, will cost 18s. 9d. A brass folding fire-guard costs 4s. 6d. A gipsy cauldron in black iron, of medium size, will cost 3s. 6d.; and a brass kerb, or a fender with fireirons complete, all brass or black and brass, costs from 10s. 6d. to ^1, is.; while a hearthrug to match the carpet, or in white hair, may be had for 7s. 6d. A pretty clock in dark blue, with ormolu mounts, can be had for 10s. 6d., and a pair of polished brass candlesticks, suitable either for mantelpiece or writing-table, for 2s. 6d. A pair of quaint green Belgian pottery vases may be had for 3s., and a brass or copper bowl for flowers for 2s. 6d. Long plain window curtains, made well to clear the ground, of orange Roman satin or of linen plush, are excellent, as these wear practically for ever, and save their cost over and over again. Roman satin can be washed at home when occasion arises, and if carefully ironed will look equal to new. The linen plush would have to be sent occasionally to the cleaners. Roman satin of excellent quality can be bought for 2s. 1 id. a yard. Linen plush costs the same, and both run fifty inches wide. If there are two windows, and allowing ten yards of material, two and a half to each curtain, the curtains will cost exactly £1, 9s. 2d. It is probable that much less will be needed, as, should the win- dows be of the casement shape, as is usual in flats, the curtains should only reach just to the lower edge of the inside sill. In the case of French windows, however, long curtains are a necessity. The curtains should be simply hemmed top and bottom, and edged with a flat braid or gimp in two shades of sunset yellow and orange ; this applies to either the linen plush or the Roman satin. Unless the windows are of abnormal size, one breadth of the material will be ample, and will allow for all necessary fulness. Allowing 5s. for braid, &c., the full cost of the curtains (two pairs) will be exactly £1, 14s. 2d. A pair of cornice poles, with rings complete, may be had for 2s. i id. each, in white or ivory enamel. It is unnecessary to go to the expense of brass rods, as they are really scarcely seen. The drawing-room may now be said to be complete, at a total cost of about £22, 10s. Study Simplicity. I have allowed nothing for cushions or nicknacks, since most people receive these among their wedding presents. If cushions are required, they may be had in velvet or silk for 3s. 1 id., and of smaller size for 2s. 1 id. Do not overload your drawing-room|either with furni- ture or bric-a-brac; an over-furnished house is like an over-dressed woman, never in good taste.CHAPTER II 93 The Bedrooms The best bedroom—The spare bedroom—The set vants' room. Flats, whether in London, in the suburbs, or in the provinces, should have bedrooms as bright and pretty as is possible. And for this purpose there is nothing equal to white enamelled furniture. The Best Bedroom. For this, with its ivory paint and sea-green walls, I suggest the suite known as the “ Louise,” which costs but eight guineas, and is marvellous value for the money. It consists of a wardrobe with plate-glass door and millinery drawer ; a chest of drawers and dress- ing-table combined, with plate-glass mirror and jewel drawers ; and a marble-topped washstand, with tiled back. Select pale pink tiles if the walls are green, or, with yellow walls, deep orange or sea-green tiles. There are also included towel-rail and toilet cupboard, and two cane- seated chairs. A single bedstead may be had to match, in white enamelled wood, 3 ft wide by 6 ft. 6 in. long, for £2, 19s. 6d., or twin bedsteads for £$, 18s. If the idea of a wooden bedstead is disliked, a double black and brass bedstead, 4 ft. 6 in. by 6 ft. 6 in., may be had complete, with woven steel mattress, wool mattress, bolster and feather pillows, for £2, 15s. This could be enamelled white, to match the suite, for a very small extra charge. Cupboard space in a flat is always more or less precious and scarce, and therefore, if possible, room should be found at the foot of the bed for a box ottoman. One of these, with a spring seat and pillow head, covered in a dainty cream cretonne, with a chintz pattern of pink roses and leaves, may be had for £it is., and will be found invalu- able for storing dresses, or extra linen or blankets, &c., &c. Fender and fireirons cost 3s. 9d. ; a drum timepiece for the mantel-shelf, 2s. I id. and a pair of brass candlesticks, 2s. 6d. ; a little occasional table, always a useful thing in a bedroom, 2s. nd. ; a thoroughly artistic set of toilet ware, in ivory and gold, double set, 10s., and ivory toilet pail to match, 3s. nd. ; and a soiled linen basket, 3s. When supplied with the necessary curtains, bed-linen, &c., the best bed- room may now be said to be complete. For the curtains, I advise art linen or cotton, in a dull shade of rose, or orange yellow, according to whether the paper chosen is sea94 The Spare Bedroom green or sunset-yellow. This costs 6|d. per yard, and is 36 inches wide. The curtains should be made to hang perfectly plain from the cornice poles, and should reach just to the lower edge of the inside sill. Plain butter muslin, at 2|d. the yard, will be the best for the short muslin blinds. Allowing two yards to each long curtain, and two pairs, one to wash and one to wear, to each window, eight yards should make the curtains, at a cost of some 4s. 6d., while a shilling will be ample to allow for butter muslin for two sets of short blinds. The best bed- room, therefore, need only come to a total cost of £20. The Spare Bedroom. For the spare bedroom I advise the “ Howth suite.” This may be had enamelled and decorated in a variety of shades. I should choose a pale pink suite, just the colour of the pink almond blossoms in the wall-paper. The “ Howth ” is excellent value, since it consists of a 3-feet 6-inch wardrobe, chest of drawers and dressing-table combined, toilet-glass, towel-rail, chair, and a marble-topped wa^hstand with pale-blue tiled back. The price of this suite complete is only £$, 10s. If a slightly better suite is required, “ The Dalkey ” can be had, in white enamel— wardrobe with plate-glass door; marble-topped and tiled-back wash- stand, towel-rail, two chairs, and chest of drawers and dressing-table combined, for £5, 18s. s. d. A fender will cost 19 Fireirons in polished steel 20 Soiled linen basket 20 Drum clock . . . . . . . . 2 11 A pair of china candlesticks ..... 16 A set of ivory and gold toilet ware . . . . 4 11 A single bedstead complete with wire mattress, wool mattress, bolster and feather pillow, in black iron and brass, may be had for ^1, 17s. 6d. This could be enamelled white to match the rest of the furniture for a small extra sum. Four and sixpence must be allowed for the long curtains, which should be of the same make and material as those for the best bed- room. Choose old rose or a dull pink. The short curtains can be of butter muslin. A comfortable arm-chair in rush and wicker-work will cost 6s. 9d., and is wanted, as there is no couch. The total cost of furnishing the spare room well and comfortably is thus about £9. The Servant’s Room. This should be made as comfortable as possible, for the lot of a maid of all work is at the best but a hard one, and a servant’s room should be as pretty and bright in its way as her mistress’s. “If a95 The Servant’s Room servant is well-housed and well-fed, she will work all the better for it,” is an axiom the young housewife just about to start would do well to bear in mind, and if she acts up to it she will find herself well repaid. For the servant’s room, then, we will choose the following articles. The “ Country Cottage suite,” which consists of a chest of drawers with a good-sized toilet glass attached, washstand with a large drawer, cane-seated chair, and a towel horse. In stained imitation pine this suite costs 39s. 6d. ; and a strong 2 ft. 6 in. by 6 ft. 6 in. iron bedstead, with double woven steel mattress, flock mattress, bolster and feather pillow complete, will cost 25s. A soiled linen basket, 2s. ; a set of toilet ware, five pieces, 3s. 9d. ; a pair of china candlesticks, is. A drum alarm clock (an actual necessity this), 3s. 6d. A pair of art cotton curtains, in either dull rose-pink or deep orange-brown, according to whether the paper chosen is a pink or yellow, at say 2S. 6d. Thus the servant’s room will be complete and pretty at a cost of about If this room contains no cupboard of any kind, it will be necessary to provide one. The best and cheapest thing I know of is the “Cornice” wardrobe, which is made to fit into a corner of the room, enamelled ivory, or any colour liked, fitted with proper coat- hooks, &c., &c., and a cretonne curtain complete, and which only costs 18s. 6d. These wardrobes are most useful in any room, as they take up very little space and are so inexpensive.CHAPTER III 96 The Bath-Room, Kitchen, and Hall The bath-room— The kitchen—Kitchen utensils— The hall. The Bath-Room. This will require but little in the way of furniture. A good-sized towel horse, 4s. 6d. ; a hanging glass, 2s. ; a chair, 2s. 6d.; and a cork bath mat, 4s. 6d., are all that is required. The Kitchen. “ A comfortable kitchen makes a comfortable house,” is another maxim the housekeeper would do well to remember, and also that over-cheap kitchen utensils are by far the dearest in the long run ; and although it may perhaps seem an unduly large sum compared with what we propose to spend on the other rooms, to furnish a kitchen well and thoroughly with every requisite for cooking and cleanliness generally, not less than eleven guineas will suffice, as the following estimate will prove. Kitchen Utensils. The firm I have in my mind all along make a speciality of the eleven-guinea kitchen, and will forward it in its entirety carefully packed, and with free delivery to any part of London or the suburbs, while a special price will be quoted for delivering it packed in cases at any railway station in the United Kingdom. Here is the list:— Strong deal table • £0 15 6 2 Windsor chairs. 0 6 0 Rotary knife machine . 1 1 0 Model mincing machine 0 7 6 Pair of steps (6 tread) 0 4 11 8-day clock .... 0 8 9 1 Salter’s family balance 0 6 8 1 Copper kettle . 0 6 11 Meat safe .... 0 7 3 Brass hot-water jug 0 5 3 Japanned can 0 3 11 Fish kettle .... 0 3 11 Teakettle .... 0 4 0G 97 Kitchen Utensils Sugar canister Knife tray .... Egg whisk .... Pestle and mortar Fish-slice .... Salt-box .... Spice-box .... Meat chopper Meat saw .... Coal-scuttle and shovel Cellar shovel Coal hammer 3 Flat irons .... Tea tray .... Toasting-fork Paste j agger Pepper-box .... Slop pail .... 4 Iron saucepans i Soup digester . Cake tin i Dozen patty tins 1 Tart tin . Colander .... 2 Tin moulds (is. 3d., is. 9d.) Bread grater Flour dredger Basting ladle Gravy strainer 1 Block tin coffee-pot . 1 Block tin teapot 1 Oval frying-pan 1 Fluted bar gridiron . 2 Knives and forks 1 Pasteboard and pin . 1 Mustard pot Salt cellar .... 2 Iron spoons 2 Teaspoons 1 Set skewers 1 Candlestick 1 Corkscrew Fruit and vegetable squeezer Housemaid’s box Dustpan .... Banister brush Hair broom. Carpet broom 2 Scrubbing brushes . 1 Set shoe brushes 1 Plate brush 2 Plate leathers . £° 2 0 0 I 0 0 O io£ 0 2 4 0 O 0 I 3 0 I 9 0 I 9 0 I 9 0 3 11 0 1 11 0 0 9i 0 2 6 0 1 9 0 0 6 0 0 10$ 0 0 6 0 1 3 0 6 2 0 4 9 0 0 7i 0 0 5 0 0 Si 0 1 4 0 3 0 0 0 9 0 0 8 0 1 0 0 1 0 0 2 0 0 2 0 0 1 3 0 1 9 0 1 4i 0 2 6 0 0 6 0 0 3 0 0 6 0 0 10 0 1 0 0 0 6A 0 0 6“ 0 1 3 0 2 6 0 0 10 0 1 6 0 2 6 0 2 11 0 1 3i 0 3 0 0 1 9 0 1 698 The Hall 2 Window leathers Set stove brushes • £0 . 0 1 Sweep’s brush for stove . . ! . . 0 J O Teacups and saucers . 0 O Slop basin . 0 O 1 Bread and butter plate .... . 0 O 3 Dinner plates 0 O 3 Pie plates 0 O 1 Vegetable dish 0 I 3 Dishes (5d., 7d., iod.) 0 I 3 Tumblers 0 O 4 Pudding bowls (3d., 4d., 6d., 8d.) . 0 I 3 Pie dishes (6d., 7d., 8d.) .... 0 I 1 Hot-water jug 0 I 2 Washing-up pans 0 2 1 Slop pail, earthenware wicker handle 0 3 Set of 3 jugs 0 1 1 Pan and cover 0 1 4 Brown jars (4d., 5d., 7d., iod.) 0 2 Kitchen fender 0 4 Set of kitchen fireirons .... 0 3 Baking tin with grid 0 3 Comfortable folding arm-chair and glass . 0 9 Total io 9 There now remains but the hall or passage to be considered, and then the furnishing of our flat will be complete, with the exception of plate and linen, &c. The Hall. As this is already covered with cork carpet, and adorned by a good Deccan or Kurd rug, it will require very little in the way of furniture. The halls or passages of most flats at a really moderate rental are so small that any large furniture is to be avoided. The very best thing I know of, where space is precious and cupboards are few, is the hall fitment kept by the firm I have alluded to. This in fumed oak has cupboards fitted with oxidised copper pegs for hats and coats, divisions for umbrellas or sticks, a drawer for gloves, and at either side a recess for hanging coats ; it is delightfully quaint and artistic with its hammered copper panel, and cannot be called anything but cheap at £5, 15s. Should this, however, be beyond the mark, I should advise the following articles:—Fumed oak hall seat, 17s. 6d.; fumed oak umbrella and stick stand combined, 15s. 9d. ; a fumed oak oblong table to stand against the wall and serve for letter and card trays, 15s. 9d.; and then, as a place must be found for coats, &c., a cornice wardrobe should be fitted up. The curtain to this should be of deep sage green art linen in place of cretonne, but the price will be the same, 18s. 6d. Allowing for four photogravures the sum of 10s., and the sum of is. 6d. for a card and letter tray, the hall will be complete at a total cost of about ,£3, 3s.CHAPTER IV 99 Linen, Plate, China, and Glass The linen cupboard—List of linen—House li?ien—Reserve list—Plate and cutlery—The china closet—The glass cupboard. The Linen Cupboard. This should stand in the bath-room, or, better still, in a warm corner of the kitchen, or the corridor leading to the kitchen. A cheap and serviceable linen press is the “-Bamboo Linen Cupboard,” which is to be had from the same firm for the modest sum of fi, 5s. 6d. The following is the very lowest amount of linen with which it is possible to run comfortably such a flat as has been described. The prices quoted are the lowest compatible with good quality; and it should not be forgotten that cheap thin makes of calico wear out very quickly, and would have to be replaced long before better makes show signs of wear. List of Linen. For Best Bedroom. 1 Pair real Witney blankets .... £° 15 9 Under blanket 0 3 9 Art coloured quilt ...... 0 5 11 2 Pairs of twill sheets 0 3 6 2 Pairs of pillow-cases. ..... 0 2 6 Material for toilet covers to match curtains 0 2 6 For Spare Room. Pair of real Witney blankets for single bed 0 8 9 One under blanket 0 2 9 Art quilt 0 4 0 2 Pairs cotton sheets 0 10 0 1 Pair pillow-cases 0 I 0 Material for 2 toilet covers to match curtains 0 1 6 Servant’s Room. 1 Pair of blankets 0 8 0 Under blanket 0 2 j q Coloured quilt 0 2 V 6 2 Pairs of sheets 0 7 6 1 Pair of pillow-cases ...... 0 1 0 2 Toilet covers ....... 0 1 3100 List of Linen House Linen. 2 Best damask table-cloths, 2\ yds. by 2 yds., to be kept in reserve . £0 12 0 4 Linen damask table-cloths, 2 yds. by 2 yds. o 15 0 2 Kitchen table-cloths. 0 3 O 6 Fine huckaback towels 0 3 O 6 Stout towels O 1 O 3 Bath towels 0 1 Q 3 Servant’s towels 0 1 9 2 Round towels . 0 2 0 6 Kitchen cloths . 0 2 0 6 Tea cloths 0 2 0 6 Glass cloths 0 2 0 6 Checked dusters 0 1 0 6 Flannel dusters .... 0 1 0 Reserve List. Pair of blankets for best room o 15 9 Under blanket 0 3 9 Art quilt 0 5 11 Pair of blankets for spare room . 0 8 9 Under blanket .... 0 2 9 Art quilt 0 4 0 Pair of blankets for servant’s room 0 8 9 Coloured quilt 0 2 9 2 Bath sheets, 2s. each 0 4 0 6 Dusters ...... 0 1 0 3 Sideboard cloths at is. 6d. each 0 4 6 3 Afternoon tea cloths at 2s. each 0 6 0 6 Pillow-slips at is. each 0 6 0 3 Tray cloths at is. each 0 3 0 6 Washing-up cloths, 2d. each . 0 1 0 Total ,£10 13 1 This leaves a trifle in hand for the purchase of extra towels, of which the same firm stock a specially strong and good quality at 4s. 1 id. the half-dozen. Plate and Cutlery. I cannot do better than recommend the following set, which costs exactly £$, including a handsome polished oak canteen. 6 Table knives 6 Cheese knives ... 1 Pair meat carvers 1 Pair poultry carvers 1 Steel . 4 Table spoons, double-plated 6 Table forks101 Plate and Cutlery 6 Dessert forks 6 Dessert spoons 6 Tea spoons 6 Egg spoons (gilt bowls) 2 Salt spoons 2 Mustard spoons i Pair sugar tongs i Butter knife i Small pair of sugar tongs Total ^5 o o The following additional articles will enable the best silver to be kept for state occasions, and thus save a great deal of unnecessary work for the single-handed maid. A toby tea-set, consisting of silver mounted tea- pot, sugar basin, and milk jug, in Doulton ware ........ £° 8 11 Hot water-jug to match 0 8 9 Coffee-pot to match 0 8 9 Toby breakfast cruet with silver mounts 0 4 11 Toast rack, silver-plated ..... 0 4 11 Pair of silver-plated knife rests .... 0 2 11 Toby ware biscuit box, silver rim 0 8 11 Toby ware butter dish, silver rim 0 2 11 Toby ware sugar basin and sifter Silver-rimmed toby ware salad bowl with electro 0 8 11 servers 0 10 6 Pair of plated nut-crackers 0 1 11 Pair of electro-plated fish carvers 0 10 6 Wooden bread platter and knife . 0 3 6 6 Pairs of fish knives and forks in case 1 1 0 6 Pairs of fruit knives and forks in case 1 1 0 Soup ladle •» • 0 4 6 2 Sauce ladles 0 4 6 A fancy jug for claret 0 4 11 Total 17 2 3 Total cost for plate and cutlery, then, would be just £12, 2s. 3d. Many people receive most of these articles as wedding presents, but for those who may not have been so fortunate, the foregoing list will be useful. The toby ware with silver mounts is particularly cheap, and practically everlasting, and as the rims only are silver, it is very labour saving. The China Closet. For the dinner-set, and for all except the very best tea-set, I should advise pure white; for white china is more easily matched than any other, and even if not matched exactly, odd pieces are not conspicuous.The Glass Cupboard 102 The dinner-set of fifty pieces costs but 14s. 1 id. in white semi- porcelain. A charming tea-set in white fluted china, with or without gold edges, costs for forty pieces only 12s. 6d. A breakfast-set to match consists of twenty-three pieces, costs 12s. ; hot-water jugs are 2s. 9d. each. For those who do not like white china, a willow pattern set at 12s. 6d. for tea, and 19s. for breakfast-set, can also be easily matched, and is always in good taste ; while a charming best set in the finest china is to be had pure white china for 21s. the set of forty pieces, or a floral set for 18s. 6d. If something still cheaper is desired, there are pretty sets— s. d. Breakfast-set for six people 89 Tea-set, forty pieces, for 7 11 The cheapest and best dessert sets cost 10s. 6d. or 12s. 6d,, and 14s. 6d., and consist of eighteen pieces. A soup pan in white stoneware may be had for 2s. 6d. ; a bread pan for is. 6d. ; and a cheese pan for gd. All these are necessities, and so too is a fireproof china milk boiler, 2s. 3d. A set of fancy china bowls will cost the set of three, 4s. ; a set of three meat dishes, 2s. 6d. Half-a-dozen plates for stocking things in the larder, is. ; and a china omelette pan, price is., will be found almost a necessity. Egg cups, &c., and all necessary plates are included in the various sets, and all plates, &c., for the servant’s use will be found under the head- ing of the kitchen estimate. So that for the sum of ^4, 13s. 2d. the china closet may be said to be complete. The Glass Cupboard. For this, seeing that space is almost sure to be limited, and that but a very small sum indeed is likely to be available to replace break- ages, I do not advise either a very thin or a very fine glass; and as wine under the circumstances is sure not to be in everyday use, and there cannot be much entertaining, half-a-dozen of each sort of glass will be ample, except tumblers, of which there should be at least a dozen. 1 Dozen tumblers i Dozen best tumblers \ Dozen sherry glasses ..... ^ Dozen port glasses I Dozen claret glasses | Dozen champagne glasses . Claret jug Pair of quart decanters . . . . (Dozen jelly glasses Dozen custard glasses Dozen finger bowls A liqueur set, glasses, bottles, and tray complete ^020 020 020 020 023 036 046 060 0 3 3 033 046 o 6 11 Total £222The Glass Cupboard It may perhaps be urged that champagne glasses and finger bowls are not necessities, but champagne is sometimes received as a present, and finger bowls are as much a necessity as knives and forks, for even means so limited as those we have under contemplation are no excuse for slovenly habits. Thus the entire cost of the house complete in every detail is a trifle under ^120 ; the actual sum for furniture being just under ,£90. For those who cannot afford so large a sum as this at once, the firm I speak of will supply the flat exactly as quoted here, making an extra charge of 5 per cent, for hire purchase.CHAPTER V 104 Furniture for a Small Country House Some advantages—Wall-papers and paint—Carpets—The dining- room— The drawing-room. Some Advantages. Greater simplicity is possible in the country than in town. Things keep fresh longer, and do not require so many periodical visits to laundress or cleaner; carpets can be beaten at home in the garden; callers will be fewer ; and in a variety of ways it is possible to effect small savings. In the preceding chapter I have tried to show you how a flat may be furnished at the lowest possible cost; now let us see what can be done with a country cottage, or a suburban villa, assuming that not quite so much money is available. Here again a light paint is best—deep ivory or cream if it can be had, as it is so cheerful. We will assume that the house contains drawing-room, dining-room, four bedrooms, and servant’s room, kitchen, scullery, hall, or passage, and a staircase. Wall-Papers and Paint. If the paint is ivory throughout, a floral paper will suit the draw- ing-room, a chintz design on a cream ground. For the dining-room, a bright moss-green paper; for hall or pas- sage, a green paper to match. Best bedroom, rose red paper; second bedroom, sunset yellow paper ; third bedroom, sea green paper; fourth bedroom, turquoise blue paper. Servant’s room, a cheerful yellow or red paper. The cold papers, i.e. the pale greens and blue, should be used in rooms with a south or west aspect; the sunset yellow and the rose red papers in a north or an east room. Carpets. All the floors should be painted or stained to a depth of two or three feet as a surround. In the dining-room a Kensington carpet, price £i, 7s., in two shades of green with touches of bronze, will be pretty. A drawing-room carpet in two shades of rose red will harmoniseThe Dining-Room 105 with the chintz-patterned walls. A Romanhurst carpet, price £2, 2s., size 12 ft. by 9 ft., will be ample for this, unless the rooms are extra large. Best bedroom : a rose red carpet will be best here also, as the room should be kept to red and white. A Kensington square 9 ft. by 7 ft., ,£1, 2s. 6d., should be large enough, as the surround can be deepened to meet it. The second bedroom, sunset yellow paper, should have another Kensington square at the same price, in two shades of art blue with touches of sage green. For the third bedroom, with its sea green paper, an Abingdon square, price 15s., either rose du barri in hue, or, if it is desired to keep the room wholly green, in two shades of dull sage green. For the fourth room, probably a very small one, an Abingdon square in two shades of dull green and blue, price 12s. 6d., will suffice. For the servant’s room a rug at 2s. 6d. and stained boards must do, and the sum of £2, 10s. must be allowed for stair and landing carpets. Allowing for mats, one for each of the principal doors, 6s.; and for stair-rods, four dozen at 2s. iod. a dozen ; and four dozen eyes at 5d. per dozen, 12s. 8d. ; 6s. 9d. for a Deccan or Kurd rug for the hall (the boards here should first be stained), the total for the carpets will come to just £10, 7s. 2d. The Dining*-Room. Sussex suite in stained green wood, rush seated ; six small chairs, two arm-chairs, one high- backed settee, cost • • £* 0 0 Dining-table, screw top . . 1 9 6 6 framed photogravures 0 IS 0 Dinner wagon, fumed oak . . . 2 5 0 Black iron fender, &c., complete 0 14 6 Clock 10 6 Pair Jap vases 0 3 6 Coal scuttle, cauldron shape 0 2 6 Brass bowl, for flowers 0 2 6 Hanging lamp in copper and iron 0 10 6 Total for dining-room . • £'o 13 6 The Drawing'-Room. Drawing-room suite consisting of settee, four small chairs, two arm-chairs, stained ma- hogany covered in art tapestry, price . . ^3 15 o Chesterfield settee to match (use this as a box seat) 3 10 o Music seat to match o 10 6 Tea-table to match o 15 6 Pair of basket-work arm-chairs covered cretonne to match the wall-paper in design 0176The Drawing-Room 106 Jap screen £o 7 6 Sutherland table o 15 0 Fender and irons complete .... o 15 6 Coal cauldron, black iron ..... o 3 6 Set of 8 photogravures o 18 0 Clock ormolu mounts o 10 6 Vases, green pottery o 3 0 Material for four pairs curtains in art cotton, 20 yards at 6£d. per yard . o 11 3 Floor lamp, black iron and copper, with shade complete o 15 6 Hearthrug ........ o 4 11 Writing-table I 15 0 Total 8 2CHAPTER VI 107 Bedrooms in the Country Ihe best bedroom — The second, third, and fourth bedrooms— The servants room. The Best Bedroom. The Louise suite, consisting of wardrobe, plate- glass door ; washstand ; chest of drawers and dressing-table combined; 2 chairs; pedestal cupboard ; towel rail complete .,£880 Linen basket 020 Arm-chairs, wicker-work 046 Double set toilet ware, 10 pieces . . . o 10 6 Fender .019 Set of fireirons 020 4 ft 6 in. bedstead and bedding complete . 2150 Drum clock with alarm 0211 Pair china candlesticks 016 4 Framed pictures 060 Material for 2 pairs long curtains of scarlet art cotton 046 Material for short curtains 010 Small table 026 Total 2 2 The Second Bedroom. Dalkey suite in pale sea green enamel, consisting of wardrobe with plate-glass door ; wash- stand, marble top, tiled back; dressing- table and toilet glass and chest of drawers combined ; 2 chairs and towel rail complete ^518 6 Foldingchair o 2 11 Fender 019 Fireirons 020 Orange brown art cotton for curtains . . . 046 Material for short curtains 010 Fireirons 020 Linen basket 020The Third Bedroom Pair candlesticks. Bedstead and bedding complete. Toilet ware in ivory and pink Folding chairs . £o i i i 5 o o 3 ii o 2 11 Total £% 77 The Third Bedroom. The Howth suite in pale pink enamel, consisting of wardrobe ; chest of drawers and dressing table ; toilet glass ; 2 chairs ; washstand and towel horse ^4 io o Fender 019 Toilet ware . . . . . . . . 0211 Linen basket 020 Small poker 006 Pair candlesticks. o 1 1 Material (turquoise blue or size green art cotton) for long curtains 020 Short curtains 006 Total £$ o 9 If preferred, a pine bedroom suite can be had for five guineas. A Fourth Bedroom, presumably very small. Country Cottage suite, consisting of chest of drawers with toilet glass attached ; towel rail; washstand ; 2 chairs, enamalled dull sea green, as this hue is so pretty seen against the turquoise walls. • £2 5 0 Bedstead and bedding complete . 1 5 0 Linen basket .... 0 1 6 Pair china ..... 0 1 6 Pair vases 0 1 1 Set of 4 photogravures * 0 6 0 Set of toilet ware, 5 pieces . Bedstead and bedding complete . 0 3 11 0 5 0 Total . • • • £*. 9 0 If liked, a pine bedroom suite may be had for £5, 15s. or an suite for the same price. The Servant’s Room. Bedstead and bedding complete. • £i 1 0 Chest of drawers .... 0 17 6 Toilet table 0 3 6 iot>109 The Servant’s Room Washstand • £0 3 6 Towel rail 0 1 8 Toilet glass 0 3 6 Set of white toilet ware 0 2 11 Pair of candlesticks .... . . 0 1 0 Two pictures 0 2 0 Fender 0 1 6 Small poker 0 0 6 Linen bag 0 1 0 Material for curtains (long). 0 1 0 Short curtains ..... 0 0 6 Total • £3 1 1 Should there be no cupboard, as the maid must have somewhere to hang her clothes, a cornice wardrobe, price 18s. 6d., will be the cheapest and best contrivance.CHAPTER VII 110 The Landing, Hall, and Offices Landing windows—The hall or passage—Kitchen—Scullery—Linen- chest and linen—Lamps, stoves, and sundries. Landing- Windows. At least from ios. to £i will be required for material for curtains for these. If the house is draughty, plushette will be best. If a rose red or a sunset yellow paper has been selected for the hall, passages, and staircase, a plushette of deep gobelin blue will be best. If the bright moss green paper is selected, the same colour will do. Sage green or bronze are also pretty, when seen against moss green walls. Plushette runs from is. 6d. to is. nd. a yard, is fifty inches wide, and does not require lining, nor does it hold the dirt in the same way as serge, which is never desirable. Next to plushette, art cotton and linen are the best, as these can be easily laundried at home when required. Plushette curtains only need frequent shaking to keep them quite free from dust. The Hall or Passag-e. If very large and square, have a comfortable table couch and a couple of chairs for this, such as “The Walmer,” price £3, ios.; or a thoroughly comfortable rattan lounge may be had for 3s-> and when nicely fitted with cushions it looks very well. Two large-sized basket-work arm-chairs comfortably padded will cost 8s. 9d. each. An oak umbrella and stick stand is 15s. 9d., and an oak table to match, 15s. 9d. An oak seat, also to match, may be had for 17s. 6d. If the hall is long and narrow, and more of a passage, the couch and arm-chair should give place to two rush-seated high-backed oak chairs, price ios. 6d. each. Thus the total for the hall will be about £6, 6s. If an ordinary sofa-lounge is required, the cheapest and best is the “ inexpensive,” spring-stuffed, and covered in blue and green tapestry, which costs £2. Arm-chairs to match it are about £1 each. A card-tray and a brass or copper bowl for flowers should be pro- vided for the hall table, and from ios. to £1 should be allowed for pictures. If there is a bath-room, the estimate given for the flat will serve for this, as bath-rooms differ but little in town and country.111 Lamps, Stoves, and Sundries Kitchen. The eleven-guinea estimate for a flat gives a list of every requisite for this. Scullery. Nothing extra is required for this. Provide a wooden or cork mat for the maid to stand on when washing-up. Linen Chest and Linen. The estimate given for the flat will serve for this, as the only extra required will be the sheets, blankets, toilet covers, and towels for the additional rooms, which will add roughly £2, 14s. for each room to the list already given. The estimates for the china cupboard and the plate and cutlery estimates will also serve for a house. Lamps, Stoves, and Sundries. The very best lamps for a country house, villa, or cottage are the “ Coloured Hall Lanterns,” which, in amber or green, cost 6s. 6d. For a passage, or bath-room, or lavatory, or a nursery, place high up, out of the reach of the little ones, “The Bronzed Iron Lamp Bracket,” to swing, with 40 candle-power brass burner, globe and shade complete, 6s. 6d. For a dining-room, “The Bronzed Suspension Lamp,” with duplex burner, rose shade, and eye-screen, 18s. 6d. For a drawing-room table lamp, the “ Wrought-iron and Copper Model,” with duplex burner, &c., complete, 10s. 6d. For a bedroom bracket lamp, the “ Bronzed Iron,” at 6s. 6d. ; and for a kitchen and scullery, the tin or iron bracket lamp, at from 3s. 6d. to 5s. 6d. Cheaper lamps than these can of course be had, but an over- cheap lamp is never safe. The cheapest, best, and most artistic candelabra are of wrought- iron ; height, 18 inches, for three candles each ; price 3s. nd. ; while the flower fitments for these, also of wrought-iron, cost 8d. each, and can be fitted to the candelabra instead of candles. The cheapest reliable make of oil stoves, for warming and cooking purposes, costs 4s. nd. and 5s. ud. But they can be had from 2s. 1 id. upwards. A candlestick for carrying purposes should always have a glass shade, and these cost, candlestick and shade combined, is. 9d. A pretty hall gong and stand can be had for 4s. 1 id. Baths. If the house does not possess a bath-room, these will be another necessity. The smallest size of hip-bath costs 9s. 6d., and the smallest-sized sponge bath, 4s. 9d.112 Baths A japanned washstand for lavatory. The smallest size, complete, costs, with basin, soap tray, and can, 7s. 6d. A hot-water can will be needed for each room. The small size costs is. 6d. each ; large size, 2s. ud. A washing-mangling machine will be a necessity if the laundry work is to be done at home. The smallest reliable make costs £2 ; this has 18-inch rollers. For a 24-inch roller machine £2,8s. 6d. is the lowest price, but the gain in size is well worth the extra few shillings, especially if the wash is a large one.CHAPTER VIII 113 H The Nurseries General hints— The day nursery j its furniture— The night nursery— Night and day nursery co?nbined — Nursery crockery ware— Soiled linen. General Hints. Whenever possible there should be a night and a day nursery ; but in small houses, or in the average London flat, this is not always practicable. I therefore give a scheme for a night and day nursery combined as well. The floors of both night and day nurseries should be entirely covered with a cork carpet, in a dull tone of sage green; and no rugs, except perhaps a hearthrug, should be allowed in the rooms, as a crawling rug can always be put down. Cork carpet costs 2s. per square yard, and a square size, 3 yds. by 2 yds., may be had for 11s. 6d. The walls should be papered with a sanitary washing paper. The “ Curly Locks ” design is as pretty and as artistic as any, and it costs but is. 3d. per piece. The curtains should be a dark blue art cotton, with a printer’s design of sage green fleur-de-lys. This material is the very best for keeping out light when the little ones want a nap. The Day Nursery. Choose a room with a bright sunny aspect if possible, and let all the paint be white or ivory. Everything surrounding children should be as bright and cheerful as it can be made, and as light in tone as possible. Its Furniture. A good solid wooden table, standing squarely upon its four legs, should be the principal piece of furniture. This will cost 12s. 6d.,and the top should be covered with white American cloth. A good-sized toy cupboard will be a necessity as the little ones grow out of early babyhood, and this, in strong bamboo, with lock and key, costs £1, 5s. ; a rocking-chair, 4s. 9d.; a high baby-chair, 8s. 6d. ; and an Austrian bentwood chair for each child, price 2s. each, with a child’s arm-chair to match, price 4s. 6d., will be all the furniture necessary, with perhaps a small additional table for needlework,114 The Night Nursery bottles, &c. A hanging bamboo cupboard, price 2S. 9d., will be a con- venience. The less furniture there is in a nursery the better, so that the children may romp in safety. A fire-guard must not be forgotten. It will cost 8s. 6d., or if with a safety towel rail, which is far better, £i. The Nig-ht Nursery. There should be a cot for each child. The very best and cheapest cots are those in stained green wood, with wire mattresses. They cost 19s. 6d. each without bedding, which will vary in price from 8s. 6d. upwards according to size. There must also be a bed for the nursemaid, should one be kept, and a “ Sensible Suite,” which con- sists of a big wardrobe, a chest of drawers, washstand, towel rail, dressing-table, andt oilet glass, and two chairs ; cost complete, £5, 5s. The washstand has not a marble top, hence my reason for recom- mending it. A marble-topped washstand should never be in a room for little children ; it is too dangerous. If the night nursery has one or two good cupboards, the suite could be dispensed with, and the following articles selected :—Large chest of drawers and toilet glass, washstand (double if possible), towel rail, one chair, and one low chair for dressing and bathing baby. The total cost of these in white enamel of good quality will be £^. A hanging medicine cupboard will cost 2s. 1 id. A table for the bedside to hold food warmer, milk bottles, basin, &c., for the baby, 4s. nd.; a fire-guard, 8s. 6d. No other furniture is necessary. Nig-ht and Day Nursery Combined. This is always a difficult room to furnish successfully. The floor should be covered with cork carpet, with one of the folding standard beds, consisting of a wardrobe, boot cupboard, millinery drawer, set of shelves, washstand, and dressing-table, and bed combined. During the day this bed is to all intents and purposes a wardrobe with a plate- glass door. It turns on castors, and the bed with a wire-wove mattress, See., is let down ready made. These beds cost £7, 7s. in the smallest size, and can be had on the hire system paid for at the rate of 5s. a week. A strong deal table with a drawer for knives and forks, table-cloths, &c., will cost 12s. 6d.; a rocking-chair, 4s. 9d.; a high chair for each child, 2s. 9d. ; a good cupboard for toys, in bamboo, ,£1, 5s., and if it is of fair size, the upper shelves should be utilised for the children’s clothes. If the room is of exceptionally large size, a box ottoman, in which all the garments not in season and use could be stored, will be found a great convenience. One of excellent quality can be bought for £1, is. Provide also a medicine cupboard, 2s. nd., with a lock and key, and thermometer to regulate the temperature, is. 6d. ; a firmly fixed fire-guard with towel rail attached, £1, is. ; a crawling rug for the baby, 3s. ; a clock, 2s. 1 id. ; a few bright prints upon the walls, 5s.;Soiled Linen a pair of curtains, 4s., of the dark blue art linen aforesaid ; a cot for each child; and the nursery is complete. The very best cot for use in a combined night and day nursery is the Sanitary cot of green stained wood with a wire-woven mattress. These let down on one side in the daytime, and have the appearance then of little wooden empire couches more than beds; and if a couple of bright twilled cushions are arranged upon each cot, the illusion is complete.' These cots cost 19s. 6d. each, and the bedding is to be had from 8s. 6d. upwards. When there is room for it, a comfortable basket arm-chair, solidly built, is a comfort at times to the tired nurse or mother. These can be had from 8s. 6d. upwards. In a room of this kind everything superfluous should be avoided, so that the air may circulate as freely as possible; and the windows, except in the case of fog or excessive rain or snow, should be wide open all day, and at least six inches all night long. A stuffy close nursery and healthy children are not easily com- bined. Nursery Crockery Ware. This should be of the simplest and strongest sort; and if the baby is being brought up on the bottle, and a methylated spirit lamp is used to heat the food, this should be kept and lighted on a high shelf specially put up for the purpose, and well out of the reach of the other children. Soiled Linen. This should never be kept in a room where children eat and sleep, so that no linen basket is included in the nursery furniture. If the window opens so that the little ones can get at it and lean out, it should be well and strongly barred. If a lamp is used at all it should be a swinging bracket, high up, and well out of the reach of little fingers eager for mischief. Gas should never be burnt in a night nursery. The very best and safest things to use are the “ reflector reading candle lamps,” and though these cost 7s. 6d. each, the first expense is the greatest, as they are cleanly, practically safe, and, being of nickel silver, unbreakable. The candles for them may perhaps be expensive at first sight, as they cost is. per lb., but a lb. is equal quite to 2% lbs. of the ordinary soft quick-burning candles, so that in reality they are not costly. Whenever possible two rooms should be set apart for the use of the little ones, except in the case of infants and tinies who would naturally sleep in the mother’s room. ii5PART III HOUSEHOLD DUTIES AND ARRANGEMENTSCHAPTER I How to Keep a House or Flat Clean— A Week’s Routine A specimen day—How to clean—A week’s routine—To dust the dining-room— To turn out the drawing-room. How to Keep a House Clean. Now, having furnished our house, the next thing is to keep it “ neat, sweet, and in apple-pie order.” With the means at command, only one servant, or at most, if there are many little children, a servant and a nurse girl, will be kept. Some of the work must of necessity fall upon the shoulders of the housewife herself. This is one reason why flats are preferable to houses for people of small means ; there is less to do, and consequently more time to do it in. The training of the maid of all work is all-important. A Specimen Day. The housewife should map out the day for herself like this :— Early tea at 7 o’clock or 7.30. Bath and toilet. Breakfast at 8 or 8.30, or earlier, according to the time that the husband has to be at his office, which may be 8.45, 9, 9.30, or even 10. The breakfast hour, therefore, must be regulated according to special requirements. After breakfast dust drawing-room; arrange flowers; plan the meals for the remainder of the day and the next day’s breakfast, writing them out plainly, having first gone into larder and inspected all the food carefully, and made notes of what is required. Help with bedrooms. Dress. Go out and do shopping. Come back to lunch. Then rest for half-an-hour at least; the remainder of the day would then be the housewife’s own, free for mending, dressmaking, paying calls, &c. If there are children, her day would have to be ordered something like this :— Early tea at 7 o’clock. Bath, toilet and dress. If there is a small baby, he would have his morning bottle before his mother has her tea, or while she has it. Wash and dress baby. Have breakfast. Dust drawing-room, &c. J>9A Specimen Day By this time it would be time for baby’s second bottle ; and then, if the weather is fine, he should be dressed and sent for his morning’s airing, if a nurse girl is kept, or if it is wet be put down to sleep. If there is no second girl, he would have to wait until he can go out with his mother for her round of shopping. If there are other children, they would be dressed by the nurse girl if one is kept, or failing this they should be dressed before break- fast, and the baby after breakfast. The elder children would have breakfast with the father and mother in this case. But if there is a nurse girl, they might have their breakfast with her in the nursery. The drawing-room and other dusting accomplished, the larder must be inspected, notes made of food required, lunch and other meals and the next day’s breakfast planned. If the maid of all work has already been taught to cook, it will only be necessary to write the order down; otherwise it will be as well to prepare the luncheon now, and make and start the pudding. Then dress, do shopping, return, and give baby his midday bottle. Have luncheon, and give the children their dinner if no nursemaid is kept. If there is, the little ones might have their dinner also in the nursery. This will leave the mother more free to attend to the baby, who by this time will require to be washed and made smart for the afternoon. Then the children should be dressed and sent or taken out for their airing. If there is no nurse girl the maid of all work should take them out, thus leaving the mother free for half-an-hour’s rest, and for sewing and mending. Tea must be got ready for their return, and this should be taken with their mother. After tea and romps come bath and bedtime. Supper in the case of quite little ones should come after the bath. The other children safely tucked up, baby will want his bath, bottle, and bed ; then the late dinner or hot supper must be got ready. The maid of all work will do this if she can cook, but if she cannot it will be found a better and a more time-saving plan to prepare it during the afternoon. There will be just time to don a pretty blouse, and arrange a few flowers for the table, before the husband’s return. All this will come easily if method is brought to bear upon every branch of household and nursery management. Meals must be at the same hour every day. Rooms must be turned out week by week on the same day ; there must be a place for every- thing, and everything must be kept in its place. Stores must be bought as far as is possible in quantities to last the week, and with good health all the rest will be found to work well. How to Clean. There is a right and a wrong way of cleaning. Who does not know the housewife who is for ever cleaning and worrying about cleanliness, and yet whose house is never really clean ? Most of us number some such among our acquaintances, and whether their servants are many, few, or only one, the result is always the same: such houses never look really well kept. J 20121 A Week’s Routine Nowadays, and with the modern servant, it is want of thoroughness which is the chief fault. They know a little of everything from School Board French to School Board millinery, but they always leave the corners ! Unless, then, you are fortunate enough to obtain a well-trained servant—and at the low rate of wages, which is all that can be afforded out of limited means, this is practically impossible—it will be found by far the best plan to engage a thoroughly untrained girl, and to train her carefully yourself, rather than to take a half-trained one, who will probably have acquired bad habits. Perhaps some reader who has never had any domestic training herself, and who has rushed into matrimony under the pleasing delusion that it will all come to her by-and-by, may here ask: “ But how can I train servants ? I know nothing of domestic work. I know when a room is clean, and of course I can see for myself when it is dirty ; but I don’t know how to set about getting it clean again: how then can I be expected to teach any one else ? I must have a servant who has been out before, and has some knowledge of her duties.” Let any such take heart of grace. If the following directions are carefully followed out, any one, however young and inexperienced in household arts, should be able to have a well-kept house. A Week’s Routine. In an eight-roomed house the following would be the best way to keep it clean and arrange the work for the servant. The following general instructions might be written out for her guidance :— Monday morning : light the kitchen fire, sweep down the stairs, then the hall or passage and dining-room, and if the drawing-room is used as a regular thing, the drawing-room also. Before sweeping move the small furniture into the middle of the room, and cover it with a dust-sheet. Then sweep the corners. Move furniture back and sweep the rest of the room. A still better plan is to move all the small furniture into the hall before sweeping. The big furniture need not be moved except once a week, when the room is thoroughly turned out. Leave the dust to settle, and meanwhile wash the doorstep and do the brasses. Hearthstone must be used for the doorstep; it is better than whitening, which comes off and gets carried into the house. Put the kettle on for breakfast. Then beginning at the top, dust the stairs carefully with a clean duster. Go into each corner with the duster placed over the point of a finger. Dust each banister and the rail carefully ; this is soon done if the stairs are well swept each day and carefully dusted. Dust the hall and passages and pictures. Use a little dusting brush for the banisters, and a duster for the stairs, and a feather brush for the pictures, and a duster for the glasses. Move all the things off the hall table, the hat stand, and the umbrella stand before you dust them. Pass the duster through all holes, open carving or decoration in the furniture. If it is of Belgian122 To Dust the Dining-Room carved oak, brush it first with a stiff brush, and then dust it. By this plan the carving will never get dirty. If you can only afford one servant, you should have the plainest and simplest furniture—it can be kept clean so much more easily. To Dust the Dining-Room. Dust the surround and all the corners first, then dust the chairs, &c., and put them in their places. Dust the mantelpiece, moving all the things first, then dust them one by one and replace them. Finally dust the grate, fender, and fireirons with a separate duster kept for the purpose. In winter the ashes must be taken up, the grate cleaned, and the fire laid and lighted before the room is swept. Dust gas globes every day, inside as well as out ; then they will seldom want cleaning, and the risk of breaking them is less. Lay the breakfast table, then go into the kitchen and cook the breakfast. If washing is done at home, the copper fire must be lighted at the same time as the kitchen fire. Take in the dining-room breakfast. Have your own breakfast, and make up the fire. Then go straight upstairs to the bedrooms; take your enamelled slop pail with you, and a big can of hot water. Take two cloths ; use one for the basins and soap dishes, the other for the slop pails, &c. Wipe all the washing sets out quite clean and dry. Go straight downstairs, empty the slops, rinse out your slop pail, dry it, and leave the lid off. Rinse out the slops cloths, first in hot and then in cold water, and hang them up to dry in the scullery, or, if there is no scullery, in the bath-room ; not in the kitchen or the lavatory. Go back to the bedrooms, sweep up the bits with a patent sweeper, then make the beds. The mistress should open all the windows and strip the beds quickly before breakfast, herself, as this gives them longer to air, and saves the servant’s time. When making a bed, turn the mattress from head to foot, and allow plenty of blanket to tuck in at the foot. Then dust the bed- rooms and polish the glasses. Dust each grate, fender, and irons carefully with a separate duster. If the floors are covered with cork carpet, it will be found quicker and better to dust them with a damp duster. In any case go well into the corners. If the washing is done at home, the mistress should do the bed- rooms on Mondays, in order to leave the servant quite free for the laundry work. If the washing is put out, or a washerwoman comes in to do it, a room should be turned out on Mondays, for preference the drawing-room. In any case the mistress should dust the draw- ing-room. The bedrooms finished, go downstairs, wash up the breakfast things ; make the pudding for early dinner and put it on ; then turn out the drawing-room.How to Turn out the Drawing-Room 123 How to Turn Out the Drawing-Room. Pin up all the curtains carefully. Move all the furniture, except such things as cabinets or the piano, out of the room if possible, or into the middle of the room. Cover them with dust-sheets of un- bleached calico, at 2fd. per yard. Place all small ornaments on sofa, with cover over them. Blacklead the grate first, then polish the fireirons : if they are brass or copper, use Globe polish for this ; if they are of black iron, use a very little paraffin on a clean duster, and polish. If the brass or copper fender is lacquered, polish it well with a leather until it shines ; if the lacquer is dirty, wash it with a little Hudson’s soap on a bit of house flannel, dry it, and polish it thoroughly. If the lacquer has worn off, clean it vigorously with Globe polish, using very little of this, and not letting it get into the corners or in- terstices, where it will turn green and become unsightly. If the fender, or grate, or firejrons are steel, clean them with a little finely-powdered bath-brick on a duster damped with paraffin or Colza oil, but do not use these near a fire. Then rub till bright with a soft old cloth, and polish with a leather. If the hearth is tiled up the sides only, wipe with a damp cloth, and then polish with a dry one. If the hearth is an open one, and tiled at the back as well as the sides, and has been used, it should be well washed with warm water and a little Sapolio on a bit of house flannel. Sprinkle the carpet with tea leaves or damp salt, and sweep it well with a stiff broom, and the polished surround with a soft one, going well into the corners. Then leave the room and get on with preparing the lunch. Go back to drawing-room when the dust has settled and wash the paint. If it is ordinary paint, use a little yellow soap and plenty of tepid water. Dry thoroughly with a very soft cloth. If the paint is varnished, use a damp cloth if there are any marks to be removed ; otherwise, dust with a dry duster. Then dust the pictures—the frames with a feather broom, the glasses with a very clean, dry duster. If the surround is stained, polish it with a little camphor wax. Put a very little of this on a pad of house flannel, rub it well in, and then polish it with another pad until it shines again. Then dust the furniture very carefully with an old silk duster ; if it requires polishing, use a very little of Adam’s furniture cream, and then polish with silk duster. Take care that the cream does not get on to the upholstery. Replace the furniture. Brush the sofa lightly with a little furniture whisk ; and, if it is buttoned, go down into each button with a duster over the point of a finger. If the mirror is gilt-framed,, dust with a soft cloth and a feather duster. If it is very dirty, a little stout used on a clean duster will be the best remedy. Then wash or dust and replace all the ornaments, &c. If the mantelpiece marble is very old and dirty, make a paste with whitening and water, spread it over before the room is turned out, andHow to Turn out the Drawing-Room 124 leave it until the room is nearly finished. When it is quite dry remove it, and dust with a clean duster. Brush all the cushions well. Beat them lightly, and wipe them gently with a clean white duster if they are chintz. Unpin the curtains, and the room is done. A room cleaned in this wise every week will only take very little time to do, as it will be practically clean when you start. Wash your hands ; finish the lunch. Lay the table. Take in the lunch, and have your own dinner.CHAPTER II 125 How to Wash Up To wash knives—Silver—Plates and dishes—To clean saucepans— Frying-pans—Baking tins—Stockpot—Sieve—Pastry or meat board—Kettles—Dish-covers—To wash glass and china. To Wash Knives. Put all the knives, handles upwards, in a jar of boiling water, and take care that the water does not reach the hilts. Do not wet the handles. Take the knives out one by one, wipe them carefully, and wipe the handles also. To Wash Silver. Place all the knives and forks and spoons in very hot water in which has been dissolved a bit of soda. Rinse them in clean hot water, and dry on a soft cloth. Then put away in the plate basket. Clean between the prongs carefully. To Wash Plates and Dishes. First scrape off all the bits with a knife. If there is a cat or a dog the bits should be reserved for it; otherwise burn them all. They must never be thrown into a dustbin. Then wash each plate very thoroughly in very hot water to which has been added a bit of soda about the size of a large walnut. Rinse them thoroughly, and put them in the plate rack. If there is no plate rack, dry them carefully. For plates of real china very hot water should not be used, as it may crack them. To Clean Saucepans. The instant a saucepan has been emptied of its contents it should be filled with hot water; add to this a morsel of soda, and stand it on the stove until ready to clean. Then scrub it well with the saucepan brush, rinse out with plenty of clean water, and dry very thoroughly. Wipe the outside with a special cloth, which must be kept only for this purpose. Then put the saucepan on shelf, but do not put the lid on. Wash saucepan lids well in soda and very hot water if greasy ;126 To Clean the Stockpot otherwise hot water alone will do ; rinse and dry them well. If the saucepans are enamel, clean them as directed above. If burnt, soak well with hot water and soda first ; then rub the burnt parts with a rag and a little Sapolio, or Brooke’s soap. For tin saucepans wash as before directed, but dry very thoroughly and leave on the plate rack for at least half-an-hour. If saucepans have been allowed to get very dirty they may be scoured with fine sand, but if they are cleaned as I have directed each time they have been used, this should not be necessary. For a saucepan of seamless steel, wash first well with hot water and soda, then rinse and rub with a cloth dipped in flour. Dry, and then leave on the plate rack for twenty minutes at least. To Clean Frying-Pans. Fill with hot water and add a bit of soda as soon as done with ; scour with sand, and dry very thoroughly. Omelette pans should be cleaned in the same way. If burnt, use Brooke’s soap on a bit of rag. To Clean Cake and Pudding Tins and Pans. Soak them in hot water in which has been added a good sized lump of soda. Scour well with a brush. If very dirty, sand or Brooke’s soap may be used. Dry very thoroughly, and leave on the plate rack for twenty minutes. Meat Baking Tins. These should be well soaked in hot water and plenty of soda directly they have been used. If they have been allowed to get very dirty, use a stiff saucepan brush and sand or Brooke’s soap. Rinse well, and dry very carefully. To Clean the Stockpot. Fill it with hot water directly it has been emptied, put in a bit of soda, and leave it on the stove for half-an-hour. Then scour it well with a stiff brush ; once a week use a little sand or Brooke’s soap. Rinse in hot and then in cold water, and dry very thoroughly. If the egg whisk has been used, wash it well in plenty of hot water, or, better still, put it into a jug of hot water as soon as done with ; dry it, and leave it on the plate rack for twenty minutes. If the grater has been used put it into hot water directly, then scrub well, rinse, dry, and leave on the plate rack for twenty minutes. To Clean a Hair or Wire Sieve. Place it in a basin full of hot water to which has been added a bit of soda. Then scrub well with a stiff saucepan brush. Rinse first in hot and then in cold water. Dry with a clean cloth, and leave on the hot plate rack for half-an-hour.127 Bright Dish Covers Pastry or Meat Boards. Scrub them well with plenty of hot water and soda. Rinse first in hot and then in cold water, and leave them on the hot rack till quite dry. The rolling-pin and the pastry-cutter must be cleaned in the same way. The Egg- Brush. Place it in a jug full of hot water, and add a bit of soda as soon as it is done with ; shake about in this very thoroughly until quite clean. Then rinse in cold water, and shake till it is nearly dry. To Clean Kitchen Kettles. Scrape them inside twice a week to prevent furring, and scour the outside well with a kettle brush. All bright kettles should be cleaned with Brooke’s soap on the outside only. Bright Dish Covers. Wash these well in Hudson’s soap and plenty of very hot water. Then dry them, and polish with a leather. If this plan is followed each time they are used, the regular weekly cleaning will be simplified. For this cover them with a paste of whitening and water or methylated spirit. Leave this to dry on. Then rub it off and polish with a leather. To Clean Trays, &e. If the trays are dirty, wash well with tepid water and soap, rinse, then dry and polish with a little dry flour, and give another polish with a clean leather of a very dry cloth. This is for Japanese and lacquered trays or tumblers. To Wash Glasses or Tumblers. Use tepid water, and if very dirty from milk or anything of a greasy nature, use plenty of Hudson’s soap. Rinse very thoroughly in plenty of cold water, dry with one cloth and polish with another. If the glasses are stained with wine, put a little vinegar and water into each glass, and let it soak well before it is washed. To Wash China Tea or Breakfast Things. Use plenty of hot water and a little Hudson’s soap. Rinse in cold water, and dry on a proper tea cloth. Keep all cloths separately, and use them only for the one purpose. This ensures spotless plates and dishes and well-kept glass and china. Milk jugs and china tumblers should be scalded with hot water as soon as they are empty. Then wash well in hot water to which has been added a bit of borax; rinse in cold water, and dry. If any wooden128 To Wash China cooking spoons have been used, place these in a jug full of very hot water. Leave them to soak. Then scrub them and rinse in cold water. Dry on the hot rack. When all the washing-up has been disposed of, well wash out the tubs and bowls which have been used with hot water, and scour well. Then rinse out with cold water, and turn upside down ; wipe the enamel bowls dry. If possible, use a wooden bowl for washing up glasses. Next rinse the sink well out with hot water, and if very dirty scour with a little Brooke’s soap. Rinse again, and dry thoroughly. If the sink is of stone, scrub it well with a stiff scrubbing brush and plenty of sand. Then rinse well with hot water. If this plan be followed, the sink will never get really dirty or foul. If the oven has been used, wipe it out well with a hot damp cloth. Scrub the kitchen table with plenty of soap and hot water. Damp the ashes in the kitchen hearth before taking them up, for this saves dust. Place them in the cinder sifter. Sweep up the hearth, then sweep up the kitchen, and go carefully into the corners. If the kitchen is covered with linoleum, this should be washed ; use hot water only. If very dirty it may be scrubbed with a brush. Then wash and whiten the hearth ; brush up the stove ; wipe down the dresser, and dust all the shelves with a damp duster. Don’t allow things to be kept on the shelves ; find a place for odds andj ends in the cupboards, or put up a 2s. 6d. hanging cupboard for these: it saves time and trouble when dusting. Dust the mantelpiece. If there is to be a late supper or dinner, peel the potatoes and put the vegetables ready for this. Go upstairs and dress. Come down, and go for the afternoon outing, if there are children to be taken for a walk, and no nursemaid. Before going arrange the tea tray, and put the kettle ready for tea. If you cannot go out, now is the time to help with the mending, or to prepare as far as possible the late dinner or supper for the dining- room. Make the tea and take it in. Have your own tea, and wash up the tea things. Then it will be time to cook the supper or dinner, and to lay the table. Before doing this get all the things needed ready together on a tray, as this saves running backwards and forwards.CHAPTER III T 29 I Preparations for Meals To lay a table: for luncheon ; for breakfast—After7ioon tea— Tidy habits. To Lay a Table. PLACE the cloth on quite straight. When taking it off, fold it in the same creases always, and then it is sure to look nice. The mistress should place the table centre and arrange the flowers, unless there are children, when this would be about their bedtime. Then for each person put on the right hand a soup spoon, and if fish is to be served, a fish knife and a large knife ; on the left a fish fork, a small fork and spoon. Fold the serviettes, and place one in the middle for each person. The salt, pepper, and mustard may be placed either at the corners of the table, or directly in front of each cover, as it is called. Place a couple or more tablespoons at the cor- ners of the table, and put mats in front of the master and mistress. On the right side of each person put a wine-glass and a tumbler. Also on each side of the mat a spoon may be placed if liked. Place water bottles and tumblers at the corners of the table. If a lamp is used, or candles, these also should be put on the table. Other things that will be required in the course of the dinner, such as cheese, biscuits, butter, fruit, and the finger bowls, and fruit plates and knives and forks, should be put in readiness on the sideboard. It will be found a good plan, and one that saves both the washing and the sideboard, to use the partly soiled table-cloths folded into three for sideboard cloths. Of course a proper sideboard cloth should be used for special occasions. The dessert plates and finger bowls are arranged thus :—First put a doyley on the fruit plate. On this place the finger bowl, and put the knife and fork on either side of this, the knife at the right, the fork at the left. Little fancy spoons or sweetmeat dishes should be arranged on the table centre, and, in fact, for the return of the husband even more than at other meals, the table should always look its very prettiest and daintiest When natural flowers cannot be afforded, a few sprays of the pink almond blossoms, which can now be bought or made at home so cheaply, should be arranged, a centre vase in the middle, and a small vase at each of the four corners of the table. Variety can be had by using a different centre ; one night a strip of dull green velvet, another dull mauve velvet, or even tinted butter muslin prettily ruffled. Butter muslin in pale pink and green and blue is only 2,fd. a yard, and a yard and a half is ample. The bestAfternoon Tea and prettiest vases are of white china, costing for centre vase is. ofd., and for small ones for the corners only 6fd. each. With these, and well-polished glass and silver, and a pretty lamp shade, the table will always be dainty. The Luncheon Table. The children would perhaps take their dinner at this time. The table should be laid in a similar way, but unless guests are expected, the centre should not be used ; and a large knife and fork, or a fish knife and fork, if fish is to appear instead of meat, and a spoon and fork for the pudding, will be all that is necessary, with water-jugs, glasses, plates for fruit, &c. The Breakfast Table. This should always be as bright and pretty as possible, so that the breadwinner may take a pleasant memory to town to last him through the day. Jam and marmalade should be served in pretty dishes. (These only cost 6fd. each). Mats should be placed on the table for the hot dishes ; a hot substantial dish should always figure at breakfast, for in all probability the husband’s lunch will be limited. Children should always look their freshest and neatest at this meal. A plate should be set for each person, and a small knife and fork, and a serviette in its ring. The mistress of course takes the tea or coffee tray. Afternoon Tea. If this is a substantial meal it should be laid in the dining-room, but if the children take their tea in the nursery it should be in the drawing-room. In the dining-room it will be better to use an ordinary table-cloth, the tea-tray being put alone at one end of the table and the flower- vase or bowl in the middle. The plates of bread and butter, cake, &c., should be arranged in a regular fashion, and the little dishes of jam or marmalade, &c., put in as orderly a way as possible between them. For tea in the drawing-room a pretty five o’clock tea-cloth should be used, and if folded neatly afterwards one will last for quite a long time. The tea things are then arranged on one table, and the cake, bread and butter, &c., should be arranged on a second table, or, better still, upon a properly-fitted cake stand. These are to be had from 3s. 1 id. upwards, and are a distinct saving in the long run, as they do away with the need for a second table-cloth. The late dinner or supper should now be cooked. When it is ready, the maid must take the dishes in and place them on the table. She should hand the plates, &c., and afterwards clear away all the things, such as knives, forks, bread, dirty glasses, salt and pepper, remove the crumbs with a crumb-scoop to a little tray, and then place the fruit plates, &c., in front of each person. 13°Tidy Habits If coffee is served afterwards, the maid should take this in. It can be made while the dinner is in progress, and the little coffee-tray and black coffee-cups should be placed in readiness when the dinner table is laid. A pretty long coffee-tray may be bought for from 2s. nd., and the little black coffee-cups cost 4fd. each. A tiny little milk jug and sugar basin cost is. It is all these small things which, though they are inexpensive and perhaps not very important in themselves, go to make up the sum of dainty housekeeping. Tidy Habits. After dinner the things must be cleared away and washed up as directed. The maid should have her own supper before washing up, then there will be nothing left unwashed for the morning. Next the kitchen must be tidied ; then the bedrooms visited, the slops emptied, and the water jugs filled. If everything is done methodically all work should be over by nine o’clock, and the maid should have a full quiet hour to herself before bedtime. Tuesday’s routine should be exactly the same, except that the mistress’s bedroom should receive its weekly turning-out.CHAPTER IV 132 A Week’s Routine—(continued) To turn out a bedroom—The dining-room—The landing—Window clea7iing—The hall or passage—The oven—Kitchen—Scullery— Kitchen brights— To clean knives. To Turn Out a Bedroom. First pin up the curtains. Put all the ornaments and small things on the bed. Clean and polish the grate, sweep the room, wash the paint. Then, if the floor is covered with cork carpet, wash it well. Go into the corners with the floor-cloth put over a small bit of wood. Leave the room to dry, and while it is drying turn out the servant’s room in the same way. Wash the floor and leave it to dry. While it dries go back to mistress’s room. Dust it thoroughly. Wash the ornaments if neces- sary. Dust the pictures and frames, and polish the glasses. Put all the things in their places. Then go back to the servant’s room and finish it in the same way. Put up clean curtains when the windows are cleaned. The routine for the rest of the day will be the same as Monday’s, unless the washing is done at home, and by the maid of all work. If so, then the mistress should either finish off her own room after the rough work has been done, or else sprinkle and fold the clothes ready for ironing on Wednesday. Wednesday. The morning’s routine should be the same as on Mondays, but another bedroom should be turned out. The afternoon must be devoted to ironing, if the washing has been done at home. Thursday. The morning routine should be the same, another bedroom re- ceiving its weekly cleaning. The afternoon should be devoted to the silver. How to Clean the Silver. First of all the silver should be well washed in Hudson’s soap and hot water. Dry it well. Mix a little plate powder to a paste with water, or, better far, with methylated spirit. Rub the silver well withTo Turn Out the Dining-Room this, and leave it to dry on. Then brush it off, and polish it well with a clean leather. If any articles are chased or embossed, wash them again, and brush them well. A little stiff penny nail-brush answers for this. Then dry and polish thoroughly. Use water as hot as the hands can bear it, if you wish your silver to look nice ; and if gloves are worn, the silver can be cleaned after the maid is dressed for the afternoon. Fridays. The same routine ; but if possible the maid should get up a little earlier, so that the dining-room can receive its weekly turning-out. To Turn Out the Dining1-Room. Pin up the curtains and fold up the table-cloth. Put all the chairs and smaller articles outside if possible. Cover up the sofa. Clean the grate. First damp all the ashes ; this saves making a dust before taking them up. Then brush the grate well, especially the back of it, where soot collects. Have a special brush for this. When the grate has been thoroughly brushed, use the blacklead very sparingly; don’t cake it on ; this is a wasteful habit, and only spoils the look of the fireplace. Then polish thoroughly until it shines again. Clean the fender and fireirons and the hearth as directed before. Sweep the room. Leave the dust to settle, and meanwhile get on with other work. Then come back. Dust the surround thoroughly, and be careful about the corners. Polish it with camphor wax, as before directed. If the suite is only stained and varnished, it will only require dusting. If of fumed or black oak, or real walnut or mahogany, polish it with camphor wax. Dust the stove again. Remove the dust-sheets. Dust all the furniture and ornaments carefully ; replace them. Unpin the curtains, and the room is ready. The Bath-Room should be turned out on Fridays, and also the staircase. Cleaning1 the Staircase. If the paint is ivory, or white, or light-coloured, this should be washed down from top to bottom every week. Use warm water and plenty of not too strong soap. Go well into the corners with a floor- cloth put over the finger. If the staircase is dark-stained oak, sweep and dust it very carefully, and then polish the sides with camphor wax. For the stair carpets use a stiff brush very, slightly dipped into damp salt or tea leaves ; salt is by far the best. To Clean Stair-Rods. Use a little Globe polish on a small bit of rag, and polish with a leather. *33134 The Hall or Passage The Landing's. If these are covered with cork carpet, wash them well; if stained boards, sweep carefully first, and then polish with camphor wax. Wash the paint of the landings windows when the windows are cleaned. Window Cleaning-. It is always best to have these done by a man or a boy, whenever it can be afforded. Indeed, nowadays one is open to a fine for allow- tng a woman-servant to clean a window above a certain height from the ground. Windows should be cleaned with warm water, and carefully dried with a soft cloth, then polished with a selvyt. The Hall or Passage. This should be done after the staircase. If covered with cork carpet, let it be well washed, first taking up the rug, which must be well shaken. The hall table and stairs should be polished with cam- phor wax, if of fumed or black oak, or mahogany or walnut ; if merely of a stained and varnished wood, a thorough dusting and a polish with a piece of soft silk will be sufficient. The picture frames, if gold, may be cleaned with a cloth damped with a little stout. The glasses should be well polished, and the glass globes or the lamp well cleaned. Saturdays. The maid should get up half-an-hour earlier on Saturdays as a regular thing, as those all-important articles, the kitchen range and the oven, must receive their weekly cleaning. The damper and the upper flues should first be opened, and then the flues most thoroughly brushed backwards and forwards, up and down, and round and round, until the soot falls. This done, the top of the stove should be opened and all the soot got out, and finally the flues underneath the stove must be treated in the same way. If this is done regularly every week, there will be no chance for the stove to get very dirty, unless huge fires are kept up. To Clean the Oven. Take out the baking shelves and scour it well down with very hot water and Brooke’s soap. Then blacklead the stove as directed for the dining-room grate. If any part is plated it can be cleaned with a little Sapolio, or Brooke’s soap, on a bit of rag, and then polished with a leather. The rest of the morning’s routine will be pretty much the same as before, except that the kitchen must receive its weekly turning-out.135 To Clean Knives Cleaning- the Kitchen. Move out the table if possible. Wash all the paint with warm water and soap. Wash down the dresser and the mantelpiece thoroughly; scrub the table with sand or Monkey soap. Turn out the cupboards under the dresser and wash them well, and any other cupboards. Then scrub the floor very thoroughly, going into all the corners. Replace the table, and the kitchen is ready. The Scullery. If this is of stone, it should be well scrubbed and then hearth- stoned. The copper and the sink must be well scrubbed, and the latter well sluiced with water first. The tables are scoured with sand. The rest of the area, the lavatory, and the kitchen premises generally should also be well cleaned, and the area steps hearth- stoned. The Kitchen Brig-hts. These can well be polished after the maid is dressed, if gloves are worn. Use whitening mixed to a paste with a little water, and leave on till dry. Rub off, and polish with a dry cloth. A quicker way, and one that gives nearly as good results, is to wash the articles well in very hot water, with plenty of Hudson’s soap, and then dry and polish with a leather. To Clean Knives. This will require to be done every day, and the best way is as follows :—If a knife-board has to be used, the best time is the after- noon, when the midday dining washing-up is over. Sprinkle the board lightly with knife polish or powdered bath-brick, and rub very thoroughly, pressing hard. Then dust carefully, and take special notice that no powder is left in the knife. In bringing this important section to a close, let me express the hope that no one will think my carefully considered plan too par- ticular to be practical. It is no mere counsel of perfection, no ideal system beyond the reach of ordinary mortals, but just such a simple and well-regulated course as will keep all the household effects in good condition, and prove convincingly, when carried out, that method makes labour light.CHAPTER V 136 Care of the Nursery How to train a nursemaid to wash a?id dress the baby—The baby's bottle— The nursery-maid's day—Some diet rules for children. How to Train a Nursemaid. It may perhaps be considered extravagant even to think of a nurse- maid, but if the mother is very delicate, or the family is rapidly increasing, a little nursemaid of some sort becomes a positive neces- sity. There are plenty of strong strapping girls from fourteen to fifteen years of age who are glad to come for a mere trifle of wages, is. 6d. or 2s. a week at the outside, and a good home and food. An advertisement in a country or the local paper is sure to bring some answers. It should be worded something like this :— “ Strong girl wanted to help mother look after children, and to take them out. Good home, and 2s. a week. Apply ...” Select a girl who is one of a large family. These “ little mothers ” often possess quite an astonishing fund of useful knowledge of a sort, and many of them are in a way as fitted to take a baby from the month as some of the nurses who advertise in the Morning Post, and demand high wages. A country paper and a country girl should be preferred, as if the girl’s home is close at hand, there is always a chance that the temptation of going in to see her own people when out with her little charges will prove too strong for her; on her nights out too she is sure to want to go home, and where there are a number of children illness may easily be carried. The fund of knowledge that some of these little mothers possess consists especially of washing and dressing, carrying and putting to sleep, and watching and amusing the little ones, but of diet or health, those all-important items, it is safe to say that they know absolutely nothing. If, therefore, the little nursemaid is permitted occasionally to preside at the nursery table, she must never under any circum- stances give “ tastes ” from her own plate to the baby or the little ones. To Wash and Dress the Baby. From the very first she should be taught, if she does not already know how, to wash and dress the baby and the other little ones. She should do this under your own eye, morning and evening, until you feel that, should occasion arise, you can safely trust her to do it alone.137 The Baby’s Bottles This is the way to go to work. Have a comfortable fire if the weather is at all chilly. Have the bath ready, and put the cold water in first. This should always be insisted upon, as it is the only way to avoid accidents should the children be left alone in the room for a minute by any chance. All the clothes should be at hand, and aired well, and the face towel, the soap, sponge, powder, vaseline, &c., should be in readiness. Unless a hot bath has been specially ordered by the doctor, the water should not exceed 950 Fahr. Use a bath thermometer; these only cost ioid. each, and are invaluable. Use a separate sponge for the face. Do not use soap for the face at all in the case of small babies. Wear a mackintosh apron, over this a flannel apron, and over this an apron of Turkish towelling, and take particular care to sponge the eyes, ears, and nose well. Wash the face first with the sponge; a bit of very soft flannel is best for the soaping process. Soap the baby on your lap, and older children standing up in the bath. When putting the baby in the bath take care to support his back well with the hand, and let him kick and splash for all he is worth. Sponge very thoroughly, and take special care to well soap and cleanse all creases. Support the back well, and take hold of the little heels when lifting baby out of the bath. Then wrap the Turkish apron well round him. Dry gently but very very thoroughly. Older children will be all the better for a brisk rubbing down. Then powder well. Fuller’s earth, starch powder, or boracic powder are almost equally good, but violet powder should not be used, as the cheap violet powder is often extremely injurious. A very young baby should be turned as little as possible when it is washed and dressed. For any roughness or redness of skin, or chafing, use pure vaseline, a little home-made cold cream, or lanoline, and then powder. Ordinary pins should never be used in a baby’s clothing, but safety- pins in all cases. When there are older children the little nursemaid should bathe them, and the mother the baby ; the nursemaid should be taught to bathe him also, in order that should occasion arise she may do so properly. The Baby’s Bottles. Should he be what is known as a “ bottle baby,” the mother should always see to the bottles herself. The very best way to ensure perfect cleanliness with regard to these is to have two basins always in use ; enamelled bowls are the best, one for washing out the bottles, and the other filled with clear cold water, for leaving them in soak. Well rinse and wash the bottle the instant it has been used ; then place it in the bowl of cold water. Turn the teat inside out, and wash very thoroughly in warm water, and then leave it in the bowl until required. A pinch of borax may be added to the first water, to ensure a greater degree of cleanliness. If there is any doubt, however slight, with regard to the purity of the water supply, let the bottle soak in cold boiled water, to be on the safe side. If the nursemaid is taught and permitted to feed baby and prepare138 The Nursery-maid’s Day his bottles, she must never be allowed to test the food by drawing it through the teat. This is a disgusting habit, and often leads to the child catching cold, &c., from the nurse. When the bottle has been filled, a little of the food may be poured into a spoon and tested. It is difficult to lay down any rules with regard to the baby's food. While one child will thrive upon Mellin’s, frame food suits another, and so on. On this point, therefore, it will be better to be guided by the medical man. Speaking from practical experience, I should emphatically give the palm to Allen & Hanbury’s bottles, which are undoubtedly the best, as they are the safest and most cleanly. The Nursery-maid’s Day. The day should be arranged as follows :—Up at 6.30. Light nursery fire if required. Sweep and dust nursery. Take up bath water. Bathe children and baby under mother’s direction. Strip nursery beds. Lay nursery breakfast. Have own breakfast with children, and give them theirs. If children have breakfast with the mother and father, the nurse- maid would take her breakfast with the maid. After breakfast make nursery beds. Sweep and dust night nursery. Empty slops, &c. Remove and wash up nursery breakfast things. Children should be with their mother while this is being done, unless night and day nursery communicate, when, if the doors are left open, the nursery-maid has them under her own eye. Dress self and children for walk. Take out children. Bring them in, and put them to sleep if they are of any age still to require morning sleep. While children are asleep wash small things, such as socks, gloves, gaiters, &c., and do any ironing needful. Take children down to dinner, or, if they have dinner in the nursery, lay dinner table ; give children their dinner, and have own dinner. Afterwards clear away nursery dinner things. Dress self and children and take them out for afternoon walk. Lay nursery tea. Give children their tea. Have own tea same time. Prepare baths ; bathe baby under mother’s direction ; put baby and other children to bed. Tidy the day nursery. Have own supper. Do mending. Clean all children’s boots for next day, and brush their clothes. Put baby’s clothes to air. I have here assumed that the mother takes practically the whole charge of the baby with regard to feeding, &c., and that he sleeps in her room—the little nurse of course taking him out in his little carriage for his daily airings. This list of work can be modified to suit the requirements of any special household. The following rules should be impressed upon the nursemaid when engaging her, and she should be told that if she violates them dis- missal will result.Some Diet Rules for Children 139 She must never take the children into any strange house without the mother's previous knowledge and consent. She must not allow the children to make friends with, or to play with, strange children. She must not allow them to drink at any public fountain, using the public cup. It is easy to carry a small horn tumbler, or, better still, to take a bottle containing cold boiled water, if the children are likely to be thirsty, as they often are in summer time. She must not buy for them, or allow them for themselves, ice cream at small shops or from a barrow. She must not allow strangers to kiss the baby or children. She must on no account tell them any tales of an alarming nature about bogies, &c., or frighten them with threats of policemen, or fairies, or hobgoblins. Nurse girls are often terrible offenders in this respect. If her religion differs from yours, she must not take them into her own place of worship. She must not tell them religious tales of an exciting nature. The religion of little children of what creed soever should be a Gospel of Love. She must never slap or pinch them, no matter how naughty they may be. The mother is the proper person to correct her children. She must never give them what they ask for unless they say “ please ” and “ thank you.” If, when the mother is out, one of the children shows signs of illness suddenly, she should send for the nearest doctor at once. It is better to pay the doctor for a needless visit, than have to pay a long bill for a serious illness. If one of the children receives a hurt of any kind, or falls badly, or knocks its head, the mother must be told at once. Impress also upon her that if the truth is told, you will never be angry, even should the occurrence be entirely her fault. This is of the utmost importance, as a neglected fall may often have very serious consequences. If you are out at bath time, the children should never be bathed when in a profuse perspiration. If from some cause they seem very hot, and the skin is very dry, they should not be bathed before the mother has seen them. She must never allow them to play with knives, or scissors, or glass of any description. She must never give them unboiled milk to drink, nor anything to eat between meals. Some- Diet Rules fop Children. A child under two years of age should not be given meat except by the doctor’s orders. Meat for children under five years of age should be finely minced, or scraped with a knife. Cabbage, cauliflower, spinach, Brussels sprouts, and onions should be rubbed through a sieve for all children under five years of age. Prunes should be slowly cooked in a fireproof china dish, and rubbed through a sieve. Oranges should be squeezed through a strainer before being givenSome Diet Rules for Children 140 to small children. The juice is highly beneficial, but the pith and pips are dangerous and indigestible. Stone fruit should not be given to a child under four. Red currant and black currant juice is very good for children, but not the fruit itself, as it is so full of seeds. If a child is subject to constipation, soak prunes and sultanas and raisins together for half a day. Then stew them with a little golden syrup or honey, and give some the first thing in the morning and the last thing at night. This is better than medicine. When you cannot afford chicken broth, make giblet broth : it is quite as good and nourishing. Weak beef-tea is worse than none at all; give milk instead, and plenty of it. Don’t give new bread to children. Don’t give them tea or coffee, no matter how weak. Cocoa is good, especially if made with milk. Try and encourage children to eat fat, but don’t force them to do so. Bananas, stewed prunes, baked apples, ripe pears, and orange juice may be given within reason as freely as possible after two years old. Home-made toffee and good plain chocolates are the safest sweets for children. No others should be allowed. Pastry should never be given to children. A little meat, abundance of milk, plenty of fruit, and enough eggs and vegetables, is the ideal dietary table for the average healthy child.CHAPTER VI 141 How to Wash at Home General hints—How to wash at home—To wash woollens, handker- chiefs, table linen, curtains, serviettes, blankets, nursery diapers, shirts, collars, pinafores, colouredfrocks— To make blue; starch— How to iron. General Hints. If it can possibly be afforded, don’t wash at home : send the things out; and if very great care is exercised with means so small as those we have now in view, this will often be possible. If several families, all in the same neighbourhood, combine together and send one huge wash, it can often be done about half the usual prices, as the laundry people then take it by contract. But if the family, and consequently the wash, is a very large one, it will have to be done at home; and the following is the best way to do it. How to Wash at Home. If the clothes are put into soak on Saturday night, the worst of the dirt will be out of them by Monday, and the washing-machine will do the rest. All the fine white things—sheets, towels, and pillow-cases—should be soaked together, and all the personal linen also ; the table-cloths and serviettes, &c., being also soaked separately. The kitchen dusters and rubbers should be soaked in water containing a little paraffin. To Wash Woollens. Make a thick soapy lather by shredding Sunlight soap very finely, and pouring nearly boiling water on it. Stir with a stick until the soap has thoroughly dissolved; by this time the water will be only warm. Add the flannels two at a time. Do not rub them ; squeeze and squeeze again and again, first on one side, then on the other, until clean. If they are very dirty, use two lathers, then rinse in four waters. Flannels must not be tightly squeezed to extract the moisture. Give a final rinsing in tepid water, then fold neatly and wring in the machine. If you have no machine, wring gently first one way and then the142 To Wash Curtains othei. Shake well, and dry quickly. Mangling is better than ironing for flannels, but if you use an iron, take care that it is not very hot, and that the articles are correctly folded. New flannel garments should not be washed until they have been well soaked for at least twenty-five minutes in a lather made as directed above, to which has been added a lump of ammonia about the size of a small egg. The tub must be kept covered while the flannels are in soak. All flannels worn next the skin should also be first soaked from fifteen to twenty minutes in a lather to which a little ammonia has been added. Then squeeze and wash as directed. To Wash Handkerchiefs. They should be soaked in cold water to which has been added two heaped tablespoonfuls of salt; then wring them out in the ordinary way, and wash in warm water with Sunlight soap. Rinse out, and boil in a good lather for a quarter of an hour. Then rinse again, first in warm and then in cold water. Blue very lightly, wring thoroughly in the machine, and iron on both sides while still damp. In the country the handkerchiefs may be bleached on the grass. To Wash Table Linen. If unstained, soap and rub well in the ordinary manner. If stained, wash in very hot water, and use a little lemon juice, or powdered borax. Rinse thoroughly, and then wash in the usual way. To Wash Curtains. Soak in strong soda and water, then wash well in hot water, using plenty of soap. Rinse thoroughly. Boil in a soapy lather for half-an- hour ; rinse well in clean cold water ; put through the wringer, and then iron on both sides. If to be stiffened, use borax starch, wring carefully, and iron on both sides. Starch should always be used sparingly, as too much of it only causes the things to rot. Woven cotton garments should be well soaked first in a good lather. Then wash gently, and be careful not to pull out of shape. Boil in a soapy lather for twenty minutes. Rinse out in clear tepid water, then in cold water. Put through the wringer, dry, and iron with a moderately hot iron. Serviettes. These should be washed as directed for table-cloths, and so too should afternoon tea cloths, sideboard cloths, and tray cloths. Blankets. These should not be washed at home unless a washerwoman who understands her business is engaged for the day. Amateur washing of blankets generally results in their being spoiled.'43 To Make Hot Starch Nursery Diapers. These should always be washed out every day. Use only a very mild soap, and rinse in at least four waters—one hot, one tepid, and two cold. Pass through the wringer. Dry very thoroughly. Air well, and fold. This refers to Turkish diapers. The ordinary birdseye diapers will require ironing, and all should be very thoroughly aired. Shirts and Collars. These should be put out. It is safe to say that they never last well or look well when done at home, and a man cannot look really smart in badly laundried linen. Pinafores and Overalls. These, whether of coloured material or of muslin, when washed and rinsed, should be starched with hot starch, dried well, and then lightly damped and rolled in a large towel or a small cloth. Leave for three hours, then iron. Coloured Frocks. Soak these in strong salt and water for two hours; then wash in the usual way. To Make Blue. Tie it up carefully and tightly in a bit of flannel ; mix very thoroughly with cold water. To Make Hot Starch. Take 4 ozs. of starch and mix it to a paste with a little cold water. Have ready a kettle half full of boiling water; add it to the starch by degrees, stirring all the while. The starch will thicken first, and then gradually clear. Then add to it very quickly a small teacupful of boiling water in which has been dissolved a teaspoonful of borax. There are no lumps in properly made starch. To prevent this, before using it strain through a strainer kept solely for the purpose. Cold Starch. Take 2 ozs. of starch, mix it to a paste with a little cold water, then add very gradually half a pint of cold water. Finally add a tea- cupful of cold water in which has been dissolved a small teaspoonful of borax. A little more water may be added if the starch is con- sidered too thick. A few drops of turpentine are considered by some laundresses to produce a better glaze. These recipes are for ordinary starch, but if borax starch is used the turpentine and the dissolved borax should not be added to it.•44 To Iron Successfully Starch made in this manner may be kept for three or four weeks, and will only require re-mixing, but hot starch cannot be used more than once. To Iron Successfully. See first that the irons are very hot and thoroughly clean. No one can iron well with a dirty iron. The very best way to clean an iron is to rub it well on several thicknesses of brown paper sprinkled with knife powder, clean on a fresh piece of paper, and smear lightly with yellow soap. Wipe again, and use.CHAPTER VII Hospitality Is entertaining possible ?—A little dinner— Waiting at table— An afternoon reception. Is Entertaining1 Possible? Regular entertaining upon such small means as those we are contemplating is of course impossible, especially if there are many little mouths to be fed, but it will be quite possible to ask a friend or a couple of friends to dinner occasionally, when once the maid of all work has been taught to cook. Let it not be forgotten that many a man has been made for life simply because he has been able to ask his chief, or an influential friend, home to a friendly dinner. A Little Dinner. This need not necessarily mean an expensive dinner. Just a simple repast, well cooked and daintily served, will give far more pleasure to eye and palate than any number of bought entrees which you cannot afford, from the local confectioner. Suppose then that you wish to give a little dinner, or that your husband wires home that he is bringing back a friend to take pot luck, the following is a suitable and sensible menu. Menu. Potato Puree (recipe, page 51). Fresh Herrings, Maitre d’Hotel (recipe, page 56). American Stew (recipe, page 64), or Braised Beef (recipe, page 62), or Blanquette of Veal (recipe, page 67), or Fowl en Casserole (recipe, page 68), and Baked Potatoes. Cabbage h la Creme (recipe, page 74). Banana Custard (recipe, page 80). Anchovy Toast (recipe, page 82). Dessert. Coffee. »45 K146 Waiting at Table Such a dinner as this need add next to nothing to the weekl expenses, if the stockpot is a regular institution. The only extras 01 the menu cost as follows :— 4 fresh herrings, id. each 04 Cabbage for the vegetable course . . . . 02 Cream 02 7 Bananas 6 Dessert, say seven oranges ... ..03 1 lb. of white grapes, or 2 lbs. apples . . .06 Total in I am assuming that the regular dinner or supper prepared for th< head of the house would have consisted of potato soup, meat witl baked potatoes, and a savoury anchovy toast. As regards beverages, it is difficult to offer any practical sugges tions. Most men would prefer good beer or stout to the indifferen sherry, claret, or hock, which is all that could be afforded. Perhaps, under the circumstances, the best and cheapest wine tha could be provided would be a flagon of Australian Burgundy, shern being handed with the fish. Waiting- at Table. The maid should bring in the soup tureen and soup plates, anc place them before her mistress, who would serve the soup, the maic handing the plates. She would then retire, dish up the fish, remove the tureen and soup plates, and bring in the fish. Hand it to her mistress to serve. Pour out the sherry. Retire. Dish up the mea: course and the potatoes. Return. Take the fish and fish plates Bring in the vegetables and plates. Hand the meat when her mis- tress or master has carved it. Pour out the wine, or whatever beverage is used. Retire. Dish up the next course. Return. Take the plates &c. Bring in the vegetable course. Hand it. Retire. Bring in the sweet course and plates. Pour out more wine, hand bread, &cjrfkieeded. Then take oul the plates, &c. Place clean plates, and hand the sweet course when served. She should then retire and dish up the savoury. Return and take the plates and hand the savoury. When served, retire and make the coffee, so as to have it in readiness. Return. Remove the plates, salt cellars, peppers, mustards, &c. Clear away the crumbs with the scoop and crumb tray. Place a dessert plate, with its attendant finger-bowl, and fruit knife and fork in front of each person, and retire. If coffee is taken in the dining-room, she should wait until the ladies go in to the drawing-room, when she should at once take in the coffee- tray, on which should be placed, beside the small coffee-cups and: saucers and the coffee, a jug of absolutely boiling milk, the sugar-[ basin, &c. The coffee can either be poured out before the tray is taken147 An Afternoon Reception into the room or afterwards, whichever is preferred ; the latter is the best plan, as it ensures the coffee being thoroughly hot. If the maid is allowed to wait every evening as a regular thing, she will not be awkward or clumsy when guests have to be enter- tained, and the hostess may feel secure that her little entertainment will pass off successfully. An Afternoon Reception. If the breadwinner is in such a position that a large circle of friends is likely to prove of use to him in his profession, about the cheapest way of entertaining and enlarging one’s acquaintance is to have a regular monthly reception day, from 4 to 7. For preference arrange for a Sunday, or a Saturday afternoon, when, as a matter of course, the husband would be at home. The refreshments to be provided would be tea and coffee, bread and butter, both white and brown (for recipe see page 80), and one or two cakes of different kinds. For, say forty to fifty people every month, an outlay of 10s. should suffice. Thus :— £ lb. tea . | lb. coffee 3 quarts milk . Extra bread and loaves tt lb. of butter . Hot buttered cakes, say 2 lbs. lump sugar Bought cakes of different sorts Two pots of meat, at bid. per pot Cress for sandwiches Brown loaf .... Services of charwoman (a half day) Total . d. 7 6 o 6 7 o 4 0 1 2 3 o 10 o The charwoman of course should make the tea and coffee, and keep the kettle boiling. The maid would open the door and announce the guests, and help to pour out the tea and coffee. If the dining-room communicates with the drawing-room, matters are rendered easier; failing this, if the services of an extra waitress cannot be afforded, it will be best to press a friend, or a couple of friends, into the service for pouring out the tea, &c., &c. The best plan is to arrange the table at one end of the room, buffet-wise, the cups and saucers, tea and coffee, sugar and milk, &c., being placed at the back, and the cakes, bread and butter, sandwiches, &c., in front, so that guests can help themselves. Of course if a reception of this kind is given, say six times during a year, it will add on at least ^3 to the housekeeping expenses. I have calculated for this under the heading of “ Sundries ” ; but if care be exercised it may be possible to save a trifle each week towards the entertaining fund.CHAPTER VIII 148 H ow to Dress The dress allowance—How to spend it—Costumes—Coats—Blouses— Shoes—Gloves—Stockings—Hats—Evening dress—Cloak—How to dress the children. The Dress Allowance. And now we come to what is perhaps the hardest nut to crack of any for the woman who has to manage upon small means. The question of how she may best spend her dress allowance. The sum of ^io is so small that she will find it no easy matter. Of course the difficulties will be much lessened if she is of a stay-at- home nature, and does not go out much socially, while in the case of a woman who has perforce to go out a great deal, and mix with those who are spending ten times what she can spend, the difficulties are greatly increased. In either case, practically everything will have to be made at home. How to Spend it. For income No. i, the following would, I think, be the best and wisest way of spending the ^io. Let me start by saying that all underwear, both for self and children, should be made at home. Day Dress. For everyday indoor-wear a J. Noble skirt, price 5s. 6d., would be the best ; while for outdoor-wear one of the same firm’s costumes, sac coat and skirt, dark blue, or better still dark grey serge, price 10s. 6d., are unequalled for goodness of material and smartness of cut and finish. (I have had practical experience of these dresses and confidently recommend them.) The same firm supply a thick winter coat, sac, for 10s. 6d. For a best dress, a prettily made cashmere, or serge, or other material, 7 yards at is. 6d. per yard. Linings, See. (5s.) must be provided. Whilst in summer the same sum must be expended for an outdoor dress. These of course would be made at home. In winter the serge coat and skirt could be worn with flannel blouses, and in summer with cotton ones in the morning and with149 Evening Dress pretty muslin ones in the afternoon. Remnants of these are often to be picked up so cheaply, that the sum of 12s. should well provide half- a-dozen blouses for summer, and two for winter wear. Then the muslin ones could be worn out at home in the winter evenings. For boots and shoes I do not think we can set aside less than ^1, and this must include all needful repairs. For underclothing £1 must be spent, and for corsets 10s. A winter’s petticoat of stout moreen will cost 4s., three summer petticoats, 2s. nd. each, say roughly, 10s. Gloves will cost at least 12s. a year. Mittens must be worn for evening dress, and washing white woollen ones for winter everyday wear. Stockings will be another 10s. A best winter hat or toque will cost, say 7s. lid., and a best summer hat the same. While a sailor felt hat for everyday winter wear, and a straw sailor for summer, may generally be had for is. 1 id. each, say 4s. the two. This will leave us with 30s. in hand for all other requisites, such as sunshades, umbrellas, handkerchiefs, ribbons, and odds and ends for renovations of all sorts. Evening- Dress. This is a vexed question, and the best solution I can offer is a simply made “picture” dress in the Georgian style This is never out of fashion or dowdy, and if well fitted will always hold its own even in a room full of well and smartly dressed women. It should be of black, and worn with a white or cream-coloured muslin fichu, made with deep frills, and a knot of flowers in front. The skirt plain and very slightly trained. The bodice slightly pointed, with tight-fitting elbow sleeves of its own material, finished with deep frills of the same. As to material, black satin merveilleux at is. nd. per yard would be the smartest and nicest. Twelve yards will fashion the dress ; whilst black nun’s veiling at is. id. per yard is the cheapest. Ten yards of this will be required ; it is only of narrow double width. The muslin for the fichu costs 6fd. per yard. Four yards would be ample for fichu and frills. In summer the black sleeves of the gown might be taken out, and elbow sleeves of the muslin substituted. A knot of roses can be had for 6|d. Altogether the dress need not cost more than £\, 10s. if made at home, and with care should last at least two or three years. Evening- Cloak. A winter coat will not be required every year, so that one year a summer coat could be got or an evening cloak. I recently saw a very pretty evening cloak which had been made from a 6s. remnant of dark grey serge. It was circular in shape, lined with scarlet mer- cerised sateen over an interlining of domette, and had a hood, deep puritan collar, and long strings, lined and faced with silver grey British silk, and it was both pretty, warm, and quite in good taste.150 How to Dress the Children It could be copied in almost any hue of is. a yard serge. Those who have to dress upon means so small as these should not aim at being in the fashion to any great extent. Let them buy few things, but those few as good as they can get. Wear colours always in the fashion, not “ the latest shade out.” Have neat shoes and gloves. The hair should always be smartly done, and the gowns always immaculately brushed and in repair, and of styles and hues that suit, and then even those who can spend but £10 will always be well dressed. How to Dress the Children. This is by no means an easy task upon a small sum. Boots and shoes should be good and strong. In summer sandals are better and cheaper. For little girls the John Noble knockabout frocks in any hue of serge, scarlet for winter is perhaps the best, are far and away the cheapest. For little boys, smartly cut knickers of blue serge, and a knitted jersey, scarlet, or any colour most becoming, are perhaps the best. Older lioys can have sailor suits, or manly ones modelled on their father’s, as taste may dictate. For best, white washing serge frocks for quite small children are nice and easily laundried, or serge coats brightly hued and warmly lined in winter, and little simple ginghams or cotton in summer. Muslins are to be avoided, unless you have the time and the know- ledge necessary for getting them up properly. Sailor hats for boys and girls alike in summer ; and in winter smart cloth caps or tammys for the boys. Tammys for the girls too for every day, and big flopping felts simply trimmed with a bow of ribbon for best. No gloves in summer except for best, and washing wool ones in winter is another good rule. Underclothing-. This for boys or girls is best of wool or flannel, both from the point of hard wear and health. For little girls in the winter knickers to match the serge dress skirt are also smart and warm. Overalls both for girls and boys are best of either Holland or Turkey twill. Blue linen which has so much to recommend it, is too expensive if good, and the cheaper sorts are useless. For best party dresses for little girls, white Japanese silk, 9f-d. a yard, is the best and cheapest, and when well washed always looks like new; while for a tiny boy, white washing serge always looks well. If the hands and nails are well kept, the hair well brushed and glossy, and the little one well groomed generally, a child is sure to be well dressed, for childhood with the charm of innocence has a beauty that is all its own.CHAPTER IX Dress for the Servants A neat costume— The nursemaid—Out-of-door dress. A Neat Costume. There is no need just because you can only afford to keep one servant why that one should look slovenly. For morning wear she should have neat dark blue cotton dresses, and then with a clean apron and high white collar she will always look smart and clean. Collars of white india-rubber cost but iofd. each, can be washed in the hand basin, dried instantly, and require no getting up. For afternoon wear the usual black gown, white collar and cuffs, and white apron and cap, should always be insisted upon. The Nursemaid. If a little nursemaid is kept, she should wear all day a dark grey cotton with white rubber collar. A pair of cuffs to match will add to the neatness of her appearance, and these cost only is., and are practically everlasting. A big serviceable apron to cover the dress is a necessity ; indeed, fine white aprons are out of place for a nurse- maid. Out-Door Dress. If the maid looks old for her age, she could wear a neat nurse’s bonnet, otherwise a sailor hat will be more suitable, for a childish face under a bonnet looks absurd. If possible, her jacket should be a dark grey also, as this does not show the dirt, and will not soil the children’s clothes as dark blue would. Don’t let her wear dirty white, or white at all. White nurses are luxuries only for the rich, and necessitate a long laundry bill.152 Deferred Payment System In conclusion, it may not be out of place to mention this system which has proved, and cannot fail to prove, a boon to those whose capital is very limited or non-existent. By it furniture may be bought in any quantity and paid for in easy instalments, usually monthly. Those who intend furnishing on this system should be sure and deal only with well established houses of good reputation, such as Oetz- mann’s, of Hampstead Road, and they will be courteously and honourably dealt with. Unknown firms may offer alluring terms, which, if accepted, almost invariably lead to bitter disappointment and a wholesale condemnation of a very useful and convenient system. I should add that all the suites, the names of which I have given in the foregoing pages, may be seen in Messrs. Oetzmann’s showrooms.Index Agreement, Wording an, 20 American stew, 64 Anchovy croutons, 82 Apple sauce, 65 Artichokes, Puree of, 52 ; chipped, 71 ; Lyonnaise fashion, 75 Baby, To wash and dress the, 136; the bottles, 137 Bacon and Rice, Savoury, 45 Baked sprats, 43 Baker, The, 34 Banana custard, 80 Bathroom, The, 96; to turn out, 133 Baths, ill Bedroom, To turn out, 132 Bedrooms, Furnishing the, 93, 107 Beef, To roast, 60 ; to boil, 62; to braise, 62; a la mode, 64; au gratin, 69 Beetroot salad, 74 Blankets, Cleaning, 142 Blanquette of veal, 67 Bloaters, To cook, 40 Blue, To make, 143 Braising meat, 62 Bread, How to make, 80 Breakfast cakes, Hot, 47 Breakfast, How to prepare, 39 Brown Betty, 80 Brussels sprouts, To boil, 72 ; as an entree, 75 Butcher, The, 35 Butter beans, Puree of, 51 Buttered eggs, 42 Butterman, The, 34 Cabbage, To fry, 67; boiled, 72; young, 72 ; it la creme, 74 Cabinet pudding, 78 Cakes, Potato, 46 ; hot breakfast, 47 Carpets, 90, 104 Carrots, Puree of, 52 ; to cook, 73 ; with gravy, 76 Catering: the grocer, 33; butter- man, 34 ; greengrocer, 34 ; milk- man, 34; baker, 34 ; butcher, 35 ; fishmonger, 35 Cauliflower, Polish fashion, 76 Children, Diet for, 139; dress for, 150 China, To wash, 127 China closet, The, 101 Chipped potatoes, 71 ; artichokes, 71 Cleaning materials, 35, 38 Cleaning the house, 120 Cocoa, To make, 44 Coffee, To make, 44 Colour schemes, 89 Coloured frocks, To wash, 143 Croute au pot, 49 Croutes aux crevettes, 82 Croutons, Savoury, 57 Crusts, Savoury, 41 Cucumber salad, 74 Curtains, To wash, 142 Day nursery, The, 113 Diet for children, 139 Dining-room, Furniture for, 90, 105; to dust, 122; to turn out, 133 Dish covers, To clean, 127 '53Index Drains, 20 Drawing-room, Furniture for, 91, 105; to dust, 123 Dress: the allowance, 148; day dress, 148 ; evening dress, 149 ; evening cloak, 149; for the children, 150; underclothing, 150; for the servants, 151 Dried fish, 36 Dried haddock, To cook, 40 Dried kippers, To cook, 40 Dripping crust, 77 Ducks, To roast, 61 Economies, False, 20 Economy and social standing, 22 Egg brush, To clean, 127 Egg pie, 46; sausage and egg pie, 47 Eggs, To poach, 40; savoury, 41 ; buttered, 42 Entries, Vegetable : cabbage k la creme, 74; finger croutons, 74 ; Brussels sprouts, 75 ; leeks with cheese sauce, 75; artichokes, Lyonnaise fashion, 75; cauli- flower, Polish fashion, 76; carrots with gravy, 76 Fat, Eating, 31 Fat, To clarify, 53; to fry in deep, 53 Finger croutons, 74 Fish, as a change, 32 ; for children, 36 ; dried, 36; toast, 43 Fish, To fry, 54; to boil, 54; to grill, 54; hake au gratin, 55; haddocks with cheese sauce, 55; fresh herrings stuffed, 56; herrings k la mattre d’hotel, 56; cod or hake with macaroni, 56 ; whiting k la Portuguese, 57 ; pudding, 57; delicious pie, 58 ; and macaroni pie, 58 Fishmonger, The, 35 Flats, Advantages of, 18 ; rents, 19 ; in provincial towns, 19 Floor covering, 90 Fowl, To braise an old, 63 French beans, To cook, 72 Fried crusts, 53 ; bread crumbs, 59 Frozen meat, To roast, 61 Frying-pans, To clean, 126 Furniture, Buying the, 89, 104 ; for the nurseries, 113 Gas stove, Advantages of, 21 Geese, To roast, 61 Giblet, Stew, 65 ; pies, 66 Glass cupboard, The, 102 Glasses or tumblers, To clean, 127 Golden rice, 80 Greengrocer, The, 34 Green peas, Puree of, 52; dried, 51 Grocer, The, 33 Haddock, Dried, 40; with egg sauce, 47 ; with cheese sauce, 55 Hair or wire sieves, To clean, 134 Hake au gratin, 55 Hall, The, 98, no; to clean, 134 Handkerchiefs, To wash, 142 Haricot beans, Puree of, 51 Herrings, Stuffed fresh, 56; k la maitre d’hotel, 56 Hospitality: menu for a little dinner, 145; waiting at table, 146; after- noon reception, 147 House, Finding a, 18; to keep clean, 119 i Husband’s lunch, The, 84 Income, To apportion the, 22 Irish stew, 66 Iron, To, 144 Italian, Crusts, 45 ; stew, 66 Jam, Crusts, 79; tart, 80 Joints, Lean, 31; division of, 31 Kettles, To clean, 127, 135 Kidneys, To cook, 42 Kippers, To cook, 40 Kitchen, To clean the, 135 Kitchen range, The, 21Index Kitchen utensils, 96 Knives, To wash, 125 Lamb, To roast, 61 ; to braise, 62 ; au gratin, 70 Lamps and stoves, ill Landing windows, The, 110 Landings, To clean the, 134 Leeks writh cheese sauce, 75 Lentils, Puree of, 50 Linen, List of, 99 Linen cupboard, The, 99, III Matrimony, Training for, 17 Meat, How to hash, 30; how to buy, 30; allowance of, 30; eating fat, 31 ; lean joints, 31 ; other economies, 31; division of ajoint, 31; to roast, 60; to boil, 61; odds and ends of, 64 Meat baking tins, To clean, 126 Menu for a little dinner, 145 Method, Necessity for, 16 Milkman, The, 34 Mock hare, 28 Munich pudding, 79 Mutton, To roast, 60; to boil, 62 ; to braise, 62; cutlets k la delphine, 68; cold, 69 Nest-egg, The, 16 Night nursery, The, 114 Nursemaid, To train, 136; dress for, 151 Nurseries, The: furniture, 113 ; day, 113; night, 114; crockery, 115 ; soiled linen, 115 Nursery pudding, 79 Oven, for baking, The, 81; to clean, 134 Paint and wall-paper, 89, 104 Parsnips, Pur£e of, 52 ; to cook, 73 Pastry, To make, 77 Pastry or meat boards, To clean, Pay your way, 27 Peas, To cook, 72 Pinafores and overalls, To wash, 143 Plate and cutlery, 100 Plates and dishes, To wash, 125 Poach eggs, To, 40 Pork, To roast, 61 ; salt, American fashion, 67 Porridge, Savoury, 44 Potatoes, 29; savoury, 45 ; cakes, 46; puree of, 51 : baked, 71; to boil, 71 ; new, 71 ; chipped, 71 Potage, bonne Femme, 49; k la gudewife, 49 ; k la Bretonne, 50; k la Flamande, 50 Poulet k la bonne femme, 69 Poultry, To roast, 61 ; to boil, 62 Princess pudding, 79 Ptarmigan en casserole, 68 Pudding, Remnants of, 29 Puddings : cabinet, 78 ; rice k la minette, 78; Munich, 79; prin- cess, 79; sponge, 79 ; nursery, 79 Pudding tins, To clean, 126 Puree, of lentils, 50 ; haricot beans, 51; dried green peas, 51 ; butter beans, 51 ; potatoes, 51 ; arti- chokes, 52; turnips or parsnips, 52 ; green peas, 52 ; carrots, 52 ; k la reine, 53 Range, The kitchen, 21 Rates and taxes, 21 Remnants of pudding, 29 ; vege- tables, 29 Rent, of flats, 19 ; what to set aside, 19 ; country, 20 Rice, Savoury, 46; pudding k la minette, 78 Rissoles, Sausage, 41 Roes on toast, 83 Salad, To make a, 74 ; beetroot, 74 ; cucumber, 74 Sardine crofltons, 82Index Sardines au gratin, 43 Sardines on toast, 82 Saucepans, To clean, 125 Sausage, Fried, 41; rissoles, 41; and egg pie, 47 Saving, Possibilities of, 26 Savouries: eggs, 41; crusts, 41; toast, 42 ; fish toast, 43; porridge, 44 ; bacon and rice, 45 ; potatoes, 45; rice, 46; sardines on toast, 82; toast k la Garmouth, 82 ; anchovy croutons, 82; sardine croutons, 82; croutes aux cre- vettes, 82 ; herring roes on toast, 83 ; hard roes on toast, 83 Scraps, Value of, 29 Scullery, The, III; to clean, 135 Servants, Dress for, 151 Serviettes, To wash, 142 Shirts and collars, The washing of, M3 Short crust, 77 Sieves, To clean hair or wire, 126 Silver, To wash, 125 Soups and purees, 48 Spanish onions, To cook, 73; to braise, 73 Spice loaf, 81 Sponge pudding, 79 Sprats, Baked, 43 Stair rods, To clean, 133 Staircase, Cleaning the, 133 Starch, To make, 143 Stew, American, 64; giblet, 65 ; Irish, 66 ; Italian, 66 Stock, To make, 48 Stockpot, To clean, 126 Store cupboard, The, 36 Suet crust, 78 Table, How to lay the, 129; luncheon, the, 130; breakfast, the, 130; afternoon tea, 130 Table linen, To wash, 142 Tables and estimates, 22 Tea, To make, 44 Toast, Savoury, 42; savoury fish, 43 ; k la Yarmouth, 82 Turkeys, To roast, 61 Turnips, Puree of, 52 ; tops, 72 ; to cook, 73 Underclothing, 150 Veal, To roast, 61 ; to boil, 62; to braise, 62; in Milanaise fashion, 66; blanquette of, 67; k la bettine, 69 Vegetable entrees, 74 Vegetable marrow, To cook, 73 Vegetables, Remnants of, 29 Wall-paper and paint, 89, 104 Washing at home, 141 Whiting k la Portuguese, 57 Window cleaning, 134 Woollens, To wash, 141 THE END Printed by Ballantyne, Hanson <V Co. Edinburgh de London“ A book that every young mother should have In her possession.” —Health. THE MOTHER’S GUIDE TO THE CARE OF CHILDREN IN SICKNESS AND HEALTH By LYDIA LENEY, M.D. OCULIST TO THE LONDON SCHOOL BOARD J CLINICAL ASSISTANT TO THE NEW HOSPITAL FOR WOMEN AND CHILDREN Crown 8vo, cloth, price 3s. 6d. CONTENTS SECTION I.—Pre-Natal Conduct during Pregnancy—-Diet—Care of Breasts—Baths—Dress, &c.— Disorders of the Pregnant State. SECTION II.—The Infant Immediate Wants — The Toilet, including Baths — The Premature Child—Clothing—Feeding and Weaning—The Infant during the first few months of its Life—Vaccination—Dentition—Diseases of Infants. SECTION III.—Management of Children in Health Dwellings — Nurseries — Beds — Baths and Sea Bathing — Children’s Clothing—Diet—Sleep and Exercise—Care of the Eyes and Teeth. SECTION IV.—Diseases of Children Diseases of Respiration—The Throat—Organs of Digestion—Bladder and Kidney—Diabetes—Diseases of the Blood—Malnutrition—The Skin— The Joints—Nervous System—The Eye—Ear, Mouth, and Nose—In- fectious Diseases—Sprains, Bites, Stings, &c.—Haemorrhage—How to Stop Bleeding—Fractures and Dislocations—Rupture—Accidents. SECTION V.—Practical Advice Calculation of Probable Date of Delivery—Restoration of Child apparently Stillborn—Restoration of Apparently Drowned—Poisons—Useful Remedies —Sick Dietary—Enemata or Injections—Table of Growth—Moral Train- ing, &c. PRESS NOTICES “This book will give many valuable hints to mothers in the care of their chil- dren.’’—Medical Times. “ We note much admirable matter in this unpretentious volume, and the book is evidently inspired by strong common sense and practical experience.”—Guardian. “ Thoroughly clear and practical."—Pall Mall Gazette. “ Worthy of the highest commendation. . . . It is a practical guide.”—Lady. “ A plainly written and instructive manual. . . . Will prove useful to those who have charge of the upbringing of the young."—Scotsman. “ Strongly to be recommended. . . . The chapters treating of the diseases and accidents to which infancy and childhood are liable, are arranged with admirable clearness.”—Yorkshire Observer. f#* Al all Booksellers or of C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd. 17 Henrietta Street, London, IV.C.17 Henrietta Street, London, IV. C. Every Woman her Own Doctor Every Woman her Own Doctor A Complete Book in plain English con- cerning the Ailments and Accidents to which Women and Children are liable, and their Cure By an M.D. Crown 8vo, cloth, price 2s. 6d. The Author, a qualified physician of experience, has taken pains to distinguish between cases in which home treatment is safe and sufficient and those graver cases which call for medical advice. For handy reference the whole book has been arranged alphabetically. At all Booksellers Or post free for 2s. gd. from C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd.A BOOK OF HOBBIES HOME ARTS AND CRAFTS EDITED AND COMPILED BY MONTAGUE MARKS With numerous Diagrams and other Illustrations 4to, cloth, price 3s. 6d. net This work gives popular instruction in the following subjects:— MODELLING IN CLAY AND WAX. WOOD CARVING. FRET SAWING. PYROGRAVURE. LEATHER DECORATION. METAL WORK. PHOTOGRAPHIC RETOUCHING. RESTORING DAMAGED CHINA. “GRANGERISING.” TAXIDERMY, etc. etc. At all Booksellers Or post free for 3/. IO cl. from C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd. 17 Henrietta Street, London, IV. C. Home Arts and CraftsPEARSON’S Pearson’s New Reciter and Reader Cloth, Crown 8vo, Price 2s. 6d., post free 2s. 9d. Choice Selections from the writings of— RUDYARD KIPLING LORD TENNYSON ROBERT BROWNING W. S. GILBERT MARK TWAIN BRET HARTE C. S. CALVERLEY CHARLES DICKENS CLEMENT SCOTT OLIVER WENDELL HOLMES THOMAS HOOD EDGAR ALLEN POE ADELAIDE PROCTER E. B. BROWNING LEIGH HUNT LORD MACAULAY W. H. LONGFELLOW And many other Eminent Writers. Jt Pearson’s Irish Reciter and Reader Cloth, Crown 8vo. Price 2s. 6d., post free 2s. 9d. Containing Selections from all the best writers of Ireland, including— William Alexander, D.D. (Primate of all Ireland), Katherine Tynan Hink- son, Dora Sigerson Shorter, Alfred Percival Graves, W. B. Yeats, Douglas Hyde, Lady Wilde, “ Mr. Dooley," Lady Dufferin, Laurence Sterne, Samuel Lover, and many others. RECITERS Pearson’s Humorous Reciter and Reader Cloth, Crown 8vo, Price 2s. Bd., post free 2s. 9d. Contains Choice Selections from the Humorous Writings of— J. K. JEROME J. M. BARRIE F. ANSTEY F. C. BURNAND W. W. JACOBS ROBERT BARR EDEN PHILLPOTTS MAX ADELER E. N. WESTCOTT (Author of “ David Harum”) LORD TENNYSON ROBERT BROWNING W. S. GILBERT MARK TWAIN BRET HARTE C. S. CALVERLEY CHARLES DICKENS DOUGLAS JERROLD THOMAS HOOD And many other Eminent Writers. J* di Boy’s and Girl’s Reciter Crown 8vo, Cloth, 156 pages. Price Is., post free is. 2d. A collection of the very best Recitations, Stories, etc., by well-known authors. Th. greatest care has been bestowed in select- ing only such pieces as are thoroughly suitable for public and private use. At all Booksellers, or of C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd., 17 Henrietta Street, London, W.C.v - i , •