MrtHHvti: : ;; . .r 'aeaaasHmim-tl s kssw: :r;: f : r f -. - BBW P Wiimm* Vis: : r: gflgflgfl bmmi uamotl r • t** • w •*•«•••••>• . fflU! n'.'.-.’.tv.i'.i'.v.y : i::V ::: 888888888 mss .. ■ : aaMBKBM22101731612 ■ IV/L/V*I\II 1 , I .U. JMed K10224MRS. C. S. PEEL’S COOK-BOOKS ENTREES MADE EASYThe Simplified Series of Cook-Books By MRS. C. S. PEEL Price Is. each. No. I. ENTREES MADE EASY. No. II. PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. No. III. SAVOURIES SIMPLIFIED. No. IV. STILL ROOM COOKERY: RECIPES OLD AND NEW. OTHERS IN PREPARATION. EACH of these books contain a large number of recipes, simplified so as to avoid unnecessary extravagance either in labour or material. The volumes are arranged on the same plan as 10a. a Head for House Books and The Single-handed Cook, both of which volumes have proved extremely popular. For example, in “Entrees” the cook is first instructed in detail how to prepare a cutlet, and when this preliminary is mastered, she is shown in terse, clear fashion how to prepare a variety of dishes in which cutlets are the chief ingredient. ENTREES MADE EASY. Contexts.—I. General Introduction.—II. Cutlets, Noisettes and Fillets. —III. Souffles, Mousses, Creams, etc.—IV. Casseroles, Stews, etc.—V. Re- chauff6s, Hashes, etc.—VI. Recliauffgs (con.), Minces, Rissoles, etc.—VII. Cold Entries.—VIII. Odds and Ends. PUDDINGS AND SWEETS. Contents.—I. Pastry and Puddings made with Pastry.—II. Puddings Baked, Boiled and Steamed.—III. Souffles, Pancakes, Fritters, etc.—I V. Custards and Creams.—V. Jellies and Sponges.—VI. Various Sweets. SAVOURIES SIMPLIFIED. Contents.—I. General Introduction.—II. Savoury Toasts and Croutes. —III. Cases, Croustades, Tartlets, etc.—IV. Egg Savouries.—V. Cheese Savouries.—VI. Various Savouries.—VII, Cold Savouries. STILL ROOM COOKERY. Contents.—I. Tea, Coffee, Chocolate, etc.—II. Bread, Cakes, Scones and Biscuits.—HI. Cups, Summer Drinks, Home-made Wines and Liqueurs. IV. Jams, Fruit Jellies, Cheeses, Syrups, and Preserved Fruits.—V. Pickles, Vinegars and Essences.—VI. Toilet Recipes. MRS. C. S. PEEL’S BOOKS ON HOUSEHOLD MANAGEMENT THE NEW HOME. How to Furnish on Small Incomes. With many Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d. TEN SHILLINGS A HEAD PER WEEK FOR HOUSE BOOKS. A Manual for the Economical Housekeeper. Containing a large number of Recipes. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. HOW TO KEEP HOUSE. Crown 8vo. 3a. 6d. THE SINGLE-HANDED COOK. More Recipes, Menus, etc. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.MRS. C. S. PEEL’S COOK-BOOKS ENTREES MADE EASY BY MRS. C. S. PEEL Author of “ 10/- a Head for House Books,” “ The Single- handed Cook,” “ How to Keep House,” and “ The New Home ” LONDON ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE & CO LtdThere 1 here is no such thing as high-class cooking, merely good cooking and bad cooking, and the former generally the most simple. WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Cal! No. QTCONTENTS CHAPTER I PAGE General Introduction ..... 7 CHAPTER II Cutlets, Noisettes, and Fillets . . .18 CHAPTER III Souffles, Mousses and Creams, etc. . . 31 CHAPTER IV Casseroles, Stews, etc. . . . .41 CHAPTER V Rechauffes, Hashes, etc . . . .52 CHAPTER VI Rechauffes (con.), Minces, Rissoles, etc. . 64 CHAPTER VII Cold Entrees . . . . . .77 CHAPTER VIII Odds and Ends ...... 88 O7 ENTREES MADE EASY CHAPTER I GENERAL INTRODUCTION Nowadays, although we still pride ourselves on being “ true-born Britons,” we do not think it necessary to rest one of our claims to this title on a love for the heavy dinners of our fore- fathers. Seriously, people have begun fully to realize that, even in a household of quite modest pretensions, there is no necessity for going without the daintinesses of life, and that even the “ Single-Handed Cook ” is quite capable, with a little thought, of turning out a dinner which does not entirely depend on the plain “ roast or boiled ” of that worthy, though stolid, individual the “ plain cook.” If it could onlyENTREES MADE EASY 8 be impressed on people that, for ordinary occa- sions, one dish of fresh meat was quite suffi- cient for the piece de resistance, making up the other meat course of the dinner with re- chauffes, a great stride would be made both towards economy and excellence. Of course it must be fully understood that these entrees do not mean in any sense an indiscriminate mixture of scraps and sauces of all kinds, nor an extravagant use of expensive accessories such as truffles, foie gras, etc. If we would only realize that “ high class cookery ” simply means making the best of the means and materials at the disposal of the cook, and that the greatest chef will expend as much care on the proper cooking of a chop as he will on the creation of some such dish as Parjait de Foie Gras, this form of cookery would not be looked upon as something quite beyond the reach of the average human being. And indeed there should be no such term as high-class cookery ; properly there are only two kinds of cookery—good and bad. The great secret in garnishing is to use only those things which are really edible, and which in truth really belong to the dish. For example,GENERAL INTRODUCTION 9 with stewed cutlets, a very favourite dish, simply garnish it with the vegetables with which it has been cooked, cutting these up into neat pieces, and just tossing them in a little butter and sugar, to glaze them. When croutons of bread are required, take care that they are all cut the same size, and fried a delicate brown, when they may be either used plain, or spread with some savoury butter, such as anchovy butter, etc. ; or the remains of the green butter in last night’s savoury may be used up in this way. Rissoles and croquettes are things which should never be very large, and should be care- fully shaped, well drained, and served with fried parsley. Mutton cutlets too should be neatly arranged in a circle round a mound of mashed potatoes, or vegetables, the bones having been scraped quite clean and cut to the same length. Fillets of beef can either be served on a wall of mashed potato or vegetables, or on croutons. Rechauffes, again, are a very important factor in entrees, especially the more homely ones, such as hashes, etc. And a rechauffe certainly does not mean that the meat is cooked again, but simply carefully reheated in the proper gravy or sauce.ENTREES MADE EASY It is well to remember, if a dinner will perhaps have to wait, that such things as hashes, stews, casseroles, hotpots, and curries are the best to order, as any or all of these will bear being kept hot, as long as they are allowed to soak in their own gravy, and on no account allowed to recook. In fact, such things as curry and hashes are better for being reheated a second time. Any- thing that is to be served hot, must be sent very hot to table on a properly heated dish, and the plates too must be sent up hot. For ordinary household purposes it is not necessary to give a long list of the many sauces, but it is essential that the four foundation sauces should be thoroughly well mastered, and then they can be varied to suit the different flavourings required. Brown and white roux are the foundations of all sauces, and may be kept for a day or two. White Roux. Melt 4 oz. of butter very slowly in an ab- solutely clean pan ; then sprinkle into this 4 oz. of fine, dried, sifted flour, a little at a time, stirring it till it forms a smooth, even, rather ioGENERAL INTRODUCTION II thick paste, which will take from 12 to 15 minutes. If, however, it is to be used at once, it only needs to be cooked from 8 to 10 minutes, as it gets the extra cooking when added to the sauce. It is a very useful thing to have by one, as then almost any white sauce may be made in a few minutes. Brown Roux. This is made exactly like the last recipe, except that the butter and flour are stirred over a slow fire until they are a light cafe au lait colour ; but this must be done very slowly, as otherwise the roux will burn, and become bitter. It can be kept just like white roux. VeloutS (Hot). Make a white roux with 2 oz. of flour and 2 oz. of butter (if less flour is sprinkled in, it makes the sauce richer), then pour in very gradually | pint of white or light stock, and stir it all together over the fire, allowing it to boil for about 10 minutes, so as to ensure its being free from allENTREES MADE EASY 12 lumps. Pour it all through a strainer into a hot sauce boat, and flavour with 2 or 3 drops of lemon juice, and some white pepper. Melted butter is made in exactly the same way, only using water or milk instead of the stock. Brown Sauce (Hot). Made exactly as above, only using brown roux and dark brown stock. Espagnole Sauce (Hot). Fry together 1| oz. butter, oz. flour, a sliced tomato, a sliced onion, and a small slice of lean ham, then add gradually a full \ pint of good brown stock ; boil it all together for about 15 minutes, pass it through a sieve, add about l gill of sherry, skim well, and boil up till reduced about a fourth part. Bechamel Sauce (Hot). Make a white roux with 2 oz. fresh butter, and 1£ oz. dried, sifted flour ; then pour on toGENERAL INTRODUCTION 13 this gradually £ pint of white stock, being care- ful to allow no lumps. Have ready £ pint of milk, previously boiled with a bouquet of herbs, and a green onion, add this in the same way ; boil it all together for 12 to 15 minutes to reduce it a fourth part, when it will be thick enough to drop slowly from the spoon ; stir in 2 table- spoonsful of fresh cream and, if liked, just as the pan is lifted off the fire, stir in a little butter. A squeeze of lemon juice can be added, too, and pepper and salt. Mayonnaise Sauce (Cold). Have ready a basin, rinsed out previously in cold water, and proceed to make the sauce in as cool a place as possible. Put the yolks of 2 raw eggs in this basin with \ a saltspoonful of white pepper, a pinch of salt, | a teaspoonful of raw English mustard, and the same amount of French mustard, and, if liked, a pinch of cayenne ; work these all well together, then stir in, drop by drop, f pint of best olive oil, stirring it always the same way. When quite thick add J a teaspoonful of lemon juice, and 2 dessertspoonsful of good vinegar, and leave it in a cool place or on iceENTREES MADE EASY 14 till wanted. If in the making the sauce curdles, beat up another egg yolk, and beat the curdled sauce to this by degrees. Mayonnaise Aspic (Cold). This is very good if the mayonnaise has to be made some time before it is actually to be used. Add 3 or 4 tablespoonsful of mayonnaise to \ pint liquid aspic. If to be used as a garnish, more aspic must be added. Aspic Jelly (Cold). For every quart of hot water allow 2£ oz. of best leaf gelatine, flavour this with 2 bay leaves, salt, white pepper, and lemon juice to taste ; add to it 1 teacupful of good vinegar, 1 sliced onion, 20 peppercorns, the whites and shells of 2 eggs whipped and broken up ; bring this slowly to the boil, stirring it a little at first ; then run through a jelly bag, previously well rinsed in boiling water. If it is wanted very clear, run it through the bag twice. If only wanted as a garnish, from to 2 oz. of gelatine will be ample.GENERAL INTRODUCTION 15 Savoury Jelly (Cold). This is an excellent substitute for aspic if the flavouring of the latter is found too strong. Dissolve £ of an oz. of leaf gelatine in a diluted capsule of Maggi’s consomme (dilute it with | pint of boiling water) with 2 or 3 peppercorns, and a spoonful of tarragon vinegar. Boil it all up till the gelatine is thoroughly dissolved, then strain and use. This is excellent as a coating, or as a lining for moulds, etc. Brown Glaze (Hot). | pint of good brown stock is required for i pint of glaze. Mix 1 dessertspoonful of potato flour with a little of the cold stock till quite smooth, then add the remainder of the stock, and boil up for 3 minutes ; strain it, and keep it hot till required. This is excellent for coating cutlets, etc., when hot. Brown Glaze (Cold). Break up small any bones, cooked or raw. If raw bones are used, 1 lb. will be required for ^ pint of glaze ; but the bones of a leg orENTREES MADE EASY 16 shoulder of mutton or a joint of beef are quite enough for this amount. Cover with cold water put on the lid, and boil for 2 or 3 hours. Strain, allow them to get cold, then skim off all the fat ; boil up again, clear with the crushed shell of 1 egg, strain through clean muslin, add a drop or so of caramel (i.e. burnt sugar). Use when just beginning to set, but do not allow it to become lumpy. If cooked bones are used, you will have to add 2 or 3 sheets of gelatine for the £ pint of glaze. Soak the gelatine in cold water, drain this off, and add to the glaze after it has been skimmed. If raw bones are used, you will not require gelatine. To Fry Parsley (Hot). Pick, wash, and dry the parsley thoroughly. Have ready some hot fat from which a very pale blue vapour is beginning to rise, drop in the parsley, only leaving it long enough just to crisp. Drain on apiece of kitchen paper in front of the fire. Frying Batter. Whip 2 eggs, and mix in with them about 2 tablespoonsful of flour (enough, that is, to makeGENERAL INTRODUCTION 13 17 a stiff batter) ; then add slowly to this J of a pint of milk, and salt and pepper to taste ; cover and leave it for 1 or 2 hours. Anything that is to be fried must be quite dry before it is dipped in this. To Marinade Meat. It is well worth the trouble to marinade fillets of beef, mutton cutlets, and such like, especially if the meat is not very tender, and rather dry. Put into a plate 1 gill of salad oil, | gill of vinegar, 1 small shallot, a sliced onion, 1 bay leaf, 4 or 5 cloves, 8 peppercorns, 1 saltspoonful of salt, a strip of thinly pared lemon rind, 1 or 2 sprays of parsley and thyme, and leave the meat to soak in this for an hour upwards.18 CHAPTER II CUTLETS, NOISETTES, AND FILLETS Cutlets are always looked upon as a great standby, and when at lier wits’ end, the unfor- tunate housekeeper proposes cutlets with a sigh of relief. But although a very everyday dish, it is by no means one that is always pro- perly prepared. There is really quite an art in trimming a cutlet, but once thoroughly grasped it presents but few difficulties. First of all when ordering cutlets, always see that the neck of mutton is properly hung, and have the chine bone (that is the top of the ribs) removed by the butcher, as then the joint can easily be divided into cutlets by the cook cutting half- way between each bone with a sharp, strong knife. If however the neck is a large one, the line of the bone should be followed, allowing a small margin all round, and thus leavingCUTLETS, NOISETTES, AND FILLETS 19 a boneless piece of meat between every two cutlets. There are always seven cutlets in a neck of mutton, and, therefore, if more than this number are required, the boneless pieces of meat must also be trimmed, and served alternately with the cutlets proper. Take each cutlet separately, place it on a wetted meat board, and with a wetted knife, or even a wetted rolling pin, beat it carefully into shape, so as to make the meat level with the bone, then trim off all superfluous fat and skin ; put the point of the knife in just where the lean meat really ends, cut right down to the bone, cutting away everything down to the tip, and scrape the bone quite clean. When the cutlets are all trimmed, cut the bones to equal length ; they are then ready to be cooked. But as well as neck cutlets there are the loin cutlets or noisettes, which are certainly juicier, but require even more careful trimming to make them dainty, and not simply unappetizing- looking chops. Remove the meat whole from the loin, and divide this into cutlets of the desired thickness. If the loin has been already jointed, free each cutlet from the bone; in either case trim off all superfluous fat, rollENTREES MADE EASY 20 and fasten with a skewer ; this skewer is taken out before serving. Sometimes the bones are removed from the cutlet proper, when they, too, are served as noisettes. Never on any account order ready trimmed chops or cutlets from the butcher. This is a most extravagant course ; instead order the whole loin or neck, as the scrag end answers admirably for haricot, Irish stew, hot-pot, Scotch broth, etc. Lamb cutlets are treated in exactly the same way as mutton cutlets. Veal cutlets and noisettes are usually cut from the fillet of veal, and should not be larger than a five-shilling piece, though the best end of the neck can be used just as with mutton. Fillets of beef, properly speaking, are cut from the “ fillet ” or undercut of the sirloin, but in practice rump steak or even ordinary steak, if it is really tender, is often used, and cut into the desired shape, when they are served as fillets a la so-and-so, grenadins, tournedos, or even noisettes. Fillets of chicken or game are obtained by removing the whole of the breast on each side of the breast bone, cutting the flesh thus obtained into neat pieces as uniform in size as possible,CUTLETS, NOISETTES, AND FILLETS 21 but for ordinary occasions the flesh from any part may be trimmed neatly, and served as fillets. Nowadays, too, fillets of chicken can be obtained in bottles. Hare and rabbit fillets are cut from the flesh running on either side of the backbone. Pork cutlets are obtained from the best end of the neck, trimmed neatly, with a margin of about | an inch of fat all round. Fillets or Cutlets, to Lard. Cut some strips of fat bacon of a size to fit into the large end of the larding needle ; push the point of the needle into the meat (holding the other end firmly), about inches deep, and bring out the point about 2 inches away, draw it through, leaving a piece of bacon at each end, take the next piece through about 1 inch apart, and so on. Trim the ends of the bacon evenly. Cutlets Saut6s (Hot). Have ready a well-buttered saute or frying pan, lay the cutlets in this, taking care not to let them touch one another, pour a little wineENTREES MADE EASY 22 or stock over them, season with pepper and salt, cover with a buttered paper, place the pan on a clear fire, turn occasionally. They may be cooked in a buttered tin in the oven, but in this case they require more stock, should be covered with a buttered paper, and great care must be taken to prevent their being dried up. Stewed Cutlets (Hot). Grease a pan well, and line it with sliced vegetables, a small slice of ham, or bacon, and pepper and salt to taste. Lay the cutlets in this, and let them fry for a minute or so until the vegetables begin to brown ; then pour in just enough stock to cover them, cover up the pan, and simmer slowly for about 1 hour. Serve with their own gravy strained, thickened, and freed from fat. Or they can be arranged on a pile of cooked carrot, and the gravy poured round them. Fried Cutlets (Hot). Egg and breadcrumb some cutlets, and fry in clarified fat for about 15 minutes. Let them drain, and serve on a hot dish on a border of mashed potato, tomato, French beans, or in fact anything you please.CUTLETS, NOISETTES, AND FILLETS 23 Cutlets en Papillotes (Hot). Spread some trimmed cutlets with a puree of foie gras, potted ham, or even a puree of mush- rooms, onion, tomato, etc. Ojl some oval pieces of kitchen paper, fold one neatly over each cutlet and broil. Serve the cutlets in their papers. Spiced Cutlets (Hot). Have ready some cutlets. Mix together 4 tablespoonsful of bread crumbs, 1 tablespoonful of minced savoury herbs, 1 tablespoonful of parsley, the same of minced shallot, 1 saltspoon- ful grated lemon peel, and pepper and salt to taste. Dip the cutlets in clarified dripping, then into beaten egg yolk, and finally into the mixed bread crumbs, etc. Fry a nice golden brown, and serve with good brown sauce. Fricasseed Cutlets (Hot). Flour some mutton cutlets lightly. Fry a sliced Spanish onion, and 3 or 4 tomatoes seasoned with pepper and salt ; then put in the cutlets and fry till nicely browned ; remove them, place in another saucepan with the tomatoes. Strain the gravy from the onions, etc., thicken withENTREES MADE EASY 24 a little Hour, and cook for 10 minutes. Have ready some nicely boiled rice, pile this up in the centre of the dish, arrange the cutlets round it, and pour the gravy over them. Mutton Cutlet for an Invalid (Hot). Cut 3 nice cutlets, trimming one especially carefully, tie all three together, letting the two outer ones project rather. Broil over a clear fire till the 2 outer ones are burnt; the middle cutlet will then be ready, and may be served with a little potato snow, or spinach or artichoke puree. Cutlets a la Reform (Hot). Have ready some fresh breadcrumbs and finely chopped ham ; season the cutlets with pepper and salt, dip in beaten egg, cover well with the breadcrumbs and ham ; fry in oil or a little butter. Meanwhile cut into neat strips 1 slice of ham, the white of 1 hard-boiled egg, some gherkins, a truffle or some mushrooms ; heat these in a pan with a little good stock ; drain the cutlets and serve in a circle round the strips of ham, etc., with Reform Sauce.CUTLETS, NOISETTES, AND FILLETS 25 Reform Sauce (Hot). Melt a piece of butter, add to this 1 teaspoon- ful of flour, and stir till it just begins to brown slightly ; add in 1 gill of good stock, 2 or 3 cloves, 3 or 4 peppercorns, a very small slice of tongue, a sprig of parsley, and a bay leaf, and season with salt. Boil this sauce for 10 minutes, skim well, then add a small wineglassful of port ; boil well for 10 minutes more, strain, and pour over the cutlets. Nowadays almost any good sauce is used, flavoured with currant jelly and Worcester Sauce for this purpose. Cutlets ci la Soubise (Hot). Broil some cutlets, and serve on a wall of mashed potato with Soubise sauce. Soubise Sauce (Hot). Blanch 2 medium onions in salted boiling water, drain them and chop up finely. Put this on again with 1 oz. of butter or well clarified dripping, and cook till quite tender,' but do not let it colour. Take the pan off the fire, stir in 2 gills of Bechamel sauce, boil up, skimming it well.ENTREES MADE EASY 26 Boil it up again to reduce it, then pass it through a sieve, reheat, adding at the last, if liked, a spoonful of cream, as this improves the whiteness of the sauce. Cutlets & la Bretonne (Hot). The same as above, only the sauce is allowed to colour. These cutlets can be served in a variety of ways by simply varying the sauces and garnishes. For example: Cutlets d la Financtere (Hot) are simply broiled or breadcrumbed cutlets served with a Financiere garnish which can be bought from Cosenza & Co., Wigmore Street, Cavendish Square, in bottles. Veal Cutlets (Hot). Dip some neatly trimmed veal cutlets in egg and breadcrumb, fry a golden brown, and serve on a wall of mashed potatoes, with nicely fried rolls of bacon, and a good sauce poured round them, made by diluting some brown roux with stock made from the veal trimmings.CUTLETS, NOISETTES, AND FILLETS 27 Veal Cutlets au Gratin (Hot). Sprinkle some eutlets on both sides with salt and pepper. Meanwhile mince finely a slice of bacon, a shallot, a little tarragon, and parsley, mix it all well together with a raw egg. Spread this farce on to each cutlet, and brush over with some egg yolk. Butter a baking dish liberally, and sprinkle it with breadcrumbs, pepper, and salt. Place the cutlets in this together with | gill each of stock and claret, and bake till nicely cooked when the stock, etc., will have been almost all absorbed. Veal Cutlets A la Milanaise (Hot). Sprinkle some veal cutlets with salt and pepper, dip them into oiled butter, and then into grated parmesan cheese and breadcrumbs, mixed in equal proportions, and seasoned with pepper and salt. Allow this to set, then repeat the process, only using egg yolk instead of butter, and fry in boiling fat. Meanwhile boil some macaroni, drain well, and cut it up rather small, then add to it a good lump of butter, a pinch of freshly ground black pepper, salt to taste, the yolk of an egg, sufficient tomatoENTREES MADE EASY 28 sauce to colour it nicely, but not to make it too red, add enough grated cheese to flavour it rather strongly, toss it all over the fire till quite hot, stirring it all the time, then heap it in the centre of a hot dish, and arrange the cutlets round it. Pork Cutlets (Hot). Cut as many cutlets as you want from the best end of the neck, and trim them. Broil well over a clear fire for 15 to 18 minutes, as they must be well cooked, and serve with tomato, apple, or any rather sharp, hot sauce. If liked, too, they may be marinaded first in oil with pepper and salt, and chopped parsley sprinkled over them ; leave them in this for about \ hour, turning them over 2 or 3 times. Vienna Steak (Hot). Take £ lb. of tender steak, mince it very fine, season with pepper, salt and coralline pepper, and very finely minced chives. Roll it out, and shape into little cakes ; saute them gently for 10 minutes in well-clarified dripping, and serve with a good brown sauce, and a little horseradish butter on each.CUTLETS, NOISETTES, AND FILLETS 29 Grenadins of Beef (Hot). Cut some undercut, or tender steak, into neat rounds and lard these. Have ready a good brown stock thickened with roux, season with a little Worcester sauce, a few drops of wine, an anchovy, and some olive trimmings. Lightly brown the larded fillets in butter or dripping, and then put them in this sauce, and let them simmer for 30 minutes. Serve very hot, with the gravy strained over and round them. (To Lard, see page 21.) Fillets of Beef with Oyster Sauce (Hot). Cook some fillets of beef in the oven in a well-buttered baking dish, with a squeeze of lemon juice, and covered with a buttered paper. Serve in a circle with a good oyster sauce in the centre. Fillets of Beef with Anchovies (Hot). Marinade the fillets of beef (see p. 17) then fry them in well clarified dripping on both sides. Fry some slices of fat cut to the same size as the fillets. Drain the fillets, and serve on a hot dish with a slice of fat between each, with the follow-ENTREES MADE EASY 30 ing sauce :—Pound some well-washed and boned anchovies, and pass them through a sieve ; then add this to 2 gills of veloute, heat it all together, and just before serving, strain in the yolk of 1 egg, off the fire. (For Veloute, seepage 11.)CHAPTER III SOUFFLES, MOUSSES AND CREAMS, ETC. Once the fundamental principles of souffles, etc., are fully understood, there is no reason why the ordinary cook should not undertake these dishes quite well; a true cook feels pleased to be able to turn out little dishes which are dainty, and rather out of the ordinary run of everyday work, and which do away with the necessity of calling in the aid of the local con- fectioner when a small dinner is decided on. The proportions for souffles are almost in- variably the same, that is just over £ pint of thick sauce and 3 to 4 eggs, to 4 oz. of the meat puree. For the Sauce or Panade. Stir together over the fire 1 oz. of butter, and 3iENTREES MADE EASY 32 1 oz. of fine sifted flour, letting it cook for 4 or 5 minutes till perfectly blended, stirring all the time ; when thoroughly mixed, begin to add the stock (or milk or water according to the in- gredients of the souffle) gradually, stirring well to prevent lumps forming, and drawing it off the fire each time the liquid is added, only returning it when all the lumps have been stirred out of it. Then let it boil for 5 minutes. When this is made, mix in whatever meat, fish, etc., you intend using (off the fire), then add the yolks of the 3 eggs, beating each one well in before adding the next ; just at the last stir in the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs. A souffle can be either steamed or baked in a moderate oven ; in the former case it must be covered with a buttered paper. The souffle tin must always be well greased, and only half filled, as the mixture rises enormously in cooking ; to prevent its running over a band of white paper must be fastened tightly round the tin, standing up about 2 inches above the upper edge. If you have an oven indicator the proper heat at which to put in a souffle is 360°. Of course the temperature falls a little when the door is opened, but it soon rises again.SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, AND CREAMS 33 c Mousses. A mousse is simply a very light form of souffle, the mixture being the same, save that just at the last, before turning it into the souffle tin, an extra egg is added, together with 3 or 4 spoons- ful of stiffly whipped cream. It requires, how- ever, extra steaming, and has to be turned out very carefully, as it is more liable to collapse because of the extra lightness. General Directions for Making Meat Cream6s. These are rather more solid, than souffles and mousses, and can be made in several ways :— (1) Entirely with cream in the proportions of 1 pint of thick cream to | lb. of raw meat pulp. This has to be cooked, and turned out very care- fully. (2) \ lb. of meat pulp to \ pint of cream, 1 gill of sauce, and 2 eggs. (3) \ lb. of meat to | pint of sauce, and 1 or 2 eggs. This last being of course much the simplest and most economical. In any case they are cooked in exactly the same way. The meat should first be minced very finely, rubbed through a wire sieve to make it quite smooth, and then weighed ; if cream is added, it must first be whipped to the consist-ENTREES MADE EASY 34 ency of the cream sold in jars, or this latter may be used instead. The eggs are added to the meat without any previous beating, and before the sauce is added. The sauce is made in the pro- portions of 2 oz. each of butter and fine sifted flour to 2 gills of whatever liquid is used. For this, too, the mould must be well buttered, and only three-quarters filled, as the cream rises, though not to the same extent as a souffle, and must rest on, and be covered with greased paper. In cooking souffles, etc., if they are baked, great care must be taken not to open the oven door too soon, or on any account to slam it. If they are steamed, place the tin in which the souffle or mousse, etc., is, on a double folded piece of paper in a pan, and pour boiling water to three-quarters of the way up the tin, cover the souffle with a buttered paper, and then put on the lid, only taking it off once, about 10 minutes later, to see if it is slowly rising. These dishes made in the above proportions take about 30 minutes to bake or steam. They are cooked if the centre feels firm to the touch. All this class of dishes are spoiled by waiting, and should be served directly they are turned out.SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, AND CREAMS 35 Quenelles (Hot). These are easier to make than souffles or creams. Pound together 4 oz. of panade, £ lb. raw pulped meat (weighed after sieving), 1 oz. fresh butter, 1 whole raw egg, and 1 tablespoon- ful of thick cream or white sauce, working these three in at the last, until it is all of the con- sistency of pate de foie gras. Season with pepper, salt, a very little lemon juice, and if liked some coralline pepper. Have ready either 1 large or several small well-buttered moulds, which may be plain or decorated according to taste, rather overfill these moulds with the mixture, and round into a dome shape with a hot wet knife. To make the mixture settle properly, strike the mould 2 or 3 times on the edge of the table whilst filling. They are generally poached as follows :—Place the moulds on a greased paper in rather a shallow pan, and pour enough boiling water round them just to cover them, draw the pan to the side of the fire, and keep the water simmering steadily for 15 to 20 minutes^ taking care the water does not boil again, as this will spoil the quenelles. If you have no quenelle moulds, shape the mixture with 2 spoons dippedENTREES MADE EASY 36 in hot water, and slide the shapes into the buttered pan and poach as before. For the Panade. Put | oz. of butter into a pan with 1 gill of milk, water or stock, and bring it to the boil, then add 2 oz. of sifted flour and stir it all to- gether over the fire till it is thick enough to roll into a ball; draw it to the side of the stove, still keeping it on a fairly hot part, however, and let it cook for a few minutes longer, stirring it occasionally to prevent its burning, till the flour is thoroughly cooked. Cooked meat may be used for either souffles, mousses, creams, and quenelles quite successfully for ordinary occasions but of course the result is not quite so delicate. Whatever meat is used, pass it through a mincer 3 or 4 times, pound in a mortar, then pass through a wire sieve, using a little stock or cream to moisten it. For every- day use quite good results are achieved by simply mincing and pounding it. Remember the great secret of success with quenelles is to be sure that the water simmers only when poaching them, otherwise they become tough, and honey- combed in appearance.SOUFFLES, MOUSSES, AND CREAMS 37 Chicken Souffle (Hot). Made exactly as described in the general directions for souffles, using 1 gill of chicken stock for the panade, and when this is thoroughly blended, adding \ gill of cream, boil up again, then mix in the 4 oz. of chicken puree, made from the remains of the breast of a boiled chicken. Put it in the prepared souffle case, and bake ; if small souffle cases are used, bake for 15 minutes. Souffle a la Bourgeoise (Hot). This is excellent for using up any scraps. Make the sauce with 1 gill of beef or mutton gravy, according to whether you use roast beef or mutton ; if this is not at hand, use 1 gill of water flavoured with Worcester sauce, or any other flavoured sauce to taste. Mix in the minced meat and eggs, and finish as before. Game Souffles (Hot). Pound and sieve 4 oz. of any cold, cooked game, and mix it with the panade prepared with 1 gill of good brown stock (made from the bonesENTREES MADE EASY 38 and trimmings of the birds), then add the eggs. Have ready the souffle cases, fill with the mix- ture, and bake for 10 to 15 minutes. Turn out and serve. Hare Mousse (Hot). Chop and pound 1 lb. of raw hare, add to it 3 oz. of finely chopped fried bacon and 2 oz. of ham, mix in 3 egg yolks, and \ gill of cream ; rub it all through a sieve, and mix with it enough reduced Espagnole sauce to make a very light puree, season with pepper and salt, put into a buttered mould, and steam for 45 minutes, then turn out and serve. Rabbit Cream (Hot). Make a cream mixture as directed with 8 oz. of rabbit pulp, 1 or 2 eggs, and \ pint of sauce made with the stock from the rabbit bones. Fill the buttered mould and steam for 30 minutes. Rabbit Quenelles (Hot). Make a quenelle mixture with rabbit, fill aSOUFFLES, MOUSSES, AND CREAMS 39 mould with this, steam, and serve with any sauce to taste. Dutch Quenelle (Hot). Make a quenelle mixture with meat, game or chicken, according to what you have. Line a mould with thin slices of fat bacon, fill it with the quenelle mixture, and poach as described ; turn out, remove the bacon carefully, brush the quenelle over with glaze, and serve with any brown sauce to taste. Quenelles de Volailles aux Champignons (Hot). Make a smooth quenelle mixture of chicken, shape the quenelles with 2 spoons, scoop out a little from each, and fill up this space with a mushroom ragout, cover over again, and finish as usual. Mousses of Beef (Hot). Mince, pound, and rub through a sieve sufficient raw beef to produce 4 oz. of meat pulp, mix this with a good thick, brown sauce and a table- spoonful of cream, pepper and salt, the yolks of 4 eggs (if liked a spoonful of sherry may beENTREES MADE EASY 40 added), and the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs at the last. Put this into a prepared mould or moulds ; if the latter, steam for 15 minutes, turn out and serve with a good rich sauce. If one mould is used, steam for 30 minutes.CHAPTER IV CASSEROLES, STEWS, ETC. Casserole in some shape or form is becoming every day a more popular disli, and not without good reason. One of its great advantages is that it does not spoil by being kept waiting, but can be put into a cool oven just to keep hot, without allowing it to cook ; in fact, some people say it is better to let it steep like this in its own gravy. Then, again, it is an excellent way of cooking such things as rather old fowls, or game which would be too tough to eat in the ordinary way, and for the economical housewife this is a great consideration, as a “ soup ” fowl can be ordered at considerably less cost than the ordi- nary chicken, and the stewing, if long enough and done slowly enough, makes it quite tender and most appetising. The casserole dish itself is a fireproof, earthenware pan with a cover. 4iENTREES MADE EASY 42 Casserole of Chicken (Hot). Truss a fowl as for roasting ; put into a casserole 1| oz. of butter or clarified dripping ; let this melt, then put in the fowl with about £ lb. of ham or bacon (not too fat), cut up rather small, a bunch of herbs, a sliced carrot, 2 or 3 green onions, and a few peppercorns, and fry it all together till the fowl is nicely browned, turning it once or twice, and basting it. Pour off all superfluous fat, and put in \ gill of light white wine and 1 gill of good stock ; cover down the pan, and keep it simmering gently either in the oven or at the side of the fire for 1£ to 2 hours. Then take it out, cut up the fowl and keep it hot ; meanwhile, remove all the fat from the gravy, take out the herbs, and add another gill of stock, and if liked, 1 tablespoonful more wine ; boil it all up, put in the cut up fowl, and heat it up again thoroughly before serving. Serve in the casserole on a dish, with a napkin folded round. If liked, the fowl can first be cut into neat joints, and then cooked in exactly the same way. Rabbit is excellent treated in this way. Of course the amount of cooking this dish requires depends entirely on the ageCASSEROLES, STEWS, ETC. 43 of the bird ; if a young bird is cut up raw 40 to 45 minutes will be quite sufficient. Rabbit may be cooked in exactly the same way. Duck en Casserole (Hot). Cut up the duck into neat joints, having fried these as before in clarified dripping, put them into the casserole with some good gravy made from the giblets and carcase. Cover down and simmer slowly in the oven or by the side of the fire for 1J hours altogether. When about half cooked, add in a little more gravy ; and when cooked, strain off the gravy, skim off all fat, and pour it over the duck again. Beef en Casserole (Hot). Cut up 2 lb. of beefsteak, or stewing steak, and fry it in about 1 oz. of clarified dripping or butter, till nicely browned ; take out the meat, and fry an onion, cut in slices, till nicely browned, then put in about 1 tablespoonful of flour, and pepper and salt to taste ; brown this, and pour in about 1 pint of stock. Put the beef into a casserole with a bunch of herbs, 1 carrot cut up,ENTREES MADE EASY 44 and an onion stuffed with 1 or 2 cloves ; pour the gravy on to this, and stew for 2 to 3 hours very slowly ; just before serving skim off all super- fluous fat. Serve in the casserole in which it was cooked. Hot Pot of Mutton (Hot). Cut up about lb. of loin of mutton into neat chops. Meanwhile, arrange a layer of par- boiled sliced potatoes at the bottom of a hot- pot dish or a tin (such as is used for baked Irish stew), then lay in the meat seasoned to taste with salt and pepper, and about 1 sheep’s kidney cut up, then some sliced onions sprinkled with a little parsley, finishing up with the potatoes cut rather thicker ; pour in enough stock to just reach about half way, and bake for 2 to 21 hours. Send to table in the dish in which it was cooked. The best end of the neck of mutton can be used for this, but for an econo- mical dish use the scrag, etc., cut up into as neat pieces as possible. Haricot Mutton or Navarin (Hot). Cut some mutton (the neck) into neat pieces,CASSEROLES, STEWS, ETC. 45 put them into a stewpan with a little butter or clarified dripping, and let them get a nice brown ; then sprinkle in about 1 tablespoonful of flour, and let this become rather a darker brown ; then pour in about 1 pint of stock if at hand, or, if not, the same amount of hot water, pepper and salt to taste, and a bunch of herbs. Put the lid on, and boil gently. Meanwhile, cut up some turnips into slices, and 1 carrot, and fry these in butter with just a pinch of sugar till brown ; take them out carefully, draining them, and put them in with the meat, and leave it all to simmer for 1 hour more. Then serve on a very hot dish, and arrange the turnips round it; get rid of as much of the fat as possible from the gravy, heat this up again, and pour it through a colander on to the meat (heat the colander first of all with hot water). Hot-Pot of Rabbit (Hot). Cut a rabbit into neat joints, put it in a stew- pan with a little hot fat, onion, and a bay leaf. Cook it a delicate brown, put it into a casserole dish, cover with stock, and simmer for 1 hourENTREES MADE EASY 46 gently in the oven. Strain off the stock, remove all the fat, make a good gravy, thickening it ; put it back, and add a few slices of cooked sausages. Re-heat, and serve. Stewed Rabbit (Hot). Cut a rabbit into joints ; cut 2 or 3 oz. of rather fat bacon into small pieces ; melt 2 oz. of butter or clarified dripping in a stewpan, then put in the bacon and fry for 3 minutes, take it out, and put in the rabbit joints, and leave till nicely browned, turning them occasionally with a fork ; then sprinkle in a tablespoonful of fine flour, stir well, and pour in £ pint of stock or hot water, put the bacon in again, add a wineglass- ful of light white wine, pepper and salt to taste, and 1 large onion and a bunch of herbs (a spray or two of parsley, some thyme, and 1 small bay leaf all tied together), cover down the stew pan closely to prevent the steam escaping, and simmer gently for 1| hours. Turn the pieces once or twice very quickly, and shake the stew- pan occasionally to prevent anything sticking to the bottom, and burning. Five minutes beforeCASSEROLES, STEWS, ETC. 47 serving it, put in the liver cut into four. Serve neatly, with the gravy poured all over and round. Irish Stew (Hot). Cut into neat pieces 3 lb. of neck of mutton, trimming off all fat ; peel and cut in slices about 5 lb. of potatoes, slice 4 onions rather thickly ; put a layer of potatoes at the bottom of a stew- pan, then a layer of mutton and onions mixed, seasoning to taste with pepper and salt ; continue these until the pan is full. Pour over it all 1 pint of hot water, cover down the pan closely, and cook it slowly but steadily for 2\ hours, shaking the pan occasionally to prevent anything sticking to the bottom and burning, but do not take off the cover until cooked. Cape Brady (Hot). Cut up 2 lb. of loin of mutton (breast or scrag will do), and fry this in clarified dripping till a nice brown with 2 onions cut up small, taking care it does not burn. Next put in 12 to 14 tomatoes, and if not quite ripe add a small teaspoonful of sugar, a quarter of a redENTREES MADE EASY 48 chili. Stew this all together till the meat is cooked, and there is a nice thick gravy. If the tomatoes are very watery, let it stew for a few minutes uncovered, to thicken it. Fowl en Daube (Hot or Cold). Truss an old fowl as for boiling, stuffing it first to taste, with sausage meat, etc., and placing a thin slice of bacon over the breast ; then wrap it in buttered paper. Put into a pan rather a deep layer of carrots, celery, onion, sliced, a bunch of herbs, 1 or 2 slices of lean bacon, the giblets, and 2 or 3 scraped rinds of bacon ; season with salt and pepper, and about 1 pint, or rather less, of good stock; add the juice of a lemon, and a small tumblerful of sherry and water. Cover down closely, bring to the boil, then simmer slowly till cooked, turning it once or twice. It will take at least 2 hours ; of course the older it is the more cooking will the fowl require, and the slower it is cooked the better it will be. It may be eaten cold. If to be eaten hot, take off the paper and bacon, put it in a baking tin, with some of its own gravy, and leave it in theCASSEROLES, STEWS, ETC, 49 c> oven for about 7 or 8 minutes, basting it well all the time. This is excellent next day if the remains are cut up, and heated again in their own liquor. Jugged Hare (Hot). Skin, clean, and wash a hare, cut it into neat pieces, sprinkle these with flour, and fry them in boiling butter (or well-clarified dripping will do). Thicken 1| pints of strong stock with 1 oz. each of butter and flour fried to- gether till browned ; put this into an earthen- ware jar, and then add the pieces of hare, together with an onion stuck with 2 or 3 cloves, a bunch of herbs, half the peel of a lemon, a squeeze of lemon juice, a very small blade of mace, pepper and salt to taste ; cover the jar down tightly, put it into a stewpan with water up to the neck ; keep the water boiling all the time, and stew till the hare is cooked (about 31 hours). When almost cooked, add % pint of port wine, and a few forcemeat balls, pre- viously fried in a little butter. Serve with red currant jelly. Rabbit may be served in the same way.ENTREES MADE EASY 50 Stewed Steak (Hot). Cut up about 2 lb. of beefsteak into neat pieces, and fry these till nicely browned in clari- fied dripping. Take out the steak, fry 3 onions, 3 carrots, and 2 turnips (all cut into dice) in the fat. Then put the meat and vegetables into a sauce- pan, and cover with | pint of water, or more if necessary, and let it all simmer gently for 2£ to 3 hours. Just before it is ready, skim well, season with salt and pepper, add a tablespoonful of ketchup and thicken with 1 tablespoonful of flour, previously mixed in cold water. Then boil up for a minute or two, and serve very hot. Beef Olives (Hot or Cold). Cut slices of beef either from the lean part of the shin or from the silver side (if the former it should be hung for a few days), about 1| to 2 inches broad ; sprinkle each of the strips with either minced ham, bacon or veal stuffing flavoured with 2 or 3 drops of anchovy, season with pepper and salt, roll up tightly, and fasten securely both ends with a piece of thread, which must of course be taken away before they are served. Lay the olives in a shallow stewpan,CASSEROLES, STEWS, ETC. cover with clear brown gravy or stock, and cook gently for half an hour or more. Lift them out, add a teaspoonful of Lemco to the gravy, and sauce to flavour it, and pour this over the olives. They can also be eaten cold, in which case a little brown glaze must be added to the gravy, and before this quite sets, coat each of the olives rather thickly with this, and garnish prettily with sliced beetroot or any salad to taste. Underdone beef can be used up, but in this case of course the olives are only reheated, and not cooked again. 5i52 CHAPTER V RECHAUFFES, HASHES, ETC. To be able to prepare nice little dishes from the remains of a cold, joint, instead of sending it up cold is an art which the cook should achieve, for the using up, in a dainty form, of what are often contemptuously called “ scraps ” is a tre- mendous factor in keeping down the butcher’s bill. If only it could be impressed on people that a rechauffe by no means entails a twice- cooked dish, and one that consequently has had all the goodness drawn out of it, a great deal more variety in the daily bill of fare would be attained. Hashes are really cooked meat which has been soaked in its proper sauce or gravy and then allowed to simmer in this until quite hot ; granted attention to this, there would at once be an endRECHAUFFES, HASHES, ETC. 53 to that fearful thing called, out of politeness, a “ hash,” which in one sense it certainly is. With rechauffes of all kinds carefully remove all skin, gristle, and browned parts, and most of the fat, using these trimmings and all bones and some vegetables to make the stock. Never allow your cook on any consideration to boil or stew meat again which has already been once cooked. Strictly speaking, salmis of game or duck should be made with specially cooked birds, but in practice excellent results are obtained by using up the remains of birds in the way described for hash, only using the particular Salmi Sauce to heat it in. Then again there is the fricassee of poultry, in which case the bird, or remains of a bird, is cut into neat joints, and served usually with a white sauce. Once-cooked meat can also be used for a curry, provided the sauce is made first, and is rich, and the meat is allowed to soak in it. Then again, there are various ways of serving meat which do not strictly come under the head of hashes, but which will be treated of in this chapter.ENTREES MADE EASY 54 Hash (Hot). * Cut any cooked meat you may happen to have into neat slices, sprinkle these with a little pepper and flour, and lay them in the ready prepared sauce ; leave the meat to soak in this for sometime, heat it up just before it is wanted, very slowly, taking care it does not cook but merely becomes hot. Hashed Beef (Hot). Slice a small onion, lay it in butter or clarified dripping ; when it begins to colour, stir in a tablespoonful of flour, then add | pint of good stock, pepper and salt, a sprinkle of powdered sweet herbs, £ a wineglassful of tarragon vinegar. Boil this up for a minute or so, strain it into another saucepan, and when cold put in the meat cut into neatly trimmed slices ; leave it by the fire to get slowly hot, adding a few sliced gherkins to it just before it is ready. Hashed Mutton & la Francaise (Hot). ^ [Cut up some cold mutton into neat slices ; boil \ lb. of rice in plenty of water, then drain,RECHAUFFES, HASHES, ETC. 55 and let it dry. Heat 3 gills of rich brown sauce, put the meat into this, simmer very slowly ; add to it 4 oz. of stewed, stoned prunes, 2 oz. preserved cherries, and the rice, seasoning to taste with salt and coralline pepper. When thoroughly hot, serve. Hashed Lamb (Hot). Have ready a good white sauce (half stock and half milk), cut up some cold, cooked lamb into neat slices, soak these in this sauce for some time, then leave them to simmer very slowly at the side of the fire till quite hot. Just before servng, pour in the remains of the mint sauce, and garnish with fried croutons. Oxford Hash (Hot). Slice some cold mutton thinly to about the size of half a crown. Chop up a well-boiled onion into small pieces, lay it in a saucepan, and add to it about a gill of stock, season with pepper, salt, and, if liked, a little mace ; lay the meat in this and let it get hot, add 4 or 5 spoonsful of picalilli and a little red wine. Serve very hot with croutons of fried bread.ENTREES MADE EASY 56 Hash & la Bourgeoise (Hot). Cut some cold roast beef into dice, cut up 2 oz. of cooked ham, and 4 oz. mushrooms. Fry 2 finely chopped shallots or a small onion in butter or dripping, and the ham and mushrooms, and finally the meat, stirring it all well together for a few seconds. Pour on to this a little brown sauce, and the same of tomato sauce, season with pepper, salt, and a grate of nutmeg, and simmer very gently for £ an hour. Serve garnished with fried potatoes. Meat au Gratin (Hot). Have ready a fire-proof dish, and sprinkle this liberally with seasoned breadcrumbs, then dot little pieces of butter or dripping about (l| oz. altogether), lay in slices of meat (beef, mutton or chicken), pour some brown sauce over these, sprinkle with grated cheese and more seasoned breadcrumbs, continuing this till the dish is full, finishing with breadcrumbs and a little more butter. Bake in a sharp oven, and serve very hot.RECHAUFFES, HASHES, ETC. 57 Bubble and Squeak (Hot). ; Cut some neat slices of cold boiled salt beef, removing all fat, and fry them in a little butter or dripping for 2 or 3 minutes, taking care not to let them get in the least hard, and just warm a few slices of the fat in the oven ; keep these hot. Meanwhile boil together a cabbage and 2 fair- sized potatoes with a suspicion of onion, pepper and salt (the remains of cold cabbage and potatoes answer admirably); pass these through a sieve, mixing them well together, and working into them about 1^ oz. of dripping or butter, pepper and salt. Bake this in a hot oven for about 30 minutes. Dish this neatly, and arrange the slices of beef and fat alternately round it. Hashed Veal a la Bombay (Hot). Slice and fry an onion till of a golden brown, then take it out of the pan, putting in a spoonful or so of curry powder ; fry this also, then pour on to this \ pint of any good second stock or water, add in 1 or 2 sliced tomatoes, the onion, and 1 oz. of brown roux, letting it all simmer together at the side of the fire till the sauce is quite thick. Meanwhile blanch some stoned raisins, and whenENTREES MADE EASY 58 the sauce is ready, lay in some neatly-trimmed slices of cold roast veal together with the raisins, leave it all at the side of the stove, and let it remain there till the meat is quite hot, but on no account must it boil. Serve on a wall of nicely cooked rice, with the sauce round. Beef in Paper Cases (Hot). r — Cut some neat slices of cold roast beef, have ready some oiled oblong-shaped pieces of white paper, lay a slice of fat bacon on this, then the slice of meat seasoned with pepper and salt and a little parsley, then another slice of bacon ; fold the paper over it all, taking care to fasten it securely. Broil for rather under 15 minutes over a clear fire ; serve very hot, with sauce handed round, if liked. Any meat can be used in this way, the remains of chicken being especially good, putting a thin slice of chicken and one of tongue between the 2 slices of bacon. Moisten it with a little thick tomato puree, and cook as before. Blanquette of Veal (Hot). Really for this the veal should be specially cooked, using the tendron or gristly part of theRECHAUFFES, HASHES, ETC. 59 breast bones, but slices of cold cooked veal answer admirably. Fry some sliced onion in hot veal dripping if possible, but ordinary dripping does. When these are almost cooked, but not coloured, sprinkle in 1 tablespoonful of flour, stirring this well in ; when thoroughly mixed, pour in the requisite amount of white stock or water, season to taste with salt, pepper, a grate of nutmeg, and, if liked, a little mace ; bring this just to the boil, lay in the meat, cover down the pan, and let it simmer very gently for 15 minutes ; then lift out the meat on to a hot dish, add to the sauce a yolk of egg beaten up with a spoonful of cream or milk, and a squeeze of lemon juice ; strain this sauce very hot over the veal. Gar- nish, if liked, with fried croutons, spread with Maitre d’Hotel butter. Any white meat, such as lamb, chicken, etc., may be treated in exactly the same way. If liked, some mushroom trimmings may be cooked with the sauce, or some fried or broiled mush- rooms added as a garnish. Hashed Chicken (Hot). Cut off all the flesh from either a boiled or roasted chicken, removing all skin, and put allENTREES MADE EASY the pieces into a saucepan at the side of the fire to warm, then pour a little good brown sauce over all, and allow it to simmer. Meanwhile, fry some croutons of bread a nice golden brown. Serve the chicken very hot, with the sauce poured over, and garnished with the croutons. Fricassee of Chicken (Hot). Cut up the remains of a cooked fowl into neat joints, and put them into a saucepan with the following sauce :—Put \ pint of cold water into a saucepan with a small piece of fat bacon, a blade of celery, half an onion sliced, half a carrot, a little parsley, 2 or 3 strips of lemon peel, a very little mace if liked, and pepper and salt to taste ; bring this to the boil, then simmer gently for 20 minutes. Strain off the vegetables (which answer admirably for soup), add 3 gills of milk to this stock, and again simmer for 10 minutes more. Make a roux with \ oz. of butter and 1 oz. of flour, stirring this last into the butter when it is melted, mix then well together, and gradu- ally pour the stock on to the roux, stirring all the time. Boil it up so as to thicken it, strain it, and heat the fowl in this. Serve very hot with fried croutons. 6oRECHAUFFES, HASHES, ETC. Curry (Hot). Fry 1 onion cut into rings in 1 oz. of dripping or butter till nicely browned, take it out, drain, and keep hot by the side of the fire ; then fry 1 lb. of meat (cooked or raw) till nicely browned (of course if raw it will need rather longer frying) ; next fry the curry powder (1 dessertspoonful or more according to taste) very gently and carefully to prevent its burning. Finally put everything into a pan, and pour over them either 1 gill of stock or milk, and simmer very gently for 20 minutes. It is really better to simmer them even longer. If liked, an apple may be cut up and fried in the same way as the onion, and added, and also a few raisins fried till they swell out. Any meat can bj treated in this way. Chicken, however, should not be simmered for more than £ of an hour, as otherwise it will be cooked to “ rags.” Dry Curry (Hot). Turn the remains of a curry into a basin with all its sauce, and leave it till next day. Put into a pan (if possible a fire-proof casserole), about h oz. or so of butter, and melt this over a low 6iENTREES MADE EASY fire ; when thoroughly dissolved, lift out the pieces of curry from the basin, with as’much sauce as will cling to them. Spread these on the bottom of the casserole, and keep them stirred over a low fire with a wooden spoon, till they gradually become separate, and the sauce surrounding them becomes quite dry and powdery, the curry is then ready to be served. Salmi of Game (Hot). Properly speaking, salmis should be made from specially cooked birds, but practically for ordinary occasions the remains of any game or duck can be treated in the following way :— Cook the bones of the game in stock with an onion, a bunch of herbs, and a carrot ; let it cook till strongly flavoured, then strain it on to some brown roux, add a little wine (port for choice) to flavour (if hare is being used, add a little red currant jelly); boil it up and use, adding a squeeze of lemon juice just at the last ; or, if it is a salmi of duck add a squeeze of bitter orange. Have ready some neat slices cut from the game, and leave them to soak in this gravy for, if possible, 2 or 3 hours before serving ; just before 6 2RECHAUFFES, HASHES, ETC. 63 it is wanted heating it up, but not on any account letting it boil. Cutlets Rechauffes (Hot). Make a thin onion sauce (soubise), sprinkle some cold cooked cutlets, with grated cheese and coralline pepper, and dip the cutlets in the warm soubise sauce; when cold, egg and bread- crumb them, and fry in clarified dripping for 2 or 3 minutes. This is an excellent way of using up grilled or stewed cutlets, left over from the previous night’s dinner.64 CHAPTER VI RECHAUFFES (con.), MINCES, RISSOLES, ETC. With minces of all kinds it is a sine qua non that the mincer must be scrupulously clean, and the knife, not only clean, but sharp enough to ensure the meat being really minced, and not simply mangled. Granted this, mince can be served in various and dainty forms, either plain or as rissoles, croquettes, etc. ; 2 or 3 different kinds of meat minced together are excellent, but remember, as with hashes, all skin, gristle, and superfluous fat must be re- moved, and care must be taken to serve it prettily. Again, with rissoles, croquettes and kromeskis, they must be fried a delicate brown, and served with a little parsley. Croustades, too, must be fried a delicate golden brown, and drained well before using.RECHAUFFES, MINCES, ETC. 65 E Croustades (Hot). Cut a slice of bread about 2 or 2| inches thick off a stale loaf, stamp out rounds with a pastry cutter, and again stamp these rounds with a smaller cutter to within £ an inch of the base ; turn the cutter round 2 or 3 times so that the crumb in the middle can easily be removed, then fry in plenty of hot fat till of a golden brown, turn the cases upside down, on paper, and dry them in the oven or by the side of the fire before using. Mince (Hot). Have ready any scraps of meat, together with a little cooked ham or bacon ; pass this through a mincer, or chop it up very finely by hand, and mix it well with this sauce:—Mince up a small onion, and, if at hand, a mushroom ; fry these till lightly browned in | oz. clarified dripping ; sprinkle in \ oz. of flour, and fry till it is all a light brown, when you add | pint of stock or water. Boil it well, let it cool a little, and then mix it with the meat, season with pepper and salt, and heat it all again just before serving. These proportions are for \ lb. of meat. AnyENTREES MADE EASY 66 meat can be used in this way, serving it with some neatly-trimmed poached eggs. Kew Mince (Hot). Mince very finely \ lb. of cold meat and 3 oz. of suet, mixing with this 2 tablespoonsful of breadcrumbs, the yolks of 2 eggs, a few drops of anchovy sauce, a seasoning of pepper and salt, and £ a glass of port wine. Put it all into a well-buttered mould, bake in a quick oven. Turn out, and serve with any good gravy or sauce. Curried Mince (Hot). Prepare the mince exactly as in the first recipe, only frying a little curry powder with the onion, and serve in a wall of rice. Bobotjes (Hot). Fry 1 large onion, chopped, and 1 tablespoonful of curry powder or paste ; stir this in with \ lb. of any cooked meat finely minced, and \ lb. of breadcrumbs soaked in milk, stock or water, the juice of a quarter of a lemon, 1 egg, and pepper and salt, for 5 minutes over the fire, thenRECHAUFFES, MINCES, ETC. 67 turn the mixture into ready buttered cups ; put these into a dish of hot water, and bake for 30 minutes in a quick oven. Turn out and serve with a curry sauce. Vegetable Marrow and Mince (Hot). Cut off the ends of a good marrow, and scoop out the inside ; fill this with any nice mince ; skewer on the ends again, and bake or steam gently till the marrow is soft. Send to table with a rich sauce over and round it. Cucumber answers admirably used in the same way. Fricandelles (Hot). Chop up some cold, cooked meat very finely, adding a little ham or tongue if white meat is used ; mix with this some crumb of bread (steeped in gravy, or milk for white meat), pepper and salt, a thin strip or so of lemon peel, 1 or 2 finely minced chives, and some parsley ; pound this all with a little beef suet, and moisten it with a little stock and mushroom catsup. Let it stand for 2 hours, then shape into flat cakes, fry carefully, and serve with a good gravy. The remains of game are excellent if treated in this way.ENTREES MADE EASY 68 Cassolettes MeringuGes (Hot). Fry some croustades a delicate golden colour, and brush the tops with a little warm butter, and then dip them into minced parsley, and coralline pepper. Meanwhile, cut up the remains of any cold cooked meat or game into very small pieces, and heat these in any good, rather thick sauce, white or brown, according to the meat you use ; fill up the cases with this, and pile up on each stiffly whipped white of egg, sprinkling this with a little parsley, grated cheese, pepper and salt ; then put them into the oven just long enough to stiffen the egg, but not to colour it. Stuffed Tomatoes (Hot). Choose the tomatoes as much of a size as possible, remove the core, and a little of the inner portion. Have ready some minced chicken or rabbit, or meat of any sort, seasoned with salt and coralline pepper, and moistened with a little sauce. Place the tomatoes on a well- greased baking tin, sprinkle with fried bread- crumbs, and bake until they are cooked. Serve with brown gravy.RECHAUFFES, MINCES, ETC. 69 Cannelon (Hot). Mince 1 lb. of underdone roast beef, and mix it with rather over 6| oz. of minced ham, a sprinkling of the grated rind of lemon, some parsley, a little thyme well minced, and a sea- soning of salt and pepper, and work in 1 small egg. Shape it in the form of a roll, wrap in buttered paper, and bake in a moderate oven for about 20 minutes. When ready, take off the paper, and serve very hot with a good sauce over it. Any meat can be used in this way, only of course using a suitable sauce. Croustades of Chicken (Hot). Have ready some croustades, and fill these with minced chicken, mixed with a little ham, tongue, or mushrooms ; heat them well, and serve in an entree dish on a fancy paper. Any meat or mixture of meat or game can be used in this way. Shepherd’s Pie (Hot). Mince 1 lb. of any scraps of meat, and mix with it 1 gill of gravy or water, a teaspoonfulENTREES MADE EASY 70 of minced parsley, a small onion minced, 1 teaspoonful of Worcester sauce, and 1 tea- spoonful of Harvey, pepper and salt to taste. Meanwhile, boil and mash 2 lb. of potatoes, then put the mince into a pie-dish and cover with the potato. Heat it in the oven for 15 to 20 minutes according to the state of the oven. This dish looks daintier if the mince is served in separate little fireproof dishes instead of the one pie-dish. Richelieu Pudding (Hot). Mince 1 lb. of any remains of cold meat (two or three kinds can be used)/a piece of fat bacon, or, if not handy, some bacon fat, and mix with this half the amount of breadcrumbs soaked in stock, a little grated lemon peel, a grate of nutmeg, and 2 eggs. Pack this into a buttered mould, and steam for 1| to 2 hours. Turn out, and serve with a good brown sauce round it. Rissoles (Hot). Free any kind of cooked meat from skin, bone and gristle, and mince it finely, season withRECHAUFFES, MINCES, ETC. pepper, salt, and minced parsley. Prepare the following mixture :—Stir over the fire 1 oz. each of flour and butter, and when thoroughly mixed and free from lumps, stir in 1 gill of milk, or stock, or half of each, a little minced parsley, pepper, salt, and a little finely grated lemon peel ; when thoroughly blended, mix in the mince off the fire, turn it on to a dish and leave to get cold. Then roll it into balls, or any shape you please, with well-floured hands, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in enough boiling fat to cover them ; drain well, and serve gar- nished with fried parsley. Potato or rice may be used, adding this after the meat is minced, and proceed exactly as before. Papprica (Hot). Peel and chop 3 large onions, and fry them very slowly in 3 oz. of butter until a delicate brown, and quite soft ; pass them through a sieve, put them back into the saucepan again, add a small teacupful of milk, or better still cream, and any white meat cut up small, simmer very slowly for £ of an hour. Serve very hot on a border of rice. 7iENTREES MADE EASY 72 Macaroni Mould (Hot). Boil some macaroni until soft enough to handle but not to break, drain well. Butter a plain tin mould, and line it with the macaroni, starting from the centre of the bottom, and going round and round in layers. Then fill up with some mince, to which has been added 1 egg yolk to each \ lb. of mince to bind it well ; cover with a buttered paper, and steam for an hour for 1 pint mould. If liked, a lining of sausage or forcemeat may be placed next to the macaroni before putting in the mince, but care must be taken not to move the macaroni. Stuffed Pancakes (Hot). Make some rather thin pancakes, lay them out flat, and place on each 1 or 2 spoonsful of any mince ; roll up the pancakes, press the edges together, cut into even lengths, lay them in a frying basket with the folded edge down- wards, and fry, then drain them well, and serve garnished with parsley. The pancakes can be prepared beforehand, and cut into even lengths when cold, the mince being first rolled in a thin slice of fat parboiled bacon, and thenRECHAUFFES, MINCES, ETC. 73 placed in the pancake, egged and breadcrumbed, placed in a buttered fire-proof baking dish, and fried a delicate brown. Kromeskies (Hot) Prepare some mince as for rissoles, have ready some very thin slices of fat bacon, and put a little of the mixture on each of these ; roll up the bacon, taking care to close the ends well, dip each in frying batter, and fry a golden brown in plenty of boiling fat. Drain well, and serve gar- nished with fried parsley. Croquettes (Hot). For these have ready some short paste rolled out very thin, cut it into small squares, and on each put a spoonful of mince as for rissoles, wet the edges of the paste, fold over, and press to- gether, then fry plain, or egged and dipped in vermicelli, and drained well. Serve garnished with fried parsley.ENTREES MADE EASY 74 Cornish Pasties (Hot). Properly speaking, these should be made from uncooked meat, but really the remains of a steak does capitally. Cut up \ lb. of boiled potatoes into small squares, and cut up £ lb. of steak to the same size, blanch an onion, cut it into small shreds, and mix these together with a fork. Have ready some short paste about \ inch thick, and divided into fair-sized pieces; lay some of the mixture on each of these, moisten the edges, fold over, press well together, and bake in a fairly quick oven, till the pastry is cooked. Meat Scallops (Hot). Butter some china or silver shells, and put into these some mince, moistened with any good sauce ; sprinkle the top with breadcrumbs, salt, pepper, grated cheese, minced parsley, and, if liked, minced chives. Bake till the crumbs are nicely browned.RECHAUFFES, MINCES, ETC. 75 Potato Ragout (Hot). Parboil a small onion, and chop it up finely with 2 oz. of any cooked meat and 1 oz. of ham ; mix this with 3 oz. mashed potato, 1 teaspoonful of mixed herbs, the yolks of 2 eggs, and pepper and salt to taste. When thoroughly mixed, stir in the stiffly whipped whites of the eggs, drop the mixture by spoonsful into boiling fat, and fry a golden brown. Drain well, and serve piled up on a napkin. Roman Pie made with Beef (Hot). Chop up into small pieces the remains of cooked beef, and add to this half the quantity of macaroni cut into small pieces, and some lean cooked bacon. Season well with pepper and salt, and add enough brown sauce (pre- viously slightly flavoured with onion) to moisten it nicely. Meanwhile, butter a small basin, sprinkle it with finely broken vermicelli, and line it with a short crust. Fill up with the cold meat, cover with more paste, and bakeENTREES MADE EASY in a fairly quick oven for about 30 minutes, or until the pastry is cooked. Turn out on to a hot dish, and serve surrounded with either thick tomato sauce or clear brown gravy.77 CHAPTER VII COLD ENTREES Cold entrees are most useful, as they really involve but little trouble, and can be prepared some time before they are wanted, thus leaving the cook free to attend entirely to the hot dishes. Again, too, they are very much appreciated in hot weather, when one does not care to see a great deal of hot meat, besides in many cases being a most useful way of using up scraps in a really dainty form. Before using salad of any kind for these dishes always wash it well, and allow it to remain in cold water for a minute or two, after which dry it carefully in a cloth. Always break up lettuce, as it is much nicer, if possible, that no knife should touch it. Although Chaufroix, properly speaking, shouldENTREES MADE EASY 78 always be made from expressly prepared meat of any kind, yet for all ordinary purposes the remains of cooked poultry, game, etc., can be cut into neat slices or fillets, and then coated, in the case of white meat with Velout6 or Bechamel stiffened with leaf gelatine, in the case of brown meat with Espagnole or any other suitable brown sauce, likewise stiffened with gelatine, the proportions being \ oz. of gelatine to rather over the | pint of sauce. Chaufroix of Chicken (Cold). Cut some neat slices or fillets from a cold cooked fowl ; have ready a nicely stiffened veloute, place each slice on a skewer, and dip it in the sauce, covering it well all over ; then leave till set, when it can be served on a dish with small slices of beetroot, and hardboiled yolk of egg rubbed through a sieve. Rabbit may be served in this way. Minced Chaufroix of Chicken (Cold). Mince the remains of a boiled chicken, and add to it a little good white sauce ; mix in someCOLD ENTREES 79 tiny pieces of ham and truffles, and then form it all into small rounds about the size of a five- shilling piece, and about £ an inch thick ; mask each of these well with some stiffened, good, white sauce, place a small piece of truffle, or other garnish to taste, on the top of each. Serve round a salad, and garnish with chopped aspic. Chaufroix & la Paysanne (Cold). Line a plain charlotte mould with aspic jelly, and just as it is setting garnish with small pieces of cold, cooked vegetables, fixing these with a little more jelly ; fill up the centre with rather roughly minced cold cooked beef, which has been mixed with shreds of lettuce, hard-boiled egg, and, if liked, washed, boned and filleted anchovies, the whole being stirred up with horseradish sauce stiffened with aspic. Put a layer of aspic on the top of all about \ an inch thick, set it on ice, and when ready turn out, and serve. Mutton may be used instead of beef, but in this case a brown sauce must be used instead of the horseradish.ENTREES MADE EASY 80 Breast of Mutton en Chaufroix (Cold). Remove the skin, bones, gristle, and all super- fluous fat from a breast of mutton, and spread it with the following mixture :—Mix together some freshly made white breadcrumbs, the sieved yolks of 3 hard-boiled eggs, a little grated lemon peel, salt and pepper to taste, a very little pounded cloves and mace, and 3 washed and boned anchovies chopped up. Roll the mutton up in a buttered paper, and tie into shape with broad tape ; broil or roast it, being careful to keep it well basted. When cooked allow it to get cold, then cut into neat rounds, brushing each of these well over with brown sauce stiffened with aspic; let these set, and serve round a mayonnaise of green peas. Chaufroix of Pheasant (Cold). Cut up the remains of a cold pheasant into neat shoes, and cover these with stiffened Espagnole. Serve round a mayonnaise salad and garnish with sliced hard-boiled egg. Any game may be treated in this way.COLD ENTREES F 81 Chaufroix of Mutton Cutlets (Cold). Braise some mutton cutlets, and leave them to get cold with a weight on top of them ; then trim them, dip in glaze, and serve round a macedoine of vegetables tossed in some mayon- naise, and garnished with aspic jelly. Mutton Cutlets in Tomato Jelly (Cold). Boil or braise the best end of a neck of mutton, and when cold trim into cutlets. Mix together equal parts of tomato sauce and aspic jelly, and mask the cutlets with this when almost cold, and leave them to set. Serve the cutlets round a macedoine of vegetables with mayon- naise sauce, and garnish with cut-up aspic and slices of tomato. To use up Cold Roast Duck (Cold). Cut the duck into neat joints, removing all skin, and mask each joint with some brown glaze. Place in the centre of the dish a mayon- naise of green peas, or any salad, and arrange the joints of duck neatly round this, garnishing with chopped aspic.ENTREES MADE EASY 82 Cold Chicken Souffl6 (Cold). Mince down the remains of any cooked chicken (not too finely), season with mayonnaise, pepper and salt. Paper a souffle dish, and lay in a layer of aspic whipped to a stiff froth, then some of the meat, and so on till the dish is quite full up to the top of the paper ; leave it on ice till set, then remove the paper, and serve. Any cold meat or fish may be used up in this way, only varying the sauce to suit the meat used ; for instance, with game use Espagnole stiffened with a little gelatine. Or, again, instead of the ordinary mayonnaise use white mayonnaise, which is made by replacing the vinegar with lemon juice, and adding at the very last a gill of stiffly whipped cream. Chicken Creams (Cold). Pound 4 oz. of chicken till quite smooth with 1J tablespoonsful of thick Bechamel, 1 oz. of butter, and a little coralline pepper ; then add to it 2 gills of stiff liquid aspic, and 1 tablespoonful of thick cream ; sieve it, pour on to a plate, and leave on ice to set. Pound 4 oz. of lean ham or tongueCOLD ENTREES 83 with 1| spoonsful of tomato sauce, 1 wineglassful of sherry, 1 or 2 drops of carmine, and a little coralline pepper, mix in 2 gills of aspic, sieve it all, and set it on ice. Line some moulds with aspic, and place in each a layer of the chicken, then some aspic, then a layer of the ham, more aspic, and so on till the moulds are filled, finish- ing with the aspic ; put them on ice to set, then turn out, and serve with a cold macedoine of vegetables mixed with aspic. Rabbit Cream (Cold). Pound | lb. of cooked rabbit, mixing in with it 2 tablespoonsful of Bechamel sauce, and pepper and salt to taste ; add £ pint of liquid aspic, then pass it all through a sieve. As it begins to thicken, add in 2 gills of stiffly whipped cream, 1 tablespoonful of tarragon vinegar, and, if at hand, 1 oz. finely shredded truffles, or mushrooms and .the same of ham. Line a mould with aspic, garnish with small dice of cold cooked vegetables, pour in the mixture, and leave it to set on ice. Turn out, and serve with any salad to taste.ENTREES MADE EASY 84 Ham Mousse (Cold). Whip 2 gills of cream stiffly, and stir with this 1 gill of just liquid aspic and \ lb. of cold cooked minced and sieved ham, and just enough car- mine to make it all a very delicate pink. Whip this altogether for 3 or 4 minutes ; pack it into a tall, slender mould, and set it in a basin full of broken ice for 1£ hours. Then turn out and serve. Small moulds may be used instead of the one large one, and then these make a most excellent garnish for chicken chaufroix. Potted game may also be used in this way, when it is very good. Mousse of Pheasant (Cold). Skin and pound \ lb. of cold cooked pheasant, add in gradually 1 gill of brown sauce ; pass it all through a sieve, and then mix in slowly 1 gill of stock made from the bones, etc., of the bird ; whisk these all together for a few minutes, finally adding in £ gill of cream, and whisk this in also. Line some small moulds with aspic, and sprinkle with chopped truffle trimmings (these may be obtained in bottles from Messrs. CarloCOLD ENTREES 85 Grass, Ltd., Gerrard Street, Shaftesbury Avenue), and chopped hard-boiled white of egg ; fix these with a little more aspic, fill up with the pheasant mixture, and set on ice. When quite firm, turn out and serve with salad. Any remains of game may be treated in this way. Mayonnaise of Chicken in Shells (Cold). Pour a teaspoonful of mayonnaise into some china shells, and fill up each with finely minced chicken, a little minced ham, shred lettuce, strips of hard-boiled egg, and a stoned olive ; cover it all thoroughly with mayonnaise, and sprinkle with minced parsley, sieved yolk of egg, and, if liked, chopped truffle. Any remains may be served in this way, a chopped up anchovy being a great addition to cold meat. If preferred these may be served in small paper cases, being treated in exactly the same way, only placing a boned and curled up anchovy on each.ENTREES MADE EASY 86 Mayonnaise of Duck (Cold). Cut the remains of a duck into neat joints, and marinade these for 2 or 3 hours in a table spoonful of salad oil, the juice of a lemon and a little parsley. Break up some lettuce leaves small and toss these in oil, vinegar, pepper and salt ; put a layer of these on a dish, lay the duck joints (previously drained) on this, and pour some thick rich mayonnaise over it all; garnish with the quartered hearts of lettuce and hard-boiled egg, and if liked some boned and filleted anchovies. Chicken, too, may be served like this, but substitute a layer of cold cooked vegetables. Foie Gras in Aspic (Cold). Line some small moulds with aspic, then place a good piece of foie gras in each, fill up with aspic ; leave till set ; turn out and serve either with a mayonnaise salad, or else on a bed of chopped aspic. Lamb Cutlets & la Connaught (Cold). Braise a neck of lamb, and when pressed and cold, cut the cutlets, trimming them neatly, thenCOLD ENTRIES 87 cover them with mint aspic. Serve on a pile of green peas or lettuce. For the aspic, stir 3 tablespoonsful of mint sauce into 2 gills of aspic jelly, and use when just setting. It is well to remember that for almost all dishes in which aspic is used, such as the pre- ceding ones, savoury jelly (see p. 15) may be substituted as so many people dislike the acidity of aspic jelly, and even consider that it takes away from the delicacy of the dish, unless very carefully made.88 CHAPTER VIII ODDS AND ENDS There are several dishes which are very useful, especially for family meals, which do not actually come under any particular heading, such as kidneys, ox palates, liver, tripe, etc., and therefore it seems best to gather them all into one chapter by themselves. Ox Palates (Hot). Soak them first of all for 24 hours in plenty of cold well-salted water, then drain and blanch for 10 minutes in almost boiling water; put them on in a pan with plenty of water, or if liked 1 quart of stock, and allow them to simmer gently but steadily for 7 hours. One great thing to remember with ox palates is that you can hardly cook them too much. When you takeODDS AND ENDS 89 them off, remove the skin, and cut them into neat pieces, and put them on again in the liquor in which they were previously cooked, thickened with brown roux, and let them simmer for another hour. They may of course be served with various sauces, for instance— Curried Ox Palates (Hot). are cooked in exactly the same way, only sub- stituting a good curry sauce for the brown roux, and serving on a bed of rice, garnished with fried croutons. Ox Palate Fritters (Hot). Or, again, they may be dipped in batter and fried a golden brown, and served with tomato sauce. To Cook Sweetbreads (Hot). Sweetbreads, although looked upon as a very expensive dish, may often be procured in the country at an almost nominal price, therefore it is well to give this way of serving them.ENTREES MADE EASY 90 Blanch them in warm water for about 20 minutes, then put them on in a pan with cold water, and bring this to the boil ; put them once more into cold water for a few minutes. Have ready a good white sauce seasoned with pepper and salt, and let them simmer in this for about 1 hour, and just before serving add a squeeze of lemon juice. Of course they may be served in a variety of ways. Lamb’s Fry (Hot) This usually consists of the sweetbreads and the liver. The sweetbreads must be blanched as directed, and boiled for 20 minutes in white stock ; leave them to get cold, then egg and breadcrumb them, and fry in plenty of boiling fat; the liver, which should accompany them to table, being fried as directed for liver and bacon. Liver and Bacon (Hot) Wash the liver well, and blanch it for a few minutes in boiling water, then skin it and cut into neat pieces. Fry it for about 10 minutes in bacon fat (if possible), or clarified dripping.ODDS AND ENDS 91 (Fry first of all about £ lb. of rather lean bacon? keep this warm, and then fry the liver in the fat left from the bacon.) Take out the liver, put about 1 oz. of flour into the fat, stirring it well ; then add to this enough stock or water to bring it to the consistency of rather thick melted butter ; put back the liver, and simmer it gently in this for about 20 minutes. Serve very hot with the bacon, and the sauce poured over it all ; or it may be served round a pile of fried potatoes. Stewed Liver (Hot). Cut a calf’s liver into neat slices, and fry them brown. Put them into a saucepan with pepper and salt, and a chopped onion, and pour in very gently \ a tumbler each of claret and stock (or water), mixed together, and a bouquet ; put on the lid, and keep it down well with a weight ; simmer slowly for 2 hours, take out the bouquet and serve. Kidneys & la Brochette (Hot). Put the kidneys into boiling salted water for a few minutes, skin them, take out the core, andENTREES MADE EASY 92 slit them through, without actually dividing them ; then put 2 or 3 of them on a long skewer, running it through them so as to keep them open, dip them in good salad oil or liquefied butter, and broil them for 8 to 10 minutes. Serve on a very hot dish with a tiny piece of butter in each, and a dust of minced parsley, a squeeze of lemon juice, and pepper and salt. Saut6d Kidneys (Hot). Skin and core the kidneys as before, cut them in slices. Put 1 oz. of butter into a pan, and melt this, then fry a small shallot in this (cut up), put in the sliced kidneys and fry for about 5 min- utes, tossing them occasionally, then sprinkling in rather less than 1 oz. of flour, and stir it all for 3 or 4 minutes longer over the fire, add 1 gill of good brown stock if at hand (water will do, but it is not so nice), stir it all until it boils, then simmer gently for 10 minutes ; serve on a wall of mashed potato, with the sauce round. Scotch Mince (Hot). Remove all the superfluous fat, gristle and skin from a piece of raw beef, and mince itODDS AND ENDS 93 finely, seasoning with pepper and salt ; add a little water or stock, mixing it all well together. Dissolve about 1 oz. of butter in a pan, and sprinkle in 1 oz. of flour and white breadcrumbs, put the mince into this when it has browned, stirring it all the time with a spoon to keep it free from lumps, till almost cooked, when you add a little more stock. If liked, some small slices of onion may be cooked with the mince. Tripe (Hot). Tripe is a thing that is very much despised as a rule, but if only properly cooked it is really de- licious, and certainly one of the easiest things to digest. It is generally bought dressed and par- cooked. Wash it well in salted cold water, then put it into a saucepan with either milk or white stock, and let it simmer for at least an hour, then take it out, and cut up into small pieces. Put it in a pan again with some Soubise sauce, simmer it in this for about 20 minutes more, and serve. Fricassee of Tripe (Hot). Simmer the tripe for an hour as before, and cutENTREES MADE EASY 94 it up small; put into a stewpan 1 oz. of butter, the same of flour, and | a teacupful each of stock r and water, and salt to taste, stir these all to- gether over the fire for 2 or 3 minutes, and then put in the tripe, let it simmer for 10 minutes in this, adding a little more stock if necessary ; thicken this with the yolk of 1 egg ; just before serving add a few drops of lemon juice. Serve very hot.95 INDEX Batter, Frying, 16 Beef, Grenadins of, 29 Hashed, 54 Olives, 50 in Paper Cases, 58 Bobotjes, 66 Brown Glaze, 15 Bubble and Squeak, 57 Cannelon, 69 Cape Brady, 47 Cassolettes Meringu6es, 68 Casserole, Beef en, 43 of Chicken, 42 Duck en, 43 Chicken, Chaufroix of, 78 Creams, 82 Croustades of, 69 Fricassee of, 60 Hashed, 59 Mayonnaise of, 85 Chaufroix a la Paysanne, 79 Cornish Pasties, 74 Croustades, 65 Croquettes, 73 Curry, 61, 62 Cutlets, 18 to trim 18 of Chicken, to prepare,20 a la Bretonne, 26 a la Finaneiere, 26 Fricasseed, 23 Fried, 22 Lamb, 20, 86 Mutton for an Invalid, 24 Mutton, Chaufroix of, 81 Mutton, in Tomato Jelly, 81 Cutlets, continued— en Papillotes, 23 Pork, to prepare, 2 Pork, 28 Rechauff5s, 63 a la Reform, 24 Saut6s, 21 Stewed, 22 Spiced, 23 a la Soubise, 25 Veal, 20, 26, 27 Duck, Mayonnaise of, 86 to use up Cold Roast, Entr6es, Cold, to prepare, 77 Fillets of Beef with An chovies, 29 of Beef with Oyster Sauce, 29 of Chicken, 20 To Lard, 21 To prepare, 20 Foie Gras in Aspic, 86 Fowl en Daube, 48 Fricandelles, 67 Game, Salmi of, 62 Hare, Jugged, 49 Hash, 54 a la Bourgeoise, 56 Oxford, 55 Hot Pot of Mutton, 44 of Rabbit, 45 Irish Stew, 47 Jelly, Aspic, 14 Savoury, 15INDEX Kidneys a la Brochette, Saut6d, 92 Kromeskies, 73 Lamb, Hashed, 55 Lamb’s Fry, 90 Liver, Stewed, 91 and Bacon, 90 Macaroni Mould, 72 Mayonnaise Aspic, 14 Meat au gratin, 56 Meat Creams, directions for making, 33 Meat, to Marinade, 17 Scallops, 74 Mince, 65 Curried, 66 Kew, 66 Scotch, 92 Mousse, directions for mak- ing, 33 of Beef, 39 of Ham, 84 of Hare, 38 of Pheasant, 84 Mutton, Breast of, en Chau- froix, 80 Hash a la Fiancaise, 54 Haricot of, 44 Navarin, 44 Noisettes, to prepare, 19 Odds and Ends, 88 Ox Palates, 88 Curried, 89 Fritters, 89 Panade. 31, 36 Pancakes, Stuffed, 72 Papprica, 71 Parsley, to Fry, 16 Pheasant, Chaufroix of, 80 Potato Ragout, 75 Quenelles, 35 Dutch, 39 Rabbit, 38 de Volailles aux Cham- pignons, 39 Rabbit Cream, 38, 83 Stewed, 46 Rechauffes, 52, 64 Richelieu Pudding, 70 Rissoles, 70 Roman Pie made with Beef, 75 Roux, White, 10 Brown, 11 Sauce, Bechamel, 12 Brown, 12 Espagnole, 12 Mayonnaise, 13 Reform, 25 Soubise, 25 Shepherd’s Pie, 69 Souffle & la Bourgeoise, 37 Chicken, 37, 82 Game, 37 Proportions for, 31 to cook, 34 Steak, Stewed, 50 Vienna, 28 Sweetbreads, to Cook, 89 Tomatoes, Stuffed, 68 Tripe, 93 Fricassee of, 93 Veal, Blanquette of, 58 Hashed a la Bombay, 57 Vegetable Marrow and Mince 67 Veloute, 11 Butler & Tanner, The Frome, and LondocTEN SHILLINGS A HEAD PER WEEK FOR HOUSE BOOKS AN INDISPENSABLE MANUAL FOR HOUSEKEEPERS Menus, Recipes, Hints and Advice for the Single Handed Cook By Mrs. C. S. PEEL Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. Contents. Hints on General Management.—Menus for the ios. a head Housekeeper and the Single Handed Plain Cook.—Showing HOW THE FOREGOING MENUS MAY BE MANAGED. SAUCES. FlSH. Luncheon Dishes.—Substantial Cold Supper Dishes.—Eco- nomical Entries.—Vegetables and Salads.—Puddings and Sweets.—Savouries.—Sandwiches.—Breakfast Dishes.— Cakes, Scones, Biscuits and Buns. THE QUEEN.—“A most valuable manual, which will rescue many a young housekeeper from despair . . . giving plain and practical details of how to produce a really palatable and attractive menu for a sum often deemed impossible by all but the most exper- ienced housewives. She gives full details, recipes that can be under- stood even by the unlearned and carried out by the plainest of plain cooks, besides giving a wealth of valuable advice on various domestic matters that are formidable rocks to the inexperienced wife. A BETTER GIFT FOR THE YOUNG HOUSEKEEPER IT WOULD BE DIFFICULT TO FIND.” WOMAN.—“ Her book is practical, exact, copious, and reliable. I have never before seen so much sense in a cookery-book.” HEARTH AND HOME.—“ Mrs. Peel, who is well known to Hearth and Home readers, appreciates the difficulties which the domestic reformer has to encounter, and her advice is based upon experience and knowledge. She has written a business-like book in a business-like way, and each group of recipes is prefaced by a few explanatory remarks, without which many mistresses would be at fault. It will help the ignorant mistress to better things, and it is full of shrewd advice of which the practised hand need not be ashamed to acknowledge the utility.” GTHE SINGLE HANDED COOK Soups, Sauces, Glazes, Batters.—The Rendering down and Clarifying of Fat.—Fish.—Meat Dishes.—Poultry and Game.—Vegetables and Salads.—Puddings (Baked, Boiled, Steamed), Shapes, Creams, Jellies, Custards, Pastry.— Savouries and Breakfast Dishes.—Cakes, Buns, Biscuits and Scones.—The Management of the Oven.—Index. HEARTH AND HOME.—11 The book is well arranged, the recipes are very clearly written, and, as Mrs. Peel mentions in the preface, sufficiently inexpensive to be included in the menu of the ten-shillings-a-head housekeeper.” SHEFFIELD DAILY TELEGRAPH.—“ It is practical and absolutely reliable, and deserves to meet with unqualified success.” LIVERPOOL MERCURY.—“ Mrs. Peel’s recipes are charac- terised by simplicity, and in following her hints the necessity of digging deep into one’s coffers does not arise.” MORE RECIPES Mrs. C. S. PEEL Author of “ Ten Shillings a Head per Week for House Books," etc Crown 8vo 3s. 6d. Contents.HOW TO KEEP HOUSE By Mrs. C. S. PEEL Author of “ Ten Shillings a Head per Week for House Books," etc Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. Contents. The Importance of Good Housekeeping.—Setting up House. —Division of Income.—Duties of the Mistress.—Servants AND THEIR DUTIES. THE ENGAGEMENT AND DISMISSAL OF SER- VANTS.—Sanitation of the House.—Care of the Linen.— Warming and Lighting.—Hostess and Guest.—How to Clean —Weights and Measures.—Household Ready Reckoner.— Income and Wages Table. THE QUEEN.—“ The very book many harassed housemistresses have long been sighing for. A better present for a young wife setting up housekeeping would be hard to find.” HEARTH AND HOME—“Women who read and are guided by Mrs. Peel’s book will be better wives, better mistresses, and better members of the community.” THE TIMES.—“ A useful and very practical manual.” MORNING POST.—“This practical work offers excellent advice.”THE NEW HOME Treating of the Arrangement, Decoration, and Furnishing of a House of medium size, to be maintained by a moderate income By Mrs. C. S. PEEL Author of “ Ten Shillings a Head per Week for House Books," etc FULLY ILLUSTRATED Second Edition. Revised and Enlarged. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. Contents. House Hunting.—House versus Flat.—Some Hints on the General Arrangement of the House.—Methods of Lighting —Kitchen.and Offices.—Hall and Staircase.—Dining Room. —Morning Room and Smoking Room.—Drawing Room.—Bed- rooms.—Nurseries and the Schoolroom.—Box-room, House- maid’s Pantry, Linen Cupboard, Bath-room, Servants’ Bed- room.—Curtains, Blinds, Batterie de Cuisine, House Linen, Blankets, Plate, Cutlery, Glass, China, etc. IN this book Mrs. Peel has placed her great experience at the- disposal of those who are face to face with the great problem : “ Where are we to live? ” and “ How are we to furnish a house or flat with taste and comfort at a moderate expenditure ? ” WOMAN.—“ Those who feel unable to cope with the subject of ‘ the house beautiful ’ without advice, should seek guidance from Mrs. C. S. Peel, who, in her new book, The New Home, offers some delightful and practical suggestions upon this interesting topic. Her words appeal to a very wTide class, and will bring relief to many a home w'here a real desire for pretty rooms exists. Its many chapters, written by an acknowledged authority, cannot fail to be useful.” THE ACADEMY.—“A practical vrork. . . . We recommend it heartily.” THE WEEKLY SUN.—“ A useful book, treating of the arrange- ment, decoration and furnishing of a house of medium size, to be maintained by a moderate income. It contains many useful hints, and by means of illustrations gives good ideas of how best to arrange a house, and to provide useful accessories.” THE DAILY GRAPHIC.—. . . “ The book is eminently practi- cal and fully illustrated, while its price places it within the reach of all.”