22101441873Med K9631FIFTY BREAKFASTS BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (“ Wyvern ”) “CORDON ROUGE,” AUTHOR OF “ COMMONSENSE COOKERY," ETC. THIRD EDITION Xon&on EDWARD ARNOLD 37, BEDFORD STREET, STRAND D^o -7jWELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. &rCONTENTS. INTRODUCTION menus . APPENDIX—HINTS ON BAKING INDEX . PAGE . I 9-139 . 140 • 153INTRODUCTION. These little breakfast menus are designed for a family or party of six : each will be found to contain a dish of fish, a meat dish, and a dish of eggs, any two of which can be selected if three be considered too many. Seven of them are composed for days of abstinence. A plate of fancy bread is suggested for every menu to facili- tate choice, recipes for which will be found in the Appendix. The dishes that have been described will be found practicable by a large section of the com- munity ; for while many of the recipes as they stand may be suited to those with whom a very careful consideration of kitchen economy is un- necessary, by the exercise of a little discretion expensive adjuncts such as chopped ham, tongue,2 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. mushrooms, &c., can of course be very easily omitted without sacrificing much of the general tastiness of the dishes themselves, and thus bring them within the reach of all readers of the treatise. It will be seen that I have propounded to a great extent tasty rechauffes of fish and meat rather than dishes requiring fresh ingredients. At first sight some of these may be considered troublesome, but I would here point out that, in order to provide nice little dishes for breakfast, it is absolutely necessary that the cook should effect some portion of their preparation on the evening of the previous day. She rarely has sufficient time in the morning for much delicate work of course, yet with a little forethought this can be combated, and the whole category of croquettes, rissoles, petits caises, &c., be brought into play without difficulty. If the meat or fish required for such dishes be prepared and set in the sauce overnight the process the next morning is both simple and expeditious. In the same way hashes, stews, ragouts, &c., can be re-heated in the bain- marie, and will be found all the bettei for having marinaded all night in their well-flavoured sauces. The “ stitch in time ” accomplished during the afternoon, or before the kitchen fiie is let down at night, “saves nine” at the busy hour before breakfast the next day. Indeed the ding-dong monotony of “ bacon and eggs » alter-3 INTRODUCTION. nated with “ eggs and bacon ” of many English breakfast tables is wholly inexcusable, so easy is it to provide variety with the exercise of a little consideration. For the “ warming-up ” process there is nothing so safe as the bain-marie. This is a utensil which it is to be hoped every one possesses. Stews, curries, hashes, &c., can thus be re-heated without deterioration, or fear of burning, boiling, or other mishap. As another most capital thing for the prepara- tion of breakfast dishes, I strongly advocate the use of the Dutch oven. This is an old-fashioned contiivance, no doubt, but cheap, and especially handy for the fast cooking of fish and heating gratins. It can be placed in front of the fire closely or at a slight distance according to the degree of heat required, and the cook can see how things placed within it are getting on. This alone gives it an advantage over the ordinary oven, while the food half-baked half- roasted by its means seems crisper and more appetising. Baking dishes in sizes, caisses, and scallop shells of white fire-proof, Limoges ware are to be recommended for use in connection with break- fast. They can be set without risk in the Dutch or common oven, and afford a method of serving minces, re-cooked fish, eggs, and “ remains,” at once tasteful and inviting.4 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. Fried fish is, as a rule, a popular thing for breakfast, and if the cook bear in mind that second frying by no means spoils fillets, &c., that may have been so cooked the evening before, she will readily fall back on this method of re- cooking them. A plunge of two or three minutes’ duration into very hot fat is all that is required, followed by draining, drying carefully, and service on a hot napkin. Soles should be cross-cut in pieces two and a half inches wide, or filleted, and whitings are much nicer when not curled round in the manner so invariably adopted by London fishmongers. A propos of frying, I take it for granted that in all well-regulated kitchens a supply of good, stale, oven-dried, and finely sifted white crumbs, as well as a bottle of well-rasped light-brown crust, is always kept ready for use. Fresh spongy crumbs are wholly unfit for “ breading ” cutlets, croquettes, fish, and so on. Finely grated, hard, dry, mild cheese—not necessarily Parmesan or Gruyere—should always be similarly stored. An almost essentially necessary article in this Dranch of cookery is a wire drainer—such as confectioners use. Upon this croquettes, rissoles) fried fillets, even a fried sole, can be set to dry thoroughly after draining, for which purpose the drainer should either be placed in the mouth of the oven—the door ajar—or in front of the fire.5 INTRODUCTION. For little fritures such as whitebait a wire frying basket is of course indispensable. In composing the recipes given in this little series I have done my best to avoid perplexing generalities : “ some ” of this, “ a little ” of that, and so on. The quantity of each thing, either by weight or measure of capacity, has been put down as accurately as possible. Still it often happens that very small allotments such as the exact proportions of a seasoning must be given in conventional terms, as, for instance, “ a pinch ” of pepper. This quantity, to be very particular, might be counted as one-eighth of an ounce. Then a breakfast cup should hold half a pint, an afternoon tea-cup one gill and a half, a coffee-cup one gill. I frequently mention “ spiced pepper.” This is a kind of herbaceous mixture which I strongly advise every cook to make for herself in the autumn each year when the herbs are finally gathered. It comes in most handily for season ings in pies, forcemeats, stuffings, and in the flavouring of nearly every rechauffk. Mine, adapted from that of Gouffe, is made as follows : Domestic Spiced Pepper. One ounce of mixed thyme, marjoram, rose- mary, and bay-leaf, carefully picked and thoroughly dried, pounded, and sifted, theFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 6 mixture being allotted in these proportions, two thirds thyme and bay-leaf to one third marjoram and rosemary. Half an ounce of powdered mace, the same of nutmeg, a quarter of an ounce of finely ground black pepper, and one-eighth of an ounce of Nepaul pepper. Mix after carefully sifting each ingredient, and put the mixture into a well-dried bottle. This can obviously be doubled or increased to any extent. One ounce of the above with four ounces of salt gives a useful “ spiced salt.” A little wine is occasionally recommended in flavouring sauces, &c. ; for this I have chosen Marsala, which, if of a reliable quality, is the best that can be used for domestic cookery, and, if the truth be told, the equivalent of Madeira at many a pretentious restaurant. Cream is a very excellent thing—so excellent, indeed, that in the cookery of the present day its use is far too indiscriminate. In breakfast dishes it is to my mind quite out of place, while in the course of a dinner the less often it is introduced the better. Those who like it can of course direct their cooks accordingly. The most wholesome and handy way of boil- ing eggs for the breakfast table may be thus described :— . . Put a small saucepan over a methylated spirit lamp, which can be placed on a side table. When the water boils put in the eggs, and in7 INTRODUCTION. ten seconds put out the lamp, covering the saucepan closely. In eight minutes an ordinary hen’s egg will be ready, the albumen soft, and the yolk nicely formed. The common method of boiling eggs at a gallop for three minutes has the effect of over-cooking the albumen and rendering it indigestible, while the yolk is scarcely done at all. Good tea and coffee are, it need scarcely be said, important elements of a good English breakfast. To secure them it is really neces- sary, after having chosen the tea and coffee that suit you best, to be liberal in dispensing them. A proper cup of either is out of the ques- tion if the allowance be too narrowly curtailed. The practice of doling out tea by carefully measured teaspoonfuls (handed down to us by our elderly maiden aunts) was perhaps neces- sary in the days when the only leaf in the market came from China and cost from four to five shillings a pound. The required strength was then obtained by the pernicious system of setting the tea “ to draw.” People now, how- ever, have come to understand that to be whole- some tea must be produced by rapid infusion, not by a long process of steeping, and in order to get this at its best a good allowance of the leaf is necessary. Teapots are to be got with perforated cylinders to hold the tea, which can be withdrawn after an infusion of five minutes.FIFTY BREAKFASTS. 8 In this way a capital and quite harmless cup of tea can easily be produced. For coffee-making there are numerous inven- tions more or less ingenious, but after all for really satisfactory, easy, and rapid action nothing surpasses the percolator—“ Hutchinson’s patent ” for choice. A tablespoonful of coffee powder per breakfastcupful of coffee is a fair allowance. Lastly, I would advise all Avho like things hot at breakfast to invest in one of Messrs. Wolff and Co’s “ universal heaters,” sold at 119, New Bond Street, an excellent contrivance for keeping dishes, milk, coffee, &c., hot in the breakfast- room without deterioration, superseding the somewhat cumbersome practice of placing dishes before the fire, and of course a boon during the months when fires are dispensed with. Wyvern. London, Feb. 5, 1894.MENU I. Baked fish in scallop shells. Kidneys a la brochette. Buttered eggs with vegetables. Muffins. This is to be composed of any cold fish and sauce left the previous evening. Pick the fish from the bones ; measure the quantity l Baked (a pound will be enough for six nice fish hi scallops), add one third of its bulk of scallop white crumbs ; season with a salt- shells- spoonful of spiced pepper and one of salt; let this rest awhile. Put the bones, skin, and espe- cially the head, into a small saucepan, with an onion sliced, a teaspoonful of salt, and six black peppercorns ; cover this with milk and water (half-and-half), and stir into it a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce ; set to boil, then simmer fifteen minutes ; strain ; thicken slightly, using half anIO FIFTY BREAKFASTS. ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour to a full breakfastcup of the broth ; mix smoothly, stirring in any sauce that may have been left the previous evening. Now butter six scallop shells, or one medium-sized fire-proof baking dish ; arrange the picked fish and crumbs therein, scattering a layer of finely minced parsley over it; moisten thoroughly with the sauce, strew a layer of crust raspings over the surface, heat up in the Dutch oven, and send up on a folded napkin. N.B.—If the fish was boiled the previous evening, use the gelatinous water in which it was cooked instead of milk and water in pre- paring the sauce. Fish-boilings should never be thrown away. The kidneys in this instance are broiled on skewers (brochettes—t.e., little spits), which are noi to be removed. Take six kidneys ; cut 2. Kidneys gjx slices of bacon two inches long Vhette°' and an inch and a half Wide 5 SeleCt three skewers (plated or wooden) about seven inches long ; mince a tablespoonful of parsley as finely as possible ; place an ounce of butter ready. See that the gridiron is clean ; warm, and oil it. Now cut open each kidney in the usual manner without quite dividing the halves, peel off the skin, and pass the skewers through them, two kidneys on each skewer, withBUTTERED EGGS WITH VEGETABLES, n a piece of bacon, threaded by the skewer, over each kidney. Broil over a brisk fire, cooking the cut side of the kidneys first three minutes, then the other side for three minutes. When done put the impaled kidneys and bacon on a hot silver dish ; melt the butter, stir in the minced parsley, add the juice of half a lemon, and pour this over them. Serve as hot as possible. Vegetables, such as greens, spinach, flower of cauliflowers, beans, peas, &c., that may have been left the previous evening come in most usefully for breakfast. This 3- Buttered is too often overlooked. One nice way esgS of serving them is on toast with a surface dressing of buttered eggs. Melt half an ounce of butter, or put a coffeecupful of broth or milk into a saucepan, stir into it the vege- tables, which, if greens, French beans, or cauli- flowers, should be cut up rather small. Season with pepper, salt, and a dust of nutmeg, put into the bain-marie, and when steaming hot turn them out neatly over six neat squares of fried bread laid upon a hot dish, spreading the buttered eggs over them. A dusting of finely grated cheese over the surface is an improve- ment. Buttered eggs for six people :—Required six eSSsi three ounces of butter, a small cofFeecup-12 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. ful of milk or good white sauce, a small salt- spoonful of salt and the same of white pepper. Melt half the butter in a roomy stewpan ; break the eggs, mix, season, and stir them into the butter over a low fire ; whisk well with a whisk until beginning to set, then add the other half of the butter and, changing the whisk for a wooden spoon, continue stirring for two minutes longer, add the milk or sauce, when the consistency will be correct. The addition of the second half of the butter should be effected by degrees, to facili- tate which it should be cut into small pieces beforehand. The stirring must on no account be relaxed during the cookery of buttered eggs, and the dish should not be kept waiting when ready. A spoonful of Bechamel sauce, if avail- able, may be used instead of the milk, or ordi- nary white sauce.MENU II. Fresh herrings au gratin. Hashed mutton with fried bacon. Omelette with herbs. Scones. Butter a flat gratin dish, sprinkle a layer of chopped parsley over its surface ; lay four nice fresh herrings (trimmed and cleaned) upon this, season well with pepper and Fresh salt, shake a canopy of raspings and ’ZZatin pour a few drops of melted butter over the upper sides of the herrings ; put the dish thus prepared into the Dutch-oven, place this at a moderate distance from the fire, and watch the fish nan owly for a minute or two j baste with a little more melted butter, push nearer to the fire for the last minute, and serve the dish, as it is, on a folded napkin. For mustard sauce (if liked) melt an ounce of butter in a saucepan ; stir into it an ounce of flour ; when thoroughly mixed add slowly, off14 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. the fire, a dessertspoonful of French mustard, incorporating it with the roux thoroughly ; next add half a pint of water or broth, let it come to the boil, and pass through the pointed strainer into a hot sauce boat. The hash ought to be prepared—partly—over- night, viz. :—cut up as much cold mutton in slices as will suffice for the party ; trim 5. Hashed 0ff aji skjn an(j superfluous fat, dredge "with fried a ^aYer °f ^our 0Ver s^CeS> anc^ bacon. leave them for the present ; next pre- pare the best sauce you can for your hash by boiling together the bones and trim- mings of the mutton, an onion, a piece of celery, half a carrot, and a teaspoonful of dried sweet herbs, with half an ounce of glaze, or a teaspoon- ful of bovril, and sufficient water to cover all ingredients. When the best broth possible has been thus obtained, strain, thicken, and flavour it with one teaspoonful of red-currant jelly melted, a tablespoonful of vinegar from the walnut pickle, half a sherry-glass of Harvey sauce, half one of mushroom ketchup, and half one of Marsala. Put the sliced mutton into the sauce in a china vegetable dish, cover it from the dust, and set it in a cold larder till morning, when it will only require gentle heating up over a low fire, or in the bain-marie. It must on no account boil. Serve in a hot entree dish withOMELETTE WITH HERBS. 15 curls of crisply fried bacon and fried bread sippets as garnish. I follow two methods of making an omelette. One I explain now, the other later on. This recipe is for an omelette “ by the first intention a rapidly made and very 6' °’nfette digestible one. For six persons I re- commend two small, rather than one large one, as being more manageable—especially at first. Nothing is more likely to produce a failure than an over-full pan. Break three eggs into one bowl, and three into another, put a saltspoonful of salt to each, with a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of finely minced chives or shallot, one of chervil, and a pinch of pepper. Do not add milk, or cream, or water. Stir the eggs, and seasoning well together, and beat only sufficiently to effect mixture. Choose a roomy omelette pan not less than ten inches in diameter ; see that it is dry and perfectly clean. Set it over a fast, clear fire, and put a lump of butter into it the size of a small hen’s egg. Let this melt, and throw off all water ; as soon as bubbling ceases the pan is hot enough ; pour the contents of one of the bowls over its surface. At the moment of contact the part of the mixture nearest to the pan will set, gently lift this with a spoon, tip the pan over a little and let the unformed liquid run under it; this will also form ; now give a few goodFIFTY BREAKFASTS. l6 shakes, and with your spoon coax the omelette to slide out of the omelette pan into the hot entree dish ready for it. If carefully done the omelette will roll over, enveloping within it the partly formed mixture that remained on its surface, and on reaching the dish will spread itself rather, retaining no specially oval or bolsterlike shape, with a little of the juicy golden mixture escaping from its edges. Omelettes that are presented in neat crescent or elongated oval shapes are as a rule puddings in their consistency, over-cooked, and heavy. After turning out the first omelette, wipe the pan, do not wash it, and repeat the same process with the second basin of mixture, sending the omelettes to table “ hot and hot,” so to speak. A small pat of butter, and chopped parsley should be put into the dish before the omelette is turned into it. Timed by the seconds-hand of a watch this omelette takes forty-five seconds from the moment of being poured into the pan to that of its being turned into the dish. Be sure that the pan is hot enough to receive the mixture in the first instance, and that the fire is brisk beneath it while frying ; a powerful gas boiling-stove, circular in shape like the “ Regina,” is suitable for this work. N.B.—If the chives and chervil were omitted this would be an omelette au persil. An omelette aux fines herbes is made with a totally different garniture.MENU III. Fried whitings; maltre d’hotel butter. Devilled fowl; chutney sauce (Indian). Ham toast, with poached eggs. Hot rolls. Bread-crumb and fry the whitings—four nice ones enough—using plenty of very hot fat, in a deep pan ; dish them on a neat fish- _ „ . , paper, accompanied by plainly melted whitings; maltre d'hotel butter served in a hot maltre boat. d'hdtel For the butter, take two ounces of butter fresh Brittany, mix into it the juice of half a good lemon, and a dessertspoonful of finely chopped parsley, a pinch of white pepper, and half a saltspoonful of salt ; form the pat with the butter-bat, and use as required ; excellent with cutlets, &c. Assuming that the remains of a pair of fowls 3FIFTY BREAKFASTS. i8 used at dinner the night previously are avail- able, the following may be done : cut the birds up, neatly separating the thighs from the drum- 8 Devilled sticks, and dividing the backs in the fowl; chut- usual manner. Shred an onion very ney sauce finely ; melt half an ounce of butter (Indian). jn a frying-pan, and fry the former till brown. Having meanwhile sprinkled the pieces of fowl with curry powder, and a dust of fine salt, put them into the pan with the butter and onions, turning them about to prevent burning. When the butter seems almost ab- sorbed, turn the fowl and the onions with it into a hot dish. The operation after the pieces of fowl are put in should be conducted over a low fire, the object being to heat the meat thoroughly, and to serve it and the onions as dry as possible without burning. The onions can be brushed off if objected to before serving. For the sauce : melt a quarter of an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, stir in a quarter of an ounce of flour ; when blended well add a teacup- ful of gravy, or broth, mix, and put in a dessert- spoonful of Harvey sauce, the same of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of good chutney. For additional heat, a teaspoonful of finely chopped skin of green chillies may be added, carefully omitting the seeds. Boil, strain, and serve with the fowl as hot as possible.HAM TOAST, WITH POACHED EGGS. 19 Cut six squares of bread a quarter of an inch thick and large enough to hold a poached egg each. Fry these crisply and brown, and keep them hot. Pass sufficient lean ham through the mincing machine to yield 9- Ham a top-dressing for each “ toast ; warm poached the mince in a small saucepan over a e^s% low fire, with half an ounce of butter, and moisten it with a spoonful of gravy or melted glaze. Keep this in the hot saucepan in the bain- marie while you poach six eggs ; when they are ready, spread the mince on the fried bread, and place a poached egg on the surface of each, having trimmed the edges of the whites neatly all round. Send in quite hot.MENU IV. Fresh haddock, anchovy butter. Mutton cutlets with broiled mushrooms. Buttered eggs with tomatoes. Bannocks. Having procured a nice haddock the previous day, stuff it with veal stuffing, and keep it in a cold place during the night. In the io. Fresh morning, when wanted for breakfast, haddock, ancj strew a thin iayer 0f raspings butter over t^ie Gutter a fire-proof dish large enough to hold it, sprinkle a layer of chopped parsley over the bottom of the dish, and lay the fish upon it. Now set the Dutch oven in front of the fire, slip the dish into it, pour a few drops of butter-melted over, and watch the fish for a few minutes ; try with a skewer if tender, and draw the dish back as soon as that occurs. Serve the fish steaming hot in the dish in which it was dressed with a pat of anchovy butter melting over it. aoBUTTERED EGGS WITH TOMATOES. 21 For anchovy butter see No. J, and proceed in the same manner, mixing into the butter two pounded anchovies instead of the parsley and lemon juice. In a hurry, a good substitute may be made by melting an ounce of butter, and stirring into it a dessertspoonful of Moir’s anchovy vinegar, an excellent preparation too little known and used. For breakfast it will be found very time-saving if, for these cutlets, part of the best end of a neck of mutton were slightly roasted the previous day. On the morning re- n- Mut quired, with a sharp knife and meat- saw each little chop can easily be broiled detached, trimmed, and then be either mush- broiled, or breaded and fried, as may be rooms. desired. Serve the cutlets on a hot dish, accompanied by broiled mushrooms in a hot entr'ee dish. Prepare the buttered eggs as described in No. 3, and serve them hot from the stewpan upon a bed of tomatoes dressed as follows :— Choose six moderately sized tomatoes ; I2- Bllt' blanch them in scalding water for three minutes to facilitate the removal of the matoa. skin, which having been done, take a small stewpan, put half an ounce of butter into it with one finely sliced half-ounce shallot ; fry22 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. till beginning to turn golden, then empty into the pan the whole of the tomatoes sliced thinly ; stir round, and add a teaspoonful of coarsely ground black pepper (fresh from a table-mill for choice), a saltspoonful of powdered dry basil, and one of salt. Continue the stirring for ten minutes over a fairly brisk fire to prevent catching, and the tomatoes will be ready. A tablespoonful of white sauce, or the yolk of a raw egg should be stirred in off the fire—before final dishing up. It is quite unnecessary to pass this through the sieve. People fond of Continental cookery can direct that one clove of garlic be stewed with the tomatoes, uncut, to be picked out before serving.MENU V. Mol6 of brill (Indian). Minced beef, with macaroni. Eggs a la maitre d’hotel. Brown flour scones. This is a sort of fricassee. I presume that half (say a pound) a nice-sized brill has been left the previous evening. Detach all the meat ^ from the bones, take the latter, and put ^br°u them, with the skin and trimmings, an ^ncnan). onion sliced, salt, six peppercorns, and a little mace, into a small stewpan, cover with the “boilings” (saved when the fish was first dressed), and boil, then simmer for a quarter of an hour ; drain ; put the broth thus obtained in a bowl handy. Meanwhile, when this was simmering, slice a shallot in thin rings, also a bit of garlic the size of a pea, fry these till yellow in an ounce of butter, dredge in an ounce of rice flour and teaspoonful of grated green ginger ; slowly now add the warm fish-broth by degrees, and a table- ^3FIFTY BREAKFASTS. 24 spoonful of desiccated cocoanut (as sold for pud- dings) with a teaspoonful of lemon juice ; let the sauce come to the boil, simmer for five minutes, colour it with a teaspoonful of turmeric, and then strain it through the block-tin strainer over the pieces of fish, which should have been placed ready in a stewpan to receive the moistening. Now gently warm up over a slow fire, garnish with strips of finely cut green skin of chilli, dish upon a hot dish, and serve steaming. Boiled rice, if liked, may accompany the Mole, as it does in India (see No. 20). This should be almost wholly prepared over- night. Pass as much cold beef as will yield ten tablespoonfuls of mince through 14. Minced mjncer Take one ounce of maca- beef, with . , ... . . r • rom, or better still, the remains or a macaroni. > ' dish of macaroni au gratin or ct ritalienne left from dinner. If the former, it must of course be boiled. Take half a pint of broth, thicken and flavour it as recommended in No. 5. Put the mince into it, and set it in a cold larder ; also put away the cooked macaroni. In the morning all you have to do is to butter a fire-proof baking dish, and fill it with mince and cut-up macaroni, diluting the whole with a little more gravy or broth, and shaking over the sur- face a layer of finely powdered crumbs and grated cheese in half-and-half proportions. Heat thisEGGS A LA MAITRE D'H6TEL. 25 thoroughly and send it up, in its own dish, upon a folded napkin. Arrange six nicely poached eggs upon six squares of crisp, well-buttered toast. Put a pat of mcAtre d'hotel butter upon the top of each egg the size of a shilling, ^meL and send them up with the butter melting over them. For the butter, see No. 7.MENU VI. 26 Fried smelts. Grilled partridge, with potato chips. Eggs a l’lndienne. Oatcakes. A dozen smelts of moderate size will yield a nice dish for six. Egg and crumb them with finely 16 Fried sifted stale crumbs> and fry them one by smeU™ bne in very hot fat, drain on blotting- paper, and send them dry and crisp upon a fish-paper, with slices of lemon for garnish. If fried without colouring overnight they will be all the crisper when fried again in the morning. Make sure when you order a grill that it is grilled—i.e., done on the gridiron. Grills are too 17. Grilled ob:en cooked in the frying-pan, and are partridge, unsatisfactory in consequence (see No. withpo- 29). Besides this, mark the difference tato chips, between a grill and a “ devil ” ; theEGGS A LINDIENNE. 2 7 former need not necessarily be highly seasoned or strongly peppered. The remains of four part- ridges of which part of the breasts alone have been used will give a nice dish of grill ; let them be neatly cut up, then butter the pieces, sprinkle them with salt and black or white pepper, and cook them on the gridiron, which should be warmed and buttered to receive them. Dish them, piled up, in a hot entree dish, and send a plate of potato chips with them. For chips, remember you use raw potato sliced thinly and evenly, dried carefully, and then boiled, as it were, in very hot fat. The pan should be deep and not wide, so as to ensure a bath of fat; not too many chips should be done at a time ; do them in relays, drain, dry on a hot cloth in front of the fire and serve. For cutting chips an even thickness, Woolf and Co.’s “vege- table sheer ” is a most handy instrument. (Eufs a VIndienne are poached eggs smothered with a thickish curry sauce, and are not to be confounded with curried eggs. Prepare six squares of fried bread as in No. 9, l8; ESSs lay a nicely poached egg upon each of a VIndt' them, and send them up at once with ' the following sauce poured evenly over them : Shred one shallot very finely, fry the slices in one ounce of butter, or clarified dripping, over a low fire till turning a pale brown ; then mix28 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. with them a dessertspoonful of curry paste and a dessertspoonful of curry powder • mix, fry at least for five minutes, and stir in a teaspoon- ful of rice flour ; dilute the jam-like paste now formed with broth or milk by degrees, stirring over a moderate fire till you have about a pint of liquid, add to this a dessertspoonful of desiccated cocoanut, a teaspoonful of sweetish chutney, with a small teaspoonful of salt. Let the sauce boil ; skim off the scum, simmer for ten minutes, and then pass through the pointed strainer over the eggs. The English practice of spoiling all pre- parations of curries with sliced apples, green gooseberries, and other acids, should be care- fully avoided : there is ample sub-acid in all good curry paste—viz., tamarind. In India it is not the custom to use acid adjuncts beyond this, or a little lime juice. This sauce can of course be made on the previous day.MENU VII. ABSTINENCE. Broiled mackerel. Mushroom curry—rice. Eggs in the dish. Sally Lunns. The mackerel must of course be split, laid open, and broiled. I recommend this sauce—a good one for all fatty fishes : Proceed as usual to make a breakfastcupful of I9; melted butter sauce ; when nice and Br0lled i . , _ _ mackerel. smooth, stir in a tablespoonful of C. F. Buckle’s “ horse-radish zest,” a pungent and well-flavoured composition very little known. The yolk of a raw egg—stirred in off the fire— is an improvement. Having peeled, trimmed, and cleaned a dozen fairly large mushrooms, put them (overnight) to simmer gently in the curry sauce described for the eggs in No. 18 for half an hour. Keep in a china dish during the night, warm up, without *930 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. actual boiling, in the morning, and serve in a hot entree dish. For the rice there is only one method, 20. Mush- easiiy iearnt. Having cleaned and sifted curry— tiie nce—say slx ounces—prepare a large rice. vessel of boiling water, a gallon not too much, put into the water a dessertspoon- ful of salt, and the juice of half a lemon to preserve the whiteness of the grains. When the water is at a gallop—fully boiling—throw in the rice, and stir it round with a wooden spoon ; watch the clock for ten minutes, stirring every now and then ; after ten minutes, test a few grains by pinching them between the finger and thumb ; as soon as soft, probably in twelve or thirteen minutes accord- ing to the size of the grains, stop the boiling instantly by a dash of cold water, immediately remove the vessel, and drain off every drop of the water from the rice, returning the latter to the now dry, hot pot in which it was boiled. Shake well, replace this upon the hot plate, or put it in front of the fire (a moderate heat re- quired), and cover the rice with a folded cloth—do not use the lid—shake the vessel now and then, and after ten minutes’ rest the rice will be fit to serve. The last process is necessary to dry and disintegrate the grains. N.B.—Never soak rice before boiling, or put it into cold water, as some advise.3i EGGS IN THE DISH. Spread an ounce of butter on a fire-proof dish sufficiently presentable to send to table ; sprinkle a thin dusting of salt and pepper over the surface, break six eggs carefully into 21-^iSs the dish, dust a fine layer of salt over dish them, and set the dish on the hot plate with brisk heat beneath ; pass the salamander over the surface of the eggs, so as to give heat above as well as below the dish, and in about four minutes, when the whites are set, the eggs will be ready. A dusting of finely grated cheese may be given over the eggs before serving if approved ; send up in the dish in which they were cooked. To obtain the appearance called au mtroir the salt should only be sprinkled over the whites, and a teaspoonful of butter melted should be poured over the yolks. This can be set in the oven.MENU VIII. 32 Fish cutlets. Veal kidneys a l’ltalienne. Omelette with mushrooms. Devilled biscuits. To about a pound of any cold fish left at dinner cut up into a coarse mince, add four ounces of crumbs soaked in fish-boilings or stock, 22' ts 1 blend together, moistening with a break- cullets. r r , r /, , fastcupful of warm sauce (that remaining after dinner should thus be used), with the yolk of an egg mixed into it. Stir the mixture over a low fire to thicken, then spread it upon a dish to get cold and set during the night. The mixture should be about half an inch thick when thus set. In the morning cut out of it as many cutlets as you can with a cutter ; egg and bread-crumb them, and fry in boiling fat as explained for smelts in No. 16. Serve with a breakfastcupful of ordinary white sauce with this flavouring, a tablespoonful of Harvey sauce, a dessertspoonful of mushroom ketchup, and a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce.OMELETTE WITH MUSHROOMS. 33 Either broil the kidneys a la brochette (see No. 2) or crumb them, broiling four minutes on each side. For the sauce : thicken half a pint of gravy or stock with a 23' Veal quarter of an ounce of butter and a * quarter of an ounce of flour, stirring in enne. a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup and a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar (see No. 10). Next slice up two tomatoes, boil up in the sauce, simmer for ten minutes, seasoning with a saltspoonful of salt and one of roughly ground fresh black pepper, then pass through the pointed tin strainer into a hot sauce boat. To this sauce may be added a mince composed of ham, mush- room, and parsley—a dessertspoonful each of the two former, and a teaspoonful of the latter, both of course previously cooked. Make the omelettes as described in No 6 omitting the herbs; having cut up four fairly sized mushrooms, or a quarter of a pound of any size, and fried the mince in butter Z. immediately beforehand. Keep the mince with not in the pan in which it was cooked «««*- and as soon as one omelette is readv rooms' to turn into the hot dish, rapidly pour half of he former over the surface of the latter, which he 71 V “ " r°1,S °ver from the pan to wS, Pea‘ PrOCeSS "**■ ‘he second 4MENU IX. 34 Fish Pudding. Cold meat outlets, with grilled bacon. Eggs with anchovies. Wholemeal cakes. Pick about a pound of cold cooked fish free from bones, skin, &c. Make with the latter and any of the fish-boilings saved (flavoured with 2S-Ftsh one onion sliced, pepper, salt, and a puddina. p-ncj1 p0Wdered mace), about a pint of nice broth ; strain this. Next take of cold cooked potato the same bulk as you have of fish, and boil three eggs hard. Measure two ounces of butter and a tablespoonful of minced parsley. Have the sauce left at dinner preserved for this. Empty the fish and potato into a roomy bowl and mash them together, adding the cold sauce, and moistening with the broth to get the mixture to work easily. Crush the hard-boiled eggs with a fork and add them to the fish and potato ; mix a teaspoonful of salt with one of whiteEGGS WITH ANCHOVIES. 35 pepper, and a saltspoonful of mace, and dust the seasoning into the mixture ; stir in the parsley and butter, and lastly a tablespoonful of milk. All being blended, put the pudding into a but- tered mould, put this into a pan with boiling water round it half the depth of the mould, heat it thoroughly in the oven, and then turn it out carefully ; shake some fine crust raspings over it, and send to table. If liked, ordinary melted butter and anchovy sauce may accompany in a boat. These are to be made with any cold cooked meats—overnight—in the same manner as the fish cutlets described in No. 22. Serve 26 Cold them with fried parsley and tiny rolls meat cut- of crisply fried bacon. Any brown lets, with sauce left at the previous evening’s grilled dinner may be warmed up to ac- bacon- company. Prepare six squares of crisply fried bread, as in No. 9, butter them with anchovy butter (see No.io). Put a nicely poached egg on each square thus buttered, and lay two 27; E&s little strips of anchovies, cut from the u'lth an filleted fish, crosswise, on the top of each egg.MENU X. 36 Fried soles—capers butter. Devilled turkey. Eggs with vegetable marrow. Tea-cake, not sweetened. For breakfast it is desirable to cut the soles 28. Fried int0 pieces> across—say two inches wide ; soles— to egg and bread-crumb these, and fry capers them as explained for smelts (No. 16). butter. Serve after draining and drying in the same manner. For capers butter see No. 7, and proceed in the way therein given, mixing into the butter a dessertspoonful of well-pounded capers instead of the parsley and lemon. On Grills and Devils.—For breakfast few dishes are more popular than these, while the excellence of devilled bones for a very 29. Devil- iate SUpper need hardly be mentioned. led turkey. rp^g utensil necessary for their prepara- tion is the gridiron. Many cooks spoil theirDEVILLED TURKEY. 37 grills by using the frying-pan, for though the bones may be served in a wet as well as in a dry form, they must be themselves broiled over a clear fire. The meat attached to the bone, whether a turkey leg, or the bones of a saddle of mutton, must be scotched with a sharp knife criss-crosswise, and bountifully peppered with this seasoning:—one teaspoonful of Nepaul pepper, one teaspoonful black pepper coarsely ground, two teaspoonfuls of salt, mixed well together. Following these proportions a bottle of “ grill-seasoning ” can be made, and labelled for use when required. Mix your mustard for your grill with Worcester sauce instead of water or vinegar, and if you want “ the very devil ” of a grill, add to it six drops of Tabasco. Smear this over the seasoned bones, rub the bars of the gridiron with butter, lay the bones thereon, and grill them. If here and there they scorch a little, so much the better. Serve without delay “from the grid to the plate,” so to speak. This is a dry grill. For a wet grill proceed exactly as directed for the dry, but roll the bones, after broiling them, in a saute pan for a few minutes in this sauce :— Devil sauce. — Take a breakfastcupful of gravy, or a broth made from scraps, and half an ounce of glaze or a teaspoonful of Brand’s essence ; put this into a saucepan and add to it a tablespoonful of hot yet sweetish bottled chut- ney, a tablespoonful of mustard mixed withFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 38 Worcester sauce, a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a tablespoonful of Marsala, half a tea- spoonful of red-currant jelly, and a teaspoonful of chilli vinegar ; heat all together to melt the jelly and blend the ingredients, then strain, and thicken with half an ounce of butter, and half an ounce of flour, heat this up to boiling point in a frying-pan, and roll the grilled bones in it off the fire, serving them quickly with the rest of the sauce in the pan poured over them. A moderately sized young vegetable marrow, cold boiled, and six hard-boiled eggs will be „ n wanted for this dish. Cut the marrow ■with into fillets freed from seeds, one and a vege- half inch long, three-quarters of an inch table wide, and the depth of the marrow ; marrow. sjjce each egg in half longitudinally ; take the water in which the marrow was boiled (an onion boiled with it would have been an improvement), and using an ounce of butter and one of flour proceed to thicken it ; season with a saltspoonful of black pepper, half one of powdered mace, and a teaspoonful of salt : add a table- spoonful of chopped parsley and a teaspoonful of chopped chervil. Now arrange the eggs and fil- lets of marrow neatly in a hot entree dish, add a tablespoonful of milk, with which one raw yolk has been well mixed, to the sauce off the fire, and pour it over the fillets and eggs, steaming hot.MENU XI. 39 Fish fritters. Kidneys stewed with mushrooms. Eggs “mollets” with “ravigote.” Muffins. For these fritters, which will be found very tasty, about half a pound of any cold fish, such as whiting, fresh haddock, gurnard, or ^ plaice, that will pound easily, will be enough. A batter must be made as follows : Beat up the yolks of four eggs with two tablespoonfuls of beer, one tablespoonful of salad oil, and five tablespoonfuls of water. Having pounded the fish well, mix it with the beaten eggs, &c., and add a saltspoonful of salt, and enough flour to bring the mixture to the consistency of a thick batter. Put the frying fat into a small but deep pan, and while it is heat- ing, beat up the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth, add this to the batter the last thing, and then, when the fat is very hot, proceed to putFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 40 about a tablespoonful of the mixture into it at a time. The batter will frizzle up at the moment of contact, and assume an irregular shape. Each fritter having been cooked a rich golden brown, should be drained with a perforated slice and laid on a hot cloth to dry before dishing. Pile the fritters on a hot dish, and serve with slices of lemon. About three-quarters of a pint of good broth or gravy, six kidneys, and six medium-sized 32. Kid- mushrooms are wanted, and the pre- neys stewed paration should take place on the ™iLmUSh' previous day- Take a stewpan and commence by thickening the gravy in the usual manner, then add the kidneys cut into slices ; stew them very slowly j if allowed to boil they will be as tough as leather. After they have simmered for about half an hour put in the mushrooms, with a teaspoonful of salt and one of black pepper, and half a sherry-glass of mush- room ketchup; continue the stewing now till the kidneys are done, then put the stew into a china dish to keep till the next day. In the morning put it into a stewpan, and if any additional liquid is necessary add a little milk ; warm up in the bain-marie. When ready to serve, stir in a dessertspoonful of Marsala. Boil six eggs for exactly four minutes ; putEGGS “MOLLETS” WITH “RAVIGOTE.” 41 them at once into cold water ; when cold care- fully remove the shells ; the eggs will be soft to the touch, the yolks inside them not 33. £ggs having hardened. Have ready a pint “ mollets ” of nice white sauce seasoned with with “ra- pepper and spiced salt ; flavour this viiote- with a tablespoonful (mixed) of finely chopped tarragon, parsley, chives, and chervil, and sharpen it with a dessertspoonful of anchovy vinegar ; put the eggs on a hot dish, and pour the sauce boiling hot over them. Serve.MENU XII. 42 Fish custard puddings. Puree of grouse in scallops. Eggs with mushrooms. Scones. These are tasty little fish puddings very easily made. Any cold fish will do. Choose six dariole 34. Fish moulds, fluted or plain ; butter them, custard and sprinkle a layer of finely minced, puddings, dj-y parsley over this lining. Make enough ordinary thick custard to fill the moulds about half full each, seasoning it with salt and pepper instead of sugar. Pick the cold fish free from bones and skin, and cut it up into a coarse mince ; dust into this a saltspoonful of spiced pepper ; fill the moulds loosely with this, and then pour the custard over each, allowing time for it to settle well, and adding more custard till the moulds are filled ; put a round of buttered paper over each of them, and place them in a saute pan with enough boiling water round them to poach them nicely. When set, pick off the papers, and turn the moulded custardsEGGS WITH MUSHROOMS. 43 out. A saltspoonful of anchovy sauce may be stirred into the custard before filling the moulds if liked. Excellent with cold salmon. Pick and mince the meat from the birds over- night, and make as much well-flavoured broth from the bones as you can. This hav- ing been prepared, the work the next ^ morning will be quickly done. Simply in scan0ps% thicken the broth, flavour it with half a teaspoonful of red-currant jelly and a dessert- spoonful of Marsala, season it with salt, and a teaspoonful of spiced pepper. Then stir in the mince, keep it hot in the bain-marie while you butter six scallop shells, into which, when ready, pour the mince, shake a layer of pounded crumbs over the surface of each, and heat well in the oven or Dutch oven ; brown the crumbs with a salamander, and send up. On six squares of fried bread place six nicely poached eggs, pouring over each about a table- spoonful of this sauce. Stew four medium mushrooms, or a quarter of a pound of small ones, in milk, having rooms ■ first cleaned them carefully and cut them up into a coarse mince ; season with pepper and salt ; when ready stir in a table- spoonful of milk with which a raw yolk has been mixed, off the fire, and use as directed.MENU XIII. 44 Fried flounders, tomato butter Curry cutlets, chutney sauce Eggs with green peas. Bannocks. Procure enough flounders for the party, and fry them as explained for smelts (No. 16) ; serve 37. Fried drained dry on a hot dish lined with a flounders, fish-paper, and this butter on a plate : fomcLto To two ounces of Brittany butter add hutter. a good tablespoonful of French tomato conserve (it is much thicker than sauce), season if necessary, and work them together with the butter-bat. A little of this should be taken as an adjunct with the fish, and allowed to melt over it. Prepare overnight enough minced veal, mutton, lamb, or even mixed meats—partly of fowl and mutton, for instance—as will suffice for half a dozen good cutlets. Dilute this with the sauce given for No. 18, using gravy or broth instead of45 EGGS WITH GREEN PEAS. milk, and stirring into it the yolks of two raw eggs ; thicken gently over a low fire, carefully avoiding boiling, then turn the mixture 38. Curry out upon a dish, patting it into a rect- cutlets, angular shape, a quarter of an inch thick, chutney with a wooden spoon ; set this aside in a sauce' cool place for the night. In the morning it will be quite firm ; cut out of it six or eight neat cut- lets with your cutter, bread-crumb and fry them a golden brown, and serve with them the sauce given for No. 8. If fresh peas are not available—those left from the previous evening’s dinner, for instance—a very nice dish for a change can be made with a small tin of French petits ^9; , . ~ ... with green pois m this way : Open the tin, and peas_ placing a block-tin strainer over a bowl, empty the contents of the tin into it, drain thoroughly, catching all the liquid : next, with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour make a thickening at the bottom of a small stewpan over a low fire; when smooth add the liquid from the tin, stir well, increasing the heat and adding a coffeecupful of milk ; bring to the boil, and when nice and thick put in the peas with a saltspoonful of salt, one of sugar, and half one of white pepper. Now set the stewpan in the bain-marie. When required turn the peas with their sauce into a hot entree dish, andFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 46 lay on the surface six nicely poached eggs, gar- nishing with sippets of fried bread. A spoonful of cream may of course be added just before dishing the peas.MENU XIV. 47 abstinence. Khitchri (Indian). Macaroni a la Livomaise. Eggs in white sauce. Sally Lunns. This dish, from which the so-called “kedge- ree” of English cookery books was doubtless taken, was originally a dish of rice cooked with butter and an Indian pea f ktt called ddl, but now it may either be djany composed of cold cooked fresh fish, or of salt fish that has been soaked and either boiled or fried. Choose which you prefer—about one pound will be enough—and with a fork divide it into small pieces. Boil six ounces of rice, as explained for No. 20. These preparations can be made overnight. Boil three eggs hard, and with a fork crush them, whites and yolks to- gether, to a coarse mince. Melt over a low fire three ounces of butter, and fry a very finely minced shallot therein till it is a yellow colour ;48 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. now stir in the rice, using a wooden spoon, and the pieces of fish, season with pepper and salt and sufficient turmeric (about a teaspoonful) to tint the rice a nice light yellow colour j lastly, shake into the mixture the crushed hard-boiled eggs, and empty the whole into a very hot dish. N.B. — Both onions and turmeric may be omitted, if it be desired, without prejudice to the mixture generally. Boil six ounces of macaroni; stew six medium- sized mushrooms in milk, and season them with I Maca pepper and salt Make a breakfast- roni d la cupdd oP tomato puree. Put a layer Livomaise. e^ the macaroni in a well-buttered, fire-proof baking dish, moisten it with some of the puree) put a little of the stewed mushroom over that, and then another layer of macaroni, finally dusting the surface over with a layer of grated cheese. Bake, and send up very hot. Six hard-boiled eggs sliced in halves longitudi- nally, a pint of white sauce, seasoning of pepper, salt, and powdered dried herbs. A in while tablespoonful of milk with the yolk sauce. of an egg beaten up with it. Season the pieces of egg, and arrange them on a hot entree dish ; heat the sauce very hot, stir into it, off the fire, the tablespoonful of milk, &c., and pour it over the eggs. Serve.MENU XV. Smoked brill. Mutton kidneys bread-crumbed. Eggs in cases. Oatmeal cakes. This method of serving fish for breakfast is a specialite at the Bombay and Madras clubs. I recommend its trial with brill be- cause that fish is more like the Indian Smoked “pomfret” than any other English fish ; at the same time the system is applicable to any kind of flat fish or slices of fish, from salmon downwards. Choose a fish of about a pound and a half or two pounds. Take the flesh from the bones as you do the fillets of a sole, trim them neatly, and dry them with a cloth. Now prepare a fire of cocoanut fibre (procurable at Treloar and Sons, 70, Ludgate Hill) ; when damped it makes a great volume of smoke; place the gridiron over the fire, but well in the smoke, butter the fish fillets on both sides, lay them 5 «FIFTY BREAKFASTS. 5o side by side on the gridiron, covering them, as they are cooking in the vapour, with the lid of a tin fish-kettle to concentrate the smoke. In about ten minutes the fish will turn a rich warm brown on the side nearer the fire ; then turn it and smoke the other side, which will take about five minutes. The fillets can now be served with any plain sharp sauce. The process can be conducted in an ordinary fire-grate if the kitchen range be a closed one, and in smoke produced from damp clean straw, or shavings laid on a wood fire. Breaded kidneys. Six kidneys will do for the party. Proceed as laid down for kidney a la brochette (No. 2). Skewer them, 44. Mutton omjttjng the bacon ; egg and bread- ^bread- crumb them, boil over a bright, clear crumbed, fire, and serve on the skewers, gar- nished with crisply fried curls of bacon. The sauce given for No. 23 will do. Choose six little scallop shells, or mince-pie patty-pans ; put into each a piece of butter the size of a cobnut, and a teaspoonful of 45- ZgF minced “ fines herbes chopped in cases‘ mushroom, chopped parsley, and finely chopped stem of fresh green onion, or chives, the proportion of the mixture being equal mea- sure of the first two ingredients to one-third of5i EGGS IN CASES. the measure of the last. Warm the shells over the hot plate, and when the butter has melted break an egg into each of them ; shake a layer of finely sifted bread-crumb over the surface, and keep over moderate heat till the eggs set, then brown them with the salamander, and serve.MENU XVI. Fricassee of cod and oysters. Rissoles of ham and chicken. Omelettes with tomatoes. Buttered toast. Presuming that the fish for dinner has been cod and oysters, a fricassee of what remains of them will be nice for breakfast the 46. Fn- next pjck tke meat jn firni) ToTand flaky pieces from the bones ; put the oysters, former aside, while with the latter and the fish-boilings you make a strong broth, using an onion and seasoning to assist the operation ; strain and turn this into a moderately thick white sauce, and flavour it with a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy. Now arrange the cod in a stewpan, moisten it with the sauce, and heat it gently up in the bain-marie to steaming point; lastly, add the remaining oyster sauce, and empty the fricassee into a hot entree dish. Or the mixture may be put into a fire-proof dish, dusted over with raspings, and baked.OMELETTE WITH TOMATOES. S3 These can be made the previous day, and can be easily heated for breakfast. Having prepared your salpicon, or coarse mince of ham ^ R-s and chicken (a quarter of a pound of soles of the former to half a pound of the ham and latter), with a good thick sauce, in chicken. which the yolks of two raw eggs have been mixed, roll out rather thinly half a pound of nice puff paste, and out of it cut six or eight circular pieces four inches in diameter. Put a tablespoonful of the salpicon upon each of these, turn over the paste, and wet and pinch the edges allround. The rissoles—now of a semi-circular or cocked-hat shape—should be plunged into very hot fat and fried fast. The next day let them be heated on a hot napkin in the Dutch oven. Fried parsley is the usual garnish, and a boat of tomato sauce a good accompaniment. Please note that bread-crumbed mixtures of meats (cro- quettes) are not rissoles, though often called by that name. I will now give you the variation in omeletle- making promised in No. 6. Select a roomy omelette pan ; see that it is clean and dry ; break, one after another, five 48- Ome- eggs, carefully separating the yolks lfteswtth from the whites ; put these into sepa- rate basins, whisk the whites to a stiffish froth, and mix the yolks well with a fork. Place the54 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. pan on the fire with half an ounce of butter ; let this get hot as for the omelette in No. 6, and when it is ready quickly amalgamate the con- tents of the two bowls and pour the mixture into the pan ; let it alone for three minutes, shake, and turn the omelette over upon a bed of tomatoes, as explained for No. 12. The minced herbs mentioned in No. 6 can be stirred in with the yolks if liked, and a teaspoonful of salt should be mixed with them also. If you possess a glazing-iron, heat it, and pass it closely above the surface of the omelette while the bottom is setting. In any case the upper side remains frothy, and is buried as the omelette laps over in dishing. It is as light as a souffle, and sweet omelettes thus cooked are excellent. N.B.—Owing to the frothiness of the mixture a large pan is necessary. If this be not available it will be safer to divide the mixture, putting it into two bowls separately, and to cook each independently. The fire should not be too fierce.MENU XVII. 55 Sardines au gratin. Crepinettes of mixed game. Eggs with prawn butter. Devilled biscuits. Accidents may sometimes occur when it may be found very convenient to fall back on the tin of sardines. On such an occasion this will be found a useful recipe :—Care- 47?• Sa>• A C11716S CLH fully lift out a dozen sardines one by gratiiu one, lay them on a medium-sized joint dish, separately ; tip the dish up, and pour gently over the little fish a stream of very hot water, to carry off the fishy oil; pour this off once or twice, drain, and the sardines will be clean. Now choose a flat gratin dish, or fire-proof baking dish, butter it liberally, and strew over the butter a goodly sprinkling of the “fines herbes ” given in No. 45. Lay the sardines on this bed, putting a saltspoonful of the herbes on each of them, dredge lightly over all a dusting of fineFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 56 salt and white pepper mixed together, pour a few drops of melted butter over them, and a thin layer of crust raspings ; heat thoroughly in the Dutch oven, and serve. Although the term is usually applied to pre- parations of minced meats, wrapped in pig’s 50. Crepi- caul> crumbed, and fried, a crepinette nettes of is literally a thing frizzled, or made mixed crisp, and pancakes are very useful as game. envelopes for salpicon of any kind. Make two or three ordinary thin pancakes plainly seasoned with salt and pepper instead of sugar, and a sprinkling of finely chopped parsley. Let them get cold, then cut out of them a dozen pieces five inches long and four wide ; lay these on a floured pastry board, brush a coating of white of egg over the upper surface, upon this put a good tablespoonful of hare, grouse, partridge, or mixed game purie, mois- tened with a thick brown sauce, as given for No. 35, and roll the pancake up as you would a sausage-roll. A very thin slice of cold cooked bacon may be laid over each of the crepinettes first, and the mince over it. This much can be done the evening before. To prepare the crepi- nettes for the table : Egg and bread-crumb them, and either fry them in boiling fat, or bake them. Curls of fried bacon can accom- pany them.EGGS WITH PRAWN BUTTER. 57 Poach the eggs, lay them on squares of fried bread, and send them up Avith a pat of this butter melting over them: Choose six ^ j?ggs nice boiled prawns; pick them; pour a with jug of cold water over the shells and prawn meat also ; when quite clean pound butter- meat and shells together in a stone mortar, using an ounce of butter to assist the pound- ing. When thoroughly pounded pass the paste through a hair-sieve into a boAvl of cold water, skim it off the water, drain it, and add it to another ounce of butter with the butter-bat, seasoning it with a saltspoonful of salt, white pepper, and mace blended. Shrimps may be substituted for prawns.MENU XVIII. 58 Fried plaice, shrimp butter. Fowl (or turkey) marinaded. Eggs in bread sauce. Tea-cake—not sweetened. Skin and trim a plaice, dividing it into fillets two inches and a half long, and one and a half wide : 52. Fried marinade them all night, as recom- plaue, mended in No. 73. In the morning shrimp wipe them dry, egg, bread-crumb, and butter. fry these as explained for smelts (No. 16). Serve on a neat fish-paper garnished with slices of lemon, and send in with them a little plate of shrimp butter made as explained for prawn butter (No. 51). Cut up a chicken or half a large fowl into neat pieces as for fricassee. Put these overnight into a soup-plate in a marinade composed of two table- spoonfuls of salad oil, two of vinegar, one finely sliced shallot, one inch length of celery shredded,EGGS IN BREAD SA UCE. 59 a dozen peppercorns, a sprig of parsley chopped, and a saltspoonful of salt. In the morning drain the pieces, dry them, prepare a bath of boiling fat, dip the pieces in frying & batter (No. 116), fry a golden brown 5 marinaded. drain, dry, and pile upon a napkin. Flavour a pint of milk as you would for bread sauCe—i.e., cut in quarters and blanch a three- ounce onion in boiling water for five minutes, drain the pieces and simmer them in the milk with six cloves and sauc^ a saltspoonful of salt. When nicely flavoured turn the milk into a white sauce, with half an ounce of butter and the same of flour. Choose a large fire-proof baking dish, butter it, pour over the bottom of it a layer of the sauce at least a quarter of an inch deep ; over this strew a layer of pounded bread crumbs seasoned with salt, pepper, and mace blended. Put the dish in the oven for a few minutes to heat without boiling, take it out and slip into it carefully, without breaking one of them, six eggs ; dust a layer of very fine raspings over the surface, and return the dish to the oven just long enough for the eggs to set. Grated cheese may be mingled both with the crumbs and the raspings if liked.MENU XIX. 60 Dried haddock, with egg sauce. Devilled kidneys. Curried eggs. Vienna rolls. Soak and boil the haddocks (two required, if small) till the meat can be picked easily from 55. Dried the bones and skin ; make a good pint haddock, of egg sauce slightly flavoured with ■with egg anchovy, arrange the picked haddock sauce. on a very hQj- dish, season it with a little salt and black pepper, pour the egg sauce, steaming hot, over it, and serve. Impale the kidneys as described in No. 2, give them a broil for two minutes, then roll them on a dish, upon which you have spread 56. Demi- a fayer of made mustard ; now ledkidneys. Qver ^ mustar(j.coated kidneys a good seasoning of salt and black pepper, and continue the broiling till they are done. Serve with the sauce given in No. 8.CURRIED EGGS. 61 Curried eggs differ from eggs a VIndienne (No. 18), inasmuch as they are hard-boiled, while the latter are poached, and are sim- ^ mered in the curry sauce, not merely covered with it as the poached eggs are. Boil overnight six eggs hard, slice them when cold in halves longitudinally, cut twelve nice fillets of cold cooked vegetable marrow or stewed cucumber, each piece to be about the size of one of the half eggs. Prepare a curry sauce as given for No. 18, put into it the eggs and pieces of marrow, and slowly heat them up to steaming point; let them rest all night thus pre- pared, and simply re-heat the dish in the morn- ing. The curry will be far better if allowed thus to marinade for twelve hours in its own sauce. Fried ham or bacon may accompany.menu XX. 62 Lobster cutlets a la Turque. Irish stew a la Wyvern. Poached eggs with Italian sauce. Barley meal Bcones. Either fresh or tinned lobster may be used. Take enough lobster to form, with an addition of one-third of its bulk of panada, $>. Lobster about sjx or gjg^t nice cutlets ; season cutlets a la , ° . Turque. tiie mixture) after pounding and mixing it well, with salt, white pepper, and mace blended ; moisten it over a low fire with white sauce (in which the raw yolk of egg has been mixed) for a few minutes to thicken, and let it set firmly in a dish. Thus much having been done overnight, proceed the next morning to form the mixture into cutlets or balls and cook in the manner described for No. 22. Rice a la Turque should accompany—t.e., “ yellow rice ” thus prepared : Boil six ounces of rice according to the directions for it in No. 20, then drain,63 IRISH STEW A LA WYVERN. shake over it a teaspoonful of turmeric powder, mixing it well into the rice ; a dust of nutmeg may be also given. Pile the rice on the hot dish prepared for it, and arrange the cutlets or balls round it. If liked the sauce mentioned for No. 8 may accompany. I adopt a slightly different way of making Irish stew, which I think may be liked. Take the best end of the neck of mutton, cut from a small-sized sheep and not Ir^h too fat. Divide this into eight or ten Wyvern equally sized cutlets, and put them into a large stewpan with eight ounces of onions, four of carrots, four ounces of turnip, and an ounce of celery, with a seasoning of salt and black pepper- corns. Bring once to the boil and then simmer slowly for an hour. When nicely done, and the meat quite tender, strain off the broth, and set it to get cold and throw up the fat; put the cutlets on a dish, and the onions on another separately. Now peel and boil two and a half pounds of potatoes, which, when ready, drain and mash in their own hot saucepan, mashing the onions from the stew with them, and moistening the whole with enough of the now skimmed broth to bring the vegetables to the consistency of a good puree. If required, a little more salt and freshly ground black pepper seasoning can now be added. Next put the cutlets into a stewpan, add a spoonful or64 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. two of the broth to the puree of potato and onions, pour this over the meat, and slowly heat up the stew to steaming point. Dish in this way : arrange the cutlets in a row in a hot silver dish, and mask them with the purke. Some add milk or cream to Irish stew, but I do not think it necessary. In my way you have all the flavour of the mutton broth and no grease, while the potato is creamy and free from lumps, with the onion there, but not en evidence. 60. Poached Put six poached eggs on six squares eggs, with of fried bread, and pour enough of the Italian sauce given in No. 23 to cover each nicely. sauce.MENU XXI. 65 ABSTINENCE. Fillets of sole, with shrimps. Spaghetti a la Milanaise. Omelette with artichokes. Muffins. Have a good-sized sole neatly filleted. Order the bones and trimmings to be sent in with the fish, and with them make a good fish fir , broth. Also order half a pint of picked of soil, shrimps, mince them not too finely,®** ’ and season the mince with salt, white Crimps. pepper, and a pinch of mace. Lay the fillets on a board, brush the upper sides of them with white of egg, and spread over each a coating of the mince after having moistened it with a quarter of a pint of white sauce made with the fish broth and thickened with a raw egg. Roll up the fillets and poach them in the remaining broth to set the farce. Let them get cold. If t us prepared overnight they can be lightly floured or bread-crumbed and fried for breakfast, anchovy or shrimp butter accompanying.FIFTY BREAKFASTS. 66 Spaghetti seems more delicate than macaroni. Weigh six ounces of it and boil the spaghetti till tender,1 then drain ; while hot, and in the 62. Sj>ag- same saucepan, quickly melt a couple of hMilanaiseounCeS of butter into it:> stir it: wel1 ian 'about with a wooden spoon, flavour it with a teaspoonful of spiced pepper, and finish with three ounces of grated cheese ; stir all to- gether vigorously, and then serve piled up on a hot dish, steaming. Cut six artichoke bottoms into six pieces each, toss them in chopped parsley and butter, season- ing with white pepper and salt \ make 63. Ome- an omelette in either of the ways hue with already explained. Dish as follows : artichokes. & pat of butter at the bottom of the hot entree dish, put in the artichokes, upon them lay the omelette, and serve. 1 Boil macaroni or spaghetti exactly as you do rice (No. 20) for all ordinary purposes. It should be firm not pulpy.MENU XXII. 67 Whitings au gratin. Little moulds of ham and chicken. Buttered eggs with grated beef. Wholemeal cakes. Choose two large or three medium whitings, untouched by the fishmonger. Have them simply trimmed and scored—z'.g., cuts about a quarter of an inch deep, made 64- Whi- at two-inch intervals along both sides.ttngs. au Thus prepared they will lie flat on the *"***■ gratin dish, not curled round in the manner invariably adopted by the fishmonger. Butter the baking dish well, sprinkle over its surface a saltspoonful of salt and one of white pepper, and dredge about two tablespoonfuls of fine rasp- ings over all. Brush the whitings on one side with egg, and sprinkle over them some finely minced mushroom, put them in the dish with this side upwards, melt half an ounce of butter and moisten the surface of the mushrooms, sprinkle a layer of chopped parsley over that, and68 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. two more tablespoonfuls of raspings, moisten with a coffeecupful of broth, and set the dish in the oven for ten or twelve minutes ; serve in the same dish laid on a napkin. N.B.—The mushroom is, of course, optional. Pound well on the day previously seven ounces of cold cooked chicken and five ounces of cold lean ham, after first passing the meat 65. Little through the mincing machine ; incor- moulds of p0rate wjti1 this six ounces of panada, one thicken ounce of butter> a saltspoonful of white pepper, half one of mace, and a pinch of salt; mix all together with two well-beaten eggs, and about two tablespoonfuls of thick white sauce made with broth extracted from the bones and trimmings of the chicken. Now butter six or eight dariole moulds, shake a thin lining of rasped crumbs over this, then proceed to fill the little moulds with the mixture; shake them down well so that the latter may settle closely into them, then with the back of a saltspoon scoop out a hollow in each ; into these little cavities put a teaspoonful of the sauce, and close them with a cap of the mixture you took out, smoothing over the surface with the blade of a dessert-knife dipped in water. Now poach the little moulds till set firmly, and put them in a cold place till morning, when they can be gently warmed en bain-marie and turned out.BUTTERED EGGS WITH GRATED BEEF. 69 Prepare six squares of hot buttered toast, cover each with a canopy of buttered „ eggs, and sprinkle a layer of finely tered eggs rasped Hamburg or cold salt beef with (red) over the top of each ; serve as grated beef hot as possible.MENU XXIII. 70 Salt cod with egg sauce and potatoes. Calf s liver a l’ltalienne. Eggs with shrimp cream. Oatmeal scones. Steep a pound and a half of salt cod for six or eight hours in lukewarm water, changing it three Salt times, finally leaving it in cold water ddJitb for three hours longer- Put k on.to egg sauce boil in cold water j as soon as boiling andpota- ease off the fire, and let it simmer for toes. £ye minutes, drain it, set it on a hot dish on a bed of nicely mashed potato, and pour a pint of well-made hard-boiled egg sauce over it. The potato should be worked more as a puree in the French way—that is, diluted with stock or milk until it can be poured out of the saucepan about the consistency of porridge. Slice up about a pound or so of calfs liver lengthwise, about half an inch thick, season with71 EGGS WITH SHRIMP CREAM. a seasoning composed of salt, white pepper, and powdered dried herbs in equal portions, and a saltspoonful of mace blended with it. Melt four ounces of clarified dripping 68, Calf's or veal suet in a frying-pan ; when this ^ is hot put in the liver, fry fQr three minutes on one side, then turn the slices and fry three minutes on the other side ; take the slices out and lay them on a hot entree dish closely covered. Now put into the frying fat one ounce of flour, work it well, add one shal- lot chopped small, a couple of mushrooms also chopped, and enough broth to bring the sauce to a nice consistency ; finally add a tablespoonful of chopped parsley ; skim well, pour through a pointed strainer over the liver, and serve. 4 Poach six eggs, and lay them on squares of fried bread, and cover them with this sauce : Half an ounce of butter, half an ounce ^ s of flour, and enough milk to make a rather thin sauce. Season with a salt- shrimp A spoonful of salt and black pepper cream. blended, and stir in enough potted shrimps to thicken the sauce well.MENU XXIV. 72 Stewed fish. Epigrams of mutton. Eggs with Soublse sauce. Sally Lunns. For this choose any cheap yet clean fish—i.e., not “fatty,” as herrings, mackerel, &c. ; about one and a half pounds enough, have the 7°j, Stewed fish filleted if you wish, but ask that all the “ cuttings ” may be sent with it. With the latter, assisted by two or three onions, a bit of celery, six peppercorns, a seasoning of salt, a bunch of parsley and herbs, and a table- spoonful of grated horseradish, make a good fish broth ; strain when quite done, and thicken, then put the fillets into it, and simmer them till they are cooked ; lastly, stir in the yolk of an egg, off the fire ; dish on a hot dish, and serve. Select about a pound and a half of breast of mutton, cover it with cold water, and stew it,EGGS WITH SOUBISE SAUCE. 73 with ordinary broth, vegetables, and seasoning, till it is tender, then strain off the broth, take out the mutton, remove the bones (they will come out easily), sprinkle 71,EPl- some salt and pepper over the meat, and put it on a dish under a weight for the night, setting the broth in a bowl. In the morning cut the meat into convenient pieces ; egg, bread-crumb them, and fry them a nice colour in very hot fat; dish on a hot dish, and send,this sauce with them: Take the fat off the bowl of broth, put about half a pint of it into a saucepan, colour it a nice brown with browning, and mix into it a teaspoonful of red- currant jelly, a tablespoonful of Harvey, one of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar, and a dessertspoonful of Marsala. If the fire be clear the pieces of mutton may be broiled instead of being fried. Prepare six “ oeufsmollels” (No. 33), put them in a hot entree dish, and pour over them a pint of sauce Soubise—three two-ounce onions boiled till tender in milk or 72; broth, then passed through the sieve— Sou~ heated up in the same liquid slightly thickened with arrowroot, seasoned with pepper and salt, and finished with a yolk of a raw egg if liked. Prepare the sauce overnight.MENU XXV. 74 Fried brill. Salmis of game. Devilled eggs. Muffins. About one pound and a half of filleted brill. Parboil them overnight, and lay them, when cold, in a marinade composed as f°H°ws : Four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, one of vinegar, an onion sliced in rings, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one of mixed green herbs, the peel of half a lemon, and a teaspoonful of black pepper and salt blended. In the morning take the fillets out of the mari- nade, wipe them, egg, bread-crumb, and fry them as explained for smelts (No. 16). N.B.—Maitre d'hotel butter may accompany. Although a true salmis should be made with75 SALMIS OF GAME. game which has been only partly cooked before- hand, a very eatable dish can be concocted out of the remains of birds, provided that ^ Sahnis they have not been over-roasted. Pre- 0j game_ suming, then, that you have some remains of game—hare, grouse, black game, or partridges—you can proceed in this way on the evening before : Cut off all the available meat, and, giving it a dust of salt and white pepper, put it by. With all the bones, skin, and any gravy that may be over, make the best game broth possible. For this pound all the enamelled bones before putting them into the pot, add any trimmings of bacon or ham, a bunch of sweet herbs, and an ounce of glaze ; cover with warm water, boil, and simmer. When satisfied that you have got all that the ingredients can yield, strain the liquid off, and leave it in a bowl all night. The next morning thicken this, add a tablespoonful of Marsala, a teaspoonful of red- currant jelly, one of anchovy vinegar, and such seasoning as you may consider necessary. When fully flavoured put in the meat, and let the salmis warm slowly to steaming point without boiling, keep in the bain-marie till required, and serve. If the whole process were carried out overnight, the dish would be all the better, gentle re-heating being alone necessary the next day. These may be either poached eggs on toast,76 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. capped with “devil sauce” (No. 29, slightly 75 Devil- Sickened), or hard-boiled eggs cut in led Eggs.'halves lengthwise, placed in a hot entr'ee dish, and moistened with “ chut- ney sauce ” (No. 8) as steaming hot as possible.MENU XXVI. 77 Fried fish a l’Indienne. Kubab of liver and oysters. Buttered eggs with shrimps. Crumpets. This depends upon a peculiar batter in which the fish is dipped before frying. Fillets of whiting may be chosen. Having pre- pared a bath of boiling fat, fry them, ?6- Frted after having dipped them in this ^sh a 1 /n' dienne. mixture :— Beat up two raw eggs in half a pint of milk, thicken this to the consistency of a batter that coats the spoon when lifted from it with pea- flour, add a saltspoonful of turmeric, a saltspoon- ful of ground ginger, and the same of salt and white pepper blended. This is only a kubcib in so far that the viands are strung upon skewers in the Oriental manner. Choose about a pound of lamb’s or calf’s liver,78 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. and cut it into slices one-third of an inch thick, an inch wide, and an inch and a half long, egg 77. Kubdb and crumb them with finely pounded of liver stale crumbs ; take one dozen cooking and oysters, and wrap each of them in oyster. a very thin slice of streaky bacon ; egg and bread these also with fine crumbs. Now pass these on to your skewers in alternate order—first a piece of liver, then an oyster, then a piece of liver, and so on ; melt a couple of ounces of clarified dripping in a frying-pan, and fry for three minutes on one side, then turn the skewers, and fry for three more on the other side ; drain, dry, and serve on a very hot dish. A pint of picked shrimps, six eggs, and six toasts. Make buttered eggs of the eggs, butter 78. But- the toasts, and toss the shrimps in a teredeggs frying-pan in a couple of ounces of with butter ; let them absorb the butter, shnmps. then turn them on to the toasts, and pour the hot buttered eggs over them.MENU XXVII. 79 Fried shell-fish. Chicken pur4e with mushrooms. Egg mole. Oatcakes. A dish of fried shell-fish, as is often presented at the Italian breakfast, is a nice variation from the ordinary routine. Take a dozen fair - sized shelled prawns, and a dozen shelled scallops ; make two pieces of S e ^ each prawn by slicing it lengthwise, and slice the scallops in the same way ; spread a layer of flour on a clean cloth, and roll the pieces of shell-fish in it; let this dry, and then turn them, a ladleful at a time, into a bath of boiling fat. Fry a golden yellow, drain, and pile the crisp fritters (like whitebait) on a napkin ; dust salt over them, and serve with slices of lemon, brown bread-and-butter. N.B. Scallops alone are quite acceptable when thus presented.FIFTY BREAKFASTS. 8o Enough minced chicken for the party should be made in the usual manner, and six mush- rooms, each the size of a five-shilling- purhZith piece’ should be broiled or fried in mushrooms, butter. Butter six squares of fried bread, cover them with the steaming mince, and lay a fried mushroom on the top of each square. Lay six poached or hard-boiled eggs in a hot silver entree dish, and pour over them a sauce 81. Egg made like that given in No. 13, only moll use milk instead of fish broth for the moistening.MENU XXVIII. ABSTINENCE. Semolina fritters of fish. Vegetable curry (Malay). Eggs a la voyageuse. Indian crumpets. Boil twelve ounces of semolina in sufficient milk to form a paste. Let it get cold, then roll it out a quarter of an inch thick, and line a dozen oval tartlet moulds with it $2- ^emo* Fill these with a stiffly reduced linafrit' shrimp sauce, in which the shrimps,*”^’ cut into dice are plentiful. Close over each little patty thus formed with a covering of semolina paste, wet the edges, pinch the tops securely to the lining, and then take them out of the moulds, egg, bread-crumb, and fry in very ot fat, like rissoles. Drain, dry, and send in on a napkin with fried parsley. These can be pre- pared, all but the frying, overnight. Remains of lobster oysters, scallops, or prawns, may be similarly cooked. y Si 7FIF7 Y BREAKFASTS. 82 Choose the following vegetables : Six cooked artichoke bottoms, the same weight of cooked vegetable marrow or cucumber, six 83. Vege- SprjgS 0f thg flower 0f not over-cooked ‘ VT* cauliflower, three cooked potatoes of (Malay). ’ . r , moderate size. Cut the artichoke bottoms into four pieces each, cut the vegetable marrow also into pieces about the same size, and slice the potatoes into similarly small discs. Then proceed as explained for curried mush- rooms (No. 20), serving rice with the curry as therein described. Lay six poached eggs on six fried toasts, and pour over each a little of this sauce : half a pint of milk thickened with a quarter of an 84. Eggs ounce 0f butter, and the same of flour, \ J ' ' flavoured with a tablespoonful of voyageuse. pjaryey sauce) a dessertspoonful of tomato ketchup, a teaspoonful of anchovy vinegar, and salt to taste. A tablespoonful of milk with one raw yolk beaten up in it may be stirred in as a finishing touch, off the fire, just before using the sauce.MENU XXIX. 83 Orlys of fillets of hake. Twice-laid of salt beef. Eggs a la Bordelaise. Bannocks, Trim the hake into convenient pieces for frying, and marinade them as explained for the brill fillets (No. 73). Before cooking them, wipe the pieces carefully, make a good Orlys frying batter (No. 116) and prepare a bath of boiling fat. Dip the pieces ° “ into the batter, and fry them a rich golden brown. Serve piled upon a hot napkin. This simple dish can be made very tasty with a little trouble. Pass half a pound of lean Hamburg spiced or salt beef through the mincing machine ; cut the fat into 86, Twice' dice, fry them till well melted, then lfd/salt empty the contents of the pan into f' a hot saucepan containing about a pint and aFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 84 half of well-mashed potato : stir well together with a wooden spoon, adding by degrees the minced beef, and moistening the mixture with a few spoonfuls of broth or milk. Turn the whole into a well-buttered mould, and bake until thoroughly hot, then turn out, and shake some fine raspings over it. Garnish with curls of bacon. Bake overnight three good-sized onions on a buttered dish until they are quite soft. Boil six eggs hard. The next morning take off 87- Eggs browned outer skin of the onions, Velctise*' and mince themi and take four sardines from the tin, free them from oil, and cut them up rather small. Put an ounce of butter into a frying-pan, throw into it the minced onion, set the pan on a low fire, add the sardines, fry very gently ; meanwhile warm the hard-boiled eggs by putting them into hot water. All being hot, empty the mince into a hot entree dish, slice the hard eggs, across, into pieces, strew them over the mince, and serve very hot.menu XXX. 85 Kippered salmon. Croquettes of mixed meat. Omelettes with asparagus. Muffins. Cut six nice pieces from a kippered salmon, and if necessary, soak them awhile to remove some of the saltness, then dry them, butter 88. Kip. them, and dust some pepper over them, pered then wrap in well-oiled papers, and broil Salmon. over the clearest fire on a gridiron. These can be made of mixed cold meats over- night, and wdl be much improved by the remains ot a pate de foie gras, sweetbread, a So spoonful of ham or tongue if it can be queues 'of spared, and the same of minced cooked mixed mushroom. But none of these ex- meat- pensive things is essential. Having minced the meat seasoned, and flavoured it, stir it in a bowl m which you have poured a quarter of a pint of thick white or brown, sauce, with the yolks of86 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. two raw eggs blended with it 5 warm all in a saucepan together, but without boiling, then put aside the mixture to set firmly. Next morning strew a pastry board with finely powdered and sifted crumbs, divide the mince into equally sized parts, roll them into drumlike shapes, egg, crumb, and fry them in boiling fat till of a nice yellow-brown colour ; drain, dry, and serve piled up upon a hot napkin. Any nice brown sauce can accompany. Cooked asparagus, either fresh or tinned, may be employed in this dish. Cut all the tender part into quarter-inch dice, boil the 90. Ome- stains in milk, strain, thicken the milk, letie with season it with salt and pepper, and put asparagus. ^ into Make two omelettes as recommended in No. 6, and add the asparagus as described in No. 24. Serve as hot as possible.MENU XXXI. 87 Whitebait. Vienna steaks. Omelettes with shrimps. Knotted rolls. Few dishes of fish are nicer for breakfast than whitebait. They are none the worse for having been fried overnight ; on the contrary; for a plunge into very hot fat for two, 9l-White' or three minutes at most, and careful bmt' draining and drying, they are all the crisper. Serve them with slices of lemon and thin brown bread-and-butter in the usual way. Vienna steaks are made in this way: Take half a pound of lean veal uncooked, and half a pound of lean beef also uncooked ; mince the two meats finely, season 92, Vien' with spiced pepper and salt, and add ****"**' a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley and a tea- spoonful of finely minced shallot ; mix into thisFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 88 two well-beaten eggs, and turn the whole out upon a flat dish. The mixture should be about three-eighths of an inch thick. This having been done the previous day, in the morning all that has to be done is to cut the now firm mass into rounds with a three and a half inch cutter; flour and fry them (saut'e) in butter three minutes on one side, turn, and three minutes on the other, serving them on a hot dish in a circle, with a small mound of mashed potato in the centre. Plain brown gravy may accompany in a sauce boat. The omelettes should be cooked in either of the ways already described (see No. 6, or 48), and the shrimps should be added in the manner 93. Ome- explained for the mushrooms in No. 24. ^hrluf1 They should be prepared as follows: Having picked enough boiled shrimps to fill a half pint measure generously, pound the shells of the tails in a mortar with one ounce of butter, pass all through a hair-sieve, and put it into a small saucepan over a low fire, add the picked shrimps and a dust of mace, stir well to heat thoroughly, and spread half of the contents of the saucepan over the surface of each omelette just before turning the latter into the dish.MENU XXXII. 89 Slices of Salmon, grilled. Ham steaks. Eggs in cases with mushrooms. Irish scones. Cut a piece of salmon into six slices half an inch thick. If the piece be a deep cut from the middle of a fine fish three slices will be sufficient, each being divided into two 94- Slices pieces down the naturally marked divi- °f salmon> sion of the fish. Remove the skin, and srilled' let the prepared slices lie all night in a marinade composed of four tablespoonfuls of salad oil, two of red wine vinegar, a dessertspoonful of chopped chives or finely shredded shallot, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, and a sprinkling of spiced salt. In the morning lift the slices from the marinade, wipe them, and wrap them in well- buttered papers, twisting the ends of the papers to secure them firmly. Butter the bars of a well- cleaned gridiron, lay the cutlets one by onego FIFTY BREAKFASTS. thereon, and boil them over a clear fire, turning them frequently. They will take about twelve minutes. If cut thicker, say three-quarters of an inch, and not wrapped in paper, they will be done in a quarter of an hour. In this case the slices must be buttered before being laid on the gridiron. These are cut out of a raw ham in quarter- inch thick slices and broiled over a clear fire. The secret of success lies in having the 9Ja^am ham, or a portion set aside for steaks, soaked as if for boiling, and to send the steaks in absolutely straight from the grill. Excellent steaks can thus be cut from a gammon of prime bacon, but the soaking and speedy service must be carried out with the same care. Stew a quarter of a pound of trimmed mush- rooms in milk ; when done, drain them, chop them up small with a silver dessert- 96. Eggs knife. Thicken the milk custard-wise incases with the yoiks 0f two raw eggs, stir in " the minced mushroom and enough finely sifted white crumbs to bring the mixture to the consistency of a farce, seasoning with salt and a saltspoonful of spiced pepper. With this line half a dozen well-buttered china cases, leaving a hollow in the centre of each, into which break a fresh egg. Set the cases in aEGGS IN CASES WITH MUSHROOMS. 91 shallow pan with hot water an inch deep round them, and poach them in the oven for eight or ten minutes. Pour enough of the sauce men- tioned below to mask the top of each, dust over with fine raspings, and serve. Sauce: only six dessertspoonfuls wanted. Take the trimmings of the mushrooms, wash, dry, and simmer them in just enough milk to cover them, for twenty minutes, season with a pinch each of salt and pepper ; afterwards strain, thicken the broth thus obtained, and use as directed. N.B.—The mushrooms should be prepared the day before.MENU XXXIII. 92 Fish pudding with rice. Grilled breast of mutton. Eggs in coquilles. Indian crumpets. Any cold fish carefully picked from the bones will do, or a combination of fish such as salmon and whiting, for a little salmon improves 9puddinv the PuddinS greatly- Take eight ounces ■with rice. of this> and four ounces of boiled rice, one hard-boiled egg crushed with a fork ; mix together in a bowl, seasoning with a saltspoonful of spiced pepper, and one of salt, and moistening with any fish sauce that may have been left, or milk, with one well-beaten egg. When worked to the consistency of a pudding, put the mixture into a buttered mould, place a round of paper over the exposed end, and set the mould in a large stewpan in boiling water one third of its depth ; cover the vessel, and let it steam for forty minutes (see p. 99). The mould93 EGGS IN COQUILLES. can then be taken from the stewpan and the pudding turned out. If any fish broth be available, a white sauce, flavoured with a few drops of anchovy sauce, may be poured over the mould. Trim and stew a breast of mutton or lamb with six ounces of onions, four ounces of carrot, an ounce of celery, a bouquet of herbs, and seasoning, with sufficient water to 98- Grilled cover all well, till tender. Take the breast of breast out of the broth, remove the mMtt0H' bones at once, and place it between two dishes with a weight upon the upper one. This must be done while the meat is hot on the afternoon of the previous day. Save the broth. In the morning release the piece of meat from the weight, and cut it into neat pieces three inches long by one and a half wide. Score, and season these highly, grill, and serve with crisply fried parsley, and the “ devil ” sauce given for No. 29, using some of the broth that was saved in its making. Boil six eggs hard. Fry a couple of fairly large mushrooms. Take the yolks out of the boiled eggs, chopping the whites into little squares, and treating the mush- 99- Eggs rooms in a similar manner. Mix the inco~ chopped whites and mushrooms, season94 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. with spiced pepper and salt, and moisten them with a spoonful or two of good brown sauce ; add the crushed yolks with a little more sauce—just enough of the latter in all to form a nice moist mince. Butter six china scallop shells, put an allowance of the mince in each, smoothing the surface in dome shape ; shake a layer of finely sifted white crumbs over them, pour a few drops of butter melted upon each, and set in the oven till nicely browned. Serve very hot.MENU XXXIV. 95 Cod’s-roe cutlets. Croustades of mixed meats. Eggs on the dish a la Monaco. French rolls. Put a whole cod’s roe, with the skin intact, into boiling water for five minutes. Take it out, put it on a sieve, and pour a jug of cold water over it. Then return it Ioa Cods~ to the stewpan, to the water in which r°e cutlets' add a tablespoonful of vinegar and one of salt. Simmer slowly for twenty minutes, or thirty if a large roe. Then drain, and set it in the larder to get cold. When required in the morning, cut the roe into half-inch slices, trim these into cutlets with a cutter, egg, bread-crumb, and fry them a nice colour, then drain and dry, serving with brown bread-and-butter and sliced lemon. ° These can be made out of any combination of cold meat, and if the following proportions beFI FI V BREA KFA S TS. 96 maintained—approximately—will be found very nice for breakfast : To two-thirds finely minced cold roast beef, mutton, veal, or fowl, ioj. Crou- anow one-third minced ham, tongue, stades of jean bacon, or lean pressed beef. meats. Blend a mince thus apportioned, season it with spiced pepper, and prepare half a pint of nicely flavoured brown gravy, slightly thickened. A good flavour will be got by adding to the gravy one tablespoon- ful mushroom ketchup, one dessertspoonful of Harvey sauce, a teaspoonful of vinegar from the walnut pickle, and a teaspoonful of Marsala. For seasoning a saltspoonful of sugar and one of salt. For the croustades choose six small stale dinner rolls ; slice off the rounded top of each as you take the top off a boiled egg ; then, using a fork, pick out the crumb without injuring the outer crust. Six bread-cases having thus been pre- pared, fry them in very hot beef dripping till pale golden in colour ; drain, dry, and keep till wanted. In the morning butter the inside of the cases, sprinkle over this a layer of finely minced parsley. Next, taking enough mince to fill each case, put it into a bowl, dilute with the sauce till nice and moist, fill the cases, strew a layer of fine crumbs over the tops, set them on a buttered baking tin, and put this into the oven for a few minutes, just till thoroughly hot. Meanwhile fry six curls of bacon, crisply, andEGGS ON THE DISH A LA MONACO. 97 when serving the croustades put a curl on the top of each one. In a small saucepan put a claret-glassful of tomato sauce, with a tablespoonful of melted glaze; season with a saltspoonful of spiced pepper, dilute with broth or io2- EiSs milk to bring the liquid to the con- °’l thedish sistency of thin cream, then pass it M°n' through a strainer into a fire-proof china dish ; break six eggs into this carefully without breaking, and put a few drops of melted butter on each egg; then set the dish in the oven, and as soon as the whites are set take it out, and serve on a napkin laid upon a larger dish. 8MENU XXXV. 98 Haddock in a mould. Chicken cutlets, Indian way. Eggs on the dish with bacon. Crumb-muffins. Take the flesh from both sides of a medium- sized haddock. Put the head, skin, bones and tail, with an onion sliced, six pepper- 103. Had- cornS) and a bouquet of herbs, into a ‘tnould U stewPan with sufficient water to cover all ; season with a saltspoonful of salt, boil, and simmer for half an hour, then strain off the broth, which should be thickened with butter and flour (one ounce of each to half a pint), and finally enriched—off the fire—with the yolk of a raw egg. This being ready, proceed to pound the flesh of the haddock in a mortar, moistening it during the operation with a spoonful or two of the sauce. When well pounded pass the fish through the sieve, and to it add half its bulk of white bread-crumb that has been soaked in milk;CHICKEN CUTLETS, INDIAN WA V. 99 pound all together, moisten slightly with the sauce and two well-beaten eggs, seasoning with spiced pepper. When well mixed, butter a plain pudding mould, fill it with the mixture, and poach it “ au-bain marie ”—i.e., place it one-third deep in boiling water, watch it come again to the boil, then lower the fire and steam as you would a pudding, closely covered, for three-quarters of an hour. In the morning set the mould again in hot water, and keep it so until thoroughly heated through, when it should be turned out upon a hot dish. Any unexpended sauce there may be should be warmed and poured over the mould. The legs and thighs of fowls, the breasts of which have been used for an entree, will do well. The meat may be cooked or not. The remains of a turkey may be thus I04- Chic- utilised. To three-quarters of a pound ken cutlets' of cold cooked meat allow six ounces ” WU xvci'y • of cold cooked pork sausage. Mince the meat, not too finely, and chop up the sausages, removing the skin ; add a teaspoonful of minced shallot, a dessertspoonful of parsley, and a sprinkling of salt ; mix all together with two raw eggs, spread the mixture on a dish three- eighths of an inch thick, and let it stiffen during the night. In the morning cut it into cutlets with a cutter, flour them, and lay them in a saute pan with an ounce of butter. Fry sixFIFTY BREAKFASTS. IOO minutes (three on each side), and dish in a circle with fried parsley as garnish. Cut into thin slices enough cold cooked bacon to cover the bottom of a large fire-proof dish. Slightly butter the dish, cut the slices loS;,Ef, into inch squares, and lay them over Zith tSl the bottom of the dish. Put it into bacon. the oven, let the bacon cook for five minutes on one side, then turn the pieces and cook five minutes longer. Now take the dish out of the oven and break six eggs into it, return it to the oven till the whites are set, then dish in the manner described for No. 102.MENU XXXVI. 101 ABSTINENCE. Sole as whitebait. Mushroom fritters. Omelette a la Soubise. Barley-meal scones. This is a fanciful way of serving fried sole, which, as a change, may be acceptable. Skin a medium-sized fish, and detach the long fillets on either side of the spine. Cut Io6- Sole these into strips about the size of a a,s whUe' largish whitebait, toss them in a floured cloth, and plunge them in relays into a bath of boiling lard or clarified suet, in which a frying- basket has been set; in six or seven minutes they should just turn colour, when lift the basket out of the bath, drain for a moment over the pan, then turn out upon a sheet of blotting-paper placed in front of the fire so as to dry. When all have thus been fried, drained, and dried, sprinkle them with salt, dish on a very hot dish' serving with brown bread-and-butter and lemon cut into quarters.102 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. Half a pound of good fresh mushrooms should be chosen. It is never advisable to buy these very nice fungi after they have turned putting all the stalks and peelings into a sauce- pan, with a pinch of mignonette pepper and two of salt; cover with milk, milk and water, or water, according to your resources, and bring once to the boil, simmering afterwards for twenty minutes ; then strain through muslin — for there may be grit in the mushroom trimmings —and save the broth in a bowl. Thicken this with a quarter of an ounce of butter and a quarter of an ounce of flour, reducing it somewhat, and lastly add (off the fire) the yolk of a raw egg. Next cut the mushrooms up into a coarse mince, and, putting this into a saute pan with an ounce of butter, fry it for five minutes over a moderate fire. Remove the pan from the fire. Chop up the hard-boiled eggs, whites and yolks together, and add this to the fried minced mushroom, seasoning with a tea- spoonful of spiced pepper and salt. Dilute this with a few spoonfuls of the sauce, and again, over a moderate fire, proceed to cook the mixture, adding a little more sauce if it seems necessary. When the mixture thickens well, stop, turn the contents of the pan out upon a dish, pat it into ters. hard ; while this is proceeding, trim, peel, and prepare the mushrooms,OMELETTE A LA SOUBISE. 103 shape with a wooden spoon, making it about a quarter of an inch thick, and leave it to get firm during the night. In the morning cut this into cutlets; egg, bread-crumb, and fry a golden brown, and serve with fried parsley. In this case an onion puree a la Soubise is added to an omelette just as the latter is on the point of being passed into the dish. Cook the omelettes (for there had better I.0^- 0m.e ' lelle a la be two, as already advised) in either 01 soubise. the two methods (No. 6 or 48) that have been given, adding, at the period indicated, this puree, which would of course be made over- night. Mince six ounces of onion, plunge this into boil- ing water to blanch for seven or eight minutes ; strain carefully, turn the mince into a stewpan, and over a low fire ; stir it about to dry thoroughly, then add a tablespoonful of milk, simmer, and continue adding by degrees till the onion is covered with milk ; now simmer till the onion is cooked, then strain, pass the mince through the sieve, thicken the milk in which it was boiled with a quarter of an ounce of butter and the same of flour, pass in the puree, amalgamate thoroughly, adding the yolk of an egg beaten up in a tablespoonful of milk to finish with.MENU XXXVII. Sea-bream on the dish. Chicken a la chevalier. Buttered eggs with mushrooms. Brown rolls. Fillet a sea-bream neatly. With all the trim- mings make a broth as described in No. 103 ; when this is ready strain it into a shallow 109. Sea- just large enough to hold the fillets : the dish a C0PPer saute pan with an upright rim will do ; place this on the fire, bring to the boil, put in the fillets, and in three minutes reduce the heat to simmering ; in eight or ten minutes the fillets will be sufficiently done for our purpose. Put them aside for the night, carefully saving the broth. In the morning thicken the broth, giving it a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce, and having arranged the fillets on a buttered flat dish that will stand the oven pour the sauce over them in sufficient quantity to mask them neatly ; dust over the surface a layer IO4105 CHICKEN A LA CHEVALIER. of finely grated cheese, and set the dish in the oven just long enough to heat thoroughly ; remove it when this has taken place, pass a heated glazing iron over the surface to make it a yellowish brown, and serve. Any cold cooked fish may be similarly dressed. Serve of course on the dish in which it was cooked. An easy way of presenting a rechauffe of chicken, fowl, or turkey. Remove the legs and thighs from a pair of cold roast or boiled birds, put them aside while you pick 1 Ia Chlc' off all the remaining meat on the car- ken^la cases. Pick all the burnt skin out of this, and chop up the bones that remain, with which proceed to make a broth. Pass the meat through the mincing machine or chop it upon a board. Season this with spiced pepper and salt. Thicken the broth slightly, and moisten the mince with it, heating the mixture in the bain- marie. Score, season, and grill the joints that were cut off in the first instance, dishing as follows : On the bottom of a hot silver dish place a piece of crisply fried bread for each piece of grilled fowl, spread a layer of the mince on each of these, and place the leg or thigh over that, garnishing the whole with crisply fried curls of bacon. In the case of a turkey the joints must be cut crosswise into convenient pieces.io6 No. 3, and the mushrooms as in No. 36. FIFTY BREAKFASTS. Buttered eggs with mushrooms can either be served upon toasts—first the mushrooms and then a covering of the egg mixture— hi .But- or a iayer mushrooms can be laid on with musk- t^ie bottom of a hot silver dish with rooms. the buttered eggs over them. A third way is to incorporate the mushrooms with the buttered eggs the last thing before dish- ing the latter. Prepare the eggs as shown inMENU XXXVIII. 107 Cutlets of moulded fish. Ox-tongue fillets devilled. Eggs in cases with ham. Crumpets. Prepare on the day before the cutlets are wanted a mould of fish as explained in the case of “ had- dock mould ” (No. 103). This can be made of mixed fish, and if any salmon, II2‘ Cut' remains of lobster, or shrimps can be lets , ... . , . , \ moulded. worked m with it, so much the better. jisju Put the mould away at night, and in the morning cut it into neat pieces—cutlet shapes if liked—which egg, bread-crumb, fry in boiling fat a golden brown, and serve crisp and dry with fried parsley. Cut from a cold boiled tongue eight or ten neat slices a quarter of an inch thick ; prepare asio8 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. many rounds of fried bread; get ready half 113. Ox- a piot °f the “devil sauce” already tongue explained in No. 29. Trim the tongue fillets slices free from skin, and season them devilled. wjth grjjj seasoning (No. 29). Give them a few turns on the gridiron, lay them on the toasts, and pour the sauce over them. Butter six china cases or scallop shells ; take enough finely grated ham to fill an afternoon tea- cup ; moisten this with twice the quan- ”4- ESSs tity of good brown sauce and stir in "with ham. the y°lk of a raw eSS off the fire when the mixture is ready. With this line your cases or shells, leaving a hollow space in the middle of each to hold an egg. Put the cases- in hot water to poach and set the lining, then take them out. In the morning warm the cases, slip a poached egg into the hollow of each of them, pour a dessertspoonful of hot brown sauce over every egg, and serve.MENU XXXIX. Baked smelts. Kromeskis of chicken. Eggs with oysters. Devilled biscuits. Large smelts are the best for this dish. Butter an oval fire-proof dish, sprinkle finely minced parsley over it, on this bed lay one dozen smelts ; moisten them with half a pint of white sauce, strew them over with fine raspings pretty thickly, put into a moderate oven for ten minutes, and serve in their dish placed on a napkin. Make a mixture of chicken—or veal with ham, lean bacon, or any tasty adjunct—as if for croquettes (No. 89). In the morning mix a frying batter: Put four and a n6'Kr0' half ounces of flour into a bowl, make a ™htcken hollow in the centre and put into it ^ ^ ^ a quarter of a pint of water, half a saltspoonful ofI IO FIFTY BREAKFASTS. salt, the yolks of two eggs, and two tablespoon- fuls of salad oil. Mix thoroughly till the batter coats the spoon with a coating the eighth of an inch thick, adding water, if necessary, to attain that consistency. Twenty minutes before using stir in the whites of the two eggs well whipped. For the kromeskis cut out of thinly sliced cooked bacon eight or a dozen pieces about three inches long and two inches wide ; lay a tablespoonful of the minced meat in the centre of each of these, roll them up, dip them into the batter, and fry in a bath of boiling fat till they turn a light brown colour ; drain, dry, and serve on a napkin. The oysters should be prepared the previous evening. The operation is very simple, yet it requires care. Order a dozen sauce u7- Fggs oysters to be sent up with their liquor. 7/ers °y~ Strain the latter, for it is often gritty with little atoms of shell, into a small saucepan, putting in with it the beards taken from the oysters ; add fish broth, milk or water to moisten well, and boil, simmering afterwards for half an hour. Strain off this liquid, let it get cold, put the bearded oysters into it, empty it all into a saucepan and set it on the fire—the heat moderate—watch now, and the moment signs of boiling can be detected, stop ; reduce the heat to the lowest simmering temperature, and in two minutes the oysters will be ready. If allowed toin EGGS WITH OYSTERS. boil the oysters will be leathery. Now take out the oysters, thicken the broth, put them in again, and keep this in a china or earthenware bowl during the night. In the morning boil six eggs hard ; cool them in cold water ; slice them crosswise, butter a fire- proof baking dish, put a layer of the eggs at the bottom of it, arrange the oysters, now taken out of the sauce, over this, and cover with another layer of egg slices, seasoning each layer with pepper and salt, moisten the whole with the oyster sauce, cover the surface with raspings somewhat thickly strewn, and put the dish in the oven until steaming, when serve. This is obviously an easy way of disposing of any oyster sauce left from dinner the previous evening.MENU XL. Scalded whitings. Potato cutlets. Poached eggs a la Colbert. Barleymeal scones. Get the whiting untouched by the fishmonger except cleaning. Put the fish (three or four, according to size) upon a dish over- whitings. mSht> sclueeze a lemon over them, and sprinkle with salt. In the morn- ing put a fish-kettle with drainer on the fire with as much water as you think will cover the fish nicely, add to it a dessertspoonful of vinegar and a teaspoonful of salt, wupe each fish, and when the water boils put them into the kettle ; this will stop the boiling ; let it come up to the boil again, then draw back the vessel; from five to eight minutes must now be allowed, according to size ; drain as soon as tender, getting rid of all the water from the fish, and serve with slices of lemon and brown bread-and-butter. This is perhaps ZI2113 POTATO CUTLETS. the most easily digested dish of fish that can be presented either at breakfast or any other meal. It is equally practicable with small-sized fresh haddock. Take two pounds of potatoes (weighed after paring), steam or boil, pass through the sieve, moisten in a bowl with two well-beaten eggs, work to the consistency of smooth dough, adding a spoonful of milk if necessary. Spread a slight layer of flour on a board, turn the potato dough upon it, flour and roll it out as you would ordinary dough for pastry. Sift a thin layer of finely grated cheese over the surface, and dust over with salt and spiced pepper ; fold over, roll out again, fold, and put it away. Prepare eight or ten tablespoonfuls of any nice minced meat, moistening it as ex- plained for croquettes (No. 89). Set this aside also. In the morning roll out the potato paste a quarter of an inch thick with a three-inch cutter, cut this into rounds, put a tablespoonful of the croquette mixture on each round, fold over, and pinch the edges securely. Brush over with egg, roll in finely sifted crumbs, and either heat them up on a buttered baking tin in the oven, or plunge till well coloured in boiling fat. Choose six scallop shells ; put into them a lining of roughly minced kidney prepared m 9FIFTY BREAKFASTS. 114 this way :—Take a pair of fine mutton kidneys, or half a veal kidney, previously cooked—those taken out of a cold roast joint will 120. Poach- . cut; them up into small squares, moisten the mince with a quarter of ■a pint of any brown sauce there may be left, or thickened gravy from a joint, flavoured with a tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup. Heat up this in the morning and use as follows : —Having lined each shell with the mince, slip a poached egg into the hollow, put a teaspoonful of the sauce on each egg, and serve.MENU XLI. 115 Herring fillets fried. Rabbit au gratin. Eggs with artichokes. Tea-cake—not sweetened. Take the flesh from four fresh herrings, one long fillet from each side. Save the roes. Put^ the fillets overnight on a flat dish, sprinkle them with salt, and squeeze 121 •Her- a few drops of lemon juice over each of ring ^l' them. Give the roes a fry and put Iets fried' them away—they will come in for “ a savoury ” at dinner the next day. In the morning wipe, eSS> bread-crumb, and fry the fillets as crisply as possible in boiling fat, serving them nicely dried after draining on a napkin, slices of lemon accompanying. Pick all the meat remaining from a couple of boiled rabbits, the back fillets of which may have been used at a previous meal; save all the onionii6 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. sauce that may have been left, and as much of the boilings as may not have been used. Butter a fire-proof baking dish, strew this over with finely minced parsley, arrange the pieces 122. Rab- Qf meat over this, dusting them with ^ratin sP^ce<^ pepper and salt, and moistening with the onion sauce supplemented with a spoonful or two of the boilings thickened. Having finished the packing, dredge a good layer of raspings over the surface of the rabbit, and put the dish into a moderate oven to heat thoroughly. If well moistened, this will be found a nice dish for a change. This should be made with artichoke bottoms (fonds d'artichauts), but a decidedly nice combi- nation can be made with Jerusalem arti- 123- Eggs chokes. Arrange six cooked artichoke " bottoms on a buttered fire-proof dish, Cl ’ pour a few drops of melted butter on each, warm in the oven, take out the dish, put a nicely trimmed poached egg upon each, sprinkle a dust of spiced pepper over each, or a drop or two of tarragon vinegar, and serve. When made with Jerusalem artichokes, the puree is the simplest method to choose for the vegetable ; line a well-buttered fire-proof dish with this, dust a fine layer of grated cheese over the sur- face, dress the poached eggs neatly in hollows scooped out of this bed, and serve.MENU XLII. ABSTINENCE. Trout fried and marinaded. Croquettes of vermicelli. Eggs with green herb sauce Crumpets. Practicable with small trout. Clean six quarter- pounders, trim, sprinkle them with salt, and fry them in butter in the saute pan. Put them, when thus cooked, in a deep dish, I24- Trout and let them get cold, pouring over anf them a marinade composed of four tablespoonfuls of salad oil and three of anchovy vinegar, seasoned with a teaspoonful of finely grated horseradish, a tablespoonful of chopped parsley, a teaspoonful of chopped thyme or marjoram, and one of chives if not objected to. Let this stand all night, and serve as it is. An excellent summer dish. Prepare the vermicelli exactly as explained for spaghetti (No. 62), cutting it up small and addingii8 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. a coffeecupful of tomato conserve to it, a quarter of a pint of white sauce, and two raw eggs. Stir altogether over a low fire, then spread the mix- ture upon a dish during the night for lul/tes^of ^ .t0. st^en‘ 1° morning shape vermicelli. *nto ^ttle ovals as described for meat croquettes (No 89), and cook in the same manner. If liked, the ovals may be rolled in crushed uncooked vermicelli instead of bread crumbs. Pound in a mortar two ounces of carefully picked and scalded leaves of chervil, parsley, chives, tarragon, and watercress with 126. Eggs six capers and the fillet of a boned W)ierb sauce anc^ovy > Pass the whole through the sieve, and stir it into half a pint of white sauce. Arrange six poached eggs on fried squares of bread and pour a portion of the sauce over each.MENU XLIII. Oyster cutlets. Sausages with potatoes Eggs k la Portugaise. Brown flour scones. For these turn to No. 117, and follow the directions therein given both in regard to the making of the oyster broth, and the cooking of the oysters, but using ™tfef/Ster eighteen sauce oysters instead of twelve. After the latter have been cooked drain them from the broth, and put them on a plate. Next, presuming there is about half a pint of broth, proceed with half an ounce of butter and half an ounce of flour to thicken it; while cooling some- what, cut the oysters up into small pieces and put them with two ounces of bread-crumb soaked in milk and the yolks of two raw eggs into the broth, stir together over a low fire to thicken, but do not boil on any account, and then turn the mixture out on a dish, and leave it in a coolFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 120 larder for the night. In the morning shape the mixture in flat oval shapes with two wooden spoons, or cut them with a cutlet cutter, egg, bread-crumb, and fry in boiling fat ; drain, dry, and serve with slices of lemon and brown bread- and-butter. This homely dish can be made worthy of service at any table if a little trouble be taken with the potato, the dishing up, and the frying 128. Sau- 0f the sausages> Taking the last first, potatoes. t0 Preserve the sausages in shape with- out bursting, tune must be taken—that is to say, the sausages, having been pricked, must be put in melted beef dripping over a low fire and cooked slowly and thoroughly. People who think that sausages are too rich will find them much plainer if they be partly boiled before frying. Prick them well, put them into hot water, bring slowly to the boil for fear of bursting, then simmer for five minutes ; after this they can be drained and fried till brown. For the potato : Boil or steam half a dozen fairly sized potatoes, drain, mash, pass through the sieve, moisten with an ounce of butter and a coffeecupful of milk, season with a teaspoonful of spiced pepper and a dessertspoonful of grated cheese, add the yolk of a raw egg, mix thoroughly, pat into six neat, elongated ovals, set these on a buttered baking tin, which put in the oven till thoroughly hot;EGGS A LA PORTUGAISE. 121 take the tin from the oven, with a slice lift the potato ovals, lay them on a hot dish, put a well- drained sausage, free from all fat, upon each, and serve. Cut up six tomatoes weighing in all, say, three- quarters of a pound ; cut up very finely one small shallot, say, half an ounce. Put half an ounce of butter at the bottom I29, fggs oi a small stewpan, melt it and put in the minced shallot, season with spiced pepper and salt, fry over a low fire till turning pale golden brown, then add the toma- toes, increase the fire, now stirring the tomatoes well, the object being to reduce their wateriness somewhat. When nicely pulped, pass the mix- ture through the sieve and put it aside. In the morning butter a fire-proof china dish, arrange the puree on the bottom of it, warm this in the oven, take it out, hollow out with a spoon six little cavities in the tomato bed and slip a raw fresh egg into each of them. Place the dish in the oven again till the eggs have set nicely, and serve.MENU XLIV. Fillets of brill a la meual&re. Devilled sheep’s tongues. Fried eggs and bacon. Oatmeal scones. Having procured eight or ten nice fillets of brill, lay them on a flat dish, lightly sprinkle them with salt, and squeeze a few drops of TbrillTla !em°n JuiCe °Ver them- In the morn- meunttre. *n§ wipe them, flour them, and having melted a couple of ounces of butter in a saute pan over a low fire, put them therein, turning them frequently till done; then drain and arrange them on a hot dish ; add another ounce of butter (melted) to the butter in the saute pan, let this turn a pale brown ; then take the pan from the fire, add a teaspoonful of anchovy sauce to the butter, let it froth, and stir in little by little a couple of tablespoonfuls of vinegar that has been warmed separately, and a teaspoonful of finely-minced parsley. Empty123 FRIED EGGS AND BACON. this over the fried fillets, and serve. The point of this method of cooking fish will be entirely lost unless the dish containing the fillets be as hot as possible, and the sauce that is added equally so. It must be served without any delay whatever. The six sheep’s tongues must be cooked until tender, and skinned on the previous day. In the morning trim off the unsightly roots of the tongues, dip them in melted butter, lay them on a buttered tonglieSt gridiron, and let them just catch the fire nicely. Arrange them upon a hot dish on crotitons of fried bread with a crisp curl of bacon between each, and a masking over them of the sauce given for No. 29, the basis of which can be the broth in which the tongues were cooked. One of the very commonest of breakfast dishes in the British Isles is fried eggs and bacon. In the majority of cases it may be described as an arrangement of eggs in a con- 1^ Fr™d dition of boot-leather, surrounded by ” greasy slices of bacon, and resting upon a layer of discoloured melted fat. Now it is by no means easy to fry an egg properly. The usual way in vogue is to put the eggs, three or four at once, into the far too scanty quantity of melted fat in which the bacon was cooked. ThisFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 124 method is altogether wrong. In the first place, the eggs and the bacon must be prepared separately, the former being fried one by one as follows : Empty four ounces of fresh lard into a small but deep frying-pan, just large enough to hold the fat when melted and accommodate one egg. Heat the lard as for whitebait, and when ready, slope the frying-pan so that you can slide gently upon its surface a fresh egg, previously broken from the shell into a large spoon. It will set very quickly, lift with a perforated slice, drain thoroughly, and proceed with the next. Six eggs having thus been fried, dried, and trimmed as to their edges, lay them on squares of fried bread upon a hot dish, garnishing with curls of crisply-fried bacon, or with bacon cut into small squares and similarly dry-fried.MENU XLV. Fried sprats. Broiled fowl with mushrooms. Eggs with liver. Irish scones. When sprats are in season they make a nice breakfast dish. Treat them as much as possible as you would whitebait: flour, fry at a gallop in a boiling fat, dram, dry well, sprinkle with salt, and serve with brown bread-and-butter and lemon. They may be egged, crumbed, and served as smelts, but this is more troublesome than flouring. Choose the drumsticks and thighs of a couple of cold roast fowls; score, rub with butter, season with salt and spiced pepper, Broileu grill on a well-buttered gridiron. Treat fowl with six or eight nice-sized mushrooms in mush- like manner. Dish the latter on rooms, crofitons of fried bread with the broiled fowl arranged round them.fifty breakfasts. 126 If there happen to be any fowl, turkey, or rabbit livers available, or three ounces of lamb’s i3S. Eggs °r Tfal liV6r’ C0°ked’ Cut k UP illto with liver. sma squares, which keep ready on a plate, dusting them over with salt and spiced pepper. Put into a small saucepan half an ounce of butter with half an ounce of finely- minced shallot, fry till turning colour over a low fire, then add half an ounce of flour, mix and continue the frying for five minutes, then stir in half a pint of broth, meat gravy, or soup that may have been left, let the sauce come to the boil, then simmer, adding one tablespoonful of mushroom ketchup, a teaspoonful of walnut- pickle vinegar, and half one of red-currant jelly. Mix well and pass through a strainer into a clean bowl, empty the mince into this, and set it aside for the night. In the morning warm the liver sauce in the bain-marie, adding a dessert- spoonful of marsala. Keep this hot while you prepare a fire-proof china dish, then put in the liver, making little hollows for the reception of six fresh eggs. These having been put in, set the dish in the oven till the eggs are set, andMENU XL VI. 127 Salmon fritters. Veal and Lain scallops. Buttered eggs with fines herbes. Indlan-meal rolls. These can be made out of the remains of cold salmon in this manner : Cut up the salmon in small pieces, take an equal quantity of breadcrumb—say six ounces of each— I36, Sal' empty both into a bowl, season plainly ™^ters with pepper and salt, moisten with any sauce that has been left, or with a quarter of a pint of white sauce made with the salmon boil- ings. Add two raw yolks, mix thoroughly, and spread the mixture upon a flat dish, a quarter of an inch thick, cover, and leave for the night. In the morning cut with a two and a half inch cutter a series of rounds out of the flattened mixture, flour them, or dip them in frying batter (No. 116), plunge them into boiling fat till golden-brown ; drain, dry, and serve with sliced lemon.128 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. and ham scallops Having prepared a mince of cold veal and ham—two-thirds of the former to one of the latter—season it with salt and spiced i5'i^PePPeri and moisten it with a white sauce made out of veal broth. Butter six or eight fire-proof china scallop- shells, or a large baking-dish, sprinkle over the butter a coating of finely-minced cooked mush- room, put in the minced meat, dust over the surface of the scallops with fine raspings, pour a few drops of butter, melted, over them, and warm in the oven, serving with a curl of fried bacon on each. This is a variation oi buttered eggs. Fines herbes is to be described as a mixture of mush- rooms, parsley and shallot, or chives if 138. But- procurable, in these proportions—equal ere eggs measure Df tbe j-wo former to one-third With # herbes. °f the last. For this dish a tablespoon- ful of chopped mushroom (well cleaned fresh trimmings will do) and one of chopped parsley to a dessertspoonful or rather less of chopped shallot. Begin by frying the shallot in a quarter of an ounce of butter, a pinch of pepper and one of salt, over a low fire for five minutes, then stir in the parsley and mushroom, fry for five minutes more. Empty the contents of the pan into a bowl and set aside. In the morning put a quarter of an ounce of butter intoBUTTERED EGGS—FINES HERBES. 129 a small saucepan, add a quarter of an ounce of flour, cook over a low fire for four or five minutes, then stir in a quarter of a pint of milk, bring to the boil to thicken, simmer, adding the fines herbes and a dessertspoonful of milk, with which a raw yolk has been beaten, keeping it hot after- wards in the bain-marie. Now make the buttered eggs (No. 3), adding the fines herbes mixture as a finishing touch. Serve as hot as possible. 10MENU XLVII. 130 Cod in custaxd sauce. Dry curry on toast. Matelote of eggs. Vienna rolls. Take a pound and a quarter of cold boiled cod- fish and. break it up into nice flaky pieces. Put these into a stewpan, season with pepper, 139. Cod sait) an(j a grate of nutmeg, and moisten in custard with enough 0f the boilings, saved the previous evening, to cover ; set this in the bain-marie to heat up slowly, while with the yolks of a couple of eggs you proceed to turn half a pint of the boilings to a savoury custard, when ready drain the now hot pieces of fish from the liquid in which they were warmed, arrange them on a hot dish, and smother with the custard. Serve as hot as possible. This is a very nice breakfast “ savoury.” Make on the day previous a good curry of one poundMATELOTE OF EGGS. 131 of mutton, veal, or lamb cut into neat squares, and put it away for the night in a china dish. In the morning prepare eight or ten two and a half inch squares of fried bread, I4°- Dry and lay these in close order in a hot c“rry on toast. silver dish. Pick the pieces of meat out of the curry gravy, and melt half an ounce of butter in a stewpan or earthenware casserole, set this over a very low fire, put in the curried meat, stirring it about so as to heat up and dry at the same time. The process must be patiently carried out, and care must be taken to prevent burning. When quite hot the dry curry should be arranged on the fried bread, and served with curls of crisply fried bacon or fried ham. If preferred the curry may be simply warmed, without drying, in the bain-marie, and poured over the toasts. This, it need scarcely be said, is a handy way of serving the remains of a curry left at a previous meal. Put an ounce of butter at the bottom of a stew- pan over a low fire, melt it, add an ounce of flour, slowly cook these together for seven minutes till browning lightly, then add \^0faU' a pint of broth, gravy, or clear soup ^ that may have been left, flavour with a table- spoonful of mushroom ketchup, a saltspoonful of spiced pepper, salt if necessary, and a sherry- glass of light claret; boil, skim, and pass this132 FIFTY BREAKFASTS. sauce into a fire-proof dish, then slip six eggs into it, put the dish in the oven and poach them till set, when serve. N.B.—When red wine is used in cookery the vessel should either be enamelled or glazed earthenware : tinned utensils have a prejudicial effect on the colour of the sauce in these circumstances.MENU XLVIII. Water-zootje. Fritot of pigeons. Eggs with tarragon. Devilled biscuits. If this dish has been presented on the previous evening it can be easily heated for breakfast, for which meal, owing to its plainness, it is very well suited. A zootje can be l*2-Water made of any fish, or any mixture of fish, including the fresh water varieties. The flounder is a favourite subject for treatment in this fashion, but whiting, small haddock, slips, &c., are very nice in a zootje. The first thing to do is to fillet the fish and make a good broth with the heads, bones, and trimmings, using the adjuncts mentioned in No. 103, and when nicely flavoured to strain it off and employ it as the “water” in which the fillets are to be cooked. Bring the “ water ” to the boil, put in the fillets, let it return to the boil for a minute, then simmerFIFTY BREAKFASTS. 134 the fillets till done ; bunches of green parsley should be boiled with a zootje, the scraped root of parsley also, and a tablespoonful of grated horseradish is an improvement if there be as much as three pints of water or broth. Serve the fillets in a deep dish with the parsley and the broth as well, brown bread-and-butter accompany- ing. In hot weather a nice breakfast dish is cold zootje, for if the decoction of the heads and bones be strong, and the dish be set in a very cold larder or upon a bed of crushed ice, it will solidify in a firm jelly. A little gelatine may be added. Three pigeons will be enough if of a good size. Slightly roast and split them in halves. Marinade these during the night with three table- ferns sPoonfu^s salad oil, the juice of a J P a ' lemon, a bunch of parsley shredded, a half ounce shallot also sliced finely, a dozen pepper corns, and a dust of salt. In the morning take out of the marinade and wipe the pieces of pigeon, dip them in milk, flour them well, plunge them in very hot fat (as for croquettes) when they turn a pale brown, drain, dry, dish on a napkin or paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. Should there be any bread sauce available it would be an appropriate adjunct. By saving the livers of the birds you can dish them effect- ively in this manner. Fry the livers in butter,135 EGGS WITH TARRAGON. empty them and the butter into a mortar, pound ■them, add for six livers a teaspoonful of anchovy essence, season with a saltspoonful of spiced pepper, and spread the mixture on six nicely fried toasts, heat in the mouth of the oven, and lay a half pigeon on each, serving immediately. This may be done with either poached or hard- boiled eggs. If the former, put an ounce of butter in a small saucepan, take it off the fire when half melted, so that it may *44- ESSS complete the melting in the hot sauce- . 1 r 0 . tarragon. pan, add a teaspoonful of lemon juice and the same of chopped tarragon, or, if tarragon be out of season, a teaspoonful of tarragon vinegar instead of lemon juice ; a teaspoonful of this should be poured over each of the six poached eggs after the latter have been arranged on squares of buttered toast. For hard-boiled eggs : Slice them in halves, longitudinally, and lay them in a hot silver dish, masking them with white sauce flavoured with chopped tarragon.MENU XLIX. 136 ABSTINENCE. Soles in the oven. Egg croquettes. Omelettes with oysters. Bannocks. in the oven. Prepare one large or two medium-sized soles as if for frying, No. 28, but in this instance the fish can be left whole. Butter a flat gratin dish, sprinkle this over with finely chopped parsley, lay the sole upon it and moisten the upper side of the fish with butter, melted. Put this in the oven ; after eight minutes’ cooking care- fully turn the sole, baste again with butter, and six minutes afterwards it will be done. Lift the fish with a slice and put it upon the hot dish prepared for it; to the butter in the gratin dish add a tablespoonful of minced parsley and the juice of a lemon : pour this over the dished sole and serve immediately. As in all cases where butter melted forms the sauce of a dish ofOMELETTES WITH OYSTERS. 137 fish great care must be taken to have things as hot as possible, to prevent greasiness. For these follow the directions given for No. 107, but with this difference as to proportions : Four hard-boiled eggs instead of two, and a quarter of a pound of mushrooms instead 1461 r croquettes* of double that quantity. Mix the two minces as therein explained, adding one filleted anchovy, minced small, or a teaspoonful of the essence. When thickened pat the mixture into shape in the same way, but making it about two- thirds of an inch thick. In the morning divide the mass into pieces, which when rolled in fine crumbs will be about the size of a guinea-fowl’s egg. Brush over with beaten egg and crumb these, plunging them one by one into very hot fat; as soon as they turn a nice golden colour take them out, drain, dry, dust over with salt, and serve piled up on a napkin or paper. See No. 117. In this instance, before being finally added to the thickened broth, each oyster should be cut into two pieces. Divide the mixture in halves—one for each *47- Owe- omelette (which can be made in either lettes Wlth of the ways given—No. 6 or 48, as may oysters’ be preferred), and having heated it in the bain- marie pass one portion into each 07nelette as done in the case of No. 93.MENU L. 138 Fillets of brill with tomatoes. Jambalaia of fowl. Omelettes with salmon. Sally lunns. For this please turn to No. 109, and treat a nice- sized brill exactly in the manner described for the sea bream. Proceed in all respects 148.Fillets similarly until the thickening of the 'Ah'11 broth stage, when the teaspoonful of tomatoes, anchovy sauce should be omitted, and two tablespoonfuls of tomato conserve added instead. This, when nice and smooth, should be poured over the fish fillets as explained in the before-mentioned recipe ; the glazing is, however, unnecessary. A “ jambalaia ” is a species of European khitchri; that is to say, it consists of minced chicken and ham tossed in rice, the process being thus conducted : Boil six ounces of rice as forOMELETTES WITH SALMON. 139 curry (No. 20) ; chop up five ounces of uncooked lean ham, and eight or ten ounces of cold cooked chicken. Put the ham into a small frying-pan with an ounce of butter and r49- Jam' give it a fry till fit to serve, then stir in^ the cooked chicken, season with spiced pepper, and turn the contents of the pan into the vessel containing the hot rice, which by this time should be drained and dry. Serve well mixed on a very hot dish.1 Here the method is as nearly as possible the same as that adopted for the oyster omelette, and by its means half a pound of cold cooked salmon can be turned to capital account. I5°- 0me' Break up the salmon, but not too finely, ^aimon^* and moisten it in a stewpan over a low fire, or in the bain-marie, either with the sauce left the previous evening or a quarter of a pint of melted butter sauce made with the salmon boilings. Add half of this, quite hot, but not boiling, to each of the omelettes in the same way as the oysters in No. 147. 1 This dish is improved by stirring into the rice a coffee- cupful of tomato ketchup and giving the whole a dusting of grated Parmesan.APPENDIX. HINTS ON BAKING AT HOME. Fancy bread has become an almost essential portion of the English breakfast. It is susceptible of con- siderable variety, and in view of this fact I have suggested various kinds of rolls, scones, bannocks, &c., in the menus. These have now to be explained. While many of them must, of course, be old familiar friends, some, I think, will be found uncommon ; at any rate, there are twenty different sorts to choose from, and as I propound the simplest possible system of baking—with baking powder—little or no difficulty should be experienced in working out the whole category. Still, it must be admitted that as in all branches of cookery, so in this, experience in regard to details is necessary. Flours vary in quality. With some less moistening fluid is necessary than with others, in consequence of which exact propor- tions may sometimes not be hit off without an experiment or two. With perseverance, however, success is certain. A very important factor in the operation is the oven. This demands close obser- vance on the part of the cook, for ovens seem to i4o141 APPENDIX. be as variable in their dispositions as human beings. A great advance has, however, been made in the construction of ranges, and happy is the home baker who possesses one with regulating power in regard to the heating of the baking apparatus. In some (I might say alt) ordinary old-fashioned kitchen stoves the ovens are deficient in bottom heat, quite an essential feature in the baking of bread, cakes, souffles, &c., and many a cook is, I fear, unfairly blamed for failures that might be traced to this defect in her appliances. If fancy bread baking be carried out nearly every day, it is desirable that the cook should keep a set of utensils separately for this branch of her work—a shallow white enamelled milk pan, two wooden spoons of a largish size, a dozen round patty pans for ordinary rolls two and a half inches in diameter, half a dozen muffin rings, a wire drainer as used by confectioners, a baking sheet, and six special tins for French rolls. The milk pan is recommended for the kneading of the dough, for which process the wooden spoons should be used. Thus, work with the hands is un- necessary, and greater lightness is obtained. If little round rolls be set in buttered patty pans they preserve their shape and bake nicely, and French roll tins are useful in a similar manner. Touching materials, I recommend Yeatman’s baking powder, because I have had sixteen years’ experience of it, and have proved its reliability. In regard to flours, there are many varieties to choose from. For white fancy bread such as rolls, Hungarian or Vienna is considered the best, while for the different digestive cakes, scones, &c., brown flour, wholemeal or wheatmeal, oatmeal, barley-meal, Indian-meal142 APPENDIX. and so on, are called into play. It is, I presume, scarcely necessary to add that all flour used in baking should be as dry as possible. In the directions given for home baking on a small scale, it often happens that certain rule-of-thumb dry measures are given which cannot be considered definite, such as “ cups ” of flour, and “ teaspoonfuls ” — “heaped up” or not, as the case may be — of baking powder. Many find it difficult to decide what cup to choose, and all teaspoons are not made exactly the same size. I have accordingly adopted a system of weights for everything, excepting a salt- spoonful of salt, which have been carefully verified and can be trusted. Touching “ a saltspoonful of salt.” It will be found on careful examination that a heaped up ordinary kitchen saltspoonful weighs two drachms, and a mere bowlful not heaped up half that quantity. For the sake of clearness, then, I would explain that when I say “ a saltspoonful ” I mean the former, and when I say “ a small saltspoonful ” I mean the latter. With liquids there is less risk of ambiguity than with dry measure, for you cannot “ heap ” them up —a full tablespoonful may be accepted as a fixed quantity, z.e., four tablespoonfuls equal half a gill or a common sherry glass, for the term wine glass is not explicit. x. Hot Rolls.—For eight rolls one and a half ounce each, take eight ounces of flour, a quarter of an ounce of Yeatman’s powder, a saltspoonful of salt, and half an ounce of butter. Spread the flour in the enamelled pan, sprinkle the baking powder and salt over its surface, mix well, then rub the butter into it. This having been done, begin to moisten with milk143 APPENDIX. or buttermilk by degrees, working the dough with the wooden spoons. Nine tablespoonfuls, provided that the flour be of fine quality, should suffice if the operator work skilfully. When ready, turn this out upon a floured pastry board, divide the dough into eight equal portions, pat them into a round shape with the spoons, and place them in eight buttered patty pans. Arrange these upon a baking sheet, wet the surfaces of the rolls with a brush that has been dipped into milk, and slip the sheet into the oven, which should be rather brisk. When the rolls have risen and taken a pale brown colour, they may be taken out of the oven, turned out of the patty pans, and served in a hot napkin. Time, from twelve to fifteen minutes. 2. French Rolls.—For six French rolls exactly double the quantities given in the preceding recipe should be taken, with the addition of one fresh egg. Work in the same way, adding the egg well beaten at the commencement of the moistening, then enough milk to form a firm dough. When smooth, turn this out on a floured pastry board, divide it into six portions, and pat these into elongated oval shapes ; lay these in well-buttered French roll tins, brush them over with milk, and set them upon a baking sheet, finishing as in the previous case. 3. Vienna Rolls.—The difference here consists in the shape alone. Having worked the dough as for French rolls, turn it out on a floured board, divide it into six portions, roll these out into sausage shapes an inch and a half thick in the centre, tapering somewhat towards the ends, curve them in the form of crescents, lay them on a buttered baking tin, brush them over with milk, and bake about fifteen minutes.APPENDIX. 144 4. Knotted Rolls.—Here again variety is ob- tained by shaping the dough in a different manner: a crisp crusty roll is thus produced. Roll the portions of dough out into long tubular shapes the thickness of your little finger, tie them in knots, and finish as in the case of Vienna rolls. 5. Indian-meal Rolls.—For these the proportions of flour only are altered, viz., twelve ounces of fine flour to four ounces Indian-meal (maize flour). For the rest the ingredients are the same as for French rolls, and the method of work also. They may be shaped as “ Hot Rolls ” (No. 1), and baked in patty pans, 6. Brown Rolls.—In this case substitute the best wholemeal, well dried, for flour ; in other respects proceed as detailed for “ Hot Rolls ” (No. 1). Another wholesome variation can be obtained by a mixture in these proportions : Five ounces of wholemeal to three of fine well-dried oatmeal, while a milder digestive roll is got by substituting flour for wholemeal, and mixing three ounces of fine oatmeal with it. 7. Sir Henry Thompson’s Wholemeal Cakes. “ Take two pounds of coarsely-ground whole wheat- meal, and add half a pound of fine flour, or, better still, the same weight of fine Scotch oatmeal. Mix thoroughly with a sufficient quantity of baking powder and a little salt; then rub in two ounces of butter and make into dough—using a wooden spoon—with cold skimmed milk or milk and water, soft in consistence, so that it can almost be poured into the tin ring, which gives it form when baked. In this manner it is to be quickly made into flat cakes (like tea cakes), and baked on a tin, the rings used being about an inch high and seven or eight inches in diameter, eachAPPENDIX. M5 enclosing a cake. Put them without delay into a quick oven at the outset, letting them be finished thoroughly, at a lower temperature.” “The object of making this bread in flat cakes or in scones is to ensure a light and well-cooked pro- duct. It is difficult to ensure these two qualities in the form of loaves except of the smallest size. A larger proportion of oatmeal, if preferred, can be adopted by either method.” N.B.—Half an ounce of Yeatman’s baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt per pound of meal will be found correct. 8. Muffins.—Sift together a pound of fine flour, an ounce of Yeatman’s powder, and two saltspoonfuls of salt, stir in enough milk by degrees to form a smooth, but rather stiff, batter. Butter four muffin rings, lay them on a buttered baking sheet well heated, half fill them with the batter, and put them in the oven. When the batter has risen level with the top of the rings, turn them gently and bake till a good straw colour, when take out the tin, turn the muffins out of the rings, open them, toast slightly on the inside, butter them, fold the two pieces together again, and serve at once. About a pint of milk or a little more will be probably required to form the batter. Time, about twenty-five minutes. 9. Crumb Muffins.—Weigh half a pound of stale white breadcrumb, eight ounces of flour, and half an ounce of baking powder. Beat up two eggs. Soak the crumbs till soft in warm milk. Mix the flour and baking powder well, adding a saltspoonful of salt. Combine the two, diluting first with the beaten eggs, and then with enough milk, if necessary, to form a stiff batter. Put this into buttered muffin rings upon IIAPPENDIX. 146 a hot buttered baking tin, and bake in a quick oven fifteen minutes. 10. Sally Lunns, not Sweetened.—Rub two ounces of butter into a pound of flour, with which half an ounce of baking powder has been thoroughly sifted and a saltspoonful of salt. Convert this into dough by first mixing with it two well-beaten eggs, and then milk enough by degrees to bring it to the consistency of thick batter. For the rest, treat this as explained for “ Crumb Muffins.” 11. Tea Cakes, Unsweetened.—Beat up a couple of eggs in a bowl, warm a quarter of a pint of milk, and melt in it two ounces of butter. Mix these together well, and then stir in by degrees three- quarters of a pound of flour, with which half an ounce of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt have been well incorporated. If necessary, add a little more milk or flour, as the case may be, to obtain the con- sistency of a firm batter. Put into rings, and proceed as in No. 8. 12. Scones.—Under this denomination there are several varieties. The ordinary English sort may be described in the following manner : With one pound of flour mix well a saltspoonful of salt and half an ounce of Yeatman’s powder; then rub into this two ounces of butter, and when that has been thoroughly done, commence moistening with a well-beaten egg and enough milk (something rather less than half a pint) to form a light dough. Lay this on a floured board, roll it out half an inch thick, divide this into a dozen neat oblongs. Bake on a buttered baking tin in a hot oven eight or ten minutes, and when nicely browned, serve piled up in a hot napkin. 13. Barley-meal Scones.—Follow the previous147 APPENDIX. recipe, substituting barley-meal for flour. Properly speaking, according to old Scottish custom, these scones should be cooked on a “girdle,” i.e., a thick circular piece of iron about a foot and a half in diameter, which should be suspended or held over a clear fire and heated till a few grains of salt laid upon its surface crackle ; this having been brushed off, the cakes or scones should be laid upon the girdle, occa- sionally turned, and taken off with a slice (the “ spurtle ”) when they are nicely browned. But this process is in these days of closed ranges unnecessary, ingenious as it may have been when the cook had to do her best with only a primitive open fire to work with. Scones can now be cooked “ girdle ’’-wise in a thick iron plate or frying-pan on the hot plate of the range, or on a baking sheet in the oven. A good bottom heat is obviously the thing that is needed. You can see scones beautifully cooked by electricity at Messrs. Verity’s, in Regent Street, on this principle. But to return to the case in hand. Having mixed the dough as in No. 11, turn it out upon a board, dredge it over with flour, and roll it out a third of an inch thick, cut this into three-inch squares, double the opposite corners over, forming three-cornered shapes, and bake on a buttered tin in the oven eight or ten minutes ; or lay them upon a heated iron frying-pan upon the hot plate, and treat them in the manner just described for the girdle scones. 14. Brown Flour Scones.—Mix with a pound of wheatmeal half an ounce of baking powder and a saltspoonful of salt; rub two ounces of butter into this, and when that has been done, commence moistening with a well-beaten fresh egg, adding just enough milk or buttermilk to bring it to the consis-APPENDIX. 148 tence of a light dough. Finish as described for No. 11. 15. Bannocks.—A pound of fine oatmeal, a salt- spoonful of salt, and half an ounce of baking powder having been sifted and mixed, rub into it an ounce of butter, and then moisten with water in sufficient quantity to make a thick dough. Roll this out as thin as possible, divide it into quarters, and halve each of them ; lay these one by one on a heated iron frying-pan upon the hot plate, bake, turning them on each side. Toast afterwards in front of the fire till crisp. 16. Irish Bannocks.—Warm half a pint of milk and dissolve in it three ounces of butter; mix into this a pound of wheatmeal, half an ounce of baking powder, and a saltspoonful of salt. Mix to a stiff dough. Turn this upon the board, roll it out three- quarters of an inch thick, and cut into six cakes. Bake in the manner just described, and serve dusted over with flour on a hot napkin. 17. Oat Cakes.—As a rule, the directions given for these wholesome cakes counsel the cook to roll them out as thin as possible. This, of course, is simply a matter of taste, and with cheese perhaps the thin cake is very nice, but for breakfast I think a thicker cake is better. For these take one pound of oatmeal—coarse or fine, as may be preferred—rub into this two ounces of butter with a small teaspoon- ful of salt, and then moisten with sufficient water to make a smooth dough. Pat this into a round mass and lay it upon a floured board, roll it out not less than a quarter of an inch thick, cut this into three and a half inch squares, halve these by cutting them across from corner to corner, forming triangular shapes, and149 APPENDIX - bake in the pan till firm and thoroughly done. Dust over with sifted meal and serve in a hot napkin. 18. Devilled Biscuit. — Take a dozen plain water biscuits, or six “ Bath Olivers.” If the former be only two inches in diameter, six can be done at a time in a large, or three in a medium, pan as follows : Put an ounce of butter into a large, or half an ounce into a small, frying-pan over a low fire : as soon as it begins to melt, lay the biscuits upon it, turning them over the fire till the butter browns, pepper well with grill seasoning (page 37). Put them on a very hot dish, and pour the browned butter over them, and serve. Or if liked very dry, lay them, after having been thus cooked, on a wire drainer, and set them in the oven for a minute or two, serving as hot as possible, closely covered in a hot silver dish. Biscuit a VIndienne is prepared as the foregoing, but curry powder is dusted over it instead of the plain seasoning of pepper and salt. Some even like an addition of a couple of drops of tabasco on each biscuit. Bath Olivers or three-inch water biscuits ought to be done separately one after another. 19. Crumpets.—In London and most towns crum- pets can be so easily procured from “the manu- facturer,” that very few people take the trouble to make them at home. In the country this is different; besides, there may be some who, among other experiments, would like to try thisThoroughly mix together twelve ounces of Vienna flour, a small saltspoonful of salt, and three-quarters of an ounce of Yeatman’s baking powder ; then stir in an ounce of butter, melted, one egg well beaten, and enough milk to form a smooth batter. With this half fill six orAPPENDIX. 150 eight well-buttered muffin rings, which should be laid beforehand on a heated iron pan. Watch, and when the batter rises somewhat, turn each crumpet care- fully, and finish the baking without further turning. Toast lightly, butter, and serve in the usual manner, Coming straight from the pan in this way, they will be found nicer than those bought cold and toasted afterwards. 20. Southern Indian Crumpets, or “ Apums.” —Put one pound and a half of rice flour into a pan, dilute it to a stiff paste with lukewarm water, in which half an ounce of fresh German yeast has been dissolved. Let this remain all night; next day moisten this with the juice of a cocoanut to the consistency of firmish batter, and put a gill of this at a time into a heated and buttered pan over the hot plate, covering the pan closely. When nicely risen and browned round the edges the “apum” is ready. Repeat the process with similar quantities of the mixture till all of it is expended : serve very hot on a napkin, dusted over with salt. Cocoanut juice is made as follows: Scrape the nutty part of a cocoanut into fine shreds, put these in a bowl, pour scalding water over them, moistening them well. After half an hour’s infusion, strain the liquid into a bowl, and putting the nut scrapings into a piece of muslin, squeeze all the moisture out of them into the strained juice. This extract of cocoanut is what the Southern Indian cook uses in curry making under the name of “ cocoanut milk,” a fluid that it resembles in appearance. The water inside the nut is not “ cocoanut milk ” from this standpoint. 21. Oatmeal Porridge.—This is a deservedly popular thing for breakfast. To prepare it, weigh aI5i APPENDIX. couple of ounces of oatmeal, put three-quarters of a pint of water in a saucepan, set it on the fire and bring it to the boil; cast into it a pinch (the eighth of an ounce) of salt, and then dredge in the oatmeal, stirring with a wooden spoon while the operation is being carried out. Simmer for forty minutes, by which time the oatmeal should have absorbed the water and be swollen and soft. It can now be served accompanied by a jug of hot milk, sugar or salt being added according to taste, the latter obviously for choice. Cream is, of course, a favourite adjunct with many, but does it not detract from the well-known wholesomeness of the porridge ? I think so. Those who like their porridge at its best will find the following process a good one:—Let the prepared oatmeal be sent in in its saucepan, set this on a spirit lamp in the breakfast-room, stirring in cold milk in sufficient quantity to bring the porridge to the desired consistency ; wait till air bubbles begin to rise to the surface, and turn it into a very hot soup plate. Hot milk can be used if liked, but remember that there is a difference in the flavour of boiled and unboiled milk. By this plan a properly hot porridge is certain in a couple of minutes. The proportions given will yield two large or three small portions. If the oatmeal absorbs the water too quickly in the cooking, additional hot water should be stirred in. Some oatmeals are more floury than others, and as much as a pint of water may be needed for two ounces. 22. Dry Toast.—A very simple thing to be sure, yet how often is it maltreated—scorched outside, spongy within, and flabby? The bread should not be new ; it should be cut in quarter inch slices, andAPPENDIX. 152 toasted at some little distance from the clear smokeless embers, patiently, till each side has turned a nice pale golden brown. Sir Henry Thompson’s dry toast is made in this way :—The slices are cut somewhat thicker — three-eighths of an inch — and slightly coloured on both sides. A sharp knife is then passed horizontally through the softish centre part, making two pieces of each slice. The inner sides are now toasted, and nice crisp dry toast is the result. 23. Anti-fat Toast, for those who have to think twice about eating bread, is easily made as follows :— Cut a stale tin-baked loaf into thin slices (one-eighth of an inch thick at the outside), lay these on a wire drainer in the oven till they crispen and turn yellowish brown. If a good quantity of it be prepared, this toast can be kept in a biscuit tin, and will be quite nice for two or three days. Excellent whether for breakfast, luncheon, or dinner.153 INDEX DISHES OF FISH. PAGE Anchovy butter for fish ... 21 Baked fish in scallop shells ... 9 Do. smelts 109 Do. sole ... ... ... 136 Brill, fillets of, d la meuniere 122 Do. do. do. with tomatoes 138 Do. fried Do. mole of (Indian) Do. smoked ( do. ) Broiled mackerel Capers butter for fish Cod and oysters fricassee Do. in custard sauce... Do. salt, with eggs and mashed potatoes Cod’s-roe cutlets Custard, fish pudding with ... Do. sauce for fish Cutlets, cod’s-roe Do. fish Do. lobster, a la Turque Do. of moulded fish Do. oyster Dried haddock with egg sauce Flounders, fried ^ Fillets of brill a la meuniere 122 Do. do. do. with tomatoes 138 74 23 49 29 36 52 130 70 95 42 130 95 32 62 107 119 60 44 Do. do. hake, orlys of Do. do. herrings, fried Do. do. sole, with shrimps Fish, anchovy butter for Do. baked in scallops Do. cutlets Do. do. of moulded Do. fritters .. Do. khitchri Do. moulded cutlets of Do. pudding, with custard Do. do. with potato Do. do. with rice Do. semolina, fritters of Do. shell, fried Do. stewed 83 115 65 21 9 32 107 81 47 107 42 34 92 81 79 72 PAGE F resh haddock (anchovy butter) 20 Fresh herrings augratin ... 13 Do. do. fillets of fried 115 Fricassee of cod and oysters 32 Fried brill ... ... ... 74 Do. fillets of herring ... 115 Do. fish d VIndienne ... 77 Do. flounders (tomato butter) 44 Do. plaice (shrimp butter)... 58 Do. shell-fish 79 Do. smelts 26 Do. soles (capers butter) ... 36 Do. sprats I25 Do. trout marinaded ... 117 Do. whitings (maltrc d'hdtel butter) J7 Fritters, fish 39 Do. salmon 527 Do. semolina of fish ... 81 Grilled mackerel 29 Do. salmon, slices of ... 89 Haddock, dried, egg sauce ... 60 Do. fresh, au gratin ... 20 Do. mould of 98 Hake, orlys of 83 Herrings, fresh, au gratin ... 13 Do. do. fillets of, fried 115 Horseradish zest sauce for mackerel ... 2g Khitchri 47 Kippered salmon ... ... 85 Lobster cutlets d la Turque... 62 Mackerel, broiled 29 Maitre d'hdtel butter for fish 17 Marinade for fish 74 Marinaded trout ... IJ7 Mole of brill (Indian) 23 Moulded haddock ... ... 98 Omelette of oysters 137 Do. of salmon jog Orlys of hake 83 Oyster and cod fricassee ... 52INDEX. 154 PAGE Oyster cutlets 119 Do. sauce no Salmon fritters 127 Do. kippered 85 Do. omelette 139 Do. slices of grilled ... 89 Salt cod, with eggs and potatoes 70 Sardines au gratin 55 Scalded whitings 112 Scallops of fish, baked ... 104 Seabream on the dish 104 Semolina fritters of fish ... 81 Shrimp butter for fish ... 58 Smelts, baked 109 Do. fried 26 DISHES Beef, minced, with macaroni 23 Do. “ twice-laid ” of ... 83 Bread-crumbed kidneys ... 50 Breast of mutton, grilled ... 93 Broiled fowl and mushrooms 125 Calf’s liver a [ 1talienne ... 70 Chicken a la chevalier ... 105 Do. and ham, moulds of 68 Do. do. rissoles of... 53 Do. cutlets (Indian) 99 Do. kromeskis 109 Do. purde, with mush- rooms 80 Chips, potato ... _ 26 Cold meat cutlets, with bacon 35 C repine ttes of mixed game ... 56 Croquettes of mixed meats ... 85 Croustades of do. ... 95 Curry cutlets, chutney sauce 44 Do. dry, on toast 130 Cutlets, chicken (Indian) ... 99 Do. mutton, with mush- rooms ... ... zo Do. of cold meat, with bacon 35 Do. of curried meat, chut- ney sauce 44 Do. potato n3 Devilled fowl, chutney sauce 17 Do. kidneys <5° Do. ox-tongue 107 Do. sheeps’-tongues ... 123 Do. turkey 36 Dry curry on toast 130 Epigrams of mutton ... _ ... 72 Fillets of ox-tongue, devilled 107 Smoked brill ... PAGE ... 49 Sole as whitebait ... 101 Do. fillets, with shrimps ... 65 Do. fried ... 36 Do. in the oven ... 136 Sprats, fried ... 125 Stewed fish ... 72 Tomato butter for fish ... 44 Trout marinaded and fried ... 117 Water-zootje ••• 133 Whitebait ... 87 Do. mock, with sole ... 101 Whitings au gratin ... ... 67 Do. fried ... 17 Do. scalded ... 112 Zootje-water ••• 133 OF MEAT. Fowl, broiled, with mushrooms 125 Do. devilled ... ... 17 Do. jambalaia of ... ... 138 Do. marinaded ... 58 Fritdt of pigeon ... 134 Game, mixed, crepinettes of 56 Do. salmis of ... 74 Grilled breast of mutton ... 93 Do. partridges ... 26 Grouse, purle, in scallops ... 43 Ham and chicken moulds ... 68 Do. do. rissoles -. 53 Do. and veal scallops ... 128 Do. steaks ... 90 Hashed mutton ... 14 Irish stew (Wyvem’s way) ... 65 Jambalaia of fowl ... 138 Kidneys d la brochette ... 10 Do. bread-crumbed ... 50 Do. devilled ... 60 Do. stewed with mush- rooms 40 Do. veal d CI talienne ... 32 Kromeskis of chicken ... 109 Kubabs of liver and oysters... 77 Liver (calfs), a. tltalienne ... 70 Do. and oyster kubdbs ... 77 Marinaded fowl or turkey ... 58 Minced beef, with macaroni 23 Moulds of bam and chicken 68 Mutton, breast of, grilled ... 93 Do. cutlets ar.d mush- rooms 20 Do. epigrams 7® Do. hashed . 14 Ox-tongue fillets, devilled - 107INDEX. i5S PAGE Oyster and liver kub&bs ... 77 Partridges, grilled 26 Pigeon, fritbt of 134 Potato chips 26 Do. cutlets 113 Puree of grouse in scallops ... 43 Rabbit au gratin 115 Salmis of game 74 Sausages and mashed potato 120 Scallops of veal and ham ... 128 Sheeps’tongues, devilled ... 123 Steaks, ham go PAGE Steaks, Vienna 87 Stew, Irish (Wyvern’s way)... 65 Stewed kidneys, with mush- rooms 40 Tongue, ox, fillets of, devilled 107 Tongues, sheeps’ do. 123 Turkey, devilled 36 Do. marinaded ... ... 58 Twice-laid of beef 83 Veal and ham scallops ... 128 Do. kidneys a I'ltalienne ... 32 Vienna steaks 87 DISHES OF EGGS. Eggs, buttered, with fines herbes 128 Do. Do. Do. Do. Do. do. do. do. do. do. grated beef 6g mushrooms 106 shrimps ... 78 tomatoes ... n vegetables... Do. fried with bacon Do. hard-boiled a la Borde- laise Do. do. curried ... Do. do. devilled ... Do. do. in molt ... Do. do. with oysters Do. do. with tarragon ... Do. do. with vegetable marrow Do. do. with white sauce 123 84 61 75 80 do. Do. in cases Do. do. with mushrooms Do. do. with ham Do. in bread sauce Do. in coquilles Do. matelote of Do. mollets, with ravigote... Do. do. with Soubisc... Do. poached d la Colbert... Do. do. d tIndienne... * , Do. do. & la maitre cChStel 25 135 38 48 50 90 108 59 93 >3> 4° 73 TI3 27 FANCY BREAD Apums,” Southern Indian crumpets Bannocks Do. Irish Baking at home, hints con- cerning Barleymeal scones [ Biscuits, devilled 150 149 149 140 146 149 Eggs, poached, ii la voyageuse 82 Do. do. devilled ... 75 Do. do. in moll ... 80 Do. do. with anchovies... 35 Do. do. with artichokes 116 Do. do. with green herbs 118 Do. do. with green peas 45 Do. do. with ham ... 18 Do. do. with Italian sauce 64 Do. do. with mushrooms 43 Do. do. with prawn or shrimp butter 57 Do. do. with shrimp cream 71 Do. do. with tarragon ... 13s Do. sur le flat 31 Do. do. d la Monaco ... 97 Do. do. dla Portugaise 121 Do. do. with bacon ... 100 Do. do. with liver ... 126 Omelettes, d la Soubise ... 103 Do. with artichokes ... 66 Do. with asparagus ... 86 Do. with herbes ... 15 Do. with mushrooms... 33 Do. with oysters ... 137 Do. with salmon ... 139 Do. with shrimps ... 88 Do. with tomatoes ... 33 , ROLLS, &c. Brown flour scones ... Do. rolls ... Crumb muffins Crumpets Do. Southern Indian Devilled biscuits Flours, various French rolls >47 144 >45 >49 >50 >49 >4> >43156 INDEX. PAGE Girdle, the 147 Hints on baking at home ... 140 Hot rolls 142 I ndian-meal (maize flour) rolls 144 Irish bannocks 148 Kneading, process of 141 Knotted rolls .. 144 Maize flour (Indian-meal) rolls 144 Materials for home baking ... 141 Measures 142 Muffins 145 Do. Crumb 145 Oat cakes ... 148 Powder, baking, Yeatman’s... 141 Rolls, brown ... 144 Do. French 143 Do. hot 142 PAGE Rolls, Indian-meal (mazie flour) 144 Do. knotted 144 Do. Vienna 143 Sally Lunns, not sweetened ... 146 Scones ... 146 Do. Barleymeal ... .. 146 Do. brown flour 147 Sir Henry Thompson’s whole- meal cake 144 Southern Indian crumpets ... 150 Tea-cake, unsweetened ... 146 Utensils for home baking ... 141 Vienna rolls 143 Weights and measures ... 142 Wholemeal cakes 144 Yeatman’s baking powder ... 141 MISCELLANEOUS. Bain-marie, value of - 3 Batter for fish fritters ••• 39 Do. do. Indian ... ... 77 Do. frying .;. ... 109 Boiling eggs ... 6 Butter, anchovy ... 21 Do. capers ... 36 Do. mattre cChdtel ... 17 Do. melted (beurre fondu) 137 Do. shrimp or prawn ... 57 Do. tomato ... 44 Cheese, grated ... 4 Chutney sauce ... 18 Cocoanut juice... ... 150 Do. milk for curries ... 150 Coffee, making of ... 8 Cream, use of, not recom- mended ... 6 Croquettes of eggs ... • • 137 Do. vermicelli ... 117 Crumbs, to keep in stock, necessary Curried mushrooms Curry cutlets Do. vegetable (Malay) Devil sauce Devils, concerning ... 26, Eggs, to boil ... Fireproof china dishes, use- fulness of Fish broth for stews, &c. ... Do. frying Frying fish Girdle baking 4 30 44 82 37 36 6 Girdle, the ... 147 Grated cheese to be kept in stock 4 Grill seasoning 37 Grills, concerning ... 26,36 Herbaceous mixture Italian sauce Limoges china ware Macaroni a la Livomaise ... Marinade for fish Do. for fowl Marsala the wine for cookery Mushroom curry Do. fritters Omelette-making, process 1. Do. do. process 2. Oysters, to prepare for sauce, &c. ... Pepper, spiced . Potato chips Quantities, touching the fix- ing of Raspings, to keep in sto Rice, to boil Spaghetti A la Milanaise ... Spiced, pepper Do. salt Spurtle, the Tea, making of ... ... Universal heater, value of ... Weights and measures Wire drainer, use of Wine in sauces 5 33 3 48 74 58 6 30 102 IS 53 5 27 5 4 3° 66 5 6 147 7 8 142 4 6COMMON-SENSE COOKERY FOR ENGLISH HOUSEHOLDS. Based upon Modern English and Continental principles, with Twenty menus worked out in detail. BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (“Wvvern”), Cordon Rouge, Author of “ Culinary Jottings,” etc. Large Crown 8vo. Cloth, js. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Times. “A book which is sure to have a large circulation, since the author, the well-known ‘ Wyvern,’ has been for sometime generally accepted as perhaps the chief English authority on the art of cookery.” Morning Post. “ An elaborate treatise on the culinary art. The rules are laid down simply and clearly, and the recipes are given with such precision as to quantities that mistakes can scarcely occur if proper attention is paid to the instructions.” Manchester Guardian. ".We are very glad to see that Colonel Kenney Herbert has at last put his unrivalled combination of practical experience with theoretical enthusiasm and study at the service of readers in a more elaborate and comprehensive form than his ‘Jottings.’ His book is very comprehensive ; it embodies the most elaborate systems of French cookery as well as the simplest of English ; it shows an excellent conception of a dish, and a still better one of a dinner, and above all it is practical from end to end.” The Lady. “The genial author of / Culinary Jottings ' deserves well of the fair sex, and his own as well, for he is not content with being a culinary artist, but he possesses the happy knack of imparting his knowledge to others.” The World. These menus, twenty in number, adapted to the various seasons of the year, and worked out in detail, are extremely valuable, and are particularly de- serving of the attention of all who are in the habit of giving dinners which are intended to be really repasts and not simply culinary displays.” ' Bristol Times. " AN Excellent Cookery Book. This is really a literary production which may be read for itself alone. It is written by Colonel Kenney Herben whose signature of Wyvern ’ is well known to many, and who is a thorough di«de?Y°f the-rtn °f <r°.okln&- about whicb he has published many delightful XrS? every°ne Wh° — Manchester Courier. taken h?S alread-! Proved his fitness for the task he has under- aken in the present volume, and the work will confirm his remitsHnn ^ f the most lucid and practical writers upon the culinary art Yviike tr> i 06 °f and adepts the book will be found useful and suggesdve.” ° learnerS London: EDWARD ARNOLD, 37 Bedford Street, Strand.London : EDWARD ARNOLD, 37 Bedford Street, Strand. FIFTY BREAKFASTS. BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (“ Wyvern ”), (Jordon Rouge, Author of "Culinary Jottings," etc. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Speaker. ■1 An admirable collection of menus for the opening meal of the day. The majority of the dishes described in these pages are not merely dainty and appetizing, but are hardly of a kind seriously to tax either the resources of an ordinary kitchen or the aptitude of an ordinary cook. Colonel Herbert’s book is one of the best of its kind, for it is thoroughly practical from beginning to end.” Saturday Review. “ All who know the culinary works of ‘ Wyvern ’ are aware that they combine a remarkable conviction, and (on the whole) excellent taste with an exceptional practicalness and precision in detail. His ‘ Fifty Breakfasts will well sustain this reputation.” Pall Mall Gazette. tf Autolycus,” in a review of a column, says : 11 Distinctly it is a book to be read and studied.” The Hotel. The book strikes us as excellent from beginning to end, and should be in the hands of every cook in the kingdom.” Bristol Times. <• It is written by A. Kenney Herbert, whose pen name of ' Wyvern' is well known to all who like good victuals well cooked. He has given us a dainty book about dainty things. The book is well worth the price of as. 6d., at which it is published.” Manchester Guardian. “The craftsmanship and precision of his directions for the actual composi- tion of his dishes are beyond praise. The vagueness which is the curse ot cookery books entirely disappears here, and there is not only a distinct md - lion of quantities and times, but the minutest description, without verbiage, of processes, implements, and the like. It is really a very good book. Liverpool daily post. “A little book bv 'Wyvern,’ containing designs and instructions for the preparation of fifty breakfasts, the very perusal of which gives ones anaPPe‘l1 y Men, such as ' Wyvern,’ who try to give an artistic charm to English cookery deserve a peerage or Westminster Abbey.”FIFTY DINNERS, BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (“ Wyvern ”), Cordon Rouge, Author of “Culinary Jottings," etc. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Morning Post. “ It is difficult to imagine a more useful volume for the average bride who, with no experience, finds herself suddenly plunged into the sea of house- keeping, for it will enable her to face the terrible responsibility of having to plan out a daily dinner not too strikingly in contrast with the club fare to which her husband has previously been accustomed. Anybody possessing an elementary knowledge of culinary operations ought to be able, by the help of this volume, to produce little dinners of a thoroughly satisfactory kind.” Queen. Ought to be very useful to distracted housewives in search of dinners that shall be tempting without being ruinous. It is full of ideas, and the very ap- pearance of such a book says a good deal for the advancement in culinary art on which we pride ourselves so much of late.” Vanity Fair. nrnhwf IfSv,b°°,k b? even more successful than its predecessors, for the problem of hovv to find a change in the domestic dinner is one which vexes every household that has to be managed on a moderate income. The great recommendation about these fifty dinners is that they are modest and un- assuming repasts, and is not enough as good as a feast ?” Speaker. wrf'iTn«b00k i* eminently sensible, practical and clear ; and as the author is a well-known authority in all that relates to the culinary art the success nf hie latest venture as a caterer may be taken for granted.” ’ h'S Liverpool Daily Post. “ A capital cookery book.” Leeds Mercury. Any i!°rk bearlnS uP°n this subject from the pen of Col Kennev Herhcrt rss dishes clearly explained." X findlng many new and tempting Glasgow Herald. genuity for which* ‘Wyvem Ms^amou""” ^ planned Wlth aI1 the ski11 and in- London : EDWARD ARNOLD, 37 Bedford Street, Strand.Bedford Street, Strand. London : EDWARD ARNOLD, 37 FIFTY LUNCHEONS. BY A. KENNEY HERBERT (“Wyvern”), Cordon Rouge, Author of “Culinary Jottings," etc. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d P OPINIONS OF THE PRESS. Pall Mall Gazette. " A book that brings appetite in its perusal. Not only are the most dainty menus given, but every direction in plain terms as to the preparation ot the various dishes.” Madame. “Colonel Kenney Herbert’s fame as a gourmet is so great that his name on a cookery book stamps the excellence of its recipes.” THE ENGLISHMAN (Calcutta). “Colonel Kenney Herbert’s reputation is so great as an authority on all that relates to the table, that his books are always sure of a cordial welcome. ‘ Wyvern ’ is always clear, practical and interesting, and he never forgets his long Indian experience.” Leeds Mercury. “Like all ‘ Wyvern’s’ cookery books, this new work is excellently arranged. The not too lengthy menus consist chiefly of light and dainty dishes “totally suitable for small parties. All directions are clear and concise, and among many new recipes, particular attention has been paid to the cooking vegetables and eggs.” Scotsman. .< a work so well equipped as this has a large field of usefulness, and it is to be hoped it will be taken advantage of.” Chef. “ As all our readers know, Colonel Kenney Herbert is no mere theoretical gourmet but a thoroughly practical Cordon Rouge, and every recipe which lie !°ves has been carefully tested by himself. We are glad to notice that, in an fppendix he gives explicit and reliable directions regarding currymiakmg an operation which even our best cooks either do not take the trouble or else lack the knowledge to perform in a perfect manner.if ipii % ' *4p!>^U sKi 'f- W li \X ■ , 4 ..