Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/details/b20392813COOKERY FOR INVALIDS.BY THE SAME AUTHOR. LITTLE DINNERS. Thirteenth Edition. Cloth, price 5J. "We ought not to omit the mention of several very good recipes which Mrs Hooper vouchsafes us, e.g., rump-steak pudding, sheep's head Scotch fashion, devilled fowl, rich plum pudding, neck of venison cooked in a V oven, how to cook whitebait, and how to 'scollop' oysters."—Saturday Review. " A very excellent little book. . . . Ought to be recommended as exceedingly useful, and as a capital help to any housekeeper.''—Vanity Fair. "Very numerous recipes in the volume are composed with a due regard to the principles of economy, while they are thoroughly appetising."—Morning- Post. " Shows us how to serve up 'a little dinner,' such as a philosopher might offer a monarch—good, varied, in good taste, and cheap. Exactly what the young English wife wishes to know, and what the ordinary cookery-book does not teach her."—Queen. " Containing much useful information."—Court Journal. EVERY-DAY MEALS. BEING ECONOMICAL AND WHOLESOME RECIPES FOR BREAKFAST, LUNCHEON, AND SUPPER. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. " Our already deep obligations to Miss Hooper are weightily increased by this excellent and practical little book."—Spectator. "Miss Hooper, as usual, does her work thoroughly and simply. She not only tells the mistress of the house what to provide, but where to get it, and how to prepare it, and the result is a handbook useful to all wives and mothers anxious for their husband's comfort or children's health."—Examiner. London : C. Kegan Paul & Co., 1 Paternoster Square.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS, PERSONS OF DELICATE DIGESTION, AND FOR CHILDREN. BY MARY HOOPER, AUTHOR OF "LITTLE DINNERS," " EVERY-DAY MEALS," ETC., PROFESSOR OF DOMESTIC ECONOMY, CRYSTAL PALACE SCHOOL OF ART, ETC. SECOND EDITION. London: C. Kegan Paul & Co., i Paternoster Square. 1879.A nWELLCOME MTUTE \ L!.r • • -V Coll. \we''YOrnec No. \ \MBXOO (/?// ttJfAfr reserved.)PREFACE, The great importance of well-chosen and well- cooked food, as a means not only of preserving but of restoring health, is now fully recognised, and " Dr Diet and Kitchen Physic " are acknowledged as the best friends of the medical profession. Yet there is no more anxious time for a doctor than when he hands over his patient to the good offices of the cook, for, as a celebrated culinary writer has said, " he knows how often the skill of the pains- taking physician is counteracted by the want of corresponding attention to the preparation of food, and the poor patient, instead of deriving nourish- ment, is distressed by indigestion."vf PREFACE. Thus it is that gruel, which in former times was said to "gratify nature" and to be the king of spoon meats and the queen of soups, and which played so important a part in the sick dietary, has fallen into disrepute. The fact is that in these days few persons know gruel except as manufactured from the starchy preparations the chief merits of which appear to be that they " can be made in ten minutes ;" and it is, therefore, no wonder so much dislike is expressed for it. The delicious, creamy, nourishing, one may almost say elegant, gruel, made by the hands of our grandmothers for their invalids, is now hardly known among us. It was either made from groats, crushed in the household mortar, or bought speci- ally prepared, and known as " Embden groats," and was in either case admirably suited for the purpose. After many hours' boiling the gruel was carefully strained, and was then ready to be served plain, or flavoured, as the case might require. We can hardly wonder in these days that gruel is so unpopular, being what it is—a "patent" hastyPREFACE. vii compound manufactured to suit the slovenly and impatient culinary habits of the period—or that doctors have almost ceased to order it as an especially useful and restorative diet. The present writer well remembers her mother, whilst relating to her the sorrow and distress of the nation at the premature death of the Princess Charlotte of Wales, adding it was reported that the Princess shivered when a basin of gruel was pre- sented to her, as though such antipathy was a measure of the hopelessness of her case. But it is no bad symptom now when ladies shiver at the sight of gruel, but rather an indication of a true taste which revolts against impure and badly pre- pared articles of diet. Gruel made as it ought to be, is rarely disliked, and is more nourishing, and in many cases to be preferred, to arrowroot—an expensive thing, and one most difficult to procure genuine. Sick-room cookery proper is usually held to consist only of that which nurses are fond of calling " slops," without at all considering how fitly theyviii PREFACE. describe the beef-tea, broth, and gruel they administer to their helpless patients. It is because it is found so impossible to get these things, and especially beef-tea, properly made, that recourse is largely had in many households to the concentrated essences and preparations of commerce. That these do not supply the place of home-made delicacies it is hardly necessary to insist, and a good nurse will devise means to supply the diet, on which, it may be, the life of her patient depends. The invalid's cook will always pay great attention to the cleanliness of her batterie de cuisine, and more especially to the state of the stewpans. Copper stewpans well tinned and scrupulously clean are for all reasons, the best, but those of iron lined with enamel answer well. In every house, one or two stewpans should be reserved for gruel and other delicate preparations, and on no account should they be brought into general use. There is, no doubt, some difficulty in catering for invalids, especially those in the convalescent stage, when the appetite is generally capricious, and thePREFACE. ix digestion weak. The diet for such patients must be both light and nutritious, as varied as possible, and served with the utmost skill and taste. It is in the interest of the convalescent and of the confirmed invalid that the chapters on "Fish" and "Little Dishes" have been carefully prepared. In some cases the dainties required for invalids are beyond the reach of their friends, and for these some inexpensive recipes are given. In these days when dyspepsia is so prevalent a malady, bringing in its train others of even a more serious character, it is of the first importance to study dietetical laws and the method of making food of all kinds easy of digestion. For variety of diet is a pressing need both of the healthy, that they may avoid the evils of dyspepsia, and of those already dyspeptic, as a means of relief and proba- ble cure. It should be borne in mind, that careful cooking will render almost any edible substance fit for feeble digestions, and the way to do this is pointed out in the following recipes. The quantities given for dishes for invalids arePREFACE. in all cases small, generally not more than will be consumed at one meal, as it is seldom desirable to present the same dish twice consecutively to people who are in delicate health. Puddings, and other diet for children, have re- ceived careful consideration, and it is hoped, by following the given directions, the objection which many children have to puddings made of farinace- ous substances may be obviated. In cases where the invalid's food cannot be properly supplied from the kitchen, a lady by the aid of a small gas stove can readily prepare it. And every lady should study, not only theoretically, but practically, the art of cookery for invalids, for none know how soon skill in it may be called into requisition and go far to save or prolong some dear and valuable life. " Kitchen physic " will never be so efficacious as when the invalid knows it has been prepared by loving hands. The mother, wife, or daughter who trusts these duties to no lower love than her own, will surely receive the dearest reward in the knowledge that the pleasurexi PREFACE. with which food is eaten enhances its value in every sense. Every recipe in this book has been carefully prepared and tested by the writer, who having had long experience in the sick-room, and in the wants of invalids, has been able fully to prove their use and value. MARY HOOPER. November 15, 1S75.CONTENTS. GRUEL, &c PAGE Caudle, .... 2 Oatmeal Gruel, . . 3 Oatmeal Gruel, (Scotch Recipe) 3 Barley Gruel, ... 4 Barley Water, ... 5 Boiled Flour Gruel, . 5 Baked Flour, . Restorative Gruel, Onion Gruel, Arrowroot, Oatmeal Porridge, BEEF-TEA, BROTH, &c, &c, Beef Tea, 12 Milk Panada, . Beef Jelly, M Broth Panada, Cold Drawn Beef Tea, IS Chicken Panada, Mutton Broth, 16 Meat Lozenges, Veal Broth, 18 Milk Soup, Chicken Broth, 19 Bread Soup, Cheap Broth, 20 Egg Soup, Gravy Soup, 21 Oatmeal Soup, White Soup, 22 Harricot Soup, Mock Turtle, . 23 Parsnip Soup, Panada, . 24 Artichoke Soup, Water Panada, 25XIV CONTENTS. BEVERAGES. Beer, Wines, Spirits, PAGE 31 Suet Milk, PAGE . 46 Tea, .... 34 Gum Arabic Milk, 46 Coffee, .... 36 Gum Arabic Water, 47 Cocoa, .... 38 Linseed Tea, 47 Water 39 Almond Milk, 48 Lemonade, 40 Red Currant Syrup, . . 48 Black Currant Jam Water, 42 Raspberry Vinegar, . 49 Apple Water, . 42 White Wine Whey, . 50 Tamarind Water, 43 Treacle Posset, SO Oatmeal Water, 43 Orange Tonic, 5o Rice Water, 43 Ginger Cordial, 5i Toast Water, . 44 Claret Cup, 5i Egg Drinks, 45 Mulled Claret, 52 Thick Milk, . 46 EGGS. To Boil an Egg, S3 Eggs in Gravy, • 55 To Poach an Egg, . 54 Omelet, . 56 Eggs Sur le plat, 54 Omelet Soufflee, . 56 Scrambled Eggs, 55 German Omelets, 57 FISH. Boiled Sole, 61 Fillets of Mackerel, . Cg Baked Soles, . 62 Fillets of Plaice, 70 Fried Sole, 62 Scalloped Oysters, . 7i Fried Fillets of Sole, 63 Oyster Fritters, 7i Fillets of Sole in Gravy, . 63 Butter Sauce, 72 Whiting, . 64 Parsley Sauce, 72 Cod Cutlets, . . 65 Caper Sauce, . 73 Fried Herrings, 66 Sharp Egg Sauce, 73 Rolled Herrings, . 66 White Sauce, . 74 Baked Haddock, 67 Anchovy Relish, 74CONTENTS. xv LITTLE DTSHES PAGE PAGE Mutton Chops, . . 77 Minced Meat, 87 .billets of Mutton Cutlets, 7° Calf's Sweetbread, 88 iNecK ot Mutton Outlets, . 79 Calf s Liver Saute 90 Loin of Mutton Cutlets, . So Lamb's Sweetbreads, 9i Shoulder of Mutton Cutlets, 8i Sheep's Brains, 91 Stewed Mutton Chop, Si Brain Cakes, 92 Lamb Cutlets, . 82 Quenelles, 92 Beef Cutlets, . 83 Chickens, .... 93 Beef Cutlet Saute, . 84 Stewed Partridge, . 97 Stewed Beef, . 85 Stewed Pigeon, 97 Tripe, .... 85 Fricassee of Rabbit, 98 Veal Cutlet, . 86 Croquettes, 99 VEGETABLES. Fried Potatoes, IOI Sea Kale, 106 Potato Croquettes, . 102 Onions, 106 Greens, .... i°3 Vegetable Marrow, . , 107 Cauliflower, 104 Stewed Endive, 108 Spinach, .... 104 Stewed Water-cress, . 108 Asparagus, . 105 Vegetable Puree, 108 French Beans, . , 105 Tomato Sauce, 109 PUDDINGS FOR INVALIDS AND CHILDREN. Savoury Rice Pudding, 113' Rice Croquettes, 118 Savoury Macaroni Pudding, "3 Ground Rice Pudding, 119 Savoury Bread Pudding, . 114 Semolina Pudding, . 119 Brown Biscuit Pudding, . 114 French Tapioca Pudding,. 120 Cheese, Macaroni, . "5 Sweet Macaroni, 120 Plain Rice Pudding, 116 Sherry Macaroni, 121 Rice CustardPudding, 116 Sherry Sponge, Pudding, . 121 Rice Boiled with Sweet Sauce, 116 Pastine Pudding, 121 Sweet Sauce, . 117 Rusk Pudding, 122 Rice Milk, 117 Biscuit Pudding, 123CONTENTS. xvi PAGE PAGE Crumb Pudding. 123 German Pudding, 132 Custard Pudding, 124 Rice Pudding without Milk, 132 Hasty Pudding, - 125 Bread Puddiug, 133 Alexandra Pudding, . 125 Indian Cornflour Pudding, 133 Lemon Souffle, 126 Oatmeal Pudding, 134 Lemon Pudding, 127 Baked Apples, 135 Stonleigh Pudding, . 128 Apple Souffle, 135 Baked Batter Pudding, 128 Apple Fool, 135 Fig Pudding 129 Stewed Apples and Rice, . 136 Plum Pudding 129 Apple Charlotte, 136 Baked Suet Crust, 130 Stewed Fruits, 137 Fruit Pudding, . • 131 Croustades, with Stewed Fruit, 138 Layer Pudding, • 131 Stewed Prunes, 139 JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES. &c. Wine Jelly, 140 Victoria Pudding, 148 Hartshorn Jelly, 142 Custard, Cream, 149 Ivory Dust Jelly, 142 Crystal Palace Cream , 149 Iceland Moss Jelly, • 143 Lemon Cream, 150 Madeira Jelly, . • 143 Ices, .... I5i Lemon Sponge, • H3 Lemon Water, Ice, . 151 Tapioca Jelly, . 144 Ice Cream, 152 Blanc Mange, • 145 Flavourings for Puddings, 153 French Rice Cream, 146 Apple, Marmalade, . 155 French Custard, 146 Orange Marmalade, 155 Shape of Rice, • 147 Preserved Strawberries, . 157 Rice Cream, 148 BREAD AND CAKES. Household Bread. 160 Ginger Bread, 165 Rolls, 161 Sponge Cake, . 165 Tea Cakes, . 161 Geneva Cakes, 166 Sweet Bread Cake, 162 Arrowroot Biscuits, . 167 Unfermented Bread, 162 Ginger Biscuits, 167 Baking Powder, . . 163 Rice Cakes, 168 Lunch Cake, 164.GRUEL, &c. Robinson's Embden groats prepared by Keen, Robinson, and Bellville, are the only kind of which gruel can be properly made. They are entirely free from the acrid flavour which is so disagreeable in inferior preparations of oat-meal, and make a most nourishing and digestible gruel. Have either a very nice bright tin saucepan or a well- tinned and perfectly clean copper stewpan; put in cold water, and to every quart allow two ounces of groats. Let the gruel boil gently for four hours, stirring frequently to prevent any sticking to the stewpan ; a little water may be added from time to time so as to keep the original quantity. Have a hair sieve of a size to stand conveniently just inside the rim of a basin. When a large quantity of gruel is required it is a good plan to have four strips of wood nailed together to form a rest for A1 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. the strainer so that it can stand over large basins without touching the contents. Use two wooden or silver spoons, one to rub the gruel through the sieve, the other to remove that which hangs beneath it. Do not use the first spoon for the latter part of the operation, as by so doing you may get some of the grain into the gruel and destroy its smoothness. When you have rubbed as much as possible through the sieve, beat the gruel until quite smooth, it should be as thick as good cream ; put it into a clean stewpan, let it boil, and serve plain ; or as follows : beat up the yolk of an egg, pour the boiling gruel on to it, serve either with salt or sugar, and, if allowed, a little wine or brandy. Milk or cream may be added in any proportion, but should not be allowed to boil. Beef-tea or extract of beef may also be used in cases where savoury food is preferred. Caudle. Prepare the Gruel, as in the foregoing recipe; it should be thick. Whilst boiling hot stir in to each pint a table-spoonful of brandy, a wine glass ofCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 3 sherry, sugar to taste, and a grate of nutmeg and ginger. For the poor ale may be substituted for wine, and in cases where it is desirable a little gin be added. Oatmeal Gruel. This is not adapted to cases of great weakness, but is useful in temporary illness, and is much in favour with the poor in rural districts. Unless long and properly boiled, oatmeal gruel is very indigestible. Take two tablespoonfuls of fine Scotch oatmeal, and mix it smooth in two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water ; stir it in to a pint and a half of milk or water, boil gently for at least an hour, stirring frequently. If the digestion of the patient is weak, the gruel should be strained before serving. Oatmeal Gruel. (Scotch Recipe.) Put two ounces of oatmeal in a bowl, pour on it half a pint of cold water, stir a little, let it stand a4 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. minute, then pour half a pint of boiling water over the mixture, stirring quickly as you pour. Next pour the gruel through a strainer into a small saucepan, taking care the rough part of the meal remains in the strainer. Boil the gruel ten minutes, add to it a tablespoonful of sugar and a piece of butter the size of a walnut, and serve. Barley Gruel. Barley Gruel is an important article in the invalid's dietary. It is generally made too hastily, and thus much of its virtue is lost. Take two ounces of pearl barley, wash in clean cold water, then boil it for five minutes in a pint of water. Pour this water away, and put a quart of boiling water to the barley ; let it boil for three hours, strain, and add any flavour; if that of lemon peel is desired, cut it very thinly, and infuse for ten minutes in enough cold water to cover it—stir the liquid into the barley gruel. Equal quantities of milk and barley gruel make a very nourishing drink, especially useful in feverish cases. Barley gruel should not be mixed with milk or syrup beforeCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. required for use, as in a warm atmosphere it under- goes changes, and sometimes slightly ferments. Barley Water. Wash two ounces of fine pearl barley, boil it for five minutes in a pint of water, strain, put the barley into a jug, pour over it a quart of boiling water, cover it close with a cloth, let it stand until cold, then stir it up, strain, and keep ready for use. Boiled Flour Gruel. Gruel made from boiled flour is very delicate, and is suited to cases of great weakness. To pre- pare the flour, press into a pudding basin with a wooden spoon as much of the best white flour as possible, which must be again and again beaten down and pressed with the fingers until a hard com- pact mass is formed. When no more can be pressed into the basin, tie it over with a cloth in the same manner as a pudding, and allow it to boil continu- ously for twelve hours. When taken up remove the cloth, and let the flour stand in the basinCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 6 until the next day ; take off the skin from the top, grate or roll the mass until perfectly smooth, and put it away in covered jars for use. To make gruel, mix four tablespoonfuls of the flour quite smooth, in a quarter of a pint of water, pour on it three quarters of a pint of boiling milk or water, then boil the gruel for ten minutes, stirring continually. Cream, eggs, or beef-tea may be added, as in the first recipe. This boiled flour makes excellent food for infants and also good puddings, and is a better thickening for gravy, broth, and soup than raw flour. Baked Flour. Baked flour is not so delicate or suitable for invalids as boiled flour, but is more readily prepared, and answers well for children. Prepare the flour by pressing it tightly into an earthenware stewing jar with a cover, put it in a very slow oven and let it remain from ten to twelve hours. If the oven is hot the flour will be browned and spoiled. The oven of large ranges will generally bake the flour sufficiently during the7 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. nio-ht. When done use as directed for boiled flour. Restorative Gruel. This delicious substitute for Groat Gruel is made as follows:—one ounce of rice, one ounce of sago, one ounce of pearl barley ; put three pints of water, and boil gently for three hours, when the liquor should be reduced to a quart. Strain it in exactly the same manner as groat gruel, and flavour with wine, brandy, or anything else that may be suitable. If made a little thicker, say with an ounce and a half of each ingredient to three pints of water, a jelly will be produced, which may be eaten cold with sugar, fruit, syrups, or preserve. Onion Gruel. This is an old-fashioned remedy for a cold, but can never be recommended unless boiled for at least five hours. The long boiling takes away the pungent odour of the onions and the breath will not then be affected by them. Take two ounces of Embden groats and four3 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. large onions sliced, put them on in a quart of cold water. Let the gruel boil gently for five hours, stirring occasionally, adding water to keep the original quantity. When done, strain through a fine sieve, salt to taste, and serve with toasted bread. The yolk of an egg beaten up in the gruel is a good addition. Arrowroot. Great care should be taker/ to procure pure arrowroot, as that sold under the name at a low price, is merely potato or rice starch. It can always be had genuine at Apothecaries' Hall, and it must be understood it cannot be bought at a low price. The operation of making arrowroot is exceed- ingly simple, and if care is taken to mix it smooth in a little cold water, and to keep the water boiling while stirring it in, it cannot fail to be successful. Mix a dessertspoonful of arrowroot in two table- spoonfuls of cold water, have ready half-a-pint of fast boiling water,—lemon peel may be infused in it,—and stir it rapidly on to the arrowroot. AddCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 9 sugar, wine, brandy, or any flavouring desired. Tea arrowroot may be made by boiling tea after drawn from the pot, and using in the same manner as water; a little lemon juice is a nice addition. Coffee arrowroot may be made in the same manner. Or, the arrowroot may be made with milk, and have a little very strong coffee stirred into it. Milk arrowroot is made exactly in the same manner, rather less arrowroot being required. A dessertspoonful of good arrowroot will make half-a- pint of liquid as thick as can well be taken, there- fore the quantity used must be regulated by the wishes of the invalid. Oatmeal Porridge. Porridge has the reputation of affording much nourishment, and of being especially valuable for children. Yet few invalids will eat it, nor indeed has it general favour south of the Tweed. This may in part be accounted for by the inferior quality of the oatmeal sold in England. In London it is almost impossible to procure it genuine, and therefore[O COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. many good housewives make arrangements to have it sent to them direct from the North. When oatmeal leaves an acrid taste in the mouth it is a sign that it is adulterated or inferior. In all cases oatmeal must be thoroughly boiled, and though so simple, there is no dish requiring more care and attention in its preparation than porridge. Boil a pint of water, drop in with one hand, by degrees, stirring with a wooden spoon in the other, one ounce of oatmeal and half a teaspoonful of salt, let the porridge boil for half an hour, after all the meal is stirred in, stirring it occasionally to prevent sticking to the saucepan. When done, pour it out and serve with milk or cream. Those who like it may be allowed sugar or golden syrup. It is now conceded by most doctors that sugar in any reasonable quantity is good for children and that the craving for it is dictated by natural laws. Porridge is made lighter by longer boiling, and for dyspeptic people it is best boiled an hour, add- ing a little boiling water should it threaten to thicken.BEEF-TEA, BROTH, &c, &c. Next in order to gruel in the invalid's bill of fare comes beef-tea, which, though no longer accredited with virtues it does not possess, is undoubtedly a useful, if not very nourishing form of animal diet. Since the introduction of Liebig's extract of meat, beef-tea has been in danger, as our American cousins say, " of being improved off the earth." The baron's preparation may indeed be useful in an emergency, but is so inferior to that of fresh- killed beef, as to make one marvel at the frequency with which it has been ordered. No doubt one reason why the extract has been so largely substi- tuted for fresh-killed beef, has been that doctors have found it difficult to get the tea properly made from the latter, by average cooks, and have there- fore preferred to order Liebig's extract, which at least is free from grease.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 12 Beef Tea. Cut one pound of beefsteak into dice, rejecting all skin and fat. Put into a stewpan a bit of fresh butter the size of a bean, throw in the meat, and sprinkle over a small pinch of salt. Cover the stewpan closely, and set on the range at a low heat to draw out the juices, which will take twenty minutes. Take care there is no approach to frying, as that would dry up the. extract and destroy the character of the tea. About every five minutes during the process drain away the gravy as it comes ; if the meat is fine and fresh there will be at least the third of a pint, and when all is drawn set it aside, either to use as EXTRACT OF BEEF or to be added to the tea when finished. Now put to the meat one pint of water, and let it boil gently for half an hour. Pour the tea off, but do not strain it, as such nourishment as it contains lies in the thick portion. Of course if a patient is unable to take any solid this rule will not apply, and the tea must then be strained either through a linen or<3 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. flannel bag. Having drained off the tea whilst still boiling hot, put into it the juices at first extracted, and having taken off every particle of fat, it will be ready to serve. Another method of making beef-Lea is to cut the meat into small pieces, cover with cold water, and simmer an hour. If it is allowed, two or three peppercorns and a minced shallot—it is milder than onion—will be a nice addition to the tea. Another good way of preparing beef-tea is to cut the meat into very small pieces, and put it in a jar having a closely fitting lid, with cold water. The jar can be placed in the oven for an hour or two, according to the heat, or in a saucepan of water to boil for an hour and a half. In all cases where it can be taken, beef-tea should be slightly thickened, and especially when bread is refused. Boiled flour is best for this purpose; genuine arrow-root may also be used. The yolk of an egg beaten up in the broth cup, and the tea poured boiling on to it is excellent. The meat from which beef-tea has been prepared will make good stock, or be very nice if properly treated for the dinner of the family who, be itCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. T4 remembered, have the chief of the nourishment in the fibre. It is important in the preparation of beef-tea to preserve the fine flavour of the meat, and to use such scrupulously clean vessels that no foreign taste can be imparted to it. The shin of beef should not be chosen for this purpose, for it gives more gelatine than juice. The best part is beefsteak or the neck ; the first will yield the most gravy, and does not cost above twopence per pound more than the coarser portion of the ox. The idea that beef-tea should be boiled a long time in order to extract all the goodness of the meat is a mistaken one, for the gelatinous matter thus gained is of comparatively little value, whilst the delicate aroma of the tea is lost by long boiling. Beef Jelly. This is often very useful. It is much better to prepare it in the following manner, than to subject the meat to such long boiling as will produce sufficient gelatine to set the jelly. Make extract of beef as directed for beef-tea,COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. '5 adding no water and but little, if any, salt. For a quarter of a pint of the extract, soak the eighth of an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in a tablespoonful of cold water, and when sufficiently swelled, boil it until dissolved. When the extract is nearly cold, stir in the gelatine, and when set, it will be ready for use. By using a little ice to facilitate cooling, this beef jelly may be prepared in less than an hour. Cold Drawn Beef Tea. Mince a pound of rump steak very fine, put it into a basin with a cover, pour over it half a pint of cold water and let it stand a quarter of an hour, then stir well together, and allow it to stand for another quarter of an hour. Drain off the liquid, and. it is ready. If it is desirable to keep the patient in ignorance of the nature of this beef-tea, it may be done by adding a few drops of colouring which will sufficiently disguise it. As, however, beef-tea thus prepared is only ordered for cases of great extremity, it is generally possible to administer it in such a manner that the patient will not see it.16 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Mutton Eroth. For this purpose have the scrags of necks of mutton, taking care that they are perfectly fresh. If kept a day after cut from the sheep, they acquire a flavour which renders them unsuitable for making delicate broth. Having well washed the meat in tepid water, cut it into small pieces, and put it into a, stewpan or stockpot, with a quart of water to each pound of meat. If the broth is not required strong, put another pint of water; add a pinch of salt, and so soon as the pot boils, skim the liquor, and repeat the operation until no more scum rises. If allowed, add two onions, a turnip, four white peppercorns, and, one hour before the broth is finished, half a small stick of celery. Let the broth boil for three hours very gently, and then strain it. If it be not immediately required, set it aside for the fat to rise; but if otherwise, plunge the basin into a vessel of cold water, which will cause the fat to rise rapidly, or, if the broth is strong enough to bear it, a few spoonfuls of cold water added, willCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. '7 have the same effect. Chopped parsley should be served with the broth, and, unless the taste of the patient is well known, should be sent up separately. Pick and wash the parsley, throw it into a saucepan containing boiling water slightly salted, simmer for a minute, then chop finely. It is better and cheaper to make broth of several scrags of mutton, than of the whole of one neck, for the best end is not so suitable for this purpose, and is expensive on account of the great demand for it for cutlets. The meat from which mutton broth has been made may be used for the family as follows j— Remove the meat from the bones, add to it a small quantity of fresh-boiled carrot, turnip, and onions with a little of the broth nicely seasoned, and slightly thickened with flour; gently simmer to- gether for half-an-hour, and you will then have as agreeable and nourishing a dish as need be. Caper sauce may be served with it. Mutton broth may be quickly, though somewhat more expensively, made by cutting the lean meat of neck or loin chops, or even of the leg of mutton, into dice and boiling it for an hour. A pound of BCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 18 meat thus prepared should be put into a clean stewpan with a quart of water, and, if allowed, a little minced carrot, turnip and onion, two or three white peppercorns, and a pinch of celery seed tied in muslin. If the broth is required very good, let the water reduce in boiling to a pint, but if not, add water to keep the quantity to a quart. Finish as directed in the first recipe for mutton broth. Veal Broth. This is made in the same manner as mutton broth, choosing for it also the scrag end of the neck, and allowing a quart of water to each pound of meat, which will give a strong broth; add a turnip, two onions, celery, peppercorns, and a sprig of thyme and parsley, or any of them as may be allowed. Veal broth is often thickened with rice or pearl barley; but the majority of invalids dislike the flavour of both. Boiled flour is more delicate, and in most cases preferable, as it contains less starch than either rice or barley. Should either be ordered, wash an ounce carefully, put it in when the broth has been skimmed, and boil the wholeCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 19 gently for four hours. Finish in the same manner as mutton broth. The French-prepared flours, Fayeux's Fictile de Pomme de terre, and Fleur de riz, are very light and delicate, and to be preferred to all preparations of corn-flour for thickening broth, &c, for invalids. Chicken Broth. Fine young, but not fat, birds are required for this purpose. This broth may be made in an economical manner by boiling the chicken just sufficiently for eating, and then, either having sent the bird to table, or cut off the white meat and put it aside to make a little dish, returning the bones with one or both of the legs to the broth, and allowing it to boil two hours with an onion, a few peppercorns, and salt. Or, the white meat may be cut from the breast, merry-thought, and wings before boiling, and used for making quenelles or some other delicate dish, the remainder of the chicken being cut up to make the broth. Boil rather more than two hours, strain, take off all fat, and serve.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 20 Cheap Broth. Take a sheep's head, without tongue or brains, and one pound of scrag of mutton or lean pieces. Thoroughly wash the head, put it on to boil for ten minutes in plenty of water, with a tablespoon- ful of salt ; then, by pouring away this liquor, perfect cleanliness will be ensured. Put on the head with the meat cut into small pieces, six onions, twelve peppercorns, half a pint of Embden or chicken groats, two ounces of pearl barley, a tablespoonful of salt, and a gallon of cold water. When the pot boils skim it, then cover closely, and allow it to continue boiling gently for six hours. As the liquid reduces in the boiling, water should be added to keep it to the original quantity. When done strain it, and rub the onions, barley, and groats through a sieve. Take the fat off the • broth add this thickening, boil up together, and serve The tongue and brains are the most valuable portions of a sheep's head, as they make a delicious breakfast dish, and if the value of these is allowed, the cost of the broth in London will be about2 I COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. fourpence a quart. If preferred, two heads can be used, and the meat omitted, and this will be a trifle cheaper. Gravy Soup. Soups are sometimes ordered for invalids who have a distaste for solid food, and it is of importance they should be made as nourishing as possible, and that although appetising, the flavour should be chiefly that of meat—spices and hot condiments being avoided. For this reason the best meat must be chosen, and beef steak, although it costs a trifle more than gravy meat, will be found to yield a more savoury soup. For gravy soup, procure a calfs foot, have it chopped into small pieces, boil it for two hours in two quarts of water, and then add it and the liquor in which it was boiled, to two pounds of beef steak cut into dice, and lightly fried, two onions fried a light- brown in butter, a turnip, and a carrot, and a very small slice of lean ham. When the saucepan boils take off every particle of scum, let all boil together for two hours, add a pinch of celery seed tied in muslin, or a small piece of celery, let it boil ten22 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. minutes more, when strain and set aside to cool in order to remove the fat. This done, boil up the soup, with the lid of the saucepan off, remove the froth or scum as it rises, stir into the soup two or three teaspoonfuls of fictile de pomme deterre mixed smooth in a little cold soup or water ; add salt if necessary, and serve. There should from the given quantities be a quart of very fine soup. Macaroni or Italian paste may be served with the soup, or small quenelle balls made as directed, page 92, are very good. Many cooks spoil the Italian pastes in cooking, but with very little care to keep the water boiling this will be avoided. For an ounce, say of melon pattern paste, have a pint of boiling water, slightly salted, keep boiling fast for five minutes or until the paste is tender, let it stand in the water until wanted—it is all the better for getting cold—then strain, put into the broth basin and pour the soup on to it. White Soup. Chop two pounds of the scrag end of a neck of veal and one pound of scrag of mutton intoCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 23 small pieces, put them into three pints of water, with two onions, a large turnip and a pinch of salt. As soon as the water boils skim thoroughly, and allow the saucepan to continue gently boiling for three hours. Then strain, and let the broth cool in order to remove the fat. Boil it up, stir in a tablespoonful of the French potato flour mixed smooth in half a pint of milk or cream ; let it thicken ; season to taste and serve. The flavour of the soup is improved by the addition of a little mutton, but if required to be very white it will be best to use veal only. If there is no objection, the flavour will be heightened by using a sprig of thyme, and rather more turnip and onion. Mock Turtle. This soup may be made as gravy soup with two calf s feet instead of one, and be rather thicker, and flavoured with sherry and lemon juice. Small pieces of the meat of the feet, should be served with the soup: Or, procure half a calf s head, let it soak in cold water with a spoonful of vinegar and a little salt for two hours, remove the brain and tongue, thoroughly24 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. wash the head and then put it on with sufficient water to cover it, and a tablespoonful of salt; let it boil for ten minutes, then throw away the liquor, and add three quarts of fresh water, and let the head boil gently for two hours ; then proceed as directed for gravy soup. Serve small pieces of the best parts of the head in the soup, but forcemeat balls, egg balls, &c, not being digestible, are best avoided. Flavour with sherry and lemon juice. This quantity should make three pints of very strong soup. Panada. Panadas are a useful form of diet in cases of weakness of the digestive organs ; to render them palatable great care is required in making them, and the materials must be well chosen. They are best made of the crusts of light bread, and French bread when it can be procured is lightest and most suitable. A roll called fl&te is used in France for making panada for invalids.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. -3 Water Panada. Put a pint of cold water into a stewpan of copper or enamel, and put into it two ounces of light crusts, boil for three quarters of anhour,stirringoccasionally; add a bit of butter the size of a marble, and salt; then stir in the yolk of an egg and serve. Milk Panada. Boil the milk in order to be sure it will not curdle, when cold put in bread, and proceed as for water panada. When made sweeten. No eggs or butter are used with this panada. Broth Panada. Use good broth or beef tea; proceed as for water panada omitting the eggs. Chicken Panada. Add the white meat of chicken pounded in a mortar, to bread panada made either with essence of chicken, water or broth.26 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Meat Lozenges. An easy method of preparing these, which are often useful to an invalid when travelling, and serve also to give richness to beef-tea or broth, is as follows: Soak an ounce of Nelson's gelatine for an hour in a pint of extract of beef, drawn as directed for beef-tea, without any water; put it into a clean stewpan, and when it boils continue skimming until no more scum rises. Allow the preparation to boil fast without the lid of the stewpan until it assumes the appearance of glue, then pour it off into a plate, and when cold cut it in convenient pieces. If put away in a tin, in a dry place, these lozenges will keep a long time. SOUPS FOR CHILDREN. Milk Soup. Mince two large onions, a turnip and the white □art of a small stick of celery, boil the vegetables27 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. in a pint of stock, or liquor fresh meat has been boiled in, or water. When the vegetables are done rub them through a sieve, then add them and the liquor in which they boiled to a pint of milk, let it boil, season and thicken with a dessertspoonful of French potato flour or two of rice flour rubbed smooth in a little milk or water. Serve with fried bread. In this and the following soups, where there is no objection, a little white sugar should be added. Bread Soup. Boil one large onion and a turnip in a quart of water; when the vegetables are done rub them through a sieve and put them with two ounces of French roll, broken up, not cut, into small pieces into the water they were boiled in. Let the bread continue boiling for half an hour, stirring it to prevent sticking to the saucepan, and if necessary add water from time to time. When the bread is done, add by degrees a pint of milk, or as much as will make the soup a proper thickness ; when it boils add a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper and an ounce of butter, stir together, and serve.2S COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Egg Soup. Slice two onions, fry a light brown in a little butter, add to them three pints of water and let it reduce in boiling to one quart; when the onions are tender, strain them out of the liquor and put them aside. Let the liquor boil and add to it one table- spoonful of flour mixed smooth in a quarter of a pint of milk, half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a pinch of sifted sugar; stir until the soup has thickened, then remove it from the fire, and stir in gradually the yolks of four eggs. Have ready in the soup tureen two ounces of pulled bread or slices of roll dried in the oven; pour the soup on to the bread and serve. Oatmeal Soup. Put two ounces of oatmeal in a basin, pour over it a pint of cold water, stir it and let it stand a minute, then pour over it, quickly stirring all the time, a pint of good broth, pour through a fine strainer into a saucepan, taking care none of the29 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. coarse part of the meal goes into the soup. Boil the soup for ten minutes, season, and serve. Haricot Soup. Pour boiling water over a quarter of a pint of large white Haricot beans, let them stand covered over for five minutes, then remove the skins in the same way as you blanch almonds. It is better to remove the skin before cooking as it is indigestible, and the beans take much longer to cook unskinned. Put the beans to boil in a quart of water, with about two ounces of pickled pork or fat bacon, and two onions, when the beans are tender, they will probably take three hours, and water must be added from time to time to prevent them sticking to the stewpan, rub them through a sieve, add enough broth or water to make the soup a proper thick- ness, season and add to it the meat cooked with the soup very finely minced, let all boil together, and serve.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 3o Parsnip Soup. Cut a parsnip into small pieces, boil it until tender, rub it through a sieve, return it to the water in which it has boiled, and add water to make the whole one quart. Mix two tablespoonfuls of flour in half a pint of milk, let the parsnip boil and stir in the milk and flour, add salt and pepper to taste, and three lumps of sugar, serve with fried bread. Artichoke Soup. Wash and peel a pound of Jerusalem artichokes, boil them until tender, with two onions, a turnip and a small piece of celery; when done rub them through a sieve, and add to the purte sufficient weak broth or water to make the whole a quart. Let it boil up, and add half a pint of milk thickened with a table- spoonful of flour, two or three lumps of sugar, and pepper and salt to taste. Serve with fried bread.BEVERAGES. Beer, Wine, Spirits. The subject of alcoholic drinks is so important and so closely allied to the food subject that a few words on it may not be out of place here. There can be no doubt that malt liquors are nourishing, and that persons using them habitually require less solid food than those who dispense with them. Men whose labour is severe, who are much in the open air, and whose digestion is good, may indulge in a moderate quantity of malt liquor without fear of ill consequences. But, whenever the digestion is in any degree at fault, malt liquor will increase the mischief, and for those who lead sedentary lives, and for women generally, it will be found unsuitable. Those who take half-a-pint of ale with a full meal will tell you they feel heavyCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 3- and stupid after it, averse from resuming their occupations, and much more inclined to sleep than work, which proves at once that the digestive organs have been overtasked. Half-a-pint of any liquid, as a rule, taken with a meat meal is a serious tax on digestive organs in any degree impaired or deranged, and whenever it is thought necessary to stimulate the appetite by bitter ale, not more than a quarter of a pint should be given. Wine, as a food, is of doubtful value, such virtues as it possesses being due to the alcohol with which it is fortified. Port and Sherry are costly wines, and it is difficult to procure them genuine ; indeed, much sold under these names are chemical compositions or vile adulterations, and so uneducated is the public taste that it accepts anything described by the vendors as Port or Sherry. Ladies are very much at the mercy of unscrupulous merchants, and will do well to avoid advertising firms, and still better, if wine is a necessity for themselves or their families, to acquire a correct taste and judgment in the matter. When Champagne is ordered people can easily protect themselves by buying only that of names well known as supplying the market with33 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. none but pure wine. First class champagne is ex- pensive, but when it is necessary must be looked upon as medicine which nobody dreams of getting second or third rate. The red wines of France and Hungary are agreeable and useful as beverages for the healthy, and there is no objection to their use by those dyspeptics who from experience have found them suitable. In hot weather a small quantity of claret cup made with plain and not aerated water may be drank at dinner. In the winter mulled claret will often be found useful. Weak brandy and water is without doubt the safest and best beverage for persons of delicate digestion. As in the matter of Champagne, the public can protect itself against adulteration, by buying only the brandy of those makers who, like Martell, capsule and brand their corks with their names, and with signs or marks to indicate the age of the spirit, in addition to labelling the bottles. New brandy is injurious and inferior qualities dangerous, and the same remark applies to it as to wine—if required as a medicinal food, a price ensuring its age and purity must be paid. A fair domestic test of the quality of brandy will be CCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 34 to put a few drops of the raw spirit on the lips, if it occasions severe smarting it is not fit for use, good brandy will only cause a little heat to the skin of the lips. Persons who take brandy habitually should be careful to measure their daily allowance and not to exceed the quantity prescribed for them. Stimulants should never be taken except at meal times. Two tablespoonfuls daily is a fair allow- ance of brandy for persons who take but little exercise. It is sometimes necessary to take Whisky, and it is of the utmost importance to have it old, for time alone can eliminate those qualities which render it injurious. Even when old Whisky is a more powerful spirit than brandy, and great care is necessary both in its selection and in its use. It is not so generally useful or agreeable as brandy, but there are cases where it is highly beneficial and even necessary. Tea. The operation of making tea is in itself so simple that at first sight any directions about it may seem superfluous ; yet, few and easy as are the rules forCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 35 making a good cup of tea, they are in nine cases out of ten disregarded, and instead of a fragrant, most refreshing beverage, one every way "flat, stale, and unprofitable" is produced. In the interests of invalids, for whom we are now writing- a few plain directions must be given. In the first place the greatest care must be taken in the choice of the raw material. No really fine tea can be bought cheaply, and for invalids from three and sixpence to four shillings a pound should be paid. Cheap teas of inferior growth are destitute of the fine aromatic qualities which render tea so useful to delicate persons, and those flavoured with orange Pekoe, or other scented tea, should always be avoided. Fine Souchong, "plain," as it is technically called—that is, without admixture with any other kind or quality of tea—will be found best for invalids. Since the best test known to merchants is that of taste, it is the one to be relied on by private persons, and the rules by which tea- tasting is carried on in the City may be generally employed with advantage. Put freshly-drawn cold water into the kettle, and the moment it boils make the tea. If the water36 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. continues in ebullition for half a minute after reaching the boiling-point its character becomes changed, and it is rendered unfit for tea-making. Rinse an earthenware teapot with boiling water,-* should not be too large for the quantity of liquid required,-and put into it rather less than a quarter of an ounce of tea, or in measure two large tea- spoonfuls of tea, and pour on it somewhat slowly half a pint of boiling water. Cover the pot with a cozy and allow the tea to stand exactly five minutes, with a silver teaspoon stir it up, let it stand five or six minutes to settle, and having put sugar into the cup pour it out, and add cream, Llk. or lemon juice as required. It is seldom that carbonate of soda is requisite to bring out the qualities of really fine tea, though it may be advantageously employed in small quantities for inferior kinds of tea, and in districts where the water is very hard. Coffee. It is so essential that coffee for invalids should not only be freshly ground, but freshly roasted., that it is recommended every family should beCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 37 provided, not only with a coffee mill, but with a small coffee roaster. It is the only way in England to have coffee in perfection; for it is frequently kept by grocers so long after roasting as to have lost many of its valuable aromatic properties. One of these roasters can be procured at Kent's, High Holborn, who has also a very useful coffee-pot for invalids, heated by a spirit lamp. Milk can be warmed in it whilst the coffee is making, and a most delicious cup either of cafe noir, or cafe au lait can thus be prepared in a few minutes. The milk supplied in towns, even if unadulterated, is generally of a poor quality, and will be improved for coffee and other purposes, by allowing it to stand on the range at a temperature which will keep it just below boiling for half-an-hour. The watery particles will thus be given off, and the residue be more nourishing. A number of economical methods for making coffee have been proposed of late years, yet, as in the case of tea, it remains certain it can only be made good by a liberal allowance of the raw material; yet, it is a mistake to suppose that coffee to be good need be strong. After giving a due meed of praiseCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 38 to all the clever machines for making coffee, we are bound to say, none of them excel, or even equal, the common French cafctihe. Only a little patience is required to make exquisite coffee, either in a tin or earthenware cafttiere. Put two ounces of finely ground coffee into the upper portion of the pot, and pour on it, slowly and by degrees, a pint of water, boiling, from the kettle. Set the pot by the fire, or cover closely with a well-wadded cozy, and allow it to stand for fifteen minutes, or until the coffee has all filtered into the lower half of the pot. If another pot has to be used for serving the coffee, see that it is made thoroughly hot, by allow- ing boiling water to stand in it for a minute or two. Do not use chicory for invalids—it is never a desirable admixture, and in their case it might prove injurious. Cocoa. No doubt the best cocoa for invalids is that prepared from the nibs. Great care is required in making it, and it cannot be done in a hurry. Allow a teacupful of nibs to every quart of water, skim it39 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. occasionally during the boiling, which should be continued slowly for six hours. Fill up the pot with water to supply that lost by evaporation, and when done strain the cocoa and allow it to get per- fectly cold, then remove every article of fat from the surface, re-warm, and serve with milk or cream as directed. Mr Kent has a small " patent family cocoa mill" by which cocoa nibs can be reduced to powder, and thus a single cup of cocoa may be as readily made as one of coffee. When the cocoa is ground, either boil it for ten minutes and strain, or make exactly as directed for coffee. The beverage obtained from preparations of cocoa, as a rule, very little resembles that obtained from cocoa nibs, but Van Houten's is very pure, entirely free from starch and sugar, and has so fine a flavour that it may be cited as an exception to its class. Water. The absolute purity of water can be secured by boiling, and it is recommended that all water required for the beverages of invalids—it would be well if the rule could be generally applied,—shouldCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. be boiled and, when cold, be filtered. For making tea and coffee it should be filtered before boiling. Water in the sick-room should be frequently changed, as it quickly absorbs the impurities with which the air is charged, and becomes improper, if not dangerous, for drinking purposes. If possible, it is well to have a small filter, always charged, in an adjoining apartment, as the water is thus kept in readiness, both cold and pure. If a stone filter is inadmissible and too expensive, one made of charcoal answers well and may be obtained at a small cost. Lemonade. Peel a fine lemon as thinly as possible, and let the peel lie for half an hour in a quart of cold filtered water; then add the strained juice of the lemon, remove the peel, and sweeten to taste with lump sugar. Capillaire, or simple syrup, is very .rood for sweetening all invalid drinks, and is Id useful for a variety of purposes. To make it, take a pound of the finest loaf sugar, and put it into a pint and a half of cold water ; let it boil gently, removing every particle of scum as4i COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. it rises, until it begins to thicken and assumes a golden tinge. When finished, it should be per- fectly bright and clear, and if well made will keep a long time. It should be put away in small bottles, and be well corked. Provision should be made in families for supply- ing lemonade at any moment. This may be done by putting the peel of lemons, when cheap, into a bottle, and covering them with gin, draining away the liquor when it has stood a month, and bottling it. This can be used to flavour lemonade made with citric acid, which is perfectly wholesome. A syrup can be made of the juice of the lemons thus : Add half a pint of strained juice to a pint of capillaire made as directed above, and allow both to boil together for an hour. If care be taken to remove all scum as it rises, the syrup will be clear and bright. Put away in small bottles closely corked, and it will keep for years. A little of this syrup, with a few drops of the extract of lemon peel, makes a delicious and refreshing drink.COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 4 2 Black Currant Jam Water. Put two tablespoonfuls of the jam, with a pint of water, into a perfectly bright tin saucepan, and allow them to simmer for half an hour ; strain it, and if for a cold take it as hot as possible. When required to allay thirst, the drink will be given cold. In cases of sore throat a tablespoonful more jam will be used. This method of making jam water is better and more economical than merely pouring boiling water on the jam. Apple Water. Wash three or four fine sharp apples, and bake them slowly until done ; then break them up, put into a jug with a quart of water, stir up briskly with a silver spoon, and allow it to stand an hour or two. Strain through a fine sieve, and sweeten to taste. Lemon flavouring may be added.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 43 Tamarind Water. Boil two ounces of tamarinds with a quarter of a pound of stoned raisins in three pints of water for an hour ; strain it, and when cold it is fit for use. Oatmeal Water. Put a large tablespoonful of coarse oatmeal into a jug, pour over it a pint of cold filtered or boiled water. Stir it up well, allow it to stand until the oatmeal has settled at the bottom of the jug, when strain off clear, and use either as a remedy for thirst or to make lemonade, to which it thus imparts some slight nourishment. Rice Water. Wash two ounces of best rice and boil it fast for half an hour in three pints of water. Any flavouring may be added, or a small piece of stick cinnamon or shred lemon peel may be boiled with the rice, and sugar used according to circumstances. Strain the rice and put the water aside to get cold44 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Lemonade made with rice water when cold is very nice and refreshing. Toast Water. This useful beverage, like many other simple things, is too frequently very badly made, and has acquired an evil reputation from the crumbs of charcoal-like character, or little sodden morsels of bread, which too often are found floating on the surface. To remedy these defects take care that the crusts from which toast water is to be made, shall be only a nice deep brown, never allowing them to catch fire or blacken in the toasting, and letting them grow quite cold before immersing them in nice, fresh-filtered water. Whenever from any cause there are morsels of bread floating on the water strain it through muslin. The drink should be made an hour before it is wanted, and never be used after standing twelve hours. Serve it in a water bottle of clear glass.COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. Egg Drinks. These are most useful, and may be made in almost endless variety. Beaten up with milk or cream, with wine or brandy, in tea and coffee, as a substitute for milk, eggs are equally useful. For tea or coffee beat up the yolk of an egg with a little sifted sugar, and a spoonful or two of milk or cream. Pour the tea from the pot on to it, stirring with one hand, and pouring in the liquid with the other. Proceed in the same manner for hot wine or spirit drink. For any cold beverage the white of the egg can be beaten up with the yolk, a little sugar added, and the liquid gradually mixed with the egg. On account of the difficulty of mixing the white ol an egg with hot drinks it is often omitted, but it should be used, whenever possible, as the albumen is very valuable. Curdling will be prevented if the yolk and white are beaten together for five minutes, and care must be taken to have the liquid several degrees below boiling point, when adding it to the egg-46 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Thick Milk. Beat up a new-laid egg, pour on it half a pint of boiling milk sweetened to taste, and flavoured with lemon peel, nutmeg, or vanilla. Serve cold in a glass. Suet Milk. Before the introduction of cod-liver oil this preparation was much recommended for con- sumptive persons ; it is rarely given now, as the richness of it renders it both unpleasant to the patient and difficult of digestion. Boil an ounce of perfectly fresh mutton suet, chopped fine in a quart of new milk for half an hour. A small piece of lemon peel, or stick cinna- mon, may be infused with the suet. Having strained the milk through a jelly bag, sweeten and serve warm. Gum Arabic Milk. Soak an ounce of the finest picked gum arabic in two or three tablespoonfuls of cold water ; it willCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 47 take less time to melt in the milk if thus soaked for some hours. Pour half a pint of boiling milk on to the gum, put into a jam pot or small jug, which set in a saucepan of boiling water over the fire, stirring occasionally, until dissolved. Sugar and flavouring may be added, if desired. Gum Arabic Water. Put into an earthenware jar an ounce of the finest picked gum, with two ounces of sugar candy and a pint of water, set it in a saucepan of water, and stir occasionally until dissolved. This is very useful as a night drink for hectic cough, and will allay the tickling of the throat. It should be kept as hot as possible. The little French porcelain veilleuse is well adapted for this purpose. Linseed Tea. Boil gently for two hours two ounces of linseed in a pint and a half of water with a little lemon peel shred finely, and an ounce of barley sugar. Strain, and add enough lemon juice to make it agreeable.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. This is useful for a cough, and should be taken warm. Spanish liquorice may, if liked, be boiled with the linseed. Almond Milk. Blanch two ounces of sweet almonds, add four bitter almonds, pound them in a mortar, using a little rose or orange flower water to facilitate the operation, put them into a jug, pour over a pint of cold water, and let it stand for twelve hours, stirring occasionally; then strain through a fine sieve, and sweeten the almond milk to taste with capillaire or sugar candy. This is useful in cases of internal inflammation, and may be used to dilute or flavour barley water and other beverages. Red Currant Syrup. Pick out all leaves, &c; put the currants into the oven at bed-time and let them remain until the next morning. Squeeze them through a canvas cloth, set the juice aside for two or three days until it has slightly fermented, boil it, skimmingCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 49 carefully until it is clear; then add half a pound of sugar to a pint of juice, and boil until the syrup begins to thicken; pour into an earthen vessel, and set aside until cold, then bottle and cork closely. Raspberry Vinegar. Put two quarts of fresh raspberries into a quart of vinegar, let it stand twenty-four hours, then strain it, being careful not to press the fruit. Put two more quarts of raspberries to the vinegar, again allowing it to stand twenty-four hours; and, having repeated this a third time, measure the vinegar and put it into a jar, and to every pint add a pound of crushed lump sugar. Set the jar in a saucepan of boiling water and stir frequently until the sugar is dis- solved ; when cold bottle the syrup. Care must be taken to have the best vinegar or the syrup will not keep ; it is in perfection from six to twelve months after making. DCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. So White Wine Whey. Boil a quart of milk, stir sherry in gradually until it begins to curdle, and boil until the curd has well separated ; strain, and serve very hot. This old fashioned remedy may be useful in promoting perspiration in cases of cold, but should be em- ployed with caution, as it is apt to induce headache, and sometimes, if too much wine is used, to increase rather than diminish fever. Treacle Posset. Boil a pint of milk, stir in two tablespoonfuls of treacle, let it boil up, and when the curds have well formed strain the whey through a fine sieve into a basin, and serve hot at bed-time as a remedy for a cold. Orange Tonic. Put the peel of six Seville oranges very thinly sliced into half a pint of brandy. Let it stand for a month, shaking it occasionally; drain off the brandyCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. into a clean bottle; let it stand until it becomes perfectly bright and clear; use it as a tonic, a tea- spoonful in a glass of sherry, or make it into a cordial by adding syrup made as directed for lemonade. Ginger Cordial. Crush half a pound of fine whole ginger in the mortar, or cut it into small pieces. Put it into a bottle with a pint of brandy; proceed as directed for orange cordial. This will be found useful in all cases where essence of ginger is required, and is good made into cordial as directed for orange tonic. Claret Cup. Half a pint of claret, a quarter of a pint of filtered water, two or three slices of orange, a dessertspoonful of brandy, and a teaspoonful of sifted sugar; stir the ingredients well together, and put the jug in which they are mixed on to ice for half an hour. Strain and serve in a decanter; half a teaspoonful of the orange tonic may occasionally be a useful and agreeable addition.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 52 Mulled Claret. Put a very small piece of cinnamon and crushed nutmeg, ginger, and cloves, into a brig saucepan with a quarter of a pint of water. B< them for a minute, strain out the spice, and a< half a pint of claret and four or five lumps of sug; Let the wine get hot, and take care to remove from the fire before it reaches the boiling point.EGGS. To boil an Egg. BOILING an egg is one of the most simple of culinary operations, yet is very often ill done; sometimes the egg is put into just enough water to half cover it, and left to boil very fast for the allotted time. The consequence of this is, that one side of the egg is boiled nearly hard, whilst the other is not set. Again, eggs have their shells cracked by being boiled at a furious rate, and the contents escaping into the saucepan, the vacuum thus caused in the shell fills with water. Before putting in the egg, it is essential that the water boil, and be sufficient to entirely cover it; in all cases, whether the egg is liked well or lightly cooked, the boiling should pro- ceed slowly. Three minutes is sufficient to boil a new laid egg. Eggs may be cooked by putting54 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. them into fast-boiling water; then taking the saucepan off the fire and letting it stand covered for five minutes. The eggs will then be lightly cooked. To Poach an Egg. Break an egg into a jam pot, put it in a saucepan with boiling water to reach half way up the jar, boil gently until the egg is cooked. Have ready a slice of toast, lightly buttered, hold the jar on one side and slide the egg on to it, being careful not to break the yolk. Or, put a pinch of salt into half a pint of water, and when it boils drop in the egg broken into a cup. Let it boil very gently until set, then take it up with the fish slice and put it on the toast. A few drops of vinegar may be added to the water in which the egg is poached. Eggs sur le plat. Break an egg on to a plate lightly rubbed with butter, and put it in a moderate oven or on the range, until set.55 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Scrambled Eggs. i Put a piece of butter the size of a marble into a small stewpan, add a tablespoonful of milk and one of broth or gravy, pepper and salt; break i'n two eggs and stir quickly until they begin to thicken, then put the stewpan on the table, and continue stirring until the eggs finish cooking in their own heat. Scrambled eggs should look lumpy and be very thick. When done, pour the eggs on to buttered toast. Eggs in Gravy. Put three tablespoonfuls of boiling gravy into a shallow tart dish, break in two fresh eggs, being careful to keep them whole, lightly pepper and salt them, and strew fine raspings over them. Bake in a quick oven for five minutes, or until the eggs are set. A slice of French roll or toast may be laid at the bottom of the dish, or fried sippets be served with the eggs.COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 56 Omelet. To be suitable for invalids omelets will require to be cooked with as little butter as possible and to be very lightly fried. Put half an ounce of butter into the omelet pan ; as soon as it is hot, pour in gently two eggs well beaten, with a tablespoonful of milk, a little chopped parsley, pepper and salt; let them rest quiet, the fire being gentle, for half a minute, then, with a silver fork, stir in the middle of the pan to prevent the omelets catching there; in less than a minute it will be nearly done. Now hold the pan over the fire and shake gently, until the omelet is done, now fold over, slide on to a dish, and serve immediately. For a sweet omelet, substitute for the parsley a spoonful of sugar and a few drops of any flavouring, and when on the dish for serving, sift sugar over. Omelet Soufflee. Less butter being required for this than a plain omelet, it is more suitable for invalids. The only57 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. condition of success in making an omelet soufflee is beating the eggs thoroughly. Put the yolks of two eggs into a basin with half an ounce of sifted sugar and a few drops of any flavouring essence, beat the yolks for six minutes, or until they become thick, then whip the whites very stiff, so that they will turn out of the basin like a jelly, then mix the yolks and whites lightly and pour them into the omelet pan thickly rubbed with dissolved butter, hold the omelet over a slow fire for two minutes, then put the frying pan into a quick oven and bake until it has risen ; four to five minutes ought to be sufficient to finish the omelet. Slide the omelet on to a warm dish, sift sugar over, and serve instantly. German Omelets. Beat up the yolks of two eggs, mix a small teaspoonful of flour and one of French Potato flour in a tablespoonful of cold milk or cream, and stir into the eggs ; pour on this a quarter of a pint of boiling milk, sweeten lightly, and flavour with a few drops of extract of vanilla.58 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. When ready to bake the omelets, beat the whites of the eggs to a strong froth, and stir all together ; rub two common pudding plates with just enough butter to prevent the omelets sticking, pour the mixture on to them, bake in a quick oven until set; they will be done in about ten minutes. Fold them over, turn on to a hot dish, sift sugar over, and serve. If approved, a little apricot or straw- berry preserve may be spread over the omelets before folding them. These German omelets may be made savoury by substituting salt for sugar, and, if liked, adding a little pepper and chopped parsley.FISH. As fish is generally the first solid food allowed when convalescence begins, it is necessary to serve it with great skill and taste, for the appetite is then capricious and requires tempting. As a rule, pepper and salt judiciously employed in the preparation of any fish dish will make it sufficiently savoury for invalids; and there are few cases in which a little white wine or vinegar may not with advantage be used in boiling, baking, or stewing fish. Objectionable as greasy cookery is at all times, it is intolerable for an invalid. Not a particle of grease should be suffered to remain on anything served to a delicate person, and, although fish may be fried in a quart of fat, there is no reason why any should cling to it when cooked. Fried sole and whiting should be laid on paper, and placed on a dish before the fire for a minute orCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 6o two, and then, when perfectly dry, transferred to the dish on which they are to be served. Invalids may even indulge in an oyster fritter, if properly cooked ; it is not the process of frying which renders food unsuitable for them, but the slovenly and im- perfect manner in which it is carried out. If fish or anything else is put into fat before it boils, it may be said to be sodden in fat, not fried, and in such a condition food is unsuited to the delicate digestive organs even of healthy persons. Some of us may have experienced, and most people will have witnessed, the difficulty there is in eating the first dish of fish ordered for an invalid—boiled sole. Under the impression that food cannot be too plainly cooked for sick people, the cook puts the unfortunate fish into water, grudgingly sometimes adding a pinch of salt; and when boiling has been carried on until the fish is deprived of much of its savour, and nearly all its nourishment, she com- placently serves it, wondering much when it is sent down almost untasted. As there can be no objec- tion on the part of the doctor to the following recipes, it is hoped they may be useful both in suggesting nutritious and tempting dishes, and inCOOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 61 providing some little variety for the invalid's menu. Boiled Sole. Nothing is easier than to convert this dish, ordinarily most insipid, into one that may tempt the most fastidious taste, and as it is ordered frequently for invalids, it is important it should be properly cooked. An hour before cooking the un- skinned sole, sprinkle salt lightly over it, and lay it in a dish with half a teacupful of vinegar. Put the fish and the vinegar into enough hot white stock well seasoned,—or, if you have none, water in which an onion with a little salt and half a dozen pepper- corns have been boiled—to cover the sole, and let it stand ten minutes in this liquor, getting gradually hotter. At the last let it simmer for five minutes, or rather longer, if the fish is thick. Take it up, drain and serve plain, or with parsley sauce. Fillets of sole may be cooked in the same manner, and brill also is very good, longer time being allowed according to the size of the fish.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 6? Baked Soles. Small soles, called by fishmongers "slips," answer well for this purpose. Scrape, but do not skin, the fish, dip them in a little dissolved butter, then strew on them some finely sifted bread crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt, and bake in a moderate oven for about twenty minutes. Fried Sole. Do not have the sole skinned for frying; it is far more nourishing and digestible when merely scraped and washed. Beat up the yolk of an egg, brush both sides of the sole with it, and then dip in finely sifted bread crumbs well seasoned with pepper and salt. Have sufficient frying fat in the pan—good clean dripping answers perfectly well— to cover the fish ; when it boils, put in the fish, and fry as quickly as you conveniently can. If you cannot manage to have enough fat to cover the fish, fry first on one side, then on the other, until a rich golden colour. Take up the sole with the fishCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. slice, lay it on paper before the fire, transfer to another dish, and serve. The time a sole will take to fry depends on the thick ness ; five minutes will cook one of a moderate size, ten a very large one. Fried Fillets of Sole. Having wiped and dried the fillets, dredge them with flour, then dip them in beaten egg, and cover them well with finely sifted bread crumbs, nicely seasoned with pepper and salt. Put the fillets into a wire frying basket and immerse them in a saucepan of boiling fat. As soon as the fillets are a nice pale brown (as they will be in two or three minutes, if the fat is a proper temperature,) turn them on to paper to absorb the grease; serve as hot as possible. Fillets of Sole in Gravy. This is a nourishing and very tasty dish, and useful for re-warming cold fillets of sole. Half a sole may be used one day for plain fried fillets, the other half, without being removed from the bone,64 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. being laid in a very little vinegar until the next day. When required for use dry it thoroughly in a cloth, remove the fillets from the bone, cut into neat pieces, and dip in beaten egg, then in bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper, salt, and dried parsley. Fry in butter until brown, first on one side then on the other, taking care the fillets are only lightly cooked. Have ready a good brown gravy made from beef, thickened with French potato flour, and, if liked, flavoured with sherry. Put the fillets into it, and allow them to simmer gently for five minutes ; then serve. The bones and trimming of the sole fried brown, will be a useful addition to the gravy. Whiting. This fish is very suitable for invalids, but requires to be nicely cooked and duly seasoned, or it will be found tasteless. It may be boiled in exactly the same manner as directed for sole, and served with sharp egg sauce. Small whiting answer well for boiling, and for this purpose must not be skinned; they are also good baked, and should,COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 65 without being skinned, be prepared in the same manner as soles. For frying, when the fish is skinned, cleaned, and curled round, dip it in the yolk of an egg, and then in finely-sifted bread crumbs, highly seasoned with pepper and salt. Have plenty of boiling fat in a deep frying-pan or saucepan, and take care the fish is immersed in it. When nicely brown and crisp, take up the whiting with the fish slice, put it on paper for a minute or two, then transfer to another dish, and serve. Whiting are nice baked in butter sauce, with a very small quantity of shrimp sauce, a little lemon juice being added just before serving. Cod Cutlets. Take a slice about an inch thick from the tail end of the fish, rub it over with lemon juice, pepper and salt, and let it lie for an hour. Dry it in cloth, dip it in the yolk of an egg, then in highly- seasoned bread crumbs mixed with a little dried and sifted parsley. Put the cutlet into the wire frying basket, and immerse in boiling fat. When done, ECOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 66 the fish will be perfectly firm, if tried with a fork, then take it up, drain, and serve. Sharp egg sauce may be served with the cutlets, and a few well boiled and minced capers be added to it, if the patient likes them. Fried Herrings. A perfectly fresh herring properly fried may safely be given to delicate persons. As it is a rich fish, unless the oil is carefully extracted, it will be indigestible. Clean, wipe, lightly pepper, salt, and flour the herring, then put it into a frying-pan with sufficient boiling dripping to cover it. Fry for seven to ten minutes, according to size, take up the herring, lay it on a dish before the fire for a minute or two in order that all fat may run away from it, put it on another hot dish, and serve. Rolled Herrings. Herrings having hard roes appear larger and finer fish than those with soft roes; nevertheless the latter are to be preferred, as they have really more67 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. flesh, and are more delicate. Having scraped and washed the fish, cut off the heads, split open, cleanse, and take out the roes. Take the herring in the left hand, and with the thumb and finger of the right press the backbone to loosen it, then lay the fish flat on the board and draw out the bone ; it will come out whole, leaving none behind. Sprinkle the herring with pepper, salt, and a little chopped green parsley; lay on the soft roe, roll up tightly, leaving the fin and tail outwards, and bind round with a piece of tape to keep it in shape. Have ready some water, well seasoned with pepper, salt, and vinegar, and when it boils put in the herring, and let it simmer gently for ten minutes or until cooked. Serve it with butter, parsley, or sharp egg sauce poured over. Baked Haddock. The ordinary stuffing for this fish would generally be objectionable, as containing too much fat. The following, which will serve to give flavour to the fish, may be substituted : Soak the crumb of a roll in milk, squeeze it dry in a cloth, put it into a stew- pan with a piece of butter the size of a walnut,68 CO OKER Y FOR INVALIDS. work it about until it becomes firm and compact ; then mix in the yolk of an egg, the grated peel and juice of half a lemon, a pinch of dried and sifted thyme, a teaspoonful of chopped green parsley, a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, and a small pinch of salt and pepper. When all is well incorporated, put the stuffing into the body of the fish, sew it up, and place in a baking dish with the following sauce : boil an onion in half a pint of milk for a quarter of an hour, remove the onion, thicken the milk with a dessertspoonful of flour, add a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy or shrimps, and pepper and salt, (if allowed, a little butter may be added to the sauce), pour over the fish, and place in a moderate oven for three quarters of an hour. Baste the fish with the sauce frequently ; take care it does not get brown. If the sauce becomes thick, add from time to time a little water, with a few drops of essence of anchovy. Serve on a very hot dish, with the sauce poured over.69 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Fillets of Mackerel. This fish is not considered easy of digestion, and the bitter taste it often has, renders it disagreeable to many persons. There is reason to believe fresh mackerel to be both as wholesome and delicious as other fish, if properly treated by the cook, the fact being, that the want of proper cleaning gives to mackerel the bad qualities assigned to it. Fish- mongers cannot clean mackerel properly without opening the fish and thus damaging its appearance, it must therefore be done by the cook. The brown substance adhering somewhat closely to the back- bone, near the head, is the cause of the bitter flavour, and it must be carefully removed. Open the fish, take out the roe, and with a cloth wipe away this brown substance. Remove the back-bone, taking care not to break the fish, with the scissors trim away the fins, divide the fish down the middle, sprinkle with pepper, salt, and flour; place a piece of the roe, it must be soft roe for an invalid, on each half, roll up tightly, and place in a small baking or tart dish. If kept close together the fillets will retain theirCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 70 shape. Mix a dessertspoonful of flour in a table- spoonful of cold water, and stir on to it half a pint of boiling water, add a teaspoonful of Dinmore's essence of shrimps, and pour this sauce into the dish with the fish. Lay a piece of butter, the size of a nut, on each fillet, put the dish into a moderate oven, and bake for three quarters of an hour, or until done. Five minutes before serving, put a teaspoonful of chopped parsley to the fish. The sauce should be the thickness of nice butter sauce ; if too thin, before putting in the parsley, drain off the sauce, boil it up, add a little flour, and return to the fish; let it remain in the oven for five minutes, and serve. Fillets of Plaice. The flavour of this fish will be improved by laying it in vinegar for an hour or two before cook- ing. Dry the fillets in a cloth, dip them in beaten egg, and seasoned bread crumbs, and fry brown in boiling fat. Serve with lemon juice or acid sauce. The fillets may be cooked in the same manner as boiled sole.71 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Scalloped Oysters. Having taken off the beards and hard white part, put them with the oyster liquor into a saucepan, and let them simmer for ten minutes. Spread an earthenware dish or scallop shells with a little dissolved butter, then put on a layer of bread crumbs about half an inch thick, and strain on to this the liquor from the oysters. Now place the oysters evenly on the crumbs, and then thoroughly cover them up with bread crumbs, lightly seasoned with pepper and salt. Spread butter thickly over the top, and bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. If necessary, brown the top with a salamander. Oyster Fritters. Procure fine fat cooking oysters, remove the hard white portion and the beards, put each oyster into a tablespoon, and fill it up with a batter made as follows : Mix one ounce of fine flour with three tablespoonfuls of water and two teaspoonfuls of the finest salad oil (measure these two last in aCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 72 medicine glass), now add half the yolk of an egg, a pinch of salt and pepper, and allow the batter to stand for an hour, or more, if convenient. When about to use, beat the white of an egg to a strong froth, and mix lightly with the batter. Drop the oysters, coated with batter as directed, one by one into boiling fat. When they have fried half a minute, turn them on the other side, and in another half-minute or so remove them with a skimmer on to paper, and, having allowed them to drain a minute, serve immediately on a very hot dish. This quantity of batter will make quite six fritters. Oysters. When ordered for a case of great weakness oysters should be minced with a silver knife and fork. They may then be served plain, mixed with a few bread crumbs to absorb their liquor, or in a little thickened broth, flour or butter sauce. Butter Sauce. Mix a dessertspoonful of Vienna flour in a table- spoonful of cold water, pour on to it a quarter of a pint of fast boiling water ; stir over the fire in a bright stewpan until thickened, add salt and half an ounce of butter, stir until melted, and serve.73 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Parsley Sauce. Wash, pick, and chop parsley very fine, boil a dessertspoonful in a quarter of a pint of water for half a minute, then mix with flour as directed for butter sauce, and serve. Caper Sauce. Boil the capers in water until soft enough to mash. Make the sauce as for butter sauce with the water in which the capers have been boiled. Add a few drops of vinegar and a pinch of salt. Sharp Egg Sauce. Mix half an ounce of flour smoothly in two tablespoonfuls of cold water, pour on to it a quarter of a pint of boiling water, then stir over the fire until thickened ; season with pepper and salt, and add the yolks of two eggs beaten for a minute ; keep stirring the sauce at a slow heat for five minutes ; lastly, stir in gradually the juice of half a lemon or a dessertspoonful of the best French vinegar. Do not let the sauce boil after this addition. Serve it either over the fish or in a boat.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. White Sauce. This sauce may be made very good without butter, by using good veal or chicken broth and a little cream or milk. Boil a quarter of a pint of white broth with an onion for half an hour, remove the onion, and stir in a dessertspoonful of flour mixed smoothly with two tablespoonfuls of cold milk; stir the sauce over the fire until thick, then add two tablespoonfuls of good cream ; keep stirr- ing for two or three minutes, but do not let it boil; add salt, and, if allowed, a little pepper or cayenne. The sauce can also be made with milk instead of broth, and, if too rich, the cream can be omitted. Anchovy Relish. A small quantity of this relish may, in many cases, be given with advantage, and is especially valuable when it will induce the invalid to eat bread plain or toasted. Procure the best anchovies, take them out of the pickle and steep them in milk for two hours, theCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 75 bone will then come out easily. Wipe and trim the fish and pound it in a mortar, mix it with a little clarified beef suet into a nice paste, spread on toast or thin water biscuits. Butter may be substituted for the beef suet, but the latter is best. To clarify the suet—shred it finely, put it in a clean saucepan and boil until dissolved, then strain it into a basin of boiling water, let it stand until cold, remove the cake of fat, scrape dry and put away in paper for use. It can be employed in many cases instead of butter, and is more whole- some. The relish may be made from anchovies preserved in oil by the French process, the bone having been previously extracted. To Pot Meat. Draw the Gravy from beef in the same way as directed for Extract of Beef, pound it to a fine paste, put it into a large jam pot, add an anchovy or part of one, prepared as above, and a quarter of the weight of the meat in clarified suet or butter, season to taste. Put the jar covered over into a saucepan containing a little water, let the meat get hot, when done stir until cold, press into pots and cover with clarified suet.LITTLE DISHES. WHERE there is no question of expense there need be no difficulty in providing delicacies for an invalid. In such a case the best of everything will of course be chosen, and the utmost care taken in its prepara- tion. But to many people it is a serious anxiety to provide what is necessary at a reasonable cost, and it is to meet this difficulty that the following recipes have been prepared. There is an old and good rule for the choice of provisions—"What pleases the eye will please the palate;" and it should be specially borne in mind and applied when catering for the sick. The sight of a whole joint, or even of a fowl, will sometimes have the effect of destroying all relish for food; whilst the delicate morsel carefully chosen and neatly arranged on a plate will be very likely to tempt the appetite. If it is necessary to provide a varied diet for the healthy,77 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. still more necessary is it for the invalid, and some of the following recipes will show how chicken, sweetbread, &c, may be served in different modes without satiating the patient by the frequent sight of the same thing. First among our "Little Dishes " must be placed the familiar. Mutton Chop. Opinions are somewhat divided as to which is the best chop of the loin. Some think the first with its long bone by far the sweetest, and this may be so ; but then it has not the fillet belonging to its rival, the middle chop, nor is it so juicy ; whichever is chosen, care must be taken to trim it very neatly, removing the top and nearly all the fat. Before trimming, a chop for an invalid should not weigh more than seven ounces. It should be taken from a loin of full-grown mutton, which is rather dark- looking, and the lean slightly streaked with fat. Have a perfectly clean and if possible bright grid- iron ; place the chop on it over a clear, hot, but not fierce fire, taking care that the outside is not the least burnt, for if it is the chop is rendered hardCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 73 and indigestible, and the flavour spoiled. When the chop has been on the gridiron for one minute turn it, and repeat the turning every minute until it is done; this prevents loss of the juices, and the chop from becoming hard on the outside. In from eight to ten minutes, a chop cooked under proper conditions will be done ; it will be a nice brown on either side, be plump, and give a stream of gravy when cut. When the chop is last turned on each side, sprinkle lightly with salt and pepper, lay it on the plate from which it is to be eaten, and serve instantly as hot as possible. It never ought to be necessary to cut a chop to ascertain if it is done; the time given to it, the nature of the fire, and its appearance, should sufficiently indicate this. Those who possess a gas stove will find chops are cooked exquisitely by Leoni's patent heat reflector. Fillets of Mutton Cutlets. Remove the undercut from about two pounds of the middle of a fine loin of mutton ; this will not interfere with the upper side being used either for chops, cutlets, or roasting. Trim the fillet of all fat79 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. and skin, and cut into slices the short way, about half an inch thick. Flatten the cutlets with the bat, dip them in egg, then in bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and let them lie for an hour. Fry them gently in a little butter, first on one side, then on the other, until thoroughly cooked, and a nice crisp brown. Serve with asparagus, cauliflower, or seakale. These cutlets are more tender and digestible than those of the upper side of the loin ; they may, if preferred, be broiled. Neck of Mutton Cutlets. Saw the spine bone from the cutlets, and take away about an inch of meat from the long bone ; remove all gristle and as much of the fat as possible, then flatten the cutlets with the bat; dip them in egg, and pass them through very finely sifted bread crumbs, seasoned with pepper and salt, and fry slowly. Six or seven minutes will cook the cutlets; they should not be very brown. If allowed, mash two potatoes smoothly, beat them with a spoonful of cream, season with pepper and salt, and arrange neatly in the centre of a smallCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. So dish ; then place the cutlets one on each side, and serve. If preferred, sprigs of cauliflower, dipped in white sauce, may be substituted for the potatoes. Loin of Mutton Cutlets. A single mutton chop, cut from the bone, and divided down the middle, will answer well for this little dish. Trim away nearly all the fat; dip the cut- lets in the beaten yolk of an egg, then in seasoned bread crumbs ; and fry quickly in a little butter, first on one side, then on the other, until brown. Serve with a puree of onions, which, properly cooked, are generally suitable for invalids, or with plainly boiled onions. To make the puree : Boil three or four onions until very tender, rub them through a sieve, then return them to the stewpan with a very small piece of butter or a spoonful of cream, pepper and salt to taste. Work the puree with a wooden spoon over the fire until it becomes thick enough, then place in the centre of the dish and the cutlets, one on each side. The yolk of an egg will add to the nourishment of the puree, and may be stirred in with the butter.81 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Shoulder of Mutton Cutlets. With a sharp knife cut two thin slices from the lean undercut of an uncooked shoulder of mutton, sprinkle then lightly with salt, and if allowed a little pepper. Put half an ounce of butter into a small frying pan and when it is hot put in the slices of mutton. Let them cook very slowly, turning frequently until done. Put the cutlets on to a hot plate and pour over them a spoonful or two of good beef tea or gravy thickened with flour. If preferred, the cutlets may be broiled, and in either case the cooking must proceed slowly or the meat will become dry and hard. Stewed Mutton Chop. Trim away nearly all the fat from a thick chop taken from the middle of the loin; place it in a, small brown earthenware stewing-pot, add a large pinch of salt, a small one of pepper, and a finely- minced onion. If this last is objected to it must be omitted. Cover the chop with water, put on FCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 82 the lid of the pot set it in a saucepan of water, and let it boil gently for an hour and a half, or until perfectly tender. When done, drain away the gravy from the chop, put it in a basin, which set in another containing cold water, in order that the fat may rise quickly. Having carefully removed every particle of grease from the gravy, boil it in a stew- pan, and thicken it with a teaspoonful of flour mixed in cold water, until smooth. Put the gravy into the stewing-pot with the chop, let them simmer gently for ten minutes, and serve.—If preferred, the raw lean meat of the chop may be minced, put into a stewpan with a little hot beef tea, seasoned and flavoured with vegetables, and allowed to stand at a heat below simmering point for fifteen minutes. Lamb Cutlets. Procure the first two chops of a neck of lamb, or, if early in the season, one from the loin; cut the meat from the bone, trim away nearly all the fat, and divide the chop into two slices. Dip the cutlets in egg, then crumb them and fry gently in butter until brown. Serve with a little beef gravy thickened and slightly flavoured with lemon juice.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 83 Beef Cutlets. To vary the mutton chop by an almost equal digestible morsel of meat is a great point. There is, however, some little prejudice in England, and no little ignorance, on the subject of beef cutlets or fillet steaks. They are voted tasteless, and many people suppose they can only be had from the undercut of the sirloin. Butchers, however, will not cut cutlets properly, and the best way is to buy the whole undercut of the rump and divide it into cutlets at home. A portion of this fillet of beef can be reserved for a roast, and is always improved by being lightly salted and peppered, and hung in a cool place for a day. In warm weather the meat should be carefully rubbed over with vinegar before it is sprinkled with salt and pepper. For cutlets, trim away every par- 'tkle of skin and fat, leaving only the delicate round fillet, which divide into slices half an inch thick. Lightly pepper and salt the cutlets, and set them aside on a plate for two hours or more; then broil them slowly, turning often, for five or six minutes. They can either be served plainly, or with a piece of84 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. fine fresh butter the size of a filbert, mixed with chopped parsley, pepper, and salt, laid on each cutlet the moment before serving. Beef Cutlet Saute\ Prepare the cutlets as for broiling, have ready in the frying-pan, which should be of the smallest size and perfectly clean, a small piece of dissolved butter, put in the cutlet, let it cook as gently as possible for half a minute, then turn it on the other side for the same time, and so continue turning until the cutlet is done. If parsley is liked, when the cutlet is last turned sprinkle a little nicely chopped on the upper side, put the cutlet on to a very hot plate, pour over it any gravy which may be in the pan, and serve very hot. A slice taken from the undercut of the sirloin may be cooked in this way. The great art of serving this little dish to perfection lies in slow cooking and frequent turning. It is one generally much appreciated by invalids, as it is both tender and tasty. .COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 85 Stewed Beef. Take half a pound of fine beef buttock steak, free from fat, cut it into neat small dice. Have ready a quarter of a pint of boiling water in a clean stewpan, put in the meat with a large pinch of salt, a shake of pepper, and a small onion minced very fine. Let the meat boil for half a minute sharply, then reduce the heat, and let it continue simmering for an hour, or until perfectly tender. Mix a small dessertspoonful of flour in two tablespoonfuls of cold water, stir into the beef, let it thicken, and serve. This is a nice tasty and digestible dish : children generally like it. Tripe. Tripe is exceedingly well suited to delicate digestions. There is some little difficulty in mak- ing it savoury without the use of onions, but where these are not objected to, it will be found very useful as a change from fish and other light diet. When tripe comes in from the shop, it should beCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 86 considered only half-cooked, and from two to three hours is not too long to simmer it. For tripe ait blanc, put half a pound in a stew- pan with a quarter of a pint of water, a salt-spoon of salt, a pinch of pepper, and two minced onions. Let it simmer gently for two hours, or until perfectly tender. Then strain the gravy, take off every particle of fat, boil it up, and thicken it with a small dessertspoonful of flour mixed smooth in two or three tablespoonfuls of cream or milk. Put the tripe back into this sauce, and let it simmer very gently for a quarter of an hour. To stew tripe brown, put it into beef-tea or good gravy instead of water, and thicken it with a teaspoonful of Fecule de pomme de terre mixed smooth in gravy. Lemon juice or a few drops of French vinegar are good additions to tripe. Veal Cutlet. Veal is not generally well adapted to weak digestions, yet a cutlet taken from a fine neck of veal is tender and may occasionally be useful.87 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Get a chop from the best end of the neck of veal, and do not be persuaded that a cutlet from the leg will do equally well. Cut the meat from the bone with a sharp knife and divide it into two slices. Dip them in egg and bread crumbs, and fry slowly in a little butter. Minced Meat. This is a most useful form of administering food to persons of weak digestion; the sameness of it is a drawback, but can be obviated by care and attention. A slice from a hot leg of mutton, a chop lightly cooked, or the wing of a fowl, may be most satisfactorily prepared; but cold or re-warmed meat must not be used for invalids. The small mincing machine, called a " Masticator," one of Kent's patents, is indispensable for this purpose. Before putting in the meat, care should be taken to make the machine thoroughly hot, and a very hot plate should be placed to receive it. Another plate, also very hot, should be ready with which to cover the meat. It will probably then be hot enough to serve, but, if not, may be placed on the88 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. top of the oven or range for about a minute. A drop or two of chili or shalot vinegar will give variety to the mince when it has to be served from day to da}', and, when not objected to, a well- cooked and minced onion may be used to advantage, or the dish may be slightly rubbed with shalot or garlic. Pounded meat is frequently ordered for cases of great weakness of the digestive organs. The same rules as for minced moat must be observed, and care be taken that the mortar is scrupulously clean and thoroughly hot before com- mencing the operation. Calf's Sweetbread. There is perhaps no food so suited to invalids as sweetbread, but unfortunately they soon tire of it, and the greatest care should be given to heighten the flavour of this delicacy by the judicious use of lemon juice, herbs, and onions. Whatever may be the after-treatment of sweetbread, it is necessary in the first place to parboil it, and it is on the skill and care with which this preliminary treatment is carried out that the excellence of the dish depends.89 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Have ready a pint of good white stock, well flavoured with onion, and let the sweetbread simmer gently from twenty minutes to half an hour. Take it up and divide in half, as this quantity will generally be enough for an invalid. Set one half aside until the next day, and cook the other as follows : Make a sauce as for fricassee of chicken, put the sweetbread into it and let them simmer together for a quarter of an hour, then stir into the sauce as much lemon juice as will give an agreeable sharpness. Serve with neat squares of toasted bacon. The remaining half can either be browned in the Dutch oven or made into cutlets. To brown the sweetbread, dip it into the beaten yolk of an egg, then into bread crumbs seasoned with pepper and salt; put it into the Dutch oven and baste frequently with butter until nicely browned. Serve either with a good brown gravy or tomato sauce. > For cutlets, divide the sweet- bread, after it has been parboiled, into slices, egg, bread crumb, and fry them in butter; serve plain or with a good thick brown gravy. The sweetbread called "the heart" is better than "the throat;" cither of them, before being parboiled, must be9o COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. carefully washed and trimmed from skin and gristle. Calf's Liver Saut6. Put a bit of butter the size of a walnut in a small stewpan ; when dissolved, let a shalot stand in it for five minutes ; take out the shalot and place in the stewpan a slice of fine and perfectly fresh calf's liver, sprinkle it with pepper and salt and chopped parsley. Set the stewpan at a very low heat so that the liver does not even simmer for half an hour, then turn the liver and let it remain cooking gently in its own juices for another half hour. Be careful to keep the heat low, and if necessary stand the stewpan on a trivet, for if the liver simmers it will be hardened and be unfit for an invalid. At the expiration of the hour, put the liver between two hot plates whilst you prepare the gravy. Put a tablespoonful of beef-tea or any broth into the stewpan, stir it up with the gravy from the liver, let it boil for half a minute, pour over the liver, and serve. This little dish is wholesome and digestible, and for those who like liver will be found useful.91 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Lamb's Sweetbreads. Some care is necessary in choosing these, for, if the lamb is not itself young and tender, the sweet- breads will be stringy and unpleasant to eat. Parboil them in exactly the same way as calf s sweetbread; dip them in egg and seasoned bread crumbs, and fry in a little batter until brown. Toasted bacon may be served with the sweetbreads; in this case no gravy will be required. Sheep's Brains. Having carefully washed the brains, boil them very fast for ten minutes, in order to harden them, in good, highly-seasoned gravy. When done, take them up, and allow them to remain until cold ; then divide each lobe into slices, and dip them in egg and seasoned bread crumbs. Fry, and serve as directed for sweetbreads.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Brain Cakes. Boil the brains as directed above; mince them, and to each tablespoonful of the mince add a tea- spoonful of bread crumbs, enough egg to bind them, pepper and salt to taste, and a pinch of chopped parsley. Take a small lump of the mince, flour your hands, roll it into a ball, and then flatten into a cake : dip in egg and seasoned bread crumbs, fry in a little butter, first on one side then on the other, until a nice brown. Serve with gravy or toasted bacon. Quenelles. This is a simple recipe, and well suited for invalids who require light food with little flavouring. Soak the crumb of a French roll in a quarter of a pint of milk, press out the moisture by wringing the roll in a cloth ; put a piece of fine fresh butter the size of a small walnut into the stewpan; when it is melted put in the soaked roll, and work over the fire until the paste becomes dry and does not adhere to the stewpan; add an egg, and again work theCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 93 paste until dry. Pound the meat of the breast of a fowl in a mortar, mix it with the paste, and work together in the mortar until thoroughly incor- porated ; work in the yolk of another egg, and set the mixture in a cool place for an hour or two. Salt is to be added according to taste, and, if liked, a pinch of pepper may be used. When ready to cook the quenelles, flour your hands, take a piece of the paste the size of a dessert-spoon, and roll into an egg-shaped ball. When all are ready, drop them one by one into slightly-salted boiling water, and poach them until they rise to the surface; they will take five or six minutes to cook. Serve immediately on a napkin. Half the above quantities will make a dish generally sufficient for an invalid. Veal may be substituted for fowl, and should be used in equal weight with the panada or paste. Chickens. One chicken may be made to serve for two ex- cellent meals by dividing it down the middle, using each half for boiling, roasting, broiling, stewing, or as a fricassee.94 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. FOR Boiling. — Put the half chicken into enough weak stock, well seasoned with salt, and boiling, and after a minute reduce the heat, and keep the chicken gently simmering for half an hour, more or less, according to size. Serve with parsley or white sauce, and, if allowed, garnish with little rolls of toasted bacon. An onion boiled in the stock gives flavour to the chicken, and sweet herbs may also be used. FOR ROASTING.—Brush over the half chicken with dissolved butter; put it in the Dutch oven, and baste continually with butter or lard for half an hour; take care it is nicely browned. Or, fasten a thick slice of fat bacon over the breast, and roast the chicken before the fire; five minutes before serving remove the bacon and let the skin get a nice brown. FOR Broiling.—Dip the half chicken in dissolved butter, and place it on a gridiron over a slow fire, the bones being downwards; let it remain thus for a quarter of an hour, basting the chicken occasion- ally with a little butter tied in muslin. Turn the chicken at the expiration of a quarter of an hour, taking great care it does not stick to the gridironCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 95 or become the least burned. In ten minutes again turn the chicken, and repeat the basting for another five minutes. Again turn the meat to the fire, and when it has remained five more minutes it should be nicely cooked. Broiled chicken is delicious and digestible, and can be successfully cooked if constant attention is given during the entire process. Sprinkle pepper and salt over, and serve. FOR Stewing.—Have ready sufficient good veal broth, or beaf-tea, to cover the chicken; keep it simmering very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Take up the chicken, and keep it warm, whilst you skim and slightly thicken the gravy; when this is done, return the chicken, allow it to get thoroughly hot, and serve. If allowed, the gravy should be flavoured with onion, and nicely seasoned with pepper and salt. French beans go well with this dish. For a Fricassee, stew the chicken until tender in white veal stock; when done, cut it into joints and put it into the following sauce; boil an onion, a sprig of thyme, and a small piece of lemon peel, in half a pint of milk, until reduced to a quarter of a pint Mix a dessertspoonful of boiled flour, or otherCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. thickening, in two or three of cold milk or cream ; strain, and stir the boiling milk into it, let it thicken over the fire, season nicely with pepper and salt, put in the joints of the chicken, let them stand in the sauce for ten minutes, and get hot without boiling. The liquor in which the chicken was stewed will make a cup of delicious broth for the next day's luncheon. For Chicken Saute.—With a sharp knife cut the skin of the chicken just over the pinion bone and down to the leg, turn it back, leave it on the chicken and cut off the wing and if neces- sary a slice of the breast. Put half an ounce of fresh butter into a small frying pan with a small slice of fat bacon, which fry gently until cooked, take it out and put the wing of the chicken lightly peppered and salted into the pan. Cook very slowly, turning every minute until the chicken is done. It will take about ten minutes, and if carefully cooked will not be hard on the outside, but be a tender and delicious morsel. The re- moval of one or both of the wings will not prevent the remainder of the fowl being successfully roasted or boiled. Carefully turn the skin into its placeCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 97 and sew it to that of the back, then roast or boil in the usual manner. Stewed Partridge. Truss a partridge as for roasting, it should not be high ; put it into a stewpan with half a pint of good stock or beef-tea, let it simmer gently for three quarters of an hour. Take it up, brush the breast over with yolk of egg, sprinkle it with pepper, salt, and sifted bread crumbs, and brown in the Dutch oven. Thicken the gravy, and serve with the bird. Stewed Pigeon. Take care that the bird is perfectly fresh, young, and plump. Before trussing, as for roasting, put in the body a minced shalot mixed with an ounce of cooked fat bacon, fasten it securely, and put the pigeon into sufficient beef-tea or good stock to half cover it. Let it simmer very gently for an hour, or until perfectly tender. Take it up, brush the breast over with the yolk of an egg, and GCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 98 sprinkle it with fine bread crumbs, put it in the Dutch oven to brown, basting it with a little fresh butter. Take off all the fat from the gravy, which reduce a little by boiling it in the stewpan without the lid, add a very little flour to thicken it, pour round the pigeon, and serve; pepper and salt to be added to the gravy and seasoning, according to taste. Fricassee of Rabbit. It must be stated that the flesh of the rabbit does not rank high as an article of diet for invalids, and unless well and judiciously cooked, is decidedly indigestible. Nevertheless rabbit is often accept- able by way of a change, and may therefore be given to convalescents with whom it has not been found to disagree. Put the rabbit into a saucepan of boiling water with two onions, a turnip, and a small piece of pickled pork or bacon ; if these last are mild, add a little salt and three or four white peppercorns. Let the saucepan boil sharply for two minutes, remove all the scum which has risen, and then allow it to simmer for about an hour, or until theCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 99 rabbit is perfectly tender. It may be served thus with a little of the broth with parsley, white, or onion sauce, or as a fricassee. Make a sauce for the fricassee by boiling an onion and a sprig of thyme in a pint of milk, let it reduce to half a pint, add a grate of nutmeg, and pepper and salt to taste. Mix a tablespoonful of flour in a quarter of a pint of cold milk or cream, stir into the boiling milk over the fire, and when it has thickened, put in the best joints of the rabbit, and let them stand for a quarter of an hour in the sauce, getting thoroughly hot without boiling. Arrange the rabbit neatly on the dish for serving, pour the sauce over it, and, if allowed, place round the dish little slices of boiled bacon, or of the bacon cooked with the rabbit. The liquor in which the rabbit has stewed will make excellent broth, or serve as stock for making soup. Croquettes. Chop very fine the best parts of any game or chicken, and mix it with the following sauce : Boil a tablespoonful of flour in a quarter of a pintCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. IOO of water, stirring all the time to prevent burning, as it will be very thick ; if allowed, stir in an ounce of butter, if not, finish the sauce without it, by mixing in the yolks of two eggs. To two spoon- fuls of the sauce, take four of minced meat, and mix together, seasoning to taste. Spread the mixture on a dish, until cold, when it will be a stiff paste. Put some bread crumbs on your hand, take enough of the croquette paste to make a small ball, and having rolled it into shape, dip in beaten egg, then in finely sifted crumbs ; use all the paste in this manner, put the croquettes into the wire basket, and fry in boiling fat until a golden colour; they will be done in less than a minute. Turn the croquettes on to paper, to absorb the grease, and serve on a napkin.VEGETABLES. Fried Potatoes. POTATOES, properly fried, may occasionally be served with the chop or cutlet, and are more digestible and nourishing than when plainly boiled. This remark, however, applies only to potatoes fried in perfection and served immediately they are done, as they lose their crispness by standing. Peel fine kidney potatoes and slice them as thin as you can,—unless they are preferred thicker; as you do the chips throw them into cold water as this frees them from the potato flour which has a tendency to prevent successful frying. Drain and lay them in a cloth to dry, put them into a wire basket, fry in boiling fat, and when the chips are brown, put them between paper in the oven for a minute, turn them on to a dish, sprinkle with salt,COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 102 and serve. The greatest care must be taken to have the fat the right temperature for frying the potatoes, as otherwise they will be sodden with grease. Potato Croquettes. Mash or rub through a wire sieve potatoes steamed very dry, add to them a little salt and sufficient yolk of egg to make the puree into a stiff paste. Put a few bread crumbs on your left hand, take enough of the potato puree to make a small ball, roll it into shape, dip it in egg and crumbs lightly salted,—and if you desire to have a nice crust to the croquettes, repeat the process of egg- crumbling. When all the croquettes are ready, put them in a wire basket, which immerse in a stewpan half full of boiling fat. Shake the basket lightly, and as soon as the croquettes assume a golden tinge, put them on paper to absorb all the fat clinging to them, and serve. Care must be taken to have the fat a proper temperature for frying, otherwise the croquettes will be greasy or burst, and be rendered wholly unfit for an invalid's table.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. i°3 Greens. General directions for boiling these can only be given, as there are so many kinds varying also in age and quality, and therefore taking more or less time to cook. It is customary to put soda into the water in which greens are boiled in order to preserve their colour, but this practice deprives them of the properties which render them valuable as an article of diet. When fresh, the colour should be preserved without difficulty, and as only perfectly fresh green vege- tables must be given to invalids, soda will not be necessary. Having carefully picked the greens, put them for a few minutes in tepid water, wash them thoroughly, drain, and throw them into a large saucepan of fast- boiling water slightly salted. Keep the lid off the saucepan, and as soon as the greens are tender strain them through a colander. Have ready a tin vegetable presser, heated by pouring over it the water from the greens, press them into it, taking care that they become perfectly dry. Put them into a hot dish, and serve.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 104 Cauliflower. For an invalid, cauliflower is best boiled in branches. Choose a close white head, let it lie a few minutes in tepid water, break it up into branches, throw them into boiling water with a little salt, when tender, as they will be in from five to ten minutes, drain them, and serve either plain, in good gravy, in butter, or white sauce. Spinach. Pick the spinach free from all stalk, wash it thoroughly in several waters until sure it is perfectly free from grit, drain it well in a colander, and put it in a saucepan with a small teaspoonful of salt to a pound of spinach,—no water. Cover the sauce- pan, shaking and stirring to prevent the spinach burning. In a few minutes the juices of the spinach will be drawn, then uncover the saucepan, and let it boil gently until tender. Strain the spinach, and put it into the vegetable presser, squeeze very dry, and serve. Spinach thus cookedCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 105 will be found a fine colour and far better than when boiled in water. Asparagus. For invalids the green kind should be chosen, that which is blanched being- stronger and less digestible. Having washed, trimmed, and scraped the asparagus, tie it into a little bundle, put it into boiling water with a pinch of salt, and boil until tender. Drain the asparagus, cut the string and lay it neatly on a piece of toasted bread. If it may be allowed, instead of putting the asparagus on toast, pour over it a little dissolved butter, drain it away, and serve. French Beans. These should be very small and young, in order that they may be cooked whole. Pick, throw them into fast boiling water, and boil in an uncovered stewpan until tender. They can be served plain, or, when drained, be put into a stew- pan in which a small piece of butter has beenio6 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. dissolved, and a squeeze of lemon juice added. Toss them about over the fire for four minutes and they will be ready. To dress scarlet runners—wash them before slicing, do not cut them into thin strips, but divide each bean into three or four pieces. When cut so fine beans lose all their flavour. Do not again wash the beans, boil them as directed for French Beans. Sea Kale. Trim the kale neatly, brush it to free it from dust, then rinse it in tepid water, tie into a small bundle and boil for about twenty minutes in sufficient salted water to cover it. When done drain the kale perfectly dry and serve on toast. Onions. The value of onions in many cases of illness is not well understood ; whenever the doctor allows them they should be freely used. One caution is, however, necessary—onions require to be most thoroughly cooked, and being so, seldom disagree107 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. with the most delicate stomach. Put the onions to boil in plenty of water, with a little salt, in half- an-hour pour away the first water and put fresh. Let the onions boil slowly for three hours, or until so tender they can be pierced with a straw, then drain away the water, put a small piece of butter into the saucepan, and toss the onions in it over the fire for five minutes. Serve, either with or without the butter, according to the taste of the patient. Vegetable Marrow. Choose a small quickly grown marrow of a pale green colour, wash it, do not cut or prick it in any way beyond cutting off the stem. Put it into boil- ing water with a little salt and keep it boiling fast until tender; it will probably take half-an-hour, but the time depends on the size and quality of the marrow. When done, take it up, cut in quarters, and with a spoon remove the seeds. If allowed, put a little fine fresh butter on each piece, and serve. Vegetable marrow should not be pared or divided before cooking, as much of its flavour is thereby sacrificed.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Stewed Endive. Choose a fine white head, wash, pick, and pour boiling water over, let it lie for ten minutes, then squeeze perfectly dry, chop, and put it into a stewpan with a teaspoonful of salt and a cupful of white broth or milk. Having stewed the endive until tender, add enough potato flour to make the sauce thick, and when ready to serve stir in a little lemon juice. Stewed Water-Cress. Well wash and pick the cress, put them into boiling water with a little salt, and boil them for ten minutes. Drain as dry as possible and mince them, then put them back into the stewpan with a spoonful of gravy, and stew until tender. When ready to serve, add a few drops of lemon juice. Vegetable Puree. The method of making vegetable purees is in all cases the same. Boil the vegetable until tender,109 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. rub it through a wire sieve, and when this process is completed, put the pur6e, with a small quantity of butter, stock, milk, or cream, into a stewpan, stir over the fire until it becomes thick. Tomato Sauce. Choose ripe, perfectly sound tomatoes, break them into small pieces, put them in a stewpan with a very small bit of butter or a spoonful of gravy, salt, and, if allowed, pepper. Let them simmer gently for three-quarters of an hour, then rub through a sieve, taking care that none of the seeds get into the puree, which put back into the stewpan and stir over the fire until it is as thick as good apple sauce.PUDDINGS FOR INVALIDS AND CHILDREN. THERE can be no doubt that milk puddings are an essential in the dietary of children, but from their too frequent repetition it often becomes impossible to get them eaten. There is an especial difficulty with rice, and this is easily accounted for by the method of its preparation, which is too often monotonous and insipid. Whenever a child shows a marked distaste for any particular dish, it should not again be offered him for a week or two, and it should then be served in a different form. If plain rice pudding is objected to, let rice be next served in the form of croquets ; probably the plain pudding, with the addition of a little lemon juice, will afterwards be readily accepted. Macaroni, if judiciously served, is generally liked, and is most valuable. It should always be broken into very small pieces for children. Italian pastine is oftenCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 111 liked when macaroni is objected to, and it makes light and delicious puddings. Suet puddings, if properly prepared, may be given to children who have fair digestions on days when fish, soup or eggs are substituted for meat, but puddings made of dripping are generally inad- missible. Suet should be scraped, not chopped, and in all cases the crust must be dry and well boiled. In making puddings with milk and eggs, the milk must always be boiled, as this prevents curdling. Lump sugar is now so cheap, that it may with advantage be substituted for raw in all delicate puddings. It is a good plan to boil the sugar with the milk, and then pour them on the eggs. Very slow baking is absolutely necessary for all pud- dings which have custard ; if quickly baked, the custard is often mixed with the more solid portion of the pudding, and it is also rendered tough and unsuitable for children or invalids, whereas if slowly baked the custard, even when one egg is used, will be in considerable proportion to the other in- gredients. Whites of eggs make good puddings for children, and three whites should be calculated as one egg.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 112 The custard from whites of eggs is excellent, and only to be distinguished from that made with the yolks added by its pale colour. Fried bread will be found not only an economi- cal, but a nourishing and delicious accompaniment to stewed fruits, and there are very few children who will not eat it. By fried bread is not meant either bread sodden in grease in the frying pan, or bread unduly hardened in boiling fat, because in either case it is most unwholesome. Bread properly fried will be just crisp, and a golden brown on the out- side, and not the least hard. If the fat is a proper temperature, bread, to be properly fried, will not require to be immersed in it for more than half a minute. Great care should be taken in flavouring puddings for children. Bought essences, as a rule, are objectionable, whilst flavourings may be easily and cheaply made at home by infusing lemon peel, almonds, or vanilla in spirit. A small quantity of either of these gives an agreeable flavour, and will be found harmless. The lemon peel and almonds, when the liquor is poured off, will retain some flavour, and will be useful for several culinary purposes.CO OKER Y FOR IN VALIDS. 113 It is often necessary to give farinaceous sub- stances and eggs to invalids in the form of pud- dings, and yet to avoid sugar. In such cases, the five following recipes for savoury puddings will be found useful. Savoury Bice Pudding. Wash one ounce of the finest rice, put it in a pie dish with half a pint of beef-tea or any kind of broth. Bake until the rice is well cooked ; it will take about an hour in a moderate oven. Boil a quarter of a pint of milk, pour it on to an egg lightly beaten, stir well together, and then mix with the rice. Season with salt, and, if allowed, a little pepper. Put the pudding into the pie dish, bake very slowly for an hour and a half, and serve. Savoury Macaroni Pudding. Break half an ounce of best Italian macaroni into half a pint of veal broth or weak beef-tea, and let it boil for an hour, or until well swelled and per- fectly tender. Make a custard as for savoury rice IICOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. H4 pudding, put it with the macaroni into a tart dish, season to taste, and bake gently for an hour and a half. Savoury Bread Pudding. Pour hah a pint of beef-tea, boiling, over the crumb of a French roll. Beat well together, and let it soak for halt an hour; then add two eggs beaten with a quarter of a pint of boiling milk. Season with pepper and salt, beat together for five minutes, put the pudding into a buttered tart dish, and bake rather quickly for three-quarters of an hour. If there is no objection, an onion, well boiled and beaten to a pulp, may be added to the pudding. Brown Biscuit Pudding. Soak a Blatchley's biscuit in half a pint of milk for an hour, then boil, stirring all the time, until it begins to get thick, sweeten to taste, and flavour with vanilla. Beat up the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Mix them in the pudding, put it into a buttered basin, and steam for twenty minutes. Serve with vanilla sauce.COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. 11S The brown biscuits prepared only by Mr Blatchley of Oxford Street, are much recommended by doctors, and in many cases the above recipe will be useful ; salt may be substituted for sugar, and gravy served with the pudding instead of sweet sauce. Cheese Macaroni. This is macaroni flavoured with cheese, and may be eaten without risk by most invalids. Scrape two ounces of good-flavoured rich new cheese into half a pint of cold water, let it boil gently for half an hour, strain out the cheese, and put to the liquid half an ounce of best Italian macaroni broken in small pieces, a bit of butter the size of a small walnut, a pinch of pepper, and salt if necessary. Let the macaroni simmer gently until perfectly tender, when it will have absorbed all the liquid; then beat up the yolk of an egg with a teaspoonful of milk or cream ; stir briskly into the macaroni until it is lightly set, and assumes the appearance of cheese ; serve immediately.116 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. Plain Rice Pudding. Wash a quarter of a pound of best rice, put it in a pie dish with a pint of new milk, and allow it to bake rather quickly for three-quarters of an hour. If the pudding is required to be moist, half a pint more milk must be allowed. Rice Custard Pudding. Bake the rice as in the above recipe ; when done, add to it half a pint of milk, into which an egg or two, sugar to taste and flavouring have been mixed. Bake very gently for three-quarters of an hour. Boiled Rice with sweet Sauce. Wash the rice,- throw into boiling water, and boil it with a pinch of salt in plenty of water. It should be done in about twenty minutes, and this will readily be ascertained by rubbing a grain between the finger and thumb ; if it crumbles, it is properly cooked. Drain the rice in a colander, pour overCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. it a cup of cold water, put it back into the sauce- pan, let it stand a few minutes to dry, and serve. Sweet Sauce. Mix a small dessertspoonful of French potato flour quite smooth in four tablespoonfuls of water, then stir into it half a pint of boiling water, sugar or treacle to taste; stir over the fire until the sauce boils, when, if allowed, an ounce of butter may be added, with a tablespoonful of lemon juice.' When sweetened with sugar, a little nutmeg or ground cinnamon may be used instead of lemon juice, if preferred. A tablespoonful of raspberry jam or any fruit syrup may be used to flavour the sauce, and is generally much liked. Rice Milk. Wash a quarter of a pound of rice, boil as directed above, and, having drained it, put it into a stewpan with half a pint of new milk; stir over the fire until the rice has absorbed the milkCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 118 Rice Croquets. Bake two ounces of best rice in a pint of milk until well swelled and dry. Whilst hot beat in the yolk of an egg, one ounce of sifted sugar, and a little grated lemon peel, or any flavouring preferred. Spread this on a dish to the thickness of half an inch, and let it remain until cold ; then put a few finely-sifted bread crumbs on your hand, take as much of the rice as will heap a dessertspoon, put it on the crumbs in your hand, and roll into the shape of an egg. Beat up an egg, white and yolk, dip the croquet into it, roll it in bread crumbs, put it in the wire basket; repeat this process until all your rice is used, then fry the croquets in plenty of boiling fat. Clarified dripping answers well for frying these croquets; care must, however, be taken that the fat is the right temperature, which may readily be ascertained by plunging a piece of bread into the fat If the bread browns instantly, the fat is ready. Dip in your wire basket contain- ing the croquets, move about gently in the fat, and when they acquire, as they should do in less than a119 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. minute, a golden colour, they are done. Put them on cap paper to absorb any fat clinging to them, sift sugar over, and serve. Ground Rice Pudding. Mix two ounces of ground rice in half a pint of cold milk, pour on it half a pint of boiling milk, in which six lumps of sugar have been dissolved, add flavouring, and stir over the fire for ten minutes. Put in the pudding an egg well beaten, and bake in a buttered tart dish for three-quarters of an hour. This pudding may be boiled or steamed, and will then require two eggs. Semolina Pudding. Boil two ounces of semolina in a pint of milk, boil for a quarter of an hour, sweeten, and flavour, beat in an egg; put the pudding into a buttered tart dish; bake for an hour in a slow oven.120 French Tapioca Pudding. Take two ounces of tapioca de la couronne, and boil it in half a pint of water until it begins to swell, then add half a pint of milk by degrees, and boil until the tapioca becomes veiy thick; add a well-beaten egg, sugar and flavouring to taste, and bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. This preparation of tapioca is superior to any other, is nourishing, and suitable for delicate children and invalids. Sweet Macaroni. Break up two ounces of the best macaroni into small lengths, and boil it in a quart of water with a pinch of salt, until perfectly tender; drain away the water, add to the macaroni in the stewpan half a teacupful of milk and two ounces of sifted lump sugar, and keep shaking over the fire until the milk is absorbed; add any flavouring, and serve. Stewed fruit may be served with the macaroni.121 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Sherry Macaroni. Break half an ounce of best Italian macaroni into a quarter of a pint of sherry mixed with a quarter of a pint of water ; let it boil until it is tender and has absorbed the liquid. It can then be served dusted over with sifted sugar, mixed with a pinch of ground cinnamon, or be made into a pudding in the same manner as rice custard pudding. Sherry Sponge Pudding. Put two penny sponge-cakes into a buttered tart dish, pour over them a wineglassful of sherry, let them stand until the wine is absorbed. Boil half a pint of milk with two or three lumps of sugar, beat an egg up with it, pour it over the cakes, and bake in a slow oven until the custard is set, when turn out, and serve. Pastine Pudding. Throw an ounce of Italian pastme into a pint of boiling water, with a small pinch of salt; boil it for122 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. four minutes or until tender, drain away the water, and put the pastine to a liquid custard, made of one egg, half a pint of boiling milk, sugar, and flavour- ing to taste. Butter a tart dish, put in the pudding, and bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. Rusk Pudding. Butter a tart dish, lay in it two slices of rusk made from tea-cake. Beat up an egg, pour on to it half a pint of boiling milk sweetened to taste with lump sugar and flavoured with lemon or vanilla; put this custard to the rusk, and bake the pudding very slowly for about an hour. Turn it on to a dish and spread over the top a little apricot or strawberry preserve, made hot by placing the jar for a few minutes in a saucepan of boiling water. This pudding is much nicer and lighter than one made of bread. It may be varied by spreading a little lemon cheesecake paste between the rusk, or by pouring over it, when ready to serve, a sauce made as for lemon souffle\123 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Biscuit Pudding. Soak three ounces of Huntley and Palmer's lunch biscuits in half a pint of new milk; when quite soft, beat them up smooth, add two ounces of lump sugar, two eggs, a little grated lemon peel, and a very small pinch of salt. Put the pudding in a buttered basin, cover with a paper cap, and steam for an hour. For sauce, boil two ounces of lump sugar in a quarter of a pint of water until it begins to thicken, add the juice of a lemon and boil five minutes more. If liked, a tablespoonful of sherry may be added. Biscuit pudding is equally good baked, and one egg only will be required. Crumb Pudding. Boil two ounces of bread crumbs in a quarter of a pint of milk, sweeten and flavour, and when the bread is thick stir in the yolks of two eggs. Put the pudding into a buttered tart dish, bake slowly for three quarters of an hour; then spread over the top a layer of strawberry jam, and on this theCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 124 whites of the eggs beaten with a teaspoonful of sifted sugar to a strong froth. Dip a knife in boiling water, and with it smooth over the whites, put the pudding again into a moderate oven until the top is a light golden brown. Serve immediately. Custard Pudding. Into half a pint of milk put the peel of half a lemon very finely shred ; when it boils put in an ounce of lump sugar, take out the peel, and pour the milk on two eggs well beaten. Put the custard into a basin or tart dish, and set it in a saucepan with boiling water reaching only half way up the basin. Do not let the water boil, but keep it just bubbling. In about twenty minutes the custard should be set. It may be eaten either hot or cold, and any flavour may be substituted for that of lemon peel. A tablespoonful of strong coffee will be found very nice and useful in cases where there is no objection to it. The pudding, instead of being boiled, may be baked ; pour it into a buttered tart dish, which place in another two sizes larger, three125 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. parts full of boiling water, and bake slowly for half an hour. Hasty Pudding. Mix two ounces of flour smooth in a little cold milk, stir on to it half a pint of boiling milk, mix in a well beaten egg, sweeten and flavour with a grated nutmeg, add a pinch of salt, and stir over a slow fire until the pudding thickens. Turn it out, and serve. Alexandra Pudding. Mix two tablespoonfuls of boiled flour (prepared according to the recipe given at page 5) with a quarter of a pint of cold milk, then pour on to it half a pint of boiling milk sweetened with lump sugar. Stir over the fire for five minutes, beat in two eggs, and flavour with extract of vanilla. Stone a dozen stewed prunes (see recipe, page 139), put them into the pudding, and pour it into a tart dish lightly buttered. Bake gently for an hour. The juice of the stewed prunes flavoured with vanilla may be served with the pudding.126 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Lemon Souffle. Melt an ounce of butter, add to it half an ounce of Feyeux's Fecule de pomme de terre, or Vienna flour, stir in an ounce of castor sugar, then a quarter of a pint of new milk, and the grated peel of a small lemon. Stir the mixture over the fire until it thickens. Beat up the yolks of three eggs for half a minute, stir gradually into the pudding; then add four whites, beaten to a strong froth, mixing them thoroughly but lightly. Put the pudding into a buttered pint mould or basin with a band of good writing- paper tied outside, letting two inches well but- tered inside, stand above the mould to prevent the pudding running over as it rises. Put the pudding into a stewpan with boiling water enough to reach half-way up the mould, let it simmer very gently for about twenty minutes, or until firm enough to turn out. Make a sauce as follows : Boil two ounces of sugar in a quarter of a pint of cold water for ten minutes, add the strained juice of the lemon. Mix a small teaspoonful of fictileCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 127 de pomme de terre in two tablespoonfuls of sherry or water and stir it into the syrup, allowing it to thicken over the fire. Pour over the pudding, and serve. This pudding is very light and delicious, and may be varied by using almond or vanilla flavouring instead of lemon. Fruit syrup or any preserve may be used for the sauce. PUDDINGS FOR CHILDREN. Lemon Pudding, Butter a pudding basin, put in a thin layer of light bread, spread over a little very finely-shred beef suet and grated lemon peel, repeat the process until the basin is lightly filled ; make a custard of two eggs and half a pint of milk (for a pint basin), and pour it over the bread by degrees ; put a paper cap over the pudding, and boil it very gently for an hour. Serve with the following sauce: Mix a tablespoonful 01 flour in cold water, stir it into half128 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. a pint of boiling water, let it boil a minute, sweeten, add the juice of a lemon. Half an ounce of butter may, if approved, be added ; a little lemon peel boiled in the water of which the sauce is made, or a few drops of lemon flavouring, is an improvement. Stonleigh Pudding. Butter a tart dish, sprinkle the bottom with ■ finely-minced candied peel and a very little shred suet, then a thin layer of light bread, and so on until the dish is full. For a pint dish make a liquid custard of one egg and half a pint of milk, sweeten, pour over the pudding, and bake as slowly as possible for two hours. Baked Batter Pudding. Mix five ounces of best flour with four table- spoonfuls of cold water and a small pinch of salt, add by degrees half a pint of new milk and the yolk of an egg. Just before putting the pudding into the oven add the white of the egg, beaten to a strong froth; put an ounce of butter, lard, orCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 129 clarified beef suet into a tart dish, and let it get very hot, then put in the pudding, and bake rather quickly for forty minutes. For boiling, add another egg to the above quantity, pour the pudding into a greased basin, put it into boiling water, and let it' boil gently for an hour and a quarter. Serve with sauce, made as directed for boiled rice, or with any kind of stewed fruit. Fig Pudding. Chop half a pound of figs very finely, mix them with a quarter of a pound of coarse sugar, a table- spoonful of treacle, four tablespoonfuls of milk, half a pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of suet, an egg, and a pinch of grated nutmeg. Put the pud- ding into a buttered mould, and boil for four or five hours. Plum Pudding. Chop, if possible in a minching machine, half a pound of raisins, half a pound of sultanas, two ounces of candied peel, and half a pound of apples; I130 CO OKER Y FOR INVA LIDS. mix with half a pound of beef suet one pound of bread crumbs, a quarter of a pound of flour, half a pound of sugar, a little spice, and a pinch of salt; put sufficient new milk to make the mixture rather stiff; butter a basin, put in the pudding, and boil for six hours. This quantity will make a large pudding. Baked Suet Crust. Shred beef suet very thin ; take equal proportions of sifted flour, roll a little suet with a little flour; put it aside as you do it, and continue the process until all the suet and flour are rolled together into flakes; gather them into a heap on the board, sprinkle them with water, using as little as possible, to make the mass into paste. When it is worked into a smooth paste, beat it a little with the rolling pin, and roll out as thin as possible; fold it over to the required thickness, and put it on the pie ; bake rather quickly. This crust should be eaten before quite cold, and, if properly made, will be a very good and light puff paste, equally suitable for fruits or meat pies.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Fruit Pudding. Make a crust in the proportion of four ounces of suet to six of flour, a pinch of salt, and water to make a stiff paste, roll it out thin before putting into a buttered basin, then add the fruit mixed with sugar, except in the case of apples, which are some- times hardened by boiling with sugar; put on a lid of paste, and boil the pudding an hour and a half. Care should be taken to roll the crust thin, in order to get as much fruit as possible into 'the pudding. It is a good plan to stew a little fruit, and serve it with the pudding, as it should be given to children in large proportion to the crust. Layer Pudding. Make a crust as for fruit pudding. Roll it out and line a buttered basin with it, lay at the bottom a layer of jam or treacle, then a thin layer of crust, and so on until the basin is full. Boil an hour and a half.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 132 German Pudding. Chop the remains of a fruit pudding very finely, add to them a quarter of their weight in flour, suet, sugar, and black currant jam, or any kind of stewed fruit. Mix all with an egg; bake the pudding very slowly for nearly two hours, taking care it does not become hard on the outside. When done turn it out and sift sugar over. Rice Pudding without Milk. Bake a quarter of a pound of rice in a pint of water, with one ounce of finely shred suet or of butter ; when done add to it a quarter of a pint of water in which a dessertspoonful of flour has been boiled, with one egg well beaten, sugar and flavour- ing to taste. Bake gently for three-quarters of an hour. This and the three following recipes will be found acceptable to the sick poor, who being unaccus- tomed to delicate puddings do not appreciate them when ill. Puddings for the poor should not be madeCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 133 sweet; as a rule they use but little sugar. Spice is preferred to lemon flavouring. Bread Pudding. Soak the bread in cold water, then squeeze it very dry, take out any lumps, and add boiling milk, about half a pint to a pound of soaked bread ; beat up an egg, sweeten, add a little nutmeg, and bake the pudding slowly until firm. If desired, a few sultanas may be added to the pudding; or, if the bread is light, such as the crusts of French rolls, it may be soaked in as much cold milk as it will absorb, and when it is perfectly soft have sugar, eggs, and flavouring added to it. Indian Corn Flour Pudding. This must not be confounded with corn-flour sold in packets, which in some cases is the starch of Indian corn or maize, deprived of much of its nutritive value by the process it undergoes to render it white and smooth. Indian corn-flour is the finely-ground flour of maize, and is largely used inCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 134 America. Dr Pavy says : " Properly prepared, it furnishes a wholesome, digestible, and nutritious food." Like oatmeal, it requires to be thoroughly well boiled. Vanilla is a suitable flavouring for this pudding, but any other may be used. Two ounces of Indian corn-flour, mix smooth in a quarter of a pint of milk, and then stir it into three- quarters of a pint of boiling milk, sweeten and flavour. Put into a clean stewpan, and stir over the fire until it becomes quite thick; beat in an egg, put the pudding into a buttered tart dish, and bake very slowly for three-quarters of an hour. Oatmeal Pudding. Mix two ounces of fine Scotch oatmeal in a quarter of a pint of milk ; add to it a pint of boiling milk; sweeten to taste, and stir over the fire for ten minutes ; then put in two ounces of sifted bread crumbs; stir until the mixture is stiff, then add one ounce of shred suet and one or two well-beaten eggs ; add a little flavouring, or grated nutmeg. Put the pudding into a buttered dish, and bake slowly for an hour.135 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Baked Apples. Wash the apples, with a sharp needle prick the skins, put a little water in the baking dish and place the apples in it. Bake in a very slow oven. If these directions are followed, the apples will not burst Apple Souffle. Bake two or three sharp apples, scrape out the pulp, sweeten with powdered sugar, and mix in the white of an egg beaten to a strong froth. Put it on a flat tin dish and bake in a moderate oven for a quarter of an hour or until the souffle has risen. Serve immediately. A little lemon flavouring may be added to the apple. Apple Fool. Bake good sharp apples, remove the pulp with a spoon, and beat it up with a little sifted sugar. To a teacupful use the yolk of an egg and a penny sponge-cake; mix together, and rub through aCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 136 sieve. This is nourishing, and useful in any case where cream or custard is objected to. Stewed Apples and Rice. Peel good baking apples, take out the cores with a scoop so as not to injure the shape of the apples, put them in a deep baking dish, and pour over them a syrup made of boiling sugar in the proportion of one pound to a pint of water ; put a little piece of shred lemon inside each apple, and let them bake very slowly until soft, but not in the least broken. If the syrup is thin, boil it until it is thick enough ; take out the lemon peel, and put a little jam inside each apple, and between each a little heap of well-boiled rice ; pour the syrup gently over the apples, and let it cover the rice. This dish may be served either hot or cold. Apple Charlotte. Bake good cooking apples slowly until done; scrape out all the pulp with a teaspoon, put it in a stewpan in the proportion of one pound of apple137 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. pulp to half a pound of sugar; stir it until the sugar is dissolved and the pulp stiff. Take care it does not burn. Add a little lemon flavouring, and place the apple in the centre of a dish, arranging thickly and tastefully round it neatly-cut pieces of carefully-fried bread. If it is desired to make this dish very nice, each piece of fried bread may be dipped in apricot jam. Rhubarb Charlotte may be made in the same manner. The rhubarb must be boiled and stirred until a good deal of the watery portion has evaporated, and then sugar, half a pound to a pound of fruit, being added it should be allowed to boil until it is thick. Stewed Fruits. Almost any fruit well stewed may be given to children, but some, from being too often repeated, will be declined by them. This is often the case with stewed rhubarb, and it should therefore occa- sionally be mixed with other fruit. A tablespoonful or two of raspberry or strawberry jam, a little orange or lemon marmalade, will change the flavour agreeably. Rhubarb and apples are best preparedCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. for eating with rice or macaroni by gently boiling in a stewpan until tender and tolerably dry ; sugar to taste should then be added, and stirred with the fruit over'the fire for five or ten minutes. In the case of the acid in fruit being very strong, it is well before adding the sugar to put in a small pinch of carbonate of soda; much less sugar will then be found to suffice. Croustades with Stewed Fruit. Take a French roll a day old, cut off the crust, divide it into three equal portions ; with a sharp knife cut out the middle of each so as to form a basket, taking care not to make holes in the bottom of it. The sides of the croustades should be about the third of an inch thick. Have a stewpan half full of fat, and, when it is hot enough to colour the bread instantly, immerse the croustades in it, and in less than half a minute they will be done. It is best to fry one or two at a time. Take them out of the fat with a wire spoon or a skimmer, and dry them on cap paper. Now fill the croustades with stewed fruit of any kind, and serve immediately after filling.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 139 Stewed Prunes. Wash the fruit, and for every pound allow half a pound of raw sugar and one pint of water. Boil the sugar and water together for ten minutes, then put in the fruit, and let it boil gently for two hours or until perfectly tender, so that it breaks if touched with the finger. Drain the syrup from the prunes, and boil it until it becomes thick ; then put the prunes back into it, and let them stand until the next day. Stewed Figs. Simmer one pound of figs in a pint and a half of water with the peel of a lemon for an hour, or until they are perfectly soft without being broken. Take the figs out of the syrup, to which add the juice of the lemon, and boil it up quickly for five minutes, then pour it over the figs and allow them to stand until cold.JELLIES, CREAMS, ICES, &c. Wine Jelly. It should be understood that Nelson's gelatine answers as well for jelly, as that made from calves' feet, and that the only advantage from using the latter is the knowledge of the source whence it is derived. To make jelly of calves' feet, boil two in four quarts of water for eight hours, skimming well. When done, strain the liquor through a very fine sieve, and let it remain until the next day. Carefully remove every particle of grease; this is best done by scraping the jelly, and then wiping it with a clean cloth dipped in very hot water. To a pint of strong jelly, put a quarter of a pound of lump sugar, the peel of one lemon, and the juice of two. When the jelly is dissolved, stir in a pint of sherry and a wine-glassful of brandy.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Beat up the whites and shells of four eggs with a quarter of a pint of cold water, and stir them briskly into the jelly, which allow to simmer gently for a quarter of an hour. Let it stand for five minutes before passing through the jelly bag. If the jelly is not clear, pass it a second time through the bag. Kent's " Registered Jelly Strainer " saves much time, trouble, and waste, and is on all accounts to be preferred to the old-fashioned bag and stand. To make jelly of Nelson's gelatine, follow the directions given with each packet, and the result will be successful. Or proceed as follows. Soak an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in half a pint of cold water for an hour, stir into it a pint of boiling water. Cut the peel of a lemon thinly, and put it with the strained juice of two, and a quarter of a pound of sugar into the jelly. Let this boil for five minutes, take it off the fire, and when it has stood two or three minutes, stir in briskly the whites and shells of two eggs well whisked together. Take it off the fire, allow it to stand two or three minutes, then pass through the bag. When the jelly is strained, stir in half a pint of sherry and if approved, a little brandy. It is best not to boilCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 1+2 wine as it loses thereby both spirit and flavour. When gelatine is used merely as a vehicle for administering wine, it is not necessary to clear the jelly. Dissolve half an ounce of gelatine previ- ously soaked in a little water, in a quarter of a pint of boiling water, add sugar to taste, the juice and peel of a lemon, and let all boil together for a quarter of an hour. Take off the fire, and stir in half a pint of port, sherry, or any wine ordered, and let it stand until set. Hartshorn Jelly. Boil a quarter of a pound of hartshorn shavings in two quarts of water, until reduced to a pint, sweeten, and add the juice of a lemon; strain it, and let it stand until cold. Ivory-dust Jelly. Put half a pound of ivory-dust into two quarts of water, and boil it until reduced to a pint—it will take from eight to ten hours, and must be gently boiled. Strain through a jelly bag, and use to143 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. give additional strength to other forms of nourish- ment. Iceland Moss Jelly. Put an ounce of Iceland moss into a quart of tepid water and let it stand all night. Boil it until reduced to a pint, strain it, flavour with wine and lemon juice, and sweeten to taste. Or, the plain jelly may be taken in milk or cream. Madeira Jelly. Soak half an ounce of gelatine in the third of a pint of water, let it boil until dissolved, add a quarter of a pound of sugar, when melted strain and add a quarter of a pint of Madeira. Let the jelly stand until cool, whip it until it becomes a thick froth, put it into a mould, set it in a cool place or on ice until quite firm. Lemon Sponge. Soak half an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in a quarter of a pint of cold water. Dissolve it in aCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 144 quarter of a pint of boiling water, put a quarter of a pound of lump sugar and the peel of half a lemon, let it simmer for half an hour, then strain and allow it to stand until nearly cold. Add the juice of a large lemon and whisk the sponge until perfectly white and thick. Dip a mould into cold water, drain it, put in the sponge and let it remain until the next day, when dip the mould into tepid water, loosen the edges with the top of a teaspoon and turn out the sponge. Tapioca Jelly. Put two ounces of Tapioca de la Couronne into a jar with half a pint of cold water and the grated peel of a lemon. Set the jar in a saucepan of water and keep it boiling. When the tapioca begins to thicken, stir in another half pint of water, let it boil gently for an hour, stirring occasionally. Sweeten with sifted sugar and pour into a mould. Let it stand until cold, when it will turn out of the mould, a stiff jelly. If approved a little sherry or brandy may be added, so much less water being used. This jelly is very nice eaten with fruit: is light, nourishing and very delicate.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. MS Blanc Mange. This was formerly not only one of the most esteemed creams for the dinner and supper table, but was also highly regarded as a convenient medium for administering a cream or milk diet to invalids. It has now, however, gone out of fashion, but is certainly not improved upon by some of the tough and frothy creams by which it has been superseded. As blanc mange is frequently ordered on account of the properties of the almonds, care should be taken to prepare them properly, as in the following recipe, which is an old and good one: Boil half an ounce of isinglass, or of Nelson's gela- tine, previously soaked in cold water, in a pint of new milk (a little more isinglass or gelatine will be required in summer); put in an ounce of sugar, rubbing two or three of the lumps on the peel of a lemon, and a very small piece of cinnamon. Blanch six bitter, and half an ounce of sweet almonds, pound in a mortar, adding a spoonful of rose water by degrees. When pounded to a paste, mix the almonds with the milk and gelatine, and KCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 146 let the blanc mange stand for half an hour. Strain through a fine sieve or muslin, taking care that none of the almonds remain in the liquid, stir in a quarter of a pint of good cream, put the blanc mange into a mould, and let it stand until set. French Eice Cream. Take two tablespoonfuls of Fayeux's crbne de riz, and mix it smooth in half a pint of cold milk; stir it into half a pint of boiling milk, in which two ounces of sugar have been dissolved. Stir over the fire until it boils, then beat in two well-whisked eggs, and continue stirring for ten minutes over the fire. Add a little flavouring, and serve either hot or cold. This, like tapioca de la cotironne, is valu- able for invalids and children of delicate appetite who cannot eat the commoner kinds of rice. French Custard. Take a dessertspoonful of Fayeuxs Fkule de pomme de terre, mix it smooth with two table- spoonfuls of cold milk, then stir into it half a pintCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. H7 of boiling milk, in which an ounce of lump sugar has been dissolved ; boil the custard gently, stirring all the time until it becomes thick, then add two eggs well beaten, and a little flavouring, and stir over the fire for four or five minutes. Pour the custard into a basin, and stir occasionally as it is getting cold to prevent a skin forming on the top. Brown and Poison's corn flour may be substituted for the F&ule de pomme de terre, but is not so delicate or appropriate for this purpose. Shape of Rice. Bake a quarter of a pound of rice, as directed for plain rice pudding, taking care to have it dry. Remove the brown skin, and mix with the rice whilst hot the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of powdered lump sugar, and a little almond, or vanilla flavouring. Beat all together, but do not boil after adding the eggs. Press the rice into a mould, let it stand for some hours until set, then turn it out on a glass dish.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Rice Cream. Bake one ounce of best rice in half a pint of milk ; when done, remove the skin from the top. Dissolve a quarter of an ounce of gelatine, pre- viously soaked in two tablespoonfuls of cold milk, in a quarter of a pint of boiling milk or cream, add the yolks of two eggs, two ounces of loaf sugar, and a little extract of vanilla ; stir over the fire for five minutes, mix with the rice, pour it into a mould, and let it remain until set. More or less sugar may be used according to taste ; the quantity given will make the cream rather sweet. Victoria Pudding. Boil two ounces of sago with six ounces of sugar, in half a pint of water for three-quarters of an hour, add six ounces of fresh fruit, again boil for an hour, and then put it into a mould ; let it stand until cold, when turn it out and pour a little syrup round the base. Milk or cream may be eaten with it.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 149 Custard Cream. Pour half a pint of boiling milk or cream on to the yolks of three eggs well beaten, sweeten to taste, whip together, and put it in a stewpan; stir over a gentle fire until it thickens, then flavour with extract of vanilla or lemon, or with brandy; whilst cooling, stir occasionally, and when nearly cold, stir in a quarter of an ounce of Nelson's gelatine previously soaked in cold water, according to the directions on the packet and then dissolved in three tablespoonfuls of boiling milk, then put the cream into a mould, and let it stand until the next day. Crystal Palace Cream. Make a custard as directed for French custard, dissolve a quarter of an ounce of Nelson's gelatine in boiling water, and when it is nearly cold, stir it into the custard, which must also be cool; soak two penny sponge cakes and two macaroons in two tablespoonfuls of milk, or if preferred, any fruit syrup, which must be rich and sweet, put the cakesISO COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. into a mould, and gently pour the cream over them, let it stand until cold. A few glace cherries may be added. Lemon Cream. This will be useful where milk or cream is not allowed, and is nourishing and delicious. Put into half a pint of boiling water the peel of two lemons, very thinly shred, and allow it to simmer for a quarter of an hour, then boil half a pound of sugar in it for two minutes, strain it, add three eggs (the whites and yolks beaten together) and the juice of the lemons. Put the mixture into a bright stew- pan, and stir until thick ; it will take about twenty minutes. Have ready a quarter of an ounce of Nelson's gelatine, soaked in a spoonful of cold water, and when the cream is poured into a basin put the gelatine with another spoonful of water into the stewpan, and stir about until dissolved, then, when both are nearly cold, mix thoroughly together, and put the cream into a mould. It should stand until the next day.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Ices. It is sometimes difficult to get ice made at home on account of the trouble and expense, but these difficulties are obviated by the miniature ice-pail lately introduced by Mr Kent. The little pail is exceedingly simple in action, and by its aid sufficient cream or water ice for two persons can be made in a quarter of an hour. The cost of the ice for freezing will not exceed threepence, and a second quantity of ice cream can be made with it, or a glass of pure water may be converted into ice, and wine or soda-water iced. The price of the little pail is twelve shillings; it cannot be too highly recommended for invalids who require pure cream or water ices. Lemon Water Ice. Put the eighth of an ounce of gum tragacanth in an earthenware pot with two-thirds of a pint of water, and stir occasionally until dissolved. If the water evaporates add more so as to keep the152 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. original quantity. Let it get cold, stir in the juice of two lemons with a few drops of essence of lemon peel, sweeten with syrup or sugar, taking care not to make it too sweet. Thoroughly mix all the in- gredients together, strain into the freezing glass, follow the directions given with the pail, and the ices will be ready in ten minutes. Any fruit, syrup, or the juice of fresh fruit, maybe substituted for the lemon. The gum tragacanth can be dispensed with; it, however, gives richness to the ice, and there is no objection to its use. If the gum is laid for an hour or two in a small quantity of lemon juice, it will dissolve readily in water, otherwise it takes a long time. Ice Cream. Stir into half a pint of milk and a quarter of a pint of cream, four tablespoonfuls of good straw- berry or raspberry jam, add a small tablespoonful of sifted sugar, and mix all thoroughly together. Strain into the freezing glass, and proceed accord- ing to directions. A small pinch of gum tragacanth dissolved in the milk, and, when cold, mixed with the other ingredients, gives richness and firmness to153 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. the ices. Any syrup may be used instead of the pre- serve, and a few drops of vanilla flavouring may be added with advantage. Care must be taken not to make the mixture for icing too sweet, as it will not then freeze well. Flavourings for Puddings. It is desirable that these should be prepared at home, as even the best bought essences have a pungent flavour, and are very apt to disagree with the stomach. The most important flavouring is that of Lemon Peel, which is too often wasted when the juice is used. If a lemon has to be sent to table to eat with fish, rice, &c, &c, it can be pre- viously pared, or, the less to interfere with its appearance, grated. If the peel is not required for immediate use, put it into a wide-mouthed bottle containing a little gin ; when it has stood a few days, a delicious flavouring will be ready ; the peel can also be used for rice puddings, &c. The grated peel may be mixed with sifted sugar put into a bottle and corked; it will thus retain the flavour of fresh peel for some time. Almond flavouring, blanch bitter almonds,154 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. put them into a bottle, and cover with gin, shake occasionally during three or four weeks, then drain off the liquid, allow it to stand until fine, and it is ready for use. Vanilla should be cut into small pieces, and be covered with brandy—not more than two tablespoonfuls should be allowed for a stick of vanilla. Vanilla varies much in quality, and cannot be bought at a low price. That supplied by Rocco of Greek Street, Soho, is very fine. Angelica may be infused in the same manner as almonds, spirits-of-wine being substituted for gin. A useful cordial may be made with this extract of Angelica, and, for those who like it, it is an agreeable change in the flavouring of creams, &c. Extract of Spices.—Crush a nutmeg, a dozen cloves, and one blade of ginger, put these into a small bottle and cover with unsweetened gin. Shake occasionally and at the expiration of a fortnight let the spice settle ; drain off the extract, and again let it stand until perfectly bright. A few drops of this is useful for flavouring negus, gruel, or mulled wine. fc> 'COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 155 Apple Marmalade. Peel, but do not core, six pounds of sharp apples, pour over them three pints of cold water, put them in the preserving kettle, and boil until they are soft. Rub them through a wire sieve, and to each pint of puree, allow half a pound of fine loaf sugar ; boil together until the marmalade will set, put into pots, and when cold cover down and keep for use when apples are scarce. If the apples become dry- in the first boiling, a little more water may be added. No rule can be given as some apples are much more juicy than others. Apple marmalade is said to contain much nourishment and is very useful for delicate children and invalids. Orange Marmalade. Choose Seville oranges with fine smooth dark skins. Score the peel in quarters down to the fruit, remove it with as much of the white as will come without drawing the juice of the orange, throw the quarters of peel as you do them into cold water.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. i56 Put the peel into the preserving kettle with fresh cold water to cover it, let it boil for an hour, change the water, and let the peel boil until tender enough to pierce with a straw or to crumble when pressed between the fingers; take it up, drain away all the water and cut into shreds as fine as possible. Squeeze the oranges, and to every dozen add the juice of four lemons. Weigh the shred peel and the juice, and to every pound allow a pound and a half of lump sugar. Put a pint of water to each pound of sugar, let it boil a quarter of an hour, then add the juice of the fruit, and when the syrup becomes thick put in the peel and boil all together for twenty minutes, or until the marmalade will jelly. Put into jars, let them remain uncovered for a day or two, then tie down in the usual manner. It is a good plan to prepare the peel the day before making the marmalade, as it then has time to drain before shredding ; it should be set aside on sieves and turned about occasionally.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 157 Preserved Strawberries. Boil one pound of sugar in half a pint of water until it begins to get thick, then put in one pound of carefully picked strawberries, and let them boil gently until the fruit is done, which will be in about a quarter of an hour. Pour the preserve into a basin, and let it stand until the next day, then drain the syrup into the preserving kettle, taking care not to break the fruit; let the syrup boil, skimming it, if necessary, until it begins to jelly, then put the strawberries into it, let them boil together gently for five minutes, put into small pots or glasses, and do not cover down for a week or ten days.BREAD AND CAKES. As a rule, invalids have a difficulty in eating bread, and as but a small quantity can be taken, it is of the first importance it should be pure and wholesome. It is wonderful how even healthy stomachs tolerate the compound which bakers dignify with the name of bread, and almost as wonderful that persons who have once tasted a pure household loaf, can eat that sold in the shops. That bread for delicate persons and invalids must be made at home admits of no doubt, and it is hoped the following recipes will enable the cook to make light and digestible bread. A small bread-making machine is very useful. Bread can be made with less yeast, be more per- fectly kneaded, and will eat sweeter, than when made with the hands. Perfect cleanliness is ensured159 COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. by its use. Kent's machine (Edward's Patent) can be had for twenty-five shillings, but a larger size is required for family use. As a rule, bread made in the machine takes less time to rise, than that made by hand. Some care and observation are required in order to know the exact moment when it is ready for the oven. No precise time can be given, as it will vary according to the temperature at which the dough is kept, the quantity of water used, the quality of the materials, and the method of manipulation. If bread rises too long before going into the oven, it will be dry and harsh, if not long enough, it will probably be close, or not bake well. One characteristic of well-made dough is, that it is smooth and compact, and sticks neither to the hands or vessel in which it is made. Good German yeast is the best for making bread for invalids. It must be perfectly fresh and sweet, in which state it is nearly white and quite dry. Brewer's yeast when it can be obtained, may be used. To deprive it of bitterness, cold water should be poured on it over night, and in the morning be drained away. A tablespoonful of good, thick brewer'si6o COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. yeast will make up two pounds of flour. Spanish flour is to be had at good corn chandlers, and makes very white sweet bread. Vienna flour is suitable for rolls and fancy bread. Household Bread. Dissolve rather less than half an ounce of German yeast in a spoonful of cold water, stir into it, three gills of tepid water, (a gill is a quarter of a pint,) and pour it rapidly through a sieve on to one pound of fine flour, in which a small pinch of salt has been mixed, beat it up with the hand or a wooden spoon until well mixed. Then, work in by degrees another pound of flour, kneading it well, until all the flour is used. Some flour takes rather more water than other'kinds, and it may not be possible to work in quite all the flour ; the bread, however, will be all the sweeter and better for being worked up dry. Set the dough to rise at a temperature of about eighty degrees, and in an hour or rather less it will be ready to bake. Flour your paste board, put the dough on it, and with your hands make it into a compact loaf. If the bread has been mixedCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 161 as directed, and has not risen too quickly, the loaf will not spread in the oven ; it will take about an hour to bake, being first put into a very hot oven for ten minutes which should then have the heat slackened. Rolls. Dissolve two ounces of German yeast in rather less than a pint of tepid water; pour it through a sieve on to a pound of fine flour, work in gradually another pound of flour. Set the dough in a warm place until it has risen well, then divide it into six portions, and put them into roll tins; bake quickly. Tea Cakes. Melt two ounces of butter, stir it into a pint of tepid milk, mix in this an ounce of fresh German yeast, a good pinch of salt, two ounces of sifted sugar, and two eggs. Strain on to two pounds of fine flour, and beat all well together. Let the dough rise for half an hour; then knead and put into tins, allowing the cakes to rise well before baking them in a moderate oven. LCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Sweet Bread Cake. Dissolve an ounce of German yeast in half a pint of tepid water. Work it in to one pound of flour, let it rise for half an hour, then mix in two ounces of dissolved butter, a quarter of a pound of sugar, a little finely shred orange candy peel, carraway powder, ground cinnamon, or other flavouring. Let the cake rise for half an hour, put it into a buttered tin, and bake. The oven should be very hot for the first ten minutes and then be slackened until the cake is done. An egg may be added to the cake when the butter is mixed in. Unfermented Bread. This is best made with Limner's self-raising flour. If the directions given with this flour are duly followed, the bread will be very good. Bread made with baking powder often has yellow spots in it, giv- ing rise to needless apprehension on the score of the materials employed. The chemical agentsCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. being thoroughly well mixed with Limner's flour these spots are never seen. When baking powder is used great care should be taken to thoroughly incorporate it with the flour. The great secret of success in making unfer- mented bread lies in expeditious mixing and in putting it the moment it is made into a very hot oven. Care should be taken to ascertain that the oven is a proper heat before mixing the dough, and the baking sheet should be floured and ready to hand. Only a small quantity of unfermented bread can be successfully mixed at one time. Two pounds are enough for one operation and this quantity should be divided into three loaves. Half an hour will bake them. Limner's flour, mixed with milk and water makes delicious bread. Cream which has slightly turned mixed with water is even better than milk. Baking Powder. One ounce of tartaric acid, two ounces of cai bonate of soda, two ounces of corn flour, miCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. thoroughly together and keep in well corked bottles. Two heaped teaspoonfuls will be required to make one pound of flour into bread with half a pint of milk or water. Lunch Cake. Mix three heaped teaspoonfuls of home made baking powder in one pound of fine flour, rub in quarter of a pound of butter or lard, mix in a quarter of pound of castor sugar, a little ground carraway seed, cinnamon, grated lemon peel, or any flavour preferred. When ready to bake stir in as quickly as possible two well beaten eggs mixed with half a pint of milk, put into buttered tins and bake in a hot oven. This will generally make four cakes the size of shilling pound cakes. Currants, when chopped, are perfectly wholesome, and a quarter of a pound may be used to give variety to the cake. Ginger Bread. Dissolve a quarter of a pound of butter and m with it over the fire one pound of treacle, pourCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 165 on to four eggs, and having beaten them together until well mixed stir into one pound of flour, a quarter of a pound of moist sugar, one ounce of ground ginger, a teaspoonful of ground carraway seeds, and a teaspoonful of baking powder. Take care all the dry ingredients are thoroughly well mixed before adding the liquid. Pour the cake into a Yorkshire pudding tin and bake in a moderate oven for about three quarters of an hour. Sponge Cake. Boil three quarters of a pound of lump sugar in a quarter of a pint of water ; pour it whilst boiling hot on to six eggs the whites and yolks whisked for two minutes. Beat up the eggs and sugar until they become a very thick batter. A skilful beater will accomplish this in from twenty to thirty minutes. Now mix in lightly and quickly ten ounces of Vienna flour, put into buttered tins thickly sprinkled with sifted sugar, and bake in a moderate oven. Grated lemon peel or vanilla flavouring may be used and should be added whilst the eggs are being whisked.COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Geneva Cakes. Take a round tin five inches in diameter and about two inches deep, fit a buttered paper on the bottom, and on the sides, an inch or so above the tin. It is always best to prepare the tins for light cakes and souffles the first thing-, because the moment the batter is finished, it should be put into the tin and baked. Break four eggs into a large bowl, beat them for a minute, then mix with them five ounces of sifted sugar. Put the bowl into another two or three sizes larger containing boiling water and whip the eggs and sugar until they become very thick, which should be accomplished in from fifteen to twenty minutes, change the water in the outer bowl about every five minutes, so as to keep the heat as uni- form as possible. When the batter is sufficiently thick, stir in three ounces of fine fresh butter dissolved over the fire in a stewpan, and then lightly and thoroughly mix in four ounces of fine sifted flour. Put the batter into the tin and bake in a hot oven. It will take about three-quarters ofCOOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 167 an hour. When the cake is done, turn it on to a sieve, let it get cold, cut it in slices, and spread jam between, or it is excellent eaten plain. Arrowroot Biscuits. Mix two ounces of arrowroot with six ounces of Vienna flour, rub in two ounces of butter, mix in a quarter of a pound of castor sugar, and make into a moist paste with an egg beaten up with a table- spoonful of cream. Dredge the pasteboard with flour, lay the paste on it, and dredge flour thickly over, also flour your hand and press the paste as thin as you can. Then divide it into small portions, again dredge the board and paste, which press to the thickness of half-a-crown, cut into shapes with a pastry cutter, butter writing paper and place the biscuits on it as you do them. Bake on an iron sheet in a slow oven. Ginger Biscuits. Rub one ounce of butter into four ounces of Vienna flour, mix in two ounces of castor sugar,168 COOKER Y FOR INVALIDS. a teaspoonful of ground ginger, and make into a stiff paste with the yolk of an egg beaten up in a tablespoonful of milk or cream. Put the paste on a board and roll out once to the thickness of a shilling. Cut the biscuits into round shapes, put them on a floured baking sheet and bake very slowly until crisp ; if the biscuits become brown they are spoiled. Eice Cakes. Mix two ounces of ground rice with six ounces of flour, and one teaspoonful of baking powder, rub in an ounce of fresh butter, and two ounces of sugar. Beat up an egg in a quarter of a pint of milk with a little lemon flavouring, have ready small patty pans rubbed with butter, half fill each with the cake mixture, put immediately into the oven, and bake for fifteen minutes.Brains, Sheep's, 5 INDEX. Page Alexandra Pudding, 125 Batter Pudding (Baked), Almond Milk, 48 , Boiled, Anchovy Relish, . , 74 Beans, French, Angelica, . . 144 Beef Cutlets, . Apple Charlotte, . 136 Saute, . Fool, . 135 Stewed, Marmalade, . 155 Jelly, . , Water, 42 Tea, Souffle, . . . 135 Cold Drawn, . Apples, Baked, 135 Beer, . . . Stewed, and Rice, . 136 Beverages, Arrowroot, . . . 8 Biscuit Pudding, Biscuits, . 167 , Brown, Arabic (Gum) Milk, 46 Biscuits, Arrowroot, Water, . 47 Ginger, . Artichoke Soup, . . 30 Pudding, Brown, Asparagus, . . 105 Black Currant Jam Wate Blanc Mange, Baked Apples, . . 135 Boil, To, an Egg, . Flour, . . , 6 Chickens, Haddock, . . 67 Boiled Flour Gruel, Soles, . . . 62 Rice, with Sweet Suet Crust, . 130 Sauce, . . . Baking Powder, 163 Sole, Barley Gruel, . . . 4 Brain Cakes, . Water, .COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. Bread, Household, Pudding, Savoury, Sweet Cake, Soup, Unfermented, Broil, To, Chickens, Broth, Cheap, Chicken, Mutton, Panada, Veal, Brown Biscuit Pudd Butter Sauce, Cake, Geneva, Lunch, Rice, Sponge, . Sweet Bread, Cakes, Brain, Tea, Calf s Liver Saute Sweetbreads, Caper Sauce, . Caudle, Cauliflower, Charlotte, Apple, Cheese, Macaroni, Chicken Broth, Boiling, Broiling, Fricassee of, Panada, Roasting, Page Page Chicken Saute, • • 9O _ /•* „ IOO Stewing, . . 95 133 Children, Puddings for, . 110 114 Soups for, . • 20 102 Cliop, Mutton, , . 77 27 Stewed, . • ol 162 L/ltUCL v^UUj • • • r t 51 94 iviunea, • • ■ 52 11 Cocoa, . . • • 38 20 Cod Cutlets, • • • 05 19 uottee, • • . 3° 10 Cordial, Ginger, ■ • 51 25 Cornflour Indian Pudding, *33 18 Cream, Crystal Palace, 149 114 Custard, 149 72 French, 140 Ice, • • • 152 IOO Lemon, • • • IO4 Rice, . • • 140 l68 Croquettes, . . • 99 Potato, • • 102 l62 Rice, • . . I Io 158 Croustades, with Stewed 92 Fruit, .... 13° l6l Crystal ralace Cream, 149 90 Crumb Pudding, . . 123 CO 88 L-iust, xiakea ouet, 130 73 Custard, Cream, . . 149 2 French, . . • T A A I4O 104 T)«, j j;_„ ruclcling, . • 124 1 j° , lx irf1 T*nrlc\inu. -I IIVJ V.L 1 lit; J • Il6 ii5 Cutlets, Beef, . 83 19 Saute, s4 94 Cod, 65 94 Fillets of Mutton, . 78 95 Lamb, 82 25 Loin of Mutton, So 94 Neck of Mutton, 79171 INDEX. Page Cutlets, Shoulder of Mutton, 81 Veal, 86 Egg Drinks, 45 Sauce Sharp, . 73 Soup, . . 28 Eggs in Gravy, . . 55 Scrambled, . 55 Sur le plat, . 54 To Boil, 53 10 roach, . 54 Endive, Stewed, 158 Extract of Spices, 140 Fillets of Mackerel, 69 Fillets of Mutton Cutlets, 78 Fillets of, Plaice, 70 fried, 63 in gravy, 0 j 1 63 Fig Pudding, . . 129 Fish, .... 59 Flavourings for Puddings, r53 Flour, Baked, 6 Boiled (Gruel), 5 Fool Apple, . . *35 French Beans, . . J Custard, . . 146 Rice Cream, 146 Tapioca Pudding, 120 Fricassee of Chicken, . 95 Rabbit, . 98 Fried Herrings, . , 66 Potatoes, . , IOI Sole, 62 Fillets of, 63 Fritters, Oyster, . . 7i Fruit Pudding, . . 131 Fruits, Stewed, . . . 137 Croustades with, 138 Geneva Cakes, . 166 German Omelets, . 57 Pudding, . . 132 Ginger Cordial, . 51 Biscuits, . 167 Bread, 164 Gravy, Eggs in, Fillets of Sole in, Soup, 21 Greens, .... 103 Ground Rice Pudding, 119 Gruel, .... 1 Barley, 4 Boiled Flour, . . c Oatmeal, . . -* Onion, . . . 7 Restorative, 7 Gum Arabic Milk, 46 Water, Haddock, Baked, 67 Harricot Soup, . . 2Q Hartshorn Jelly, .. . 14.2 Hasty Pudding, . "J Herrings, Fried, 66 Rolled, 66 Household Bread. . . 160 T _ 1 l > r Tit Iceland Moss Jelly, . 143 Ice Cream, IS2 Lemon Water, 151 Ices, .... 151 Indian Cornflour Pudding, 133 Invalids, Puddings for, IIO Ivory Dust Jelly, 142 Jelly, Beef, 14 Hartshorn, I42COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 1/2 Page Milk, Rice, Page Jelly, Iceland Moss, 143 117 Ivory Dust, 142 —— Soup, 20 Madeira, 143 Suet, . 46 Tapioca, . . 144 Thick, . 46 Wine, 140 Minced Meat, 87 Jellies, &c, . 140 TV JT 1 T* 1 1 f"l Mock lurtle Soup, . 23 Mulled Claret, 52 Kale, Sea, . . 106 Mutton Chops, 77 Stewed, 81 Lamb Cutlets, . . . S2 Broth, 16 • Sweetbreads, . 91 Fillets of Cutlets, 78 Layer Pudding, . . 131 Loin of Cutlets, 80 Lemon Cream, 150 Neck of Cutlets, 79 Pudding, 127 Shoulder of Cutlets, 81 Souffle, 126 Sponge, . 143 Oatmeal Gruel, 3 Water, Ice, I5i Porridge, 9 Lemonade, 40 Pudding, . 134 Linseed Tea, 47 Oatmeal Soup, . . 28 Little Dishes, 76 Water, 43 Loin of Mutton Cutlets, 80 Omelet, . . 56 Lozenges, Meat, 26 Soufflee, . . 56 Lunch Cake, 164 Omelets, German, 57 Onion Gruel, 7 Macaroni Cheese, us Onions, 100 Pudding, Savoury, . 113 Orange Marmalade, 155 Sherry, 121 Ionic, 5° Sweet, 120 Oyster Fritters, 7i Mackerel, Fillets of, 69 Oysters Scalloped, 71 Madeira Jelly, . 143 Marmalade, Apple, . 155 Panada, . . . 24 Orange, 155 j^iotn, • • • 25 Marrow, Vegetable, 107 Chicken, . . 25 Meat Lozenges, 26 Milk, 25 Minced, S7 Water, . 25 Milk, Almond, 48 Parsley Sauce, 72 Gum Arabic, . 46 Parsnip Soup, 30 Panada, 25 Partridge, Stewed, . 97INDEX. 173 Page Pastine Pudding, 121 Pigeon, Stewed, 97 Plaice, Fillets of, 70 Plum Pudding, 129 Poach, To, an Egg, . 54 Porridge, Oatmeal, 9 Potato Croquettes, . 102 Potatoes, Fried, IOI Posset, Treacle, 5° Preserved Strawberries, . 157 Prunes, Stewed, 139 Pudding, Alexandra, 125 Baked Batter, . 128 Biscuit, 123 Bread, 133 Brown Biscuit, . 114 Crumb, 123 Custard, . 124 Pudding, Fig, . 129 French Tapioca, 120 Fruit, I3I German, . 132 Ground Rice, . 119 Hasty, 125 Indian Corn Flour, . x33 Layer, 131 Lemon, . . 127 Oatmeal, . *34 —— Pastine, . . 121 Plain Rice, 116 Plum, . . . 129 Rice Custard, . . 116 without milk, 132 Rusk, 122 Savoury Bread, 114 Macaroni, . 113 Rice, . 113 Semolina, 119 Page Pudding, Sherry Sponge, . 121 oionieign, • . 1 _o Victoria, . I48 Puddings, Flavourings for, 153 for Invalids and Children ,127 Puree Vegetable, IO8 Quenelles, . . . 92 Rabbit, Fricassee of, . 98 Raspberry Vinegar, . . 49 Red Currant Syrup, . 48 Relish, Anchovy, 74 Restorative Gruel, 7 Rice Boiled with Sweet Sauce, 116 Cakes, . . 168 Cream, 1 Frencn, 146 Rice Croquettes, 118 Custard Pudding, 116 Milk, 117 Pudding, Ground, . 119 Plain, 116 Savoury, "3 wiinouc iviiiK, 132 Shape of, H7 Stewed apples and, . 136 Water, 43 Rolled Herrings, 66 Rolls 161 Rusk Pudding, 122 Sauce, Butter, . . . 72 Caper, 73 Parsley, . . . 72 Sharp Egg, 73 Sweet, . . . 117 Tomato, . 109COOKERY FOR INVALIDS. 174 Page Sauce, White, . 74 Savoury Bread Pudding, . 114 —— Macaroni Pudding, . 113 Rice Pudding, . 113 Scalloped Oysters, 7i Scrambled Eggs, 55 Sea Kale, 106 Semolina Pudding, . . 119 Shape of Rice, 147 Sharp Egg Sauce, 73 Sheep's Brains, 9i Sherry Macaroni, 121 Pastine, 121 Shoulder of Mutton Cutlets, 81 Sole, Baked, . 62 Boiled, . 61 Fillets of, Fried, 63 in gravy, . 63 Fried, 62 Soup, Artichoke, . . 30 Bread, 27 Egg, 2S For Children, . 26 Gravy, . . 21 Haricot, . . 29 Milk, 26 Mock Turtle, . 23 Oatmeal, . . 28 Parsnip, . . . 30 White, . 22 Souffle, Apple, 135 Lemon, 127 Spices, Extract of, . 154 Spinach, .... 104 Spirits, .... 3i Sponge Cakes, 165 Lemon, 143 Pudding Sherry, 121 Stewed Apples and Rice, . Page 136 Beef, 85 Chicken, . 95 Endive, 108 Fruits, 137 Croustades with, 138 Mutton Chop, . 81 Partridge, . Q7 Pigeon, . 97 Prunes, . , , 139 Water-cress, 108 Sponge Cake, . 16; Stonleigh Pudding, 128 Strawberries, Preserved, . IS7 31 Suet Crust, Baked, . Milk, 46 bweet Macaroni, I20 Sauce, 117 , Boiled Rice with, Il6 Sweetbread Cakes, . 162 Sweetbreads, Calf's, 88 Lamb's, QI Syrup, Red Currant, . 48 Tamarind Water, 43 Tapioca Jelly, . 144 Pudding, French, 120 Tea, .... 34 Cakes, . . 161 Linseed, . . 47 Thick Milk, 46 Toast Water, . . 44 Tomato Sauce, 109 Tonic Orange, 50 Treacle Posset, 5° Tripe, .... 85 Unfermented Bread, 162175' INDEX. Jr age Page Vanilla, . . . 154 Water, Lemon Ice, . • 151 Veal Broth, 18 Oatmeal, . . 43 Cutlet, 86 Panada, . . 25 Vegetables, . . ■ ior Rice, 43 Vegetable Marrow, . 107 Tamarind, 43 Puree, . . . 108 Toast, . . 44 Victoria Pudding, 14S Water-cress Stewed, . . 108 Vinegar Raspberry, . . 49 White Sauce, 74 Soup, 22 Water 39 Wine Whey, 50 Apple, 42 Whiting, . . 64 Barley, 5 Wine Jelly, . . 140 Black Currant Jam, 42 Wines, . . . Gum Arabic, . 47A LIST OF C. KEG AN PAUL AND CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. 2-79I, Paternoster Square, London. A LIST OF C. KEGAN PAUL AND CO.'S PUBLICATIONS. ABBEY (Henry). Ballads of Good Deeds, and Other Verses. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth gilt, price 5$. ABDULLA (Hakayit). Autobiography of a Malay Munshi. Translated by J. T. Thomson, F. R. G. S. With Photo- lithograph Page of Abdulla's MS. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. ADAMS (A. L.), M.A., M.B., F.R.S., F.G.S. Field and Forest Rambles of a Naturalist in New Bruns- wick. With Notes and Observations on the Natural History of Eastern Canada. Illustrated. 8vo. Cloth, price 14$. ADAMS (F. O.), F.R.G.S. The History of Japan. From the Earliest Period to the Present Time. New Edition, revised. 3 volumes. With Maps and Plans. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. each. ADAMS (W. D.). Lyrics of Love, from Shake- speare to Tennyson. Selected and arranged by. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth extra, gilt edges, price y. 6d. Also, a Cheap Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. ADAMS (John), M.A. St. Malo's Quest, and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, 5s. ADAMSON (H. T.), B.D. The Truth as it is in Jesus. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 8.r. 6d. ADON. Through Storm & Sunshine. Illustrated by M. E. Edwards, A. T. H. Paterson, and the Author. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. 6d. A. J. R. Told at Twilight; Stories in Verse, Songs, &c. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. A. K. H. B. A Scotch Communion Sun- day, to which are added Certain Discourses from a University City. By the Author of " The Recreations of a Country Parson." Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. From a Quiet Place. A New Volume of Sermons. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. ALBERT (Mary). Holland and her Heroes to the year 1585. An Adaptation from Motley's " Rise of the Dutch Re- public." Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price, 4s. 6d. ALLEN (Rev. R.), M.A. Abraham; his Life, Times, and Travels, 3,800 years ago. Se- cond Edition. With Map. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. ALLEN (Grant), B.A. Physiological Esthetics. Large post 8vo. gs. AMOS (Prof. Sheldon). Science of Law. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. Volume X. of The International Scientific Series. ANDERSON (Rev. C), M.A. New Readings of Old Parables. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. Church Thought and Church Work. Edited by. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price ■js. 6d. The Curate of Shyre. Second Edition. 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6d. ANDERSON (Col. R. P.). Victories and Defeats. An Attempt to explain the Causes which have led to them. An Officer's Manual. Demy8vo. Cloth, price 145". ANDERSON (R. C), C.E. Tables for Facilitating the Calculation of every Detail in connection with Earthen and Masonry Dams. Royal8vo. Cloth, price £2 2s.C. Kegan Paul &• Co.'s Publications. 3 ARCHER (Thomas). About my Father's Business. Work amidst the Sick, the Sad, and the Sorrowing. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. Army of the North German Confederation. A Brief Description of its Organi- zation, of the Different Branches of the Service and their rdle in War, of its Mode of Fighting, &c. &c. Translated from the Corrected Edi- tion, by permission of the Author, by Colonel Edward Newdigate. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. ARNOLD (Arthur). Social Politics. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price i+s. AUBERTIN 0-JO- Camoens' Lusiads. Portu- guese Text, with Translation by. With Map and Portraits. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Price 305. Aunt Mary's Bran Pie. By the author of " St. Olave's." Illustrated. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. Aurora. A Volume of Verse. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. BAGEHOT (Walter). Physics and Politics; or, Thoughts on the Application of the Principles of " Natural Selection " and " Inheritance " to Political So- ciety. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. Volume II. of The International Scientific Series. Some Articles on the De- preciation of Silver, and Topics connected with it. Demy Svo. Price St. The English Constitution. A New Edition, Revised and Corrected, with an Introductory Dissertation on Recent Changes and Events. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. Lombard Street. A Description of the Money Market. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. BAGOT (Alan). Accidents in Mines: their Causes and Prevention. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. BAIN (Alexander), LL.D. MindandBody: the Theories of their relation. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. Volume IV. of The International Scientific Series. Education as a Science. Crown 8vo. Second Edition. Cloth, price sj. Volume XXV. of The International Scientific Series. BAKER (Sir Sherston, Bart.). Halleck's International Law ; or Rules Regulating the Intercourse of States in Peace and War. A New Edition, Revised, with Notes and Cases. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 38^. BALDWIN (Capt. J. H.), F.Z.S. The Large and Small Game of Bengal and the North-West- ern Provinces of India. 4to. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edi- tion. Cloth, price 21$. BANKS (Mrs. G. L.). God's Providence House. New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. Ripples and Breakers. Poems. Square 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. BARING (T. C), M.A., M.P. Pindar in English Rhyme. Being an Attempt to render the Epinikian Odes with the principal remaining Fragments of Pindar into English Rhymed Verse. Small Quarto. Cloth, price 7.5. BARLEE (Ellen). Locked Out: a Tale of the Strike. With a Frontispiece. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. 6d. BARNES (William). An Outline of English Speechcraft. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4i. BARTLEY (George C. T.). Domestic Economy : Thrift in Every Day Life. Taught in Dialogues suitable for Children of all ages. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, limp, aj.4 A List of BAUR (Ferdinand), Dr. Ph. A Philological Introduction to Greek and Latin for Students. Translated and adapted from the German of. By C. Kegan Paul, M.A. Oxon., and the Rev. E. D. Stone, M.A., late Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, and Assistant Master at Eton. Second and re- vised edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. BAYNES (Rev. Canon R. H.) At the Communion Time. A Manual for Holy Communion. With a preface by the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Derry and Raphoe. Cloth, price is. 6d. *** Can also be had bound in French morocco, price 2s. 6d.; Per- sian morocco, price 3s.; Calf, or Turkey morocco, price 3J. 6d. Home Songs for Quiet Hours. Fourth and cheaper Edi- tion. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. This may also be had handsomely bound in morocco with gilt edges. BECKER (Bernard H.). The Scientific Societies of London. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. BELLINGHAM (Henry), Barris- ter-at-Law. Social Aspects of Catholi- cism and Protestantism in their Civil Bearing upon Nations. Translated and adapted from the French of M. le Baron de Haulle- ville. With a Preface by His Emi- nence Cardinal Manning. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. BENNETT (Dr. W. C). Narrative Poems&Ballads. Fcap. 8vo. Sewed in Coloured Wrap- per, price is. Songs for Sailors. Dedicated by Special Request to H. R. H. the Duke of Edinburgh. With Steel Portrait and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. An Edition in Illustrated Paper Covers, price is. Songs of a Song Writer. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. BENNIE (Rev. J. N.), M.A. The Eternal Life. Sermons preached during the last twelve years. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. BERNARD (Bayle). Samuel Lover, the Life and Unpublished Works of. In 2 vols. With a Steel Portrait. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. BERNSTEIN (Prof.). The Five Senses of Man. With 91 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. Volume XXI. ofThe International Scientific Series. BETHAM - EDWARDS (Miss M.). Kitty. With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. BISCOE (A. C). The Earls of Middleton, Lords of Clermont and of Fetter- cairn, and the Middleton Family. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. BISSET (A.) History of the Struggle for Parliamentary Government in England. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 24s. BLASERNA (Prof. Pietro). The Theory of Sound in its Relation to Music. With nume- rous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Volume XXI I. ofThe International Scientific Series. Blue Roses ; or, Helen Mali- nofska's Marriage. By the Author of "Vera." 2 vols. Fifth Edition. Cloth, gilt tops, 12.S. %* Also a Cheaper Edition in 1 vol. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s.C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications. S BLUME (Major W.). The Operations of the German Armies in France, from Sedan to the end of the war of 1870- 71. With Map. From the Journals of the Head-quarters Staff. Trans- lated by the late E. M. Jones, Maj. 20th Foot, Prof, of Mil. Hist., Sand- hurst. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price gs. BOGUSLAWSKI (Capt. A. von). Tactical Deductions from the War of 1870-71. Translated by Colonel Sir Lumley Graham, Bart., late 18th (Royal Irish) Regi- ment Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 7J. BONWICKQ.), F.R.G.S. Egyptian Belief and Mo- dern Thought. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. Pyramid Facts and Fan- cies. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. The Tasmanian Lily. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. Mike Howe,the Bushranger of Van Diemen's Land. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. BOSWELL (R. B.), M.A., Oxon. Metrical Translations from the Greek and Latin Poets, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price sr. BOWEN (H. C), M. A. English Grammar for Be- ginners. Fcap.8vo. Cloth, price is. Studies in English, for the use of Modern Schools. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. BOWRING (L.), C.S.I. Eastern Experiences. Illustrated with Maps and Diagrams. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price i6j. BOWRING (Sir John). Autobiographical Recollections. With Memoir by Lewin B. Bowring. Demy 8vo. Price 14*. BRADLEY (F. H.). Ethical Studies. Critical Essays in Moral Philosophy. Lame post 8vo. Cloth, price gs. Brave Men's Footsteps. By the Editor of " Men who have Risen." A Book of Example and Anecdote for Young People. With Four Illustrations by C. Doyle. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2S. 6d. BRIALMONT (Col. A.). Hasty Intrenchments. Translated by Lieut. Charles A. Empson, R. A. With Nine Plates. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. BROOKE (Rev. S. A.), M. A. The Late Rev. F. W. Ro- bertson, M.A., Life and Letters of. Edited by. I. Uniform with the Sermons. 2 vols. With Steel Portrait. Price js. 6d. II. Library Edition. 8vo. With Two Steel Portraits. Price 12J. III. A Popular Edition, in 1 vol. 8vo. Price 6s. Theology in the English Poets. — Cowper, Coleridge, Wordsworth, and Burns. Third. Edition. Post 8vo. Cloth, price gs. Christ in Modern Life. Thirteenth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. 6d. Sermons. First Series. Tenth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6i. Sermons. Second Series. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price ys. The Fight of Faith. Ser- mons preached on various occasions. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price ys. 6d. Frederick DenisonMaurice: The Life and Work of. A Memorial Sermon. Crown 8vo. Sewed, price is. BROOKE (W. G.), M.A. The Public Worship Regulation Act. With a Classified Statement of its Provisions, Notes, and Index. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d.6 A List of BROOKE (W. G.)—continued. Six Privy Council Judg- ments—1850-1872. Annotated by. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price qs. BROUN (J. A.). Magnetic Observations at Trevandrum and Augustia M alley. Vol. I. 4to. Cloth, price 63s. The Report from above, separately sewed, price 2 is. BROWN (Rev. J. Baldwin), B.A. The Higher Life. Its Reality, Experience, and Destiny. Fifth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Doctrine of Annihilation in the Light of the Gospel of Love. Five Discourses. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. BROWN (J. Croumbie), LL.D. Reboisement in France; or, Records of the Replanting of the Alps, the Cevennes, and the Pyre- nees with Trees, Herbage, and Bush. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price i2.y. 6d. The Hydrology of Southern Africa. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. BRYANT (W. C.) Poems. Red-line Edition. With 24 Illustrations and Portrait of the Author. Crown 8vo. Cloth extra, price 7s. 6d. A Cheaper Edition, with Frontis- piece. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. BUCHANAN (Robert). Poetical Works. Collected Edition, in 3 vols., with Portrait. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. each. Master-Spirits. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. BULKELEY (Rev. H. J.). Walled in, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. BURCKHARDT (Jacob). The Civilization of the Pe- riod of the Renaissance in Italy. Authorized translation, by S. G. C. Middlemore. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 24s. BURTON (Mrs. Richard). The Inner Life of Syria, Palestine, and the Holy Land. With Maps, Photographs, and Coloured Plates. 2 vols. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 24J. *#* Also a Cheaper Edition in one volume. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. BURTON (Capt. Richard F.). The Gold Mines of Midian and the Ruined Midianite Cities. A Fortnight's Tour in North Western Arabia. With nu- merous Illustrations. Second Edi- tion. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 18s. The Land of Midian Re- visited. With numerous illustra- tions on wood and by Chromo- lithography. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 325-. CALDERON. Calderon's Dramas: The Wonder-Working Magician—Life is a Dream—The Purgatory of St, Patrick. Translated by Denis Florence MacCarthy. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. CARLISLE (A. D.), B. A. Round the World in 1870. A Volume of Travels, with Maps. New and Cheaper Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. CARNE (Miss E. T.). The Realm of Truth. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. 6d. CARPENTER (E.). Narcissus and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. CARPENTER (W. B.), M.D. The Principles of Mental Physiology. With their Applica- tions to the Training and Discipline of the Mind, and the Study of its Morbid Conditions. Illustrated. Fourth Edition. 8vo. Cloth, price 12 j. CAVALRY OFFICER. Notes on Cavalry Tactics, Organization, &c. With Dia- grams. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s.7 C. Kegan Paul 6° Co.'s Publications. CHAPMAN (Hon. Mrs. E. W.). A Constant Heart. A Story. 2 vols. Cloth, gilt tops, price 12$. Children's Toys, and some Elementary Lessons in General Knowledge which they teach. < Illus- trated. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5-y. CHRISTOPHERSON (The late Rev. Henry), M.A. Sermons. With an Intro- duction by John Rae, LL.D., F.S.A. Second Series. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. CLERK (Mrs. Godfrey). 'Ham en Nas. Historical Tales and Anecdotes of the Times of the Early Khalifahs. Translated from the Arabic Originals. Illus- trated with Historical and Explana- tory Notes. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. CLERY (C), Capt. Minor Tactics. With 26 Maps and Plans. Third and Revised Edition. Demy8vo. Cloth, price 16s. CLODD (Edward), F.R.A.S. The Childhood of the World : a Simple Account of Man in Early Times. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. A Special Edition for Schools. Price is. The Childhood of Reli- gions. Including a Simple Account of the Birth and Growth of Myths and Legends. Third Thousand. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. A Special Edition for Schools. Price is. 6d. COLERIDGE (Sara). Pretty Lessons in Verse for Good Children, with some Lessons in Latin, in Easy Rhyme. A New Edition. Illustrated. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. Phantasmion. A Fairy Tale. With an Introductory Preface by the Right Hon. Lord Coleridge, of Ottery St. Mary. A New Edition. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. 6d. COLERIDGE (Sara)—continued. Memoir and Letters of Sara Coleridge. Edited by her Daughter. With Index. 2 vols. With Two Portraits. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 24s. Cheap Edition. With one Portrait. Cloth, price js. 6d. COLLINS (Mortimer). Inn of Strange Meetings, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. COLLINS (Rev. R.), M.A. Missionary Enterprise in the East. With special reference to the Syrian Christians of Malabar, and the results of modern Missions. With Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. COOKE (M. C), M.A., LL.D. Fungi; their Nature, Influ- ences, Uses, &c. Edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A., F. L. S. With Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. Volume XIV. of The International Scientific Series. COOKE (Prof. J. P.) The New Chemistry. With 31 Illustrations. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. Volume IX. of The International Scientific Series. Scientific Culture. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. COOPER (T. T.), F.R.G.S. The Mishmee Hills: an Account of a Journey made in an Attempt to Penetrate Thibet from Assam, to open New Routes for Commerce. Second Edition. With Four Illustrations and Map. Post 8vo. Cloth, price iay. 6d. Cornhill Library of Fiction (The). Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. per volume. Half-a-Dozen Daughters. By J. Masterman. The House of Raby. By Mrs. G. Hooper. A Fight for Life. By Moy Thomas. Robin Gray. By Charles Gibbon. One of Two ; or, A Left- Handed Bride. By J. Hain Fris- well.8 A List of Cornhill Library of Fiction— continued. God's Providence House. By Mrs. G. L. Banks. For Lack of Gold. By Charles Gibbon. Abel Drake's Wife. By John Saunders. Hirell. By John Saunders. CORY (Lieut. Col. Arthur). The Eastern Menace; or, Shadows of Coming Events. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 51. lone. A Poem in Four Parts. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price $s. Cosmos. A Poem. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, pric« 3s. 6d. COURTNEY (W. L.). The Metaphysics of John Stuart Mill. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. 6d. COWAN (Rev. William). Poems : Chiefly Sacred, in- cluding Translations from some Ancient Latin Hymns. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. COX (Rev. Sir G. W.), Bart. A History of Greece from the Earliest Period to the end of the Persian War. New Edition. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 36s. The Mythology of the Aryan Nations. New Edition, 2 vols. Demy Svo. Cloth, price 28s. A General History of Greece from the Earliest Period to the Death of Alexander the Great, with a sketch of the subsequent History to the present time. New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. Tales of Ancient Greece. New Edition. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. School History of Greece. With Maps. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. The Great Persian War from the Histories of Herodotus. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. A Manual of Mythology in the form of Question and Answer. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3.7. COX (Rev. Samuel). Salvator Mundi ; or, Is Christ the Saviour of all Men ? Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 51. CRAUFURD (A. H.). Seeking for Light : Sermons. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. CRESSWELL (Mrs. G.). The King's Banner. Drama in Four Acts. Five Illustrations. 4to. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. CROMPTON (Henry). Industrial Conciliation. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. CURWEN (Henry). Sorrow and Song: Studies of Literary Struggle. Henry Miirger —Novalis—Alexander Petofi—Hon- ors' de Balzac — Edgar Allan Poe —Andre Chenier. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 15*. DANCE (Rev. C. D.). Recollections of Four Years in Venezuela. With Three Illus- trations and a Map. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price ys. 6d. D'ANVERS (N. R.). The Suez Canal: Letters and Documents descriptive of its Rise and Progress in 1854-56. By Ferdinand de Lesseps. Translated by. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. Little Minnie's Troubles. An Every-day Chronicle. With Four Illustrations by W. H. Hughes. Fcap. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. Pixie's Adventures; or, the Tale of a Terrier. With 21 Illustra- tions. i6mo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. Nanny's Adventures; or, the Tale of a Goat. With 12 Illus- trations. i6mo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. DAVIDSON(Rev.Samuel), D.D., LL.D. The NewTestament,trans- lated from the Latest Greek Text of Tischendorf. A New and thoroughly Revised Edition. Post 8vo. Cloth, price ioj. 6d. Canon of the Bible : Its Formation, History, and Fluctua- tions. Second Edition. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*.C. Kegan Paul &• Co.'s Publications. DAVIES (G. Christopher). Mountain, Meadow, and Mere : a Series of Outdoor Sketches of Sport, Scenery, Adventures, and Natural History. With Sixteen Il- lustrations by Bosworth W. Har- court. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Rambles and Adventures of Our School Field Club. With Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. DAVIES (Rev. J. L.), M.A. Theology and Morality. Essays on Questions of Belief and Practice. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. DAWSON (George), M.A. Prayers, with a Discourse on Prayer. Edited by his Wife. Fifth Edition, Crown 8vo. Price 6s. Sermons on Disputed Points and Special Occasions. Edited by his Wife. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Sermons on Daily Life and Duty. Edited by his Wife. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. DE L'HOSTE (Col. E. P.). The Desert Pastor, Jean Jarousseau. Translated from the French of Eugene Pelletan. With a Frontispiece. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. DENNIS (J.). English Sonnets. Collected and Arranged. Elegantly bound. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. DE REDCLIFFE (Viscount Stratford), P.C., K.G., G.C.B. Why am I a Christian ? Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. DESPREZ (Philip S.). Daniel and John; or, the Apocalypse of the Old and that of the New Testament. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. DE TOCQUEVILLE (A.). Correspondence and Con- versations of, with Nassau Wil- liam Senior, from 1834 to 1859. Edited by M. C. M. Simpson. 2 vols. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. A 2 DE VERE (Aubrey). Alexander the Great. A Dramatic Poem. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. The Infant Bridal, and Other Poems. A New and En- larged Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. The Legends of St. Patrick, and other Poems. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. St. Thomas of Canterbury. A Dramatic Poem. Large fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price $s. Antar and Zara : an Eastern Romance. Inisfail, and other Poems, Meditative and Lyrical. Fcap. 8vo. Price 6s. The Fall of Rora, the Search after Proserpine, and other Poems, Meditative and Lyrical. Fcap. 8vo. Price 6s. DOBSON (Austin). Vignettes in Rhyme and Vers de Societe. Third Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5.1. Proverbs in Porcelain. By the Author of " Vignettes in Rhyme." Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s. DOWDEN (Edward), LL.D. Shakspere: a Critical Study of his Mind and Art. Third Edition. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. Studies in Literature, 1789,- 1877. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 12 j. Poems. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. DOWNTON (Rev. H.), M.A. Hymns and Verses. Ori- ginal and Translated. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. DRAPER (J. W.), M.D., LL.D. History of the Conflict be- tween Religion and Science. Eleventh Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. Volume XIII. of The International Scientific Series.10 A List of DREW (Rev. G. S.), M.A. Scripture Lands in con- nection with their History. Second Edition. 8vo. Cloth, price ios. 6d. Nazareth: Its Life and Lessons. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. The Divine Kingdom on Earth as it is in Heaven. 8vo. Cloth, price ioj. 6d. The Son of Man : His Life and Ministry. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. 6d. DREWRY (G. O.), M.D. The Common-Sense Management of the Stomach. Fifth Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. DREWRY (G. O.), M.D., and BARTLETT (H. C), Ph.D., F.C.S. Cup and Platter : or, Notes on Food and its Effects. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. DRUMMOND (Miss). Tripps Buildings. A Study from Life, with Frontispiece. Small crown Svo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. DURAND (Lady). Imitations from the Ger- man of Spitta and Terstegen. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. DU VERNOIS (Col. von Verdy). Studies in leading Troops. An authorized and accurate Trans- lation by Lieutenant H. J. T. Hildyard, 71st Foot. Parts I. and II. Demy Svo. Cloth, price js. EDEN (Frederick). The Nile without a Dragoman. Second EditioD. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7.1. 6d. EDMONDS (Herbert). Well Spent Lives : a Series of Modern Biographies. Crown 8vo. Price 5J. EDWARDS (Rev. Basil). Minor Chords; or, Songs for the Suffering: a Volume of Verse. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3i. 6d. ; paper, price 2s. 6d. ELLIOT (Lady Charlotte). Medusa and other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. ELLIOTT (Ebenezer), The Corn Law Rhymer. Poems. Edited by his Son, the Rev. Edwin Elliott, of St. John's, Antigua. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price i8f. ELSDALE (Henry). Studies in Tennyson's Idylls. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Epic of Hades (The). By the author of " Songs of Two Worlds." Seventh and finally revised Edition. Fcap. Svo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. jf* Also an Illustrated Edition with seventeen full-page designs in photo- mezzotint by Geokge R. Chapman. 4to. Cloth, extra gilt leaves, price 25s. Eros Agonistes. Poems. By E. B. D. Fcap. Svo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. Essays on the Endowment of Research. By Various Writers. Square crown Svo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. EVANS (Mark). The Gospel of Home Life. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 4J. 6d. The Story of our Father's Love, told to Children. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. With Four Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. A Book of Common Prayer and Worship for Household Use, compiled exclusively from the Holy Scriptures. Fcap. Svo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. EX-CIVILIAN. Life in the Mofussil; or, Civilian Life in Lower Bengal. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. Price 141. EYRE (Maj.-Gen. Sir V.), C.B., K.C.S.I., &c. Lays of a Knight-Errant in many Lands. Square crown 8vo. With Six Illustrations. Cloth, price 7i. 6d.C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications. n Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7*. bd. FARQUHARSON (M.). I. Elsie Dinsmore. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. II. Elsie's Girlhood. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. III. Elsie's Holidays at Roselands. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. FERRIS (Henry Weybridge). Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. FINN (the late James), M.R.A.S. Stirring Times ; or, Records from Jerusalem Consular Chronicles of 1853 to 1856. Edited and Com- piled by his Widow. With a Preface by the Viscountess Strangford. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Price 301-. FLEMING (James), D.D. Early Christian Witnesses; or, Testimonies of the First Cen- turies to the Truth of Christianity. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. Folkestone Ritual Case (The). The Argument,Proceedings, Judgment, and Report, revised by the several Counsel engaged. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 25^. FOOTMAN (Rev. H.), M.A. From Home and Back; or, Some Aspects of Sin as seen in the Light of the Parable of the Prodigal. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. FOWLE (Rev. Edmund). Latin Primer Rules made Easy. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. FOWLE (Rev. T. W.), M.A. The Reconciliation of Re- ligion and Science. Being Essays on Immortality, Inspiration, Mira- cles, and the Being of Christ. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price iar. 6d. The Divine Legation of Christ. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. FOX-BOURNE (H. R.). The Life of John Locke, 1632—1704. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 28*. FRASER (Donald). Exchange Tables of Ster- ling and Indian Rupee Curren- cy, upon a new and extended system, embracing Values from One Far- thing to One Hundred Thousand Pounds, and at Rates progressing, in Sixteenths of a Penny, from is. qd. to zs. 3d. per Rupee. Royal 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. FRISWELL (J. Hain). The Better Self. Essays for Home Life. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. One of Two; or, A Left- Handed Bride. With a Frontis- piece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. FYTCHE (Lieut.-Gen. Albert), C.S.I., late Chief Commissioner of British Burma. Burma Past and Present, with Personal Reminiscences of the Country. With Steel Portraits, Chro- molithographs, Engravings on Wood, and Map. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 30s. GAMBIER (Capt. J. W.), R.N. Servia. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. GARDNER (H.). Sunflowers. A Book of Verses. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. GARDNER (J.), M.D. Longevity: The Means of Prolonging Life after Middle Age. Fourth Edition, Revised and Enlarged. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. GARRETT (E.). By Still Waters. A Story for Quiet Hours. With Seven Illus- trations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. GEBLER (Karl Von). Galileo Galilei and the Roman Curia, from Authentic Sources. Translated with the sanc- tion of the Author, by Mrs. George Sturge. Demy 8vo. Cloth. G. H. T. Verses, mostly written in India. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. GILBERT (Mrs.). Autobiography and other Memorials. Edited by Josiah Gilbert. Third Edition. With Por- trait and several Wood Engravings.A List of GILL (Rev. W. W.), B.A. Myths and Songs from the South Pacific. With a Preface by F. Max Miiller, M.A., Professor of Comparative Philology at Oxford. Post 8vo. Cloth, price gs. GODKIN (James). The Religious History of Ireland: Primitive, Papal, and Protestant. Including the Evange- lical Missions, Catholic Agitations, and Church Progress of the last half Century. 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. GODWIN (William). William Godwin: His Friends and Contemporaries. With Portraits and Facsimiles of the handwriting of Godwin and his Wife. By C. Kegan Paul. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 28s. The Genius of Christianity Unveiled. Being Essays never before published. Edited, with a Preface, by C. Kegan Paul. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. GOETZE (Capt. A. von). Operations of the German Engineers during the War of 1870-1871. Published by Authority, and in accordance with Official Docu- ments. Translated from the German by Colonel G. Graham, V.C., C. B., R.E. With 6 large Maps. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 21J. GOLDIE (Lieut. M. H. G.) Hebe : a Tale. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. GOODENOUGH (Commodore J. G. ), R.N., C.B., C.M.G. Memoir of, with Extracts from his Letters and Journals. Edited by his Widow. With Steel Engraved Portrait. Square 8vo. Cloth, 5-r. *#* Also a Library Edition with Maps, Woodcuts, and Steel En- graved Portrait. Square post 8vo. Cloth, price 14*. GOODMAN (W.). Cuba, the Pearl of the Antilles. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price ■js. 6d. GOULD (Rev. S. Baring), M.A. The Vicar of Morwenstow: a Memoir of the Rev. R. S. Hawker. With Portrait. Third Edition, re- vised. Square post 8 vo. Cloth, 10s. 6d. GRANVILLE (A. B.), M.D., F.R.S.,&c. Autobiography of A. B. Granville, F. R. S., &c. Edited, with a brief Account of the concluding Years of his Life, by his youngest Daughter, Paulina B. Granville. 2 vols. With a Portrait. Second Edi- tion. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 32J. GREY (John), of Dilston. John Grey (of Dilston): Memoirs. By Josephine E. Butler. New and Revised Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. GRIFFITH (Rev. T.), A.M. Studies of the Divine Mas- ter. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. GRIFFITHS (Capt. Arthur). Memorials of Millbank,and Chapters in Prison History. With Illustrations by R. Goff and the Author. 2 vols. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. GRIMLEY (Rev. H. N.), M.A. Tremadoc Sermons, chiefly on the Spiritual Body, the Unseen World, and the Divine Humanity. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6j. GRUNER (M. L.). Studies of Blast Furnace Phenomena. Translated by L. D. II. Gordon, F.R.S.E., F.G.S. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 7.5. 6d. GURNEY (Rev. Archer). Words of Faith and Cheer. A Mission of Instruction and Sugges- tion. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 6s. Gwen : A Drama in Mono- logue. By the Author of the " Epic of Hades." Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*-13 C. Kegan Paul 6° Co.'s Publications. HAECKEL (Prof. Ernst). The History of Creation. Translation revised by Professor E. Ray Lankester, M.A., F.R.S. With Coloured Plates and Genealogical Trees of the various groups of both plants and animals. 2 vols. Second Edition. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 32^. The History of the Evolu- tion of Man. With numerous Il- lustrations. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 32^. HAKE (A. Egmont). Paris Originals, with twenty etchings, by Leon Richeton. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 14^. Halleck's International Law; or. Rules Regulating the Intercourse of States in Peace and War. A New Edition, revised, with Notes and Cases. By Sir Sherston Baker, Bart. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 38s. HARCOURT (Capt. A. F. P.). The Shakespeare Argosy. Containing much of the wealth of Shakespeare's Wisdom and Wit, alphabetically arranged and classi- fied. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. HARDY (Thomas). A Pair of Blue Eyes. New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. HARRISON (Lieut.-Col. R.). The Officer's Memoran- dum Book for Peace and War. Second Edition. Oblong 32mo. roan, elastic band and pencil, price 3*. 6d.; russia, 5J. HAWEIS (Rev. H. R.), M.A. Arrows in the Air. Crown 8vo. Second Edition. Cloth, price 6s. Current Coin. Materialism— The Devil—Crime—Drunkenness— Pauperism—Emotion—Recreation— The Sabbath. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Speech in Season. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price gs. Thoughts for the Times. Eleventh Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7i. 6(1. HAWEIS (Rev. H. R.)—continued. Unsectarian Family Prayers, for Morning and Evening for a Week, with short selected passages from the Bible. Second Edition. Square crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. HAWKER (Robert Stephen). The Poetical Works of. Now first collected and arranged, with a prefatory notice by J. G. Godwin. With Portrait. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 121-. HAYMAN (H.), D.D., late Head Master of Rugby School. Rugby School Sermons. With an Introductory Essay on the Indwelling of the Holy Spirit. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6d. HELLWALD (Baron F. von). The Russians in Central Asia. A Critical Examination, down to the present time, of the Geography and History of Central Asia. Translated by Lieut.-Col. Theodore Wirgman, LL.B. Large post 8vo. With Map. Cloth, price 12s. HELVIQ (Major H.). The Operations of the Ba- varian Army Corps. Translated by Captain G. S. Schwabe. With Five large Maps. In 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 24.5. Tactical Examples : Vol. I. The Battalion, price i$s. Vol. II. The Regiment and Brigade, price 10s. 6d. Translated from the German by Col. Sir Lumley Graham. With numerous Diagrams. Demy 8vo. Cloth. HERFORD (Brooke). The Story of Religion in England. A Book for Young Folk. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. HEWLETT (Henry G.). A Sheaf of Verse. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. HINTON (James). Life and Letters of. Edited by Ellice Hopkins, with an Introduc- tion by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Portrait engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, &s. 6d. Chapters on the Art of Thinking, and other Essays. With an Introduction by Shadworth Hodgson. Edited by C. H. Hinton. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 8s. 6d.A List of 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. HINTON (James)—continued. The Place of the Physician. To which is added Essays on the Law of Human Life, and on the Relation between Organic and Inorganic Worlds. Second Edi- tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3f. 6d. Physiology for Practical Use. By various Writers. With 50 Illustrations. 2 vols. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. 6d. An Atlas of Diseases of the Membrana Tympani. With De- scriptive Text. Post8vo. Price £6 6s. The Questions of Aural Surgery. With Illustrations. 2 vols. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. 6d. The Mystery of Pain. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth limp, if. H. J. C. The Art of Furnishing. A Popular Treatise on the Principles of Furnishing, based on the Laws of Common Sense, Requirement, and Picturesque Effect. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. HOCKLEY (W. B.). Tales of the Zenana; or, A Nuwab's Leisure Hours. By the Author of " Pandurang Hari." With a Preface by Lord Stanley of Alder- ley. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 21J. Pandurang Hari; or, Me- moirs of a Hindoo. A Tale of Mahratta Life sixty years ago. With a Preface by Sir H. Bartle E. Frere, G. C. S. I., &c. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. HOFFBAUER (Capt.). The German Artillery in the Battles near Metz. Based on the official reports of the German Artillery. Translated by Capt. E. O. Hollist. With Map and Plans. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. HOLMES (E. G. A.). Poems. First and Second Series. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. each. HOLROYD (Major W. R. M.). Tas-hil ul Kalam ; or, Hindustani made Easy. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. HOOPER (Mary. Little Dinners: How to Serve them with Elegance and Economy. Thirteenth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Cookery for Invalids, Per- sons of Delicate Digestion, and Children. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. Every-Day Meals. Being Economical and Wholesome Recipes for Breakfast, Luncheon, and Sup- per. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. HOOPER (Mrs. G.). The House of Raby. With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. HOPKINS (Ellice). Life and Letters of James Hinton, with an Introduction by Sir W. W. Gull, Bart., and Portrait en- graved on Steel by C. H. Jeens. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price Ss. 6d. HOPKINS (M.). The Port of Refuge; or, Counsel and Aid to Shipmasters in Difficulty, Doubt, or Distress. Crown 8vo. Second and Revised Edition. Cloth, price 6s. HORNE (William), M.A. Reason and Revelation : an Examination into the Nature and Contents of Scripture Revelation, as compared with other Forms of Truth. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. HORNER (The Misses). Walks in Florence. A New and thoroughly Revised Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth limp. With Illustrations. Vol. I.—Churches, Streets, and Palaces, ioj. 6d. Vol. II.—Public Galleries and Museums. $s. HOWARD (Mary M.). Beatrice Aylmer, and other Tales. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. HOWARD (Rev. G. B.). An Old Legend of St. Paul's. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 4-r. 6d. HOWELL (James). A Tale of the Sea, Son- nets, and other Poems. Fcap.C. Kegan Paul 6r* Co.'s Publications. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. Cloth, price 4s. HUGHES (Allison). Penelope and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 4$. 6d. HULL (Edmund C. P.). The European in India. With a Medical Guide for Anglo- Indians. By R. R. S. Mair, M.D., F.R.C.S.E. Third Edition, Revised and Corrected. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. HUTCHISON (Lieut. Col. F. J.), and Capt.G. H. MACGREGOR. Military Sketching and Re- connaissance. With Fifteen Plates. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Being the first Volume of Military Hand- booksforRegimental Officers. Edited by Lieut.-Col.C. B. Brackenbury, R. A., A. A. G. IGNOTUS. Culmshire Folk. A Novel. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. INCHBOLD (J. W.). Annus Amoris. Sonnets. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 4^. 6d. INGELOW (Jean). The Little Wonder-horn. A Second Series of " Stories Told to a Child." With Fifteen Illustrations. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. Indian Bishoprics. By an Indian Churchman. Demy 8vo. 6d. International Scientific Series (The). I. Forms of Water : A Fami- liar Exposition of the Origin and Phenomena of Glaciers. By J. Tyndall, LL.D., F.R.S. With 25 Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. II. Physics and Politics ; or, Thoughts on the Application of the Principles of " Natural Selection" and "Inheritance" to Political So- ciety. By Walter Bagehot. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. III. Foods. By Edward Smith, M.D., LL.B., F.R.S. With nu- merous Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. IV Mind and Body: The Theo- ries of their Relation. By Alexander Bain, LL.D. With Four Illustra- tions. Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. International Scientific Series (The)—continued. V. The Study of Sociology. By Herbert Spencer. SeventhEdition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. VI. On the Conservation of Energy. By Balfour Stewart, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S. With 14 Illustrations. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5-j. VII. Animal Locomotion ; or. Walking, Swimming, and Flying. By J. B. Pettigrew, M.D., F.R.S., Sec. With 130 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. VIII. Responsibility in Mental Disease. By Henry Maudsley, M. D. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. IX. The New Chemistry. By Professor J. P. Cooke, of the Har- vard University. With 31 Illustra- tions. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. X. The Science of Law. By Professor Sheldon Amos. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. XI. Animal Mechanism. A Treatise on Terrestrial and Aerial Locomotion. By Professor E. J. Marey. With 117 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. XII. The Doctrine of Descent and Darwinism. By Professor Os- car Schmidt (Strasburg University). With 26 Illustrations. Third Edi- tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. XIII. The History of the Con flict between Religion and Sci- ence. By J. W. Draper, M.D., LL.D. Eleventh Edition Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. XIV. Fungi ; their Nature, In fluences, Uses, &c. By M. C, Cooke, M.A., LL.D. Edited by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, M.A , F.L.S. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. XV. The Chemical Effects of Light and Photography. By Dr. Hermann Vogel (Polytechnic Aca- demy of Berlin). With 100 Illustra- tions. Third and Revised Edition.A List of r6 International Scientific Series (The)—continued. XVI. The Life and Growth of Language. By William Dwight Whitney, Professor of Sanskrit and Comparative Philology in Yale Col- lege, New Haven. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. XVII. Money and the Mecha- nism of Exchange, liy W. Stan- ley Jevons, M.A., F.R.S. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. XVIII. The Nature of Light: With a General Account of Physical Optics. By Dr. Eugene Lommel, Professor of Physics in the Univer- sity of Erlangen. With iSS Illustra- tions and a table of Spectra in Chro- mo-lithography. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price jx. XIX. Animal Parasites and Messmates. By Monsieur Van Beneden, Professor of the University of Louvain, Correspondent of the Institute of France. With 83 Illus- trations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. XX. Fermentation. By Professor Schiitzenberger, Director of the Chemical Laboratory at the Sor- bonne. With 28 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 5J. XXI. The Five Senses of Man. By Professor Bernstein, of the Uni- versity of Halle. With 91 Illustra- tions. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. XXII. The Theory of Sound in its Relation to Music. By Pro- fessor Pietro Blaserna, of the Royal University of Rome. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. XXIII. Studies in Spectrum Analysis. By J. Norman Lockyer. F.R.S. With six photographic Il- lustrations of Spectra, and numerous engravings on wood. Crown 8vo. Second Edition. Cloth, price 6.?. 6d. XXIV. A History of the Growth of the Steam Engine. By Prof. R. H. Thurston. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6j. 6d. XXV. Education as a Science. By Alexander Bain, LL.D. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. International Scientific Series (The)—continued. Forthcoming Volumes. Prof. W. Kingdon Clifford, M.A. The First Principles of the Exact Sciences explained to the Non-ma- thematical. W. B. Carpenter, LL.D., F.R.S. The Physical Geography of the Sea. Sir John Lubbock, Bart., F.R.S. On Ants and Bees. Prof. W. T. Thiselton Dyer, B.A., B.Sc. Form and Habit in Flowering Plants. Prof. Michael Foster, M.D. Pro- toplasm and the Cell Theory. H. Charlton Bastian, M.D., F.R.S. The Brain as an Organ of Mind. Prof. A. C. Ramsay, LL.D., F.R.S. Earth Sculpture: Hills, Valleys, Mountains, Plains, Rivers, Lakes; how they were Produced, and how they have been Destroyed. P. Bert (Professor of Physiology, Paris). Forms of Life and other Cosmical Conditions. Prof. T. H. Huxley. The Crayfish : an Introduction to the Study of Zoology. The Rev. A Secchi, D.J., late Directorof the Observatory at Rome. The Stars. Prof. J. Rosenthal, of the Univer- sity of Erlangen. General Physiology of Muscles and Nerves. Prof. A. de Quatrefages, Membre de l'lnstitut. The Human Race. Francis Galton, F.R.S. Psycho- metry. J. W. Judd, F.R.S. The Laws of Volcanic Action. Prof. F. N. Balfour. The Em- bryonic Phases of Animal Life. J. Luys, Physician to the Hospice de la Salpetriere. The Brain and its Functions. With Illustrations. Dr. Carl Semper. Animals and their Conditions of Existence. Prof. Wurtz. Atoms and the Atomic Theory. George J. Romanes, F.L.S. Ani- mal Intelligence. Alfred W. Bennett. A Hand- book of Cryptogamic Botany.i7 C. Kegan Paul Gr Co.'s Publicatiotis. 8vo. Cloth, price $s. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. JACKSON (T. G.). Modern Gothic Architec- ture. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. JACOB (Maj.-Gen. Sir G. Le Grand), K.C.S.I., C.B. Western India before and during the Mutinies. Pictures drawn from life. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7.?. 6d. JENKINS (E.) and RAYMOND (J.), Esqs. A Legal Handbook for Architects, Builders, and Build- ing Owners. Second Edition Re- vised. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. JENKINS (Rev. R. C), M.A. The Privilege of Peter and the Claims of the Roman Church confronted with the Scriptures, the Councils, and the Testimony of the Popes themselves. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. JENNINGS (Mrs. Vaughan). Rahel : Her Life and Let- ters. With a Portrait from the Painting by Daffinger. Square post 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6d. Jeroveam's Wife and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. JEVONS (W. Stanley), M.A., F.R.S. Money and the Mechanism of Exchange. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5.1. VolumeXVII. of The International Scientific Series. JONES (Lucy). Puddings and Sweets. Being Three Hundred and Sixty-Five Receipts approved by Experience. Crown 8vo., price 2*. 6d. KAUFMANN (Rev. M.), B.A. Socialism: Its Nature, its Dangers, and its Remedies con- sidered. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price js.6d. KER (David). The Boy Slave in Bokhara. A Tale of Central Asia. With Illus- trations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. The Wild Horseman of the Pampas. Illustrated. Crown KERNER (Dr. A.), Professor of Botany in the University of Innsbruck. Flowers andtheirUnbidden Guests. Translation edited by W. Ogle. M.A., M.D., and a prefatory letter by C.Darwin, F.R.S. With Il- lustrations. Sq. 8vo. Cloth, price gs. KIDD (Joseph), M.D. The Laws of Therapeutics, or, the Science and Art of Medicine. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. KINAHAN (G. Henry),M.R.I.A., &c, of her Majesty's Geological Survey. Manual of the Geology of Ireland. With 8 Plates, 26 Wood- cuts, and a Map of Ireland, geologi- cally coloured. Square 8vo. Cloth, price 15s. KING (Alice). A Cluster of Lives. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price -js. 6d. KING (Mrs. Hamilton). The Disciples. A Poem. Third Edition, with some Notes. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. Aspromonte, and other Poems. Second Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. KINGSLEY (Charles), M.A. Letters and Memories of his Life. Edited by his Wife. With 2 Steel engraved Portraits and numerous Illustrations on Wood, and a Facsimile of his Handwriting. Thirteenth Edition. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 36*. *** Also a Cabinet Edition in 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. All Saints' Day and other Sermons. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, ■js. 6d. True Words for Brave Men: a Book for Soldiers' and Sailors' Libraries. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. KNIGHT (A. F. C.). Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. LACORDAIRE (Rev. Pere). Life: Conferences delivered at Toulouse. A New and Cheaper Edition. Crown8vo. Cloth,price3s,6d. Lady of Lipari (The). A Poem in Three Cantos. Fcap.i8 A List of F.Frere. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J, 8vo. Cloth, price 5i. LAIRD-CLOWES (W.). Love's Rebellion: a Poem. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price y. 6d. LAMBERT (Cowley), F.R.G.S. A Trip to Cashmere and Ladak. With numerous Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo. Cloth, 7s. 6d. LAMONT (Martha MacDonald). The Gladiator : A Life under the Roman Empire in the beginning of the Third Century. With four Illustrations by H. M. Paget. Extra fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3.?. 6<i. LAYMANN (Capt.). The Frontal Attack of Infantry. Translated by Colonel Edward Newdigate. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2j. 6d. L. D. S. Letters from China and Japan. With Illustrated Title-page. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 75. 6^. LEANDER (Richard). Fantastic Stories. Trans- lated from the German by Paulina B. Granville. With Eight full-page Illustrations by M. E. Fraser-Tytler. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. LEE (Rev. F. G.), D.C.L. The Other World; or, Glimpses of the Supernatural. 2 vols. A New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 15*. LEE (Holme). Her Title of Honour. A Book for Girls. New Edition. With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5-r. LENOIR (J.). Fayoum; or, Artists in Egypt. A Tour with M. Gerome and others. With 13 Illustrations. A New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. LEWIS (Mary A.). A Rat with Three Tales. With Four Illustrations by Catherine LOCKER (F.). London Lyrics. A New and Revised Edition, with Additions and a Portrait of the Author. Crown 8vo. Cloth, elegant, price 6s. Also, an Edition for the People. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. LOCKYER (J. Norman), F.R.S. Studies in Spectrum Ana- lysis ; with six photographic illus- trations of Spectra, and numerous engravings on wood. Second Edi- tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 6d. Vol. XXIII. of The International Scientific Series. LOMMEL (Dr. E.). The Nature of Light: With a General Account of Physical Optics. Second Edition. With 188 Illustra- tions and a Table of Spectra in Chromo-lithography. Second Edi- tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. _ Volume XVIII. of The Interna- tional Scientific Series. LORIMER (Peter), D.D. John Knox and the Church of England: His Work in her Pulpit, and his Influence upon her Liturgy, Articles, and Parties. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. John Wiclif and his English Precursors, by Gerhard Victor Lechler. Translated from the German, with additional Notes. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 21$. LOTHIAN (Roxburghe). Dante and Beatrice from 1282 to i2go. A Romance. 2 vols. Post Svo. Cloth, price 24J. LOVER (Samuel), R.H.A. The Life of Samuel Lover, R. H. A. ; Artistic, Literary, and Musical. With Selections from his Unpublished Papers and Correspon- dence. By Bayle Bernard. 2 vols. With a Portrait. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. LUCAS (Alice). Translations from the Works of German Poets of the 18th and igth Centuries. Fcap.• C. Kegan Paul &• Co.'s Publications. 19 LYONS (R. T.), Surg.-Maj. Ben- gal Army. A Treatise on Relapsing Fever. Post8vo. Cloth, price 7$. 6d. MACAULAY (J.), M.A., M.D. Edin. The Truth about Ireland: Tours of Observation in 1872 and 1875. With Remarks on Irish Public Questions. Being a Second Edition of " Ireland in 1872," with a New and Supplementary Preface. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 31-. 6d. MAC CLINTOCK (L.). Sir Spangle and the Dingy Hen. Illustrated. Square crown 8vo., price 2s. 6d. MAC DONALD (G.). Malcolm. With Portrait of the Author engraved on Steel. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 6s. The Marquis of Lossie. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. St. George and St. Michael. Second Edition. Crown 8 vo. Cloth, 6s. MAC KENNA (S. J.). Plucky Fellows. A Book for Boys. With Six Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3^. 6d. At School with an Old Dragoon. With Six Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. MACLACHLAN (A. N. C), M.A. William Augustus, Duke of Cumberland : being a Sketch of his Military Life and Character, chiefly as exhibited in the General Orders of His Royal Highness, 1745—1747. With Illustrations. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 15s. MACNAUGHT (Rev. John). Ccena Domini: An Essay on the Lord's Supper, its Primi- tive Institution, Apostolic Uses, and Subsequent History. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 14^ MAGNUSSON (Eirikr), M.A., and PALMER (E.H.), M.A. Johan Ludvig Runeberg's Lyrical Songs, Idylls and Epi- grams. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. MAIR (R. S.), M.D., F.R.C.S.E. The Medical Guide for Anglo-Indians. Being a Compen- dium of Advice to Europeans in India, relating to the Preservation and Regulation of Health. With a Supplement on the Management of Children in India. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Limp cloth, price 3$. 6d. MALDEN (H. E. and E. E.) Princes and Princesses. Illustrated. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. MANNING (His Eminence Car- dinal). Essays on Religion and Literature. By various Writers. Third Series. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price ior. 6d. The Independence of the Holy See, with an Appendix con- taining the Papal Allocution and a translation. Cr. 8vo. Cloth, price 5-s-. The True Story of the Vatican Council. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5j. MAREY (E. J.). Animal Mechanics. A Treatise on Terrestrial and Aerial Locomotion. With 117 Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. Volume XI. of The International Scientific Series. MARRIOTT (Maj.-Gen. W. F.), C.S.I. A Grammar of Political Economy. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Master Bobby : a Tale. By the Author of " Christina North." With Illustrations by E. H. Bell. Extra fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3f.6<f. MASTERMAN (J.). Worth Waiting for. A New Novel. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Half-a-dozen Daughters. With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. MAUDSLEY (Dr. H.). Responsibility in Mental Disease. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Volume VIII. of The International Scientific Series.A List of 20 MAUGHAN (W. C). The Alps of Arabia; or, Travels through Egypt, Sinai, Ara- bia, and the Holy Land. With Map. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. MAURICE (C. E.). Lives of English Popular Leaders. No. i.—Stephen Lang- ton. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price -;s.6d. No. 2.—Tyler, Ball, and Old- castle. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7i. 6d. Mazzini (Joseph). A Memoir. By E. A. V. Two Photographic Portraits. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. MEDLEY(Lieut.-Col.J.G.),R.E. An Autumn Tour in the United States and Canada. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. MEREDITH (George). The Ordeal of Richard Fe- verel. A History of Father and Son. In one vol. with Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. MICKLETHWAITE (J. T.), F.S.A. Modern Parish Churches : Their Plan, Design, and Furniture. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. MIDDLETON (The Lady). Ballads. Square 161110. Cloth, price 3X. 6d. MILLER (Edward). The History and Doctrines of Irvingism ; or, the so-called Ca- tholic and Apostolic Church. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 25s. MILLER (Robert). The Romance of Love. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. MILNE (James). Tables of Exchange for the Conversion of Sterling Money into Indian and Ceylon Currency, at Rates from is. Sd. to 2s. 3d. per Rupee. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price £2 2s. MIVART (St. George), F.R.S. Contemporary Evolution : An Essay on some recent Social Changes. Post 8vo. Cloth, price ys. 6d. MOCKLER (E.). A Grammar of the Baloo- chee Language, as it is spoken in Makran (Ancient Gedrosia), in the Persia-Arabic and Roman characters. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. MOFFAT (Robert Scott). The Economy of Consump- tion; an Omitted Chapter in Political Economy, with special reference to the Questions of Commercial Crises and the Policy of Trades Unions; and with Reviews of the Theoriesof Adam Smith, Ricardo, J. S. Mill, Fawcett, &c. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price i8.r. The Principles of a Time Policy : being an Exposition of a Method of Settling Disputes between Employers and Employed in regard to Time and Wages, by a simple Pro- cess of Mercantile Barter, without recourse to Strikes or Locks-out. Reprinted from "The Economy of Consumption," with a Preface and Appendix containing Observations on some Reviews of that book, and a Re- criticism of the Theories of Ricardo and J. S. Mill on Rent, Value, and Cost of Production. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. MOLTKE (Field-Marshal Von). Letters from Russia. Translated by Robina Napier. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. MOORE (Rev. D.), M.A. Christ and His Church. By the Author of " The Age and the Gospel," &c. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. MORE (R. Jasper). Under the Balkans. Notes of a Visit to the District of Philip- popolis in 1876. With a Map and Illustrations from Photographs. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. MORELL (J. R.). Euclid Simplified in Me- thod and Language. Being a Manual of Geometry. Compiled from the most important French Works, approved by the University of Paris and the Minister of Public Instruc- tion. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. MORICE (Rev. F. D.), M.A. The Olympian and Pythian Odes of Pindar. A New Transla- tion in English Verse. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7J. 6d.C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications. 21 MORLEY (Susan). Margaret Chetwynd. A Novel. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth. MORSE (E. S.), Ph.D. First Book of Zoology. With numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 5s. MORSHEAD (E. D. A.) The Agamemnon of j5Es- chylus. Translated into English verse. With an Introductory Essay. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5.S. MUSGRAVE (Anthony). Studies in Political Eco- nomy. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. NAAKE (J. T.). Slavonic Fairy Tales. From Russian, Servian, Polish, and Bohemian Sources. With Four Illus- trations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. NEWMAN (J. H.), D.D. Characteristics from the Writings of. Being Selections from his various Works. Arranged with the Author's personal approval. Third Edition. With Portrait. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6.?. V A Portrait of the Rev. Dr. J. H. Newman, mounted for framing, can be had, price 2s. 6d. NEW WRITER (A). Songs of Two Worlds. Fourth Edition. Complete, in one volume with Portrait. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price -js. 6d. The Epic of Hades. Seventh and finally revised Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6d. NICHOLAS (Thomas), Ph.D., F.G.S. The Pedigree of the English People: an Argument, Historical and Scientific, on the Formation and Growth of the Nation, tracing Race- admixture in Britain from the earliest times, with especial reference to the incorporation of the Celtic Abori- gines. Fifth Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price \6s. NICHOLSON (Edward B.), Li- brarian of the London Institution. The Christ Child, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4J. 6d. NOAKE (Major R. Compton). The Bivouac ; or, Martial Lyrist, with an Appendix—Advice to the Soldier. Fcap. Svo. Price $s. 6d. NOBLE (J. A.). The Pelican Papers. Reminiscences and Remains of a Dweller in the Wilderness. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. NORMAN PEOPLE (The). The Norman People, and their Existing Descendants in the British Dominions and the United States of America. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 2is. NORRIS (Rev. Alfred). The Inner and Outer Life Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 6.r. Notes on Cavalry Tactics, Organization, &c. By a Cavalry Officer. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12s. NOTREGE (John), A.M. The Spiritual Function of a Presbyter in the Church of England. Crown 8vo. Cloth, red edges, price 3s. 6d. Nuces : Exercises on the Syntax of the Public School Latin Primer. New Edition in Three Parts. Crown 8vo. Each is. *** The Three Parts can also be had bound together in cloth, price 3s. O'BRIEN (Charlotte G.). Light and Shade. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, gilt tops, price 12$. O'MEARA (Kathleen). Frederic Ozanam, Professor of the Sorbonne; His Life and Works. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. Oriental Sporting Magazine (The). A Reprint of the first 5 Volumes, in 2 Volumes. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 2Ss. PALGRAVE (W. Giffbrd). Hermann Agha; An Eastern Narrative. Third and Cheaper Edi- tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. PANDURANG HARI; Or, Memoirs of a Hindoo. With an Introductory Preface by Sir H. Bartle E. Frere, G.C.S.I., C.B. Crown 8vo. Price 6s.A List of 22 Scientific Series. System. Second Edition. PARKER (Joseph), D.D. The Paraclete : An Essay on the Personality and Ministry of the Holy Ghost, with some reference to current discussions. Second Edi- tion. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12$. PARR (Harriet). Echoes of a Famous Year. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 8$. 6d. PARSLOE (Joseph). Our Railways : Sketches, Historical and Descriptive. With Practical Information as to Fares, Rates, &c, and a Chapter on Rail- way Reform. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 6s. PATTISON (Mrs. Mark). The Renaissance of Art in France. With Nineteen Steel Engravings. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 32J. PAUL (C. Kegan). Mary Wollstonecraft. Letters to Imlay. With Prefatory Memoir by, and Two Portraits in eau forte, by Anna Lea Merritt. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Goethe's Faust. A New Translation in Rime. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. William Godwin: His Friends and Contemporaries. With Portraits and Facsimiles of the Handwriting of Godwin and his Wife. 2 vols. Square post 8vo. Cloth, price 28.?. The Genius of Christianity Unveiled. Being Essays by William Godwin never before published. Edited, with a Preface, by C. Kegan Paul. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 75. 6d. PAUL (Margaret Agnes). Gentle and Simple : A Story. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, gilt tops, price 12J. %* Also a Cheaper Edition in one vol. with Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6$. PAYNE (John). Songs of Life and Death. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price qj. PAYNE (Prof. J. F.). Lectures on Education. Price 6d. each. II. Frobel and the Kindergarten PAYNE (Prof. J. V.)—continued. A Visit to German Schools : Elementary Schools in Ger- many. Notes of a Professional Tour to inspect some of the Kindergartens, Primary Schools, Public Girls' Schools, and Schools for Technical Instruction in Hamburgh, Berlin, Dresden, Weimar, Gotha, Eisenach, in the autumn of 1874. With Critical Discussions of the General Principles and Practice of Kindergartens and other Schemes of Elementary Edu- cation. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. PEACOCKE (Georgiana). Rays from the Southern Cross : Poems. Crown 8vo. With Sixteen Full-page Illustrations by the Rev. P. Walsh. Cloth elegant, price 10s. 6d. PELLETAN (E.). The Desert Pastor, Jean Jarousseau. Translated from the French. By Colonel E. P. De L'Hoste. With a Frontispiece. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3-r. 6d. PENNELL (H. Cholmondeley). Pegasus Resaddled. By the Author of " Puck on Pegasus," &c. &c. With Ten Full-page Illus- trations by George Du Maurier. Second Edition. Fcap. 4to. Cloth elegant, price 12J-. 6d. PENRICE (Maj. J.), B.A. A Dictionary and Glossary of the Ko-ran. With copious Gram- matical References and Explanations of the Text. 4to. Cloth, price 2 is. PERCIVAL (Rev. P.). Tamil Proverbs, with their English Translation. Containing upwards of Six Thousand Proverbs. Third Edition. Demy 8vo. Sewed, price gs. PESCHEL (Dr. Oscar). The Races of Man and theirGeographical Distribution. Large crown 8vo. Cloth, price gs. PETTIGREW (J. Bell), M.D., F.R.S. Animal Locomotion; or, Walking, Swimming, and Flying. With 130 Illustrations. Second Edi- tion. Crown Svo. Cloth, price 5$. Volume VII. of The InternationalC. Kegan Paul 6° Co.'s Publications. 23 PFEIFFER (Emily). Quarterman's Grace, and other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Glan Alarch: His Silence and Song. A Poem. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s. Gerard's Monument, and other Poems. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Poems. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. ■ Cloth, price 6$. PIGGOT (J.), F.S.A., F.R.G.S. Persia—Ancient and Mo- dern. Post 8vo. Cloth, price ioj. 6d. PINCHES (Thomas), M.A. Samuel Wilberforce: Faith —Service—Recompense. Three Sermons. With a Portrait of Bishop Wilberforce (after a Photograph by Charles Watkins). Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4^. 6d. PLAYFAIR (Lieut.-Col.), Her Britannic Majesty's Consul-General in Algiers. Travels in the Footsteps of Bruce in Algeria and Tunis. Illustrated by facsimiles of Bruce's original Drawings, Photographs, Maps, &c. Royal 4to. Cloth, bevelled boards, gilt leaves, price &3 3*- POOR (Henry V.). Money and its Laws, em- bracing a History of Monetary Theories and a History of the Cur- rencies of the United States. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. POUSHKIN (A. S.). Russian Romance. Translated from the Tales of Belkin, &c. By Mrs. J. Buchan Telfer (ne'e MouraviefT). Crown 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6a. POWER (H.). Our Invalids : How shall we Employ and Amuse Them ? Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. POWLETT (Lieut. N.), R.A. Eastern Legends and Stories in English Verse. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. PRESBYTER. Unfoldings of Christian Hope. An Essay showing that the Doctrine contained in the Damna- tory Clauses of the Creed commonly called Athanasian is unscriptural. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. PRICE (Prof. Bonamy). Currency and Banking. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Chapters on Practical Poli- tical Economy. Being the Sub- stance of Lectures delivered before the University of Oxford. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price isj. PROCTOR (Richard A.), B.A. Our Placeamong Infinities. A Series of Essays contrasting our little abode in space and time with the Infinities around us. To which are added Essays on "Astrology," and "The Jewish Sabbath." Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. The Expanse of Heaven. A Series of Essays on the Wonders of the Firmament. With a Frontis- piece. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Proteus and Amadeus. A Correspondence. Edited by Aubrey DeVere. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5^. PUBLIC SCHOOLBOY. The Volunteer, the Militia- man, and the Regular Soldier. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5^. Punjaub (The) and North Western Frontier of India. By an old Punjaubee. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. RAM (James). The Philosophy of War. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. RAVENSHAW (John Henry), B.C.S. Gaur: Its Ruins and In- scriptions. Edited with consider- able additions and alterations by his Widow. _ With forty-four photo- graphic illustrations and twenty-five fac-similes of Inscriptions. Super royal 4to. Cloth, 3/. 13s. 6d.24 A List of READ (Carveth). On the Theory of Logic : An Essay. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6f. REANEY (Mrs. G. S.). Blessing and Blessed; a Sketch of Girl Life. With a frontis- piece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Waking and Working ; or, from Girlhood to Womanhood. With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5.5. Just Anyone, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. dd. Sunshine Jenny and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. dd. Sunbeam Willie, and other Stories. Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. dd. RHOADES (James). Timoleon. A Dramatic Poem. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price $s. RIBOT (Prof. Th.). English Psychology. Se- cond Edition. A Revised and Cor- rected Translation from the latest French Edition. Large post 8vo- Cloth, price gs Heredity : A Psychological Study on its Phenomena, its Laws, its Causes, and its Consequences. Large crown 8vo. Cloth, price gs. RINK (Chevalier Dr. Henry). Greenland : Its People and its Products. By the Chevalier Dr. Henry Rink, President of the Greenland Board of Trade. With sixteen Illustrations, drawn hy the Eskimo, and a Map. Edited by Dr. Robert Brown. Crown 8vo. Price 10s. 6d. ROBERTSON (The Late Rev. F. W.), M.A., of Brighton. Notes on Genesis. Third Edition. Crown 8vo., price sj. ROBERTSON (The Late Rev. F. W.)—continued. Sermons. Four Series. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. each. Expository Lectures on St. Paul's Epistles to the Co- rinthians. A New Edition. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. Lectures and Addresses, with other literary remains. A New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. An Analysis of Mr. Tenny- son's " In Memoriam." (Dedi- cated by Permission to the Poet- Laureate.) Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. The Education of the Human Race. Translated from the German of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2S. dd. Life and Letters. Edited by the Rev. Stopford Brooke, M.A., Chaplain in Ordinary to the Queen. I. 2 vols., uniform with the Ser- mons. With Steel Portrait. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price -js. 6d. II. Library Edition, in Demy 8vo., with Two Steel Portraits. Cloth, price 12s. III. A Popular Edition, in one vol. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. The above \Vo7'ks can also be had half-bound in morocco. \* A Portrait of the late Rev. F. W. Robertsonj mounted for framing, can be had, price 2s. dd. ROBINSON (A. Mary F.). A Handful of Honey- suckle. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 31. dd. RODWELL (G. F.), F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Etna : a History of the Mountain and its Eruptions. With Maps and Illustrations. Square 8vo. Cloth, price gs. ROSS (Mrs. E.), ("Nelsie Brook"). Daddy's Pet. A Sketch from Humble Life. With Six Illus- trations. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. RUSSELL (Major Frank S.). Russian Wars with Turkey, Past and Present. With Two Maps. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. .price ds.25 C. Kegan Paul cV* Co.'s Publications. RUTHERFORD (John). The Secret History of the Fenian Conspiracy; its Origin, Objects, and Ramifications. 2 vols. Post 8vo. Cloth, price iSs. SADLER (S. W.), R.N. The African Cruiser. A Midshipman's Adventures on the West Coast. With Three Illustra- tions. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3^. 6d. SAMAROW (G.). For Sceptre and Crown. A Romance of the Present Time. Translated by Fanny Wormald. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 15.1. SAUNDERS (Katherine). Gideon's Rock, and other Stories. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Joan Merryweather.andother Stories. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Margaret and Elizabeth. A Story of the Sea. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. SAUNDERS (John). Israel Mort, Overman : a Story of the Mine. Crown 8vo. Price 6s. Hirell. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. Abel Drake's Wife. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. SCHELL (Maj. von). The Operations of the First Army under Gen. von Goeben. Translated by Col. C. H. von Wright. Four Maps. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price gs. The Operations of the First Army under Gen. von Steinmetz. Translated by Captain E. O. Hollist. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 10s. 6d. SCH ELLEN DO RF (Maj.-Gen. B. von). The Duties of the General Staff. Translated from the German by Lieutenant Hare. Vol. I. Demy 8vo. Cloth, iof. 6d. SCHERFF (Maj. W. von). Studies in the New In- fantry Tactics. Parts I. and II. Translated from the German by Colonel Lumley Graham. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6d. SCHMIDT (Prof. Oscar). The Doctrine of Descent and Darwinism. With 26 Illus- trations. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5.?. Volume XII. of The International Scientific Series. SCHUTZENBERGER(Prof.F.). Fermentation. With Nu- merous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5^. Volume XX. of The International Scientific Series. SCOTT (Patrick). The Dream and the Deed, and other Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. SCOTT (W. T.). Antiquities of an Essex Parish ; or, Pages from the History of Great Dunmow. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Sewed, 4.?. SCOTT (Robert H.). Weather Charts and Storm Warnings. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. Seeking his Fortune, and other Stories. With Four Illustra- tions. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. SENIOR (N. W.). Alexis De Tocqueville. Correspondence and Conversations with Nassau W. Senior, from 1833 to 1859. Edited by M. C. M. Simpson. 2 vols. Large post 8vo.Cloth,price 21s. Journals Kept in France and Italy. From 1848 to 1852. With a Sketch of the Revolution of 1848. Edited by his Daughter, M. C. M. Simpson. 2 vols. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 24s. Seven Autumn Leaves from Fairyland. Illustrated with Nine Etchings. Square crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. SHADWELL (Maj.-Gen.), C.B. Mountain Warfare. Illus- trated by the Campaign of 1799 in Switzerland. Being a Translation of the Swiss Narrative compiled from the Works of the Archduke Charles, Jomini, and others. Also of Notes by General H. Dufour on the Cam- paign of the Valtelline in 1635. With Appendix, Maps, and Introductory Remarks. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 16s.26 A List of SHAKSPEARE (Charles). Saint Paul at Athens : Spiritual Christianity in Relation to some Aspects of Modern Thought. Nine Sermons preached at St. Ste- phen's Church, Westbourne Park. With Preface by the Rev. Canon Farrar. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. SHAW (Flora L.). Castle Blair: a Story of Youthful Lives. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, gilt tops, price i2.r. Also, an edition in one vol. Crown 8vo. 6s. SHELLEY (Lady). Shelley Memorials from Authentic Sources. With (now first printed) an Essay on Christian- ity by Percy Bysshe Shelley. With Portrait. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. SHERMAN (Gen. W. T.). Memoirs of General W. T. Sherman, Commander of the Federal Forces in the American Civil War. By Himself. 2 vols. With Map. Demy 8vo Cloth, price 24s. Copyright English Edition. SHILLITO (Rev. Joseph). Womanhood : its Duties, Temptations, and Privileges. A Book for Young Women. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Price 31. 6d. SHIPLEY (Rev. Orby), M.A. Principles of the Faith in Relation to Sin. Topics for Thought in Times of Retreat. Eleven Addresses. With an Intro- duction on the neglect of Dogmatic Theology in the Church of England, and a Postscript on his leaving the Church of England. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price i2f. Church Tracts, or Studies in Modern Problems. By various Writers. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. each. SHUTE (Richard), M.A. A Discourse on Truth. Large Post 8vo. Cloth, price gs. SMEDLEY (M. B.). Boarding-out and Pauper Schools for Girls. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. SMITH (Edward), M.D., LL.B., F.R.S. Health and Disease, as In- fluenced by the Daily, Seasonal, and other Cyclical Changes in the Human System. A New Edition. Post 8vo. Cloth, price ys. 6d. SMITH (Edward), M.D., LL.B., F. R. S.—continued. Foods. Profusely Illustrated. Fifth Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. , Volume III. of The International Scientific Series. Practical Dietary for Families, Schools, and the La- bouring Classes. A New Edition. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. Tubercular Consumption in its Early and Remediable Stages. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. SMITH (Hubert). Tent Life with English Gipsies in Norway. With Five full-page Engravings and Thirty-one smaller Illustrations by Whymper and others, and Map of the Country showing Routes. Third Edition. Revised and Corrected. Post 8vo. Cloth, price 21s. Songs of Two Worlds. By the Author of " The Epic of Hades." Fourth Edition. Complete in one Volume, with Portrait. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. 6d. Songs for Music. By Four Friends. Square crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Containing songs by Reginald A. Gatty, Stephen H. Gatty, Greville J. Chester, and Juliana Ewing. SPENCER (Herbert). The Study of Sociology. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Volume V. of The International Scientific Series. SPICER (H.). Otho's Death Wager. A Dark Page of History Illustrated. In Five Acts. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. STAPLETON (John). The Thames : A Poem. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6i. STEPHENS (Archibald John), LL.D. . The Folkestone Ritual Case. The Substance of the Argu- ment delivered before the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. On behalf of the Respondents. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 6s.Co.'s Publications. 27 C. Kegan Paul & price if. 6d. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price yis. STEVENSON (Robert Louis). An Inland Voyage. With Frontispiece by Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. (sd. STEVENSON (Rev. W. F.). Hymns for the Church and Home. Selected and Edited by the Rev. W. Fleming Stevenson. The most complete Hymn Book published. The Hymn Book consists of Three Parts :—I. For Public Worship.— II. For Family and Private Worship. —III. For Children. *** Published in various forms and prices, the latter ranging from Sd. to 6s. Lists and full particulars ■will be furnished on application to the Publishers. STEWART (Prof. Balfour), M.A., LL.D., F.R.S. On the Conservation of Energy. Fifth Edition. With Fourteen Engravings. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. Volume VI. of The International Scientific Series. STONEHEWER (Agnes). Monacella : A Legend of North Wales. A Poem. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. STORR (Francis), and TURNER (Hawes). Canterbury Chimes; or, Chaucer Tales retold to Children. With Illustrations from the Elles- mere MS. Extra Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. STRETTON (Hesba). Author of "Jessica's First Prayer." Michel Lorio's Cross, and other Stories. With Two Illustra- tions. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is.6d. The Storm of Life. With Ten Illustrations. Twenty-firstThou- sand. Royal i6mo. Cloth.price is. 6d. The Crew of the Dolphin. Illustrated. Fourteenth Thousand. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price if. 6d. Cassy. Thirty-eighth Thou- sand. With Six Illustrations. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. (sd. The King's Servants. Forty-third Thousand. With Eight Illustrations. Royal i6mo. Cloth, STRETTON (Hesba)—continued. Lost Gip. Fifty-ninth Thou- sand. With Six Illustrations. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. 6d. *»* Also a handsomely bound Edi- tion, with Twelve Illustrations, price zs. 6d. David Lloyd's Last Will. With Four Illustrations. Royal i6mo., price 2s. 6d. The Wonderful Life. Thirteenth Thousand. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. A Man of His Word. With Frontispiece. Royal i6mo. Limp cloth, price 6d. A Night and a Day. With Frontispiece. Twelfth Thousand. Royal i6mo. Limp cloth, price (sd. Friends till Death. With Illustrations and Frontispiece. Twenty-fourth Thousand. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price if. (sd.; limp cloth, price (sd. Two Christmas Stories. With Frontispiece. Twenty-first Thousand. Royal i6mo. Limp cloth, price (sd. Michel Lorio's Cross, and Left Alone. With Frontispiece. Fifteenth Thousand. Royal i6mo. Limp cloth, price (sd. Old Transome. With Frontispiece. Sixteenth Thousand. Royal i6mo. Limp cloth, price (sd. V Taken from "The King's Servants." The Worth of a Baby, and how Apple-Tree Court was won. With Frontispiece. Nineteenth Thousand. Royal i6mo. Limp cloth, price (sd. Through a Needle's Eye : a Story. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, gilt top, price 11s. STUBBS (Lieut.-Colonel F. W.) The Regiment of Bengal Artillery. The History of its Organization, Equipment, and War Services. Compiled from Published Works, Official Records, and variouB Private Sources. With numerous Maps and Illustrations. 2 vols.A List of 28 STUMM (Lieut. Hugo), German Military Attache to the Khivan Ex- pedition. Russia's advance East- ward. Based on the Official Reports of. Translated by Capt. C. E. H. Vincent. With Map. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. SULLY (James), M.A. Sensation and Intuition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price zos. 6d. Pessimism : a History and a Criticism. Demy 8vo. Price 14.1. Sunnyland Stories. By the Author of "Aunt Mary's Bran Pie." Illustrated. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 3.?. 6d. Supernatural in Nature, The. AVerification by FreeUse of Science. Demy8vo. Cloth, price 14J. Sweet Silvery Sayings of Shakespeare. Crown 8vo. Cloth gilt, price js. 6d. SYME (David). Outlines of an Industrial Science. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Tales of the Zenana. By the Author of " Pandurang Hari." 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2is. TAYLOR (Rev. J. W. A.), M.A. Poems. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5^. TAYLOR (Sir H.). Works Complete. Author's Edition, in 5 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. each. Vols. I. to III. containing the Poetical Works, Vols. IV. and V. the Prose Works. TAYLOR (Col. Meadows), C.S.I., M.R.I.A. A Noble Queen : a Romance of Indian History. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth. Seeta. 3 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth. The Confessions ofa Thug. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Tara : a Mahratta Tale. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. TELFER (J. Buchan), F.R.G.S., Commander, R.N. The Crimea and Trans- Caucasia. With numerous Illus- trations and Maps. 2 vols. Medium 8vo. Second Edition. Cloth, price 36s. TENNYSON (Alfred). The Imperial Library Edi- tion. Complete in 7 vols. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price £3 13s. 6d. ; in Rox- burgh binding, £i, 7s. 6d. Author's Edition. Complete in 6 Volumes. Post 8vo. Cloth gilt ; or half-morocco, Roxburgh style :— Vol. I. Early Poems, and English Idylls. Price 6s. ; Rox- burgh, ys. 6d. Vol. II. Locksley Hall, Lucretius, and other Poems. Price 6s. ; Roxburgh, 7$. 6d. Vol. III. The Idylls of the King {Complete). Price js. 6d.; Roxburgh, gs. Vol. IV. The Princess, and Maud. Price 6s.; Roxburgh, 7$. 6d. Vol. V. Enoch Arden, and In Memoriam. Price 6s. ; Roxburgh, 7J. 6d. Vol. VI. Dramas. Price Js.; Roxburgh, Us. 6d. Cabinet Edition. 12 vols. Each with Frontispiece. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2s. 6d. each. Cabinet Edition. 12 vols. Com- plete in handsome Ornamental Case. 32*. Pocket Volume Edition. 13 vols. In neat case, 36s. Ditto, ditto. Extra cloth gilt, in case, 42s. The Royal Edition. Com- plete in one vol. Cloth, 16s. Cloth extra, iSs. Roxburgh, half morocco, price 20s. The Guinea Edition. Com- plete in 12 vols., neatly bound and enclosed in box. Cloth, price 21s. French morocco, price 31s. 6d. The Shilling Edition of the P«etical and Dramatic Works, in 12 vols., pocket size. Price is. each.Co.'s Publications. 29 C. Kegan Paul & TENNYSON (Alfred)—continued. The Crown Edition. Com- plete in one vol., strongly bound In cloth, price 6s. Cloth, extra gilt leaves, price 7-r. 6d. Roxburgh, half morocco, price Ss. 6d, V* Can also be had in a variety of other bindings. Original Editions : Poems. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Maud, and other Poems. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. The Princess. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. 6d. Idylls of the King. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. Idylls of the King. Com- plete. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 61. The Holy Grail, and other Poems. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 4J. 6d. Gareth and Lynette. Small 8vo. Cloth, price 3*. Enoch Arden, &c. Small 8vo. Cloth, price %s. 6d. In Memoriam. Small 8vo. Cloth, price +r. Queen Mary. A Drama. New Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Harold. A Drama. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. Selections from Tenny- son's Works. Super royal i6mo. Cloth, price 3s. 6d. Cloth gilt extra, price 4^. Songs from Tennyson's Worka. Super royal i6mo. Cloth extra, price 3^. 6d. Also a cheap edition. i6mo. Cloth, price as. 6d. Idylls of the King, and other Poems. Illustrated by Julia Margaret Cameron. 1 vols. Folio. Half-bound morocco, cloth sides, price £6 6s. each. Tennyson for the Young and for Recitation. Specially arranged. Fcap. 8vo. Price is. 6d. Tennyson Birthday Book. Edited'by Emily Shakespear. 3amo. Cloth limp, is.; cloth extra, 3$. THOMAS (Moy). A Fight for Life. With Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. THOMPSON (Alice C). Preludes. A Volume of Poems. Illustrated by Elizabeth Thompson (Painter of "The Roll Call"). 8vo. Cloth, price 7J. 6d. THOMPSON (Rev. A. S.). Home Words for Wan- derers. A Volume of Sermons. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. THOMSON 0- TurnbuH). Social Problems; or, an In- quiry into the Law of Influences. With Diagrams. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price ioj. 6d. Thoughts in Verse. Small Crown 8vo. Cloth, price is. 6d. THRINO (Rev. Godfrey), B.A. Hymns and Sacred Lyrics. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5.1. THURSTON (Prof. R. H.). A History of the Growth of the Steam Engine. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 6d. TODD (Herbert), M.A. Arvan; or, The Story of the Sword. A Poem. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7$. 6d. TODHUNTER (Dr. J.) Alcestis : A Dramatic Poem. Extra fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Laurella; and other Poems. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. 6d. TRAHERNE (Mrs. A.). The Romantic Annals of a Naval Family. A New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. TURNER (Rev. C. Tennyson). Sonnets, Lyrics, and Trans- lations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price \s. 6d. TYNDALL (John), LL.D., F.R.S. Forms of Water. A Fami- liar Exposition of the Origin and Phenomena of Glaciers. With Twenty-five Illustrations. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5J. Volume I. of The Internationa Scientific Series.A List of 3° VAMBERY (Prof. A.). Bokhara: Its History and Conquest. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price i8i. VAN BENEDEN (Mons.). Animal Parasites and Messmates. With 83 Illustrations. Second Edition. Cloth, price 5J. Volume XIX. of The International Scientific Series. VAUGHAN (H. Halford), some- time Regius Professor of Modern History in Oxford University. New Readings and Ren- derings of Shakespeare's Tra- gedies. Vol. I. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 151. VILLARI (Prof.). Niccolo Machiavelli and His Times. Translated by Linda Villari. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 24J. VINCENT (Capt. C. E. H.). Elementary Military Geography, Reconnoitring, and Sketching. Compiled for Non- commissioned Officers and Soldiers of all Arms. Square crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2j. 6d. VOGEL (Dr. Hermann). The Chemical effects of Light and Photography, in their application to Art, Science, and Industry. The translation thoroughly revised. With 100 Illustrations, in- cluding some beautiful specimens of Photography. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. Volume XV. of The International Scientific Series. VVNER (Lady Mary). Every day a Portion. Adapted from the Bible and the Prayer Book, for the Private Devo- tions of those living in Widowhood. Collected and edited by Lady Mary Vyner. Square crown Svo. Cloth extra, price 5$. WALDSTEIN (Charles), Ph. D. The Balance of Emotion and Intellect: An Essay Intro- ductory to the Study of Philosophy. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. WALLER (Rev. C. B.) The Apocalypse, Reviewed under the Light of the Doctrine of the Unfolding Ages and the Resti- tution of all Things. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price izr. WALTERS (Sophia Lydia). A Dreamer's Sketch Book. With Twenty-one Illustrations by Percival Skelton, R. P. Leitch, W. H. J. Boot, and T. R. Pritchett. Engraved by J. D. Cooper. Fcap. 4to. Cloth, price i2i. 6d. WARTENSLEBEN (Count H. von). The Operations of the South Army in January and February, 1871. Compiled from the Official War Documents of the Head-quarters of the Southern Army. Translated by Colonel C. H. von Wright. With Maps. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. The Operations of the First Army under Gen. von Manteuffel. Translated by Colonel C. H. von Wright. Uniform with the above. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price gs. WATERFIELD, W. Hymns for Holy Days and Seasons. 321T10. Cloth, price is. 6d. WAY (A.), M.A. The Odes of Horace Lite- rally Translated in Metre. Fcap. 8vo. Cloth, price 2j. WELLS (Capt. John C), R.N. Spitzbergen—The Gate- way to the Polynia ; or, A Voyage to Spitzbergen. With numerous Il- lustrations by Whymper and others, and Map. New and Cheaper Edi- tion. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. WETMORE (W. S.). Commercial Telegraphic Code. Second Edition. Post 4to. Boards, price 42s. WHITAKER (Florence). Christy's Inheritance. A London Story. Illustrated. Royal i6mo. Cloth, price is. 6d.C. Kegan Paul 6- Co.'s Publications. 31 WHITE (A. D.), LL.D. Warfare of Science. With Prefatory Note by Professor Tyndall. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. 6d. WHITNEY (Prof. W. D.) The Life and Growth of Language. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5s. Copyright Edition. Volume XVI. of The International Scientific Series. Essentials of English Grammar for the Useof Schools. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3$. da. WHITTLE (J. L), A.M. Catholicism and the Vati- can. With a Narrative of the Old Catholic Congress at Munich. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 4s. 6d. WICKHAM (Capt. E. H., R.A.) Influence of Firearms upon Tactics : Historical and Critical Investigations. By an Officer of Superior Rank (in the German Army). Translated by Captain E. H. Wickham, R.A. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 7i. 6d. WILBERFORCE (H. W.). The Church and the Em- pires. Historical Periods. Pre- ceded by a Memoir of the Author by John Henry Newman, D.D. of the Oratory. With Portrait. Post 8vo. Cloth, price ioj. 6d. WILKINSON (T. L.). Short Lectures on the Land Laws. Delivered before the Work- ing Men's College. Crown 8vo. Limp cloth, price 2s. WILLIAMS (A. Lukyn). Famines in India; their Causes and Possible Prevention. The Essay for the Le Bas Prize, 1875. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. WILLIAMS (Charles), one of the Special Correspondents attached to the Staff of Ghazi Ahmed Mouktar Pasha. The Armenian Campaign : Diary of the Campaign of 1877 in Armenia and Koordistan. With Two Special Maps. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price roj. 64. WILLIAMS (Rowland), D.D. Life and Letters of, with Ex- tracts from his Note-Books. Edited by Mrs. Rowland Williams. With a Photographic Portrait. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. Cloth, price 24s. Stray Thoughts from the Note-Books of the Late Row- land Williams, D.D. Edited by his Widow. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3-r. 6d. Psalms, Litanies, Coun- sels and Collects for Devout Persons. Edited by his Widow. New and Popular Edition. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 3J. 6d. WILLIS (R.), M.D. Servetus and Calvin : a Study of an Important Epoch in the Early History of the Reformation. 8vo. Cloth, price i6r. William Harvey. A History of the Discovery of the Circula- tion of the Blood. With a Portrait of Harvey, after Faithorne. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 14s. WILLOUGHBY (The Hon. Mrs.). On the North Wind — Thistledown. A Volume of Poems. Elegantly bound. Small crown 8vo. Cloth, price js. 6d. WILSON (H. Schutz). Studies and Romances. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. WILSON (Lieut-Col. C. T.). James the Second and the Duke of Berwick. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price 12j. 6d. WINTERBOTHAM (Rev. R.), M.A., B.Sc. Sermons and Expositions. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 7s. 6d. Within Sound of the Sea. By the Author of " Blue Roses," "Vera," &c. Third Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth,gilt tops, price 12s. WOINOVITS (Capt. I.). Austrian Cavalry Exercise. Translated by Captain W. S. Cooke. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price js.32 A List of C. Kegan Paul 6° Co.'s Publications. WOLLSTO NEC RAFT (Mary). Letters to Imlay. With a Preparatory Memoir by C. Kegan Paul, and two Portraits in eau forte by Anna Lea Merritt. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. WOOD (C. F.). A Yachting Cruise in the South Seas. With Six Photo- graphic Illustrations. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price ys. 6d. WRIGHT (Rev. David), M.A. Waiting for the Light, and other Sermons. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. WYLD (R. S.), F.R.S.E. The Physics and the Philo- sophy of the Senses ; or, The Mental and the Physical in their Mutual Relation. Illustrated by several Plates. Demy Svo. Cloth, price 16s. YONGE (C. D.). History of the English Revolution of 1688. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 6s. YOUMANS (Eliza A.). An Essay on the Culture of the Observing Powers of Children, especially in connection with the Study of Botany. Edited, with Notes and a Supplement, by Joseph Payne, F. C. P., Author of " Lectures on the Science and Art of Education," &c. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 2S. 6d. First Book of Botany. Designed to Cultivate the Observing Powers of Children. With 300 En- gravings. New and Enlarged Edi- tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5*. YOUMANS (Edward L.), M.D. A Class Book of Chemistry, on the Basis of the New System. With 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price $s. ZIMMERN (H.). Stories in Precious Stones. With Six Illustrations. Third Edi- tion. Crown 8vo. Cloth, price 5$. THE NINETEENTH CENTURY. A Monthly Review, edited by James Knowles, price 2s. 6d. Vols. 1 and 2 (Price 14s. each) and Vols. 3 and 4 (Price 17s. each). THE NEW QUARTERLY MAGAZINE. New Series, price 2s. 6d. Published in January, April, July, October. London:—C. Kegan Paul & Co., 1, Paternoster Square.