1 1 Aj .^a^MPlo- M/f tTw & rr • r i/,w* v|» / 1 •**/ -jfflrfi? ' A-»V ■tar r»# 1 /luiin'iSome Useful Boo^sfor Housekeepers Price 2s. 6d. each. THINGS EVERY ONE WANTS TO KNOW A Manual of General Information on all Subjects. 432 />/>., Cloth gilt, Price 2s. 6d. “ Here we have just one of those useful books that are invaluable in home life. It gives practical advice on the most essential points. How to choose a house and furnish it, cooking, etiquette, the garden and live stock, games, the culture of mind and body, and much besides. It is half-a-dozen volumes rolled into one, and the cream of them all is given. No young couple should be without it, and they would find it a guide, philosopher and friend.”—Queen. HOW TO KEEP HOUSE ON £200 A YEAR By Mrs. PRAGA, Author of “ Dinners of the Day,” etc., etc. In Cloth, Price 2s. 6d. “The advice is sound : the author shows how to choose a home, apportion an income, how to furnish a flat or a house, and, having furnished, how to ensure the home being well kept and the table well kept, for the recipes are practical and good. It is a book no young housekeeper should be without.”—Queen. DINNERS OF THE DAY By A CAREFUL COOK (Mrs. Praga). Some of the Chapters are :— The stock pot—Thrift in the kitchen—An English v. a French dinner— Economical meals—Fish stocks—Bad management—Howto train a cook—The false economist—The store cupboard—The gentle art of shopping—The food and management of servants—Parties and party giving—Dainty dinner tables— Food in furnished lodgings—Emergency meals—Salads and salad making —Fruit as food—Sunday suppers—Seaside cookery—Macaroni, and how to cook it—Sauces—A dinner without meat—New dishes—Popular puddings—Also a large collection of choice menus and recipes for complete dinners. SWEETMEAT-MAKING AT HOME By Mrs. M. E. RATTRAY, First-Class Diplomee, National Training School of Cookery, London. With Coloured Frontispiece and several Illustrations. Some of the Chapter Headings are :— CHAr. I.—SUGAR AND SUGAR-BOILING. „ II.—NUTS, FLAVOURINGS AND COLOURINGS. „ IV.—COOKED FONDANT SWEETMEATS, y MARZIPAN. ” VI.—BON-BONS’AND AMERICAN CANDIES. „ VIII.—MISCELLANEOUS RECIPES. CONFECTIONERY UTENSILS FOR SWEETMEAT-MAKING. EVERY WOMAN HER OWN DOCTOR A Complete Book in plain English concerning the Ailments and Accidents to Whish .Women and Children are liable, and their Cure. e Book Publisher, \nrietta Street, W.C, 22101734003Med K10577 HOW TO PREPARE IT. Put half a teaspoonful of the powder into a breakfast cup (more than that quantity is not required), pour on boiling water whilst stirring briskly — but be sure the water is boiling—then add milk and sugar to taste. Better still, boil milk and water together in equal pro- portions, pour on to the half teaspoonful of powder, stir, and sweeten to taste. When time is of no consequence, it is a good plan to pour it all back into the saucepan and bring to the boil for a second or two (on no account allowing it to stew); when returned to the cup, add the desired amount of sugar. These instructions should be strictly followed, and the delightful aroma and delicate flavour of Rowntree’s Elect Cocoa, will be brought out to the full. In the hands of a clever cook Rowntree’s Elect Cocoa becomes the chief ingredient of some of the most delicious dishes that can be placed upon the table, as for instance :— CHOCOLATE CAKE.—Ingredients: 4 oz. castor sugar, 4 oz. flour, 4 oz. butter, 2 eggs, 2 tablespoonfuls Rown- tree’s “Elect” Cocoa, 1 teaspoonful baking powder, flavouring, milk. Stir butter and sugar together 5 minutes, then add one egg well beaten, and part of flour and cocoa (mixed together), when well mixed add other egg with more flour and cocoa, then add remainder of flour and cocoa with baking powder, also the flavouring and suf- ficient milk to make soft paste. Put mixture in a shallow tin, well greased and lined with paper, bake for 40 to 50 minutes in moderate oven; when cold, cut in fancy shapes. Of all Grocers, Confectioners, &c. In tins only, 6d., 9d., 1/6 & 3/- ROWNTREE & CO., Ltd. (of York), SOflE OHIRTY DISHES. 1, Great Tower Street, London, E.C.THE GOURMET SPECIALITIES FOR EVERY KITCHEN. OPEN. THE QUEEN’S PUDDING BOILER, FOR STEAMING OR BOILING. NO CLOTH USED. Opened and Closed Instantly. Puddings never Stick. Always Light and Digestible. The WATER KEPT OUT. The GOODNESS KEPT IN. Try it: “ The Proof of the Pudding is in the Eating.” Prices 9d., 1/-, 1/6, 2/-, 2 6, 3/- each. Postage 4d. extra, all sizes. THE GOURMET BOILER Stands Inside any Saucepan. NO STIRRINC 1 NO BURNING ! I NO WASTE ! 1! Cooks Porridge, Meat, Beef Tea, Jellies, Fruit, &c., &c. mr The Most Appetising, Digestible, & Nourish- ing Method of Cooking. Prices, 1/-, 1/3, 1/6, 1/9, 2/-, 2/3, 2/6, 2/9, 3/- Postage 4d. extra, all sizes. The Gourmet Pudding Spoon is useful every hour of the day For Mixing Puddings, Cakes and Pastry quickly and thoroughly. „ Stirring Milk Puddings, Porridge, Rice, Sauces, &c. „ Straining Chip Potatoes, Fish, Poached Eggs, Sausages, &c. Price 6d. each, post free, 7d. THE GOURMET EGG BEATER. Stands in any Cup, Glass, or Basin. MOST RAPID EGG BEATER KNOWN. Doubles the Size of an Egg in a few Seconds. MAKES EGGS ALL FROTH. MAKES CREAM ALL FOAM. Post Free, 6ci. Larger Size, 8d. The GOURMET CRUST-HOLDER & VENT stands inside any Pie Dish. It Supports the Crust and Keeps it Light ; Allows Steam to Escape, and Prevents Boiling Over. Made in 2 sizes. Price 6d. each. Post free, 7d. To be obtained from all Ironmongers, Stores, &c., or GOURMET & CO., Mount Pleasant, London, W.C. Pamphlet of “ Home Necessaries,” post free. PIE WITH CRUST HOLDER.Over Seventy Years9 Established Reputation. FOOD FOR INFANTS, GROWING CHILDREN, INVALIDS, AND THE AGED. “This is an excellent Food, admirably adapted to the wants of Infants and young persons, and being rich in phosphates and potash is of the greatest utility in supplying the bone-forming and other indis- pensable elements of food. Although peculiarly adapted to the wants of the young, this Food may be used with advantage by persons of all ages.”—Sir Chas. A. Cameron, M.D. “ Carefully prepared and highly nutritious.”—The Lancet. “NeaYe’s Food is a typical one in every respect, containing, as it does, flesh and bone-forming constituents in the protein and salts and combustible material in the carbo-hydrates to give heat and energy to the body. The latter, moreover, is in a very assimilable form, thus being well fitted for the delicate stomachs of children, invalids, the aged, and those otherwise debilitated.”—Extract from Health, April 30,1898. A MOST NUTRITIOUS FOOD FOR NURSING MOTHERS. Indigestion And How to Cure It By LYDIA LENEY, M.D., Clinical Assistant to the New Hospital for Women. Author of “ The Mother’s Guide to the Management of Children in Sickness and Health.” Cloth, Price Is. Indigestion is such a common disorder that a book dealing very simply with its prevention, alle- viation and cure, should be very useful. An attempt has been made to simplify the subject by a careful arrangement of the chapters ; and the sufferer at any age or having any complaint com- plicated with indigestion has only to look through the contents and read the chapter which applies to his own particular case. Vegetarian Cookery With Menus Edited by “ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Cloth, Price Is. The object of this book has been to make a collection of recipes for those who adhere to vegetarian- ism which shall be both nourish- ing and attractive to the palate. Indeed, the majority of them will form a welcome addition to any table, especially so where there are young children. The sections deal with Soups—Sauces—Salads —Entrees hot and cold, and many savoury dishes suitable for any meal or menu. At all Booksellers, Or post free for Is. 2d. each from the Book Publisher, C. Arthur Pearson, Ltd., 17/18, Henrietta Street, W.C,flftustarb /Iftanufacturera 36^ Special THHarvant to tbe Ctueen. COLMAN’S See that Colman's Name is on the Tin. COLMAN’S Corn Flour, For BLANCMANGES, CUSTARDS, &c. COLMAN’S Self-Rising Flour, FOR MAKING BREAD, PASTRY, CAKES, PUDDINGS, SCONES, &c. &o. Purveyors to U.IR.-fc. tbc prince of UClalcsBREAKFAST AND /■ SUPPER DISHES 4 BY C. HERMAN SENN Inspecting Chef of the National School of Cookery, London Xoit&on C. ARTHUR PEARSON LIMITED HENRIETTA STREET, W.C. tj'n~01A GREAT PUBLIC BOON! UPTONS’ EXTRACT OF BEEF AND FLUSD BEEF. UPTONS' are now offering to the public THE FINEST QUALITY Extract of Beef and Fluid Beef at prices which will place these most valuable articles of food WITHIN THE REACH OF EVERY ONE. UPTONS' EXTRACT OF BEEF and FLUID BEEF are made from the Finest Quality of Fresh Ox Beef, under the most skilful, scientific, and practical super- «ision, by a process entirely their own, unquestionably making their EXTRACT OF BEEF and FLUID BEEF the FINEST QUALITY EVER OFFERED. Uptons’ Extract of Beef. HOT LIPTONS’ FLUID BEEF Saves Pur- chasers from 25 to 35 per cent. LIPTONS* EXTRACT OF BEEF or FLUID BEEF makes the richest Beef Tea. They are also Invaluable In the domestic economy, and will be found by all good cooks the most economical and the best for flavouring Soups, Gravies, Sauces, Entrees, &c. UPTONS’ FLUID BEEF has the three principal properties of meat, viz., ALBUMEN, FIBRINE, and ESSENCE OF BEEF in equal proportions, thus making A PERFECT BEEF FOOD, and as there are no condiments nor preser- vatives of a foreign nature used, it will be found that THE NATURAL FLAYOUR OF THE BEEF IS RETAINED. W Lip tons' Extract op Beep and Fluid Beej can be obtained at Lip tons’ Markets and Agencies throughout the World. LIPTON, LIMITED. Chief Offices - - CITY ROAD, LONDON, E.C.WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. GTT CONTENTS PAflK I. FISH, ETC. . . * ; «. I II. MEAT, ETC. . . . t ,15 III. SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS . , , 40 IV. EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. .... $8 V. FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES . . 69 VI. MISCELLANEOUS .... 92 INDEX 103“THE STANDARD OF HIGHEST PURITY” —The Lancet. Cadbury cocoa THE BEST BEVERAGE FOR BREAKFAST, SUPPER, AND ALL TIMES. Entirely free from all admixtures, such as Kola, Malt, Hops, &c. “ KOLA BS HOT HARMLESS.”—Medical World. The Medical Magazine says:—“Cadbury’s is, without question, the favourite Cocoa of the day. For Strength, for Purity, and for Nourishment, there is nothing superior to be found.” The Analyst says :—“ Cadbury’s is the typical Cocoa of English manufacture.” CADBURY’S COCOA. ABSOLUTELY PUEE, therefore BEST. MO ALKALI USED TO DARKEN THE COLOUR. “ Cocoa is in itself a perfect food, and requires no addition of drugs whatever.”—(Dr. Andrew Wilson, in the Illustrated London News.)PREFACE KX ' A book devoted exclusively to Breakfast and Supper Dishes should prove a welcome addition to the culinary library, and will, I venture to hope, be found of real help to all engaged in cuisine and household matters. My long experience as a practical cook has made it apparent that such a book is badly needed. I do not, therefore, make an apology for offering this small work. In compiling the recipes I have aimed to introduce as many new and original dishes as possible, so as to bring relief to the monotony of the everyday Breakfast and Supper tables. I have exercised great care in the preparation of this collection of recipes, so as to produce by clear and easy directions dishes that are at once elegant, tasty, and dainty, without exercising extravagance. I sincerely trust that this work will be found thoroughly serviceable, even to the inexperienced, for the directions given should enable any one to prepare most of the dishes successfully and without difficulty. C. HERMAN SENN.CULINARY WISDOM Have you an in- telligent cook ? If so, she will know the value of Bovril for pre- paring Delicious Soups, Rich Gra- vies, and Savoury Sauces. Bovril adds piquancy and real nourish- ment to Ragohts, Croquettes, Ris- soles, and all Entries. BOYRILi B BREAKFAST AND SUPPER DISHES I FISH, ETC. CANAPES OF SOFT ROES OF HERRING, PROVEN?ALE STYLE. Ingredients.—Two to three soft roes, three button onions, a dessertspoonful white wine, \ oz. anchovy butter, four slices of bread, i oz. butter, i gill Bechamel sauce, i oz. Parmesan cheese. Method.—Toast the bread to a golden colour and cut into eight convenient-sized pieces. Peel and chop the onions, put them in a stewpan, cover with boiling water, and cook for five minutes ; strain off the water, and put them in a small sautoir with the butter, let cook for another five minutes, add the Parmesan cheese and the wine, season with a little salt and a pinch of cayenne. Blanch the soft roes in salted water, drain on a cloth, spread the pieces of toasted bread with the anchovy butter, put a layer of the onion mixture on each, la)* a piece of roe on top, and cover with the remainder of the mixture. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs, set in the oven for two minutes, and serve hot.2 FISH, ETC. BLOATER ROES ON CROUTES A LA YARMOUTH. Ingredients.—Four to six soft roes of bloaters, one shallot, peeled and chopped, one hard-boiled egg, eight to ten small squares or rounds of fried brown bread (Hovis or Cytos), 2 ozs. butter, half a lemon, cayenne, aromatic spice. Method.—Melt about an ounce of butter in a saute-pan. When hot put in the shallot, and blend for a few seconds without browning ; put in the roes, and toss them over the fire for a few minutes. Turn on to a plate and let cool. Pound the roes and shallot in a mortar, adding an ounce of butter ; season with a pinch of cayenne pepper and some aromatic spice or seasoning (Epice culinaire) to impart a savoury flavour. Spread the mixture thickly on to the prepared croutes of fried bread. Sprinkle the top with chopped hard boiled white of egg, or form some pretty design with the yolk and white of egg. Squeeze a little lemon juice over each, set in a hot oven for a few seconds, dish up, and serve very hot. BLOATER FRITTERS. Ingredients.—Two bloaters, 1^ ozs. grated cheese, frying batter, frying fat. Method.—Split the bloaters, take out the bones, re- move the skins, cut off the heads, and divide each fillet into three or four neat pieces. Mix the frying batter with an ounce of finely grated cheese. Dip each piece of bloater into the batter so as to completely cover it, and drop into very hot fat; fry a golden colour, take up, drain well, and dish up. Sprinkle over some grated cheese, and serve very hot.FISH, ETC. j SAVOURY SARDINE TIT-BITS. Ingredients.—2\ ozs. sardine paste (£ oz. butter, 2 ozs. sardines), 3 ozs. butter, salt, pepper and cayenne, water- cress for garnish, a handful of small cress, one dessert spoonful sweet oil, one teaspoonful vinegar, brown bread, two hard boiled eggs. Method.—Cut some thin slices of brown bread. Put 2 ozs. of sardine paste in a mortar, and pound with the yolks of two hard boiled eggs and 1^ ozs. of butter ; rub this through a fine sieve, and spread it over the slices of bread. Wash the cress and cut it up small, season it with oil, vinegar, salt, and pepper; sprinkle it over the layer of paste. Place another slice of bread on the top, and press together. Spread the top of each with butter, and sprinkle over thickly with finely-chopped whites of hard boiled eggs. Cut them into fanciful shapes or strips about an inch wide. Mix some sardine paste with a little cream or butter, and ornament the surface through a forcing bag, according to taste. Dish them up neatly on a folded napkin or dish paper, and garnish with some picked watercress. SARDINE ECLAIRS. Carefully wipe a number of sardines, and remove the bones. Roll out some puff paste or short crust about one-eighth of an inch thick, and enclose each sardine neatly in a piece of paste. Shape each piece neatly, and place on a baking sheet. Brush the surface of the eclairs with beaten egg, sprinkle some grated Parmesan and a pinch of Paprika pepper over all. Mark each lightly with the point of a knife, and bake in a well- heated oven for about ten minutes. Arrange on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with parsley, and serve hot as a breakfast dish or savoury.FISH, ETC. 4 SARDINES WITH PARMESAN. Ingredients.—One tin sardines, 2 ozs. Parmesan cheese (grated), salt, cayenne and pepper, lb. flour, one egg, 1 oz. butter, frying fat. Method.—Sift the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre of the flour, put in a pinch of salt, a little grated cheese, the yolk of the egg, and a few drops of water. Work this to a stiff but smooth paste, which must be well kneaded for at least ten minutes. Place in the cool for half an hour. Cut the tails off six or eight sardines, wipe them gently with a damp cloth. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible, and cut into oblong pieces. Oil the butter, dip each sardine in butter, and roll in grated cheese ; place on a piece of paste, and wrap up neatly ; seal the ends with white of egg. Drop into hot fat, fry gently a golden colour, take up, drain well. Dish up neatly, sprinkle over with grated cheese mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and serve hot. LOBSTER CROQUETTES. Ingredients.—One medium-sized lobster, one table- spoonful flour, one whole egg, one yolk of egg, parsley, 1^ ozs. butter, one tablespoonful cream, salt and cayenne pepper, panurette or breadcrumbs, frying fat. Method.—Split the lobster, crack the claws, remove all the flesh of the lobster and mince it rather finely. The coral (if any) should be removed and pounded with the butter. Put the butter in a stewpan, when melted add the flour, stir over the fire for a few minutes, but do not let the flour take colour. Moisten with nearly a gill of water or fish stock, mix thoroughly, and allow to boil for a few minutes. Now add the minced lobster and5 FISH, ETC. the cream, season to taste with salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne. When thoroughly hot stir in the yolk of one egg, let it bind, then spread the mixture on a plate and allow to cool. Divide the mixture into six portions, shape each to the form of a cutlet, dip in beaten egg, and cover with panurette or breadcrumbs, fry in deep fat (very hot), drain, arrange on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot or cold. CROUTONS OF LOBSTER A LA DIABLE. Ingredients.— One lobster, one tablespoonful white wine vinegar, half a lemon, cayenne and mustard, croutons, 2 ozs. butter, six drops tarragon vinegar, 2 ozs. white breadcrumbs, grated nutmeg, white cream sauce. Method.—Remove the meat from the shell and head of a lobster, and pound it to a paste with 2 ozs. of butter, one tablespoonful of white wine vinegar, six drops of tarragon, 2 ozs. of white breadcrumbs, and the grated rind and juice of half a lemon. To each 8 ozs. of lobster use one saltspoonful of nutmeg, the same of cayenne, and one teaspoonful of mustard. Have ready some small croutons of fried bread, and put a teaspoonful of the mixture on each. Cover with white cream sauce flavoured with cayenne and lemon juice. Dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. DEVILLED CRAB. Ingredients.—One large crab (boiled), one hard boiled egg, ozs. butter, salt, pepper and cayenne, parsley for garnish, one large tablespoonful cream, one large table- spoonful tartare sauce, a few drops of lemon juice, breadcrumbs. Method.—Remove the meat from the shell and claws.FISH, ETC. 6 Clean the shell, and butter the inside portion. Shred the meat as finely as possible, mix it with the cream, tartare sauce, one tablespoonful of breadcrumbs, the yolk of a hard boiled egg (rubbed through a sieve), and an ounce of butter (melted). Season with salt, pepper, lemon juice, and a good pinch of cayenne. When all is thoroughly mixed, put it back into the shell. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs, and a few small bits of butter, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. KEDGEREE AU PAPRIKA. Ingredients.—4 ozs. rice, some rich stock, if ozs. butter, salt, nutmeg, and Paprika pepper, twenty-four picked prawns, or an equal quantity of shrimps, one hard boiled egg, 1 oz. grated cheese, watercress for garnish. Method.—Pick, wash, and blanch the rice, drain well, and put it in a stewpan with the butter ; stir over the fire for a few minutes, then moisten with stock, and cook till tender, adding more stock as required by degrees and as the rice swells whilst cooking. Stir frequently to prevent it from sticking. Now add suffi- cient salt to taste, a pinch of grated nutmeg, and enough Paprika pepper to give the rice a soft pinkish tint. Chop finely the prawns or shrimps, keeping aside a few for garnish, chop the white of the hard boiled egg, and add both, together with the cheese, to the rice. Stir gently till thoroughly hot. Arrange on a hot dish, garnish with hard boiled yolk of egg (rubbed through a coarse sieve, or chopped finely), some prawns or shrimps, and a few sprigs of freshly picked watercress. Serve hot. SCALLOPED SHRIMPS WITH TOMATOES. Ingredients.—f pint picked shrimps, 1 oz. butter, f gill white sauce, salt, pepper, and cayenne, five smallFISH, ETC. 7 tomatoes, one tablespoonful French vinegar, one tea- spoonful chopped parsley, breadcrumbs or panurette. Method.—Peel and slice thinly the tomatoes, put them in a basin containing the picked shrimps, add the seasoning (vinegar, parsley, pepper, and salt) to taste, and mix very gently. Butter some very small scallop shells, put half a tablespoonful of white sauce in each, fill up with the prepared mixture, cover or mask with white sauce ; sprinkle with panurette or breadcrumbs so as to completely cover the tops; place a few bits of butter on each, and bake in a hot oven till nicely browned. SCRAMBLED SCALLOPS. Ingredients.—Six to eight scallops (cleaned), two eggs, one small onion, one bayleaf, two tablespoonfuls cream, a slice of toasted bread, \ pint milk, ozs. butter, salt and pepper. Method.—Boil the scallops in the milk. The latter should be slightly salted, and contain a slice of onion and half a bayleaf. When done pour off the milk, remove the onion and bayleaf, and chop the scallops not too finely. Beat up the eggs, add to them the cream, season to taste, and mix thoroughly. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add to it the minced scallop, and heat up over the fire, stir in the eggs, etc., and continue to stir over the fire until the eggs begin to thicken and become set. Have ready a slice of toast neatly trimmed on a hot dish. Pour the mixture on to this, and serve hot. FISH CUTLETS. Ingredients.—| lb. cold fish, freed from skin and bones, one jdessertspoonful anchovy essence, panurette or breadcrumbs, frying fat, i gill well reduced Bechamel sauce, one yolk and one whole egg, salt and pepper, parsley.FISH, ETC. 8 Method.—Shred the fish as finely as possible, or mince very small. Heat up the sauce, add the anchovy essence, season to taste, and stir in the minced fish. When thoroughly hot stir in one yolk of egg, let it bind, and turn the mixture on to a plate to cool. Make up into even-sized cutlet shapes, insert a small piece of macaroni at each end of the cutlets, dip in beaten egg, crumb well, either with panurette or ordinary breadcrumbs. Fry a golden colour in deep fat, drain well, arrange on a folded napkin or dish paper, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. FISH OMELET. Ingredients.—The remains of cold fish (boiled and white fish preferable), i^- ozs. butter, four eggs, a little white sauce, one tablespoonful cream or milk, seasoning. Method.—Free the fish from skin and bones, and break up into very small pieces or shreds. Put it in a stewpan with £ oz. butter, season with pepper and salt, heap up, and add enough white sauce to moisten the fish. Keep hot. Break the eggs into a basin, beat up lightly, add the cream or milk ; season to taste. Melt an ounce of butter in an omelet pan, pour in the eggs, stir over a quick fire until the mixture begins to set, then shake well. Give it the shape of a cushion, put the prepared fish in the middle, fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, and turn out on a hot dish. Serve at once. AMERICAN FISH PIE. Ingredients.—| lb. cooked turbot, cod, or haddock, £ pint white sauce, two yolks and one whole egg, £ lb. mashed potatoes, 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, pepper, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg.FISH, ETC. 9 Method.—Break the fish into flakes, removing the skin and bones, put it in a stewpan with ^ oz. butter, stir a little over the fire, and add half the sauce and half the cheese, season to taste, and heat up. Warm the potato puree with an ounce of butter, stir well, season to taste, and bind with two egg-yolks. Line a well-buttered pie-dish with a layer of the pre- pared potatoes, about half an inch thick, put in a layer of sauce, and the prepared fish, cover with another layer of sauce, and lastly cover all with more potato puree. Smooth the surface, brush over with beaten egg. Sprinkle with grated cheese and a pinch of cayenne, if liked. Mark the top prettily with the point of a knife, and place the dish in pan containing a little water, and bake thus in a quick oven for twenty minutes until the pie is thoroughly hot and the top of a nice rich brown colour. HADDOCK CREAMS. Ingredients.—Half a haddock, % pint cream, i gill tomato pulp, tarragon and chervil, i gill aspic jelly, one tablespoonful mayonnaise, \ oz. gelatine, % oz. butter. Method.—Decorate a number of small dariole moulds (previously masked with a thin layer of aspic) with tarragon and chervil leaves. Put the haddock in the oven with a little butter on top, and cook for ten minutes, remove skin and bones and pound in a mortar, rub through a sieve, and let cool. Melt the gelatine in the tomato pulp. Whip the cream till stiff, add the mayonnaise sauce and the remainder of aspic jeliy, strain the tomato sauce, etc., into this, and stir gradually into the puree of haddock. Fill the moulds with the mixture. Put them on the ice to set. Turn out on a cold dish, decorate with chopped aspic and small salad, and serve.FISH, ETC. IO CROUTES A LA ST. GEORGE. Ingredients.—Half a dried haddock, two eggs, one tea- spoonful chopped parsley, seasoning, J pint milk, one shallot, i oz. butter, brown bread. Method.—Scald the fish, remove the skin and bones, break up the flesh into very small pieces, and put it in a saute-pan with the milk. Cook till tender, take up the fish, drain, and shred it as finely as possible. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the shallot (peeled and finely chopped) and the parsley, blend a little, but do not let it get brown ; then add the fish, and stir over a gentle fire. Beat up the eggs, add about a couple of table- spoonfuls of the milk the fish was cooked in, season with a pinch of pepper and a pinch of nutmeg ; stir this into the pan containing the fish ; when it commences to set, remove it from the fire. Have ready some neatly shaped croutes of fried brown bread, dress the mixture upon these. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve as after dinner savoury or for breakfast. OYSTERS, RICHELIEU*STYLE. Ingredients.—Eight large sauce oysters, i gill cream, two tablespoonfuls mayonnaise sauce, tarragon and chervil leaves for garnish, half small lobster, \ pint aspic jelly, i oz. French gelatine, gill tomato puree or pulp, half a small head of celery, a handful of picked shrimps. Method.—Remove the beards of the oysters, and poach the latter in their own liquor. Reduce the oyster liquor, and strain into the aspic jelly (great care must be taken to preserve the latter perfectly clear). Chop the meat of the lobster rather finely, melt the gelatine in the tomato pulp, strain, and mix with half the jelly. Whisk the cream, and stir it, together with a table-FISH, ETC. ii spoonful of -mayonnaise, into the above ; whisk for some minutes, then add the minced lobster. Mask some deep oyster moulds1 with aspic jelly, decorate tastefully with sprigs of tarragon and chervil leaves. Mix the rest of the aspic with the remaining mayonnaise sauce, and pour a thin layer of it over the decorated moulds. Allow to set on the ice, then fill each with the prepared puree, and place in the cool until set. Meanwhile prepare a salad with the celery (finely shredded) and the shrimps ; season according to taste. Turn out the moulds, arrange the oysters on a dish in the form of a border, fill the centre with the prepared salad, garnish the dish smartly, and send to table. OYSTER FRITTERS. Ingredients.—One dozen sauce oysters, one egg, salt and pepper, parsley, 3 ozs. flour, one tablespoonful oil, one tablespoonful lemon juice. Method.—Sift the flour into a basin, add a small pinch of salt, stir in the yolk of an egg, half the oil, and suffi- cient tepid water to 'form a batter, resembling in consis- tency a double cream. Allow the batter to stand for about an hour. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mingle with the batter just before using. Beard the oysters, lay them on a cloth to drain, put them on a plate, season with pepper and salt, sprinkle over with lemon juice, the remainder of oil, and about a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Mix carefully. Dip each oyster into the batter, and drop into hot fat or lard, fry a golden colour, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with parsley and quartered lemon, and serve. 1 Suitable moulds for this dish can be obtained from Messrs. Jones Bros., of Down Street, Piccadilly, who are manufacturers of these special oyster moulds.FISH, ETC. 12 TOASTED OYSTERS. Toast some slices of white or brown bread. Cut some thin slices of cooked ham. Stamp out some rounds of toasted bread and ham about to 2 inches in diameter. Cover each round of toast with ham, and place upon them the same number of oysters as there are rounds of toast. The oysters should be drained from the liquor and bearded. Put a tiny piece of fresh butter on top of each oyster, season with a pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne, then bake in a hot oven for about three minutes. Dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. CROUSTADES OF SALMON, DEVILLED. Ingredients.—| lb. smoked salmon or thin lax, £ oz. butter, \ lb. short crust paste or puff paste, one tea- spoonful chopped parsley, one teaspoonful chopped shallots, curry powder and cayenne. Method.—Roll out the paste, and line eight to ten small tartlet moulds. Prick the bottom with a fork to prevent blisters in baking, fill up with some rice or dry peas. Bake a golden colour, take out the rice or peas, and put the crusts on a baking tin. Cut the salmon into fine shreds. Melt the butter in a small saute-pan, put in the shallots, and fry a light brown ; then add the salmon or slices of lax if the latter be preferred. Toss over the fire, taking care not to smash up the fish. Season with a good pinch of curry powder and a pinch of cayenne, shake well, and mix in the parsley. Fill up the crusts with this, bake for a few minutes, and serve very hot. SALMON TIMBALES. Ingredients.—| lb. cold salmon (free from skin and bones), 4 ozs. breadcrumbs, a teaspoonful lemon juice,13 FISH, ETC. a pinch of ground mace, salt, Hollandaise sauce, 1 oz. butter, two tablespoonfuls milk or cream, three eggs, a pinch of cayenne pepper, parsley. Method.—Break up the fish as small as possible, put it into a basin, and work it to a cream with a fork or wooden spoon, adding by degrees the butter (previously warmed) and the cream. Separate the yolks of eggs from the whites, stir in the former, and whisk the latter to a stiff froth. Season the mixture with the above- named ingredients (salt, cayenne, mace, and lemon juice) ; mix in carefully the beaten whites of eggs. Fill some buttered timbale or dariole moulds with the mixture, poach them in the oven for about thirty minutes. Unmould, dish up, sauce over with Hollandaise sauce, garnish with parsley, and serve. SALMON PIE. Ingredients.—1 lb. cold salmon, gill cream, % pint soft breadcrumbs, a tablespoonful panurette, salt, pepper, and Paprika, \ pint milk, 1^ ozs. butter, 4 ozs. bread- crumbs, one egg. Method.—Free the fish from skin and bones, and flake it finely. Boil the milk, and pour over the fish, beat it well; add the egg and one ounce of oiled butter, and work it with a wooden spoon until it has the appearance and consistency of cream. Now season to taste with salt, pepper, and Paprika. Have ready a buttered pie dish, strew a layer of breadcrumbs at the bottom, then place in a layer of fish cream, then a few drops of cream, and so on until the pie dish is completely filled. Use the panurette for the last layer. Place a few tiny bits of butter on top, and bake in a fairly hot oven from twenty to thirty minutes.H FISH, ETC. LOBSTER SALAD IN SHELLS. * Ingredients.—One lobster, one lettuce, % gill Tar tare sauce, half a lemon. Method.—Split the lobster, crack the claws, and remove all the meat. Divide it into small dice, and season well with Tartare sauce. Clean and trim the shells of the lobster, fill up with the prepared salad, and range them on a dish. Wash and trim the lettuce, break the leaves into pieces. If any lobster mixture is left over put it in the centre of the dish, and upon this place the lettuce leaves. Garnish with slices of lemon, and serve. OYSTER SALAD. Ingredients.—Twelve large sauce oysters, one lettuce, pickled beetroot, i gill mayonnaise dressing, half head of celery, gherkins. Method—Parboil the oysters in their own liquor (care must be taken not to let the oysters boil), drain them, remove the beards, and cut them in halves. Wash and trim the lettuce, shred it rather coarsely. Wash and pare the celery, and cut into fine shreds. Put a layer of lettuce in a salad bowl, upon this put a tablespoonful of mayonnaise, mix the oysters and celery with mayon- naise, dress this neatly upon the lettuce, etc., cover with lettuce and more mayonnaise, garnish with fancifully cut slices of beetroot and gherkins, and serve.15 II MEAT, ETC. GATEAU OF MUTTON OR BEEF (HOT). Ingredients.—i lb. mashed potatoes, f lb. cold mutton or beef, salt, pepper and nutmeg, a tablespoonful panu- rette or brown breadcrumbs, one egg, three to four ripe tomatoes (firm), i gill good brown sauce, £ oz. butter, half a teaspoonful powdered herbs, half a lemon, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, a little cold milk. Method.—Cut the meat into thin slices or strips, and slice the tomatoes. Beat up the egg and add a little cold milk. Mix this with the potato puree, which should be hot. Butter a plain charlotte mould or an ordinary cake tin, and sprinkle the inside with panurette or brown breadcrumbs. Mix the powdered or sweet herbs with the parsley and the finely chopped thin rind of half a lemon. Line the bottom and sides of the mould with mashed potatoes, put a layer of cold meat, a pinch of salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg, parsley, and herbs in the mould, then a layer of tomatoes, and continue thus until the mould is filled. If a large mould be used more meat and tomatoes will be required. When the mould is sufficiently filled, pour in about half the quantity of brown sauce. Cover the mould with a layer of mashed potatoes, and bake in a moderately heated oven from thirty-five to sixty minutes, according16 MEAT, ETC. to the size and shape of the mould. When done, un- mould on to a hot dish. Pour the remainder of the sauce (hot) round the gateau, and serve hot. COLD MEAT KEDGEREE. Ingredients.—6 ozs. cold meat (any kind will do), i oz. butter, two slices onion finely chopped, 4 ozs. rice, two hard boiled eggs, parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Remove the skin, gristle, and superfluous fat from the meat, and chop it not too finely. Boil the rice in the usual manner, so that when tender each grain will separate and is intact. Drain the rice when done. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the onion, and fry a golden colour, then add the meat and fry for a few minutes ; stir in the rice ; season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Shell the eggs, chop the whites and mix with the above. Heat the whole thoroughly, and dish up in a pyramidal form. Rub the yolks of eggs through a wire sieve, and sprinkle over the kedgeree. Sprinkle over likewise some finely chopped parsley, and arrange the dish as neatly as possible. Place it in the oven for a few minutes, and send to table. Cold poultry or game can be prepared in exactly the same manner. PANCAKES WITH SAVOURY MINCE. Ingredients.—J- lb. flour, ^ pint milk, f lb. scraps of cold mutton or beef, half a teaspoonful chopped parsley, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, two eggs, 2 ozs. butter, one dessertspoonful flour, two slices of onion, two table- spoonfuls brown sauce or rich gravy. Method.—Put the flour (sifted) into a basin, beat up the eggs with the milk, add a pinch of salt to the flour,MEAT, ETC. 17 and stir in gradually the milk and eggs. Beat this until it is quite smooth, and allow to stand. Mince the cold meat as finely as possible. Mince the onion, and fry in 2 oz- butter to a golden colour ; add the flour, and fry a little, then stir in the minced meat, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, add also the chopped parsley, and moisten with the sauce or gravy. Keep this hot until required. Fry some pancakes in the usual manner. Put a table- spoonful of the prepared mince into each pancake as it is finished, roll up neatly, dish up, garnish with fresh or fried parsley, and serve hot. BEEF POLANTINE. Ingredients.—% to 12 ozs. cold roast beef, £ gill brown sauce, two tablespoonfuls flour, frying fat, two ripe firm tomatoes, two medium-sized onions, 1 oz. butter, a little milk, seasoning. Method. Trim the meat and cut it into fine shreds, sprinkle it with half a teaspoonful of salt, a pinch of pepper, and a grate of nutmeg, and heat up in the sauce. Peel the onions, cut them into thin slices, divide the slices into rings, dip these in milk and then in flour, fry them in hot fat, drain, and keep hot. Slice the tomatoes. Melt the butter, and fry the tomatoes in this, season them, and arrange them neatly on a dish. Dress the heated meat on top, sprinkle the fried onions with a little fine salt, and range them taste- fully on top of the meat. Pour a little hot gravy or sauce round the dish, and serve. MINCED BEEF AND POACHED EGGS. Ingredients. £ lb. underdone beef, 1 oz. butter, one teaspoonful vinegar, \ pint gravy, £ oz. flour, two poached eggs. crt MEAT, ETC. Method—Cut the meat into dice, sprinkle the flour over it. Heat the butter and fry the meat in it two or three minutes, also the onion minced ; add the gravy, cook gently for ten minutes, dish up. Garnish with sippets of toast, and place the poached eggs on the top. MUTTON PIE. Cut some cold mutton into thin slices, sprinkle with flour, salt, and pepper, and put them in a greased pie dish with alternate layers of sliced tomatoes. Moisten with stock or water. Cover with a layer of mashed potatoes, decorate the top suitably, brush over with beaten egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about three-quarters of an hour. PARMENTIER TURNOVERS. Ingredients.—I lb. mashed potatoes, one tablespoonful cream, flour, i oz. cleaned currants, £ gill gravy, bread- crumbs, seasoning, four eggs, 2 ozs. butter, 4 to 6 ozs. cold roast or boiled meat, one small shallot, frying fat, parsley. Method.—Mix the hot potato puree with one well beaten egg, add the cream and a small piece of butter 5 season to taste ; stir over the fire until quite hot, and turn on to a floured board. Roll it in flour, and divide into ten to twelve parts. Make into balls, and pi ess 01 roll out each rather thinly. Mince the meat very small. Peel and chop the shallot, fry it in about 1 oz. butter, stir in a dessertspoonful of flour, and let this brown without burning. Now put in the meat, and stir over the fire for a few minutes. Moisten with the stock, season to taste with salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg, allow toMEAT, ETC. i9 simmer for another few minutes, then turn on to a plate and let cool. Put a tablespoonful of prepared minced meat on one half of the potato pastes, wet the edges a little, fold over and press the edges together. Egg and breadcrumb them. Fry in hot fat to a golden colour, drain on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. SAVOURY TARTLETS. Ingredients.—§■ lb. flour, i oz. grated cheese, a little milk, i oz. cold chicken meat, two slices pickled beet- root, i gill stiffly made mayonnaise, 4 ozs. butter, one yolk of egg, 2 ozs. ham or tongue, six stoned olives, a handful of cooked green peas, one tablespoonful capers, seasoning. Method.—Sift the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, add the cheese and mix well, moisten with the yolk of egg, and put enough milk to form a fairly stiff but smooth paste. Roll out the paste on a floured board. Stamp out some rounds, and line a number of small fluted patty pans, or very tiny buttered brioche moulds, prick the paste to keep it from rising, fill these with raw rice, and bake a nice colour in a moderate oven. Remove the rice, turn out the crusts, and let them cool. Cut up the ham or tongue and chicken into very small dice, or fine shreds, cut the olives to match, and put these together with the peas and capers in a basin. Stamp out some rings of beetroot, allowing one for each tartlet. Chop up the trimmings of the beetroot, and mix with the remainder of the ingredients in the basin. Season to taste, and mix with a little mayonnaise. Fill the taitlet crusts with this, cover with a layer of mayon- naise, place a ring of beetroot on top of each, dish up, and serve.20 MEAT, £rC. SMALL SAVOURY CROUTES WITH HAM. Ingredients.—Ten to twelve small croutes of bread, fried in clarified butter or lard, 3 ozs. fresh butter, a few sprigs of parsley, tarragon, and chervil, three large Gorgona anchovies (boned), two hard boiled eggs, a dust of Nepaul or Paprika pepper, two to three slices cooked ham. Method.—Pound the anchovies in a mortar, add to it the yolks of the hard boiled eggs and the butter. Mix well, season with a dust of pepper. Chop the parsley and other herbs finely (a teaspoonful in all), and add to the mixture. Rub this through a fine sieve, and put it in a forcing bag with a rose pipe. Stamp out the slices of ham to the size of the croutes, allowing one for each. Place these on the croutes. Force the prepared mixture tastefully on top of the ham, garnish each croute with hard boiled white of egg (rubbed through a coarse wire sieve). Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. If the savoury puree is desired a deeper pink, a few drops of liquid carmine should be mixed with it before it is passed through the sieve. SAVOURY MINCE IN CRUSTS. Ingredients.—Three pork sausages, stale bread, six preserved mushrooms, two potatoes, salt, cayenne or oriental salt, breadcrumbs, parsley, 1 oz. butter, two slices streaky bacon, \ gill brown sauce (Espagnole or Madere), milk, one egg, frying fat. Method.—Prick and fry the sausages in the butter, take up and put them on a plate. Fry the bacon in the same pan as used for the sausages. Skin the sausages, and cut them into very small dice. Cut the bacon in the same fashion, and put both in a stew-21 MEAT, ETC. pan ; add to this the mushrooms (chopped coarsely), half a teaspoonful chopped parsley ; season to taste, moisten with the sauce, heat up, and keep hot. Cut three or four slices of stale bread about an inch thick, stamp out some ovals with a paste cutter ; scoop out the inside so as to form a hollow crust. Dip in milk for a few minutes, drain, egg and crumb both inside and out, fry in very hot fat a nice colour, and drain. Wash and peel the potatoes, cut them into very fine shreds, fry them in plenty of hot fat, drain, and dredge with salt. Fill the prepared crusts with the mixture as above prepared. Dish up, garnish with fried potatoes and parsley, and serve hot. SAVOURY PANCAKES. Ingredients. — Pancake batter, a pinch of salt, i gill milk, 2 ozs. butter, i\ gills Bechamel sauce, Paprika pepper, 2 ozs. flour, one whole and two yolks of eggs, 2 ozs. grated cheese (Gruyere or Parmesan), bread- crumbs or panurette. Method.—Prepare the batter by sifting the flour into a basin, add the salt, beat up the milk and eggs together, stir this gradually into the flour, and mix thoroughly. Beat well with a wooden spoon for about ten minutes, and add a dessertspoonful of grated cheese at the last. Fry eight to ten very small and thin pancakes, using some of the butter for this purpose. Spread one side of each pancake with well reduced Bechamel, sprinkle over with grated cheese and a good pinch of Paprika. Lay them one by one on a well-buttered silver dish. Divide them into eight parts with a sharp knife, sauce over with the remainder of Bechamel, sprinkle with grated cheese and panurette or breadcrumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter on top. and set in a very sharp oven for a22 MEAT, ETC. few minutes, or brown the surface under a salamander. Serve hot. ROLLED SANDWICHES. Ingredients. — 6 ozs. cooked chicken meat, cayenne, two tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, parsley, 2 ozs. ham or tongue, 2 ozs. butter, one loaf of brown bread (at least one day old), 1 oz. fresh butter. Method.—Pound the chicken meat and ham or tongue in a mortar till quite smooth, then add 3 ozs. butter, mix thoroughly, season with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and rub through a fine sieve. Cut some very thin slices of brown bread (slightly buttered), and trim off the crust. Mix the puree above prepared with one or two table- spoonfuls of mayonnaise sauce (page 94), and spread the buttered side of the bread with this. Roll up each slice firmly, and press lightly for twenty minutes ; then roll up lightly in a clean cloth and place them on the ice for one or two hours. To serve, untie the rolls, and dish them up neatly on small silver dishes, covered with a lace paper, and garnish with parsley. The rolls may be cut in half if liked. Any other kind of meat may be used in place of chicken. Potted game or foie-gras make a nice change. SANDWICHES A LA BERNHARDT. Ingredients. — ^ lb. cold meat (lean veal, beef, or mutton), one tablespoonful American tomato chutney, two small shallots, mustard and cress, white or brown bread and butter, 2 ozs. fresh butter, one teaspoonful mustard, one teaspoonful mango chutney, pepper and salt, parsley. Method.—Remove all skin and fat from the meat, cut it into small pieces and put it into a mortar with 1 oz.23 MEAT, ETC. of butter. Pound till quite smooth, then add the mustard (mixed), tomato, and mango chutney. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them a very pale colour in the remainder of butter, and mix with the above. Season to taste, and rub the whole through a wire sieve. Cut . the bread into thin slices, butter them slightly, and spread the buttered side with the prepared puree. Sprinkle some mustard and cress over half the slices, place them together in the usual manner, press them a little, and cut into round, square, or half-moon shapes. Arrange them neatly on a folded napkin or dish paper on a plate or dish, garnish with parsley, and serve. CHICKEN LEGS STUFFED. Ingredients.—The legs of a cold fowl, two tablespoon- fuls soft breadcrumbs, one egg, two slices of onion, blanched and chopped, four slices streaky bacon, two slices buttered toasted bread, one tablespoonful sweet oil, half a teaspoonful finely chopped sweet herbs, half a teaspoonful finely chopped lemon rind, one teaspoonful finely minced parsley, salt and pepper. Method.—Cut each leg into two joints, and saw off the drumsticks, place them on a plate, season with pepper and salt, and moisten with a little sweet oil. Put the breadcrumbs, lemon rind, sweet herbs, onion, and parsley in a basin, mix well, and moisten with the yolk of an egg. Season with a pinch of salt and a tiny pinch of cayenne. Drain the chicken legs, and cover each with the farce above prepared ; then wrap up in a slice of bacon, tie with twine or skewer them firmly. Place them on a greased baking-tin or saute-pan, and cook in the oven for about twenty minutes. Cut each slice of toasted bread in two, trim neatly, dress the chicken legs on these, dish up, garnish with a few sprigs of curly parsley, and serve hot.MEAT, ETC. 24 CHICKEN CROUSTADES. Ingredients.—4 ozs. calf's liver, 1 oz. butter, 8 ozs. chicken (freed from skin and bones), salt, mignonette pepper, aromatic spice, Madere sauce, 2 ozs. bacon, two shallots, 2 ozs. panade, three whole eggs, a sprig of thyme and marjoram, one truffle, about lb. short crust paste. Method.—Cut the liver and bacon into thin slices and season to taste. Peel and chop finely the shallots, fry them in the butter a pale brown colour. Put in the bacon and fry a little, then add the liver and toss over the fire for a few minutes, together with the thyme and marjoram (only very little of each must be used). Re- move the herbs, and pound the remainder in a mortar. Pound the chicken separately, add the panade and three yolks of eggs ; when smooth and thoroughly mixed season with a little aromatic spice, and salt and pepper if found necessary. Now add the liver farce, and mix it well together with the truffle chopped finely. Rub this through a fine wire sieve. Should the farce be found too stiff, a little brown sauce (Madere) may be added. Roll out the paste rather thinly, and line several croustade or timbale moulds with it, trim the edge of the paste, and prick the bottoms to prevent blistering. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle rather more than half with the prepared farce (force- meat). Fill up the lined moulds with it, and put them on a baking-sheet into a fairly hot oven. Bake for about twenty-five to thirty minutes. When half done spread a little of the remaining whipped white of egg on top of each croustade, and sprinkle with a little grated cheese mixed with a pinch of cayenne pepper, and finish baking. The white of egg can be put on the croustades by25 MEAT, ETC. means of a forcing bag with a large rose pipe, and will look all the smarter for it. When done unmould care- fully, arrange them nicely on a dish, and serve with hot Madere sauce. CROQUETTES OF CHICKEN OR TURKEY. This is a delicious and most economical dish, suitable alike for luncheon or breakfast. Take the remains of a turkey, remove bones, skin, and gristle. To every £ lb. of meat use—4 ozs. coarse grained Florador, half a small onion, seasoning, 2 ozs. boiled ham or bacon, one egg, 2 ozs. butter, bread- crumbs. Method.—Chop the turkey, meat, and ham rather finely. Mince the onion and fry it in the butter a pale colour. Put in the minced meat, and fry a few minutes. Take up and keep warm. Boil % pint stock or water, stir in the Florador, work over the fire until it boils, allow to cook for ten minutes, then add the prepared mince, and cook for another five minutes or so. Season to taste with pepper and salt. Stir in the egg, previously beaten, let it get thoroughly hot, then turn the mixture on a dish or plate and allow to get cool. Shape this into conveniently-sized cutlets, balls, or corks, brush over with beaten egg, cover with bread- crumbs, and fry a golden colour in hot fat or lard. Drain on a cloth or paper, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. CROMESKIES OF FOWL. Ingredients.—6 to 8 ozs. cooked chicken, four large preserved mushrooms, about a gill white sauce, six to eight thin slices streaky bacon, 2 ozs. cooked ham (lean), 2 ozs. cooked tongue, seasoning, one yolk of egg, batter for frying, clarified fat.2 6 MEAT, ETC. Method.—Free the fowl meat from skin, gristle, and bone, and chop or cut into very small dice the chicken, ham, tongue, and mushrooms. Heat up the sauce, stir in the above, season to taste with pepper, nutmeg, etc., and let the whole get thoroughly hot. Put in the egg- yolk, stir again, and spread the mixture on to a plate or dish. When cool make up into small even-sized rolls or cork shapes ; wrap these into thin slices of bacon, dip each into frying batter so as to thoroughly coat them, drop into hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain, and serve. BATTER FOR CROMESKIES. Ingredients.—2 ozs. flour (sifted), one tablespoonful sweet oil, a pinch of salt, two eggs, a little milk or tepid water, lemon juice. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, add a pinch of salt, stir in the oil and about a tablespoonful of milk or water. Mix thoroughly and beat well ; then add one at a time the yolks of two eggs and the white of one. Allow it to stand for a couple of hours. Just before using it whisk the remaining white of egg to a stiff froth, and add this to the batter with a few drops of lemon juice. CHICKEN SCALLOPS. Ingredients.—The remains of a cold fowl (6 to 8 ozs. meat), £ pint Bechamel or ordinary white sauce, season- ing, 2 ozs. ham, three or four large potatoes, one yolk of egg, 2 ozs. butter. Method.—Wash and peel the potatoes, scoop out as many small balls as possible (this is done by means of a French vegetable scoop). Mince rather coarsely the chicken meat and the ham, moisten with a little sauce, and season to taste with pepper and nutmeg (very little of the latter). Heat up in a stewpan, and add the yolkMEAT, ETC. 2 7 of egg when thoroughly hot. Drain the potato balls, and fry them a little in a saute-pan containing about an ounce of butter. Butter some scallop shells, put half a tablespoonful of sauce in each, then a layer of potato balls, then a layer of meat. Sauce over with a little more sauce, and arrange another layer of potato balls so as to cover the sauce and meat. Sprinkle over a little oiled butter, and bake in the oven for about twenty minutes. Place the shells on a dish covered with a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve. BROILED CHICKEN, DEVILLED. Use the remains of a cold roast or boiled chicken, or else a whole one. Divide it into neat joints. Melt about i oz. of butter in a frying-pan, when hot put in the pieces of chicken, and fry a nice golden colour. Take up, sprinkle over with fine salt (just enough to taste). Prepare some devilled butter, and spread over each piece. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. DEVILLED BUTTER. Mix ozs. of butter with half teaspoonful curry powder, half teaspoonful lemon juice, half teaspoonful anchovy essence or paste, a pinch of cayenne pepper, and one teaspoonful of chutney. Rub through a fine sieve, and use as directed. SPATCHCOCK. Truss a young chicken or fowl, the same as for roasting, then split it from top to bottom down the backbone. The breast part of the bird must be left quite whole. Spread out flat, and skewer the legs. Brush over with oiled butter, place it on a gridiron, and cook over or in front of a clear fire for about half an hour. Baste the bird freely during the process of broil-28 MEAT, ETC. ing. When done, sprinkle over with salt and pepper, sufficient to taste. Serve on a hot dish, remove the skewer, and place a few tiny rolls of fried bacon round the dish, garnish with watercress, and serve. SAVOURY ITALIAN RISSOLES. Ingredients.—J lb. flour, 2 ozs. butter, two shallots, £ lb. pressed beef or ham, ^ gill brown sauce, bread- crumbs, egg for crumbing, two eggs, a pinch of salt, a little water, 2 ozs. grated cheese (Parmesan or Gruyere), piquante or tomato sauce, lard or oil, dripping for frying. Method.—Prepare a paste with the flour, eggs, 1 oz. butter, and salt, adding a little water to produce a smooth but well worked and elastic paste ; place it on a floured board, and let rest for an hour. Chop the meat very finely. Peel and chop the shallots, fry them a golden colour in the remaining ounce of butter ; add the chopped meat and a table- spoonful of grated cheese, moisten with brown sauce, add a little seasoning if needed, and turn on to a plate to cool. Divide the paste in two, roll out both parts thinly. Put a dessertspoonful of the meat mixture on the paste at equal distances and in the shape of a little bell, moisten the paste with a brush dipped in water or beaten egg, cover the paste and meat with the second part of the paste, press down between the balls of meat, cut or stamp out some rounds or squares. Mix a tablespoonful of cheese with a couple of handfuls of breadcrumbs, brush over each rissole with egg, and roll in the prepared crumbs. Fry a golden colour in hot fat, drain, and dish up. Garnish with fried parsley, and send to table with a boat of hot piquante or tomato sauce.MEAT, ETC. 29 SAUSAGE CROQUETTES. Ingredients.—1 lb. pork sausages, one whole and one yolk of egg, one dessertspoonful cream, breadcrumbs, frying fat, £ lb. mashed potatoes, \ oz. butter, salt, cayenne, and a grate of nutmeg, parsley. Method.—Prick the sausages, and boil them for ten minutes in stock or water. Take up, cool, and remove the skins. Cut each in half crossways, and shape neatly into the form of a cork. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the cream and the potato puree, stir over the fire until the mixture is quite hot, then add the yolk of egg and seasoning. Stir for a few minutes longer, turn on to a plate to cool. Cover each sausage shape evenly with potato puree, brush over with beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs. This may be repeated if liked. Then fry a golden colour in hot fat. Take up, drain on a cloth or paper, arrange neatly on a hot dish covered with a folded napkin or lace paper, garnish with fried or fresh sprigs of parsley, and serve. SAUSAGE CASSOLETTES. Ingredients. — \ lb. sausage meat, £ gill Bechamel sauce, the remains of sweetbread or fillets of fowl, Nepaul or Paprika pepper, frying fat, salt, % lb. mashed potatoes (rubbed through a sieve), one teaspoonful chopped parsley, one tablespoonful cream, one whole and two yolks of egg, breadcrumbs, parsley for garnish. Method.—Put the sausage meat and potato puree in a basin, mix thoroughly, and add a tablespoonful of Bechamel sauce (cold), the cream, half a teaspoonful of chopped parsley, and the two yolks of eggs. Stir over the fire until quite hot (a little flour can be added if found too moist), season to taste, and turn on a dish or plate to cool.30 MEAT, ETC. Cut the sweetbread or fowl into very small dice, put it in a stewpan, and add to it the remainder of the sauce and chopped parsley, season to taste, and heat up. Shape the cold mixture into balls, flatten them a little, egg and breadcrumb them, and fry a nice brown colour in plenty of hot fat; drain, scoop out a little of the centre part to make them hollow ; fill the cavity of each with the hot meat mixture, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. SAVOURY ROLY-POLY PUDDING. Ingredients.—\ lb flour, 6 ozs. sausage-meat, one table- spoonful cream, a pinch of cayenne, gill rich tomato or piquante sauce, 4 ozs. chopped beef suet, one yolk of egg, one pinch of powdered sage or mint. Method.—Mix the flour and suet together, add a pinch of salt, and work into a paste with the needful quantity of water. Mix the sausage-meat with the egg-yolk, cream, sage or mint, and cayenne, and work together till quite light. Roll out the paste on a floured board, spread over with a layer of sausage-meat as above pre- pared ; wet the edges of the paste, roll up, and wrap in a wet and floured cloth ; tie the ends tightly with string, and boil for one hour and a half, or steam for two hours. Take it up, untie, remove the cloth, cut the ends of the roll, and place on a hot dish, pour over some hot tomato or piquante sauce, and serve. BACON OLIVES WITH SHARP SAUCE. Ingredients.—Six to eight thin slices of bacon, two tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, half teaspoonful chopped parsley, one teaspoonful finely-chopped onion, half tea- spoonful savoury mixed herbs, 4 ozs. cold meat (freed from skin and bone, and chopped finely), 1 oz. chopped ham or tongue, one small egg, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, toasted bread, piquante sauce.MEAT, ETC. 3i Method.—Flatten the slices of bacon a little, and trim neatly. Mix the cold meat, breadcrumbs, parsley, onion, mixed herbs, and ham or tongue in a basin ; moisten with the egg (previously beaten), season to taste with salt, pepper, and a grate of nutmeg. Spread this on to a plate and allow to stand for a time. Divide into six or eight portions, shape like a cork, place each on a slice of bacon and roll up, tie with fine twine, or fasten them on to skewers. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about half an hour ; brush over with dissolved meat glaze (if handy). Have ready some neatly-cut pieces of toasted and buttered bread, the size of the olives, place the olives on these, dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve hot. HAM AND EGG TARTLETS. Ingredients.—6 ozs. cooked ham, \ gill milk, four or five eggs, pepper and nutmeg, 2 ozs. white breadcrumbs, \ oz. butter, brown crumbs, cayenne or Paprika pepper. Method.—Chop the ham as finely as possible, put in a basin, and add to it the breadcrumbs ; season with a good pinch of pepper and a grate of nutmeg ; mix well, moisten with the milk, and work into a paste of moderate consistency. Butter some tartlet moulds or plain patty tins, sprinkle them with brown crumbs or panurette, and line each thickly with the prepared paste. Break an egg carefully into each of the moulds, put one or two tiny bits of butter on top of each egg, sprinkle with a small pinch of cayenne or Paprika, and bake in the oven for about ten minutes. Unmould carefully, dish up, and serve hot. SCRAMBLED HAM AND EGGS ON TOAST. Ingredients.—1 oz. butter, two eggs, a pinch of cayenne, a grate of nutmeg, 4 ozs. cooked ham (finely chopped), toasted bread, one dessertspoonful cream.MEAT, ETC. 32 Method.—Beat up the eggs in a basin, add the cream, and season with cayenne and nutmeg. Melt the butter in a small stewpan ; when hot add the minced ham, and fry for a few minutes ; stir in the eggs, etc., and con- tinue stirring until the eggs begin to set. Spread the mixture on to some neatly-shaped rounds, ovals, or fingers of toasted and buttered bread, dish up, and serve quickly. BREAKFAST BACON WITH POTATOES. Ingredients.—About \ lb. streaky bacon, i oz. butter, i to lb. cold potatoes, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Cut the bacon into slices (lengthwise), pare off the rind and gristle parts ; divide each slice in two (crosswise). Lay them in a frying-pan, and fry very slightly over a clear fire. Cover the bacon in the pan with the potatoes, previously cut into very thin slices. Season with very little salt, some pepper, and grated nutmeg. Divide the butter into small bits, and dis- tribute on top of the potatoes. Put the frying-pan into a hot oven, and bake for about twenty minutes. Turn out on to a hot dish, and in so doing take care that the crisp slices of bacon cover the dish entirely. SAVOURY HAM CREAMS (COLD). Ingredients.—6 ozs. lean cooked ham, two small ripe tomatoes, J oz. French leaf gelatine, a few drops liquid carmine, seasoning, 2 ozs. cooked ox-tongue, J pint well- reduced Bechamel sauce, a dessertspoonful Indian chutney, 1 gill aspic. Method.—Cut up the ham, tongue, and tomatoes, and pound in a mortar till quite smooth, then add the sauce and Indian chutney, also a few drops of carmine to give the mixture a deep pink tint, season to taste with white pepper and Paprika and rub through a fine sieve.33 MEAT, ETC. Mask a number of very small dariole or other fancy moulds with aspic jelly. The latter may be coloured with cochineal or carmine if liked. Dissolve the gela- tine in the remainder of jelly, and strain into the pre- pared mixture; stir well so as to incorporate the gelatine and aspic, and fill the moulds. When set, unmould in the usual manner, dish up and serve. BROWN BREAD CROUTES WITH EGG AND TONGUE. Ingredients.—6 ozs. cooked smoked ox-tongue, twelve small croutes of brown bread, salt and pepper, two eggs, 2 ozs.*butter, one tablespoonful cream, one small truffle, frying fat. Method.—The brown bread should be cut into slices not quite half an inch thick, and be stamped out with a plain paste cutter i^- inches in diameter. Fry these lightly in hot fat, and drain them. Slice the truffle and cut out a number of star shapes (one for each croute). Beat up the eggs, and put them with the cream and butter into a stewpan, adding at the same time about 4 ozs. of finely- chopped tongue. Season with pepper and very little salt, and stir over the fire until the mixture begins to thicken. Have the croutes ready to hand, and put about a dessertspoonful of the mixture on each, sprinkle over with finely-chopped tongue, place a star or truffle in the centre of each. Dish up, and put them in a hot oven for a few seconds. Serve quickly and very hot. MADRAS FRITTERS. Ingredients.—Four slices brown bread, 1 oz. butter, frying batter, parsley, three tablespoonfuls chutney, four slices cooked ham, frying fat. Method.—Stamp out some rounds by means of a plain paste cutter inches in diameter. Spread each round DMEAT, ETC. 34 with butter, and cover the buttered sides with a layer of chutney, place on this a round of ham the same size as the bread, and press together lightly. Dip each slice into frying batter and fry a golden colour in hot fat. Drain well, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve hot. CREPINETTES OF PORK LIVER. Ingredients.—J lb. pork liver, a pig’s caul, one clove of garlic, one egg, lb. fat pork, salt, pepper, nutmeg, and aromatic spice, a dessertspoonful chopped parsley. Method.—Cut the liver and pork fat into fine strips about ij inches long, put them in a plate or basin. Mix with it finely-chopped garlic, parsley, the yolk of an egg, and season to taste with salt, pepper, nutmeg, and aromatic spice. Plunge the caul into lukewarm water for a few minutes, then spread it out on to a board, and cut it into conveniently sized squares. Put a large tablespoonful of the mixture in the centre of each square of caul, wet the edges with white of egg, fold over and shape neatly into squares. Place the crepinettes on to a well- buttered baking tin or sautoir, folded sides downwards. Bake in a fairly hot oven for about thirty minutes. Dish up, and serve hot or cold. If served hot garnish the dish with fried parsley, and send to table with some piquante or tomato sauce. FRIED PIG’S FEET. * Ingredients.—Two pairs pig’s feet, one onion, gill vinegar, salt, pepper, parsley, breadcrumbs, tomato sauce, one carrot, £ oz. flour, peppercorns, oil, one egg, fat for frying. Method.—Wash and scald the pig’s feet, bone the upper part and remove the shank bone ; slit them in35 MEAT, ETC. two, and steep in cold water for one or two hours. Blanch them in salted water. Put them in a stewpan with sufficient water or stock to well cover. Add the carrot and onion sliced and a few peppercorns. Cook slowly till tender. Drain, remove the hoof bones, place the meat under press, and let cool. Cut into convenient strips. Prepare a dressing of oil, vinegar, and chopped pars- ley ; pour this over the pieces, and let them soak for an hour. Mix the flour with a little pepper and salt, dip each piece in egg and crumbs, fry in hot fat a golden colour, strain, dish up, and serve with tomato sauce. GOOSE LIVER FRITTERS, STRASBOURG STYLE. Ingredients.—Six to eight thin slices of raw ham, one terrine or tin of foie-gras pate, 4 ozs. flour, salt and pepper, \ tablespoonful sweet oil, parsley, frying batter, two yolks and one white of egg, about \ gill stale beer (German beer is best), frying fat. Method.—Stamp out some rounds of ham with an inch or inch cutter. Remove the lard from the foie- gras, cut it into convenient slices, stamp out each slice about the size of the ham. Prepare the frying batter with the above ingredients ; allow it to stand for some time. Spread a little of the batter with a knife over each slice of ham, place a slice of foie-gras between eadh two, and make up like sandwiches, the batter being so to speak used as butter and the ham as bread. Coat each sandwich well with batter, and fry in hot fat a golden colour. Drain, dish up, garnish with quarters of lemon and sprigs of parsley, and serve with a small boat of tomato sauce.MEAT, £IC. 36 SHEEP’S BRAINS WITH MUSHROOMS. Ingredients.—Three to four sheep’s brains, some mush- room trimmings, four yolks of egg, i oz. butter, Pap- rika, pepper, salt, and grated nutmeg, a tiny bunch of parsley, one onion, ij ozs. panade or \ gill well reduced white sauce, eighteen preserved mushrooms, Madere sauce. Method.—Wash the brains several times in salted water, remove the skin and wash a second time in fresh water. Peel and slice the onion ; put this, the parsley, and fresh mushroom trimmings in a stewpan half filled with water, plunge in the brains, and let them boil for about five minutes ; then drain them carefully, and rub the whole through a wire sieve into a basin. Put the panade or sauce into a mortar, and work in the yolks of eggs; add this to the brain puree. Stir well, and season to taste with a pinch of pepper, a pinch of Paprika, salt, and a pinch of nutmeg. Butter eight to ten small dariole moulds, fill these with the prepared puree. Poach them in the usual manner for about ten minutes in a saute-pan containing boiling water. When done, turn out the moulds on to a hot dish, arrange the darioles in a circle, pile the preserved mushrooms, previously heated in brown sauce (Madeira sauce), in the centre of the dish, pour some hot sauce over and round the darioles, and serve. MADEIRA SAUCE. To make \ pint of Madeira sauce, take £ pint Espag- nole or rich brown sauce, put this in a stewpan with a giass of Madeira or sherry wine and about ^ oz. of meat glaze, allow it to boil until sufficiently reduced, season to taste, and use as directed.MEAT, ETC. 37 SAUTEED SHEEP’S KIDNEY WITH MADEIRA. Ingredients.—Three or four sheep’s kidneys, two small shallots, i gill demi-glace sauce, parsley, bread croutons, i oz. butter, six to eight preserved mushrooms, a glass (about \ gill) Madeira wine, seasoning. Method.—Remove the skin and core from the kidneys, and cut the latter into thin slices. Season with pepper and salt. Mince finely the peeled shallots, and slice the mushrooms. Put the butter in a saute-pan, when hot add the shallots, and allow them to get a pale brown or fawn colour ; then add the kidneys, and shake or toss well over a brisk fire for about six minutes. Now add the Madeira wine, cover the pan and let the contents infuse for a few seconds. Put in the sauce (previously well reduced) and the mushrooms ; allow the whole to get thoroughly hot, but do not allow it to boil, else the kidneys will become hard. Dish up, garnish with croutons of fried bread, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. Calf’s kidneys or calf’s liver may be prepared in the same manner. CHICKEN LIVER ON TOAST. Ingredients.—Two chicken livers, six to eight thin slices of bacon, i oz. butter, cayenne, six to eight oval shaped croutes of fried or toasted bread, one saltspoon- ful mustard, meat glaze. Method.—Clean the livers, cut them in halves, sprinkle with pepper, roll each piece in a thin slice of bacon, broil over a brisk coal fire. Mix the butter with the mustard and a pinch of cayenne, spread the croutes with this. Dish up, and place the broiled liver and bacon on the croutes, brush over with liquid meat glaze, garnish with fried parsley, and serve quickly.MEAT, ETC. 38 DEVILLED CHICKEN’S LIVERS. Ingredients.—Chicken’s livers, salt, pepper and cayenne, parsley, bacon, croutes, one shallot. Method.—Wash and drain the livers, sprinkle them over with a little pepper, salt, and cayenne, and a dust of very finely chopped parsley and shallot. Cut some bacon into very thin strips, and roll one liver in each strip of bacon. Place each roll on a fried croute, and cook in the oven for five minutes. Serve very hot. FOIE-GRAS WITH MAYONNAISE. Ingredients—One medium-sized tin or terrine of foie- gras pate, pint stiff aspic jelly, two sheets French leaf gelatine, one truffle, 1 gill mayonnaise sauce, ■§■ gill Bechamel sauce, a few sprigs of tarragon and chervil. Method.—Have ready six to eight small flat oval moulds (any pattern). Trim the foie-gras, cut it into slices, and stamp out as many ovals as there are moulds, similar in shape but somewhat smaller. Melt the aspic, and coat the moulds thinly with it. Decorate them with strips of truffle and tarragon and chervil leaves. Stir the mayonnaise sauce to the remainder of aspic while it is still liquid. Coat the moulds with this, and put the remainder in a mortar with the trimmings of foie-gras and pound till smooth ; season to taste. Dissolve the two leaves of gelatine in the Bechamel sauce, and add this to the pounded foie-gras. Pass it through a fine sieve. Coat each of the oval pieces of foie-gras with this mixture, and set it in the moulds, fill up with the puree, smooth over with a knife, and place the mould on the ice to set. When ready for serving, immerse the moulds in tepid water, wipe with a cloth, turn out, and dish up, garnish to taste, and serve.39 MEAT, ETC. FOIE-GRAS RISSOLETTES. Ingredients.—One small terrine foie-gras, 2 ozs. cooked tongue, 1 lb. puff paste, frying fat, six preserved mush- rooms, two tablespoonfuls Veloute or Bechamel sauce, parsley for garnish. Method. — Prepare a salpicon with the foie-gras, mushrooms and tongue, put it in a small stewpan, and moisten with sufficient sauce to obtain the right con- sistency for a salpicon. Heat up, and put on a dish to cool. Have ready some good puff paste (six turns), roll out about one eighth of an inch thick, and stamp out some rounds with a plain cutter. Put about a teaspoonful of the salpicon mixture in the centre of each round of paste, slightly wet the border thereof, and fold over so as to produce half-moon shapes ; press down lightly so as to close the ends. Fry in smoking hot fat, drain, and serve on a dish with a folded napkin. Garnish the dish with sprigs of freshly picked parsley, plain or fried. The fat must be very hot but not burning. Take special care not to touch the edges of the paste, other- wise the dish will not be a success, because the paste will not rise.40 III SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS STEWED CHESTNUTS. Ingredients.—ij lb. chestnuts, one small blade mace, one small onion (peeled and stuck with a clove), the juice of half lemon, salt, pepper and nutmeg, one quart stock, one piece of celery, \ gill brown sauce, i oz. meat glaze, i oz. butter. Method.—Slit the chestnuts, and put them in the oven for about ten minutes, then remove the outer husks. Parboil the chestnuts in slightly salted water for about twenty minutes, drain, and remove the inner skin. When peeled put them in a stewpan with the stock, mace, celery and onion, and boil till quite tender—it will probably take from thirty to forty-five minutes. When quite done, i.e. mealy, pour off the stock, drain the chestnuts, and return them to the stewpan ; add the butter, and toss or saute them over a brisk fire, taking great care not to break the chestnuts. Pour off the butter, take out the onion, mace, and celery, and add the meat glaze and the sauce. When hot put in the lemon juice, season to taste, dish up, and serve hot.4i SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS POTATO FLAKES OR SARATOGA POTATOES. Wash and peel thinly six large potatoes, cut them in very thin slices, and put them in plenty of cold water. Let them stand for several hours (over night if possible) on the ice, or in a cool place. Pour off the water and drain the potatoes, return to the basin, and cover again with cold water, add also a large piece of ice. Heat some frying fat (lard and dripping), drain the potato slices carefully, put about one-third of the quantity in a frying basket, and fry a pale brown colour. Shake the basket several times during the frying process. When done drain thoroughly, and turn them on a large dish lined with soft brown paper. Then proceed to fry the remainder of the potatoes in exactly the same manner. To serve, sprinkle over with a little very fine salt. Every care must be taken in the following essential points, otherwise the dish will not be a success : Cut the slices very thin and evenly. The fat must be smoking hot before they are plunged in it, and must be kept boiling all the time. Potatoes thus fried and carefully drained will keep good for a long time if kept in a covered tin lined with paper. They are often eaten cold as well as hot, and are highly ap- preciated in the United States. POTATO CROQUETTES. Ingredients.—2 lbs. cold potatoes, 1 oz. butter, frying fat, two eggs, breadcrumbs, pepper, salt and nutmeg. Method.—Pass the potatoes through a wire sieve, put them into a clean stewpan with one egg well beaten, 1 oz. of butter or lard, a little grated nutmeg, pepper and salt. Beat the mixture over a moderate fire until it is thoroughly hot, then spread it on a dish andSAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS 42 let cool. Make some balls or cork shapes on a floured board, dip them in beaten egg, then in breadcrumbs, and drop them into hot fat until of a light brown colour. Arrange on a hot dish and garnish with parsley. A little milk or cream may be added to the mixture before it is heated. SAUTE POTATOES. Slice as thinly as possibly about eight cold potatoes of medium size. Melt i\ ozs. butter in a frying-pan or omelet-pan, put in the potatoes, season with pepper and salt. Cook over a quick fire for five minutes, tossing very frequently ; put them on one side of the pan, so as to give it the shape of an omelet. Allow them to colour nicely, then turn out on a hot dish and serve. POTATO FRITTERS. Boil six good-sized potatoes, mash, and rub through a sieve, mix with J pint of milk, a little cream, three yolks of eggs, a handful of breadcrumbs, a tablespoon- ful of grated Cheddar cheese, a little flour, a small piece of butter, and season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Stir well. Drop from the spoon, and fry in clarified butter or fat to a rich brown colour. Drain on a cloth, or shake well in a frying-basket. Dish up on paper or napkin, garnish with crisped parsley, and serve. CASSOLETTES, PARMENTIER STYLE. Ingredients. —lbs. potatoes, peeled, boiled, and passed through a sieve, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, frying fat, i oz. butter, one tablespoonful cream, two yolks and one whole egg, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, savoury ragout for filling.43 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS Method.—Heat the butter in a stewpan, put in the potato puree, stir over the fire till thoroughly hot, add the cream, but if the potatoes are watery, or very moist, use less cream or omit it altogether ; add the parsley, yolks of eggs, and seasoning. Stir until the eggs are set, to bind the puree. Allow the mixture to get cold, then make up into balls, and shape them somewhat fiat, egg and crumb them, and fry them in hot fat; cut out a bit by means of a paste cutter, lift it off, scoop out some of the soft part of the potato, fill with a ragout or savoury mince of fish, chicken, or game, put the lids on, dish up, put in the oven for a few seconds, and serve. ASPARAGUS SANDWICHES. Ingredients.—\ pint cooked asparagus points, -J gill whipped cream, bread and butter, f gill mayonnaise sauce, i gill aspic, salt, pepper, and cayenne. Method.—In the first instance make sure that the asparagus points, i.e., green part of the stalks, are thoroughly cooked in salted water containing a small piece of lump sugar. Drain, and rub them through a wire sieve. Put the puree in a basin to cool, then stir in gradually the mayonnaise sauce and the aspic jelly. The latter must be liquid, but on no account warm. Add the cream as the mixture begins to set. Season to taste. Cut some thin slices of bread, butter them lightly, and spread some of the prepared puree on each slice, then place them together as for ordinary sandwiches, and cut into rounds, oblongs, or squares. Arrange them on a dish or plate, fill up the centre with crisp salad and (if liked) some slices of hard-boiled eggs. STEWED CELERY IN BROWN SAUCE. Ingredients.—Four heads of celery, salt and pepper, a little stock, 2 ozs. butter, about gills demi-glace sauce, toasted bread.44 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS Pare the heads and roots of the celery, remove the green parts, cut them into even lengths (3 or 4 inches), and wash thoroughly in salted water. Drain well on a cloth, put them in a saute-pan with the butter, divided into little bits, and a ladleful of white stock, cover with buttered paper, and let cook slowly for half an hour. Season with salt and pepper, add the sauce, and put the pan in the oven for another thirty minutes. Take up the celery, dress it on toasted bread slices on a hot dish. Reduce the sauce, take off the fat, and pour over the celery. CELERY SOUFFLES. Ingredients.—| lb. white part of celery, a small blade of mace, one slice onion, 1 oz. flour, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, if gills milk, f bayleaf, 1 oz. butter, pepper and celery salt, cayenne or Nepaul pepper, three eggs. Method. — Trim and wash the celery, cut it into slices, blanch in salted water, and drain. Put the milk, celery, bayleaf, mace, and onion in a stewpan, and boil till tender. Remove the mace and bayleaf, and pass the celery, etc., through a fine sieve. Put a gill of water and the butter in a stewpan, add a pinch of celery salt, and stir in the flour as soon as the water boils. Work vigorously with a wooden spoon for several minutes over the fire, put in the celery puree, let cool a little, and add the grated cheese. Stir in the yolks of two eggs and one whole egg. This must be done gradually. Whisk the whites of two eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle with the mixture. Season with a little cayenne or Nepaul pepper. Three parts fill some paper or china ramequin or souffle cases. Bake in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Arrange the cases on a dish with folded napkin, and serve immediately.45 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS STUFFED TOMATOES, DUTCH STYLE (COLD). Ingredients.—Six even-sized, ripe, and firm tomatoes, one dessertspoonful capers, mayonnaise sauce, two lettuces, about i pint aspic, four Gorgona anchovies (filleted), one hard boiled yolk of egg, parsley. Method.—Wipe the tomatoes, carefully scoop out the centre by means of a column-cutter or a teaspoon. Chop the capers, yolk of egg, and anchovy fillets ; mix with a gill of mayonnaise and a gill of aspic. Stir over the ice until nearly set, then fill the cavities of the tomatoes, cover with a sprig of parsley, and put on the ice to set thoroughly. Coat each tomato several times with half-set aspic, or line some little moulds with aspic and set the tomatoes in the same. Have ready the lettuces, washed and divided into small pieces, season with salt and pepper, dress with mayonnaise, and put in the centre of a dish. Arrange the prepared tomatoes round the salad, garnish with sprigs of parsley and blocks of aspic jelly. Some lobster, or another kind of cooked fish, may be used for the stuffing in place of the anchovies. STUFFED TOMATOES, SWISS STYLE (HOT). Ingredients.—Eight to ten small, ripe, and firm tomatoes, two tablespoonfuls Madeira sauce, i oz. butter, chopped parsley, a small terrine foie-gras, four preserved mush- rooms, one tablespoonful grated Swiss cheese, salt, pepper, and nutmeg. Method.—Wipe the tomatoes, cut a small portion off the top of each, and carefully scoop out the pulp, taking great care not to break any. Remove the fat from the foie-gras, and cut it into very small dice. Chop the mushrooms finely. Put the46 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS ham, mushrooms, and foie-gras in a basin, moisten with the sauce, add the cheese and a little chopped parsley, season to taste, and mix well. Fill the tomatoes with this preparation, place a tiny piece of butter on top of each, and bake them in a moderately heated oven for about twenty minutes. Have ready some rounds of toasted and buttered bread, a little larger than the tomatoes. Place the tomatoes on these, dish up, and serve. TOMATO FRITTERS. Ingredients.—Four small, ripe, but firm tomatoes, half a lemon, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, pepper and salt, one tablespoonful salad oil, frying batter and fat. Method.—Remove the stalks from the tomatoes, wipe them, and cut cross-ways into thick slices. Each tomato should make about three nice slices. Put these in a deep dish, season lightly with pepper and salt, sprinkle over the parsley, oil, and lemon juice. Prepare a batter with 4 ozs. of flour, one tablespoon- ful of oil, a pinch of salt, one egg, and a little tepid water. Beat the white of the egg to a stiff froth, and add last of all. Allow the batter to stand awhile. Drop each piece of tomato into the batter so as to coat it completely, take out with a skewer or fork, drop into the hot fat, fry a golden colour, drain on paper or cloth, dish up, and serve hot. TOMATO SOUFFLES. Ingredients.—1 gill tomato puree or pulp, one table- spoonful cream, 1 oz. butter, | oz. grated cheese, salt and pepper, 1 saltspoonful powdered thyme, 1 oz. flour, two eggs. Method.—Put the tomato puree in a small stewpan, add the thyme and butter, and let it come to the boil.SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS 47 Mix the flour with the cream, and stir into the tomato puree. Stir with a wooden spoon over the fire for five minutes, then add the cheese and let cool a little. Season with pepper and salt, and work in one by one the yolks of two eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth ; mingle carefully with the mixture. Three parts fill eight or nine small paper cases, bake them in a hot oven for about ten minutes. Dish up tastefully, and send to table quickly. CUCUMBER DARIOLES (HOT). Ingredients.—One medium-sized cucumber, two eggs, a few drops of spinach greening, one small truffle, oz. butter, i gill stock, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, one table- spoonful cream, tomato sauce. Method.—Peel the cucumber thinly, cut it in half lengthways, remove the seedy part, cut up the remainder into pieces, and put it into a stewpan with the butter. Stir over a brisk fire for a few minutes, then add about a gill of stock and a pinch of salt. Cook till tender, then rub it through a fine sieve. Beat up the eggs, and strain this into the above pulp, colour it with a few drops of spinach greening to give it a nice tint, season with pepper, nutmeg, and salt to taste, and mix well. Have ready some buttered dariole moulds, garnish the bottom of each with a few star-shaped slices of truffle. Fill each mould with the prepared custard, and poach till quite firm. Unmould on to a hot dish, sauce over with tomato sauce, and serve. STUFFED CUCUMBERS (COLD). Ingredients.—One good-sized cucumber, six small mushrooms, i oz. cooked ham, salt, pepper, and nutmeg, a few slices brown bread, fresh butter, 3 ozs. cooked48 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS chicken, veal, or rabbit meat, \ gill white sauce, ^ gill aspic, J gill fresh cream, lobster butter for garnish. Method.—Cut the cucumber into i-inch thick slices, peel thinly, and stamp out the inside by means of a pastry cutter. Blanch the pieces in salted water, and drain on a cloth. Pound the meat, mushrooms, and ham together in a mortar ; when fine rub through a sieve. Put the puree in a basin, season with pepper, a little salt, and a pinch of i grated nutmeg. Warm up the sauce and aspic together, stir over the ice until it begins to set, then add the cream, previously mixed. Stamp out some rounds of brown bread a little larger than the cucumbers, spread over with the above pre- pared puree, place a round of cucumber on each, and fill up the centre of each with the puree, pile up high, decorate tastefully with some creamed butter and lobster butter, dish up, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and serve. LEEK FRITTERS. Ingredients.—Six large young leeks, % pint stock, a sprig of thyme, one egg, i gill well-reduced white sauce, parsley, i gill milk, half a blade mace, half a bayleaf, salt and pepper, breadcrumbs, frying fat. Method.—Wash, trim, and pare the leeks, cut the white parts into about 3 inches in length, put them in a stewpan, or saute-pan with the milk, mace, thyme, and bayleaf ; add the stock and boil till tender. Take up the pieces of leek, drain on a cloth, dip each piece separately into thick white sauce so as to completely cover it, and place on a wire rack to set. Beat up the egg, dip each piece into this, and roll in breadcrumbs. When set repeat the crumbing. Drop every piece into very hot fat and fry a golden colour, drain, sprinkle withSAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS 49 salt and cayenne pepper, arrange on a folded napkin or dish paper on a hot dish, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. The cooked pieces of leek may, if liked, be dipped into frying batter, and be fried thus instead of egging and crumbing. SAVOURY CARROT TARTLETS. Ingredients.—One small bunch of young carrots, J pint stock, one tablespoonful cream, seasoning, three yolks and one whole egg, one tablespoonful sherry, 2 ozs. butter, puff paste. Method.—Wash and scrape the carrots, shred them and put into a stewpan with the butter, stir over the fire for about four minutes, taking care that they do not brown, moisten with the stock, and cook gently till tender. Rub through a fine sieve, and return the puree to the stewpan, add the sherry, and let it get thoroughly hot ; then add the cream and the egg yolks, season to taste with salt, white and cayenne pepper (a dust of each). Stir over the fire until the eggs are partly set ; remove and let cool a little. Whisk the white of egg to a stiff froth, and mix gently with the puree. Line a number of small patty pans with puff paste, prick the bottoms, put some of the puree in each, and bake in a quick oven from ten to fifteen minutes. Dish up, and serve hot for breakfast or as an after-dinner savoury. STUFFED CABBAGE. Ingredients.—Two small-sized cabbages, 1 lb. fat bacon, four yolks of eggs, 2 ozs. butter, chopped parsley, pepper, salt, etc., 1 gill brown sauce, \ lb. mushrooms, £ lb. fresh breadcrumbs, \ lb. sausage meat, one onion, one clove, I quart stock. E50 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS Method.—Remove the outside leaves from the cab- bages, trim and wash well, plunge into cold water containing salt and a small piece of soda or moist sugar; parboil for fifteen minutes, drain, and cool in fresh water. Press them gently, cut each in two long- ways, remove the stalky parts. Prepare a stuffing with the sausage meat, the mush- rooms (finely chopped), the breadcrumbs, about a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley, and the egg-yolks. Season with salt, pepper, and grated nutmeg. Mix also an ounce of butter with the preparation, and fill the centre part of the cabbages with this. Shape them neatly, enfold them in thinly cut slices of bacon fat, tie carefully with string, place them in a stewpan or deep saute-pan, add the stock, a small onion stuck with a clove, and an ounce of butter. Set it in the oven, and let braise gently for about one hour and a half. Baste from time to time. Drain the cabbages, untie, remove the fat, and dish up. Take the fat off the gravy, add the onion sauce, and reduce to half glaze ; strain over the cabbages, and serve. MUSHROOM SCALLOPS. Ingredients.—i punnet of fresh-cut mushrooms, 2| ozs. butter, J gill tomato sauce, breadcrumbs, pepper and salt, one shallot, 2 ozs. cooked ham, one tablespoonful cream, two tablespoonfuls Madeira wine, parsley. Method.—Wipe the mushrooms with a damp cloth, remove the stems and skins ; then mince the mushrooms rather finely. Peel and chop the shallot. Melt half the butter; fry in it the shallot and ham (previously chopped). Now add the sauce, the wine, the cream, and a couple of tablespoonfuls of breadcrumbs, and season to taste. When thoroughly hot fill several well-buttered shells,5i S.4P0t/£F VEGETABLES AND SALADS cover with breadcrumbs, sprinkle with parsley. Divide the remainder of butter into little bits and place on top of the tilled shells. Bake in a very hot oven for a few minutes so as to brown the surface. Dish up, garnish with parsley, and serve. SPINACH CROUTES. Ingredients.—6 ozs. flour, 1 oz. grated cheese, one hard boiled egg, six tablespoonfuls cooked spinach, 3 ozs. butter, one yolk of egg, one tablespoonful cream, salt and pepper, Paprika. Method.—Rub the butter and flour together until quite fine, then add the cheese and a tiny pinch of salt. Moisten with a raw yolk and a little milk to form a smooth paste. Roll out on a floured board about one- eighth of an inch thick. Stamp out some rounds 2 to 2\ inches in diameter, place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a slow oven for fifteen minutes. Mix the spinach with the cream, season to taste with pepper and salt, heat, and put in a forcing- bag with a plain pipe. Force out a layer of spinach on the cheese croutes, allowing a narrow edge of the pastry to show all round. Cut the hard boiled egg into slices, remove the yolk, place a ring of white of egg on each croute. Mix the yolk with a little butter, force a rose shape of this in the centre of the spinach. Sprinkle over with Paprika, re-heat in a brisk oven for a few seconds only, dish up, and serve quickly. OYSTER AND CELERY SALAD. Ingredients.—One dozen large oysters, \ gill cream, three yolks of eggs, £ oz. butter, one tablespoonful mayonnaise or tartare sauce, one large head of white celery, \ gill tarragon vinegar, half a teaspoonful made52 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS mustard, salt and cayenne pepper, one hard boiled egg, parsley. Method.—Beard the oysters, cut them into quarters, and warm them in their own liquor without allowing them to boil. Heat up the cream, vinegar, and butter, add the mustard, and stir until quite hot; then add the egg yolks, and keep on the fire whilst stirring until the liaison is formed. Put in the oysters, heat again, and set on the side to get cool. Wash and trim the celery, remove the outer leaves of the stalk. Shred the white portion of the celery, and put in a bowl, season to taste with salt and cayenne, add a little of the dressing from the oysters, and the mayon- naise or tartare sauce ; then mix in the oysters, etc., mingle the whole gently, and dish up in a salad bowl, pile up high, sprinkle over with finely chopped parsley, and garnish tastefully with slices of hard boiled egg. CONTOISE, OR LETTUCE SALAD. Ingredients.—Two cabbage lettuces, a small handful of fine white dandelion, one tablespoonful French wine vinegar, one firm tomato, 2 ozs. boiled pickled pork, one tablespoonful salad oil, chopped parsley, pepper and salt. Method. — Trim, wash, and drain the lettuce and dandelion, tear up the leaves into convenient pieces. Drain again on a cloth. Cut the tomato into small pieces (dice shapes). Cut the pork into small dice or strips, fry with a little oil in a frying-pan a nice brown, add the vinegar ; heat up. Put the salad, all well mixed, in a bowl, season with pepper and salt, mingle in the fried pork and vinegar ; whilst warm add the oil last of all, heap up in the centre, sprinkle over some chopped parsley, clean the sides of the bowl, and serve.SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS 53 TOMATO SALAD. Ingredients.—Six firm even-sized tomatoes, two table- spoonfuls salad oil, one teaspoonful chopped chives or parsley, one tablespoonful vinegar, one teaspoonful mixed mustard or mustardyne, pepper and salt. Method.—Wipe the tomatoes, scald them in boiling water for one minute, drain on a cloth, carefully re- move the stems and skin, and let cool. Cut them into thin slices and place in a salad bowl. Now prepare the dressing. Put two saltspoonfuls of salt in a basin, together with one saltspoonful of pepper, the mixed mustard or mustardyne, pour in the vinegar and oil, and mix thoroughly with a wooden salad spoon. Just before serving the salad add the chopped chives or parsley to the dressing, and pour it over the tomatoes. CAROLINE SALAD. Ingredients.—4 ozs. Caroline rice, six mushrooms, one hard boiled egg, pepper and salt, parsley, two large truffles, about pint picked shrimps, one glass chablis wine, oil and vinegar, one saltspoonful mustard. Method.—Wash, blanch, and cook the rice the same as for curry, drain, dry, and let cool. Cut the truffles and mushrooms into fine shreds, and put in the stewpan with the wine ; cover and boil for a few seconds. Mix these with the rice ; add the shrimps and a dessertspoonful of chopped parsley. Prepare the dressing, consisting of three tablespoonfuls of oil, two of vinegar (best French wine), a teaspoonful of salt, half a teaspoonful of pepper, and a little French or English mustard. Pour the dressing over the above, mingle well but carefully. Dress in a heap on a deep dish or in a salad bowl. Ornament the surface with54 SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS slices of hard boiled white and yolk of egg, chopped parsley, a few small stars of truffle, etc. Serve separately or with a dish of sliced tomatoes. CELERY AND CUCUMBER SALAD. This is one of the finest salads, though not much known. Wash some white celery according to the quantity required, cut it lengthways into fine strips or shreds, and throw it into iced water for about half an hour. Peel a cucumber very thinly, and cut it similar to the celery. Drain the latter, and put it into a bowl with the cucumber. Season with salt and pepper, and mix it well with mayonnaise dressing. Heap it up in the bowl, wipe the sides of the bowl with a damp cloth. Surround the salad with a border of small red radishes, garnish with slices of hard boiled egg, sprinkle over a little finely chopped French gherkin and parsley, and serve. Ordinary salad dressing, oil, vinegar, or so-called vinaigrette sauce, will do as well if mayonnaise sauce is not handy or convenient to use. LETTUCE AND BEAN SALAD. Ingredients.—Two French lettuces, beetroot, chopped chervil, oil and chilli vinegar, cooked French beans, hard boiled eggs, pepper and salt, a slice of toasted bread. Method.—Wash, drain, and tear into small pieces two French lettuces. Toast a slice of bread about one-third of an inch thick, dip it in salad oil, and put it in a salad bowl. Put alternate layers of lettuce and French beans on this toast. Garnish with cooked beetroot, hard boiled eggs, and chopped chervil. Season with pepper, salt,SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS 55 oil and chilli vinegar just before it is required for table ; do not let it stand after the dressing is poured over it. POTATO SALAD. Ingredients. — 1^ lbs. small firm potatoes (boiled in their skins), salt and pepper, one tablespoonful mayon naise, £ lb. lean bacon, half a small onion, vinegar to taste, parsley. Method.—Peel the potatoes, and slice them while hot. Cut the bacon into dice, and fry a nice brown in a frying-pan ; drain the bacon and put it in a basin with the potatoes and the onion finely chopped. Season with salt and pepper. Mix the mayonnaise sauce with about two tablespoonfuls of French wine vinegar, and pour this over the potatoes. Mingle the whole carefully so as not to break the potato slices, dish up in a salad bowl, sprinkle with chopped parsley, and serve. EGG SALAD. Ingredients.—Six hard boiled eggs, J gill mayonnaise sauce, chopped parsley, red chillis, salt and pepper, i£ gills cream, one lettuce, beetroot, capers, one slice toasted bread. Method.—Peel the eggs and cut them crosswise into slices. Whip the cream till stiff, then add to it the mayonnaise, and a teaspoonful of chopped parsley. Wash and trim the lettuce. Place a round of toasted bread in a salad bowl, dress on this a layer of lettuce leaves, then a layer of mayonnaise, then a layer of slices of egg, and so on until the eggs and lettuce are used up. Season each layer to taste. Pile up high, sprinkle over with chopped parsley. Garnish tastefully with slices of beetroot, capers, and red chilli, and serve.SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS 56 CHESTNUT AND CELERY WITH MAYONNAISE. (A Smart Supper Dish.) Ingredients. — i gill mayonnaise, one head white celery, one blade mace, one slice onion, \ oz. sheet gelatine, salt, pepper, and Paprika, one French gher- kin, -J- pint aspic jelly, % pint shelled walnuts, one bayleaf, \ pint tomato pulp, one teaspoonful tarragon vinegar, a few tarragon leaves, and chillis for garnish. Method.—Mask a plain border mould (pint size) with a thin coating of aspic, decorate the side with fanci- fully cut chilli and tarragon leaves. Mix half a gill of mayonnaise, with enough liquid aspic jelly to make it set, and line the decorated mould with this. Put it in a cool place to set. Meanwhile put the walnuts in a stewpan, cover with boiling water and a little salt, the mace, bayleaf and onion, and boil for ten minutes or so. Drain, and put them in cold water, remove the skin, and shake them gently in a towel. Cut them into shreds. Dissolve the gelatine and add to the tomato pulp, season with pepper, salt, and half a teaspoonful of Paprika, flavour with the vinegar, boil up, and strain. When almost cold mix with it about half the shredded walnuts. Fill the border mould with this preparation, and put the mould in a cool place until required. Wash and scrub the celery, rinse it well, and dry on a cloth. Remove all the green parts and cut the white part into julienne strips. Mix these in a basin with the remainder of the walnuts. Add pepper and salt to taste. When ready for serving unmould the border and dress on a round dish. Season the salad with mayon- naise and place it in the centre of the dish. Pile up high, sprinkle with a little chopped gherkin, and serve.SAVOURY VEGETABLES AND SALADS 57 A little green salad lettuce or endive may be mixed with the celery and walnuts if liked. In that case it should be cut into shreds or else torn into very small pieces. Serve as a fancy salad or side dish.53 IV EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. BREAKFAST EGGS. Ingredients.—Six hard boiled eggs, \ gill milk, one dessertspoonful flour, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, i gill cream, i oz. butter, one teaspoonful chopped parsley, breadcrumbs. Method.—Peel and slice the eggs. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour, cook a little, moisten with the cream and milk and let boil for five minutes, stirring all the time. Stir in the parsley, season to taste, and keep hot. Fill a buttered pie-dish with alternate layers of egg slices, sauce, and breadcrumbs, and when full pour over a little white sauce. Cover with bread- crumbs, add a few tiny bits of butter on top, and bake for twenty minutes in a moderately heated oven. Serve hot. EGGS ON TOAST. This is a very simple dish, in fact nothing more than baked eggs set in rounds or rings of toasted bread. The dish is often called “ ox-eyes.” Cut some slices of white or brown bread as you would for toast, toast them in front or over a clear lire to a nice brown colour. Stamp out as many rounds as are required, cut out the centre with a smaller cutter, soEGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 59 as to form rings of toast. Spread a little fresh butter over each ring, and place them on a well-buttered fire- proof dish. Break an egg carefully into each ring of toast, season with a little salt and pepper, pour about a dessertspoonful of fresh cream round each egg. Put the dish in a slow oven until the white of egg begins to set. Send the dish to table as hot as possible. Great care must be taken that the eggs do not get over-cooked, and above all that the yolks are not disturbed during the process of cooking. POACHED EGGS, CLEMENTINE STYLE. Ingredients. — Six eggs, a handful green peas, two tablespoonfuls mayonnaise, aspic jelly, half a lemon, six oval souffle cases, pint macedoine of cooked vege- tables, white and brown chaudfroid sauces, one truffle, salt and pepper. Method.—Poach the eggs, one at a time, in slightly salted boiling water flavoured with lemon-juice. In poaching the eggs special care must be taken to see that they are completely covered with the white, thus ensuring a neat shape. Trim the edges and place the eggs on a sieve or a cloth to drain. Mask each egg alternately, or half- and-half, with white and brown chaudfroid sauce ; when set garnish with fancifully cut slices of truffle and green peas, or hard boiled white of egg, then cover with a thin layer of aspic jelly. Mix the mayonnaise with a little aspic jelly (half set), add this to the macedoine of vegetables, season with pepper and salt and mix carefully. Put a bed of this into each of the souffle cases (which must be large enough to hold the eggs), place the prepared eggs on the top of this. Decorate the sides with a row of cooked green peas embedded in aspic jelly. Dish up and serve cold as a breakfast dish or savoury.EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 6o POACHED EGGS WITH SPINACH. Ingredients.—Four fresh eggs, i-J- lbs. spinach, ozs. butter, salt, pepper and nutmeg, one slice toasted bread, one teaspoonful lemon-juice or white vinegar, one tablespoonful rich brown sauce. Method.—Pick and wash the spinach, put it in a copper stewpan with very little water, and cook for half an hour. Put it in a colander and drain well, squeezing out all the water. Rub the spinach through a sieve. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the spinach puree, season with pepper, salt and a pinch of grated nutmeg, moisten with the sauce and cook gently for twenty-five minutes or so. Have ready a flat stewpan with boiling water slightly salted ; add the vinegar and lemon-juice. Break each egg carefully into a cup and gently slide into the boiling water (great care must be taken that they do not scatter). Allow the eggs to cook until perfectly set, but with- out letting the yolks get hard. Have the spinach dressed neatly on a hot dish, take up each egg by means of a slice or small skimmer; trim it a little and place on the spinach. Pour some demi-glace sauce round the dish, garnish with sippets of toasted bread, and serve immediately. SCRAMBLED EGGS. Ingredients.—Six eggs, f oz. butter, salt and pepper to taste, £ gill cream, a slice of toasted bread. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin, add pepper and salt, beat with a fork until yolks and whites are thoroughly mixed. Put in a stewpan with the cream and butter, and stir over a brisk fire for a few minutes. As soon as the eggs begin to set remove from the fire and dress in a pile on a hot dish, garnish with neatly cut pieces of toasted bread and a few sprigs of fresh parsley.EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 61 JUMBLED EGGS. Ingredients.—Six eggs, one tablespoonful gravy or rich stock, salt and pepper, about i oz. butter, three mushrooms, one truffle, a slice of toasted bread (but- tered). Method.—Chop the mushrooms and truffles finely, break the eggs into a stewpan, add the gravy, season to taste, and beat well, mix in the mushrooms and truffles ; add the butter, stir over a bright fire until it begins to thicken. Trim the toast, cut it into quarters, and place on a hot dish. Put the mixture on this and serve quickly. The mushrooms and truffles may be substituted with chopped ham and tongue, shredded and cooked lettuce leaves, cooked asparagus tops, etc. SCRAMBLED EGGS, WITH ASPARAGUS. Ingredients.—A teacupful asparagus tops, ij ozs. fresh butter, two slices toasted bread, four eggs, | gill cream, salt, pepper, and a little grated nutmeg. Method.—Cut the asparagus tops in small pieces about half an inch long, cook them in salted water, containing a teaspoonful of moist sugar. When done drain and heat them up in a small saute-pan, with a little clarified butter. Break and beat the eggs in a basin, add the cream, season with a pinch of salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. Put about an ounce of fresh butter in a small stewpan, when melted add the egg mixture, and stir continually with a wooden spoon over the fire. As soon as it begins to thicken add the cooked asparagus points ; mix carefully, and dress on to neatly trimmed pieces of toasted bread. Smooth the surface and surround with triangular pieces of fried or toasted bread.EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 62 Another way is to put the asparagus in the centre and to spread the egg mixture over it. SCOTCH EGGS. Ingredients.—Four hard boiled eggs, one raw egg, fry- ing fat, parsley, i lb. sausage-meat, i gill tomato sauce, breadcrumbs. Method.— Remove the shells from the eggs, dip them in flour, and cover completely with a layer of sausage- meat ; brush all over with beaten egg, roll in bread- crumbs, and fry them a nice light brown colour in hot fat. Take up as soon as done, drain them on a cloth or paper, and cut in halves crossways. Range the eggs, cut side up, on a dish (a little mashed potato or mashed peas under each egg will make them stand more firmly). Garnish with fried parsley, pour the tomato sauce (hot) round the eggs, and serve. EGGS IN CASES. Ingredients.—Six eggs, -J gill cream, one shallot, i oz. butter, six paper cases, one tablespoonful chopped parsley, two tablespoonfuls breadcrumbs, one table- spoonful grated Parmesan cheese, pepper and salt, sweet oil. Method.—Oil the inside of paper cases and place them on a baking-tin in the oven for a few minutes. Peel the shallot and chop finely, fry a little in some oil, then drain, and put it equally divided into the cases. Mix the breadcrumbs, half the parsley, and Parmesan cheese, adding a little pepper. Put about a dessert- spoonful of this and a tiny piece of butter in each of the cases. Carefully break an egg into each case, season with pepper and salt. Divide the cream equally, and pour over each egg. Sprinkle with a little Par- mesan cheese, and bake in a moderate oven for aboutEGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 63 six minutes. Take out, colour the surface under a salamander or hot shovel, sprinkle lightly with chopped parsley, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve quickly. ■** EGG DARIOLES, PRINCESS STYLE. Ingredients.—Four to six eggs, 2 ozs. butter, preserved lax, salt and Paprika pepper, toasted bread, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, a handful cooked asparagus points, tomato sauce. Method.—Butter four to six small dariole moulds, sprinkle with grated cheese and a few pinches of Paprika pepper. Break an egg carefully into each mould, and season with pepper and salt. Place the moulds in a saute-pan containing enough hot water to reach half-way up the moulds, and cook on the stove or in the oven until the white of the eggs is set. Stamp out some rounds or ovals of toasted bread about the size of an egg, butter them well on one side and lay a slice of lax on each. Toss the asparagus points in a little butter, season to taste, and put a layer on the buttered toasts. Turn out the moulds on top of the asparagus, dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve with a sauce-boat of tomato sauce. STUFFED EGG WITH ANCHOVIES. Ingredients.—Four hard boiled eggs, 1 oz. butter, tomato sauce, two pieces of toasted bread (size and shape of eggs), four Gorgona anchovies, a few sprigs of parsley, breadcrumbs. Method.—Peel the eggs, cut them in halves longways, and take out the yolks. Soak the anchovies in water, remove skin and bones, put them in a mortar and pound. Add the butter and a little blanched parsley, also a pinch of pepper. Beat with the pestle untilEGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 64 quite smooth ; take out and rub through a sieve. Fill the halves of white of egg with this preparation, and stand each on an oval piece of toast. Sprinkle over with some fresh breadcrumbs, place on a buttered silver or china dish, and put in the oven for a few minutes so as to get thoroughly hot. Have ready some hot tomato or Italienne sauce. Sauce over quickly, and serve. POTATO CASSOLETTES WITH EGGS. Ingredients.—Three large kidney potatoes, i lb. spinach puree, pepper and salt, grated cheese, six small fresh eggs, J- gill cream, oz. butter, breadcrumbs. Method.—Wash and dry the potatoes, bake them in their skins in a hot oven, when done cut each in half across the centre lengthways. Scoop out the mealy portion, rub the latter through a sieve, mix with the cream, and season with pepper and salt. Prepare the spinach, and flavour nicely. Line the inside of each half of potato with spinach. Poach the eggs separately, trim, and place one in each potato shell, fill up with the prepared potato puree, smooth over with a knife. Sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, put a tiny piece of butter here and there on top of each. Finish in a very brisk oven or under the salamander to brown the surface. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. SURPRISE EGGS, BELLE-VUE STYLE. Ingredients.—Six small eggs, i oz. anchovy paste, i oz. butter, one tablespoonful cream, about J pint aspic jelly, a few leaves of tarragon and chervil, 2 ozs. preserved tunny fish, six fillets of anchovies, two tablespoonfuls white chaudfroid sauce, one truffle, one lettuce. Method.—Boil the eggs for five minutes (they must notEGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 65 be quite hard), place them in cold water, carefully re- move the shells, and scoop out the interior by means of a teaspoon or vegetable scoop, taking care not to split the white. Set each egg, opening upward, in small egg or dariole moulds, the sides of which have been lined with a coating of aspic jelly and decorated with thin fanci- fully cut pieces of truffle and hard boiled white of egg, and some tarragon and chervil leaves. Run a little more aspic (half set) round each egg so as to keep it firm, and set on the ice to cool. In the meantime pound the tunny fish (thon marine) in a mortar, add the anchovy paste, and lastly the butter. Mix thoroughly, and rub through a wire sieve. Put the puree into a basin, mix with a tablespoonful of liquid aspic and the cream, put in a forcing-bag with a plain tube, and fill the hollow of the eggs. When set, cover the openings with half-set white chaudfroid sauce. Pour sufficient aspic (half set) round the eggs, so as to completely cover them. Let it set, turn out, and arrange round a bed of finely shredded salad (lettuce, etc.). Decorate each egg with the remainder of puree (rosettes or circles), and place a curled anchovy in the centre of this decoration. This dish when carefully executed forms a very pretty and effective hors cToeuvre or second-course dish. EGG AND OLIVE SALAD. Ingredients.—Three hard boiled eggs, 4 ozs. tongue, a few capers and gherkins, lemon juice, parsley, three Spanish olives, two anchovy fillets, a few drops of salad oil, pepper to taste, toasted buttered bread. Method.—Cut the eggs in halves across, take out the yolks, and rub through a sieve. Cut off a tiny piece of the tips of the white to make them stand even. Chop F66 EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. half the tongue rather finely, and mix with half the yolks of eggs. Stamp out six nice rounds of buttered toast about the size of the cut side of the eggs ; sprinkle over thickly with tongue and yolks. Cut the remainder of tongue, gherkins, olives, and anchovies into fine shreds ; mingle gently with a few drops of oil and lemon-juice ; add a little chopped parsley and the capers, also a pinch of white or red pepper, whichever is preferred. Fill up the cups of white of egg; pile up rather high but loosely. Stand each on a round piece of prepared toast, dish up, garnish, and serve as cold savoury or breakfast dish. SAVOURY EGG CREAM ON TOAST. Ingredients.—i oz. butter, i gill cream, three eggs, salt, pepper, and a pinch of cayenne, three or four slices toasted bread, not quite i oz. flour, about i gill milk, one teaspoonful chopped parsley and savoury herbs (tarragon and chervil). Method.—Melt the butter in the stewpan, add the flour, and let cook a little over the fire ; draw away from the fire, and add the cream and milk. Stir constantly until it thickens, let it simmer very slowly, taking care that it does not burn nor curdle. Separate the whites from the yolks of eggs ; beat up the whites to a stiff froth. Mix the yolks with the sauce, season with salt, pepper, and cayenne. Stir in carefully, or rather fold in, the whisked whites just the same as the whites are folded in a cake mixture ; mix in at the same time the parsley and savoury herbs. Have ready the toast cut into convenient slices, put the mixture heaped up on these, smooth over with the blade of a knife, bake in a hot oven until of a golden colour, and serve quickly.EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. 67 SAVOURY OMELET, FRENCH STYLE. Ingredients.—Four eggs, one dessertspoonful chopped parsley, including a leaf or two of green tarragon and a sprig of chervil, one tablespoonful cream, a pinch of sweet herbs, 1 oz. butter, a clove of garlic, pepper and salt. Method.—Break the eggs in a basin, add the cream, and beat up well; add the chopped herbs and seasoning. Cut the clove of garlic, and wipe the inside of the omelet-pan with the cut side. Melt the butter in this pan, clarify, and when hot pour in the egg mixture. Stir over a brisk fire with a fork until the eggs begin to set, then roll towards the side of the pan opposite the handle. Allow it to take a golden brown colour. Turn out on a hot oval dish, and serve. Tarragon and sweet herbs, or the flavour of garlic may be omitted. A small chopped shallot may be added to the butter and fried a little if liked. HAM OMELET. Break four eggs into a basin, add a good tablespoonful of cream or milk, and a pinch of white pepper ; beat up thoroughly so as to amalgamate the whites with the yolks. Chop finely 1 to 2 ozs. lean ham. Melt an ounce of fresh butter in an omelet-pan, when hot put in the chopped ham, and fry a few seconds so as to blend the ham with the butter. Pour in the beaten eggs, etc., and commence stirring slowly over a bright and brisk fire with a fork. When the mixture begins to get firm, fold the omelet into the shape of an oval cushion ; allow it to set and to get a light brown. Turn out on to an oval dish, and serve quickly. A little hot tomato sauce poured round the omelet will be found a great improve- ment.68 EGGS, OMELETS, ETC. LEEK OMELET. Ingredients.—Three eggs, one tablespoonful grated cheese, two leeks, well washed, trimmed, and stewed in brown sauce, i oz. butter, salt and cayenne, one table- spoonful milk or cream. Method.—Break the eggs into a basin, add the cheese, sufficient salt and cayenne to taste, and the milk or cream. Beat well to amalgamate the yolks and whites of eggs and other ingredients. Cut the cooked leeks into slices, and keep hot in a small stewpan with just enough sauce to moisten. Melt the butter in an omelet- pan ; when thoroughly warm (not too hot) pour in the egg mixture, and stir over a bright fire until the eggs begin to set. Shape quickly into the form of a cushion, place the stewed leeks in the centre, and fold in the ends. Allow the omelet to take colour, then turn out on a hot dish, pour a little brown sauce round the base of the dish, and serve quickly.69 V FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES TOMATO RICE. Ingredients.—4 ozs. rice, one small bouquet garni, three shallots, 1 gill tomato sauce, 1 oz. grated cheese, seasoning, one small onion stuck with a clove, 2 ozs. butter, two or three small firm but ripe tomatoes. Method.—Pick and wash the rice, blanch it in slightly salted water, then drain it in a stewpan with the onion, bouquet, and tomato sauce. Cook gently till tender, adding a little stock if the rice gets too dry as it swells. Remove the onion and bouquet garni. Peel and finely chop the shallots, fry them in half the butter to a pale brown colour, add this to the rice: season with salt, cayenne, and a tiny pinch of ground mace. Mix in the cheese and keep hot. Cut the tomatoes into neat slices, fry them carefully in the remainder of butter, and season to taste. Dish up the rice on a hot dish garnish with the slices of tomatoes, and serve. CURRIED RICE. Ingredients.—4 ozs. rice, two shallots, 1 gill brown sauce, one hard boiled egg, seasoning, one teaspoonful curry powder, 1^ ozs. butter, one tomato, one table- spoonful cream, watercress for garnish.FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISIIES 70 Method.—Pick, wash, and drain the rice. Peel and chop the shallots. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the shallots, and fry a golden colour. Stir in the curry powder, and fry a few minutes longer, stirring all the while ; then add the rice, and shake the pan over the fire in order to blend the rice thoroughly. Moisten gradually with the brown sauce, cream, and a little stock if found necessaiy. Peel the tomato, cut it into dice, and add also. Cook gently till the rice is tender. Be careful that the rice is kept moistened, as it swells in cooking; stir frequently but gently. Season with salt, pepper, and a pinch of ground mace and nutmeg. Dish up, surround the base with hard boiled slices of egg, and a tuft of watercress between each slice of egg. Serve very hot. CASSOLETTES OF RICE WITH SHRIMPS. Ingredients.—6 ozs. best Caroline rice, one egg, breadcrumbs or panurette, \ pint picked shrimps, i gill rich Bechamel sauce, f pint white stock (meat or fish stock), i oz. butter, % oz. grated cheese, pepper and salt, frying fat. Method.—Wash and drain the rice, put it in a stew- pan with the butter, and stir over a quick fire for a few minutes (it must not take colour). Put in the stock, boil till quite tender, allowing all the moisture to evaporate. Now add the grated cheese, season to taste with pepper and a little salt, also a grate of nutmeg if liked. Mix well, and put it in a buttered tin or saute- pan ; press it down closely so that it is about inches in depth. When cold stamp out some rounds about inches in diameter (use a paste cutter dipped in hot water for this purpose), and with a smaller cutter mark out the centres the same as is done for puff paste patties.7i FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES Brush over completely with beaten egg, and roll in breadcrumbs or panurette. Mark the centre again with the small cutter, and fry the cassolettes a golden brown in hot fat. Drain them, remove the inner circles, which form the lids, scoop out some of the inside by means of a small teaspoon, so as to obtain a hollow space in each cassolette. Prepare a nicely seasoned ragout of the shrimps and Bechamel sauce. Fill the cases with this, put on the lids, put them in a hot oven for a few seconds, dish up, and serve very hot. Lobster, cray-lish, or any other kind of fish or savoury meat ragout, may be used for filling instead of the above. GNOCCHI EN QUENELLES. Ingredients.—\ pint milk, three eggs, 6 ozs. flour, salt, pepper, and Paprika, f gill white wine, 6 ozs. butter, 4 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, Bechamel sauce. Method.—Put the milk and wine into a stewpan ; when hot add half the quantity of butter. Sift the flour, and stir it gradually into the liquid as soon as it begins to boil fast. Work the mixture vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire until it leaves the sides and bottom of the stewpan perfectly clean. Set the pan on one side for a few minutes, so as to cool the paste a little. Now incorporate the eggs one at a time, about half the grated cheese, and season to taste with a pinch of salt, white pepper, and a little Paprika ; beat up well, and work in finally the remainder of the butter. Shape some quenelles by means of a table or dessert spoon, drop them into fast boiling water or stock, slightly salted; poach them from fifteen to twenty minutes, keeping the cover on the stewpan whilst cooking. Take up, drain, and dish up neatly. Incorpo-FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 72 rate the remainder of grated cheese with the Bechamel sauce, let this boil, and sauce over the quenelles. Serve very hot. GNOCCHI AU GRATIN. For this dish proceed in the same manner as directed in the foregoing recipe. When the quenelles are poached, dress them on a gratin dish (earthenware or silver), arrange in layers, and mask each layer with white sauce ; sprinkle over with grated cheese and breadcrumbs, or panurette, place a few very tiny bits of butter here and there on top, and bake in a very hot oven for about ten minutes. By that time the surface should be of a nice golden brown. Place the dish on another dish covered with a napkin or lace paper, and send to table immediately. TIMBALE DE GNOCCHI. Prepare and poach some quenelles as directed in recipe on page 71. Prepare a paste of moderate con- sistency with % lb. flour, £ lb. butter, one yolk of egg, a pinch of salt, and the necessary quantity of milk required for producing the desirable consistency. Roll out the paste about a quarter of an inch thick. Line a timbale or plain charlotte mould with this, prick the sides and bottom, fill up with dried peas or rice, and bake a nice golden colour. Remove the peas or rice, fill the crust with prepared quenelles. Season each layer, and sauce over with Bechamel (page 96) or Madeira sauce (page 36), also sprinkle with grated cheese. Cover the top with paste, or ornament tastefully, brush over with egg, and bake in a fairly hot oven for twenty minutes. Unmould, dish up, and serve very hot.FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 73 NOUILLES AU GRATIN. Prepare a stiff but smoothly kneaded paste with £ lb. flour, \ oz. butter, three yolks of eggs, and a pinch of salt. Allow the paste to stand for at least one hour ; then roll out as thinly as possible, fold the pieces rolled out, and cut the paste crossways into narrow strips about one-eighth of an inch wide. Loosen the strips (shake them up and dredge with a little flour). Put the nouilles into a pan of fast boiling salted water, boil for about eight minutes, then drain, and let cool. Butter a gratin dish, spread over a little white sauce, then a layer of nouilles, sprinkle over some grated cheese and a few drops of oiled butter, cover with sauce, and continue thus until the nouilles are used up. See that the last layer is well masked with white sauce. Sprinkle over with breadcrumbs, place a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top of the crumbs, and bake in a quick oven for ten minutes. The dish is then ready for serving. NOUILLE TARTLETS FILLED WITH FORCEMEAT. Ingredients.—For Farce. 2 ozs. cooked chicken, £ oz. grated Parmesan cheese, one dessertspoonful cream, tomato sauce, \ oz. cooked ham, one yolk of egg, pepper, salt, and nutmeg, one tablespoonful cooked spinach, parsley. For Nouille Paste.—\ lb. sifted flour, a little water, one egg, one teaspoonful salt. Method.—Pound these ingredients (except the tomato sauce) in a mortar, then pass them through a wire sieve. Season with pepper, salt, nutmeg, and chopped parsley. Prepare the paste in this way :—Make a hole in the middle of the flour and break the egg into it. Melt a teaspoonful of salt in a little water, add this to the egg,74 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES and work them all well together until a smooth ball is formed. Fold this paste in a cloth, and let it stand for an hour. If it is too stiff add a few drops of water : it should be a stiff paste. Now roll the paste out very thin and cut it into broad strips about an inch wide ; put some of the forcemeat on these in small heaps ; wet all round the edges, lay a second strip of paste over, and press well together between the little heaps. Stamp them out with a small round cutter, boil them gently in salted water for about ten minutes. Drain them on a cloth, put them on a deep dish, sprinkle Parmesan cheese over them, and sauce them over with tomato sauce. Nouille paste, seasoned with cheese, grated nutmeg, and pepper and salt, cut into thin small strips, boiled in salted water, and finished in white sauce, can be served as a separate dish, leaving out the ravioli farce alto- gether. RAVIOLIS A LTTALIENNE. Ingredients.—| lb. flour, salt and pepper, i J gills good tomato sauce, \ oz. butter, two to three yolks of eggs, about 6 oz. fish or liver farce, 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. Method.—Sift the flour on to a pasteboard, make a well in the centre of the flour, add a pinch of salt, mix in the yolks ot eggs and a little water, and work it to a stiff paste. This must be kneaded thoroughly for at least ten minutes ; it must be stiff and yet of elastic texture. Roll out the paste as thinly as possible, stamp out some rounds about the size of half a crown piece ; put about a teaspoonful of farce (liver or fish forcemeat, richly seasoned and mixed with Parmesan) in the centre of a round, wet the edges of the paste, and cover with another round of paste ; press the edges well together,FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 75 and proceed thus until sufficient raviolis are obtained. Drop these into fast boiling and slightly salted water, and boil for about fifteen or twenty minutes. Take them up and drain on a sieve. Dress them on a dish in layers with tomato sauce, and grated Parmesan cheese between each layer. Sauce over well with tomato sauce, and place a few tiny bits of fresh butter here and there. Set the dish in a brisk oven for ten minutes, and serve quickly. RAVIOLI TIMBALES WITH PARMESAN CHEESE. Ingredients.—Two to two dozen and a half small raviolis (prepared and cooked as in the foregoing recipe), tomato sauce, seasoning, ^ lb. short crust paste, 3 ozs. utter, i-J- ozs. grated Parmesan cheese. Method.—Roll out the paste as thinly as possible. Butter six to eight small timbale or bouche moulds; stamp out the same number of rounds of paste to fit the bottoms of the mould, lay them into the moulds, and prick the paste to prevent blistering in baking. Stamp out by means of a column cutter some rounds about the size of a sixpence, dip each round of paste into a little beaten egg, and line the sides of the moulds with these, so as to overlap each other (arrange them in rows). Fill the moulds with rice or dried peas, and bake in a fairly warm oven for about ten minutes. Take out the rice or peas, but do not remove the crusts from the moulds. Melt the butter. Fill up the centre of the moulds with cooked raviolis, alternately with layers of Parmesan cheese, tomato sauce, and oiled butter. Place them in a hot oven for another fifteen or twenty minutes. Un- mould on a hot dish, place a little ravioli (kept back for this purpose) on top of each, sauce over with hot tomato sauce, and serve.FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 76 ITALIAN CHEESE BISCUITS. Ingredients.—£ lb. Vienna flour, 3 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, three sardines, one tablespoonful tabosca sauce or a tablespoonful of good chutney, 2 ozs. butter, one raw yolk of egg, two hard boiled eggs, three Gorgona anchovies, two tablespoonfuls cream, salt and cayenne. Method.—Sift the flour into a basin, rub in the butter, mix in 2 ozs. of the cheese. Beat the raw yolk of egg with a little milk or water. Moisten the flour, etc., with this, and work it into a smooth paste, adding a little water if needed. Roll out the paste about one-sixth of an inch thick. Stamp out some rounds with a inch plain or fancy cutter, place them on a greased baking-sheet, and bake them a light colour (fawn). Cut the hard boiled eggs into rings, remove the yolks, and put them in a mortar with the sardines and anchovies (previously wiped and boned), pound till smooth, add the chutney, or tobosca sauce, 1 oz. cheese, and the cream ; season with cayenne and a little salt. Mix well, and rub the whole though a sieve. Spread one side of the biscuits with this paste, place a ring of hard boiled egg on top of each, ornament the centre with the remainder of paste forced through a cornet or forcing bag with a rose pipe, dish up, and serve. CHEESE BISCUITS. Ingredients.—| lb. flour (sifted), } lb. butter, one yolk of egg, 6 ozs. grated Parmesan or Gruyere cheese, quarter teaspoonful Paprika pepper. Method.—Mix the flour and cheese in a basin, rub in the butter, then add the pepper, and mix with the egg- yolk, and, if necessary, a few drops of water, to form a smooth paste. Roll out on a floured board about a quarter of an inch in thickness. Stamp out someFARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 77 rounds or ovals, place them on a buttered baking-sheet, prick them with the prongs of a fork, and bake in a sharp oven for about ten minutes. CHEESE STRAWS. Ingredients.—4 ozs. flour (sifted), 3 ozs. butter, two tablespoonfuls cream, 4 ozs. grated cheese, a pinch of cayenne. Method.—Mix the flour and cheese in a basin, rub in the butter, add the cayenne, and moisten with the cream; work into a smooth paste. Roll out about a quarter of an inch thick ; cut the paste into even-sized long narrow strips or fingers, place them on a buttered baking-tin, and bake in a fairly hot oven for eight or ten minutes. Tie up into small bundles with coloured ribbon, and serve hot or cold. CHEESE STRAWS WITH FILLETS OF KIPPERED HERRING. Ingredients.—| lb. short paste, cayenne, one kippered herring, 1 oz. grated Parmesan, ground mace. Method.—Roll the paste out rather thinly, sprinkle it with grated Parmesan cheese, cayenne pepper, and a very little ground mace; fold together both ends towards the centre, roll out again, and sprinkle as before. Fold again, and roll out rather thinly this time. Cut it into fingers about four inches long and a quarter of an inch wide. Cut some strips of kippered herring fillets exactly the same size as the paste, place one of each together, and twist them to give them the appear- ance of a screw; close the ends with your thumb and forefinger, and bake them for a few minutes in a quick oven. These should be dished up in transverse rows, and be served as hot as possible.73 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES CHEESE CONDOLES WITH CREAM. Ingredients.—Three tablespoonfuls Bechamel sauce, 1 oz. grated Parmesan cheese, some short paste or puff paste trimmings, \ gill aspic jelly, \ gill cream, 2 ozs. grated Gruyere cheese, a pinch of cayenne and salt, about 1 oz. fresh butter. Method.—Line twelve very small oval or boat moulds with the paste, fill them with rice, and bake them in a moderately heated oven a nice golden colour. Take out the rice, and put the cases on a sieve to cool. Warm the Bechamel sauce and aspic jelly in a stewpan, add a pinch of salt and cayenne pepper, let the same reduce a little, and mix with the two kinds of grated cheese. Stir well, and when nearly cold add the cream (previously whipped). Stir it gently on the ice until nearly set, and then fill up the cases. Sprinkle the top of each case with a little grated Parmesan cheese. Cream the butter, put it in a forcing-bag with a rose or leaf pipe, and ornament the condoles to taste. Keep them on the ice until required. Dish up on a folded napkin, and serve after the sweets. CHEESE GALETTES. Ingredients.—\ pint milk, 1 bayleaf, 8 ozs. flour, salt, white pepper, and nutmeg, 1 gill water, 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, two yolks of eggs. Method.—Put the milk and water in a stewpan, add the bayleaf and boil for a few minutes ; remove the bayleaf, and put in the butter. Sift the flour, and stir into the above whilst the former is boiling fast. Work vigorously with a wooden spoon until the sides and bottom of the pan are left perfectly clean. Now add the seasoning (a pinch of salt, a good pinch of white pepper, and a tiny grate of nutmeg). Stir in half the79 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES cheese and one yolk of egg. Work over the fire a little longer, then spread on a dish, and put it on the ice for about an hour. Stamp out some rounds by means of a paste cutter, place them on a well-buttered baking- sheet, prick them well with a fork, brush over with egg- yolk diluted with a little milk, sprinkle the surface with Parmesan cheese. Bake in a fairly brisk oven from ten to fifteen minutes, and serve hot as an after-dinner savoury. These galettes are also nice cold. GRUYERE DARTOISES. Ingredients.—£■ lb. ordinary pastry, i oz. butter, 3 ozs. grated Gruyere cheese, salt and cayenne, 1 gill milk, % oz. cornflour, 2 eggs, anchovy paste. Method.—Line a dozen small dariole moulds with very thin ordinary paste. Boil a gill of milk in a stewpan, add one ounce of butter, mix with it half an ounce of cornflour, also three ounces of grated Gruyere cheese ; stir w’ell over the fire, and mix with two beaten eggs ; season with a little salt, and highly with cayenne. Half fill the moulds with this preparation, but a small quantity of bloater or anchovy paste in the centre of each, cover with the remaining mixture, sprinkle the surface with grated cheese, bake in a moderate oven a light brown, turn out, and serve quickly on a folded napkin. HOT CHEESE CREAM SOUFFLES. Ingredients.—1 gill cream, ozs. grated Gruyere cheese, brown breadcrumbs or panurette, two eggs, a little butter, cayenne pepper. Method.—Use plated or china cockle-shell dishes or small scallop shells for this dish. Eight to ten shells will be required. Separate the yolks from the whites of eggs, stir theSo FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES yolks in a basin, add a tiny pinch of salt and a pinch of cayenne. Beat the cream till stiff, and mix alternately with the grated cheese into the beaten yolks of eggs. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, and fold care- fully into the above mixture. Butter the shells, and three parts fill them with this preparation. Sprinkle some breadcrumbs or panurette on top of each, also a few drops of oiled butter, place them on a baking-sheet and bake in a fairly sharp oven for about eighteen minutes. Serve quickly on small cheese plates, or hand round on a large dish. SWISS CHEESE SOUFFLE. Ingredients.—3 gills milk, f oz. fresh butter, 3 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, white pepper, a pinch of Paprika pepper, one tablespoonful double cream, two yolks and three whites of eggs, 3 ozs. grated Gruyere cheese, 2 ozs. Fegule de pommes de terre (potato flour). Method.—Mix the flour with the cream. Put the milk and % oz. butter into a stewpan and allow to boil. Stir the hot milk into the mixed flour, return the whole to the stewpan, and stir it with a wooden spoon over a bright fire until it thickens, then add all but a good tablespoonful of the grated cheese, mix thoroughly, and work in the yolks of eggs ; allow to cook for another two minutes. Set the pan on one side to cool. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mix this carefully into the above preparation; season at the same time with Paprika and white pepper. Butter a silver-plated vegetable dish, and pour the souffle mixture into this, sprinkle grated cheese over, and bake in a brisk oven from twelve to fifteen minutes. Serve very hot, in fact as soon as it leaves the oven. Place the dish in which the souffle is cooked on another dish covered with a folded napkin or dish paper.81 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES CHEESE CREAM FRITTERS. Ingredients.—i gill milk, i oz. butter, i oz. grated Gruyere cheese, panurette or breadcrumbs, grated nut- meg, parsley, one shallot, i oz. flour, ^ oz. Parmesan, two eggs, cayenne pepper, clarified butter or lard for frying. Method. — Boil the milk with the shallot (finely chopped). Fry the flour in the butter, just enough to cook it without browning. Stir in the milk, let it come to the boil whilst stirring, season with a pinch of cayenne and very little nutmeg, and cook slowly until it resembles a panade in consistency. Add the grated cheese. Bind the mixture with two yolks of eggs, and spread on a dish or baking-sheet (previously buttered) to cool. Stamp out some rounds by means of a paste cutter, about i^- inches in diameter. Beat up the whites of egg. Mix panurette or breadcrumbs with the Par- mesan cheese (grated), egg and crumb, when set repeat the operation. Fry in clarified butter or lard (this must be very hot). Drain, sprinkle with a good pinch of fine salt, dish up, garnish with fried parsley, and serve. BREAD AND CHEESE FRITTERS. Ingredients.—2 ozs. stale bread (crumby part), ^ oz. butter, two yolks and one white of egg, one whole egg (beaten), frying fat, 1 gill milk, 4 ozs. grated cheese (Gruyere or Parmesan), one saltspoonful oriental salt, panurette for crumbing. Method.—Cut the bread into dice, and put it in a basin, pour over the milk (made warm), and allow to soak for twenty minutes. Pour off some of the milk, add the cheese, and stir in the yolks of eggs. Put this into a stewpan with the butter, add the seasoning, and stir till the mixture is warm through. Allow it to cool a little, then add the white of one egg, whisked to a stiff G82 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES froth : mix gently, and form into even-sized balls. Dip them in beaten egg, cover well with panurette, when set repeat the operation. Have ready some hot fat, fry the balls in this. Drain on paper or cloth, arrange up on a hot dish with a lace paper or folded napkin, and serve. SOUFFLEES AU PAPRIKA. Ingredients.—1| ozs. butter, two eggs, Paprika pepper, f oz. sifted flour, 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, salt. Method.—Put about i-J- gills of water into a small stew- pan, add a pinch of salt, and about an ounce of butter. As soon as it boils stir in the flour. Work the mixture vigorously over the fire for several minutes, then add rather more than half the cheese ; let it cook a little longer, stirring all the while. Lastly work in the yolks of two eggs. Remove the pan from the fire, and let * contents cool. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth, work it care- fully into the mixture, and add enough Paprika pepper to season same. Three parts fill some china souffle cases (previously buttered), place these on a baking-tin, and bake in a fairly hot oven for about fifteen minutes. Sprinkle over some grated cheese as they leave the oven, dish up, and serve quickly. CHEESE TARTLETS. Ingredients.1—\ lb. rough puff paste (page 99), 2 ozs. grated Gruyere or Parmesan cheese, a pinch of cayenne, two eggs, one tablespoonful cream, J gill Bechamel sauce (page 96). Method.—Roll out the paste about one-eighth of an inch thick, cut out some rounds the size of the tartlet moulds intended to be used, then line the moulds with the paste. _FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 83 Put the sauce into a basin, stir in the yolks of eggs, the cheese and cream ; season with a pinch of cayenne. Whisk the whites of egg to a stiff froth and stir lightly into the above mixture. Fill the lined tartlet moulds with this, place them on a baking-tin, and bake for about twenty minutes in a moderately heated oven. Turn out carefully, and dress the tartlets on a hot dish with a pretty lace paper, sprinkle over with finely grated cheese, and serve either hot or cold, preferably hot. GRUYERE FRITTERS. Ingredients.—About J lb. choux paste, about J lb. Gruyere cheese, fat for frying, one egg, soft bread- crumbs, salt and Nepaul pepper. Method.—Cut the cheese into slices about a quarter of an inch thick, stamp out some ovals with a pastry cutter, wipe each piece with a dry cloth ; coat one side of every piece of cheese with choux paste, smooth over with a pallet knife. Beat up the egg. Have ready a plateful of breadcrumbs, mix with them two saltspoonfuls of salt and a good pinch of Nepaul pepper. Dip the slices of cheese into the egg, crumb, let the coating get dry, then egg and crumb again. Allow them to stand for a few minutes, then plunge them into hot fat, and fry until of a golden colour. Drain, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve quickly. GOLDEN BUCK. Ingredients.—£• lb. Cheddar cheese, one wineglassful ale, Nepaul pepper, one tablespoonful cream, half a teaspoonful Worcester sauce, 1 oz. butter, celery salt, two eggs, half a teaspoonful lemon-juice, a slice of toasted buttered bread. Method.—*Mince the cheese, and put it in a small stew- pan with the butter, ale, a saltspoonful of celery salt, andFARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 84 half a saltspoonful Nepaul pepper. Beat up the eggs with the cream, and stir into the stewpan. Mix thoroughly, and whisk the mixture over the fire till creamy and partly set. Flavour with lemon-juice and Worcester sauce. Pour this upon hot buttered toast, cut into four, garnish with sprigs of fresh parsley, and send to table. FONDU SOUFFLEES. Ingredients.—i oz. potato flour, oz. fresh butter, one yolk and two whites of egg, f pint milk, 3 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, seasoning. Method.—Mix the potato flour with a little cold milk, then stir on to it the remainder of the milk (boiling) ; put in the butter, and stir the mixture with a wooden spoon over the fire until it thickens. Cool a little, then add one or two yolks of eggs, the grated cheese, and seasoning (salt, pepper, nutmeg or cayenne). Beat the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, and mingle carefully with the above. Put the mixture into a well-buttered silver- plated vegetable dish, and bake from eight to ten minutes in a brisk oven. Serve immediately. The same mixture can be baked in little souffle cases instead of one large dish. COLD CHEESE SOUFFLEES. Ingredients. — 6 ozs. grated cheese, ^ pint aspic, panurette, brown bread croutes, £ pint cream, Pap- rika and cayenne pepper, salt. Method.—Whip the cream and aspic separately ; then mix both together, with the cheese; add seasoning to taste, using very little salt. Put the mixture in a tin biscuit box (flat), and freeze in a charged ice box for about an hour. Have ready some rounds or squares of croutes cut out of brown bread. Stamp out some roundsFARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 85 of the mixture, or cut out diamond shapes by means of a hot knife ; place these on the croutes, decorate the top with panurette, or sprinkle over a tiny pinch of Paprika, dish up on a folded napkin, and serve as an after-dinner savoury. LITTLE CHEESE CROUSTADES WITH CREAM. Ingredients. — Paste : \ lb. sifted flour, 4 ozs. butter, a little milk, 2 ozs. grated Parmesan cheese, one yolk of egg. Filling : 1 gill cream, a good pinch Paprika pepper, one bottle red chillis, 1 oz. grated cheese, one teaspoonful Searcy’s celery salt, a few capers or French cornichons (small gherkins). Method.—Mix the flour with the cheese (2 ozs.), rub in the butter, moisten with the egg-yolk and a little milk, and work into a smooth but fairly firm paste. Roll out rather thinly, stamp out some rounds or ovals according to the shape of the moulds, and line a number of shallow patty or tartlet-pans (these may be round or oval), prick the bottoms to avoid blistering in baking, fill up with rice, and bake a nice light brown colour. Remove the rice, and let the croustades get cool. Whip the cream until stiff, mix in the grated cheese (1 oz.), the Paprika, and the celery salt. Fill the croustades with this. Cut some fine strips of red chillis, and ornament the surface of the croustades in the form of lattice-work, place a caper or a tiny round of cornichon in each cavity. Dish up on a folded napkin or lace paper, and serve as an after-dinner savoury or side dish. HOT CHEESE SANDWICHES. Ingredients. — Three slices of freshly toasted bread, Nepaul or Paprika pepper, £ oz. fresh butter, three tablespoonfuls grated Parmesan cheese.86 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES Method.—Cut the toast into neat squares (about ij inches), cut them open, butter the cut sides lightly, and sprinkle with plenty of grated cheese. Season each with a good pinch of Paprika or a tiny pinch of Nepaul pepper. Place them together into their original shapes. Set them in a hot oven on a baking-sheet for a few minutes, taking great care that the bread does not get too brown. Take out, dish up, sprinkle the top with grated cheese, and serve quickly. COLD CHEESE SANDWICHES. Ingredients. — Two tablespoonfuls grated cheese, a little crisp celery or a few shelled and peeled walnuts, cayenne, one large tablespoonful double cream, bread and butter. Method.—Cut some thin slices of bread, and butter them slightly. Shred either celery or walnuts very finely, and mix this with the cheese, a pinch of cayenne, and the cream. Spread the buttered sides of the bread slices with this, place them together like sandwiches, cut them into pretty shapes—squares, oblongs, crescents, or stars. Dish up, garnish with sprigs of parsley, and serve. MACARONI AU GRATIN. Ingredients.—4 ozs. small macaroni (spaghetti), 1 gill stock, one dessertspoonful flour, one bayleaf, salt and pepper, 2 ozs. butter, 2 ozs. grated cheese, 1 gill milk, breadcrumbs, one slice of onion. Method. — Break the macaroni into short pieces, put them in a stewpan containing enough boiling water, slightly salted, to well cover the macaroni. Allow to boil fast for twenty minutes, drain, and cool them. Boil the stock and milk, with a bayleaf and onion. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the flour, and cook for a couple of minutes without browning.FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 87 Now add the boiled milk and stock (strained), stir till it boils, put in the macaroni and the cheese, mix well, and season to taste with salt and pepper. Fill a well buttered gratin or pie dish with this preparation, sprinkle with breadcrumbs and grated cheese, put a few tiny bits of butter here and there on top, and bake in a moderate oven for fifteen minutes. Serve in the dish in which it was cooked. MACARONI A LTTALIENNE. Boil the macaroni as in the foregoing recipe, and drain. Melt 2 ozs. butter in a stewpan, put in the macaroni, fry a little, then add 2 ozs. grated cheese, and not quite ^ pint of well flavoured tomato sauce. Allow to cook gently from twenty to thirty minutes, stir occasionally. Season to taste, dish up, and serve hot. MACARONI WITH OYSTERS. Ingredients.—J lb. spaghetti (macaroni), 1 gill tomato conserve, salt and Nepaul pepper, two tablespoonfuls Lucca oil, six large sauce oysters, \ oz. grated Parmesan cheese, \\ oz. butter, one teaspoonful parsley. Method.—Boil the spaghetti in salted water until tender, but do not overboil it. When done, strain off the water, and put it in a basin of cold water. Put the tomato conserve and oil into a saute-pan, let it simmer for a few minutes. Trim the oysters, cut them in halves. Melt ^ oz. butter in a frying-pan, put in the oysters, and toss over the fire for two minutes, season with pepper and salt, and add to the sauce. Drain the spaghetti, put it in a stewpan, together with an ounce of butter ; when thoroughly hot add the grated cheese and chopped parsley ; mix with the pre- pared sauce, add a pinch of Nepaul pepper, stir gentlyFARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 88 over the fire for a few minutes. Arrange on a hot dish, garnish with a few sippets of toasted bread, and serve quickly. Mussels or cockles may be served in the same manner as a substitute for oysters. BAKED CHEESE CRUMPETS. Ingredients.—Three to four small crumpets, i oz. butter, 2 ozs. cheese. Method.—Split and butter the crumpets. Mince the cheese, and sprinkle over the buttered sides of the crumpets, and put them into their original shape Bake for about ten minutes in a hot oven, and serve at once. MILK ROLL PIE. Ingredients.—| lb. flour (sifted), ihalf teaspoonful baking powder, 2 ozs. grated cheese, salt and pepper, 2\ ozs. butter, \ pint milk, two eggs. Method.—To make the milk rolls, put the flour in a basin, add a pinch of salt, and rub in i\ ozs. butter, until the mixture looks like oatmeal. Add the baking powder, and moisten with enough milk to form a firm dough. Put the dough on to a floured board and knead a little, then divide into eight portions, shape each into a bun. Place them on a baking-sheet and bake for about twenty minutes. Split the buns, butter them well, lay them in a buttered pie dish, sprinkle over with grated cheese, a little salt, a pinch of white pepper, and a pinch of cayenne pepper. Beat up the egg with the remainder of the milk, pour this into the pie dish. Bake for about half an hour in a moderately heated oven, and send to table immediately.FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 89 GRIDDLE CAKES. Ingredients.—| lb. flour, 2 ozs. butter, half teaspoonful salt, \ lb. cornflour, 1 pint milk, three eggs. Method.—Mix the two kinds of flour and rub through a sieve into a basin, add the salt, and rub in the butter with the tips of the fingers until quite smooth ; pour in gradually the milk, mix well, add the yolks of eggs one at a time. Beat up thoroughly until a smooth batter is obtained. Allow it to stand for half an hour. Mean- while whisk the whites of eggs to a very stiff froth, and mix carefully into the batter. Proceed to bake the batter quickly on a hot griddle. POTATO OR GRIDDLE-CAKE FRITTERS. Ingredients.—f lb. raw potatoes, two eggs, salt and pepper, 2 ozs. flour, 1 oz. butter, clarified butter or lard for frying. Method.—Wash, peel, and finely grate the potatoes. Rub the butter into the flour, add a good pinch of salt and a pinch of pepper, work in the grated potatoes, and moisten with the yolks of two eggs. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth. Mix this with the above preparation. Shape into little balls about the size of pigeons’ eggs, drop into hot fat and fry a golden colour, or flatten the ball shapes, and fiy them on both sides in a saute-pan containing some clarified butter. Take up, drain well, dish up, and serve hot. FRIED MUFFINS. Ingredients.—1 lb. flour, 1 oz. butter, \ oz. yeast, £ oz. caster sugar, £ pint milk, one saltspoonful salt, frying fat. Method.—Sift the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre, put in the salt and sugar. Scald the milk,90 FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISIIES add the butter, mix it with the yeast when lukewarm or nearly cool, then pour it in the basin containing the flour ; beat up the egg and add likewise. Mix gradu- ally with the flour, and beat vigorously until a very smooth dough is obtained. Allow it to stand over- night to give it time to rise. Drop the mixture by means of a tablespoon into hot fat, fry a golden brown, take up, drain, and serve hot. This is essentially a breakfast dish. BREAKFAST MUFFINS. Ingredients.—| lb. flour (sifted), one teaspoonful baking powder, two eggs, pint milk, one saltspoonful salt, i oz. butter. Method.—Put the flour into a basin, make a well in the centre of the flour, add the salt and baking powder. Beat up the eggs with the milk, and melt the butter. Pour the milk and eggs slowly into the flour and mix carefully, then add the butter, and beat up the whole vigorously for several minutes. Place six or eight muffin pans (buttered) on a baking tin, fill these with the prepared batter, and bake in a fairly quick oven from fifteen to twenty minutes, or bake in iron hoops on a steel baking tin over the fire, in the same way as muffins are usually baked. If liked, a little sugar (i to i| ozs.) may be added to the batter. POTATO SCONES. Ingredients.—\ lb. mashed mealy potatoes, one salt- spoonful of salt, one egg, 6 ozs. flour (sifted), 2 ozs. butter, one teaspoonful baking powder, about 1 gill milk. Method.—Rub the butter into* the flour, add the salt and baking powder. Mix this thoroughly with theFARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES 9i mashed potatoes. Beat up the egg with a little milk, add it to the above, and work into a dough, using the needful quantity of milk. Roll out on a floured board about inch in thickness, stamp out some rounds 2 to 2\ inches in diameter. Place them on a buttered baking tin, brush over with milk, and bake in a quick - oven for about fifteen minutes. These scones are best eaten hot (buttered), but are frequently served cold. When stale, split them, toast and butter them. RICE BUNS. Ingredients.—2 ozs. cooked rice (weighed when cooked), about \ gill milk, half teaspoonful baking powder, 4 ozs. flour, two eggs, 1 oz. butter, a pinch of salt. Method.—See that the rice is carefully drained and dried. Rub the butter into the flour, add the rice, baking powder and salt, and mix with the yolks of the eggs and enough milk to form a light dough. Whisk the whites of eggs to a stiff froth, cut or fold this into the dough. Three parts fill some buttered patty pans with this preparation, and bake in a hot oven from fifteen to twenty minutes.92 VI MISCELLANEOUS TEA. Proportion.—One teaspoonful of tea to each cupful. Scald out the teapot and put in the tea, using one teaspoonful for each person and a teaspoonful over. Have a kettle of water on the fire, and watch it come to the boil. Pour the boiling water, allowing about one cupful to each teaspoonful of tea, in the teapot. Put the lid on the teapot, and let it stand for three or four minutes. The tea should then be immediately served, for if left to stand too long the tannin in the tea becomes developed. This renders the tea a dark colour, and is considered hurtful. COFFEE. Proportion.—One tablespoonful of ground coffee to each cupful. Use the coffee mixed in proportions of one-third of Mocha and two-thirds of Java. It is far better to pur- chase the whole berries freshly roasted and grind it as required. Put the ground coffee in a coffee-pot; one that has a strainer is best, or failing this, a muslin bag will answer the purpose. Pour the required quantity of93 MISCELLANEOUS boiling water, which is half-a-pint to every two heaped-up tablespoonfuls of coffee, on the coffee ; cover well, and let it stand on the side of the stove for a few minutes. During that time pour out the liquid, and pour it back over the coffee once or twice until it becomes quite clear. The coffee is then ready, and should be served with hot milk. There should be an equal quantity of milk and coffee. COCOA. Proportion.—One teaspoonful of cocoa to a cup of milk or water per person. Put the cocoa in a cup or jug, boil up the milk or water and pour over the cocoa, stir, return to the pan in which the liquid was boiled ; continue to stir until it boils, then serve, adding sugar to taste. Most cocoas may be prepared without boiling, but I find it a great improvement to allow it to boil, just for a couple of minutes ; it develops the flavour considerably. CHOCOLATE. Proportion.—| pint of milk to i oz. of chocolate. Put the chocolate into a stewpan or enamelled sauce pan. Add a little water, and commence stirring over the fire with a wooden spoon until it is a smooth paste. Boil the milk and pour it over the chocolate, stir with a wooden spoon until it boils, and allow it to boil for two minutes. Serve and sweeten to taste. Cocoa and chocolate possess the same constituents as tea and coffee, the alkaloid in them being called 11 theobromine,” and in addition to this it may be said that both cocoa and chocolate are rich in fatty matters, starch and glutin ; consequently the latter two are more nourishing beverages than tea or coffee. I recommendMISCELLANEOUS 94 boiling cocoa and chocolate because I find that it develops the flavour. CASSOLETTE PASTE. Ingredients.—\ lb. flour, half an egg, one teaspoonful lemon juice, ozs. butter, a little water, a pinch of salt. Method.—Put the flour in a basin, add the salt, and rub in the butter until quite smooth. Then moisten with the egg, the lemon juice, and a very little water. Mix the whole thoroughly, and work into a smooth but stiff paste. Use as directed. MAYONNAISE SAUCE. Ingredients.—Two yolks of eggs, half a teaspoonful salt, one tablespoonful tarragon vinegar, one teaspoonful French mustard, a pinch of pepper, about i pint best salad oil, one tablespoonful cream. Method.—Put the yolks into a basin, add the mustard (raw and mixed), salt and pepper ; stir quickly with a wooden spoon, adding drop by drop at first and gradually more the salad oil, and at intervals a few drops of vinegar ; the vinegar is added when the sauce appears too thick. By stirring well the mixture should become the consistency of very thick cream. At last add the raw cream, stirring all the while. A little cold water may be added if found too thick. In hot weather the basin in which the mayonnaise is made should be placed in a vessel of crushed ice. ASPIC JELLY. Ingredients.—One pint clear stock or water, the juice and rind of half a lemon, £ gill tarragon vinegar, a small bunch of herbs, a small bayleaf, a blade mace, aMISCELLANEOUS 95 few celery leaves, a pinch of salt, ozs. gelatine (French leaf), £ gill sherry, J gill French wine, half a small onion (sliced), five peppercorns, five allspice, half a small carrot sliced, the white and shell of one egg. Method.—See that all the ingredients are ready and the vegetables clean. Whisk up lightly the white of egg with the shell, and put it, together with the re- mainder of the above-named ingredients, into a well- tinned stewpan. Stir with a whisk over the fire, and bring it thus slowly to the boil. Remove the whisk, and draw the stewpan away from the fire, and allow it to simmer gently on the side of the stove for about twenty minutes. Strain through a clean cloth, previously steeped in boiling water and tied over a soup stand, or the legs of a stool turned upside down, or pass it through a warm jelly bag. If not clear at first, pass it through a second or third time. The aspic is then ready for use. This aspic is suitable for borders or decorative purposes. If required for other purposes, an ounce of gelatine will be found sufficient for its consistency. PANADE. (Used for farces, etc.) Ingredients.—| pint water, 3J ozs. flour, 1 oz. butter, a pinch of salt. Method.—Put the water on to boil, adding the salt and the butter. Sift the flour and stir into the water, etc., whilst boiling. Stir vigorously with a wooden spoon over the fire until the sides and bottom of the stewpan are left clean. It will require about five minutes. Spread the mixture on to a buttered plate and allow to cool. Use as directed.96 MISCELLANEOUS POTTED CHEESE. (An excellent relish for sandwiches, toasted bread, and biscuits.) Ingredients.—2\ to 3 lbs. Cheshire cheese, \ lb. fresh butter, quarter teaspoonful ground mace, clarified butter, 1 gill Chablis or Sauterne wine, a pinch cayenne pepper. Method.—Remove the rind from the cheese, cut up the cheese into small pieces and pound it with the butter in a mortar until smooth. Moisten with the white wine, add the ground mace and other seasoning and mix thoroughly. Put the mixture thus prepared in a pie- dish or gallipot, press it down tightly, cover with a layer of clarified butter and keep it in a cool but dry place until required. BECHAMEL SAUCE. Ingredients.—1^ ozs. flour, 1pint milk, a small bouquet, half a bayleaf, 2 ozs. butter, one small onion or shallot, ten peppercorns, one small blade of mace, seasoning. Method.—Put the milk on to boil with the onion or shallot (peeled), the bouquet, peppercorns, mace, and bayleaf. Melt the butter, stir in the flour, and cook a little without browning (or use white roux), stir in the milk, etc. (hot), whisk over the fire until it boils, and let simmer from fifteen to twenty minutes. Take out the bouquet, rub through a sieve or tammy, return to the stewpan, season lightly with a pinch of nutmeg, half- pinch of cayenne, and half a teaspoonful of salt. This sauce is then ready for use. WHITE SAUCE. Ingredients.—~i pint milk, one clove, 2 ozs. butter, ^ pint stock (white), salt, one small onion, one bayleaf, ozs. flour, ten peppercorns.MISCELLANEOUS 97 Method.—Cook flour and butter together without browning, moisten with the milk and stock, put in the onion, clove, peppercorns, and bayleaf, stir until it boils, and let it simmer for fifteen minutes, season with salt. Strain or tammy and use as required. It is best to first boil the onion with the milk. BROWN SAUCE. Ingredients.—§ pint Espagnole or salmi sauce, four leaves French gelatine, one glass Madeira or sherry, \ pint aspic, cream. Method.—Boil up the sauce. Dissolve the gelatine with the aspic, mix both together; add the wine ; let simmer for a few minutes, and pass through a tammy cloth ; add a little cream, and flavour to taste. PIQUANTE SAUCE. Ingredients.—Half onion or four shallots, one table- spoonful chopped capers, one sprig of thyme, three gherkins (chopped), i gill vinegar, one bayleaf, £ pint Espagnole sauce. Method.—Peel and chop the onion or shallots, put them in a stewpan with the vinegar, bayleaf, and thyme, cover, and reduce to half the quantity of liquor. Strain into another stewpan, add the chopped gher- kins and capers, moisten with the sauce, boil a few minutes, and serve. DEMI-GLACE SAUCE. Reduce \ pint Espagnole sauce with i| gills of good gravy (strained and free from fat) ; allow to simmer for about fifteen minutes, and season with a pinch of pepper. HMISCELLANEOUS 98 TARTARE SAUCE. Put two yolks of eggs in a basin, place it in a shallow pan containing some crushed ice, add a teaspoonful of salt, a good pinch of white pepper, a pinch of cayenne, and a teaspoonful of mustard ; stir well together, and add gradually a pint of salad oil, and about a quarter of a gill of tarragon vinegar ; when the sauce is smooth and creamy stir in a good tablespoonful of cold Becha- mel or Veloute sauce, two teaspoonfuls of chopped gherkins, one of chopped capers, one of chopped par- sley, and about half a teaspoonful of finely chopped tarragon and chervil. Do not mix the gherkins, capers, etc., until the sauce is finished, as they are likely to cause the sauce to turn if put in too soon. A few drops of lemon juice may be added if the sauce is found too thick. TOMATO SAUCE. Put into a stewpan 1 oz. of slices of bacon, 1 oz. of butter, and a finely chopped onion, fry a little, and add about 1 lb. of ripe tomatoes freed from stems and cut into slices, stir over the fire a little longer, then add 1 oz. of flour previously mixed with a little cold stock or gravy. Stir in gradually f quart of stock, add a few peppercorns, a few sprigs of savoury herbs and parsley, allow to simmer for half an hour. Remove the herbs, rub through a sieve, return to the stewpan, season with salt, a pinch of caster sugar and pepper, finish with a pat of fresh butter, and serve as required. P.S.—A tablespoonful of double cream might be used instead of butter, but the sauce should not be allowed to boil again after the butter or cream as a finish has been added.99 MISCELLANEOUS FRIED PARSLEY. Wash and pick some fresh parsley, dry thoroughly in a cloth. Have ready some hot frying fat, put the parsley in a wire basket, plunge it in the hot fat, let it remain for a few minutes until it becomes crisp, then take it up, shake it so as to free it from fat, sprinkle with a little salt, and use as required for garnish. HOLLANDAISE SAUCE. Ingredients.—Two yolks of eggs, I oz. butter, salt and pepper, i gill white sauce, one teaspoonful vinegar. Method.—Heat the sauce in a small saucepan, stir in the yolks of eggs, stand the saucepan in boiling water over the fire and whisk until nearly boiling, add the butter in small quantities, also the vinegar. Season to taste, and whisk until the sauce has the consistency of a light cream. FRYING BATTER. Ingredients.—J- lb. flour, one tablespoonful sweet oil, i gill tepid water, a pinch of salt, the white of an egg. Method.—Sift the flour into a basin, stir in the water, work it well, add the oil, and let stand for two hours ; put a pinch of salt to the white of egg, beat it to a froth, and mix it gently with the batter. PUFF PASTE. Ingredients.—\ lb. flour, cold water, a pinch of salt, ^ lb. butter, one teaspoonful lemon juice. Method.—Sift the flour on to a board, make a well in the centre, mix it into a paste with a tiny piece of butter, salt, lemon juice, and water. Roll out into a long strip. Put the remainder of the butter into a cloth, knead a little so as to squeeze out the moisture,IOO MISCELLANEOUS and form it into a flat cake. Place the butter in the centre of the paste, wet the edges, and fold over so as to completely enclose the butter. Roll out, fold in three, and roll out into an oblong shape again ; continue this four or five times, setting the paste aside in a cool place for twenty minutes between each turn. Before using it should be allowed to stand for at least half an hour. SHORT CRUST PASTE. Ingredients.—i lb flour (sifted), not quite \ pint water, 6 to 8 ozs. butter or lard, salt. Method.—Add a pinch of salt to the flour. Rub the butter or lard lightly into the flour until perfectly mixed ; add the water gradually, and work into a smooth paste. Roll it out and fold two or three times. This paste is used for meal pie-crust, but it can be converted into short crust by adding a small handful of sifted sugar after the butter or lard is rubbed into the flour. A yolk of egg or a little milk added will improve the crust; in that case you will require a little less water. LOBSTER BUTTER. Procure the eggs and coral of a lobster, wash and dry well ; pound in a mortar with double its quantity of fresh butter. Rub through a fine sieve, and keep in a cool place until required. ANCHOVY BUTTER. Ingredients.—Six Gorgona anchovies, half a lemon, 2^ ozs. butter. Method.—Soak the anchovies in cold water, drain, take out the bones, wipe dry with a cloth, pound in a mortar with the butter ; add the juice of a lemon, rub through a fine sieve, spread on a plate, put on the ice, and use as directed.IOI MISCELLANEOUS MAITRE D’HOTEL BUTTER. Mix i oz. of fresh butter with one teaspoonful of chopped parsley, a sprig of tarragon and one of chervil finely chopped, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, a pinch of salt and pepper. Spread on a plate, put on the ice and shape into small pats when quite firm. PANCAKE BATTER. Weigh £ lb. flour and sift it into a basin, and add a pinch of salt. Beat up an egg and mix with half a pint of milk, stir half the milk, etc., gradually into the flour, and beat for at least ten minutes, then add by degrees the remainder of milk and egg. Mix thoroughly, and strain into a jug. Use as required.INDEX. -*<>♦- Anchovy Butter, ioo Asparagus Sandwiches, 43 Aspic Jelly, 94 Bacon, Breakfast, w. Potatoes, 32 „ Olives, w. Sharp Sauce (hot), 30 Baked Cheese Crumpets, 88 Batter for Cromeskies, 26 „ for frying, 99 Bean and Lettuce Salad, 54 Bechamel Sauce, 96 Beef, Gateau of (hot), 15 „ Minced,w. Poached Eggs, 17 „ Polantine, 17 Biscuits, Cheese, 76 „ Cheese, Italian, 76 Bloater Fritters, 2 Bloaters’ Roes on Croutes a la Yarmouth (hot), 2 Brains, Sheep’s, w. Mushrooms, 36 Bread and Cheese Fritters, 81 Breakfast Bacon w. Potatoes, 32 „ Eggs, 58 „ Muffins, 90 Broiled Chicken, Devilled, 27 Brown Bread Croutes w. Egg and Tongue (hot), 33 „ Sauce, 97 Buck, Golden, 83 Buns, Rice, 91 Butter, Anchovy, 100 „ Devilled, 27 „ Lobster, 100 „ Maitre d’Hotel, 101 Cabbage, Stuffed, 49 Cakes, Griddle, 89 Canapes of Soft Roes of Herring, Proven?ale style (hot), 1 Caroline Salad, 53 Carrot Tartlets, Savoury (hot), 49 Cassolette Paste, 94 Cassolettes, Parmentier style, 42 „ Potato, w. Eggs, 64 „ of Rice, w. Shrimps, 70 „ Sausage (hot), 29 Celery and Cucumber Salad, 54 „ and Oyster Salad, 51 „ Souffles, 44 „ Stewed,w. Brown Sauce, 43 Cheese Biscuits, 76 „ Biscuits, Italian, 76 „ and Bread Fritters, 81 „ Condoles with Cream, 78 „ Cream Fritters, 81 „ Cream Souffles (hot), 79 „ Croustades (little), with Cream, 85 „ Crumpets, Baked (hot), 88104 INDEX Cheese, Galettes, 78 „ Potted, 96 „ Sandwiches (cold), 86 „ Sandwiches (hot), 85 „ Souffles (cold), 84 „ Souffle, Swiss, 80 „ Straws, 77 „ Straws, with Fillets of K. Herring (hot), 77 „ Tartlets, 82 Chestnut and Celery, with Mayon- naise, 56 Chestnuts, Stewed (hot), 40 Chicken Croustades, 24 ,, Croquettes, 25 ,, Devilled, Broiled, 27 „ Legs Stuffed (hot), 23 ,, Liver on Toast, 37 „ Livers, Devilled (hot), 38 „ Scallops, 26 Chocolate, 93 Cocoa, 93 Coffee, 92 Cold Cheese Sandwiches, 86 „ „ Souffle, 84 „ Meat Kedgeree, 16 Condoles, Cheese (w. Cream), 78 Contoise or Lettuce Salad, 52 Crab, Devilled, 5 Creams, Haddock (cold), 9 Crepinettes of Pork Liver, 34 Cromeskies, Batter for, 26 „ of Fowl, 25 Croquets, Potato, 41 „ Sausage, 29 Croquettes, Lobster (hot or cold), 4 „ Chicken or Turkey, 25 Croustades, Cheese, 8$ „ Chicken, 24 „ of Salmon, 12 Croutes a la St. George, 10 „ Bloaters’ Roes on, 2 „ Brown Bread (hot), 33 „ Savoury, with Ham, 30 Croutes, Spinach, 51 Croutons of Lobster a la Diable (hot), 5 Crumpets, Cheese, 88 Cucumber and Celery Salad, 54 „ Darioles (hot), 47 „ stuffed (cold), 47 Curried Rice, 69 Cutlets, Fish, 7 Darioles, Cucumber (hot), 47 » Egg, 63 Dartoises, Gruyere, 79 Demi-Glace Sauce, 97 Devilled Crab, 5 Devilled Butter, 27 Devilled Chicken’s Liver on Toast, 38 Eclairs, Sardine (hot), 3 Egg Cream, Savoury, on Toast, 66 „ Darioles, Princess style (hot), 63 ,, and Olive Salad (cold), 65 „ Salad, 55 Eggs, Breakfast (hot), 58 „ in cases, 62 „ Jumbled (hot), 61 „ on Toast, 58 „ Poached, Clementine style (cold), 59 ,, Poached, with Spinach (hot)( 60 ,, Scotch, 62 ,, Scrambled (hot), 60 „ „ w. Asparagus, 61 „ Surprise, Belle Vue style, 64 „ with Anchovies, Stuffed (hot), 63 „ with Potato Cassolettes, 64 Fish Cutlets, 7 „ Omelet, 8 „ Pie, 8INDEX Flakes, Potato, 41 Foie-Gras Rissolettes, 39 „ w. Mayonnaise, 38 Fondu Soufflees (hot), 84 Fowl, Cromeskies of, 25 Fried Muffins, 89 „ Parsley, 99 „ Pigs’ Feet, 34 Fritters, Bloater (hot), 2 „ Breadand Cheese (hot), 81 „ Cheese Cream, 81 „ Goose Liver, 35 „ Gruyere, 83 „ Leek, 48 „ Madras, 33 „ Oyster, 11 „ Potato, 42 „ Potato or Griddle Cake, 89 „ Tomato, 46 Frying Batter, 99 Galettes, Cheese, 78 Gateau of Beef (hot), 15 „ „ Mutton (hot), 15 Gnocchi au Gratin, 72 „ en Quenelles (hot), 71 „ Timbale de (hot), 72 Golden Buck, 83 Goose Liver, Fritters (Strasbourg style), 35 Griddle Cakes, 89 „ Cake Fritters (hot), 89 Gruyere Dartoises, 79 „ Fritters, 83 Haddock Creams, 9 Ham Creams, Savoury (cold), 32 „ and Egg Tartlets (hot), 31 „ „ Eggs on Toast, scrambled, 3i „ Omelet, 67 Herrings’ Roes, Canapes of (hot), 1 Hollandaise Sauce, 99 Hot Cheese Sandwiches, 85 io5 Italian Cheese Biscuits, 76 Jelly, Aspic, 94 Jumbled Eggs, 61 Kedgeree au Paprika (hot), 6 „ Cold Meat, 16 Kidney, Sheep’s, Sauteed, 37 Leek Fritters, 48 „ Omelet, 68 Lettuce and Bean Salad, 54 „ Salad, 52 Little Cheese Croustades, with Cream, 85 Liver, Chicken, on Toast, 37 Livers, Chicken, Devilled (hot), 38 Lobster-Butter, 100 „ Croquettes (hot or cold), 4 „ Croutons of (hot), 5 „ Salad in shells, 14 Macaroni au Gratin, 86 „ a l’ltalienne, 87 „ with Oysters, 87 Madeira Sauce, 36 Madras Fritters, 33 Maitre d’Hotel Butter, 101 Mayonnaise Sauce, 94 Meat (cold) Kedgeree, 16 Milk Roll Pie (hot), 88 Minced Beef and Poached Eggs, 17 Mince, Savoury, in Crusts, 20 Muffins, Breakfast, 90 „ Fried (hot), 89 Mushroom Scallops, 50 Mutton, Gateau of (hot), 13 „ Pie, 18 Nouilles au Gratin, 73 „ j Tartlets, filled with force- meat, 73 Olives, Bacon, 30INDEX io6 Omelet, Fish, 8 „ Ham, 67 „ Leek, 68 , Savoury, French style (hot), 67 Oyster Fritters, 11 „ Salad, 15 „ and Celery Salad, 51 ysters, Macaroni with, 87 „ Richelieu style, 10 „ Toasted (hot), 12 Panada, 95 Pancakes, Savoury, 21 „ w. Savoury Mince, 16 Paprika, Kedgeree w., 6 „ Soufflees au, 82 Parmentier Turnovers, 18 Parsley, Fried, 99 Paste, Cassolette, 94 „ Puff, 99 „ Short Crust, 100 Pie, Fish (American), 8 „ Milk Roll (hot), 88 „ Mutton, 18 „ Salmon, 13 Pig’s Feet, Fried, 34 Piquante Sauce, 97 Poached Eggs,Clementine style, 59 „ „ with Spinach, 60 Pork Liver, Crepinettes of, 34 Potato Cassolettes, with Eggs, 64 „ Croquets, 41 „ Flakes, 41 „ Fritters, 42 „ or Griddle Cake Fritters (hot), 89 „ Salad, 55 „ Saute, 42 „ Scones, 90 Potted Cheese, 96 Pudding, Savoury Roly-Poly, 30 Puff Paste, 99 Quenelles, Gnocchi en (hot), 71 Ravioli Timbales, w. Parmesan Cheese (hot), 75 Raviolis, a l’ltalienne, 74 Rice Buns, 91 „ Cassolettes of, with Shrimps (hot), 70 „ Curried (hot), 69 „ Tomato, 69 Rissoles, Savoury Italian, 28 Rissolettes of Foie Gras, 39 Rolled Sandwiches, 22 Roly-Poly Pudding, Savoury, 30 Salad, Caroline, 53 Celery and Cucumber, 54 Contoise or Lettuce, 52 Egg, 55 Egg and Olive (cold), 65 Lettuce, 52 Lettuce and Bean, 54 Lobster (in shells), 14 Oyster, 14 Oyster and Celery, 41 Potato, 55 Tomato, 53 Salmon, Croustades of (hot), 12 » pie> J3 „ Timbales, 12 Sandwiches, Asparagus, 43 a la Bernhardt, 22 Cheese (cold), 86 Cheese (hot), 85 „ , Rolled, 22 Sardine Eclairs (hot), 3 „ Tit-bits, Savoury, 3 Sardines with Parmesan (hot), 4 Sauce, Bechamel, 96 „ Brown, 97 „ Demi-Glace, 97 „ Hollandaise, 99 Madeira, 36 „ Mayonnaise, 94 H »107 INDEX Sauce, Piquante, 97 „ Tartare, 98 „ Tomato, 98 „ White, 96 Sausage Cassolettes, 29 „ Croquets, 29 Sauteed Sheep’s Kidney, with Madeira, 37 Saute Potatoes, 42 Savoury Carrot Tartlets, 49 „ Croutes with Ham, 20 „ Egg Cream on Toast, 66 „ Ham Creams (cold), 32 „ Italian Rissoles, 28 „ Mince in Crusts, 20 „ Omelet, French style (hot), 67 Souffles, au Paprika, 82 „ Tomato, 46 Spatchcock, 27 Spinach Croutes, 51 Stewed Celery in Brown Sauce, 43 „ Chestnuts, 40 Straws, Cheese, 77 „ Cheese, with Fillets of K. Herring (hot), 77 Stuffed Tomatoes, 45 „ Cucumber, 47 „ Cabbage, 49 „ Egg, with Anchovies, 63 Surprise Eggs, Belle Vue style, 64 Swiss Cheese, Souffle, 80 „ Pancakes, 21 „ Rissoles, Italian, 28 „ Roly-Poly Pudding, 30 „ Sardine Tit-bits, 3 „ Tartlets, 19 Scallops, Chicken, 26 „ Mushroom, 50 „ Scrambled (hot), 7 Scones, Potato, 90 Scotch Eggs, 62 Scrambled Eggs w. Asparagus, 61 „ Eggs, 60 „ Ham and Eggs on Toast, 31 Sheep’s Brains, with Mushrooms, 36 „ Kidney, Sauteed, 37 Short Crust Paste, 100 Shrimps, Scalloped, with Toma- toes, 6 Souffles, Celery, 44 „ Cheese (cold), 84 „ Cheese Cream (hot), 79 „ Cheese, Swiss, 80 „ Fondu (hot), 84 Tartare Sauce, 98 Tartlets, Cheese, 82 „ Ham and Egg, 31 „ Nouille, filled with Force- meat, 73 „ Savoury, 19 Tea, 92 Timbale de Gnocchi (hot), 72 Timbales, Ravioli, with Parmesan Cheese, 75 „ Salmon, 12 Toast, Eggs on, 58 Toasted Oysters, 12 Tomato Fritters, 46 „ Rice, 69 „ Salad, 53 „ Sauce, 98 „ Souffles, 46 Tomatoes, Stuffed, Dutch style, 45 „ Stuffed, Swiss style, 45 Turkey Croquettes, 25 Turnover, Parmentier, 18 White Sauce, 96£jje (Urts^am |)rrs3, UNWIN BROTHERS, LIMITED, WOKING AND LONDON,PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Etiquette for 71/f A Book of Modern utvll Manners & Customs. By G. R. M. DEVEREUX. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. This volume gives in a simple style full and accurate directions for the due obser- vance of modern etiquette for men. Some of the Twenty-one Chapters are CIIAP. II.—A DISSERTATION ON DRESS. „ III.—ETIQUETTE FOR THE STREET. „ VI.—EVENING “AT HOMES” AND RECEPTIONS. „ VIII.—THE ART OF DINING. „ IX.—PUBLIC DINNERS. „ XI.—AT A THEATRE. „ XII.—ON RIDING & DRIVING. „ XIII.—BICYCLING. „ XIV.—BALLS AND DANCES. „ XV.—ON BECOMING EN- GAGED. „ XVI.—HOW TO GET MARRIED. „ XIX.—YACHTING. XXI.—MOURNING. £ A Healthy ~ And How to HOmC Obtain It. By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. The aim of this little book is to show in plain language the chief dangers which await us in our domiciles, and to explain the manner in which these dangers to health may be avoided and the general and common defects of our homes remedied. Some of the subjects dealt with are :— CHAP. I.—SOILS AND SURROUND- INGS. „ II.—THE ARRANGEMENT OF THE HOUSE. „ III.—THE HOUSE DRAINS. „ IV.—SANITARY APPLIANCES OF OUR HOUSES. „ V.—WASHING & CLEANSING. „ VI.—THE AIR WE BREATHE. „ VII.—VENTILATION. „ VIII.-LIGHTIXG & WARMING. The Etiquette of Engagement and Marriage By G. R. M. DEVEREUX. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. A Volume of Sensible Advice to all. Some of the subjects dealt with are :— The Beginnings of Courtship—Favour- able Opportunities—Social Intercourse— Different Ideas of Etiquette—Introduc- tions—Recognition of Affinity, or Love at First Sight—How to follow up an Acquaintance—Intercourse between Un- confessed Lovers—The Question of Pre- sents—The Man who Lives at Home—The Man in Rooms — The Home Girl — The Bachelor Girl—The Business Girl—The Student or Professional Girl—Friends who become Lovers—Flirts—Male and Female — He Changes his Mind on the Verge of a Proposal—How she accepts the Situation —How she may give Encouragement or Ward off an Unwelcome Offer — The Question of Age — Young Lovers — Pro- posals—Premeditated—Spontaneous, etc. —Some Things to Avoid—Vaguely Worded Offers — Engagements — The Attitude of Parents and Guardians—Making it Known —Congratulations — The choice and giv- ing of the Ring—His Visits to her Home — The Engaged Couple in Public—In Society — Going about together — The Question of Expenses—Love Letters— Long or Short Engagements—Marriage— Fixing the Day—Preparations—Trousseau —Invitations—Wedding Presents, etc., etc. Small Homes and How to Furnish Them By Mrs. WALDEMAR LEVERTON. With 16 Illustrations. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. A comprehensive volume of valuable information in Artistic yet Inexpensive Furnishing.PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Etiquette for WnttinM A Book of Modern YV umen Modes & Manners By One of the Aristocracy. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Subjects dwelt upon in this excellent handbook are :— THE OCCASION AND THE COSTUME When to Change—Evening Dress— Country Dress, etc; IN THE STREET Bows and Bowing—When a Lady should not Bow, etc. INTRODUCTIONS A Necessary Precaution — The Diffi- culties, etc. CALLS AND CARDS " At Home ” Days—Calling—Depar- ture, etc. AFTERNOON “AT HOMES” & TEAS Invitations and Answers—The Duties of Guests, etc. EVENING “AT HOMES” Invitations—How to Reply—What to Wpqr pfc* AT A DINNER PARTY How to Accept an Invitation — When to Arrive—Dress, etc. AT A PUBLIC DINNER The Cloak Room — Showing your Ticket—Introduction, etc. ON DRIVING AND RIDING Where to Sit—Escort—Dress—In a Dogcart, etc. BALLS AND DANCES Public Balls, and Private—Dress — Supper—The Hostess, etc. BROKEN ENGAGEMENTS Writing—Returning Presents — An- nouncing the Fact, etc. A WEDDING The Trousseau — Bridesmaids—Cos- tumes—Presents, etc. & What to Do in Emergencies By Dr. Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E. Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Nine Chapters are ;— CHAP. I.—ABOUT POISONING. „ III.—TREATMENT OF THE AP- PARENTLY DROWNED. IV.—ABOUT UNCONSCIOUS- NESS AND FITS. „ V—BROKEN BONES AND DISLOCATIONS. „ VI—THINGS IN THE EYE, EAR, AND THROAT. „ VII.—BURNS, SCALDS, AND FROSTBITE. „ VIII.—ABOUT WOUNDS. IX.—BLEEDING, AND HOW TO STOP IT. The Art of Beauty By A TOILET SPECIALIST. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Seventeen Chapters are :— Chap. I.—THE CURE OF STOUT- NESS. „ II.—THE CURE OF LEANNESS. „ IV.—THE FIGURE „ V.—BAD COMPLEXIONS,HOW TO CURE THEM. „ VIII.—THE HAIR IN ILL- HEALTH. „ XIII.—MOLES. WARTS, AND SUPERFLUOUS HAIR. The Lover’s to Courtship VitllUC and Marriage By G. R. M. DEVEREUX. A Volume containing sensible advice to all lovers, from the first dawn of love, leading through the various stages, up to marriage and thereafter. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Twenty Chapters are :— CHAP. I.—Child Courtship — The Boy Lover—Courtship in the Teens, etc. „ II.—The General Lover—Safety in Numbers — Difficulty of Selection, etc. „ III.—Different Types of Lovers, etc. „ V.—The Lover Feeling his Way— Breaking the Ice — First Realisation of Love —The Danger of Overpraise, etc. ,, VII.—The Lover on his Trial—Some Things to avoid, etc. „ VIII.—Letters between Unengaged Lovers—The Man who is afraid to Speak—A Pla- tonic Friend, etc. H X.—Acceptance and Rejection— The Obligations of an En- gaged Man, etc. „ XII.—His Gifts—Visits and other Attentions — Courting or Shunning Publicity, etc. „ XIII.—Lovers’ Quarrels—The First Tiff—Taking Offence, etc. „ XIV.—The Lover who is Eager to Marry — The Lover who Works to Make a Home— The Man who Seeks one Ready-made, etc. * XVI.—How to Treat Former Love Affairs—Confidences—Mu- tual Trust—Curiosity, etc.PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Handwriting as an Index to Character By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. With numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. By comparing your writing with speci- mens given in the book you will be able at a glance to read your own character. Some of the subjects given in this valuable handbook are :— Famous Autographs and their Signification Character shown by flourishes. Activity and Jealousy in handwriting. All about the Graphological System. Handwriting affected by illness. The writing as an index to temperaments. Effect of education on handwriting. Handwriting and nationality. Professions indicated by handwriting. Qualities shown by handwriting. Representative examples of handwriting. Artists 6 examples. Clerical 6 examples. Law 6 examples. Literature 6 examples. Medical profession... 4 examples. Music 6 examples. Philanthropists 4 examples. Poets 6 examples. Political 9 examples. Science 6 examples. The Services 6 examples. & HahHc And How t0 IlCdUb Read Them A Popular Guide to Phrenology. By STACKPOOL E. O’DELL, The Eminent Phrenologist. With 20 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the Contents of this Useful Handbook are :— The Head—The aspiring head—The benefit of brains—Correct measures—The domestic head—Faults and failures—For a business man—Friendship indicated on the head—How to discern temperaments —How to be happy—The imaginative head—Intellectual heads—Mechanical and business heads—Men women ought and ought not to marry—The moral head—Of a woman in the Civil Service—Of an eccentric—Of millionaires—Of reliable men—Of unworthy mothers—The per- ceptive head—Photos tell a tale—The professional head—The reflective head— A born cook—A servant who will do her best—How to choose servants—Head showing activity, matrimonial tempera- ment, refined mind, vitality, etc.—Speci- mens of girls’ heads.—To choose a career for girls—A word to ladies about types, etc. UnM/ln And How to IlanUS Read Them By E. RENE. Crown 8vo. Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the contents of this book are :— The different types and what they indi- cate—Short and long fingered people— Fingers as the indicators of talents, etc. —Evidence of will-power in the thumb— How to judge of temper by the nails— Indications of health on the nails—The mounts and their characteristics—Hands devoid of lines and covered with lines— Principal lines and their meanings—Signs of marriage—Influence lines—Children— Ambition—Intemperance—How to mea- sure time and calculate age—Rules for reading the hands—Straight and crooked fingers—A nervous child—On training youth and choosing a profession—Hands of a lawyer, clergyman, artist, musician, actor, diplomatist, soldier, sailor, author, and other occupations—Hands of the working classes—Signs of good and bad health—Cause of unhappy marriages— How palmistry can help—How to choose domestic servants—The hand of a cook, housemaid, and nurse—On fortune-telling —Predictions in regard to love and marriage—The line of fame or fortune— Good and bad points to be found on a man’s hand—Why date of death or pro- bable insanity should not be foretold, etc. How Shall I Word It? A Complete Letter Writer for Men and Women on all Subjects. By ONE OF THE ARISTOCRACY. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price la., post free Is. 2d. Among the numerous letters contained in the book are the following :— Letters and Replies to application for a situation as butler, clerk, companion, cook, governess, groom, housekeeper, lady’s maid, secretary, shop assistant, typist—Asking for characters of a cook, housemaid, nurse—“At Home” invitations —Breaking off engagement — Bride's thanks for wedding present—Dance and dinner invitations—From a workman to his sweetheart—From gentleman or lady announcing his or her engagement— Gentleman reproaching his fiancee with being a flirt—Invitation to be bridesmaid —Lover to his fiancte offering her her freedom—Mistress to servant—Notice to quit — Letter of condolence — Proposal from widower to widow—Proposal of marriage—Servant to mistress—Thanking fiancte for present—To a doctor—To a tradesman—To an editor—To publishers— When sending tickets to a lady—The best taste in notepaper—Rule of punctuation—■ Underlining words—Forms of address— Ways of ending letters, etc., etc.PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS How to Take and Fake Photographs By CLIVE HOLLAND. Author of "Practical Hints on Photo- graphy," “ The Artistic in Photography,” etc., etc. Crown 9vo, Cloth, Price Is., or post free Is. 2d. Some of the chapters are :— CHAP. I.—THE DARK ROOM. Its size—Fittings—Stock >f Chemicals —Various uses. CHAP. II.—CAMERAS, PLATES, AND FILMS. The choice of a camera—Shutters— Plates and their varieties—The various merits of plates and films, etc. Chap. IV.—EXPOSURE. Testing speeds of plates—Tables of exposures—Plate speed table—Expo- sure hints—Don’ts, etc. Chap. V.—DEVELOPMENT OF NEGATIVES. Developers — Normal Development— Development of over-exposed and under-exposed plates—Local develop- ment—Intensification and reduction of negatives — Re-touching—Varnishing, etc., etc, Small Gardens And How to Make the Most of Them By VIOLET BIDDLE. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. This handbook teems with hints and wrinkles of the utmost importance to amateur gardeners. Some of the 18 chapters are:— THE MANAGEMENT OF ROOM PLANTS—Best kinds for “roughing it’’—The proper way of watering them, etc. WINDOW BOXES—How to make them —Suitable soil—Window plants for different aspects, etc. TABLE DECORATION—Preserving and resuscitating flowers—Tableof flowers in season, etc. VARIOUS HINTS—Artificial manures — Labelling—Cutting off dead flowers— Buying plants. Table Tennis And How to Play it With Rules and several Illustrations. By M. J. G. RITCHIE Of the All-England Table-Tennis Club, and WALTER HARRISON of the Cavendish Table-Tennis Club. Cloth, Price Is., or post free Is. 2d. This splendid handbook deals with :— Ways of holding the racquet — Acces- sories for the game—Methods of celebrated lawn-tennis players in table-tennis — “ Drives ”—Forehand and backhand strokes —Half-volleys—Hints for beginners—How to form table-tennis clubs—How to learn the game—Howto conduct International matches—Leading strokes—The “ Return’’ —The “Service”—The “Smash”—Handicap scoring in match play—Necessary appli- ances for the game — Necessary quali- fications for a good player — Rules for table-tennis—Special rules for match play —Strokes to cultivate—The name versus ping-pong—American system of tourna- ment play—English system of tournament play—Suggestions for a club tournament— Why it is called “ Ping-Pong,” etc., etc. Poultry Keeping And How to make it Pay By F. E. WILSON. Contributor to “ Poultry," and the “ Fanner and Stockbreeder." Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the 19 chapters are CHAP, I.—Making a start—Number of birds to begin with. etc. m II.—Natural and artificial hatching —Setting a hen—How to test eggs, etc. „ III.—The rearing and management of chickens. „ IV.—Houses and runs—The kind of house wanted, etc. „ V.—Foods and feeding—Feeding in summer, winter, etc. „ VI.—Poultry for profit—Best egg- producing breeds, etc. „ VIII.—Breeding for egg-production. „ IX.—Poultry for exhibition. „ XVII.—Ducks—Duck rearing a profit able industry, etc., etc.PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Our Food and Drinks By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price Is., post free, Is. 2d. Dr. Wilson 19 recognised as the standard authority on what may be termed Domestic Chemistry, and the subject with which he deals in this little volume is one the importance of which cannot be over- estimated. The subjects dealt with in this book are:— The rudiments of health—About our food—Diet rules and diet adjuncts—Our drinks—About water—Impurities in foods —How our food is digested—Digestion in the stomach—Digestion in the intestine— How food is absorbed. & jt Infectious Diseases And how to Prevent Them. By Dr. ANDREW WILSON. Price Is., post free Is. 2d., This little work is intended as a guide to the householder (and especially to mothers) in the all important matter of the prevention of infectious diseases. The subjects dealt with in this book are :— CHAP. I.—WHAT INFECTIOUS DIS- EASES ARE. II.—WHAT INFECTION MEANS. m III.—WHAT FEVERS ARE. IV.—DISINFECTION AND DIS- INFECTANTS. Household Hints Edited by " ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. This volume deals with every kind of advice and recipe for keeping a house in perfect condition. The aim in all the recipes is to make them exceedingly simple and practical, and of use to the veriest amateur. Sc ? the numerous recipes are :— Advantage of air beds—To make alum water—A t,af e antidote—To destroy ants— To keep bacon—Cold bandages — Damp beds—To clean brass—To make blacking —Blankets—Blinds—To preserve boot9— Hints about unbleached calico—To lay carpets — Hints on carving — To make cement—To clean leather chairs—Cure for chilblains — To destroy cockroaches—To make cold cream — Cooking terms — To make court plaster—To kill crickets— To colour lace curtains—To clean curtains —Hints on washing dishes—To preserve egg9 — To clean engravings — To curl ostrich feathers—To polish steel—To clean filters—To smoke fish—To remove ink- stains—To clean fur—To keep cut flowers —Hints on food—To clean gilt frames— To wash leather gloves—To clean gloves— To remove grease — To make gum—To make hair wash, hair lotion, etc.—Remedy for chapped hands, etc., etc., with many household remedies. Plain Needlework Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Price Is., post free Is. 2d. The object of this book is to show, by examples and simple directions, the best way of executing all the most necessary details of what is usually termed plain work. It is a fact that many a one is heavily handicapped in her work because she does not know the ordinary methods of hemming, sewing on braid, etc., all very simple when learnt, but without which she can make no progress, and the time to be spent in class learning, cutting out or fitting, etc., has often to be devoted to teaching her to sew. To those, too, who wish to instruct their children or pupils to sew, this book may prove of use.PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Things a Woman Wants to Know ** With an Illustrated Section on THE FOLDING OF SERVIETTES. Edited by Isobel, of Home Notes. Cloth, Price la.) post free Is. 2d. Some of the numerous subjects dwelt upon in this interesting handbook are :— To remove acid stains—Uses of alum— To whiten arms and neck—First food for babies—How to feed babies—The tem- perature of baths, etc.—Boiled beef—Bees’ and wasps’ stings—To destroy beetles— How to keep birds in cages—To restore black dresses—Blistered feet—To remove flat taste from boiled water—To soften and waterproof boots and shoes—To make brilliantine—Tips about butter—Adminis- tering castor oil — To clean smoked ceilings—Easily-made cement—Chapped hands and lips—Chilblains—Tips concern- ing children's health, etc.—To extinguish chimneys on fire, etc.—To economise coal —Remedy for cold feet—Constipation—To cool a room — Coughs — Cream—To test damp beds—Diarrhoea—Colours and the dyes they will take—Earache—Hints about eggs—The eyes—To wash fine lace—Hints about fish — To keep flowers fresh — Garnishes—To remove grease, etc. Pearson’s Dream Book Giving the Interpretation of Dream3 by Magic Ciphers, by the Square of Fate, by a Table of Dreams, according to Days, etc., etc. By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. Author of “ Handwriting as an Index to Character,” “ The Fortune Teller,” etc. Crown Svo, Clothe Price la., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this interesting book are :— Dreams and their Mystic Reality—They are our Sleeping Thoughts—Distinction Between Real and Idle Dreams—Wonders of Dreamland—Historic Evidence of the Uses and Interpretations of Dreams— Greek, Roman, Gallic, Indian, and Medieval, and Modern Views—Rapidity of Dreams—Doubtful Theories—Inspiring Power of Dreams — Some Dreams are Valuable, some Vain—Predisposing Causes —-Dreams within Dreams—Somnambulists —Divisions of Dreams—The Dream Proper —The Oracle—The Warning—Instances of these—The Interpretation of Dreams by Magic Ciphers—The Magic Square of Fate —A Table of Dreams according to their Days—A List of Dreams, Subjects, and what they indicate alphabetically arranged —Omens, etc. ^ The Fortune Teller By Professor P. R. S. FOLI. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects in this interesting book are :— Augury by Birds—What Birds Foretell —Astrology—Gipsy Fortune-tellers—Anti- quity of Card Reading—Charms—Christ- mas Customs—Facts about and Instances of Clairvoyance — Crystal Gazing—The Crystal Globe—Three Kinds of Vision— Magnetic Precious Stones—Divination by a Wedding Ring, by Dominoes, by Palmis- try, by Rods, Teacups, and by the Wheel of Fortune—The Divining Rod—Odds and Ends of Omens—Advice and Hints for Beginners in Fortune-telling—Gipsies — Hallowe’en Charms—Lucky Stars — Mesmerism Supersedes Witchcraft—Lines on the Hand in Palmistry — Precious Stones and their Meanings—The Koh-i- noor—Psychometry—Rings and Bridecake —The Voice of Rings—Wedding Rings— Teacup Fortune-telling—When to Expect a Visitor—Picking up Horseshoes—Good and Bad Luck—Quaint Ceremonies—Snap- dragon, etc., etc. Consult the Or, How to Read V/FaCIC the Future. Crown 8vo, Cloth, Price Is., post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this excellent book are :— Omens, charms, and spells for lovers— Mystery about plants—The fortunes of little people—Certain cure for adder’s bite — Something important about dogs— Character judged by the hands and fingers— How to cure anaemia—Lucky and unlucky numbers—Omens connected with apple trees—Fortunes told by cards —Baptism as it should be—Cupid at work all the year round—Beckoning to ships, unlucky—Getting out of bed backwards, unlucky—What we may learn from bees —Lucky days of birth—Married life began as it should be—Bleeding at the nose — Unlucky breakages—How to obtain a good breeze—How to have money plentiful in every one’s pocket—Hints to bridegrooms and bridesmaids—The sneeze of a black cat—Feathered prophets of good and evil —Children on board ship—Proper days for putting on new clothes—Lucky coins —Rocking the cradle—Howto cure cramp —Fortunes read in the palm of the hand— Sign of the cross—Witchcraft in the dairy —Deaths of great men—Notes on dogs— Singing in the ears—The influence of the eyif eye — What to do with egg shells, etc., etc. .PEARSON’S POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS Breakfast and Supper Dishes By C. H. SENN. Cloth, Price Is,,posi free Is. 2d. Some of the Numerous Recipes are :— FISH—Bloater Fritters ; Sardine Tit- bits ; Lobster Croquettes ; Devilled Crab ; Fish Cutlets; Fish Omelets ; Fish Pie ; Haddock Creams ; Oyster Fritters ; Sal- mon Pie ; Salmon Devilled; Oyster Salad, etc. MEAT, Etc.—Pancakes with Savoury Mince ; Minced Beef and Poached Eggs ; Mutton Pie; Parmentier Turnovers; Savoury Tartlets ; Chicken Legs Stuffed ; Sandwiches a la Bernhadt ; Savoury Ris- soles ; Sausage Croquettes ; Ham and Egg Tartlets, etc. ; Breakfast Bacon with Potatoes, Sheeps’ Brains with Mushrooms, etc. VEGETABLES, SALADS, Etc.—Stewed Chestnuts; Potato Croquettes; Potato Fritters ; Asparagus Sandwiches ; Stuffed Tomatoes ; Stuffed Cabbage ; Mushroom Scallops; Oyster and Celery Salad; Tomato Salad ; Egg Salad, etc. EGGS, OMELETS, Etc.—Breakfast Eggs ; Eggs on Toast; Poached Eggs ; Scrambled Eggs; Savoury Omelet; Ham Omelet; Leek Omelet, etc. FARINACEOUS AND CHEESE DISHES—40 Recipes. MISCELLANEOUS—26 Recipes. Home Nursing By SISTER GRACE. Edited by “ ISOBEL,” of Home Notes. Cloth, Price Is post free Is. 2d. Some of the subjects dwelt upon in this useful Handbook are:— Antidotes to poisons—Apoplexy—Frac- ture of the arm—Arranging the sick-room —Arrowroot—Arterial bleeding — Barley water — Baths — Chloral — Bed-making— Prevention and treatment of bed-sores— Beef tea—Beverages—Blisters—How to treat bronchitis — Burns — Carelessness about -poisons — Chicken broth — Giving medicines to children—Choice of the sick- room—Cold as a remedial agent—Invalid cookery — Cream—Custards —Difficulties to be encountered in the sick-room — Disease of the heart — Disinfecting the sick-room, etc., etc. Twenty-Second Thousand. Dainty Dishes for Slender Incomes Edited by “ISOBEL,” of Ho?ne Notes. Cloth, Price la post free Is. 2d. Some of the Numerous Recipes are :— SOUPS—Clear; Thick Mock Turtle; Tomato; Green Pea; Carrot; Turnip; Potato; Game; Mutton Broth; Ox- Tail, etc. GARNISHES—Julienne; Spring; Maca- roni ; Rice, etc.; Croute au Pot; Royal; Victoria, etc. FISH—Boiled Salmon ; Fried Sole ; Sole a la No'rmande; Sole au Gratin; Boiled Mackerel; Trout; Eels ; Kedgeree ; White- bait, etc. SAUCES — Brown ; White ; Shrimp ; Oyster; Dutch; Italian; Piquante; Indian; Devil; Mayonnaise; Curry; Foam ; Chocolate ; Lemon, etc. ENTREES — Croquettes of Chicken; Lobster, Chicken, and Game Patties; Curried Lobsters; Curried Chicken; Mutton Cutlets; Haricot Mutton; Fillet of Beef ; Stewed Rabbit; Jugged Hare ; Sweetbreads, etc. REMOVES—Veal and Ham Pie; Pigeon Pie ; Hot Pot; Pheasant Pudding; Rabbit Pudding, etc. VEGETABLES—Potatoes Sautees, au Gratin, Chipped ; Spinach a la Creme; Cabbage; Peas; Asparagus; Marrows; Cauliflowers; Tomatoes ; Mushrooms, etc. SWEETS—Pastes ; English Brioche ; Almond Cheesecakes; Puddings ; Souffles; Tarts; Cakes; Compotes; Trifle; Jellies; lC6S etc. SAVOURIES—25 Recipes. ARTIZAN COOKERY—36 Recipes. CAKES—46 Recipes. FOOD CALENDAR, etc. Little French Dinners By EVELEEN DE RIVAZ. (“ Eve.”) Price Is., post free Is. 2d. This excellent book contains Thirty Choice Menus, besides chapters on Savoury Toasts, the Use of Stale Bread, Season- able Salads, Fancy Salads, Cooking Maca- roni, Gravy, etc., etc.