I Imperial Buildings, Ludgate Circus, E.C. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Home Cookery Compiled under the direction of the North Midland School of Cookery, Second Editlon. LONDON: RAITHBY, LAWRENCE & Co., LIMITED,WELLCOME INSTITUTE LIBRARY Coll. welMOmec Call No. /' N /PREFACE TO SECOND EDITION. E have much pleasure in issuing" a second edition of Home Cookery. Several recipes have been added, and others have been revised with the object of increasing the usefulness of the book. We do not pretend to offer a complete Guide to Cookery, but a collection of methods, hints, and recipes, the result of many years' experience. The days are happily past in which ignorance of household matters was commonly held a mark of good breeding-, and no woman can now be considered to be thoroughly educated who does not know something* about the management of a home. The foundation of home- comfort may be said to lie in the kitchen ; and the state of the kitchen in the majority of households depends upon the personal supervision and influence of the mistress. Many of the following recipes have been drawn up by Miss Morton, the well-known Head Teacher of the North Midland School of Cookery, while for others we are indebted to the kindness of Mrs. A. B, Marshall (of Marshall's School of Cookery, London), and to other sources.Digitized by the Internet Archive in 2014 https://archive.org/detaiJs/b2039987xHOME COOKERY. *~^^iiE recipes g-iven are arranged under the heads of breakfast, luncheon, soups, fish, simple entrees, meat dishes, poultry and game, puddings and sweets, savouries, cakes and rolls, miscellaneous dishes. If more economical dishes are required, they will be found in the North Midland School Cookery Book, which is specially devoted to simple cookery. Cookery Methods. Roasting. 1. Flave a clear hot fire. 2. Place the hastener near it to get hot before putting in the meat. 3. Put the meat quite near the fire for ten minutes to harden the outside and keep in the * ' then draw it back and cook more slowly. 4. Baste often. 5. Take care that the meat is kep antly turning. 6. Time—Beef and mutton, to t j ^')ound, fifteen minutes, and fifteen minutes over. If a thick piece, to every pound, twenty minutes, and fifteen minutes over.6 Veal and pork, to every pound, twenty minutes, and fifteen minutes over. If a thick piece, to every pound, twenty-five minutes, and fifteen minutes over. // is, however, impossible to give the exact time for roasting, as so much depends upon the state of the fire, the kind of coal used, and the position of the range. 7. When the meat is cooked, place it on a hot dish, pour the dripping out of the tin, and some boiling- water or stock over the sediment that is left ; dredge in a little flour, if liked, then cook over the fire for a few minutes, season, strain, and pour round the meat. Baking Meat. 1. Place the meat first for ten minutes in the hottest part of oven, then cook more slowly. 2. Baste often. 3. Time—The same as in roasting-. 4. Gravy made as for roasted meat. Boiling Meat. 1. Put fresh meat into boiling water with one table- spoonful of salt to a gallon of w^ater. 2. Put salt meat into warm water, without salt. 3. Put dried salt meat (such as ham) into ^7^?/^^ water. 4. Boil five or ten minutes to harden the outside, then simmer. 5. Skim well. 6. Keep on the lid. 7. Time—Twenty minutes to the pound, and twenty minutes over. Dried salt meat requires a longer time. Stewing. 1. If coarse meat is used, put it into cold or luke- warm stock or water. 2. If tender meat is used, and you wish to keep the juices in the meat and not to let them pass into the gravy, the stock may be quite hot when the meat is put in. 3. Do not have more stock or water than is required for the g-ravy.7 4- Cook slowly for a long time. 5. Keep covered. 6. Stew must never boil except when you wish to thicken the gravy, and then only till the gravy is thickened. Broiling. 1. The fire must be clear. 2. Grease and heat the gridiron. 3. Turn often, using a knife and spoon, or the tongs that are made for the purpose. Braising. True braising is cooking* in a special vessel with heat above and below. The most usual manner of this form of cooking* in England, however, is to place whatever is to be braised on a bed of vegetables (carrots, onions, &c.), with slices of bacon, then to add a small quantity of stock, cover closely, and let it cook very gently till done. Larding. This is inserting thin strips of fat bacon through lean meats to give them flavour, and also to enrich them. Wet Frying Is frying in a large quantity of fat. 1. The best fat for ordinary frying is mutton fat (rendered) or clarified dripping. 2. Have enough fat to cover whatever is to be fried, and use a saucepan or stew-pan. 3. Heat the fat slowly. 4. Take care that the fat is of the rig-ht heat. Tests— Faint blue smoke rises, or a piece of bread dropped in becomes golden brown and crisp at once. 5. If possible, increase the heat while frying. 6. Do not fry too many things at once. 7. Drain on soft paper. 8. Strain the fat when cool, and keep it for frying purposes. The above method of frying is suitable for fish, and for preparations of cooked meat.8 Dry Frying Is frying in a hot frying" pan which is just heated and greased for frying chops or beefsteaks, or which has a little fat melted in it as for frying pancakes. Remember that in all cases the pan must be quite hot and the fat must be hot also. Sauter. 1. Butter should be used, if possible. 2. The butter must be hot before the cutlets, potatoes, or whatever is to be cooked is put in. 3. When the underside of what is being cooked is a golden brown, it must be turned with a knife and spoon. Time—About eight to ten minutes.Breakfast. This meal is often found to be one of the most difficult that the housekeeper has to provide. A certain amount of variety is required, but dishes that need much preparation are naturally out of place at an early hour in the morning. We give several ways of preparing solid meat dishes suitable for breakfast, which are followed by recipes for dishes of a less substantial nature. Ham. The best hams are those that are home-cured, and that are least a year old. Soakmg.—All hams require soaking before they are cooked ; they should be placed in a deep vessel and entirely covered with water. A very old and dry ham should be soaked for three days, but for a new or American ham eighteen hours is quite sufficient. Cooking,—kxv old ham should be put into cold water, brought to the boil, and simmered for many hours. When it is removed from the fire it should be allowed to remain in the water till it is nearly cold. When the ham is taken out of the water the skin must be removed at once, and brown raspings (page 205) thickly and evenly scattered over the ham. A new ham is best cooked in a Warren's pot; the steam should be turned on for the first hour and then turned off. The skin must be removed as soon as the ham is taken out of the pot. It is impossible to give the exact time for cooking alO ham, as much depends upon the ag*e and size, but from six to eight hours of slow cookings is not too long- for an old ham. Hams are sometimes roasted or baked ; they should then be well soaked or covered with a paste of flour and water, made of the consistency of dough and rolled out to a quarter of an inch in thickness. When hams are glazed the glaze should be melted in a small pot placed in a saucepan of boiling water ; it is put on with a brush. When the glaze is cold it can be ornamented with butter pipings ; the butter is squeezed through a forcer, or if no forcer is at hand a piece of stiff white paper may be used. The water in which ham has been boiled may be used to make pea soup, and the juices that come from ham cooked in the Warren's pot are very useful for adding to soups and enriching gravy. Remains of ham may be used in the following manner :— Potted Ham. Free the ham from gristle, and from the outside dis- coloured part; pass it twice through a mincing machine. A small quantity of the fat may be used, but almost all the ham should be lean. Pound well in a mortar. Add two ounces of butter, or more if there is a large quantity of ham, and cayenne, white pepper, and grated nutmeg to taste. Press firmly into a pot, and cover with butter that has been just allowed to melt. Ham Toast. Grated ham 2 tablespoonfuls. Eggs 3 Milk 3 tablespoonfuls. Cayenne pepper to taste. ^ Butter I oz. Beat the eggs with the milk. Add the pepper and the grated ham. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, pour in the ham and egg mixture. Stir till quite thick. Pile upon buttered toast and serve very hot. The remains of ham can also be grated and mixed with an omelet (page 157), or it may be used in making aII galantine (page 23), or a veal and ham pie (page 147), or mixed with chicken or veal, as the addition of ham is almost always an improvement to dishes made from white meat. Tongue. A tongue should be in pickle for about three weeks. If the time during which it is in pickle is too short, the tong'ue will not be cured in the middle, and if it is kept in pickle too long it will be hard and too salt. (For recipes for curing hams and tongues see page 204.) When the tongue is taken out of pickle it should be well washed, and put into a pan of cold water. It must be brought to the boil and simmered for several hours, till the tip of the tongue is rather ragged. It must then be taken out of the water, the skin must be removed, and the tongue skewered into the shape of a highly arched foot, and fastened securely on to a board with strong skewers or a large fork. This must be done while the tongue is quite hot, so that as it cools it may stiffen into its proper shape. Before it is sent to table the root must be trimmed, and a paper frill sewn on, not fastened with pins. A tongue may be glazed in the same manner as a ham. Remains of tongue may be used in the same way as remains of ham, or in Tongue Toast. Dry well the tip of a tongue. Grate it. Mix it with one ounce of butter, and cayenne to taste. Spread on buttered toast. Pork Pie. This is pre-eminently a Leicestershire dish, and, for some unknown reason, is rarely found so good in other counties. The following' recipe is an excellent one, but the making of pork pies requires practice,, and complete success must not be expected when they are made for the. first time by an inexperienced person. Care should be taken to procure the right kind of flour. It must not be too finely ground, and the gluten thus crushed out of it. If too fine flour be used the paste cannot be properly moulded into shape.12 For the Paste. Flour lbs. Lard 18 oz. Water ... | of a pint. Salt 2 Place the flour in a large basin before the fire. Boil the lard and salt in the water for five minutes. Let it then stand for five minutes off the fire. Add it gradually to the flour, kneading all the time. Knead the paste well in a warm place. Let it stand with a cloth over it before the fire for three-quarters of an hour. Knead again, and it w^ill be ready for use. This paste must be kept warm, or it will be impossible to mould it, but if it be too warm it will not retain its shape. The quantity of paste here given will be sufficient for three moderate sized pies, and five pounds of pork, free from skin and bone, should be allowed to fill them. The bones of the pork must be broken up and put into a pint of cold water with one onion and six pepper corns, this should simmer for four or five hours, so that the gravy, when cold, may be a firm jelly. Before using, this gravy must be strained from the bones and rather highly seasoned with pepper and salt. This may be done the day before the pies are made. The meat (which should be chiefly lean but with some fat) must be cut into dice and seasoned. Five pounds of pork will require one and a half ounces of salt, three- quarters of an ounce of white pepper, and half a salt- spoonful of cayenne. The seasoning should be well mixed, and then scattered over the meat, and be well stirred into it. When the paste is ready for use, three-quarters of a pound may be weighed off to make the lids of the pies. The remainder should be divided into three parts. The paste must not be allowed to become cold. A portion of paste is then taken and moulded with the hands till it is somewhat the shape of a very shallow basin with thick bottom and sides. Now it is ready to be put on the mould. The mould is a solid round block of wood, made for the purpose. Two and sometimes three moulds of different13 sizes are necessary ; the smallest is the one first used. The paste must be worked carefully with the hands up the sides of the mould, taking care that the paste at the bottom is not so thin that it will not support the weight of the meat, nor so thick that it will be uneatable. When the paste has been worked up on the smallest mould, the mould must be carefully removed, and replaced by a larger one, and the paste worked till the pie is of the right size. It must then stand in a cold place till the paste is quite stiff, when the meat can be put in. The meat must be well pressed down and must form a compact mass ; two tablespoonfuls of the gravy made from the bones is poured (warmed) on the top. A quarter of a pound of paste is rolled out to form the lid ; this must be wetted and securely fastened on, the edges of the lid of the pie must be firmly pressed together and neatly trimmed and ornamented according to taste. A hole must be made in the centre of the lid. The pies should be made the day before they are baked. A piece of paper should be pinned round each, and they should be baked for at least two hours and a half in a moderate oven. It is, however, better to send them to a baker's oven, the heat of which is more uniform than that of the oven by the kitchen fire. After the pies are baked and are still hot it is a good plan to pour in a little of the gravy, which should be made hot before adding. Veal and Ham Pie may be made in the same manner, but with rather less salt in the seasoning. Proportion :—Four ounces of cooked ham to one pound of veal. Beefsteak and Oyster Pie. The crust is made in the same manner as for pork pie. The filling is in the following proportion :— I lb. best steak to i6 oysters, r I teaspoonful salt 1 Mixed Seasoning \ \ teaspoonful pepper \ .Cut the steak into small thin slices, dip them into the seasoning. Place an oyster in each piece of meat, roll it up and pack tightly in the pie. The oyster liquor may be used instead of gravy, but too much must not be put in before the pie is baked, or the crust will crack. Spiced Beef. When the beef is taken out of pickle sprinkle it with the following mixture :— Ground black pepper ,, pimento ,, cloves... ,, nutmeg ,, mace ... Roll it up with broad skewer, and tape. Put it I dessertspoonful. I saltspoonful. bind as tightly as possible nto an earthenware vessel. without any water, and pour over it one glass of port wine. Cover the jar closely so that no steam may escape. To ensure this it is best to cover the lid with a crust of flour and water, and over this to tie a paper. Put it into an oven that is first hot, and then moderate, and let it bake for four or five hours. Take it out of the jar, tie it tightly in a cloth, and do not unbind it till it is quite cold. The above recipe is for a piece of beef weighing lo lbs. Pressed Beef. Salted brisket or flat ribs of beef (not too fat) is best for this purpose. Wash well, and put the beef in a pan of cold water ; simmer gently till the bones can be easily taken out. After having removed the bones, place the beef on a board (while it is still hot), put another board over it and on this a heavy weight. When cold it may be glazed. Dried Haddock. This is much improved by being soaked all night in milk and water.15 Drain the haddock, sprinkle it very Hghtly with cayenne, put on some small pieces of butter, and cook it in a Dutch oven. Remains of dried haddock may be used in the follow- ing ways :— Croutes of Dried Haddock. iib. I oz. I tablespoonful. I. 8 or lo. Cooked dried haddock Butter Tomato sauce Hard-boiled egg Croutes of bread Fried parsley. Pepper, salt, and cayenne. Chop the fish finely, add the tomato sauce and the seasoning. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the fish mixture, make quite hot. Pile high on fried croutes. Garnish with white and yolk of egg and with fried parsley. Soufflee of Dried Haddock. Milk Butter Fine flour Dried haddock (chopped finely) Oysters (cut up) ^ j Whites (beaten stifily)... ^ggs \ Yolks Brown crumbs. I gill. I oz. I oz. 4 oz. 6. Make a sauce as follows :—Melt the butter, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil the mixture well; stir in the yolks and fish, and season to taste. Lastly, add the whites ; mix them in lightly but thoroughly. Bake the mixture in small ramakin cases (oiled and dried pre- viously), put a few brown crumbs on the top and a little butter. They will take about fifteen minutes in a moderate oven.i6 Fritot of Dried Haddock. Dried haddock ... 6 oz. Butter I oz. Flour I oz. Milk I gill. Cayenne. A little anchovy essence. Some oysters (bearded). Frying batter. Scald the haddock, remove the skin and bones and chop the fish finely. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil the mixture well. Season it with a little cayenne, and put in a little of the anchovy essence ; thoroughly mix in the haddock, then spread it on a dish to get quite cold. Take small portions of the fish mixture, and roll into small eg*g shapes, putting inside each one an oyster (previously sprinkled with a little cayenne and lemon juice), close up carefully, using flour on the hands while shaping them. Dip each shape in batter, and fry in hot fat for six or seven minutes. Drain on paper, and garnish with fried parsley. Batter for Frying. Mix four ounces of fine flour with a dessertspoonful of salad oil and a little salt, add one gill of tepid water ; beat the mixture well, and let it stand some time before using. When ready to use stir in two whites of egg beaten up stiffly. Yolks of egg can also be used when mixing the batter if preferred. Harengrs Farcis aux Anchois. Fresh herrings 4. Anchovies (washed, boned, and chopped) 3. Butter \\ oz. Hard-boiled eggs (yolks) 2. Cayenne. Bread crumbs (soaked in milk) i oz. Egg. Bread crumbs.17 Scale, cleanse, and remove the inside from the herrings. Split them open and remove the backbone ; wash and dry them. Cut each herring* down the back, making two fillets ; beat out each fillet with a wet knife. Spread over an anchovy forcemeat, roll up, and fasten with a skewer. Dip in egg, and then in bread crumbs, and fry in hot fat, a nice brown. Garnish with the roes, on croutons of fried bread. Anchovy Forcemeat. Pound the anchovies, yolks, and butter together ; pass the mixture through a hair sieve, then add the soaked crumbs ; season and use. Herring Roes. Cut some stale bread in fancy shapes, remove the centre, leaving a very thin bottom, and fry a nice golden colour. Season the roes (which should be soft ones) with cayenne, salt, and a few drops of lemon juice. Fry them lightly in butter. Place a roe on each crouton, garnish with hard-boiled yolk and white of egg, and chopped parsley. Harengrs Farcis aux Crevettes. (Herrings stuffed with Siirimps.) Fresh herrings 5 or 6. Picked shrimps i gill. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. A few drops of lemon juice. Cayenne pepper to taste. Brown crumbs. Eg-g I. Butter. Scale and wash the herrings, cut off the fins and the head. Split each herring open, and remove the inside. Wash the fish thoroughly and bone them as follows :— Press each herring (inside downwards) flat; this is to loosen the bone. Then remove the bone, beginning at the head. Dry the fish well in a cloth. Spread a little of the Shrimp Farce on the inside of each herring ; roll it up ; fasten it with a skewer; dip each roll into beaten Bi8 egg and then cover with brown crumbs. Bake on a buttered tin (putting a few pieces of butter on each fish) for about half an hour. Dish in a pile and garnish with fried parsley. Shrimp Farce. Chop the shrimps finely, pound them well, adding sufficient cream to moisten them. Season with cayenne and lemon juice to taste. Kidneys in Tomato and Brown Sauce. Sheep's kidneys 3. Tomato sauce i gill. Brown sauce i gill. Shalot (sliced) i. Bunch of herbs. Butter I oz. Slices of bacon. Skin the kidneys and split them in half. Roll each slice in flour, and fry a light brown colour with the shalot in the butter. Pour over the brown and tomato sauce (warmed), add the herbs, and simmer all very gently for about one hour. Dish the kidneys on a border of mashed potatoes straight down the centre of the dish. Strain gravy round. Put a slice of nicely fried bacon between each kidney. Serve as an entree or breakfast dish. When used as a breakfast dish the kidneys may be dished on croutons of fried bread instead of potatoes. Rognons a la Diable. (Devilled Kidneys.) (By kind permission o/'Mrs. A. B. MARSHALL.) Take two sheep's kidneys in the suet, cut them into slices about half an inch thick ; trim each slice neatly, leaving a narrow rim of fat. Melt one ounce of butter, pour it over the kidneys to enrich them. Mix one tablespoonful of chutney, half a teaspoonful each of English and French mustard, a little salt and coralline pepper, and a teaspoonful of curry paste. Spread some of this mixture over each19 slice of kidney, sprinkle with browned bread crumbs, place them on a greased baking tin, cover with buttered paper, and cook in a moderate oven about six minutes. Dish them (on small croutons of fried bread or toast) in a circle. Garnish the centre with watercress (dressed with a little oil and vinegar), and place a slice of cooked tomato between each slice of kidney. Pour the gravy from the tomatoes round the base, and serve as a lun- cheon or breakfast dish. Kedgeree. Cold fish Rice Eggs Butter Salt, pepper, and cayenne I teacupful. 2. 4 oz. to taste. Boil one egg hard. Boil the rice till tender. Break the fish into flakes. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the rice, fish, white of hard-boiled egg (cut into dice), the other egg (well beaten), and seasoning. Make all very hot. Dish in a pyramid, and sprinkle over it the hard-boiled yolk of egg and chopped parsley (rubbed through a wire sieve). Dried haddock makes excellent kedgeree. Tomato Kedgeree is made in the same manner as the above, with the addition of two tomatoes. The tomatoes are freed from skin and seeds, and put into the saucepan with the fish, rice, &c. Fish Cakes- Cold fish 1 lb. Mashed potatoes 6 oz. Cold sauce to moisten. Anchovy sauce, pepper, salt, cayenne to taste. Mix well and form into small flat cakes, egg and bread crumb, and fry. Or, Brush them over with a little milk, roll them in brown crumbs, and bake with a buttered paper over them.20 Fish Balls. Cooked fish Chopped parsley Butter Flour Milk Cayenne and salt lib. teaspoonful. to taste. Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour. Cook well. Add milk, boil well. Add the fish, broken into nice flakes and quite free from skin and bones, also the parsley, cayenne, and salt. Stir till all is quite hot. Turn out on to a plate, and when cold make into balls, egg" and bread crumb, and fry. When wanted for breakfast this fish-mixture can be made on the previous day. Directions for frying are given on pages 7 and 8. Croustades of Fish. Croustades Cooked fish (chopped finely) Butter Flour Milk Cream Anchovy sauce ., Cayenne and salt A squeeze of lemon juice 6 or 8. ilb. I oz. 1 oz. h gill. 2 tablespoonfuls. I dessertspoonful, to taste. Make six or eight croustades in the following manner : Take a loaf of baker's bread, cut slices about two inches thick, and out of these slices cut rounds two inches in diameter. Scoop out the centres, leaving sides and bottom half an inch thick. Dip the croustades in thin cream. Drain them. Fry in hot fat (page 7), and while quite hot fill them with the fish-mixture, made as follows: Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour, cook well; then add the milk, boil well. Stir in the fish, anchovy sauce, cream, seasoning, and, last of all, the lemon juice. Pile high in the croustades, and serve very hot.21 Kromeskies of Fish. i lb. 1 oz. 2 h grill- I tablespoonful. Cold fish (chopped finely) Butter Flour Milk Cream , Squeeze of lemon. Cayenne and salt to taste. Some tht7i slices of fat bacon. Frying- batter (p. i6). Chop the fish finely, make a sauce of the butter, flour, and milk, boil it well, add the cream and seasoning and boil again. Remove the sauce from the fire and add the fish, and let the mixture cool. Make it up into cork shapes, roll each piece in a thin slice of bacon, fasten it with a skewer, dip into batter and fry a nice pale colour. Dish up in a pyramid and garnish with fried parsley. Buttered Eggs. Eggs 2. Milk I tablespoonful. Butter I oz. Buttered toast. Beat the eggs, add the milk, pepper, and salt. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the egg mixture, and stir over the fire until thick and creamy. Pile on hot buttered toast cut into fancy shapes; sprinkle over chopped parsley. This mixture may be varied by adding remains of cooked green peas, asparagus, cold fish, chopped ham, or tongue, etc. Bloaters, with Buttered Eggs. Bone two bloaters as on p. 17, grill or bake them, pile buttered egg mixture on the top, sprinkle over chopped parsley.Luncheon and Supper Dishes. — ■ » ■ — For everyday luncheons the remains of former din- ners are usually served, and these should be dished up in as tempting a manner as possible. If a joint is still presentable, it should be sent in gar- nished with fresh parsley, but if very little is left upon it, it is better to cut off the meat in as neat slices as possible, and to arrange these round a centre of salad, or to garnish them with a few slices of tomato, or with sprigs of parsley. A clever cook will be able to make a nice-looking luncheon out of what would, at first sight, appear very unpromising materials. A few dishes are here given, but others will be found under the headings of Breakfast Dishes, Cold Meat Cookery, and Simple Entrees. Jellies and creams, suitable for luncheons or for sup- pers, will be found in another part of the book. Game Pie. Hare i. Pheasant or fowl i. Strong' well-flavoured stock i pint. Pepper and salt to taste. Aspic jelly.23 Stew the hare and pheasant (or fowl) together in the stock till the meat can be taken off the bones. Take it off in as large pieces as possible, pack it in a game pie-dish, adding plenty of seasoning. Stew the bones in the stock in which the game has been cooked, strain, season well, and pour hot over the game. When cold, garnish with aspic jelly. Galantine of Veal- Breast of veal (boned) ... 4 or 5 lbs» Sausage meat f lb. Veal forcemeat (p. 147) ... 6 oz. Strips of bacon and ham. Hard-boiled eggs 4. Truffles (if possible). Raw egg I. Pepper and salt. Stock (well-flavoured). Aspic jelly. Lay the veal flat on a board, brush the inside over with egg, sprinkle well with pepper and salt, spread on it a layer of veal stuffing. Lay on the stuffing alternate strips of ham and bacon, slices of hard-boiled egg, and, if possible, a few truffles. Over this put a layer of sausage meat. Roll up and tie very tightly in a cloth. Have ready a pan in which there is enough well- flavoured, seasoned stock to cover the galantine ; when it boils put in the meat, and simmer for three hours. Take it out, tighten the cloth round the galantine, and place it between two boards with heavy weights on the top to press it into a flat shape. When cold, take it out of the cloth, brush it over with glaze, and garnish it wdth aspic jelly and hard-boiled eggs, or savoury custard. Put round it on the dish alternate small heaps of finely cut salad and aspic jelly. If preferred white, the galantine may be covered with w^hite or bechamel sauce (p. 172), in which a few leaves of Marshall's gelatine have been dissolved. Garnish with beetroot, aspic jelly, and chopped truffles.24 Ox-Cheek Mould. Ox cheek, stewed and cold. Hard-boiled eggs 2 or 3. Chopped parsley. Ham or tongue. Prepare an ox cheek in the following manner :—Care- fully remove all the small splintered bones, wash thoroughly, and let it soak for several hours in salt and water. Wash again, and put it into a large boiling pot, cover with cold water, bring it to the boil, then add :— Large carrots (cut in quarters) 2. Turnips (cut in quarters) 2. Onions 3. Celery ^ head. Parsley, thyme, marjoram a good bunch. . Peppercorns i teaspoonful. Salt 2 teaspoonfuls. Let it simmer very gently till the flesh will leave the bones ; this will be at least four or five hours. Remove the bones and let the cheek become cold, then cut it into slices and stamp out some rounds. Ornament a buttered mould with hard-boiled egg, chopped parsley, and a little ham or tongue (if convenient), also with the rounds already stamped out. Fill in with pieces of the cheek. Take some of the liquor in which the cheek has been stewed, let it boil, add to it a few leaves of Marshall's gelatine, season it highly. Pour this into the mould and fill it up well. Cover the mould, set it in a tin of water, and bake it in a moderate oven for an hour or a little longer. Remove from the oven, fill up the mould with more of the liquor. Turn out when cold, and garnish with parsley. Ox cheek, if prepared as already directed, makes an excellent hot dish. It should be boned and allowed to get cold as if a mould were to be made, and should be w^armed up in a good brown gravy, and garnished with carrotS^ and turnips (boiled separately). The liquor in which the cheek has been stewed makes very good soup, and may be treated in the same way as mock turtle soup.25 Cold Boiled Chicken. Truss and boil a chicken according to directions (p. 83). When it is cold divide it into nice pieces, leaving out the back. Have ready some hot white or bechamel sauce (p. 172), in which a few leaves of Marshall's gelatine have been melted. Coat each piece of chicken thickly with this. When the sauce has set, arrange the pieces of chicken round a small dressed salad, garnish with rolls of ham, slices of lemon, and small pieces of hard- boiled egg. Picnic Rolls (Cold). Cut slices of French roll, remove the crust, and hollow out the rounds (which must not be too large) so as to leave only a thin wall of bread on the outside and bottom; fill with minced chicken, veal, lobster, or salmon, mixed with mayonnaise or bechamel sauce and nicely seasoned. Dish round a dressed salad, and gar- nish with aspic if convenient. Jersey Tomatoes. Tomatoes 4 or 5. Piquant sauce. Salad. Cold roast beef (cut into dice), or chicken. Choose tomatoes of equal size, slice off the top of each, remove the seeds. Mix the meat with sufficient piquant cream sauce to moisten it, pile it on the tomatoes, and serve round a small dressed salad. Garnish with aspic jelly if convenient. Piquant Cream Sauce. Cream ... ... | pint. Salt a pinch. Castor sugar a pinch. English made mustard ... | teaspoonful. French ,, ,, ... 1 Chili vinegar to taste. French ,, ... to taste.26 Whip the cream stiffly, add the other ingredients, and use as directed. If beef be used, two tablespoonfuls of grated horse- radish must be stirred into the sauce. Chaudfroid de Poulet en Aspic. Cold boiled chicken ... i. Bechamel sauce J pint (about). Some aspic jelly. Salad. Beetroot. Cucumber. Take the best joints of the chicken, remove the skin and trim them neatly ; steep them for a short time in a little vinegar, oil, pepper and salt, then drain them on a cloth. Mask each joint carefully with the bechamel sauce, No. 2 (p. 172), and ornament with beetroot or chili and small leaves of salad (cut in any fancy shapes). Dish up on chopped aspic and dressed salad, and ornament with cucumber, sprigs of tarragon and chervil, and aspic jelly. Chaudfroid of Cutlets. Mutton or lamb cutlets 7 or 8 Brown sauce I gill. Tomato sauce I gill. Aspic jelly I gill. Tomato I. Hard-boiled egg I. Salad and chervil. Trim the cutlets to a nice shape ; braise them g'ently in some good-flavoured stock until tender, about one hour. Remove them from the stock, and press them between two boards with a weight on the top, until the cutlets are quite cold. Mask each cutlet with the chaudfroid sauce (p. 172) ; ornament the centre of each one with hard-boiled white of egg in fancy patterns. Dish the cutlets on a bed of dressed salad, with the ends of the bones pointing to the centre. Garnish the centre with chervil, so as to cover the ends of the bones ; place round the dish slices of tomato, some hard-boiled yolk of egg, and aspic jelly.27 Cotelettes Chaudfroid aux Tomates Nicely trimmed cutlets, either lamb or mutton 6 or 7. Tomato sauce i gill. Aspic jelly i gill. Some hard-boiled egg. Salad. Tomatoes and aspic jelly to garnish. Braise the cutlets until tender with a few sliced vegetables and a little good gravy for about an hour. Remove them from the saucepan, and press them be- tween two boards until cold, then trim them neatly. Mix the tomato sauce with an equal quantity of aspic. Colour with a little cochineal. Mask each cutlet on one side only with the tomato mixture, and when set decorate the centre of each cutlet with hard-boiled egg cut in fancy shapes. Have ready some nicely picked salad, mix it with a little oil and vineg*ar. Put a heap of salad in centre of dish, lean the cutlets against it, and round it place a garnish of sliced tomatoes, salad, and aspic jelly. Bouchees a TEveque. French vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls. Tarragon ,, i teaspoonful. Crushed peppercorns Bunch of herbs Eggs Tomato sauce ... Aspic jelly (melted) Thick cream ... Chili vinegar ... Cold white fish I. 4 yolks. I tablespoonful. I I M I teaspoonful. 4 to 5 oz. Bouchees of Puff Pastry, Put the French and tarragon vinegars into a small saucepan with the herbs and peppercorns, and cook over the fire until half reduced. Now add the yolks, and set the saucepan inside a larger one containing hot water ; stir until the mixture thickens, but do not allow it to boil. Strain, and then stir in the aspic, tomato sauce.28 cream, and chili vinegar ; season to taste, and let the mixture get quite cold. Stir in the fish cut into dice. Fill some small bouchees with this mixture, garnish them with chopped parsley. Serve for a ball supper or luncheon dish. Bouchees are very small patty-cases made of pufF pastry (p. ii6). Prepare the bouchees as for oyster patty cases (p. 58), making them a size smaller. Medallions a la Firenze. Veal or chicken (cooked and chopped finely) ... 3 ozs. Ham or tongue (cooked and chopped finely) ... 3 ozs. Veloute sauce (p. 167) (well flavoured) ^ pint. Butter (melted) 2 ozs. Tarragon vinegar i dessertspoonful. Chili ,, I teaspoonful. Small salad. Aspic jelly. Pound the meat, sauce, vinegars, and butter well together, season with cayenne and salt to taste, and pass all through a fine wire sieve. Cover the bottom of a deep meat dish with aspic, decorate it with hard-boiled yolk, white of egg, and parsley (chopped finely) set it with a little more aspic. Spread the meat mixture smoothly over the aspic, one-third of an inch thick, cover with a thin layer of aspic. When set, cut into rounds one a half inches in diameter. Dish the medallions in two rows on the salad (previously dressed with oil and vinegar), place a slice of raw tomato between each medallion. Fill in the centre with the remains, mixed with mayonnaise sauce (p. 163), and tomato and cucumber cut into dice. Any kind of game can be used in this way, substituting brown or espagnol sauce for the sauce veloute, and leaving out the vinegar. This mixture also makes delicious sandwiches.29 Cold Curry. Cold veal, chicken, or rabbit Butter Apple (sour) ... Curry powder ... Onion (large) ... White stock (jellied) Milk Aspic jelly Cream Tomato Hard-boiled egg Parsley Line a plain mould with aspic jelly ; garnish the bottom with the egg, tomato (sliced), and parsley, and the sides with slices of the chicken, etc. Set this garnish with a little more jelly. Fry the onion, apple, and curry powder in the butter for twenty minutes, add the stock and milk. Simmer together until reduced to a quarter of a pint; add the aspic and chicken. Simmer again for twenty minutes. When cool, stir in the cream (whipped) ; add lemon juice and salt to taste. Fill up the mould, run a little melted aspic over the top, turn out when firm. This curry can also be served in small ramakin cases—in this case no aspic will be required. 4 to 6 ozs. I oz. I. I large tablespoonful. I. i pint. i 1 4 '> for garnish.Bc- Dinners.-^ We do not intend to deal here with elaborate menus and dishes, but rather with those that will be found more generally useful. We have classed the dishes under the following headings :— Soups. Fish. Simple Entries. Meat Dishes. Poultry and Game. Puddings. Pastry. Sweets. Savouries. In a large or even moderate-sized household, a good cook will rarely be obliged to buy meat to make soup. All bones and scraps of meat (excepting, of course, those left upon plates) should be carefully saved for the stock-pot. Care must be taken that none of these pieces or bones are in the least tainted, as stock must never be used when either tainted or sour. The bones must be broken up, and the pieces of meat cut up, and they must be placed in a stock-pot or sauce- pan and covered with cold water. To them should be added one onion stuck with a few cloves, small piece of31 carrot, stick of celery, bunch of herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram), peppercorns, salt. The exact quantities of herbs, &c., cannot be given, as they will vary according- to the amount of stock, but too many cloves and too much thyme must not be used, as these are strong flavourings. The stock must be brought to the boil, and should then be simmered for four or five hours, the lid being kept on the pan. It must then be strained into a basin. The vegetables must on no account he left in the stocky as they will injure its flavour, and it will not keep so well. When cold the fat must be taken off", and, when clarified, may be used for frying anything which would not be injured by the flavour of the vegetables. All water in which meat or poultry has been boiled may be used for soups in which weak stock only is required. The water in which fish has been cooked may be used in lobster, crab, oyster, or other fish soups. The water in which peas or haricot beans have been boiled makes excellent stock for **maigre" or vege- table soups. General Directions for Soups.—In brown soups browning may be used if required ; but no soup should be made of too dark a colour, and it must on no account taste of browning. Clear Stock for Soups. Shin of beef 4 lbs. Cold water 5 pints. Carrot i. Onion (stuck with 4 cloves) i. Leek i. Celery ... J a small head. Herbs i bunch. Peppercorns 12. Salt I teaspoonful. Cut the meat into small pieces, remove the fat and marrow, and chop the bones (if large). Put the meat into a saucepan with the salt, add the water and bring it gently to the boil. Skim it well. Then add the32 vegetables (cleaned and cut into large pieces), the herbs and spices. Let all si7nmer gently for five or six hours. Strain, and when cold remove the fat. To Clarify the Stock :—To i quart of this stock add Lean neck of beef ... ^ lb. (chopped very finely.) Carrot a few slices. Onion and celery ... ,, ,, Whites and shells of eggs 2. Salt to taste. Whisk all together over a slow fire until boiling, then let it simmer gently at least half an hour ; the longer it simmers the better flavour it will be. Strain through a hot cloth once or twice. Re-heat the soup and it is then ready to serve. Garnish with vegetables in fancy shapes, Quenelles, Savoury Custard, or Profiteroles (p. 42). Oyster Soup. Knuckle of veal i lb. Plaice ... 2 lbs. Onion (stuck with 3 cloves) i. Bay leaf i. Milk 1 pint. Cream \ pint. Butter 2 oz. Cornflour 2 tablespoonfuls. Oysters ... 18. Anchovy sauce i teaspoonful. Cut up the veal and put it with the onion and the bay leaf into one quart of cold water ; let it simmer for four hours, then strain it, and when cold take off the fat. Put the plaice in one quart of cold water, let it simmer till the flesh is in rags, then strain it and press the plaice through a hair sieve. When both the fish and veal stock are cold, mix them together and add the liquor from the oysters, the milk, and the anchovy sauce ; when these have come to the boil, add the thickening of cornflour and butter, and seasoning of pepper, salt, and cayenne ; let the soup simmer for two33 or three minutes. Cut the oysters in halves, add them to the hot soup, then draw it off the fire directly; add the cream and serve. Simmer the oyster beards in half a pint of fish stock, strain them, and add the liquor from them to the soup at the same time that you add the oyster liquor. Crab Soup. Large crab i. Milk 11 pints. Cream \ pint. Fish stock \\ pints. Rice J lb. Mace a small piece. Butter 2\ oz. Flour \\ tablespoonfuls. Cayenne, pepper and salt to taste. Anchovy sauce i teaspoonful. Stew the rice till tender in the milk with the mace, salt, and one ounce of butter. Take the meat from the body of the crab, pound it, and stir it into the rice and milk, and to this add the stock ; boil altogether for two or three minutes, then rub through a sieve. Melt one and a half ounces of butter in a stewpan, add to it the flour, then the soup; let it boil and thicken; add the white meat from the claws of the crab in flakes, seasoning to taste, and the cream. Let it get quite hot, but not boil. Lobster soup may be made in the same way, but the shell should be simmered in the stock before it is strained, and all the lobster meat should be added after the soup has been thickened. Jenny Lind Soup. For the Stock. Knuckle of veal i\ lbs. Cold water 2 quarts. Onion i. Bay leaf i. Celery | a head. Peppercorns 6. Bunch of herbs (thyme, parsley, marjoram). Or, Two quarts of any kind of well-flavoured white stock, c34 Cut the veal into small pieces, put it into the cold water with the onion, celery, herbs, and peppercorns ; let it simmer for four hours, strain the stock ; when it is cold take off the fat. For the Soup. made as directed. I tablespoonful. The stock Sago... Cream Eggs... Cloves 4 piiiL. 2 yolks. 2. Wash the sago. Put the stock into a saucepan, bring it to the boil, then stir in the sago, and add the clo\ies ; let it simmer for one hour. Beat the yolks of two eggs in a tureen, add to them the cream, which should be hot but not boiling ; pour the hot soup very gradually on the eggs and cream, stirring all the time ; season it to taste with pepper and salt. Re-heat; but it must not boil again. American Soup. Red lentils . ... iib. Brown stock i\ pints. Carrot I small. Turnip . ... I ,, Onion I. Leek 1^ a small. Herbs I bunch. Peppercorns . ... 4. Cloves 2. Milk . ... J pint. Flour . ... 1 oz. Butter I oz. Seasoning. Put the lentils into a saucepan with the stock, bring it gently to the boil, skim it well. Add the vegetables (sliced), herbs, and spices. Simmer gently until quite tender. Rub through a hair sieve. Add to the Lentil Pur6e a Tomato Puree ; mix these gradually with a sauce made of the flour, butter, and milk, which must be previously well boiled. Re-heat the soup, and it is then ready to serve.35 Tomato Puree. Stew the following ingredients together, and rub them through a hair sieve :— Tomatoes i lb. (sHced.) Shallot I. Raw ham 2 oz. (cut into dice.) Peppercorns 6. If the Lentil Puree has reduced too much, add a little more stock to thin it. Puree de Lentilles a L'Allemande. German lentils ^ lb. White stock 2 pints. Celery |^ a head. Onion 2. Turnip i. White peppercorns 6. Mace I blade. Bay leaves i. Parsley i sprig. Thyme i ,, Butter I oz. Rice-flour i oz. Milk I gill. Cream i Yolks of eggs 2. Simmer the lentils till quite tender in the stock, adding the vegetables (sliced), herbs, and spices. Pass through a hair sieve. Thicken with the rice-flour, butter, and milk. Have ready the yolks well beaten, pour on them the warm cream; thicken, but do not boil; pour into the tureen, and add the Lentil Puree, seasoned to taste. Time to cook the lentils, about two hours. Tapioca Cream Soup. Good-flavoured white stock IJ pints. Tapioca (crushed) i oz. Cream i gill. Yolks of eggs 2.36 Sprinkle the tapioca in the stock when boiling-, stir often, simmer until the tapioca becomes transparent. Warm the cream, mix it with the yolks, add the stock (not boiling), stirring well all the time. Re-heat, taking care the soup does not boil or the eggs will curdle. Season to taste. Leicester Soup. Gravy beef Ox kidney 1 lb. 1 '1^^^^- Second stock or water ... I quart. Carrot I small. Turnip 1 err,o11 T ^"^^ ^ smalK 1 ^ l^large piece Onion (stuck with 3 cloves) I. Celery 4 stalks. Bay leaf I. Thyme I sprig. Parsley I M Marjoram I Peppercorns 6. Curry powder I dessertspoonful. Tomatoes I lb. (sliced.) Butter I oz. Mushroom catsup I dessertspoonful. Worcester sauce I teaspoonful. Flour I tablespoonful. Melt the butter in a stewpan, sprinkle the meat with flour, and fry slightly. Add the curry powder, stock, vegetables, herbs, spices ; bring it to the boil and simmer gently for one and a half hours. Strain, mix with it the puree from the tomatoes (which must be cooked separately and passed though a hair sieve). The kidney must be pounded and passed through a sieve and added to the soup, which must be thickened with the flour ; add mushroom catsup and Worcester sauce. Serve carrot, parsnip, and kidney cut in small rounds as a garnish for the soup.37 Hare Soup. Stock 2 quarts. Carrot i. Turnip J. Celery i stick. Parsley Thyme Marjoram... ^ bay leaf... ; Peppercorns 12. Port I glass. Catsup I dessertspoonful. Arrowroot or cornflour ... i The bones and inferior parts of a hare. Simmer the hare, vegetables, peppercorns, and herbs in the stock for three hours. Strain. Take all the meat off the hare, pound it well in a mortar and pass it through a sieve ; add this to the stock and thicken it with the arrowroot or cornflour, mixed smoothly with a little cold stock. After it has boiled add the catsup, port, and seasoning. Ox-Tail Soup. Ox-tail I. Stock (brown) 2 quarts. Carrot I. Turnip I. Onions 2. Celery ... J a head. Bunch of herbs I. Peppercorns ... 12. Cloves ... 4. Ham (cut small) ... lib. Butter ... 2 oz. Sherry I wineglass. Cornflour I tablespoonful. Cut the tail into joints. Put into cold water. Let It nearly boil, then strain, and wash in cold water (this is to remove any hairs). Dry the tail, flour it, fry brown in the butter with the vegetables (sliced). Add the stock, herbs, spices, and ham. Simmer gently for four hours. >a bunch.38 Strain, remove the fat, and thicken the soup with the cornflour. Boil up, season, add sherry. Serve the pieces of tail in the soup. Giblet Soup. Giblets Onions Carrot Celery Parsley Thyme Marjoram. Butter Flour Cloves Peppercorns Worcester sauce Sherry Warm stock or water Seasoning of pepper and salt. Wash the giblets well. Fry them in the butter with the vegetables, then add herbs, cloves, peppercorns and stock. Simmer three hours. Strain. Pick the meat from the giblets and pound it in a mortar ; add this to the stock, thicken with, the flour. After it has boiled well, add the Worcester sauce, wine, and seasoning. 4 sets. 2. a small piece (sliced). 1 sti^k (sliced). a bunch. 2 oz. f oz. 4- 6. I dessertspoonful. 1 glass. 3 pints. Gravy Soup, Gravy beef Stock (second) Carrot (small) . Onion Turnip Celery Bunch of herbs Peppercorns Butter ... . Catsup Flour I lb. 1 quart. I. I. h 2 stalks. I. 6. I oz. I dessertspoonful. I 1» J» Cut the beef into small pieces. Fry brown in the butter. Add the stock, vegetables, herbs, and pepper-39 corns. Simmer gently for two hours. Strain. Thicken the soup with the flour, boil up, add catsup and seasoning. Celery Cream Soup. Rice 2 oz. Onions 2 (sliced). Celery i head (sliced). Parsley ] Thyme > a bunch. Marjoram j Peppercorns 10. White stock i quart. Cream J pint. Seasoning of pepper and salt. Put the rice in a saucepan with the stock, onions, celery, herbs, and peppercorns. Simmer gently till tender. Take out the herbs, and rub the rice, onions, and celery through a hair sieve, adding the stock. Boil, then add the cream. Season. Let it become quite hot, but do not let it boil again. Or, A Simpler Celery Soup. Rice 2 oz. Onion i (sliced). Celery i head (sliced). New milk f pint. Stock pints. Seasoning of pepper and salt. Simmer the rice, celery, and onion in the stock till quite tender; rub all through a hair sieve. Add the milk, re-heat, season, and serve. Velvet Soup. Finely crushed tapioca ... \\ oz. Fresh butter oz. New laid egg i yolk. Water \\ pints. Cloves 2. Seasoning of pepper and salt.40 Put the water and cloves in a pan on the fire ; when boiHng fast, scatter in the tapioca ; stir well. Boil for twenty minutes, till the tapioca is quite cooked, then add pepper and salt and the butter. Take it off the fire directly after the butter is stirred in. Beat the egg in a tureen, pour on the hot soup, stirring all the time. Tomato Soup. Tomatoes 2 lbs. (sliced). Lean ham 2 oz. (cut into dice.) Butter I oz. Onion i (sliced). Celery 2 stalks (cut small). Tapioca 2 oz. (crushed.) Stock 2 pints. Seasoning of pepper and salt. Put the ham, butter, onion, celery, and tomatoes into a pan ; cook till tender, rub through a hair sieve. Heat the stock, sprinkle in the tapioca, and cook till clear; then add the tomato puree. Season, re-heat, and serve with fried bread. Green Pea Soup, Green peas (shelled) ... pints. Lettuces (cut in small pieces) 2 or 3. Spinach a few leaves. Mint a sprig. Butter 2 oz. Flour J oz. Water (boiling) i pint. Pepper and salt. Put one pint of the peas into a stewpan with one ounce of butter, the mint, spinach, and half the lettuces. Stir these about well so that the vegetables may steam in the butter for about ten minutes, but do not let them brown ; then add the water, and simmer till tender. Rub through a kazr sieve, &c.41 Melt one ounce of butter in a pan, stir in the flour, add the puree ; just boil. Have ready-boiled a quarter of a pint of peas and the remainder of the lettuce ; add these to the boiling soup. Let all boil for five minutes. Serve with croutons of fried bread. If liked thinner more water may be used. White Lentil Soup. Lentils Water, or white stock Milk Onion Celery Parsley White peppercorns. Mace Flour Butter Cream Pepper and salt 2 pi^^t. pints, f pint. I. 1 head. 2 sprigs. 6. a tiny piece. I tablespoonful. I oz. J pint, to taste. Steam the vegetables in the butter. Add lentils, stock, or water, and spices. Simmer till tender. Rub through a hair sieve, add the milk, thicken with the flour. Boil up, add cream and seasoning. Garnish for Clear Soup. Savoury custard. Egg (beaten) i. Milk or clear stock ... i tablespoonful. Pepper and salt to taste. Mix the ingredients, and steam till firm in a buttered dariole mould. When quite cold, cut into fancy shapes, and rinse in warm water before using. For making yellow custard, omit the white of egg, and use two yolks to one tablespoonful of milk. For a white garnish use the whites of the eggs only. The savoury custard may be made pink by the addition of a little cochineal, or green with spinach juice.42 Profiteroles. These are made of choux paste omitting the sugar (p. 198). The paste must be made a little stiffer than for choux, and must be squeezed through a small paste forcer on to a greased tin, in tiny shapes. Bake until crisp. Use as a garnish for clear soup. Quenelle Garnish for Clear Soup. Make as for Quenelles of Veal (p. 62). Shape the quenelles in teaspoons ; or use a large plain pipe and force small portions on to a buttered saute-pan. Poach in the same manner as for Quenelles of Veal.^ Fish. It is of the utmost importance that fish should be perfectly fresh. There is more difference between stale fish and fresh fish than between what is stale and fresh in any other kinds of food. Some fish, of course, bears keeping better than others, and red mullet are considered by some people to be improved by being kept for a day or two ; but such fish as herrings, mackerel, smelts, soles and trout cannot be too fresh. There are three ways of telling whether fish is fresh : 1. The eyes should be bright. Distrust all fish from which the eyes have been removed. 2. The gills should be red. Sometimes when the fish is stale the gills are rubbed with blood to make them look fresh. 3. The flesh should be firm, not flabby. The firmness can be partially restored by running cold water over the fish. As deception may be used to make the gills and flesh appear fresh when the fish is stale, it is safest to judge by the eyes, as no one can restore their brightness when once it has been lost. Smelts (or Sparlings) have, when quite fresh, a faint smell that slightly resembles cucumber. Herrings and mackerel, when first caught, have the most beautiful iridescent colouring, and the flesh of perfectly fresh herrings is creamy.44 Neither herrings nor mackerel can be had in per- fection inland. Fish should be thoroughly cleaned, and the internal organs carefully removed, also all the blood and silver skin ; but fish must not be washed more than is abso- lutely necessary, nor must it ever be left soaking in water. Smelts are cooked without being opened, and the liver, which is considered a delicacy, is left in red mullet. The fins must be cut off, and the tail trimmed. BOILING Fish. This method, although a very usual one, is not to be recommended, as much of the nourishment and flavour of the fish is lost. The fish most commonly boiled are cod, haddock, salmon, turbot, brill and mackerel. Of these, cod (fresh), salmon and haddock should be put into hoiliiig water. Turbot, brill and mackerel should be put into cold water, as their skin is more tender than that of the fish that is put into boiling water. All salt fish should be put into cold water. METHOD OF BOILING FiSH, 1. Allow sufficient water to cover ; add two table- spoonfuls of salt and two tablespoonfuls of vinegar to each gallon of water. 2. Skim well. 3. Keep the lid on the fish-kettle and cook gently ; when the flesh leaves the bone it is cooked sufficiently. No certain time can be given for boiling fish, but the following facts may be some guide. The fish that are put into boiling water should generally simmer six minutes to every pound, and six minutes over. Fish up to about three pounds weight, when put into cold water and brought gradually to boiling point, will be sufficiently cooked by the time they boil. If larger, they must cook longer in proportion. All fish must be served as hot as possible, and must be w^ell drained.45 Salmon. This fish IS considered to be in perfection in May. The head and shoulders are the best parts for boiling. The middle may be made into steaks ; and the tail is excellent split open and cooked with a sprinkling of cayenne and salt, and plenty of fresh butter, before the fire, and is then a good breakfast dish. Salmon should be put into boiling water, and boiled as directed (p. 44). Salmon may be eaten with sliced cucumber and vinegar, or with any of the following sauces :—Parsley and butter (p. 165). Fennel (p. 165). Tartare (p. 164). Hollandaise (p. 164). Mayonnaise (p. 163). Maitre d'Hotel (p. 165). Cold salmon is excellent in Mayonnaise (p. 163). Salmon Trout May be boiled in the same manner as salmon, but one of the best ways of cooking them, if small, is to bake them or cook them before the fire with a sprinkling of cayenne and salt, and plenty of fresh butter. About ten or fifteen minutes will be usually long enough to bake them, and they should be served in the dish in which they are cooked. Cod. This fish may be bought all the year round, but is really in season in the winter. The large fish are the best, and the head and shoulders are the best part. A whole fish can often be bought at a very moderate price; it is then a good plan to boil the head and shoulders while fresh, to make the middle into steaks (p. 51), or stuff and bake it (p. 52), and to salt the tail. Cod should be put into boili7ig water, and boiled as directed (p. 44). Oyster Sauce (p. 161) is practically the only sauce that can be said to be suitable to boiled cod, though other sauces may be used according to taste, or when oysters are out of season.46 Haddock. This fish rather resembles cod, but the flavour is rather more delicate and the flesh is less firm. It is also much smaller, and is therefore cooked whole, the tail being fastened through the eyes. Haddock may be had almost all the year round, but is best in the winter. It may be cooked in a great variety of ways :—Stuff'ed and baked (p. 52), filleted and fried, or (if very small) skinned and fried like whiting (p. 50). Haddock should be put into boiling water, but as it is not such a thick or firm fish as cod, it will be cooked in a comparatively shorter time. The following sauces may be eaten with boiled haddock:—Oyster (p. 161). Shrimp (p. 162). Anchovy (p. 163). Maitre d'Hotel (p. 165). TURBOT AND BRILL. These fish are much alike in general appearance, but turbot has bristles on the dark side, which are not found in brill. Turbot is the superior and more ex- pensive fish, but the method of cooking both turbot and brill is the same. Turbot is almost always boiled. A slit should be cut along the backbone on the black side, in order to keep the skin on the white side from cracking. It should then be rubbed over with lemon before it is put into the kettle ; this keeps the colour and gives firmness to the flesh. The fins should be trimmed but not cut closely, as they are the most delicate part of the fish. A turbot-kettle should be used, and great care should be exercised, as the fish must on no account become ragged or broken. The black side must be placed underneath in the water, and must also be next the dish, the white part being always at the top. In boiling, place in cold water as directed (p. 44). The following sauces are suitable :—Lobster (p. 161). Hollandaise (p. 164). Shrimp, for brill (p. 162).47 Mackerel. Mackerel is m season in spring and early summer. Later on in the year it is often very unwholesome, especially the parts that are near the head. Mackerel may be boiled whole, or stuffed and baked, or filleted and fried, or it is an excellent breakfast dish if split open, sprinkled with cayenne and salt, and cooked with plenty of butter before the fire. Mackerel when to be boiled should be placed in cold water, as directed (p. 44). The following sauces are suitable :—Gooseberry (p. 163). Maitre d'Hotel (p. 165). Parsley and butter (p. 165). Fennel (p. 165). Whiting. This fish when boiled is particularly suitable for invahds, as it is very light and digestible. It should be put into cold milk, and gently simmered till done. The milk should then be thickened, and served over the fish, as a sauce. A small piece of lemon rind boiled with the fish improves the flavour of the sauce, or a dessert- spoonful of chopped parsley, or a little anchovy sauce may be added, and a few drops of lemon juice. Soles, When very large, may be boiled in the same manner as whiting. Boiled soles, whether large or small, make a nice variety in invalid diet. Steamed Fish. special fish-steamers can be bought, but in case one is not at hand, small pieces of fish may be steamed in an ordinary steamer with a plate underneath it, or in the following manner :—Have ready a pan of boiling water, cover it with a plate ; on this place the fish, and cover it with the saucepan lid. Fried Fish. All fish for frying must be carefully prepared, and well cleaned and dried. They must be egg and bread- crumbed, or dipped in batter.48 To Egg and Bread-Crumb.—Beat an egg with a knife on a plate, put the fish (seasoned with pepper and sah) in it, and brush the egg over the fish, being careful to cover every part. Rub some stale bread through a wire sieve on to a piece of kitchen paper, put the fish in this, and with the paper toss the crumbs all over the fish ; then lightly toss the fish from one hand to the other, to shake off the loose crumbs, which might come off in the pan, burn, and disfigure the fish. Olive oil is perhaps the best liquid in which to fry fish, but clarified dripping answers very well. Oil or fat in which fish has been fried should, after it has been used, be allowed to cool a little, and then be strained and kept for future use. The best pan for wet-frying is a deep stewpan, and a frying basket is very desirable. The frying basket should be put into the fat to get hot before the fish is placed in it; if the fish is put into the frying basket while it is cold, the fish will stick to the basket. Enough fat should be used to completely cover the fish. It should be heated slowly, or it may burn, and should be put on to melt about an hour before it is wanted. When a faint blue smoke rises, the fat is ready for use. As, however, a novice may not readily distinguish the faint smoke, it is safer to try the fat with a small piece of bread. If the bread browns underneath quickly and becomes crisp, the fat is ready. While the fat is heating it will be covered with bubbles, and may hiss and crackle, but before it is ready the bubbles will disappear, and it will be quite still. The time for frying depends much on the thickness and firmness of the fish, but about seven minutes is usually sufficient for steaks, less time for filleted fish. Do not attempt to fry too many fish or pieces of fish at once, and Jiever put in any fish ufiless the fat is the proper heat. Have ready a piece of kitchen paper laid on a sieve, and when the fish is removed from the pan place it on the paper, and let it stand a few minutes in a warm place to drain.49 Fried Parsley is often served with fried fish. It must be thoroughly dry, and the fat for frying it must be made much hotter after the fish has been taken out. When the parsley is plunged into the hot fat there will be a violent hissing-, rather alarming to a beginner. The parsley must only be fried for one minute, until quite crisp, but not burned. Fried Soles. Medium sized soles are the best for frying, very large ones are better served au grathi (p. 53), or boiled. The dark skin on the back is removed and the fins are cut off, but if the sole is to be fried whole the head is retained. Soles are fried either whole or in fillets. Fillets make a nicer looking dish, but the flavour is better if the fish is fried whole. In frying follow the general directions for frying fish. In filleting a sharp-pointed knife is used. A slit should first be cut across the fish, just above the tail, the skin must be loosened by the fingers and then dragged ofi", care being taken not to tear the flesh. The skin should be removed just after the fish is washed, while it is still quite wet, otherwise it will be very difficult to get it off. Skin the sole on both sides. Make a slit down the backbone of the fish, keep the point of the knife close to the bone and so remove the flesh. Each sole will make four fillets ; if the sole is very large the fillets-may be cut across again. The fillets, before being egged and bread-crumbed, are usually rolled up, or tied in knots. The latter method is preferable as there then is no difficulty about skewers or string*, but the knots must be carefully and neatly made. Filleted soles may be stuffed before they are rolled up. For this use either ordinary veal forcemeat, well seasoned and flavoured with lemon peel, or shrimps or lobster chopped finely and mixed with a little anchovy sauce, cayenne, and cream to moisten. D50 Soles may be garnished with slices of lemon, or fried parsley (p. 49). The following sauces are suitable :— Maitre d'Hotel, made from stock from the trimmings of the fish. Shrimp. Anchovy. Plaice May be filleted, fried and served like sole. It cannot of course be compared to sole, its chief merit being cheapness. The male plaice is considered to have the best flavour. Fried Mackerel. Mackerel may be filleted, egged, bread-crumbed and fried. Parsley and butter, Maitre d'Hotel, and Fennel are suitable sauces. Grilled Mackerel. Mix together a tablespoonful of salad oil, small shallot (chopped), a teaspoonful of parsley (chopped), cayenne, and a little salt. Score the mackerel. Let it remain in this seasoning for an hour. Then grill about twelve minutes. Dish up, and serve with Hollandaise sauce (p. 164). The fish can be baked, if preferred. It must then be sprinkled with brown crumbs, and cooked with a buttered paper over. Fried Whiting. Whitings are skinned, the tails put through the eyes. When fried the following sauces may be served with them :— Shrimp. Anchovy. Maitre d'Hotel. Whitebait. Whitebait must be fried in extremely hot fat (four hundred degrees). Wash them and drain them on a sieve some time before they are fried, so that they may be quite dry. Put them into a frying basket with some flour, and shake them well before putting them into the fat. They will be cooked almost immediately. Heap them on a napkin and serve with them lemon, brown bread and butter, and cayenne.51 Fried Smelts. These are very delicate fish and must be fried quickly in very hot fat. They are egged and bread-crumbed, and are cooked without being opened. Lemon and cayenne are handed with them, and no sauce is needed, as smelts have a very delicate flavour. Fried Haddocks. Fresh haddock is very good if filleted and fried. Suitable sauces are— Shrimp. Anchovy. Maitre d'Hotel. Salmon Steaks. These may be covered with a buttered paper and sauted in butter, or they may be egged and crumbed and fried. They should be served with sliced cucumber or with Tartare sauce. Cod Steaks May be cooked in the oven, or be egg-ed, bread- crumbed, and fried. If they are baked they should be cooked in the same dish in which they are to be served. The dish must be well buttered before the fish is placed in it, and small pieces of butter must be put on the steaks, which should also be sprinkled with salt and cayenne. The dish should be carefully covered, so that the fish may not be dry. An excellent sauce may be made from the juice, etc., that drains from the fish ; this should be poured off just before the fish is done ; it should be thickened, and chopped parsley and a few drops of lemon juice added to it, or it may be flavoured with anchovy. Shrimp, Anchovy, or Maitre d'Hotel sauces may be served with fried cod steaks. Stewed Cod Steaks. Cod steaks 2 one inch thick. Butter Lemon rind ... Chopped parsley Water Pepper and salt Lemon juice ... i oz. a small piece. J teaspoonful. I teacupful. to season, a few drops.52 Put the water, butter, lemon, parsley and seasoning into a saucepan that will hold the steaks. Let this boil for a few minutes, put in the fish, stew very gently till done, about twenty minutes ; when cooked on one side turn the steaks. Take out the fish and keep it hot. Strain the sauce and thicken it with butter and flour^ add the parsley and lemon juice, and serve round the fish. Cod Steaks a la Cardinal. Take three cod steaks, season them, and bake them in a buttered tin, with a buttered paper over, for about twenty minutes. Place them on a hot dish, mask each steak with the sauce as below, garnish the centre of the steak with hard-boiled egg cut into dice, and sprinkle over chopped parsley. Sauce. Mix together a quarter of a pint each of tomato and veloute sauce. Add a little carmine to give it a red colour. Halibut Steaks May be cooked in the same manner as cod steaks. Stuffed Baked Fish. The fish that are best cooked in this manner are :— Haddock. Small cod, or middle of cod. Mackerel. Piece of halibut. The fish must be cleaned and stuffed with the follow- ing forcemeat ; more or less should be made according to the size of the fish. Bread crumbs 2 oz. Suet (chopped finely) Parsley (chopped) Thyme Grated lemon rind Pepper and salt I oz. \ tablespoonful. \ teaspoonful. to taste, to moisten. The forcemeat must be skewered or sewn in the fish, which then should have its tail put through its eyes and53 be fastened with a skewer. Brush it with milk, sprinkle brown crumbs over it, put a few pieces of drippings (bacon fat is the best) on it, and bake in a moderate oven for about half an hour. Baste occasionally. Serve with it plain melted butter to which a little Worcester, or any similar sauce, may be added if liked. or Sole au Gratin. Sole large one. Butter \\ oz. Lemon juice i teaspoonful. Parsley (chopped) .... Shallot or onion (finely chopp { Thyme ( Chopped mushrooms .. Cayenne and salt Sherry Stock Brown crumbs. 1 dessertspoonful, d) 1^ teaspoonful. \ teaspoonful. 2 tablespoonfuls. to season. 2 tablespoonfuls. 3 tablespoonfuls. The sole must be served in the dish in which it is cooked. Butter the dish with half the butter, and sprinkle it with half the lemon juice, and with half the parsley, shallot, thyme, or mushrooms and seasoning". Pour in the stock and sherry. Lay the fish in this and sprinkle it with the remainder of the lemon juice and other ingredients. Cover it with browned bread crumbs, and on them put the remainder of the butter in small pieces. Bake for fifteen or twenty minutes, according to the size of the fish, in a rather quick oven. Sole aux Crevettes. (Sole with Shrimps.) Skin a sole, make an incision down the centre as for filleting, raise the flesh from the bone on each side to form a pocket. Fill this with shrimp farce (p. 54). Place the fish on a buttered tin, cover with brown crumbs, put over a few pieces of butter. Bake with buttered paper over for fifteen minutes. Garnish with sliced lemon and parsley. Serve with anchovy or melted butter sauce.54 Shrimp Farce. Mix a quarter of a pint picked shrimps (chopped) with a quarter of a pint white sauce (seasoned). Lobster or oysters can be used instead of shrimps. Fillets of Sole a la Tartare. Cleanse, skin, and fillet a sole. Cut the fillets into nice pieces, squeeze over each piece a few drops of lemon juice, and season it. Lay the fillets on a buttered tin, cover with buttered paper, and bake them for about ten minutes. Remove from the tin and let them get quite cold. Trim into shape, and mask each piece with Tartare sauce (p. 164). Dish on a crouton of fried bread or on aspic. Garnish with red and green chilies, or beetroot, small salad, and aspic jelly. Serve as a cold fish entree, or for supper or luncheon. Sole a la Mai^tre d' Hotel. Skin and fillet a sole, cut each fillet in half, squeeze over a few drops of lemon juice. Season. Fold over. Bake the fillets on a buttered tin, with buttered paper over, about ten minutes. Dish in a circle. Pour over Maitre d' Hotel sauce (p. 165). Lobster Cutlets. Lobster (hen Milk ... Butter Flour Cream Cayenne Eg§: ••• Bread crumbs. I (about 8 oz.) \ pint. \\ oz. I oz. I tablespoonful. to taste. I. Remove the flesh from the lobster, cut it into dice. Pound the spawn (when obtainable) with half an ounce of the butter, and pass it through a hair sieve. Cook the flour in the butter, add the milk, boil welL Put in the cream, lobster, spawn, seasoning, and a few drops of lemon-55 juice. Let it get cold. Make up into cutlet shapes, egg" and crumb carefully, fry in hot fat, drain. Dish in a circle, putting a piece of lobster feeler in each cutlet. Garnish with fried parsley. Tinned lobster may be used ; six ounces is sufficient. In this case use a little anchovy and carmine, to improve the colour. Parsnip Puree- Take one pound of boiled parsnips, mash them and pass through a sieve. Re-heat with one ounce of butter, one tablespoonful of cream, and one and a half ounces of fine flour. Season, and use as directed above. Merluche Farci eaux Huitres. (Haddock Stuffed with Oysters.) Fresh haddock (ij lbs.)... i. Bread crumbs i| oz. Butter I oz. Egg I. Oysters (bearded and minced finely) 6 to 8. About a tablespoonful of oyster liquor. Brown crumbs. Scale and clean the fish. Stuff it with the following forcemeat:—Mix together the bread crumbs, butter (melted), yolk of egg, oysters, and the oyster liquor to moisten it. Season it with a little cayenne. Place this mixture inside the fish, and sew^ it up. Brush over the fish with the white of an egg or a little milk, and cover it with brown crumbs. Put on it some small pieces of butter, place it in a greased tin, with buttered paper over it. Bake from twenty to thirty minutes in a moderate oven. Remove it on to a hot dish with a slice. Pour round it either oyster, Hollandaise, or parsley cream sauce.56 Poisson a la Sauce Flamande. Take the remains of any cold fish, break it into large flakes, and make it hot between two plates in the oven, or over boiling water. Place it in the centre of a dish, mask it with the Flemish sauce. Garnish with parsnip or potato puree put through a large rose forcer, croutons of fried bread, and parsley. Flemish Sauce. Melt one ounce of butter in a saucepan, stir in one and a half ounces of fine flour, add half a pint of fish stock well flavoured with vegetables (such as a few slices of carrot, turnip, onion, herbs, peppercorns) ; boil the sauce well, add one or two tablespoonfuls of cream and the yolks of three eggs, taking care it does not boil after adding the eggs. Add a little chili vinegar, and a tablespoonful of either French vinegar or vinegar from pickled gherkins. Lastly, stir in two tablespoon- fuls of chopped pickled gherkins or capers. Season and serve.m Simple Entrees, None of the entrees given here are extravagant, nor will they be found difficult to prepare. Many of these can be used as luncheon dishes, or they may sometimes form the main part of a dinner, when, as is often the case, a joint is not required. Petites Soufflees de Merlan. (By kind permission of lA-RS. A. B. Marshall.) Put one and a half ounces of butter in a stewpan with one and a half ounces of fine flour, half a teaspoonful of essence of anchovy, a pinch of salt, a dust of cayenne, and two raw yolks of eg'gs ; mix with one and a half gills of cold milk, and stir altogether over the fire until the mixture boils ; remove from the fire, mix into it a dessertspoonful of cream or milk, and four and a half ounces of pounded or very finely chopped whiting (raw): then mix in carefully three whites of eggs whipped stiffly. Have some little paper cases oiled on the outside and dried in the screen, and partly fill these with the soufflee mixture. Sprinkle on top of each a few browned bread crumbs, put a tiny piece of butter on top of this to keep the soufflees from getting dry, and bake them in a moderate oven about fifteen minutes. This mixture can also be baked in a large case or pie-dish, and is excellent when steamed. The entire quantity baked in one case will require about half an hour to cook. Serve as an entrde or in the fish course, or for a second course dish in place of game or poultry.58 Vol-au-Vents de Poisson. Some puff pastry. About 6 ozs. cooked fish (mixed), as 3 or 4 oysters, little lobster, few shrimps, little whiting or sole, i or 2 anchovies. Flour J oz. Butter J oz. Milk 1 gill. Little cream. Cayenne. Seasoning. Lemon juice. Cut out some rounds of puff paste with a fluted cutter a quarter of an inch thick ; remove the centres of half of them with a cutter two sizes smaller. Wet the edges of the rounds of paste and lay on the rings of paste and bake in a quick oven. When done, fill the cases with the fish mixture. Ornament the cases with white of egg- beaten very stiffly, and chopped parsley and coral ; this must be done before putting in the fish mixture, and the cases must be set in a cool oven to set the egg. Serve hot on a dish paper for a savoury, or fish entree. Fish Mixture. Make a sauce in the usual way ; when cooked, add the lobster and whiting cut into dice. The shrimps (picked) ; the oysters (bearded) ; and the anchovies (boned and cut into small fillets). Make hot again and fill in the cases. Oyster Patties. Prepare some patty cases as follows :— Roll out some puff pastry (p. 116) one third of an inch thick. Take a cutter two inches in diameter, dip it into hot water, and cut out some rounds of pastry. Mark the top with a cutter two sizes smaller. Bake the cases in a quick oven. When done remove the top and take out the soft inside carefully. Fill it with an oyster mixture as below. Put on the tops again. Dish on a folded napkin and serve hot.59 Oyster Mixture. Oysters 20. Oyster liquor and milk ^ pint. Cream ^ gill. Flour ozs. Butter 11 ozs. Cayenne. Lemon juice few drops. Prepare as for oyster sauce (p. 161). Petites Timbales de Poisson. Cold fish 9 or 10 oz. Butter I oz. Flour I oz. Milk I gill. Cream i tablespoonful. E§-§-s...^ 2. Anchovies 2 or 3. Or Anchovy sauce i tablespoonful. A squeeze of lemon juice. Cayenne. Salt to taste. Chop the fish finely, removing the skin and bones. Put the butter, flour, and milk into a saucepan, stir all over the fire until it boils ; add the cream and boil for five minutes. Add this panada to the chopped fish, mixing- in the anchovies (previously boned and chopped), season to taste, and stir in the eggs well beaten. Ornament the bottoms of small buttered darioles with truffles or parsley ; put in the fish mixtures, and steam them for about twenty minutes, or until firm. Turn them out, and serve with anchovy, Maitre d'Hotel, or any nice sauce. This dish can be served as a fish entree. Quenelles d'Homard. Lobster 6 oz. Panada 4^^ oz. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Eggs 2. Cayenne. Salt to taste.6o Chop the lobster very finely, pound well together the panada and lobster, mixing in the eggs singly, add the cream, and season to taste. Pass the mixture through a wire sieve. Have ready some small quenelle moulds well buttered, fill them with the lobster mixture, using a forcing bag and plain pipe. Steam them for fifteen minutes, dish them on a potato border straight down the centre of the dish. Pour round them an anchovy sauce. Panada. Melt one ounce of butter in a stewpan, stir in two ounces of flour, add one gill of milk, boil well ; then use. Lobster Eggs a la Guildhall. Take six or seven small fresh eggs (hard boiled), remove the shells, cut them in halves ; remove the yolks, fill up the space (until it resembles the original shape of the egg) with the lobster mixture, as below. Dip each one into egg and bread crumbs twice ; fry in hot fat a pretty golden colour. Dish in a circle ; garnish with fried parsley. Lobster Mixture. Take the meat from a lobster, pound it up with four hard-boiled yolks of eggs, three ounces of butter (melted), and a tablespoonful of white or Bechamel sauce, cayenne and seasoning to taste. Pass it through a wire sieve, and use as directed above. If fresh lobster be used, eight ounces of the meat will be required ; but if tinned lobster, six ounces will be sufficient, as it is more solid. The lobster coral or spawn must be pounded with one ounce of the butter to make the mixture a good colour. This mixture may also be used in the form of cutlets, croquettes, etc. Lobster Creams. (By kind permission o/The Wakefield School of Cookery.) Lobster (with coral if possible) i. Butter 2 oz. Cream ... \ pint. Lemon juice a few drops. (Not in original Recipe.) Cayenne and salt to taste.6i Remove the flesh from the lobster, pound it in a mortar with the butter, then pass through a sieve. Pound the coral separately and pass it through a sieve, and dry it slightly in a very cool oven. Whip the cream, adding a very little lemon juice drop by drop ; let the cream be quite stiff", but take care not to over-heat it; then add the lobster and half the coral. Season with cayenne and salt. Pile the lobster cream in little soufflee cases, and decorate with the remainder of the coral. Veal Cutlets. Veal cut from the fillet (about half an inch thick) ... i| lb. Bread crumbs. Egg I. Butter 2 oz. Pepper and salt. Cut the veal into rounds rather larger than a five shilling piece. Flatten these with the cutlet-bat or rolling-pin. Eg"g and bread-crumb them, and saute them in the same way as mutton cutlets. Dish in a circle with a small piece of fried bacon to each cutlet—the bacon must be placed between the cutlets. Garnish with slices of lemon, and pour round the cutlets gravy made as follows :— Flour I teaspoonful. White stock \ pint. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Catsup • • I dessertspoonful. A few drops of lemon juice. Pepper and salt. Remove the cutlets from the pan, keep them hot. Dredge the flour into the pan, add the stock, let it thicken, then add the cream, catsup, lemon juice, and seasoning, and strain round the cutlets. Tomato or brown sauce may be substituted if liked.62 Quenelles of Veal. Fillet of veal i lb. Good-flavoured white stock J pint. Flour 2 oz. Butter I oz. Cream i tablespoonful. Eggs... 2. Seasoning to taste. Shred the veal, mince finely, pound and pass it through a wire sieve. Cook the flour, butter, and stock well together. Pound this with the veal ; add the eggs, seasoning, and cream. Fill buttered quenelle moulds, and poach gently in a stewpan, pouring in boiling water until it covers the quenelles. Cook for ten minutes ; drain. Arrange on a ring of mashed potato ; pour over Veloute or Bechamel sauce. Fill in the centre with some green vegetables, as peas, beans, etc. Garnish each quenelle alternately with chopped ham and parsley. Or, quenelles may be shaped with a spoon as follows:— Fill a dessert spoon (dipped in hot water) with the que- nelle mixture ; smooth over with a knife dipped in hot water. Scoop out the quenelle with another spoon, place it in stewpan, and cook as directed. Croquettes of Veal or Chicken, Veal or chicken (cooked) 3 oz. Lean ham (cooked) i oz. Button mushrooms 2 or 3. Flour \ oz. Butter \ oz. Stock (white) i gill. Cream i tablespoonful. A few drops of lemon juice. Seasoning. Pastry. Eg§' ; • ^ I. Vermicelli. Chop the meat and mushrooms finely. Put the butter, flour, and stock into a saucepan and let it boil well. Add the meat and mushrooms, then removef>3 from the fire. Add the cream, lemon juice, and season- ing*. Turn it out on a plate to cool. Have ready some pastry (about a quarter of a pound). Roll it out very thinly ; cut it into small rounds ; lay a small piece of meat mixture on each round of paste ; wet the edges of the paste ; turn the paste over and close securely. Roll each croquette in beaten egg and then in crushed vermicelli. Fry in hot fat a pale golden colour. Dish in a pyramid, and garnish with fried parsley. Mutton Cutlets- Neck of mutton best end. Bread crumbs. Egg I. Butter 2 oz. Or Clarified fat. Saw off the chine bone, and (if the neck is cut in a manner that requires it) the end of the rib-bones. Cut the cutlets, giving a bone to each cutlet. If the appearance of the dish is not of great importance, the cutlets can be cut more economically by forming more cutlets out of two bones of the neck. In this manner two cutlets will have bones, while one will be without. Trim away the greater part of the fat, leaving only a very small piece round the lean part of each cutlet. Scrape the ends of the bones. Have ready some bread crumbs. Beat an egg on a plate, add a small saltspoonful of salt, and a pinch of pepper. Dip the cutlets into the egg and turn into the bread crumbs, which should lie on a piece of soft paper, so that they may be easily tossed over the cutlet. After taking up the cutlet from the crumbs, toss it lightly from one hand to the other, so that all loose bread crumbs may fall off. Heat the butter in a frying pan, or saut6 pan. When quite hot, lay in the cutlets and let them cook for about ten minutes, turning them carefully when the underside is brown. Serve round a centre of mashed potatoes, Brussels sprouts, green peas, or round a puree of haricot beans. Brown sauce (p. 169) or tomato sauce (p. 169) maybe served round the cutlets.64 Grenadins of Veal. Prepare some veal as for veal cutlets (p. 6i). Lard each grenadin on one side only with strips of fat bacon one-eighth of an inch thick and one and a quarter inches long. Place the grenadins on a bed of sliced vegetables, add one ounce of butter ; fry covered down for fifteen minutes. Pour round three-quarters of a pint of brown stock, cover with a buttered paper, put on the lid, and braise for one hour. Remove the grenadins, brown them either in the oven or with a salamander, brush over with glaze. Dish them on a ring of mashed potato ; fill in the centre with green peas, French beans, etc. Strain the gravy round. Fillets of beef may be cooked in the same way. Beef Olives. o Beef steak Bread crumbs .. Suet Parsley Thyme Lemon rind Egg or milk ^ Pepper and salt Butter Stock (brown) ... Flour Catsup 1 lb. cut into strips I in. thick, 2 ins. wide, and 4 ins. long. 2 oz. I oz. (chopped). I dessertspoonful (chopped). ^ teaspoonful. a little grated, to bind, to taste. I oz. I pint (warm). I dessertspoonful. Flatten the pieces of meat with the cutlet-bat, spread a portion of the forcemeat on each piece, roll up, and tie with string". Melt the butter in a stewpan; when quite hot put in the olives, fry them a nice brown. Pour over them the stock. Let them simmer g'ently for one hour and a half. Thicken with the flour, add catsup and seasoning. Serve round a pyramid of mashed potatoes, with the gravy poured round.65 Mock Pigeons. Fillet of veal (cut into strips half an inch thick, two inches wide, and four inches long)... Sausage meat Butter Brown stock (warm) Flour Parsley, thyme, marjoram Lemon rind Pepper and salt. ii lbs. 41b. I pint. I dessertspoonful, a small bunch, a small piece. Prepare in the same way as beef olives, using the sausage meat in the place of forcemeat. Brown in the butter ; add the herbs, lemon rind, and stock ; simmer gently for one hour and a half. Take out the meat, keep it hot. Strain the stock, thicken it with the flour, season. Dish as Beef Olives." Ragout of Ox Kidney, with Rose Border. Ox kidney i lb. (sliced). Shallots 2 (sliced). Chutney i dessertspoonful. Worcester sauce i teaspoonful. Brown stock ^ pint (warm). Tomato pulp ^ pint. Or Tomatoes 2 (sliced). Butter oz. Pepper and salt to taste. Herbs (parsley, thyme, marjoram) a bunch. Flour I dessertspoonful. Potatoes 2 lbs. (mashed and passed through a sieve). Flour the kidney, melt the butter in a stewpan, and when quite hot, put in the kidney and shallot, and fry till brown. Add the stock, tomato pulp, chutney, sauce and herbs. Simmer gently for two hours. Thicken with the flour. Season with pepper and salt. E66 Dish the kidney in a border of ^*rose potatoes," garnish with croutons of fried bread (p. 71), and, if possible, sUced raw tomato. Rose Potatoes. Pass two pounds mashed potatoes through a sieve. Re-heat, add milk or cream to moisten, a tablespoonful of white sauce, and salt to taste. Put the mixture into a bag with a rose pipe, and force out in a circle. If preferred, the potatoes can be arranged simply in a wall. Fritot de Mouton a la Soubise. Cut out some small rounds of cold mutton, spread half the number of rounds with the Soubise mixture, and place on top the remaining rounds. Egg and crumb them carefully, and fry them in hot fat a nice brown. Dish them on a circle of mashed potato with a turnip puree, and pour round some good brown gravy. Soubise Sauce. Blanch half a pound of onions, and then boil until quite tender, and chop finely. Make a sauce with one gill of milk, one ounce of butter, and one and a quarter ounces of flour. Boil well, add the onions, and let the mixture get quite cold. Turnip Puree. Boil three or four turnips, press away all the water and mash them, and make them quite hot ; add a tablespoonful of flour, and a little cream and seasoning. Fill the centre of the ring of potato with this puree ; cover over with two whites of egg beaten up stiffly, and brown in the oven. Chaudfroid de Filets de Boeuf a la Raifort. Take some slices of cold roast beef cut very thinly, three or four inches long and two and a half inches wide. Have ready some Sauce Raifort" (p. 67). Place a little of the sauce on each slice of meat and67 roll up loosely; and, if liked, mask each roll with Chaudfroid sauce (p. 172). Dish them in a circle leaning- against a bed of salad, which has been dressed with oil and vinegar. Garnish with grated horse-radish, aspic jelly, and tomato. Sauce Raifort. Take one gill of cream and whip it stiffly ; mix with a small portion of this cream the following ingredients : Half teaspoonful each of English and French mustard, a pinch of castor sugar, a little French vinegar, salt to taste. Add this to the whipped cream and stir in lightly about two tablespoonfuls of liquid aspic jelly, and from three to four tablespoonfuls of grated horse-radish. Boudinettes de Boeuf. Pass three-quarters of a pound of steak through a mincing machine four times, then rub it through a wire sieve to remove any skin. Make a panada with one ounce of butter, one gill of water, and two and a half ounces of fine flour, and a little salt thus:—Let the butter and water boil, then stir in the flour and salt, and boil the mixture well. Pound the meat and panada with one ounce of butter (melted) and two eggs. Pepper and salt to taste. Butter some small moulds, fill them with the mixture, and steam or poach them for about twenty minutes. Serve with them a good brown sauce, to which has been added two or three tablespoonfuls of tomato puree. Two or three mushrooms or truffles, chopped finely, and added to the meat mixture, are a great improvement. Sheeps' Tongues Braised. Sheeps' tongues 2 or 3. Sheeps'brains i set. Parsley (chopped finely)... i teaspoonful. Cream i tablespoonful. Lemon juice. Bread crumbs. Tomato sauce or brown sauce. A little glaze.68 Lay the tongues in salt and cold water for twelve hours ; then blanch them. Put a little sliced carrot, turnip, onion and celery at the bottom of a stewpan, add a small bunch of herbs, six peppercorns, and the tongues. Put a slice of bacon over the tongues, pour round a little good stock, braise gently for three hours or until the tongues are quite tender. Skin the tongues, slice them lengthways, lay the slices in a saucepan and pour over them a little glaze and re-heat them. Dish up the slices of tongue on a ring of mashed potatoes. Fill the centre with any nice puree or dressed vegetables; garnish with the brains. Pour round tomato or brown sauce. Brains for the Garnish. Skin and cook the brains in boiling water, seasoned with a tablespoonful of vinegar and a little sliced onion, boil fast to harden them about ten minutes. Chop up the brains, mix with them the parsley, lemon juice, cream, seasoning and sufficient bread-crumbs to make it the right consistency. Re-heat and use for garnishing. Lambs' Sweetbreads. Lambs' sweetbreads. Butter i| oz. White stock i to | pint. Cream 3or4 tablespoonfuls. Lemon rind a small piece. Lemon juice a few drops. Parsley, thyme, marjora-m a small bunch. Pepper and salt to taste. Flour I dessertspoonful. Soak the sweetbreads for two hours in lukewarm water, and blanch by putting* them for two or three minutes into boiling water. Drain well. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the sweetbreads and let them become a very light golden brown ; be very careful not to overfry them. Add the lemon rind, herbs, and stock (warm), and stew gently till quite tender, about an hour. Take them out and keep them hot. Strain the stock, thicken it with the flour, add the cream, pepper and salt, and lemon juice.b9 Dish the sweetbreads in a circle, pour over the sauce. Garnish with a Httle truffle, tomato, or parsley. Calves' sweetbreads can be cooked in the same manner, but will require longer time. Timbale de Veau aux Champignons. Cooked veal (chopped finely) 6 oz. Cooked ham or tongue (chopped finely) 2 oz. Panada 6 oz. Eggs 2 (large). Butter I oz. Seasoning. Pound the meat well with the panada, add the butter and the eggs (singly), pounding well all the time, season to taste. Pass through a wire sieve. Have ready a well buttered mould, ornamented with chopped ham or tongue. Partly fill the mould with the meat mixture (using a forcing- bag and a plain pipe). Make a space in the centre with a spoon dipped in hot water ; fill in with a mushroom puree, as below. Steam gently about three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve round a good Bechamel or Veloute sauce. Panada. Put one ounce of butter, half a pint of water, and salt in a saucepan ; when boiling, stir in, off the fire, five ounces of flour ; beat well, and cook until the paste becomes firm and leaves the sides of the saucepan. Mushroom Puree. Chop small a quarter of a pound of mushrooms, cook them over the fire in one ounce of butter for five or six minutes, then add one tablespoonful of cream, and the same of bread crumbs. Season to taste. Turn out to cool before using. Croustades D'oeufs en Surprise. Prepare six or seven small croustades of bread, about two and a half inches in diameter, using a round cutter, re- move the centre with a smaller cutter. Dip each croustade70 into thin cream, drain, egg and crumb them and fry a golden colour. Mask the inside of each croustade with a quenelle mixture of potted beef or chicken, place inside a small egg" which has been poached in a buttered dariole (set in a tin of hot water and placed in the oven). Cover the egg with more quenelle mixture, using a rose forcer for the purpose, and set in the oven from about five to ten minutes to get quite hot. Sprinkle with hard-boiled yolk and white of egg. Take half a pound of finely minced chicken or potted beef, pound well, and mix with it a thick sauce, made of one ounce of butter, one ounce of flour, half a gill of stock, and one egg ; season to taste and pass through a sieve. Chicken would require about a tablespoonful of cream adding to it, being of a drier nature than the potted beef. Tomatoes 3 or 4. Eggs (beaten) 2 or 3. Milk I tablespoonful. Butter I oz. Pepper and salt. Chopped parsley. Cut the tomatoes across, remove some of the pulp, put them in a buttered dish in the oven, cover with a buttered paper, and bake till tender. Cook the tomato pulp in the butter ; add the eggs, milk, and seasoning, and stir over the fire till it is quite thick; fill the tomatoes with this, sprinkle a little chopped parsley over, and serve on small rounds of buttered toast. Mushroom Croquettes. Mushrooms 2 ^b- Butter 2 oz. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Stale bread crumbs. Egg ••• I. Pepper and salt to taste. Quenelle Mixture. Tomato Eggs.71 Peel and chop the mushrooms. Melt the butter in a pan, let the mushrooms cook in it till tender, add pepper and salt, the cream, and bread crumbs to make it of the right consistency. Let it cool. Make it into balls or oblong shapes, egg and bread-crumb carefully, fry in hot fat (p. 7). Dish in a pile, and garnish with fried parsley. Croutons for Garnishingf. These are frequently so hard that it is almost impos- sible to eat them, and to guard against this they should be prepared in the following manner :— Cut the croutons from stale baker's bread ; for soup they should be in small dice, and for garnishing either three-cornered, diamond, or any fancy shapes. Dip them in milk, drai7i well^ and fry them quickly in deep hot fat, or in a small quantity of hot butter. il gills. I oz. Rissoles aux Huitres. Veal or chicken (chopped finely) 6 oz. Ham 2 oz. Mushrooms ,, i tablespoonful. Nice flavoured stock (that will jelly when cold) Butter Flour Anchovy sauce i teaspoonful, Worcester sauce Seasoning. Egg. Bread crumbs. Oysters (bearded). Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the stock, and boil the mixture well. Then put in the sauces and seasoning, and mix this thoroughly with the meat and mushrooms. Be sure the meat mixture is nicely seasoned ; spread it on a dish and allow it to get quite cold. Take portions of the meat and form into balls or oval shapes, putting inside each one a small72 oyster. Close them securely to keep in the oysters. Roll in egg and bread crumbs. Fry in hot fat. Dish in a pile. Garnish with fried parsley. Instead of veal or chicken, mutton or beef may be used. If the oysters be too large, they can be cut in half. Mexican Rice. Cook a quarter of a pound of rice in three-quarters of a pint of white stock until it becomes quite teiider and thick, adding more stock if necessary. Stir in one ounce of butter. Season. Press the rice in^to a hot wet border mould. Turn out at once on to a hot dish. Fill in the centre with a well-flavoured mince. Garnish with hard-boiled egg, cut into quarters lengthways, and chopped parsley. Pour round tomato sauce. For the mince we require six ounces of cold meat, one gill of good brown stock, half an ounce of butter, half an ounce of flour. Make a sauce of the stock, flour and butter, season, add a little catsup or Harvey's sauce and the cold meat, re-heat, and use. Mushroom Pasty, Line a tin plate with pastry. Place over half a pound of mushrooms that have been peeled, sliced, and cooked tender in two ounces of butter, mixing* with them about two tablespoonfuls of bread crumbs, and sufficient white sauce or cream to moisten them. Season to taste. Add two hard-boiled eggs, sliced. Cover with a lid of pastry. Score the top ornament, and brush over with egg. Bake about twenty minutes in quick oven.^-Meat Dishes.-^ Directions for roasting and boiling meat have already been given on pages 5, 6. The following dishes may be used in the place of ordinary joints, and many of them are better suited to small families. o fa Rolled Steak. Best steak i| to 2 lbs. ' Bread crumbs ^ lb. Suet, finely chopped ... 2 tablespoonfuls. Parsley ... i ,, Thyme ,, ... i teaspoonful. Salt J Pepper to taste. Egg to bind. Stock or water i pint. Flour I tablespoonful. Mushroom catsup ^ ,, The meat should be all in one piece, about half an inch thick. Put it on a pasteboard and flatten it with a rolling" pin; spread over it the forcemeat, roll up, and bind with tape. Put it into a deep dish (a brown earthenware pie- dish is best), pour over it the stock or water, cover closely, and stew in a slow oven for about two hours. Take out the meat, thicken the gravy with the flour, add catsup, and seasoning of pepper and salt—boil up, and pour over the meat.74 Grilled Steak. Steak for grilling should be cut from beef which has been hanging some time, or it will not be tender. Have ready a steak cut about one inch thick, pour two or three tablespoonfuls of salad oil on a dish, let the steak remain in this for two hours, turning it occasionally; this prevents it getting too dry whilst cooking. Grill on a hot gridiron over a clear fire, turning it occasionally. Time, fifteen to twenty minutes according to size. Serve at once. Place a small piece of butter on the top of the steak, or Maitre d' Hotel butter can be used. Garnish with potato chips or straws. Stewed Steak. Best steak Butter Carrot, sliced Turnip ,, Onion ,, Bunch of herbs—parsley, thyme, marjoram, and piece of bay-leaf. Stock or water (warm) ... Flour Carrots and turnips (boiled separately) Pepper and salt 1^ to 2 lbs. I oz. I (small). I I. f pint. J tablespoonful. to garnish, to taste. Melt the butter in a stewpan ; when it bubbles put in the steak ; when it is brown on one side, turn it, and fry it on the other. Put the vegetables in when the steak is turned—take care that they do not burn. When this side of the meat is brown, add the stock and the herbs. Simmer gently for about one and a half hours, take out the meat and keep it hot, strain the gravy, thicken it with the flour, pour it round the meat, and garnish with carrots and turnips which have been boiled separately, and which are sliced or cut into dice.75 Fillet of Beef. Fillet of beef 2 or 3 lbs. Butter I oz. Beef dripping i oz. Parsley, chopped i tablespoonful. Lemon rind a small piece. Stock (thickened with one teaspoonful of flour) ... ^ pint. Catsup ... I tablespoonful. ^ . fi winesflassful, or Fort wme < ^11 rather less. Pepper and salt to season. The fillet must be cut in one piece, and if the shape is not very §*ood, it must be bound into a good shape with tape. Put the butter and dripping into a stewpan w^ith the lemon rind and parsley ; when melted, put in the fillet and add pepper and salt. Turn about till it is nicely browned all over. Cover the pan closely, and let the meat stew in its own juice very geritly for two hours. Take it out, keep it hot. Pour into the pan the hot thickened stock, add catsup and wine, season with pepper and salt, let it just boil, then pour it over the meat. Fillet of Beef. Fillet of beef \\ lbs. Butter i\ oz. Glaze 2 tablespoonfuls. Potatoes. Brown gravy \ pint. Tomatoes to garnish. Cut the beef into slices about one-third of an inch thick, trim into cutlet shapes, season. Melt the butter in a saute-pan, fry the beef in it from six to eight minutes, turning it once. Pour off the butter. Brush the fillets with two tablespoonfuls of melted glaze, re- heat, and dish them on a ring of mashed potato ; fill in the centre with some nice green vegetable or pur^e,76 pour brown gravy round, and garnish between each fillet with slices of cooked tomato. These fillets are also nice grilled and served with Hollandaise sauce. Bind up the fillet so that it may be a good shape, brown it in the butter, then add the vegetables and herbs. Let them cook with the beef for ten minutes, be careful that they do not burn ; then add the sherry, and after five minutes, the stock. Cover closely, and stew very slowly for two hours. Take out the meat and keep it hot while the gravy is strained and seasoned. Have ready half a pound of macaroni, boiled till it is quite tender, put it to heat in the stewpan for five minutes with the gravy, then place the beef on a dish with the macaroni and gravy round it. Stewed Shoulder of Veal. Shoulder of veal 6 or 7 lbs. Veal forcemeat (p. 147). Sausage meat. White sauce. Bone the veal, lay it open, and spread over it a layer of veal forcemeat, then a layer of sausage meat; roll up and bind with tape. Stew it for three hours in weak stock, or in water to which have been added two onions stuck with three cloves, one carrot, a bunch of herbs, twelve peppercorns, and (if convenient) two sticks of celery.77 The veal should have a pint (or more) of white sauce (p. 167) poured over it before it is sent to table, and should be garnished with rolls of bacon, slices of lemon, and (if possible) slices of beetroot or tomato. Fillet of Beef with Tomatoes. Fillet of beef 2 or 3 lbs. Ham or lean bacon (cut in dice) 2 oz. Tomatoes lbs. Onions 2 small ones. Butter I oz. Flour , f oz. Stock I pint. Pepper and salt to taste. Put the fillet into a stewpan with the tomatoes, onions, ham or bacon, and stock, cover closely and simmer for two hours. Take out the fillet and let it brown before the fire, carefully basting it with a little good beef dripping or butter. While the fillet is bejng browned, prepare the tomato sauce. Put the tomatoes and onions through a hair sieve, adding the stock. Melt the butter in a pan, stir in the flour, and then the tomato pulp and stock, boil two or three minutes, stirring constantly, season, pour round the fillet, and serve. Fillet of Veal. Bone the fillet, and put in the hole from which the bone has been taken forcemeat made as follows :— Bread crumbs J lb. Suet (chopped) 2 oz. Parsley ,, i tablespoonful. Thyme ,, i teaspoonful. Egg to bind. Pepper and salt to season. A little grated lemon rind. The quantity of stuffing required will depend upon the size of the fillet, but it should be made in the same proportions.78 Press the forcemeat firmly in, roll the fillet into a well- shaped round, bind it firmly with broad tape and skewer it. Fasten over the fillet the piece of skin that is usually sent with it; roast it according to directions (p. 5). For the gravy have ready three-quarters of a pint of thin melted butter, made with three-quarters of an ounce of flour, one ounce of butter, and three-quarters of a pint of water or stock. Pour the fat off the gravy that has dripped from the veal, then put the melted butter into the dripping pan, season, boil up over the fire ; if necessary, add a little browning. The veal should be garnished with slices of lemon, and boiled ham or bacon should be served with it. Une Boule. This is a French recipe, and ivill he found very good. Beefsteak (cut thin in one piece) \\ lbs Veal cutlet do. do. f lb. Sausage meat J lb. Butter \\ oz. Brown stock f pint. Parsley (chopped) i tablespoonful. Carrot i. Onions 2 small ones. Peppercorns 6. The juice of half a lemon. Pepper and salt. Spread the sausage meat on the veal. Season the beef well with pepper and salt, lay on it the veal and sausage meat. Roll up, and bind firmly with tape. Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the meat, let it brown all over, add the carrot, onions, and peppercorns ; let them cook in the butter a few minutes, then add the stock ; cover closely, and let it stew very gently for three hours. A quarter of an hour before it is done, put in the lemon juice and parsley. The gravy from the meat must be strained, seasoned,and served round the meat.79 Stewed Veal. Veal 3 4 lbs. Parsley (chopped) i tablespoonful. Butter 2 oz. Stock (thickened with one dessertspoonful of flour) f pint. Cream 4 tablespoonfuls. Pepper and salt to taste. The rind of half a lemon. A few drops of lemon juice. Melt the butter in a stewpan, add the lemon rind, parsley, pepper and salt—these are put in with the butter ; when the butter is melted put in the veal, brown it, then cover closely, and let it stew very gently in its own juice for two hours. Then take out the meat and keep it hot. Pour into the pan the thickened hot stock, let it boil, then add the cream and lemon juice ; season, and pour round the veal. Stewed Loin of Mutton. A loin of mutton (skinned and boned). Toast and water Port wine . Onions Cloves Mace... Cayenne Salt ... Butter Flour... 2 pints (well browned) I wineglassful. 2. 3- ^ a tiny piece. • to season. I oz. I oz. Put the bones at the bottom of the pan, then the mutton, which must be sprinkled with the salt, cayenne, and spices, then the onions. Add the toast and water, cover closely, stew very gently for three hours. Take out the mutton, brown it before the fire. Strain the liquor in which the mutton has been stewed, thicken three-quarters of a pint of it with the flour and butter, add the port; pour round the mutton.8o Viande a rEnclos. Take one pound of steak and one pound of fresh lean pork, pass it through a mincing- machine four times, then mix with it three ounces of butter (melted), three ounces of anchovies (boned and chopped), a small onion (chopped finely), a pinch of cloves, three eggs (well beaten), seasoning to taste. Form into a roll, using a little flour. Cook in the oven, basting often with milk and two ounces of butter. Time, about one hour in a moderate oven. When possible, cream and milk should be used for basting; the butter can then be omitted. Serve hot or cold. If used hot, a good brown ' gravy should be served over it, adding the milk, etc., from the tin. If cold, glaze the roll, and garnish with aspic. A few truffles or mushrooms may be mixed with the roll if liked. Roast Venison. The best end of the neck of venison, boned and rolled, makes an excellent dish. Venison must be hung for a long time, or it will not be very different from mutton. It should be covered with a thick paste made of flour and water, well basted, and roasted till about half an hour before it is served, when the paste should be removed to allow the meat to brown. Venison is very close-grained, and requires to be roasted rather slowly, and an allowance must be made for the paste that covers it. Allow at least the same time as for mutton. Kidney beans should be served with venison ; also port wine sauce (p. 171), for which stock made from the venison bones should be used. Rice for Curry. Take Patna rice, wash it well, throw it into fast boiling water with salt, let it boil fast with the lid off for about twelve minutes. Strain through a wire sieve, and let the tap run over it for a minute. Dry gradually and well before the fire, stir often with a fork to separate the grains. Use half a pound of rice to one pound of curried meat.8i Curry, Fresh meat (veal, mutton, or beef) i lb. Onions 2 (sliced). Sour apple (if convenient) i (cut into dice). Butter oz. ■^Curry powder i tablespoonful. Flour I Stock (warm) ^ pint. Lemon juice to taste. Seasoning. * N.B.—Curry powders vary greatly in strength, and the quantity used must vary accordingly. Fry the onions, apple, curry powder, and flour in the butter for twenty minutes ; add the stock and meat, simmer gently till quite tender ; add the lemon juice and seasoning. Serve with boiled rice round. Indian Curry. Sour apple i. Onion i. Cucumber a large piece. Chutney i teaspoonful. Brown sugar ^ ,, Freshly grated cocoanut i ,, Curry powder i Butter IJ oz. Lemon juice to taste. Fresh meat (cut into small pieces) i lb. Stock J pint. Chop the apple, onion, and cucumber finely. Fry till dark brown, hut not hurried^ in the butter. Dust the meat with flour, put in with the vegetables, and fry a dark brown. Mix the curry powder with the stock, add with the chutney and sugar to the meat, simmer slowly for several hours, add lemon juice and cocoanut just before serving. FPoultry, Game, &c. Choosing Fowls. When fowls are young, the end of the breast-bone is formed of gristle or cartilage, and bends easily. When fowls are old, the end of the breast-bone is hard and firm. Pin-feathers shew that the bird is young, whereas spurs on the legs (if long* and hard) indicate age. In young fowls the legs should be smooth and the claws should break easily if turned back. In old fowls the flesh has a purplish tinge, and the skin hard and horny. Game-fowls, and those with dark-coloured legs, are better for roasting than for boiling. White fowls, such as Dorkings, are more suitable for boiling. Capons should be plump and fat, and much larger than ordinary fowls. Drawing- Fowls. Pluck off the feathers and remove all the stumps. Cut a slit in the back of the neck near the body. Loosen the skin all round the neck, and then cut off the neck close to the body, leaving two or three inches of skin to cover the opening. Remove the crop (which is the food-bag of thin skin found in front of the neck), and, with the fingers, loosen the ligaments, etc., found inside the body. Place the fowl on its back. Cut a small opening at the vent, just above the tail. Put two fingers inside, loosen the internal organs, then take hold of the gizzard, which is found under the breast-bone, and remove it and the rest of the inside.83 Take care not to break the gall-bladder, which is attached to the liver, as this would give the fowl a bitter taste. Wipe the inside with a clean damp cloth, but do not wash it, as that makes the fowl tasteless. Singe off all the hairs. Trussing for Roasting. Scald the hard scaly part of the legs and feet, skin them, and cut off the ends of the claws. Turn the tips of the pinions towards the back, so that the tips may lie on the backbone. Place the fowl on a board, breast upwards, and press the thighs close to the sides of the body to make the breast look plump. Thread a trussing needle with string-, and pass it through the wing where the first and second joints unite, then through the upper part of the thigh, straight though the body and out on the other side, catching the thig-h joint and wing in the same manner as at the commencement. Turn the fowl on its breast, fasten the skin of the neck to the backbone, pull the string tightly over it, and fasten it off where it began. Turn the fowl on its back again, pass the needle over the leg and through the gristle at the bottom of the breast-bone, over the other leg, and fasten it at the back. Trussing" for Boiling. Pluck, draw, and singe the fowl as for roasting. Cut off the legs at the knee joint. Loosen the skin all round the thighs (this is done by inserting the fingers between the flesh and skin near the opening made for drawing), and push the legs inside till they are quite hidden under the skin. Truss the wings in the same manner as for roasting. Turn the end of the tail inside the body. Pass the needle through the skin over the legs, catch in the end of the breast-bone, bring out the needle through the other side, then pass it through the back and fasten off securely. In roasting fowls, the liver, which is a favourite morsel, should be placed inside the fowl, or in the bend of the wing. The gizzard (which few people eat) and the neck may be used for gravy.84 Roast Fowl. The best way of roasting is before the fire in a hastener, but the commonest way is really baking in the oven. In either case the fowl must be well basted with butter or good dripping—bacon fat is the best. The time required will be three-quarters of an hour to an hour according to size. A small quantity of brown gravy should be poured into the dish, and the fowl may be garnished either with rolls of bacon or with water- cress. Rolls of bacon are prepared as follows :—The bacon is cut into thin strips, the rind is removed, then they are rolled up tightly and placed upon a skewer, and are cooked in a very few minutes either in front of the fire or in the oven. Bread sauce and brown gravy should be handed in a sauce-tureen, and are in this country the almost invari- able accompaniment of roast fowl. Boiled Fowl. Great care must be taken to keep the fowl as white as possible. To ensure this it should be wrapped in a buttered paper, which must be firmly tied on, and sometimes the breast is rubbed with lemon. The fowl must be put into boiling white stock, or water, and should then be simmered for from three- quarters of an hour to an hour and a half according to size and age. Boiled fowls may be served with a variety of sauces ; the most usual are Bechamel (p. 172), Egg (p. 164), Celery (p. 171), Oyster (p. 161), Mushroom (p. 171), and Parsley (p. 165). The liquor in which fowls have been boiled may be used for such soups as White Soup, Jenny Lind, Celery, Tapioca, Cream, and others of which weak white stock may be the foundation. Boiled tongue, ham, sausages, or rolls of bacon are generally served with boiled fowls. The usual garnishes are the yolk of an egg rubbed through a sieve, slices of lemon, or smalf pieces of beet- root or tomato, or parsley.85 Bunches of bright red barberries make a very pretty garnish, and these can be preserved for winter use by putting bunches of freshly-gathered barberries in strong brine. Sprigs of parsley or chervil may be used instead of or in addition to the above. Braised Fowl. Truss a fowl as for boiling, and (if liked) lard the breast. Place in a pan one or two ounces of butter, then slices of carrot, turnip, onion, celery, and a bunch of herbs. On these place the fowl, and put upon it a good slice of fat bacon. Put the lid on the pan, and let all cook gently for twenty minutes ; then pour round the fowl about one pint of brown stock (second stock will do), cover with a buttered paper, cover closely to keep in the steam, and cook slowly for about one and a half hours. Baste frequently with the stock. When nearly done take out the fowl, and brown it with a salamander, in the oven, or before the fire. Strain the stock from the vegetables, and thicken it. Serve it in a sauce-tureen. If liked a tablespoonful of mushroom catsup or sherry may be added to the gravy, which must be seasoned with pepper and salt. The fowl may be garnished with cooked tomatoes filled with potato puree. Poulet au-riz. This is an economical manner of cooking an old fowl, and is very common in France. The disadvantages of old fowls are that they are tough and tasteless. The first defect can be to a certain extent remedied by long, gentle stewing, and the second by the addition of suitable flavourings of herbs and vegetables. Let the fowl be killed in cold weather, so that it may hang- as long as possible before it is cooked. Some persons recommend that the fowl should be wrapped in a cloth and buried in the earth for a few hours, which is said to have the effect of making it tender. When it has been trussed (for boiling), it should be put into a pan with about two pints of cold stock ; cover it, and when it boils the following vegetables86 should be added :—one larg'e onion or two small ones, half a head of celery, a bunch of herbs, also six pepper- corns. Cover the pan closely, and stew very gently for one hour, then add a small teacupful of rice ; stew very gently and closely covered till the fowl and rice are quite tender. More stock may be added if required, but when the dish is ready the rice should have absorbed almost the whole of the stock ; there must not be more stock left than is sufficient to serve on the dish with the rice and fowl. When the fowl is quite done remove the vegetables, and serve it on a dish surrounded by the rice, which must have been previously seasoned with pepper and salt. Old fowls may also be stewed in the preceding- manner (omitting the rice), and may then be served with mushroom or celery sauce. As these sauces are strongly flavoured, they will counteract the tasteless- ness of the fowl. Fried Chicken. This dish is popular in America, and the following recipe was furnished by an American lady. Cut a freshly killed young chicken into joints, wash and dry them carefully, and roll them in flour, in which a little pepper and salt have been mixed. Heat an equal quantity of dripping and butter (about one ounce of each) in a pan, fry the chicken in this, and when it is done, keep it hot, while the sauce is made in the following* manner :— Flour I dessertspoonful. Milk I pint. Pepper and salt to season. Cream (if obtainable) ... 2 tablespoonfuls. Dredge the flour into the pan from which the chicken has been taken, pour in the milk, stir well till it has boiled for two or three minutes, add the cream and season. Arrange the chicken in the centre of a dish, and strain the sauce round it.87 To Roast a Turkey. Truss as for roast fowl, cutting- off the legs just below the knee joint. The breast may be stuffed with veal or chestnut forcemeat. Cook and serve as for roast fowl. Boiled Turkey. Turkeys for boiling must be trussed in the same manner as fowls. The breast may be stuffed with veal forcemeat and sausage meat. Time for boiling according to size. Serve bdchamel, celery, or oyster sauce ; also boiled ham or bacon may be sent to table with it. Chestnut Forcemeat. Spanish chestnuts i lb. Butter ... 2 or 3 oz. Bread crumbs 3 oz. Sugar a pinch. Pepper and salt to taste. Egg to bind. White stock. Cut the tops off the chestnuts and bake them about ten minutes. Then skin them, and stew until tender in white stock. Pass them through a sieve, pound well with the butter, add bread crumbs, seasoning, sugar, and egg to bind. To Truss and Roast a Duck. Pluck and singe the duck, draw it, and wipe the inside carefully with a damp cloth. Scald and skin the feet, cut off the wings at the first joints (these pinions can be used with the neck and giblets for making the gravy). Stuff with sag'e and onions prepared thus :— Onions 2 ^b- Bread crumbs 3 oz. Sage leaves ... 6 or 8. Pepper and salt to taste. Put the onions into cold water, when they have boiled a few minutes strain them, put into cold water again, then boil till tender. A few minutes before they are88 done put in the sage leaves. Drain, chop, mix with the bread crumbs and season, and put inside the duck. After the duck is stuffed truss it. Twist the legs at the knee joint and cross them over the lower portion of the back. Pass the tail through the vent. Push the legs and wing joints close to the sides, pass the trussing needle and string through the lower portion of the wing, upper part of the leg, through the body, and out at the opposite side, where the other leg and wing must be fastened in the same manner. Turn the duck on its breast, pass the needle through the skin of the neck, which must have been left long enough to cover the opening of the body, fasten the string securely in the place where the trussing was begun. Press the knee joints close to the body, and secure them in the same manner as in trussing fowls for roasting. Roast for three-quarters of an hour to one hour. Baste well. Serve with apple sauce (p. i66) and brown gravy (p. 170), using a sprig of sage instead of the bunch of herbs to flavour the gravy. Roast Goose. This is prepared, stuffed, and cooked in the same manner as duck. The leg's must be cut off at the first joint. The time required will vary according to size. A goose weighing ten pounds in weight will take at least one and a half hours. Serve apple sauce and brown gravy with it. Wild Ducks Are trussed in the same manner with the exception of the feet, which are turned back on each side of the breast, close to the upper part of the legs. Wild ducks are not stuffed, and are served with brown gravy, or port wine sauce. Cut lemons and cayenne are handed with them. They should not be over roasted, twenty minutes or a little longer will be sufficient. To Truss and Roast a Hare. Skin and draw the hare, wipe the inside with a damp cloth, but do not wash it. Cut off the feet at the first joint, and cut across the sinews under the knee joints.89 Stuff the body with veal forcemeat (p. 147), sew it up. Pass the trussing needle and string through the sinew of the hind leg, between the joints, and also through the fore leg at the same point, then through the body, securing the legs on the opposite side, and fastening the string at the place where the trussing was begun. The head must be firmly fixed back between the shoulders, either by passing a skewer down the throat and into the body, or by sewing the back of the neck to the body. The ears and tail must be left on. If the hare is allowed to become dry while roasting, it will be spoiled. A piece of fat bacon should be fastened over it and it should be well basted with milk. The mi^k with which it has been basted will be excellent for white or liver sauce, which, with brown gravy, should be served with the hare. Time for roasting, one hour to one hour and a half. Currant jelly should be handed with roast hare. Jugged Hare. Hare I. Butter .. 3 oz. Flour I oz. Onion I. Bunch of herbs I. Peppercorns .. 12. Port wine 2 glasses. Lemon. Stock (beef or game) from I pint to IJ pts. Skin and paunch the hare and cut it into neat joints, flour them and fry them brown in the butter (2 oz.) ; put them into a stew jar, add the onion stuck with cloves, herbs and peppercorns, a tablespoonful of lemon juice, stock (made warm), and one glass of port wine. Cover the jar closely, and cook gently in a moderate oven about three hours. Thicken the gravy with one ounce of flour and one ounce of butter mixed together ; boil up, season, and add the other glass of port. Dish the hare in a pile, strain the gravy over, garnish with forcemeat balls (p. 77). Serve red currant jelly with it.90 Roast Rabbit Is trussed and stuffed like hare, but only requires about three-quarters of an hour or an hour to roast, unless it is very large. Bacon should be served with it and brown gravy. It should be well basted. Boiled Rabbit Is trussed in the same manner, except the head, which should be turned round and fastened at the side. The rabbit should be put into boiling water, with salt and a few slices of vegetables and gently boiled for about forty to fifty minutes, or longer if very large. Serve with onion or liver sauce poured over. Bacon should be served with it. Stewed Rabbit, Cut the rabbit into joints, flour them, and fry them in two to three ounces of butter or good dripping a nice brown, with two onions (sliced), add a bunch of herbs (and a few slices of carrot and turnip if liked). Cover with warm stock or water (about one pint). Simmer gently until tender, from one and a half to two hours. Remove the rabbit, thicken the gravy with flour, add a little catsup. Dish the rabbit in a pile, strain over the gravy. Garnish with little rolls of bacon (cooked in the oven on a skewer). The rabbit may also be stewed without frying, and some pickled pork cut into strips cooked with it. Fat bacon can also be used ; it may be cut into dice, fried, then removed, and the rabbit fried in the fat from the bacon and afterwards stewed. Tomatoes (sliced) are also an improvement. Savoury dumplings, made like suet dumplings with the addition of a little chopped onion, herbs (thyme and marjoram), parsley, pepper and salt, are sometimes much liked when cooked with stewed rabbit.91 Pheasants. Pheasants should always be hung- for some days before cooking, to acquire the right flavour. In very cold weather two or three weeks is not too long if liked **high." In damp, muggy weather four or five days is long enough. In old pheasants the spurs are long and sharp, in young ones the reverse. The under beak of most young h'vc&s bends easily. To Roast a Pheasant. Pluck, draw, singe, and truss in the same manner as for a roast fowl. Tie over the breast a slice of fat bacon and cook before a quick fire, basting almost incessantly with butter to prevent it getting dry, other- wise it would be spoilt. When nearly done remove the bacon, dredge with flour, and baste well to give it a frothy appearance. Time thirty minutes. Serve with good brown gravy made from game bones, browned crumbs, and bread sauce. The pheasant may be garnished with watercress if liked ; it may also be larded and braised. Guinea Fowls May be dressed and cooked in exactly the same way as pheasants, and are very useful as a substitute for game in the late spring. Partridges and Grouse. Choose in the same manner as pheasants. They are also dressed, cooked, and served in the same way. They may be dished on buttered toast. Time for partridges, about twenty minutes; grouse about ten minutes longer. Blackcock and Ptarmigan are cooked in the same manner as grouse. Browned Bread Crumbs for Game. Put some freshly made white bread crumbs into a shallow tin or fryingpan with a little butter and cayenne, and stir over a gentle heat until nicely browned. Care92 must be taken not to let them burn ; they must not be too dry nor too greasy. Drain on paper ; sprinkle with a little salt and cayenne. Snipe and Woodcock. These should be eaten while fresh, as they are not drawn. If stale the throat is moist and muddy. When young the feet and legs are soft and pliable. To Roast Snipe and Woodcock. Pluck carefully (as the skin is tender), singe, but do not draw them. Truss them by using the heak of the bird in the same manner as if it w^ere a skewer, thus :— Press the legs close to the body, and pass the beak through the legs and body. The head is skinned and left on. Hang the birds on the spit feet downwards. Place under the birds rounds of buttered toast, to catch the trail as it drops, which is considered a delicacy. Baste the birds constantly with butter or good dripping. Time, fifteen to twenty-five minutes, according to taste and size. Dish with the toast placed under the birds. Serve with melted butter or brown gravy. Plovers are not drawn, and can be cooked in the same way. Game should never be washed, but the inside carefully wiped with a clean cloth wrung out of hot water. The vent of birds turns a greenish blue when they have been killed a few days. In choosing game this fact should be borne in mind. Pigeons. When young the under beak bends easily, and the bones each side of the vent are gristle. Pigeons may be dressed and cooked in the same man- ner as roast partridges. Time, about twenty minutes.^- Vegetables. General Rules. All veg-etables should, if possible, be boiled whole, as if cut they lose much of their flavour. Salt, in the proportion of two tablespoonfuls to every gallon, should be put into the water in which fresh vege- tables are boiled. No salt should be put into the water in which dried vegetables are cooked. All fresh vegetables, except some kinds of potatoes, should be put into boiling water ; all dried vegetables into cold water. All green vegetables must be boiled fast with the lid off the saucepan. The water (previously salted) must boil fast when the vegetables are put in ; the lid may be put on in order that they may boil up quickly, but must be taken off directly the water boils. Take great care not to overcook vegetables. They must be as fresh as possible ; they must be thoroughly but quickly washed, and not allowed to lose their fresh- ness and flavour by long soaking in water. Jerusalem Artichokes. Boil in the same manner as potatoes, adding one dessert- spoonful of vinegar or lemon juice to the water, but before serving pour over them a sauce made of Milk \ pint. Butter ... I oz. Flour f oz. Pepper and salt to taste.94 Asparagus. Wash, scrape, tie in bundles, and cut of equal length, put into boiling- salted water, and boil (uncovered) till tender, fifteen or twenty minutes. Be careful not to overcook asparagus. Serve on toast, previously dipped in the water in which the asparagus has boiled. Melt about two ounces of butter, and serve separately in a sauce-tureen. Globe Artichokes. Trim off the stalks, thoroughly wash them ; put them into boiling water with salt in it, and cook from one to two hours according to size. Keep the lid of the sauce- pan off. When done the leaves will come out easily. Serve with oiled butter. French Beans. String the beans and shred finely, or, if very young, cook whole. Put into boiling salted water, and cook (uncovered) fifteen or twenty minutes according to age. Drain well. In France cold beans are often served as a salad, and are very good if just dressed with oil, vinegar, pepper and salt. Haricot Beans. Soak the beans in cold water all night. Put them into a saucepan of cold water (without salt), bring to the boil gently, and cook slowly, with the lid on, till tender but not broken, about two or three hours. Strain, add a little chopped parsley, a piece of butter, and pepper and salt. Shake them gently and serve hot, with a squeeze of lemon juice, if liked. Beetroot. Wash carefully, and do not break the skin, or the beetroot will ''bleed." Put into boiling water with salt, and boil from two to three hours, according to size ; or bake. When cold, skin and slice, sprinkle with pepper, add oil and vinegar, and serve with cold meat, or they may be sliced and served hot with melted butter sauce.95 Brussels Sprouts. Trim carefully, wash well, and let them lie for a short time in salt and water. Put into boiling- salted water, and boil (uncovered) till tender, ten to fifteen minutes. Be careful not to overboil. Drain well, but do not press them. Serve in a dish with a strainer. In France, Brussels sprouts are often cooked in the following manner :—When partly boiled, drain, then saute them in a little butter, and serve with the butter poured over. Cabbage and Greens. Take off the outside leaves, wash well, cut across stalk, and let it lie for a short time in salt and water to draw out any slugs. Put into fast-boiling salted water, and boil (uncovered) till tender, about fifteen or tw^enty minutes according to age. Drain well. Dish on a drainer, and cut across in two or three places. If the greens are not freshly gathered, a little soda should be put into the water. Carrots. Wash, scrape, put into boiling water with salt and a teaspoonful of sugar. Boil till tender ; old carrots one hour or more, young ones not so long. Keep the lid on the saucepan. Young carrots should have about an inch of the green top left on, and after they are boiled and drained they should be sauted in a little butter, and sprinkled with chopped parsley. Cauliflowers. Soak in salt and water to kill the insects. Take off the outside leaves, and cut the thick part of the stalk crosswise. Put head-downwards into boiling salted water, and cook (uncovered) till tender, fifteen or twenty minutes. Drain. Serve with melted butter sauce, made with water or milk. Onions. Peel them, cut across the root end, put into cold water, bring to the boil, strain, then put into boiling water with salt; boil for one hour or longer if very large. Drain and serve with white melted butter sauce.96 Stewed Onions. Onions, after being blanched as in the previous recipe, may be stewed in brown stock, about three-quarters of a pint. This should afterwards be thickened with jflour and butter, coloured with a little browning, seasoned, and poured round the onions. Messrs. Sutton & Sons, in their excellent little book on preparing vegetables for the table, recommend that onions, after being slightly trimmed, should be put into a pot with a lump of butter, and keep on the hot plate, or half over the fire, for about a couple of hours. Parsnips. Cook in the same manner as carrots, but in a small quantity of water. Send to table covered with white sauce. Parsnips may be mashed in the same manner as turnips. Green Peas. Shell the peas, put them into boiling salted water, adding one or two teaspoonfuls of sugar and a sprig of mint. Boil uncovered for ten to twenty minutes accord- ing to age. Serve with a piece of butter in the dish. Potatoes. Old potatoes should be chosen of as nearly the same size as possible, or the small ones will be cooked before the large ones. They must be well scrubbed, and may be boiled in their skins, or peeled very thinly. After they are peeled they must be put into cold water, but they should not be allowed to remain soaking in this for more than ten minutes. Have ready a saucepan of boiling water in which there are two tablespoonfuls of salt to one gallon of water. Put in the potatoes, put on the lid, boil gently till nearly done (about fifteen minutes, but the time varies according to the kind of potato). Drain off the water, shake the pot, so as to shake the potatoes into floury balls, let them stand on the stove97 with the lid partly off, so as to let the steam escape. Put them into a hot vegetable dish, but do not let them stand in the dish before they are served. They must be sent straight from the pan to the table, very hot, but uncovered, so that the steam may escape. There are many kinds of potatoes ; some are put into cold water, whereas very tender kinds may be steamed. New Potatoes. These are scraped and put into boiling water with salt and a sprig of mint. Boil fifteen to twenty minutes, drain well, put them into a hot vegetable dish with a small piece of butter. Mashed Potatoes. Add to some well-boiled and drained potatoes a little hot milk in which some butter has been melted, add salt to taste, and mash with a fork. Potato Ribbons. Pare potatoes in long thin ribbons, throw them into water, thoroughly dry them. Fry in deep fat (see rules for frying, p. 7), drain on soft paper. Potatoes Sautes. Take very small boiled new potatoes, or old potatoes cut into strips. Saute them in butter (general direc- tions, p. 8). Drain on soft paper, and sprinkle a little salt over. Potato Balls. Mashed potatoes. Chopped parsley. Salt. Egg. Mash potatoes in the usual manner, mix with egg, salt, and chopped parsley. Flour the hands and make into balls ; be careful that there are no cracks in the balls. Egg and bread-crumb, and fry in hot fat. G98 Potatoes a la Maitre d'Hotel. Cold boiled potatoes (rather young). Chopped parsley i tablespoonful. I oz. 1 pint. I teaspoonful. I yolk, a few drops, to taste. Butter Stock , Flour Egg ... Lemon juice Pepper and salt Slice the potatoes thickly. Melt the butter in a stew- pan, add the flour and stock, boil well, put in the potatoes and pepper and salt, let them remain till quite hot ; remove from the fire, and stir in the egg, lemon juice, and parsley. Return to the fire, and stir till the egg is cooked. The same dish may be made without the egg, and using- milk instead of stock. In this case rather more flour will be required. Spinach. Wash well in several waters to remove all grit. Have ready in a large saucepan a very little well-salted fast- boiling water ; put the spinach in this, thrust it well down into the pot, as it will reduce immensely in cook- ing. Boil uncovered about fifteen minutes, or till tender. Drain w^ell. Chop it, and reheat in a stewpan with butter, pepper, and salt. Garnish with sippets of fried bread, or serve with poached eggs. Tomatoes. Put into a stewpan with a piece of butter, pepper and salt; cook gently till tender, about thirty jninutes, or longer if the tomatoes are not ripe. Turnips. Wash, peel thickly, put into boiling water with salt. Boil half an hour, or longer if old. Drain. Mash with a little milk, butter, pepper and salt. Keep the lid on the saucepan.99 Vegetable Marrows. Pare, take out the seeds, and cut in as large pieces as the size of the saucepan will allow. If very young- they need not be pared. Put into fast-boiling salted water, and boil (covered) till tender, fifteen minutes or longer according to age. Be careful not to overboil them. Drain well, and serve on toast. Pour over it melted butter sauce. SALADS. Mustard and cress, watercress, lettuces, endive, celery, beetroot, tomatoes, radishes, cold boiled potatoes (not too old), peas, and French beans may all be used in salads, and spring onions are sometimes liked. The well-known saying that the maker of a salad should be a spendthrift with the oil, a miser with the vinegar, and a judge with the salt," is not of universal application, as there are many people who have a natural antipathy to oil. Only the very best olive oil should be used. The green vegetables should be as fresh as possible, and they should not be left for hours in water, but must be well and quickly washed, and thoroug"hly dried. They should then be torn across, and may be served simply with oil and vinegar, or with either of the following dressings :— Salad Dressing. Cream 4 tablespoonfuls. Vinegar i tablespoonful. Made mustard J teaspoonful. Sugar I saltspoonful. Salt a pinch. Mix the mustard with the cream, sugar, and salt; stir in the vinegar drop by drop.lOO Salad Dressing to keep. Hard boiled eggs yolks of 3. Made mustard i teaspoonful. Salt I saltspoonful. Sugar I Salad oil | pint. Thick cream | Tarragon vinegar nearly i eggcupful. Common ^ ,, Rub the egg through a hair sieve, add to it the mustard, sugar, and salt, then the cream ; to this stir in very gradually (or it will curdle) the oil and both kinds of vinegar. Potato Salad Dressing. Rub a moderate sized cooked potato through a hair sieve. Add half a teaspoonful of French and the same of English mustard, half a teaspoonful of castor sugar and a pinch of salt, about two tablespoonfuls of vinegar ; lastly, stir in half a gill of thin cream or milk. Season with cayenne to taste. A teaspoonful each of tarragon and chili vinegar may be added instead of common vinegar if liked.Puddings.-^ In cooking puddings it is well to bear in mind the following rules :— Puddings that contain whites of eggs beaten to a stiff froth, and which are therefore more or less of the nature of soufflees, should be baked in a moderate oven and served immediately they are taken out of it. If such puddings are steamed, the basin or tin in which they are cooked should be well buttered, but must on no account be filled, as room must be left for the pudding to rise. They must also be served directly they are turned out. Whites of Eggs^ when wanted for a soufflee, meringue, or to make a pudding light, must be beaten with a knife on a plate in a cold place. The addition of a pinch of salt makes them froth up better. They should be beaten till they are stiff and white, and can be cut with a knife. Great care must be taken that no yolk is mixed with the whites. In baking* Custard Puddings^ or other puddings of that nature, it is well to place the dish in a tin of water in the oven ; this will prevent the curdling of the eggs. The oven must not be too hot. In steaming these puddings the water must simmer, not boil, or the eggs will curdle. Puddings which contain suet must be well and con- tinuously boiled. The pudding basin must be buttered, and quite filled with the pudding mixture ; the pudding cloths should be scalded and floured ; the pudding should be then placed in a pan of boiling water, with enough water to cover the pudding entirely. If the water wastes, more boiling water must be added. The pudding must be kept boiling.I02 German Rice Pudding. Ground rice 2 oz. Lemons 2. Butter 2 oz. Egg-s 3. Water | pint. Sugar to taste. Cherries. Angelica. Citron peel. Pastry. Put the rice into a saucepan with the water, stir until it boils, then add the butter, and simmer until the rice is well swollen, stirring it frequently. Let the mixture cool a little, add the g'rated rind of one lemon and the juice of two, the yolks of the eggs, and sweeten to taste. Stir in lastly the white of one egg beaten stiffly. Line a dish with pastry, ornament the edges, put in the rice mixture, and bake about half an hour. Make a meringue of the whites of two eggs and a little sugar, pile on the top of the pudding when baked, decorate the top with cherries, peel, and angelica, and return to the oven to set. Serve either hot or cold. Guildhall Pudding, Flour ... 4 oz. Butter 4 oz. (creamed). Sugar 2 oz. Ging-er (preserved) 2 oz. (cut into dice). Ratafia biscuit crumbs ... i oz. Eggs 2 (well beaten). Maraschino syrup tablespoonfuls. Baking powder | teaspoonful. Ground ginger i saltspoonful. Mix the flour and sugar into the butter, gradually moistening with the eggs ; beat well, add other ingre- dients ; steam in buttered mould (ornamented with shred pistachios and cocoa-nut) for one hour; serve with apricot sauce round. This pudding is excellent baked.I03 Lemon juice ... J teaspoonful. Apricot Sauce. Simmer half a pound of apricot jam in half a pint of water for ten minutes ; strain ; thicken with a good tea- spoonful of arrowroot; add a wineglass of maraschino and a little carmine. Milk ... . Fine flour. Butter Eggs... . Jamaica Pudding". I gill. Ground ginger Preserved ginger Angelica 2 oz. 2 oz. 3 yolks (well beaten). 2 whites (whipped stiffly), 1 saltspoonful. 2 oz. (cut into dice), to ornament. A tablespoonful of the syrup. Ornament about a pint soufllee mould with small rounds of preserved ginger and angelica. Make a sauce of the flour, butter, milk, and syrup ; boil well; then beat in thoroughly the yolks of the eggs, the ground ginger, and castor sugar to taste. Stir in lightly the whites of the eggs ; fill in the mould ; steam for three- quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve round it Jamaica sauce. Jamaica Sauce. Simmer the rind of lemon shred finely, and one ounce of lump sugar in about a gill of water for ten minutes ; strain out the lemon rind, add the juice, and thicken the sauce with a teaspoonful of arrowroot and half an ounce of butter; stir in a little syrup from the fruit and a wineglass of Jamaica rum, and serve. Pineapple Pudding*. Butter 2 oz. Fine flour Castor sugar ... Pineapple Milk Eggs... Pistachio kernels. 2 oz. il oz. 2 OZ. (cut into small I gill. [dice.) 2.I04 Butter thickly a soufflee tin or plain mould (which will hold rather more than a pint), and sprinkle over it the pistachios, cut into thin strips. Fasten round the out- side a band of buttered paper about two inches above the top of the mould. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil the mixture well, stirring continually. Put in the sugar, pineapple, lemon juice, and the yolks of the eggs (beaten). Lastly, stir in the whites beaten to a firm froth. Turn all into the mould, cover with a buttered paper, and steam until firm on the top—about forty minutes. Then turn out carefully and serve round the following sauce :—■ Sauce, Pineapple juice ... ... i gill. Water \ gill. The juice of half a lemon. Arrowroot i teaspoonful. Sugar to taste. Pieces of pineapple. Cochineal. Sherry i wineglassful. Make in the usual way, adding the cochineal and sherry, and lastly the pineapple, cut into tiny dices or rounds. This pudding can be baked in a pie-dish or in small soufflee cases if preferred. London Pudding". Milk f pint. Eggs 2. The grated rind of one lemon. Finger biscuits. Preserve. Butter a moderate sized pie-dish. Place in the dish a layer of finger biscuits, then a layer of preserve, then another layer of biscuits. Make a raw custard of the eggs and milk; add lemon ; then pour it over the finger biscuits. Let it soak. Bake thirty minutes. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, lay them on the pudding, sift castor sugar over, and brown in a slow oven.I05 Arrowroot Soufflee. Milk J pint. Arrowroot i dessertspoonful. Egg-s 2. A small piece of lemon peel. Boil the milk with the lemon peel. Mix the arrowroot with a little cold milk till it is as thick as cream. Pour the boiling* milk on the arrowroot; return it to the saucepan and stir it over the fire till it thickens. Pour it into a basin ; when it is cool, add the beaten yolks of the eggs and sugar to taste. Whip the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, and stir them lightly into the mixture. Pour the mixture into a buttered pie-dish, and bake it twenty minutes in a moderate oven. Felden Pudding*. Good cooking apples ... f lb. when peeled Sugar 3 oz. [and cored. Butter 1 oz. Eggs.. ... 2. The juice and grated rind of i lemon. I Savoy biscuit. Pastry. Stew the apples till tender with the sugar and two tablespoonfuls of water; when done add the butter, lemon, and crumbled Savoy biscuit. Beat the yolks of the eggs, and add them to the mixture. Line the sides and edges of a pie-dish with flaky pastry ; pour in the mixture, and bake half an hour. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth. When the pudding is baked, pile on the meringue, sift over it two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Return the pudding to the oven and let the meringue brown slightly. Rice Pudding Meringue. Carolina rice 2 oz. New milk i pint. Butter I oz. Eggs 2. ' Sug"ar to taste. Lemon rind (small piece) to flavour.io6 Stew the rice in the milk till quite soft and thick ; the lemon rind must be stewed with it, but must be taken out as soon as the rice is cooked. Add sugar to taste, and stir in the butter ; when it has cooled a little add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Put in a buttered pie- dish. Beat the whites of the egg's to a firm froth. Lay them on the pudding and sift over them a tablespoonful of castor sug'ar. Bake half an hour in a moderate oven and serve immediately. Rice Pudding with Bread Crumbs- Stew the rice in milk till it is quite soft and has absorbed the milk. Add more milk if the rice will absorb it. When cool add the egg, almond flavour, and a little sugar, but do not make it too sweet. Butter a basin welL Mix the bread crumbs with the brown sugar and lemon rind, put them thickly all over the basin to form a crust. Fill the basin with the rice mixture, bake about three-quarters of an hour in an oven that is hot enough to brown the bread crumbs but not to burn them. Turn out and serve with whipped cream round, or with custard, or wine sauce. Rice Pudding with Caramel. Rice 2 oz. Milk I pint. Eggs 2 (well beaten). Vanilla essence to taste. Sugar to taste. Stew the rice in the milk until thick and tender ; add sugar and vanilla to taste. Line a mould with caramel (p. 107). Fill with the rice mixture. Steam about one hour. Serve hot, with a sweet sauce if preferred. Carolina rice \ teacupful. I 3 Bread crumbs ... Brown sugar ... Grated lemon peel Almond flavour 4 M to taste. 3 drops. about \ pint. I.I07 For the Caramel:—Put two ounces of castor sugar with the juice of one lemon into a dry mould. Set it on the hob until the sugar and lemon juice become a nice golden brown. Then turn each mould round until it is coated all over. Rice Cup Puddings. Ground rice iib. Milk I pint. Butter I oz. Eggs 2. Sugar Currants 1 to taste. Almond flavour 3 drops. Almonds (blanched and sliced) I oz. Mix the ground rice with a little of the cold milk. Put the rest of the milk in a pan, let it just boil, melt the butter in it, pour it on the rice. Return to the pan, and stir over the fire till thick. Add the sugar, currants, and almond flavouring, and when cool the eggs. Put into well-buttered cups, and bake half an hour. When done stick them quickly with the almonds; but do not let them get cold. Serve with sauce (pp. 174-176). Primrose Pudding-. Ground rice 4 good tablespoonfuls. 2 tablespoonfuls. T pint. 2 (well beaten). I oz. to taste. 6 drops. Mix the rice with the cold milk, pour on the boiling milk, boil well, sweeten, when cool add the vanilla and eggs. Butter a mould, ornament it with raisins and candied peel. Put in the rice and steam one and a quarter hours. Cold milk... Boiling milk Eggs Butter Sugar Essence of vanillaio8 Cup Puddingfs. Two eggs, their weight in sugar and flour, the weight of one in butter. Baking powder i teaspoonful. Lemon rind a little (grated). Beat the butter to a cream; beat in the sugar, flour and eggs, and last of all the lemon rind and baking powder. Half fill some buttered cups, and bake half an hour in a moderate oven. Serve with sauce (pages 174-176). Or, the above mixture may be steamed in a buttered basin for two and a half hours. Queen Puddingr- Eggs 2. Bread crumbs ^ pint. Milk (boiling) i pint. Butter ... f oz. Lemon grated rind of i. Castor sugar to taste. Apricot jam. Sweeten the milk, pour it boiling on the bread crumbs, add the lemon rind and butter. Let it cool, then add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Butter a pie-dish, put in the mixture. Bake in a slow oven till set, then spread over it a layer of apricot jam. Beat the whites to a firm froth, pile them on the pudding, sift over them about two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar. Put the pudding in the oven till the meringue is quite set, and lightly coloured. Serve either hot or cold. Summer Pudding. Line the basin with slices of sponge cake (about half an inch thick), fill with stewed fruit, which must be hot, sweetened, and very juicy. Cover with slices of sponge cake, and press it down with a plate and weight. Turn out next day, and serve w^ith whipped cream or custard round it. The same kind of pudding may be made with stale bread or French roll, and is prettiest when made of red fruit.I09 Boiled Lemon Pudding*. Bread crumbs f lb. Suet (chopped) J lb. Moist sugar 6 oz. Eggs 2 ^eaten). The grated rind and the juice of I large lemon. Baking powder i teaspoonful. If more moisture is needed add a little milk. Mix the dry ingredients, add the eggs and lemon juice, and enough milk to make a stiff mixture. Boil for three hours in a buttered basin. Serve with lemon or marmalade sauce. Sir Watkyn's Pudding. Suet (chopped) Bread crumbs ... Flour Brown moist sugar Marmalade Eggs Milk Baking powder 6 oz. I lb. iib. iib. 4 oz. 4 (beaten), as required. I teaspoonful. Mix the dry ingredients. Add the marmalade, eggs, and as much milk as is required to make a stiff mixture. Steam for three hours and serve with marmalade sauce. Railway Pudding. I teacupful. 4 oz. Flour Brown moist sugar. Milk Butter Egg Lemon rind Baking powder Jam (raspberry is best). Beat the butter with the sugar. Add the flour and lemon rind, then the egg and milk ; last of all beat in the baking powder. Bake in a buttered Yorkshire a little (grated). I teaspoonful.I lO pudding tin for about twenty minutes in a moderate oven. When cold, cut in pieces, split, and spread with jam. Thornton Puddings. Two eggs, their weight in flour, the weight of one egg in castor sugar and in butter. Strawberry jam 2 tablespoonfuls. Carbonate of soda (dis- solved in a little luke- warm milk) J teaspoonful. Beat the butter to a cream ; beat in the sugar, flour, eggs, and jam ; last of all beat in the dissolved carbonate of soda. Steam for three-quarters of an hour in but- tered cups or dariole moulds, which must be only three- quarters full, as the puddings will rise. Serve with Sabayon or egg and wine sauce. Baked Lemon Pudding. Lemons 2. Eggs 3. Penny sponge cakes ... 3. Sugar 2 oz. Milk 1 pint. Butter I oz. Pastry. Line the sides and edges of a pie-dish with flaky pastry. Melt the sugar in the lemon juice, add to it the grated lemon rind and crumbled sponge cake. Heat the milk, dissolve the butter in it. Beat the yolks of the eggs, pour over them the milk and butter, and add this to the lemon and sponge cake mixture. Put it into the pie-dish, and bake for about half an hour in a moderate oven, till set. Beat the whites of the eggs to a firm froth, pile them on the pudding, sift castor sugar thickly over, and return to the oven till the merin- gue is hardened and lightly coloured. Serve hot or cold. The meringue may be garnished with glace cherries.Ill Boiled Batter Pudding. Flour 6 oz. Milk I pint. Eg-g-s 3. Salt a pinch. Put the flour and salt into a basin, make a hole in the middle of the flour, break in the eggs, stir in the flour, add the milk gradually. Beat well with a wooden spoon, and let it stand some time before it is cooked. Butter a basin well, pour in the batter, cover with a well floured scalded cloth. Boil one and a half hours. Serve with butter and sugar, treacle, or jam. This pudding may be varied by the addition of apples, rhubarb, gooseberries, or other fruits, which are placed in the basin first, the batter is then poured over ; or a tablespoonful of jam may be placed at the bottom of the basin. Baked Batter, or Yorkshire Pudding-. Flour \ lb. Milk I pint. Eggs 2. Salt a pinch. This is made in the same manner as boiled batter, but is baked in a buttered pie-dish for rather more than half an hour in a quick oven. It is turned out before serving*. Pancakes. The above mixture may also be used for pancakes, but the addition of another egg is desirable. Use about half an ounce of lard for frying each pan- cake. The batter must be put into a jug, and when the lard is quite hot, and a slight blue smoke rises from it, the batter must be poured into the frying pan. Pour in only just enough to cover the bottom of the pan. When the under side is brown, turn or toss the pancake and fry on the other side. Roll up and serve very hot with lemon and sugar.112 French Pancakes, Flour 2 oz. Butter 2 oz. Sugar 2 oz. Hot milk I pint. Eggs 2 (well beaten). Beat the butter to a cream ; beat in the flour, sugar, eggs, and milk. Beat well, and let it stand two hours before cooking. Bake for twenty minutes in well but- tered saucers. Place the puddings one on the top of the other so as to make one pudding. Spread apricot or other jam between, or serve with one of the pudding sauces. Baked Custard Puddingr, Milk I pint. Eggs 2 (well beaten). Butter ^ oz. Flour ^ oz. Sugar to taste. Lemon rind or laurel leaf to flavour. Rub the butter into the flour with a wooden spoon. Boil the milk with the lemon rind or laurel leaf, which must be taken out after it has boiled. Pour the boiling milk on the butter and flour. Stir well, add sugar and a tiny pinch of salt. Let it cool, then add the eggs. Put it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake for about three-quarters of an hour in a moderate oven. (See directions for baking custard puddings.) Vermicelli Pudding*. Milk ... I pint. Eggs 2 (well beaten). Vermicelli 2 oz. Sugar to taste. Lemon rind or laurel leaf to flavour. Put the lemon rind or laurel leaf in the milk, bring it to the boil, then break in the vermicelli, stir it till the vermicelli is quite tender (as it will be in a few minutes),add sugar to taste. Remove the lemon rind or laurel leaf. Pour the mixture into a basin, let it cool, add the eggs, put it into a buttered pie-dish, and bake in the same manner as custard pudding. Steamed Custard Pudding. Milk J pint. Eggs 3 (beaten). Essence of vanilla to taste. Sugar Dissolve the sugar in the milk, flavour with vanilla. Steam gently in a buttered basin for twenty-five minutes. Turn out and serve with raspberry sauce. A very simple Steamed Custard Pudding. Milk I pint. Eggs 2 (beaten). Beat the eggs and milk together. Steam very gently for about three-quarters of an hour, or till the custard is set. This pudding does not turn out, and must be served in the basin in which it is steamed. Wine and sugar, or fruit syrup should be served with it. Caramel Custard Puddings. For the Caramel:— Divide the juice of one lemon and two ounces castor sugar between six or seven small dariole moulds. Set them on the hob, or a hot girdle, until the caramel be- comes a golden brown, then turn the moulds round until all parts are coated as in rice pudding with caramel (p. io6). Milk 1 pint. g f yolks of 4 (beaten). ( whites of 2 ,, Essence of vanilla to taste. Sugar ,, Boil the milk, add the sugar, flavour with vanilla. When cool pour on to the eggs, then fill the moulds. H114 These little puddings should be steamed for fifteen or twenty minutes, and then turned out. They may be served hot or cold. Steamed Bread and Butter Pudding. Slices of stale bread (buttered). Raisins. Candied peel. Sultanas. Castor sugar to taste. Milk I pint. Eggs 2. Butter a pudding basin, ornament it with raisins and candied peel. Fill it with slices of bread and butter, between the slices put sultanas. Beat the eggs, add the milk (cold) and sugar, pour it in gradually, and let it qiiite cover the bread and butter. Let it stand at least two hours before it is cooked, then steam it for one hour. Do not let the water in which it is cooked boil too fast. Serve with one of the pudding sauces. Baked Bread and Butter Pudding. Slices of stale bread (buttered). Milk I pint. Sugar to taste. Candied peel ,, Sultanas ,, Marmalade, if liked. Eggs 2. This is made in the same manner as the above, but the dish must be only half filled with bread and butter, and the pudding must soak two to three hours before baking. It should bake in a slow oven about one hour. Delhi Pudding. New milk \\ pints. Sweet almonds (chopped finely) i8. Arrowroot 3 tablespoonfuls. Fresh butter i oz."5 Mix the arrowroot smoothly with a quarter of a pint of cold milk, pour on it one pint of boiling milk, add the butter and almonds. Let all simmer for three or four minutes, stirring all the time. Put it in a mould. Make it on the day on which it is wanted. Turn out when quite cold, and serve with the following sauce, which must be hot in a tureen :— Castor sugar i\ oz. Fresh butter oz. Sherry \ pint. Beat the butter to a cream, beat in the sugar and wine. Put it into a saucepan, simmer, stirring all the time. Serve quite hot. Alma Pudding", Fresh butter 4 oz. Castor sugar 6 oz. Currants 4 oz. Flour 8 oz. Eggs (beaten) 4. Grated rind of one lemon. Baking powder i teaspoonful. Beat the butter to a cream, beat in the sugar, eggs, and then the flour, currants and grated lemon. Last of all stir in the baking powder. Steam for one and a half hours. Serve with buttered brandy sauce.--BC- Pastry. Pastry must be kept cool and handled as little as possible. The lard or butter must be rubbed in with the tips of the fingers. A knife must be used for mix- ing. The water must be added gradually, and the pastry must be neither too hard nor too soft, but elastic. In rolling it pressure must be put on the rolling pin from the wrist, and it must be rolled firmly but not heavily. Pastry must not be rolled up and down ; it must be rolled in little rolls in the same direction. Care should be taken not to press out the air-bubbles. Pastry should be made of fine flour if possible. The oven should be hot. Pastry containing baking powder should be baked at once. Puff Pastry. Fine flour... Fresh butter Egg ...^ ... Lemon juice Salt Cold water i lb. lib. I yolk. I teaspoonful. a pinch, to mix. Rub the flour through a dry wire sieve to remove any lumps. Press the butter in a floured cloth to remove any moisture. Put the flour on a pasteboard or marble slab, add the salt, make a hole in the centre of the flour117 and drop in the egg and lemon juice ; mix slowly (using the fingers) into a firm elastic paste with cold water. Work the paste on the board till it is quite smooth and pliable, then roll it out thinly ; place the butter on one- half of the paste, fold the other half over, and press the edges together with the thumb ; set it in a cool place for about a quarter of an hour, roll out to three times its present size, fold exactly in three, turn the open edges towards you, roll again, fold in three, and set aside for another quarter-of-an-hour. Repeat this until the paste has been rolled seven times since adding the butter. The seventh time the paste must be rolled out to the required thickness, and is ready for use. When the weather is cold it can be made without resting between the turns. In cold weather when the butter is very hard, it should be worked with the hands until more pliable, and should be of the same consistency as the paste. Flaky Pastry. Fine flour i lb. Butter Lard Salt Cold water ilb. lib. a pinch, to mix. Mix the salt with the flour, rub in the butter, make into a firm but elastic paste with cold water, roll out, put on a third of the lard in small pieces, fold in three, let it lie in a cool place for a quarter of an hour ; roll it out again, put on half the remaining lard, fold it, and let it rest again for at least a quarter of an hour ; roll it out again, put on the remainder of the lard, fold it, and let it lie in a cold place for about half an hour ; it is then rolled out again and is ready for use. Short Pastry. Flour 1 lb. Butter J- lb. Baking powder | teaspoonful. Castor sugar i dessertspoonful. Salt. Water.ii8 Put the butter into a basin and work it with a fork until it looks like cream, mix th'e flour, sugar, baking powder and salt, add these to the butter, stir with a knife to mix them, and make all into a firm paste with cold water. Roll out once, and it is then ready for use. Bake at once in a moderately hot oven ; if too hot the paste will burn, as it contains sugar. Short Pastry. Fine flour i lb. Butter 4 oz. Sugar I dessertspoonful. Egg I yolk. Warm water to mix. Baking powder | teaspoonful. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and baking powder, and make it into a paste with the egg and as little warm water as possible. Short Pastry for Meat Pie. Flour I lb. Butter and lard mixed ... | lb. Baking powder \ teaspoonful. Salt a pinch. Cold water to mix. Rub the butter and lard lightly into the flour, add salt, baking powder, and enough water to make a light dough. Roll out to the required thickness. Crust for Tarts. Flour 5 oz. Lard 2 oz. Egg I. Baking powder \ teaspoonful. Salt a pinch. Mix the salt and baking powder with the flour, rub in the lard, make into a paste with the yolk of the egg, using as little water as possible. Roll out, cover the fruit in the pie-dish, brush it over with the white of the egg, sift sugar over and bake at once.Sandwiches de Patisserie a la Creme. Some puff pastry. ^ pint of thick cream. Some raspberry or any other nice jam. Some dessicated cocoanut. Roll out some puff pastry very thinly ; cut it into strips about one and a half inches wide and four or five inches in length ; bake them a very pale colour in a rather quick oven. When cold, decorate half the strips of paste with white icing, and sprinkle over thickly with dessicated cocoanut. Spread the remaining strips of paste with jam, and over this put a layer of the cream mixture ; lay the decorated strip on the top, and then serve. Dish up in cross-way bars. The pastry may be cut into rounds instead of strips if preferred. Cream Mixture. Whisk a quarter of a pint of cream until it stiffens ; flavour it with any nice syrup, fruit, wine, or lemon juice, and sweeten to taste. Mix in, lastly, about one-eighth of an ounce of leaf gelatine melted in a very little w^ater or milk. Fleur of Cocoanut. Line a fleur ring with short paste (p. 120). Spread over the inside a layer of apricot jam ; fill in with the following mixture :— Fine flour ih oz. Butter I oz. Dessicated cocoanut ... 4 oz. Milk 1 pint. Sugar to taste. Eggs 2. Vanilla to flavour. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add the milk, and boil the mixture well. Mix in the cocoa- nut, yolks of the eggs (beaten), sugar to taste, and a little essence of vanilla to flavour it. Lastly, stir in the whiles of the eggs heaten stiffly. Bake the fleur inI20 a moderate oven for about thirty minutes. Serve hot or cold, with Apricot Glaze poured over. Sprinkle over the top a little of the cocoanut. Apricot Glaze. Take half a pound of apricot pulp, boil up with sugar to taste, rub it through a hair sieve. Re-heat the glaze, adding a little water if too thick. Colour with cochineal. Apricoty<2/;^ may be used instead, adding a little water to thin it; or tiiined apricots^ boiled down, will answer the purpose. Short Paste. Rub one ounce of butter into three ounces of flour ; make into a firm paste with cold water. Roll out and line the fleur ring with it. The same mixture may also be used for tartlets. Fleur de Fruits. Line thinly a rou7id fleur ring with Short Paste. Prick the paste all over to prevent its blistering. Fill up the fleur with rice, putting a buttered paper between the rice and the paste. Bake it in a moderate oven about twenty minutes. Remove the rice and paper, and return the fleur to the oven to finish baking. When done remove the ring and let the pastry get cold. Fill with any nice compotes of fresh or tinned fruits. Garnish the top with whipped cream, and decorate it with pistachios or pink sugar. Compote of Fruit. For the Syrup,—Boil together half a pound of loaf sugar and one pint of cold w^ater until one-third reduced. Add to it the fruit (cut either in pieces or whole if small). Simmer gently until tender ; but the fruit must not lose its shape. Use when cold. This syrup is for rather acid fruits, as green goose- berries, rhubarb, &c. If the fruit be sweet and ripe use less sugar. Tinned Fruits generally will not require to be cooked before using them.121 Fleur Marina. Line a fleur ring with three ounces of short pastry very thinly, prick the paste well ; spread over the bottom of the paste a layer of apricot jam, fill in with the Marina mixture. Bake the fleur in a moderate oven from twenty to thirty minutes. Ornament with the Meringue mixture as below ; set in a cool oven to dry, and crisp the Meringue. Serve hot or cold. Marina Mixture. Melt one and a half ounces of butter in a saucepan, stir in half an ounce of flour, add half a pint of milk, and boil the mixture about five minutes ; stir in two ounces of finely chopped blanched almonds and one and a half ounces of cake crumbs. Melt two ounces of grated chocolate in half a gill of water, add this to the boiled mixture, with the well beaten yolks of three eggs ; flavour with vanilla and sweeten to taste. Use as directed above. Meringue. Whip the whites of three eggs very stiffly, mix in carefully three ounces of castor sugar, and one and a half ounces of grated chocolate which has been dissolved in two tablespoonfuls of water. Gateau Florida. Make a quarter of a pound of puff pastry, cut from it a round of paste about six inches in diameter. Mark the centre with a small cutter (as for a patty case) about an inch from the edge. Bake in a quick oven ; when done carefully remove the centre, and let the pastry become quite cold. Ornament the edge with sections of crystallised oranges and pieces of pastry cut in fancy shapes. Fill up the centre with the Florida Mixture, and pile on the top of it some French Cream. Florida Mixture. Make a sauce with half an ounce of butter, a good half ounce of Vienna flour, half a gill of orange juice, and half the juice of a lemon. Boil the mixture well, sweeten to taste, and stir in a good tablespoonful of thick cream.122 Add to this a custard made of one gill of milk and the yolks of three egg's flavoured with orang*e rind, and thickened over the fire in the usual way. French Cream. Boil six ounces of loaf sugar with barely half a gill of cold water until au boulet, then pour this syrup on to the whites of three eggs beaten very stiffly, whisking all the time. Flavour with lemon or orange juice. Curd Cheese-Cakes. The curd from 2 quarts of new milk. Butter Eggs Penny sponge cake... Currants Nutmeg Brandy Sugar Grated lemon rind ... Salt Cream To make the Curd,—Stir one tablespoonful of essence of rennet into two quarts of lukewarm new milk ; let it stand undisturbed till the curd has formed. Put the curd into a piece of strainer, hang it up, and let it drain through the night. In the morning break up the curd, and rub it with the butter through a hair sieve. Add the beaten yolks of eggs and other ingredients, mix well. Bake in deep patty pans lined with paste. Lemon Cheese-Cakes, Lump sugar ^ lb. Eggs 3 (well beaten). Butter 2 oz. Lemon rinds and juice ... 2. Put the butter into a pan, add the lemon rinds (grated), juice and sugar. Stir until dissolved, then add the eggs. Stir over a slow fire till the egg-s are cooked, but be careful that the mixture does not curdle. Bake in shallow patty pans lined with pufi" or flaky pastry. 4 yolks. I (crumbled). to taste. a pinch. 2 or3tablespoonfuls.123 The Lemon Cheese-Cake Mixture, if put into jars and covered with vinegar or brandy papers, will keep good for months. Mince Pies. For the mincemeat:— Suet (chopped finely) i lb. Raisins (stoned and chopped) i lb. Currants i lb. Apples (chopped) i lb. Castor sugar i lb. Candied peel (chopped finely) 4 oz. Lemons 3 Brandy J gill. Some persons add also half a pound of sultanas. Pare the lemons thinly, and stew the rinds till quite tender, pound them, and add them with the juice to the other ingredients. The mincemeat should be made a month before it is required. Line some patty pans with thin pufi" or flaky pastry, put in a little of the mincemeat, cover with thin paste, previously cut with a cutter. Bake and serve very hot. Macaroon Tartlets. Almonds (ground) 2 oz. Castor sugar i| oz. Rice flour J oz. Whites of eggs about 3. Apricot jam. Pastry. Line some tartlet tins with puff or short pastry, put in each a small quantity of apricot jam, then place over a little almond mixture, put strips of pastry across ; sift over some castor sugar. Bake in a quick oven. Almond Mixture. Mix together the sugar, rice flour, and almonds ; add sufficient white of egg, beaten stiffly, to make a thin batter.124 Bakewell Tart. Eg-g- I. Bread crumbs 2 oz. Castor sugar 2 oz. Butter 2 oz. Raspberry jam. Almond flavouring. Pastry | lb. Line a tart dish with pastry, place a layer of jam over the bottom, cream the butter, mix in the castor sugar and bread crumbs, moistening with the egg beaten separately, add flavouring. Spread this mixture over the jam and bake in quick oven about half an hour.-^-CoLD Sweets.-^ All dishes in which gelatine is used should be made the day before they are wanted. If this is impossible, they should be placed on ice or in cold water to make them set. Less gelatine is required in winter than in summer. We recommend Marshall's gelatine ; it will be found very economical, easy to use, and free from the taste of glue which is sometimes found in common gelatine. The quantities given in the recipes are for medium temperature. CREAMS. In making creams great care should be used in adding the melted gelatine at the right heat; if it is too hot, the cream (if whipped as it usually is) will go down" ; if the gelatine is too cold it will set in hard lumps. The mould in which the cream is placed should be filled with cold water before it is used. In making creams, etc., that require eggs, great care must be used not to let the eggs curdle. The eggs must be constantly stirred while on the fire, and also after the pan is taken off the fire.126 JELLIES. The pan in which the jelly is made must be bright and scrupulously clean. The whites and shells of the eggs must be beaten together, and the jelly whisked while coming to the boil, but not afterwards, or it will not be clear. Jelly must be cool before it is moulded, and should be placed in copper or tin moulds, which should have stood in cold water before they are used, and which must not have been dried. Jellies should be plunged for a moment in hot water before they are turned out; the top of the jelly must be wiped before turning out. The jelly bag must be scalded before use, and must be put away quite clean and dry. A linen cloth may be used instead of a jelly bag, but this must also be quite hot, or the jelly will set while running through. Lemon Jelly, Rind of lemons 4 (peeled thinly). Lemon juice \ pint. Sherry \ pint. Lump sugar | lb., or to taste. Water \\ pints. Gelatine (Marshall's) ... \\oz. Whites and shells of 2 eg'gs. Put the water with the lemon rind and juice, sugar and gelatine into a large brig'ht saucepan. Let it cook slowly until the gelatine is dissolved. Add the whites and shells of the eggs beaten together. Bring all slowly to boiling point, and while it is heating whisk and stir it, but do not whisk or stir after it boils. Let it boil up well for at least five minutes. Set it aside to settle for a few minutes, then strain it through a hot jelly bag once or twice till quite clear. The wine must be added after the jelly has been strained. When cool put the jelly into a mould.127 Claret Jelly. Claret i pint. Water f pint. Rinds of lemons 2. Lemon juice ^ pint. Lump sugar J lb., or to taste. Gelatine oz. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Cochineal to colour. Put the water, wine, lemon rinds, juice, sugar, and gelatine, into a bright saucepan, and proceed as for lemon jelly. A few drops of cochineal are added to colour the jelly, which should be moulded in a china mould to keep it a good colour. Maraschino Jelly- Maraschino 4 tablespoonfuls. Water 1^ pints. Lump sugar to taste. Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Juice of 2 lemons. Gelatine il oz. Put the lemon juice, water, sugar, whites and shells, and gelatine into a saucepan, and clear as in lemon jelly. After the jelly has been strained add the maraschino, and mould when cool. Orange Jelly. Orange juice i pint. Water i pint. Juice of I lemon. Lump sugar to taste. Gelatine oz. Dissolve the gelatine and sugar in the water, add the orange juice, let it get warm but not boil. Strain through muslin, but do not clear it. Mould when cool.128 stanhope Jelly. Ale I pint. Lemon juice Water Rinds of 5 lemons Loaf sugar Gelatine Whites and shells of 2 eggs. 2I gills, (peeled thinly), about J lb. Beat the whites of eggs slightly. Put all the in- gredients into a very clean saucepan, and whisk or stir over the fire until just upon boiling point. Then remove the whisk and let the jelly boil up well for about five or ten minutes ; then remove it from the fire. Allow the jelly to settle, and pour it through a hot bag or cloth once or twice until it runs through clear. When the jelly is cool mould it. This jelly can be ornamented with dried fruits, pistachios, cocoanut, gold or silver leaf. Egg and Wine Jelly. Gelatine f oz. Sherry f pint. Water f pint. Lemon i. Yolks of eggs (well beaten) 4. Lump sugar to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in the water, add to it the juice and thinly peeled rind of the lemon, and sweeten to taste. When the sugar has melted, add the wine. Pour this on the eggs, stirring all the time. Return to the pan and simmer till the eggs are cooked but not curdled, stir all the time. Strain, and when it has cooked, pour it into a mould. Stir often while it is cooling. Citron Cream, Lemons Eggs Gelatine ... Water Loaf suo'ar 4- f oz. i pin lib.129 Rub the rind of the lemons on the sugar till the whole of the outside is removed. Squeeze the lemon juice (strained) on to the sugar. Put the water, gelatine, lemon juice and sugar into a large pan. Stir till the gelatine is melted, add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Stir over the fire till the mixture has thickened, but on no account let it boil. Add the whites of the eggs beaten to a stiff froth, stir over the fire a few minutes till thoroughly mixed, put into a mould immediately, and pile it high, as it will sink. Venetian Cream. Lemon jelly (uncoloured) ^ pint. ,, (coloured red) ^ ,, Cream Rich custard , Glace cherries ... Penny sponge cake Gelatine f oz. (melted in a very little milk). I tablespoonful. to taste. I teaspoonful. Brandy Castor sugar Lemon juice Almonds (blanched and sliced). Angelica (cut in strips). Let the mould stand in cold water. After it is emptied ornament it with almonds and angelica, and pour in a little lemon jelly to set them. Put in the rest of the lemon jelly, and when that is set put in the red jelly. Add sugar and lemon juice to the cream, whip it to a stiff froth, then stir in the custard, gelatine and brandy. When the jelly is quite set, put in a little of the cream mixture ; then, in the middle, where it will not be seen outside the cream, put in the sponge biscuit soaked in sherry, and the cherries, almonds and ang'elica. Fill up with the cream, and turn out on the following day. Creme de Banane. Take half a pint of orange jelly (p. 127), using three- quarters of an ounce of gelatine to this quantity. Have ready four large bananas rubbed through a hair sieve,I30 add to them two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam (sieved), and a large wineglass of maraschino. Mix this with the orange jelly, colour with carmine, and pour into a glass dish. When set cover with a pint of cream (whipped), sweetened and flavoured with maraschino. Ornament with some of the cream (striped pink), using a large rose pipe. Sprinkle with shred pistachios, and between the roses place small round pink meringues or ratafia biscuits. The banana mixture makes a pretty sweet if it is set in a border mould. Turn out when firm, and fill centre with whipped cream. Vanilla Cream. Milk \\ pints. Cream \ pint. Lump sugar to taste. Brandy i tablespoonful. Eggs 4 yolks (well beaten). Vanilla essence \ teaspoonful. Gelatine \ oz. Melt the gelatine and sugar in the milk, add the yolks of eggs, and stir till it has thickened, but on no account let it boil. Take it off the fire, add the cream, brandy and vanilla. Stir often till the cream is cool, then mould it. Creme au Chocolat. Double cream | pint. Good custard ^ pint. Chocolate (grated) 3 oz. Milk I gill. Gelatine | oz. Vanilla to flavour. Sugar to taste. Dissolve the chocolate in the milk over the fire, mix it with the custard, and allow it to get quite cold. Whip the cream stiffly, mix with it gradually the custard and chocolate, flavour with vanilla, and sweeten to taste. Dissolve the gelatine in a gill of milk or water, add to the cream, stirring well together. Pour into a wetmould. When firm turn out the cream ; ornament with whipped cream sweetened and flavoured with vanilla, using- a rose forcer. A few drops of caramel may be used to give the cream a darker colour if preferred. A Simpler Chocolate Cream. Grated chocolate 4 oz. New milk pints. Eggs (beaten) 3. Vanilla to taste. Sugar to sweeten. Gelatine \ oz. Boil the chocolate in one pint of milk. Dissolve the gelatine in a quarter of a pint of milk, add the melted gelatine to the chocolate. Sweeten to taste, add the eggs, stir over the fire till the eggs are cooked, but not curdled, flavour with vanilla, pour into a mould. Whipped cream may be served round it, if desired. Pineapple Cream. Double cream \ pint. Pineapple puree about \ pint. Juice oi \ 2l lemon. Sugar to taste. Leaf gelatine \ oz. Cold water or milk ... i gill. Pineapple [ ^^"^"^ ^ tablespoon- ( fuls (cut into dice). Lemon jelly ... a little. Decorate the bottom of a mould with the jelly ; cut the pineapple into small pieces, pound well and rub through a hair sieve. Leave out three tablespoonfuls of the pine before rubbing through the sieve. Add the lemon juice and sugar to the puree. Have ready the cream whipped stiffly, add the puree slowly to the cream, then mix in the gelatine dissolved in the water or milk. When beginning- to set, stir in the pineapple cut into dice ; pour at once into the decorated mould. When firm, dip into hot water and turn out.132 All fruit creams, as raspberry, strawberry, apricot, etc., are made in a similar manner. If fresh pineapple be used it sometimes requires to be cooked previously. Half a pint of puree, made by rubbing the fruit through a hair sieve, is the right proportion to half a pint of cream. Pain d'Abricot. Pass some apricots through a hair sieve ; and to half a pint of this puree, take a quarter of a pint of cream (whipped). Mix the cream lightly into the apricot puree, add a little lemon juice, and flavour it with two wine glasses of Noyeau syrup. Sweeten to taste, and stir in about half an ounce of Marshall's leaf gelatine dissolved in half a gill of milk or water. Pour the mixture into a wet Pain mould ; when firm, turn out. Ornament with halves of apricot and cream (striped red with cochineal), through a rose forcer. Raspberry Cream. Cream i pint. Milk I pint. Raspberry syrup ^ pint. Gelatine J oz. Sugar ^ to taste. Juice of I lemon. Dissolve the gelatine in the milk. Whisk the cream, whipping in the sugar, lemon juice, and raspberry syrup ; last of all add the gelatine dissolved in the milk, which must have cooled a little before it is added. (See general directions as to creams.) Swiss Cream. Sponge cake. Cream ^ pint. New milk ^ pint. Sugar to taste. j I tablespoonful, mixed Cornflour < with | a gill of cold ( milk. Grated rind and juice of i lemon. Sherry.133 Cover the bottom of a glass dish with slices of sponge cake at least an inch thick. Soak these in sherry, or, if preferred, in sherry and milk. Mix the cornflour with part of the milk, and put the rest on to boil, adding to it the grated lemon rind, and sugar to taste ; it must be very sweet, as the lemon juice has yet to be added, and if not sufiiciently sweetened the milk will curdle. Pour the boiling milk on the cornflour, return it to the pan, boil two or three minutes, add gradually the lemon juice and then the cream. Let all get thoroughly hot, but not boil. Pour over the cake. Cold Cake Mould, Sponge cakes. Macaroons. Glac^ cherries. Gelatine ^ oz. New milk i pint. Eggs (beaten) 3. Brandy i tablespoonful. Sugar to taste. Vanilla to flavour. Let a mould stand in cold water, and directly it is taken out ornament it with glace cherries, and fill it with broken sponge cake and macaroons. Dissolve the gelatine in the milk, pour it on the eggs, sweeten, stir over the fire till the eggs are cooked, add the brandy and vanilla. Pour into the mould, and set it for a few^ minutes in a cool oven. Turn out when cold, and serve with custard round it. Rice Cream. New milk i| pints. Rice (Carolina is best) ... J teacupful. Gelatine , | rather less than Cream l pint. Sugar ... to taste. Lemon rind, almond essence, \ ^ n laurel leaf, or vanilla ... | to flavour.134 Stew the rice in one and a half pints of milk till very soft. If lemon rind or laurel leaf is used, put it in with the milk. Melt the gelatine in a quarter of a pint of milk, add it to the rice, and sweeten. Remove the lemon or laurel, or if these have not been used flavour with essence of almonds, or vanilla. Whip the cream and stir it in. Put into a mould that has been previously ornamented with g-lace cherries. Cleveland Sweet. Cook eight ounces of Carolina rice in one pint of water (coloured red with carmine) until it is absorbed. Add one pint of milk (coloured red), cook until thick and tender, sweeten to taste. Form a border with the rice on a flat dish. Serve cold with a banana puree in the centre. Decorate with whipped cream through a rose pipe, and sprinkle over pistachios. Banana Puree. Pound six bananas with two tablespoonfuls of apricot jam, add a large wineglass of maraschino and a quarter of a pint of cream (whipped), sweeten to taste. Charlotte Russe. Set some coloured jelly in the bottom of a plain mould, about half an inch thick. Split some Savoy biscuits, trim edges, and fit them closely round the sides of the mould. Fill up with a cream mixture as below : Cream. Whip half a pint of cream, sweeten to taste and fla- vour with vanilla, and brandy and sherry. Melt a quarter of an ounce of leaf gelatine in a gill of milk or water, add to cream, and use. Whipped Cream. Cream ... J pint. (the grated rind and Lemon < the juice of half a ( small one. Brandy i dessertspoonful. Sherry i dessertspoonful. Castor sugar ... to taste.135 The cream must be very thick. Put the lemon juice and rind, brandy, sherry, and two tablespoonfuls of castor sugar in a large basin, let it remain till the sugar is partly melted. Stir in the cream, adding more sugar if required. Whisk till thick, but be very careful not to beat it too much, or it will curdle. Serve in glasses. The cream may be varied by the addition of raspberry or strawberry syrup, two tablespoonfuls of which may be used in place of the sherry and brandy. Custard. New milk \ pint. Yolks of eggs (well beaten) 3. Brandy ... to taste. One laurel leaf or a small piece of lemon rind. Sugar to taste. Cream (if obtainable) ... 4 tablespoonfuls. Boil the laurel leaf or lemon rind in the milk. Strain the milk when hot, but not boiling, on to the eggs, stirring all the time. Sweeten. Put the custard into a clean bright pan or double saucepan, and stir always one way, till the eggs are cooked and the custard coats the spoon. Add the cream, and continue stirring for two or three minutes longer. Take it off the fire, add the brandy. Stir the custard while it cools, so that a skin may not form on the top. Lemon Custard. Lemons 2 Eggs (beaten) 3 Water 1 pint. Lump sugar to taste. Put the water in a saucepan, and add to it the grated rind and juice of the lemons, and lump sugar to taste. When the sugar is melted pour it on the eggs, stirring all the time ; return to the pan and stir over the fire till as thick as custard. Serve in glasses.136 Lemon Sponge. Simmer the rinds of two lemons in one pint of water for ten minutes, dissolve in it half an ounce of gelatine, add the lemon juice, sweeten to taste. Strain, and let it cool. Whip the whites of two eggs quite stiffly, mix with the strained lemon juice and water, and whisk until it stiffens and becomes spongy. Oranges a la Teneriffe. Simmer the peels of two oranges in half a pint of water for ten minutes, dissolve in it half an ounce of gelatine, strain, and mix with half a pint of orange juice and the juice of one lemon. When cool, add the whites of two eggs beaten stiffly ; whisk well until white and spongy. Pile this sponge on the top of the oranges prepared as below : Simmer three-quarters of a pound of loaf sugar with one and a half pints of water until it forms a syrup. Cook in this syrup six or seven small oranges, which have been peeled and the white parts carefully removed. Cook them until they look clear, basting well with the syrup. Colour with cochineal. Serve them cold in a glass dish with the sponge on the top.^ Savouries. These little dishes are served after sweets, and can be greatly varied. A really good cook will have but little difficulty in inventing new or slightly different ones. Petites Croutes d'Anchois. Eggs 3 (hard-boiled). Anchovies 3 (boned). Butter oz. (fresh). Little anchovy essence. Cayenne. Biscuit paste or croutons of brown bread. Take the yolks of the eggs and pound them in a mortar with the anchovies, butter, anchovy essence, and cayenne to taste. Rub the mixture through a hair sieve. Put it into a forcing bag with a rose pipe and force it on to either rounds of biscuit paste or brown bread (buttered). Ornament with Montpelier butter, or strips of red and green chilies, or hard-boiled white of egg. Serve for savoury or Hors d'oeuvre. Savoury Biscuit or Biscuit Paste. Flour 2 oz. Butter 2 Essence of anchovy ... ^ teaspoonful. Water (coloured with cochineal) to mix. Cayenne and salt to taste.138 Rub the butter into the flour ; add anchovy, salt, and cayenne. Mix into a firm paste with the coloured water. Roll out very thinly ; cut into pieces two inches square. Prick well to prevent it blistering, and bake in a moderate oven till crisp. Canapees de Homard. Take three ounces of lobster (chopped finely), pound it with the yolks of two eggs (hard boiled), two ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of Bechamel or white sauce, cayenne, one teaspoonful of anchovy essence, a little carmine, or, if possible, a quarter of an ounce of lobster coral pounded with butter. Pass the mixture through a fine wire sieve. Have ready some brown bread and butter (one and a half inches wide and three and a half inches long). When cold, mask them with the lobster puree, using a bag and large rose pipe. Sprinkle over some hard- boiled yolk and white of egg* and chopped parsley. Dish in a circle. Fromagre a I'Aigburth. Whip three whites of eggs to a firm froth ; stir in lightly one ounce and a half of Parmesan cheese and one ounce and a half of Gruyere or dry Cheddar cheese (grated) ; season to taste with cayenne and salt. Drop small portions into hot fat, and fry a nice golden colour. Dish in a pile ; garnish with fried parsley; serve hot. Fleur au Parmesan. (By kind permission o/Mrs. A. B. Marshall.) Prepare a short paste as below, and roll it out about one-eighth of an inch thick ; line a round fleur ring that is lightly buttered with it, pressing well to the mould. Trim the edges of the paste, prick the bottom of it well with a fork to prevent it blistering, and then place it on a baking tin on greased paper. Make a cheese mixture with—139 Butter I oz. Flour I oz. Parmesiin cheese i| oz. (grated.) Eg"g" I raw yolk. Pinch of salt. Cayenne. Mix all in a stewpan with a good quarter-pint of milk. Stir until it boils, then remove from the fire, and mix into it two whites of egg (beaten stiffly) and also one ounce of Parmesan cheese cut into tiny dice shapes. Pour the mixture into the case of paste, sprinkle on the top a few browned crumbs, and about half an ounce of butter in tiny pieces. Put into a moderate oven for twenty to twenty-five minutes, until the top is nicely browned. Dish up on a dish paper on a hot dish, placing the fleur on the dish by means of a slice, remove ring, and serve whilst hot for a second course or savoury dish. Paste for Fleur.—Rub half an ounce of butter into two ounces of flour until quite smooth, then add a quarter of an egg, a pinch of salt, and make into a stiff paste with cold water, and roll out as directed above. Savouries a la St. Honore. Line some small deep patty pans thinly with short pastry, as for Casolettes k la Duchesse (p. 152), and bake. Remove the rice and put them back in the oven to dry ; fill them with a mayonnaise of vegetables as below. Garnish with chopped aspic, cheevil, truffle, and tomato. Mayonnaise Mixture. Mayonnaise sauce i gill. Aspic I ,, Some cooked vegetables, such as green peas, French beans, haricot verts, cooked on mashed potato, cut in fancy shapes, asparagus tips. Mix all together and use. Croutes a la Campagne, (By hind permission of "iAYLS. A. B. Marshall.) Fry some little rounds of bread (the size of a 5/- piece) a pretty golden colour in olive oil; when cold, mask each croute with Ham Puree, using a large rose forcer.140 Then force on the top of the Ham Pur6e a rose of clotted, iced, or whipped cream. Sprinkle over hard-boiled yolk of egg which has been passed through a sieve. Stick a sprig of tarragon in the centre of each.croute. Set the dish aside in a cool place until required. Use for Hors d'oeuvre, cold luncheon, savoury, or second course dish. Ham Puree. Cooked lean ham 4 oz. Fresh butter 2 oz. Egg I hard-boiled yolk. Cayenne. Chop the ham finely, pound it and put it through a sieve, adding the butter, egg, and seasoning. Colour a deeper shade with a little carmine. Canapees of Shrimps- Brown bread and butter. About a ^ pint of picked shrimps. Thick cream to moisten. Lemon juice. Cayenne. One hard-boiled egg. A little cucumber or watercress. Cut some slices of brown bread—about two inches in length, one inch in width, and a quarter of an inch in thickness. Butter them. Pound the shrimps with sufficient cream to moisten them, a few drops of lemon juice, and cayenne to taste. Pass this mixture through a wire sieve. Spread one side of each canapee with the shrimp mixture ; smoothr over the surface with a wet warm knife. Lay half a shrimp at each end of the canapee, decorate with yolk and white of egg (mixed), and also with parsley and coral butter, and sliced cucumber or watercress. A little aspic (chopped) can also be put here and there if agreeable. Coral Butter is pounded coral and butter. Parsley Butter is made by pounding together a little chopped and blanched parsley and butter.141 Croquettes de Vermicelle au Parmesan. Boil two ounces of vermicelli in three-quarters of a pint of milk until quite tender. Mix in one ounce of butter, a teaspoonful of French mustard, two ounces of grated cheese (Parmesan is the best), cayenne, season to taste. When the mixture has become quite cold, roll it out on a board (using a few bread crumbs) about half an inch thick ; cut into small crescents and any fancy shapes. Dip them into egg and then into crushed vermicelli ; fry a pretty golden colour in hot fat. Dish in a circle. This makes a very pretty savoury. Macaroni Cheese. Macaroni ... J lb. Flour Grated cheese Butter Made mustard Cayenne ... Salt Milk ... ... 2 3 oz- I oz. to taste. i pint. Break the macaroni into small pieces, put it into boiling water (slightly salted), boil till tender, then strain. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, add milk, boil well, stirring all the time ; add cayenne, salt, and mustard, also half the cheese and the macaroni. Butter a pie-dish or French baking dish, put in the macaroni, sprinkle the rest of the cheese on the top. Put it in a quick oven or before a good fire for about ten minutes, so that it may be thoroughly hot and the top nicely browned. If preferred, the cheese may be all put in, and a few browned bread crumbs sprinkled on the top. This may be cooked in scallop shells, if liked. Devilled Roes. The soft roes of fresh herrings, fried in butter, cayenne and salt to taste. Serve very hot on croutons of fried bread, or small pieces of buttered toast. Garnish with hard-boiled white and yolk of egg, and chopped parsley.142 Croquettes of Macaroni Cheese. The remains of macaroni cheese. White sauce ... enough to moisten. Grated Parmesan to taste. Egg I. Pepper and salt to taste. Take the cold remains of macaroni cheese, chop small. Mix enough white sauce with the chopped macaroni to moisten it, add grated Parmesan and seasoning to taste, mix in the egg, let it get cold. Make into balls, egg and breadcrumb, and fry. Serve piled high in a dish, with a little grated Parmesan scattered over. Cheese Fingers. Grated cheese 2 oz. Pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste. Puff pastry 1 lb. Roll out half the paste thinly, strew over it nearly all the cheese mixed with the seasoning. Then roll out the remainder of the paste, put it on the cheese, cut into small fingers. Bake in a quick oven ; a few minutes before it is done scatter the remainder of the cheese over the fingers. Serve very hot. Cheese Straws. Flour 3 oz. Butter 2 oz. Cheese (grated) Parmesan is best 2 oz. Cayenne. Salt. Yolk of egg I (to mix it). Rub the butter into the flour carefully as for ''short paste," add the cheese and seasoning. Mix into a firm paste with yolks of egg (milk takes away the shortness). Roll out the pastry, cut into strips about four inches long and a quarter of an inch wide ; also cut out some rounds and remove the inside. Bake in a slow oven until crisp. Place the strips through the rings and serve. If cooked in too hot an oven the flavour of the cheese is entirely spoilt.143 Tomato Cheese. Grated cheese 3 tablespoonfuls. Tomato sauce i tablespoonful. Butter I oz. Pepper, salt, and cayenne to taste. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the tomato sauce, and then the cheese. Mix well, and add seasoning*. When very hot pour upon croutons, or pieces of toast. Serve at once. Cheese Pudding*. Milk 1 pint. Bread crumbs ^ pint. Butter I oz. Cheese (grated) 2 oz. Eg§*s 2. Mixed mustard, cayenne, and salt to taste. Melt the butter in the milk, pour it warm over the crumbs and cheese, add the seasoning-, and yolks of eggs (beaten) ; last of all stir in the whites (beaten stiffly). Bake in a buttered soufflee dish (porcelain), or in small china or paper ramakins. Time, if in large dish, about twenty minutes ; the small cases will take about ten minutes to bake. Serve hot. Instead of stirring in the whites of the eggs, they may be used to ornament the dish when baked, sprinkled with grated cheese, and returned to the oven to brown and crisp. Cauliflower au Gratin. Boiled cauliflower. White sauce, \ pint (p. 167). Cheese (grated), 2 to 3 oz. Bread crumbs. Butter. Pepper and salt. Butter a shallow pie-dish well^ put in a layer of sauce, then cauliflower, sprinkle the cauliflower thickly with cheese, and season well; then add more sauce, cauli- flower, and cheese till the dish is full; the top layer144 must be of sauce. Sprinkle this well with cheese and a few bread crumbs, and put on plenty of small pieces of butter. Let it brown in the oven or before the fire. Devilled Shrimps. Shell the shrimps, make them hot in butter, add cayenne to taste. Serve on croutons or buttered toast. Bouchees de Fromage. Make some cases of puff pastry as on p. 58. Fill them with the cheese mixture as below ; decorate with white of egg (beaten up stiffly), using- a large rose pipe. Sprinkle over a very little grated Parmesan cheese and coralline pepper. Set them in a moderate oven to crisp the egg. Cheese Mixture. Gruyere or Cheddar cheese 3 ozs. White sauce (thick) ... J pint. Cream i tablespoonful. Cayenne and salt ... ... to taste. Shred the cheese finely, stir it over the fire with the sauce and cream until quite dissolved. Season and use whilst hot.Pies and Tarts. ^ The main differences between meat pies and fruit tarts are— 1. The crust of a meat pie should be thick, and the crust of a fruit tart should be thin. 2. A hole should be made in the centre of the crust of a meat pie, to let the gases escape, but no hole should be made in the crust of a fruit tart, or the crust will sink into the fruit. In trimming the cover of a pie or tart, the knife must always be held slanting outwards, so as to cut the crust a little larger than the dish. The crust will always shrink a little. Fish Pie. Cod or haddock are suitable for this dish. The fish must be free from skin and bone, well seasoned with cayenne pepper and salt, and placed in a well buttered pie-dish. Over it should be placed a sauce made in the following manner :— Stew the bones and trimmings of the fish in one pint of water till reduced to half a pint. Work three-quarters of an ounce of flour into one ounce of butter, pour on the fish stock, put it into a saucepan and stir over the fire till thickened. Season well. Pour this, or part of it, over the fish, put on a rich crust made of puff paste, or of good flaky paste. The K146 crust must be of moderate thickness. The pie should be baked for about half an hour in a moderate oven. The sauce may be flavoured v^ith anchovy, or, if liked, chopped parsley may be added. Beefsteak Pie. Beafsteak 2 lbs. Salt 2 teaspoonfuls. Pepper i teaspoonful. Water. Pastry. If possible, always use the best steak for pies. Cut it in thin strips. Mix the seasoning on a plate, dip each piece of meat into it. Roll up each piece and pack them in a deep pie-dish, which must be quite filled, and the meat rather raised in the middle. Add cold water or stock till the dish is nearly full. Roll out the paste to the required size, and let it be at least a third of an inch in thickness. Cut off a strip the width of the edge of the dish. Wet the edge with cold water and lay the paste on it, then wet it again, and firmly but lightly press on the cover. Make a hole in the centre. Orna- ment the edges, using a knife or spoon. Put the pie into a hot oven till the paste has risen, then put it into a rather cooler part till the meat is thoroughly cooked. The pie should be baked at least two hours. When baked, fill up with stock. The pie may be varied by the addition of mushrooms, oysters, or tomatoes ; it may be eaten hot or cold. Before the pie is baked, it may be brushed over with egg, which improves its appearance. Beefsteak and Potato Pie. Beefsteak lbs. Potatoes to fill dish. Onions i or 2. Salt 2 teaspoonfuls. Pepper i teaspoonful. Pastry. Cold water. This is a cheap and excellent pie, which should always be eaten hot. The potatoes and onions are sliced, the147 meat is cut into pieces about two inches square and three-quarters of an inch thick, and is rolled in the seasoning. Put a layer of meat at the bottom of a pie-dish, then a layer of potatoes and onions, and so on till the dish is full. Add cold water to make gravy. Cover with a crust, as in the preceding recipes. Bake at least two hours. Veal Pie. Veal 4 lbs. Ham or bacon 4 oz. Hard-boiled eggs 2. Forcemeat. Pepper ... teaspoonful. Salt I ,, Water. Paste. Prepare forcemeat in the following manner :— Bread crumbs 2 level tablespoonfuls. Suet (shred) i Parsley (chopped) ... ^ Thyme ^ teaspoonful. Grated lemon rind ... a little. Pepper and salt ... to taste. Egg or milk to bind. Mix all together. Cut the veal into slices, season, and in each slice place a small piece of ham and of forcemeat; roll and pack in the dish, and put among the veal slices of hard- boiled eggs. Many fill the dish with cold water, or stock made from the veal bones. Cover with a crust, brush over with egg, and bake in the same manner as beefsteak pie. Rabbit Pie Is made in much the same manner as veal pie, but the rabbit is cut into joints, which are dipped into the seasoning, and then packed into the dish with half a pound of beefsteak, the ham and bacon, forcemeat, and eggs.148 Pigeon Pie. 4. ij lbs. I oz. Pigeons Beefsteak Butter Hard-boiled eggs Salt 2 teaspoonfuls. Pepper i teaspoonful. Stock. Pastry. Roll the steak as for beefsteak pie. Draw the pigeons and quarter them. Boil the eggs for twelve minutes, then put them into cold water, shell them and slice them. Put the layers of meat in a dish, then pieces of pigeon, placing in each a small piece of butter; then put in slices of egg, and so on till the dish is full— pigeons being at the top. Nearly fill the dish with stock. Put on the crust as for beefsteak pie. Brush over with egg. Scald the feet of the pigeons in boiling water, then skin them ; put them in the centre of the crust about half an hour before pie is done. Bake in the same manner as beefsteak pie. Fruit Tart. The dish in which a tart is made should not be too shallow, and the fruit should be well heaped up, as it will sink. A small cup should be placed in the centre ; this collects the juice, instead of allowing it to boil out. A small quantity of sugar should be put into the tart, but not too much; also a little cold water. The quantity of water depends upon the juiciness of the fruit, as rhubarb and very juicy fruit only need one or two teaspoonfuls of water. Cover edge of pie-dish with a layer of crust, then cover entirely with a thin crust. Do not make a hole in it. The time of baking depends upon the size of the tart, the kind of fruit, and the heat of the oven. It should be first put into a hot part of the oven, then when the crust is risen and is a nice colour, it should be removed to a more moderate part to finish baking.Cold Meat Cookery. In re-cooking meat we must remember that, though it may sometimes need long cooking, it never wants quick cooking ; therefore in making hashes and minces the meat must never boil. Rissoles. Cold meat (finely chopped) ^ lb. , Onion ,, J a small one. Parsley ,, | tablespoonful. Catsup J Jellied stock ^ pint. Butter f oz. Flour J oz. Seasoning. Egg. Bread crumbs. Rissoles are generally very badly made; they are often very hard and uninviting. If properly made they are crisp outside and soft inside, and are excellent if properly flavoured. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, then put in the onion and fry till tender ; stir in the flour and stock, boil 7vell, stirring all the time. Then remove from the fire.i5<^ and at once stir In the catsup, parsley, and meat ; season, and mix well. Spread the mixture on a plate to get cold. When quite cold, make it into small balls, or into oblong shapes like corks (flour the hands to do this, but on no account put any flour into the mixture). Egg and bread-crumb, and fry a nice brown in deep fat (see directions for frying, p. 7). Dish in a pile and garnish with parsley. Potato Pie. . Cold meat J lb. Onion (chopped) i. Parsley (chopped) | tablespoonful. Seasoning to taste. Uncooked potatoes (sliced). Milk. Mince the meat, add the onion and parsley, season well. Butter a pie-dish, put at the bottom a layer of mince, then a layer of potatoes, and so on till the dish is full. Cover thickly with potatoes. Fill with milk, and bake for at least two hours in a moderate oven. Fill up with milk while baking, if necessary. The onion and parsley may be omitted if preferred. Minced Beef or Mutton. Cold beef (cut into dice). Onion (chopped) Butter Flour Brown stock Mushroom catsup ... Pepper and salt Melt the butter in a stewpan, put in the onion, fry a nice brown, add the flour and stock, boil well, then add the catsup, pepper and salt. Simmer for ten or fifteen minutes. Put in the meat, let it get quite hot, and serve in a neatly-made border of mashed potatoes. I lb. I. I oz. 1 oz. f pint. I tablespoonful. to taste.Pepper and salt to taste. Hashed Mutton. Slices of cold mutton Brown stock Butter Flour Mushroom catsup ... Harvey's sauce Onion (sliced) Parsley Thyme Marjoram Melt the butter, put in the onion, fry it a nice brown, but do not let it burn ; stir in the flour, add the stock, boil well for five minutes, add the catsup, Harvey's sauce, and herbs. Cover the pan, and let the gravy simmer for fifteen or twenty minutes, then strain it, season, add the slices of mutton (neatly trimmed). Put it in a pan and let the meat become thoroughly hot, but do not let it boil. Serve in a hot dish garnished with sippets of toast. Mock Venison. Cold mutton (cut in thin sHces) I lb. Port wine 2 wineglasses. Mushroom catsup 2 tablespoonfuls. Worcester sauce i tablespoonful. Onion (small) i. Currant jelly. Slice the onion finely and put it on a dish. Spread a little currant jelly on the mutton, and lay the slices of meat on the onion. Mix the port wine with the catsup and Worcester sauce, and pour over the mutton. Let it lie for two or three hours, then put it in a pan ; let it get thoroughly hot, and serve garnished with sippets of toast. I lb. I oz. I tablespoonful. I teaspoonful. a small bunch.Cold veal (cut into dice)... i lb. f oz. Minced Veal. Butter Flour Mace Pepper and salt Lemon juice Cream White stock a tmy piece, to taste, a few drops. 3 or4 tablespoonfuls. f pint. Melt the butter in a stewpan, stir in the flour and stock, boil well, add the mace, pepper and salt. Simmer a few minutes. Put in the veal, let it get quite hot; add the cream and lemon juice just before serving. Garnish with slices of lemon, rolls of bacon, and sippets of toast. Scalloped Meat. Cold meat (finely minced and well seasoned). Stock or gravy. Bread crumbs. Butter. Butter well a French baking dish, or a pie-dish, line It with bread crumbs, put in the meat well moistened with stock or gravy. Cover thickly with bread crumbs, and on them put plenty of little pieces of butter. Brown before the fire. Take care to use plenty of good gravy or stock, and enough butter, as the dish will be spoiled if it is dry. Casolettes a la Duchesse. Cooked veal or fowl ... 2 oz. Cooked ham 2 oz. Fresh butter 2 oz. White sauce i tablespoonful. Cayenne. Seasoning. Pastry:— Flour 1 lb. Egg I yolk. Butter I oz. Salt. Water.153 Make the pastry first as follows :—Rub the butter thoroughly into the flour, add the salt and yolk of egg, and make into a firm paste with the cold water. Roll out the paste thmly, and line some small patty pans with it; lay in each patty pan a greased paper, and fill up with rice ; bake them in a moderately hot oven ; when done, remove the rice and paper, and brush over the edges of each little case w^ith egg, and return them to the oven to glaze. Pound together the veal and ham, the butter (melted), and the white sauce, season the mixture rather highly, and pass all through a sieve. When the cases are cold, pile up the meat mixture to a pyramid shape, smoothing it over with a knife. Stick a small sprig of parsley in each casolette, ornament with cochineal butter, using a paper forcer, and garnish the base of each casolette with chopped aspic. Patties of Cold Meat. Flaky pastry. Cold meat, minced, well seasoned, and moistened with gravy or stock. Line some patty pans with pastry, put in the meat, and cover with a lid of pastry. Decorate the edges, and make a hole in the top. Bake. Chicken Salad. Some cold chicken. Some celery or lettuce. Mayonnaise sauce. For Garnish :— Capers. Anchovies. Hard-boiled eggs. Beetroot. Cut the meat into dice, and mix with it half its bulk of celery, cut into small strips or dice ; pour over a little oil and vinegar, season it, and let it stand until just before serving. This improves the flavour. When ready to serve, mix sufficient Mayonnaise sauce with the chicken and celery to moisten it.154 Arrange the chicken mixture on a dish, the hig-hest part in the centre, pour over the remainder of the Mayonnaise dressing to completely cover the chicken. Garnish with the slices of egg*, beetroot, capers, ancho- vies, and celery or lettuce, in any pretty design. Croustades of Veal or Chicken. . ... ... 6 or 8. 4 oz. I oz. 2 1 gill- 2 tablespoonfuls. a tiny piece. to taste. Croustades Minced veal or chicken mixed with a little ham Butter Flour Milk or white stock Cream ... Mace Pepper and salt A squeeze of lemon. Make six or eight croustades in the following manner : Take a loaf of baker's bread, cut slices about two inches thick, and out of these slices cut rounds about two inches in diameter. Scoop out the centres, leave sides and bottoms half to three-quarters of an inch thick. Dip the croustades in milk or thin cream. Drain them. Fry in hot fat (p. 7), and w^hile quite hot fill with the meat prepared as follows :—Melt the butter in a pan, add the flour, milk or stock, and mace ; boil well. Stir in the meat, cream, and seasoning; let it heat thoroughly, but not boil. Lastly stir in the lemon juice. Pile high in the croustades and serve very hot.Omelets and Soufflees. There may be almost endless variety in Omelets and Soufflees, but in all cases the following* rules should be observed :— OMELETS. The eggs and butter must be fresh. The omelet pan should be kept very clean and used for omelets only, and must not be too large. The mixture must be put into the pan as soon as the butter bubbles, and before it browns. It must not be allowed to become too brown, nor to stick to the pan. The omelet must be served the moment it is ready. SOUFFLEES. The whites and yolks of the eggs must be beaten separately. The whites must be beaten to a firm froth, w^hich will cut with a knife. To do this the whites must be most carefully separated from the yolks—a small portion of yolk left in will prevent the whites becoming stiff. The whites must be put on to a large plate, a pinch of salt should be added, and they should be beaten up with a clean knife in a cool place. Soufflees are not to be beaten after the whites are added. They must be baked in a steady rather hot oven, the door of which is to be kept shut. If steamed, the water must only simmer. They must be served directly they are cooked.156 Plain Omelet. Eggs ... 3 or 4, according to size of pan. Butter i| oz. Milk IJ to 2 tablespoonfuls. Add a pinch of salt to the eggs, beat them enough to mix the yolks and whites well together, beat in the milk. Half an ounce of butter, cut in small pieces, may be added to the egg mixture if liked. Melt the butter in the pan ; when it bubbles pour in the mixture, stir well until it sets. Let it brown very slightly. Tilt the pan, and let the omelet slide on to a hot dish, and as it slips off turn one side on to the other, so that it is the shape of a half-moon. In an omelet made according to the above method, the outside is more cooked than the middle, and many persons prefer this ; but there are others who like an omelet that is more thoroughly set, when it may be finished in the following manner :— After the omelet is set, it is scraped to one side of the pan in a half-moon shape, the pan is then tilted, and the omelet is turned over to the opposite side, and is slightly browned. The following are variations of the Plain Omelet:— Sweet Omelet. Add a teaspoonful of castor sugar to the egg mixture, and before serving sift sugar over it. Sweet omelet with preserve is made in the same manner. A spoonful of strawberry or other preserve is warmed and put upon the half of the omelet before it is turned over. A little vanilla or other suitable flavouring may be added to the egg mixture. Savoury Omelet. Chopped parsley i teaspoonful. Chopped shallot or onion J saltspoonful. Pepper and salt to taste. These are beaten into the egg mixture before it is cooked. A small portion of chopped thyme and mar- joram may also be added if liked.^57 Ham or Tongue Omelet Is made by adding- about two tablespoonfuls of grated ham or tongue to the egg mixture, before it is cooked. Cheese Omelet Is made by adding two tablespoonfuls of grated cheese to the egg mixture, with pepper and salt to taste. Kidney Omelet. Skin two sheep's kidneys, cut them into small dice, fry for five minutes in one ounce of butter. When the omelet is cooked place these pieces of kidney on it, season with pepper and salt, fold the omelet over the kidney, and serve. This is a good way of using up any remains of stewed or fried kidney. Fish Omelet. Take the remains of any cold fish, free it from skin and bone, chop it, season with cayenne and salt, warm it in butter, and, when quite hot, put it in just before the omelet is folded. Vegetable Omelet. Almost any cold vegetables except potatoes, arti- chokes, cabbages, and turnips may be served in an omelet, but they should be warmed in butter and seasoned with pepper and salt before they are added. Mushroom Omelet. Mushrooms (peeled and cut into dice) J lb. Butter I oz. Pepper and salt to taste. Stew the mushrooms in the butter till tender, season. The mushrooms may be added to the omelet either before or after it is cooked. Tomato Omelet Is made in the same way as mushroom omelet.i5« Sweet Omelet Soufflee. Eggs ... 2. Butter i f oz. Castor sugar i teaspoonful. Vanilla or other flavouring* to taste. Beat the yolks of the eggs with the sugar and flavour- ing. Stir in lightly the whites beaten stiff. Melt the butter in a small omelet pan ; when it bubbles all over pour in the eg*g mixture and stir over a quick fire till it sets. When lightly browned underneath and set, put it into a hot oven for two minutes to let it rise. Put a spoonful of hot jam on one half of the omelet, turn the other half over it. Serve at once. Cheese Soufflee. Flour Butter Grated cheese ... Milk Eggs Cayenne and salt. oz. 2 OZ. 3 oz. i pint. 3- Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the milk ; stir till it is thick and smooth, and has boiled two or three minutes. Add the grated cheese and seasoning. Let the mixture cool, then add the yolks of two eggs. Mix well. Last of all stir in lightly the whites beaten to a stifl" froth. Bake at once for about twenty to thirty minutes in a rather hot oven. The mixture must be baked in a round soufflee or cake tin, which has previously been prepared in the following manner :—Butter the tin well, tie round it some buttered writing paper, which must reach for two or three inches above the tin to allow for the rising of the soufllee. The soufllee must be served immediately in the tin in which it is baked. If not served in a special soufflee dish, a napkin must be fastened round the tin.159 Steamed Vanilla Soufflee. Butter I oz. Flour I oz. Castor sugar i oz. Milk I pint. Eggs (yolks) 3. Do. (whites) 4. Essence of vanilla 6 to 8 drops. Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, then the milk ; stir till it is thick and smooth. Boil well. Let it cool. Beat in the yolks of the eggs, beat it well. Add the sugar and vanilla. Last of all stir in lightly the whites of the eggs, beaten to a firm froth. Pour into a tin prepared as for cheese soufflee. Steam for twenty to thirty minutes (see directions for steaming puddings p. loi). Turn out; serve at once with rasp- berry, Sabayon, or chocolate sauce round it. Chicken Soufflee. Milk J pint. Butter 2 oz. Fine flour 2 oz. Cold chicken 6 oz. Eggs 3. Pounded mace \ Pepper V to taste. Salt j Mince and pound the chicken well. Season it with pepper, salt, and a very little mace. Make a sauce of the butter, flour, and milk. After it has boiled add the pounded chicken. Take care that the mixture is suf- ficiently seasoned. When cool add the beaten yolks of the eggs. Whip the whites to a firm froth, stir in lightly last of all. Butter a soufflee tin well, and, if liked, ornament it with ham, hard-boiled eggs, and truffles. Put in the mixture, steam for three-quarters of an hour. Turn out and serve with well-flavoured Bechamel, mush- room, oyster, or celery sauce.Sauces. A careless or incapable cook never makes good sauces. They are the part of cookery which requires the greatest care and accuracy. All sauces containing flour must be well boiled and well stirred. If they are not well boiled they will not thicken properly, and will taste of raw flour. If they are not well stirred they will be lumpy. Sauces of this kind should not be made a long time before they are wanted, and allowed to stand; if this is done they will be lumpy. Sauces should be as smooth as possible. Melted Butter. This is most erroneously supposed to be **the only English sauce." It is, however, the foundation of many sauces, and, as such, should receive more care and attention than generally falls to its lot. The ingredients are usually :— Flour f oz. Butter I oz. Water J pint. Salt a pinch. The above quantities are merely average. When a richer sauce is required more butter is used ; also it must be remembered that the thickening properties of flour difl'er greatly, and sometimes a larger quantity may be necessary.i6i Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the flour, cook well in the butter, then take it off the fire, and stir in gradually the cold water. Boil for three or four minuteSc Sauces for Fish. In all these sauces fish stock, made from simmering the trimmings and bones of fish in milk or water, is preferable to plain milk or water. Oyster Sauce Oysters Butter Flour Cream Lemon juice I oz. f oz. 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls. a few drops, to taste, i pint. Cayenne and salt Milk and oyster liquor Drain the oysters from their liquor, blanch and beard them, and simmer the beards in the oyster liquor and milk, of which, after simmerz7ig, there must be half a pint. Cook the butter and flour together; add the strained milk and oyster liquor, and stir over the fire till it has thickened; let it boil well, stirring well all the time. Add the cream, seasoning, oysters, and lemon juice. Let all be thoroughly heated, but it must not boil. Lobster Sauce. Lobster. Butter oz. Flour I oz. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Lemon juice. Cayenne and salt. Milk J pint when reduced. Take the flesh from the tail and claws of a small lobster, cut it into small pieces, but do not mince it. Pound the spawn with half an ounce of the butter, rub through a sieve. Stew^ the shell of the lobster in milk till it is reduced to half a pint. Cook the flour in the rest Ll62 of the butter, then add the strained milk, and stir till it has boiled well. Now add the spawn, lobster, cream, cayenne, and salt. Heat thoroughly, but do not boil. Last of all, add a few drops of lemon juice. Crab Sauce. I moderate sized crab. Butter Flour Cream Anchovy sauce Milk Lemon juice Cayenne. I oz. 1 oz. 2 tablespoonfuls. I dessertspoonful, rather more than ^ a few drops. pmt. This may sometimes be used as a substitute for lobster sauce, and is less expensive. Take the flesh from the body and claw of the crab, cut it into small pieces, stew the shell of the crab in milk till it is reduced to half a pint. Cook the flour in the butter, add the milk (strained), and stir over the fire till it has boiled well. Add the cream, crab, anchovy sauce, and cayenne, heat thoroughly, last of all stir in the lemon juice. Shrimp Sauce. Shrimps (picked) Butter Flour New milk Anchovy sauce Cayenne. Lemon juice ... Cream 4 gills. I oz. I oz. a little more than ^ pint. I dessertspoonful. a few drops. 2 tablespoonfuls. Stew the shrimp shells in the milk. Strain ; cook the flour in the butter ; add the milk ; stir till it has boiled well. Add the anchovy sauce, cream, shrimps, cayenne. Re-heat.i63 Anchovy Sauce. Melted butter sauce ... J pint. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Anchovy sauce to taste. The melted butter for the above sauce should be made according to the directions on page 160, but either milk or fish stock may be used. The cream and anchovy are added after the sauce has boiled. Gooseberry Sauce. Green gooseberries i lb. Melted butter | pint. Sugar to taste. Stew the gooseberries in a stew jar in the oven till they are quite done, but not overdone. Break them up with a spoon, then add the melted butter and sugar. Some persons like the gooseberries rubbed through a sieve before they are mixed with the melted butter. This is an old-fashioned sauce, which is sometimes eaten with mackerel and with boiled lamb. Mayonnaise Sauce, Yolk of egg I. Salad oil i gill. Tarragon vinegar to taste. Common vinegar ,, Chili vinegar r teaspoonful. Pepper and salt. English mustard J teaspoonful. French mustard ^ teaspoonful. Castor sugar i teaspoonful. Put the yolk of the egg into a basin, add the mustard and seasoning. Stir in gradually the oil, drop by drop at first, then as it thickens, more oil can be added at once. Flavour with the vinegars to taste. A little cream can be added if preferred. When wanted for coating, about half a gill of aspic jelly must be added to stifi"en it. When mixed, this sauce must be of the consistency of very thick cream.164 Tartare Sauce. This sauce is made in the same manner as mayonnaise, with the addition of— Finely chopped shallot or green onions ^ teaspoonfuL Chopped pickled gherkin or capers i tablespoonful. If preferred the onion or shallot may be omitted. Egg Sauce. Milk 1 pint. Butter I oz. Flour f oz. Hard boiled eggs 2. Cayenne and salt to taste. Boil the eggs for twelve minutes; cut into dice. Add them to half a pint of white sauce (p. 167). Cayenne and salt to taste. ANOTHER WAY. Take the same ingredients as in the former sauce, but boil only one of the eggs. Beat the yolk of the other egg, add it to the white sauce, and stir it over the fire till cooked, but not curdled. Add the other egg, chopped, and cayenne and salt to taste. HoIIandaise Sauce. Yolks of eggs 4. Fresh butter 4 oz. Vinegar 2 tablespoonfuls. Cold water i tablespoonful. Salt to taste. Beat the eggs in a saucepan ; stir in the water and the vinegar. Stir very carefully over the fire till thickened. Stir one way, and be very careful that it does not curdle. Last of all, stir in the butter in small pieces, and add salt to taste. It must be made in a double saucepan.i65 Imitation Hollandaise Sauce. Flour f oz. Butter 2 oz. Boiling water ^ pint. Yolks of eggs 2. Juice of half a lemon, or i dessertspoonful of vinegar. Salt. Make a melted butter sauce (p. i6o) of the butter, flour, and water. Beat the eggs well, add the sauce to them, and stir over the fire till the eggs have thickened, but do not let it curdle. Add the lemon juice, or vinegar, and salt. Parsley Sauce. Butter I oz. Flour f oz. Fish stock J pint. Chopped parsley i tablespoonful. Salt. Wash, blanch, and thoroughly dry the parsley. Chop it finely. Prepare the sauce like plain melted butter (p. i6o). Just before serving, stir in the parsley, which must on no account be allowed to boil, or it will lose its colour. Fennel Sauce. Pick the fennel from the stalks, put into boiling water and boil till tender. Drain, chop, and add to melted butter sauce, allowing two tablespoonfuls of chopped fennel to half-pint of sauce. Maitre d'Hotel Sauce- Butter oz. Flour nearly i oz. Chopped parsley i dessertspoonful. Fish stock ^ pint. Lemon juice f teaspoonful. Cayenne and salt to taste. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls.i66 Work together the parsley, butter, and flour ; when thoroughly blended, add the boiling fish stock. Stir over the fire till it has boiled three or four minutes. Add the cream and seasoning. Last of all, stir in the lemon juice, which must be added drop by drop. ANOTHER WAY. Work together two ounces of butter, one tablespoonful of chopped parsley, one teaspoonful of lemon juice, and pepper and salt to taste. Make half a pint of plain melted butter sauce (p. i6o), using either fish stock or milk. While it is quite hot, but 7iot boiling, stir in the Maitre d'hotel butter. Stir this in very thoroughly, and serve at once. SAUCES FOR MEAT, POULTRY, AND GAME. Mint Sauce- Wash some freshly-gathered mint, chop it finely, put it into a sauce tureen with white sugar. Pour over the mint some vinegar. Let it stand one or two hours before serving. The exact quantity of mint and sugar cannot be given, as they vary according to taste. Caper Sauce. To half a pint of melted butter sauce (p. i6o) add one tablespoonful (or more) of capers. The capers must not be added till the sauce is ready to serve. Apple Sauce. Apples I lb. Sugar to taste. Butter I oz. Water, if the fruit be dry or old.167 Peel, core and slice the apples, put into a clean pan, add sugar, and a little water if needed. Keep on the lid, and cook gently till quite tender. Add the butter. Onion Sauce. Flour f oz. Butter I oz. Milk (boiling) 1 pint. Onions 2 ^b. Salt. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Peel the onions, cut them across the thick end, put them into cold water, bring to the boil, strain, put into boiling water with half a teaspoonful of salt and boil till tender ; then drain and chop. Cook the flour and butter together, add the milk gradually, stirring' well. Put the sauce over the fire, let it boil three or four minutes, stirring all the time. Add the chopped onion, cream, and seasoning. Re-heat. Veloute Sauce, White stock (rabbit, fowl, or veal) f pint. Butter I oz. Flour f oz. Cream J gill. Lemon juice i teaspoonful. Seasoning to taste. Cook the flour in the butter well, without browning; remove from the fire ; add the stock, boil up, and simmer fifteen minutes. Then add cream; re-heat. Lastly, stir in lemon juice. White Sauce. Milk J pint. Butter I oz. Flour f oz. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Rind of half a lemon (peeled thinly). Lemon juice 3 or 4 drops. Salt a pinch.168 Boil the lemon rind in the milk, then make a sauce of the milk, flour and butter in the same manner as for onion sauce. Lastly, stir in the cream, lemon juice and salt. Re-heat. Sauce Robert for Pork Cutlets or Pork. Onions 2. Vinegar i tablespoonful. Butter I oz. Made mustard i teaspoonful. Stock I" pint. Flour I tablespoonful. Salt and pepper to taste. Slice the onions. Melt the butter in a stewpan or saucepan. Fry the onions in it till they are a light brown. Dredge the flour, add the vinegar, pepper and salt. Stir well, then gradually add the stock. Let it simmer for half an hour, stir it often ; last of all, stir in the mustard. Strain. Horse-Radish Sauce. Horse-radish (grated) Made mustard Vineg'ar White sugar Cream Salt Mix well the grated horse-radish, mustard, vinegar, sugar and salt. Last of all add the cream. Make just before it is wanted. The cream may be half whipped, if liked. 2 tablespoonfuls. I teaspoonful. I dessertspoonful, to taste, i pint, a pinch. Espagnol Sauce. Brown sauce ^ pint. Sherry ... i wineglassful. Mushrooms (sliced) ... 4. Seasoning. Simmer all together for ten minutes, then tammy and use.169 Tomato Sauce. Tomatoes (sliced)... Shallot (sliced) Lean ham or bacon (cut into dice Peppercorns Herbs Vinegar ... Butter ... Mace 1 lb. I. 2 oz. 16. a small bunch. I tablespoonful. I oz. I blade. Put all these ingredients into a saucepan, put on the lid; simmer gently until all is quite tender. Rub through a hair sieve. Add a little cochineal to improve the colour if necessary. Remove any fat from the sauce. Re-heat and it is ready for use. If using tinned tomatoes, the purde must be reduced until the right consistency. Brown Sauce. Brown stock i pint. Butter ij oz. Flour i|- oz. Carrot a few slices. Turnip do. Onion do. Celery i stalk. Tomato (sliced) i. Mushrooms 2 or 3, or Mushroom catsup i tablespoonful. Pepper. Salt. Make the butter hot in a stewpan, fry the sliced vegetables until a nice brown, add the flour, and when browned put in the stock ; bring it to the boil. Simmer gently about ten minutes, add catsup and seasoning. Strain, remove fat.Supreme Sauce. Chicken, or veal stock ... f pint. Butter 1 oz. Flour I oz. Cream h gill. White button mushrooms 12. Cook the flour in the butter ; add the stock, mush- rooms, and cream ; simmer for ten minutes ; tammy, and add a few drops of lemon juice. Bread Sauce. Milk .., -. ... i pint. Onion i. Bread crumbs 2 oz. Butter ... ... i oz. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Peppercorns 3. Salt c to taste. Simmer the onion and peppercorns in the milk. Strain over the bread crumbs. Stir over the fire till thickened, add the butter, cream, and salt, and serve. If no cream be used, one ounce of butter may be stirred in at last. Brown Gravy for Poultry or Game. The following quantity is sufficient for a couple of fowls. Wash the giblets in salt and water, dry and flour them. Slice an onion, fry it with the giblets in three- quarters of an ounce of butter till of a good brown colour ; add one pint of warm brown stock, six pepper- corns, and a bunch of herbs. Simmer (covered) for two hours. Strain and season. Liver Sauce for Hares or Rabbits. White sauce (p. 167) ... ^ pint. The liver of one hare or two rabbits. Wash the liver in salt and water, put it into boiling water and boil it till quite done. Drain it well, then pound it in a mortar and mix it thoroughly with the white sauce. Re-heat and serve.171 Boil Port Wine Sauce. Quarter-pint gravy from roast venison or mutton. One wineg-lass of port. One teaspoonful of red currant jelly, these ino^redients for two minutes. Serve in sauce tureen. Mushroom Sauce, h lb. Mushrooms White sauce (p. 167) ... J pint, (made without lemon) Peel and trim the mushrooms. Cut them into pieces, but not too small, as they will shrink in cooking. Fry them lightly in butter. Add them to the white sauce. Be careful to put in all the butter and the juice that has come from the mushrooms. Let the mushrooms cook in the sauce for ten or fifteen minutes. Stir often. Add pepper and salt, and serve. Celery Milk .. Cream Butter Flour.. Salt .. Celery Sauce. 2 heads. I pint. 2 tablespoonfuls. I oz. f tablespoonful. to taste. Take the white part of the celery. Cut it in rather small pieces, put it into the cold milk and stew till quite tender, then rub all through a hair sieve. Melt the butter in a saucepan, stir in the flour, then add the puree of celery. Boil three or four minutes, then add the cream and salt, and serve. Piquante Sauce. Vinegar Onion Capers Gherkin (chopped) Pepper and salt ... Brown sauce I wineglassful. a small one (finely chopped). I tablespoonful. I tablespoonful. to taste.172 Let the onion stew in the vinegar till the vinegar is reduced to less than one half, add the capers, gherkin, and brow^n sauce. Simmer fifteen minutes. Season and serve. Bechamel Sauce (No. i). Milk f pint. Butter I oz. Flour f oz. Cream 2 tablespoonfuls. Button mushrooms ... 6, or Afew^ small slices of carrot, turnip, and onion, and a small bunch of thyme, parsley, and marjoram. Salt a pinch. Simmer the mushrooms, or the vegetables and herbs in the milk, strain. Cook the flour in the butter ; add milk. Stir till thick. Boil a few minutes. Add cream, salt, and re-heat. Another Recipe (No. 2). Milk or white stock ... \ pint. Butter I oz. Flour I oz. Cream i gill. Aspic jelly \ gill. Flavour the milk with a little carrot, turnip, shallot, celery, six white peppercorns, a blade of mace, and a small bunch of herbs ; when flavoured sufficiently, strain away the vegetables, etc. Melt the butter in a small saucepan, add the flour, and then stir in gradually the milk ; let it boil well, add the cream, and boil again about five minutes, stirring well; season to taste, and stir in lastly the aspic jelly. This sauce is suitable for coating cold boiled fowl, cutlets, etc. Chaudfroid Sauce. Mix together one gill each tomato, brown sauce, and aspic jelly ; reduce over the fire to half a pint. Strain it, and when cool it is ready for use.173 to taste. Pepper and salt ... Sauce for Cutlets, etc. Brown stock Vinegar Sherry Carrot Celery Onion i pint. 1 wineglassful. 2 tablespoonfuls. I oz. (chopped small). I I oz. I tablespoonful. ID. a tiny piece, to taste. Butter Mushroom catsup Peppercorns ... Mace Pepper and salt Heat the butter, fry the vegetables till brown, add the vinegar, catsup, mace and peppercorns. Simmer till reduced to half. Add the stock. Simmer half an hour. Add the sherry. Strain and serve. Easily Made Brown Sauce. Brown stock (well flavoured) ^ pint. Butter I oz. Flour Mushroom catsup Onion Put the butter into a saucepan, when quite hot put in the onion (sliced) and fry it a good brown, then add the flour, stir till nicely browned. Add the stock, stir well, and boil three or four minutes. Last of all put in catsup and seasoning. Strain. 1 oz. I tablespoonful. half a small one.174 PUDDING SAUCES. Wine Sauce. Water (boiling) ... ^ pint. Water (cold) ... ... 2 tablespoontuls. Sherry ^ pint. Sugar ... to taste. Arrowroot a small teaspoonful. Mix the arrowroot to a smooth paste with the cold water. Pour on the boiling- water gradually, stirring well. Put it into a saucepan, add the wine, boil one minute, sweeten and serve. This sauce may be coloured with a few drops of cochineal. Egg and Wine Sauce. Milk (boiling) ^ pint. Egg I. Sherry i wineglassful. Sugar ... , to taste. Beat the egg well, beat in the sherry. Pour on the milk, which must be almost boiling, and while doing so whisk the sauce quickly till it froths. It must be served immediately. Lemon Sauce. Lump sugar ... i oz. Lemon i Water (boiling) ... rather more than half-pint. Water (cold) ... 2 tablespoonfuls. Arrowroot a small dessertspoonful. Rub the sugar on the lemon rind, till all the outer rind is removed. Put it into the boiling water. Mix the arrowroot with the cold water, pour in the boiling water, return to the saucepan and boil for one minute, add the lemon juice. If the lemon is a very large one, more sugar will be required.175 Sabayon Sauce. Eggs 2. Sherry J pint. Castor sugar i oz. or rather more. Beat the eggs in a double saucepan, and with a whisk beat in the sugar, then the sherry. Put the sauce on the fire and whisk till the eggs are cooked but not curdled. Buttered Brandy Sauce. Butter 4 oz. Castor sugar 2 oz. Brandy |- wineglassful. Beat the butter to a cream. Beat in the sugar, and last of all the brandy. Keep in a cool place till wanted. Marmalade Sauce. Water ^ pint. Marmalade 2 tablespoonfuls. Lemon juice i teaspoonful. Sherry i wineglassful. Sugar to taste. Put the marmalade, water, and lemon juice in a pan. Stir till it boils. Add the sugar, and last of all the sherry. This sauce may be made without the sherry, then a little more water and lemon juice should be used. Raspberry Sauce. Water ^ pint. Raspberry jam 2 tablespoonfuls. Sherry i wineglassful. Sugar 3 or 4 lumps. Dissolve the sugar in the water, let it boil, add the jam, let it boil again, add the sherry, and serve. This sauce may be made without wine. A teaspoon- ful of lemon juice should then be added, and a little more water.176 Dean's Plum Pudding Sauce. lb. oz. wineglassful. Fresh butter Castor sugar Brandy Bitter almonds i dozen. (blanched and pounded). Beat the butter to a cream, beat in the sugar and almonds, then the brandy. Beat altogether in a warm place till it has the appearance of clotted cream. Chocolate Sauce. Grated chocolate Castor sugar ... Essence of vanilla Milk Egg 3 oz- to taste, to taste. 1 pint. I (well beaten). Dissolve the chocolate in the milk. Let it boil, then add vanilla and sugar to taste. When quite hot pour it on the egg, whisk all the time. Return to the pan and whisk over the fire till the egg is cooked but not curdled. Serve at once. The egg may be omitted, in which case the sauce should be thickened with a small teaspoonful of cornflour. The cornflour is mixed with a little cold milk, the boiling chocolate is poured on it, it is then stirred over the fire till it has boiled for two or three minutes. In this case the vanilla must not be added till last of all.Bread, Rolls, and Cakes. BREAD. In making- bread, the flour, basin and water must all be warm but not hot. The dough must stand to rise in a warm place. It must be well kneaded till the dough does not stick to the hands, and will leave the sides and bottom of the basin quite clean. The time to rise must be at least that given in the recipe, and may be longer. The oven should be hot at first, then moderate. Bread must be thoroughly baked. To ascertain whether it is done, try with a skewer, and then turn the loaf out of its tin and see whether the crust is brown and crisp, and gives a sharp sound when tapped. Trying with a skewer is the usual manner of finding out whether bread or cakes are sufficiently baked ; the skewer should come out bright and clean without any dough sticking to it. In making a larger quantity of bread than the amount here given, a double quantity of yeast will not be required, as less yeast in proportion is needed to work a larger quantity of flour. The dough should, however, be allowed to rise for a longer time. The exact quantity of water cannot be given, as best flour takes up a larger quantity than inferior flour. Enough water must be used to make the dough quite elastic, but not enough to make it too soft. M178 The above remarks apply to all bread, cakes or rolls containing yeast. Brown flour requires more yeast and water than white flour. Bread. Flour 22 Salt 2 teaspoonfuls. Yeast I oz. Water about if pints. Sugar I teaspoonful. Put the flour and salt in a basin and put it near the fire to warm, beat the yeast to a cream with a teaspoon- ful of white sugar, add a little lukewarm water. Make a hole in the middle of the flour, pour in a little water, then the yeast and more water. Stir in flour from the sides to form a batter, sprinkle a little flour over the top, cover with a clean cloth and let stand in a warm place to sponge " for ten minutes. Knead well. Add suflicient water to form a dough. Cut a cross on the top and let it stand '*to rise" one hour. Make into loaves. Let them prove" in warm greased tins for twenty minutes. Bake in a ko^ oven at first, then slower. Try with a skewer. Rolls. Fine flour i lb. Butter I oz. Yeast i oz. Salt I small teaspoonfuL Lukewarm milk to mix. Dissolve the yeast in a quarter of a pint of milk. Make a hole in the centre of the flour, pour in a little lukewarm milk, strain in the yeast, stir in flour from the sides to form a light batter, let it rise in a warm place for half an hour. Then knead well, adding more milk if necessary. Let it rise again for an hour. Make into fancy shapes, let them prove" for twenty minutes, put them into a moderate oven, and just before they are baked brush them over with beaten egg, or with milk.179 Milk Rolls. Fine flour 2 lbs. Butter 2 oz. Lard 2 oz. Milk (lukewarm) about i pint. German yeast i oz. Baking powder | oz. Salt I large teaspoonful. Rub the butter and lard into the flour, add the baking powder and salt. Cream the yeast with one teaspoonful of castor sugar, add half the milk to this and pour it into the centre of the flour. *^Set the sponge," and leave it to rise half an hour ; add the rest of the milk, knead well, make into shapes, put the rolls on to warm greased tins, let them rise at least half an hour, then bake in a quick oven. Brush over with egg or milk just before they are done. — » « CAKES. In making cakes the following rules should be remembered :— 1. Baking powder must be added dry; it must be carefully rubbed through the hands to avoid lumps. 2. Carbonate of soda must be dissolved in a little lukewarm or sour milk. 3. Currants should be washed, picked over, and well dried. 4. Raisins must be stoned. 5. Sultanas must have the stalks picked off, and all little pieces of grit should be taken out. 6. Candied peel must be sliced thinly. 7. In most cases the whites and yolks of the eggs should be beaten separately. 8. Cakes should be baked as soon as they are mixed. The tins must be thoroughly greased, except for very rich cakes. 9. The oven must be hot enough to make the cake rise, but not hot enough to bake the outside before the inside has risen thoroughly.i8o 10. A skewer should be put in to try whether the cake is baked sufficiently ; it should come out clean with no mixture sticking to it. 11. The cake should be turned out on to a sieve, or tilted so that the steam may pass away. 12. Cakes should be kept carefully shut up in tins. Tea Cakes, No. 1, Flour Sugar Butter Lard Egg Baking powder Nutmeg Salt Milk lib. I oz. I oz. I oz. I. I teaspoonful. a pinch, a pinch, to mix. Rub the lard and butter into the flour, add the other dry ingredients, the egg (well beaten), and enough milk to make a stiff paste. Form into cakes. Bake on a greased tin for about fifteen minutes. Split open, butter, and serve hot. Tea Cakes, No. 2. Flour I lb. Butter I oz. Lard i oz. Currants 2 oz. Sugar I oz. German yeast ^ oz. Lukewarm milk about ^ pint. Rub the butter and lard into the flour, add the sugar. Dissolve the yeast and set to ^' sponge " as for bread or rolls. Let it sponge for half an hour, then add the rest of the milk. Knead well, and let it rise for one hour. Work in the currants ; divide into four or six pieces. Make into cakes, flatten them with the rolling pin, and leave them to '' prove " on a warmed and greased tin untili8i ^ oz. (good weight). I (well beaten). I teaspoonful. well risen. Bake in a quick oven for fifteen or twenty minutes. Glaze and return to the ov^en to finish baking. For the Glaze.—Dissolve one dessertspoonful of sugar in two dessertspoonfuls of milk ; brush over the cakes. Tea Cakes or Sally Lunns. Fine flour i lb. Butter Lukewarm milk German yeast ... Egg Castor sugar ... Salt Melt the butter in a saucepan, add the milk. Cream the yeast with the sugar, add to it part of the lukewarm milk and butter, pour it into the centre of the flour. Add the rest of the milk, the egg, and the salt. Knead well. Warm and grease three round tins, place the dough in these, cover with a cloth, and let it rise in a warm place for one hour. Bake in rather a quick oven. Glaze as in previous recipe. Cream Cakes. Flour ... ^ lb. Butter 3 oz. Salt a pinch. Cream to mix. Put the flour on a paste board, add the salt, chop the butter in the flour with a knife, and mix thoroughly, but use the hands as little as possible. Moisten with cream. Roll out and cut into small rounds. Bake in a quick oven, and serve hot for afternoon tea. Oatmeal Biscuits Flour Oatmeal (medium Sugar Butter Egg Baking powder Milk. or 6 3 3 3 I. \ Cakes. oz. oz. oz. oz. teaspoonful.182 Rub the butter lightly into the flour, mix in the dry ingredients, add the egg (beaten), and sufficient milk to form a soft paste. Bake in greased tins ; or the paste may be made firmer, and rolled out and cut into shapes as for biscuits. Luncheon Cake. Flour. Butter Lard Currants Sultanas Candied peel Sugar Eg-g Milk Baking powder Almond flavour or Nutmeg Salt 1 lb. 2 OZ. 2 OZ. 4 oz. 4 oz. I oz. 6 oz. 1 to mix. 1^ teaspoonfuls. 6 drops, a pinch, a pinch. Rub in the butter and lard. Mix the dry ingredients, add the egg and milk (rather less than half a pint), then the almond flavouring. Bake at once, in greased tins. Herbert Cakes. Flour 1 lb. Lard \\ oz. Butter ... oz. Sugar 2 oz. Currants 2 oz. Candied peel \ oz. Baking powder ... ... i teaspoonful. Nutmeg a pinch. Milk ... ... to mix. Rub the lard and butter lightly into the flour, add dry ingredients, and mix into a light dough with a little milk. Roll out the mixture, and cut into small rounds. Place a slice of peel on each round. Bake in a moderate oven. When done, sprinkle over with sugar.i83 Garfield Biscuits. Rice flour Flour Butter Castor sug'ar Baking powder 2 OZ. 2 OZ. 2 OZ. I OZ. ^ teaspoonful. Eg-g I. Mix together the flour and baking powder, rub in the butter, add the sugar, make into a firm paste with the egg. Roll out one quarter of an inch thick, cut into strips one inch wide and three inches long ; or into two inches square. Bake in moderate oven. When cold spread half the strips with peach or apricot jam, ice the remainder with Lemon Water Icing (p. 200), and decorate with Royal Icing (p. 199)—coloured brown—through a small plain pipe. These biscuits are nice quite plain. Flour Sugar Currants ... Egg Lard or butter., Candied peel . Baking powder Nutmeg ... Milk . Rock Cakes. lib. 2 OZ. 2 OZ. 1 (well beaten). 2 OZ. 2 I teaspoonful. a pinch, to mix. Rub the lard or butter into the flour, add the other dry ingredients, the egg, and sufficient milk to make a stiff" dough. Pile in rocky shapes on a greased tin. Malvern Cake. Castor sugar i lb. Rice flour Fine flour Eggs... Lemon rind (grated) Beat the sugar and eggs till light, as for sponge cake. Stir in the rice flour and the other flour, and grated lemon rind. Put the mixture into an oiled and sugared mould, and bake in a moderate oven. When cold, coat 4- to flavour.184 with lemon water icing (p. 200). It looks very nice plain, but may be ornamented with crystallised fruit, or with pink and white Royal icing*. German Porcupine Cake. Flour I lb. Butter 1 lb. Castor sugar |- lb. Eggs (well beaten together) 4. Candied peel i oz. Almonds (blanched and sliced). Baking powder i teaspoonful. Beat the butter to a cream, beat in the sugar, eggs, and other ingredients, except the almonds. Put the mixture into a well-greased hoop, or tin. When partly baked brush over with egg, strew sugar over it, and stick with almonds. Do this as quickly as possible, as the cake must not be long out of the oven. Cover with a buttered paper, and let the cake finish baking. Iced Birthday or Wedding Cake. Fine flour Castor sugar i lb. Butter I lb. Currants lbs. Raisins 2 ^b. Candied peel ... \" Yolks of eggs 6 Whites of eggs 4 Almonds Brandy Mixed spice Carbonate of soda (dissolved well beaten. \ lb. (blanched and ( sliced). I teacupful. I teaspoonful. \\ teaspoonfuls in a little warm milk). Beat the butter to a cream, beat in the other in- gredients. Beat the mixture well. Last of all beat in the dissolved carbonate of soda. Bake for three hours in a moderate oven.i85 Almond Icing. Sweet almonds Bitter almonds Icing" sugar I lb. 2 OZ. li lbs. Whites of eggs f about 4 (beaten \ stiffly). Essence of almonds 12 drops. Blanch the almonds, pound them in a mortar until smooth. Mix in the sugar, essence, and enough whites of egg-s to form a stiff paste. Spread the icing on the cake and put it into a slow oven to dry. The icing- must be put on evenly and carefully smoothed with a knife dipped in cold water. When set and cold the almond icing must be covered with Royal icing- (p. 199). This cake should be made at least a week before it is wanted. Counden Cakes. Egg's (well beaten)... ... 3. Their weig'ht in castor sugar and in butter; the weig'ht of 4 in flour. Almonds (pounded) ... i oz. Brandy 2 tablespoonfuls. Lemon i. Beat the butter to a cream, then beat in the sug^ar^ flour, almonds, and the grated rind of the lemon ; beat well, then stir in the eggs, and last of all the brandy and lemon juice mixed together. Bake immediately in patty pans. The same mixture makes an excellent baked pudding. Sponge Cake. Eggs 3. Their weight in castor sugar ; the weight of 2 eggs in flour. Flavouring.186 Beat the eggs and sugar together till light ; this will only require about five or ten minutes if a Dover egg- beater is used, otherwise it will require at least twenty minutes'^(90<^ beating. Stir in the flour (sifted), but do not beat it. Add the flavouring. Put into a greased and sugared tin, and bake at once in a slow oven. 5 oz. 4 oz. 3- 4 drops. I small teaspoonful. a pinch. Genoese Cake. Flour (sifted) 6 oz. Castor sugar (sifted) Butter Eggs ... Almond flavouring ... or A little grated lemon rind. Baking powder Salt Beat the whites of the eggs to a stiff froth. Cream the butter, add the sugar and flour, moistening with the yolks of eggs (well beaten) and the whites alternately. Beat well. Last of all add the baking powder and flavouring. Bake for about one hour in a moderate oven. Before the cake is made, the tin in which it is to be baked must be prepared by lining it with well-buttered paper, which should come above the top of the tin, so as to give the cake room to rise. This cake may be varied by the addition of sultanas and candied peel, or carraways. A little more flour should then be added, and butter also, if desired. A Genoese cake is very nice if finished with almond icing, coated with chocolate icing, and ornamented with white or pink and white Royal icing. This mixture makes very pretty little cakes if baked in fancy tins, covered with different icings, and decorated with cocoanut, pistachios, glace cherries, etc. Birds' Nests. Cut some rounds of Genoese pastry about two inches deep and one and a half inches across. Remove the centre with a smaller cutter, leaving a narrow rim of cake at the edge. Ice with Royal icing (p. 199), dip in chopped pistachios, put in the centre some nice jam or stewed187 fruit, and ornament (through a rose forcer) with whipped cream sHghtly streaked with carmine ; or if there is no forcer, finish with whipped cream, put in carefully with a spoon. Rose Cakes. Colour half the quantity of Genoese mixture with carmine, and leave the other its natural colour. Bake in separate tins, and when cold cut into slices about three-quarters of an inch thick, and shape into half- moons, diamonds, triangles, etc., an equal number of plain and pink shapes. Spread jam on the pink piece, cover with the plain piece, ice with Royal icing, and ornament with pistachios, cocoanut, browned almonds, etc. Seed Cake. Flour Butter Sugar Carraway seeds Egg Candied peel .., Milk Baking powder Salt lib. 3 oz- 4 oz. rather more than \oz. I. 1 oz, to mix. I teaspoonful. a pinch. Rub the butter into the flour, add the salt and baking powder, and other dry ingredients. Last of all put in the egg and rather less than a quarter of a pint of milk. Mix well, and bake at once. Birstall Buns. Flour Butter ... Egg Currants ... Sultanas ... Sugar Candied peel Milk German yeast Salt 1 lb. 2 OZ. I. 3 3 oz. oz. oz. oz. pint, oz. pinch.i88 Put the flour into a basin with the currants, sultanas, candied peel, sugar, and salt. Dissolve the yeast in three tablespoonfuls of water (lukewarm). Melt the butter in the milk in a saucepan ; do not let it get too hot. Beat the egg, add to it the warm butter and milk. Now mix the milk, butter and egg with the flour, then add the yeast. Beat well with a wooden spoon. On the good beating the excellence of the buns chiefly depends. Let the dough rise for tw^o hours, then make it into buns and let them rise for one hour near the fire. Bake in a moderate oven. Raspberry Buns. Flour... Sugar Butter Egg Baking* powder Milk Raspberry jam. Rub the butter into the flour, add the rest of the dry ing*redients ; mix well, then add the egg and enough milk to make a light paste. Roll out, cut into small rounds, put a teaspoonful of jam on each, wet the edges, and pinch them together on the under side. Place them with the joined side downwards on a greased tin, cut across the top, but not quite to the jam. Sprinkle over a little crystallised sugar. Bake in a quick oven for about ten minutes. 3 oz. I (well beaten). I teaspoonful. to mix. Plain Buns- Flour Butter Candied peel Castor sugar Nutmeg or Almond flavouring .. Egg Milk Baking powder lb. oz. 2 OZ. a pinch. 4 drops. I yolk. to mix. I teaspoonful.i8g Rub the butter into the flour, add the dry ingredients, mix well, then stir in the egg and enough milk to form a stiff' paste. Make into buns, brush over with white of egg, sift sugar over, and bake at once. American Dougfh Nuts. Flour I lb. Butter Sugar Egg (well beaten) Milk (lukewarm) German yeast ... Salt I oz. I tablespoonful. I. J pint (about). I oz. (good weight). a pinch. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar and salt. Cream the yeast with one teaspoonful of white sugar, add to it the milk, put it in the centre of the flour to sponge as' for bread. Add the egg, and knead into a soft dough. Let it rise for least an hour in a warm place. Roll it out, and with it line floured patty pans as for mince pies. Into each put a little stiff jam ; wet the edg'es, and then put on a cover of the dough, and press it down firmly. Let them prove in a warm place till well risen. Have ready a pan of hot fat (see frying, p. 7) ; the fat must be quite deep. Take the dough nuts out of the patty pans, and drop them in the hot fat; fry six or seven minutes till they are a golden brown ; drain, roll in castor sugar, and dish in a pile. Instead of using patty pans the jam may be put on the rolled dough, which may then be formed into small balls. Shortbread. Flour 6 oz. Butter 4 oz. Castor sugar 2 oz. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar. Turn it on to a board, and mould by hand into round flat cakes. Prick them with a fork, lay a piece of candied peel on each, place on a greased tin and bake in a slow oven.I go Thick Gingerbread Flour Treacle Brown sugar Butter Ground ginger Candied peel il lbs. I lb. (warmed). iib. i lb. I oz. I oz. One good teaspoonful of carbonate of soda dissolved in a little lukewarm milk. Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, ginger, and candied peel. Then add the treacle, and last of all the carbonate of soda mixed with enough lukewarm milk to make the mixture into a rather stiff paste. Bake in a Yorkshire pudding tin, lined with buttered paper, and, if liked, when partly baked put slices of candied peel or blanched almonds on the top, and glaze with milk and sugar as for tea cakes (p. i8i). Scotch Bread. Flour Treacle Moist sugar Butter Mixed g-round spice Ground ginger Candied peel ... Carbonate of soda Milk 1 lb. Jib. ilb. ilb. 2 teaspoonfuls. 2 teaspoonfuls. I oz. I teaspoonful. to mix. Rub the butter into the flour, add the other dry ingredients, then the treacle to which has been added the carbonate of soda, dissolved in a little warm milk. Last of all add sufficient milk to make it into a soft paste. Bake immediately in well-greased tins. Thin Gingrerbread. Flour Butter Moist suo^ar Candied peel Ground ginger Treacle il lbs. 1 lb. 2 oz. I OZ. 2l lbs.igi Rub the butter into the flour, add the sugar, candied peel and ginger, mix thoroughly with the treacle. Bake on well-buttered tins in a slow oven. The mixture should be put on the tin in lumps about the size of a large walnut, each piece some distance from the next, as the mixture will run out and become quite thin. Much care is needed in the baking. Scones. Flour... Sugar Salt Butter Carbonate of soda or Baking powder Butter-milk or sour milk. I lb. 1 tablespoonful, or less. \ teaspoonful. 2 oz. 1 teaspoonful. 2 teaspoonfuls. Rub the butter into the flour, add the salt, sugar, and baking powder. Make into a stiff" paste with butter- milk. Divide into two parts, roll each into a round, cut in half, and each half into three. Brush with a little milk, sift sugar over, and bake at once in a rather quick oven, or on a hot girdle. If soda be used, dissolve it in a little lukewarm water. Brown Scones. Whole meal flour i lb. 3 oz- Butter Sugar Salt ... Baking powder Milk I dessertspoonful, a pinch. 3 teaspoonfuls. to mix. Rub the butter into the flour, add salt, sugar, and baking powder. Mix into a light soft dough with milk. Roll out, cut into rounds, or scone shapes, brush over with milk, and bake in a quick oven.192 Brown Cream Scones. Whole meal flour i lb. Sugar I tablespoonful, or less. Salt a pinch. Baking powder 3 teaspoonfuls. Cream to mix. Mix the baking powder, salt and sugar with the flour, make into a soft dough with cream. Roll out, cut into shapes, brush over with egg or milk, and bake in a quick oven. The more elaborate cakes here given are chiefly from foreign sources. The recipes for some of them were obtained from the neighbourhood of Bordeaux, which is celebrated for the excellence and variety of its cakes. Butter a shallow round tin, Hne it with Pate Fonce, rolled very thinly ; make it fit the tin well, using a small ball of the paste to press the paste into the corners. Prick the paste all over to prevent its rising. Put a thin layer of apricot jam at the bottom ; then pour in the Almond and Sponge Mixture until the tin is three- quarters full. Bake at once in a quick oven about half an hour. When cold, pile on the top the French Icing Cream, and pour all over the cake some Apricot Glaze. Throw browned almonds over the sides of the cake, and ornament the top of the cake with crystallised fruits, pistachios, and cocoanut. Serve as a dessert cake. Gateau Richelieu. Almond Mixture. Almonds ... Castor sugar Flour I oz. Eggs... Vanilla.193 Chop and pound the almonds, then add one egg (not beaten)—pound all the time ; then add the sugar— pound well ; then the remaining- eggs ; lastly, add the flour and vanilla. Then a Sponge Cake Mixture, made as follows :— Sponge Cake Mixture. Castor sugar 3 oz. Flour 3 oz. Eggs 3. Whisk the sugar and eggs in a basin in a warm place until light and frothy, then stir this to the Almond Mixture, and stir in, lastly, the three ounces of flour, but do not beat it. Add a little almond flavouring. Pate Fonce. Flour si oz. Castor sugar 2 oz. Butter i\ oz. Egg I yolk. Orange flower water ... a dessertspoonful. Milk a little. Make all these ingredients into a Jirm paste with the hand, working it well to prevent its rising. French Icing Cream. Boil half a pound of lump sugar with half a gill of cold water without stirring it. Wet the sides of the pan (to prevent the sugar crystallising). When the syrup is ati- houlet, add it to the whites of four eggs beaten very very firm ; beat all the time. When firm, flavour it with vanilla and pile the icing cream on the top of the cake. It must not run over the sides. Set it in a cool oven to get firm outside. Apricot Glaze. Boil apricot jam with water until a thin jelly. Tinned apricots will do boiled with sugar and rubbed through a hair sieve. N194 Browned Almonds. Blanch some almonds, cut them into small pieces, and dry in the oven until a light brown. Orange Cake Eggs (well beaten).. Flour Sugar Butter (creamed) Orange juice The grated rind of .. Cream of tartar Carbonate of soda .. Salt Milk Saffron 2. 6 oz. 4 oz. 3 oz. I tablespoonful. ^ an orange. I teaspoonful. 1 2 about a pinch. 2 tablespoonfuls. a very little. Sift the cream of tartar and soda with the flour ; cream the butter and sugar together, add the flour gradually, moistening with the eggs. Stir in the grated orange rind and the juice, add a little liquid saffron to give it an orange colour ; lastly, mix in the milk. Pour the mixture into buttered shallow tins. Bake in a rather quick oven about half an hour. When cool, spread between the cakes the following :— Orange Mixture. Orange juice \ pint. Cornflour i tablespoonful. Sugar to taste. Lemon juice i tablespoonful. Pulp from 3 oranges. Mix the cornflour w^ith a little cold water, add the half-pint of orange juice (boiling) and the lemon juice, return to the saucepan and stir over the fire, and let it boil for five minutes. Colour with a little saffron, and stir in the pulp of the oranges, and sweeten to taste. When cold spread it between the layers of cake. There195 should be three or four layers of cake. Finish the cake with Royal Icing ; ornament with sections of Tangerine oranges and with orange-coloured icing. Royal Icing. Icing sugar i lb. Eggs 2 or 3 whites. Orange juice i tablespoonful. Mix the orange juice and sugar, and udork well with sufficient whites of egg (slightly beaten) until of the right consistency. Put on the icing with a knife (dipped in cold water). This smoothes it and gives it a gloss. Tarte Royale. Castor sugar J lb. Almonds (good weight, j blanched and chopped > \ lb. finely) j Milk 2 tablespoonfuls. Flour 2 oz. Eggs 5- Vanilla. Pate Fonce. Line plain round moulds about 2 inches deep with Pate Fonce, rolled very thinly—prick the paste all over to prevent its blistering ; lay in a tablespoonful of apricot jam, fill in with the Cake Mixture, sift sugar over, and bake in a moderate oven. When done and cold, glaze the sides and top with apricot glaze ; garnish with almonds, pistachios, cocoanut, or crystallised fruits. The top can be iced instead of glazed, if preferred. Make the Cake Mixture as follows :— Put the yolks of five and the whites of two eggs with the sugar into a basin and beat until thick as cream. Pound the almonds with milk to a smooth paste, and stir them into the sugar and eggs ; add the flour lightly, and vanilla, then mix in lastly the remaining whites of eggs, beaten very stiffly ; pour into cake mould and bake at once.196 White Mountain Cake. Yolks of eggs .. White of egg .. Sugar Flour Butter Milk Cream of tartar Carbonate of soda 4- i'lb. lib. 2 oz. a very little. I teaspoonful. Mix the cream of tartar with the flour. Beat the butter to a cream, beat in the sugar and eggs ; beat well, then add the flour in which the cream of tartar has been mixed. Last of all stir in the carbonate of soda mixed with a little lukewarm milk. Bake in a shallow tin. When cold cut into pieces of equal size, but not too small. Lay them one on the top of the other till they form a good sized cake, having previously spread each piece with the following mixture :— The whites of two eggs. Castor sugar. The juice of one, and the grated rind of half a lemon. Beat the whites of the eggs, beat in the sugar and lemon. The cake should be iced, and should not be cut till two or three days after it is made. Marbled Cake. Make two different Q2^q, mixtures, using whites oi eggs in the one and yolks in the other. Add a little saffron to the latter to make it a deeper colour. Take out half of this cake mixture and. add to it a large tablesrpoonful of grated chocolate mixed smoothly with a scant table- spoonful of milk. Colour half oi the cake mixture made with whites of eggs, a pink shade with cochineal. Thus you will have four diff"erent colours—-yellow^ white, brown and pink.197 Drop these in alternate layers in a well-greased cake tin (not too deep). Bake in a moderately quick oven. When cold, cut into slices, and the cake will be found prettily marbled with the different shades. Yellow Mixture, Butter Castor sugar Flour Yolks of eggs Whole egg Cream of tartar Carbonate of soda ... Cinnamon Milk 5 oz. 8 oz. teaspoonful. 2 or 3 tablespoonfuls. White Mixture. Butter Castor sugar Flour Whites of eggs Carbonate of soda .. Cream of tartar Almond flavouring. Milk 4 oz. 8 oz. ID OZ. 5 (beaten stiffly), ^ teaspoonful. a little. Sift the cream of tartar and soda thoroughly with the flour, cream the butter, and add gradually the flour and eggs, lastly the flavouring. Beat the mixture well. Petits Gateaux Glaces au Chocolat. Eggs Flour Butter Sugar (sifted) ... Chocolate (grated) Baking powder Vanilla essence 3- 6 oz. 4I oz. 4 oz. 3 oz. I teaspoonful. i Cream the butter well; mix in the sugar and flour gradually, adding the eggs (well beaten), and beat the mixture well. Stir the chocolate lightly into the other198 ingredients ; add the flavouring and baking powder. Bake in a flat tin (lined with buttered paper) in a moderately hot oven about half an hour. When a day or two old, the cake can be cut into fancy shapes. A little whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla, may be inserted in each little shape, and then iced over with Chocolate Icing (p. 200). The cake mixture can also be baked in small tins ; they may be iced with chocolate, and cocoanut sprinkled over. Cream the butter and sugar, add the flour and eggs gradually. Beat well, stir in the nuts (chopped), cherries (cut in halves), brandy, and baking powder. Bake in well buttered fancy moulds, in a moderate oven, for fifteen minutes. Petits Choux aux Abricots. (By kind permission of Mrs. A. B. Marshall.) For the choux paste put half a pint of water into a stewpan with a quarter of a pound of butter and two ounces of castor sugar ; when it boils mix into the pan five ounces of fine flour, stir quickly and mix well, and let the pan stand on the stove ten minutes for the con- tents to cook. Let the mixture cool, and then mix in by degrees three whole eggs and a little vanilla essence. Work the paste well with the egg*, and put it in a forcing bag with a plain tin pipe, and press it out to about the size of a large walnut on to baking tins ; glaze over with egg, and bake for about twenty minutes to half an hour. When cool split in halves, and place in the half of an apricot; close the paste up again and Brazil Cakes. Flour Castor sugar ... Butter Brazil nuts Cherries Eggs... ^ ... ... Brandy (if liked) Baking powder I oz. 2. I tablespoonful. I teaspoonful.199 glaze over with maraschino icing-; let this cool, and ornament it with thickly whipped cream, sweetened and flavoured with vanilla. Use a rose pipe and bag for the cream, and form a rose on the top of each with it. Serve on a dish paper. Eclairs au Cafe. (By kind permission of Mrs. A. B. Marshall.) Prepare a choux paste, and put it into a forcing bag and force it out on to an ungreased baking tin, making the Eclairs four inches long and half an inch in diameter ; brush the Eclairs over with beaten egg*. Put them to bake in a moderate oven about half an hour, or till crisp ; when cooked they should be a pretty golden colour. When cold, split them down one side and fill with Pastry Custard, as follows :— Pastry Custard. Put into a stewpan one ounce of fine flour, one yolk of egg, two ounces of butter, one ounce of castor sugar, and one and a half gills of cold milk ; stir these over the fire till the mixture boils, then flavour with a few drops of vanilla, mix into it one tablespoonful of whipped cream, and use. Glaze the Eclairs with Coffee Icing, thus :— Coffee Icing. Mix three-quarters of a pound of icing sugar with one and a half tablespoonfuls of strong- coffee or coffee essence, and one and a half tablespoonfuls of hot water ; just mix together and warm in a saucepan, then use at once. Maraschino Glace. Put into a stewpan three-quarters of a pound of icing sugar, then mix in three tablespoonfuls of maraschino ; stir over the fire until just warm, then use. Noyeau or any other liqueur can be used similarly. Royal Icing (Plain). Do not attempt to ice cakes without being provided with sugar that is specially prepared for the purpose, and it should be the best of its kind. The icing sugar200 must be pounded and sifted, and mixed with white of egg till it is of the right consistency. It must be well worked, using a pestle or very clean wooden spoon. A tablespoonful of lemon juice may be added to each pound of sugar. The icing must be spread smoothly over the cake with a broad knife, which should be occasionally dipped in cold water. Let it dry in a warm room. Do not put it near the fire or in the oven, as that would be apt to discolour it. Let each layer of icing get quite dry before putting on the next. Keep a wet paper over the basin containing the icing mixture, to prevent it becoming hard before it is spread on the cake. When the plain icing is set the cake can be orna- mented. For this purpose the icing must be a little stiffer, and sugar must be added till the icing will keep shape. It must be squeezed through a forcer on to the cake. The addition of carmine or cochineal will make it pink. Chocolate Icing- Can be made as above by the addition of some very finely grated chocolate. Coffee Icing Is flavoured by a little very strong coffee or coffee essence. Lemon Water Icing. Icing sugar (sifted) ... J lb. Lemon juice i dessertspoonful. Water tablespoonfuls. Put these into a small bright pan. Melt the sugar, but do not let it boil. When it is of the consistency of thick cream, pour it over the cake. Orange Icing. Make like lemon water icing, but use sufficient orange juice to dissolve the sugar, and no water. Add a very little orange colouring.20I Coffee Icing- May be made in the same manner, using one table- spoonful of coffee essence, and one tablespoonful of water. Other icings may be made in the same way, using noyeau, maraschino, or other liquor instead of lemon juice. Chocolate Icing Is made by adding two tablespoonfuls of grated choco- late to half a pound of icing sugar, and sufficient water to melt it. Finish as for Lemon Water Icing.Jam, Jelly, &c. In making Jam the following rules should be observed: The fruit must be gathered dry. The fruit must be slowly boiled before adding the sugar, and quickly boiled afterwards. Jam must be carefully stirred with a wooden spoon, and not allowed to burn. It must be put into dry pots, and kept in a dry place. Raspberry or Strawberry Jam. To each pound of fruit allow one pound of white sugar. Put the fruit into a bright pan, let it boil ten minutes. Before the fruit is put on the fire, put the sugar in a tin or old dish, and let it get quite hot in the oven, but do not let it burn or brown. When it is hot add gradually to the fruit; stir well, let it boil ten minutes. Put it into pots. When cold cover with thin paper soaked in vinegar, and tie or twist it down. Plum, Currant, and Gooseberry Jam. These jams are made in the same manner as raspberry and strawberry, but need longer boiling before the sugar is added, about half an hour. Gooseberry jam does not require so much sugar; three-quarters of a pound to one pound of gooseberries is quite sufficient.203 Red Currant Jelly. Take red currants, and some white ones (as they improve the colour of the jelly), bake in an earthenware jar till all the juice is extracted, strain, and to each pint of juice add one pound of lump sugar. Stir till it boils, then, when it boils, put in half a cup of cold water. Boil for about twenty minutes, not more, and take off the scum as it rises. Try the jelly from time to time by running' a little on a cold plate to see whether it will set. As soon as it is quite clear and will set, put it into small moulds. If jelly is over-boiled it becomes like treacle, and will never set. Gooseberry Jelly. Gooseberries (gathered when just beginning to turn colour) I gallon. Water 2 quarts. Lump sugar. Boil the gooseberries in the water to a pulp. Strain through a jelly bag. To every pint of juice put one pound of sugar. Boil till it will set and is quite clear. This is a good substitute for red currant jelly. Marmalade. Seville oranges 12. Lemons 2. Slice the fruit finely, and to every pound add three pints of cold water. Let it stand three days. Boil up and simmer till the strips are quite tender. Weigh again, and to each pound of pulp add one pound of white sugar. Boil again for about one hour. Try a little on a plate, and if it sets the marmalade has boiled long enough.Miscellaneous Recipes. To Cure Hams. Hams should be cured in cold weather, and shpuld hang a few days before they are salted. For a ham of twelve pounds weight the following are required : — Saltpetre I oz. Bay salt ilb. Common salt I lb. Very coarse sugar ilb. Jamaica pepper (pimento) 1 oz. Black pepper 1 oz. Rub the ham with the saltpetre, let it lie till next day, then rub in the bay salt and common salt, let it lie for three or four days. Mix together the sugar, black pepper and Jamaica pepper, spread this all over the ham. When the salt has quite melted and there is plenty of brine, baste the ham two or three times a day, and turn and rub it well in the liquor two or three times a week; do this for three weeks, then drain the ham well, and hang it in a dry place. Very large hams require the addition of half a pound more salt to the brine after the first ten days, and should lie in the pickle for a month before they are hung up. To Cure Tongues. Saltpetre J oz. Salt f oz. Black pepper i teaspoonful. Jamaica pepper (pimento) 2 teaspoonfuls.205 Trim and clean the tongue, rub it well with salt, let it lie till next day, then clean it thoroughly, and rub it quite dry with a cloth. Then rub on the saltpetre and half of the salt, let it lie for two days, rub on the black pepper, Jamaica pepper, and the remainder of the salt. Turn it and rub it in the brine every day for three weeks, when it will be ready to cook. The same pickle will do for beef. To make Browningr. Sugar I lb. Salt 2 tablespoonfuls. Boiling water f pint. Boil sugar and salt together in a frying pan till of a dark brown, stirring well all the time. Pour in the water, boil well, and when cold bottle for use. Baking Powder. Carbonate of soda 4 oz. Tartaric acid (in powder) 3 oz. Ground rice 4 oz. Mix well^ pass through a wire sieve. Keep in an airtight tin. Raspings for Ham, &c, Let a piece of crusty bread get brown and dry in the oven, then grate it finely, or pound in a mortar. Aspic Jelly- Two calves' feet, or lbs. knuckle veal. Shin beef \\ lbs. Cold water 2 quarts. Onion (stuck with 4 cloves) i. Carrot Leek ... Shallots Celery Herbs I. 1. 2. 1 bunch. Peppercorns i teaspoonfuL Salt to taste.2o6 Well wash the calves' feet; cut them into pieces and put them into a saucepan, cover with cold water and let them come to the boil, then strain away the water and wash them again. This is done to blanch them. Put the feet again into a clean saucepan, add two quarts of cold water, and let them come to the boil. Skim very care- fully. Add the vegetables, cut into large pieces, the herbs and spices, and simmer all very gently for about five hours ; strain, and let the stock get quite cold. Remove every particle of fat (or the jelly will not be clear) ; wipe over the surface with a hot cloth so that no fat remains ; then clear the stock in the following manner :— Lemon (peel and juice) ... i. Tarragon vinegar \ gill. Common ,, \ gill. Chili ,, I tablespoonfuL Whites and shells of 2 eggs. Whisk all these ingredients over the fire when the stock is melted, until it is just at boiling point; then remove the whisk, and let it boil up and simmer five or ten minutes. Draw off the fire and allow it to settle. Strain it through a hot cloth. If meat be used instead of calves' feet, it must be cut into small pieces, and all skin and fat removed. If the stock be not sufficiently stiff", a little gelatine may be used when clearing it. When Aspic is wanted solely for garnish, meat need not be used. The vegetables may be simmered in a quart of water for half an hour to flavour it; then strain, add the vinegars, &c. ; add also two and a half ounces leaf gelatine, and clear in the usual way. Jelly for gar- nish requires to be much stiffer than for ordinary use.INDEX. ALMOND Icing- - Almonds, Browned Anchovy Forcemeat - — Sauce - - - Artichokes, Globe — Jerusalem - Asparag-us - BAKING Powder - Beans, French - Beans, Haricot Beef, Boudinettes de Boeuf — Fillet of - - - — Filets, Chaudfroid de k la Raifort - — Fillet with Macaroni with Tomatoes — Minced - - - - — Olives - - - - — Pressed _ _ _ — Spiced - - - - Beetroot - - - - Blackcock - Bloaters with Buttered Eggs - - - - Bouch^es k I'Evique - Bouch^es de Fromage Bouch^es of Puff Pastry - Boudinettes de Boeuf Bread - 177, — Crumbs Browned, for Game - - - - — Rules for making- - — Rolls - - - - Milk- Picnic, cold — Sauce - - - - Breakfast - - - c Brill - - - - - Browning, to make - Brussels Sprouts Buns, Birstall - - - — Plain . . - - — Raspberry - O PAGE. 194 17 163 94 93 94 205 94 94 67 75 66 76 77 150 64 14 14 94 91 27 144 27 67 178 91 177 178 179 25 170 1-2 T 46 205 95 187 CABBAGE and Greens Cakes - - 179 Cakes, American Dough Nuts - - - - — Birds' Nests — Birstall Buns — Brazil - - _ - — Mould, Cold — Counden _ _ - — Cream - - - - — Curd Cheese — Eclairs au Caf^ — Fish - . - - — Garfield Biscuits - — Giteau Florida — Gateau Richelieu — Genoese - — German Porcupine — Gingerbread, Thick Thin- — Herbert _ _ _ — Iced Birthday or Wedding - - - — Lemon Cheese — Luncheon - _ _ — Malvern - _ _ — Marbled — Oatmeal Biscuits or — Orange _ . _ — Pate Fonc6 - — Petits Choux aux Abri- cots - - - - — Petits Gateaux Glacis au Chocolat — Plain Buns - — Raspberry Buns - — Rock - - - - — Rose - - - - — Rules for making - — Sally Luns - - - — Scones - _ - - Brown _ _ _ Cream - - - — Scotch Bread PAGE. 95 -201 187 198 133 185 181 122 199 19 183 121 192 186 184 190 190 182 122 182 183 196 181 194 193 197 183 187 179 181 191 191 192 1902IO Cakes {continued). PAGE. — Seed _ . - - 187 — Shortbread - - 189 — Spong-e Cakes - 185 — Tarte Royale - 195 — Tea . - - 180 — White Mountain - 196 Canap^es de Homard 138 — of Shrimps - 140 Carrots _ _ _ 95 Casolettes k la Duchesse - 152 Cauhflo^vers ~ — 95 — au Gratin 143 ChaiidtVoid of Cutlets 26 UC X iiCLS yXKZ UVJCUl d la xvciiiorL - - 66 — de Poulet en A.spic 26 Cheese Cakes — — 122 Fing'ers - - 142 iVI a r*sj f r\ni _ _ 141 — — Crocjuettes of ~ 142 144 — Omelets ~ ~ 157 — Pudding" 143 — Sou in^es ~ ~ 158 — Straws — - - 142 T'omalr* _ _ X \Jii\<x\.\j " ~ H3 Chestnut Forcemeat - 87 Chicken^ Cold Boiled — Crocjuettes of - 25 62 — Croustades of 154 Fried - - - 86 Salad - - - 153 —Souffl^es ~ - 159 45 — Steaks - - - 51 4 la Cardinal - 52 Stewed 51 Compote of Fruit 120 Cookery, Cold Meat 149- -154 — Methods 5-8 Cotelettes Chaudfroid aux Tomates 27 Creams - - - 125- -134 — Charlotte Russe - 134 — Citron - - - 128 — Cleveland, Sweet - 134 — Cr^me au Chocolat 130 (simpler) - 131 — Cr^me de Banane- 129 — French - - - 122 — French Icing-- 193 PAGE. Creams {continued). — Lobster- - - - 60 — Pain d' Abricot - - 132 — Pineapple - - - 131 — Raspberry - - - 132 — Rice - - - - 133 — Swiss - - - 132 — Vanilla - - - - 130 — Venetian - - - 129 — Whipped - - - 134 Croquettes of Macaroni Cheese - 142 — Mushrooms - - - 70 — Veal or Chicken - - 62 — de Vermicelle au Parmesan - 141 — Croustades D'oeufs en Surprise - - - 69 — of Fish - - - - 20 — of Veal or Chicken - 154 Croutes of Dried Haddock 15 Croutes k la Campagne - 139 Croutons for Garnishing - 71 Crust for Tarts - - - 118 Curry - - - - 8t — Cold - - - - 29 — Indian - - - - 81 — Rice for - - - 80 Custard - - - - 135 — Lemon - - - - 135 — Pastry - - - - 199 — Pudding, Baked - - 112 Steamed - - - 113 "PJEVILLED Roes - 141 ^ Dinners - - 30-144 Duck, To Truss and Roast 87 Ducks, Wild - - - 88 ENTREES, Simple 57-72 Eggs, Buttered - 21 Eggs, Tomato - - - 70 — Sauce - - - - 164 — and Wine Sauce - - 174 ■piSH - - 14-18,43-56 _ Balls - - - 20 — Boiling - - - - 44 Method of - - 44 — Cakes - - - - 19 — Croustades - - - 20 — Fried - - - - 47 — Kromeskies of - - 21211 Fish {continued), — Mixture - - - 58 — Omelets _ _ _ i^y — Petites, Timbales de Poisson - - - 59 — Pie - - - - 145 — Poisson i la Sauce Flamande - - -56 — Sauces for - 161 — Steamed - - - 47 — Stuffed, Baked - - 52 — Vol-au-Vents de Poisson 58 Fleur of Cocoanut - - 119 — de Fruits - - - 120 — Marina - - - - 121 — au Parmesan - - 138 Fowl, Boiled - - - 84 — Braised - - - - 85 — Choosing - - - 82 — Drawing" - - - 82 — Guinea - - - - 91 — Poulet-au-riz - - 85 — Roast - - - - 84 — Trussing for Boiling - 83 Roasting - - - 83 Fritot of Dried Haddock - 16 Fritot de Mouton k la Soubise - - - 66 Fromage 4 I'Aigburth - 138 GAME Pie - - - 22 Garnishing, Croutons for - - - - 71 Gateau Florida - - - 121 — Richelieu - 192 Glaze, Apricot - - 120, 193 — Maraschino - 199 Goose, Roast - - - 88 Green Peas - - - 96 Grouse - - - - 91 Guinea Fowls - - - 91 TLJADDOCK- - - 46 ^ ^ — Fried - - - 51 — Stuffed with Oysters - 55 — Dried - - - 14 Batter for Frying - 16 Croutes of - 15 Fritot of - - - 16 Souflfl^e of - - 15 Halibut Steaks - - - 52 Ham 9 — Cooking - 9 157 10 140 205 9 204 37 Ham {continued), — Omelets — Potted -. — Pur^e - — Raspings for — Soaking — To Cure — Toast - Hare, Jugged - — To Truss and Roast — Soup - Harengs Farcisaux Anchois 16 aux Crevettes - 17 Herring Roes - - - 17 — Stuffed with Anchovies 16 with Shrimps - 17 T CING, Almond - - 185 — Chocolate - 199-200 — Coffee - 199-200 — Lemon Water - - 200 — Orange - 200 — Royal - 195 Plain - 199 |AMS - J — Currant - — Gooseberry - — Plum - — Raspberry — Strawberry - Jellies — Aspic - — Claret - — Egg and Wine — Gooseberry - — Lemon - — Maraschino - — Orange - — Red Currant — Stanhope - Jersey Tomatoes "L^EDGEREE — Tomato Kidneys, Devilled — Omelet - — In Tomato and Brown Sauce - — Ragout of Ox, with Rose Border Kromeskies of Fish - - 202 - 202 - 202 - 202 - 202 - 202 - 126 - 205 - 127 - 128 - 203 - 126 - 127 - 127 - 203 - 128 - 25 - 19 - 19 - 18 157 - 65212 PAGE. T AMBS' Sweetbreads - 68 ' Lemon, Sponge - 136 Lobster Creams - - 60 — Cutlets - - - 54 — Eggs k la Guildhall - 60 — Mixture - - - 60 — Sauce - - - - 161 Luncheon and Supper Dishes - - 22-29 IX/TACARONI Cheese - 141 — Croquettes of - 142 Macaroon Tartlets - - 123 Mackerel - - - - 47 — Fried - - - - 50 — Grilled - - - - 50 Marmalade - 203 — Sauce - - - - Maraschino Glace - - 199 — Jelly - - - - 127 Meat Baking - _ _ 6 — Boiling - - - - 6 — Braising - - _ y — Broiling - - - 7 — Cold Cookery - 149-154 — Dishes - 73-8i — Frying, Dry - - - 8 Wet - - - - 7 — Larding - - - 7 — Roasting - - - 5 — Sauter - - - - 8 — Scalloped - 152 — Stewing - - _ 6 Medallions k la Firenze - 28 Meringue - 121 Merluche Farci eaux Huitres - - - 55 Miscellaneous Recipes 204-206 Mexican Rice - - - 72 Mince Pies _ _ - 123 Mixture, Almond - 123, 192 — Cake - 195 — Cheese - 144 — Cream - - - - 119 — Fish - - - - 58 — Florida - - - 121 — Lobster - - 60 — Marina Mixture {continued), — Sponge Cake Mushroom Croquettes — Pasty - — Pur^e - — Sauce - Mutton Cutlets - — Hashed — Minced - — Stewed Loin OMELETS and Soufflees - — Cheese - — Fish - — I lam - — Kidney - — Plain - — Mushroom — Savoury — Sweet - — Tomato — Tongue — Vegetable — Arrowroot Soufiflees — Cheese ,, — Chicken ,, — Dried Haddock ,, — Petites Soufflees de Merlan - - - 57 — Steamed Vanilla Soufflees - 159 — Sweet Omelet Soufflees 158 Onions - - - - 95 — Sauce - - - 167 — Stewed - - - - 96 Oranges 4 la Teneriffe - 136 Ox-Cheek Mould - - 24 Oyster Mixture - - 59 — Patties - - - - 58 — Sauce - - - - 161 — Soup - - - - 32 193 70 72 69 171 63 151 150 79 55-159 - 157 - 157 - 157 - 157 - 156 - 157 - 156 - 156 - 157 - 157 - 157 - 105 - 158 - 159 - 15 — Mayonnaise - — Orange — Oyster - — Quenelle 121 139 194 59 70 pANADA Parsnips Parsnip Puree Partridge - Pastry — Biscuit - — Flaky - — Pork Pie — PufF - 60, 69 - 96 - 69 - 91 116-124 - 137 - 117 - 11 - 116213 PAGE. Pastry {continued). — Puff, Bouch^es of - 27 — Short - - 117, 118, 120 for Meat Pie - - 118 Patties, Cold Meat - - 153 — Oyster - - - - 58 Petites Croutes d'Anchois 137 — Soufifl^es de Merlan - 57 — Timbales de Poisson - 59 Pheasants - - - - 91 — To Roast - - - 91 Picnic Rolls (cold) - - 25 Pies - - - - 145-148 — Beefsteak - - - 146 and Oyster - - 13 and Potato - - 146 — Fish - - - - 145 — Game - - - - 22 — Mince - - - - 123 — Pigeon - - . - 148 — Pork - - - - II — Potato - - - - 150 — Rabbit - - - - 147 — Veal - . . - 147 — Veal and Ham - - 13 Pig-eons - - - - 92 — Mock - - - - 65 — Pie - - - . 148 Plaice - - - 50 Poisson d la Sauce Flamande 56 Pork Pie - - - - 11 Potatoes - - - - 96 Potato Balls - - - 97 — 4 la Maitre d'Hotel - 98 — Mashed - - - 97 — New - - - - 97 — Pie - 150 — Rose - - - - 66 — Ribbons - - - 97 — Sautes - - - - 97 Poulet au riz - - - 85 Poultry, Game, &c. - 82-92 Profiteroles - - - 42 Ptarmigan - - - 91 Puddings - 101-115 — Alma - - - - 115 — Batter, Baked - - 111 Boiled - - - III — Bread-and-Butter, Baked - - - 114 — Bread-and-Butter, Steamed - - - 114 PAGE. Puddings {continued). — Caramel Custard - - 113 — Cheese - 143 — Cup - 108 — Custard, Baked - 112 Steamed - - - 113 — Delhi - - - - 114 — Felden - 105 — German Rice - - 102 — Guildhall - 102 — Jamaica - - - 103 — Lemon, Baked - - no Boiled - 109 — London - 104 — Pancakes - - - in French - - - 112 — Pineapple - 103 — Primrose - 107 — Queen's - 108 — Railway - - - 109 — Rice,with Bread Crumbs 106 Caramel - - - 106 Meringu^ - 105 Cup - 107 — Rules for - loi — Sauces - 174-176 — Sir Watkyn's - - 109 — Summer - 108 — Thornton - - - no — Vermicelli - - - 112 — Yorkshire - - -in Pur^e, Banana - - _ 134 — Ham - - - _ 140 — de Lentilles k I'AUe- mande - - - 35 — Mushroom - - - 69 — Parsnip - - - - 55 — Tomato - - - 35 — Turnip - - - - 66 QUENELLES d'Homard - - 59 RABBIT, Boiled — Pie — Roast - — Stewed - - 90 - 147 90 90 Ragout of Ox Kidney, with Rose Border - - 65 Rice for Curry - - - 80 Rissoles - 149 — aux Huitres - - 71JI4 Roes, Devilled - - - 141 Rognons k la Diable- - 18 Rolls 178 — Milk - - - - 179 — Picnic, Cold - - - 25 SALADS - - - 99 — Chicken - - 153 — Dressing - - - 99 to Keep - - - 100 Potato - - - 100 Salmon - - - - 45 — Steaks - - - - 51 — Trout - - - - 45 Sandwiches de Patisserie k la Cr^me - - - 119 Sauces _ _ . 160-176 — Anchovy - 163 — Apple _ - - - 166 — Apricot- - - - 103 — Bechamel - - - 172 — Bread - - - - 170 — Brown - 169 (Easily Made) - - 173 — Brown Gravy (for Poultry or Game) - 170 — Buttered Brandy - - 175 — Caper - 166 — Celery - 171 — Chaudfroid - - - 172 — Chocolate - 176 — Crab - 162 — Cutlets for - - - 173 — Dean's Plum Pudding - 176 — Egg - - - - 164 — Egg and Wine - - i74 — Espagnol - 168 — Fennel - 165 — for Fish - 161 — Flemish - - 56 — Gooseberry - - - 163 — Hollandaise - 164 (Imitation) - - 165 — Horse-Radish - - 168 — Jamaica - - - 103 — Lemon - - - - 174 — Liver (for Hares and Rabbits) - 170 — Lobster - 161 — Maitre d' Hotel - - 165 — Marmalade - - - 175 — Mayonnaise - - - 163 Sauces (conlznued). — Meat, Poultry and Game, for - - 166-173 — Melted Butter - 160 — Mint - - - - 166 — Mushroom - - - 171 — Onion - 167 — Oyster - 161 — Parsley - - - 165 — Piquant Cream - - 25 — Piquante - - - 171 — Port Wine - - - 171 — Pudding - - 174-176 — Raifort - - - 67 — Raspberry - - - 175 — Robert (for Pork Cutlets or Pork) - - - 168 — Sabayon - 175 — Shrimp - 162 — Soubise - - - 66 — Supreme - 170 — Tartare - - - 164 — Tomato - - - 169 — Velout^ - - - 167 — White - 167 — Wine - 174 Savoury Biscuit - - 137 — Omelet - 156 Savouries - 137-144 — kla. St. Honore - - 139 Sheep's Tongues, Braised 67 Shrimps, Canap^es of - 140 — Devilled - 144 — Farce - - - 18, 54 — Sauce - 162 Smelts, Fried - - - 51 Snipe - - - - 92 — Roast - - - - 92 Soles - - - - - 47 — aux Crevettes - - 53 — Fillets k la Tartare - 54 — Fried - - - - 49 — au Gratin - - - 53 — 4 la Maitre d' Hotel - 54 Soups - 30-42 — American - - - 34 — Celery Cream - 39 — Clear Stock for - - 31 — Crab - - - - 33 — Garnish for Clear - 41 — Giblet - - - - 38 — Gravy - - - - 38Soups {continued). — Green Pea - - - 40 — Hare - - - - 37 — Jenny Lind - - - 33 — Leicester - - - 36 — Ox Tall - - - 37 — Oyster - - - - 32 — Quenelle Garnish for Clear - - - - 42 — Tapioca Cream - - 35 — Tomato - - - 40 — Velvet - - - - 39 — White Lentil - - 41 Spinach - - - - 98 Steak, Grilled - - - 74 — Halibut - - - 52 — Rolled - - - - 73 — Salmon - - - 51 — Stewed - - - 74 Supper and Luncheon Dishes - - 22-29 Sweets, Cold - - 125-136 Sweetbreads, Lambs' ^ART, Bakewell - ^ — Crust for — Fruit - . - - Tartlets, Macaroon - Timbale de Veau aux Champignons Toast, Ham - _ - — Tong-ue - - - - Tomatoes - - - - — Cheese - - - _ — Cotelettes, Chaudfroid 68 124 118 148 123 69 143 aux Eggs - Jersey - Kedgeree Omt^et - ■ Pur^e - Sauce - Soup - 27 - 70 - 25 - 19 - 157 - 35 - 169 - 40 Tongue — To Cure — Omelets — Sheeps', Braised — Toast - Turbot Turkey, Boiled - — To Roast Turnips — Pur^e - U NE BOULE Weal, Croquettes of * — Croustades of — Cutlets - — Fillet of — Galantine of - — Grenadins of — Minced - — Pie — Quenelles of - — Stewed - Shoulder of Veal and Ham Pie - Venison, Mock - — Roast - Vegetables — General Rules for Cooking Vegetable Marrows - — Omelet - Viande ^ I'Enclos Vol-au-Vents de Poisson WHITEBAIT Whiting - — Fried - Woodcock — Roast - - _ 204 157 67 11 46 87 87 98 66 78 - 62 - 154 - 61 - 77 - 23 - 64 - 152 - 147 - 62 - 79 - 76 - 13 - 151 - 80 93-100 - 93 - 99 - 157 - 80 - 58 - 50 - 47 - 50 - 92 - 92De Montfort Press Publications. HOME COOKERY. Compiled under the direction of the North Midland School of Cookery. Strongly bound in cloth, price One Shilling. COUNTY COUNCIL COOKERY. Compiled under the direction of the North Midland School of Cookery, to assist Lecturers under the Technical Education Act, and for the use of Students. Service- ably bound in stout boards, 8vo, price Fourpence. Suitable in every way for those who have to suit their tastes to their means.— Brighton Argus. A capital little manual, calculated to be of g-reat use in helping- the popular efforts to disseminate a knowledg-e of practical cookery.—Carlisle Patriot. THE NORTH MIDLAND SCHOOL COOKERY BOOK, Edited by Mrs. Buck, President North Midland (Leicestershire) School of Cookery. 36th thousand, price Sixpence. A wonderful sixpennyworth.—Evening News. A very useful book, by one who evidently understands her subject.—The Vegetarian. SIMPLE RECIPES FOR SICKROOM COOKERY, Revised and Enlarged. By Mrs. Buck. Third edition, price Twopence. A commendable little book.—Evening News. Treated in a plain homely manner, easily understood.—Loughborough Herald. Will prove eminently useful.—Printing Times. THE NORTH MIDLAND SCHOOL LAUNDRY BOOK, Edited by Mrs. Buck, President North Midland School of Cookery. Price Sixpence. HfllTHBY, liflWHEriCE & Co., Mmited, LONDON : i Imperial Buildings, Ludgate Circus, E.G. LEICESTER : De Montfort Press, Queen Street.